[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Herbert Pratten

Herbert Edward Pratten (7 May 1865 – 7 May 1928) was an Australian politician. He served as Minister for Health (1924–1925) and Minister for Trade and Customs (1924–1928) in the Bruce–Page government. He became a Senator for New South Wales in 1917, but resigned in 1921 to seek election to the House of Representatives where he served until his death in 1928.

Early life
Pratten was born on 7 May 1865 in Mangotsfield, Gloucestershire, England. He was the son of Ann Rebecca (née Vowles) and Herbert Graham Pratten; his mother died in 1870. Pratten was educated at the Merchant Venturers' Technical College and the Bristol Trade and Mining School. At the age of 15, he joined the iron and steel company John Lysaght and Co., based in Bristol. He was sent to Sydney in 1884 to become a clerk at the firm's new Australian branch, working under William Sandford at Five Dock.

Business career
In about 1888, Pratten established a soft drink company in Ashfield, New South Wales. He founded a printing company in 1889 and arranged for his half-brother Frederick to immigrate from England. Their company Pratten Bros. became "one of the largest of its kind in Australia". In 1895, he also acquired Taylor Bros., a jam manufacturer which had been indebted to him. He sold the company a few years before World War I at a substantial profit. Pratten was also a director of the Stanmore Preserving Company, which exported fruit pulp to Europe using newly developed cold-storage techniques. In 1911, he established the Hargraves Consolidated Goldmining Company to take advantage of a government subsidy. He later co-founded the Austral-Malay Tin Mining Company with Ambrose Freeman, which in 1926 was consolidated into Larut Tin Fields Limited.

Pratten visited Asia for business reasons on several occasions. He wrote a series of articles for The Daily Telegraph about his 1906 trip to the Philippines, Japan, China, Malaya, Singapore, and India, which in 1908 he published in book form as Asiatic Impressions. He dedicated the book to "all Australians who realise the many racial dangers that the future may have in store for our beautiful land". His second book Through Orient to Occident (1912) recounted a journey to South-East Asia and China and his experience on the Trans-Siberian Railway. Pratten believed that the economic growth of Asia was both a threat and an opportunity for Australia. He recommended that the federal government place trade commissions in Calcutta and Shanghai.

Public life
Pratten served on the Ashfield Municipal Council from 1905 to 1912, including as mayor from 1909 to 1911. Pratten Park was named in his honour when it opened in 1912. Pratten was also president of the New South Wales Chamber of Manufactures from 1912 to 1914.

Politics

Pratten first stood for federal parliament at the 1910 election, running unsuccessfully as an independent in the Division of Parkes. He was a Liberal candidate for the Senate at the 1914 election, but was defeated.

In 1917, Pratten was elected to the Senate as a Nationalist. He spoke on a variety of topics but was particularly interested in economic matters. He argued for more private-sector experience in the Defence Department, opposed financing budget deficits with overseas loans, and argued against the creation of a department akin to the United States Department of Commerce, which he believed was too powerful. Pratten was also interested in reforming parliamentary procedure, suggesting that public servants should be directly questioned by parliament and supporting Josiah Thomas's unsuccessful motion to force ministers in each chamber of parliament to appear in the other chamber to answer questions.

Pratten was elected deputy president of the New South Wales National Association in 1920. In November 1921, he resigned from the Senate to contest the 1921 Parramatta by-election, caused by Sir Joseph Cook's resignation.

1922 election and coalition formation

After a redistribution Pratten transferred to the new Division of Martin at the 1922 election. The election resulted in a hung parliament with the Country Party holding the balance of power. Pratten played a key role in negotiating a coalition, which saw Stanley Bruce replace Billy Hughes as prime minister and Country Party leader Earle Page become deputy prime minister. For a brief period in January 1923, it was rumoured that Pratten himself would replace Hughes as prime minister, despite having no ministerial experience. Sydney's Evening News definitively reported that either Pratten or Earle Page would lead the next government. In response, he issued a statement to the press stating that he was surprised by the reports and that no overtures had been made to him. The following week, Melbourne's Herald reported that Pratten would likely become deputy prime minister in a government led by Page, while The Sydney Morning Herald reported that Bruce would become prime minister and Pratten would be his deputy.

Government minister