[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# W58

are,  long and weighed . The weapon consisted of a warhead, integrated fuzing and firing system and an outer heat shield surrounding the weapon. The planned pyrolytic graphite was substituted for an ablative heat shield integrated into the warhead structure. The reentry body was known as the Mark 2.

In March 1962, a warhead redesign occurred, leading to the redesigned warhead nomenclature of XW-58-X1. This redesign included close integration of warhead components, including integration of warhead casing with the heat shield and consolidation of the fuzing and firing system into a single unit. This redesign caused the design release date to slip by three months. The Mk 58 Mod 0 was designed released in May 1963, with the exception of the reentry body and primary stage.

In June 1963, the primary stage was replaced following an interim review. The new primary eliminated the mechanical safing system which the navy had expressed vulnerability concerns about. Early production of the Mk 58 Mod 1 warhead began in March 1964 and the first submarine equipped with the warheads was on station in October 1964.

The Mk 58 Mod 2 was proposed in December 1965 to provide resistance to high energy x-rays, but the program was never authorized.

In approximately 1975, corrosion problems were discovered in some W58 warheads. The problem was evaluated with computer modelling rather than nuclear testing. The modelling determined that the problem could be overcome with some minor changes to weapon maintenance. However, the actions taken may have been influenced by the planned retirement date for the weapon.

The warhead was retired in April 1982.

Design
The final warhead consisted of a magnesium case with an aluminium cover. The nylon-phenolic heat shield was bonded to the magnesium case. The warhead cover included two ports for target detecting radar antennas, a baroport for pressure information and a valve to fill the warhead with dry air. The fuze was a single-channel device. The thermal battery and radar antennas were mounted on the warhead flare section. Airburst fuzing was controlled by a timer and baroswitch, with three height of burst options, while surfaceburst fuzing was provided by an electronic radiating type device.

The firing set was of the dual-channel type and the weapon used an external neutron generator. The nuclear system was designed to produce no more than  yield in the event of a detonation by anything other than the firing system. The safing system included acceleration actuated contacts that closed approximately 55 seconds after launch, at an altitude of , which connected the warhead electrical system to the thermal battery and programmer.

The warhead used the Kinglet nuclear primary. Weapon yield was .

The warhead with reentry body was  wide at the flare,  long and weighed . The warhead without RB was  in diameter and  long, and weighed .

See also
 List of nuclear weapons
 W47
 Kinglet (nuclear primary)

References

Nuclear warheads of the United States
Military equipment introduced in the 1960s