[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Watson Kirkconnell

ame contacts, however, had made Kirkconnell well aware of the sufferings of the relatives of his immigrant friends under both Soviet rule and occupation and he accordingly continued to write articles and to give public lectures attacking both human rights abuses under Marxist-Leninism and Stalinism.

In his memoirs, Kirkconnell recalled about the war years, "I even wrote a parody of T.S. Eliot and his learned appendices, in which almost my entire poem was a patchwork, from my own library shelves, of some forty score high-sounding phrases from all literatures and all periods, including Chinese, Japanese, Ancient Egyptian, Hebrew, Hindi, Hungarian, Basque, Polish, Breton, and Arabic, each with its appropriate footnote. E.K. Brown, to whom I showed it, warned me, with a grin, to keep my unholy hands off the Ark."

After the 1944 publication of Seven Pillars of Freedom, a book which warned about the Pro-Soviet sympathies among many Canadian intellectuals, Kirkconnell was denounced by two Communist Party of Canada representatives in the Canadian House of Commons, as well as by the Canadian communist press. One Canadian Communist publication called Kirkconnell a, "fascist, mad dog, and a traitor." 

The Soviet newspaper Trud also attacked Kirkconnell for being both an anti-communist and a Ukrainophile, and even dubbed him, "the Führer of Canadian Fascism". Meanwhile, so vocal were Kirkconnell's continuing criticisms of Stalinism and of Soviet war crimes that Canadian Prime Minister Mackenzie King seriously considered acting to protect the Soviet-Canadian military alliance against Nazi Germany by silencing Kirkconnell with an Order-in-Council.

Cold War
After the September 1945 defection and revelations of GRU Lt. Igor Gouzenko launched both the Cold War in Canada and the PROFUNC counterintelligence operation, Kirkconnell was recruited as a secret informant for the Royal Canadian Mounted Police Security Service regarding politicians, fellow university professors, and students who were suspected of links to Soviet Bloc foreign intelligence services or the Communist Party of Canada. According to Gordon L. Heath, however, Kirkconnell's motivations were based, "on lofty ideas of democracy" and he accordingly never advocated, "a policy of suppression", but preferred instead to see the real loyalties of Soviet spies, crypto-communists, and fellow travellers laid bare before the Canadian people. 

Also at the beginning of the Cold War, Kirkconnell went on the record as an extremely harsh critic of the Western Allies' policy of forced repatriations of anti-communist refugees to the USSR during Operation Keelhaul, of Winston Churchill and Franklin Delano Roosevelt for handing Eastern Europe over to Joseph Stalin at the Yalta Conference, and of the pervasive totalitarianism and human rights abuses in the new Soviet Bloc.

Kirkconnell also wrote a poem defending Draža Mihailović, harshly denouncing the Serbian Chetnik General's show trial by Josip Broz Tito's Soviet-backed Yugoslav Partisans, and eulogizing the General's execution by firing squad on July 17, 1946. Kirkconnell wrote the poem, however, because he believed that General Mihailović was innocent of both Chetnik war crimes in World War II and of collaboration with the occupying Axis forces and that his "trial" was nothing more or less than a Stalinist witch hunt.

Despite his vocal anti-communism, Kirkconnell was also extremely critical of McCarthyism and once wrote, "I have an uneasy feeling that Senator McCarthy messed up an important job by handling it in an offensive and blundering fashion. It is tragic that the very exposure of the Communist infiltration in the United States fell into his hands."

Later life
From 1948 to 1964, Kirkconnell served as the ninth President of Acadia University in Wolfville, Nova Scotia. He had originally expected to be, "a full time administrative officer", but instead found himself repeatedly drawn back into the classroom. In his 1967 memoirs, Kirkconnell credited his academic colleague Dr. R. MacGregor Fraser with introducing him, after his 1948 move to the Province, to Nova Scotia's many verse contributions to Scottish Gaelic literature. Kirkconnell and MacGregor Fraser also collaborated upon a literary translation of the iconic poem A' Choille Ghruamach by Tiree-born Nova Scotia Gaelic poet Iain mac Ailein, which was published in the 1948-'49 theme issue of Dalhousie Review under the title, "John MacLean’s Gloomy Forest".