[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United States Army Indian Scouts

number of horses in a group. From the moisture content of horse dung, scouts could estimate the age of the trail. Scouts were also able to discern whether females rode with a group based on the position of a horse's urine within its tracks - women sometimes/often rode mares while men rode stallions.

Fears 
There existed doubts as to whether Indian Scouts would remain faithful or whether they would betray the White soldiers and turn against them in conflict. The Cibicue Apaches were among the first regular Army Scouts. They are also the only recorded 19th-century incident in which Indian scouts turned against the U.S. Army at Cibicue Creek in Arizona Territory. These Apache scouts were asked to campaign against their own kin, resulting in a mutiny against the army soldiers. Three of the scouts were court-martialed and executed.

Reduction of forces
The end of hostilities on the frontier meant a reduction in the number of the Indian scouts needed. Army General Order No. 28 issued on March 9, 1891 reduced the number of scouts to 150, down from 275 authorized in 1889, distributed among the different departments.  This brought the numbers down to; Department of Arizona, 50, Departments of the Dakota, Platte and Missouri, 25 each; Department of Texas, 15, and Departments of the Columbia, 10. Pension files provide information not only on Indian Scouts but also about his family and others with whom he may have served or who knew him or his wife. Indian Scouts and their widows became eligible for pensions with the passage of an act on March 4, 1917, relating to Indian wars from 1859 to 1891.

When the Army was reorganized by the Act of March 3, 1898, the authorized number of Indian Scouts was further reduced to 75.

Notable figures and recognition
Frontier Scouts included black, native and mixed blood individuals. Native involvement in military service came from different tribes and regions across the United States including Narragansett, Mohegan, Apache, Navajo and Alaska Natives (who would become involved in the 1940s).

One of the most notable U.S. Army Indian Scouts was Curley, a member of the Crow tribe who became a scout in April 1876 under Colonel John Gibbon.  He then joined Lieutenant Colonel Custer.  Curley is most often identified as the lone survivor of  "Custer's Last Stand". He denied witnessing the battle. The Chicago Tribune published an article claiming that Curly had made statements to them about the battle. John F. Finerty claimed that "Curley said that Custer remained alive throughout the greater part of the engagement, animating his men to determined resistance, but about an hour before the close of the fight received a mortal wound."

The official website of the Navy lists the American Indian Medal of Honor recipients, including twelve from the 19th century.  In the 20th century, five American Indians have been among those soldiers to be distinguished by receiving the United States' highest military honor: This honor is given for military heroism "above and beyond the call of duty", exhibiting extraordinary bravery, and for some, making the ultimate sacrifice for their country.

The role of Native American women in the U.S. Army is being slowly filled by the efforts of such groups as The Women In Military Service For America Memorial Foundation.  It is known of individuals such as Tyonajanegen, an Oneida woman, Sacajawea, a Shoshone, and various female nurses have aided the military as far back as the American Revolution. Little information is currently listed on women's roles as scouts during the 19th century.

Sergeant I-See-O (born c. 1849) was a Kiowa who served as an Indian Scout from 1889 until his death in 1927.  He served alongside future Army Chief of Staff Hugh L. Scott in the final campaigns of the Indian Wars.  In 1915 Scott persuaded Congress to allow I-See-O to serve on active duty for life.  I-See-O, who, according to Scott, "has simply been stunned by civilization", lived in a teepee in a remote part of Fort Sill, Oklahoma during his later days.  He was a guest of President Calvin Coolidge at the White House in 1925.

Insignia

In 1890 the Scouts were authorized to wear the branch of service insignia of crossed arrows. In 1942 the insignia was authorized to be worn by the 1st Special Service Force.  As their traditions passed into the U.S. Army Special Forces, the crossed arrows became part of their insignia being authorized as branch of service insignia in 1984.

List
 Apache Scouts
 Arikara scouts
 Black Seminole Scouts
 Navajo Scouts
 Pawnee Scouts
 Crow Scouts

Medal of Honor
The following 16 Indian Scouts received the Medal of Honor:

Sergeant William Alchesay
Blanquet
Chiquito
Sergeant Co-Rux-Te-Chod-Ish (Traveling Bear - mistakenly translated as "Mad Bear")
Elsatsoosu
Pompey Factor
Sergeant Jim
Kelsay
Kosoha
Machol
Nannasaddie
Nantaje
Adam Paine
Isaac Payne
Yuma William "Bill" Rowdy
Sergeant John Ward