[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Josephine Teo

rime Minister's Office. On 11 September 2017, she relinquished her portfolio as Second Minister for Foreign Affairs and became Second Minister for Home Affairs. On 1 May 2018, Teo succeeded Lim Swee Say as Minister for Manpower and continued to hold the portfolio of Second Minister for Home Affairs.

2020 - 2022 
In the 2020 general election, both Lily Neo and Yaacob Ibrahim have stepped down as Member of Parliament of Jalan Besar GRC. Teo moved to Jalan Besar GRC to help with the party's renewal. The PAP team won against the Peoples Voice team with about 65% of the vote. Teo then became the Member of Parliament representing the Kreta Ayer-Kim Seng ward of Jalan Besar GRC.

Teo was the PAP Community Foundation executive committee for 12 years as a member and the chairwoman from 2016 to 2020 and in October 2020 she was appointed as deputy chairwoman of the PCF management council.

Following a Cabinet reshuffle in May 2021, Teo succeeded S. Iswaran as Minister for Communication and Information while continuing to serve as Second Minister for Home Affairs. In addition, she was appointed Minister-in-charge of the Cyber Security Agency and Minister-in-charge of the Smart Nation Initiative. 

In June 2022, Teo was announced the new PAP Community Foundation (PCF) management council chairman, taking over from Minister of Finance Lawrence Wong, who become Deputy Prime Minister.

Political positions

Online Safety and Digital Inclusion 
As Minister for Communications and Information, Teo introduced the Online Safety (Miscellaneous Amendments) Bill which was passed unanimously in Parliament on 9 Nov 2022.

Family planning 
In a media interview in October 2016, Teo responded to questions of whether Singaporeans were getting their HDB flats early enough in order to start a family, stating that one "does not need much space to have sex". Teo further added that "in France, in the U.K., in Nordic countries, man meets woman [and] they can make a baby already. They love each other." Teo's words drew flak from on social media, with netizens criticising her for lacking empathy towards couples and being insensitive towards couples' practical considerations such as being able to secure a HDB flat before starting a family, as well as accusing her of promoting premarital sex in conservative Singapore.

When asked about this in a 2019 interview by ST, Teo acknowledged that she “should not have said that. It was meant as a private joke but, you know, when you are in public life, nothing is really private anymore. So, lesson learnt.”

White Paper on Singapore Women’s Development 
In April 2022, Teo moved a motion to endorse the first-ever White Paper on Singapore Women's Development in Parliament. The Paper was unanimously endorsed by Parliament.

Cost of living 
In May 2017, Teo commented on her Facebook page about the high cost of milk powder in Singapore, saying that "milk is milk, however fancy the marketing". She further claimed that she would buy whichever brand of milk powder approved for sale by the Agri-Food and Veterinary Authority that was cheapest for her own children.

On 26 October 2018, during a conference held by the Institute of Policy Studies, Teo commented that implementing a minimum wage in Singapore may instead lead to higher unemployment and that Singapore's income inequality gap is "a problem of success" that is "difficult to overcome". Instead, to address such concerns, Teo said that the Government implemented measures such as the Workfare Income Supplement Scheme, which topped up the income of low-wage workers, “thereby achieving the same uplift as a minimum wage”.

Personal life 
Teo is married Teo Eng Cheong, who is the Chief Executive Officer of Sino-Singapore Tianjin Eco-City and Investment Development Co (SSTEC) and former Chief Executive Officer of Surbana Jurong. They have two daughters and a son.

References

External links

 Josephine Teo on Prime Minister's Office
 Josephine Teo on Parliament of Singapore

 

Members of the Parliament of Singapore
People's Action Party politicians
Singaporean women in politics
National University of Singapore alumni
Raffles Junior College alumni
Singaporean people of Hakka descent
Singaporean Christians
1968 births
Living people
Singaporean trade unionists
Dunman High School alumni
Women government ministers of Singapore
Ministers for Manpower of Singapore
Members of the Cabinet of Singapore