[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Agiasos

Agiasos () is a small town and a former municipality on the island of Lesbos, North Aegean, Greece. Since the 2019 local government reform, it became a municipality unit that is part of the municipality Mytilene. The municipal unit has an area of 79.924 km2. It is located at the slopes of mount Olympos, at a height of ,  from Mytilene.  It is known for its special bright green landscape, its narrow cobbled streets lined by ranks of tiled-roof houses, the traditional architecture and its restless and religious inhabitants. Agiasos, the artistic and religious centre of the island, is a preserved settlement that has many to offer to visitors. The reading society of Anaptixi, a local cultural institution, was established in 1894, when the village was still under Turkish rule. Today it has a great library, a theatre hall, a folklore museum and an active organization which tries to continue the traditions that were passed by the old inhabitants.

History 

The history of the village (population 2,498 in 2001 census) is identified with the history of Panayia of Ayasos (the Greek word for Virgin Mary of Agiasos).

About 1,200 years ago, during the Byzantine Era, toward the end of the 8th century, it was a time of the wars of iconoclasm. In Constantinople, Aghathon the Ephesian, priest of the Chapel of the Palaces, who was an iconophile, fell into the disfavour of Emperor Leo I and was self-exiled to Jerusalem. In early 802, Aghathon heard that Empress Irene of Athens, who was also an iconophile, lived in exile on Lesvos island. Wishing to meet her and be nearer to Constantinople, he sets off for Lesvos, taking with him an icon of "Panayia I Vrefokratousa" (Madonna and the Holy Infant), a Silver Cross with wood from the True cross, a manuscript Gospel, and other relics.

He arrived on the island. Meanwhile, Irene of Athens had died. Aghathon followed the current of a stream and reached a remote wooded area which was a safe environment in which to stay. This site in Carya, where the chapel of Zoodochos Pigi (the life-giving source) with the Holy Water stands today, is where Aghathon hid the Holy Relics and built his hermitage.

He became familiar with the local inhabitants of the nearby villages of Karyni and Penthili, and gained their trust and respect. He revealed his secret and vows that the icon of Panayia (Our Lady) – measuring  – was painted on wax and mastic by Luke the Evangelist. The icon bore the inscription "Mitir Theou, Agia Sion", that is, "Mother of God, Holy Sion". In those times, Jerusalem was called "Agia Sion". With the passage of time, the small, humble hermitage evolved into a monastery, where devout men from the neighboring villages came to live.

The elderly Aghathon died on February 2, in the year 830. The monks, respecting his last wish, continued to keep the icon of Our Lady and the other relics in the monastery crypt. The monks feared the iconoclasts and pirates who ravaged the islands and coastal towns of Asia Minor. In 842, Orthodoxy triumphed and holy icons were raised all over the territory of the Byzantine Empire. From then on the hermitage of Agathon became a pilgrimage site. The icon of Panayia by Luke the Evangelist became renowned, not merely on the island, but all over facing Aeolis. Two pilgrimages to Agia Sion were equivalent to one pilgrimage to the Holy Land.

The Church of Panayia (Our Lady)

The first church of Panayia

In 1170, Constantinos Valerios granted the monks of Karya permission to erect the Church of Panayia on the elevation where the holy relics of Aghathon lay. The church survived 636 years. A small settlement named Agia Sion (Agiasos) developed around the church. This settlement gradually grew, becoming an important provincial town. When the island was subjugated by the Ottoman Turks, many Christian families sought refuge inside the protective walls of the Church of Panayia.

In 1701 a Sultan's firman (decree) vested Ayasos the right not to pay taxes. The Turkish Governor of the region, whose headquarters were in Sykounta, fell seriously ill. In despair, he agreed to be incensed and aspersed with the Holy Water of Zoodhochos Pigi, and he was saved by a miracle. The Ottoman Governor was so taken by enthusiasm and gratitude that he felt the need to make a very valuable offering to the Church of Our Lady, however this was forbidden by the Koran. So, he went to Constantinople and passed a firman (decree) exempting the inhabitants of Agiasos the obligation to pay taxes to the Ottoman government or to the Dignitaries of Mytilene. This exemption was a strong incentive for inhabitants from the vicinity to move to Agiasos in order to avoid tax-paying.

Agiasos became a renowned centre of handicraft. In 1729 the number of families in the village had risen to 500.

The firman was abolished in 1783.

The second church of Panayia