[Source: PubMed]

29. Psychiatr Clin North Am. 2001 Sep;24(3):391-405. doi: 
10.1016/s0193-953x(05)70236-7.

Culture and history in psychiatric diagnosis and practice.

Fàbrega H Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
USA.

A brief review of the history of Western psychiatry underscores how happenings 
in Anglo European societies during the early modern and modern era impacted on 
regional populations in the midst of profound demographic, social and political 
economic change. Such factors along with cultural conventions created an amalgam 
of behavior problems: social responses to these under the aegis administrative 
bodies gave rise to the discipline and profession of psychiatry. Central tenets 
that we take for granted as facts about psychiatric disorders (e.g., their 
manifestations, natural history, diagnosis) were shaped by historical and 
cultural influences. Psychiatry may outline a science of the psyche and its 
disturbances but it also reflects a cultural interpretation about personal 
experience, responsibility, social behavior, and the requirements for social 
order. The cultural character of the psychiatric enterprise itself, just as much 
as the characteristics of its disorders, constitute the subject matter of 
cultural psychiatry. Events during the late eighteenth and nineteenth centuries 
in Anglo European societies gave rise to psychiatry. First, there took place the 
differentiation of psychiatric disorders from the pool of human social and 
behavior problems. Second, and in relation to this, a segment of the medical 
profession was accorded (or appropriated) a social mandate and acquired an 
obligation to treat victims of mental disorders. The historical sociology of 
psychiatry constitutes one aspect of cultural psychiatry. The second covers 
developments during the latter part of the twentieth century. At this juncture, 
psychiatry became the target of labeling theorists in sociology, cultural 
relativists in anthropology, antipsychiatrists from within the discipline 
itself, and revisionist and critical historians of psychiatry. An outgrowth of 
this is the perspective that underscores the important role played by values, 
ideas, and world-views in how individuals experience and carry out their lives, 
phenomena that are critical to the expression, interpretation, diagnosis, and 
treatment of psychiatric disorders. That the science and practice of modern 
psychiatry incorporate an ethnocentric, Anglo European bias or slant on 
psychopathology is an integral assumption of cultural psychiatry. By describing 
how other non-Western systems of psychiatry have operated, for example, their 
theories and practices, one gains a further appreciation of the important role 
of culture in shaping Western psychiatry. This is taken up in an article by 
Fàbrega elsewhere in this issue where concepts and practices of traditional 
Chinese and Indian medicine that pertain to mental health and illness are 
reviewed.

DOI: 10.1016/s0193-953x(05)70236-7
PMID: 11593852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]