[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Human rights in Paraguay

Technically speaking, Paraguayan law prohibits discrimination on grounds of gender, race, language, disability, or social status, but there is nonetheless widespread discrimination.

Under Paraguayan law, freedom of speech is technically guaranteed. The news media are independent and theoretically free to criticize the government, although political officials often sue the media for libel in order to put an end to undesirable investigations. Journalists are also frequently “subjected to harassment, intimidation, and violence – primarily from drug trafficking gangs and criminal syndicates based in departments bordering Brazil – due to their reporting.”  The government does not limit Internet access or academic freedom; freedom of assembly is restricted, with demonstrations allowed only at certain times and places.  Paraguayans may move freely around the country, travel or move abroad, and move back to Paraguay.  The country has accepted political refugees, mostly from Cuba.

Elections are free and fair, although unregistered parties and independent candidates are not allowed to  take part in national and departmental elections

Women's rights

Rape and domestic violence are major problems in Paraguay. Rape is punishable by up to 10 years in jail, but police are often hesitant to make arrests.  Domestic violence must be “habitual” to be considered criminal. Domestic-violence charges are often withdrawn owing to family pressure. Women technically enjoy equal rights but sexual discrimination, especially in employment and pay, is common and traditional.

Paraguayan law requires that in party primaries at least 20 percent of the candidates in each party must be women. There are women serving in most levels of government.

The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women called on Paraguay in 2011 to conduct “awareness-raising and public educational campaigns...with a view to bring about changes in traditional attitudes associated with discriminatory gender roles in the family and in society at large.”  It also suggested that the media and advertisers adopt a “code of conduct” with the goal of avoiding sexual stereotypes and preventing gender discrimination.  The committee also called for more vigorous prosecution of perpetrators of violence against women and intensified efforts to raise awareness throughout Paraguay of the inappropriateness of such activity.  It also urged Paraguay to set quotas to ensure increased participation by women in politics and diplomacy.

The UN Human Rights Committee called on Paraguay in 2006 to “ensure that legislation protecting against gender discrimination is enforced and that the institutions created for that purpose are adequately financed for effective operation.” It also asked Paraguay “to ensure equal working conditions for men and women and to increase participation by women in all areas of public and private life.” As for Paraguay's “restrictive abortion laws,” the committee asked Paraguay to “take effective action to reduce infant and maternal mortality by, inter alia, revising its legislation on abortion ...and ensuring that contraceptives are available to the general public, especially in rural areas.”

Migrants' rights

The Committee on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families recommended in 2012 that Paraguay “strengthen its institutional structure for dealing with migration-related issues” and “establish a coordination mechanism with a view to improving services for migrant workers and their families while, at the same time, working to ensure its compliance with and the uniformity of regional and international treaties to which Paraguay is party.” The committee also urged Paraguay to take more serious steps to combat human trafficking.

Indigenous people's rights

Paraguay is a signatory of Convention 169 Indigenous and Tribal People's Convention of the
International Labour Organization (ILO) and of the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP). The rights of indigenous people are supposed to be safeguarded by the National Institute of the Indigenous (INDI), the Public Ministry, and the Ombudsman's Office. Nonetheless, discrimination against indigenous persons is widespread, and such persons' rights, especially their property rights, are often violated by authorities. Although indigenous people are permitted to serve in government, moreover, there are no such persons in any higher-level government position.