[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1987 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1987 in New Zealand.

Population
 Estimated population as of 31 December: 3,342,100.
 Increase since 31 December 1986: 28,600 (0.86%).
 Males per 100 Females: 97.9.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
Head of State – Elizabeth II
Governor-General – The Rt Revd. Sir Paul Reeves GCMG GCVO QSO

Government
The 41st New Zealand Parliament, led by the Labour Party, concluded, and in the general election the party was re-elected in the 42nd New Zealand Parliament. The election also saw the elimination of the Democratic Party (formerly known as the Social Credit Party) from Parliament, leaving Labour and National as the only parties with representation.

Speaker of the House – Gerard Wall then Kerry Burke
Prime Minister – David Lange
Deputy Prime Minister – Geoffrey Palmer
Minister of Finance – Roger Douglas
Minister of Foreign Affairs – David Lange then Russell Marshall
Chief Justice — Sir Ronald Davison

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition –  Jim Bolger (National).

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – Catherine Tizard
Mayor of Hamilton – Ross Jansen
Mayor of Wellington – Jim Belich
Mayor of Christchurch – Hamish Hay
Mayor of Dunedin – Cliff Skeggs

Events 
 January, February – Māori loan affair continues.
 17 February – A bus on a field trip from Woodford House school in Havelock North rolls down a bank near Kereru,  west of Hastings. Five people (two students, two teachers and the bus driver) are killed and at least 17 are injured.
2 March – Edgecumbe earthquake in the Bay of Plenty.
19 May – Air New Zealand Flight 24, en route from Tokyo to Auckland, is hijacked at Nadi International Airport, Fiji while on a scheduled refuelling stop.
22 May–20 June – Inaugural Rugby World Cup hosted by both New Zealand and Australia, and won by New Zealand.
June –  The New Zealand Nuclear Free Zone, Disarmament, and Arms Control Act is passed.
 19 June – Six-year-old Teresa Cormack goes missing in Napier. Her body is found eight days later.
July – The Māori Language Act makes Māori an official language.
1 August – The first Lotto draw takes place.
15 August – The 1987 general election is held.
August – Telecom launches New Zealand's first mobile phone network.
20 October – The New Zealand stock market crashes following Black Monday on Wall Street. Share prices fell by 59 percent over four months.
3 November – McDonald's opens its first restaurants in the South Island at Linwood and Merivale, Christchurch.
December – New Zealand's first heart transplant takes place at Green Lane Hospital, for Brian Lindsay.

Arts and literature
Robert Lord wins the Robert Burns Fellowship.

See 1987 in art, 1987 in literature, :Category:1987 books

Music