[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# ITV Studios

m and television content. At the end of April 2015, ITV Studios acquired a minority stake in Monumental Pictures, which later became 51% on 18 July 2019 four years later. Examples of Monumental Pictures productions are Will for TNT, Anne with an E for CBC Television and Netflix and Harlots for Hulu.

Multistory Media
Multistory Media originally started as the factual entertainment and features network production departments of Tyne Tees Television and Yorkshire Television. When ITV plc was created, the separate departments of these two subsidiaries were merged into Yorkshire Television and renamed Granada Productions North Factual Entertainment and Features. It was then renamed again as the Northern factual entertainment and features department within ITV Yorkshire as part of ITV Productions. At this point an internal reorganisation took place to disband the management structure of Yorkshire Television and transfer the production business from Yorkshire Television Limited to ITV Productions Limited. The departments were then closed as part of a wider company production review but were relaunched in Leeds as Shiver. On 23 May 2019, Shiver changed their name to Multistory Media.

Today, Multistory Media is one of the largest producers of factual entertainment for television in the United Kingdom. Examples of Multistory Media productions are Paul O'Grady: For the Love of Dogs, 60 Minute Makeover and Peter Andre: My Life.

Noho Film & Television
Noho Film & Television is a subsidiary of ITV Studios that was originally founded in 2012 as an independent joint by Managing Directors Robert Wulff-Cochrane and Camilla Campbell who both formerly headed the drama department at Channel 4.

Oxford Scientific Films
Oxford Scientific Films (OSF) is a British company that produces natural history and documentary programmes. Founded on 8 July 1968 by noted documentary filmmaker Gerald Thompson, the independent company broke new ground in the world of documentaries, using new filming techniques and capturing footage of never before filmed activities of its various subjects. In 1996, Oxford Scientific Films was sold to Circle Communications, where it retained its own identity as a division within the company. The following year, Circle Communications was taken over by Southern Star Entertainment UK. Under the new ownership, Oxford Scientific Films continued to enhance its reputation for innovative film-making, producing multiple award-winning series and films, including the highly acclaimed Animal Planet series Meerkat Manor.

In March 2008, parent company Southern Star Group merged its Sydney-based factual business unit into the Oxford Scientific Films division. The merged company used two brands, with the existing Oxford Scientific Films name being used for specialist factual programmes and the Southern Star Factual brand being used for features and factual entertainment shows. Some time later, OSF became part of the Twofour Group (now ITV Studios).

Potato
Potato is the factual entertainment subsidiary of ITV Studios, established in March 2013. Potato produces television shows such as The Chase, Ninja Warrior UK and CelebAbility, with game shows such as Moneyball and Sitting on a Fortune produced in association with Glenn Hugill's Possessed production company, itself a venture with ITV Studios, based at their headquarters in London.

Rollercoaster Television
Rollercoaster Television was founded in June 2021 by James Fox & Dom Waugh, who formerly worked at Endemol Shine UK subsidiary Remarkable Television. Rollercoaster aims to produce entertainment programmes with the plan to expand them internationally that would be sold through ITV Studios.

So Television
So Television is a television production company founded in 1998 by Irish television and radio presenter, comedian, actor, and author Graham Norton and his partner Graham Stuart, best known for producing Norton's chat shows V Graham Norton and The Graham Norton Show. The company also produces programmes for radio, mainly for BBC Radio 4, via the So Radio division. Both So Television and So Radio are based in London. On 30 August 2012, ITV Studios acquired the company for an estimated £17 million.

Tall Story Pictures
Founded in 2016, Tall Story Pictures is a television drama production company working with the very best established and emerging writing talent, placing the writer's vision at the heart of everything it develops and produces. Examples of Tall Story Pictures productions are psychological thriller Trauma, crime thriller The Bay and detective thriller Bancroft, both produced for ITV.

Twofour
Twofour is a British television and digital media group that was founded in 1989 by Charles Wace, a former BBC news producer. With headquarters in Plymouth, Twofour has offices across the globe including London and Los Angeles.

On 24 June 2015, Twofour Group was acquired by ITV Studios.

Melanie Leach was named Chief Executive for Twofour Group in summer 2014.