[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Melbourne Principles

vision promoted by the Melbourne Principles is to create environmentally healthy, vibrant and sustainable cities where people respect one another and nature, to the benefit of all. The principles provide a key to unlocking a sound approach to transforming cities towards sustainability. They provide:

 A holistic approach to making cities sustainable.
 A framework around which consensus and commitment can be built and strategy developed.
 A framework in which cities can build their programs and engage their communities.
 A framework in which international, regional and country programs can coalesce and strengthen linkages and cooperation.

Application
Two ICLEI organisations went on to publish a further document, "Operationalising the Melbourne Principles for Sustainable Cities", which seeks to examine case studies of cities striving for sustainability, and to learn lessons from these.  The case studies include the Greater Vancouver Regional District, Waitakere City, New Zealand, Santa Monica, California.  The document includes a checklist "to assess the extent to which the plan / document accounts for the elements of sustainability embodied in the Melbourne Principles."

A 2007 expert paper prepared for discussion by UNEP and UNDESA, suggests some possible strategies for cities aiming to follow the Melbourne Principles:
Create urban environments threaded with natural habitat corridors
Focus urban transport planning on public mass transit systems integrated with pedestrian only streets
Ensure adequate financing for the above activities, support for needed capacity building and institutional strengthening, and technology transfer, knowledge and know-how. For example:
provide capacity building for city planning agencies to assist them in reclaiming urban spaces for parks
support knowledge sharing on the design, implementation and management of sustainable urban transport systems.

Some cities are already adopting the Melbourne Principles explicitly.  For example, Penrith, New South Wales adopted the principles in 2003, and has used them to measure the city's progress towards sustainability.

References

Sustainable urban planning
2002 in the environment