[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Israel–Japan relations

high-level dialogues on national security and cybersecurity to their first bilateral investment agreement – transforming their once limited bilateral relationship into one more characteristic of allied partners, a process that has been described as "rising sun relations" in Foreign Affairs magazine.

Recently ties between Israel and Japan have strengthened significantly, with many mutual investments between the two nations. Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe visited Israel twice – once in 2015 and a second time in 2018. In May 2014, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu visited Japan.

In July 2021, the eleven Israeli victims of the terror attack at the Munich 1972 Olympics were remembered in silence during opening ceremony of the Tokyo 2020 Olympics, held in 2021 due to the global COVID-19 pandemic. This is the first-ever mourning at an opening ceremony of the Olympic Games in around a half century, and was thoroughly welcomed by relatives of the victims and Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett.

Economy
Up until the 1990s, Japan was the sole industrialized East Asian nation that acquiesced most strongly to the Arab demands to boycott Israel. As a result, economic relations between Japan and the Jewish state have been limited for much of the State of Israel's history.

Israeli exports to Japan, consisting primarily of polished diamonds, chemical products, machinery, electrical equipment, and citrus fruit are worth $810 million. Japanese exports to Israel, consisting primarily of automobiles, machinery, electrical equipment, and chemical products, are worth $1.3 billion.

Since the 2010s, there has been considerably expansion of trade and economic relations between the two countries in the realm of high-technology, as well as partnerships between start-up companies and venture capitalists. According to the Japan External Trade Organization (JETRO), 35 Japanese companies had subsidiaries in Israel by 2015 and as many as 50 by November 2016.

In 2021, data compiled by consulting firm Harel-Hertz shows a surge of $1.1 billion of Japanese investment in the Israeli high-technology industry.

Academic relations 
Universities in both countries are making special efforts to conduct lively exchange of studies. In May 2012, a symposium to commemorate the sixtieth anniversary of the diplomatic relations was held at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, to discuss issues of regional, bilateral, and cultural exchanges. The Israeli Association of Japanese studies was also launched on that occasion.

Visits

Quotes
 "Israel and Japan are situated at opposite ends of Asia, but this is a fact which binds them together rather than separates them. The vast continent of Asia is their connecting link, and the consciousness of their Asian destiny is their common thought." – Israeli Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion, July 1, 1952
 Both Israel and Japan are "ancient peoples who have risen from the ashes of the Second World War to build on the platform of our ancient cultures thriving, successful and advanced societies." – Israeli Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom, January 17, 2005

See also
 
 Foreign relations of Israel
 Foreign relations of Japan
 Antisemitism in Japan
 History of the Jews in Japan
 International recognition of Israel
 Japanese-Jewish common ancestry theory
 Lod Airport massacre
 Makuya

References

Further reading
 Rabbi Marvin Tokayer, The Fugu Plan. New York: Weatherhill, Inc. (1979)
 John Katz, Israeli–Japanese Relations, 1948–1963 Tel Aviv: Saar (2007)
 Matthew Brummer and Eitan Oren, ''Israel and Japan's Rising Sun Relations''. Foreign Affairs (2017)

External links
 Japan-Israel Relations at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Japan website
 Security Incidents Set Tone for Japanese PM's Visit Ynetnews
 "Friendly Relations With Japan"
 "EVS Receives Award from Israel-Japan Chamber of Commerce"
 "Japanese Policy in the Middle East", Raquel Shaoul
 Badr Abdel-Aati, "The Influence of External Factors on Foreign Policy: A Case Study of Japanese Policies towards Israel 1973–2003"
 "ADL Leaders, in Tokyo, Praise Japan's Leadership in Global War Against Terrorism"
 "Japan's Koizumi mulling visits to Israel, Palestinian territories"
 "Japan and the Middle East: Signs of Change?"
 Japan-Israel Fellowship

 
Japan
Israel
History of the foreign relations of Japan