[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Madhav Das Nalapat

harmony can be achieved. Promoting pathways to religious tolerance and societal progress are still key themes in his work.

He has written 7 books, the latest in 2014 being The Practice of Geopolitics which contains his writings over the years on various important themes of International Relations.

Prof. Nalapat has worked exhaustively for the betterment of India–United States relations, recognizing the importance of a robust partnership between the United States and India in matters of global strategy and security. Nalapat was the first to define the Indo-Pacific as stretching from the Horn of Africa, to Vladivostok, Alaska and Chile. In 2003 he pitched a concept in Washington for an Asian NATO that has since evolved into the Quadrilateral Alliance. In 2020 he introduced his concept of The Indo-Pacific Charter to protect democracy and preserve peace in the Indo-Pacific region.

Since 1980s, Nalapat worked to improve Sino-Indian relations, visiting the country lecturing and writing in Chinese publications and talking on CGTN, and repeatedly pointing to the complementarities between India and China. Since 2017 when it became clear the global context had changed, he has been alerting the world to China's ambitions of global supremacy and hegemony.

He has fostered India-Taiwan ties in 1992 Nalapat persuaded PV Narasimha Rao to set up representative offices in Delhi and Taipei. Also in 1992 Nalapat argued for full recognition of Israel and in 2003 with JINSA he organised the first ever India-Israel-US trilateral in New Delhi.

Nalapat had advisory roles with former PM Rajiv Gandhi and PM P. V. Narasimha Rao. He never claims a current advisory role but his influence is manifest.

In 1999, Nalapat was appointed UNESCO Peace Chair at Manipal University for higher education to promote an integrated system of research, training, information and documentation activities in the field of peace, human rights, democracy, tolerance, non-violence and international understanding.

Nalapat's writings are published in four continents; his intellectual and academic analysis stretches from Europe, to the Indian Ocean, to the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans; he is known for his advocacy of free speech and freedom of press, transparency of governance and bureaucracy, defence of democracy and creating C21st education policy and systems in India that include India's civilisational history.

Nalapat has been the President of the International Interfaith Dialogue India. His vision for a stable world is reflected in his peacebuilding efforts; some examples are his associations with ASEAN, BRICS, RIC, the Quadrilateral Alliance, the Anglosphere, The Global Peace Foundation and Sravasti.

Apart from his work, he has played a key role in the literacy movement in Kerala, as the first honorary coordinator of the Kerala Association for Non-formal Education and Development. He was also the honorary secretary of the Kerala Children's Film Society, which screens educational films for children. He has also been active in environmental issues as honorary secretary of the Kerala Forestry Board. Recently Nalapat has been actively associated with "Swachh Bharat" (Clean India). He has been active in helping set up Water ATMs, where for a rupee a litre of drinking water can be accessed by the citizen.

Recently Nalapat has also given talks at literary festivals and at India Narrative, Sangam, M.A.S.T., Foreign Correspondents Club Hong Kong, National Maritime Foundation, Virat Hindustan Sangam, Rotary Club Bombay and the Indian Institute of Mass Communication.

Current affiliations
UNESCO Chair for the Promotion of the Culture of Peace and Non-Violence
Honorary Director, Department of Geopolitics & International Relations, Manipal Academy of Higher Education(An Institution of Eminence by the MHRD, Government of India)
Vice-chair, Manipal Advanced Research Group (MARG)
Editorial Director, The Sunday Guardian and Itv network (India)
Executive Committee Member, Editors Guild of India
Editor-in-Chief, Science, Technology and Security forum
Foreign Policy expert, Gateway House: Indian Council on Global Relations
Member of advisory board, India, China & America Institute, Georgia
Member of Resource Board, Center for International Relations, Washington D.C.
Member, Global Peace Foundation
Member of the Advisory Council, Naveen Hindustan Foundation, New Delhi
Advisor, Asianet Communications Ltd, Thiruvananthapuram
Life Member, Institute of Social & Economic Change, Bengaluru
Senior Associate, National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru
Associate Member, United Services Institution, New Delhi
Advisory Board Member, Institute of Management, Meerut

References

External links
Online collection of MD Nalapat publications