[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry Glass (admiral)

n called upon Glass and were astonished to learn that a state of war existed between their respective countries. As the island was virtually undefended—the forts were in ruins—the Spanish governor surrendered; and Glass took possession of Guam for the United States on the afternoon of June 21, 1898.

As the orders specified, Charleston proceeded on to Manila and participated in the operations that resulted in the surrender of that city in August 1898 and took part in the initial actions against Filipino "insurgents" who were resisting America's assumption of control in the Philippine Islands.

1898–1908

Relieved of command of Charleston on December 12, 1898, by Capt. W. H. Whiting, Glass returned to the United States and soon assumed command of the naval training station at San Francisco, California, on January 23, 1899. Promoted to rear admiral in 1901, he broke his flag in the armored cruiser  on February 4, 1903, as Commander-in-Chief, Pacific Squadron. During his tour of duty in command of the squadron, the flagship, New York, together with the cruiser  and screw steamer  visited Adak and Kiska, in the Aleutian Islands, conducting surveys of the latter place in July 1903 with an eye toward establishing a coaling station there.

Later, with New York requiring extended repairs at the Puget Sound Navy Yard, Glass and his staff proceeded to San Francisco, and he briefly wore his flag in the cruiser  from September 28 to 30, 1903 before he transferred to the cruiser Marblehead on the 30th. On November 3, a revolution broke out on the isthmus of Panama, which soon won the independence of that strategic region from Colombia. Glass, in Marblehead, was dispatched to Panama's Pacific coast and arrived there a week later. In addition to the Marblehead, his fleet consisted of the ,  and . During the period of tension, Glass stationed one ship at Darien harbor to protect American lives and property and, with the permission of the Panamanian government, sent small observation parties from his ships offshore to explore the rivers, roads, and trails of the region, thereby gaining "much information ... of a country of which very little was known."

He was a Veteran Companion of the California Commandery of both the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States and the Military Order of Foreign Wars.

Placed on the retired list on January 7, 1906, Glass served subsequently on active duty as Commandant, Pacific Naval District. He died in Paso Robles, California, on September 1, 1908. He was buried at Mountain View Cemetery in Oakland, California.

Honors
The United States Coast and Geodetic Survey named the Glass Peninsula in Southeast Alaska for Glass. The Glass Breakwater in Apra Harbor on Guam also is named in his honor.

References

 

1844 births
1908 deaths
Governors of Guam
United States Navy rear admirals
People from Hopkinsville, Kentucky
United States Navy personnel of the Spanish–American War
Union Navy officers
Commanders of the Department of Alaska
United States Naval Academy alumni