[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# David Sharp (mountaineer)

ry cameraman Mark Whetu, experienced climbing guide Mark Woodward, and their Sherpa support team, including Phurba Tashi. The team left their high camp around  late in the evening near midnight on 14 May. Chaya and the Sherpa porter/guide he was climbing with were out in front by about half an hour.

At about 01:00, Woodward and his group (including Inglis, Alexander, Whetu and some Sherpa porters) encountered Sharp, who Woodward knew should not be there. He was neither conscious nor moving, was suffering from severe frostbite but they could see that he was breathing. Woodward noticed Sharp had thin gloves and no oxygen and said that they yelled at Sharp to get up, get moving and follow the headlamps back to the high camps. Woodward shined his headlamp in Sharp's eyes, but Sharp was unresponsive.

Woodward thought he was almost dead and in a hypothermic coma, commenting, "Oh, this poor guy, he's stuffed," and believed Sharp could not be rescued. Woodward attempted to radio their Advanced Base Camp about Sharp but got no reply. Alexander commented, "God bless... Rest in peace", before the group moved on. Woodward said it was not an easy decision to make but his chief responsibility was the safety of his own team members. Stopping in the extreme cold at that time would have risked the lives of his entire team. At that elevation, one has to be conscious and able to walk to attempt a rescue.

Maxime Chaya reached the summit at around 06:00. During his descent, Chaya and the Sherpa porter/guide he was with, Dorjee, encountered Sharp a little after 09:00, noticed he was shivering and tried to help him. Chaya also notified the Himex expedition manager Russell Brice over the group's radio. He had not seen Sharp in the darkness of the ascent. Chaya observed that Sharp was unconscious, shivering severely and was wearing a thin pair of wool gloves with no hat, glasses or goggles. Sharp was severely frostbitten, had frozen hands and legs and was found with only one empty oxygen bottle.

At one point Sharp stopped shivering, leading Chaya to believe he had died; some time later he started shivering again. They attempted to give him oxygen, but there was no response. After about an hour, Brice advised Chaya that he was running out of oxygen and there was nothing he could do, so he needed to come down. Chaya told The Washington Post: "it almost looks like he [David Sharp] had a death wish".

Soon after Chaya descended, some of the others from the second Himex group and a Turkish group encountered Sharp again during their descent and attempted to help him. Phurba Tashi, the lead Sherpa guide for Himex, and a Turkish Sherpa guide gave Sharp oxygen from a spare bottle they found, patted him to try to get circulation going and tried to give him something to drink. At one point Sharp mumbled a few sentences. The group tried to get Sharp to his feet, but he was not able to stand, even with assistance. They moved Sharp into the sunlight and descended. It took the two strongest Sherpa climbers about 20 minutes just to move Sharp about four steps into the sunlight, so they could not have taken Sharp with them.

Mark Inglis controversy
Following David Sharp's death, Mark Inglis was initially severely criticised by the media and others, including Sir Edmund Hillary, for not helping Sharp. Inglis stated that Sharp had been passed by 30 to 40 other climbers heading for the summit who made no attempt at a rescue, but he was criticised for not helping Sharp simply because he was more well known. Inglis said he believed that Sharp was ill-prepared, lacking proper gloves, not bringing enough supplementary oxygen and was already doomed by the time of his ascent. He also initially stated, "I... radioed, and  [expedition manager Russell Brice] said, 'Mate, you can't do anything. He's been there X number of hours without oxygen. He's effectively dead.' Trouble is, at 8500 meters it's extremely difficult to keep yourself alive, let alone keep anyone else alive".