[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Constitutional history of Turkey

he Grand National Assembly and its government is titled as the Government of Grand National Assembly." This Assembly could change ministers at will and the Council Ministers had no power to dissolve the Assembly. This was due to both the executive and legislative powers being vested in the Assembly.

Nevertheless, this Assembly enacted the 1921 Constitution, which had a profound place in Turkey's constitutional history. It was the first constitution which declared Turkey a secular republic and moved away from the monarchist system established by the Ottoman Empire. The Constitution took sovereignty away from the Sultan and gave this right to the public. In Article 1 of the Constitution, it proclaimed the principle of national sovereignty and stated that "sovereignty [was] vested upon the nation without condition."

The Constitution of 1924 
The Turkish Constitution of 1924 was the longest constitution, remaining in force for 36 years from 1924 to 1961. The Assembly was renewed in the middle of 1923 and decided to create a new constitution, which was adopted by a majority of the Assembly on 20 April 1924. Initially, it was titled the "Constitution of the Republic of Turkey" and is often referred to as the first Constitution of Turkey.

This Constitution was codified similarly to the 1921 Constitution and retained the fundamental principles found in the earlier Constitution; however, it was much more detailed and consisted 105 articles.

The principle of national sovereignty remained. Similar to the 1921 Constitution, the Turkish Grand National Assembly was considered to be the "sole representative of the nation". According to 1924 Constitution both the legislative and executive powers were embodied in the Assembly. However, the 1924 Constitution approached to a "parliamentary democracy" by giving the Assembly the power to supervise and dismiss the government although the government and the president did not have the power to dissolve the Assembly. Nevertheless, judicial power was completely independent. That is why the 1924 constitution was characterised as a step towards a parliamentary system and separation of powers. 

This Constitution also embodied subjects such as fundamental rights and freedoms. As to the relevant articles, everyone was equal before the law, torture and cruel or unusual punishment were forbidden, personal freedom, freedom of conscience and religion, as well as freedom of thought and expression were guaranteed in addition to all civilian and political rights and freedoms. 

However, one problematic aspect of 1924 Constitution was the presence of an article stating that the "official religion of the state [was] Islam", an idea against secularism and one which was not present in the 1921 Constitution. 

This Constitution was amended seven times in total, two of which can be considered modal amendments. The most important amendments were that in 1928, the article stating the "religion of the state as Islam" was removed and secularism was introduced. In addition, in the 1934 amendment, women's rights to vote and be elected to parliament was also recognised.

In 1937, the values of republicanism, nationalism, populism, statism and reformism were also embodied in the constitution.

The 1924 constitution was maintained without change after the transition to a multi-party system in 1946 however, it came to an end in May 1960 after a military takeover. The revolutionary officers, with the help of opposition parties, started to prepare a new constitution to establish a "more pluralistic mode of democracy", with all its attendant safeguards, while maintaining the modern and secular nature of the state.

The Constitution of 1961 
The Turkish Constitution of 1961 was enacted after Turkey' first military coup in May 1960. When the militants took charge, they dissolved the Assembly, imprisoned the President (Celal Bayar at the time), Prime Minister (Adnan Menderes, who was later hanged) and all the members of the Assembly.

The Constitution of 1961 was adopted by a referendum in May 1961, with 61.7% of the nation voting in its favour. It was composed of 157 main articles and 11 temporary articles. This constitution introduced a modified system of checks, establishing a bicameral system consisting of the Senate and the National Assembly. In doing so, it limited the authority of the government; the powers of the president were curtailed, and individual rights and liberties were given greater emphasis. The Constitution focused on issues such as fundamental rights and freedoms, working life, the right to form a trade union, the right to collective bargaining and strike, freedom of the press and communication, political rights. It also contained a long bill of rights and limited the powers of the executive.