[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Francis Martin O'Donnell

ld help not only Ukraine - How the international community can prepare for a post-Putin Russia), published online by Sapere Online, 14 November 2022 
 Neutral but not neutered: Ireland's security needs to be nurtured, published by Nova Era Global, NE Global Media Ltd., London, UK on 14 December 2022

Policy monographs
 The Concept and Promotion of Global Peace Service, paper presented as invited Guest Speaker at the "Global Peace Service" Conference at the Church Center for the United Nations, U.N. Plaza, New York, November 1993.
 Humanitarian Access and the Opportunity for Building-up Peace from the Grassroots, paper presented upon invitation to international seminar on "Towards a Global Alliance of Peace Services", held by the Christian Council of Sweden, and Life & Peace Institute, at Stensnas, Stockholm, Sweden, May 1994.
 Conflict Prevention, Response, and Post-Conflict Recovery, paper presented at meeting with European Commission (DG VIII), Brussels, November 1997.
 Foundations for Governance and Public Administration in East Timor, basic framework for initial capacity building in East Timor, according to the late SRSG Sergio Vieira de Mello, who endorsed and presented it to Lisbon Donors Conference, on 21 June 2000, and reported it to the UN Security Council on 27 June 2000.
 Martyrs for a European ideal: how the refugee crisis is transforming European values and outlook, published in www.academia.edu, 10 September 2015.

Other references/citations
 Towards a Global Alliance of Peace Services, published by Life and Peace Institute, Uppsala, Sweden, 1994 (co-funded by SIDA and Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs). (one of several contributors).
 Seeds of Peace, Harvest for Life by Sr. Mary Evelyn Jegen, SND (Abbey Press, St. Meinrad, Indiana, US, 1994). O'Donnell's contributions quoted and acknowledged in Chapters 2 and 13.
 Keeping the Peace: Exploring civilian alternatives in conflict prevention (132 pages), by Lisa Schirch, published by Life & Peace Institute, Uppsala, Sweden, October 1995 ().
 Challenges and Opportunities Abroad – The White Paper on Foreign Policy (348 pages), published by the Government of Ireland (Department of Foreign Affairs) in April 1996 ().  His contribution acknowledged in list of contributors.
 Volunteers Against Conflict (), published in 1996 by United Nations University and United Nations Volunteers, a collaborative effort with the Humanitarianism and War Project of the Thomas J. Watson Jr. Institute for International Studies, Brown University (US). The book includes firsthand accounts of UN volunteers deployed by O'Donnell in Cambodia, South Africa, Mozambique, Rwanda, ex-Yugoslavia, and Somalia. Presidents Mary Robinson (Ireland), Nelson Mandela (South Africa), and Jimmy Carter (US), all endorsed the book. Book project initiated by O'Donnell.
 Patterns of Partnership: UN Peacekeeping and Peoples' Peacebuilding by Tatsuro Kunugi, Elise Boulding, & Jan Oberg, published by The Transnational Foundation for Peace and Future Research, Sweden, 1996. O'Donnell's work cited.
 Governance Foundations in Post-Conflict Situations, by Rajeev Pillay, published by UNDP, New York, November 1999 Acknowledgements: Governance Foundations for Post-Conflict Situations: UNDP's Experience, November 1999
 Promoting Conflict Prevention and Conflict Resolution through Effective Governance: A Conceptual Survey and Literature Review, by Randolph Kent, published by UNDP, New York, 1999 PROMOTING CONFLICT PREVENTION AND
 Transition in Governance: The UNDP Framework and How It Is Being Made Operational, UNDP, New York, June 2000; extract published online by USAID, Washington DC, 2000 USAID Conflict Prevention Workshop Notes
 Irishman heads UN programme in Belgrade, by Deaglán de Bréadún, Irish Times, Dublin, 13 October 2000.
 You need a Vision! H.E. Francis M. O'Donnell, Resident Coordinator of the United Nations in Serbia & Montenegro, interview in CorD Magazine, Issue no. 2 (pp. 44–46), published by CMA (Consulting & Marketing Agency), Belgrade, February 2004 ().
 Housing in South Eastern Europe - solving a puzzle of challenges; Sector note following up the Ministerial Housing Conference for South Eastern Europe (Paris, 23–24 April 2003) within the framework of the Stability Pact for South Eastern Europe, published by the Council of Europe Development Bank and the World Bank, Paris, March 2004 
 Millennium Development Goals and the Poverty Eradication Strategy in Serbia - The Thirteenth Meetings of NGOs & UNDP, published by The Chancellery of H.R.H Crown Prince Alexander II of Yugoslavia, Royal Palace, Belgrade, September 2004 
 The United Nations Development Programme – A Better Way? (372 pages), by Craig N. Murphy, published by Cambridge University Press, New York/US & Cambridge/UK, 2006 (). O'Donnell's work and influence in East Timor in early 2000, cited (page 341).
 Book review by Caitlin Bain,  & Brian Donovan, Director, Eneclann: The O'Donnells of Tyrconnell: A Hidden Legacy,  review thereo