[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Star Wars: Visionaries

e now-captured emplacement listen to Rebel requests for ion support. The Rebels burst in. They dispatch the Imperials, losing a squad member. When Jobin fires the cannon, his men set it to self-destruct. The three remaining troops retreat to Hangar Bay Seven, only to find Darth Vader and his troops.

Jobin and his squad retreat to Hangar Bay Ten, but Jobin is shot. He gives his recorded message to one of his men. Darth Vader briefly interrogates him, but he doesn't talk. Vader kills him. Mon Mothma, apparently Jobin's mother, reads Jobin's letter at the Rebel rendezvous point near Sullust. Crix Madine tells her he's dead. She then goes to brief the Rebels for the Battle of Endor, with resolve in the words: "The emperor has made a critical error.".

The Fourth Precept
Story and Art: Stephan Martinière
6 pages
The Fourth Precept is an artistic representation of the fight between good and evil. Two figures fight with lightsabers in various ethereal settings. It has no dialogue.

Prototypes
Story and Art: Robert E. Barnes
12 pages
Galactic Year: 132 BBY
Preceded by: The Apprentice
Followed by: Heart of Darkness

Imperial Recruitment
Story and Art: Feng Zhu
2 pages
Imperial Recruitment is a series of beautiful, scantily-clad human women in various military scenes with slogans urging citizens to enlist in the Imperial Navy.

Deep Forest
Story and Art: Sang Jun Lee
14 pages
Galactic Year: 21 BBY
Preceded by: Rather Darkness Visible
Followed by: The Battle of Jabiim
A Wookiee hunting expedition in the jungles of Kashyyyk becomes something far more dangerous than expected when a young warrior discovers a Separatist invasion force.

Celestia Galactica Photografica
Art: Ryan Church
12 pages
Celestia Galactica Photografica consists of a series of paintings depicting various scenes of the Galaxy; in terms of canonicity, they are in-universe paintings made by in-universe artists.

The Eyes of Revolution
Story and Art: Warren J. Fu
14 pages
Galactic Year: 23 BBY
Preceded by: Way of the Warrior
Followed by: Full of Surprises
On Kalee, a Kaleesh General named Qymaen jai Sheelal boards a shuttle to fight against the Huk. However, a device planted inside the shuttle then explodes, destroying it, as Count Dooku watches from the distance with electrobinoculars. Sheelal falls from the burning wreckage into the water below. Two MagnaGuards are sent to pull the legless general out of the water, and a medical droid checks his vitals. Dooky administers a heart stun to keep Sheelal briefly alive and orders the droids to transport the Kaleesh to Geonosis immediately, declaring him ready for experimentation. Sheelal awakens in a tube full of green liquid, and is greeted by San Hill. He told Sheelal that an InterGalactic Banking Clan frigate recovered his escape pod and brought him to Geonosis. Sheelal wants to go back to Kalee to be with his troops, but Hill tells him he won't survive the trip, and proposes an experimental new treatment. Sheelal is interested in getting back, and is apathetic towards the Separatist "New Order", but nonetheless accepts the offer. Dooku senses shallowness in his allegiance, and orders Poggle the Lesser to leave Sheelal in the tank for some more time. Dooku then shows Pggle his old Jedi friend Sifo-Dyas, who was cryogenically preserved. Months later, Dooku gives Sheelal Sifo-Dyas's lightsaber as a gift, and reports to his master Darth Sidious, saying that the experiment was successful. Sheelal lost his carnality, but still has anger, vanity, and a good mind for strategy. The newly christened General Grievous, enraged at being called a droid, used his new lightsaber to kill all of the MagnaGuards surrounding him.

This origin story for General Grievous was later declared non-canon and changed in The Clone Wars animated series. While Grievous is still shown to be a former Kaleesh warlord, it is implied that he volunteered to be turned into a cyborg so that he could more easily kill Jedi.

See also
Star Wars Infinities
Star Wars Tales

References

External links
 Star Wars: Visionaries at Dark Horse Comics.
 

2005 comics debuts
Dark Horse Comics graphic novels
Visionaries