[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Grand Bay-Westfield

f the branding was put on hold until the impact of the Higgs-Allain local governance reforms on town boundaries and identity was known.

Parks 

Grand Bay-Westfield has many parks, from simple greenspace to ballfields and playgrounds. They are listed below, in geographical order from south to north.

Henderson Brook Nature Park: A tiny, new park, Henderson Brook is a great place to watch beavers and birds. It is located on Shannon Road.
Southwood Park: playground at corner of Bayview Road and Cavalier Lane.
Inglewood School: playground and baseball diamond.
Grand Bay Primary School: playground and fieldspace.
Grand Bay Tennis Courts: 3 regulation-sized tennis courts, located at the corner of Inglewood Drive and Pamdenec Road.
Pamdenec Place: The former location of the Tennis Courts, now a simple park setting accessible from Pamdenec Road and Frederick Street.
Lions Field: On Inglewood Drive near Broad Street, two ballfields and a playground. 
Epworth Park Field: green space at corner of Central Avenue and Smith Lane.
River Valley Middle School: Baseball field, soccer field, football field and, as of summer 2008, a running and walking track
Brookside Park: A small sitting area near the corner of Brookdale Avenue and Woolastook Drive.
Unity Park: Could be considered the town's commons, this park was created to symbolize the joining of the two communities. It is located next to Milligan Brook where the former boundary was (corner of Nerepis Road and Mullen Lane). The small stage is used in the summer for events every Wednesday, including children's nights, folk music, local talent, etc.
Westfield School: A large playground.
Brundage Point
Westfield River Landing: Located at Ferry Road and Brundage Point Road.

Notable people

 John Coffin - Judge and army officer

See also 
The Grand Bay (Body of Water)
Amalgamations of New Brunswick
Fundy-River Valley (provincial electoral district)
New Brunswick School District 08
New Brunswick Southwest (federal electoral district)
List of communities in New Brunswick

Notes

References

External links
Town of Grand Bay-Westfield

Communities in Kings County, New Brunswick
Towns in New Brunswick
Communities in Greater Saint John