[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Xue Muqiao

Xue Muqiao (; 25 October 1904 – 22 July 2005) was an eminent Chinese economist and politician. He was instrumental in introducing and implementing economic reforms that transformed China into a socialist market economy by participating in the development of the ideological concept of a primary stage of socialism.

Xue was born in Wuxi, Jiangsu Province as Xue Yulin (). He served as the director of National Bureau of Statistics of the People's Republic of China in 1950's. He was a fellow of Chinese Academy of Sciences. In 2005, Xue received the first Outstanding Achievement Award of Economics in China.

Early life 
Xue was born into an educated family of a formerly wealthy clan experiencing both social and economic decline. When Xue was a child, his father committed suicide because of the family's overwhelming debt burden. Xue joined the Communist Party of China at age 23, and studied Marxism and economics while imprisoned by the Nationalist forces for his activism in the railroad workers movement.

Xue also edited China's Countryside.

Early intellectual contributions 
Xue's first work as an intellectual was his participation in Marxist historian Chen Hansheng's survey work of the Chinese countryside in the 1930s. The goal of the research team was to conduct a large scale data collection effort in order to address China's stage of historical development, specifically the extent to which the country was semifeudal or the extent to which it was semicolonial.  As part of this research, Xue surveyed his own home town, documenting its significant levels of development and agricultural production during the period of the Jianqing emperor "and compared this with the pitiable state of opium addiction and gambling financed by excessive rent extraction in Xue's own time."

Xue's early intellectual work also helped document the exploitive nature of China's rural economy at the time, showing that 10 percent of the rural population owned 70 percent of the land. In other words, most people who lived in rural China were at the mercy of feudal landlords and wealthy peasants.

In 1943, Xue became a major part of the CPC's economic work in Shandong. The CPC's economic goal at the time was to drive out the Nationalists' competing currency from areas liberated by the communists. The communists’ first attempt to do so in Shandong (relying on administrative measures to set exchange rates arbitrarily) failed. Xue argued that the party should instead manipulate market forces to oust the Nationalists' currency. He also disagreed with those in the party who advocated for backing the CPC's paper money with precious metals because “[d]uring a period of material shortage, food and cotton are more valuable than gold and silver, which cannot full stomachs and protect against the cold.” At Xue's advice, the CPC revived the traditional “salt channel” which in turn allowed it to build up stocks of essential goods and competing currencies. Under this method, the CPC government sold the right to participate in salt farming to private businesses, which in turn rented to salt farmers — and only to salt farmers willing to work with the CPC. Gradually, the CPC came to control the profitable salt trade, and used the revenue to support its military and secure the value of its currency.

Career 
As a result of his role as a key strategist of "economic warfare," price stabilization, and driver out the competing currency of the Nationalists in Shandong, Xue developed a reputation as a leading authority on economic and financial matters. "His writings became important instructional materials for soldiers and cadres."

In 1948, Xue's work focused on the creation of a planned economy. In 1949, he was named to numerous positions in the People's Republic of China government, including secretary general of the Finance and Economics Committee of the State Council, director of the Bureau of Private Enterprises, the National Bureau of Statistics, the National Price Commission, and the Economic Research Center of the State Council, and deputy director of the National Planning Commission.

Xue continued his work on price stabilization following the failure of the Great Leap Forward.

Xue was sent into the countryside for "reeducation by labor" in 1969.

He published his reformist economic thinking in the late 1970s, particularly his influential volume China's Socialist Economy. Although an initial proponent of the gradual creation of markets by the state, Xue came to support "package reform." He supported the market reform agenda and played a role in its revival after 1989.

Economist Isabella Weber describes Xue as a "key interlocutor with foreign guests" on economic matters, given his reputation as an "eminent economist" and his role as the leader of the Price Research Center.

Xue Muqiao's theory of the "immature socialist system"