[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International Justice Mission

International Justice Mission is an international, non-governmental 501(c)(3) organization focused on human rights, law and law enforcement. Founded in 1997 by lawyer Gary Haugen of the United States, it is based in Washington, D.C. All IJM employees are required to be practicing Christians; 94% are nationals of the countries they work in.

IJM works to combat sex trafficking, child sexual exploitation , cybersex trafficking, forced labor slavery, property grabbing, and police abuse of power, and addresses citizenship rights of minorities. The bulk of IJM's work focuses on sex trafficking. IJM's close coordination with third-world police agencies and the resulting arrests and deportations of sex workers have generated criticism from human rights and sex worker organizations over its mission and tactics.

History

Founding
The International Justice Mission was founded in 1997 as a faith-based non-profit by American lawyer Gary Haugen of the United States. In its first case, the organization aided the arrest of a rape suspect in Manila, Philippines. In 1998, IJM claimed to have helped rescue more than 700 people. In addition to helping clients with legal representation, Haugen decided his organization could have more influence by partnering with governments of developing countries to help improve their legal systems.

As of November, 2022, IJM has two country programs (out of 30 total) that focus on sex trafficking: Kenya-Mombasa, Romania, and the Dominican Republic.  

The other 26 program offices work on forced labor (Romania; Ghana; Malaysia; Thailand; Cambodia; Indonesia; Myanmar; India; Philippines); domestic violence and sexual assault (Uganda; Kenya; Colombia; Guatemala; El Salvador; Bolivia; and Peru) and police violence (Kenya.)

Work in Thailand
IJM has worked in northern Thailand through IJM’s Chiang Mai field office (FO) since 2000, partnering with government authorities on hill tribe Thai citizenship cases and cases of sexual violence against children.  Over the early 2000s IJM was involved in work to target the sex worker industry. These included a number of brothel raids in Northern Thailand which were the subject of criticisms at the time due to their impact on non-coerced adults. In 2017, IJM started a new field office in Bangkok and in 2018 IJM Foundation was established to provide support to Thai authorities to eliminate labor trafficking and forced labor from the Thai fishing and seafood industries after a 2017 study found 38% of fisherman on Thai fishing vessels identified as trafficking victims.

Work in Cambodia
ICJ has worked with Cambodian authorities to combat child sex trafficking for over 25 years. An external Evaluation of the International Justice Mission’s Program to Combat Sex Trafficking of Children in Cambodia, reports that between 2003 and 2013, IJM trained a total of 504 persons, including 481 police officials and 23 other trainees, including DoSVY, NGO partners, and Deputy Governors of Districts in Siem Reap Province.

IJM director Gary Haugen invited the American television show Dateline (NBC) to film a March 29, 2003 raid which it planned to conduct at a large Cambodian brothel in the village of Svay Pak. The brothel contained approximately 40 girls, many under the age of 10, who were detained by Thai police along with 12 accused pimps and madams. A noodle vendor, who had no involvement with the brothel, was among those who were arrested in the raid; the noodle vendor subsequently died in jail of a stroke. IJM later contracted with a Cambodian human rights organization, LICADHO, to review its actions in organizing the raid. Peter Sainsbury, the consultant who reviewed the raid, said that he had told IJM about his medical concerns about the noodle vendor, but that his concerns were ignored.
At least twelve of the victims "rescued" from the 2003 Svay Pak raid ran away from the safe house to which they were taken. In a brothel raid a year later there, a number of girls rescued from the 2003 raid were found to be involved again in sex work.

While IJM considered these "rescues" to be successes, critics questioned the organization's tactics, saying raids on brothels do not focus on the root causes of child prostitution, have led to the arrests of people not in the sex trade, and hindered HIV-prevention initiatives.

Work in Ghana
In Ghana IJM has been engaged in identifying instances of child labour and trafficking since 2014. Children as young as age 4 have been subjected to forced labor in fishing in the areas around Lake Volta, sometimes as a result of human trafficking.  
In 2017 IJM Ghana team and local authorities rescued 31 children believed to be engaged in forced labor from fishing communities within the area of Lake Volta and placed them into custody. The authorities who placed the children into custody included representatives from Ghanaian social welfare agencies within the government.