[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Asylum (1972 horror film)

ara once again claims her innocence. However, Lucy is revealed to be made up by Barbara, as she appears over Barbara's image in the mirror, and the segment ends with Barbara laughing maniacally.

 Charlotte Rampling – Barbara
 Britt Ekland – Lucy
 James Villiers – George
 Megs Jenkins – Miss Higgins

"Mannequins of Horror"
Martin interviews Dr Byron, who declares his mastery of neurology and other branches of the discipline, and appears to hold Rutherford in contempt. Initially elated by the chance to speak with a new colleague, Byron explains that he has become interested in a new direction of research, which involves the assembly of small dolls said to contain all organs and abilities of a human body, and within which claims to be able to infuse his own vital spirit through sheer will and concentration. Witnessing Martin's disconcert, Byron concludes abruptly his interview and sends him away. With this visit, the new doctor has completed his acquaintance of all patients and he returns downstairs, to deliver his judgment to Rutherford.

This story was later loosely adapted for the Monsters episode "Mannequins of Horror".

 Herbert Lom – Dr Byron
 Frank Forsyth – Asylum gatekeeper

Epilogue
Alone in the room, Byron successfully brings the mannequin to life with his face. The toy evades the room when Max opens the door to bring food, and slowly creeps its way down to Rutherford's office. A few scenes later, it is shown to attack and kill him with a scalpel during a heated argument between Martin and Rutherford, during which the young doctor accuses him of having neglected his patients. Indeed the murder weapon is the lancet that Rutherford was planning to use for lobotomizing Byron.

Horrified, Martin steps on the toy doll. Its destruction, however, reveals its organic, pulsating content; Dr Byron dies in his room on the spot. Seeking help, Martin runs for the attendant Max, and tries to convince him to call the police. Max, however, seems unfazed. While the two quarrel, another cadaver is found. Dr. Starr's true identity is thus finally revealed: the cadaver is the true "Max Reynolds". Starr lost his mind and murdered the real Reynolds two days previously. He attacks Dr Martin and strangles him to death with his stethoscope, then exploding into a maniacal laugh upon hearing no heartbeat.

In the last scene, another new doctor is shown knocking on the institute's doors and again received by "Max". It appears that another cycle of murder and mayhem is about to begin.

Production

Filming
The film was shot at the New Lodge country house, just outside the village of Winkfield, Berkshire, England.

Soundtrack
Though Douglas Gamley is credited as having composed the music for this film, the majority of the score is drawn from public domain pieces by Modest Mussorgsky, in particular Night on Bald Mountain (heard over the opening and closing credits). Selections from his Pictures at an Exhibition are also used: "Gnomus" is heard over both an early display of artworks depicting lunatics and past medical practices to deal with the insane, and during the sequence of Byron's mannequin coming to life and making its way downstairs. The booming crescendo of "The Hut on Hen's Legs" is heard over the sequence where the tailor's dummy is animated and rampages in Bruno's shop.

Release 
In the UK, Asylum was one of Amicus's more popular films. Despite this, it was the last movie Bloch wrote for the studio.

Critical reception 
Allmovie's review of the film is favourable: "Asylum is a textbook example of the skill that Amicus Productions showed for producing entertaining horror anthology films."

Accolades

Home media
After years of releases sourced from degraded 35mm and 16mm prints (the 16mm prints were used for television broadcast), the film finally received a deluxe DVD release in 2006, from Dark Sky Films. This DVD includes numerous special features, including an audio commentary by director Baker and cameraman Neil Binney; "Inside the Fear Factory", a featurette about Amicus Productions; cast and crew bios; liner notes; trailers; and a still photo gallery. The film was remastered from a pristine, 35mm print. In 2017, Severin Films rereleased Asylum on video, including many of the extras from the Dark Sky Films DVD. New special features were added as well, including an interview with Fiona Subotsky, the producer's widow, who discusses his life, and the history of Amicus.

References

External links
 
 
 AMCtv.com – B Movies – Asylum (Full Streaming Movie)