[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 5th Special Forces Group (United States)

viously too overrun with Viet Cong to enter safe enough to operate in, and mounting operations and establishing CIDG bases deep in Viet Cong territory. These gains were not without cost, however: 55 Special Forces and 1,654 Vietnamese were killed during 1967, as well as an estimated 7,000 Viet Cong.

The June 1969 killing of suspected double agent Thai Khac Chuyen, and the attempt to cover it up, led to the arrest in July of seven officers and one non-commissioned officer of the 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne) including the new commander, Colonel Robert B. Rheault in what became known as the "Green Beret Affair". Chuyen was working with the 5th on Project GAMMA when the Green Berets learned he might be a double agent. He underwent about ten days of rigorous interrogation and solitary confinement before he was shot and dumped into the sea. National newspapers and television picked up the story, which became another lightning rod for anti-war feeling. Finally, in September 1969, Secretary of the Army Stanley Resor announced that all charges would be dropped since the CIA, which may have had some involvement, refused to make its personnel available as witnesses.

In April 1970, 5th SFG began reducing its number of personnel in Vietnam. Later in November and December, further reductions in personnel and extraction of companies ensued, ending in a complete withdrawal of the group by March. On 5 March 1971, 5th SFG returned to Fort Bragg. The 6th SFG at Fort Bragg was reflagged as the 5th SFG with the transfer of colors. Personnel and equipment were not transferred. Sixteen Soldiers assigned to or administratively assigned to 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne) during the Vietnam War were awarded the Medal of Honor; making 5th Group the most prominently decorated unit for its size in that conflict. Members of the unit continued to conduct intelligence operations in Southeast Asia until the collapse of the South Vietnamese government on 29 April 1975. Soldiers of the 5th were some of the last U.S. troops pulled out of Vietnam.

The Military Assistance Command, Vietnam – Studies and Observations Group (MACV-SOG) was a joint unconventional warfare task force created by the Joint Chiefs of Staff as a subsidiary command of the Military Assistance Command, Vietnam (MACV). The unit would eventually consist primarily of personnel from the United States Army Special Forces. Others assigned to MACV-SOG came from the United States Navy SEALs, the United States Air Force, the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Special Activities Division, and elements of the United States Marine Corps Force Reconnaissance units. The Studies and Observations Group was in fact controlled and missioned by the Special Assistant for Counterinsurgency and Special Activities (SACSA) and his staff at the Pentagon. After 1967 the HQ 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne), provided administrative support to MACV-SOG Special Forces soldiers in Vietnam.

The 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne) was headquartered at Fort Bragg until 10 June 1988, when the Group colors were cased at a ceremony marking its departure.

Move to Fort Campbell 
In the mid-1980s, the Army decided to move 5th Group from Fort Bragg. The original destination was Fort Bliss, Texas, because of its ideal training environment. In 1986, the Chief of Staff of the Army decided that the training environment should not be the principal factor in determining where to move the Group. He requested another analysis that considered such factors as total cost, military construction cost, and the impact of unit moves and activations on post populations. After this analysis, he decided to move the Group to Fort Campbell by the end of 1988. The Secretary of the Army approved the plan.

The colors were uncased on 16 June 1988 at the unit's new home at Fort Campbell, Kentucky, by Maj. Gen. Teddy G. Allen, Commander of the 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault) and Fort Campbell, Kentucky; Col. (now MG ret.) Harley C. Davis, Commander of the 5th Special Forces Group (Airborne); and Command Sgt. Maj. Joseph Dennison.

Late Cold War 

In 1989, Operation Salam established United Nations demining training camps for Afghans at Risalpur and Quetta in Pakistan. By 1995,  these camps trained 17,055 mine-clearance personnel. Operation Salam also aimed to help Afghan refugees identify mines and undertake due precautions.

5th Group soldiers who participated in this operation received the United Nations Special Service Medal (UNSSM) for service with the United Nations Office for the Co-ordination of Humanitarian Assistance to Afghanistan (UNOCHA).

Persian Gulf War