[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arma 2

erce resistance, the Chernarussian military forces on the island are eventually overwhelmed, and the island falls to the ChDKZ. In response, U.S. Marines launch an amphibious invasion of Útes to liberate the island from the ChDKZ forces, ultimately succeeding in pushing rebel forces out of the area.

A few days after the liberation of Útes, the Marines prepare to deploy to mainland Chernarus for Operation Harvest Red to bring an end to the civil war in Chernarus and re-establish Chernarussian sovereignty. Though the U.S. Marines are officially being deployed to Chernarus as a peacekeeping force, the true purpose of their deployment is to capture Lopotev and to end the rebellion.

Plot

Operation Harvest Red
In preparation for Operation Harvest Red, elements of the U.S. Marine Corps' Force Recon are deployed behind enemy lines into Chernarus to weaken ChDKZ coastal defenses for the invading Marine Expeditionary Unit. Among the Force Reconnaissance Marines is Razor Team, a five-man special operations team, which includes second-in-command Master Sergeant Matthew "Coops" Cooper, and team leader Master Sergeant Patrick "Eightball" Miles.

Razor Team is to conduct a raid on the small Chernarussian town of Pusta, to disrupt ChDKZ communications in preparation for the invading Marine Expeditionary Unit. During Razor Team's raid on Pusta, the team rescues torture victims, and subsequently uncovers a mass grave, revealing that the ChDKZ have been conducting acts of genocide and war crimes in South Zagoria. After the raid on Pusta, Razor Team is tasked with helping to unite the Chernarussian Defense Forces with National Party guerillas led by Prizrak.

As the civil war in Chernarus continues, a terrorist bombing occurs in the middle of Red Square, killing dozens and wounding several more. The ChDKZ blames the attack on the National Party, and Russia, unhappy about U.S. forces operating near its border, demands the unconditional withdrawal of U.S. forces from Chernarus. Russia also proposes to the United Nations Security Council that the United States withdraw its forces from Chernarus, whom the Russians allege are escalating the conflict. The United States' mandate in Chernarus expires, and U.S. forces quickly withdraw from the country. Shortly after the U.S. withdrawal, Russia sends a United Nations-backed peacekeeping contingent into South Zagoria to replace U.S. forces. However, Razor Team is left behind in the confusion as the remaining U.S. forces withdraw from Chernarus. Later, it is revealed that the terrorist bombing of Red Square was in fact a false flag attack committed by the ChDKZ to paint the National Party as terrorists. Razor Team is then tasked to acquire evidence which will prove the ChDKZ's involvement in the bombing of Red Square and the National Party's innocence.

The ending of the campaign depends upon a number of different factors: whether or not Razor Team eliminates Prizrak, who is opposing the alliance between the Chernarussian government and the National Party, and if Lopotev remains in custody. The campaign's endings range from Razor Team escaping safely, their elimination by the ChDKZ, or Russia's eventual nuclear strike against Chernarus.

Operation Echo Wave
After the conclusion of Operation Harvest Red in 2009, the civil war in South Zagoria province has escalated into a outright war between the U.S., backing the Chernarussian government, and the Russian Federation, backing the ChDKZ insurgency, sparking World War III. The U.S. launches "Operation Echo Wave" and dispatches a naval fleet carrying a U.S. Marine expeditionary unit off the coast of South Zagoria to aid the CDF in their retaking of the province from the Russians.

Development
Arma 2 was announced in 2007. It is named after the Latin word "arma", meaning weapons, soldiers, and war. Due to the fact that the previous game in the series was named Armed Assault, Arma 2 is often referred to as Armed Assault 2, albeit in error. Although Arma 2'''s title is stylized as ArmA II, it is done as an homage to the previous game in the series, because the game's title is a slight contraction of Armed Assault in the first game in the series.

During development, Bohemia Interactive stated at the Electronic Entertainment Expo that Arma 2 was to have a "roleplaying feel to it", with in-game events affecting the character as well as the entire campaign. For example, terrorizing non-playable characters would result in losing their trust, thus encouraging the victimized NPC(s) to give away valuable information to enemy forces. The entire campaign can be played either offline, as single-player, or online co-operative play for up to four players.