[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pablo Ganguli

Pablo Ganguli is an entrepreneur, artist, producer, director and impresario who has created and directed several international festivals, movements and summits of arts, literature, media, film, fashion and culture, through his organisation Liberatum.

Ganguli has led cultural diplomacy ventures worldwide.<ref>"Gallery | An Exhibit of Instagram Photos of Kimye with LiLo, Lorde, Damien Hirst and More", T Magazine, The New York Times', 23 June 2014</ref> Ganguli's organisation Liberatum also promotes environmental, human rights, freedom of speech and other important issues.

Early life
Ganguli was born in a Bengali family in Kolkata, West Bengal, India. Some sources state that one of his great-grandfathers was the private secretary to Rabindranath Tagore, the Bengali poet who was Asia's first Nobel laureate. As an infant, Ganguli was brought up by his grandmother. He claimed he had never met his mother, and throughout his childhood was only visited by his art-historian father once a month. He grew up in Kolkata in a creative environment pursuing artistic interests.

Career
In 2001 at the age of 17 Ganguli founded his company, Liberatum, to organise events around the world.

In August 2006, in an article "The Boy Who Beguiled London's Literary Luvvies", a columnist in the Evening Standard of London noted that Ganguli had made 'the remarkable journey from a student studying French in Calcutta to, seemingly, one of the world's leading literary salonistas in just three years'.

In November 2010 and 2011, Ganguli was selected as one of the 1000 most influential figures in London by the Evening Standard.In March 2011, Ganguli said with regard to the festivals he puts on: "It’s not a job. It’s my life. It’s what I dream about and have nightmares about". The principal source of income for his festivals is sponsorship, which he says is "never easy to get and requires a lot of hard work". He does not pay the speakers at his festivals: "It’s like giving a fee to someone for attending the Oscars."

Ventures

 Papua New Guinea 
In 2001, Ganguli created Connect UK, a Papua New Guinea based organisation, whose stated purpose was to forge cultural ties between the South Pacific and Britain. In November 2002, the British High Commission and Connect UK jointly put on the first 'British Week' in that country, 'a celebration of British arts, culture, design, education and science and technology'. Festival participants included Janet Street-Porter and Benjamin Zephaniah.

Ganguli directed the first Women's Rights Conference in Papua New Guinea supported by the PNG, Australian, United States and British governments. Baroness Valerie Amos, the then British Secretary of State for International Development sent a message of good wishes for the conference. The British Council and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office supported the work of Ganguli in Papua New Guinea. Connect UK organised events promoting human rights, youth issues and Aids awareness projects.

Morocco
Between 2003 and 2006, Ganguli spent part of his time in Morocco. Ganguli was head of public relations and events at Kasbah Agafay and Kssour Agafay, a private member's club and luxury hotel in Marrakech. Tim Willis in The London Evening Standard on 5 January 2010 reported of Ganguli's deportation from Morocco in 2005 thus:  "when, returning from a trip to India in 2005, he learnt that his ex had been expelled from Morocco and that he had 48 hours to leave the country. "I was never given a reason", he says. Ganguli moved into a house owned by Scaddan (his ex lover) in Edinburgh".

 United Kingdom and Festivals by Ganguli 

Beginning in 2005, Ganguli moved to the United Kingdom to make it his base. Around the same time, he started creating and directing cultural festivals in different parts of the world.

North Africa

Arts in Marrakech Festival

The Arts in Marrakech International Festival, a festival of English and Arabic art and literature, was organised by Ganguli and held in Morocco from 29 September to 3 October 2005, and was preceded by Scottish Week Marrakesh, 21–28 September, also organised by Ganguli.

India

Kitab New Delhi

Kitab, sponsored by the Hindustan Times, with The Times (UK) as its English media partner, was held at the India Habitat Centre in south Delhi, India, 7–9 April 2006. It was India's first international literary festival.

Kitab Mumbai

The second Kitab was held in Mumbai, India, February 23–36, 2007.Farrukh Dhondy,  'Confessions of a festival fly', Sunday Times (India). Retrieved 24 January 2007.

China

Liberatum Hong Kong

Asia Tatler and the Wall Street Journal announced that Ganguli would present Liberatum in Hong Kong in 2012. Participants include Pharrell Williams, Rossy de Palma, Paul Schrader, Thomas Heatherwick, Daniel Wu and Khalil Fong. Vogue China editor in chief said it was one of the very few free cultural events open to the public. The event was reportedly a wild ride with Pharrell Williams as the headliner.

Arab World