[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Islamic University of Gaza

ory & Archaeology, Journalism, Public relations, and social services. It awards a Master of Arts degrees in six majors, including Arabic language, English language/linguistics and translation, Journalism, History, Geography, and Social Services. The faculty also awards PhD degree in Arabic Language.

Faculty of Education  
Established in 1980, the faculty grants Bachelor degrees in 15 majors different majors, including primary education (elementary level), psychology, Counselling and education guidance, science education, Islamic studies education, Arabic language education, English language education, geography education, social studies education, history education, chemistry education, mathematics education, physics education, and biology education. 

The faculty awards a Master of Arts degrees in four majors: Curricula and Methodology, Fundamentals of Education, Rehabilitation Sciences, and Early Childhood Education. The curricula and methodology has the following concentrations: mathematics, Arabic language, sciences, English, and instructional technology. The fundamentals of education has the following concentrations: Islamic education and educational administration. The faculty also awards PhD degrees in four majors: Curricula and Methodology, Guidance and Counselling, Community Psychology, and Educational Administration.

Faculty of Shariah and Law  
Founded in 1978, the faculty consists of the Islamic Shariah and Shariah & Law departments (the later was founded in 2005). It awards Bachelor's degrees in Sharia and Sharia & Law, with the latter focusing on legal aspects and the Intersection of Islam and Palestinian laws. The faculty awards Masters of Arts degrees in four majors: Foundations of Jurisprudence, Comparative Jurisprudence, Islamic jurisdiction, and Law.

Faculty of Usul al-Deen  
The Faculty of Usul al-Deen (Fundamentals of Belief) was founded in 1978 as one of the three faculties at the year of IUG establishment. It consists of four departments: Quran and Tafsir (interpretation), Hadith Sharif, Aqidah, and Dawat. The faculty awards Bachelor degrees in Usul al-Deen and Dawat. It awards Master of Arts degrees in the majors of Hadith, Aqidah, and Quran & Tafsir. It also awards PhD degrees in the majors of Quran and Tafsir (interpretation), Hadith Sharif, Aqidah.

Faculty of Engineering 
The Faculty of Engineering was established in the academic year 1992/1993. It includes 25 Professors, 19 Associate Professors, and 15 Assistant Professors, in addition to other junior academic staff and administrative staff. The faculty consists of eight departments in Civil engineering, Architectural engineering, Electrical Engineering, Industrial Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Environmental engineering, Computer engineering, and Systems engineering. 

The faculty grants bachelor degrees in ten majors. It also awards MSc degrees in 14 different majors, including civil engineering/infrastructure, civil engineering/construction management, civil engineering/structure design and rehabilitation of structures, electrical engineering/control systems, water resources engineering, telecommunications, and others. The faculty offers a single PhD program in computer engineering. 

In 2009, the faculty inaugurated the Ewan (Iwan) Cultural Heritage Centre which is focused on the restoration and maintenance of ancient buildings in the Gaza Strip and preservation of Palestinian cultural identity. In 2020, the faculty established the Center of Excellence for Renewable Energy (CERE) to promote research and development in clean energy technology.

Faculty of Nursing  
The Faculty of Nursing was established in 1986 but due to Israeli restrictions it operated for seven years as a subdepartment of the Faculty of Science until its formal launch as a separate faculty in 1993. It offers bachelor degrees in nursing and in midwifery. It also awards MSc degrees in clinical psychology and critical care nursing.

Faculty of Science  
The faculty was established in 1980. It awards bachelor degrees in mathematics, biostatistics, chemistry, biochemistry, physics, biology, biotechnology, and environmental sciences. It also awards MSc degrees in the following majors: mathematics, physics, water resources management, zoology, microbiology, medical laboratory, and botany and mycology. The faculty also has a PhD program in theoretical and applied mathematics.

Faculty of Health Sciences  
Established in 2012, the Faculty consists of three departments: medical laboratory science, physiotherapy, and optometry department. These departments offer bachelor degrees in their respective specialties. The department of medical laboratory science also grants MCs degrees in medical laboratory sciences and in infection control. The molecular biology laboratory is one of very few local centers that offer genetic testing to the public.