[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adam Fortunate Eagle

h Pope Paul VI, instead of kissing the papal ring, he offered his own ringed hand in return; the Pope grinned and clasped his hand.

Nordwall filed for bankruptcy and left the Bay Area in 1975 after his pest control business incurred fines for environmental code violations and underpayment of taxes.

Writing and film
He wrote "The Alcatraz Proclamation to the Great White Father and his People", which states that the goal of the occupiers was to create a center for Native American studies, an American Indian spiritual center, an Indian center of ecology, and a great Indian training school. While the occupation of Alcatraz seemed a failure on the surface, the federal policy of termination of all tribes ended in 1971, and self-determination became the new policy. Many consider the Alcatraz occupation the beginning of the "Red Power" movement. His 2008 book Heart of the Rock is the story of that "invasion".

Fortunate Eagle performed the voice of Sitting Bull in the feature-length documentary Sitting Bull: A Stone in My Heart. He is also the subject of a feature-length documentary called Contrary Warrior: The Life and Times of Adam Fortunate Eagle and wrote a book on his experiences as an Indian boarding school titled Pipestone: My Life in An Indian Boarding School.

His most recent work, Scalping Columbus, is a compilation of his own anecdotes.

He is the father of poet nila northSun.

Later life
Nordwall received his Indian name Fortunate Eagle from a Crow Indian when he was 42. He now lives on the Paiute-Shoshone Reservation, where his wife was born; he has built a roundhouse out of tires and other recycled materials. In the 1980s he won awards for his sculpture; he also makes ceremonial pipes and headdresses, and in 1987 was jailed and tried for selling eagle feathers. His criminal trial ended in a hung jury but he was found guilty and fined in a civil trial.

Bibliography
Alcatraz! Alcatraz! The Indian Occupation of 1969-1971 (1992)
Heart of the Rock: The Indian Invasion of Alcatraz (2008)
Pipestone: My Life in an Indian Boarding School (2010)

References

External links

 streaming video of "Contrary Warrior: The Life and Times of Adam Fortunate Eagle"
 info about Pipestone: My Life in An Indian Boarding School
 info about the films Sitting Bull: A Stone in My Heart and Contrary Warrior: The Life and Times of Adam Fortunate Eagle

Living people
Red Lake Band of Chippewa people
Native American activists
20th-century Native Americans
1929 births
American people of Swedish descent
People from Red Lake, Minnesota
Activists from Minnesota