[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Special Detective Unit

President Barack Obama to Ireland in 2011, fearing retaliation from al-Qaeda terrorists in response to the death of Osama bin Laden a number of weeks earlier. It was Obama's first trip overseas following the killing of bin Laden by US Navy SEALs in Pakistan, and his visit was deemed a major success.

Following the outbreak of the Syrian Civil War (2011–present) and the campaign of violence perpetrated by the "Islamic State" (2014) terrorist organisation in Iraq, the Middle Eastern Bureau of the Special Detective Unit and the Directorate of Military Intelligence increased their monitoring of Irish residents and citizens who travelled to conflict regions in the Middle East to partake in fighting, with the fear they may become radicalised and carry out Islamic jihadist terrorist attacks in Ireland, Europe and North America upon their return. The Middle Eastern Bureau and Military Intelligence is tasked with monitoring between 30 and 60 people living in Ireland who are under suspicion due to their links with Muslim extremist organisations. The Irish authorities have been working with the British security services, MI5 and the Secret Intelligence Service (SIS/MI6), to identify possible returning terrorists by sharing data, information and intelligence, operating a joint database and watchlist, and cross-checking airline passenger manifests to track Irish and UK residents and citizens who are travelling to and from conflict zones in the Middle East. The US National Security Agency (NSA) also shares intelligence with the Gardaí and Defence Forces security services with regards to the activities of fighters in Syria and Iraq who have originated from Ireland.

Electronic surveillance
It has been alleged that the Special Detective Unit has been involved in the telephone tapping and email hacking of crime journalists in Ireland, in attempts to reveal the identity of sources that appear in newspaper stories on crime and terrorism. A number of journalists have accused the unit of monitoring their electronic communications, as well as carrying out covert surveillance on them when they are meeting sources in person. Some journalists allege they have been questioned (and threatened with arrest) about sources used in crime and terrorism stories, including about Garda officers speaking to the media when not sanctioned to do so by senior management. Warrantless wiretapping by the authorities in Ireland is not illegal, but in the absence of a warrant resulting evidence cannot be used to bring prosecutions in court. The press say they have been asked not to publish certain stories which may jeopardise sensitive Garda operations, but that the force has not attempted to influence reporting.

In the month of January 2012 alone, Gardaí applied for 1,829 "requests for disclosure" from telecommunications and internet companies based in Ireland. There were 1,296 subscriber requests, 494 call trace requests and 39 IP (computer address) requests. Taken as an average monthly total, theoretically Gardaí would be seeking details of over 20,000 phone and broadband subscribers per annum. These requests have been the subject of an investigation by the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner.

Killed in the line of duty

A number of officers in the Garda Special Detective Unit have lost their lives in the course of serving the state since the early 1920s. 
Seven Special Branch detectives are known to have been unlawfully killed in the line of duty since 1940.

Weapons
Pistols
 SIG Sauer P226 (9×19mm Parabellum semi-automatic pistol)
 Walther P99 (9×19mm Parabellum semi-automatic pistol)

Submachine Guns
 Heckler & Koch MP7 (HK 4.6×30mm submachine gun)

Assault Rifles
 Heckler & Koch HK416 (5.56×45mm NATO assault rifle)
 Heckler & Koch HK33 (5.56×45mm NATO assault rifle)

Sniper Rifles
 Steyr SSG 04 (7.62×51mm NATO bolt-action sniper rifle)
 Steyr SSG 69 (7.62×51mm NATO bolt-action sniper rifle)

Shotguns
 Remington Model 870 (12 gauge pump-action shotgun)
 Benelli M4 Super 90 (12 gauge semi-automatic shotgun)
 Benelli M3 (Super 90) (12 gauge dual-mode shotgun)

Less Lethal
 Taser X26 (electroshock weapon)

See also
 Garda National Surveillance Unit (NSU)
 Defence Forces Directorate of Military Intelligence
 National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC)

References

External links
 Garda Síochána official website

Garda Crime and Security Branch