[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Treaty of Point Elliott

n the same as a permanent home on the same terms and subject to the same regulations as are provided in the sixth article of the treaty with the Omahas, so far as the same may be applicable.An attorney in the employ of the Natives during negotiations was concerned on their behalf with this language.

ARTICLE 12.
The said tribes and bands further agree not to trade at Vancouver's Island or elsewhere out of the dominions of the United States, nor shall foreign Indians be permitted to reside in their reservations without consent of the superintendent or agent.

The complete treaty, unabridged can be found on Wikisource.

After the treaty
The Pacific Northwest tribes had traditionally depended on harvests of salmon and other fish as a major part of their diets. Citing the treaties and their restrictions to reservations, the state and federal government increasingly restricted their fishing after 1890. There was a rise in both commercial and sports fisheries, dominated by European Americans. State repression increased through the 1950s.

In a period of increased activism, in the 1960s several Native American tribes in the Northwest began protest fish-ins. They peacefully and successfully outmaneuvered police, garnering wide media attention. The Boldt Decision in 1974, which interpreted the Native Americans as having traditional rights to fish because they were not explicitly restricted by this and other treaties, was followed by state efforts to restrict them and resistance to their fishing by non-Indians. The case was appealed and in 1979, the US Supreme Court upheld Boldt's ruling in the lower court.

Today regional fisheries councils, in which Native Americans, sports and commercial fishermen participate together with federal scientists and attorneys, annually review the status of particular fisheries to see how many fish are available for harvest, to review protection plans or their need, and to develop how they will share the harvests.

In the same period, Native Americans outside reservations and without federal recognition, such as the Nooksack tribe, Upper Skagit, Sauks-Suiattle, and Stillaguamish peoples, won federal recognition in the 1970s, in order to secure certain financial benefits, including aid to education for their children. The BIA made the decisions based on their operating as cohesive political communities during the long treaty-rights struggles.  Federal courts denied recognition to the Snohomish, Steilacoom, and Duwamish, because they were not recognized as polities (civil governments).

Point Elliott Treaty Monument

In 1930, the Point Elliott Treaty Monument was erected by the Marcus Whitman Chapter of the Daughters of the American Revolution at the northeast corner of Lincoln Avenue and 3rd Street in Mukilteo. The monument, a  slab of granite, is  thick. A bronze plaque mounted on the west face is inscribed with text written by Edmond S. Meany. The monument commemorates the signing of the treaty, however the precise location of the signing is unknown. The Point Elliott Treaty Monument was added to the National Register of Historic Places on April 14, 2004.

See also
 Duwamish (tribe) # History
 History of Seattle before 1900 # Relations with the natives
 Histories of other Puget Sound Native American tribes
 Quinault Treaty

Notes and references

Bibliography
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   Lange referenced Thomas W. Prosch, "A Chronological History of Seattle From 1850 to 1897" Typescript dated 1900-1901, Northwest Collection, University of Washington Library, Seattle, 36-37; Edmond S Meany, "The Cowlitz Convention: Inception of Washington Territory" The Washington Historical Quarterly, Vol. 13, No. 1 (January 1922), 3-19.
   Long referenced Hector Castro and Mike Barber, "After Decades, Duwamish Tribe Wins Federal Recognition", Seattle Post-Intelligencer January 20, 2001, (www.seattlep-i.com); Bernard McGhee, "Duwamish Tribe Wins Recognition", The Seattle Times, January 20, 2001, (www.seattletimes.com); Bureau of Indian Affairs, "BIA Issues Final Determination on the Recognition of the Duwamish Tribal Organization", News Release, January 19, 2001 (http://www.doi.gov/bia); Sara Jeanne Greene, "Chief Seattle's Tribe Clings to its Identity", The Seattle Times, June 18, 2001 (www.seattletimes.com); Susan Gilmore, "Duwamish Denied Tribal Status", Ibid., September 29, 2001 (http://seattletimes.nwsource.com/html/localnews/134347559_duwamish29m.html). Note: This file was revised on 3 August 2001 and again on 20 January 2001.
 
 
 
  Speidel provides a substantial bibliography with extensive primary sources.
  Speidel provides a substantial bibliography with extensive primary sources.

Further reading

 Washington State History Museum, Treaty of Point Elliott in PDF format.

Point Elliott
Treaties
Native American history of Washington (state)
Mukilteo, Washington
1855 treaties
1859 treaties