[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# India–United States relations

nds the two countries' relationship as part of the Post-2015 Development Agenda. The conspicuous absence of major announcements, a key indicator of the state of US relations with the host country, led political commentators in both countries to highlight the confidence-building aspects of the visit.

Modi's visit to America, 2015 
Prime Minister Narendra Modi toured the Silicon Valley and met with entrepreneurs – several of whom are persons of Indian origin – involved in successful microelectronics, digital communications and biotechnology start-ups to promote the NDA government's Make in India initiative. Modi left the U.S. West Coast and travelled to New York for the 2015 UN General Assembly meeting where he had bilateral discussions with US President Barack Obama.

Modi's visit to America, 2016 
Prime Minister Narendra Modi while visiting the United States addressed a joint session of Congress highlighting the common traits of both democracies and long-term friendship between the two countries. In a speech lasting more than 45 minutes, Mr. Modi drew on parallels between the two countries and addressed a variety of issues where the two countries have worked together in the past and where the future course of action would lie.

Modi's visit to America, 2017 
On June 26, 2017, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited the United States and met US President Donald Trump. On 8 November 2017, the US announced a grant of nearly US$500,000 for organisations which came up with ideas and projects to promote religious freedom in India and Sri Lanka.

Modi's visit to America, 2019 

In September 2019, Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Houston, where he addressed a large Indian American contingent at NRG Stadium. Along with President Donald Trump, he reaffirmed Indian American ties, with an emphasis on increased military cooperation with the initiation of the Tiger Triumph exercises.

Trump's 2020 visit to India 

On February 24, 2020, U.S. President Donald Trump visited Ahmedabad, Gujarat to address a large Indian crowd. The event, titled "Namaste Trump", was a response to the "Howdy Modi" event held in 2019. Attendance of over 100,000 people was reported. The event served as a platform for the U.S. president and the Indian prime minister to show off their friendly relationship.

Trump also visited Agra, Uttar Pradesh and the Taj Mahal on the same day. In Agra, the Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh, Yogi Adityanath welcomed the President and the First Lady. There were 3000 cultural artists showcasing art, cultural & music of various regions. However, political commentators state that Trump's first official visit to India had been overshadowed by the 2020 North East Delhi riots.

Modi's visit to America, 2021 
Modi traveled to US from 22 to 25 September 2021, beginning with his maiden address in the United Nations general assembly before heading Washington, D.C., for the bilateral talk with President Joe Biden and Vice President Kamala Harris. While there, Modi also participated in the Quad Leaders' Summit.

Modi's visit to America, 2023 
Prime Minister Modi traveled to the United States in June 2023. It was Modi's first state visit to the United States, and the second time he has been invited to address a joint session of the U.S. Congress. Modi and President Biden answered questions from reporters at a press conference held in the White House.

Embassies and Consulates 
US Missions in India

 New Delhi (Embassy)
 Mumbai (Consulate)
 Kolkata (Consulate)
 Chennai (Consulate)
 Hyderabad (Consulate)
 Bengaluru (Consulate, planned)
 Ahmedabad (Consulate, planned)
Indian Missions in US

 Washington, DC (Embassy)
 Houston (Consulate)
 Chicago (Consulate)
 New York (Consulate)
 San Francisco (Consulate)
 Seattle (Consulate, planned)

See also

 Geostrategic
 Blue Team (U.S. politics)
 Free and Open Indo-Pacific
 India as an emerging superpower
 India–United States Civil Nuclear Agreement
 Malabar (naval exercise)
 Quadrilateral Security Dialogue
 String of Pearls (Indian Ocean)

 Cultural and peoples relations
 Sikhism in the United States
 Hinduism in the United States
 Americans in India
 Indian Americans
 Buddhism in the United States

 Foreign relations 
 Canada–India relations
 China-United States relations
 China containment policy
 India–European Union relations
 Pakistan–United States relations
 Next Steps in Strategic Partnership

Notes

Further reading