[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS War Hawk

and Dulag on the northeast side of the island. In total, the Leyte invasion was the largest invasion mounted in the Pacific to date. There were a combined total of 701 ships of which 157 were warships. The transports put six Army divisions and one battalion of Rangers onto Leyte in just a few days.

It was during this phase of the war that General Douglas MacArthur waded ashore at Red Beach and issued his famous "I have returned" speech to the people of the Philippines. Carl Mydans, a photographer for Time–Life, took the famous photograph of MacArthur wading ashore on Red Beach on 9 January 1945. War Hawk landed her troops not far away at Green Beach.

In the evening of 21 October 1944, War Hawk was maneuvering through Leyte Gulf and rammed the battleship  near the stern. Tennessee was laying dead in the water and generating smoke to protect the ships from air attack. No one was hurt on either ship. The damage to Tennessee was light but War Hawk sustained moderate damage near the bow.

One of the more interesting pieces of cargo that War Hawk landed at Leyte was a Piper Cub artillery spotting aircraft. It left Pearl Harbor loaded onto the deck of War Hawk (with its wings removed) and was put ashore by an LCM. Before the aircraft could be assembled, a Japanese mortar round knocked a palm tree over onto it.

After the initial invasion of Leyte, War Hawk sailed back to Dutch New Guinea, where she picked up a field hospital unit and returned to Leyte. War Hawk returned to New Britain and picked up troops from the Army's 40th Infantry Division and returned to Luzon.

Luzon
The next step in the liberation of the Philippines was the invasion of the island of Luzon, on which the Philippine capitol Manila resides. The land invasion of Luzon began at the base of Lingayen Gulf on the Northwestern side of the island on 9 January 1945. In just a few days, War Hawk and her sister ships had landed almost 175,000 troops, mostly made up of the 6th Army. These troops began a push east, north and south towards Manila.

Initially, beach resistance was light and with a low surf, War Hawk was able to put her troops and supplies almost directly onto the beach. There was some fire from Japanese gun emplacements. These emplacements were often made of layers of coconut logs which, being very spongy, were very resistant to everything but the large caliber weapons.

Lingayen Gulf 
At 04:10 on the morning of 10 January 1945, War Hawk was anchored in Lingayen Gulf where she was attacked in the dark by a Shinyo suicide boat. These boats were small motorboats laden with up to two tons of explosives in the bow. Lookouts reported hearing an approaching boat when the Shinyo rammed the port side of the ship. The explosion blew a  hole in hold number three, killing 61 men. (Commander Thompson's official Action Report filed on 18 January 1945 states that 23 people were missing and unaccounted for 20 minutes after the explosion. He does not give details on the wounded.) The damage to the ship was extensive, including flooding in the engine room which knocked out power. With the ship dead in the water, the crew struggled to keep her afloat, restore power and fight off continuing Japanese air attacks throughout the day. That same day, two Landing Craft Infantry (LCI-365 and LCI-974) were sunk in the same area by Shinyo boats.

By 11 January, the hole had been buttressed and partial power had been restored, and War Hawk began a long, slow journey back to Leyte Gulf. Two days later, on 13 January, the gun crews downed a kamikaze aircraft, splattering the bow with flaming debris. Once in Leyte Gulf, further and more permanent repairs were made to the ship, enabling her to sail to Manus in the Admiralty Islands for further dry dock work. She set sail for San Francisco Bay on 22 February 1945.

The end of World War II
War Hawk was repaired at an unknown dock facility in San Francisco Bay and set sail for San Diego on 29 May 1945. There she picked up troops from an unspecified division and returned to Guam in the Marianas. She made one more trip back to San Francisco for a load of naval replacements and headed for Eniwetok, Ulithi and Leyte Gulf. While en route, she received word that the United States had dropped two atomic weapons on Hiroshima and Nagasaki and the Japanese had agreed to an unconditional surrender.

Civilian service
War Hawk was decommissioned on 12 August 1946 in Seattle, Washington. She became the property of the Maritime Commission on 13 August after sailing to Olympia, Washington, and was eventually struck from the Navy List on 8 October 1946.