[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 125]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

n, "what you say is highly reasonable; nor
did I ever expect that a boy so long indulged and spoiled should be
exempt from failings. But what particularly hurts me is to see him
proceed to such disagreeable extremities without any adequate
temptation--extremities that, I fear, imply a defect of goodness and
generosity--virtues which I always thought he had possessed in a very
great degree."

"Neither," answered Mr Barlow, "am I at all convinced that your son is
deficient in either. But you are to consider the prevalence of example,
and the circle to which you have lately introduced him. If it is so
difficult even for persons of a more mature age and experience to resist
the impressions of those with whom they constantly associate, how can
you expect it from your son? To be armed against the prejudices of the
world, and to distinguish real merit from the splendid vices which pass
current in what is called society, is one of the most difficult of human
sciences. Nor do I know a single character, however excellent, that
would not candidly confess he has often made a wrong election, and paid
that homage to a brilliant outside which is only due to real merit."

"You comfort me very much," said Mr Merton, "but such ungovernable
passion, such violence and impetuosity----"

"Are indeed very formidable," replied Mr Barlow, "yet, when they are
properly directed, frequently produce the noblest effects. You have, I
doubt not, read the story of Polemo, who, from a debauched young man,
became a celebrated philosopher, and a model of virtue, only by
attending a single moral lecture."

"Indeed," said Mr Merton, "I am ashamed to confess that the various
employments and amusements in which I have passed the greater part of my
life have not afforded me as much leisure for reading as I could wish.
You will therefore oblige me very much by repeating the story you allude
to."


"THE STORY OF POLEMO."

"Polemo (said Mr Barlow) was a young man of Athens, and although he was
brought up with the most tender solicitude and care by his mother, and
at one time promised fair to be of a studious and virtuous turn of mind,
as he appeared very fond of reading, and much attached to literary
pursuits, and would frequently retire into the fields, and for hours sit
upon the stump of a tree, with his book before him,--still, after a few
years, he became so distinguished by his excesses, that he was the
aversion of all the discreeter part of the city. He led a life of
intemperance and dissipation, and was constantly surrounded by a set of
loose young men who imitated and encouraged his vices; and when they had
totally drowned the little reason they possessed in copious draughts of
wine, they were accustomed to sally out, and practise every species of
absurd and licentious frolic.

"One morning they were thus wandering about, after having spent the
night as usual, when they beheld a great concourse of people that were
listening to the discourse of a celebrated philosopher named Xenocrates.
The greater part of the young men, who still retained some sense of
shame, were so struck with this spectacle, that they turned out of the
way; but Polemo, who was more daring and abandoned than the rest,
pressed forward into the midst of the audience. His figure was too
remarkable not to attract universal notice; for his head was crowned
with flowers, his robe hung negligently about him, and his whole body
was reeking with perfumes; besides, his look and manner were such as
very little qualified him for such a company. Many of the audience were
so displeased at this interruption, that they were ready to treat the
young man with great severity; but the venerable philosopher prevailed
upon them not to molest the intruder, and calmly continued his
discourse, which happened to be upon the dignity and advantages of
temperance.

"As the sage proceeded in his oration, he descanted upon this subject,
with so much force and eloquence that the young man became more composed
and attentive, as it were in spite of himself. Presently the philosopher
grew still more animated in his representation of the shameful slavery
which attends the giving way to our passions, and the sublime happiness
of reducing them all to order; and then the countenance of Polemo began
to change, and the expression of it to be softened; he cast his eyes in
mournful silence upon the ground, as if in deep repentance for his own
contemptible conduct. Still the aged speaker increased in vehemence; he
seemed to be animated with the sacred genius of the art which he
professed, and to exercise an irresistible power over the minds of his
hearers. He drew the portrait of an ingenious and modest young man who
had been bred up to virtuous toils and manly hardiness; he painted him
triumphant over all his passions, and trampling upon human fears and
weakness: 'Should his country be invaded, you see him fly to its
defence, and rea