[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Khan Research Laboratories

Akbar, with logistics provided by the Military Engineering Service. Conducting classified research, the facility was heavy secured by both the Pakistan Army and the Pakistan Air Force (PAF). All employees needed badges to pass a checkpoint, and the laboratories are electronically fenced and guarded.

The ERL was intended to spur innovation and provide competition to the weapon design at PAEC. Some renowned scientists, Dr. G. D. Alam (theoretical physicist) from PAEC had joined the ERL and enriched the uranium at Kahuta while Dr. T. M. Shah (a mathematician) and Anwar Ali (a physicist) and some other scientists also supported him. The site quickly installed thousands of gas centrifuges, using the Zippe method, to run at about 65,000 revolutions per minute (rpm) for an average of 10 years.  The Uranium-235 (U235) containing only ~0.7% enriched material is brought to more than 90.0% through three stages of enrichment, leaving the original material depleted from 0.7% to 0.2%, which then now at both civilian and military-grade. In the 1970s, ERL heavily depended on URENCO's method but lessened the dependence in 1979 after local methods were developed with efforts studied and learned by Dr. G. D. Alam and Dr. T. M Shah. Unverified claims were made by KRL in 1983–84 of conducting weapon design tests. After visiting the site in May 1981, President Zia-ul-Haq renamed ERL as the Khan Research Laboratory (KRL) in honor of its founder and senior scientist Abdul Qadeer Khan. The KRL established a system of computer numerical control to control the ultracentrifuges in 1983. By 1986,  KRL began producing highly enriched uranium (HEU) as well as developing the krytron, while classified work on the uranium weapon design took place with uranium hexafluoride (UF6) being reduced to uranium metal and machined into weapon pits. The KRL began publishing a series of academic articles on numerics and computational methods for centrifuge design, including a 1987 article co-authored by Abdul Qadeer Khan on techniques for balancing sophisticated ultracentrifuge rotors.

In the 1990s, KRL had a number of the most high-performance supercomputer and parallel computing systems installed at the facility. A parallel Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) division was established which specialized in conducting high performance computations on shock waves in weapons effect from the outer surface to the inner core by using difficult differential equations of the state of the materials used in the bomb under high pressure.

In an investigative report published by Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), Chinese scientists were reportedly present at Kahuta in the early 1980s— an unconfirmed indicator of Chinese assistance in the development of equipment at Kahuta. In 1996, the U.S. intelligence community maintained that China provided magnetic rings for special suspension bearings mounted at the top of rotating centrifuge cylinders. In 2005, it was revealed that President Zia-ul-Haq's military government had KRL run a HEU programme in the Chinese nuclear weapons program. Abdul Qadeer Khan also alleged that "KRL has built a centrifuge facility for China in Hanzhong city".

Extended research

The academic research programs and development opportunities at the KRL are supported by the physics departments of the Government College University in Lahore in Punjab and the University of Karachi in Sindh. The KRL supports its physics program through funding and providing scholarship to physics and engineering students at the Government College University.

The continuing efforts to make the laboratories more science efficient led the Ministry of Science (MoST) to grant a three research and fellowship programmes with the Government College University with the support of Pakistan Science Foundation (PSF). Since 1980 at present, the KRL continues to develop the research work on computational mathematics, supercomputing and advanced mathematics to the extended applications to natural sciences.

In 1999, the KRL established a research institute on computer science at Kahuta, which was later integrated to University of Engineering and Technology in Taxila.

The civilian research on biotechnology, biology and Genetic Engineering is supported by the KRL at the University of Karachi, with the support from Pakistan Science Foundation. The KRL organized a conference on Computational biology in Islamabad to present overview of the scope of computational sciences.

National security program