[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fort Kearny (Washington, D.C.)

ern day George Washington University Hospital). "Soon we heard the booming of canon before us, and quickly, at the word, fell into ranks, and with accelerated pace hurried toward the scene of action." They were ordered to proceed to Fort Massachusetts (Fort Stevens) to meet General Early's invaders.

"It was about four p.m. when the guns of Fort Stevens opened upon the enemy stationed with the grounds of the Rives house...the first brigade of (the 2nd) Division was on picket, but the assaulting brigade (Wheaton's) passed through, and pressing up a rising ground, carried it. The enemy fell back to a stronger position on a second ridge." The assault on this ridge resulted in 300 Union casualties and about the same number for the Confederates.

"At dusk Early threw out a picket line. After this feeble demonstration, he began his retreat under cover of night. On the 13th of July the pursuit began. The 15th NJVI left Fort Stevens at 4 p.m. at the head of their Division, passing to the "rear of Forts de Russy, Kearney, Reno, and Pennsylvania. We thus passed over ground with which the Fifteenth was familiar...Fort Kearney looked much as it did when we left it, with only a fuller complement of guns, bomb-proofs, and connections with other works. Very comfortable barracks had been built for the occupation of any troops that might garrison it."

"The next day he (Early) crossed the Potomac River at Edward's Ferry and this remarkable episode of the war came to and end."

In the wake of the Confederate assault on the Washington defenses, a new report was released containing recommendations on improvements to the forts defending the city. In regards to Fort Kearny, the only suggestion involved the addition of four field guns to Battery Terrill, one of the subsidiary batteries that protected enfiladed approaches to the fort.

Post-War Use 

After the surrender of Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia on April 9, 1865, the primary reason for manned defenses protecting Washington ceased to exist. Initial recommendations by Col. Alexander, chief engineer of the Washington defenses, were to divide the defenses into three classes: those that should be kept active (first-class), those that should be mothballed and kept in a reserve state (second-class), and those that should be abandoned entirely (third-class). Fort Kearny fell into the second-class category. As budget cuts mounted, however, Fort Kearny, which had been scheduled to be mothballed, was abandoned and the land sold. Today, no trace of the fort remains in what is the primarily residential neighborhood of Forest Hills, between Fort Reno Park and Fort DeRussy in Rock Creek Park.

Location 
A comparison of the topographical map prepared for General John G. Barnard Chief Engineer, Army of the Potomac,  and a topographical map of modern Washington pinpoints the location at the 4900 block of 30th Place. Using the contour of Fort Kearny drawn by Robert Knox Sneden in 1862, the position of the fort can be readily determined.

See also
 Battle of Fort Stevens
Fort Reno

References

External links 

 Letters of Sgt. James Bosworth, who was stationed near Fort Kearny during 1862. 
 National Park Service map displaying the location of Fort Kearny north of Washington. 

Kearny
Kearny
Kearny
Demolished buildings and structures in Washington, D.C.
1862 establishments in Washington, D.C.