[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Električni Orgazam

e to the arrest of Gojković by the police which found 0,22 grams of heroin in his possession. The media gave much attention to the affair, and Gojković was released after a night in prison, where the police officers asked for autographs and taking pictures with him, with a fee of 250 Deutsche Marks.

The compilation album Najbolje pesme vol. 2 1992-1999 (The Best Songs Volume 2 1992–1999), featuring the selection of the tracks recorded in the 1990s. The following album, Harmonajzer, produced by Dušan Kojić "Koja", Gojković and Petrović, featured the new drummer Blagoje Nedeljković "Pače", and guest appearances by Vlada Divljan (wah guitar), Zoran Erkan "Zerkman" (trumpet), Nemanja Kojić "Kojot" (trombome), Dušan Petrović (saxophone), Zdenko Kolar and Boris Bunjac (backing vocals). Ljuba Đukić did the lead vocals for the track "Zato stojim sam" ("That Is Why I Stand Alone"), and Petrović sang lead vocals for "Promene" ("Changes") and "Tome neće doći kraj" ("It Would Not End"). Radomirović and Kojić co-wrote two instrumental tracks, "Đankarlo Gingva ponovo jaše" ("Giancarlo Gingva Rides Again") and "PECTOPAH 3 OPA" (false friend pun for "RESTAURANT DAWN").

Reunion with Đukić (2004–present) 
In September 2004, Ljuba Đukić officially returned to the group, and, in 2006, the band released the compilation album Breskve u teškom sirupu vol. 1 (Peaches in Heavy Syrup Volume 1), using the unused album title of the album Lišće prekriva Lisabon, featuring the rehearsal recordings made at the Belgrade SKC and the performance at Tašmajdan Stadium, both recorded in 1980. The band then went on a nine-dates mini tour, performing the songs from the new wave period in a modern and rearranged manner, including the last concert at the Belgrade Dom Omladine, featuring guest appearance by the founding band member Ljubomir Jovanović "Jovec". The whole concert was recorded and the recordings were released on the live album ElOrgNewWave, by Mascom in 2007. During the same year, on 14 July, the band performed as an opening act for the Rolling Stones, on their concert in Belgrade's Ušće park. In September the same year, the band went on their first United States tour.

On 28 September 2008, the band performed at the 30th anniversary of new wave music in Yugoslavia at the concert held in the Zagreb Tvornica kulture, along with the most notable participants of the Yugoslav new wave, including Darko Rundek of Haustor, Pero Lovšin of Pankrti, Jasenko Houra and Davorin Bogović of Prljavo Kazalište and Vlada Divljan of Idoli. The songs "Konobar", "Krokodili dolaze", "Leptir", "Nebo", and "Zlatni papagaj" performed at the concert were released on the live album Sedmorica veličanstvenih – 30 godina kasnije (The Magnificent Seven – 30 Years Later). In December 2009, Croatia records, the heir of Jugoton, released the double compilation album The Ultimate Collection, the only one so far to feature the selected material from all the studio releases, and the song selection for the album was provided by Miloš Ivanović "Kepa", the music editor of Radio B92. On 11 January the following year, the band celebrated their 30th anniversary at the Belgrade Akademija club, featuring the premiere of the new single, the song "Nemaš nikome ništa da daš" ("You Have Nothing To Share"), with the entire concert being available for live Internet streaming.