[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# VLDL receptor

otein levels in experiments using mouse fibroblasts. The Pioglitazone treated mice exhibited a higher conversion rate of plasma triglycerides into epididymal fats. As expected, mice deficient in VLDLR did not show this same response. These results suggest that VLDLR is important in fat accumulation.

Many other hormones and dietary factors also regulate VLDLR expression. Thyroid hormone positively regulates VLDLR expression in skeletal muscles of rats, but not in adipose or heart tissues. In rabbits, VLDLR expression in heart muscle is up-regulated by estrogen and down-regulated by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor.  In trophoblast-derived cell lines, up-regulated VLDLR expression occurs when cells are incubated with hypolipidemic agents such as insulin and clofibrate. In contrast, 8-bromoadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (8-bromo-cAMP) down-regulates VLDLR expression. Finally, VLDLR is affected by the presence of apoE and LDLR. The presence of apoE is required for VLDLR expression regulation, while the absence of LDLR alters the sterol-regulatory-element-1-like sequences of VLDLR to make them functional in only heart and skeletal muscle.

Function

Beyond the nervous system 
VLDLR is a peripheral lipoprotein receptor that functions in lipoprotein metabolism, cardiac fatty acid metabolism, and fat deposition. In effect, VLDLR will allow cholesterol to reach tissues from the bloodstream, where it may be used in cellular membranes. In addition, it will allow fatty acids to get into cells where they may be used as an energy source. Overall, VLDLR primarily modulates the extra-hepatic metabolism of triglyceride-rich lipoproteins.

Lipoprotein uptake 
VLDLR only plays a discrete role in lipid metabolism, but is more significant in stressed situations. Mice with double knockouts in VLDLR and LDLR have higher serum triglyceride levels than those with only a knockout in the LDLR gene. In addition, LDLR knockout mice overexpressing VLDLR have decreased serum triglyceride levels. Although fat deposition is close to normal without VLDLR, its role gains importance when LDLR is deficient. Despite this knowledge on its role in lipoprotein uptake, the complete mechanism of lipid metabolism performed by VLDLR is not fully understood.

Endocytosis 
VLDLR is known to employ endocytosis, although the exact mechanism of this process is unknown for this protein. Endocytosis is mediated through NPxY sequences known to signal for receptor internalization through clathrin-coated pits. The presence of this sequence in the cytoplasmic tail of VLDLR makes endocytosis possible. In general, lipoprotein receptors undergo a process by which they are endocytosed with their ligand into clathrin-coated pits. From here, they are together transported to early and late endosomes until reaching the lysosome. At this point, hydrolysis occurs and lipoprotein is released into the cytoplasm while the receptors are recycled back to the cell surface. It is not yet confirmed if VLDLR follows this exact mechanism, but one closely related to it is likely.

In the nervous system 

In addition to its role throughout the body, VLDLR has a unique role in the brain. It is a key component of the reelin pathway, which functions on one hand side in neuronal migration during the development of the brain, on the other hand in the retention of new memory traces in the hippocampal formation. VLDLR links the reelin protein to an intracellular signaling protein, Dab1, that tells the individual neurons where to go within the anatomy of the brain. Mutations in VLDLR often do not lead to major disorganization as seen in reelin mutations. However, a VLDLR mutation does lead to some disorganization primarily located in the cerebellum, where VLDLR is believed to be most prominent.