[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

otype Gundam unit at Krung Thep. As she does not support the organization's ideology, a remotely detonable explosive has been strapped around her neck to keep her under control. Extremely skilled at piloting. Partner to Chall Acustica as of her inception as Meister. She is the mother of Feldt Grace.

 
 Chall Acustica is one of the four Gundam Meisters employed by Celestial Being in the period in which 00P is set. A member of Celestial Being and the designated Meister of a prototype Gundam unit. Selected for recruitment by Veda on the basis of her academic performance and her ranking in Power Loader competitions. Ruido Resonance believes that other qualities may have influenced Veda's arbitration. In Mobile Suit Gundam 00F, she is the commanding officer of Fereshte, having ceased active service as a Meister after an incident that scarred her face and prematurely whitened her hair. Following the completion of the Gundams, she obtained permission from Veda to set up the branch of Celestial Being known as Fereshte. She is stated to have some past relationship with the Gundam Plutone.

 
 Gundam Meister 874 is one of the four Gundam Meisters employed by Celestial Being in the period in which 00P is set. Designated pilot of the Gundam Sadalsuud. Though Meisters are typically referred to by codename, 874 is designated only by number. For unspecified reasons, she does not appear before the other members of the organization. Physically, she looks younger than 10, but her eyes seem far older.

 
 Grave Violento is a third generation meister and agent for Celestial Being; he is eventually revealed to be a combat type Innovade. Meister of GN-XXX Gundam Rasiel. Despite his designation as a meister, Grave spends more time acting as an agent to acquire information on military operations in preparation for Celestial Being's debut and protecting the organization by manipulating intelligence to ensure Celestial Being remains a secret it begins its armed interventions. Because of his role as an agent, he is also responsible for locating potential Gundam Meisters for the fourth generation Gundams; Grave personally recruits Neil Dylandy and Allelujah Haptism as Meisters. Despite diligently following the orders of Veda, Grave gradually becomes suspicious of Veda's directives and eventually opposes and chooses not to complete them.

 
 Hixar Fermi is the pilot of GN Sefer. His jovial personality allows him to talk freely with almost anyone, even when meeting them for the first time. Hixar enjoys making others laugh, though has considerable trouble doing so with the serious Grave and dark-mannered Chall. Several years later, he appears in 00F as a Gundam Meister on orders from Veda to follow Fon Spaak, who has been working independently from Fereshte. While Hixar appears to be the same man from 00P, his personality is markedly different and he is shown to have a remotely detonatable explosive strapped around his neck. Hixar is eventually revealed to be an intelligence-gathering Innovade, recalled to Veda after his supposed death, for a new mission. His loyalties, and that of Hayana, eventually shift away from Veda to Celestial Being.

 
 Highly skilled and proud, Delphine Bedelia is a test pilot from the Next Generation Development Technical Laboratory of the Human Reform League and serves as the Tieren Kyitwo mobile suit's rear seat pilot. Though she initially dislikes being partnered with Leonard and regards him with little respect, Delphine ends up wanting to protect him. After she and Leonard become eyewitnesses of the Gundams, they are designated by Veda as the second of the primary targets to be eliminated when Grave is assigned to eliminate those aware of Celestial Being's existence; after they are spared, they choose to join Celestial Being in order to find Allelujah, whom they have come to regard as a comrade. In Gundam 00I 2314, Delphine joins the reorganized Fereshte under the code name  and participates in the development and retrieval of the GN Drives at Jupiter with Hayana.

 
 The front seat pilot of the Tieren Kyitwo sent from the Super Soldier Special Duty Organization to become a test pilot, despite only being seven years old and lacking any apparent ability as a supersoldier save a susceptibility to the emission of quantum brainwaves from other supersoldiers. Unemotional and rarely anxious, he is kindhearted and comes to regard Delphine as an important person who must be protected. When Grave is assigned to eliminate eyewitnesses to the Gundams and those aware of Celestial Being's existence, Leonard and Delphine are second among the designated targets; when Grave spares them, they elect to find Allelujah, whom they have come to regard as a comrade, and join Celestial Being. In Gundam 00I 2314, Leonard has been designated as a Gundam Meister for Fereshte under the code name  and charged with protecting Delphine and Hayana as they retrieve the GN Drives from Jupiter.

Mobile Suit Gundam 00F