[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Venezuelan Army

al leader (caudillo) who organized their montoneras (irregular militia) to fight in internal civil wars. 

This precarious situation ended when in 1899 Cipriano Castro took power as president and once again lays the foundations for a professional army, which his successor Juan Vicente Gómez deepens.

20th century 
The army followed a growing line of modernization and professionalization throughout the 20th century, under the Prussian model. After the death of Gómez and the instability that followed, the army took sides in the politics of the time, with a dominance of militaristic sectors in the country's politics in the period 1940-1958, with the army carrying out three coups d'état in 1945, 1948 and in 1958 ending the dictatorship of General Marcos Pérez Jiménez, within the framework of the Cold War.

With the overthrow of the Pérez Jiménes and the return to democracy, the most significant actions that involved the army were the combat of the Marxist-Leninist guerrillas of the Armed Forces of National Liberation (Fuerzas Armadas de Liberación Nacional, FALN), made up of activists from the Communist Party of Venezuela and the Revolutionary Left Movement (Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria, MIR) that were heavily active throughout the 60's; as well as the deployment of Venezuelan troops in a UN peacekeeping mission in Nicaragua.

Other missions undertaken by the army where the repression of looting of private property during the "Caracazo" protests in February 1989 and the failed coups by future president Colonel Hugo Chávez in April and November 1992.

21st century 

In the 21st century, the Venezuelan Army has experienced unprecedented growth, incorporating war a big influx of material, mostly from Russia, in almost all segments of its arsenal, allowing an almost total modernization of the force. In the last three decades, it has had to face the spillover into Venezuela of the Colombian internal conflict; and sometimes being put on alert due to tensions between Caracas and Bogotá.

The National Bolivarian Armed Forces of Venezuela is the 4th largest military in Latin America, behind Brazil, Colombia and Mexico.

Mission and vision

Its mission, as the ground forces of the National Bolivarian Armed Forces of Venezuela, is to:

Secure the ground defenses of the nation,
Contribute to the establishment of democratic institutions and build up respect and full compliance to the laws of the Republic as mandated,
Support national development and integration,
And to participate in programs of international cooperation and peacekeeping.

Functions of the Army 
In accordance with the Article 9 of the National Armed Forces Organic Law as amended, the functions of the Army are to

 Organize, train and equip units for ground forces operations
 Establish doctrines for the various operations it has to undertake 
 Participate in military mobilization programs
 Maintain the national borders
 And actively achieve readiness to develop technologies and scientifical advances for the advancement of national defense

Official hymn

Spanish lyrics
Chorus

Adelante marchemos, valientes, al combate y al rudo fragor
por la patria muy altas las frentes, despleguemos pujanza y valor.
Por la patria muy altas las frentes, despleguemos pujanza y valor.

Nuestra sangre es la savia del pueblo y en el pueblo se plasma en canción
es la rosa más pura del viento que en la historia da brillo a la acción,
En las aguas, el aire y la tierra la victoria es el alba inmortal,
si sublime es el triunfo en la guerra, preservemos la gloria y la paz.

Chorus

Y si el brazo extranjero se atreve a infamar de este suelo el honor
antes muerte mil veces nos llegue que rendirnos al torpe invasor,
pues de todas las patrias que el cielo diera al hombre en morada de amor,
es la nuestra el más hondo desvelo en el sueño de un mundo mejor.

Chorus

Equipment

Organization 

The Venezuelan Army is divided into 4 main commands and 6 army divisions as well as other independent units reporting to Headquarters, Venezuelan Army. The Army's Air Defense Artillery Brigades also report directly, as part of the Venezuelan Air Force Air Defense Forces Command, to the Operational Strategic Command for national defense purposes in air defense matters.

Army major commands

Army General Command

Army Logistics Command

Army Aviation Command

Special Forces 
99th Army Special Operations Brigade

Army divisions and corps

1st Infantry Division

2nd Infantry Division

The 79th Andes Air Defense Artillery Brigade reports directly to the Operational Strategic Command, while being in the 2ID's territorial jurisdiction.

3rd Infantry Division

Since 2016 the newly created 34th CCB reports also to the Operational Strategic Command.

4th Armored Division

5th Jungle Infantry Division

9th Cavalry Division

6th Corps of Engineers

Ranks

Commanding Generals of the Army