[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Inter-American Democratic Charter

supporter of Chávez's policies and who would three years later recall his country's ambassador from Caracas after Chávez called his Mexican counterpart a "puppy dog of the Empire".
As it transpired, Chávez was returned to power before any further steps could be taken to convene the General Assembly.

Honduras, 2009
The Inter-American Democratic Charter was not invoked again until the coup d'état in Honduras in June 2009. U.S. President Barack Obama referred to the Charter in his statement regarding the coup. Obama stated he believed that the coup was in violation of the Charter.

Venezuela, 2014
On the one-month anniversary of continued protests and political unrest in Venezuela, the U.S. Secretary of State, John Kerry, said in a hearing before the House of Representatives that the United States was prepared to invoke the Democratic Charter on Venezuela if necessary.

Venezuela, 2016
On 19 May, the  National Assembly of Venezuela formally asked Organization of American States Secretary General Luis Almagro to apply the Inter-American Democratic Charter in view of the country's economic and political situation, including the economic crisis, the de facto control by President Maduro of the judicial and electoral branches of government, a decree of "state of exception and economic emergency" passed without parliamentary approval, and threats made by President Maduro to close down the National Assembly and prevent a recall referendum promoted by the opposition. On 31 May, despite considerable criticism from left-wing countries, Almagro called an emergency meeting that could have potentially resulted in Venezuela's expulsion from the OAS.

Peru, 2023 
Due to concerns with the Congress of Peru consolidating power of Peru's institutions regarding the restructuring of the National Board of Justice (JNJ), the Center for Justice and International Law (CEJIL), Due Process of Law Foundation, Fundación Construir, Fundación para la Justicia y el Estado Democrático de Derecho (FJEDD), Human Rights Watch, the International Commission of Jurists, Observatorio Derechos y Justicia (ODJ), Robert F. Kennedy Human Rights and the Washington Office on Latin America, demanded the application of the Inter-American Democratic Charter.

See also 
 African Charter on Democracy, Elections and Governance
 Ushuaia Protocol

References

External links
Inter-American Democratic Charter (full text)
The Carter Center Americas Program

Democracy
Organization of American States
2001 documents