[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James DeWolf

built the Arkwright Mills in Coventry, Rhode Island in 1810. The textile mills of New England relied on cotton cultivated by slaves throughout the Deep South and shipped to the North. There were strong economic ties between the regions through the period of the American Civil War.

Political career

DeWolf became active in politics and highly influential in the new state during the decades of the Federal period. He was first elected as a member of the Rhode Island House of Representatives in 1798, and served until 1801. He served again from 1803 to 1812, 1817–21, and 1829–37. He was elected as speaker of the House from 1819 to 1821.

DeWolf advanced to national office when elected by the state legislature as a Democratic-Republican (later Crawford Republican) to the U.S. Senate, as was the procedure before popular election of US senators was authorized by constitutional amendment in the 20th century. He served part of his six-year term, from March 4, 1821, until he resigned on October 31, 1825.

Death 
DeWolf died in New York City in 1837 at the age of 73, thought to be a millionaire and the second-wealthiest man in the United States. His body was returned to Rhode Island, and he was buried in the DeWolf private cemetery on Woodlawn Avenue in Bristol. His estate included properties in Bristol, New York, Maryland, Kentucky, and Ohio.

Personal life
DeWolf married Nancy Ann Bradford (6 August 1770 - 2 January 1838) of Bristol, R.I., on 7 January 1790. She was the daughter of William Bradford, deputy governor and a future U.S. senator from Rhode Island. Nancy and DeWolf had twelve children together. DeWolf named one of his brigs, the brig Nancy, after his wife.

Relatives 

DeWolf is one of the members of the Bristol (or also called Rhode Island) branch of the DeWolf family.

Legacy
DeWolf is featured prominently in an Emmy nominated 2008 documentary, Traces of the Trade: A Story from the Deep North, co-produced and directed by Katrina Browne, a DeWolf descendant, which describes the DeWolf family's major role in the United States slave trade.

See also 

 DeWolf family

References

Further reading

External links

Traces of the Trade: A Story from the Deep North (2008), a documentary produced/directed by Katrina Browne, about the legacy of the northern U.S. role in slavery and the slave trade, shown on PBS and nominated for an Emmy Award
Thomas Norman DeWolf, Inheriting the Trade (2007), a memoir about the legacy of slave trader James DeWolf and his descendants
 DeWolf Papers, Rhode Island Historical Society
 James DeWolf Business Records, Baker Library, Harvard Business School 

1764 births
1837 deaths
People from Bristol, Rhode Island
People of colonial Rhode Island
DeWolf family
Rhode Island Democratic-Republicans
Rhode Island National Republicans
Democratic-Republican Party United States senators from Rhode Island
National Republican Party United States senators from Rhode Island
Members of the Rhode Island House of Representatives
Speakers of the Rhode Island House of Representatives
American privateers
American mass murderers
Continental Navy officers
American Revolutionary War prisoners of war held by Great Britain
American people of the War of 1812
Burials at Juniper Hill Cemetery
United States senators who owned slaves
19th-century American slave traders
People charged with murder
18th-century American slave traders