[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert F. Kennedy Journalism Award

film "This Is the Home of Mrs. Levant Graham, the New Thing."

1972
The fourth annual awards were presented by Rose Kennedy during a luncheon ceremony at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. Ralph Nader gave the keynote speech. Eligibility was expanded to include high school entries.

 TV:
 Paul Altmeyer and the Urban America Unit of Group W for "The Suburban Wall," a documentary on discrimination in suburban housing narrated by Rod MacLeish.
 Radio:
 Doug Fox of KTOK for "The Business of Being Black," a five-part series on the economic problems of African Americans in Oklahoma City.
 Newspapers:
 Patrick Zier and Joanna Wragg of The Ledger for the four-part series "Crisis in Public Housing" about public housing issues in Lakeland, Florida.
 John Nordenheimer of The New York Times for a story about an African American Medal of Honor recipient who was killed during a holdup at a grocery store in Detroit, Michigan.
 Article:
 "From Dakto to Detroit: Death of a Troubled Hero", May 26, 1971
 Magazines:
 Edward Kosner, Peter Goldman, and Don Holt of Newsweek for "Justice on Trial," a series on the criminal justice system.
 Beekman Winthrop for a story on intestinal parasites in children that was published in New South.
 Honorable mention print:
 Robert Raisch and Neil Scott of United World Press Cooperative for the entire October 21, 1971, issue of Rama Pipien: A People's Media, Ingest Digest.
 Honorable mention college:
 Al Benson of The Spectrum (State University of New York at Buffalo) for "Health Care Crisis".

1973
The fifth annual awards were presented by Ethel Kennedy with the assistance of her brother-in-law, Senator Edward Kennedy. Harvard psychiatrist Robert Coles gave the keynote address. The awardees were chosen from 418 entries, including 61 high school and 37 college entries.

 Newspapers:
 Jean Heller of the Associated Press for a series entitled "The Tuskegee Syphilis Study" exposing a federal experiment that left a number of infected African American men untreated.
 Citation: Agustin Gurza, editor of LaVoz del Pueblo in Hayward, California.
 Citation: Mike Masterson, editor of the Newport Daily Independent in Newport, Arkansas.
 Citation: Jack Brimeyer, Max Winter, Telegraph-Herald, Dubuque, Iowa, "The Rosebud Reservation".
 Radio:
 Citation: Producer Mucio Carlon and the University of Arizona's public radio station KUAT for "What it's Like," a weekly program for ethnic minorities.
 TV:
 Geraldo Rivera of WABC-TV for "Willowbrook: The Last Disgrace," a documentary about the effects of budget cuts on Willowbrook State School for intellectually disabled children in New York City. The documentary led Governor Nelson Rockefeller to restore funding to the school.
 Citation: Thomas Norton for "Migrants of Central Illinois," an episode of the CIA Reports documentary series produced by WCIA. The documentary focuses on migrant workers in the Hoopeston, Illinois, area.

1974
The sixth annual awards were presented by Ethel Kennedy. Frances Farenthold gave the keynote speech.  The awardees were selected from 432 entries.

 Citation – High School:
 Tarl Oliason, co-editor of The Chieftain, the newspaper of Pocatello High School in Pocatello, Idaho, for stories on racial equality and confrontation between black and white students at the school.
 Joseph Hearst III, co-editor of The Chieftain, for stories and editorials on a conflict between Idaho State University's Native American Student Association and Pocatello High School over a Native American symbol at the high school.
 Magazine:
 John Guinther of Philadelphia Magazine for "The Only Good Indian."
 Newspaper:
 Dolores Katz and Jo Thomas of the Detroit Free Press for an 18-part series, "Psychosurgery on Trial".
 Citation: Gloria Delgado of the Express and News for coverage of the Liza Guerra kidnapping.
 Honorable mention: Mike Royko, Chicago Daily News, "Faceless Veteran".
 Honorable mention: Hope Spencer, Newsday, "The Victims".
 Radio:
 Honorable Mention: WCAU Radio for "Abortion: An Investigative Report."
 Honorable Mention: WJR for "Manhunt Scars Community."
 Citation: Rudolph Brewington of WWDC for "Diagnosis: Desperate - A report on Health Care for Minority Americans"
 Citation: William Diehl of ABC Radio for "Why Did Patti Have To Die?"
 Citation, print:
 Jane Daugherty of the St. Petersburg Times for a 15-part series on Pinellas County, Florida, nursing homes.
 TV:
 Robert C. Dotson of WKY-TV for "Through the Looking Glass Darkly," a documentary about the history of African-American civil rights in Oklahoma from before statehood to 1973.
 Honorable Mention: McGraw-Hill Broadcasting Company and KGTV-10 for "La Raza – The People."
 Citation: Carlos Aguilar of WOAI-TV for "Fiesta Patrias".

1975
The seventh annual awards were presented by Ethel Kennedy and Haynes Johnson. Harry Golden gave the keynote address. The awardees were selected from approximately 300 entries.