[Source: PubMed]

32. Epilepsia. 2026 Apr 21. doi: 10.1002/epi.70251. Online ahead of print.

Mental health of children with epilepsy in Ukraine during the war.

Kharytonov V(1), Cross JH(2), Dubenko A(3), Wiebe S(4); ILAE Emergency Task 
Force for Ukraine.

Author information:
(1)Kyiv City Children's Clinical Hospital #1, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(2)UCL NIHR BRC Great Ormond Street Institute of Child Health, London, UK.
(3)Institute of Neurology, Psychiatry, and Narcology, P.V. Voloshyn of NAMS of 
Ukraine, Kharkiv, Ukraine.
(4)Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Cumming School of Medicine, University 
of Calgary, Calgary, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: The ongoing conflict in Ukraine has created a severe humanitarian 
crisis, disproportionately affecting vulnerable populations such as children 
with chronic conditions. We set out to determine information about mental health 
in children with epilepsy in Ukraine affected by the conflict.
METHODS: Mental health outcomes in 213 Ukrainian children with epilepsy during 
the conflict were screened using standardized instruments for post-traumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD; Harvard Trauma Questionnaire), anxiety (7 item 
Generalized Anxiety Disorder module, GAD-7), depression (Patient Health 
Questionnaire-9, PHQ-9), and epilepsy severity (Global Assessment of Severity of 
Epilepsy scale, GASE). Data were collected between February and June 2023 
through self- or proxy-completed surveys.
RESULTS: Participants (14.6%) screened positive for PTSD symptoms, with girls 
significantly more affected than boys. A high proportion screened positive for 
symptoms of anxiety and depression, with 22% in the range for severe anxiety and 
55% in the moderate-to-severe depression range. Epilepsy severity strongly 
correlated with mental health burden. Access to care was severely disrupted: 76% 
reported difficulty obtaining antiseizure medications, and 51% struggled to 
access medical services, contributing to increased seizure frequency in 56% of 
cases. Regression analyses identified epilepsy severity and barriers to medical 
care as key predictors of adverse mental health outcomes.
SIGNIFICANCE: These findings underscore the compounded impact of war and chronic 
illness on children's psychological well-being and highlight the urgent need for 
trauma-informed, multilevel interventions, and improved access to health care 
for this vulnerable population.

© 2026 The Author(s). Epilepsia published by Wiley Periodicals LLC on behalf of 
International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1002/epi.70251
PMID: 42011139