[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Majida El Roumi

d we end up wearing them out – we realize only when it is too late that we didn't take care of them. This is why I am participating in this campaign, to shed light on this truth, because if we are aware we can avoid this terrible disease and thereby avoid misery, sadness and a poor quality of life."

She was also chosen as an ambassador of the 'Alam Sagheer' (Small World) program, along with Titanic actor and producer Billy Zane, dedicated to education without borders. Majida said during a press conference that the event is evidence that humanity can unite for good and to make people's lives better anywhere in the world. She also thanked the organizers and hoped peace will spread all over the Arab world. The charity event was held under the patronage of Sheikh Nahyan bin Mubarak Al Nahyan, who described the festival as one that "celebrates human connections, international dialogue and strong support for the less fortunate of our fellow global citizens – values that are fundamental to our collective vision for the United Arab Emirates". The festival took place at Emirates Palace and expected to raise millions for underprivileged children across the globe. The Minister toured with Majida various booths of participating countries and they attended performances for each country including Lebanon.

In December 2012, Majida El Roumi visited the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Western Asia (ESCWA) headquarters to follow up on the exacerbating problem of poverty in Beirut. El Roumi called for educating the youth since, "ignorance can only lead to poverty," as per her words. "Poverty is the cradle of wars, violence and corruption", she said, expressing hope that women would come to realize their true capacities and their equal worth to men. She also considered that art is a message that should be used for common good hoping that her message will prompt officials to tend to Lebanon's disadvantaged members of society.

In celebration of Bulgari's 130th anniversary, Majida El Roumi has been named the first Middle East Humanitarian Ambassador of the Bulgari – Save the Children Partnership in July 2014 and joins the likes of Naomi Watts, Dita Von Teese, Meg Ryan, Leighton Meester and so many others in the support of this worthy cause. The partnership between one of the industry's leading jewelry houses and the world's largest independent international organization running programs in developing and developed countries has generated over AED 98 million and benefited under-privileged children in 23 countries around the globe.  El Roumi is responsible for the overall direction, leadership, and coordination of Save the Children programs in Jordan as it was told in the press conference that took place at Al Bustan Hotel, Lebanon, in the presence of a crowd of Lebanese journalists and dignitaries. The renowned Italian photographer Fabrizio Ferri has actively supported this initiative with his time and talent. Over the years, he has photographed over 200 celebrities wearing the ring and the pendant in support of Bulgari's commitment to quality schooling for the world's neediest children including Majida, whose poster was officially launched during the press conference. Majida clearly stated during the press conference "I will strive to bring joy to my surroundings and to the people who are in need of it. Everything that's happening is a crime in every meaning of the word. I feel that I have a mission and my appointment is for a cause that I truly believe in. I will travel the extra mile and do what I can regardless of the size of my mission." She also added, "There is no financial rewards for my participation in this humanitarian effort, as financial things do not bring happiness."

Voice characteristics

Speeches