[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sunshine (1999 film)

nicipal and district governments chose to maintain the fictional company name on the façade and officially name it The Sonnenschein House, after the governments spent 300 million forints renovating the building. Interior shots of the family mansion were filmed at a nearby building, on Liliom Street.

Fiennes described Szabó as very specific in how scenes were staged and how performances were given. On some shooting days, Fiennes would play all three of his characters, particularly if a specific location was only available for a limited time.

Release
The film premiered in the Toronto International Film Festival in September 1999. Alliance Atlantis distributed the film in Canada. It opened in Vancouver, Toronto and Montreal from 17 to 19 December 1999.

This was followed by a release in Munich and Budapest in mid-January 2000, with a wider release in Germany, Austria and Hungary later that month. In February 2000, it was showcased in the 31st Hungarian Film Week, held in Budapest, where it won the Gene Moskowitz Best Film award. After U.S. screenings in summer 2000, Paramount Classics re-released it in New York City and Los Angeles on 1 December to promote Sunshine for the Academy Awards.

Reception

Box office
On the opening weekend in the Canadian limited release, the film made $42,700. In its first 19 days, the film grossed $300,000 in Canada, with expectations that if the film made a profit, it would be due to international screenings, TV rights and VHS and DVD.

By 25 November 2000, it had made $1 million in Canadian theatres. The film finished its run after grossing $5,096,267 in North America. It made  $2,511,593 in other territories, for a worldwide total of $7,607,860.

Critical reception

Sunshine has a 74% approval rating and average rating of 7.2 out of 10, based on 65 reviews, on Rotten Tomatoes. Roger Ebert gave Sunshine three stars, calling it "a movie of substance and thrilling historical sweep". In Time, Richard Schickel remarked on the irony of the title in a film that conveyed how history devastates people.
National Review'''s John Simon praised Szabó's direction, Lajos Koltai's cinematography and especially the performances of Ralph Fiennes and the supporting cast. In The New Republic, Stanley Kauffmann compared Szabó favorably to David Lean in a cinematic treatment of history, and despite the long runtime, "Sunshine is so sumptuous, the actors so refresh the very idea of good acting, that we are left grateful".

In The New York Times, A.O. Scott assessed the film as occasionally awkward, but wrote it made the viewer think. Michael Wilmington of The Chicago Tribune gave the film three and a half stars, praising it for its aesthetic photography and defending Fiennes for "deep understanding, burning intensity and rich contrast". Mick LaSalle called Sunshine "glorious", Fiennes "superb", and also praised Weisz, Ehle and Hurt. Time later placed it in its top 10 films of 2000.

Eddie Cockrell criticized the film in Variety for a "general rushed feel of the proceedings" in covering a great deal of history. The Guardian critic Andrew Pulver wrote Sunshine depended on Fiennes, who "only partly succeeds", negatively reviewing Fiennes' performances as Ignatz and Ivan.

AccoladesSunshine received 14 nominations at the 20th Genie Awards, following the Academy of Canadian Cinema and Television's decision to revise rules allowing films with only a minority of Canadian involvement in production to compete, which also allowed Felicia's Journey'' to be nominated for 10.

See also
 List of Holocaust films
 Cultural representations of the Hungarian Revolution of 1956

References

Bibliography

External links
 
 
 

1999 films
1990s English-language films
English-language Austrian films
English-language Canadian films
English-language German films
English-language Hungarian films
1990s French-language films
1990s historical drama films
1990s war drama films
Austrian historical drama films
Austrian war drama films
Best Picture Genie and Canadian Screen Award winners
Canadian war drama films
Canadian epic films
Film4 Productions films
Films about Jews and Judaism
Films directed by István Szabó
Films scored by Maurice Jarre
Films set in the 19th century
Films set in Hungary
Films shot in Budapest
German historical drama films
German war drama films
Holocaust films
Hungarian historical drama films
Hungarian Revolution of 1956 films
Alliance Atlantis films
1999 drama films
Austrian World War II films
Hungarian World War II films
German World War II films
1999 multilingual films
Austrian multilingual films
Canadian multilingual films
German multilingual films
Hungarian multilingual films
Canadian World War II films
1990s Canadian films
Hungarian war drama films
1990s German films
Hungarian epic films
Hungarian World War I films
Austrian World War I films
German World War I films
Canadian World War I films