[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# WMAC Masters

the biggest shocker was at the end of season 1 when Hakim Alston and then-Dragon Star Champion Ho Sung Pak (Superstar) got knocked off the rotating pedestal at the same time by a ninja during their Dragon Star match.  The conclusion of the match would come at the start of the next season.

Episodes

1.1: Meet the Masters: Tsunami learns how the various Masters got their nicknames but the Machine refuses to answer. The Machine eventually reveals that when he was younger, his pride made him go into an all-out fight where he broke his leg, forcing him to change his attitude.
1.2: Brothers in Arms: When a match between Superstar and Star Warrior ends oddly, the Machine explains the unique bond the brothers have. Also, Olympus (who is one ki-symbol away from full Dragon Belt status) faces Tsunami in the latter's first match since being promoted to the academy.
1.3: Going for Gold: Olympus challenges Turbo for the Dragon Star and shares how he once helped a troubled youth.
1.4: Broken Promise: After being knocked out by a move Great Wolf promised never to use on him, Tiger Claw feels anger toward his friend.
1.5: A Man Can Dream: Tsunami has a crush on Shannon Lee and Red Dragon shares a story of his own feelings for a female astronaut.
1.6: Ninja Challenge: With the first-ever Ninja Challenge offering a chance to win three ki symbols, Tsunami makes a bet with Superstar over his chances with the loser doing a hundred push-ups for each of the other's symbols. 
1.7: Quest for the Dragon Star: As Kid Carmichael makes his debut, Olympus tells the others of how his quest for advice against Turbo led to a unique lesson.
1.8: The Joke's on You: Tired of Warlock's practical jokes, Great Wolf and Baby Doll put itching powder in his glove...only to have an unsuspecting Red Dragon use it for an important match against Superstar, who is seeking full Dragon Belt status.
1.9: Double Dragon Star Match: As Superstar defeats Olympus for the Dragon Star, Baby Doll is set to face Lady Lightning but her worries about her past with her father threaten to make her back out.
1.10: Blindsided: In a preliminary match, Tsunami uses an illegal move on Yin Yang Man. As the bout is reviewed, the other Masters learn Yin Yang is blind in one eye and he shares how it happened.
1.11: Icebreaker: As a storm rages outside, Tiger Claw and Great Wolf face each other for the first time since the breaking of their friendship and are perhaps able to put it back together.
1.12: Reaching the Top: The Machine worries over having to face Olympus to reach full Dragon Belt status. Meanwhile, Great Wolf prepares to break a long-standing record on shattering ice.
1.13: Showdown: Part 1: The Machine and Superstar go at it for the Dragon Star but the match ends with both defeated by a mysterious masked ninja.

Season 2 (1996-97)

Season 2 began where season 1 left off.  Because both the Machine and Superstar had been knocked off the pedestal by a ninja during the Dragon Star match, neither won the Dragon Star.  This became a problem throughout the World Martial Arts Council.  To make matters worse, Larry Lam (Warlock) made a pact with the newest master, Tracy Swedom (Tracer) and joined a cult called "Jukido".  Jukido was a secret group of martial-arts masters who did not want to follow the code of the Dragon Star; for this, they were banned from the WMAC, so they decided to steal the Dragon Star out of revenge.  During the investigation, some of the Masters were accused of being the masked ninja, including Ho Sung Pak's brother, Ho Young Pak (Star Warrior), and former Dragon Star Champion Mike Bernardo (Turbo), but they were all cleared.  Another Master, Mike Chaturantabut (Wizard), was found to have the red dragon mark of Jukido, but he had since cut his Jukido ties.  Warlock, who turned out to be Wizard's half-brother, was still part of the group, despite all appearances to the contrary.

Dragon Star champion Chris Casamassa (Red Dragon) faced Warlock for the Dragon Star championship.  During the match, a hooded Jukido ninja entered the match during a violation and came to Warlock's aid against Red Dragon (Warlock even saved the ninja when the latter almost fell off the rotating platform).  Despite the interference, Red Dragon won the match and retained his title. Later, Jamie Webster (Great Wolf) began to have premonitions about the Dragon Star either disappearing or otherwise being a fake and the role Jukido would play in this.