[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cofrentes Nuclear Power Plant

t was being checked, came off and fell, striking the platform of the inspection machine from a height of about 10 cm. It then pivoted and turned to lie horizontally on the racks of fuel elements stored in the pool. The event had no impact for people or environment. It was classified as INES 1.

2010

 On May 13, 2010, it was found that the fill-level instrumentation of one of the storage tanks of the standby liquid control system was displaying an incorrect volume reading for the reservoir, both in the control room and in the local display. This resulted in the tank containing less volume than specified. The volume was corrected. The event was classified as INES 1.

2011

 On January 14, 2011, a radiation monitor of the control room erronosly activated. This caused the closure of two isolation valves, activating the smoke extractor in the cafeteria and the automatic start of the emergency filtration system of the control room. The affected monitor was replaced. This event was classified as INES 0.
 On February 7, an incident occurred while opening a valve on the recirculation line of the high-pressure core spray system. A relay that controls the valve failed; it was replaced. The reported event was classified as INES 0.
 On February 15, Cofrentes NPP management declared an emergency alert because of the intrusion of fifteen Greenpeace activists in the area of the cooling towers, far from the nuclear buildings. They said they were highlighting the potential vulnerability of nuclear power plants to attack. During the intrusion, activists broke a fence, two security guards were slightly injured and two others had bruises according to statements of Cofrentes NPP and some guards. However, Greenpeace says they made a peaceful protest and did not use violence. The Plant informed the CSN and activated the procedures of the plant security plan and notified local authorities, who took control of the situation. During the intrusion, the plant continued operating normally.
 On June 17, the emergency filter unit of the control room (Train A), due to a defect in a radiation monitor relay of the control room.
 On September 25, there was a breakdown in the engine of one valve of shutdown cooling system, during a refueling outage.
 On October 7, a discrepancy between the measurement of portable instrumentation and fixed instrumentation during verification of flow in the gas treatment reserve system was identified during a refueling outage.
 On November 29, a drain line of a turbine control valve broke down, causing a loss and increasing the temperature inside its building. It was the 10th year (classified as Level 0). There was an unscheduled power-down of up to 20 percent.

2012

On April 22, 2012, a smoke detector was activated for less than 10 minutes, caused by an attempted arson. A burnt coil switch corresponding to an auxiliary equipment of the diesel generator III was identified. The event was classified preliminarily as Level 0.

See also 

Nuclear power in Spain
Nuclear power by country

References

External links
 Página oficial de C.N. Cofrentes
 Web del municipio de Cofrentes
 La central de Cofrentes en foronuclear.org
 Información sobre Cofrentes en la web del Consejo de Seguridad Nuclear
 Nuclear Power Plants - Spain at the Nuclear Tourist website.

Nuclear power stations in Spain
Nuclear power stations using boiling water reactors