[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# LGBT rights in Syria

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) people in the Syrian Arab Republic face legal challenges not experienced by non-LGBT residents. Article 520 of the penal code of 1949, prohibits "carnal relations against the order of nature", and provides for up to three years' imprisonment.

Vigilante executions, beatings, torture, and vigilante attacks against LGBT occur frequently in Syria, including attacks by the rebel group  Hayat Tahrir al-Sham.

Mahmoud Hassino, a gay Syrian opposition activist and journalist who started the online magazine Mawaleh, notes that regardless of the outcome of the civil war, work needs to be done in the area of civil rights on behalf of all Syrians, not just the LGBT community. Miral Bioredda, a secular leader of the Local Coordination Committees of Syria, said "Personally I see homosexuality as a private matter. But Syrian society would say "no way" if gays rose to claim their rights. Developing a civil society will take time." Nasradeen Ahme, a member of the Free Syrian Army which works to bring down the government of Bashar al-Assad, said "If I was in charge I would enforce tougher laws against homosexuals. If someone said homosexuals should be stoned to death as in Iran and Saudi Arabia, I would not object."

On 14 September 2021, an organization called Guardians of Equality Movement-(GEM) was launched, led by LGBTQIA+ activists and victims / survivors. This organization works to defend and protect the rights of the Syrian LGBTQIA+ community. It is considered the first official Syrian LGBTQIA+ organization which is focusing entirely in the Syrian LGBTQIA+.

The unknown founder of the GEM-organization started this initiative since he was living in northwestern Syria, Idlib, under the control of the most dangerous extremist factions.

LGBT history in Syria

2010: Political interference 
In 2010, the Syrian police began a crackdown that led to the arrest of over 25 men. The men were charged with various crimes ranging from homosexual acts and illegal drug use, to encouraging homosexual behavior and organizing obscene parties.

2011: Social movements and virtual organising 
After 2011, the LGBT community in Syria started to demand rights more openly, and campaigns outside of Syria started to spread awareness about LGBT rights. That was greatly affected by the expanding number of Syrian immigrants and refugees who found more opportunities to speak out.

Many LGBT Syrian refugees participated in gay pride parades around the world.

On 14 September 2021,the first Syrian LGBTQIA+  organization called Guardians of Equality Movement-(GEM) was launched, led by LGBTQIA+ activists and victims / survivors

2015: International concerns 
In August 2015, the UN Security Council met in a session on LGBT rights co-sponsored by the U.S. and Chile. The council heard testimony from refugees fleeing Syria and Iraq. In ISIS-held areas, the refugees reported increased violence against women and members of the LGBT community. They reported that ISIS had claimed to have executed at least 30 people for "sodomy". This was the first time in its 70-year history that the UN Security Council had discussed LGBT concerns.

2021 
On 14 September 2021, an organization called Guardians of Equality Movement-(GEM) was launched, led by LGBTQIA+ activists and victims / survivors this organization works to defend and protect the rights of the Syrian LGBTQIA+ community, as a big challenge the unknown founder of the  Guardians of Equality Movement-(GEM) has started this initiative since he was living in northwestern Syria, Idlib, under the control of the most dangerous extremist factions

LGBT life in Syria

Culture 
In 1971, Syrian poet Nizar Qabbani wrote "The Evil Poem", in which he described a sexual relationship between two women.

Before 2011, a gay tour was organized by Bertho. It was the first and the only gay tour in the middle east, choosing Damascus and Aleppo as one of their main destinations in the middle east. "And it was the best destination ever", he says. "We’d go on tours of the hammams in Aleppo, and in Damascus it was a paradise for gay people. We never had any problems, never ever".

They tour passed by Lebanon, Syria, and Jordan. Since the beginning of the civil war, the tour stopped its activities in Syria due to the increase of terrorism caused by Islamic extremists.

Furthermore, areas of Damascus that were previously underground hubs where LGBT would meet, and were practically the only places in Syria where an underground LGBT scene could even exist, have been eradicated since the Civil War began and most cultural pursuits have stopped.

LGBT movies and series

On 19 October 2017, Mr. Gay Syria was released. Written and directed by Ayse Toprak, the movie follows two gay Syrian refugees who are trying to rebuild their lives.

A Lesbian Tale, a short movie, was filmed in Syria. It was published by Maxim Diab on 16 January 2014.