[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fajr-3

sed the Fajr-3 in an exercise in 2010 (see right). The Fajr-3 is likely to be in Iran's inventory for decades. One assessment of the system's capability is that its small number of rockets, combined with the poor accuracy of MLRS systems, means that the Fajr-3 is unlikely to be tactically effective.

The Fajr-3 is used in service alongside nine of the original North Korean-built M-1985 systems, which are still on their original chassis.

Lebanon
Hezbollah maintains Fajr-3 rockets, as well as other unguided rocket artillery systems, to fire onto Israel in war.

Fajr-3 rockets sent to Hezbollah are subsidized by the Iranian government. They are flown into Syria, then smuggled into Lebanon by Hezbollah agents, and are believed to be stored in southern Lebanon.

The date the first Fajr-3 rockets were supplied to Hezbollah is unclear; some sources report the early 2000s, possibly 2002 specifically, while other sources report the late 1990s.

2006 Lebanon War
Fajr-3 MLRS were used in small numbers in the 2006 Lebanon War. The Israeli Air Force identified the Fajr-3, along with other medium- and long-range artillery rockets, as their main target in the war, and attempted to destroy them in a large attack in the beginning of the war. Similarly, Hezbollah viewed their Fajr-3 systems and similar rockets as their "centerpiece for operational planning" in the lead-up to the war. In Hezbollah use, the Fajr-3 was also known as the "Raad-1".

At least some of Hezbollah's Fajr-3 rockets survived Israel's initial wave of airstrikes, and "tens" were fired sporadically at Israel over the course of the war, mainly targeting the Israeli city of Haifa. The rockets' long range meant that they were mostly deployed from north of the Litani River. Hezbollah's Fajr-3 MLRS were operated in a mobile fashion, not from fixed locations, and were reportedly controlled from a Hezbollah headquarters in Tyre. Hezbollah is estimated to have had 24-30 launchers at the beginning of the war; the number that survived is unknown.

Iraq
A Fajr-3 rocket was fired by unidentified Iraqi insurgents on September 11, 2007, and injured an American soldier in Baghdad.

Gaza
In 2009, Israel targeted Fajr-3 rockets, among other weapons, that were being smuggled to Hamas in Gaza via Sudan.

Operators

Current operators
  – sources differ; one reports approximately 100 launchers; another approximately 10 launchers
  Islamic Republic of Iran Army Ground Forces
  Navy of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps
  Hezbollah – a few dozen launchers
  Hamas – up to fifty rockets

References

Fajr 3
Fajr 3
Hezbollah rocket systems
Self-propelled artillery of Iran
Salvo weapons
Military equipment introduced in the 1990s
Military vehicles introduced in the 1990s