[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Suicide of Ryan Halligan

to the father for "what appeared to be the first time." While the father was looking at the copies, the mother threw Halligan out. John said that he never got a satisfying response from the boy or his family. He still visits the boy's website, which contains several references to death and suicide.

John soon began lobbying for legislation in Vermont to improve how schools address bullying and suicide prevention. He has also given speeches to schools in various states about the story of his son and the devastating effects of cyber-bullying among teens.

Vermont enacted a Bullying Prevention Policy Law in May 2004 and later adopted a Suicide Prevention Law (Act 114) in 2005, closely following a draft submitted by Halligan's father. The law provides measures to assist teachers and others to recognize and respond to depression and suicide risks among teens. Halligan's case has also been cited by legislators in other states proposing legislation to curb cyber-bullying.

Halligan's story was featured on a Frontline television program entitled "Growing Up Online", produced in January 2008, by WGBH-TV in Boston and distributed nationwide over PBS. In it, his father recounts his shock upon discovering the extent of the abuse his son endured, saying he believes that bullying on the internet "amplified and accelerated the hurt and pain he was trying to deal with, that started in the real world." Halligan's story has also been featured on Oprah in a report they did on a rise in homophobic teasing in schools. In addition, he presented his powerful assembly to many schools across the country.

Halligan's story was also featured in Max Hechtman's 2018 documentary, Stories of Strength and Hope: Preventing Youth Suicide, supported by an on-screen interview with John P. Halligan. Today John visits other schools to inform students about his son's death and how it has changed his life.

See also 

 Harassment by computer
 Suicide prevention
 Suicide of Tyler Clementi
 Suicide of Megan Meier
 Suicide of Phoebe Prince
 Suicide of Amanda Todd
 Suicide of Nicola Ann Raphael

References

External links 

 
 Ryan's Story Presentation, LLC – memorial site
 Online bullying compels states to act
 Included in PBS Frontline report, "Growing Up Online"

Deaths by person in Vermont
2003 in Vermont
Suicides by hanging in Vermont
Bullying and suicide
Bullying in the United States
October 2003 events in the United States
2003 suicides
Youth suicides