[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# May 1965

ith 40 people on board ran off of the road near Ixtapan de la Sal in Mexico, and plunged into the  deep Calderón River Ravine, killing most of the people on board.
Born: Steve Yzerman, Canadian NHL player, in Cranbrook, British Columbia
Died: Leopold Figl, 62, Chancellor of Austria from 1945 to 1953

May 10, 1965 (Monday)
Warren Buffett, an investor from Omaha, Nebraska and a recent millionaire, completed three years of purchasing stock in the Berkshire Hathaway Company, a financially ailing textile manufacturer, achieved a controlling interest, and fired the former president, Seabury Stanton. Buffet's initial motivation was revenge against Stanton for an insult that arose when Stanton verbally offered to buy Berkshire's existing stock at the rate of $11.50 per share, but then sent a written agreement changing the terms to $11.375 per share. Over the next decades, Buffet would transform Berkshire Hathaway into a $500 billion conglomerate that now owns GEICO Insurance, Dairy Queen restaurants, Helzberg Diamonds, the Fruit of the Loom company and large shares of other corporations.
Born: 
Linda Evangelista, Canadian model, in St. Catharines, Ontario
Kiyoyuki Yanada, Japanese voice actor, in Tokyo
Died: 
Hubertus van Mook, 70, Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies from 1942 to 1948, prior to its independence as Indonesia
I. T. A. Wallace-Johnson, 71, Sierra Leonean workers' leader, journalist, activist, and founder of the United National People's Party, was killed in an auto accident while in Ghana

May 11, 1965 (Tuesday)
More than 10,000 people were killed over a nine-hour period as a powerful cyclone swept across East Pakistan (now Bangladesh).  The 100-mile-per-hour winds affected an area of 20,000 square miles, and caused its greatest damage in the Barisal District.  East Pakistan governor Abdul Monem Khan announced on May 19 that the death toll was 12,003 people.
At RCA Studios in Hollywood, The Rolling Stones completed their recording of their signature song, (I Can't Get No) Satisfaction.
The National Trust officially launched Enterprise Neptune, its long-term project to acquire or put under covenant a substantial part of the Welsh, English and Northern Irish coastline.
Born: Monsour del Rosario, Philippine taekwondo champion, action film star, and politician; in Manila

May 12, 1965 (Wednesday)
West Germany formally established diplomatic relations with Israel.  Even before government spokesman Karl Gunther von Hase announced the agreement in Bonn, three Arab nations (Saudi Arabia, Syria, and Iraq) announced that they were severing their ties to West Germany.
Luna 5 impacted the Moon at 10:08 p.m. Moscow time, three days after it was launched by the Soviet Union on a multi-stage rocket. However, a failure of its attitude control system only  from the Moon caused Luna 5 to land more than  from its intended target.
The Italian liner T/S Michelangelo entered service.
The Cannes Film Festival opened.
Born: Renée Simonsen, Danish supermodel, in Aarhus

May 13, 1965 (Thursday)
A West German court of appeals condemned the behavior of ex-defense minister Franz Josef Strauss, and refused to open trial against magazine proprietor Rudolf Augstein and the magazine's military expert Conrad Ahlers, ruling that during the Spiegel affair Strauss had exceeded his authority and committed Freiheitsberaubung (deprivation of personal freedom). However, because it was found that he operated under the "belief of acting lawfully" (Verbotsirrtum), he was exempted from punishment.
Former First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy made her first public appearances since the funeral of President John F. Kennedy on November 25, 1963. Accompanied by her family in London, Mrs. Kennedy took her daughter and son to witness the changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace in London.
Astronomers Arno Penzias and Robert W. Wilson of Princeton University submitted their paper to The Astrophysical Journal, describing their discovery at the Bell Telephone Laboratories of cosmic microwave background radiation as a confirmation of the "Big Bang" theory of the origin of the universe. As Penzias would describe it later, New York Times science writer Walter Sullivan "apparently had a 'mole' in The Astrophysical Journal editorial office", and on May 21, a Sullivan story with the headline "Signals Imply a 'Big Bang' Universe" would appear on the front page of the Times. Penzias and Wilson, who had made their observations from a hilltop station in Holmdel, New Jersey, would share the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1978 for their discovery.