[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Human rights in Nigeria

ld marriage, these laws have been ineffective since there remain many cases of child marriage. By the provisions of the Child Rights Act, any decision to be made in any proceeding before a court which involves a child; the best interest of the child is the paramount consideration.

Ethnic minorities

Minority ethnic groups have been fighting for equal rights since Nigeria's independence in 1960.  Many of the tensions between ethnic groups arise from Nigeria's federal system, and many minorities view the governmental structure as skewed in favor of the three major ethnic groups, the Hausa-Fulani in the North, the Yoruba in the West, and the Igbo in the east.  They believe that the federation is not inclusive of minorities, which leads to marginalized ethnic groups.

Since Nigeria's independence, minorities have joined together to demand the formation of new states, increasing the number of states from 12 in 1967 to the current number of 36, in the attempts to reduce the regional power of dominant ethnic groups.  However, this only led to the further marginalization of smaller ethnic minorities by more powerful ethnic minorities within the state.  Also, the limited presence of power-sharing mechanisms means that the national leadership of Nigeria has remained in the power of the majority ethnic groups. In recent times, because of the incessant attacks on communities along religious lines in Kaduna State, the southern and northern part of the state came together seeking for creation of a new state for the both of them. The northern part agreed for the Kaduna state to remain for them while the southern part asked for the creation of Gurara State for them. The clamour for creation of new states and divisions can be traced to long term marginalization by the governments both at the federal and state level in different parts of the country.

Religious minorities

According to its constitution, Nigeria is a secular country.  The Constitution forbids the establishment of a state religion and guarantees the right to freedom of religion.  Nigeria has a population roughly split in half, between Christians predominantly in the South and Muslims in the North, and with a minority population of traditional religion worshippers.  Despite the clear provisions in the Constitution, Nigerian public holidays honor Christian and Muslim feast days, but not holidays of any other religion. The government subsidizes only Christian and Muslim pilgrimages and allows Christian and Muslim religious education in schools.

Since January 2000, several Northern states have institutionalized a version of Sharia law. This enactment of Sharia law has caused controversy over its violation of fundamental rights, such as the right for minorities in those states to practice their religion, the right to life, and freedom from cruel and unusual punishment.

Historically, the Nigerian Constitution has allowed Sharia courts jurisdiction over certain cases, but their jurisdiction is limited to matters of Islamic personal or family law.  Several state governments in the North have extended Sharia law to criminal offenses, thereby violating the Constitution's prohibition of an official religion. These states have relied on a constitutional provision that allows the Sharia Court to exercise other jurisdiction given to it by the state in introducing Sharia penal codes. The imposition of Sharia law in certain states in Nigeria infringes on the rights of Muslims and non-Muslims alike.  Muslims who would prefer to be judged under the Constitution are not able to do so, and non-Muslims are denied the right to practice their religions freely.

The severe penalties given to lesser offenses under Sharia penal laws have raised concern about their violation of rights that are protected by international human rights treaties.  The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), of which Nigeria is a party, allows the death penalty if it is carried out in a way that causes the least suffering and only in the cases of serious crimes that intentionally cause lethal consequences.  Under Sharia law, adultery is punished by death by stoning, which violates both conditions set forth by the ICCPR.

In southern Nigeria, especially in areas with Christian majorities, many rights are denied to Muslims as well as other religious minorities.  Some educational institutions have banned the use of the hijab, which violates the right of Muslim women to practice their religion.  Some state governments in the South have also denied many requests for land grants to build mosques or Islamic schools. In western Nigeria, violence erupted between parents of the christian and muslim denominations after Kwara State officials suspended classes at 10 historically Christian schools because of refusal to admit a female student who came with hijab to one of the christian schools.