[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1978 in the United Kingdom

that the Lib–Lab pact will be dissolved at the end of the current Parliamentary session by mutual consent, leaving Britain with a minority Labour government.
 31 May – Labour wins the Hamilton by-election, retaining it in the face of a strong challenge from the Scottish National Party in that seat.

June
 1 June – William Stern is declared bankrupt with debts of £118 million, the largest bankruptcy in British history at the time.
 3 June – Freddie Laker is knighted.
 8 June 
 Naomi James becomes the first woman to sail around the world single-handedly.
 St Mary's Church in Barnes, London is gutted by fire.
 13–16 June – The Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceaușescu and his wife Elena pay a state visit to the United Kingdom. He is made a Knight of the Order of the Bath, and she an honorary professor of the Polytechnic of Central London.
 17 June – Media reports suggest that a general election will be held this autumn as the minority government led by James Callaghan and Labour appears to be nearing the end of its duration. Callaghan's chances of an election win are now looking brighter than they were four months ago, as the 11-point Conservative lead has evaporated.
 19 June – Cricketer Ian Botham becomes the first man in the history of the game to score a century and take eight wickets in one innings of a Test match.
 21 June
 An outbreak of shooting between Provisional IRA members and the British Army leaves one civilian and three IRA men dead.
 The Andrew Lloyd Webber musical Evita opens at the Prince Edward Theatre in London.

July
 6 July – Eleven people are killed in the Taunton train fire.
 7 July – Solomon Islands are annexed to the Crown and become independent from the United Kingdom.
 15 July – The Picnic at Blackbushe Aerodrome, Camberley, Surrey, a concert featuring Bob Dylan, Eric Clapton and Joan Armatrading, attracts some 200,000 people.
 25 July
 Louise Brown becomes the world's first human born from in vitro fertilisation, in Oldham.
 Motability, a charity which provides cars to disabled people, founded.

August
 10 August – Financially troubled carmaker Chrysler agrees to sell its European operations, including the former Rootes Group factories in Britain, to French carmaker Peugeot with effect from 1 January 1979.
 20 August – Gunmen open fire on an Israeli El Al airline bus in London.
 25 August – U.S. Army Sergeant Walter Robinson "walks" across the English Channel in 11 hours 30 minutes, using homemade water shoes.

September
 7 September
 Prime Minister James Callaghan announces that he will not call a general election for this autumn, and faces accusations from Tory leader Margaret Thatcher and Liberal leader David Steel of "running scared", in spite of many opinion polls showing that Labour (currently a minority government) could win an election now with a majority, safeguarding its place in government until 1983. Callaghan also announces that the Lib-Lab pact, formed 18 months ago when the government lost its majority, has reached its end.
 Bulgarian dissident Georgi Markov, 49, is stabbed with a poison-tipped umbrella as he walks across Waterloo Bridge, London, probably on orders of Bulgarian intelligence; he dies 4 days later.
 15 September – German terrorist Astrid Proll arrested in London.
 19 September – British Police launch a massive murder hunt, following the discovery of the dead body of newspaper boy Carl Bridgewater (13) at a farmhouse near Kingswinford in the West Midlands. Carl is believed to have been shot dead after disturbing a burglary at the property.
 26 September – 23 Ford car plants are closed across Britain due to strikes.

October
 17 October – A cull of Grey seals in the Orkney and Western Islands reduced after a public outcry.
 23 October – The government announces plans for a new single exam to replace O Levels and CSEs.
 25 October – A ceremony marks the completion of Liverpool Cathedral, for which the foundation stone was laid in 1904.
 27 October – Four people die and four others are wounded in a shooting spree which began in a residential street in West Bromwich and ends at a petrol station some 20 miles away in Nuneaton.
 28 October – Barry Williams, aged 36, is arrested in Derbyshire and charged with the previous day's shootings following a high-speed police chase.