[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# St Augustine's College (Kent)

St Augustine’s College in Canterbury, Kent, United Kingdom, was located within the precincts of St Augustine's Abbey about 0.2 miles (335 metres) ESE of Canterbury Cathedral. It served first as a missionary college of the Church of England (1848–1947) and later as the Central College of the Anglican Communion (1952–1967).

Missionary college

The mid-19th century witnessed a "mass-migration" from England to its colonies. In response, the Church of England sent clergy, but the demand for them to serve overseas exceeded supply. Colonial bishoprics were established, but the bishops were without clergy. The training of missionary clergy for the colonies was “notoriously difficult” because they were required to have not only “piety and desire”, they were required to have an education “equivalent to that of a university degree”. The founding of the missionary college of St Augustine’s provided a solution to this problem.

The Revd Edward Coleridge, a teacher at Eton College, envisioned establishing a college for the purpose of training clergy for service in the colonies: both as ministers for the colonists and as missionaries to the native populations.

Coleridge’s vision was supported by the “high church Anglican network”, but it aroused opposition in low church circles as too much like a Roman Catholic seminary. Coupling the establishment of the college with the restoration of the ruins of St Augustine's Abbey in Canterbury attracted sufficient support for the college to be established.

The abbey had "reached its lowest point of degradation". The gate was the entrance to a brewery, the kitchen was a public house, the grounds were used for dancing and fireworks. This condition was the culmination of the abbey's dismantling and sale of material that began in 1541 after its closure by the Dissolution of the Monasteries during the English Reformation.

Appalled by the abbey's condition, Alexander Beresford Hope MP (a devoted and wealthy layman) purchased the abbey’s ruins and ground plot in 1844. Inspired by Edward Coleridge's vision of a missionary college, the work of establishing the college soon commenced. Funds were raised with Hope as the principal donor along with many other contributors including Queen Victoria. "New buildings arose, a new life seemed to come out of the old shadows that lay so long over and around the ruins." Hope was determined to restore the ancient appearance as much as possible and, in accordance with Hope’s desires, “pains were taken to preserve as much as possible of the old work that seemed worth preserving.” The Great Gate was refurbished and the college library was built over the foundation of what had been the abbey’s refectory. Beneath the library, the remains of an abbey crypt were restored and used for teaching carpentry and other handicrafts needed when the missionary graduates ventured into primitive conditions. The dormitories comprised a range of new buildings designed to blend in with the old. The architect for the reconstruction was William Butterfield.

The new Missionary College was consecrated on 29 June 1848. Some 1,200 people came to Canterbury for the occasion. The Archbishop of Canterbury and his party travelled from London on a special train. By 1849, the college was advertising for students. Over time, hundreds of young men, mostly from humble homes, enrolled and attained high standards of education. Besides religious courses, students were taught practical medicine, Oriental languages, and handicrafts.

Activities and graduates
People’s Magazine (1 June 1870) described the college's daily activities as summarized in the table below.</ref>

Graduates of the college went to “remote, isolated, dangerous, and impoverished parts” of the British Empire. They faced shipwreck, wars, tempests, wild animals and fire. Their destinations and distinctions achieved are shown in the following table.

Global Majority Students 
St Augustine's College admitted men of "any nation and rank in life". They included a noticeable number of students from around the world. Boggis discusses Erasmus Augustine Kallihirua, Mark Pitamber, Lambert McKenzie, Jeremiah Libupuoa Moshueshue, Samuel Lefulere Moroka, Arthur Waka Toise, Edward Dumisweni Kona, Nathaniel Cyril Mhala, Josiah Bennekazi, Stephen Mnyakama, Jonas Ntsiko, Ebenezer Hannie, Jacob Manelle, Cecil Majaliwa, Gregory Mpiwa Ngcobo, Anton Tien, Mahmoud Effendi, Johann Jerrom, Knanishu Moratkhan, Francis Bourezan, Stephen Garabedian, William Howell, and John Tsan Baw. Other Global Majority students from the early period include Shapurji Edalji and Framjee James Merwanjee. Photographic portraits of some of these students (together with photographs of some white students and additional information) have been published on the St Augustine's Foundation website.

Closure