[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Va'etchanan

God swore that Moses would not enter the land but would die in the land east of the Jordan. Moses cautioned the Israelites not to forget the covenant that God concluded with them, and not to make a sculptured image, for God is a consuming fire, an impassioned God. The second open portion ends here.

Moses called heaven and earth to witness against the Israelites that should they make for themselves a sculptured image when they were in the land, then God would scatter them among the peoples, leaving only a scant few alive. There in exile they would serve man-made gods of wood and stone, that would not be able to see, hear, eat, or smell. But when they were in distress and they searched for God with all their heart and soul, returned to God, and obeyed God, then they would find God, even there. For God is a compassionate God, Who would not fail them, let them perish, or forget the covenant that He made on oath with their fathers.

Moses invited the Israelites to consider whether any people had ever heard the voice of a god speaking out of a fire and survived, or any god had taken one nation from the midst of another by prodigious acts and awesome power as their God had done for them in Egypt before their very eyes. Moses said that it had been clearly demonstrated to them that the Lord alone is God and that there is none beside God. Moses thus admonished them to observe God's laws and commandments, which Moses enjoined upon them that day, that it might go well with them and their children, and that they might long remain in the land that God was assigning to them for all time. The second reading and the third open portion end here.

Third reading—Deuteronomy 4:41–49

In the third reading, Moses set aside three cities of refuge on the east side of the Jordan to which a manslayer who unwittingly slew a person without having been hostile to him in the past could escape and live: Bezer among the Reubenites, Ramoth in Gilead among the Gadites, and Golan in Bashan among the Manassites. The third reading and the fourth open portion end with .

Fourth reading—Deuteronomy 5:1–18 (or 5:1–22)
In the fourth reading, Moses summoned the Israelites and called on them to hear the laws that he proclaimed that day, to study and observe them faithfully. At Horeb, God made a covenant with them—not with their fathers, but with them, the living, every one of them. God spoke to them face to face out of the fire on the mountain. Moses stood between God and them to convey God's words to them, for they were afraid of the fire and did not go up the mountain. A closed portion ends here.

God said the Ten Commandments:
"I the Lord am your God."
"You shall have no other gods beside Me. You shall not make for yourself a sculptured image, any likeness of what is in the heavens above, or on the earth below, or in the waters below the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them." A closed portion ends with  (5:10 in NJPS).
"You shall not swear falsely by the name of the Lord your God." A closed portion ends here.
"Observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy." A closed portion ends with  (5:15 in NJPS).
"Honor your father and your mother." A closed portion ends here.
"You shall not murder." A closed portion ends here.
"You shall not commit adultery." A closed portion ends here.
"You shall not steal." A closed portion ends here.
"You shall not bear false witness against your neighbor." A closed portion ends here.
"You shall not covet your neighbor's wife. A closed portion ends here. You shall not crave your neighbor's house, or his field, or his male or female slave, or his ox, or his ass, or anything that is your neighbor's." The fourth reading and a closed portion ends here.

Fifth reading—Deuteronomy 5:19 (23)–6:3
In the fifth reading, God spoke these words to the whole congregation at the mountain, with a mighty voice out of the fire and the dense clouds, and God inscribed them on two stone tablets, which God gave to Moses. When the Israelites heard the voice out of the darkness and saw the mountain ablaze with fire, the tribal heads and elders asked Moses to hear all that God had to say and then tell the people, and they would willingly obey. The fifth reading and the fifth open portion end with .

Sixth reading—Deuteronomy 6:4–25
In the sixth reading, Moses imparted God's instructions, the Shema and V'ahavta, saying: "Hear, O Israel: the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might. And these words, which I command you this day, shall be upon your heart; and you shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when thou rise up. And you shall bind them for a sign upon your hand, and they shall be for frontlets between your eyes. And you shall write them upon the doorposts of your house, and upon your gates." A closed portion ends here.