[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Trisakti University

tive Director of Amnesty International Indonesia, Former Coordinator of Kontras)

Authors 
Dr. Marga Tjoa (Indonesian writer in popular romance and children's literature)
Dr. Mira Widjaja (novelist)
Dr. Nova Riyanti Yusuf (novelist, psychiatrist, member of People's Representative Council, 2009-2014)

Media and artists 
Griffiths Anna (TV actor)
Lukman Sardi (actor)
Bunga Citra Lestari (actress)
Maria Harfanti (Miss Indonesia 2015)
Alya Rohali (Puteri Indonesia 1996)
Marissa Haque (actress)
Hilbram Dunar (TV presenter)
Sarah Sechan (actress)
Pica Wiriahardja (newscaster)
Ibrahim Imran (singer)
Happy Salma (actress)
Gista Putri (actor)
Jessica Iskandar (actress)
Igo Pentury (Winner Indonesian Idol 2010)
Kerent Pagustian (Musicians)
Arief Muhammad (novelist)
Putri Titian (actress)
Mira Widjaja (author)

Politicians 
Dr. H. Adhyaksa Dault, S.H., M.Si. (State Minister for Youth and Sport Affairs on United Indonesia Cabinet, 2004–2009)
Ir. H. Alex Noerdin, S.H., (15th Governor of South Sumatra) 
Ir. Basuki Tjahaja Purnama, M.M. (17th Governor of Jakarta)
Dede Yusuf Macan Effendi, S.T. (Vice Governor of West Java province, 2008-2013)
M. Aziz Syamsuddin, S.E., S.H., MAF, M.H. (Head of Third Commission, People's Representative Council, 2014-2019)
Drs. Setya Novanto, Ak. (speaker of the Indonesia People's Representative Council, 2014-2015)
Yenny Wahid (Director of Wahid Institute)
Wanda Hamidah (DPRD DKI Jakarta, 2009-2014)
Drg. Putih Sari (member of the Indonesia People's Representative Council)

Professionals 
Ir. Bobby Gafur Umar, MBA (Head of The Institution of Engineers Indonesia (2012–present, Chief Executive Officer of Bakrie & Brothers Tbk.)

Public servants 

Muhammad Sapta Murti, Deputy for Legislations, Ministry of State Secretariat of RI

Sport people 
Rudy Hartono (Badminton)
Christian Ronaldo Sitepu (Basketball)

Notable academics 
Ir. Djiteng Marsudi (President Director of Perusahaan Listrik Negara, Indonesia, 1995-1998) 
Prof. Ir. Syamsir Abduh, MM, PhD (Member of National Energy Board, Indonesia)
Sofyan Basir (President Director of Bank Negara Indonesia 2005–2010, President Director of Perusahaan Listrik Negara 2014-now)
Ir. Hendra Santika, M.M (director of development Aneka Tambang ANTAM)
Cahaya Dwi Rembulan Sinaga (Bank Mandiri commissioner)
Pataniari Siahaan (Bank Negara Indonesia BNI commissioner)

Symbol
In June 1966, Trisakti University began using the symbol of a trident which was decided after holding a contest. The symbol is a refinement by Eko Purwoto, who was assigned to make improvements to the designs that came from the contest.

The trident logo covers:

Political sovereignty
Governmental economy
Indonesian culture

References

External links
Official website
Trisakti Alumni Association
Trisakti School of Economics

West Jakarta
1965 establishments in Indonesia
Educational institutions established in 1965
Universities in Indonesia
Private universities and colleges
Universities in Jakarta
Private universities and colleges in Jakarta