[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of Cuban Americans

Senator (R–Texas)
Mel Martinez, former United States Senator (R-Florida)
Bob Menendez, United States Senator (D–New Jersey), and chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; former representative for New Jersey's 13th district
Marco Rubio, United States Senator (R-Florida)

Federal government

Al Cardenas, Washington, D.C. lobbyist
Alex Castellanos, Republican media consultant; senior advisor to 2008 Presidential Candidate Mitt Romney
Nils J. Diaz, former chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission
Cari M. Dominguez, Chair of the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
Emilio T. Gonzalez, Ph.D., director of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
Eliot A. Jardines, first Assistant Deputy Director of National Intelligence for Open Source
Elsa A. Murano, former Undersecretary for Food Safety United States Department of Agriculture
Pedro Pablo Permuy, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense
Steve Pieczenik, former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State
Otto Reich, former Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs
Mauricio J. Tamargo, 14th Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission

Local government

Carlos Alvarez, former mayor of Miami-Dade County
Joe Carollo, former mayor of Miami
Manny Diaz, mayor of Miami
George Gascón, district attorney of Los Angeles County; former district attorney of San Francisco County
Carlos A. Giménez, 7th Mayor of Miami-Dade County
Rosario Kennedy, former commissioner and vice-mayor of Miami
Raul L. Martinez, former mayor of Hialeah
Carlos Mayans, former mayor of Wichita, Kansas
Gilda Oliveros, first Cuban-born woman mayor in the United States
Alex Penelas, former mayor (D–FL), Miami-Dade County, Florida
Tomas Regalado, former mayor of Miami
Julio Robaina, former mayor of City of Hialeah
Francis Suarez, mayor of Miami 
Xavier Suarez, former mayor of Miami
Silverio Vega, former mayor of West New York, New Jersey
Bill Vidal, former mayor of Denver, Colorado; born in Camagüey, Cuba

State government

Zulima Farber, former Attorney General of New Jersey
Anitere Flores, Florida State Senator and former Florida State Representative, first Republican Hispanic woman to serve in both the Florida House and Senate since 1986
Bob Martinez, former governor of Florida, first Cuban-American governor in United States history
Robert E. Martinez, 8th Virginia Secretary of Transportation and deputy administrator of the United States Maritime Administration
Joseph Miró, Delaware state representative, president National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators
Alex X. Mooney, member of the Maryland state senate representing District 3
Vincent Prieto, New Jersey State Assemblyman, 32nd District
Marco Rubio, U.S. Senator from Florida, and former Speaker of the Florida House of Representatives
Katherine Fernandez Rundle, State Attorney for Miami-Dade County
Yvanna Cancela, State Senator representing Nevada's 10th District 
Mo Denis, State Senator representing Nevada's 2nd District
Jason Miyares, member of the Virginia House of Delegates' 82nd district and Attorney General of Virginia
Wes Moore, 63rd Governor of Maryland

U.S. Commonwealth government
Roberto Arango, Puerto Rico Senator

Judiciary

Armando Omar Bonilla, former Department of Justice official and nominee to the United States Court of Federal Claims
Barbara Lagoa, Justice on the Florida Supreme Court
Cecilia Altonaga, United States District Court Judge
Danny Boggs, Chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit in Cincinnati
Raoul G. Cantero, III, first Hispanic justice on the Florida Supreme Court
Adalberto Jordan, United States District Court Judge
Jorge Labarga, Chief Justice of the Florida Supreme Court
Jose L. Linares, United States District Court Judge of United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in Newark, New Jersey
Ariel A. Rodriguez, judge of New Jersey Appellate Division, acting Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court
Joseph H. Rodriguez, United States District Court Judge of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in Camden, New Jersey
Eduardo Robreno, United States District Court Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia
Esther Salas, United States District Court Judge of United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in Newark, New Jersey
Mauricio J. Tamargo, Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission

United States Armed Forces