[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# RANKL

s were given either 60 mg of denosumab or calcium and vitamin D supplements. This was done to measure the effectiveness of preventing treatment-induced bone loss. The patients who received 60 mg of denosumab showed a +5.6% increased in bone mineral density and a 1.5% decrease in bone fracture rates.

Another clinical trial (NCT00321620) was established to determine the safety and effectiveness of using denosumab compared to zoledronic acid. In this trial, they used 1901 bone metastatic prostate patients whom were also suffering with other complication of bone diseases. Again, patients were randomized and some were given either 120 mg of denosumab or 4 mg of zoledronic acid. Patients who were given 120 mg of denosumab (in comparison to those who were given 4 mg of zoledronic acid) showed a greater increase in hypocalcemia, a greater resistance to bone turnover markers uNTx, a delay response in both pathological fractures and spinal cord compression. However, survival rates for both clinical groups were comparable.

Breast cancer 
Hormone receptor positive breast cancer patients have a significant increased risk of complications such as osteopenia and osteoporosis. About two out of every three breast cancer patients are hormone receptor positive. In the past several years, denosumab has been used in clinical trials, primarily because a large population is affected by bone complication among those who have breast cancer.

252 patients enlisted in the HALT-BC clinical trial (also known as NCT00089661). In addition to receiving vitamin D and calcium supplements, half of the patients were randomly given 60 mg of denosumab while the other half were given a placebo. Patients given denosumab had an increase in lumbar spine bone mineral density, a decrease in bone turnover markers, with no significant change in survival rates.

NCT00321464 was another phase III RCT. Similar to NCT00321620 (prostate), this trial measured the safety and efficacy of denosumab versus zoledronic acid. Both groups showed similar survival rates and adverse event frequency.

Multiple myeloma 
Patients whom are diagnosed with multiple myeloma have approximately 80-100% chance of developing bone complications due to an increase in activity and/or formation of osteoclasts and a decrease activity of osteoblasts. In a stage II clinical trial, denosumab decreased bone turnover markers by blocking the RANKL/RANK pathway. Once this trial was completed, 1176 patients with either multiple myeloma or progressed cancers were entered into the stage III clinical trial (known as NCT00330759). The main objective of the NCT00330759 trial was to compare effects of patients who were given 120 mg of denosumab relative to patients give 4 mg of zoledronic acid. As a result of this trial, during a month period, patients who received denosumab had a decrease in pathological fractures and spinal cord compression; however, as time progressed it appear that denosumab had significantly delayed bone complications. In both breast and prostate cancers, patients in either denosumab or zoledronic acid groups both appeared to have comparable adverse events and survival rates.

Medroxyprogesterone acetate 

Women with menopause have often been given various types of postmenopausal hormone therapies to prevent osteoporosis and reduce menopausal symptoms. Medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) is a synthetic progestin and was commonly used as a contraceptive or used as a hormone therapy for endometriosis or osteoporosis. Recent studies suggest, using MPA increases patient risks of developing breast cancer due to an increase expression of RANKL. MPA causes a substantial induction of RANKL in mammary-gland epithelial cells while deletion of RANKL decreases the incidence MPA-induced breast cancer. Hence inhibition of RANKL has potential for the prevention and treatment of breast cancer.

See also
 Cluster of differentiation
 RANK
 Osteoprotegerin
 Osteoimmunology

References

Further reading

 link

External links
 RANKL Signaling Pathway
 
 

Cytokines
Clusters of differentiation