[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# From Beyond (film)

s cut" of From Beyond on a Blu-ray/DVD combo pack.

Awards and reception 
The film received generally positive reviews from critics. On the review website Rotten Tomatoes, the film maintains a 80% approval rating from critics, with an average rating of 6.8/10 based on 19 reviews as of November 2022.

Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times gave the film two-and-a-half stars out of four and wrote that it "lacks the single-minded weirdness of Gordon's first film, but it does establish him in the tradition of Hollywood horror directors who really try - directors including James Whale, Tod Browning and Roger Corman. At a time when almost any exploitation movie can make money if its ads are clever enough, this is a movie that tries to mix some satire and artistry in with the slime." Variety noted, "Less wigged-out and somewhat more conventional than his wild debut feature, Re-Animator, Stuart Gordon's H.P. Lovecraft followup, From Beyond, still stands as an effectively gruesome horror entry that should please fans of the genre." A generally negative review from Vincent Canby of The New York Times reported that the film "sounds rather more entertaining than it is to watch" and described the monsters as "less scary than technically arresting." Patrick Goldstein, film critic for the Los Angeles Times, said that while From Beyond is more conventional than Re-Animator, lacking its comedic angle, it has similarly excellent pacing, visual symbolism, and gruesomeness. He wrote, "From Beyond is a horror movie with some deliciously slimy tricks for the kids, but some shocking treats for grown-ups too." Gene Siskel, film critic with the Chicago Tribune, also enjoyed the movie, awarding it three stars out of four and calling it "a decent enough low-budget horror film that delivers what audiences have every reason to expect - a funny, horrific grossout." William Wolf with the Gannett News Service rated the film half-a-star out of four. He criticized the movie for its strong gore content as well as the sado-masochistic treatment of women. In his review Wolf wrote, "The gore gets progressively more stomach-turning without much cleverness, and after a while From Beyond just becomes overkill, more revolting than scary or funny."

AllMovie's review of the film was favorable, writing "Gordon is that rare breed who truly finds inspiration in another creator and uses that inspiration to craft a film that captures the essence of that creator while still being totally and uniquely his own", calling it a "gory thrill ride of a movie."

The film score by Richard Band won the award for Best Original Soundtrack at the Sitges - Catalan International Film Festival in Sitges, Spain.

In their book Lurker in the Lobby: A Guide to the Cinema of H. P. Lovecraft, Andrew Migliore and John Strysik write that "From Beyond is a visual treat," but add that the film's "gross sexual excess may displease hardcore Lovecraft fans."

Sequel miniseries 
In 2021, a miniseries directed and written by William Butler titled 'The Resonator: Miskatonic U' was released to the Full Moon Features App and Amazon Prime Video, before making its way to Blu-ray and DVD that same year. It began airing on Pluto's Sci-fi Channel on September 23, 2021. On September 30, 2021, CEO of Full Moon Charles Band announced that future episodes would start releasing all the way into 2022.

References

External links 
 
 
 
 Article discussing DVD release

1986 films
1986 horror films
1980s American films
1980s English-language films
1980s monster movies
1980s science fiction horror films
American body horror films
American exploitation films
American monster movies
American science fiction horror films
American splatter films
BDSM in films
Empire International Pictures films
Films based on short fiction
Films based on works by H. P. Lovecraft
Films directed by Stuart Gordon
Films scored by Richard Band
Films shot in Italy
Mad scientist films