[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Council for Arab-British Understanding

ons to a variety of Arab countries, including Lebanon, Syria, Jordan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Egypt and Libya, involving over 200 MPs and Lords.  The majority Caabu’s delegations visit Gaza and the West Bank, where delegates meet both Palestinian and Israeli officials, activists and businessmen.

Since the General Election on 8 June 2017, Caabu has taken two parliamentary delegations to the West Bank. The delegations have included former Labour Minister for Education and Minister for the Arts, Baroness Tessa Blackstone, Labour's Shadow Minister for Early Years, Tracy Brabin, and former Secretary of State for Scotland, former Government Deputy Chief Whip and Liberal Democrat MP for Orkney and Shetland, Alistair Carmichael.

Events 
Caabu runs a programme of private and public events.  The organisation hosts expert speakers at the House of Commons, party conferences, the Arab-British Chamber of Commerce and universities.  Caabu also organises round-table seminars for journalists, academics and NGO workers at the Arab British Centre.  In the past Caabu has organised a speaking tour to the UK for Tawakkul Karman, the Yemeni co-winner of the Novel Peace Prize, and contributed to the 2013 conference Supporting Open Economies, Inclusive Growth – Women's Role in Arab Countries, as part of the G8 Deauville Partnership with Arab Countries in Transition.

Media 
Caabu monitors the British media for misrepresentations of the Arab world for the purpose of objective reporting.  A daily digest of news coverage on the Middle East in the major broadsheets is sent to members of the organisation.  The organisation also provides expert comment for television, radio and print on issues affecting the Middle East.  Director Chris Doyle gave conducted over 200 interviews on the Arab world in the since 2012.

Education 
Caabu runs an education programme that reaches out to 5–10,000 school children every year.  The education programme was designed to give UK school children the opportunity to learn about the Arab world.  It works to improve understanding of the history and culture of the Middle East and counter negative and misleading images.  Topics included a genrrla introduction to the Arab World, its people and culture; the Israel-Palestine conflict; the Arab Uprisings, Arab stereotypes and perceptions of Muslims in the UK.  Caabu continues to give educational talks for schools upon request.

Syria programme 
Caabu launched a Syria programme in 2011, working to highlight events in Syria and raise issues on human rights, international law and the humanitarian situation.  Caabu has also run seven workshops inside Syria with civil society activists focusing on citizenship, leadership and media training.

Publications 
Caabu produces reports both independently and in conjunction with other organisations.

Trading Away Peace: How Europe helps sustain illegal Israeli settlements (Autumn 2012)
The report was produced by 22 non-governmental organisations including Caabu, Christian Aid UK and Ireland, the International Federation for Human Rights (FIDH) and Diakonia revealed today. The report found that EU imports 15 times more from illegal Israeli settlements than from Palestinians.

Palestinian Detainees: no security in injustice (Autumn 2012)
The report Palestinian Detainees: no security in injustice was produced by Caabu in September 2012. It shows the lack of due process and human rights abuses in both Israeli and Palestinian jails. The report includes research and analysis on aspects of the detainee's experience, including ill-treatment, arrest without charge and child detention.

Britain and Palestine: A Parliamentary focus (Autumn 2011)

Under Occupation: A report on the West Bank (Spring 2011)

The world's largest prison camp: A report on access to Gaza (Autumn 2010)

One year on from War: A report on the humanitarian and political situation in Gaza (Spring 2010)

YouGov poll on British attitudes toward the Arab World 
On 25 September Caabu hosted a press launch to mark the findings of the new YouGov poll on UK attitudes to the Arab World, conducted in conjunction with Caabu and Arab News. The event featured a panel discussion with Caabu Director, Chris Doyle, Arab News Editor-in-Chief, Faisal Abbas and Director of YouGov's political and social opinion, Anthony Wells. The discussion was moderated by Arab News London Bureau Chief, Ben Flanagan.

The poll also revealed that there is a clear lack of knowledge about the Arab world, with 81 percent admitting to knowing little or nothing about the Arab world. On UK foreign policy in the region 57% of Brits believe it to be ineffective. 83% oppose the 2003 Iraq war itself, which appears to be the highest level detected in polls, and little over 50% support UK airstrikes against ISIS in Syria and Iraq, pointing to a rising sentiment against military interventions.