[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Committee for Human Rights in North Korea

Control, Surveillance, and Punishment: An Examination of the North Korean Police State alleges that public executions are not uncommon in North Korea, nor is the death penalty limited to the “most serious crimes,” constituting a violation of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. 

Published by HRNK in 2012, The Hidden Gulag Second Edition: Political Prison Camps describes public and secret executions in the kwan-li-so and kyo-hwa-so prisons. Former prisoners report being forced to throw rocks at and hit corpses following executions. The report claims that executions were punishments for attempted escape, but “crimes” such as eating chestnuts off the ground without permission were also punished by death. One prisoner claims they witnessed an estimated 50-60 executions per year, including group executions of up to 20 people.

In April 2015, HRNK and AllSource Analysis, Inc. discovered what it believes to be a satellite image of an execution by ZPU-4 anti-aircraft machine guns at the Kanggon Military Training Center outside of Pyongyang. Their allegations were reported on in “Unusual Activity at the Kanggon Military Training Area in North Korea: Evidence of Execution by Anti-aircraft Machine Guns?,” garnered significant media attention, including coverage by The Washington Post and The Wall Street Journal.

Major conferences

"Hidden Gulag" Conference (2012) 
At the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington, D.C., HRNK hosted its first major conference on the "Hidden Gulag", addressing North Korea's prison system, on April 10, 2012. HRNK launched its publication, the second edition of The Hidden Gulag by former Amnesty International Executive Director and human rights specialist David Hawk, at the conference

The conference attracted significant media attention, including an editorial in The Washington Post that touted the conference as "unprecedented". Robert King, the U.S. Special Envoy for North Korean Human Rights Issues, addressed the conference. Glyn Davies, the U.S. Special Representative for North Korean Policy, was also in attendance.

"A Call for Action" Conference (2012)
HRNK organized a conference at the Simon Wiesenthal Center at the Museum of Tolerance on October 12, 2012, on "North Korea's Political Prisoner Camp System and the Plight of North Korean Refugees: A Call for Action".

HRNK's Executive Director and members of the Board of Directors spoke at the conference and provided education on North Korea. Additionally, HRNK arranged for speakers Rabbi Abraham Cooper, The Honorable Howard Berman, The Honorable Brad Sherman, The Honorable Ed Royce, R.O.K. Consul General Shin Yeon-sung, David Hawk, Dr. Han Dong-ho, Blaine Harden, Shin Dong-hyuk, Hannah Song, Melanie Kirkpatrick, and Dr. Cho Jung-hyun to speak.

"Heart of Darkness" Conference (2013)
The Illinois Holocaust Museum and Education Center and HRNK hosted a conference calling for the dismantlement of North Korea's political prison camps at the Illinois Holocaust Museum & Education Center in Skokie, IL on November 6, 2013. HRNK provided the speakers, coordinated for the event, invited the Korean American community in the Chicago area, and presented talks on North Korea's political prison camps system.

This conference was delivered to 300 people, including Korean Americans and Holocaust survivors. The event, which was translated simultaneously on-site in Korean and English, was led by and featured HRNK Executive Director Greg Scarlatoiu, Resident Fellow Professor Hyun In-ae, and Board Co-Chair Roberta Cohen. They discussed the promotion of effective action and ways the Chicago and greater Midwest community can become involved in the North Korea-related advocacy and awareness.

"Human Rights in North Korea: An Address by Michael Kirby" Conference (2014)
The Brookings Institution and HRNK hosted an event in which Michael Kirby, chair of the U.N. Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in North Korea (COI), addressed the report's findings and recommendations. The year-long investigation, which included hearings and interviews with North Korean defectors, found that "in many instances, the violations found entailed crimes against humanity based on state policies."

Following Justice Kirby's address, Marcus Noland of the Peterson Institute for International Economics and an HRNK board member commented on the report. And Roberta Cohen, Co-chair of HRNK and Non-resident Senior Fellow, Brookings, was on a panel discussing the implications of the COI. The conference drew significant media attention, and it was aired on C-SPAN.