[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bukit Mertajam High School

on their results in the SRP ("Sijil Rendah Pelajaran"), an evolved version of Lower Certificate of Education, a Senior 3 public examination. However this new tradition breakout was not entirely new. The school had already accepted female students in smaller numbers into Sixth Forms at earlier dates.

Bukit Mertajam High School celebrated its Golden Jubilee in 1987.

On August 31, 1986, a tragedy occurred when the upper floor of Block B caught fire. The school library and four classrooms were burnt down. Old school magazines, reference books and other main documents were destroyed.

In 1992 Bukit Mertajam High School was awarded The Penang State Level Sekolah Harapan Negara. In 1997, High School emerged as one of the earliest school in the country to make it compulsory for students to wear ties and for Muslim Students to wear Baju Melayu. As a Premier School (Sekolah Perdana), Bukit Mertajam High School was a pioneer school in providing Information Technology subject for both the MGCE and MHCE.

Bukit Mertajam High School is also very reputable for its extra-curricular achievements. Some of the remarkable achievements are in Soccers, Rugby, Taekwondo (WTF) etc.

Year 2009 and beyond 
Recently, the High School was awarded Premier School status by the Education board. This caused the traditionally racial diverse school to become almost Bumiputera as it became an elite school for the Malays.

School identity

The assembly 

In the early days of the school, the morning assembly was held in the hall. As the Headmaster strode up the stairs, leading to the stage, where the teachers were seated in a semicircle, the Colour Captain (present House Captain) who was on duty would step onto the 'Castle'. The 'Castle' was a platform about one and half feet high and a yard square. It had four massive but beautifully carved legs, and a couple of steps led up to it. The 'Castle' was placed immediately in front of the stage on the cement floor. In his hand the Colour Captain held a wand about four or five feet high, painted with the colours of his House. The top of the wand ended in a knob on which was mounted a trophy with the Colour (House) had won. The trophy was usually in the form of a statuette. The Colour Captain then would lead the boys in reciting The Compass and in the singing of the Colour Song.

The value of this ceremony cannot be expressed more precisely than in the words of the first Headmaster, Mr. E. La M. Stowell, "As, in Malaya, the boys have so many religions, I think something, like the Compass or Statement, is the best kind of substitute we can give them for a good, shared, basic ethical purpose with which to start the day" Moreover, he says, "They lennd solemnity, and a little ceremony and formality to the opening of the School Day".

The school motto 
The school motto is Aut Coepisse Noli Aut Confice in Latin which means "Accomplish or Do Not Begin".

The school crest 
In 1948 the school had its own crest. A competition was organised and Mr. Soon Eng Kong and old boys of the school presented a prize to the winning entry, which was a design submitted by Mr. Oh Boon Tat.

The design has the outline of the Bukit, by the side of which appear grains of padi to indicate the dominant agricultural activity of the local environment. On the scroll is inscribed the High School motto, Aut Coepisse Noli Aut Confice.

The school colours 
The school was divided into four houses named Red, Green, Blue and Yellow, each having their respective leader. Each colour would be run by a nominated council, which would look into all cases of breach of outdoor discipline and administer suitable punishment. In the early days, there were only four sport houses; Red House, Yellow House, Blue House, and Green House.

Red House was renamed Cheeseman House, as an honour to H.R. Cheeseman, the man behind the establishment of the school.

Yellow House was renamed Stowell House, as an honor to Mr. E. de La M. Stowell, the first headmaster of the school.

Blue House was renamed Colin King House, as an honour to Rev. Colin King, the headmaster during the World War II.

The Green House was renamed Soon Eng Kong House, as an honour to Mr. Soon Eng Kong, a donor who contributed to the school scholarship - the Soon Eng Kong Gold Medal.

In the 1990s a new house was added - Tun Salleh House with Orange colour. It was named after Tun Mohd. Salleh b. Ismail, an old boy of the school who was the first Inspector General of Police of Singapore and Malaya.

The Compass

Notable alumni