[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 27]
# Va'etchanan

hardi Jews each week base the songs of the services on the content of that week's parashah. For Parashah Va'etchanan, Sephardi Jews apply Maqam Hoseni, the maqam that expresses beauty, because this is the parashah where Moses repeats to the Israelites their history of receiving the Ten Commandments.

Haftarah
The parashah is always read on the special Sabbath Shabbat Nachamu, the Sabbath immediately after Tisha B'Av. Shabbat Nachamu ("Sabbath of comfort") takes its name from the first word of the haftarah for the parashah, , which speaks of "comforting" the Jewish people for their suffering—, nachamu nachamu, ami, "Be comforted, be comforted, My nation...." The haftarah is the first in the cycle of seven haftarot of consolation after Tisha B'Av, leading up to Rosh Hashanah.

Summary
God told the prophet to comfort God's people and bid Jerusalem to take heart, as the city's guilt had been paid off. A voice in the wilderness called to clear the way and make a highway for God, for every valley will be lifted up, every mountain will be made low, and God's glory will be revealed to all. A voice proclaimed that all flesh is grass, its goodness like a flower of the field, which withers and fades; but God's word will stand forever. The herald of good tidings should go to the mountain and announce to the cities of Judah that God will come as a Mighty One to rule, as a shepherd that feeds the flock, gathers the lambs, carries them, and gently leads them.

Who has held the waters in hand, measured the heavens, comprehended the earth, and weighed mountains in the balance? Who has counseled or instructed God? Nations are like a drop in a bucket, like dust in the balance, as nothing before God. Can one compare God to anything, to an idol that a woodworker carved? God sits above the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers. God brings princes to nothing, makes the judges of the earth like nothing; scarcely are they planted, but God blows upon them, and they wither and blow away.

To whom then to liken God? Lift up your eyes and see: The One who created the stars, called them by name, by the greatness of God's might and strong power each one appears.

Connection to the Special Sabbath
The haftarah answers laments read on Tisha B'Av from the book of Lamentations.  and 9 complain that Jerusalem "has none to comfort her," "she has no comforter." In , the haftarah answers, "Comfort, comfort My people, says your God."  complains that "the ways of Zion mourn." In , the haftarah answers, "Clear in the wilderness the way of the Lord, make plain in the desert a highway for our God."  complains that Zion's princes "are gone without strength before the pursuer." In  and 26, the haftarah answers, "lift up your voice with strength," God "is strong in power."  hoped for Jerusalem that "the punishment of your iniquity is accomplished" and God "will no more carry you away into captivity." In , the haftarah affirms, "Bid Jerusalem take heart, and proclaim to her, that her time of service is accomplished, that her guilt is paid off."

As well, the haftarah echoes the parashah. In the parashah in , Moses pleads, "Let me go over, I pray, and see the good land that is beyond the Jordan, that goodly hill-country, and Lebanon." As if in answer, the haftarah rejoins in , "the nations are as a drop of a bucket, . . . and Lebanon is not sufficient fuel, nor the beasts thereof sufficient for burnt-offerings."

Notes

Further reading
The parashah has parallels or is discussed in these sources:

Ancient
Instructions of Shuruppak. Sumer, early 3rd millennium BCE. In, e.g., Bendt Alster. Wisdom of Ancient Sumer, pages 60–69. Capital Decisions Ltd, 2005. (analog to Ten Commandments).
Code of Hammurabi Epilogue reverse 25, lines 60–73. Babylonia, Circa 1780 BCE. In, e.g., James B. Pritchard. Ancient Near Eastern Texts Relating to the Old Testament, page 178. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1969. (not to change the law).
Book of the Dead, chapter 125. Ancient Egypt, 1500–1400 BCE. In, e.g., E. A. Wallis Budge. The Egyptian Book of the Dead (The Papyrus of Ani) Egyptian Text, Transliteration and Translation, pages 195–205. New York: Dover Publications, 1967. (analog to Ten Commandments).