[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Grande Hotel Beira

The Grande Hotel Beira is an abandoned luxury hotel in Beira, Mozambique. It was opened in 1954 and operated until 1974, when it was closed due to lack of guests. The building was used as a military base during the Mozambican Civil War. It is currently home to over 3,500 squatters.

Development and history
In 1932, the urban plan of Ponta Gêa was designed by the architect brothers Rebelo de Andrade, and the plan included a  hotel with an Olympic swimming pool in a spot overlooking the Indian Ocean, the mouth of the Buzi River and the sea harbour of Beira. Architect José Porto of the Gabinete de Urbanização Colonial produced the original concept design for the hotel; and in 1953, the Companhia de Moçambique commissioned architect Francisco de Castro to develop the original design and the final detailing. At the time, the Companhia de Moçambique had the concession to exploit the area now known as the provinces of Manica and Sofala. When the concession ended in 1942, the Companhia still owned local businesses and continued to dominate the local economy. One of its directors was Antonio Arantes e Oliveira, who was a brother of the future Governor-General of Mozambique and who had a close connection with the fascist Portuguese dictator, Salazar. Arthur Brandão was the chief officer of the Companhia and also held a prominent position within the Salazar regime.

Although Beira was a Portuguese colony, it had been heavily influenced culturally by Britain due to the neighbouring British colony of Southern Rhodesia's use of its sea harbour. The Portuguese Estado Novo and the ending of the Companhia concession gave rise to increased Portuguese influence throughout the city: the Portuguese Escudo became the only official currency, the government became dominated by the fascist Salazar regime, and the streetscape changed with the new Art Deco and Modern Movement architecture. The Grande Hotel became a symbol of the success of the Estado Novo in Beira, as it was intended to provide luxury accommodation for VIPS, business travelers, and wealthy tourists from Southern Rhodesia, the Union of South Africa, and from Portugal or its colonies.

Architecture
The exterior of the Grande Hotel was done in the Art Deco style that was popular in Portugal during the Estado Novo era of the 1930s and 1940s. Art Deco's geometrical shapes and repetition represented modernity and a rejection of the neobaroque style of the previous era. As such, the exterior of the Grande Hotel had no ornamentation or intricate patterns.  The interior, however, was done in an eclectic style and with the use of modern materials in a manner unusual in Beira at that time and even seldom used in other works of the architect, Francisco de Castro. De Castro also designed the famous CFM train station in Beira.

Opening and operation as a hotel
In 1955, the Grande Hotel opened in an event officiated by the Roman Catholic Bishop of Beira, Sebastião Soares de Resende.  White residents of Beira could use the swimming pool, and they recalled the Grande Hotel as a palace of unlimited luxury where one could eat the finest chocolate. Hollywood star Kim Novak stayed there when she came to hunt in the nearby Gorongosa National Park.  Still, the expected clientele—wealthy tourists and business travelers—never materialised.  Although Beira was a popular holiday destination, its tourists were primarily white middle-income families from Salisbury (now called Harare), the capital of Southern Rhodesia (now called Zimbabwe), which was 550 km or 9 hours away by car. They could not afford the luxuries of the Grande Hotel, instead preferring beach holidays in the tourist district of Macuti, 8 km from the city centre.  Although the Grande Hotel was only a 2 km walk from the city centre, swimming at the beach was forbidden.

Casino myth
Several sources refer to proposals for the Grande Hotel to host a casino. However, the building plans do not show any facilities that would suggest a casino. Francisco Ivo, an architect and former student of Francisco de Castro, claimed that De Castro told him that there was no intention to create a casino. The clients of the Grande Hotel had close associations with the Portuguese dictator Salazar, and Salazar thought it was morally inappropriate to have gambling in the African colonies.  Indeed, casinos in Lourenço Marques and Costa Bello were forced to close in the early 1930s.

Closing
After twenty years, the Grande Hotel Beira was closed, deemed by the company to be unprofitable and too costly to keep open. The hotel had never made a profit in any year of its operation. The construction costs had come to three times the original budget. Anticipated wealthy guests never came, and the staff necessary to maintain and operate a luxury hotel was too large for the number of guests actually served. Every lift, for example, had a personal operator.