[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

oyed by Gundam Exia, Patrick survives with only his ego wounded. Patrick's subsequent encounters with the Gundams do not fare any better, although he manages to wound Gundam Dynames's pilot, Lockon Stratos, while Lockon shields a disabled Gundam Virtue, piloted by Tieria Erde, from Patrick's attack.

 During the preparations for "Project G", a joint military operation between all 3 power blocs, Patrick meets Kati Mannequin for the first time and—after she punches him twice for being late—claims to have instantly fallen in love with her. In the second season, Patrick joins the A-Laws to be with Mannequin against her wishes. Because he has survived all his encounters with the Gundams, he gains the nickname , though it is meant as an insult. After the collapse of the African orbital elevator, Patrick goes missing along with Mannequin, but reappears four months later having joined the coup d'etat fleet that attacks an A-Laws fleet near . While aiding the Gundams, Patrick is caught off guard when the Innovators' Gaga units appear and his mobile suit is destroyed while shielding Mannequin's ship. He survives the blast and later marries his beloved Kati, self-proclaiming himself as . He appears on the Gundam 00 movie escorting his wife at all times and is present on the Absolut Defense Line against ELS battle, while he is not as skilled as Graham Acker, the Innovades nor the Gundam Pilots he is one of the few pilots that are not shot down when the ELS suddenly turns into mobile suits, later his suits is trapped on ELS and he attempts to overload his suit to self destruct but is saved by Setsuna at the very last moment with the arrival of the 00 Qan [T]. 

 
 Kati Mannequin is a colonel in the unified AEU armed forces. She attended the same international university as Leesa Kujō and both were involved with unintentionally causing a friendly fire incident to occur that led to them on opposing sides when Celestial Being appears. Selected to be the commanding officer of the AEU contingent sent to the HRL's Taklamakan Desert, Kati attempts to capture a Gundam unit. Kati is later assigned command of the joint Union-AEU battle group consisting of GN-Xs in conjunction with the HRL's Sergei Smirnov. Five years later, Kati Mannequin joins A-laws to help Sergei monitor the organization's activities; as a commander for the A-laws, she realizes that Leesa Kujō is the tactical forecaster for Celestial Being. Though she eventually goes against the A-Laws, Kati still sees Celestial Being as a terrorist group and will not hesitate to pursue if forced to. On the Gundam 00 movie she is assigned as the chief of the absolute defensive barrier against ELS invasion. Her love interest is Patrick Colasour, whom she hits twice for being late on their first met; as the series goes on he makes advances on her, while her ego makes her pretend that she is annoyed of him, she (in truth) is delighted, as is stated when Patrick arrives to her home attempting to take her on a date (while she initially berates him for being vain in the middle of a war, she ends up agreeing). Later in the second season, Patrick volunteers to A-Laws (against Kati's wishes just to be close to her) but in the end she seems amused of that; at the end of the same season when she joins Katharon and Celestial Being in the final battle against the Innovators, she openly accepts her love for Patrick when he shields her ship with his own mobile suit against an unexpected Gaga suicide units' assault - she screams his name in distraught as he seemingly got killed after he said "Kati, I love you". Patrick survived and in the epilogue they both get married, saying clearly that Patrick indeed is "Ridiculously Lucky." On "A Wakening of a Trailblazer" set two years after, she is promoted but Patrick still calls her "Colonel" as a petname, much to her annoyance.

Katharon 
 
 Marina Ismail (Persian: مارینا اسماعیل; Azeri: Marina İsmayıl) is the First Princess of Azadistan, which is struggling economically due to the UN's embargo on oil exports. She is politically inexperienced and comes from an ordinary household, but accepted the position of Princess of Azadistan when Parliament chose her based on her lineage. She first encounters Setsuna F Seiei during her diplomatic mission to seek economic aid and access to the solar energy pipelines. After learning that Setsuna is one of Celestial Being's Gundam Meisters, she slowly develops a concern for his well-being. Conversely, Marina becomes an influencing figure in Setsuna's life; she appears in one of his dreams, telling him it is okay for him to stop fighting. At the very end of the first series, Marina reads a letter from Setsuna about his search for answers and that though the two follow separate paths, they share the same goal of ending war.