[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Veteran Reserve Corps

rovost marshals to arrest bounty jumpers and to enforce the draft. They escorted substitutes, recruits, and prisoners to and from the front. They guarded railroads, did patrol duty in Washington DC, and even manned the defenses of the city during Jubal Early's raid against Fort Stevens in July 1864.

During the war, more than 60,000 men served in the Corps in the Union army; 1,700 soldiers during the service in the Federal Veteran Reserve Corps, of whom 24 died in action.  Several thousand also served in a Confederate counterpart, the Southern Invalid Corps, although it was never officially organized into actual battalions.

Four members from Company F of the Fourteenth Veteran Reserves conducted the execution of the four conspirators linked to the assassination of Abraham Lincoln on July 7, 1865, at Fort McNair in Washington, D.C. They knocked out the post that released the platform that hanged Mary Surratt, Lewis Powell, David Herold, and George Atzerodt.

The Federal corps was mostly disbanded in 1866 following the close of the Civil War and the lessening of a need for reserve troops. The reorganization of the Regular Army in July 1866 provided for four regiments of the Veteran Reserve Corps. The Veteran Reserve Corps completely ceased to exist when these regiments were consolidated with other regiments in the Army's next re-organization in March 1869.

See also
The Invalid Corps, a humorous song written about the Veteran Reserve Corps
United States Guards
Corps of Invalids (Great Britain)

References

Further reading
 Pelka, Fred . The Civil War Letters of Charles F. Johnson, Invalid Corps. Amherst and Boston, MA: University of Massachusetts Press, 2004. .
 Lande, R. Gregory. Invalid Corps, Military Medicine, Vol. 173, no. 6, 2008, pp. 525–528.
 "Invalid Corps/Veteran Reserve Corps" in Wagner, Margaret E., Gary W. Gallagher, and Paul Finkelman. The Library of Congress Civil War Desk Reference. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2002, pp. 441–442.

External links
The Civil War Archive – Union Regimental Index – U.S.V.R.C.
The 9th Regiment Invalid Corps – Civil War reenactors
The 8th Regiment Veteran Reserve Corps – Civil War reenactors

Military units and formations of the Union Army
Union Army corps
1863 establishments in the United States
Disability in the United States