[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lithuania in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006

ceeded to the final, while seven entries participated in the third semi-final and the top four proceeded to the final. LRT also selected two wildcard acts for the final out of the remaining non-qualifying acts from the semi-finals. In the final, the winner was selected from the remaining 16 entries.

The results of the newcomers selection were determined by the 50/50 combination of votes from a jury panel consisting of three to five members and public televoting. The ranking developed by both streams of voting was converted to points from 1-8, 10 and 12 and assigned based on the number of competing songs in the respective show. In the semi-finals and the final, the results were determined solely by public televoting. The public could vote through telephone and SMS voting.

Competing entries 
LRT opened a submission period on 5 October 2005 for artists and songwriters to submit their entries with the deadline on 11 December 2005. On 13 January 2005, LRT announced the 52 entries selected for the competition from 72 submissions received. Among the artists was previous Lithuanian Eurovision contestant Viktoras Diawara (member of LT United), who represented Lithuania in 2001 as part of Skamp. The final changes to the list of 52 competing acts were later made with the withdrawal of five songs: "Daydreaming" performed by Eleonora Sobrova, and "Remember" performed by Helada, from the newcomers group, and "Day or Night" performed by Amberlife, "Escape We Tonight" performed by Mantas, and "Už lango šventė" performed by Egidijus Sipavičius, from the established artists group.

Shows

Newcomers selection 
The newcomers selection of the competition aired from the LRT studios in Vilnius between 14 January and 4 February 2006. The three semi-finals featured the 28 entries from the newcomers and the top four advanced to the newcomers final from each semi-final; the bottom entries were eliminated. The members of the jury in the first semi-final consisted of Vytautas Juozapavičius (producer), Povilas Meškėla (lead singer of the group Rojaus tūzai) and Rima Dirsytė-Zeip (singer), while the jury in the second semi-final consisted of Janina Miščiukaitė (singer), Jurijus Smoriginas (choreographer) and Artūras Orlauskas (television presenter), and the jury in the third semi-final consisted of Arina Borunova (singer), Viktoras Malinauskas (singer), Edmundas Žalpys (music event organiser) and Arminas Višinskis (journalist). In the newcomers final which featured the remaining 12 entries that qualified from the semi-finals, the top six entries advanced to the national final, while the bottom six were eliminated. The members of the jury in the newcomers final consisted of Stepas Januška (singer), Algirdas Kaušpėdas (lead singer of the group Antis), Vilhelmas Čepinskis (musician), Jonas Jučas (organiser of the Kaunas Jazz festival) and Artūras Orlauskas.

Semi-finals 
The three semi-finals of the competition aired from the LRT studios in Vilnius on 11, 18 and 25 February 2006 and featured both the established artists and entries that qualified from the newcomers selection. In each of the first two semi-finals the top five advanced to the final, while the top four entries of the third semi-final advanced to the final; the bottom entries were eliminated. On 27 February 2006, LRT announced the two entries that had received a wildcard to also proceed to the final.

Final 
The final of the competition took place on 4 March 2006 at the Siemens Arena in Vilnius and featured the remaining 16 entries that qualified from the semi-finals. The final was the only show in the competition to be broadcast live; all other preceding shows were pre-recorded earlier in the week before their airdates. "We Are the Winners" performed by LT United was selected as the winner after gaining the most votes from the public. In addition to the performances of the competing entries, No Money, Žuvėdra and 2005 Moldovan Eurovision entrants Zdob și Zdub performed as the interval acts.