[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Victor Cazalet

t) cause." He said that his grave at Gibraltar would become a place of pilgrimage for the Jewish people, while Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, agreed to plant 1,000 trees in Palestine to be named the "Victor Cazalet Grove." A lead article in the New York Herald Tribune'' read:

Personal life
Cazalet, who was homosexual, was a member of the social circle of gay politicians derisively called the "Glamour Boys" by Neville Chamberlain. Cazalet was a Christian Scientist and a member of Ninth Church of Christ, Scientist, London. He was a landowner and a wealthy bachelor, whose numerous social and political connections included close friendships with Winston Churchill and Anthony Eden. He was also the amateur squash champion in 1925, 1927, 1929 and 1930, who also played as a member of the English squash team when it won the international trophy after competing against Canada and the United States in 1927. He also played tennis competitively, including seven appearances at Wimbledon between 1922 and 1933.

In 1936, Cazalet purchased the 400-acre Great Swifts estate near Cranbrook, Kent, demolishing the old house and building a new one in Georgian style, designed by architect Geddes Hyslop.

Cazalet's sister, Thelma Cazalet-Keir, was a noted feminist and also a Conservative MP. She married journalist David Keir in August 1939. Cazalet's brother, Peter, who married P. G. Wodehouse's stepdaughter, Leonora, was a notable racehorse trainer who was British jump racing Champion Trainer three times and trained Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother's racehorses.

Godfather to Mary Churchill
Cazalet was godfather to Winston and Clementine Churchill's youngest daughter, Mary, born in 1922.  He tried unsuccessfully to persuade her mother to name her Victoria.

Godfather to Elizabeth Taylor
Cazalet, who had a passion for fine art, became a close friend of American art gallery owners Francis Taylor and his wife Sara, parents of Elizabeth, after they had moved from the U.S. to London in 1936. Cazalet let the Taylor family, who were also Christian Scientists, spend their weekends in a 16th-century cottage on his Great Swifts estate. He wanted them to think of England as their new home.

He gave 4-year-old Elizabeth a horse named Betty as a gift, which she would ride bareback throughout the property. The Taylors asked him to be her godfather, after which he became an important influence during her early life. At one time while Elizabeth suffered the first of many near-fatal illnesses, Elizabeth begged her mother to "please call Victor and ask him to come and sit with me." Cazalet then drove ninety miles through thick fog to be at her side. When he arrived, recalled her mother, "Victor sat on the bed and held Elizabeth in his arms and talked to her about God," and soon after the fever had broken.

After a lunch with Churchill in April 1939, Cazalet believed that a war was coming and, concerned for the Taylor family's safety, urged Francis to close his art gallery as soon as possible and return with his family to America. Because of the time needed to vacate the gallery, he suggested that Sara and his children should be sent back alone where Francis could later join them. They took his advice and eventually ended up in Los Angeles where he established a new gallery.

As Cazalet was an acquaintance of Hollywood columnist Hedda Hopper, he sent a letter of introduction on behalf of Elizabeth to Hopper, to help 7-year-old Elizabeth become involved in acting. Hopper met with Elizabeth and Sara and offered to help. Months later, Cazalet wrote in his diary for 16 April 1941, "Imagine excitement of Taylors. Elizabeth has a contract for seven years with a big cinema group."

Other reading

Notes

References 

CricketArchive profile for Victor Cazelet

External links 
 
 
 Colonel Victor Alexander Cazalet – memorial page at the website of Christ Church, Oxford
 R. C. Sherriff and the Cazalet Family – a few letters between the playwright R. C. Sherriff and members of the Cazalet family, including Victor
 The Cazalet Family Papers, MS 917, Eton College – letters, diaries, photographs, and memorabilia relating to the Cazalet family in the 19th and 20th centuries