[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Todd G. Buchholz

more important for the U.S. economy than the loss of export growth.  This is a rare situation, he stated, that confounds the standard textbook explanations.

Economic Forecasting

In his media and speaking appearances, Buchholz frequently makes forecasts about major economic turns and developments:

 In a 2021 Wall Street Journal editorial, Buchholz warned of an inflation surge that would exceed the forecasts of the Federal Reserve Board and the White House. Buchholz argued that inflation was not just  in the goods sector, but would climb sharply in the services sector, too.
 In January 2014, in an essay entitled "Green Acres Turning Red," Buchholz forecast a sharp decline in farmland prices, following a sharp multi-year rally. Buchholz stated that prices were "teetering on the slope of something ugly and parabolic." Over the next two years, farmland rental rates dropped by almost 20 percent.
 In April 2014, with the price of oil at approximately $100 per barrel, Buchholz appeared on Fox Business Channel with Maria Bartiromo and correctly forecast that the price of oil would plunge to $50 per barrel.
 In 2011, in keynote speeches and in television and radio interviews, Buchholz forecast that the Standard and Poor's (S&P) rating agency would downgrade U.S. Treasury debt. On August 5, S&P announced the downgrade of U.S. debt from AAA to AA+.
 In February 2009, Buchholz forecasted an economic recovery from the "Great Recession." In a speech to the Americas Lodging Investment Summit, Buchholz forecast that "we're going to have an economic recovery just in time for back-to-school sales in September" and that "lodging and hospitality is going to benefit from this upswing as well." GDP did turn positive in the third quarter of 2009.
 In April 2008, on the PBS Nightly Business Report, Buchholz forecast that commodity prices, including oil, would climb higher in the short-term but then tumble during the summer of 2008. On July 13, 2008, addressing the Southern Legislative Conference, when oil prices were $137 per barrel and leading Wall Street analysts were forecasting a move to $200, Buchholz predicted that prices would fall by half over the next six months. His comments were met with criticism from other leading economic analysts, but within the next eight weeks, prices of commodities such as oil, grain, and industrial metals started to crumble, and the price of oil fell significantly.
 In an opening keynote speech at Everything Channel's 2008 VARBusiness 300 Conference in June 2008, Buchholz said he believed that the U.S. economy, while undoubtedly in a slowdown, would avoid two consecutive quarters of negative GDP, the classic definition of a recession. "I'm convinced we're not going to have any quarters of negative GDP", he added. Buchholz cited high employment, lean inventories at manufacturers, and strong exports, spurred by the weaker dollar, as reasons for his beliefs.
 In Buchholz's 2007 book New Ideas from Dead CEOs, published shortfly before the commercial launch of the Airbus A380, Buchholz criticized the project for inadequate testing of the engineering, commercial, and financial viability: "Airbus gathered orders for the behemoth A380 before the company knew how to build it." In 2019, faced with inadequate orders and unsustainable operational costs, Airbus announced that it would cease production.
 Buchholz's 1999 book Market Shock warned that the Eurozone was unstable and headed toward political turmoil. In a chapter subtitled "How European Unity Splinters", Buchholz projected that eventually the Mediterranean nations and Ireland would stumble because those countries required a different monetary policy than the core countries of Germany and France.

References

External links
 The Price of Prosperity: Why Rich Nations Fail and How to Renew Them
 G7 Group consulting firm

1961 births
Economists from California
Alumni of the University of Cambridge
Harvard Law School alumni
Bucknell University alumni
People from San Diego
Living people
American chief executives