[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Corresponding squares

In chess, two squares are corresponding squares (also known as relative squares, sister squares, or coordinate squares) if the occupation of one of these squares by a king requires the enemy king to move to the other square in order to hold the position. Corresponding squares exist in some chess endgames, usually ones that are mostly blocked. Usually, there are several groups of corresponding squares. In some cases, they indicate which square the defending king must move to in order to keep the opposing king away. In other cases, a maneuver by one king puts the other player in a situation where he cannot move to the corresponding square, so the first king is able to penetrate the position. The theory of corresponding squares is more general than opposition and is more useful in cluttered positions.

In this article, all members of a pair of corresponding squares are labeled with the same number, i.e. 1, 2, etc.

Details
Corresponding squares are squares of reciprocal (or mutual) zugzwang. They occur most often in king and pawn endgames, especially with triangulation, opposition, and mined squares. A square that White can move to corresponds to a square that Black can move to. If one player moves to such a square, the opponent moves to the corresponding square to put the opponent in zugzwang.

Examples

Example 1

One of the simplest and most important uses of corresponding squares is in this king and pawn versus king endgame. Assume that the black king is in front of the pawn and the white king is behind or to the side of the pawn. The black king is trying to block the white pawn and the white king is supporting its pawn. If the white king gets to any of the key squares (marked with "x"), he wins. Suppose the black king moves to the square labeled "1" near him (square c8). Then if the white king moves to the corresponding square (also labeled "1", square c6), he wins. Conversely, if the white king moves to the "1" square then the black king must move to the corresponding square to draw. Thus if both kings are on the "1" squares, the position is a reciprocal zugzwang. Note that the second player moving to one of the corresponding squares has the advantage. Being on a square when the opponent is not on the corresponding square is a disadvantage.

The squares labeled "2" are similar corresponding squares. If the white king is on the d5 square (the middle one labeled "3"), he is threatening to move to either the "1" square or the "2" square. Therefore, the black king must be in a position to move to either his "1" square or his "2" square in order to hold the draw, so he must be on one of his "3" squares. This makes the defense for Black clear: shift between the squares labeled "3" until the white king moves to his "1" or "2" square, and then go to the corresponding square, gaining the opposition. If the black king moves to the "1" or "2" squares under any other circumstances, the white king moves to the corresponding square, takes the opposition, the black king moves, and White advances the pawn and will promote it and win, with a basic checkmate.

The c5 and e5 squares can also be label "3" squares, since if the white king is on one of them, the black king must be on one of his "3" squares to draw.

Example 2

In this example, key squares (see king and pawn versus king endgame) are e1, e2, e3, and f3. If the black king gets to any of those squares, Black wins. The job of the white king is to keep the black king off those squares. One might think that Black has the advantage, since he has the opposition. White can defend the two key squares of e3 and f3 by oscillating between e2 and f2. White's defense is simple if he observes the corresponding squares:
 1. Kf2! (keeping the black king off e3 and f3)
 1... Kd3
 2. Kf3! moving to the corresponding square
 2... Kd2
 3. Kf2! Kd1
 4. Kf1!
Each time the black king moves to a numbered square, the white king moves to the corresponding square.

Example 3 (separated key squares)

In this position, the squares marked with "x" are key squares and the e1 square is a "5" for White. If White occupies any of the key squares, he wins. With separated key squares, the shortest path connecting them is significant. If White is to move in this position, he wins by seizing a key square by moving to e2 or f2. If Black is to move, he draws by moving to his "5" square. Black maintains the draw by always moving to the square corresponding to the one occupied by the white king.

Example 4 (triangulation)