[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# National Bloc (Lebanon)

parliamentary elections (held in 2000), and took part in the Cornet Chahwan gathering which opposed the extension of President Emile Lahoud's term in 2004. The bloc also participated in the March 14 uprising in 2005 which led to the withdrawal of the Syrian army from Lebanon late April of that year.

Subsequently, the bloc participated in the parliamentary elections held in 2005 and 2009, but they were unsuccessful attempts. It also objected to proposing the name of army commander Michel Suleiman for the presidential post as an initial position and in order to prevent the army from being permanently politicized. Nonetheless, the bloc approved, following Suleiman's election in 2008, the swearing-in speech and accepted to support what was stated therein.

While the March 14 forces accepted the Doha Agreement, the bloc expressed reservations because it adopts the 1960 electoral law which effectively prevents genuine elections from being held, and for laying the foundations of the "blocking third" concept in the cabinet. As the allied forces adopted the agreement and deviated from the bloc's constants, the latter left the March 14 coalition and adopted an independent policy.

The bloc submitted two draft laws in 2005, the first one being an electoral law drafted in detail with its rationale; it seeks to adopt the individual constituency as a basis for the general elections, and the second being a comprehensive economic law as part of the bloc's electoral program for that year.

Michel Helou 
Michel Helou was elected the secretary-general of the National Bloc on 10 November 2022. 

Michel Helou was born in Geneva in 1989 and raised in Switzerland and France after his family emigrated due to the civil war that broke out in Lebanon.

After obtaining his MBA from HEC Paris Business School in 2013, Michel joined Bain & Company Middle East in Dubai, a leading consulting firm. 

In 2015, Michel Helou moved to Beirut to assume the position of Executive Director of the oldest Lebanese newspaper, L'Orient- Le Jour, which is characterized as being the most widely read and demanded newspaper in Lebanon and seeks to deliver news, social and economic developments, i.e. carrying out the journalistic message, to all community groups.

Helou worked for six years to restructure the content of the paper newspaper and prepare a new digital design with the aim of providing a better integrated experience for readers while preserving the independence of the editorial content and the integrity of this symbolic historical institution.

In October 2020, Helou announced the launch of the “L’Orient Today” news platform, and decided to go through an experiment that would increase openness and expand horizons in the English language, after nearly a hundred years of providing news in French.

In February 2019, Michel Helou participated in the relaunch of the "Lebanese National Bloc", a historic party that resumed its political activities with a talented young team seeking to change the current political landscape.

Michel Helou, was the candidate of the "National Bloc" in the parliamentary elections for the 2022 session, in the Baabda district.

Party structure

Party Council
The Party Council shall consist of thirty members, one third of whom shall be elected for a six-year term, according to a special system laid down by the Executive Committee thereafter. The Executive Committee shall subsequently appoint the other third of experts and specialists for the same period.

As part of its tasks, the Party Council:
Discusses and approves the party's annual budget.
Examines general issues and suggestions received.
Supervises the work of the Executive Committee.
Elects the Executive Committee members.
Other tasks.

The Executive Committee
The party has an Executive Committee of at least six members, except for the Secretary-General. The Committee runs the party's internal affairs, develops plans for political action, implements the party's decisions, and refers to it the draft budget before the October regular session begins.

President of the party
As the post of leader was abolished and his powers were transferred to the Executive Committee, the post of President of the party has been created. The president of the party's main job is to have the party's system and general principles respected. The president of the party serves for a non-renewable, one-year term after being elected by the Executive Committee, on a rotation basis, from among its members. Currently, for the first year after the creation of the post, the party's President is Salam Yamout.

Senate
An advisory body, called the Senate, consisting of at least five partisan members, shall be created. The members shall be appointed and replaced for an indefinite period of time under a decision of the Executive Committee. The Senate issues opinions and recommendations to both the Party council and the Executive Committee.