[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# George M. Whitesides

ex, Theravance, Surface Logix, Nano Terra, and WMR Biomedical.  Whitesides has mentored more than 300 graduate students, postdocs, and visiting scholars.  He serves on the editorial advisory boards of several scientific journals, including ACS Nano, Angewandte Chemie, Chemistry & Biology, and Small.

Whitesides is a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the National Academy of Sciences, and the National Academy of Engineering.  He is also a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and the American Philosophical Society. In 2002 he became foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences.

Among other awards, Whitesides is the recipient of the American Chemical Society's ACS Award in Pure Chemistry (1975), the Arthur C. Cope Award (1995), National Medal of Science (1998), the Kyoto Prize in Materials Science and Engineering (2003), the Gabbay Award (2004), the Dan David Prize (2005), the Welch Award in Chemistry (2005), the AIC Gold Medal (2007),  and the Priestley Medal (2007), the highest honor conferred by the ACS.

More recently, George Whitesides received the 2009 Dreyfus Prize in the Chemical Sciences from The Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation on September 30, 2009, for his creation of new materials that have significantly advanced the field of chemistry and its societal benefits. In November 2009, he was recipient of the Reed M. Izatt and James J. Christensen Lectureship.  Also in 2009, George Whitesides was awarded the 2009 Benjamin Franklin Medal in Chemistry by The Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, for his pioneering chemical research in molecular self-assembly and innovative nanofabrication techniques that have resulted in rapid, inexpensive fabrication of ultra small devices.

He received the Othmer Gold Medal for outstanding contributions to progress in chemistry and science in 2010.  He was awarded the F. A. Cotton Medal for Excellence in Chemical Research of the American Chemical Society in 2011. In 2011 he also received the King Faisal International Prize in Chemistry. In 2013 he was awarded the IRI Medal alongside Robert S. Langer. In 2013 he gave the inaugural Patrusky Lecture. In 2017, he was awarded the Lifetime Achievement award by Xconomy. In 2022 he received the Kavli Prize in Nanosciences.

Personal life
Whitesides and his wife, Barbara, have two sons, George T. and Ben. George Thomas Whitesides was CEO of Virgin Galactic, a firm developing commercial space vehicles. Ben Whitesides is lead singer and songwriter of The Joggers, a rock band based in Portland, Oregon.

References

External links

Whitesides Group Homepage
George M. Whitesides : Wyss Institute at Harvard

1939 births
21st-century American chemists
California Institute of Technology alumni
Harvard College alumni
Harvard University faculty
Massachusetts Institute of Technology faculty
Scientists from Louisville, Kentucky
National Medal of Science laureates
Living people
Members of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences
Members of the United States National Academy of Sciences
Members of the United States National Academy of Engineering
Fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Foreign Fellows of the Indian National Science Academy
Kyoto laureates in Advanced Technology
Fellows of the American Physical Society
Benjamin Franklin Medal (Franklin Institute) laureates