[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battleground: Fact and Fantasy in Palestine

nearly a generation, those leaders have wilfully kept as many people as they possibly could in degenerating squalor, preventing their rehabilitation, and holding out to all of them the hope of return and of "vengeance" on the Jews of Israel, to whom they have transferred the blame for their plight.

Criticism 
In a review for The New York Times, Nadav Safran wrote that "Katz devotes an entire chapter documenting the existence of every Jewish village in Palestine and the immigration of every band of Jews to it through the centuries since the destruction of the Second Temple in order to enhance the Jewish claim to the country. Yet, the presence in that same country of a majority Arab population for 1,300 years is not deemed by him sufficient ground to establish its claim to a national homeland in it. Again and again he asserts that there was never a Palestinian Arab nation, as if three-fourths of the present members of the United Nations were not lacking the credentials he demands from the Palestinians..."

Use
It has been translated to many languages. An example to its popularity is that in placing its first order for paperbacks from Bantam Books, an official import company in the People's Republic of China selected this book together with two more.

In her work Divided We Stand: American Jews, Israel, and the Peace Process Ofira Seliktar wrote that the Jewish Defense League distributed Katz's book to bolster support for the Greater Land of Israel, "a policy, which, in its view, mandated the expulsion of the Palestinians from the territories". Pamphlets from Americans for a Safe Israel, co-founded by Katz in 1971, were later distributed along with copies of Battleground by the American Israel Public Affairs Committee and National Jewish Community Relations Advisory Council.

References

External links 
 Battleground: Fact and Fantasy in Palestine at Archive.org.
 Another copy of the book.

1973 non-fiction books
Books about the Arab–Israeli conflict
Propaganda books and pamphlets
Propaganda in Israel