[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Assyrian eclipse

The Assyrian eclipse, also known as the Bur-Sagale eclipse, is a solar eclipse recorded in Assyrian eponym lists that most likely dates to the tenth year of the reign of king Ashur-dan III.  The eclipse is identified with the one that occurred on 15 June 763 BC in the proleptic Julian calendar.

Historical account
The entry from Assyrian records is short and reads:
"[year of] Bur-Sagale of Guzana. Revolt in the city of Assur. In the month Simanu an eclipse of the sun took place."
The phrase used – shamash ("the sun") akallu ("bent", "twisted", "crooked", "distorted", "obscured") – has been interpreted  as a reference to a solar eclipse since the first decipherment of cuneiform in the mid 19th century.
The name Bur-Sagale (also rendered Bur-Saggile, Pur-Sagale or Par-Sagale) is the name of the limmu official in the eponymous year.

Modern research
In 1867, Henry Rawlinson identified the near-total eclipse of 15 June 763 BC as the most likely candidate (the month Simanu corresponding to the May/June lunation),  visible in northern Assyria just before noon. 
This date has been widely accepted ever since;  the identification is also substantiated by other astronomical observations from the same period.

This record is one of the crucial pieces of evidence that anchor the absolute chronology of the ancient Near East for the Assyrian period.

Role in the Book of Jonah
The Bur-Sagale eclipse occurred over the Assyrian capital city of Nineveh in the middle of the reign of Jeroboam II, who ruled Israel from 786 to 746 B.C. According to 2 Kings 14:25, the prophet Jonah lived and prophesied in Jeroboam's reign. The biblical scholar Donald Wiseman has speculated that the eclipse took place around when Jonah arrived in Nineveh and urged the people to repent, otherwise the city would be destroyed. This would explain the dramatic repentance of the people of Nineveh as described in the Book of Jonah. Ancient cultures, including Assyria, viewed eclipses as omens of imminent destruction, and the empire was in chaos at this time, struggling with revolts, famines and two separate outbreaks of plague.

See also

 Chronology of the ancient Near East
 Akitu
 Historical astronomy
 Eclipse of Thales
 Mursili's eclipse

References

External links
 Path map of eclipses 780–761 BCE (NASA) – Includes total eclipse of June 15, 763 BC (labeled -0762 June 15)
 Path map of eclipses 800–781 BCE (NASA) – includes annular eclipse of June 24, 791 BC (labeled -0790 June 24)
 Five Millennium (-1999 to +3000) Canon of Solar Eclipses Database – maps the visibility of the total solar eclipse of June 15, 763 BC.
 Five Millennium (-1999 to +3000) Canon of Solar Eclipses Database – maps the visibility of the annular solar eclipse of June 24, 791 BC.

Chronology
Solar eclipses
Ancient astronomy
Eclipse
760s BC
Nineveh