[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mati Shemoelof

itor, to the "Ruh Jedida - A New Spirit" project, an open letter from Israeli descendants of the Arab Jews of the Middle East and North Africa, to their Muslim peers living in those very countries. The letter embodies the idea of promoting change through ״intra-regional and inter-religious dialog.״.

Additionally, Shemoelof is a co-founder of "Culture Guerrilla", an Israeli movement which propagates poetry as an accessible art form, and promotes political causes by means of art performed in public. Despite the usually exclusive nature of poetry and poetry reading, the movement has achieved significant success in high-profile cases regarding contemporary economical and social events, reaching front headlines in Israel, along with several journalistic mentions abroad, the most notable of which was a New York Times article. In 2013, the "Culture Guerrilla" publishers, under Shemoelof's supervision, edited two editions of the new Mizrahi poetry collective named "Ars Poetics" that became one of the leading stages of the Mizrahi art scene in Israel.
Shemoelof is also the co-founder of the Israeli Poets Union.

Shemoelof has engaged in extensive volunteer work. He was a founding member of the Haifa branch of the political info-shop, Salon Mazal. He volunteered in Keshet, The Democratic Rainbow Organization, as a researcher and spokesman for five years. He co-founded the multi-ethnical annual workshops in Tel Aviv for Ashkenazi and Mizrahi cultural movements at
Beit Leyvik House for Yiddish writers. He contributed critical texts to several plastic art shows at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and at Bezalel Academy of Arts.

Between 2006 and 2008, Shemoelof was part of MiMizrach Shemesh, an organization devoted to the Jewish tradition of social responsibility.

Shemoleof temporarily relocated to Berlin in September 2013. He considers it to be a political act, in order to rewrite the context of the Jewish national and creative revival. He sees the Israeli literary diaspora in Berlin as an endeavor to create an alternate narrative for the history of modern Jewish literature, which is usually exclusively entwined with the birthing of the state of Israel. He is one of founders of the Poetic Hafla, a multi-language Poetry-Art-Music parties in Berlin. On 2018 Shemoelof with Hila Amit created a new Jewish-Arabic literature  "Anu: Jews and Arabs writing in Berlin".

Bibliography

References

External links
 Portfolio
 Articles at Plus61j, 2018–2019.
 How to explain hare hunting to a dead German Artist. Tohu Magazine, 2019.
 Performing identity: A city to lose and find oneself: Interview with Noa Amiel, Politic Orange, 2018–2019.
 Die andere Araben, Miriam Dagan, Jungle World, January 26, 2019
 Schalom, Alte Welt Stadt,  Inge Guenther, Frankfurter Rundschau, October 19, 2018
 Mati Shemoelof on the new literature lexis icon
 Miri Regev Cultural war, The New York Times, 2016 
 "Between family and postcolonial Earth", By Yitzhak Laor, Haaretz, August 24, 2007.
 History & Theory, Issue No. 4 – The Ides of April, Eli Petel: Re-identity, Social Process and Inter-generational Vista.
 My society, my self, Tahel Frosh, Haaretz'', 29.03.2008.
 As a New Black Panther Party Forms, Poetry and Music Bring Mizrahi Jews Together in Celebration 31, Mati Shemoelof
  Guerrilla Culture, The Poetic Science of Resistance, 8/12/2008
 Shemoelof songs in Arabic
 poets, artists, activists visit embattled Beduin Village, Ben Hartman, Jerusalem Post, 22.8.2010
 Mati Shemoelof on Lyrikline.org, 2013.

1972 births
Living people
Israeli poets
Israeli male bloggers
Israeli Mizrahi Jews
Israeli journalists