[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Armenian resistance during the Armenian genocide

esistance movements were shattered and had the effect of annihilation of entire villages.

Unsuccessful resistance:

 The village of Urfa resisted deportation important the ottoman troops in August 1915 and held out 25 days only to be defeated. Most of the population was killed or conducted suicide.

Previous military resistance against the Ottoman forces 
Previous Armenian military resistances against forces of the Ottoman Empire were namely:

 The Sasun resistance in 1894 ().
 The Zeitun Rebellion from 1895-to 1896, was the Armenian military response to prevent massacres from taking place during the Hamidian massacres.
 The Defense of Van in 1896 was the response by the Armenian population in Van to the Hamidian massacres.
 The Khanasor Expedition on July 25, 1897 (Armenian: ) refers to the subsequent Armenian militia's response to the aftermaths killings of the Defense of Van.
 The Sasun uprising in 1904 was the resistance of the Armenian militia in the Sassoun region.

Armenian Resistance Forces 

The Armenian Resistance Forces (ARF) were established in 1890 out of Armenian volunteers called fedayis and of members of the Armenian national liberation movement. Important members were Murad of Sebastia, and Karekin Pastermadjian. Their main aim was to pose resistance to the Ottoman Forces and to act as the defender of the Armenian nation. The ARF gained major importance during WWI on the Caucasus front, where they joined the Russian Army. Their participation contributed to the defeat of the Ottoman army in January 1916. Primary legions fighting with Russia in the Caucasus were the Armenian volunteer legion, staffed by the Armenian National Bureau (ANB) and through that indirectly through the ARF, dominating the ANB. The number of the fighters reached an estimated amount 5.000.

Resistance against the Ottoman Empire

1914 

 In July 1914, before the World War I, both the Russian and the Turkish governments officially appealed to Armenian organizations (the Armenian National Congress of the Russian Empire and the Armenian National Assembly in the Ottoman Empire) to secure the participation of the Armenians in the military operations against each other. The Ottomans held talks with the Armenian Revolutionary Federation during the Armenian congress at ErzurumThe ARF declared that Armenians should fight for the countries of which they were citizens.
 In August 1914, in the mountains of Zeitun deserters resisting the draft were joined by raiders. This drew the attention of the Ottoman Empire and contributed to Ottoman considerations about rebellion in this region.
 On November 2, 1914, the Bergmann Offensive was launched. It was the first engagement of the Caucasus Campaign The Russian success was along the Southern shoulders of the offence, where Armenian volunteers occupied Karaköse and Doğubeyazıt.
 On December 29, 1914, the Ottoman Army was defeated at the Battle of Sarikamish. Armenian contributed on the side of Russian forces to the defeat.

1915 

 On March 25, 1915 Armenian deserters in the city of Zeitun, once more resisted the Ottoman army but were defeated.
 In April / May, 1915 around 30,000 Armenians in the city of Van, joined by Armenian refugees from surrounding villages, defended themselves during the Defense of Van. While the city withhold the efforts of the ottoman Army, the surrounding villages were massacred. The initial armed resistance lasted for a period of less than a month. In May, the Russian Caucasus Army entered the city of Van and the Ottoman army retreated. After the ambush, estimated 50% of the population surrounding Van had died.

1916 

 1916, the Battle of Erzinjan.

1918

 In  May 24–26, 1918, during the Battle of Abaran Armenian forces were able to prevent the penetration of Ottoman forces in the region of Bash Abaran. Both parties had serious losses, serious enough to prevent the Ottoman army from advancing deeper into Armenian territory.

 In September, Murad of Sebastia and his volunteers fought at Battle of Baku, where he died in the fighting.

Art and culture
Armenian resistance has left a symbolic dish. The "Harissa (dish)" (): is generally served to commemorate the Musa Dagh resistance. Current practice renamed the dish as "hreesi".

Reference list

Bibliography