[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fund for Peace

The Fund for Peace is an American non-profit, non-governmental research and educational institution. Founded in 1957, FFP "works to prevent violent conflict and promote sustainable security."

The Fund for Peace works towards sustainable security and development in failed states by focusing on conflict assessment and early warning, transnational threats, peacekeeping, and security and human rights. The Fund for Peace maintains programs in Nigeria, Uganda, Liberia, and works with private business in conflict zones to better secure the interests of businesses, local populations, and their governments.

History
The Fund for Peace was founded in 1957 by Randolph Compton. The organization was created in the memory of Randolph Compton's youngest son, John Parker Compton, who was killed in World War II. At a young age, John Parker wrote an essay, discussing the effects of war and the need for human civilization to embrace other methods of conflict resolution. After John Parker's death, Compton created the Fund for Peace, an organization based on the ideals of justice, environment, peace, and population.

Significant programs

The Fragile States Index
The Fragile States Index assesses the pressures experienced by nations based on social, economic, and political indicators such as demographic pressures, refugee flows, uneven economic development or severe economic decline, and human rights, among others.

The "Failed States Index" debuted in 2005 with a limited assessment of approximately 75 countries; this was expanded to 146 countries in 2006, and then to 177 countries the following year. South Sudan was added to the assessment in 2011. In 2014, The Fund for Peace announced that the ranking would be renamed "Fragile States Index", claiming that the controversial term 'failed' had "[become] a distraction away from the point of the Index, which is to encourage discussions that support an increase in human security and improved livelihoods."

The Fragile States Index uses color-coded maps, tables, and a four level-ranking system ("Alert," "Warning," "Moderate," "Sustainable") to determine the current conditions and negative potential in the future. All four nations on high "Alert" are a part of the African continent: Somalia, Sudan, South Sudan, the Democratic Republic of the Congo. At the "Warning" level were many Latin American or former Soviet nations, including Moldova, Russia, Belarus, Colombia, Bolivia, and Mexico. At "Moderate" were the United States and several European states, such as Latvia, Poland, Italy, and Spain. Only a few nations, such as the Scandinavian countries, Iceland, Ireland, Canada, Australia and New Zealand were rated as "Sustainable."

The Fragile States Index is subject to criticism, in part, because it takes institutions and data to draw its conclusions, as opposed to the Human Development Index or other more telling signs. The FSI is checked against human analysis.

Governments' reactions to the FSI 
 Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei called Egypt's low-rank on the FSI "a disaster"
 U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton cites FSI research in State Department report to congress
 U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates uses FSI research in the 2010 Quadrennial Defense Review

UNLocK
UNLocK  links global information technologies with local social networks for the benefits of stakeholders.  FFP conducts workshops in the conflict-affected countries of Liberia, Uganda, and Nigeria, training local participants in the Conflict Assessment System Tool (CAST).  They train others at the community level.  Data collected from field reports by the participants are analyzed for signs of early-warning conflict.  The aggregate data is privately disseminated back to the participants and used to resolve disputes, identify priority issues at the community level, and as a way to obtain more immediate early warning and conflict prevention information.

While the recent elections in Nigeria were widely recognized as a major step forward in the difficult journey toward democracy, UNLocK Nigeria provided a ground-level view of challenges that remained, including incidents of ballot box snatching, vote-buying, abductions, and violence.  This report focuses on the Niger Delta Region, with a particular emphasis on the Akwa Ibom and Rivers states.

Threat convergence

The Center for the Study of Threat Convergence explores the linkages between fragile states, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and terrorism.  
The center aims to:
 raise the profile of the challenges in vulnerable, fragile and ungoverned regions on the nonproliferation agenda;
 explore how these regions may serve as enabling environments for nuclear terrorism;
 promote more coherent and strategic policy approaches to nuclear terrorism and illicit nuclear trafficking.
Recently Published Reports:
 North Korean WMD Trading Relationships
 Proliferation of Conventional Weapons
 Threat Convergence in Pakistan