[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mary Jo Kilroy

in Ohio. Pryce won with 50.20% of the vote by a 110,739–109,677 margin. Kilroy felt her campaign was slowed by the early candidacy of fellow Franklin County Commissioner Paula Brooks, who eventually withdrew. Immediately after losing in 2006, she announced she would recontest the seat in 2008.

2008

In August 2007, incumbent Pryce announced her retirement at the end of her elected term. The Democrats felt that the seat continued to be vulnerable. Kilroy announced her intention to again seek the 15th District seat in 2008. She ran against Republican Steve Stivers, a State Senator from the 16th District, Libertarian Mark M. Noble, and Independent candidate Don Elijah Eckhart. The race was considered to be one of the most important U.S. House of Representatives races to watch in the country. The last Democrat to hold the 15th district was Robert T. Secrest in the mid-1960s, but with Republican voters moving out of the district into the northern suburbs of Columbus, Ohio since the 1990s, the district became more evenly matched.

In April 2008, the Sierra Club again endorsed Kilroy's candidacy due to her history of environmental advocacy and Stivers' contributions from energy and tobacco companies.  During the campaign, Kilroy linked Stivers to big business, bank lobbyists, predatory lending and the financial crisis.  Stivers countered by linking Kilroy to liberal media and influence peddling.

Stivers led Kilroy by a 129,852–129,703 margin with 100% of the Election Day precincts counted, but before the provisional ballots were counted. On November 25, 2008, Madison and Union counties concluded their absentee, military, and provisional ballot counting and Stivers claimed a net gain resulting in a 594-vote lead. On December 5, 2008, Stivers' supporters won a ruling in the Ohio Supreme Court that the 1,000 provisional ballots that lacked signatures or had names and signatures in the wrong places be thrown out. On December 7, 2008, Franklin County Election Canvassers completed their final ballot count, which included absentee, military, and provisional ballots received within ten days of Election Day, giving Kilroy a victory margin of 2,311 votes over Stivers. This margin exceeds the automatic recount margin of 0.5%. Stivers conceded the race to Kilroy later on Sunday.  The late ballots that weighed on the election were of three types: military and overseas absentee ballots postmarked by the time the polls closed Tuesday November 4 and received by November 14; domestic absentee ballots postmarked by Monday November 3 that are received by November 14; absentee ballots with errors that voters correct by November 14.

Kilroy became the first Democrat to represent the district in 42 years (since Secrest). She is only the second Democrat to represent a significant portion of Columbus since 1967. The last Democrat to represent the city, Bob Shamansky, represented the neighboring 12th District from 1981 to 1983.

2010

In June 2009, Stivers announced his candidacy for a rematch in 2010. According to an op-ed in The New York Times, one issue upon which Stivers and Kilroy differed was the prospective repeal of the Seventeenth Amendment to the United States Constitution, which provides direct election of United States Senators.  Stivers backpedaled on his support of the repeal after Kilroy made an issue of his stance. The race was one of the most closely watched in the United States House of Representatives elections, 2010, and it included a third party candidate.  The Republican Party marked it as one of their targeted races according to a U.S. News & World Report article.  Time accurately predicted that Kilroy might have trouble in her historically Republican district given the electoral backlash to spending by the Obama Administration and because of her mostly party line voting record.  On November 2, 2010, Stivers won the rematch.

Tenure 
Congresswoman Kilroy introduced legislation including a bill to start a three-year pilot program to lend $20 million per year to small businesses (HR5322) and introduced an amendment to assign liability to credit reporting agencies which passed. She voted with the Democratic majority for the federal stimulus package, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, the cap and trade carbon emissions legislation, and the federal health insurance reform legislation.

Kilroy helped shape the Congressional Bill on executive pay that eventually became law by proposing an amendment requiring large institutional investors to reveal how they vote the shares that they own on pay proposals affecting companies that issued those shares.  While serving her first term, she felt attached to the cause of health care reform because it had been an emphasis in her electoral platform.