[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# July 1976

the Furman v. Georgia case of 1972.
Chris Evert of the United States won the Wimbledon women's singles championship, defeating Evonne Goolagong of Australia in a third set that went into extra games, 6-3, 4-6, 8-6.
Born: Krisztián Lisztes, Hungarian national soccer football team striker; in Budapest

July 3, 1976 (Saturday)
The heat wave in the United Kingdom, at the time in a state of drought conditions, reached its hottest day, with a temperature of  in Cheltenham, Gloucestershire. 
West German serial killer Joachim Kroll, who confessed to having killed 14 people since 1955 (including nine girls) was arrested at his apartment in the Huckingen section of Duisburg.  Police had been conducting a house-to-house search for a missing child when they received a tip from a neighbor about Kroll's behavior and a blocked drainage pipe.
Turkish Cypriot leader Rauf Denktaş was sworn in as the first President of the Turkish Federated State of Cyprus, a breakaway republic that had been proclaimed in 1975 in the northern portion of the island republic of Cyprus in the Mediterranean Sea after Turkey's invasion of Cyprus following the 1974 overthrow of the government by Greek Cypriots seeking union with Greece.
In the second phase of Spain's transition to democracy after the end of the government of Francisco Franco, King Juan Carlos I selected Adolfo Suárez, who had been the Deputy Secretary-General of Movimiento Nacional, Spain's only legal political party, during the Franco regime. Because of Suárez's Francoist background, he was viewed by the King as being the most likely to persuade the more conservative legislators of the Cortes Españolas of the need for reform.
Björn Borg of Sweden won the men's singles championship at Wimbledon, defeating Ilie Nastase of Romania in straight sets, 6-4, 6-2 and 9-7. 
Born: 
Henry Olonga, Zambian-born Zimbabwean national cricket team bowler; in Lusaka
Bobby Skinstad, Zimbabwean-born South African national rugby union flanker; in Bulawayo, Rhodesia 
Andrea Barber, American TV actress; in Los Angeles
Died: Revol Samuilovich Bunin, 52, Soviet Russian classical music composer, from a bronchial asthma attack.  Bunin, the author of nine symphonies and an opera, had been working on a second opera, The People's Will, at the time of his sudden death.

July 4, 1976 (Sunday)
A rescue mission at the Entebbe Airport in Uganda ended successfully as airplanes landed safely in Israel with 102 of the remaining 106 hostages from Air France Flight 139, which had been hijacked a week earlier on June 27. A 29-man assault team from the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) Sayeret Matkal special forces unit, led by Lieutenant Colonel Yonatan Netanyahu, landed at Entebbe on Saturday night at 11:00 pm local time (2000 UTC July 3), flew out 53 minutes later and landed in Kenya at Nairobi.  Along with three of the hostages at Entebbe, all seven of the hijackers, at least 33 Ugandan Army soldiers and Lt. Col. Netanyahu— whose younger brother Benjamin Netanyahu would become Prime Minister of Israel almost 20 years later— were killed in the raid.  The raiding team arrived in three C-130 transport airplanes.  Among the ruses used by the Israelis were to transport a Mercedes limousine and two Land-Rover jeeps by cargo plane to Entebbe, where an agent in a Ugandan Army uniform impersonated President Idi Amin and was accompanied by faux bodyguards.

The U.S. celebrated its bicentennial, in recognition of the 200th anniversary of the July 4, 1776 adoption of the Declaration of Independence from the United Kingdom.
Voters in Mexico participated in elections for President and for the Congress of the Union (consisting of the 64-member Senate and 237-member Chamber of Deputies).  The Partido Revolucionario Institucional (PRI), which had maintained a monopoly on the government since 1929. José López Portillo, the former Finance Minister of Mexico, was elected without opposition as the 58th President and would be inaugurated on December 1.
Agents hired by the Argentine Navy carried out the revenge murder of three Roman Catholic priests and two seminary students at the San Patricio church in the Belgrano neighborhood of Buenos Aires.
Born: 
Daijiro Kato, Japanese motorcycle road racer, 2001 Grand Prix world champion for 250cc racing; in Saitama (killed in race accident, 2003)
Rohan Nichol, Australian TV actor known for Home and Away; in Geraldton, Western Australia