[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lambdin P. Milligan

k opposition to the Civil War. Milligan, who advocated compromise before the war, was a staunch supporter of state sovereignty and opposed the federal government's efforts to keep southern states from seceding from the Union. Once the war began, he opposed the Lincoln administration's conduct of it.

In the spring of 1863, Milligan defended Alexander J. Douglas, an Indiana state senator, in a trial by an Ohio military commission. Douglas was found guilty of violating a military order that banned criticism of the Lincoln administration's conduct of the war, but was released after Indiana's Republican governor, Oliver P. Morton, lobbied the president and his cabinet. Morton suggested that the army's overbearing tactics were worsening political opposition, not improving the situation. Milligan's final courtroom speech in Douglas's behalf was circulated in the local Democratic newspapers, increasing the lawyer's notoriety. In the following months, Milligan publicly protested the Union's waging war against the Confederacy and joined a secret society that opposed the war. Milligan was especially critical of President Lincoln and Governor Morton, who were his frequent targets.

In November 1863 Milligan attended a meeting of the Order of the American Knights, the new name of the Knights of the Golden Circle, a secret organization active in discouraging soldier enlistments, encouraging desertion, and resisting the draft. The OAK later changed its name to the Sons of Liberty. Harrison H. Dodd, "grand commander" of the Order in Indiana, chose several men, including Milligan, to assist him, but this was not known to the group's rank-and-file members. By the end of 1863 military authorities in Indianapolis believed that Milligan was involved in a conspiracy against the United States and sent army detectives to observe his actions. During the spring and summer of 1864, Milligan continued to oppose the Lincoln administration, arguing that the president's efforts to coerce the southern rebels were unconstitutional. In May 1864 Federal authorities obtained evidence that Milligan was active in conspiracy to obstruct the war effort and to raise rebellion in Indiana. On August 13, 1864, Milligan addressed a public meeting at Fort Wayne, Indiana, calling on Democrats to rise up in arms to fight for "liberty, order and peace." This speech closely coincided with a plot in Indianapolis on August 16 to attack the prisoner-of-war camp, Camp Morton, to release Confederate soldiers held there. As well, a large quantity of firearms and ammunition was discovered in an Indianapolis warehouse belonging to H.H. Dodd, increasing the fear of an uprising in the state. Within a few weeks, military authorities began to arrest the alleged conspirators.

Arrest and detention

On September 17, 1864, General Alvin Peterson Hovey, commander of the Military District of Indiana, authorized a military commission to meet on September 19 at Indianapolis, Indiana, to begin trials of those placed under military arrest. Dodd was the first to be tried. Shortly thereafter, commanders ordered the arrest of other leaders of the Sons of Liberty. These included William A. Bowles of French Lick, Indiana; Joseph J. Bingham, editor of the Indianapolis Daily Sentinel and chairman of Indiana's Democratic State Central Committee; Horace Heffren, editor of the Washington (Indiana) Democrat; Stephen Horsey of Martin County, Indiana; and Andrew Humphreys of Bloomfield, Indiana. Among them was Lambdin Milligan, who was arrested at his Huntington home on October 6, 1864. Two other men, James B. Wilson and David T. Yeakel, were also seized. Because President Lincoln had suspended the writ of habeas corpus on September 24, 1862, as authorized under Article 1 of the U.S. Constitution, and Congress ratified this action on March 3, 1863, with the passage of the Habeas Corpus Suspension Act, no warrant or affidavit was issued to show justification for Milligan's arrest.

Dodd escaped from jail during his trial and fled to Canada. He was found guilty in absentia on October 10, 1864, and sentenced to hang. Charges against Bingham, Heffren, Harrison, Yeakel, and Wilson were dismissed with deals to be witnesses for the military prosecution.

Trial and conviction
The military tribunal for the trial of Milligan, Bowles, Horsey, and Humphreys convened at Indianapolis on October 21, 1864. The commission considered five charges: 
 Conspiracy against the U.S. government
 Offering aid and comfort to the Confederates 
 Inciting insurrections
 Disloyal practices
 Violation of the laws of war