[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Ranheim

d the NHL record (since broken) for fastest two goals by one team, and set the record for fastest two shorthanded goals. Ranheim made his debut with Team USA following the NHL season at the 1990 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships. He scored four goals in seven games for the fourth place Americans.

Ranheim was among the team's leading scorers early in the 1990–91 season when he suffered a broken ankle during a game against the Minnesota North Stars on December 11, 1990, after slipping, then being hit by Minnesota's Chris Dahlquist. He missed 42 games; in 39 games played, Ranehim recorded 30 points and was called for only two minor penalties. Healthy throughout the 1991–92 season, Ranehim finished third on the Flames with 23 goals. He made his second senior international appearance, at the 1992 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships, where he had two goals and an assist in six games.

A 21-goal season followed in 1992–93,; however, head coach Dave King began to convert Ranheim into a defensive forward. Trying to defend against the opposition's top players, he lost confidence in his own offensive game. Ranheim had only 24 points in 66 games when the Flames, struggling to win games and wanting to improve their defence, made a trade.  He was sent, along with Gary Suter and Ted Drury, to the Hartford Whalers on March 10, 1994, in exchange for Michael Nylander, Zarley Zalapski and James Patrick. Though he was expected to provide an offensive boost to the Whalers, Ranheim's lack of confidence continued to affect him, and he recorded only three assists in 15 games to end the season.

Despite his early hopes of improving his offense in 1994–95, Ranheim's role continued to become increasingly defensive and focused on penalty killing over time. He finished the lockout-shortened season with six goals and 20 points in 47 games, then scored 30 and 21 points in the following two seasons. He made his third appearance with Team USA at the 1997 Men's World Ice Hockey Championships where he scored two goals in eight games. The Whalers franchise relocated, and Ranheim with it, to become the Carolina Hurricanes in 1997–98. He recorded 14 points, but his value as a defensive specialist earned him a contract extension from the Hurricanes.

Following two additional seasons in Carolina, the Hurricanes dealt Ranheim to the Philadelphia Flyers on May 31, 2000, in exchange for an eighth-round selection at the 2002 NHL Entry Draft. He played two and a half seasons with the Flyers where he was regarded as "an ultimate team-oriented player". His best season in Philadelphia came in his first year, 2000–01, when he scored 10 goals and 17 points. Midway through the 2002–03 season, the 15-year veteran was again traded.  The Flyers sent Ranheim to the Phoenix Coyotes on December 18, 2002, in exchange for a conditional selection at the 2003 NHL Entry Draft. He reached a career milestone late in the season as he played his 1,000th career game on March 6, 2003, against the St. Louis Blues. Ranheim announced his retirement as a player following the season.

Personal life
Ranheim has two daughters.  He originally settled in Arizona following his retirement.  Ranheim got into real estate and home building. He left that industry when the economy faltered and embarked on several new ventures. He helped found a technology company called Keyware that creates internet monitoring software then tried marketing a brand of hockey jerseys.  He ultimately moved to his hometown of Edina, Minnesota, where Ranheim took up coaching at a local high school and took up a career remodeling community rinks with the goal of starting a home remodeling company.

Career statistics

Regular season and playoffs

International

Awards and honors

References
 Career statistics:

External links
 
 Profile at hockeydraftcentral.com

1966 births
Living people
American men's ice hockey left wingers
American people of Norwegian descent
Calgary Flames draft picks
Calgary Flames players
Carolina Hurricanes players
Hartford Whalers players
Ice hockey players from Minnesota
Ice hockey people from Edina, Minnesota
Ice hockey people from St. Louis
Philadelphia Flyers players
Phoenix Coyotes players
Salt Lake Golden Eagles (IHL) players
Wisconsin Badgers men's ice hockey players
AHCA Division I men's ice hockey All-Americans