[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 27]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

e went to search for gold, and when he
had acquired as much as he desired, should be always ready to embark for
Spain with him.

"Pizarro accordingly set out not without feeling so great a contempt for
his brother, that he could not help expressing it to his companions. 'I
always thought,' said he, 'that my brother had been a man of sense; he
bore that character in Spain, but I find people were strangely mistaken
in him. Here he is going to divert himself with his sheep and his oxen,
as if he was living quietly upon his farm at home, and had nothing else
to do than to raise cucumbers and melons. But we know better what to do
with our time; so come along, my lads, and if we have but good luck, we
shall soon be enriched for the rest of our lives.' All that were present
applauded Pizarro's speech, and declared themselves ready to follow
wherever he went; only one old Spaniard shook his head as he went, and
told him he doubted whether he would find his brother so great a fool as
he thought.

"They then travelled on several days' march into the country, sometimes
obliged to cross rivers, at others to pass mountains and forests, where
they could find no paths; sometimes scorched by the violent heat of the
sun, and then wetted to the skin by violent showers of rain. These
difficulties, however, did not discourage them so much as to hinder them
from trying in several places for gold, which they were at length lucky
enough to find in a considerable quantity. This success animated them
very much, and they continued working upon that spot till all their
provisions were consumed; they gathered daily large quantities of ore,
but then they suffered very much from hunger. Still, however, they
persevered in their labours, and sustained themselves with such roots
and berries as they could find. At last even this resource failed them;
and, after several of their company had died from want and hardship, the
rest were just able to crawl back to the place where they had left
Alonzo, carrying with them the gold, to acquire which they had suffered
so many miseries.

"But while they had been employed in this manner, Alonzo, who foresaw
what would happen, had been industriously toiling to a very different
purpose. His skill in husbandry had easily enabled him to find a spot of
considerable extent and very fertile soil, which he ploughed up with the
oxen he had brought with him, and the assistance of his servants. He
then sowed the different seeds he had brought, and planted the potatoes,
which prospered beyond what he could have expected, and yielded him a
most abundant harvest. His sheep he had turned out in a very fine meadow
near the sea, and every one of them had brought him a couple of lambs.
Besides that, he and his servants, at leisure times, employed themselves
in fishing; and the fish they had caught were all dried and salted with
salt they had found upon the sea-shore; so that, by the time of
Pizarro's return, they had laid up a very considerable quantity of
provisions.

"When Pizarro returned, his brother received him with the greatest
cordiality, and asked him what success he had had? Pizarro told him that
they had found an immense quantity of gold, but that several of his
companions had perished, and that the rest were almost starved from the
want of provisions. He then requested that his brother would immediately
give him something to eat, as he assured him he had tasted no food for
the last two days, excepting the roots and bark of trees. Alonzo then
very coolly answered, that he should remember that, when they set out,
they had made an agreement, that neither should interfere with the
other; that he had never desired to have any share of the gold which
Pizarro might acquire, and therefore he wondered that Pizarro should
expect to be supplied with the provisions that he had procured with so
much care and labour; 'but,' added he, 'if you choose to exchange some
of the gold you have found for provisions, I shall perhaps be able to
accommodate you.'

"Pizarro thought this behaviour very unkind in his brother; but, as he
and his companions were almost starved, they were obliged to comply with
his demands, which were so exorbitant, that, in a very short time, they
parted with all the gold they had brought with them, merely to purchase
food. Alonzo then proposed to his brother to embark for Spain in the
vessel which had brought them thither, as the winds and weather seemed
most to be favourable; but Pizarro, with an angry look, told him that,
since he had deprived him of everything he had gained, and treated him
in so unfriendly a manner, he should go without him; for, as to himself,
he would rather perish upon that desert shore than embark with so
inhuman a brother.

"But Alonzo, instead of resenting these reproaches, embraced his brother
with the greatest tenderness, and spoke to him in the following
manner:--'Could you then believe, my deare