[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Crazy Bear (Assiniboine chief)

Crazy Bear (1785–1856) was a chief of the Assiniboine tribes of the northern plains. Their territory included Montana, North Dakota, Alberta and Saskatchewan. He is known as a skilled negotiator with the American Fur Company at Fort Union, North Dakota; and for his participation and representation at the Fort Laramie Treaty Council of 1851—where he was a signatory of the treaty'  He earned the name Mah-To-Wit-Ko (meaning "Crazy Bear") because he fought like a crazy bear. "Wit-Ko" is a Siouan word that has multiple translations: crazy, foolish, frightening and mad. Crazy Bear has been recorded by these names and also in French as Ours Fou (in various sketches and documents).

He had three granddaughters; Iron Cradle (aka Sweet Grass), Turtle Door, Small Earth and two grandsons; Black Bull, and Kill Eagle.  Iron Cradle later became an historical figure of the early Fort Belknap Indian Reservation, now located in Montana.

Background

Crazy Bear was born in 1785 on the northern plains somewhere in the present day Montana, North Dakota, Alberta or Saskatchewan.

The environment into which he was born was rapidly changing.  France, after taking back the Louisiana Territory from Spain, immediately sold it to the United States in the 1803 Louisiana Purchase. Some 200 years before, the Assiniboine had broken off from the Yankton Sioux, which spurred two centuries of continuous conflict between them; as well as continual warfare.

Young man
Crazy Bear grew up living the traditional plains Indian life. He followed and hunted the buffalo; and was taught the warrior culture.  He lived a life of bravery and counted many coups.  He was a born leader which was apparent to his people.  Young men learning the arts of hunting, raiding and fighting had a high mortality rate. These factors, together with European diseases and the pushing of alcohol upon the Native peoples adversely impacted the survival of indigenous youth.  In spite of all odds, he reached adulthood.  In 1805, the Lewis and Clark Expedition made contact with some Assiniboin; "... between the Assiniboin (river) and the Missouri, are two bands of Assiniboins, one on the Mouse River of about two hundred men, called Assiniboin Menatopa; the other residing on both sides of White River called by the French, Gens des Feuilles, amounting to two hundred and fifty men;.."."  The band Crazy Bear lived with were the Gens des Feuilles or The Little Girls band, in the Assiniboine language they were, "Waką́hežabina". It is possible that he had personal contact with the famous explorers when he was 20 years of age.

The fur trade
The information concerning his early adult life and his exploits are sparse. In a battle between the Assiniboine and the Gros Ventre, Crazy Bear fought desperately to protect the women and children of the camp. "The conduct of the chief in this emergency was said by his people to resemble the furious and fearless actions of a crazy bear, hence his name."

Crazy Bear and others of his tribe participated in the burgeoning fur trade which had reached the high plains.  The fur trade was originally represented by French traders known as the Coureurs des Bois (or Runners of the Woods) in the 18th and 19th centuries; and later as voyageurs and mountain men in the 19th century.  Agents of Hudson's Bay Company, the North West Company, and the American Fur Company (AFC), built forts and competing trading posts along the rivers.  At these facilities, the Native Americans traded furs and buffalo robes for weapons, fabric, trinkets, and whiskey.