[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Georgette Mosbacher

edients from Tuscany. Upon becoming CEO, she closed half of the line's outlets to retain exclusivity, and reduced the number of items to focus on core products. During her early years at Borghese, she helped the company expand its global operations and establish a wide distribution network in China.

Political career
A longtime Republican, Mosbacher served as a co-chair of the Republican National Committee’s Finance Committee, and she has furthermore been involved with the National Republican Senatorial Committee and the New Republican Majority Fund. She was New York State's Republican National Committeewomen for more than a decade, and was also the first woman to serve as the general chairman of the Republican Governors Association, a role she continued to hold as of 2001. Mosbacher was a presidential appointee to the US Advisory Board for Trade Policy and Negotiations, a gubernatorial appointee as a New York Commissioner of Racing, and a mayoral appointee for trustee of the New York Hudson River Park Trust. She has also been involved with the National Women's Economic Alliance. On November 19, 2015, it was announced that President Obama had nominated her to be a member of the United States Advisory Commission on Public Diplomacy.
 
Mosbacher has been noted in the media for her private fundraising events since the 1990s, and after supporting John McCain's bid for senate in 1998, she served as national co-chairman of McCain's 2000 presidential campaign.  Mosbacher also anchored fundraising efforts for Bush Cheney '04, John McCain 2008, George W. Bush for president, John Ashcroft 2000,  John McCain 2008, and McCain-Palin Victory 2008.  Other American politicians she has fundraised for include Fred Thompson, Dick Lugar, Rudy Giuliani, Roy Blunt, Mitt Romney, and David Dreier.

On February 12, 2018 President Donald Trump nominated her for a position of United States Ambassador to Poland to replace Paul W. Jones. On July 12, 2018 her nomination was confirmed in the United States Senate by voice vote.

In the media
In relation to both business and politics, Mosbacher has lent her opinions and personal anecdotes to several radio and television programs, including CNN’s Pinnacle, The Today Show, Larry King Live, Fox Business, C-SPAN, and This Weekend with Lou Dobbs. She has also been interviewed by publications such as Small Business Advocate and the Wall Street Journal, and a number of her  op-eds have been published in publications such as the Washington Times and Financial Times, covering topics such as health care for war veterans. While she generally takes a Republican standpoint in relation to political issues, she has at times expressed frustration with Republican candidates and politicians, for example over incidents such as Congress stalling the vote on aid for Hurricane Sandy in 2012.

Charity work and boards
For several decades, Mosbacher has been involved with a number of non-profit organizations. In 1995 she founded the Children's Advocacy Center of Manhattan (CAC), currently known as the New York Center for Children, which aims to assist abused children and their families. She is a trustee of several charitable and civic organizations, including the Hudson River Park Trust and the New York Racing Association. Mosbacher has also received appointments from the M.D. Anderson Hospital Cancer Center and is on the board of the Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund. Through her own charitable foundation, Mosbacher provides two annual scholarships for women in the MBA program at Indiana University, her alma mater.
 
She was elected to the board of directors of the information commerce company Intelius in October 2009, and is also on the boards of the Atlantic Council, the Intrepid Sea, Air & Space Museum, and has served on the advisory boards of Brasilinvest, RUSI International, and the Dilenschneider Group.  A fellow at the Foreign Policy Association, she is a board-member for the International Institute for Strategic Studies. Mosbacher has been on the board of advisors for Diligence London, Harvard Center For Public Leadership, Gow & Partners LLC,  Grupo Brasilinvest S.A., and Village Cares. She is a chairman of the Green Beret Foundation and a board-member for Business Executives for National Security (BENS) and the Atlantic Council, among other organizations.