[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Knik Arm Bridge

hat the toll revenue estimates provided to rationalize construction are unrealistic.

As the project has been laden with concerns for most of its lifespan, its ultimate demise has long been expected. Funding for the project was repeatedly removed from the state budget by former Governor Bill Walker.

Support
Supporters of the bridge believe that the bridge would allow the growing population of the region to expand into the Point MacKenzie area. The approach road and connectors, along with the bridge total about  from Downtown Anchorage, about the same commuting distance as other available land in Anchorage.  The residents of the Matanuska-Susitna Valley currently have only a single road to get to and from Anchorage and points south and Anchorage residents only have a single route to all points north. The Parks Highway which runs through Willow, Alaska, Houston, Alaska and Wasilla, joins the Glenn Highway, which continues along a strip of land between Chugach State Park and the military bases north of Anchorage. The Knik Arm Bridge and connecting roads would provide a secondary north/south roadway to Wasilla.  There is concern, however, that the only paved connecting road on the Matanuska/Susitna Borough side of the bridge, which is the Knik Goose Bay Road, is presently overcapacity and listed as one of the four most dangerous roads in the state. The commuting distance for the vast majority of all existing residents of the Matanuska/Susitna Valley would not be lessened by taking the Knik Arm Bridge, a factor that Bridge critics say make KABATA's current revenue forecasts from the proposed bridge tolls to be overstated.

Defending Knik Arm Bridge spending
In October 2005, Alaska Senator Ted Stevens opposed diverting Alaska's funding for the Gravina and Knik Arm Bridge funds to Louisiana to repair bridge damage in Hurricane Katrina. In his speech on the senate floor, Stevens threatened to quit Congress if the funds were removed from his state.  Republicans in Congress dropped the specific allocation for the two bridges, allowing Alaska to apply the funding to current transportation projects. Governor Frank Murkowski planned to fully fund both bridges: "I am proposing we spend the maximum allowed."

Lawsuit
In 2009, Anchorage Metro Area Transportation Solutions (AMATS) decided to postpone the project and remove it from Anchorage's short term transportation plan until 2018. The cities of Houston and Wasilla responded with a lawsuit under the premise that AMATS did not have the authority to delay the project, highlighting that the affected segment of the local road system is designated as a National Highway System route. In March 2010, with new members, the AMATS Policy Committee reversed their previous decision and re-instated the bridge project into the short term transportation plan.

Received "Record of Decision" from Federal Highways Administration
In December 2010, the FHWA issued a "Record of Decision" accepting the project's Environmental Impact Statement, after more than seven years and approximately $53 million were spent on studies, preliminary designs, public relations and cost estimating. KABATA has stated that they have asked their toll and revenue consultant, Wilbur Smith Associates, to re-visit their revenue and toll forecasts to reflect conditions that have changed since 2005. These changed conditions included revised population estimates for the Matanuska-Susitna Borough by the University of Alaska Anchorage's Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER), of which the estimates were found to be as much as 50% lower than forecasts used in the project's EIS showing that the toll bridge was "financially feasible".

Legislative action
Alaska State Senator Linda Menard and House Representative Mark Neuman introduced a set of companion bills in 2011 to establish a project reserve fund and clarify that the project is an infrastructure project backed by the state. These changes were necessitated by the 2008 national financial crisis. It would allow the state to repay the private investors when toll revenue is building up in early years after opening.

Alaska House Bill 159 and Senate Bill 79, introduced in 2011 respectively by Representative Neuman and Senator Menard, set aside $150 million into a "reserve fund" to be paid with State General Funds to cover estimated deficits for the first three years. Additionally, House Bill 158 and Senate Bill 80, also introduced in 2011 by Neuman and Menard, specifies that KABATA bonds would now be "obligations of the state". None of these four bills advanced beyond referral to committee.

KABATA CFO Kevin Hemenway told the Legislature's transportation committees that if the project's reserve fund dropped far enough, "it would be subject to appropriation for replenishment".