[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ann Elizabeth Mayer

er version of this was translated into Persian as
 Tab `iz-e jensi-ye va hoquq-e bashar dar Iran, 19 Iran Nameh (Winter and Spring 2001).
 The Universality of Human Rights: Lessons from the Islamic Republic of Iran, 67 Social Research (Summer 2000) - a special issue titled Iran Since the Revolution.

Short articles, chapters, and reviews (selection) 
 Book review of International Human Rights and Islamic Law in 99 American Journal of International Law (2005).
 Islamic Declaration, in The Essential Guide to Human Rights, Christien van den Anker and Rhona Smith, eds. (Hodder Arnold, 2005).
 "Islam, Menschenrechte und Geschlecht: Tradition und Politik", in Geschlechter Differenzen in Islamischen Kontexten, Ute Gerhard, Mechthild Rumpf, and Ulla Wischermann, eds., 21 Feministische Studien, n.2 (2003). Translation of a paper given at a conference at the University of Frankfurt on October 19, 2002, on Islam, Gender, and Human Rights.
 Book review of Human Rights in Iran: The Abuse of Cultural Relativism, 36 Iranian Studies (September 2003).
 Book review of The Rule of Law in the Middle East and the Islamic World: Human Rights and the Judicial Process, 26 Human Rights Quarterly (February 2004).
 Substantial contributions to the exchanges on women's rights in Iran that have been edited and published as "Women in Iran: An Online Discussion," 8 Middle East Policy (December 2001).
 Minority Rights in Multiethnic and Multiracial States, in Democracy and the Rule of Law, Norman Dorsen and Prosser Gifford, eds. (Library of Congress: Washington DC, 2001).

External links 
 Curriculum Vitae
 Homepage at the Wharton University website
 Clashing Human Rights Priorities: How the United States and Muslim Countries Selectively Use Provisions of International Human Rights Law
 The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. The Political Nature of "Religious" Reservations (pdf)
 Debating the Universality of Human Rights: A Plea for a Critical Perspective (pdf)
 Islam, Human Rights, and Gender: Traditions and Politics (pdf)
 Islamic Law as Political Law: An Assessment of Recent Developments in Pakistan and Iran (pdf)
 Not Taking Rights Seriously: Hallmarks of the Frivolous Human Rights "Critique" (pdf)
 Protecting Women's Rights: The Relative Values of Women's International Human Rights and Collective Paradigms (pdf)
 Reconsidering the Human Rights Framework for Applying Islamic Criminal Law (pdf)
 Women's Lives in the Muslim Middle East: The "True Lies" of Cultural Stereotyping (pdf)

1945 births
Living people
American women lawyers
American legal scholars
University of Michigan College of Literature, Science, and the Arts alumni
University of Pennsylvania faculty
University of Pennsylvania Law School alumni
American women legal scholars
American women academics
21st-century American women