[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Karen Carter Peterson

l prosecutors in a case involving diversion of state Democratic party funds she used to cover gambling debts. She admitted to using over $140,000 of the party's money on casino gambling. On January 11, 2023, Peterson was sentenced to 22 months in prison for wire fraud.

Congressional campaigns

2006

Peterson was a candidate for U.S. Congress in Louisiana's 2nd congressional district (map) in the mid-term election of November 2006. She, along with several other candidates, challenged incumbent Democrat Bill Jefferson, who was the subject of an FBI investigation. She finished in second place with 19,972 votes (21.6% of the total votes cast), and therefore she and Jefferson entered a runoff round of voting on December 9, 2006. Jefferson prevailed by a 57%-43% margin, the lowest since his original election in 1990.

Peterson received endorsements from prominent Republican businessmen Joe Canizaro and Donald T. "Boysie" Bollinger. She was also endorsed by both the Louisiana State Democratic Party and the Orleans Parish branch of the Democratic Party. She centered her campaign around the argument that Jefferson's corruption scandal left New Orleans with a lack of credible and respected representation in Congress. Jefferson, in turn, accused Peterson of profiting from no-bid "sweetheart" contracts with the New Orleans City Council as their legal advisor for utility regulation. In 2009, Jefferson was convicted of eleven felonies.

2021

In November 2020, Representative Cedric Richmond of the 2nd district announced that he would resign from Congress in January 2021, after being appointed by President-elect Joe Biden to be Senior Advisor to the President and director of the Office of Public Liaison. Shortly thereafter, Peterson launched a campaign website, indicating her intention to run for the seat.

Peterson received endorsements from Stacey Abrams in January, and the Congressional Progressive Caucus in March.

Peterson received 23% of the vote in the first round, and advanced to the second round with Troy Carter. On March 29, 2021, she was endorsed by Gary Chambers, the third-place finisher in the primary,

A Carter campaign ad implied that a 2004 law sponsored by Peterson led to the layoffs of 7,000 teachers and school workers in New Orleans after Hurricane Katrina. That wasn't true, according to several supporters of the 2004 law, which allowed a new state entity, the Recovery School District, to take over failing schools in New Orleans' troubled school system after Katrina. Carter's ad featured former teachers and principals, including Eddy Oliver, who linked 2004 law with the post-Katrina layoffs, a persistent issue among those who lost their jobs in the process and which has become a symbol of the decline afterward of the New Orleans Black middle class. The act allowed the RSD, which the Legislature had created the year before, to take over a handful of failing New Orleans schools. It was vigorously supported by Democratic Governor Kathleen Blanco and her state Superintendent of Education. Over a year afterward, weeks after Hurricane Katrina inundated New Orleans resulting in the closure of its schools, Blanco pushed Act 35, sponsored by Representative Carl Crane from Baton Rouge, through the Legislature. It allowed the RSD to take over all public K-12 schools in New Orleans. Peterson voted against the bill. Carter's campaign ad failed to mention this. Subsequently, the Orleans Parish School Board and the RSD transformed the city's K-12 education into exclusively charter schools.

Peterson received the endorsement of New Orleans mayor LaToya Cantrell on April 7, just three days before the beginning of early voting. Cantrell said, "I'm proud to stand by my friend, to stand by a true partner, a woman who is fearless but who takes the risks that need to be taken," Cantrell said, "It's all about getting things done."

In the April 24th runoff, Carter beat Peterson 48,511 (55.2%) to 39,295 (44.8%), with 87,806 votes reported from 100% of precincts.

Political positions
Karen Peterson is a progressive Democrat, advocating Medicare for All, criminal justice, police reform and legislation to combat climate change. In 2014, Peterson endorsed Senator Mary Landrieu for re-election.

Obamacare
Peterson is a proponent of Obamacare and Federal Medicaid expansion. In a statement to the state Senate, she argued that critics of Obamacare were motivated by race. The statement drew criticism from Governor Bobby Jindal and the leader of the Louisiana Republican Party, Roger F. Villere, Jr. As a result of the controversy, State Senator Elbert Guillory returned to the Republican Party, the party to which he was once registered but later left to run for elected office.