[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# St. Gabriel's Secondary School

one of three from Singapore to win a competition to perform in Kuala Lumpur to promote goodwill between Singapore and Malaysia. It undertook another tour of Malaysia in 1981. The band won a Gold at the Singapore Youth Festival (SYF) in 1999, 2007 and 2009, followed by a distinction in 2013 and 2015.

The school choir, the St. Gabriel's Secondary School Vocal Ensemble, was one of the first all-boys secondary school choirs in Singapore. It won a Gold in the Singapore Youth Festival (SYF) in 2011, followed by a distinction in both the 2013 and 2015 SYF, under the changes in the system. It often has collaborations with other schools, namely Hwa Chong Institution, St. Margaret's Secondary School, Methodist Girls' School, Holy Innocents' High School and Presbyterian High School. One example of such a collaboration is their biannual concert, SingOut, which is held together with Presbyterian High School and Holy Innocents' High School.

The guitar ensemble won gold and silver in SYF in 2009 and 2011 respectively.

Sports
Although the school does not have an annual sports day, it states that sports facilities and equipment are readily available to students. Badminton nets are set up on the parade square, and the indoor sports hall is available for students wishing to play futsal. There is an inter-class soccer tournament for Secondary 3, and the possibility of expanding this idea to other levels and sports was under consideration at the end of 2011.

At national level, St. Gabriel's won first in table tennis in 2009 and again in 2011. In past years it has won 2nd in golf and 3rd in judo.

In 2009 it attracted attention because five of its table tennis team's seven members were from China.

School crest and motto

The school crest was formally introduced in 2007 to replace the school badge (1953–2007) and is now used by all Gabrielite institutions. This is in line with the St. Gabriel's Foundation's aim to forge a common identity for all Gabrielite institutions in the Southeast Asia region. Components of the School Crest are as follows:

A.M. with the lily flower: "A.M." is an abbreviation for "Ave Maria". It represents the greeting of the Angel Gabriel to Mary. It also shows the Patron Saint St. Louis de Monfort's strong devotion to Our Lady.
  	
D+S with a cross: D.S. comes from the French words "Dieu Seul", which can be translated as "God alone". God Alone is the all-motivating force in the life of St. Louis Marie de Montfort.

Sailboat at sea: represents the hardships we experience through life. Just like the sailors at sea, if we are able to face hardship and overcome difficulties, we will come out being better people.

Star and the man in the boat: symbolizes the Star of the sea, where seamen navigate to their destination in the vast ocean. If we are focused on the essential values of life, we shall reach our ultimate destiny in life. The Star of the sea shall be the guiding light that lights up the way in our life.

Olive branches: symbolizes peace and prosperity. It is thus the duty of each one to promote peace in the world, a peace that will last. Coupled with peace is prosperity, which connotes not only the generation of wealth but also the integral development of human society.

Labor Omnia Vincit: which stands for "Labour conquers all things". Hard work embodied in diligence and perseverance leads one to achieve greater things in life.

Uniform and discipline
St. Gabriel's students wear white shirts, with dark blue short trousers in Secondary 1 and 2, and dark blue long trousers in Secondary 3, 4 and 5. School ties must be worn on Mondays.

For significant breaches of school discipline, the standard consequence is corporal punishment in the form of caning on the buttocks over clothing. In most cases, the punishment is carried out privately in the school office under the principal or vice principal's supervision. Such punishments are preceded and followed by counselling; parents are also informed. Students who are late to school for a sixth time in one term receive two strokes of the cane.

Brother Emmanuel, principal of St Gabriel's from 1961 to 1963 and again from 1969 to 1974, has been described by the Catholic News as "a disciplinarian whose cane has graced the backsides of many boys". He is quoted as saying that many of those he caned had told him of the need for the discipline they received from him. In his view, the punishment must be a careful, considered ceremony: "No one should ever cane a boy on impulse", he said. As of 2012, a 78-year-old Brother Emmanuel was still on the school's management committee as supervisor.

In 1970, seven or eight boys were found to be smoking cannabis, but the problem was stamped out with counselling, guidance and warnings, according to the principal.

Exchange programmes
The school has annual exchange programmes with Kitago Junior High School in Miyazaki Miyazaki Prefecture, Japan.