[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Polícia Aérea

on is the following:
 Headquarters;
 Operational flight (esquadrilha operacional), including:
 Training sector,
 Ground fire range,
 Criminal investigation teams;
 Support flight (esquadrilha de apoio), including:
 Identification and control sector,
 Equipment and material sector,
 Armament section.

Special forces units 
The Núcleo de Operações Táticas de Proteção (NOTP, Core of Tactical Operations of Protection) is the tier one special forces unit of the Portuguese Air Force, being made up of Polícia Aérea members. Until recently, this unit was known as Unidade de Proteção de Força (UPF, Force Protection Unit). The NOTP is charged with missions of artillery observer, clandestine operation, combat search and rescue, counterterrorism, covert operation, defusing and disposal of exposive, direac action, electromagnetic warfare, executive protection, forward air control, force protection, hostage rescue, infiltrate the area with a helicopter and parachuting, irregular warfare, ISTAR, long-range penetration, medivac, military intelligence, mountain rescue, NBCR on operations in contaminated environments, special operations, special reconnaissance, special warfare, tactical emergency medical services, as well as other possible classified missions.

Disbanded in 2006 and also made up of PA elements, the Unidade de Resgate em Combate (RESCOM, Combat Rescue Unit) was the former special forces unit of the Portuguese Air Force.

Recruitment and training
The candidates to the occupational specialty of Polícia Aérea receive specific training at the Military and Technical Training Center of the Air Force located at Ota. Depending on the prior qualifications of the candidate, this training lasts 30, 25 or 20 weeks. Officer candidates must hold a bachelor's degree as the minimum prior qualification.

Uniform
The members of the Polícia Aérea wear the same uniforms of the rest of the members of the Portuguese Air Force, however with a blue beret instead of the standard side or peaked caps. In some occasions, a white brassard with the letters "PA" in blue is used. In the past, a blue helmet with a white stripe and white "PA" letters was used, but this uniform item has been discontinued.

Equipment

Infantry weapons

Vehicles

References

External links
 ANPA, Air Police National Association 
 UPF in Real Thaw 11 exercise

Portuguese Air Force
Military provosts of Portugal
Air force police agencies
Military of Portugal