[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race

of digital availability, the single catapulted to the top of the digital downloads chart as well as the overall pop singles chart. It marked Fall Out Boy's first number one hit song and was certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipments of one million units.

It is to date Fall Out Boy's highest-charting song (albeit not their best-selling), and on the strength of 162,000 opening week downloads earned the band their first No. 1 Billboard Hot Digital Song and also a No. 1 on the now-defunct Pop 100 chart. It stayed atop the Digital Songs chart for four consecutive weeks, gathering over 500,000 downloads in that period. Internationally, it reached the top position in New Zealand and No. 2 in the UK, making it their largest hit in those countries. In New Zealand it peaked at No. 1, while in Australia it reached No. 4 and was certified Platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA). The song was ranked No. 40 on Rolling Stones list of the 100 Best Songs of 2007. Fall Out Boy reached international fame and success in 2007, with "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race" also charting all over Europe, reaching No. 9 on Billboards European Hot 100 chart. On July 22, 2013, it was eventually certified Silver by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) for 200,000 sales.

Track listings
Lyrics were written by bassist Pete Wentz; music was composed by Fall Out Boy.

CD single
 "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race"
 "The Carpal Tunnel of Love"

7-inch blue vinyl
 "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race"
 "It's Hard to Say "I Do", When I Don't"

7-inch purple vinyl
 "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race"
 "G.I.N.A.S.F.S."

Charts

Weekly charts

Year-end charts

Certifications

Release history

References

External links
 

2006 singles
Fall Out Boy songs
Songs written by Pete Wentz
Songs written by Patrick Stump
Number-one singles in New Zealand
2006 songs
Song recordings produced by Neal Avron
Island Records singles
Protest songs
Anti-war songs
Music videos directed by Alan Ferguson (director)