[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Burning Tigris

ng account that serves as a useful entry point for readers unfamiliar with a complex subject. The story of Armenia is a reminder that we live in an age of genocide, and that discourse about this history and establishment of early warning systems is perhaps the only way to prevent it from recurring."

In a critical review in The Independent, Mark Mazower wrote: "The horror of it all emanates vividly from the pages of Peter Balakian's new history. The sheer scale of the massacres has an overwhelming impact and his access to the accounts of survivors and diplomats, and his understanding of Armenian culture and society, help bring to life the world that was lost with the victims. It quickly becomes clear that the Holocaust was not the first such onslaught on an entire community; indeed, the parallels with that event are frequently underlined." However, Mazower harshly criticised Balkian for what he felt was his morality play view of the genocide with the Armenians as the pure, righteous victims being pursued by "malevolent perpetrators led by psychopaths such as Sultan Abdul Hamid". Mazower wrote that he believed that the break-down in relations between the Sublime Porte and the Armenians was to a large extent the responsibility of the latter as he accused Armenian revolutionaries of assassinating Ottoman officials out of the hope that the Ottomans would commit atrocities that would lead to great power intervention on their behalf just had happened in the Balkans. Likewise, Mazower wrote the Ottoman charge that the Armenians were a pro-Russian fifth column, through exaggerated, did have a basis in fact. Mazower wrote that over a million Muslim refugees had fled to the Ottoman Empire from the Caucasus and the Balkans between 1860 and 1913, making the Muslim rage against Christians understandable, through not justified. Finally, Mazower wrote that after the Ottoman Empire entered the First World War that the Ottoman forces had suffered a series of defeats with an invasion of the Russian Caucasus ending in a disaster while the Allies had landed in Gallipoli, which was the first stage of a plan to capture Constantinople, making it that appear in the spring of 1915 that the Sublime Porte was faced with destruction. Mazower wrote: "None of this in any way justifies what happened to the Armenians, but it underlines the existential crisis that faced the empire's young and arrogant leadership, humiliated on the battlefield, their grand strategy in ruins...The Burning Tigris remains, understandably enough, a work of denunciation. Even so, more than denunciation will be needed to help us make sense of what happened."

In a review in The Daily Telegraph, Brendan Simms wrote that Balakian "...retells the story of the Armenian massacres in an accessible way. It is not for the faint-hearted. In places, the narrative becomes an almost unbearable catalogue of cruelties and killings. If the author seems to dwell on these, the reason lies in a revisionist campaign to minimise the scope of and intention behind the massacres, sponsored by some otherwise rather eminent historians." Sims noted that Henry Morgenthau Sr., the American ambassador to the Sublime Porte, was outraged by the genocide, making him into one of the book's heroes, but on the whole, the State Department was not inclined to interfere with the internal affairs of the Ottoman Empire, despite all of Morgenthau's anguish.  Sims wrote he felt that Balakian was too harsh in his criticism of President Woodrow Wilson for not doing enough to stop the genocide, noting it was too easy for former presidents such as Theodore Roosevelt to call for Congress to declare war on the Ottoman Empire. Sims further noted that as the Battle of Gallipoli had dramatically shown that in even in 1915 the Ottomans still had a formidable military that defeated an attempt by an Anglo-Australian-New Zealand-Indian-French force to seize the Gallipoli peninsula. Sims noted that the best way to stop the Armenian genocide was to defeat the Ottoman Empire, which finally happened in 1918, which led him to argue that Balakian was being too glib in asserting that the United States could have done more to stop the genocide.