[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 23rd Infantry Regiment (United States)

two U.S. Army Valorous Unit Awards, two awards of the Republic of Vietnam Cross of Gallantry with Palm as well as the Republic of Vietnam Civic Action Honor Medal, 1st Class.

— Information on this page provided by Bill Kestell, Recon Platoon, 4th/23rd Infantry, and forwarded to us by Terry Landers.

Stryker Battalion
The 4th Battalion, 23rd Infantry was reactivated on 16 March 2004 at Fort Richardson, Alaska. The battalion was organized as a Stryker battalion and assigned to the 172nd Infantry Brigade (Stryker) and deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) from August 2005 to December 2006 for sixteen months.  The battalion was inactivated on 15 December 2006 and reactivated on 16 April 2007 as a Stryker infantry battalion at Fort Lewis, Washington, and assigned to the 4th Brigade Combat Team (Stryker), 2nd Infantry Division.

Operation Iraqi Freedom 
In October 2003, as a part of 3-2 SBCT 1st Bn 23rd Infantry deployed from Fort Lewis to Kuwait and then to Iraq as part Operation Iraqi Freedom in the First Stryker Brigade.  1-23IN Deployed to FOB Pacesetter after one month of training in Kuwait.  The Battalion moved via ground to FOB Pacesetter under 4th Infantry Division where they conducted operations in Ad Deluiyah.  On 8 December B Co 1-23IN lost SPC Blickenstaff, SPC Wesley and SSG Bridges in a vehicle rollover on their first mission. The unit continued operations through the month of December as part of Operation Ivy Blizzard.  The Tomahawk Battalion then moved to Mosul, Iraq where the battalion conducted a relief in place with units from the 101st Airborne Division (Air Assault).  1-23IN occupied combat outpost on the western side of the Tigris River and conducted numerous combat operations to attempt to remove the insurgent threat in the Nineveh Province. The Battalion conducted numerous raids, traffic control points and neighborhood engagements to remove insurgents from the city.  All the while having the units history being chronicled by Colby Buzzell. Most notably the attack on 4 August 2004.  Where the entire battalion repelled and attack from a large coordinated citywide attack from insurgents.

Operation Enduring Freedom

Deployment and elections
Starting on 9 July 2009, 5-2 SBCT deployed from Fort Lewis, Washington to Kandahar Airfield, Afghanistan in support of Operation Enduring Freedom. After completing equipment preparation and troop-leading procedures, the battalion conducted a tactical road march to FOB (Forward Operating Base) Wolverine in Zabul Province on 5–6 August. Company A moved south of the Sur Ghar Mountains to FOB Sweeney, an outpost that was occupied by a US Army SF ODA and Afghan National Army soldiers. They quickly settled into the area around the village of Shinkay and began counter-insurgency (COIN) operations. The next element to move out from Wolverine was Company C, which conducted a road march through Qalat to Shajoy, the second largest city in Zabul Province. Here they began the establishment of a company combat outpost that would be known as "Sangar", as well as the inception of COIN operations designed to provide security to the populace. Company B remained at FOB Wolverine with the battalion headquarters, and began conducting operations in Surri, a subdistrict of Shinkay.