[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Paddy Crick

William Patrick Crick (10 February 1862 – 23 August 1908) was an Australian politician, solicitor and newspaper proprietor. He was described by author Cyril Pearl as an irresistible demagogue, who "looked like a prize fighter, dressed like a tramp, talked like a bullocky, and to complete the pattern of popular virtues, owned champion horses which he backed heavily and recklessly.".William Willis, a political collaborator, described him as a "conservative dressed in the garments of democracy [with an] unbridled ambition and craving for public notice"

Early life
Crick was born at Truro, South Australia and in about 1868 the family moved into western New South Wales, settling at Spicer's Creek near Wellington. He attended St Stanislaus' College, Bathurst. He was admitted as a solicitor in 1886 and developed a successful practice in the criminal courts. In 1890 he married Mary Catherine Kelly, but they separated in 1892.

Political career
In 1885 Crick and Edward O'Sullivan founded the Land and Industrial Alliance, a protectionist party aimed at country selectors and city workers, and ran unsuccessfully for election to the New South Wales Legislative Assembly in 1887. As an independent protectionist he was elected in 1889 as the member for West Macquarie, aged .

He was notable for his verbal aggression in the house, especially when drunk, and in October 1889 he called several parliamentarians "bloody Orange hounds and thieves" and William McMillan moved a motion that "That Mr. Crick, the hon. member for West Macquarie, is guilty of having wilfully and vexatiously interrupted tho committee in the orderly conduct of the business of the House, wherefore this House adjudges him guilty of contempt of the House". The motion was passed by the Assembly and Crick stated "If any hon. member thought he was going to apologise to the Government he was making a great mistake. ... he would sooner be kicked out of the House on what he considered a looting of the Treasury than remain a member of it". Crick then walked out of the house.

1890 expulsion
On 12 November 1890 there was a debate involving McMillan when Crick interjected, with McMillan stating to Crick "You are nobody", with Crick responding in kind and describing McMillan as a makeshift. Ninian Melville, the Chairman of Committees called on McMillan to withdraw the expression and he did so. The Chairman then asked Crick to withdraw his expression. Crick debated the matter with the Chairman before withdrawing it. The Chairman then repeatedly asked Crick to apologise for interjecting during proceedings and he refused to do so until after McMillan had apologised for the insult. The Chairman instructed the serjeant-at-arms, Laurence Harnett, to remove Crick, who resisted stating "Don't you handle me. I will not be bullied by Melville or any one else. I will not go out, and I say so point-blank". Crick was then physically removed by the serjeant-at-arms and attendants. The disturbance was reported to the Speaker, Joseph Abbott, who directed that Crick be allowed into the chamber to provide his explanation. Crick argued with Speaker stating "I am certainly not going to allow the Chair to knock me into a sort of pulverised sausage". Crick continued to argue with the Speaker who then instructed the serjeant-at-arms to again remove Crick. Whilst he was being forcibly removed, Crick stated "you got £2,000 for putting the Broken Hill Water Supply Bill through. That is what I tell you; and I tell the Chairman of Committees that he got £1,000; and I tell you you are both a pair of thieves and robbers of the country". Sir Henry Parkes moved that Crick be expelled for his disorderly conduct before the committee.

After debate had commenced on the motion, Crick attempted to resign with his letter stating "Mr Speaker, I consider Parliament rotten and corrupt. You put me out to-night, fearing my tongue and consequent exposure. I resign my seat, and intend to appeal to my constituents against a rotten and corrupt parliament, in which freedom of speech is brutally stifled and suppressed in order to cover up crime". In the debate various euphemisms were put as to the extent of Crick's consumption of alcohol, including that he was not in a fit condition to be heard, was slightly excited, having just returned from the Melbourne Cup, where "joviality ... reigned triumphant ... where Bacchus is the chief god". Alexander Hutchison stated that "it was worse than useless to ask a drunken man to come into an assemblage of gentlemen to make an explanation of his conduct". Crick's resignation was not treated as effective and he was expelled.

Crick repeated his accusations of corruption in his campaign speeches, and was re-elected in the resulting by-election, with a slightly increased margin.