[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Huguenots in South Africa

innaar (Meinard, Mesnard)
Meyer
Naudé
Nel (Neel, Niel)
Nortier, Nortje (Nourtier)
Pienaar (Pinard)
Retief (Retif)
Reyneke? (Reyne?)
Riekert? (Richard?)
Rossouw (Rousseau)
Roux
Senekal (Senecal, Senechal)
Taljaard (Taillard)
Terblanche (Terreblanque)
Theron (Therond)
Tredoux
Viljoen (Villion)

Legacy

There are many families, today mostly Afrikaans-speaking, whose surnames bear witness to their Huguenot ancestry. A comprehensive list of these surnames can be seen on the Huguenot Memorial in the Johannesburg Botanical Garden. Examples of the more common names are Blignaut (Blignault), Cronje (Cronier), de Klerk (Le Clercq), Visagie (Visage), de Villiers, du Preez, du Plessis, du Toit, du Randt, Fourie, Fouche, Giliomee (Guilliaume), Gous / Gouws (Gauch), Hugo, Jacobs, Joubert, Jordaan (Jourdan), Labuschagne (la Buscagne), Lange, le Roux, Leonard, Lombard, Malan, Michel, Malherbe, Marais, Nel, Nortje (Nourtier), Pienaar, Retief, Rossouw, Roux, Terreblanche, Taljard, Theron and Viljoen (Villion).

Some of the descendants of these original Huguenot families became prominent figures in South African society, most notably F.W. de Klerk, the last State President of apartheid-era South Africa.

Some of the original forms of the surnames have been put in brackets.
 Aegidius Jean Blignaut, South African writer
George Christopher Cato (Caton) first mayor of Durban.
Jan F. E. Celliers, Afrikaans-language poet, essayist, dramatist and reviewer.
Sarel Cilliers, Voortrekker leader and a preacher.
Hansie Cronje cricketer
Piet Cronje leader of the Transvaal Republic's military forces during the First and Second Anglo-Boer Wars
F.W. de Klerk (born 18 March 1936; "Le Clerc"), last State President of apartheid-era South Africa.
Koos de la Rey, (Jacobus Herculaas de la Rey) (22 October 1847 – 15 September 1914) was a Boer general during the Second Boer War
Fanie de Villiers, former South African cricket player
AB de Villiers, former South African cricket player 
Rilee Rossouw Top class all rounder cricketer
Hempies du Toit, Springboks rugby player and winemaker 
Jean de Villiers, Springboks rugby player
Pieter de Villiers, South African athlete and Olympian (400m hurdles)
Dricus du Plessis, Mixed Martial Arts, UFC Middleweight fighter
Faf du Plessis, South African cricketer
Morne du Plessis, Springboks rugby player
I. D. du Plessis, poet
Ampie du Preez, singer-songwriter
Frik du Preez ("du Prez"), Springboks rugby player, named as South Africa's rugby player of the 20th century
Max du Preez, journalist and author
Mignon du Preez, South African cricketer
Alexander du Toit, geologist
Daniel du Toit, South African astronomer
Christiaan du Toit, South African military commander
D. F. du Toit, co-founder of an Afrikaans language movement named the Society of Real Afrikaners
S. G. du Toit, co-founder of an Afrikaans language movement named the Society of Real Afrikaners
Wikus du Toit
Stephanus Jacobus du Toit, co-founder of an Afrikaans language movement named the Society of Real Afrikaners
Abraham Faure, (29 August 1795 – 28 March 1875) Cape clergyman and author
Jacobus Johannes Fouché, (6 June 1898, Wepener – 23 September 1980[1] Cape Town) served as the second President of South Africa from 1968 to 1975
Johnny Fourie, famous jazz guitarist.
Elsa Joubert, South African novelist in Afrikaans
Gideon Joubert, South African author and journalist Afrikaans science non-fiction author
Marius Joubert, Springboks rugby player
Petrus Jacobus Joubert, boer commandant-general of the South African Republic from 1880 to 1900
Piet Joubert
Ruda Landman
Frederick Le Roux, South African cricketer
Garth Le Roux, South African cricketer
Adolph Malan (1910–1963), known as Sailor Malan, Royal Air Force fighter pilot in the Second World War
Daniel François Malan, who was a Prime Minister of South Africa elected on apartheid platform
Magnus Malan, former South African Minister of Defence (in the cabinet of President P. W. Botha), Chief of the South African Defence Force (SADF) and Chief of the South African Army.
Rian Malan, celebrated South African author, journalist and political activist.
D. F. Malherbe, Afrikaans novelist
Gideon Malherbe, co-founder of an Afrikaans language movement named the Society of Real Afrikaners
Ben Marais
Eugene Marais
Sarie Marais
Beyers Naudé, Afrikaner anti apartheid cleric.
Charle-Pierre Naudé, poet
Jozua Naudé, acting President of South Africa from 1967 to 1968
Francois Pienaar, former Springboks rugby player; captain of the first Springboks team to win the Rugby World Cup in 1995
Piet Retief, boer voortrekker
Esta TerBlanche ("Terre-Blanche")
Eugène Terre'Blanche ("Terre-Blanche"), South African political activist and leader of AWB
Juan Theron, South African-born cricketer who has played both for the South African national cricket team and the United States national cricket team
Charlize Theron, Hollywood actress
Totius (Jakob Daniël du Toit) – poet
Constand Viljoen ("Villion"), former leader of the South African Freedom