[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Amnesty International UK Media Awards

education, with the prize allowing them to work with sponsors to develop real-world reporting and writing experience for two weeks. In 2013 the top prize was a fellowship with the US-based Pulitzer Center for Crisis Reporting and a $2,000 travel grant to cover an under-reported topic of ones choice.

Entry criteria 
Each year there is a call for submissions focusing on the areas of human rights work encompassed by Amnesty's mission, which is "to protect individuals wherever justice, fairness, freedom and truth are denied".

Entries must have been originally published or broadcast in the year preceding the closing deadline. There is an entry fee to help Amnesty cover the cost of administering the awards. The full criteria are available in the Media Awards section of the Amnesty International UK website, and are detailed on the entry form sent out each year around four months before the ceremony.

The ceremony 

The ceremony is held annually in central London and is attended by around 400 guests, including politicians, celebrities, and prominent figures in the UK
media industry. The host, usually a high-profile member of the UK media, conducts the ceremony and the various awards are presented by representatives from each of the judging panels. Past hosts have included journalist and broadcaster Nick Clarke, journalist and news reader Moira Stuart, international editor of Channel 4 News Lindsey Hilsum and the BBC's Lyse Doucet. The host for the 2015 awards was the British radio and television presenter and journalist Anita Anand. Celebrity guests presenting awards have included Bob Geldof, who presented the Special Award for "Human Rights Journalism Under Threat" 2004,[104] won by Kifle Mulat, head of the Ethiopian Free Press Journalists' Association.[105]

References

External links
 Amnesty International UK Media Awards

Amnesty International
Awards established in 1992
Human rights awards
British journalism awards
1992 establishments in the United Kingdom
Journalism lists