[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Serbian mafia

/Serbian mafia 
Straight Business 2, Canadian International Short Film
Straight Business 3, Canadian International Short Film
The Sweeney, 2012 British action drama
The Fourth Man, Serbian action/thriller
Vidimo se u čitulji, Serbian documentary about the organized crime in Belgrade during the 1990s

On television
 Dosije: Beogradski klanovi (2014), docudrama series about Serbian mafia clans in Belgrade during the 1990s
 Dosije: Zemunski klan (2015), sequel to the popular docudrama series, it shows the rise and fall of Zemun Clan, one of the most powerful crime groups in Serbia's history.
 Gorki plodovi, Serbian TV series
 Grupa (2019), Serbian TV series about a group of young street dealers and Belgrade police force tracking them down
 Meso (2017), Serbian TV series about a former soccer player from Banja Luka who comes back to his home town and confronts his childhood friend, now a crime boss 
 Ubice mog oca, Serbian crime/action TV show, which shows ties between mafia, politicians, tycoons and corrupt policemen
 In the American TV series Power, the Serbian mafia, led by Jason Micic are major antagonists in seasons 2–6.
South Wind, connected with a movie, South Wind is about Belgrade criminals who are work with Bulgarian narco boss, later fights against him. Also, they are rivals with Montenegrin narco boss.

In literature
The First Rule, novel by Robert Crais. Author claims to portray Serbian mafia in the US accurately, however, there are many inaccuracies (Serbian mafia does not abide to the Russian "Thief in law" gangster code, and it never did).
Millennium (novel series) mentions Serbian mafia members on several occasions.

In video games
Grand Theft Auto IV, American 2008 open world action-adventure video game. The main protagonist, Niko Bellic, is a Yugoslav man involved in organised crime.

See also
 Crime in Serbia
 Serbian Brotherhood

References

Further reading
 Glenny, M. (2008). McMafia: A Journey Through the Global Criminal Underworld
  Lopusina, Marko (2003). Srpska Mafija (Serbian Mafia)

External links
 Darko Šarić profile, reportingproject.net
Joca Freed from jail
La Mafia Serba 
Serbian mafia face crack down
Analysis: Gangsters' paradise lost by Tim Judah, BBC

Mafia
Serbian-Australian culture
Organized crime by ethnic or national origin
Transnational organized crime