[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Terrorism financing

activity 
Operation Green Quest, a US multi-agency task force established in October 2001 with the official purpose of countering terrorism financing considers the following patterns of activity as indicators of the collection and movement of funds that could be associated with terrorism financing:

 Account transactions that are inconsistent with past deposits or withdrawals such as cash, cheques, wire transfers, etc.
 Transactions involving a high volume of incoming or outgoing wire transfers, with no logical or apparent purpose that come from, go to, or transit through locations of concern, that is sanctioned countries, non-cooperative nations and sympathizer nations.
 Unexplainable clearing or negotiation of third party cheques and their deposits in foreign bank accounts.
 Structuring at multiple branches or the same branch with multiple activities.
 Corporate layering, transfers between bank accounts of related entities or charities for no apparent reasons.
 Wire transfers by charitable organisations to companies located in countries known to be bank or tax havens.
 Lack of apparent fund raising activity, for example a lack of small cheques or typical donations associated with charitable bank deposits.
 Using multiple accounts to collect funds that are then transferred to the same foreign beneficiaries
 Transactions with no logical economic purpose, that is, no link between the activity of the organization and other parties involved in the transaction.
 Overlapping corporate officers, bank signatories, or other identifiable similarities associated with addresses, references and financial activities.
 Cash debiting schemes in which deposits in the US correlate directly with ATM withdrawals in countries of concern. Reverse transactions of this nature are also suspicious.
 Issuing cheques, money orders or other financial instruments, often numbered sequentially, to the same person or business, or to a person or business whose name is spelled similarly.

It would be difficult to determine by such activity alone whether the particular act was related to terrorism or to organized crime. For this reason, these activities must be examined in context with other factors in order to determine a terrorism financing connection. Simple transactions can be found to be suspect and money laundering derived from terrorism will typically involve instances in which simple operations had been performed (retail foreign exchange operations, international transfer of funds) revealing links with other countries including FATF blacklisted countries. Some of the customers may have police records, particularly for trafficking in narcotics and weapons and may be linked with foreign terrorist groups. The funds may have moved through a state sponsor of terrorism or a country where there is a terrorism problem. A link with a Politically exposed person (PEP) may ultimately link up to a terrorism financing transaction. A charity may be a link in the transaction. Accounts (especially student) that only receive periodic deposits withdrawn via ATM over two months and are dormant at other periods could indicate that they are becoming active to prepare for an attack.

Nation specific actions

Pakistan

As at 24 October 2019, Pakistan was on the FATF greylist for terrorism financing and has met only 5 of 27 action items, and it has been given four months to comply with the remaining action points for the prevention of terror financing. As of 2022 Pakistan is compliant on most of the action plan but  continues to be on the list.

Bahrain
Bahrain has been regularly accused of doing very little to prevent the flow of funds for the terrorism financing in other nations.

Qatar
Qatar interactions with militants includes financing Hamas.

Saudi Arabia 
Saudi Arabia faces accusations of not doing enough to stop terrorism financing by private actors.

A recent report by FATF highlighted serious deficiencies in Saudi Arabia's efforts to counter terrorism. Terrorism financing budding in Saudi Arabia became an important source of funding for al-Qaeda and other terrorist organizations.

In a leaked classified memo, Hillary Clinton said that in 2009 the kingdom was a crucial source of funds to Sunni terrorist groups, including al-Qaeda, the Taliban and Lashkar-e-Taiba pointing to its intelligence incompetence.

In 2019, the European Commission added Saudi Arabia, along with several other countries, to its blacklist list of states that have failed to control money laundering and terrorism financing. Saudi Arabia has been accused of not making enough effort to control the huge amounts of money being transferred to Islamist extremists and terrorist groups.