[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Salishan, Tacoma, Washington

Salishan is a diverse and mixed-income neighborhood of Tacoma, Washington that was originally created as World War II housing project but, starting in 2002, has been demolished and rebuilt into a new neighborhood of homes, apartments, services, and parks on new infrastructure.  It is located on Tacoma's eastside.

Creation
The federal government created the community of Salishan during World War II to house workers in the area's wartime industries and military personnel, and their families.  It was planned to have 2,000 units (1,600  permanent residencies plus 400 temporary ones).  This plan was similar to the ones that created communities in Seattle and King County during this same time.

The Salishan project was plagued by difficulties common during the war.  Trees from the original property were used, but difficulties arose due to limited labor and war-related delays.  The sewer system was delivered late, and at one point a snowstorm brought progress to a complete halt.  However, on 1 May 1943, over 600 families moved into the new development.  At that time, Salishan was almost as large as the nearby community of Puyallup, then a small farming community.  Problems continued, however, in the form of poor telephone service and archaic appliances.  Additionally, the sudden increase in population put a strain on the Tacoma Public Schools, putting the Salishan School at more than double its capacity.  Salishan was notable from the outset in ways that have continued to be true.  At a time when the nation's housing market was thoroughly segregated by race, Salishan was racially integrated on purpose.  In addition, after the Vietnam War, Salishan also became an important gateway community for new Americans.  By the time Salishan was demolished in 2002 to make way for its redevelopment, its residents were about 25% Vietnamese, 25% Cambodian, and about 13% African-American. New Salishan remains one of the regions' neighborhoods most diverse by race, language, national origin, income, homeowner-renter, age, ability and disability.

Post-War boom
By the end of the War, the federal government transferred Salishan to the Tacoma Housing Authority.  From that time to the present, Salishan has been an important part of the City of Tacoma's supply of affordable housing. Even during the war, Salishan's population included many low-income families. Despite the wartime boom in the shipyard industry, 12 percent of Salishan families relied on public assistance, which would eventually lead to increasing post-war poverty rates.

The demand for Salishan housing increased after VJ Day as veterans returned home.  Federal legislation extended the life of the temporary wartime developments.  However, faced with the growing concern of poverty, the military instituted a minimum income requirement, resulting in lower-income military personnel being denied entry into the Salishan community.  Crime also became an increasing problem, leading some bus drivers to refuse to drive into the Salishan area without plainclothes police officers on board to avoid harassment.  In addition, the diverse community began to see early indications of racial tensions.  In 1949, the Boy Scouts of America attempted to organize racially separated troops in the Salishan area.  However, black voters rejected the idea, resulting in the formation of the first integrated Scout troop in the Tacoma area. 

Despite the crime problems, Salishan was recognized as a center for cultural events.  The Sunday edition of the Tacoma News Tribune lauded Salishan for being a "lesson in enterprise and thinking," with a large range of cultural activities available to residents.  Salishan's population continued to grow.  In 1950, a population of 6,700 was reached, of which nearly half were children.  In attempts to create a utopian community environment, business-sponsored home beautification contests in the area.  Despite this, Salishan remained a fairly poor area, which eventually led to its conversion to a low-income housing area.

Conversion to low-income housing
By the early 1950s, Salishan's income was hovering at around $1,900 per year (approximately $16,000 as of March 2006).  This led to increasing pressure on the Tacoma Housing Authority to convert Salishan to a low-income housing property.  This was met with opposition from the local real estate industry, which feared that Salishan being converted to a low-income area would harm the house prices in the surrounding areas.  In addition, the industry argued that there was little need, with around half of the housing units unoccupied.  However, on 24 May 1951, the Tacoma City Council voted to convert 900 units to low-income housing and demolish the rest.