[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Masao Maruyama (scholar)

in central Tokyo. Maruyama argued that Japan was about to choose between democracy and dictatorship. He also argued that due to Kishi's outrageous actions, ordinary Japanese people needed to support the anti-Treaty protests in order to protect democracy, even if they did not mind the Treaty itself.

However, Maruyama later came to regret his starring role in the 1960 crisis. In the aftermath of the protests, Maruyama was attacked by opponents on both the right and the left. From the right, he was attacked as a supporter of communists and socialists, and from the left, he was accused of being a supporter of a very narrow vision of "bourgeois" democracy that only supported the interest of the ruling capitalist classes. Maruyama was most strongly attacked by fellow leftist intellectual Yoshimoto Takaaki, who had a large following among New Left student radicals. During the university protests in the late 1960s Maruyama was strongly denounced by the students front as a symbol of "self-deceiving" postwar democracy. Maruyama in turn criticized this new student movement, especially after he was subjected to intense harassment and his personal office at the University of Tokyo was ransacked by occupying students in 1969. Around this time, Maruyama angrily confronted the students, Maruyama telling them, "Even the fascists didn't do what you are trying to do!" This kind of episode, combined with his own ailing health, forced him to retire in 1971. He was however appointed professor emeritus at the same university in 1974.

Later life

Though Maruyama suffered from poor health especially in his later life, he continued studying and writing until he died in Tokyo on 15 August 1996. The major work of his retirement years was a three-volume commentary on Fukuzawa Yukichi's principal work Bunmeiron no Gairyaku, based on a lengthy seminar he conducted with a small working group. This was published in 1986, as Reading 'An Outline of a Theory of Civilisation', (「文明論之概略」を読む) by Iwanami Shoten. Besides, he contributed several more noteworthy as well as controversial works on Japanese culture or the process of translation in modern Japan. Most noteworthy is his concept of basso ostinato. Maruyama referred to this musicological concept to capture a socio-historically substratum underlying human thought. Although basso ostinato is in constant flux, it is experienced by people as a relatively stable  intellectual framework through which people give meaning to life.

See also

 Hegelianism
 Social liberalism
 Liberalism in Japan

Honors
 Order of the Sacred Treasure, Gold Rays with Neck Ribbon, 1976.
 Association for Asian Studies (AAS), 1993 Award for Distinguished Contributions to Asian Studies

Representative works in English 
 1963 -- Thought and Behaviour in Modern Japanese Politics. London: Oxford University Press.  (cloth)  {reprinted by Columbia University Press, New York, 1995.  (paper)
 1974 -- Studies in the Intellectual History of Tokugawa Japan. Translated by Mikiso Hane. Princeton: Princeton University Press.  (cloth)  (paper)

Notes

External links
Maruyama Masao entry at the International Dictionary of Intellectual Historians

Further reading
 Barshay, Andrew E. "Imaging Democracy in Postwar Japan: Reflections on Maruyama Masao and Modernism." Journal of Japanese Studies 18, no. 2 (1992): 365–406.

 
 
 Sasaki Fumiko. Nationalism, Political Realism and Democracy in Japan: The Thought of Maruyama Masao. London: Routledge, 2012.
 Takeshi Morisato. "The Problem of Japanese Modernity." Genealogies of Modernity (2021). https://genealogiesofmodernity.org/journal. 
 _. "Japan and the Octopus Trap of Modernity." Genealogies of Modernity (2021). https://genealogiesofmodernity.org/journal. 
 _. "Breaking Out of the Octopus Trap of Modernity." Genealogies of Modernity (2021). https://genealogiesofmodernity.org/journal. 

1914 births
1996 deaths
University of Tokyo alumni
Academic staff of the University of Tokyo
Historians of Japan
Imperial Japanese Army personnel of World War II
Japanese social liberals
Japanese political scientists
Liberalism in Japan
Hibakusha
Recipients of the Order of the Sacred Treasure
20th-century Japanese historians
20th-century political scientists