[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Anal sex

al sex has generally been taboo since the Middle Ages, when heretical movements were sometimes attacked by accusations that their members practiced anal sex among themselves. At that time, celibate members of the Christian clergy were accused of engaging in "sins against nature", including anal sex.

The term buggery originated in medieval Europe as an insult used to describe the rumored same-sex sexual practices of the heretics from a sect originating in Bulgaria, where its followers were called ; when they spread out of the country, they were called buggres (from the ethnonym Bulgars). Another term for the practice, more archaic, is pedicate from the Latin , with the same meaning.

The Renaissance poet Pietro Aretino advocated anal sex in his  ('Lust Sonnets'). While men who engaged in homosexual relationships were generally suspected of engaging in anal sex, many such individuals did not. Among these, in recent times, have been André Gide, who found it repulsive, and Noël Coward, who had a horror of disease, and asserted when young that "I'd never do anything – well the disgusting thing they do – because I know I could get something wrong with me".

During the 1980s, Margaret Thatcher questioned the inclusion of "risky sex" in the United Kingdom's AIDS related government advertisements. Thatcher questioned the inclusion of the term "anal sex" in line with the Obscene Publications Act 1959. The term "rectal sex" was agreed upon to be used instead.

Religion

Judaism
The Mishneh Torah, a text considered authoritative by Orthodox Jewish sects, states "since a man's wife is permitted to him, he may act with her in any manner whatsoever. He may have intercourse with her whenever he so desires and kiss any organ of her body he wishes, and he may have intercourse with her naturally or unnaturally [traditionally, unnaturally refers to anal and oral sex], provided that he does not expend semen to no purpose. Nevertheless, it is an attribute of piety that a man should not act in this matter with levity and that he should sanctify himself at the time of intercourse."

Christianity

Christian texts may sometimes euphemistically refer to anal sex as the  ('the sin against nature', after Thomas Aquinas) or  ('sodomitical lusts', in one of Charlemagne's ordinances), or  ('that horrible sin that among Christians is not to be named').

Islam

, or the sin of Lot's people, which has come to be interpreted as referring generally to same-sex sexual activity, is commonly officially prohibited by Islamic sects; there are parts of the Quran which talk about smiting on Sodom and Gomorrah, and this is thought to be a reference to "unnatural" sex, and so there are hadith and Islamic laws which prohibit it. While, concerning Islamic belief, it is objectionable to use the words  and  to refer to homosexuality because it is blasphemy toward the prophet of Allah, and therefore the terms sodomy and homosexuality are preferred, same-sex male practitioners of anal sex are called luti or lutiyin in plural and are seen as criminals in the same way that a thief is a criminal.

Other animals
As a form of non-reproductive sexual behavior in animals, anal sex has been observed in a few other primates, both in captivity and in the wild.

See also

 Anal eroticism
 Ass to mouth
 Autosodomy
 Coprophilia
 Creampie (sexual act)
 Felching
 Gay bowel syndrome
 Klismaphilia
 Sodomy law

References

Further reading
 Brent, Bill Ultimate Guide to Anal Sex for Men, Cleis Press, 2002.
 DeCitore, David Arouse Her Anal Ecstasy (2008) 
 Houser, Ward Anal Sex, Encyclopedia of Homosexuality Dynes, Wayne R. (ed.), Garland Publishing, 1990. pp. 48–50.
 Morin, Jack Anal Pleasure & Health: A Guide for Men and Women, Down There Press, 1998. 
 Sanderson, Terry The Gay Man's Kama Sutra, Thomas Dunne Books, 2004.
 Tristan Taormino The Ultimate Guide to Anal Sex for Women, Cleis Press, 1997, 2006. 
 Underwood, Steven G. Gay Men and Anal Eroticism: Tops, Bottoms, and Versatiles, Harrington Park Press, 2003

External links

Anal eroticism
Sexology
Sexual acts