[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of S.H.I.E.L.D. members

S.H.I.E.L.D. is a Marvel Comics fictional advanced counterterrorism and intelligence agency charged with investigating and neutralizing paranormal and superhuman threats for global security. It was created by Stan Lee and Jack Kirby in Strange Tales #135 (August 1965) and appeared throughout the publisher's entire comic book line. The agency and its traditional executive director, Nick Fury, have also starred in their own series and miniseries sporadically since that time, most notably during a late-1960s run by writer-artist Jim Steranko.

Three official continuity versions of S.H.I.E.L.D. are listed here: the traditional version in mainstream Marvel Universe continuity, followed by the alternate reality version published under the Ultimate Marvel imprint, as well as the Marvel Cinematic Universe version. Amalgam Comics, a joint venture between Marvel and DC Comics, have their own version of S.H.I.E.L.D. that combines characters from both publishers. An example of this would be Super Soldier, who possesses an amalgamation of the superpowers of Super-Man and Spider-Man.

Marvel Universe S.H.I.E.L.D

Executive Directors and Secretaries
 Colonel Rick Stoner – First known executive director. Assassinated by the terrorist group Hydra.
 Colonel Nick Fury – Second known executive director. Level 10 Agent.
 Timothy "Dum Dum" Dugan – Third known executive director. Former Corporal of Fury's World War II squad.
 G. W. Bridge – Fourth known executive director.
 Sharon Carter (Agent 13) – Fifth known executive director. She is often detailed as liaison officer to Captain America.
 Maria Hill – Sixth known executive director. Level 9 Agent.
 Anthony Edward "Tony" Stark (Iron Man) – Seventh known executive director. He takes up the position after the Civil War.
 Norman Osborn – Eighth known executive director. Takes up position after Secret Invasion. He dismantles S.H.I.E.L.D. and renames it H.A.M.M.E.R.
 Commander Steve Rogers (Captain America) – Ninth known executive director. Assigned as "America's top cop" following the Siege of Asgard, the arrest of Norman Osborn, the dismantling of H.A.M.M.E.R., and the repeal of the Superhuman Registration Act.  He was later reappointed during the Secret Empire storyline where a Hydra-controlled S.H.I.E.L.D. takes over the United States and is later disbanded.
 Daisy Johnson (Quake) – Tenth known executive director. Former protégé of Nick Fury and daughter of Calvin Zabo/Mister Hyde.
 Phil Coulson – Level 8 Agent.        
 Seth Burnett – Level 12 Agent