[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Terminator 3: The Redemption

Terminator 3: The Redemption is an action-adventure video game based on the 2003 film Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines. It was developed by Paradigm Entertainment and published by Atari in 2004 for the PlayStation 2, Xbox, and GameCube. Terminator 3: The Redemption received "mixed or average" reviews according to Metacritic. It was praised for its graphics and was considered an improvement over an earlier game (Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines); however, the gameplay was criticized as linear, repetitive and difficult.

Gameplay 
Terminator 3: The Redemption features several gameplay styles presented from a third-person perspective across 14 levels, which are partially based on the film Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, while expanding the film's backstory. The player takes the role of a T-850 Terminator. Several levels are played on foot as the player fights against other Terminators. The player can use various guns against enemies, and can also engage them in hand-to-hand combat. The player can also use detached road signs as weapons. In addition, the player can utilize the T-850's red-colored scan mode, during which it can deal increased damage to enemies. Points, known as "Terabytes", are spread throughout the game and can be collected to upgrade the scan mode.

In addition, the game features driving levels which include a variety of different vehicles, including a hearse, a pickup truck, and a police car. Also featured are rail shooter levels in which the player is in a travelling vehicle and must shoot oncoming Terminator enemies. As in the film, the T-X is the primary enemy encountered throughout the game. A two-player co-op mode is included as a rail shooter game in which the players must defend against oncoming Terminators.

Plot 
The story starts in the year 2032 with a squad of Tech-Com soldiers storming a Skynet facility in order to stop a T-X from entering a time displacement machine. However, they are no match for the T-X's superior capabilities and all are gruesomely killed.

Meanwhile, Katherine Brewster and the Human Resistance ambush the T-850 that was responsible for the death of John Connor. A Tech-Com technician reprograms the cyborg to be sent back to July 23, 2003 to protect Kate and John's earlier selves. The T-850, with the assistance of several Tech-Com soldiers manages to fight its way to the main gate of the Skynet bunker and it enters the time displacement machine.

In the past, the T-850 rescues John and Kate from the T-X, and informs them that Judgment Day is to begin within the next few hours. It plans to acquire a plane from a nearby military base, and fly the pair to Crystal Peak, a bunker that will ensure their survival during the nuclear blasts. As they arrive at the base, the T-X reappears, and hits the T-850 into a prototype time machine; it is sent back into the future, arriving in a new, alternate future where Skynet has triumphed.

The Terminator once again fights its way through Skynet and sends itself back to 2003. It appears just in time to fight off the T-X while John and Kate escape to Crystal Peak. At the bunker, the T-850 prevents the T-X from reaching John and Kate by blocking its route to them. The T-850 places its damaged fuel cell into the T-X's mouth, resulting in a large explosion that seemingly destroys both Terminators.

Following Judgment Day, John removes the CPU from the heavily damaged T-850's metal skull, deactivating it. The story then shifts further into the war, where John is leading the Resistance. He uses the CPU to reactivate the Terminator, who is revealed to have been rebuilt as an extensively modified FK Reaper. The Terminator then stomps out into battle, aiding John Connor once again, as the game closes with the final caption: "The battle has just begun...".

Development and release 
Terminator 3: The Redemption was developed by Paradigm Entertainment and published by Atari. The game was developed simultaneously with the video game Terminator 3: Rise of the Machines, which was developed by Black Ops. Both development teams took pictures of the film set to aid in development of the games. Black Ops' game was released alongside the DVD release of the film in November 2003, while Paradigm was unable to make the date due to the bigger design of their own game. Atari agreed to give Paradigm more time to work on Terminator 3: The Redemption. Paradigm had previously developed The Terminator: Dawn of Fate (2002), and the same concept team returned to work on The Redemption.

Despite the poor reception of Black Ops' Terminator 3 game, Atari chose to proceed with The Redemption. Atari acquired the rights to use the likeness of Arnold Schwarzenegger and Kristanna Loken, who portray the Terminators in the film. Scans of the actors were taken in 3D to create their in-game counterparts. Paradigm also worked with C2 Pictures on the game's enemy designs and story elements.