[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Uncommon Dissent

re of the world").  For Barham, the "real problem with the evolution debate" is not empirical Darwinism, but a sort of "theory creep" in which a "bold but circumscribed scientific claim" (empirical Darwinism) becomes conflated with "a much more sweeping philosophical claim" (metaphysical Darwinism).

Robert C. Koons says in Uncommon Dissent that "if evolution is defined broadly enough, there's little doubt that it has occurred."  He sees the "defining differential element" of the modern synthesis as the view that "the probability of the occurrence of any mutation is unrelated to its prospective contribution to the functionality of any structure, present or future", and argues that "the natural presumption about the cause of life" lies against this view, and instead with a teleological "intelligent agency position".

Contributor Edward Sisson sees the key question in the debate over biological evolution as whether all life is "the result of chance events occurring in DNA (or perhaps elsewhere) that are then 'selected' in some fashion without the need of any guiding intelligence", thereby undergoing "unintelligent evolution", or whether at least some of the diversity of life on earth can be explained only through "intelligent evolution", in which "an intelligent designer (or designers)" causes preexisting species to undergo designed changes in DNA.  His view is that "no data has been found that amounts to real evidence for unintelligent evolution as the explanation for the diversity of life", that "science is ignorant of how the diversity of life came to be", and that "an intelligent cause is necessary to explain at least some of the diversity of life as we see it".

Reception by the scientific community
Evolution has broad acceptance within the scientific community,IAP Statement on the Teaching of Evolution  Joint statement issued by the national science academies of 67 countries, including the United Kingdom's Royal Society (PDF file) and that community rejects intelligent design, with critics such as Barbara Forrest and Paul R. Gross saying that design proponents seek to destroy evolution and that they employ intentional ambiguity and conflation in using "Darwinism" synonymously with evolution."In [Berlinski's] latest Commentary essay on 'Darwinism' - as it is often called by those who do not know much evolutionary biology..." Darwinism Versus Intelligent Design Paul Gross. Commentary Magazine, Vol. 115, March 2003, No. 3

Of Uncommon Dissent computational physicist and an assistant professor of physics Taner Edis writes: 

The testimony of Barbara Forrest in the 2005 Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District trial  contributed to the ruling that intelligent design is not science and essentially religious in nature.  In her expert witness report Forrest presented Nancy R. Pearcey's section in Uncommon Dissent as evidence of that religious nature.

Evolutionary and historical researcher John M. Lynch describes Uncommon Dissent'':

Of the fifteen intellectuals in the book he says:

See also
Wedge strategy
Intelligent design movement
Teach the Controversy

References

External links
 "The Myths of Darwinism" - the book's introduction, by William Dembski
 "Evolution as Dogma: The Establishment of Naturalism" - Phillip E. Johnson's chapter
 "Refereed Journals: Do They Insure Quality or Enforce Orthodoxy?" - Frank Tipler's chapter
 Darwinian Evolutionary Theory and the Life Sciences in the 21st Century" - Roland F. Hirsch's chapter
 "The Deniable Darwin" - David Berlinski's chapter
 Review of Uncommon Dissent by Jason Rosenhouse
 Review of Uncommon Dissent by John M.  Lynch

2004 non-fiction books
Books by William A. Dembski
English-language books
Intelligent design books