[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Machon L'Madrichei Chutz La'Aretz

jectives of the movements. The first group of students, 30 Jewish high school graduates from South Africa, were housed at an agricultural school near Ness Ziona. In 1949, the Machon moved to a building in the Katamon neighborhood of Jerusalem. Since 1972, it has usually been located in East Talpiot.

During its history, 17,000 young people from around the world have been trained to occupy influential positions among the Jewish people. The contribution of the Machon graduates can be found in the leadership of Jewish communities in Jewish-Zionist education, as well as in public life in Israel. Almost a third of Machon graduates made Aliyah and were integrated into different areas of life in Israel, and have had a significant influence on the existence of Israel as a Jewish and democratic state. Participants have traveled from most countries of South and Central America,  Australia and New Zealand,   United States and Canada, South Africa, North Africa, France, Great Britain and many others countries from the 1950s, and more recently from the Commonwealth of Independent States.

Structure
At this time, Machon is composed of four departments that serve more than 500 students per year. Each of the departments works with different audiences and to its values and principles, specifically: 
English speakers
Latin American languages (Spanish, Portuguese) speakers
Russian speakers
Machon Ma'ayan (religious division)
There was also for some time a program for French speakers.

Machon English-speakers
Works with the majority of youth movements in the English-speaking world. It operates two cycles per year – The cycle north to the students from England, Europe and the United States, conducted between September and December; the student cycle geared to Australia and South Africa is conducted between February and June. In total, approximately 120 English speakers complete the program each year. Since 2006, there has been a small group of Israeli students that join the British program (known as "P2K" or "Shutfut 2000"), coming from the area of the Galilee.

Latin America
Works with ten youth groups from ten countries in Central and South America. It also works in two cycles per year – the first conducted between March and June, and the second between September and December. In total, over 300 youth leaders complete this program, known as "Machon Amla't" each year.

Program
The Machon offers 17- to 19-year-olds an intensive one-year program to strengthen their leadership skills and enhance their knowledge of Judaism, Zionism, Jewish history, Hebrew and Israeli society. The program includes touring, volunteer work in development towns and kibbutzim, and encounters with Israelis to strengthen ties to Israel.

 Groups (Chavura). Most departments divide the members into small groups of about 20 students each called "chavurot" (groups). There are the core groups in the Machon structure that function on a smaller scale and has at least two weekly meetings that help students to feel "at home" within the plan. Each is led by a group educator.
 Community involvement and volunteering. In almost all departments a half a day is spent on involvement in the wider community of Israel. This involvement can take the form of volunteer work with the elderly, the disabled or at-risk populations. Students are taught how to implement political and social action, to understand and act others and thus promote important issues or values in Israel. Meetings are held with various groups of Israelis, for example, soldiers in the army, Ethiopian immigrants, Arab-Israelis and Orthodox Jews.
 Tours and activities. Each department has 3-4 day trips to different parts of Israel, especially the north and south. There are also weekly excursions to visit interesting places in Jerusalem and in the downtown area of the country.
 Acculturation time. Various departments work together with the youth movements spending half a day per week at a time when groups of different movements, building a cultural identity, and debating relevant ideological and educational issues that interest each group.

Alumni society
The Machon Alumni society, Irgun Bogrei Machon Le'Madrichei Chul (ארגון בוגרי מכון למדריכי חו"ל) is a Registered Non Profit Organisation in Israel.

References

External links
 Official site of Machon Youth Leadership Training

Jewish Agency for Israel
Jewish educational organizations
Jewish youth organizations
Student organizations in Israel
Zionist youth movements
Student organizations established in 1946
Israel educational programs
Education in Israel