[Source: PubMed]

14. Scand J Public Health. 2025 Mar;53(2):125-133. doi:
10.1177/14034948241229486.  Epub 2024 Feb 21.

Linking climate change adaptation and public health: perspectives of Norwegian 
policymakers.

Budin-Ljøsne I(1), Nordeng Z(1), Schwarze PE(1), Rao S(1).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Norway.

AIMS: To explore the perspectives of selected Norwegian climate and health 
policymakers working at national and municipality level regarding how health is 
accounted for in climate change adaptation plans.
METHODS: Semi-structured digital interviews were conducted with representatives 
from eight municipalities participating in a national network for climate change 
adaptation, one political unit and five national public administrations working 
in climate, health, environment, preparedness, and civil protection.
RESULTS: Municipalities coordinate the development of climate change adaptation 
plans with support from key national actors. Although municipalities were 
experienced in preparing for extreme climate events and securing infrastructure, 
limited consideration was given to health in the climate change adaptation work. 
Such integration was hindered by lack of resources and knowledge regarding what 
to do, and lack of collaboration between municipality sectors. To connect 
climate change adaptation and health better, the representatives suggested 
providing evidence-based information regarding health impacts of climate change, 
developing concrete tools including warning systems, and implementing regional, 
national, and international projects to map the impact of climate change and 
raise capacity. The representatives called for more stringent national 
guidelines for the integration of health in climate change adaptation, and 
pinpointed that lessons learnt from the COVID-19 pandemic will enable 
municipalities to be better prepared and more adaptable in the future.
CONCLUSIONS: Governmental authorities should provide more concrete guidance 
regarding the integration of health in climate change adaptation plans. Public 
health authorities have a central role to play in supporting such endeavours.

DOI: 10.1177/14034948241229486
PMID: 38380518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of conflicting interestsThe 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.