[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 2007 New Year Honours

Care.
John Berry, Senior Manager, Her Majesty's Prison Service. 
Sister Rosaire Boden, Principal, Dominican College, Belfast. For services to Education in Northern Ireland. 
Stephanie Ann, Mrs. Boyer (Miss Boobier), Head, Face-to-Face Transformation, H.M. Revenue and Customs. 
Douglas Frederick Boynton, Principal, Telford College. For services to Further Education in Shropshire. 
Mary Rosamund, Mrs. Briggs, Chief Executive, Seven Stories, The Centre for Children's Books. For services to Literature.
Jacqueline, Mrs. Brookes, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director, Federation of Communication Services. For services to the Communications Industry. 
Nicolas Milne Brown, Principal, Oldham Sixth Form College. For services to Further Education.
Paul Hacker Brown, Band A, Prime Minister's Office. 
Professor Susanne Moira Brown, Director and Chief Scientist, Crusade Laboratories Ltd. For services to Healthcare.
Ms Sylvia Brown, Chief Executive, Action with Communities in Rural England. For services to Rural Communities.
Sandra, Mrs. Brusby, Chief Executive, Business Link Cheshire and Warrington. For services to Business. 
Paul Anthony Bush, Chef De Mission, Scottish Commonwealth Games Team. For services to Sport. 
Jennifer Susan, Mrs. Byers, lately Executive Director, Donor Services, Charities Aid Foundation. For services to Charity.
Anthony James Cairns, Deputy Chair, Leeds Bradford International Airport. For services to Civil Aviation and to the community in West Yorkshire.
Anthony Campbell, Principal, St. Richards Catholic College, Bexhill-on-Sea, East Sussex. For services to Education.
Ian Archer Hamilton Carstairs, M.B.E., Conservationist. For services to Heritage in Yorkshire and the Humber. 
Kenneth Carstairs, Senior Manager, Lothians, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Ms Jane Cavanagh, Founder and Chief Executive, SCI Entertainment Group plc. For services to the Computer Games Industry.
Peter Michael Chapman, Founder, Shekinah Mission, Plymouth. For services to Homeless People.
Ms Michelle Chinery, Co-Chair, Learning Disability Task Force. For services to disabled people.
Daniel Clark. For services to the National Probation Service.
Professor Margaret MacDonald Clark, Emeritus Professor of Education, University of Birmingham and Visiting Professor, Newman College of Higher Education, Birmingham. For services to Early Years Education.
Air Commodore Charles Henry Clarke, RAF (Retd). For services to the Royal Air Forces Ex-Prisoners of War Association.
John Coales. Founder and lately Chairman, Francis Coales Charitable Foundation. For services to Conservation.
Quentin Coey, Chief Executive, Belfast City Hospital Trust. For services to Healthcare in Northern Ireland. Peter Coomber, Project Manager, , Department for Constitutional Affairs.
Debbie Coulter, Deputy General-Secretary, GMB Trade Union. For services to Employment Relations. 
Stan Crawford, Managing Director, Sherwood Energy Village. For services to Business.
Brigid, Lady Crofton, lately Trustee and Vice-Chair, UNICEF UK. For services to Children and Families Overseas.
John Verdi d'Abbro, Headteacher, New Rush Hall Special School, Redbridge, London. For services to Special Needs Education.
Ann Edith, Mrs. Darling, J.P., D.L. For services to the Administration of Justice and to the community in Tyneside.
David Johnston Davies, lately Executive Director, The Football Association. For services to Sport.
Geoffrey Neil Davies, Financial Director, Tower Colliery, Rhondda Cynon TaV. For services to the Mining Industry.
John Elwyn Davies, lately Member, Local Government Boundary Commission for Wales. For public service. 
Neil Davies, lately Chair, National Governors' Council and Co-Chair, National Governors' Association. For services to Education.
Peter John Davies, Head of Business Design, Jobcentre Plus, Department for Work & Pensions.
Donald Malcolm Dempsey, Director of ESFVON. For services to Voluntary and Community Organisations in the North East.
Susan Elizabeth, Mrs. Dewey. For services to the Sea Cadet Corps in Nottinghamshire.
Charles Dhanowa, Registrar, Competition Appeal Tribunal. For services to Competition Law.
Rodney William Dickinson, Business Development Director, FirstGroup plc. For services to Public Transport.
Susan Elizabeth Digby (Lady Eatwell), Founder and Principal, The Voices Foundation. For services to Music Education.
Councillor James Doig, Leader, Perth and Kinross Council. For services to Local Government.
Miss Zoe Dominic. For services to Arts Photography.
Christopher Peter Dorries, Chair, Yorkshire and Humber Mass Fatalities Working Group. For services to Emergency Planning.
Miss Lisa Dougherty, Nurse Consultant, The Royal Marsden Hospital. For services to the NHS.
Thomas Herbert Drake, Interim Chief Executive, Scottish Qualifications Authority. For services to Education.
Dr. Richard Dyer, lately Director, Babraham Institute, Cambridge. For services to Biology.
Miss Susan Margaret Eades, Head, Tuberculosis Division, Department for