[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

d fairly." Kennedy also delivered public testimony before the Louisiana House Committee on Civil Law and Procedure in support of the bill, saying that the bill "provides for a state-of-the-art defense for manufacturers." The Louisiana legislature enacted the Louisiana Products Liability Act in 1988.

Before Roemer's time in office, Louisiana had no limits on individual campaign contributions, which allowed donors to cut massive checks to campaigns without reporting the contributions. Roemer placed Kennedy in charge of his quest to toughen campaign finance laws, including placing a $5,000 cap on individual contributions to statewide candidates. 

In addition to ushering in the passage of campaign finance and product liability reforms for Roemer’s administration, Kennedy led the effort to consolidate Louisiana’s four boards of higher education into one. He said the policy would be "fundamental" to improving Louisiana universities' "quality and desegregation". That effort eventually came one vote short of passage. 

Roemer lost his reelection bid in 1991, but ran again in 1995 with Kennedy as his campaign manager. Roemer later endorsed Kennedy's bids for senate. Kennedy remained close to Roemer until his death in 2021 and credited the former governor for getting him involved in public service.

1991 state attorney general race 
In 1991, Kennedy ran for Louisiana attorney general to succeed the retiring William J. Guste. At 39, he was the youngest candidate in the race. In the state's jungle primary he received 288,382 votes (20%), placing third behind Ben Bagert, who received 313,143 (22%), and Richard Ieyoub, who received 447,457 (31%).

Louisiana Secretary of Revenue (1996–1999)

Following his first stint in state government, Kennedy returned to private law practice until 1996. That year, he was appointed secretary of the state Department of Revenue in the cabinet of Governor Mike Foster. Despite having political differences with Kennedy during his time in Roemer’s administration, Foster selected Kennedy for the position and later endorsed him for the U.S. Senate. Kennedy stepped down as secretary in April 1999 and was replaced by Brett Crawford.

Unclaimed Property Program 

As secretary of revenue, Kennedy started an initiative to return unclaimed property to the people of Louisiana. At the time, nearly 500,000 people had valuable unclaimed property, such as old bank accounts, stocks, bonds, utility deposits and other lost or forgotten money that had been turned over to the state. Louisiana was one of 39 states to join an effort to return unclaimed property. Kennedy’s Louisiana team hosted "Unclaimed Property Awareness Day" at the Lakeside Mall in Metairie, where shoppers claimed more than $365,000 in unclaimed property from the state. Kennedy also launched a website for Louisiana residents to collect unclaimed property online and continued to hold events throughout the state to help people find their unclaimed money. He continued the unclaimed property effort after being elected treasurer.

Taxpayer Bill of Rights 

In 1998, Kennedy advocated for the passage of Act 136, a bill that established a Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights. The bill guaranteed that taxpayers would be treated with respect, have access to instructions "written in plain English", receive quick responses to questions from the Department of Revenue, and receive notice if they were in violation of the tax policy, among other things.  

Kennedy used the Taxpayer’s Bill of Rights as a foundation to advocate for more tax code changes. In 1999, he proposed tax code changes that would protect people from prosecution for tax crimes that their spouses committed without their knowledge. He also proposed "Fair Interest" policies that halted the accrual of interest on tax liabilities held by people whom the Department of Revenue did not notify were in violation of state tax policy. Kennedy said the efforts helped ensure Louisiana residents had a tax system that was as "fair, easy, and convenient as possible", adding, "We look upon taxpayers as our customers...not our enemies."

Telefile 

In 1998, Kennedy aimed to streamline the process of paying taxes by allowing Louisiana taxpayers to file returns by phone via the TeleFile program. The Department of Revenue sent 593,000 taxpayers information on how to file by calling a toll-free number. In the first year, 61,000 taxpayers filed via TeleFile in a process that took an average of eight minutes to complete. Kennedy also worked to expand electronic filing in the state by allowing professional filers to submit forms online.

Gaming Control Board 

While secretary of the revenue department, Kennedy was also appointed to the Louisiana Gaming Control Board, which is responsible for regulating legalized gambling. He criticized riverboat casino operators for failing to enforce the 21-year age restriction.

Treasurer of Louisiana (2000–2017)