[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mount Victoria railway station

Room was built under his supervision.

Mount Victoria railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

The historical importance of Mount Victoria Railway Station Group as a railway location is demonstrated by a variety of high quality buildings which clearly show the development of the Station over time, particularly between 1872 and 1912, illustrating clearly the growth and decline of railway facilities in the Blue Mountains area. Mt Victoria was a convenient place to construct a locomotive facility (now demolished) to service terminating trains to serve railway tourism associated with the Jenolan Caves and handling goods trains over the steep grades of the Blue Mountains, particularly the section to Lithgow. The structures indicate the importance of Mt Victoria as a health and holiday resort, the Railway Refreshment Rooms and accommodation provided in the station building reinforcing this. The Mount Victoria Railway Rest-House (Barracks) is associated with the duplication of the railway line over the Blue Mountains in 1910 and is significant for its continued use as accommodation. The Station Group is the most substantial railway station complex in the Blue Mountains, demonstrating clear layers of growth from its original construction as a terminus station, through its growth at the turn of the century to the duplication of the railway line.

The place has a strong or special association with a person, or group of persons, of importance of cultural or natural history of New South Wales's history.

The Mount Victoria Railway Station is associated with John Whitton, Engineer-in-Chief of the NSW Railways, as the original Station building was built to a design from his time, and with George Cowdery, Engineer-in-Chief for Existing Lines, as the two-level stone addition containing the Railway Refreshment Room was built under his supervision.

The place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.

The Mount Victoria Railway Station Group is of aesthetic significance for its cohesive group of Victorian Regency and Federation buildings and is an important landmark in the townscape of Mt Victoria, being located at the lower end of the town at the termination of the main street vista.

While contemporary with the majority of station buildings surviving on the Blue Mountains railway line, the Platform 1 building and adjoining lavatory building do not derive from the standard pattern used for those buildings as it has been built for a side platform rather than an island platform. It has high quality detailing with its brick detailing, clearstory window and use or roughcast render.

The signal box on Platform 2 is a representative example of its type, adapted to suit the side platform rather than the more typical island platform. It is a well detailed building designed and orientated to maximize views of the lines in each direction. The Mount Victoria barracks has a simple gabled form with wide verandahs and has been modified significantly yet still provides an example of a former rest-house facility established within close proximity of the railway line.

The overall aesthetic character of the station is further enhanced by the setting of the station within the rock escarpment, a typical natural setting of the Blue Mountains stations, featuring a collection of numerous flora ranging from mature trees, shrubs and potted plants along both platforms.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

The place has the potential to contribute to the local community's sense of place, and can provide a connection to the local community's past.

The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

The Mount Victoria Railway Station Group has a high degree of research potential for its demonstrative ability in providing construction techniques and architectural character of various types of buildings in one station. The station building on Platform 2 is of particular research significance for its staged construction over time to accommodate different staff and passenger needs. The site of the former SM's cottage also has archaeological potential.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.