[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eric Menk

n Formula Shell Zoom Masters of eventual-MVP Benjie Paras. He scored 43 points in a Game 3 loss during that Finals. Menk continued his strong performance in the Commissioner and Governors Cup tournaments, leading him to numerous awards. As a rookie, he also led all locals in scoring for that season.

In 2000, Menk had another strong season for the Rhum Masters, as the team became one of the strongest teams in the league, acquiring Dondon Hontiveros and Jeffrey Cariaso. This included a career-high 45 points in a win over the Sta. Lucia Realtors. The team became a threat to corporate rival San Miguel Beermen. However, disappointment came for the team as Alvarado was deported for falsification of documents. The Rhum Masters, who won Games 2 and 3 of the semifinals series against Purefoods during that year's All-Filipino Cup, were eliminated from the series after its games won with Alvarado on the team were forfeited. Menk's citizenship came in question as well during the Commissioner's Cup, after the league scrutinized most of the Filipino-foreign cagers' documents. Menk was unable to further prove his Filipino lineage and was suspended indefinitely, forcing Menk to end his season early. During this time, he was courted by the Negros Slashers and the Cebu Gems to transfer to the Metropolitan Basketball Association (MBA).

Menk got frustrated not being able to play and considered leaving the country. Tanduay considered bringing him back not as a local, but as an import. His return to the pro league came more than a year later, when he was able to prove his citizenship. He played five games for Tanduay in the 2001 Governor's Cup, as the Rhum Masters bowed out of the tournament early and he suffered a strained calf injury.

Barangay Ginebra Kings

First seasons with Ginebra (2001–2003) 
After the 2001 PBA season, Tanduay was finalizing its sale to FedEx when Menk was traded to the crowd-favorite Barangay Ginebra Kings for Elmer Lago and a draft pick.

Menk's debut with the team was delayed, as he spent his time with the Philippine National Team for the 2002 Asian Games in Busan, South Korea. In the All-Filipino Cup, Menk finally made his Ginebra debut. In a win over the San Miguel Beermen, he exploded for 26 points. In his third game with Ginebra, he had a double-double of 14 points and 14 rebounds. He was unable to lead the Kings into the quarterfinals.

In 2003, Menk had strong performances during the season, however, Barangay Ginebra failed to enter the semi-finals of the All-Filipino Cup. His strong performances included a 45 point and 18 rebound double double against the Talk 'N Text Phone Pals that was nullified and a 38 point, 17 rebound double-double against FedEx. He also played in the 2003 PBA All-Star Game. He then had to sit out for a month due to a hamstring injury. Ginebra qualified for the quarterfinals in his return with import Rosell Ellis leading the way.

2004–05 season 
The 2004-2005 season marked Menk's biggest season yet. He led the Ginebra Kings to two consecutive PBA titles, winning the transition Fiesta Conference and the Philippine Cup. He also won the Best Player of the Conference honors during the two said tournaments. His 2004 Fiesta Conference championship was his first as a PBA player after leading Tanduay to numerous crowns in the PBL. He also got one of the highest votes to play in that year's All-Star game. During the 2005 Fiesta Conference, he was suspended indefinitely by the league for failure to show additional documents of his citizenship on time. Despite this, Menk still won that season's Most Valuable Player Award. He averaged 17.5 points and a league-best 11.8 rebounds in 71 total games.

2005–06 season 
Menk would return for Ginebra during the middle stages of the 2005–06 Fiesta Conference. In his first game back, he scored 17 points in a loss to Talk 'N Text. He got another double-double of 17 points and 17 rebounds as Ginebra won their fifth straight. He missed a game as he was suspended by the team for missing a practice without notice. While he led the Kings to the semifinals of the tournament, they were eliminated by eventual champion Red Bull Barako in seven grueling games. Throughout the Philippine Cup, he was hampered by an ankle sprain. He had three clutch free throws in a win over the Coca-Cola Tigers. During the 2006 PBA All-Star Game, his team, the PBA South All-Stars, won against the PBA North All-Stars, however, he didn't play due to a bruised knee. He missed several more games due to bone spurs. Still, he was able to help Ginebra make the quarterfinals, where in Game 2 of that series, he scored a season-high 35 points, 16 rebounds, two assists, and a block in a performance that helped them tie up the series. They eventually lost to Red Bull once again in that series, three games to two.