[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carl Wilkens

sed his connections and in few days, he organized two buses and a military escort, which was to help them to get through the most dangerous roadblocks. Wilkens negotiated with armed men on the way to the cathedral. In the end, everyone on the buses was transported to Saint Michel alive and unharmed.

Vaiter Orphanage and Nyamirambo Adventist Church
This was a quite similar situation to that in Gisimba. The orphanage was run by a Frenchman, Marc Vaiter, and before April 1994 its main goal was to take care of 16 HIV-positive orphans. But during the genocide it was a hiding place for about 100 children. They did not have drinking water and were running out of food and it was just then that Wilkens appeared, bringing most needed supplies.  None of the children spoke English nor did Carl speak Kinyarwanda, so at first children who did not know his name called him: ADRA SOS (it was written on his car). When the situation became critical (there was fighting going on between RPF and Hutu army in the area where orphanage was situated), again Wilkens tried to relocate survivors to Saint Michel Cathedral. His obstinacy allowed him to do it once again. People from the orphanage were safe.

He did the same for 12 survivors from Adventist Church in Nyamirambo. They were transported to the safe haven in Hôtel des Mille Collines.

Wilkens reminisces that the situation during genocide was very complex, and that he was working often on the edge of law and morality: "I was in so many positions that could have been interpreted as compromising or even collaborating with the enemy. … Who's going to believe someone who goes to court and says, 'Well, actually I asked [the prime minister] to help me save some Tutsis?' Who's going to believe that? The stuff in the genocide just turns."
Wilkens negotiated to save lives with Col. Tharcisse Renzaho - governor of Kigali and with prime minister Jean Kambanda later sentenced to life imprisonment by International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda (ICTR). General Romeo Dallaire faced a same dilemma, debating whether it was morally acceptable to "shake hands with the Devil" in order to save someone's life. However, the effects of such negotiations - thousands of saved human lives - made some feel that it was worthy to pay the price.

After RPF's victory
When the units of Rwandan Patriotic Front took over Kigali on July 4, 1994, it was not still the end of service for Wilkens. Asked by RPF's officials, he helped distribute water, food and supplies to inhabitants of Kigali. It was the case of for example Saint Andre College in Nyamirambo (where there were about 12,000 people) and Kacyiru camp for the internally displaced.

He also tried to find all his ADRA co-workers. Many times, such actions ended with a happy end. One of the most moving moments took place near Gitarama, when he found Amiel Gahima: "As we walked past the town of Gitarama towards Kigali, I abruptly saw a pick up truck with the ADRA flag. The vehicle suddenly stopped as it approached us. I couldn’t believe my eyes when I saw Carl Wilkens coming towards me from the vehicle. As he saw me, emaciated and frail, carrying my three-year-old son on my shoulders, he was in tears."

Return to Rwanda and present day
When he finally ended his mission, he went back to the United States. But in 1995 he, his wife Teresa and their 3 children returned to Rwanda and for the next 18 months Wilkens worked for the Adventist Church on reconstruction projects. Since 1996, Wilkens has been living in the U.S. and he became an Adventist pastor and is working in Milo Adventist Academy in Days Creek, Oregon. He visits Rwanda from time to time to see his friends and co-workers. When he was giving a sermon in Kigali in December 2005, crowd of over 3,000 people attended his service.

Wilkens tours the United States to speak to students, teachers, and parents about his experience in Rwanda. He has spoken at schools such as Clarke Central High School in Athens, Georgia, Mission San Jose High School in Fremont, California, St. Joseph's Collegiate Institute, Glenbrook North High School in Northbrook, Illinois, Nashville Community High School in Nashville, Illinois, Avon High School in Avon, Connecticut, and at Elon University in Elon, North Carolina. During his talks, he describes his experiences in Rwanda and how to stay positive by doing things such as creating new brain pathways.

On 25 January 2012, Wilkens spoke to high school students at the Al Yasmina school in Abu Dhabi of his experiences in Rwanda, and promoted his new book.

Wilkens also spoke during the 2014 GIN Abu Dhabi Conference in NYU Abu Dhabi, to a group of high school and university students.

On 26–27 April 2014, Wilkens spoke to students at several international schools in Taipei of his experiences in Rwanda, and was selling his book during a Model United Nations conference.

See also