[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Charles Musès

Charles Arthur Muses (; 28 April 1919 – 26 August 2000), was a mathematician, cyberneticist and an esoteric philosopher who wrote articles and books under various pseudonyms (including Musès, Musaios, Kyril Demys, Arthur Fontaine, Kenneth Demarest and Carl von Balmadis). He founded the Lion Path, a shamanistic movement. He held unusual and controversial views relating to mathematics, physics, philosophy, and many other fields.

Biography 
Muses was born in Jersey City, New Jersey, and grew up in Long Island, New York. His father abandoned the family when Muses was a young boy forcing his mother to support Muses and a large, extended family on a school teacher's salary. Years later he would remark in lectures that if his mother had not had an overarching faith in "young Charlie" he might never have been able to escape the confines of his impoverished youth.

By 1946, Muses was working on his Master's Degree from Columbia University, New York. In 1949, Muses submitted for approval his Columbia University Ph.D work in philosophy (see preface to the dissertation). The doctoral thesis led with the name of a little-known German-English exegete in idealism, Dionysius Andreas Freher (d. 1728), who through years of study had become learned on the far-famed German idealist Jacob Böhme (d. 1624), the latter being the actual subject of Muses's pre-doctoral studies at Columbia. This was suggested by and confirmed in the subtitle of the thesis, 'An Inquiry in the Work of A Fundamental Contributor to the Philosophic Tradition of Jacob Boehme.' With some modifications (seen by comparing the thesis to the subsequent book), the entirety was published in 1951 under the title 'Illumination on Jacob Boehme: The Work of Dionysius Andreas Freher' by King’s Crown Press (which at the time was a subsidized front for doctoral students of Columbia University).  On pp. 151-2 Muses states, “Both Boehme’s and Freher’s outstanding message philosophically is that philosophy is not a dodge, game, or only some kind of artistic exercise, but a solid enterprise of most productive value – able to yield concrete results of a most extended nature in terms of deep changes in attitude and understanding, leading to actions toward and realization of the intrinsic nobility possible to and desired by mankind.” The two-year delay between finishing the thesis work (1949) and its recognition in the grant of the Ph.D. (1951) is not explained.

In 1991 the book In All Her Names: Explorations of the Feminine in Divinity was published by Harper San Francisco.  It was edited by Joseph Campbell and Charles Muses.  Each contributed a chapter to the book along with Riane Eisler and Marija Gimbutas.  The title of Muses chapter is "The Ageless Way of Goddess: Divine Pregnancy and Higher Birth in Ancient Egypt and China".  On pages 136–137, he states, “Similarly, the ancient theurgic doctrine taught that in the dim and mysterious recesses of each human brain are lodged the control centers for transducing a higher metamorphic process in that individual, of which the butterfly, wonderful as it is, is but a crude and imperfect analogue... The acquisition of a higher body by an individual meant also, by that very token, the possibility of communicating with beings already so endowed.  The entrance into this higher community and fellowship is one of the principal causes for celebration in the Ancient Egyptian liturgy of the sacred transformative process – sacred because it conferred so much beyond ordinary life.”

Charles Muses edited, Esoteric Teachings of the Tibetan Tantra, which was translated into English by Chang Chen Chi.  The book was first published in 1961, by The Falcon’s Wing Press.  Muses states on page ix of the introduction, “In these considerations also lies the true meaning of the most secret tantric path, in Tibet called the Vajrayana or Thunderbolt Vehicle.  It is secret only because most do not have enough of the intelligent love-will to find and pursue it.  For those who place such a level of high desire first, however, the precious means (upaya) will mysteriously arise in their lifetimes, and they will be able to tread this path of Love-Will-Wisdom, of Heart, Hand and Head harmoniously joined.  But heart or love must rule the other two or wisdom will become unwise and the love-will deteriorate again into self-will.”

Muses had no success in attaining a tenured position as a faculty member at an institution of higher education. Forced to give lectures to earn a living, he wrote books and began traveling the world. He continued these pursuits for the remainder of his life.