[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Liberal welfare reforms

The Liberal welfare reforms (1906–1914) were a series of acts of social legislation passed by the Liberal Party after the 1906 general election. They represent the emergence of the modern welfare state in the United Kingdom. The reforms demonstrate the split that had emerged within liberalism, between emerging social liberalism and classical liberalism, and a change in direction for the Liberal Party from laissez-faire traditional liberalism to a party advocating a larger, more active government protecting the welfare of its citizens.

The historian G. R. Searle argued that the reforms had multiple causes, including "the need to fend off the challenge of Labour; pure humanitarianism; the search for electoral popularity; considerations of National Efficiency; and a commitment to a modernised version of welfare capitalism." By implementing the reforms outside the English Poor Laws, the stigma attached to claiming relief was also removed.

During the 1906 general election campaign, neither of the two major parties made poverty an important election issue and no promises were made to introduce welfare reforms. Despite this, the Liberals led by Henry Campbell-Bannerman and later H. H. Asquith won a landslide victory and began introducing wide-ranging reforms as soon as they took office.

Causes

The split within liberalism led to the rise of modern liberalism within the Liberal Party, and the de-emphasis of what some refer to as "classical" liberalism, which had allegedly been the dominant ideology within the party. Historically, liberalism emphasized a system of government to protect liberty; historically, liberalism viewed the threat to liberty as mainly coming from the force and coercion of the state. The split within liberalism occurred when many liberals viewed threats to individual liberty arising from sources other than the state, such as from the concentration of money, the amalgamation of power, or in the destitution of the poor, the sick, or the elderly. Modern liberalism was an ideology which promoted an active government as the best guardian of liberty – both theoretical liberty and effective liberty – through government aid. Several 'New Liberals' such as David Lloyd George and Winston Churchill replaced the earlier ideology apparent in figures such as William Ewart Gladstone (see Gladstonian Liberalism) who felt that people should be responsible for their own lives.
The social investigations of Charles Booth and Seebohm Rowntree. These investigations helped change attitudes towards the causes of poverty. Booth carried out extensive research into the poor living conditions and poverty experienced in London, whilst Rowntree made a social investigation into the problems experienced by the poor in York. These investigations provided statistical evidence for genuine moral concern for the poor. They stated that illness and old age were greater causes of poverty than idleness and moral weakness. Rowntree was himself a close friend of Lloyd George; the pair first met in 1907 after Lloyd George became President of the Board of Trade. Rowntree himself hoped that his proposals could influence Liberal policy.
The threat from the emerging Labour Party. Socialism was an increasingly popular ideology. If the Liberals did not put forward popular policies, they were in danger of losing votes and handing the House of Commons to the Conservatives.
The trade union movement was growing especially during the period 1910–1912. Unless living conditions were improved, there were genuine concerns that workers may turn to Communism or rebellion.
 The fact that the Labour Party allowed the Liberals to return to form a government, as they held the seats needed for a majority after the 1910 general election, meant that further legislation was passed, since the Labour Party, which was socially democratic, was allied to workers through their affiliated trade unions.
The condition of soldiers during the Boer War was considered unacceptable. The UK Government had trouble enlisting enough able-bodied recruits to the British Army.
Germany and the United States were overtaking Britain as economic powers – the success of social legislation in Bismarck's Germany made leading Liberals in the UK such as David Lloyd George and Winston Churchill want to put forward similar legislation.
The emergence of public works schemes set up to improve living conditions which were often run by the Liberals raised the possibility that such schemes could occur on a national scale.