[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adrian Smith (politician)

. He was reelected to a seventh term, defeating Democratic nominee Paul Theobald 77%–23%.

2020
Smith won the Republican primary over four other candidates with 83% of the vote, and won the general election with 78% of the vote over Democratic nominee Mark Elworth, a marijuana legalization activist.

Tenure
In December 2020, Smith was one of 126 Republican members of the House of Representatives to sign an amicus brief in support of Texas v. Pennsylvania, a lawsuit filed at the United States Supreme Court contesting the results of the 2020 presidential election, in which Joe Biden defeated incumbent Donald Trump. The Supreme Court declined to hear the case on the basis that Texas lacked standing under Article III of the Constitution to challenge the results of an election held by another state.

House Speaker Nancy Pelosi issued a statement that called signing the amicus brief an act of "election subversion." She also reprimanded Smith and the other House members who supported the lawsuit: "The 126 Republican Members that signed onto this lawsuit brought dishonor to the House. Instead of upholding their oath to support and defend the Constitution, they chose to subvert the Constitution and undermine public trust in our sacred democratic institutions." New Jersey Representative Bill Pascrell, citing section three of the 14th Amendment, called for Pelosi to not seat Smith and the other Republicans who signed the brief supporting the suit, arguing that "the text of the 14th Amendment expressly forbids Members of Congress from engaging in rebellion against the United States. Trying to overturn a democratic election and install a dictator seems like a pretty clear example of that."

Committee assignments
 Committee on Ways and Means
 Subcommittee on Trade
 Subcommittee on Social Security
 Subcommittee on Health

Caucus memberships
Congressional Rural Caucus (co-chair)
 Tea Party Caucus
 Congressional Constitution Caucus

References

External links

 Congressman Adrian Smith official U.S. House website
 Adrian Smith for Congress
 
 
 

|-

1970 births
21st-century American politicians
Activists from Nebraska
American evangelicals
Living people
Nebraska city council members
Republican Party Nebraska state senators
People from Gering, Nebraska
People from Scottsbluff, Nebraska
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Nebraska
Tea Party movement activists
University of Nebraska–Lincoln alumni