[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Seneca Women's Encampment for a Future of Peace and Justice

rmed the fence and filled it with zucchinis. Other demonstrations featured singing, dancing, masks, costumes, makeup, and signs. Sometimes die-ins were performed, to imitate war casualties. There was even a laundry ritual, in which women hung up signs in a local laundromat while doing their laundry.

The Waterloo Bridge Incident
Preceding their march on the Saturday, July 30, 1983, several women from the NYC Women's Pentagon Action wrote a letter to the sheriff of Seneca County to inform him of their plans. They intended to walk from Seneca Falls, through Waterloo to the peace camp in Romulus at the Army Depot, stopping at historic sites regarding the women's rights movement on their way. There were no local laws requiring a permit and so none could be issued.

The walk was without incident until its path was blocked at a bridge on Washington Street in Waterloo. A large group of local residents blocked the road and refused to leave. The marchers responded to the situation by sitting down on the road in an effort to reduce the confrontational atmosphere.

The standoff lasted for some time as the sheriff tried to convince the marchers to give up their march. Although many of the marchers had not yet been to the encampment, the sheriff sent to the encampment to have leaders brought to the scene in an effort to resolve the situation. When many women continued to refuse to leave the road, they were charged with disorderly conduct and taken into custody; some marchers did clear the road and were not charged. One local woman, the wife of a bank president, felt that those blocking the road, not the marchers, should be arrested and she joined the marchers and was charged as well. A total of 54 women were detained; nearly all refused to identify themselves, and so they were held in lieu of bail which they refused to post.

They were taken by school bus to the Seneca County Jail where they were arraigned. They were then taken to the South Seneca Elementary School in Interlaken where they were held until the following Wednesday.

The largest protest at the depot organized by the encampment took place on Monday, Aug. 1. The peaceful event, which did involve many women climbing the depot's fence, took place while the women were still in custody.

On August 3 the women were transported to the Seneca County Fairgrounds in Waterloo where a makeshift court room was set up so the women could appear before the village justice. After several hours of individual court proceedings, the justice called a break in the proceedings. When he returned, he called all the defendants into the building and dismissed the charges against them in the interest of justice.

Legacy
Another anti-nuclear weapons protest occurred at the depot in October 1983, which was not sponsored by the Women's Encampment, although some encampment participants did participate.

After the main encampment ended in the summer of 1983, several smaller demonstrations occurred at the depot the following summer. While a token presence at the encampment continued for a few years, the activity declined each year. In 1986, the Window Peace project in New York City paid tribute to both this encampment and the Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp.

In the early 1990s, the Special Weapons area at the Seneca Army Depot, which is where the protesters believed the nuclear weapons were stored, was closed and the Army acknowledged that the base's Special Weapons mission had ended. Not long after the base was listed for closure under the Base Realignment and Closure Act. The depot was finally decommissioned and shut down on September 2000. 

Since the mid-1990s, the base has been undergoing redevelopment for non-military purposes. Among those now in place is a state prison (Five Points Correctional Facility). For a time the former troop housing area was used as a program for troubled teenagers by Kid's Peace and then by the Hillside Children's Center. That area has been sold by the Seneca County IDA and is vacant. Depot land also has been re-utilized for a Seneca County Jail, and various buildings at the base are being used for warehousing.

See also
Women Strike for Peace
Greenham Common Women's Peace Camp
Counterculture of the 1960s
 List of anti-war organizations
The Ribbon International
Goddess movement
Women-only space

References

External links
 Records of the Women's Encampment for a Future of Peace and Justice Schlesinger Library, Radcliffe Institute, Harvard University
Seneca Women's Encampment for a Future of Peace and Justice Collection 1977-1997, W. E. B. Du Bois Library, University of Massachusetts Amherst
 Women's Peace Encampment online archive: oral histories, photos, videos, news clippings PeaCe eNCaMPMeNT HeRSToRy PRoJeCT
 Joan E. Biren. "Look To the Women for Courage: Stories From the Seneca Encampment for Peace and Justice" (1984), Sophia Smith Collection, Smith College