[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Gotabaya Rajapaksa

rial waters allowing Rajapaksa to maintain communications while being safely out of reach of the protesters. On 12 July, it was reported that Rajapaksa was blocked from leaving the country by immigration staff at Bandaranaike International Airport and his visa request for United States was rejected.

In the morning of 13 July, Rajapaksa left Sri Lanka via an Antonov An-32 military transport aircraft of the Sri Lanka Air Force to Maldives. There were protests in Maldives upon his arrival. While in Maldives, he issued a gazette stating that he is "unable to exercise, perform and discharge the powers, duties and functions of the Office of the President" by reason of his absence from Sri Lanka and appointed Ranil Wickremesinghe as acting president under Article 37 (1) of the constitution of Sri Lanka. However, Rajapaksa was yet to officially resign from presidency on 13 July as he had previously announced on 9 July. On 14 July, Rajapaksa left Maldives for Singapore via a Saudi Airlines flight. Singapore's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said in a statement that Rajapaksa had been allowed entry into Singapore on a private visit, and that he had neither asked for nor been granted any asylum. Later that day, President Rajapaksa sent his resignation letter to the Speaker of the Parliament through email, formally announcing his resignation. Rajapaksa would be the first Sri Lankan president to resign in the middle of his term.

In his resignation letter which was formally read out at the parliament on 16 July, he had stated:

On 2 September, Rajapaksa returned to Sri Lanka, ending his 52-day self-imposed exile.

Honours and awards

Decorations and medals
During his 20 years of military service, Rajapaksa has received medals from three Presidents of Sri Lanka, J.R. Jayewardene, Ranasinghe Premadasa and D.B. Wijetunga. These include the gallantry medals, Rana Wickrama Padakkama and Rana Sura Padakkama, service medals and campaign medals. He received the Eastern Humanitarian Operations Medal and the Northern Humanitarian Operations Medal during his tenure as Defense Secretary.

Honorary degrees
Gotabaya Rajapaksa received an Honorary Doctorate, a Doctor of Letters from the University of Colombo on 6 September 2009, along with his brother President Mahinda Rajapaksa following public acclaim as a war hero.

Environmental awards
In July 2020, he was awarded the Zero carbon certificate for conducting his election campaign representing SLPP in eco-friendly manner. His election campaign became the first zero carbon election campaign in the world.

See also
Eelam War IV
List of attacks attributed to the LTTE
List of attacks on civilians attributed to the Sri Lankan government forces 
List of political families in Sri Lanka
List of Sri Lankan non-career Permanent Secretaries

References

Further reading
 Army, Sri Lanka. (1st Edition – October 1999). Sri Lanka Army: 50 Years On, 1949–1999, Colombo: Sri Lanka Army. 932 p., 
 The Broken Palmyra – The Tamil Crisis in Sri Lanka: An Inside Account. The Sri Lanka Studies Institute, Claremont, CA, 1990. By Hoole, R., Somasundaram, D., Sritharan K., and Rajini Thiranagama. (Also available online, Note from the publishers & book review)
 War and Peace in Sri Lanka: With a Post-Accord Report From Jaffna. /, Institute of Fundamental Studies, Sri Lanka; 1 edition (1 October 1987), By Rohan Gunaratna.

External links

 Official Website – President of Sri Lanka 
 Gotabaya Rajapaksa's Web Site
 The Rajapaksa Ancestry
 Official Website – Ministry of Defence, Sri Lanka

 
1949 births
Living people
People from Matara, Sri Lanka
Presidents of Sri Lanka
Gotabaya
Candidates in the 2019 Sri Lankan presidential election
Commandants of the General Sir John Kotelawala Defence University
Gajaba Regiment officers
Permanent secretaries of Sri Lanka
Sinha Regiment officers
Sri Lankan computer specialists
Sri Lankan Buddhists
Sri Lankan lieutenant colonels
Sri Lankan nationalists
Gotabaya
Sri Lanka Signals Corps officers
Sri Lanka Military Academy graduates
Sinhalese military personnel
Sri Lankan politicians
Failed assassination attempts in Sri Lanka
Former United States citizens
University of Madras alumni
Alumni of Ananda College
Alumni of the University of Colombo
Defence Services Staff College alumni