[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Devil's Path (hiking trail)

The Devil's Path  is a hiking trail in the Greene County section of the Catskill Mountains of New York, sometimes described as one of the more challenging trails in the New York Tri-state area. It goes across the eponymous mountain range and then three other peaks to the west, offering hikers and peakbaggers a chance to reach the summits of five of the 35 Catskill High Peaks (two more are reachable by detours). It draws hikers from not just the region but far outside, due to the challenging climbs straight up and down the steep gaps between the four peaks of the range, which often require hikers to use hands as well as feet to pull themselves almost straight up cliffs and through rocky chutes. These climbs, however, lead to views across the Catskill range.

Most hikers use the trail for day trips to one or two summits along the range, via the trails that go up into the cols. But backpackers have done weekend trips due to the easy availability of a state-owned campground at Devil's Tombstone, near the single road crossing at Stony Clove Notch. It is also possible for determined hikers to complete the entire trail in a single, long day.

The portion of the trail from Plateau Mountain to just east of Indian Head Mountain is currently part of the Long Path. Most of it is on state-owned Forest Preserve land in New York's Catskill Park. Most of it lies within two New York State Department of Environmental Conservation management units, the Indian Head Wilderness Area east of Stony Clove Notch and (currently) the Hunter Mountain Wild Forest from there to Diamond Notch, then the West Kill Wilderness Area.

History
While some of the peaks east of Stony Clove Notch had been climbed for quite some time, according to Catskill forest historian Michael Kudish, the modern Devil's Path was first cut from the Old Overlook Road to Mink Hollow in 1929, shortly after the state acquired the property. Plateau followed in 1934 after that purchase was made, and the following year the route up Hunter from the notch was opened.

However, for several decades afterward there was no new construction. In 1973, the state finally opened the route down to the falls, and the final section over West Kill came shortly thereafter. Despite an original idea to continue the trail on over North Dome Mountain and Mount Sherrill to the west that led to a sign (still in existence) erected at the proposed junction site, those two peaks remain trailless today. There have been some proposals within NYSDEC of building a modified extension but it does not appear likely to happen at this point.

Description

The Devil's Path has a single road crossing, NY 214 at Stony Clove Notch. This is often used to divide the eastern half of the trail, the one that gives it its reputation, from the more remote but less challenging western half. It is blazed with NYSDEC red plastic discs throughout.

When hiked in this direction, the mountain summits get higher as the gaps between them get lower.

Eastern section

This is the "classic" Devil's Path. It features four major summits, with the trail going straight up and down the fall line into the gaps between, with all the rugged terrain that implies.

Schoharie headwaters

Officially, the blazing starts at the junction of Prediger Road near Elka Park in the Town of Hunter. The eastern trailhead is located at the end of Prediger. It is often reached via the steep drive up nearby Platte Clove Road except during winter, when the road is closed.

Just after its start, the trail crosses an unnamed tributary of Schoharie Creek and then turns south, crossing the state-land boundary after a short distance. At 0.45 mile (725 m) from the start, the blue-blazed Jimmy Dolan Notch Trail leaves and crosses over the Schoharie. It offers a shorter route to the eponymous feature for those planning to skip Indian Head Mountain, the first peak on the trail's itinerary.

The Devil's Path itself remains level, trending eastward for the next  past the source of the Schoharie to a junction with the Old Overlook Road which once connected Platte Clove Road and Overlook Mountain to the south. Today the portion joining the trail is part of the Long Path, leading down through the Catskill Center for Conservation and Development's Platte Clove Preserve. Shortly after this junction, the Devil's Path leaves the road and begins to climb Indian Head.

Indian Head

The ascent is steep for the next , finally reaching a lookout to the north on the mountain's east slope. Kaaterskill High Peak predominates from here. The trail then runs around through an increasingly boreal forest to the mountain's north slope, where a view cut (somewhat controversially) by DEC in the past offers a preview of later, more expansive vistas to the south. After a half-mile (1 km), the trail reaches a section where roots form a sort of ladder up a steep rock face. Just past it is a ledge with a wide view over the Hudson River and points east.