[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2006 Georgian–Russian espionage controversy

The 2006 Georgian–Russian espionage controversy began when the Government  of Georgia arrested four Russian officers on charges of espionage, on September 27, 2006.  The Western and Georgian media sources report that relations between the two post-Soviet nations have significantly deteriorated after Georgia and NATO agreed to hold talks on closer relations.<ref name="PUTIN FURY">[http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/5397102.stm Putin fury at Georgia 'terrorism'''] The BBC News, October 1, 2006.</ref>

Background
Russian-Georgian relations have largely been reported as tense after the November 2003 Rose Revolution in Georgia brought the pro-Western reformist leader Mikheil Saakashvili to power. Putin renews Georgia withdrawal, The Australian – Breaking News, October 2, 2006.

The 2006 gas pipeline explosions and the Russian ban of Georgian wines and mineral waters were interpreted by many as the means of the Government of Russia's pressure on the Georgian leadership for the country's close ties with NATO and the United States.Wine blockade by Kremlin drawing fire, The International Herald Tribune, April 6, 2006.

The recent disruption of the Status quo ante in the Kodori Valley in Abkhazia led to a further downturn in the already tensed Russian-Georgian relations.

In July 2006, the Georgian police and security forces took control of the Kodori Valley, hitherto controlled by the local Georgian militias led by the defiant commander Emzar Kvitsiani. Georgian officials claimed that the Russian security services were behind the 2006 Kodori crisis, while Russian and Abkhaz authorities accused Georgia of violation of the previous ceasefire agreements by deploying an armed force in the Valley.  In September 2006, the area was officially renamed Upper Abkhazia by the Georgian government and declared to be the "temporary administrative center" of Abkhazia until the conflict is resolved.

Continuous anti-Russian statements by the Georgian government, such as the September 2006 speech by President Saakashvili in Poland, were interpreted by some Russian media sources as depicting Russia as the "barbarous tribe of Huns".

Timeline
 On September 27 four Russian officers (allegedly working for Russian military intelligence, GRU) and at least ten Georgian citizens were detained on espionage charges in Tbilisi and other cities of Georgia.
 On September 28 Russia recalled Vyacheslav Kovalenko, its ambassador, and began a partial evacuation of its staff from the country.
 On September 29, Georgia charged the officers with spying and ordered them to be held for two months pending investigations. The Russian military headquarters in Tbilisi, Georgia, was encircled by Georgian police who were searching for an additional suspect allegedly involved in the February 2005 car bomb blast in the town of Gori, Georgia, which killed three Georgian police officers and destroyed a local police office.
 On September 29, Russia proposed a draft of a strict resolution condemning "provocations of Georgia" to the United Nations Security Council. The United States blocked the vote, however, on the account that the US delegation was "not satisfied with the document as it is," as the US Ambassador to the United Nations John Bolton put it.U.S. objects to proposed Russian statement on Georgia's arrest of Russian officers for spying, International Herald Tribune, September 29, 2006.
 On September 29, 2006, President Putin met Sergey Bagapsh and Eduard Kokoity, the secessionist leaders of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, respectively, who were invited as foreign guests, at the roundtable discussions on "Economic Development of Southern Russia" hosted in Sochi, leading to protests from Georgia.Kokoity, Bagapsh Among Participants of Roundtable Discussion with Putin, Civil Georgia, September 30, 2006.
 On October 2, the arrested Russian officers were handed over by the Georgian side to the Chairman of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE), after being paraded in front of the international media in Tbilisi.Russia spurns Georgia despite 'spies' release  (The Australian): "...where they were paraded outside in handcuffs before the media. " OSCE Chairman-in-Office Karel De Gucht had arrived in Tbilisi for the negotiations with the Georgian government. The officers returned to Moscow on the same day.
 On October 3, Russia suspended air, rail, road, sea and postal links to Georgia, and stopped issuing entry visas to all Georgian citizens. The OSCE, UN, and the US called on Russia to match Georgia and take steps to decrease tension by reestablishing transport links with Georgia. Russia Suspends All Georgia Transport, The Washington Times, October 3, 2006. However, Russia has rejected U.S. and EU calls to lift economic sanctions on Georgia.
 On October 3, Moscow police raided Georgian businesses in the capital of Russia, shut down a Georgian-owned casino and occupied a Georgian guest house. Although the Russian Interior Ministry described these