[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Crows and Sparrows

" as he was deemed a progressive and an enlightened saint. Which was not the case; in the 1950s and 60s when he was viewed as an bourgeois degenerate. Neither of which are true to his character, when he was alive he surrounded himself around "leftists" like Xia Yan and Chen Baichen.

Time Background

The story of the film was take place in 1948 to early 1949. The film tells the story of several families in a building in Shanghai who struggle against the Nationalist officer Hou Yibo at the end of the Nationalist regime in 1948. The film displays a simple ideal sentiment with a touch of the era, and moreover, a frank technique and a swaying oriental  aesthetic characteristic of the early days of Chinese cinema. The film represents a shaky state of society and gives the audience an attitude of uncertainty, trepidation, expectation and class struggle. The statements of optimism about the "new society" by two characters at the film's end are attributable to the film being completed after the communists won the Chinese Civil War.

Production

Censorship
Crows and Sparrows was made near the end of the Civil War, when “the outcome of the war was obvious to all”. During this period, as Shanghai was still in control of the Nationalist Party, films and other cultural productions had to go through heavy censorship, often referred to as the “white terror”. Therefore, Chen Baichen (陈白尘), the screenwriter, prepared two versions of the screenplay, and managed to use the self-censored version to pass the censor. However, during the production, the hidden version was discovered by the censorship department and was compelled to stop as it “disturbed the social security and damaged government prestige” (“扰乱社会治安，破坏政府威信”). The production had to go underground until Shanghai’s liberation on May 27, 1949 which lead to the production being able to finish shooting during the daytime. The films released by the central government were intended to glorify the KMT's corrupt actions, but the true voices of the people is the criticism produced by these private film studios.  Following the change in overnance, the director, Zheng Junli, sped up the production of the film, Crows and Sparrows, and reintroduced much of the content that had been previously removed by censors. Since it was among the first films to be released, it likely would have been “the first time the audience heard from a screen the antigovernment slang that was familiar on the streets in 1948 and 1949.”

Inspiration 
Crows and Sparrows was conceived over dinner by Shanghai Kunlun Film Co., Ltd's Chen Baichen, Shen Fu, Zheng Junli, Chen Yuting, and Zhao Dan, and the script was completed the next day. The Communist Party and the KMT were fighting for the three primary fights in China's political situation in 1948. The group of filmmakers discussed the precarious social environment over dinner and predicted that things would change dramatically, so they were prepared to shoot a feature film that would document the Kuomintang regime's demise and reflect the filmmakers' optimism for a new world. Over the course of the night, they met with a number of scriptwriters. Soon after, they discussed the script's outline, gave it the title, Crows and Sparrows, and handed it over to Chen Baichen to write. They also agreed to let Zheng Junli direct, as he had previously collaborated with Cai Chusheng on Spring River Flows East.

Camera Movement 
Zoom in on newspaper advertisement.
A crane shot early in the film reveals the ‘vertical’ relationship among the residents.
Camera pans to show Hou Boyi in uniform from the back.
Use dolly movement to show the old gentleman's popularity.
Through rack focus to shift the focus from the landlord to the tenant.
Track two people to show the problem they were discussing.
Tilt camera to show A protest by people who don't want to move.

Actual Events 
Screenwriter Chen Baichen reflects actual problems happening in China at the time of Crows and Sparrows. During the 1940s, China experienced inflation that negatively affected much of the Chinese population. The nationalist government introduced restrictive measures in 1947 which were a failed attempt at curbing inflation. By mid-1947 the KMT launched their attack on the communist government. The war became their central focus and all other concerns were put to the side. The KMT government printed money to finance weapons, machinery and their army. This further fed the devaluation of the Chinese currency and in 1948 Inflation peaked when wholesale prices in shanghai increased 7.5 million times since the 1945 prices. The hyperinflation killed the economy and industry. Citizens had to purchase gold from the KMT government which is depicted in the scene where Xiao purchases gold bars.

Reception
The film was fairly popular upon release. A revised version premiered in early 1950 and was shown 577 times in Shanghai that year, netting an audience of 287,000.

Accolades