[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# French Cochinchina

on 20 May, and the merger was effective on 4 June. The State of Vietnam was then be proclaimed, with Bảo Đại as head of state.

Administration

Government 
 

Following the French colonial invasion, Vietnamese mandarins withdrew from Cochinchina, forcing the French to adopt a policy of direct rule. 

The highest office in the government of French Cochinchina was the Governor of Cochinchina (統督南圻, Thống đốc Nam Kỳ), who after 1887 reported directly to the Governor-General of French Indochina. As French Cochinchina was a directly-ruled colony the French colonial apparatus operated at every level of government including at the provincial, district, and communal levels.

Each Cochinchinese province was headed by French official with the title of "Chủ tỉnh" (主省) or "Tỉnh trưởng" (省長), these French officials had similar roles and responsibilities as the equivalent French "Công sứ" (公使) had in the provinces of the Nguyễn dynasty. The provinces of French Cochinchina was further divided into districts known as "Tong" headed by a "Chanh tong", which were further divided into communes known as "xã" (社), which were headed by a "Huong ca". Both the district and commune chiefs were salaried employees of the French colonial administration.

Laws 
During the early periods of French rule in Cochinchina both French laws and Nguyễn dynasty laws applied and offenders of both faced trial in French courts. Initially French people were tried using French laws and Vietnamese people (then known as "Annamese people") were tried using the Nguyễn dynasty's laws alongside a new set of provisions that the French had introduced for their colonial subjects. The French courts applied their rulings based on the two different legal systems. After their consolidation of power the Nguyễn's laws were completely abolished in French Cochinchina and only French laws applied to everyone in the colony. 

On 6 January 1903, the Governor-General of French Indochina Jean Baptiste Paul Beau issued a decree that stated that offences for both French and indigenous laws would go to French courts and that offenders would only be tried against French Cochinchina's penal code. During this period the Governor-General of French Indochina also issued a decree that introduced new laws to fine people for a number of common offences outside of the French penal code.

Gallery

See also 
 Cochinchina
 French Indochina
 Protectorate of Annam
 Protectorate of Tonkin
 List of administrators of the French colony of Cochinchina
 List of French possessions and colonies
 State of Vietnam

Notes

References

Works cited

Further reading 
 Encyclopedia of Asian History, Volume 4 (Vietnam) 1988. Charles Scribner's Sons, New York.
 Vietnam – A Long History by Nguyễn Khắc Viện (1999). Hanoi, Thế Giới Publishers
 ArtHanoi Vietnamese money in historical context
 WorldStatesmen- Vietnam

 
French Indochina
Former countries in Vietnamese history
Former colonies in Asia
Former French colonies
French colonisation in Asia
Former countries in Southeast Asia
States and territories established in 1862
States and territories established in 1945
States and territories disestablished in 1945
States and territories disestablished in 1949
1862 establishments in Vietnam
1945 establishments in Vietnam
1945 disestablishments in Vietnam
1949 disestablishments in Vietnam
1862 establishments in the French colonial empire
1945 establishments in the French colonial empire
1945 disestablishments in French Indochina
1949 disestablishments in French Indochina
History of South Vietnam