[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bahamian English

st African languages, and Spanish, due to the country's colonial past. Bahamian English has also come under the influence of American English due to a boost in tourism after the country gained independence, along with the resulting diffusion of American media.

Some distinctive Bahamianisms include:

Advantage (verb) - to cheat.
Aligned patch reefs (noun) - a line of reef.
Bey – supposed to mean "boy", but can also refer to any person. It can also be used as an imperative command to make somebody pay attention to a point.
Biggety (adjective) - bold or loud.
Big-up (adjective) - pregnant.
Boom-boom (noun) - buttocks.
Boonggy (noun) - the hindquarters area. As a verb, it refers to anal penetration.
Bread (noun) - a woman's genitals. Can also be expressed with "crabby".
Bubby (adjective) - big and round (of a person's lips). (Not to be confused with "bubbie", which refers to a woman's breasts.)
Broughtupcy (noun) – the way that someone is raised. "No broughtupcy" can also be used as an adjective, meaning "bad-mannered".
Buck up (verb) - to run into something or someone.
Bush crack man gone - a proverb meaning to run when trouble comes.
Capoonka (adjective) - confused.
Chirren (noun) - children.
Conchy Joe (noun) - can refer to either a white native/longtime resident of the Bahamas or a cocktail.
Coral pinnacle (noun) - can refer to a coral stack or a coral head.
Cut eye (verb) - to give somebody a dirty look.
Cut one's hip (verb) - to give somebody a beating. The noun "cut-hip" refers to a beating that is given in this act.
Doggy (noun) - a man's genitals.
Erl (noun) - oil. (Can refer to both cooking oil and motor oil.)
Ey (particle) - used at the end of a yes/no question when seeking information.
Frowsy (adjective) - foul-smelling, often in an extreme sense.
Gat - got.
Gattee - a contraction of "got to".
Grabalishus (adjective) - greedy.
Grinding (noun) - the act of having sex. Can also be expressed with "juicing".
Gumma - a contraction of "give me".
Gun casin - describes the curvature of a woman's upper thigh area.
Gyal (noun) – girl.
Hereditaments (noun) - property (of land).
Hey (particle) - used at the end of a yes/no question when seeking agreement.
I's – I am.
Islandish (adjective) - unsophisticated.
Jam up (adjective) - crowded.
Jitney (noun) - a city bus.
Jook (verb) - to poke or stab.
Jungaless (noun) - a loud, uncouth and fiesty woman.
Kerpunkle up (adjective) - drunk (on alcohol).
Leg short - an idiom used when somebody arrives too late.
Low fence (noun) - a person who is a pushover or can be taken advantage of.
Mango skin - a light-skinned person.
Mash up (verb) - to break or destroy something.
Mound reef (noun) - a boiler (of a coral reef), especially one set in deeper open water.
Muddo or muddasick (interjection) – an expression used to represent excitement, surprise, or shock.
Musse or mussy - a contraction of "must be", often used to mean only the former.
Nanny (noun) - fecal matter or excretory waste.
Peasyhead - addresses the fact that a person's hair has tight curls at the nape of their head.
Pikney (noun) - a small child.
Potcake (noun) - a stray dog.
Reef barrier (noun) - the main reef of a coral reef system.
Reef platform (noun) - the top of a coral reef, especially a flat one.
Root title (noun) - title history (of an estate).
Sea whip (noun) - an alcyonarian.
Seaward (of a reef barrier) (noun) - the back of a coral reef.
Shallow reef (noun) - a bright reef.
Show sef (verb) - to be a show-off.
Sip sip (noun) - gossip.
Sky juice (noun) - a beverage made from gin and coconut water.
Slam bam (noun) - a sausage and bread sandwich.
Sometimey (adjective) - moody.
Spilligate - used when a person goes out on the town.
Stench (verb) - to be stubborn.
Sweetheart (verb) - to cheat on one's spouse.
Switcha (noun) - lemonade.
Terreckly (adverb) - directly or soon.
Tief (verb) - to steal.
Tingsy (adjective) - materialistic.
Tingum - used to refer to a person or thing with a name that cannot be easily recalled by the speaker. Can also be represented with "t'ing".
Tote news (verb) - to spread gossip.
Trapsy (adjective) - untrustworthy.
Wammy (noun) - a derogatory term for HIV/AIDS.
Wybe (noun) - a problem or bad situation. The verb "to wybe" means to have an argument or disagreement.
Yinna (pronoun) - you (plural).

References

How to Talk like a Bahamian

Dialects of English
English
Caribbean English