[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 27th Wisconsin Infantry Regiment

t with the army up the White River to DeValls Bluff for the Little Rock campaign. Marching to Little Rock, the regiment participated in the capture of the state capital. At Little Rock, the regiment was involved in garrison and picket duty with occasional forays into the region surrounding the city.

Part of Adolph Engelmann's 3rd Brigade of Frederick Salomon's 3rd Division of Steele's VII Corps, the 27th Wisconsin participated in the Camden Expedition. Steele's expedition aimed to link up with Nathaniel P. Banks' Red River Expedition. The regiment departed Little Rock with the force on March 23, 1864. On April 1, the troops guarding the expedition's trains came under attack near Hollywood. The 27th was detached to guard the train, which reached the camp safely. The brigade was left behind at Okolona on April 3, with it and Ritter's cavalry brigade ordered to link up with Thayer's troops at Hollywood. Before the cavalrymen arrived at Okolona, Englemann's brigade was attacked. The 27th Wisconsin repulsed the Confederates and pursued them for two miles. After Ritter's brigade arrived, Englemann continued to Hollywood and rejoined the division near Elkins' Ferry on April 5. The division left camp on the next day and moved forward behind Carr's cavalry division, encamping halfway between the Little Missouri River and the abandoned Confederate breastworks at Prairie D'Ane. The division remained there for the next three days to forage and repair the roads. The division advanced to Prairie D'Ane on April 10, emerging victorious in a skirmish and repulsing a Confederate night attack during the Battle of Prairie D'Ane. In the first ten days of the expedition between April 1 and 10, the regiment lost five killed or mortally wounded and two wounded.

Salomon resumed his advance on April 12 with minor skirmishing. The expedition continued advancing along the Camden road via Moscow, Arkansas and entered Camden on April 16. Salomon's division served on picket, provost, escort and fatigue duty during the occupation of Camden. Due to supply problems and the failure of Banks' expedition, he began retreating to Little Rock. The army left Camden with Salomon's division as its rear guard on April 26. Three days later, pursuing Confederates fired on the division at Saline Bottom. During the skirmish, Engleman's brigade, which also included the 40th Iowa, 43rd Illinois and the Springfield Light Artillery, occupied the crest of a hill and held it to cover the withdrawal of the division trains, stopping the lightly armed Confederate cavalry of Colton Greene. During the subsequent Battle of Jenkins' Ferry, the regiment was split from the rest of the brigade to reinforce the left of Rice's brigade, which had been forced back by the Confederate attack. The 27th Wisconsin and 40th Iowa counterattacked to drive back Burns' Missouri brigade. The division repulsed several attacks and was able to conduct an orderly retreat across the Saline River. At Jenkins' Ferry, the regiment lost eleven killed or mortally wounded and nine wounded. The expedition returned to Little Rock on May 3.

The 27th Wisconsin was transferred to the 2nd Brigade of the 1st Division of VII Corps on May 14. Lieutenant Colonel Brown was discharged and replaced by Major Olmsted on May 24 with Company A Captain Charles H. Cunningham taking over Olmsted's position. In a letter home, Private Daniel Carver of Company B commented that "we would be better off" if the original officers left since these "do not amount to any great sum, in fact they are a damage to the Regt." The regiment's prolonged garrison duty at Little Rock gave it a reputation as a relatively safe unit, and in September its recruiters in Manitowoc offered a $350 bounty to volunteers with the promise of "light duty and a healthy climate." The regiment descended the Arkansas River to Pine Bluff on October 3 to reinforce the garrison, threatened by Magruder's superior forces. The regiment remained there until the danger had passed on October 22 and returned to Little Rock. Soon afterwards, Companies A, D, E, and H were detached to serve as guards on the Memphis and Little Rock Railroad west of Brownsville. Like most other Wisconsin units, the 27th overwhelmingly supported Lincoln in the 1864 presidential election, although the regiment's home counties voted for McClellan. The soldier vote helped contribute to Lincoln's majority in Wisconsin. Nevertheless, the Copperhead editor of the Manitowoc Pilot, who had earlier railed against the war as depriving the region of "its best producers for the sake of the nigger," reported that the ballots of the strongly Democratic Company D from Manitowoc had been thrown out.