[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Bob Corker

the technology breakthroughs just about take place in our country and we have to pay for it." Corker stated that the US was not really the problem but rather "sort of the parasitic relationship that Canada, and France, and other countries have towards us" and affirmed his opposition to this policy.

In October 2013, Corker said of American involvement in Syria, "I think our help to the opposition has been an embarrassment and I find it appalling you would sit here and act as if we're doing the things we said we'd do three months ago, six months ago, nine months ago." In February 2016, Corker stated his belief that the European Union had become open to President of Syria Bashar al-Assad remaining in power "for a while and they look at that as a better case than the chaos" as well as crediting Russian President Vladimir Putin with playing "the cards that he has in a masterful way and taken advantage of a nation that is not willing to lead". Corker furthered that the US not intervening in Syria with a strike in 2013 "said to the world that we could not be counted on" and that the US propped up Assad more than any other country. During the confirmation hearings of Mike Pompeo in April 2018, President Trump's nominee for Secretary of State, Pompeo pointed to the US military killing Russians in Syria as proof of the administration's strength against Russia. Corker thanked him for mentioning the strike, saying, "I don't think enough has been said or made of the fact the Russia crossed the Euphrates with their own troops and were annihilated, and it was really a strong statement that I don't think many are paying as much attention to as should."

In April 2015, Corker's position on Iraq was that turmoil in the Middle East predated Barack Obama's presidency, and that by invading Iraq in 2003 the U.S. "took a big stick and beat a hornets' nest", unleashing rivalries that might take decades to resolve.

In March 2016, following reports that Iran conducted ballistic missile tests, Corker said that past declining by the Obama administration and United Nations "to act after multiple violations last fall must not be repeated now that Iran appears ready to test the will of the international community with the nuclear agreement in place." In October 2017, amid the feud between Corker and President Trump, White House Press Secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders stated, "Sen. Corker worked with Nancy Pelosi and the Obama administration to pave the way for that legislation and basically rolled out the red carpet for the Iran deal, and those are pretty factual." The claim was refuted by Corker's communications director and news outlets. In December 2018, President Trump wrote of Corker's involvement with the Iran nuclear deal, "For all of the sympathizers out there of Brett McGurk remember, he was the Obama appointee who was responsible for loading up airplanes with 1.8 Billion Dollars in CASH & sending it to Iran as part of the horrific Iran Nuclear Deal (now terminated) approved by Little Bob Corker."

Corker supports supplying Ukraine (fighting the War in Donbass) with lethal weapons.

In 2017, Corker criticized President Trump's provocative tweets against North Korea as impulsive. He said, "A lot of people think that there is some kind of 'good cop, bad cop' act underway, but that's just not true." He further expressed concern that Trump's reckless behavior could lead to war.  Corker's comments were not met with public dissent; Republicans appeared to agree with Corker. In April 2018, Corker stated that North Korean leader Kim Jong-un viewed "having deliverable nuclear weapons as his ticket to dying as an old man in his bed" after seeing Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi die following surrendering his nuclear weapons and that it was not realistic for the Trump administration to "think that someone's going to go in and charm him out of" the nuclear weapons.

In October 2017, Corker confirmed that he was engaged in discussions with Ranking Democrat on the Foreign Relations Committee Ben Cardin on creating a bipartisan plan that would meet the wishes of President Trump for a stronger nuclear agreement with Iran and that they hoped the final version of the legislation "would pass with 80 to 85 votes by the time we're through with it." In January 2018, Corker warned that pulling out of the Iran nuclear deal would have negative consequences for a treaty with North Korea: "I hope at some point we're going to enter into a very binding agreement with North Korea, and if it's believed that we withdrew from a military agreement when there aren't material violations — there's some technical violations, but not material violations — then it makes it more difficult for people to believe we're going to abide by another agreement."