[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sun Dianying

Sun Dianying (; 1889–1948) was a Chinese bandit leader, warlord, and National Revolutionary Army commander who fought in the Warlord Era, Second Sino-Japanese War, and Chinese Civil War, earning notoriety for changing sides multiple times in course of these conflicts.

Biography

Early life as bandit and first military commands 
Born in 1887, 1898, or 1889 in Yongcheng, Henan, Sun joined a bandit gang in his youth, and eventually became a message-carrier for the Yangshan bandit chief Zhang Ping. He eventually joined the Songxian Pacification Force (SPF), an anti-bandit militia that mostly consisted of ex-bandits. Sun managed to rise to a minor command in the SPF, but he resumed banditry following the suicide of his superior Han Yukun in 1925, or after the SPF's crushing defeat at Xi'an against warlord Feng Yuxiang in 1926.

In any case, Sun wanted to rejoin the armed forces. To achieve this, he led his private army from the western Henan mountains to Anhui. On the way, Sun refrained from plundering the countryside, and thus did not draw much attention. He and his troops were consequently able to launch a surprise attack on Bozhou which they captured almost without a fight. He had thus proven his military capabilities, and was appointed as the 35th Division's commander in the army of warlord Zhang Zongchang in late 1925 or 1926. Sun quickly deserted to the National Revolutionary Army during the Northern Expedition, however, and would repeatedly change sides in the following years. Sometimes, he fought with, sometimes against the Nationalists. In 1928, he plotted the notorious looting of the Eastern Mausoleum of the Manchu emperors. The tombs desecrated included those of the late Empress Dowager Cixi and the Qianlong Emperor. In course of the Warlord Rebellion in northeastern Shandong of 1929, Sun and 7,000 soldiers under his command joined the insurgents against the Nationalist-aligned ruler of eastern Shandong, Liu Zhennian.

In 1930, he fought with warlords Feng Yuxiang and Yan Xishan in the Central Plains War against Chiang Kai-shek's government. Sun's forces were involved in a major friendly fire incident during this war, as they mistakenly fired on Feng's troops at Shangqiu. The two warlords almost went to war over this issue. As the conflict turned against the warlord alliance, Sun's army increasingly suffered from mass desertion, so that he "desperately" launched recruitment campaigns in northern Henan and southern Hubei while the fighting was still ongoing. Realising that the Central Plains War was lost, Sun eventually retreated with his remaining army from the front at Bozhou, and joined the Nationalist-allied forces of Zhang Xueliang. He moved to Shanxi, where his men were reorganized as 40th Division and garrisoned at Jincheng.

Campaigns in Inner Mongolia 

In early 1933, the Imperial Japanese Army launched Operation Nekka to conquer Rehe Province. At the time, Sun commanded the 41st Army of 30,000 men, most of them garrisoned  in Lingyuan; one of the soldiers under his command during this conflict was writer Duanmu Hongliang. As the Japanese closed in on Lingyuan, Sun did not resist, as he and his sub-commanders had been bribed by the invaders. They allowed the Japanese to occupy the city almost without resistance. Only a few units under Sun's command refused to retreat from Lingyuan and fought the Japanese to the death, while he moved his army to Chahar Province. As the entire Chinese defense of Rehe collapsed, some of Sun's units lost contact to their headquarters and were left behind; one of his regiments consequently launched a counter-attack on Chifeng, not knowing that other NRA forces had already fled the province. As the Chinese high command initially refused to admit that Sun had been bribed, and some troops under his command had valiantly fought the Japanese, Sun's reputation was slightly rehabilitated in course of the campaign, an opportunity he seized to expand his strength. At the time of the Tanggu Truce, Sun's troops garrisoned the strategic Beijing–Suiyuan Railway.

In May 1933, with Feng Yuxiang organizing the Chahar People's Anti-Japanese Army, Sun also advocated opposition to Japan and criticized Chiang Kai-shek's central government, yet protested his loyalty to Chiang. The national government feared Sun Dianying would cooperate with Feng's Anti-Japanese Army, allowing them to use the railroad to support their forces. However, Sun was also not willing to be involved in a conflict with Chiang. He hoped to be involved in northwest development and control a territory of his own there.  In mid-June, when Chiang ordered Sun's army to leave the railroad garrison and open up wasteland in Qinghai, he was willing to go. Chiang's troops replaced his in July, cutting off the Anti-Japanese Army from communication with the rest of China.