[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 78]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

hile the goat's milk diminished daily, and, the fowls soon
after dying, they could no longer distinguish night from day; but
according to their reckoning, the time was near when the other goat
would kid; this she accordingly did soon, and the young one dying, they
had all the milk for their own subsistence; so they found that the
middle of April was come. Whenever they called this goat, it would come
and lick their faces and hands, and gave them every day two quarts of
milk, on which account they still bear the poor creature a great
affection.

"This was the account which these poor people gave to the magistrate of
their preservation."

"Dear heart!" said Tommy, when Mr Barlow had finished this account,
"what a number of accidents people are subject to in this world." "It is
very true," answered Mr Barlow; "but as that is the case, it is
necessary to improve ourselves in every manner, that we may be able to
struggle against them."

_Tommy._--Indeed, sir, I begin to believe it is; for when I was less
than I am now, I remember I was always fretful and hurting myself,
though I had two or three people constantly to take care of me. At
present I seem as if I was quite another thing; I do not mind falling
down and hurting myself, or cold, or weariness, or scarcely anything
which happens.

_Mr Barlow._--And which do you prefer; to be as you are now, or as you
were before?

_Tommy._--As I am now, a great deal, sir; for then I always had
something or another the matter with me. Sometimes I had a little cold,
and then I was obliged to stay in for several days; sometimes a little
headache, and then I was forced to take physic; sometimes the weather
was too hot, then I must stay within, and the same if it was too cold; I
used to be tired to death, if I did but walk a mile, and I was always
eating cake and sweetmeats till I made myself sick. At present I think I
am ten times stronger and healthier than ever I was in my life. But what
a terrible country that must be, where people are subject to be buried
in that manner in the snow! I wonder anybody will live there.

_Mr Barlow._--The people who inhabit that country are of a different
opinion, and prefer it to all the countries in the world. They are great
travellers, and many of them follow different professions in all the
different countries of Europe; but it is the only wish of almost all to
return, before their death, to the mountains where they were born and
have passed their youth.

_Tommy._--I do not easily understand that. I have seen a great many
ladies and little misses at our house, and whenever they were talking of
the places where they should like to live, I have always heard them say
that they hated the country of all things, though they were born and
bred there. I have heard one say the country is odious, filthy,
shocking, and abominable; another, that it is impossible to live
anywhere but in London; and I remember once seeing a strange lady, who
wrote down her observations in a book, and she said the country was all
full of barbarians, and that no person of elegance (yes, that was her
word) could bear it for a week.

_Mr Barlow._--And yet there are thousands who bear to live in it all
their lives, and have no desire to change. Should you, Harry, like to
leave the country, and go to live in some town?

_Harry._--Indeed, sir, I should not, for then I must leave everything I
love in the world. I must leave my father and mother, who have been so
kind to me; and you, too, sir, who have taken such pains to improve me,
and make me good. I am convinced that I never shall find such friends
again as long as I live; and what should anybody wish to live for who
has no friends? Besides, there is not a field upon my father's farm that
I do not prefer to every town I ever saw in my life.

_Tommy._--And have you ever been in any large town?

_Harry._--Once I was in Exeter, but I did not much like it; the houses
seemed to me to stand so thick and close, that I think our hog-sties
would be almost as agreeable places to live in; and then there are
little narrow alleys where the poor live; and the houses are so high,
that neither light nor air can ever get to them, and the most of them
appeared so dirty and unhealthy, that it made my heart ache to look at
them. And then I walked along the streets, and peeped into the
shops--and what do you think I saw?

_Tommy._--What?

_Harry._--Why, I saw great hulking fellows, as big as our ploughmen and
carters, with their heads all frizzled and curled like one of our
sheep's tails, that did nothing but finger ribbons and caps for the
women! This diverted me so, that I could not help laughing ready to
split my sides. And then the gentlewoman, at whose house I was, took me
to a place where there was a large room full of candles, and a greater
number of fine gentlemen and ladies, all dressed out and showy, who were
dancing about as if they were mad. Bu