[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Transformers: The Game

Transformers: The Game is an action-adventure video game based on the 2007 film Transformers, developed by Traveller's Tales and published by Activision. The game closely follows the story of the film, depicting the Autobots and Decepticons' arrival on Earth following a war between them that has ravaged their home planet of Cybertron. While trying to conceal their existence from humanity, both factions search for a powerful artifact called the AllSpark, which could be used to restore Cybertron to its former glory, or to enslave Earth's population. The game features a split-campaign format, with players choosing to join either the Autobots or the Decepticons, and completing various missions for whichever faction they chose. A sequel, Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, was released in June 2009, based on the film of the same name.

The home console and PC versions were developed by Traveller's Tales for the PlayStation 2, Xbox 360, Wii, PlayStation 3 and PC, while a different PlayStation Portable version was developed by Savage Entertainment. Transformers Autobots and Transformers Decepticons are the Nintendo DS versions of the game. Vicarious Visions, who was tasked with bringing the adaptation to the Nintendo DS, chose to adapt the DS version into two separate games. Unlike games with multiple SKUs such as Pokémon which feature only minor differences between versions, these are two separate games, sharing some basic similarities, but overall feature different characters, missions and locations. GameCube, Xbox, and Game Boy Advance versions were also originally planned, but they were later cancelled.

The game was released in June 2007 for several different platforms, and received mixed to positive reviews from critics, who praised its graphics, sound effects, voice acting (particularly Cullen and Welker), entertainment value and quality of the Wii version, but criticized its camera troubles, repetitive gameplay, controls and unbalanced difficulty.

Gameplay

The game (in all its versions) is mainly a third-person action-shooter. All the robots have at least five attack types: a light weapon, a heavy weapon, a melee attack, and the ability to throw objects such as cars, lamp posts, trees, etc., and using a long object like a lamp post as a sword. As its title and characters imply, a robot can transform into a vehicle and vice versa, this gives the game some racing elements, as the player must, in some missions, race to certain point within a time limit or before a character of the opposing faction does. Each area is an open world environment, and there are also side-missions, Energon cubes and Autobot/Decepticon emblems scattered through the city, if accomplished successfully/collected the player can unlock trailers, production photos and unlock color schemes for certain characters.

Consoles and PC
The PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, PC and the Wii versions all have the same features. By completing certain objectives throughout the game, the G1 versions of Optimus Prime and Megatron become available as alternate appearances, as well as G1 color schemes for Jazz, Starscream, and Optimus (labeled Robovision Optimus Prime). These options are turned on or off once obtained through the bonus menu, and only appear while playing as the specified character.  On January 9, 2008, downloadable content entitled Transformers Unlockables was made available for the Xbox 360 on the Xbox Live Marketplace. It unlocks all bonus characters/skins, items, upgrades, and other unlockable content. The PlayStation 2 version of Transformers: The Game, has the same gameplay and features like all the other console versions, with graphic quality being reduced.

The Wii is unlike the other consoles, utilizing a different control scheme for movement and attacks that take advantage of its motion sensing controls. With a controller in the left and right hand the player can swipe to imitate attacks or throwing objects and point the Wii Remote at the screen to aim and shoot the gun. The Wii graphics are at a lower resolution than the PC, Xbox 360, though more detailed than the PlayStation 2 version.

PlayStation Portable
Transformers: The Game for the PSP is very different from its console counterparts, whereas the console versions allow the player to choose which side's storyline they wish to play, the PSP version has only one storyline which alternates between the two different sides. Also, the player is able to play a total of 23 characters, including characters from previous generations. Overall the PSP version of the game has the most playable characters out of all versions, and also includes an alternate story, unrelated to that of other versions.

Synopsis