[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Night Crossing

a clearing with all eight people unharmed. Peter and Günter attempt to determine where they are as they are discovered by a police car. Peter asks the police if they are in the West, and the police officer confirms. Overjoyed, Peter and Günter light their signal flare. The families happily embrace.

Cast
John Hurt as Peter Strelzyk
Doug McKeon as Frank Strelzyk
Keith McKeon as Fitscher Strelzyk 
Beau Bridges as Günter Wetzel
Jane Alexander as Doris Strelzyk
Glynnis O'Connor as Petra Wetzel
Klaus Löwitsch as Schmolk
Geoffrey Liesik as Peter Wetzel
Michael Liesik as Andreas Wetzel
Ian Bannen as Josef Keller
Anne Stallybrass as Magda Keller
Matthew Taylor as Lukas Keller
Günter Meisner as Major Koerner
Sky Dumont as Ziegler
Jan Niklas as Lieutenant Fehler
Kay Walsh as Doris' Mother

Production
The day after the September 1979 real-life balloon escape of the Strelzyk and Wetzel families from East Germany, Walt Disney Productions producer Tom Leetch approached Disney’s vice president of production Ron Miller and executive producer Eva Redfern, who contacted the two families to discuss the possibility of creating a film about them. Less than a month later, Redfern met with Peter Strelzyk at the Hotel Atlantic in Hamburg, Germany. Although the families received five offers from other filmmakers, they accepted Disney’s terms—a $5,000 six-month story option and $50,000 if the studio moved ahead with development—because they remembered watching Disney films through illicit television signals at their home in East Germany. They also hoped that the film would educate people in their home country. In November 1979, the Strelzyks and Wetzels traveled to Los Angeles, where they recorded 20 hours of interviews for Leetch, associate producer Marc Stirdivant and writer John McGreevey. The film's unofficial working title was The Balloon Movie.

Filming was scheduled to begin on 1 September 1980 in Munich, but an eight-week Screen Actors Guild strike delayed production until 27 October.  Production notes list the German cities of Landsberg, Mühltal, Harthausen and Munich among the filming locations. In the town of Eulenschwang, the production team recreated a half-mile section of the border between East and West Germany at a cost of $300,000. Near Lake Constance in Friedrichschafen, filmmakers transplanted 300 pine trees, 150 cubic yards of soil and 6,000 square yards of black plastic to transform a large fair exhibition hall into a contained forest set. The construction project lasted two weeks and cost $150,000. Additional interior filming took place at Munich’s Bavaria Studios. Seven balloons were created for the film, six of which were authentic recreations of the actual balloon used by the Strelzyks and Wetzels, with material and technical changes made to comply with regulations. The remaining balloon was a smaller utility aircraft used for preliminary tests and aerial photography. One balloon reportedly required 12,453 square feet of material. Unexpected snowfall caused delays during the final week of filming, and production completed during the week of 18 January 1981, at least a week behind schedule and in excess of the film's budget. The final cost was estimated at more than $10 million.

Production notes

The German title Mit dem Wind nach Westen translates as With the Wind to the West, although the families' actual flight path from Pößneck in Thuringia to Naila, near Hof in Bavaria, did not take them west geographically but almost due south. 
The license plates shown on the cars in the film used the correct East German numbering system but were pressed on West German blanks using West German DIN-standard dies. Such plates were issued briefly, but not until after German reunification, thus creating an unintended anachronism.
John Hurt was approached on set to lend his voice for Disney's upcoming animated feature The Black Cauldron as the Horned King.
The film was nominated for two Young Artist Awards: Best Family Picture and Best Young Actor (Doug McKeon).
Jürgen Petschull's 1980 non-fiction book With the Wind to the West was republished to coincide with the film's release that same year.
The film's working titles included The Balloon Movie, The Last Flight to Freedom and Wind to the West.

References

External links
  (archived)
 
 
 

1982 films
1980s American films
1980s British films
1980s English-language films
1980s historical drama films
American aviation films
American historical drama films
American thriller films
British historical drama films
British thriller films
Balloons (aeronautics)
Cold War films
Drama films based on actual events
Films about the Berlin Wall
Films about families
Films critical of communism
Films directed by Delbert Mann
Films scored by Jerry Goldsmith
Films set in 1978
Films set in 1979
Films set in East Germany
Films shot in Germany
Walt Disney Pictures films