[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Russian battleship Sissoi Veliky

ite, dropping the modern Armstrong guns in favor of the 1877 model, probably as a result of not wanting to use foreign-built weaponry. In March 1891 the MTK presented a revised proposal that increased displacement to  and the main armament to four 12-inch guns that was accepted by Admiral Chikachev.

Description
The ship was  long at the waterline and  long overall. She had a beam of  and a draught of . She displaced , over  more than her designed displacement of . The ship had a partial double bottom and a centreline bulkhead separated the engine and boiler rooms. Sissoi Velikys crew initially consisted of 27 officers and 555 enlisted men, but grew to a total of 686 by 1905.

Sissoi Veliky had two vertical triple-expansion steam engines, each driving one four-bladed propeller. They had a total designed output of  using steam provided by 12 cylindrical fire-tube boilers. The ship's designed speed was , but she reached a top speed of  during her sea trials on  1896, despite  from her engines. She carried a maximum of  of coal at full load that gave her a range of  at a speed of .

Armament
Like many Russian ships before and after it, Sissoi Veliky was plagued by regular "improvements" of the original design that delayed construction for years. In the beginning of 1893, over a year after construction began, the MTK again redesigned Sissoi Velikys artillery. The two pairs of 12-inch 40-calibre guns were changed from barbette mountings to French-style twin turrets. These guns had a maximum elevation of +15° and the ship carried 80 rounds per gun for them. Their rate of fire was intended to be one round per 1.5 minutes, but it was one shot per 2.5–3 minutes in reality. They fired a  shell at a muzzle velocity of  to a range of  at an elevation of +10°.

The secondary armament was replaced by a half-dozen 45-calibre quick-firing (QF) six-inch (152 mm) Canet guns that were mounted in casemates on the main deck. Each gun was provided with 200 rounds of ammunition. Alterations of the shell hoists to accommodate the larger rounds for the Canet guns began only in December 1895. They fired shells that weighed  with a muzzle velocity of . They had a maximum range of  when fired at an elevation of +20°.

The ship's anti-torpedo boat armament was changed more than once and, in the end, consisted of a dozen QF  Hotchkiss guns and 10 Maxim QF  guns. The 47 mm guns were mounted on the top of the superstructure and on the upper deck above the six-inch casemates. They fired a  shell at a muzzle velocity of . The 37 mm guns were mounted in the fighting top. They fired a  shell at a muzzle velocity of . Sissoi Veliky carried six above-water  torpedo tubes, one each in the bow and stern and two on each broadside. The ship also could carry 50 mines.

Armour
The ship's armour scheme was based on that of Navarin although it used nickel steel rather than the compound armour of the older ship. The maximum thickness of the waterline armour belt was  over the machinery spaces which reduced to 12 inches abreast the magazines. It covered  of the ship's length and was  high. It tapered to a thickness of  at the bottom edge. The upper  of the belt was intended to be above the waterline, but the ship was significantly overweight and the entire belt was submerged at normal load. The belt terminated in  and  transverse bulkheads, fore and aft, respectively.

The casemate was above the belt,  thick on all sides,  long and  high, and protected the six-inch guns. The sides of the turrets were  thick and their roofs were  thick. Above the casemate, the bases of the turrets were protected by 10 inches of armour; inside the casemate, only five inches of armour protected them. The conning tower's sides were nine inches thick. The armour deck connected to the top of the waterline belt and was 2.5 inches thick above the belt, but fore and aft of the belt it was  thick.

Construction
The MTK rushed Gangut No. 2 into production and, contrary to established practice, ordered structural steel and armour before the project was properly authorized. Construction began on , 1891 in the wooden shed of the Franco-Russian Works in Saint Petersburg. On  she was officially named Sissoi Veliky to commemorate the victory in the Battle of Hogland which coincided with the day of St. Sisoes the Great of Egypt in the Eastern Orthodox liturgical calendar. The ship was formally laid down on , 1892.