[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Walter E. Gaskin

al Gaskin's personal decorations include:

Post-military career
After retiring from the Marine Corps, Gaskin worked as the Managing Director in Charge of Operation Management Complex of Global Bank in Irvine, California, and then as Chief Executive Officer of La Porte Technology Defense (LAPORTECH).

In January 2021, North Carolina Governor Roy Cooper named Gaskin the next Secretary of the North Carolina Department of Military and Veterans Affairs.
 
In July 2023, Gaskin was implicated in the stolen valor case of Billy Zinnerman, a disgraced former PFC (E-2) that received an Other Than Honorable Discharge from the Marine Corps, who had been posing as a decorated SgtMaj (E-9).  Gaskin wrote a letter of recommendation for Zinnerman, in which he stated that "I've had the opportunity to witness first-hand his superior performance, bravery, and dedication to duty while in combat in Desert Storm/Desert Shield in Iraq and the Liberation of Kuwait."   However, neither Gaskin, nor Zinnerman served in Iraq during Desert Storm/Desert Shield.

A Non-Profit Organization operating under the name The Wine Country Marinesexposed Zinnerman, and made public the letter by Gaskin in a June 23, 2023 blog article titled Semper Fraud: Unveiling the Stolen Valor of 'SgtMaj' Billy Zinnerman and SSgt L.E. Michael Johnson. The article, which exposed three senior leaders of the Montford Point Marines Association for stolen valor, also linked Gaskin to the organization, who is a life member of the organization and wrote the aforementioned letter of reference.

The stolen valor case was covered by ABC7 News' I-Team Reporter Dan Noyes. and subsequently covered by ABC11 News Akilah Davis, wherein she confronted LtGen Gaskin in his office about the letter.  During the interaction, Gaskin admitted to writing the letter stating "Of course I wrote the letter. You saw the signature on the letter. The letter is not the issue."  Gaskin went on to state that he saw Zinnerman in Kuwait when he was present to examine the aftermath of the war, however in the letter written by Gaskin, he stated that he witnessed "first-hand" Zinnerman's "superior performance, bravery and dedication to duty while in combat in Desert Storm/Desert Shield in Iraq and the Liberation of Kuwait."

In 2016, he endorsed Hillary Clinton for president.

In 2020, he endorsed Joe_Biden for president.

Notes

References

External links

 NATO Deputy Chairman, Military Committee , March, 2010.
 NATO Deputy Chairman, Military Committee in Kyiv Ukraine , Feb 11, 2011

Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
United States Marine Corps generals
United States Marine Corps officers
Savannah State University alumni
Harvard Kennedy School alumni
United States Army Command and General Staff College alumni
Recipients of the Defense Superior Service Medal
Recipients of the Humanitarian Service Medal
State cabinet secretaries of North Carolina
Military personnel from North Carolina
African-American state cabinet secretaries
African-American people in North Carolina politics