[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lower seaboard theater of the American Civil War

y from the south. While part of the fleet bombarded the forts, other vessels forced a break in the obstructions in the river and enabled the rest of the fleet to steam upriver to the city. A Union army force commanded by Major General Benjamin Butler landed near the forts and forced their surrender.

The following year, the Union Army of the Gulf commanded by Major General Nathaniel P. Banks laid siege to Port Hudson for nearly eight weeks, the longest siege in US military history. To cut Port Hudson's supply lines through the Red River, Banks first advanced up Bayou Teche, capturing the Atchafalaya and the Red rivers up to Alexandria. (See Bayou Teche Campaign.) The Confederates defending the city surrendered on July 9, after hearing of the surrender at Vicksburg. These two surrenders gave the Union control over the entire Mississippi River and split the Confederacy in half.

For the rest of war the Confederates concentrated on trying to recapture the areas they lost. From June to September 1863 Major General Richard Taylor, commander of the District of West Louisiana, attempted to recapture the Union gains, both to cut Bank's communications with New Orleans and possibly to recapture the city itself. While successful in some battles, the Confederates failed in both objectives.

Notes

References
 Chaitin, Peter M. The Coastal War: Chesapeake Bay to Rio Grande. Alexandria, Va.: Time-Life Books, 1984. .
 Kennedy, Frances H. (editor) The Civil War Battlefield Guide, 2nd edition. New York: Houghton Mifflin Company, 1998. .
 Symonds, Craig L. A Battlefield Atlas of the Civil War. Annapolis, MD.: Nautical and Aviation Publishing Company of America, 1983. .

External links
 National Park Service.gov: NPS Civil War at a Glance
 West Point Atlas map of principal Civil War campaigns
 Battleofolustee.org: Battle of Olustee website

 
Theaters of the American Civil War
Alabama in the American Civil War
Florida in the American Civil War
Georgia (U.S. state) in the American Civil War
Louisiana in the American Civil War
Mississippi in the American Civil War
South Carolina in the American Civil War
Texas in the American Civil War