[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lee Mantle

the U.S. Senate. Both seats were up for election, and former Senator William A. Clark was chosen for one. Mantle was a major candidate for the other, but after the legislature was deadlocked for over a month, Republican legislators decided to back Thomas H. Carter, who lost to Democrat Paris Gibson.

In 1902, Mantle was a delegate to the state Republican convention, and he was chairman of the state party's 1904 convention. He was also a delegate to the 1904 Republican National Convention, which unanimously nominated Theodore Roosevelt for a full term as president and Charles W. Fairbanks for vice president. He declined the party's nomination for governor in 1904, but accepted election as the state Republican Party chairman. In that fall's election, his efforts led Republicans to victory in the down-ballot statewide races, but Democrats won the governorship and lieutenant governorship.

In 1902, the Montana Legislature named Mantle to the commission responsible for the state's participation in the 1904 Louisiana Purchase Exposition in St. Louis and 1905 Lewis and Clark Centennial Exposition in Portland, Oregon. The commission chose Mantle to serve as its president, and he was responsible for creation and management of Montana's exhibits at both events.

In 1905, Mantle was a candidate for the Republican U.S. Senate nomination, but lost to Thomas H. Carter, who was reelected. In 1907, he was a candidate for the Republican nomination for U.S. senator. He lost to Joseph M. Dixon, who went on to win the seat.

In 1921, Mantle moved to San Francisco, California. After his marriage, he relocated to Los Angeles. Mantle died in Los Angeles on November 18, 1934. He was buried at Mount Moriah Cemetery in Butte.

Family
Mantle remained a bachelor until 1922. At age 70, he made national headlines when he married Etta Daly (1897-1993), a 25-year-old he had known since she was a child. They remained married until his death and were the parents of a son, Lee Mantle Jr. (1922-1985).

See also
 List of United States senators who switched parties
 List of United States senators born outside the United States

References

External links

1851 births
1934 deaths
Politicians from Birmingham, West Midlands
English emigrants to the United States
Mormon pioneers
Former Latter Day Saints
Republican Party United States senators from Montana
Silver Republican Party United States senators from Montana
Members of the Montana Territorial Legislature
Mayors of places in Montana
Montana city council members
Politicians from Salt Lake City
19th-century American politicians