[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Foreign enlistment in the American Civil War

g recognition and aid to the Confederacy, reported enthusiasm for the Union cause among many foreigners; in the summer of 1861, just months after the war began, a U.S. mission in Italy received hundreds of Italian volunteers, some wearing the patriotic red shirts of the Italian unification movement.

Foreign recruits were generally well-integrated with their American-born counterparts, serving in volunteer regiments that were raised from particular states and cities rather than nationalities. This was especially true of Canadian and British soldiers, who were more geographically dispersed than other ethnic groups, and far less distinguishable from native-born Americans in language and culture. U.S. President Abraham Lincoln was attentive to the diversity and foreign makeup of the military and made conscious efforts to foster inclusivity of ethnic and national minorities, namely through high-level appointments and promotions.

Of those contingents drawn specifically from particular immigrant communities, the largest and most notable comprised Irish and German Americans, who together comprised half of all foreign soldiers.

Germans were by far the largest foreign ethnic group to fight for the Union: Approximately 216,000 Union soldiers were born in Germany, making up roughly half of all foreign-born recruits; another 250,000 troops were second or third generation Germans drawn largely from New York, Wisconsin, and Ohio. Major recruiting efforts were aimed specifically at German communities across the country, particularly in Cincinnati, St. Louis, and Milwaukee. President Lincoln appointed Franz Sigel, a German veteran of the 1848 revolutions, to the influential rank of major general partly to drive political support among German Americans; Sigel would be the highest ranking German American officer in the Union Army.   It isn’t a war where two powers fight to win a piece of land. Instead it’s about freedom or slavery, and you can well imagine, dear mother, I support the cause of freedom with all my might. — German enlistee, in a private letter to his family.    Several regiments were composed entirely of Germans, including the 52nd New York, 9th Ohio, 74th Pennsylvania, 32nd Indiana (1st German), and the 9th Wisconsin. German units had a reputation for discipline and martial prowess; many Germans had previously served in European armies or participated in the armed uprisings of 1848. Aside from Maj. Gen. Sigel, other so-called "Forty Eighters" who served in high-ranking positions were Maj. Gen. Carl Schurz, Brig. Gen. August Willich, Louis Blenker, Max Weber and Alexander Schimmelfennig. In its two years of operation, all but one commander of the XI Corps, which played a decisive role in the battles of Chancellorsville and Gettysburg, were Germans, including Sigel and Schurz. Numerous German Americans received the Medal of Honor, the highest award for military valor in the United States.    

Irish Americans were best known for their distinguished service in the Irish Brigade, comprising the well-regarded "Fighting 69th" New York Infantry Regiment, the 63rd and 88th New York Infantry, the 28th Massachusetts and later the 116th Pennsylvania. The Brigade took part in almost every major battle and campaign in the Eastern Theater and was renowned for its bravery and valor; it reportedly suffered some of the highest casualties of any Union formation. Irish were also drawn from the British Empire, and after the war several veterans took part in the Fenian raids against British targets in Canada.

One of the first military companies raised when the war broke out comprised entirely Polish immigrants recruited by Brig. Gen. Włodzimierz Krzyżanowski, a veteran of the Greater Poland uprising of 1848. It was moved to New York City and joined with several other mostly-immigrant companies to form the 58th New York Infantry Regiment, officially registered as the Polish Legion. Krzyżanowski was later a brigade commander of the XI Corps at Gettysburg, and after the war was appointed governor of Georgia.

Other nationalities were represented in their own regiments. Among the most visible was the 79th New York Highlanders, formed in 1859, which initially consisted entirely of Scottish immigrants or descendants. Soldiers sported kilts and bonnets and were accompanied by bagpipes; on at least one occasion, the First Battle of Bull Run, they wore tartan trews of Clan Cameron in honor of their colonel. During the course of the war, the 79th opened its ranks to Irish, English and other immigrants, most of whom had been living in the U.S. for years.