[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Second Spanish Republic

, Britain, and other European powers looked the other way and let the Republican forces die, as the actions of the Non-Intervention Committee would show. Imposed in the name of neutrality, the international isolation of the Spanish Republic ended up favouring the interests of the future Axis Powers.

The Siege of the Alcázar at Toledo early in the war resulted in the rebels winning after a long siege. The Republicans managed to hold out in Madrid, despite a Nationalist assault in November 1936, and frustrated subsequent offensives against the capital at Jarama and Guadalajara in 1937. Soon, though, the rebels began to erode their territory, starving Madrid and making inroads into the east. The north, including the Basque country, fell in late 1937, and the Aragon front collapsed shortly afterward. The bombing of Guernica was probably the most infamous event of the war and inspired Picasso's painting. It was used as a testing ground for the German Luftwaffe's Condor Legion. The Battle of the Ebro in July–November 1938 was the final desperate attempt by the Republicans to turn the tide. When this failed and Barcelona fell to the rebels in early 1939, it was clear the war was over. The remaining Republican fronts collapsed, and Madrid fell in March 1939.

Economy 
The Second Spanish Republic's economy was mostly agrarian, and many historians call Spain during this time a "backward nation". Major industries of the Second Spanish Republic were located in the Basque region (due to it having Europe's best high-grade non-phosphoric ore) and Catalonia. This greatly contributed to Spain's economic hardships, as their center of industry was located on the opposite side of the country from their resource reserves, resulting in immense transportation costs due to the mountainous Spanish terrain. Compounding economic woes was Spain's low export rate and heavily domestic manufacturing industry. High levels of poverty left many Spaniards open to extremist political parties in search of a solution.

See also 

 Spanish Republican Armed Forces
 Spanish Republican government in exile
 Flag of the Second Spanish Republic
 Coat of Arms of the Second Spanish Republic
 Order of the Spanish Republic
 LAPE (Líneas Aéreas Postales Españolas), the Spanish Republican Airline
 Catholicism in the Second Spanish Republic
 Sanjurjada
 Electoral Carlism (Second Republic)
 Reign of Alfonso XIII of Spain

Notes

References

Further reading 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Raymond Carr, ed. The Republic and the Civil War in Spain (1971) 
 Raymond Carr, Spain 1808–1975 (2nd ed. 1982)

External links 

 Constitución de la República Española (1931)
 English Translation of the Constitution of the Spanish Republic (1931)
 
  Video La II República Española

 
States and territories established in 1931
States and territories disestablished in 1939
Modern history of Spain
Spanish Republic, Second
Political history of Spain
Republicanism in Spain
1931 establishments in Spain
1939 disestablishments in Spain
Former countries of the interwar period