[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Roy Ascott

. 2003.
 Technoetic Arts (trans: YI, Won-Kon), (Media & Art Series no. 6, Institute of Media Art, Yonsei University). Yonsei: Yonsei University Press. 2002.
 Art & Telematics: toward the Construction of New Aesthetics. (trans: E. Fujihara). Tokyo: NTT Publishing Co. 1998.

Books edited by Roy Ascott

Ascott, R., Girao, L. M. (eds). Presence in the Mindfield: art, identity, and the technology of transformation. Aveiro, Portugal: Universidade deAveiro. 2011.
Ascott, R., Gangvik, E., Jahrmann, M. (eds). Making Reality Really Real. Trondheim: TEKS. 2010.
Ascott, R., Bast, G., Fiel, W. (eds). New Realities: Being Syncretic. Vienna: Springer. 2009.
Ascott, R. (ed). Engineered Nature: art and consciousness in the post-biological era. Bristol: Intellect Books. 2006.
Ascott, R. (ed). Art Technology Consciousness. Exeter: Intellect Books. 2000
Ascott, R. (ed). Reframing Consciousness. Exeter: Intellect Books. 1999

References

External links
"Telematic Embrace: A Love Story? Roy Ascott's Theories of Telematic Art" by Edward A. Shanken, 2001.
Telematic Connections 2001 exhibition and online platform curated by Steve Dietz and inspired by Ascott's work.
Entry for Roy Ascott at the "Media Art Net" includes a biography and links to further sources, including articles by Söke Dinkla, Inke Arns, Rudolf Frieling, and Oliver Grau respectively
La Plissure du Texte, in the online catalogue "Media Art Net"
"Roy Ascott: Teaching Change", a Tate Blog article written by Elena Crippa, 15 June 2011
Webpage of the retrospective at Space London "Roy Ascott: The Syncretic Sense", May 20 – June 25, 2011
Time Out recommendation for the exhibition "Roy Ascott: The Syncretic Sense"
"Degree Zero", article on Roy Ascott's Groundcourse, frieze magazine, web version of printed article, published on 02/09/06, written by Emily Pethick
References for Roy Ascott with the German art magazine "Kunstforum International"

1934 births
Living people
Artists from Bath, Somerset
Cyberneticists
Transdisciplinarity
Postmodern artists
British contemporary artists
Postmodern theory
Postmodernists
Poststructuralists
People educated at City of Bath Boys' School
Academics of the University of Wolverhampton
Academics of the University of Plymouth
San Francisco Art Institute faculty
Alumni of King's College, Newcastle
UCLA School of the Arts and Architecture faculty
Academic staff of OCAD University
Canadian academic administrators
OCAD University administrators
Royal Air Force officers
20th-century Royal Air Force personnel
Military personnel from Bath, Somerset