[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gheorghe Pintilie

. Though his wife Ana Toma was allowed a return to the forefront of political life, Pintilie himself lived the remainder of his life in relative obscurity. The Ceaușescu regime still bestowed him with the Order of Tudor Vladimirescu, and granted him military honors upon his death in 1985.

Biography

Youth and imprisonment
According to a 2005 piece by historian Marius Oprea: "Pintilie Gheorghe, aka Pintilie Bondarenco, aka Pantelei Bodnarenko, aka Pantiușa is the most important figure in the hierarchy of the communist secret police during the first years of the communist regime, although his biography is the hardest to reconstruct." Another historian, Dennis Deletant, reports that Pintilie and a number of other senior Securitate officers were officially presented as Romanians, but notes that all such cases deliberately concealed from the public their true ethnicity. Bodnarenko is colloquially described as a Russian, though he is generally assumed to have been an ethnic Ukrainian. Historian Cristian Troncotă suggests that the future Gheorghe Pintilie was born Jewish Ukrainian, while Securitate officer Nicolae Pleșiță describes him as a Bessarabian Jew. Oprea disputes such claims, noting that there is "no evidence to back them", and describing cases in which Bodnarenko vented his antisemitism. Overall: "We can lend more credence to opinions that describe him as a Ukrainian or a Russophone Bessarabian."

The Bodnarenkos were from Tiraspol, in the Russian Empire's Kherson Governorate (now in Transnistria, Moldova), where Panteley was born on November 9, 1902. They had a proletarian status: Panteley's father was a shoemaker; Panteley himself began working in a woodworking plant at the age of eleven, switching to a foundry some two years later. In 1915, he had trained as a locksmith in Odessa, which remained his formal career until 1928. In the 1940s, communist propaganda suggested that Panteley was a participant in the October Revolution of 1917. Before the age of twenty, he was fighting for the Red Army in the Russian Civil War—by various accounts, his was a cavalry unit answering to Semyon Budyonny. 

A late rumor recorded by dissident communist Belu Zilber notes that young Bodnarenko specialized in murdering enemies of Budyonny "by his own hand". Tatiana Pauker-Brătescu, who was acquainted with Bodnarenko in the late 1940s, recalls him being "a sinister figure": "To what measure, we got to see during one of his drunken exploits. He recounted then that, as a young man in the Komsomol, he would go after the kulaks, and was informed that priests were having meetings out in the steppe, in some pit-house. He got there in no time—this was in the Ukraine—and I don't know if he ever summoned them to get out, but in any case he covered the pit-house in earth and killed them by suffocation." Deletant also writes: "According to one source, the October Revolution brought to the surface a sadistic streak which characterised his direction of the Securitate after 1948."

In the early 1920s, the Soviet NKVD recruited "Pantiușa" for espionage and sabotage actions. From 1924 or 1925, he was directed toward his native Tiraspol, which was serving as capital for the Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic. Upon arriving there, he was trained to carry out subversion in the neighboring Kingdom of Romania. The NKVD finally sent him across the Romanian border in 1928, when he crossed the Dniester into Bessarabia using falsified Romanian identity papers. Upon his 1940s reinvention as "Gheorghe Pintilie", his official biographies claimed that he was active in Bucharest throughout the early 1930s, helping to rally workers for the Grivița strike of 1933. The Romanian Kingdom's intelligence service, or Siguranța, caught up with him by 1937, when he was arrested. Bodnarenko faced trial as an enemy agent, his defense reportedly arranged by Ion Gheorghe Maurer, a left-leaning attorney. He was sentenced to 20 years in prison.

Bodnarenko was incarcerated at the Doftana together with others who were held on similar charges (of whom he remained the "most important")—but also with activists of the outlawed Romanian Communist Party (PCR). While in confinement there, Bodnarenko befriended Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej, who was to become the PCR General Secretary in 1944. He was subsequently moved to Văcărești prison, on the outskirts of Bucharest. During most of World War II, when Romania was allied with Nazi Germany against the Soviet Union, both Gheorghiu-Dej and Bodnarenko were held in Caransebeș Prison. Here, "Pantiușa" convinced most Soviet convicts to follow Gheorghiu-Dej's directives and join the PCR as regular members. Gheorghiu-Dej and Iosif Chișinevschi became Pintilie's close friends, assigning him the task of identifying and eliminating informants from within PCR cells. As Oprea notes: "he instilled in Dej a pathological fear of provocateurs, as well as an admiration for the potential and means available to a secret police agency."