[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Rashid Khalidi

le place on the face of the earth is in support of the Palestinians, yet all of them together aren't a hill of beans compared to the United States and Israel, because the United States and Israel can basically do anything they please. They are the world superpower, they are the regional superpower."

A New York Sun editorial criticized Khalidi for stating that there is a legal right under international law for Palestinians to resist Israeli occupation. For example, in a speech given to the American-Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee, Khalidi said, "[k]illing civilians is a war crime. It's a violation of international law. They are not soldiers. They're civilians, they're unarmed. The ones who are armed, the ones who are soldiers, the ones who are in occupation, that's different. That's resistance." The Sun editorial argued that by failing to distinguish between Palestinian combatants and noncombatants, Khalidi implies that all Palestinians have this right to resist, which it claimed was incorrect under international law. In an interview discussing this editorial, Khalidi objected to this characterization as incorrect and taken out of the context of his statements on international law.

Khalidi has described discussions of Arab restitution for property confiscated from the Jewish refugees from Middle Eastern and North African countries after the creation of Israel as "insidious", "because the advocates of Jewish refugees are not working to get those legitimate assets back but are in fact trying to cancel out the debt of Israel toward Palestinian refugees".

NYC teacher training program 
In 2005 Khalidi's participation in a New York City teacher training program was ended by the city's Schools Chancellor. Chancellor Joel I. Klein issued a statement that "Considering his past statements, Rashid Khalidi should not have been included in a program that provided professional development for Department of Education teachers and he won't be participating in the future." Following the decision, Columbia University president Lee Bollinger spoke out on Khalidi's behalf, writing: "The department's decision to dismiss Professor Khalidi from the program was wrong and violates First Amendment principles... The decision was based solely on his purported political views and was made without any consultation and apparently without any review of the facts."

2008 U.S. presidential campaign

Consequent to publication by the Los Angeles Times of an article about Obama's attendance at a 2003 farewell dinner for Khalidi, their relationship became an issue in the campaign. Some opponents of Barack Obama claimed that the relationship between Obama and Khalidi was evidence that Obama would not maintain a pro-Israel foreign policy if elected. When asked, Obama called his own commitment to Israel "unshakeable" and said he does not consult with Khalidi on foreign policy. Opponents of Republican candidate John McCain pointed out that he had served as chairman of the International Republican Institute (IRI) during the 1990s which provided grants worth $500,000 to the Center for Palestine Research and Studies, which was co-founded by Khalidi, for the purpose of polling the views of the Palestinian people.

WBEZ interview
In a January 2017 interview with public broadcaster WBEZ, Khalidi said pro-Israel people would ‘infest’ the incoming Trump Administration. Khalidi later referred to it as "infelicitous phrasing."

Published works 
 British Policy towards Syria and Palestine, 1906–1914. Ithaca Press for St. Antony's College, 1980.
 Palestine and the Gulf (Co-editor), Institute for Palestine Studies, 1982.
 Under Siege: PLO Decision-making during the 1982 War. Columbia University Press, 1986.
 The Origins of Arab Nationalism (Co-editor), Columbia University Press, 1991.
Palestinian Identity: The Construction of Modern National Consciousness, Columbia University Press, 1997.

 Resurrecting Empire: Western Footprints and America's Perilous Path in the Middle East, Beacon Press, 2004.

 Sowing Crisis: The Cold War and American Dominance in the Middle East, Beacon Press, 2009.
 Brokers of Deceit: How the U.S. Has Undermined Peace in the Middle East, Beacon Press, 2013. 
 The Hundred Years War on Palestine: A History of Settler Colonialism and Resistance, 1917–2017, Metropolitan Books 2020

References

External links
 Columbia University faculty page
 Profile on Rashid Khalidi at the Institute for Middle East Understanding
 Rashid Khalidi on the futility of negotiations, since a one-state solution already exists Haaretz, December 5, 2011
 Video: Rashid Khalidi – Palestine: 40 Years of Occupation, 60 Years of Dispossession (June 23, 2007)
 Review of Rhashid Khalidi's Resurrecting Empire, Western Footprints, and America's Path in the Middle East at Logosjournal.com
 Review of The Iron Cage by Rashid Khalid at the Institute for Middle East Understanding
Interview with the Author of The Iron Cage October 4, 2006 Alternative Radio. Fee charged.