[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Emblem of the Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic

The Emblem of the Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic was adopted on 2 March 1937 by the government of the Turkmen Soviet Socialist Republic. The coat of arms is based on the coat of arms of the Soviet Union. It shows symbols of agriculture (cotton, wheat and grapes) and heavy industry (oil derrick and pipeline), as well as a symbol of the Turkmen people, a rug. The rising Sun stands for the future of the Turkmen nation, the red star as well as the hammer and sickle for the victory of Communism and the "world-wide socialist community of states".

The banner bears the Soviet Union state motto ("Workers of the world, unite!") in both the Russian and Turkmen languages. In Turkmen, it is "Әxли юртлариң пролетарлары, бирлешиң!" (in the current Turkmen Latin script: "Ähli ýurtlaryň proletarlary, birleşiň!").

Later version of the coat of arms had acronym "TSSR" between red star, above, and hammer and sickle, below.

The emblem was changed in 1992 to the present Emblem of Turkmenistan, which however, retains some of the parts of the Soviet one. In this case, wheat, cotton and the Turkmen rug.

History

First version 
For some time after its formation the Turkmen SSR had no state symbols. On August 9, 1925, the Turkmen Central Executive Committee informed the Central Executive Committee of the Union that Turkmenistan was still using the coat of arms of the USSR. On May 26, 1926, the Turkmen CEC established a commission for the development of the coat of arms, and on August 18, 1926, the Central Executive Committee of the TSSR decided to adopt the design of the emblem by Andrei Andreevich Karelin as the basis for the state emblem of the Turkmen SSR. The design was as following :

 A round shield placed on a turquoise background in the rays of the rising sun.  
 The shield is divided into 4 parts, at the intersection of the separation lines there was a salor gol (a pattern placed traditionally in the center of the carpet).
 There were four figures in the shield. The figures are mulberry leaf, mulberry butterfly, and cocoon, clusters of grapes, a camel and a tractor, and branches of cotton. 
 The shield is surrounded by a wreath of wheat ears, six times intertwined with a red ribbon.  
 On the side interceptions of the tape through the coil was the inscription "Workers of all countries, unite!" (on the left - in Russian and Armenian, on the right - in Turkmen and Persian languages).  
 An anvil and a hammer were placed below, a red star was placed between the upper ends of the ears. 

At the third session of the Central Executive Committee of the USSR (October 1-6, 1926), the emblem was approved.

First revision
The Second All-Turkmen Congress of Soviets from 26 March until 3 April 1927 adopted the Constitution of the Soviet Socialist Republic of  Turkmenistan, according to which the arms were slightly modified:

 a mulberry leaf, a butterfly was replaced by a herd of sheep and goats with a Turkmen shepherd against the background of the Kopet Dag mountains;
 a driver and a plow are added to the tractor
 Bunches of grapes are replaced by one ripe bunch;
 branches of cotton replaced by one branch with two open boxes.
 The motto began to be written in two languages: Russian and Turkmen.

In the Constitution of the Turkmen SSR that was created on October 6, 1926 and approved by the 2nd All-Turkmen Congress of Soviets on April 1, 1927, the coat of arms is described in Article 82:

Second revision 
By the decree of the Central Executive Committee of the USSR on 1927 the inscriptions on the coat of arms were changed from Arabic letters to Latin letters. the motto in the Turkmen language on it should be: "BYTIN JER JYZINIꞐ PROLETARLARЬ, BIRLEŞIꞐ!". There was another addition in the lower part of the coat of arms between the shield and the frame, which is the abbreviation "T.S.Ş.Ç" for Tyrkmenistan Sotsialist Şuralar Çemhurijeti. 

This change itself is earlier than the official transition from the Arabic letters to Latin letters. Only in 1928, with the approval January 3, 1928 by the Central Executive Committee of the Turkmen SSR the Arabic alphabet was replaced by the Latin alphabet. The final transition to the Latin letters in all official spheres was carried out by May 1929.

Second version 

At the end of 1936, according to the draft of the new Constitution, the state emblem consisted of an image of a golden sickle and a hammer, a red star against the background of the rising sun, framed with a wreath of blossoming cotton and ears, and a red ribbon with the inscription: "Workers of all countries, unite!" - in Turkmen and Russian. The author of the project was the artist Alexander Pavlovich Vladychuk.