[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Assembly (Mauritius)

ts on Tuesdays as from 11:30 AM when it is in session. The President acting on the advice of the prime minister may at any time adjourn, prorogue or dissolve the assembly.

Officials/functions of the Assembly
The following positions/body have important functions in the assembly. They are as follows:

 The Speaker – the main function of the Speaker is to ensure that the Standing Orders and Rules of the National Assembly are complied with. The Speaker interprets and enforces the Standing Orders and for the purpose of interpretation, recourse is often had to Erskine May: Parliamentary Practice, responds to Members' points of order and give rulings when necessary. The Speaker symbolizes the authority of Parliament.
 The Deputy Speaker – the deputy speaker assists and acts as the speaker when the latter is out of office. 
 The Leader of the House (Prime Minister) – the president acting on the advice of the prime minister may at any time adjourn, prorogue or dissolve the assembly. 
 The Leader of the Opposition – the office holder is usually to level criticism against the policy and administration of Government and to outline the alternative policies. 
 The Attorney General – the office holder is the national legal adviser to the government and the assembly. 
 The Government Chief Whip – along with the Opposition whip, sets the agenda for the parliamentary work. 
 The Opposition Whip – along with the Chief Whip, sets the agenda for the parliamentary work. 
 The Government Deputy Chief Whip – replaces the Chief Whip when the latter is out of office. 
 The Chairperson of Public Accounts Committee
 The Deputy Chairperson of Committees
 The Clerk
 The Mace – symbol of authority
 The Serjeant-At-Arms
 The Secretariat
 The Library
 The parliamentary reporters

See also
List of speakers of the National Assembly of Mauritius
Politics of Mauritius
List of legislatures by country

References

External links

Mauritius
Government of Mauritius
Mauritius
Mauritius
1958 establishments in Mauritius
1992 establishments in Mauritius