[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Survivalist (novel series)

The Survivalist is the generic title of Jerry Ahern's long-lived series of 29 pulp novels centering around John Rourke, an ex-CIA officer turned weapons and survival expert, in the aftermath of a nuclear war.

Background

Ahern produced twenty-seven novels in numbered sequence, plus two un-numbered novels which fit between 15/16 and 21/22, selling 3.5 million copies in total.

The first few books cover Rourke's attempts to find his family, on the way fighting invading Soviet troops as well as typical post-apocalyptic villains such as biker gangs, mutants and cannibals in extended scenes of graphic violence. Later books head more into science fiction with cryonics, doomsday weapons and underwater cities.

Starting in 2007, audio versions started to be released by Graphic Audio covering the entire series of novels. The last book released in 2011.

The series was long out of print, until the continuation of the series in The Inheritors of Earth which was released June 2013.  However e-book versions of the entire series are available.

Some of the books were translated into Polish. Also a French publisher (see below) extended the series.. The Finnish translations were titled as ”Voittaja” (meaning "the Winner") series. However the original ”Survivalist” logo was included as well on the Finnish version covers.

Major characters

John Thomas Rourke

Doctor, survival and weapons expert, and ex-CIA paramilitary operations officer. He has keen sight, but is consequently sensitive to bright light and is usually wearing sunglasses, even at night. He is always armed with a pair of Detonics Combat Master .45 pistols in Alessi shoulder holsters, Colt Python and  Colt Lawman revolvers, an A.G. Russell Sting 1A boot knife, and either a CAR-15 carbine or a Steyr-Mannlicher SSG sniper rifle.

Sarah Rourke

Rourke's wife (later wife of Col. Wolfgang Mann) Children's Author and Illustrator before the war. She carries a stock Government M1911.45 while fleeing the Soviets with her children. The weapon becomes rust pitted and badly maintained because of her limited understanding of guns. Later she is gifted a custom .45 with "Trapper Gun" etched on the slide. It was based on a Colt Combat Commander, similar in size to Rourke's Detonics pistols. Sarah also utilizes different M16's throughout the series.

Michael Rourke

John and Sarah Rourke's son. Natalia Tiemerovna's lover and husband. Michael Rourke adopts 2 single action .44 Magnums in his 5-year tutorage (along with Annie) by Rourke while the rest of the family cryogenically sleep. Realising they are to slow to load in a combat situation he acquires two Beretta 92SBF's from Eden stores. Carries them in a double shoulder holster rig like his father. He also receives a Crain Life Support System I knife replica, a gift from an Icelandic knife maker.

Annie Rourke

John and Sarah Rourke's daughter. Paul Rubenstein's eventual wife.

Paul Rubenstein

John Rourke's sidekick, fellow survivor of the Albuquerque airliner crash on the night of the war. Fond of his looted Browning Hi-Power 9 mm pistol and vintage WW II "Schmeisser" MP-40 submachine gun. Wields a Gerber Mk II fighting knife later in the series given to him by Rourke.

Major Natalia Tiemerovna
Adopted surreptitiously as a niece by General Varakov, after her real parents were killed by the KGB. After her surrogate parents died in a road accident, Natalia trained as a KGB agent, reaching the rank of major by the beginning of the war. Married to the unpredictable and often exceedingly ruthless Vladimir Karamatzov—the head of the KGB in the U.S.—whom she eventually left after being beaten and otherwise mistreated—she developed a close relationship with Rourke. Tiemerovna's favorite weapons include a suppressed Walther pistol, an M16 and a butterfly knife.
Don't forget those sequential serial number,L-frame Smith & Wesson revolvers, presented to her by a US president, with four inch barrels. She wore them in a double hip rig that I seem to remember she had to find a shorter belt because of her slim waist. They were two S&W model 686, S&W answer to the Colt Python decades too late.

General Ishmael Varakov