[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 25]
# List of Shaman King characters

tual power within a massive Golem he constructed, Camel was the last man murdered by Joco McDonnell (prior to meeting Orona and reforming into a comedian) and left the children with the Golem. Their desires are not just winning the Shaman Fight but revenge against the shaman who killed their father.

 
 
 Yoh's father, an ascetic shaman who is rarely at home and watches over his son from afar, as well as serving as a spy and messenger for the Asakura family. Yoh admits that he doesn't have a particularly close relationship with Mikihisa; in childhood, Yoh had hoped to become closer to his father by stealing Mikihisa's headphones and acquired his love of the musician Bob from listening to Mikihisa's music collection. Like his son, he is an easy-going man with a charitable personality, with a particularly strong sense of family, and is considerably more powerful than he appears. He is often referred to by his nickname, "", which he also uses as a ring name in the Shaman Fight. Mikihisa's spirits are a kitsune and tanuki pair named Imari & Shigaraki respectively, who are vastly more powerful and respectable than Conchi and Ponchi and have achieved the rank of being mountain gods.Before becoming a shaman,  was an unemployed musician who aspired to be like John Lennon while living in an apartment with two other members of his band. He met Keiko Asakura while busking near a train station one night after she had been dumped by her boyfriend. She paid him ten yen to play a song for her and revealed that she was dumped because she could see ghosts. Keiko invited Mikihisa to her rented house, and their relationship started from there. It is noteworthy that the Asakura family had no male heir in Keiko's gene the family, following the Japanese muku no naru tradition; he took up the Asakura surname and allowed them to continue the family line.  When the Asakura learned that Keiko was pregnant with twins, one of whom was the latest reincarnation of Hao Asakura, Mikihisa and Keiko made the difficult decision to go with Yohmei's plan to kill both children.  However, Yohmei's hesitation resulted in Mikihisa moving to defend his father-in-law from an attack from the Spirit of Fire, which badly burned Mikihisa's face, after which he began wearing a mask to hide the scars.  Blaming himself for failing to kill Hao when he had the chance, Mikihisa began a rigorous training regimen to make up for his incompetence and traveled around the world.  During his travels, he met Tamao Tamamura, whom he took as an apprentice and often brought along with his training.During the Shaman Fight, Mikihisa watches over Yoh, often shrouded in the shadows and observing Yoh's battles from the top of trees. He takes the responsibility of imparting parts of the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu to Yoh and his group, including the Shamanic Oracle (FumonTonkou) to Ren.  Team Kabbalahers winds up being one of the top six remaining teams in the Shaman Fight main tournament, but they withdraw from the tournament during the decisive battle between Team Ren and Team Funbari Onsen, thus allowing both teams to qualify together with X-I and the Hoshigumi.  Mikihisa's role in the 2001 anime is roughly the same as his manga counterpart, though he does not participate in the Shaman Fight.

  ("Ludsev and Salerm" in the English manga)
 Redseb 
 Seyram 
 The children of Dr. Camel Munzer, under the care of Mikihisa and the controllers of Golem. Redseb is an energetic and eager young boy while Seyram is a solemn girl who is fiercely protective of her older brother. After the death of their father, Seyram was unable to express any emotion and spoke very little, which was caused due to her father's spirit possessing her. For the sake of helping Seyram, Redseb joins the Shaman Fight because he believes avenging their father will restore Seyram's heart again. They are killed after failing an attempt to kill Hao while he is integrating with the Great Spirit. Redseb's ghost is allowed to escape with the Spirit of Fire to Yoh's group as they journey toward Hao. Seyram's guardian ghost is her father, who possessed her and helped her give the massive amounts of Furyoku used to power Golem. Her other guardian ghost could be considered as her mother, who is the human around which Golem itself (as a giant Over Soul) was constructed – as Seyram operates Golem. Redseb's guardian ghost is as yet unknown.  Both children are resurrected at the conclusion of the series and are adopted into the Asakura family by Mikihisa.  Redseb eventually becomes a florist and the siblings are close to Yoh's son Hana.  Redseb and Seyram are named for Mild Seven and Salem cigarettes respectively.