[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Modane

upstream network is managed by Rete Ferroviaria Italiana, society of FS (Ferrovie dello Stato), the lower part and the station being under the management of the SNCF. There is therefore an electrical disconnection and signaling changes upstream (catenary supports also bear inscriptions in Italian).

The railway line serving Modane is the Maurienne line, or its official name the ligne de Culoz à Modane (frontière) [line of Culoz to Modane (border)]. It marks the territory of the commune of Modane looping 180° between its exit from the station and its entry into the Fréjus tunnel.

Urbanism

Rue de Chavière: A 'survivor' street of the misfortunes of the city where you can still notice some houses with half-engaged spiral staircases.
The Le Paquier quarter: The last historic quarter of the town composed of traditional houses grouped around the parish church.

Toponymy
The modern spelling Modane is not attested before circa. 1700. Previously, there were Amoudane, Amaudane, Amaldanus. The initial vowel has therefore fallen from use (taken for the preposition à [to]). The word could come from a proper name, that of the keeper of a manso, Amaudanes, mentioned in a cartulary of the 12th century.

History
In 1871, following the opening of the Mont-Cenis rail tunnel Modane quickly became a border city. The Italian journey began between Italian immigration and transit trade and the population increased significantly. However, the increasingly strained relations between France and Italy lead to the construction in 1885 of the Fort du Replaton, an interdiction fort to monitor the entrance of the tunnel.

During World War I, a train carrying some 1,000 French troops from the Italian front derails while descending a steep hill in Modane; at least half of the soldiers are killed in France's greatest rail disaster.

During World War II, the city was bombed on 13 or 17 September 1943 by Allied aircraft. The objective of the bombing was the station, an important centre of transit between France and Italy. The bombing caused 60 victims and 100 houses were destroyed. A second bombing took place on the night of 10–11 November 1943, killing five civilians.

In 1969, the city turned to tourism. A chairlift departing from Fourneaux and joining the hamlet of Charmaix on the commune of Modane, at  altitude, was indeed created, like the d'Arrondaz snow stadium, allowing skiing at  altitude.

In 1983, the promoter of Tignes, Pierre Schnebelen, created a new station from d'Arrondaz. It built the estate on the hamlet, two cable cars of , joining the top of Punta Bagna. A new international ski resort was created: Valfréjus (station attached to the municipality of Modane). Between 1983 and 2008, the station evolved to have 7,000 tourist beds.

Politics and administration

Political trends and outcomes

List of mayors

Twinning
Modane is twinned with:

Bardonecchia, Italy since the 1980s
Ohmden, Germany since 2000

Population and society

Demography
In 2017, the commune had 3,097 inhabitants.

Education
Daycare:

Halte garderie "Les petits poucets"
After-school daycare of the schools of Modane

Schools:

Paul Bert kindergarten school
Jules Ferry Elementary School

Collège: La Vanoise Collège

Economy

Agriculture 

In Modane existed around 1892 a large, fortified drying place for Swiss stone pine cones, which was accessed via a Decauville narrow gauge railway. The cones and seeds were used to produce pine liqueur and food, respectively.

Employment

Business and shops