[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sylvia Mathews Burwell

ter being impressed with her intelligence during an Oval Office meeting. Mathews became one of two deputy chiefs of staff, serving alongside John Podesta. She was deputy chief of staff for policy, charged with the task of keeping the White House focused on its agenda amid the impeachment of Clinton.

Bowles later praised her as smart, hardworking, and skilled at getting people to work together, saying, "I've never known one person who does all those things as well." Bowles resigned in 1998, at which point Podesta was named chief of staff, and Mathews moved to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), where she took the role of deputy director under Jack Lew. Mathews remained at OMB for the remainder of Clinton's presidency during a time of three budget surpluses.

Charitable foundations and other private sector activities 
In 2001 Mathews relocated to Seattle, Washington, to work for the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, the largest philanthropic organization in the United States, as an executive vice president. The following year, she became chief operating officer of the Foundation. The Foundation reorganized in 2006, naming Mathews president of the foundation's Global Development Program. Mathews was involved in awarding grants to improve health outcomes in the developing world, including stopping the spread of HIV and other diseases and making contraception more readily available.

She served on the board of the University of Washington Medical Center from 2002 to 2005. During that time, the board oversaw an upgrade to the medical center's electronic medical records and system for tracking patient outcomes. The board was also tasked with setting up a compliance program to fix a Medicare billing irregularity that had resulted in a settlement with federal investigators. She was a Director of MetLife and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company from January 2004 to April 2013. Mathews also served on the boards of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Nike Foundation Advisory Group.

In 2005 Mathews was chosen by the Wall Street Journal as one of The 50 Women to Watch2005 worldwide for her work with the Gates Foundation. In 2008, known as Sylvia Mathews Burwell following her 2007 marriage, she was named Obama/Biden Transition Agency Review Lead for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Burwell remained with the Gates Foundation until 2011. She officially joined the Wal-Mart Foundation, which focuses on ending hunger in the United States, as the organization's president in January 2012. Burwell relocated to Bentonville, Arkansas, for the position.

Office of Management and Budget Director 

On March 3, 2013, President Barack Obama nominated Burwell to be the director of the White House Office of Management and Budget. A confirmation hearing was held on April 10. Burwell's nomination received bipartisan support, culminating in the U.S. Senate confirming Burwell as Director by a 96–0 vote. With her confirmation, Burwell became only the second woman to serve as OMB Director, the first being Alice Rivlin, who held the position from 1994 to 1996.

Burwell entered the job at a time when conservatives wanted to decrease spending and defund Obama's signature healthcare legislation, the Affordable Care Act, also known as Obamacare. Although Congress tried to negotiate a continuing resolution to fund the government pending negotiation of the larger budget, it became clear on September 30, 2013, that no temporary agreement would be reached. Without an agreed-upon budget from Congress, Burwell as Director was tasked with initiating a federal government shutdown, the first U.S. federal government shutdown in 17 years. Burwell sent a memo advising agencies and executive departments to shut down, including the closing of national parks, visitors' centers, and even the "panda-cam" at the National Zoo. The shutdown lasted 16 days. Once the government reopened, Burwell helped negotiate a two-year budget deal to avoid future shutdowns.

Health and Human Services secretary
On April 11, 2014, Obama nominated Burwell to be the next secretary of health and human services, succeeding Kathleen Sebelius, who had announced her resignation the day before. At the time of her nomination, Obama praised Burwell as a "proven manager and she knows how to deliver results." The Senate confirmed Burwell as Secretary on June 5, 2014, by a vote of 78–17. She was sworn into office on June 9, 2014. As of 2014, the secretary oversaw the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), which included the equivalent of 77,000 full-time employees and the management of several agencies and programs including Medicare and Medicaid, the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug Administration, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. At the end of her tenure, Burwell received praise from Democratic and Republican senators.