[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Va'etchanan

se, and sin, and cleansing . . . .” Thus the Sifre read , “All who will be called by the name of the Lord shall be delivered,” to teach that just as  calls God “merciful and gracious,” we, too, should be merciful and gracious. And just as  says, “The Lord is righteous,” we, too, should be righteous.

Deuteronomy chapter 6
The Gemara reported a number of Rabbis' reports of how the Land of Israel did indeed flow with "milk and honey," as described in  and 17, , and , ,  and , and , ,  and 15, , and . Once when Rami bar Ezekiel visited Bnei Brak, he saw goats grazing under fig trees while honey was flowing from the figs, and milk dripped from the goats mingling with the fig honey, causing him to remark that it was indeed a land flowing with milk and honey. Rabbi Jacob ben Dostai said that it is about three miles from Lod to Ono, and once he rose up early in the morning and waded all that way up to his ankles in fig honey. Resh Lakish said that he saw the flow of the milk and honey of Sepphoris extend over an area of sixteen miles by sixteen miles. Rabbah bar Bar Hana said that he saw the flow of the milk and honey in all the Land of Israel and the total area was equal to an area of twenty-two parasangs by six parasangs.

The first three chapters of tractate Berakhot in the Mishnah, Jerusalem Talmud, and Babylonian Talmud and the first two chapters of tractate Berakhot in the Tosefta interpreted the laws of the Shema in  and .

Already at the time of the Mishnah,  constituted the first part of a standard Shema prayer that the priests recited daily, followed by  and .

The Rabbis taught that saying the words of , "Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is One," and no more, constituted Rabbi Judah the Prince's recital of the Shema. Rav once told Rabbi Hiyya that he had not witnessed Rabbi Judah the Prince accept upon himself the yoke of the Heaven by reciting the Shema. Rabbi Hiyya replied to Rav that in the moment that Rabbi Judah the Prince passed his hand to cover his eyes to recite, "Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is One," he accepted upon himself the yoke of the kingdom of Heaven.

Rabbi Joshua ben Korhah taught that in the Shema, Jews recite the words of  ("Here, O Israel . . . ," Shema Yisrael . . .) before those of  ("And it shall come to pass . . . ," VeHaya im Shamoa . . .) so that one first accepts the yoke of Heaven by proclaiming the Unity of God and then accepts the yoke of the commandments by saying the words, "If you shall diligently heed all My commandments." Jews recite the words of  ("And it shall come to pass . . . ," VeHaya im Shamoa . . .) before those of  ("And the Lord said . . . ," VaYomer . . .) because  is applicable both in the day and the night (since it mentions all the commandments), whereas  is applicable only in the day (since it mentions only the precept of fringes, tzitzit, which is not obligatory by night).

The Mishnah taught that the absence of one of the two portions of scripture in the mezuzah— and —invalidates the other, and indeed even one imperfect letter can invalidates the whole.

The Mishnah taught that the absence of one of the four portions of scripture in the Tefillin— and 11–16 and  and —invalidates the others, and indeed even one imperfect letter can invalidate the whole.

Reading , "Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is One," the Rabbis taught that God told Israel that all that God had created, God created in pairs: heaven and earth, sun and moon, Adam and Eve, this world and the World To Come. But God's Glory is One and Unique in the world.

Rabbi Isaac linked the words "the Lord our God" in  with , "The Lord is my portion, says my soul." Rabbi Isaac compared this to a king who entered a province with his generals, officials, and governors. Some of the citizens of the province chose a general as their patron, others an official, and others a governor. But the one who was cleverer than the rest chose the king as his patron, as all the other officials were liable to be changed, but the king would remain the king. Likewise, when God came down on Sinai, there also came down with God many companies of angels, Michael and his company, and Gabriel and his company. Some of the nations of the world chose Michael as their patron, and others chose Gabriel, but Israel chose God, exclaiming the words of , "The Lord is my portion, says my soul," and this is the force of the words "the Lord our God" in .

Rabbi Eleazar ben Azariah read , "Hear, O Israel: the Lord our God, the Lord is One," to indicate that Israel has made God the sole object of Israel's love in the world. God, in turn, makes Israel the special object of God's love in the world, as 2 Samuel  and 1 Chronicles  say, "And who is like Your people, like Israel, a nation one in the earth."