[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 92]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

is master to the other
side of the basin.

The spectators could hardly believe their eyes, and some of them got
little pieces of bread, and held them out, imagining that he would do
the same to them. But it was in vain they whistled and presented their
bread; the bird remained unmoved upon the water, and obeyed no orders
but those of his master.

When this exhibition had been repeated over and over again, to the
extreme delight and astonishment of all present, the company rose and
dispersed, and Mr Barlow and the little boys pursued their way home.

But Tommy's mind was so engaged with what he had seen, that for several
days he could think and talk of nothing else. He would give all that he
had in the world to find out this curious trick, and to be possessed of
such a swan. At length, as he was one day talking to Harry upon this
subject, Harry told him with a smile, that he believed he had found out
a method of doing it, and that, if he did not mistake, he would the next
day show him a swan that would come to be fed as well as the conjuror's.
Accordingly, Harry moulded a bit of wax into the shape of a swan, and
placed it upon a basin of water. He then presented to it a piece of
bread, and, to the inexpressible delight of Tommy, the swan pursued the
bread, just as he had seen before.

After he had several times diverted himself with this experiment, he
wanted to be informed of the composition of this wonderful swan. Harry
therefore showed him, within the body of the bird, a large needle,
which lay across it from one end to the other. In the bread with which
the swan was fed, he also showed him concealed a small bar of iron.
Tommy could not comprehend all this, although he saw it before his eyes;
but Mr Barlow, who was present, taking up the bar of iron, and putting
down several needles upon the table, Tommy was infinitely surprised to
see the needles all jump up, one after another, at the approach of the
bar, and shoot towards it, as if they had been possessed of life and
sense. They then hung all about the bar so firmly, that, though it was
lifted into the air, they all remained suspended, nor ever quitted their
hold. Mr Barlow then placed a key upon the table, and putting the iron
near it, the key attached itself as firmly to the bar as the needles had
done before. All this appeared so surprising to Tommy, that he begged an
explanation of it from Mr Barlow. That gentleman told him, "that there
was a stone often found in iron mines, that was called the _loadstone_.
This stone is naturally possessed of the surprising power of drawing to
itself all pieces of iron that are not too large, nor placed at too
great a distance. But what is equally extraordinary is, that iron
itself, after having been rubbed upon the loadstone, acquires the same
virtue as the stone itself, of attracting other iron. For this purpose
they take small bars of iron, and rub them carefully upon the loadstone,
and when they have acquired this very extraordinary power, they call
them _magnets_. When Harry had seen the exhibition of the swan, upon
revolving it over in his mind, he began to suspect that it was
performed entirely by the power of magnetism. Upon his talking to me
about the affair, I confirmed him in his opinion, and furnished him with
a small magnet to put into the bread, and a large needle to conceal in
the body of the bird. So this is the explanation of the feat which so
much puzzled you a few days past."

Mr Barlow had scarcely done speaking, when Tommy observed another
curious property of the swan, which he had not found out before. This
bird, when left to itself, constantly rested in one particular
direction, and that direction was full north and south.

Tommy inquired the reason of this, and Mr Barlow gave him this
additional explanation: "The persons who first discovered the wonderful
powers of the loadstone, in communicating its virtues to iron, diverted
themselves, as we do now, in touching needles and small pieces of iron,
which they made to float upon water, and attracted them about with other
pieces of iron. But it was not long before they found out, as you do
now, another surprising property of this wonderful stone; they observed,
that when a needle had once been touched by the loadstone, if it was
left to float upon the water without restraint, it would invariably turn
itself towards the north. In a short time they improved the discovery
farther, and contrived to suspend the middle of the needle upon a point,
so loosely that it could move about in every direction; this they
covered with a glass case, and by this means they always had it in their
power to find out all the quarters of the heavens and earth."

_Tommy._--Was this discovery of any great use?

_Mr Barlow._--Before this time they had no other method of finding their
way along the sea, but by observing the stars. They knew, by experience,
in what part of the sky certain stars