[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# The Settlers II

efore eventually emerging on what they believe to be the final island on their journey home.

Ten years after being shipwrecked, they locate the final portal, but are shocked to learn it is guarded by hostile Romans. However, they are able to fight their way through, finally returning to the Empire.

Development
Blue Byte had always intended to make a sequel to The Settlers if it proved successful. A commercial success, by June 1996, the original game had sold over 215,000 units, considerably more than expected, and so Blue Byte immediately began development on a second game, with a total of twelve people working on the project. As well as enhancing the graphics and sound effects, and increasing the complexity of the supply and demand-based gameplay, there were also certain aspects of the original with which Blue Byte had been unhappy, and which they hoped to address in the sequel. They also sought feedback from fans of the first game, and worked to deal with anything the fanbase disliked or felt could be improved upon. However, Volker Wertich, who had designed and programmed the original, was not involved with the second game, because, as he describes it, "after two years programming The Settlers, I didn't really want to see those little men for a while".

It was Blue Byte's desire to improve upon any aspects of the first game which they felt didn't work which led to Thomas Häuser becoming project manager. When the first game was in development, Häuser was newly employed by Blue Byte, and had done quality assurance work on it. In this capacity, he had made a list of possible gameplay improvements for the developers, who told him there was no time to implement his changes, as the game was almost ready for release. However, they had been impressed with his ideas, and, when the second game was greenlit, they suggested he apply his ideas to this game. This ultimately led to Häuser, a programmer by trade, working as the lead designer on the sequel.

Amongst the graphical enhancements in The Settlers II are more on-screen movements and more animations for the settlers themselves, with four aesthetically distinct races. Gameplay improvements include a more strategic battle system, which allows players to send out scouts, and utilise a stationary offensive weapon in the catapult. Additionally, there is a story-driven single-player campaign, replacing the narratively-unconnected missions from the first game, which simply got harder as the player progressed, without any kind of connective plot. Initially, the team took the concept of a single-player storyline too far, designing maps which placed tight limits on what the player could and couldn't do, and featured time-sensitive scripted incidents. They quickly realised that this went too much against the principles of the game mechanics established in the first game, and so changed the level design accordingly. According to Häuser:

Despite the team's efforts to make The Settlers II as good as they possibly could, speaking in 2006, Häuser comments that, as with the original game, there were elements with which he was unhappy: "Things like the help system. There was none, to be honest. The player had to work really hard to get into the game, and there's lots of details in the game you have to learn the hard way. It would have been a great help to a new gamer if we had some put in". He also agreed with many fans of the game that the shipping system didn't work very well, even after it was patched in the Gold Edition: "It didn't work as we wanted it to work. I remember the ships did not transport the things you wanted to other islands, we couldn't solve this problem at the time. Because at this time, the development systems were much more difficult to use and we didn't have the ability to debug code as we do today. It was just not working as we wanted it to work". When The Settlers III went into development in 1997, Blue Byte again sought feedback from fans, and one of the most requested aspects for the new game was that the shipping system from The Settlers II be reprogrammed.