[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 39]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

so much refreshed that, after a few
trials, he got up and began grazing.

"The little boy then went on a little farther, and saw a man wading
about in a pond of water, without being able to get out of it, in spite
of all his endeavours. 'What is the matter, good man,' said the little
boy to him; 'can't you find your way out of this pond?' 'No, God bless
you, my worthy master, or miss,' said the man, 'for such I take you to
be by your voice; I have fallen into this pond, and know not how to get
out again, as I am quite blind, and I am almost afraid to move for fear
of being drowned.' 'Well,' said the little boy, 'though I shall be
wetted to the skin, if you will throw me your stick I will try to help
you out of it.' The blind man then threw the stick to that side on which
he heard the voice; the little boy caught it, and went into the water,
feeling very carefully before him, lest he should unguardedly go beyond
his depth; at length he reached the blind man, took him very carefully
by the hand, and led him out. The blind man then gave him a thousand
blessings, and told him he could grope out his way home; and the little
boy ran on as hard as he could, to prevent being benighted.

"But he had not proceeded far before he saw a poor sailor, who had lost
both his legs in an engagement by sea, hopping along upon crutches. 'God
bless you, my little master!' said the sailor; 'I have fought many a
battle with the French, to defend poor old England; but now I am
crippled, as you see, and have neither victuals nor money, although I am
almost famished.' The little boy could not resist the inclination to
relieve him; so he gave him all his remaining victuals, and said, 'God
help you, poor man! this is all I have, otherwise you should have more.'
He then ran along and presently arrived at the town he was going to, did
his business, and returned towards his own home with all the expedition
he was able.

"But he had not gone much more than half-way before the night shut in
extremely dark, without either moon or stars to light him. The poor
little boy used his utmost endeavours to find his way, but unfortunately
missed it in turning down a lane which brought him into a wood, where he
wandered about a great while without being able to find any path to lead
him out. Tired out at last, and hungry, he felt himself so feeble that
he could go no farther, but set himself down upon the ground, crying
most bitterly. In this situation he remained for some time, till at last
the little dog, who had never forsaken him, came up to him wagging his
tail, and holding something in his mouth. The little boy took it from
him, and saw it was a handkerchief nicely pinned together, which
somebody had dropped, and the dog, had picked up, and on opening it he
found several slices of bread and meat, which the little boy ate with
great satisfaction, and felt himself extremely refreshed with his meal.
'So,' said the little boy, 'I see that if I have given you a breakfast,
you have given me a supper; and a good turn is never lost, done even to
a dog.'

"He then once more attempted to escape from the wood, but it was to no
purpose; he only scratched his legs with briers and slipped down in the
dirt, without being able to find his way out. He was just going to give
up all further attempts in despair, when he happened to see a horse
feeding before him, and, going up to him, saw, by the light of the moon,
which just then began to shine a little, that it was the very same he
had fed in the morning. 'Perhaps,' said the little boy, 'this creature,
as I have been so good to him, will let me get upon his back, and he may
bring me out of the wood; as he is accustomed to feed in this
neighbourhood.' The little boy then went up to the horse, speaking to
him and stroking him, and the horse let him mount his back without
opposition, and then proceeded slowly through the wood, grazing as he
went, till he brought him to an opening which led to the high road. The
little boy was much rejoiced at this, and said, 'If I had not saved this
creature's life in the morning, I should have been obliged to have
stayed here all night; I see by this, that a good turn is never lost.'

"But the poor little boy had yet a greater danger to undergo; for, as he
was going down a solitary lane, two men rushed out upon him, laid hold
of him, and were going to strip him of his clothes; but just as they
were beginning to do it, the little dog bit the leg of one of the men
with so much violence, that he left the little boy and pursued the dog,
that ran howling and barking away. In this instant a voice was hard that
cried out, 'There the rascals are; let us knock them down!' which
frightened the remaining man so much that he ran away, and his companion
followed him. The little boy then looked up, and saw it was the sailor
whom he had relieved in the morning, carried upon the shoulders of the
blind man whom he had help