[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Christianity in Australia

n December, such as the Carols by Candlelight of Melbourne, and Sydney's Carols in the Domain. Australian Christmas carols like the Three Drovers or Christmas Day by John Wheeler and William G. James place the Christmas story firmly in an Australian context of warm, dry Christmas winds and red dust.

New South Wales Supreme Court Judge George Palmer was commissioned to compose the setting of the Mass for Sydney's World Youth Day 2008 Papal Mass. The Mass, Benedictus Qui Venit, for large choir, soloists and orchestra, was performed in the presence of Pope Benedict XVI and an audience of 350,000  with singing led by soprano Amelia Farrugia and tenor Andrew Goodwin. "Receive the Power" a song written by Guy Sebastian and Gary Pinto was chosen as official anthem for the XXIII World Youth Day (WYD08) held in Sydney in 2008.

Denominations

Church affiliation
The churches with the largest number of members are the Catholic Church in Australia, the Anglican Church of Australia and the Uniting Church in Australia. Pentecostal churches are growing with megachurches, predominantly associated with Australian Christian Churches (the Assemblies of God in Australia), being found in most states (for example, Planetshakers Church, Hillsong Church and Paradise Community Church).

Australian Bureau of Statistics
As at the , 11,148,814, representing 43.9% of the total population, declared a religious affinity with Christianity.

Church attendance
While church affiliation as reported in the census identifies the largest denominations, there is no overarching study that shows how active the members are.   Some smaller studies include the National Church Life Survey which researches weekly church attendance among other items through a survey done in over 7000 congregations in many but not all Christian denominations every Australian Census year and from that estimates figures for those denominations nationally.

From the survey about 8.8% of the Australian population attended a church in one of the covered denominations in a given week in 2001.
The Catholic Church represents the highest number of church attenders, with over 50 percent.  Whilst church attendance is generally decreasing the Catholic Church attendance in Australia is declining at a rate of 13 percent. Pentecostal denominations such as Australian Christian Churches (formerly Assemblies of God) and Christian City Churches continue to grow rapidly, growing by over 20 per cent between 1991 and 1996. Some Protestant denominations such as the Baptist Union of Australia and the Churches of Christ in Australia grew at a smaller rate, less than 10 per cent, between 1991 and 1996. McCrindle Research has found that Pentecostals grew to a larger denomination (12%) than Anglicans (11%) in 2014. Roy Morgan Research has found in a survey of 4840 Australians between October and December 2013 that 52.6% of Australians were Christian, while 37.6% had no religion.

"Bible Belts"
In Australia, the term "Bible Belt" has been used to refer to areas within individual cities and some regions of states such as Queensland, which have a high concentration of Christians, usually centralised around a megachurch, for example:
 the north-western suburbs of Sydney focusing on The Hills District, where Hillsong Church is located.
 the north-western suburbs  of Melbourne comprising the suburbs of Keilor, Taylors Lakes,  Greenvale and Airport West.
 Greater Adelaide, South Australia:
 the north-eastern suburbs focusing on Paradise, Modbury and Golden Grove, where Influencers Church is located.
Brooklyn Park in South Australia has four churches, is home to the Adelaide College of Divinity and the Adelaide Theological Library. Brooklyn Park also has two Christian Schools and in the 2016 Australian Census had 4% more Christians than broader South Australia and 1% higher than broader Australia. Brooklyn Park also had 5.6% more Catholics than broader South Australia and 1% higher than broader Australia.
 the south-eastern region of Queensland, in particular the towns of Laidley, Gatton and Toowoomba.
the Brisbane southern suburbs of Mansfield Springwood, Carindale and Mount Gravatt: Garden City Assembly of God church, Citipointe Church, George Salloum's The 'Christian' Church, and Hillsong Brisbane are notable mega-churches in this area.

Toowoomba
Toowoomba in Queensland has long been regarded as fertile ground for biblical literalism, particularly for those within the Pentecostal and charismatic stream of Christianity.  This was exemplified by the highly publicised rise and subsequent fall of Howard Carter and the Logos Foundation in the 1980s. Pentecostal churches within the city have, since that time, banded together into a loose federation known as the Toowoomba Christian Leaders' Network.  This network, views itself as having a divine mission to 'take the city for the Lord' and as such, endorses elements of religious right-wing political advocacy. Other churches in Toowooomba include: