[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 184]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

al successive nights, till we were
almost wearied with watching. At length one of the most enterprising of
our young men proposed that we should no longer content ourselves with
driving back the enemy, but boldly attack him, and punish him for his
temerity. With this purpose we concealed ourselves in a convenient
spot, till we had seen one of the river-horses issue from the water, and
advance a considerable way into our plantations; then we rushed from our
hiding-place with furious shouts and cries, and endeavoured to intercept
his return; but the beast, confiding in his superior strength, advanced
slowly on, snarling horribly, and gnashing his dreadful tusks; and in
this manner he opened his way through the thickest of our battalions. In
vain we poured upon him on every side our darts and arrows, and every
missive weapon; so well defended was he in an impenetrable hide, that
every weapon either rebounded as from a wall, or glanced aside without
in the least annoying. At length one of the boldest of our youth
advanced unguardedly upon him, and endeavoured to wound him from a
shorter distance; but the furious beast rushed upon him with an
unexpected degree of swiftness, ripped up his body with a single stroke
of his enormous tusk, and then, seizing him in his furious jaws, lifted
up his mangled body as if in triumph, and crushed him into a bleeding
and promiscuous mass.

"Fear instantly seized upon our company; all involuntarily retreated,
and seemed inclined to quit the unequal combat; all but myself, who,
inflamed with grief and rage for the loss of my companion, determined
either to revenge his death or perish in the attempt. Seeing, therefore,
that it was in vain to attack the animal in the usual manner, I chose
the sharpest arrow, and fitted it to the bowstring; then, with a cool
unterrified aim, observing him moving nimbly into the river, I
discharged it full at his broad and glaring eye-ball with such success,
that the barbed point penetrated even to his brain, and the monster
fell expiring to the ground.

[Illustration: "I discharged it full at his broad and glaring eye-ball
with such success, that the barbed point penetrated even to his brain."
_P. 523._]

"This action, magnified beyond its deserts, gained me universal applause
throughout the hamlet; I was from that time looked upon as one of the
most valiant and fortunate of our youth. The immense body of the monster
which I had slain was cut to pieces, and borne in triumph to the
village. All the young women received me with songs of joy and
congratulations; the young men adopted me as their leader in every
hazardous expedition; and the elders applauded me with such expressions
of esteem as filled my ignorant heart with vanity and exultation.

"But what was more agreeable to me than all the rest, my father received
me with transport, and, pressing me to his bosom with tears of joy, told
me that now he could die with pleasure, since I had exceeded his most
sanguine expectations. 'I,' said he, 'have not lived inactive or
inglorious; I have transfixed the tiger with my shafts; I have, though
alone, attacked the lion in his rage, the terror of the woods, the
fiercest of animals; even the elephant has been compelled to turn his
back and fly before my javelin; but never, in the pride of my youth and
strength, did I achieve such an exploit as this.' He then went into his
cabin and brought forth the bow and fatal arrows which he was accustomed
to use in the chase. 'Take them, take them,' said he, 'my son, and
rescue my weaker arm from a burthen which it is no longer destined to
sustain. Age is now creeping on; my blood begins to cool, my sinews
slacken, and I am no longer equal to the task of supporting the glories
of our race. That care shall now be thine; and with a firmer hand shalt
thou henceforth use these weapons against the beasts of the forest and
the enemies of our country.'"

Such was the account which the negro gave to Tommy, in different
conversations, of his birth and education. His curiosity was gratified
with the recital, and his heart expanded in the same proportion that his
knowledge improved. He reflected, with shame and contempt, upon the
ridiculous prejudices he had once entertained; he learned to consider
all men as his brethren and equals; and the foolish distinctions which
pride had formerly suggested were gradually obliterated from his mind.
Such a change in his sentiments rendered him more mild, more obliging,
more engaging than ever; he became the delight of all the family; and
Harry, although he had always loved him, now knew no limits to his
affection.

One day Tommy was surprised by an unexpected visit from his father, who
met him with open arms, and told him that he was now come to take him
back to his own house. "I have heard," said he, "such an account of your
present behaviour, that the past is entirely forgotten; and I begin to
glory in owning