[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wisconsin Army National Guard

r transportation.

While the Wisconsin National Guard was deployed abroad, the Wisconsin State Guard was organized to temporarily replace the Wisconsin National Guard as the designated  militia of Wisconsin and to assume the duties of the National Guard units until the National Guard units returned.

Structure 
There are currently about 9,600 members in the Wisconsin National Guard. They reside in all of the state's 72 counties, ranging from fewer than ten in several lightly populated counties in the northeastern part of the state to about 1,100 each in Dane and Milwaukee counties. Over 600 live in other states, with 70 percent of those residing in Illinois and Minnesota. The approximately 7,400 Army Guard soldiers train in armories located in 67 communities throughout the state. Most of the units are assigned to one of three major commands: the 32nd Infantry Brigade, headquartered at Camp Douglas; the 64th Troop Command, headquartered at Madison; and the 157th Maneuver Enhancement Brigade, headquartered at Milwaukee, Wisconsin. In addition, the 426th Regiment (Regional Training Institute) is also active, heir to the traditions of the 426th Infantry Regiment.

32nd Infantry Brigade Combat Team 

The 32nd Infantry Brigade is the largest unit in the Wisconsin National Guard. Formed in 1967 from the inactivated 32nd Infantry Division, the Red Arrow Brigade consists of three battalions of light infantry, one squadron of cavalry, as well as support and engineer units.

157th Maneuver Enhancement Brigade 

The 157th Maneuver Enhancement Brigade is based at Milwaukee, Wisconsin. It was formed from the inactivated 57th Field Artillery Brigade and 264th Engineer Group.

64th Troop Command 

The 64th Troop Command provides administrative, training and logistical support to unique, specialized or smaller Wisconsin Army National Guard units that are not part of other major deployable units. The command includes aviation, sustainment and support, personnel, CBRN, band, transportation, maintenance, public affairs, rear area operations command, and medical units.

Historic units

  127th Infantry Regiment
  128th Infantry Regiment
  120th Field Artillery Regiment
  121st Field Artillery Regiment
  126th Field Artillery Regiment

See also
Wisconsin State Defense Force

References

External links
Army National Guard, official sites
 Wisconsin Army National Guard
History
Bibliography at the United States Army Center of Military History

Wisconsin National Guard
Military in Wisconsin
United States Army National Guard by state