[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Disarmament in Somalia

politicians.

A group of 20 militia turned in their weapons, along with a machine gun mounted technical, in hopes of joining the newly forming army.

On January 4, government and Ethiopian forces began disarming residents of Jilib following an attack which killed two soldiers and wounded two others.

In Mogadishu, TFG militias set up checkpoints in the city. At one checkpoint, a group of militia apparently attempted to extort money from the driver of an oil tanker truck. In the ensuing argument, a rocket was fired at the vehicle, injuring at least 2 or 3 people. The vehicle had been carrying dozens of passengers who disembarked before the rocket attack.

On January 5, 1,000 soldiers from Puntland traveled to Mogadishu to help in the disarmament of the capital. In Marka, Lower Shabelle, at least four people were killed in inter-militia fighting; two other militia and two civilians were wounded.

Riots in Mogadishu

On January 6, a crowd of more than 100 rioters gathered near Tarabunka square in Mogadishu. They protested the presence of Ethiopian troops as well as the plans to disarm the populace. Prime Minister Ghedi issued a decision to postpone the disarmament for an indefinite amount of time. At least seven were injured as police fired shots to disburse demonstrations around the city.

Agreement to Disarm

On January 12, the same day as the Battle of Ras Kamboni ended, Somali warlords tentatively agreed with President Abdullahi Yusuf to disarm their militias and to direct their members to apply to join the national army or police forces. An estimated 20,000 militia were said to exist throughout Somalia. Mohamed Qanyare Afrah said the clans were "fed up" with militias and agreed to disarm his own men. Muse Sudi Yalahow was less conciliatory.

Meanwhile, even as the meeting was taking place, fighting outside Villa Somalia killed seven people. The members of government and warlords present for the meeting included the following individuals:

 President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmed
 Prime Minister Ali Mohammed Ghedi
 Defense Minister Col. Barre Hirale - former leader of the JVA
 Mohamed Qanyare Afrah - MP
 Muse Sudi Yalahow - MP, former leader of ARPCT
 Omar Filish - MP
 Botan Ise Alin - MP
 Col. Abdi Qeybdiid - leader of the self-declared state of Galmudug
 Abdi Waal

Martial law declared

On January 13 the Transitional Federal Parliament (TFP), by a count of 154-to-2, voted to give the President the power to declare martial law to restore order. Yet on the same day, 9 people were reported killed in fighting in Biyo-Adde in central Somalia. Prime Minister Gedi first stated that martial law would be declared on December 29, 2006; parliament's vote vested the government with the proper legal authority.

Given their new powers, on January 15, 2007, the TFG closed the radio stations for Shabelle Radio, Horn Afrik, IQK, and the television station Al-Jazeera in Mogadishu. The ban was lifted a day later.

Warlords turn in arms

On January 17, 2007, Mohamed Qanyare and Muse Sudi Yalahow were the first warlords of Mogadishu to disarm, turning over their weapons and committing their militiamen to the government, though some of Sudi's arms remained in other locations controlled by Qanyare and Mohammed Dhere. Approximately 60 technicals and 600 soldier's weapons were turned in to the government, including two technicals turned in by Interior Minister Hussein Mohammed Farah Aidid. The arms were accepted by the chief commander of the government army, General Naji.

Call for National Reconciliation Conference

On January 30, 2007, President Yusuf called for a new national reconciliation conference to be held within three weeks. In related news, a commitment for 4,000 peacekeepers had been made by the AU, and the search continued for another 4,000 to constitute the full planned contingent.

Eventually, the 2007 Somali National Reconciliation Conference was called on 2007-03-01 to begin on 16 April 2007.

References

External links
 Somali Joint Needs Assessment United Nations & World Bank Coordination Secretariat
 Country Profiles, Reports and Fact Sheets on Somalia WomenWarPeace.org

2007 in Somalia
Military disbanding and disarmament
Military of Somalia
2007 in military history