[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Caribbean Regiment

ced to Bermuda shortly after the declaration of war, but those servicemen who were drafted to the Caribbean Regiment volunteered to serve overseas), arrived on two ships on 13 and 23 April 1944 to form the training cadre of the new regiment at Fort Eustis, a US Army base near Williamsburg, Virginia.

The Bermudians prepared for the arrival of the volunteers from West Indian colonies (which had been divided militarily into South Caribbean and North Caribbean areas), who meanwhile had collected into two contingents beginning on 1 April 1944, one at Trinidad and the other at Jamaica. They arrived under the command of Lieutenant-Colonel Hugh Wilkin, OBE, MC, The Queen's Own (Royal West Kent Regiment), who became the Commanding Officer of the new regiment. Whether a badge was authorised for the regiment is unclear. Although created as a regular line infantry regiment of the British Army, the regiment never appeared in the Army List, in which the badge of a unit, if one was authorised, is described. At least some of the Bermudians wore the General Service Corps cap badge, which was used by the Bermuda Militia Infantry (for which no unique badge had been authorised) while serving with the Caribbean Regiment. A blue, yellow, and green regimental flash was authorised for the Caribbean Regiment, and the Bermudian contingent was authorised to wear the name Bermuda as a distinguishing mark.

In order of the number of strength, the regiment was made up of draughts from Trinidad (22%), Jamaica (at the time including the Turks and Caicos Islands), Barbados, British Guiana, Bermuda, the Windward Islands, and the Leeward Islands. Newly recruited men were tested in Virginia for fitness, with those not found fit returned to their colonies. With more experience, and a generally higher degree of education, many of the Bermudian men were made non-commissioned officers and distributed around the regiment. Some of the South Caribbean soldiers had already trained for deployment to the Pacific. The Bermuda Militia Artillery and Bermuda Militia Infantry contingent had previously joined with the Bermuda Volunteer Rifle Corps' Second Contingent to the Lincolnshire Regiment in 1943 to form the temporary Command Training Battalion, stationed at Prospect Camp (the location of the Command Headquarters of the Bermuda Garrison) while training for the war in Europe (the two contingents had separated before proceeding overseas).

The new regiment trained in Virginia, where the regiment was the first to celebrate the King's birthday in the U.S. since the American Revolution. The King's Birthday Parade was attended by Lieutenant-General Sir Gordon Nevil Macready, 2nd Baronet , the Head of Mission of the British Army staff in Washington DC, who reviewed the regiment and presented the Commanding Officer with special messages from the Secretary of State for War and the Secretary of State for the Colonies. The message from the Secretary of State for War (Sir Percy James Grigg), KCB, KCSI, PC) read:

The message from the Secretary of State for the Colonies (Major (Honorary Colonel, TA) Oliver Stanley, , Royal Field Artillery) read:

The Regiment left the USA for Oran, in North Africa, in June 1944. Oran was handed over to Free French Forces before their arrival, and the Regiment went on to Naples, Italy, in July 1944, where it was employed in general duties behind the front line. L/BDA/95 Private W.C. Baxter of the Bermuda Militia Infantry died there on 4 September 1944 of an abscess of the liver and was buried at the Naples War Cemetery. In October, it escorted 4,000 German prisoners of war from Italy to Egypt, where it was used in mine clearance work around the Suez Canal area.

The regiment never saw front line action. This was due partly to inadequate training (with only a single battalion, it had not trained as part of a larger brigade; the smallest unit the British Army normally fielded on its own) and partly because of the anticipated political impact in the British West Indies if heavy casualties had been incurred.