[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jehovah

precedes or follows , the Masoretes placed the vowel points of  into the Tetragrammaton, producing a different vocalization of the Tetragrammaton  (), which was read as . Based on this reasoning, the form  () has been characterized by some as a "hybrid form", and even "a philological impossibility".

Early modern translators disregarded the practice of reading  (or its equivalents in Greek and Latin,  and ) in place of the Tetragrammaton and instead combined the four Hebrew letters of the Tetragrammaton with the vowel points that, except in synagogue scrolls, accompanied them, resulting in the form Jehovah. This form, which first took effect in works dated 1278 and 1303, was adopted in Tyndale's and some other  Protestant translations of the Bible. In the 1560 Geneva Bible, the Tetragrammaton is translated as Jehovah six times, four as the proper name, and two as place-names. In the 1611 King James Version, Jehovah occurred seven times. In the 1885 English Revised Version, the form Jehovah occurs twelve times. In the 1901 American Standard Version the form "Je-ho'vah" became the regular English rendering of the Hebrew , all throughout, in preference to the previously dominant "the ", which is generally used in the King James Version. It is also used in Christian hymns such as the 1771 hymn, "Guide Me, O Thou Great Jehovah".

Development
The most widespread theory is that the Hebrew term  has the vowel points of  (). Using the vowels of , the composite  () under the guttural  () becomes a  () under the  (), the  () is placed over the first  (), and the  () is placed under the  (), giving  (). When the two names,  and , occur together, the former is pointed with a  () under the  () and a  () under the second  (), giving , to indicate that it is to be read as  in order to avoid  being repeated.

Taking the spellings at face value may have been as a result of not knowing about the Q're perpetuum, resulting in the transliteration Yehowah and derived variants. Emil G. Hirsch was among the modern scholars that recognized "Jehovah" to be "grammatically impossible".

 appears 6,518 times in the traditional Masoretic Text, in addition to 305 instances of  (). The pronunciation Jehovah is believed to have arisen through the introduction of vowels of the —the marginal notation used by the Masoretes. In places where the consonants of the text to be read (the ) differed from the consonants of the written text (the ), they wrote the  in the margin to indicate that the  was read using the vowels of the . For a few very frequent words the marginal note was omitted, referred to as q're perpetuum. One of these frequent cases was God's name, which was not to be pronounced in fear of profaning the "ineffable name". Instead, wherever  () appears in the  of the biblical and liturgical books, it was to be read as  (, "My Lord [plural of majesty]"), or as  (, "God") if  appears next to it. This combination produces  () and  () respectively.  is also written , or even , and read  ("the name").

Scholars are not in total agreement as to why  does not have precisely the same vowel points as . The use of the composite  () in cases where the name is to be read , has led to the opinion that the composite  () ought to have been used to indicate the reading . It has been argued conversely that the disuse of the  is consistent with the Babylonian system, in which the composite is uncommon.

Vowel points of  and 

The table below shows the vowel points of  and , indicating the simple  in  in contrast to the  in . As indicated to the right, the vowel points used when the Tetragrammaton is intended to be pronounced as  are slightly different to those used in  itself.

The difference between the vowel points of  and  is explained by the rules of Hebrew morphology and phonetics.  and  were allophones of the same phoneme used in different situations:  on glottal consonants including  (such as the first letter in ), and simple  on other consonants (such as the Y in ).

Introduction into English

The earliest available Latin text to use a vocalization similar to Jehovah dates from the 13th century. The Brown-Driver-Briggs Lexicon suggested that the pronunciation Jehovah was unknown until 1520 when it was introduced by Galatinus, who defended its use.