[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lipman Bers

ng minimal surfaces. Bers proved an extension of Riemann's theorem on removable singularities, showing that any isolated singularity of a pencil of minimal surfaces can be removed; he spoke on this result at the 1950 International Congress of Mathematicians and published it in Annals of Mathematics.

Later, beginning with his visit to the Institute for Advanced Study, Bers "began
a ten-year odyssey that took him from pseudoanalytic functions and elliptic equations to quasiconformal mappings, Teichmüller theory, and
Kleinian groups". With Lars Ahlfors, he solved the "moduli problem", of finding a holomorphic parameterization of the Teichmüller space, each point of which represents a compact Riemann surface of a given genus. During this period he also coined the popular phrasing of a question on eigenvalues of planar domains, "Can one hear the shape of a drum?", used as an article title by Mark Kac in 1966 and finally answered negatively in 1992 by an academic descendant of Bers. In the late 1950s, by way of adding a coda to his earlier work, Bers wrote several major retrospectives of flows, pseudoanalytic functions, fixed point methods, Riemann surface theory prior to his work on moduli, and the theory of several complex variables. In 1958, he presented his work on Riemann surfaces in a second talk at the International Congress of Mathematicians.

Bers' work on the parameterization of Teichmüller space led him in the 1960s to consider the boundary of the parameterized space, whose points corresponded to new types of Kleinian groups, eventually to be called singly-degenerate Kleinian groups. He applied Eichler cohomology, previously developed for applications in number theory and the theory of Lie groups, to Kleinian groups. He proved the Bers area inequality, an area bound for hyperbolic surfaces that became a two-dimensional precursor to William Thurston's work on geometrization of 3-manifolds and 3-manifold volume, and in this period Bers himself also studied the continuous symmetries of hyperbolic 3-space.

Quasi-Fuchsian groups may be mapped to a pair of Riemann surfaces by taking the quotient by the group of one of the two connected components of the complement of the group's limit set; fixing the image of one of these two maps leads to a subset of the space of Kleinian groups called a Bers slice. In 1970, Bers conjectured that the singly degenerate Kleinian surface groups can be found on the boundary of a Bers slice; this statement, known as the Bers density conjecture, was finally proven by Namazi, Souto, and Ohshika in 2010 and 2011. The Bers compactification of Teichmüller space also dates to this period.

Advising
Over the course of his career, Bers advised approximately 50 doctoral students, among them Enrico Arbarello, Irwin Kra, Linda Keen, Murray H. Protter, and Lesley Sibner. Approximately a third of Bers' doctoral students were women, a high proportion for mathematics. Having felt neglected by his own advisor, Bers met regularly for meals with his students and former students, maintained a keen interest in their personal lives as well as their professional accomplishments, and kept up a friendly competition with Lars Ahlfors over who could bring to larger number of academic descendants to mathematical gatherings.

Human rights activism
As a small child with his mother in Saint Petersburg, Bers had cheered the Russian Revolution and the rise of the Soviet Union, but by the late 1930s he had become disillusioned with communism after the assassination of Sergey Kirov and Stalin's ensuing purges. His son, Victor Bers, later said that "His experiences in Europe motivated his activism in the human rights movement," and Bers himself attributed his interest in human rights to the legacy of Menshevik leader Julius Martov. He founded the Committee on Human Rights of the National Academy of Sciences, and beginning in the 1970s worked to allow the emigration of dissident Soviet mathematicians including Yuri Shikhanovich, Leonid Plyushch, Valentin Turchin, and David and Gregory Chudnovsky. Within the U.S., he also opposed the American involvement in the Vietnam War and southeast Asia, and the maintenance of the U.S. nuclear arsenal during the Cold War.

Awards and honors
In 1961, Bers was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and in 1965 he became a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. He joined the National Academy of Sciences in 1964. He was a member of  the Finnish Academy of Sciences, and the American Philosophical Society.  He received the AMS Leroy P. Steele Prize for mathematical exposition in 1975 for his paper "Uniformization, moduli, and Kleinian groups". In 1986, the New York Academy of Sciences gave him their Human Rights Award. In the early 1980s, the Association for Women in Mathematics held a symposium to honor Bers' accomplishments in mentoring women mathematicians.

Publications

Books