[Source: PubMed]

6. Soc Sci Med. 2016 Oct;167:140-9. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2016.04.038. Epub
2016  May 7.

Leishmaniasis, conflict, and political terror: A spatio-temporal analysis.

Berry I(1), Berrang-Ford L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
Electronic address: isha.berry@mail.mcgill.ca.
(2)Department of Geography, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
Electronic address: lea.berrangford@mcgill.ca.

BACKGROUND: Leishmaniasis has been estimated to cause the ninth largest burden 
amongst global infectious diseases. Occurrence of the disease has been 
anecdotally associated with periods of conflict, leading to its referral as a 
disease of 'guerrilla warfare.' Despite this, there have been few studies that 
quantitatively investigate the extent to which leishmaniasis coincides with 
conflict or political terror.
METHODOLOGY: This study employed a longitudinal approach to empirically test for 
an association between cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis incidence with 
occurrence of conflict and political terror at the national level, annually for 
15 years (1995-2010). Leishmaniasis incidence data were collected for 54 
countries, and combined with UCDP/PRIO Armed Conflict and Amnesty International 
political terror datasets. Mixed effects negative binomial regression models 
clustered at the country-level were constructed to evaluate the incidence rate 
ratios against the predictors, while controlling for wealth. Additionally, to 
understand how and why conflict-terror may be associated with leishmaniasis 
incidence, we conducted a historical analysis. We identify and discuss posited 
causal mechanisms in the literature, and critically assessed pathways by which 
leishmaniasis might occur in places and times of conflict-terror.
RESULTS: There was a significant dose-response relationship for disease 
incidence based on increasing levels of conflict and terror. Country-years 
experiencing very high levels of conflict-terror were associated with a 2.38 
times higher [95% CI: 1.40-4.05] and 6.02 times higher [95% CI: 2.39-15.15] 
incidence of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis, respectively. Historical 
analysis indicated that conflict and terror contribute to-or coincide 
with-leishmaniasis incidence through processes of population displacement and 
health system deterioration.
CONCLUSIONS: This research highlights the potentially increased risks for 
cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis incidence in areas of high conflict-terror. 
Notably, conflict-terror may act as an empirical proxy for indirect and 
concomitant processes of social breakdown, migration, and instability, which 
emerge as the dominant processes associated with disease incidence.

Copyright © 2016 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2016.04.038
PMID: 27194448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]