[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Monarchy in Quebec

of Canada, with a governor general to represent the monarch and housed at Monklands. Five years later, the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada, including elected representatives from both Canada East and Canada West, made Victoria's birthday, 24 May, a public holiday called Victoria Day.

When, in 1848, Louis-Hippolyte Lafontaine and Robert Baldwin were reappointed as Joint Premiers, responsible government was implemented in the colony, with the backing of Queen Victoria. This meant the governor general was to act on the advice of his co-prime ministers, who were responsible to the elected parliament. The first test of this came in the same year, when the Rebellion Losses Act was put to Governor General the Earl of Elgin for royal assent. Elgin had strong misgivings about the bill, and was pressured by the Tories to refuse assent, but he gave it approval, regardless, on 28 April 1849. As a result, the Anglophone population of Montreal (where the legislature was located) became incensed, the Governor General was assaulted, the parliament building was burned, and the Montreal Annexation Manifesto was issued, calling for the absorbption of the Province of Canada into the United States. It was signed by, among others, Papineau.

Still, all was not lost: The portrait of Queen Victoria that hung in the parliament, painted by John Partridge, was saved from the fire by Sandford Fleming (and hangs in the federal Parliament of Canada today), the colony did not join the US, and responsible government remained a part of the Province of Canada's constitutional order.

Signs of loyalty
On 14 May 1859, the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada petitioned Queen Victoria and other members of the royal family to visit Montreal for the opening of the Victoria Bridge. Unwilling to leave London in the hands of rivaling politicians, the Queen instead sent her eldest son and heir, Prince Albert Edward (later King Edward VII) to tour the Maritimes and Province of Canada for four months in 1860. The Prince was formally welcomed into the Province of Canada by a Canadian delegation, who came aboard HMS Hero near Percé Rock; the group included Governor General Edmund Walker Head and Joint Premiers George-Étienne Cartier and John A. Macdonald. Arriving at Quebec City on 17 August, Albert Edward knighted Narcisse Belleau, Speaker of the Legislative Council, and Henry Smith, Speaker of the Legislative Assembly; visited Montmorency Falls; and made an address at the Université Laval.

Several members of the Legislative Assembly joined the Prince near Trois-Rivières, as the royal party was making its way to Montreal. There, Albert Edward took a specially-built open railway car to the Victoria Bridge in Pointe-Saint-Charles and tapped in-place the structure's final stone. During his five-day visit to the city, he stayed at the viceregal residence, Spencerwood, and inaugurated the city's Crystal Palace, recalling, in an address to the crowd, the favourable impression made by Canadians at the Great Exhibition.

Albert Edward was followed by his younger brother, Prince Alfred, who embarked on a five week tour of the same areas in 1861. The Montreal Gazette noted, "Prince Alfred drove quietly through the town, making purchases at several shops; and the people seeing him thus occupied with business, forebore to mob or interrupt him". From Canada, Alfred wrote a letter to his parents "in Native American style": on a piece of birch-bark he'd pulled from a tree that day.

Confederation
At the Charlottetown and Quebec Conferences in 1864, prominent French-Canadian politicians, particularly George-Étienne Cartier, supported confederating the Canadian colonies into a self-governing constitutional monarchy. This was achieved with the passage of the British North America Act (today the Constitution Act), 1867, uniting Nova Scotia, New Brunswick, Canada West, and Canada East into the Dominion of Canada, with Canada East becoming the province of Quebec.

20th century

Prince George, Prince of Wales, was present for the celebration of Quebec City's tercentenary in 1908,

Ernest Lapointe, then the Minister of Justice and Attorney General of Canada in the Cabinet headed by Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King, chaired the Canadian delegation involved in deliberations leading to the Statute of Westminster, 1931; a law that had support from a wide swath of Quebec's political elite, as it gave Canada its own crown and, consequently, control over its own foreign affairs and a distinction apart from the British Empire.

See also
 Oath of Allegiance
 Symbols of Quebec
 Monarchy

References

Quebec, Monarchy in
Government of Quebec
Westminster system