[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Black Brigade of Cincinnati

The Black Brigade of Cincinnati was a military unit of African-American soldiers, that was organized in 1862 during the American Civil War, when the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, was in danger of being attacked, by the Confederate Army. The members of the Cincinnati "Black Brigade" were among the first African Americans to be employed in the military defense of the Union. The fortifications—including forts, miles of military roads, miles of rifle pits, magazines, and hundreds of acres of cleared forests—at the border of Northern Kentucky thwarted the major threat to Cincinnati during the Civil War.

Brigade service

Background
Race relations in Cincinnati at the time were incredibly volatile. While the city had more than its share of exceptional abolition leaders   before the American Civil War, the attitude of Cincinnatians in general towards abolitionism was one of open hostility. Most of the citizens discountenanced the institution of slavery but were willing to wink at its continuance in the South for financial reasons. The intensity of sentiments has risen up to destruction of property, killings, and mob violence against blacks since about the 1830s. Peter H. Clark states, "Nowhere has the prejudice against colored people been more cruelly manifested than here." Cincinnati, which lies along the Ohio River in southern Ohio, bordered the Union-held slave state of Kentucky. People from Ohio were "aggressively barring" blacks from migrating to the state. State laws, called the Black Laws of 1804 and 1807, required that blacks provided proof that they were free and posted $500 guaranteeing good behavior.  Blacks did not have the right to vote. They could not testify against white people in trials, whether by law before 1849 or mob rule after the law preventing their testimony was overturned.

Volunteer force proposed

In August 1862, with the imminent threat of a Confederate attack, black Cincinnatians met to organize a home guard and offer their services in defense of the Union cause in defense of their city. Hearing that they were meeting to discuss providing service during the war, there were attempts to shut down the meeting and intimidate attendees. The Commercial stated that black men should not interfere in the war. Their offer was refused by the city, and they were told there no need for their help in a "white man's war." This was contrary to the wishes of Maj. Gen. Lew Wallace who intended to enlist the help of the city's black residents to construct defensive fortifications.

Advancing Confederate troops
On August 30, Confederate troops defeated the hastily assembled Army of Kentucky at the Battle of Richmond, Kentucky, about 100 miles south of Cincinnati. By early September 1862, Union Army regiments from Ohio, Indiana, and other northern states were ordered the Cincinnati area to defend it from the advancing Confederate Army. Wallace placed the city under martial law on September 1 and assumed command of the city. Mayor George Hatch asked for all men to assist in the defense of the city and that the police force would be placed under Wallace's command and act as provost guards.

Men unexpectedly forced into service
On September 2, 1862, the Cincinnati police force abruptly and forcefully impressed male black residents to construct fortifications, often at gunpoint and with rough treatment, and without a plan or explanation. The men were gathered and put in a mule pen on Plum Street, not knowing what would become of them and fearfully that they might be left in Kentucky and become enslaved.

Some of the men labored at the river and others were taken at bayonet to work as servants, camp cooks and laundrymen for Union troops. About 400 men were taken to regimental camps and were held there. They were held for two days, during which they worked continuously for 36 hours without sleep and received half rations of food. The treatment was denounced by the Cincinnati Daily Gazette, that stated "Let our colored fellow-soldiers be treated civilly" and "treated like men". It was the only local newspaper to condemn the unjust treatment.

Fortifications
Alarmed by reports of the mishandling by the police force and mistreatment by the army, Wallace put Colonel William M. Dickson in charge, who let the seized men return to their homes and announced a new call for black volunteers to report the next day. In the meantime, the police were relieved of provost guard duty and promised not to arrest any more black men, except for criminal activity. Black men who had escaped to the country or were securely hidden to avoid coming under control of the provost guards, returned to the city.