[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of Shaman King characters

person Anna trusted until she met Yoh.  Impressed though concerned with the level of Anna's spiritual power, Kino suggested that Anna should marry Yoh and eventually trained Anna to be an itako.  She regards Anna as her favorite over all her students, boasting to her husband that Anna is her pride.

 
 
 Mikihisa's wife and Yoh's mother. She normally works as an Office lady, but also works as a miko (translated by some as a cleric) at a local shrine. It is unknown as to the extent of her spiritual powers, but she is capable of seeing ghosts and hearing the voices of kami spirits and capable of divining the future. She is the daughter of Yohmei and Kino; Mikihisa was adopted into the Asakura family when he married Keiko. As a young woman, she lived in Tokyo alone at the inn Yohmei rented for her, which would eventually be the inn where Yoh and Anna would reside. In the manga, she plays minor, though active role, in aiding her family against Hao Asakura. A woman possessing a strong character, she agrees to sacrifice both her children upon birth when her family decides it is the only way to stop Hao from being reborn. When the effort fails, she is relieved and grateful when Yoh is spared and hopeful that her son will be able to stop Hao at last. After foreseeing that Hao cannot be stopped from becoming Shaman King, she personally acts as a messenger for the Asakura and arrives on the Tao's estate in China shortly after Ren's departure to deliver the message. After the secret of Yoh's relationship to Hao is revealed, Keiko directly approaches the Tao family with the offer of having Mikihisa teach members of Ren's team techniques from the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu. She also appears in subsequent meetings the Asakura holds with the Tao family.

 
 
 An ancestor of Yoh Asakura who lived around 500 years ago, a powerful ascetic priest. Following his duty as a member of the Asakura family, Yohken entered the Shaman Fight of 500 years ago to defeat the second incarnation of Hao Asakura with Matamune's help. One of his techniques is Over Soul "Onigoroshi" (Demon Killer) – Yohken used this with Matamune, using his Shakujou as his medium. In the manga, it was the same Over Soul that Yoh used when he saved Anna from the Oni, although Yohken uses his Shakujou (ring-topped Buddhist priests' staff) as the medium. :Yohken is implied to have died shortly after defeating Hao. However, his soul wound up in Hell, trapped by the guilt he felt at having killed another. The memory of killing Hao stayed fresh in Yohken's mind, to the extent that he lost any conception of the passing of time, and didn't realize that 500 years had passed. Yohken came to believe that he needed to defeat a strong opponent to escape and became blinded by his guilt and pride that he managed to defeat the greatest enemy to the Asakura family. In the manga, when Yoh went to Hell to train, Yohken was his first opponent; Matamune notes that it is critical for Yoh to defeat Yohken, whose strength will reflect how powerful Hao was 500 years earlier, much like how the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu reflected Hao's strength 1000 years ago.  Yohken regains his senses after Yoh defeats him, and relates the history of the Asakura family to Yoh.  After Yoh leaves Hell, Yohken's soul returns with him to the deserted island of Tokyo and Yohken attend the last meeting between the Asakura and Tao families regarding their plan to defeat Hao.  He makes one last appearance among the souls who escort Asanoha Douji to meet Hao.