[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Firefighter's Combat Challenge

The Firefighter Combat Challenge is the only federally funded, university-based occupational health physiological research study that has become an internationally touring and televised sports event. It's a demanding 5-event physical challenge that firefighters throughout the world participate in and try to complete with the fastest time. Competition events include a stair climb with a high-rise pack, hose hoist, forcible entry, hose advance, and a victim rescue. The primary purpose for the Firefighter Combat Challenge is to promote physical fitness, an essential part of structural firefighting.

History

In 1975, The Sports Medicine Center of the University of Maryland received a federal grant in the amount of $87K from the precursor to the US Fire Administration (The National Fire Prevention and Control Administration-then a part of the Department of Commerce). Instrumental in facilitating the grant was Chief Dave Gratz the Director of Fire-Rescue Services of Montgomery County (MD) and Dr. Leonard Marks (a candidate for the director of what would ultimately become the USFA). The research scientists who were the principal investigators of a study to measure and characterize the physical demands of structural fire fighting were Dr. Charles O. Dotson, Dr. D. Laine Santa Maria, Dr. Paul O. Davis and Dr. Richard A. Schwartz. Their research was published in a GPO Technical Report and later authored by Drs. Davis, Dotson and Santa Maria in the journal Medicine & Science in Sports & Exercise. While not intended as a sports competition, a large part of the research was based upon five sequentially performed fire ground evolutions garnered upon input from a Job Task Analysis (JTA) conducted with the assistance of the Greater Washington Council of Governments Fire Training Officers sub-committee. One-hundred randomly selected firefighters from five political jurisdictions participated in both laboratory-based physical performance measures and the Criterion Task Test (CTT). The results of the study graphically, and not surprisingly demonstrated an ascending level of performance with higher levels of muscular strength, lean body mass and PWC (physical work capacity). Originally intended as an entry-level, or personnel selection instrument, not until 1991 would the Firefighter Combat Challenge appear as a major industry sports event, when again, at the University of Maryland's MFRI (Maryland Fire Rescue Institute) would the first competition be held, organized by Dr. Paul Davis and the staff of On Target Productions.

The first challenge was won by Prince William County, VA in 1991, the only challenge held that year. In 1992, seven regional challenges were held, with the first World Challenge held coincidental with the IAFC convention in Anaheim, CA. DuPont was the Title Sponsor for the first two years. In 1994, Scott Health and Safety came on board and assumed Title Sponsor in 1999.

Television has been an important part of the Challenge. FETN covered the 1992 Championship followed by ESPN for 10 years. Recently, the Versus (VS) network, owned by Comcast has carried the World Challenge Championships. Through an assortment of media outlets, upwards of 40 million people per year can be identified as gross market impressions.

The rules, procedures and trademarks of this competition (Intellectual Property, i.e., IP) are protected through a copyright issued by the US Patent Office in 1993. Licenses for running sanctioned events are currently in force and being expanded to such countries as New Zealand, Germany, Slovenia and Hungary.

At the conclusion of the 2009 Season, 308 Firefighter Combat Challenge events have been held in 44 states and the District of Columbia- as well as Toronto and Ottawa. The last remaining states yet to host an FCC event are: Connecticut, Hawaii, New Hampshire, Rhode Island and Vermont.

World record for open male is 1:14.76 set by  Ian Van Reenen in 2017.

World Records 
  Montgomery riverfort. CFD, 1:04.00 (Carlsbad, NM)
 Open Male: Ian Van Reenen, 1:14.76 (Sarnia, ON)
 Open Female: Juliet Draper, 1:48.41 Colorado Springs, CO)
 Over 40: Mike Gilbert, 1:26.65 (St. Catherines, ON)
 Over 45: Lonnie Lewis, 1:33.82 (Chesterfield, VA)
 Over 50: Alan Ertzner, 1:31.87, (Fort Calhoun, NE)
 Over 55: Alan Ertzner, 1:31.87 (Fort Calhooun, NE)
 Over 60: Roy Davis, 1:52.74 (Tacoma, WA)

Participants

All firefighters, both currently employed or retired, who are members of any first responder organizations (EMS or Fire-Rescue) are eligible to compete in the challenge.

Competition categories include Individual (running the entire course by one's self); Tandem: dividing the course between two people, Team (adding the fastest three of five people's times) and the Relay (three-to-five people negotiating the course, with each performing one of the specific tasks), passing a baton to the next person after the completion of a task.