[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Software modernization

Legacy modernization, also known as software modernization or platform modernization, refers to the conversion, rewriting or porting of a legacy system to modern computer programming languages, architectures (e.g. microservices), software libraries, protocols or hardware platforms.  Legacy transformation aims to retain and extend the value of the legacy investment through migration to new platforms to benefit from the advantage of the new technologies.

As a basis and first step of software modernization initiatives, the strategy, the risk management, the estimation of costs, and its implementation, lies the knowledge of the system being modernized. The knowledge of what all functionalities are made for, and the knowledge of how it has been developed. As the subject-matter experts (SMEs) who worked at the inception and during all evolutions of the application are no-longer available or have a partial knowledge, and the lack of proper and up-to-date documentation, modernization initiatives start with assessing and discovering the application using Software intelligence.

Strategies 

Making of software modernization decisions is a process within some organizational context. “Real world” decision making in business organizations often has to be made based on “bounded rationality”. Besides that, there exist multiple (and possibly conflicting) decision criteria; the certainty, completeness, and availability of useful information (as a basis for the decision) is often limited.

Legacy system modernization is often a large, multi-year project. Because these legacy systems are often critical in the operations of most enterprises, deploying the modernized system all at once introduces an unacceptable level of operational risk. As a result, legacy systems are typically modernized incrementally. Initially, the system consists completely of legacy code. As each increment is completed, the percentage of legacy code decreases. Eventually, the system is completely modernized. A migration strategy must ensure that the system remains fully functional during the modernization effort.

Modernization strategies 

There are different drivers and strategies for software modernization:

 Architecture Driven Modernization (ADM) is the initiative to standardize views of the existing systems in order to enable common modernization activities like code analysis and comprehension, and software transformation.
 Business-Focus Approach: The modernization strategy is tied to the business value added by the modernization. It implies defining the intersection of the criticality to the business of an applications with its technical quality. This approach pushed by Gartner puts the Application Portfolio Analysis (APA) as a prerequisite of modernization decisions for an application portfolio to measures software health, risks, complexity and cost providing insight into application strengths and weaknesses.
 Model Driven Engineering (MDE) is being investigated as an approach for reverse engineering and then forward engineering software code.
 Renaissance Method for iteratively evaluating legacy systems, from technical, business, and organizational perspectives.
 WMU (Warrants, Maintenance, Upgrade) is a model for choosing appropriate maintenance strategies based on aspired customer satisfaction level and their effects on it.

Modernization risk management 
Software modernization is a risky, difficult, long, and highly intellectual process involving multiple stakeholders. The software modernization tasks are supported by various tools related to Model-driven architecture  from the Object Management Group and processes such as ISO/IEC 14764:2006 or Service-Oriented Migration and Reuse Technique (SMART). Software modernization implies various manual and automated tasks performed by specialized knowledge workers. Tools are supporting project participants' tasks and help organize the collaboration and sequencing of the work.