[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Carol Weiss King

Carol Weiss King (24 August 1895 – 22 January 1952) was a well-known immigration lawyer, key founder of the International Juridical Association, and a founding member of the National Lawyers Guild in the United States.  Her left-leaning career spanned from the Palmer Raids to the McCarthy Era.

Background

Born August 24, 1895, Carole Therese Weiss was the youngest child of Samuel William Weiss and Carrie Stix. Her father was a founder of the law firm of Frank and Weiss (1875–1880), then practiced alone (1880–1910). Her eldest brother, William S. Weiss, continued their father's firm until forced to stop by multiple sclerosis. Another older brother, Louis S. Weiss, also entered his father's first Frank and Weiss, which developed into today's Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.

In 1912, Weiss entered Barnard College as a member of the Class of 1916.  Archives show many sides of her college life.  In 1913, she appeared in a school play, partook in "Mysteries" (sorority rushing), and played basketball. In 1914, she was known as "man-hating" yet managed to appear "resplendent" for the Sophomore Dance. She also joined the managing board of the Barnard Bulletin, whereafter her name appeared as an associate editor. In 1914–15, she was active in the English Club. In 1915, she was involved in the Social Science League, which discussed theories of Scott Nearing and  for which she was running as secretary-treasurer. For the Athletic Club, she served as pitcher in 1914.

In 1916, she was among many who had not paid her Athletic Association dues but was in good enough standing to appear listed as a member in the yearbook as well as a committee member for Greek Games.  She graduated in 1916.  In 1917, she entered law school and in 1920 graduated with a JD in Law from New York University; her brother Louis graduated with a BA in Law from Columbia University, although he started law school a year earlier.

Career
By the end of 1916, Weiss was "doing volunteer work for the American Association for Labor Legislation." In 1917, she was a volunteer research assistant for the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU).

By 1920, as Carol Weiss King, she volunteered to work with Local 25 of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union (ILGWU).
In 1921, she had opened her own law office. In 1923, her name appears in the Barnard Bulletin as "lawyer" without affiliation stated.

In 1924, the communist Daily Worker newspaper listed her as one of their most successful solicitors of subscriptions.  That same year, she had formed a "loose partnership" with radical attorneys.  These included Joseph R. Brodsky, Swinburne Hale, Walter Nelles, Isaac Shorr, and Walter Pollak.  One of Carol Weiss King's first and most durable relationships was with Pollak, a onetime partner of Benjamin Cardozo, whom she met through her brother-in-law Carl Stern. King, Pollak and Stern  worked on the Scottsboro Boys cases, which Pollak successfully argued in the U.S. Supreme Court, among other cases. (Another source cites her as head partner of "Shorr, Brodsky, and King in 1925.)  King also associated with left-wing activists, including members of the Communist Party of the United States of America.

In 1924, she began to edit the Law and Freedom Bulletin an ACLU digest that recorded state and federal cases involving significant questions of constitutional law.

In her 30-year career, she represented hundreds of foreign-born radicals threatened with deportation in administrative proceedings in the lower courts and in the Supreme Court. In 1942, she became general counsel to the American Committee for the Protection of Foreign Born (ACPFB). Due to her association with controversial clients, King herself was subject to surveillance by the FBI.

ILD, IJA, ACPFB, NLG

In 1925, she helped Brodsky found the International Labor Defense for the CPUSA (then operating under the name Workers Party of America) and served on its legal advisory committee.  In 1931, she became the primary founder of the International Juridical Association.

In 1937, she helped found the National Lawyers Guild.

In 1942, she became general counsel for the American Committee for the Protection of Foreign Born, until her death in 1952

In a footnote in his 1952 memoir, Whittaker Chambers notes:  In the early 1930s, Hiss had been a member of the International Juridical Association, of which the late Carol [Weiss] King, a habitual attorney for Communists in trouble, was a moving spirit. The International Juridical Association has been cited as subversive by the Attorney General. Also among its members: Lee Pressman, Abraham Isserman (one of the attorneys for the eleven convicted Communist leaders), Max Loewenthal (Max Lowenthal), author of a recent book attacking the F.B.I.

Cases

King supported several United States Supreme Court cases including Powell v. Alabama (1932) (the first Scottsboro Boys case) and Herndon v. Lowrey (1937).

Harry Bridges 1938