[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Exodus (Battlestar Galactica)

she found Hera. Anders breaks out the prisoners from the Cylon compound and finds Kara "Starbuck" Thrace (Katee Sackhoff), who rescues Kacey (Madeline Parker) from Leoben Conoy (Callum Keith Rennie) by killing him. At the same time, Laura Roslin leads forces that reclaim the abandoned Colonial One.

Galactica is overwhelmed by bombardment from the Basestars. As it is facing destruction, Pegasus makes a timely arrival, destroying a Basestar.  Apollo, having disobeyed Adama's orders by bringing Pegasus into the fight, buys the crew of Galactica time to repair their faster-than-light (FTL) drives. In a last stand, Apollo evacuates Pegasus after setting a collision course with a Basestar. The ship rams into one, destroying both ships, with the debris causing the destruction of another Basestar. After the fleet is reunited, Starbuck prepares to announce Kacey as her daughter, but is dismayed to find another woman (Emilie Ullerup) recognising Kacey as her own daughter who was kidnapped by the Cylons. Laura Roslin (Mary McDonnell) learns from her aide Tory Foster (Rekha Sharma) that Maya and Hera did not make it off the planet. A crowd gathers to celebrate Adama for rescuing them.

Reception

Ratings 
These episodes set consecutive records for the lowest Nielsen rating for Battlestar Galactica episodes. Part One earned a 1.6 rating, the lowest at the time, while Part Two earned an even lower 1.5 rating.

Critical reception 
Despite the low ratings, the episodes were well-received critically. Although there was some disappointment that Part I did not live up to the high standards of the season premiere, it was considered a solid episode and an appetizer for Part II. The second part was highly praised, with special attention to the performances of Michael Hogan and Kate Vernon as Colonel Tigh and his wife and Michael Trucco as Samuel Anders. The special effects, especially those surrounding the space battles, were also acclaimed by critics, and IGN referred to Adama's atmospheric entry maneuver with Galactica as "hands-down the coolest thing I have ever seen a Battlestar do, new or old series combined."

Awards 
The episode won the 2007 Emmy Award for Outstanding Special Visual Effects For A Series and was nominated for Primetime Emmy Awards for Outstanding Directing For A Drama Series and Outstanding Sound Editing For A Series. Michael Hogan submitted this episode for consideration in the category of "Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Drama Series" on his behalf for the 2007 Emmy Awards. These two episodes also won the 2007 VES Award for "Outstanding Visual Effects in a Broadcast Series".

References

External links

2006 American television episodes
Battlestar Galactica (season 3) episodes
Battlestar Galactica (2004 TV series) episodes in multiple parts

fr:Exodus (Battlestar Galactica)