[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Internal Troops of Azerbaijan

The Internal Troops of Azerbaijan (), also known as Interior Troops or Interior Guard, is the uniformed gendarmerie-like force in Azerbaijan. Internal Troops are subordinated to the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Azerbaijan (the police authority of the country). The Internal Troops are the descendant of the Soviet Union's Internal Troops, and are used to deal with internal emergencies such as natural disasters, restoring public order, internal armed conflicts and to safeguard important facilities. During wartime, the Internal Troops fall under the jurisdiction of the Azerbaijani Land Forces and fulfill tasks of local defense and security. Other law enforcement bodies in Azerbaijan include the Azerbaijani National Guard and the State Border Service and its Coast Guard subcomponent. Founded in 1933, the Mubariz Keshikde newspaper informs the public about the activities of the internal troops.

History
In 1991, Azerbaijani Internal Troops was founded based on the decree of the president and later in 1994 activity areas of Internal Troops were determined by the law of the country on the Status of Internal Troops. 12 March is defined as a "Day of Internal Troops" by presidential decree dated 9 March 1995.

Roles
According to law, the Internal Troops perform the following tasks:
 Together with other internal affairs bodies in cities and other settlements act to protect the public, ensuring public safety during mass events including:
 Important state and public events, and transportation of important persons;
 Take part in the search and apprehension of intruders into protected areas;
 To supply the Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs with personnel to provide protection for storehouses and military bases;
 To supply the Department of the Ministry of Internal Affairs with personnel to provide help in natural disasters and other similar situations;
 Aid in preventing mass riots in residential areas;
 To provide help to prevent mass riots in prisons;
 To search and apprehend fugitive convicts and arrested persons;
 If necessary, take part in the defense of the area.
Its equipment includes Heckler & Koch MP5 submachine guns.

Structure

Main Department of Internal Troops 

This department is considered as a main structural unit in order to preserve governmental and civil interests of the country. In accordance with the article 11 of the law on the Issues of Internal Troops, the main department of the Internal Troops is led by the commander of internal troops. Internal Troops of Azerbaijan cooperates with the same bodies of several countries such as China, and Turkey. 

The period for the military service is eighteen months but for undergraduates, this period is defined as a year.

Military Council 
Military Council acts within the Main Department of Internal Troops on the basis of statue accepted by the president. The council consists of the commander of internal troops, chief of headquarter and deputy directors of commander. However, other officials of the main department include the military council.

Hospital 
The Military Hospital of the Internal Troops was established in 1993. The hospital has 12 departments: On 15 December 2005, the hospital has changed its location. All servicemen who apply to the Military Hospital of the Internal Troops, as well as their family members, undergo an initial clinical examination, and emergency medical care can be provided.

Band 
The Band of the Internal Troops of Azerbaijan is the official military band of the Internal Troops. Currently, the band has 115 members and includes song and dance ensemble. On 17 November 1994, the Main Department ordered the establishment of the band. The current artistic director is Lieutenant Colonel Ilgar Novruzov, a graduate of the Baku Academy of Music. He is also the author and composer of the anthem of the Internal Troops.

Combined Arms Brigade of the Internal Troops 
On 10 April 1995, the Nakhchivan "N" Battalion of the Internal Troops was established, being upgraded to a regiment in 2002. In 2014, the Nakhchivan Special Operations Brigade of the Internal Troops was established. It currently forms part of the Nakhchivan Garrison.

Commander of the Internal Troops 
The Commander of Internal Troops is a deputy director of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the chairman of the staff of internal troops. The main responsibilities of the commander are leading the internal troops, providing the preparation of mobilization and effective implementation of officers’ duties. Furthermore, according to the article 10, the commander is considered as a decision maker relating to the issues of internal troops.

List of commanders

Educational institutions