[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Architecture of Hungary

's castle of Veszprém) and the Great Hungarian Plain is significant (Gyula, Castle of Kisvárda the Stephen Várdai's castle). The Jurisics Castle and the Castle of Siklós belonged to the Garai family. The Hunyadi Castle is the most magnificent creation of the period.

Early Gothic church architecture

During the 14th and 15th centuries almost all the Episcopal cathedrals were enlarged or rebuilt in the century (Chapel of Gisela in Veszprém, Chapel of Hédervár in Győr, surrounding sanctuary in Eger). In the countryside, the overlords built Monk and parish churches. The Franciscan monastery of Szécsény was built by Thomas Szécsényi. John Hunyadi built the Franciscan church of Teiuș (current Romania), Pál Kinizsi founded the Pauline monastery of Nagyvázsony, and the Báthory family were active in Nyírbátor. There was also the type of the creation church, the preface of which is the Sainte-Chapelle of Paris erected in 1361 through the Evangelist chapel of John. The Bratislava Chapel was also a pre-image of the main church chapel (the Gara Chapel of the Virgin Mary Church, the Zapolya Chapel of Szepeszely).

Flourishing of the Popular architecture

In the 14th century, the popular architecture has evolved more widely. The role of the capital took place in Buda, it was quickly built near the castle, outside the city. The typical Buda house type was established in the 14th and 15th centuries, which overlooks the streets in the Balkan style with its long façade. Representatives of this type are the National House Street number 2 in Budapest, Tarnok Street number 14 in Budapest, Uri Street number 31 in Budapest. Gothic dwellings also remained in the countryside: Kátalántalán Street number 2 in Pécs, Székesfehérvár, Sopron. However, many of these houses were built of wood and destroyed by fire. The same-age sources for woodwork suggest a high level of carpentry. It was important the work of the master carpenter Dénes Gyarmati in Esztergom, who carried out high-ranking orders. Most of the other types of building in the city (City Hall, Guild House, Bath, hospital) are known only from sources of the same age. The remains of the Old City Hall of Buda are in the museum building. Also we found in the Old Town Hall of Bratislava (current Slovakia). However, ecclesiastical architecture was still decisive in the design of the city picture. The parish churches were three-nave Hall churches, without a crossnave, located in or near the market square. The city parishes were often created with royal support, the coat of arms of Louis I of Hungary is found on the City Hall of Sebeș (current Romania), the coat of arms of Sigismund is on the St. Michael's Church in Cluj-Napoca (current Romania), coat of arms of Matthias Corvinus is on the top of the Blessed Virgin Church in Buda. In these churches, the two-tower façade type of the ethnic churches continued, except that only one of the towers was fully built (Košice Dome (current Slovakia), Matthias Church of Budapest, Biserica Neagră (current Romania)). The turret domes were usually designed with four fiatorches. In the cities, the monastery churches of the Mendicant orders also appeared. The Mendicant order was also built on the basis of uniform principles. (one-nave structure, tower next to the apse nave.) A good example of this are the dormitories of the Ulița Lupilor Street in Cluj-Napoca (current Romania), the Franciscan monastery-church of Szeged and the Reformed Church of Nyírbátor. The constructions of the Mendicant order usually took place near the city walls, so the buildings were included in the city's protection system. The construction of the city walls has already been established. Béla also ordered it, but they were built in a mass of Sigismund of 1405. it started after the annual decree. The city walls were crowned by a party, behind it there were wooden protection corridors (Buda, Pest and Cluj-Napoca city walls). The architecture of the market towns was not significant, although church architecture sometimes approached the level of the free royal cities (Gothic Protestant Church of Avas in Miskolc, St. Andrew Church of Debrecen, Franciscan monastery-church of Gyöngyös and Franciscan monastery-church of Szombathely). The layout of the village churches has not changed, the two-storey structure (apse nave and nave) remains. The size of the buildings has increased, the apse nave has a polygon-based, ribbed cross-vault. Tower connected to the west façade. In the Székely Land, was often provided with fortifications and crenellated (Neszmély, Vörösberény). In Transylvanian Saxons lands, the Gothic conversion of Roman churches was common. There are written sources at the end of the 15th century, in addition to civil artists, they begin to talk about field-town and village masters. A unique memory of the architecture of the villages is the Manor Gothic House of Alsóörs.

Renaissance