[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Johann Kremer

deloused. After driving all of them into the gas chamber the door was closed and an SS man in a gas mask threw the contents of a Cyclon tin through an opening in the side wall." Kremer's role was to sit in a van along with a medical orderly ready to treat any officers that might succumb to the gas.

Executions and beatings
Throughout Kremer's diary there are multiple occasions where he mentions being in attendance at various executions and beatings. At least four instances can be found where he mentions executions either by gun, phenol injection, or an unspecified method. He mentions briefly no fewer than three instances where he oversaw the punishment of prisoners. The physicians were required to examine the victim before the punishment and to remain during the administration of punishment; in practice however, physicians rarely, if ever, examined victims and did not openly object to the punishments.

Diary
Kremer kept a diary of his time at Auschwitz. Interspersed with entries of mundane, day-to-day events are multiple accounts of murder, depravity, gassings and special actions.

Trial and conviction
After the war, Kremer was arrested by British troops and sent to an internment camp in Neuengamme. He was later extradited to Poland. Kremer was tried in the Auschwitz trials at the sitting of the Supreme Court National Tribune in Kraków throughout November and December 1947. Based on the contents of his diary and his own confessions, Kremer participated in fourteen gassings as well as multiple public executions and special actions, also known as gassings. During his testimony, he described the process by which he selected his victims, the process of gaining the necessary information for his research, and he states that:

Kremer was sentenced to death. In his clemency petition, Kremer claimed that he was asking for mercy not for his own sake, but for the sake of his research results which he claimed were ready for the public. These results, Kremer claimed, included "the building of gallstones in insects, inflammations, the problem of cancer and, finally, a satisfying answer to the question of inheritance of acquired characteristics. Kremer's petition was successful and his death sentence was commuted to life imprisonment by President Bolesław Bierut. Kremer was released from prison on 11 January 1958. After his return to Germany, Kremer was charged with murder by West German officials. On 29 November 1960, he was found guilty of two counts of being an accessory to murder and was sentenced to 10 years in prison. However, the court credited Kremer for the time he had served in Poland and allowed him to walk free. However, he was stripped of his civil rights for five years, and was later stripped of all of his medical titles. Kremer went on to testify in the Frankfurt Auschwitz trials. He died in 1965.

Notes

References

1883 births
1965 deaths
Physicians in the Nazi Party
People convicted in the Auschwitz trial
Holocaust perpetrators in Poland
Nazi human subject research
Academic staff of the University of Münster
Auschwitz concentration camp medical personnel
German people imprisoned abroad
German people convicted of crimes against humanity
German prisoners sentenced to death
German prisoners of war in World War II held by the United Kingdom
People extradited to Poland
Prisoners sentenced to death by Poland