[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nitro (character)

perished in the battle. Atlantean agents show up and capture Nitro for Namor and Wolverine follows them to New Pangea in an Iron Man armor to find Nitro has killed his interrogators in an attempt to escape. Wolverine captures Nitro and slices off his arm before leaving Nitro a prisoner of Atlantis.

Namor used Nitro in the destruction of New Pangea after moving his civilization to Latveria, a nation ruled by Doctor Doom. Nitro was held prisoner in Latveria until Penance brought him back to America after forcing him to suffer for the Stamford explosion, leaving him in critical condition and close to death.

Nitro later popped up as a member of Hood's crime syndicate when they stole a treasure from an Arabic diplomat and then had a celebratory party were the Hood shows them how he's the leader and the ways he delegates the job.

Nitro later appeared at a party in Madripoor that was held by Sabretooth.

Nitro was among the villains that fought Spider-Man on a submarine.

During the Avengers: Standoff! storyline, Nitro was an inmate of Pleasant Hill, a gated community established by S.H.I.E.L.D.

During the "Opening Salvo" part of the Secret Empire storyline, Nitro is recruited by Baron Helmut Zemo to join the Army of Evil. Nitro is among the villains on a rampage after what went down in Pleasant Hill. During his fight with the Defenders, Nitro defeated them by exploding.

Powers and abilities
Nitro can forcefully convert his whole body into gases, resulting in a violent explosion. This transformation could be limited to discrete portions of himself, such as his fist and aim the force in a specific direction. While in a gaseous form, he cannot reform if any fraction of his body is separated from the rest and must completely reconstitute himself before detonating again. The process does not have any healing qualities, so any wound received due to the explosion would be present when he reforms.

In other media

Television
Nitro appears in the Wolverine and the X-Men episode "Time Bomb", voiced by Liam O'Brien. This version is a Mutant desperate to keep his destructive abilities from hurting anyone due to his lack of control over them. In pursuit of his quest, he willingly accepts confinement within suspended animation in a mutant prison run by the Mutant Response Division (MRD). However, Toad discovers his capabilities and informs Quicksilver, who leads the Brotherhood of Mutants in freeing Nitro so they can use his powers for their own benefit. During his time with them, Nitro is kept under control by Psylocke's telepathic powers and forms a connection with the sympathetic Rogue due to her own uncontrollable powers. While transporting him to Genosha as an offering for Magneto, the Brotherhood are intercepted by the X-Men. During the ensuing fight, Nitro almost kills both teams, but Storm suspends him in midair so he can detonate safely. After Wolverine explains they would have destroyed Genosha if the X-Men had not intervened, the Brotherhood begrudgingly allow Nitro to be returned to the MRD.

Video games
 Nitro appears in Marvel: Ultimate Alliance 2, voiced by Steve Blum.
 Nitro appears as a boss in Marvel: Avengers Alliance.

References

External links
 Nitro at Marvel.com

Characters created by Jim Starlin
Characters created by Steve Englehart
Comics characters introduced in 1974
Fictional amputees
Fictional characters from Pennsylvania
Fictional characters with slowed ageing
Fictional electrical engineers
Fictional genetically engineered characters
Fictional mass murderers
Marvel Comics mutates
Marvel Comics supervillains