[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Stop and identify statutes

provide all residents with national identity cards, which have the identity information the police would want to know, including citizenship. Foreign visitors need to have their passport available to show at all times. In some cases national identity cards from certain other countries are accepted.

For example, in Portugal it is compulsory to carry the state ID card at all times. This card is called the Cartão de Cidadão (Citizen Card); it is an electronic card which includes biometric information, ID number, social security number, fiscal information, et cetera. Police can only ask for the ID card in public or a place open to public and only if there is a reasonable suspicion the person committed a crime. A certified copy of the ID card can be presented in such situations. If a citizen does not carry the ID card or its certified copy, the police will escort the person to the police department to remain detained until clear identification can be obtained.

In other countries like Australia, Canada, New Zealand, and the United Kingdom police generally have no power to demand identification unless they have a statutory power to do so. For example, these countries have laws that require pedestrians, drivers, and passengers to produce their licence (for drivers) or state their name, address, etc. when stopped by police. Police may also require people to identify themselves if they have reasonable grounds to believe that they have committed a crime.

See also 
 Brown v. Texas
 Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada
 Kolender v. Lawson
 Miranda v. Arizona
Terry stop
 Loitering
 Carding (police policy)
Stop and frisk

References

External links 
 ACLU "Bust Card" What To Do If You’re Stopped By The Police
 ACLU Know Your Rights When Encountering Law Enforcement
 10 Rules for Dealing with Police from FlexYourRights.org, a 501(c)(3) educational nonprofit organization.
 California Codes
 Colorado Revised Statutes
 Nevada Revised Statutes
 New York Legislature Source for New York State Laws
 Stop-and-Identify Laws from Police Chief magazine
 Suspects Who Refuse to Identify Themselves from Police Chief magazine
 The Identity Project: Hiibel
 When Do You Have to Give Your Name at the RNC Protests? An analysis of New York's "stop and identify" law.

U.S. state criminal law
Search and seizure case law
United States Fourth Amendment case law
United States Fifth Amendment self-incrimination case law