[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 Houston Texans season

n the third quarter, McNabb hooked up with RB Brian Westbrook with a 31-yard pass and then, opposing kicker David Akers ended the game in the fourth quarter with a 42-yard field goal. David Carr finished 18-of-27 for 208 yards and a touchdown and was sacked five times.

Week 2: at Indianapolis Colts

The Texans traveled to the RCA Dome for an AFC South battle with the Indianapolis Colts.  From the get-go, Houston trailed as opposing QB Peyton Manning threw a 10-yard TD pass to WR Brandon Stokley and a 21-yard pass to RB Joseph Addai in the first quarter.  In the second quarter, opposing Kicker Adam Vinatieri kicked a 39-yard field goal to further distance themselves from Houston.  The Texans would get a 43-yard field goal by Kicker Kris Brown, but Vinatieri also made a 43-yarder as time ran out in the half.  In the third quarter, the Colts continued to put the game out of reach with Peyton throwing a 15-yard TD pass to TE Bryan Fletcher and Vinatieri kicking a 38-yard field goal.  In the fourth quarter, Texans QB David Carr completed a 33-yard TD pass to TE Owen Daniels, but Indianapolis responded with RB Dominic Rhodes getting a 2-yard TD run.  Houston would get another TD on a 1-yard pass to TE Mark Bruener, but the Colts put the game away with RB Ran Carthon getting a 3-yard TD run.  After WR Andre Johnson provided Houston with a 10-yard TD pass, the Texans ending up losing their ninth straight contest against Indianapolis.

Week 3: vs. Washington Redskins

The Texans came home in Week 3 to take on the Washington Redskins.  In the first quarter, Houston got off to a good start, as TE Mark Bruener caught a 2-yard TD pass.  However, the Redskins would tie the game up on a 9-yard run by RB Ladell Betts.  From there, things went downhill in the second quarter, as WR Antwaan Randle El caught a 23-yard TD pass and RB Clinton Portis ran 30 yards for a touchdown.  In the third quarter, Washington continued to pound Houston, with Portis getting a 1-yard TD run.  In the fourth quarter, the Redskins would get one more scoring strike as kicker John Hall kicked a 46-yard field goal.  The Texans would get another touchdown, as QB David Carr threw a 2-yard pass to TE Owen Daniels and RB Ron Dayne would run it in for the 2-point conversion.  Unfortunately, Houston would fall to 0–3, losing 31–15.

Week 4: vs. Miami Dolphins

Staying at home, the Texans (still searching for their first win of the year) played a Week 4 intraconference match-up against the Miami Dolphins.  After a scoreless first quarter, Houston trailed early, as Miami kicker Olindo Mare got a 52-yard field goal.  Fortunately, the Texans would get a field goal of their own, with kicker Kris Brown getting a 32-yard field goal before halftime.  In the third quarter, Houston fell behind, as Mare kicked a 29-yard field goal for Miami.  In the fourth quarter, the Texans rallied against the Dolphins, as QB David Carr took the ball into the endzone from one yard out, then completed a 3-yard TD pass to WR Andre Johnson later in the quarter.  Mario Williams recorded his first career sack and added a half sack one play later. Afterwards, Houston would have to hold off a late rally by Miami.  Mare kicked a 22-yard field goal, and later got a touchdown, as QB Daunte Culpepper threw a 16-yard strike to WR Chris Chambers. Fortunately, the Texans prevented a two-point conversion when Mario Williams tipped the pass and held on to pick up their first win of the year.

Week 6: at Dallas Cowboys

Coming off their Week 5 bye, the Texans traveled to Texas Stadium for a rematch with their first-ever regular season opponent, the Dallas Cowboys, in a Lone Star State showdown.  Houston struck first, as Kris Brown nailed a 19-yard field goal for the only first quarter score for either team.  In the second quarter, Dallas managed to tie the game, as kicker Mike Vanderjagt hit a 22-yard field goal, but the Texans would retake the lead, as Brown booted a 48-yard field goal just as time ran out in the first half.  Unfortunately, Dallas took control of the game in the second half.  In the third quarter, QB Drew Bledsoe  connected with WR Terrell Owens for two scores (3-yarder and a 21-yarder).  In the fourth quarter, RB Marion Barber had a 1-yard TD run, Vanderjagt kicked a 21-yard field goal, and back-up QB Tony Romo hooked up with Owens on a 2-yard TD pass, Owens' third and final TD on the day.  Dallas cruised in the second half, outscoring the Texans 31–0, and with the 34–6 loss, the Texans fell to 1–4.

Week 7: vs. Jacksonville Jaguars