[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Digvijaya Singh

im and his demand for a further judicial investigation into it. Congress rejected his views that the encounter was stage-managed, stating that the encounter should not be politicised or raked up for political gains. Singh's stand on the Batla House encounter led to criticism from the opposition BJP.

Remarks about female MP
In 2013, Singh described Meenakshi Natarajan,  a female Congress MP from Mandsaur, as "sau tunch maal" ("totally unblemished")—a colloquialism The Times of India described as "frequently used loosely to describe a woman as 'sexy'". Advocates for women's rights were upset by Singh's comment and called for Congress to act against him. However, the MP backed Singh and said he meant that she was like "pure gold"; The Times of India commented that "tunch maal" is "also a trade jargon among jewelers to describe the level of purity of the yellow metal" and added that Singh prefaced his comment about Natarajan by describing himself as a "political goldsmith".

Criticism of burial of bin Laden's body
Singh criticised the United States in 2011 for not respecting Osama bin Laden's religion when it buried him at sea, saying "however big a criminal one might be, his religious traditions should be respected while burying him." Congress's leadership distanced itself from his views. Singh later said that his statement should not be interpreted as support for or opposition to bin Laden, adding "I had merely said that the worst of criminals should be cremated according to their faith. He is a terrorist and he deserved the treatment that he got."

Clash with BJYM workers and imprisonment 
In March 2022, Digvijay Singh along with six others was sentenced for one year rigorous imprisonment by an Indore court in connection with clash with BJYM workers in 2011.

Views on Hindu nationalist groups
Singh has said that the right-wing extremism of the kind he said is perpetrated by the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) and Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) represented a grave threat to national unity. He equated RSS to the Nazis stating that "The RSS, in the garb of its nationalist ideology, is targeting Muslims the same way Nazis targeted Jews in the 1930s". Israel had taken grave exception to this comment. He falsely accused the RSS of being involved in a number of terrorist strikes including the Mumbai terror attacks. He demanded a CBI enquiry into the murder of Sunil Joshi, an RSS activist accused of being involved in the Ajmer Dargah attack, alleging that Joshi was murdered because "he knew too much".

Notes

References

Further reading

External links

1947 births
Living people
Indian National Congress politicians from Madhya Pradesh
Chief Ministers of Madhya Pradesh
India MPs 1991–1996
Politicians from Indore
India MPs 1984–1989
Madhya Pradesh MLAs 1977–1980
Madhya Pradesh MLAs 1980–1985
Madhya Pradesh MLAs 1993–1998
Madhya Pradesh MLAs 1998–2003
Indian Hindus
Lok Sabha members from Madhya Pradesh
Chief ministers from Indian National Congress
People from Guna district
The Daly College Alumni