[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Congregation Beth Elohim

gregation's Associate Rabbi until 2018 and is now the Rabbi at Temple Ner Tamid in Bloomfield, NJ.

On September 22, 2013, Beth Elohim celebrated its 150th anniversary and dedicated a new Sefer Torah. Members of Beth Elohim stated it was "the first Torah in New York City to be completed by a woman".

In June 2015, Andy Bachman departed to join the 92nd Street Y as the Director of Jewish Content and Community Ritual, and in addition, he founded "Water Over Rocks," a non-profit dedicated to memory and civic responsibility. In July 2015, Rachel Timoner became the Senior Rabbi.

Notes

ReferencesBrooklyn Eagle, no bylineNew York Times, no bylineCongregation Beth Elohim websiteOther'''

External links

Congregation Beth Elohim website
Rabbi Rachel Timoner's website
Rabbi Andy Bachman's website
Rabbi Marc Katz's Website
, summary of a sermon given by Rabbi William Sparger of Congregation Beth Elohim, in The New York Times, May 31, 1886, p. 2.
, summary of a sermon given by Rabbi G. Taubenhaus of Congregation Beth Elohim, in The New York Times, October 7, 1897, p. 7.
, letter to the editor by Rabbi Alexander Lyons of Congregation Beth Elohim, in The New York Times'', October 12, 1902, p. 6.

1861 establishments in New York (state)
1910 establishments in New York (state)
1929 establishments in New York City
Art Deco architecture in Brooklyn
Art Deco synagogues
Czech-American culture in New York City
Czech-Jewish culture in the United States
German-Jewish culture in New York City
Historic district contributing properties in New York City
National Register of Historic Places in Brooklyn
Neoclassical synagogues
Park Slope
Reform synagogues in New York City
Religious organizations established in 1861
Romanesque Revival architecture in New York City
Romanesque Revival synagogues
Synagogue buildings with domes
Synagogues in Brooklyn
Synagogues on the National Register of Historic Places in New York City
Synagogues completed in 1910
Synagogues completed in 1929