[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Johns

iscopal Church in the Confederate States of America. He participated in the only consecration by bishops in that church, of Richard Hooker Wilmer to the Diocese of Alabama, held on March 6, 1862, in Richmond. The Confederate Bishops' first pastoral letter declared that slaves were ''a sacred trust."

Bishop Johns spent many long weeks riding through the battlefields and visiting the soldiers in camp—-baptizing, confirming, and preaching. At the age of 70, Bishop Johns rode like a raider—with the great personal risk of his life—to reach the battlefields' wounded and dying. Bishop Johns regularly preached at Richmond's Libby Prison during the War . . . "with special reference to those inmates who had been commended to [his] attention by their friends in the North." Historians speculate as to whether or not Bishop Johns baptized and confirmed Confederate President Jefferson Davis.

Meanwhile, many close to Bishop Johns or Bishop Meade led resistance to Union forces. His nephew, Rev. Kensey Johns Stewart, refused to mention the President of the United States when delivering Morning Prayer at St. Paul's Church in Alexandria, for which he was seized in the chancel and led off to prison in his vestments. In Norfolk, Rev. J.H.D. Wingfield (later Bishop of Northern California) was arrested, his property confiscated and he was sentenced without trial to three months hard labor as a street sweeper in Norfolk for refusing to take the oath of allegiance, which he only made after Union General Benjamin Butler supposedly threatened to expel his wife and children from Union-occupied territory without money, food or additional clothing.

Churches desecrated (used as stables because of their box pews) included Abington in Gloucester County, Aquia Church in Prince William County, Lamb's Creek in King George County and St. Peter's Episcopal Church in New Kent County.

Postwar years
After General Lee surrendered at Appomattox Court House, Bishop Johns issued a pastoral letter advising "prompt and honest obedience to the existing government" and the use of the old prayer for the President of the United States. He also declined an offer from the national church's Domestic and Foreign Missionary Society to pay salaries to him and his impoverished clergy, saying they all preferred to suffer the same privations as their people. In September, 1865, he recommended that the diocescan Council agree to rejoin the Episcopal Church, but they declined. He tried again in 1866, and after two days of debate, the Council agreed, provided it could retain its annual Confederate practice of holding "Councils" rather than "Conventions." Other Southern dioceses followed suit. Reportedly, when his fellow bishops congratulated him upon the return of the Southern dioceses, Johns said he felt like Lazarus, elaborating "licked by dogs, ... licked by dogs."

By 1866, Virginia Theological Seminary in Alexandria was left "wasted and impoverished by war". All the funds of the seminary in Virginia bank stocks were completely destroyed in the war. After the war, Bishop Johns became president and also professor of pastoral theology at the Seminary and with some funds bequeathed by his cousin, he began rebuilding the seminary.

In 1867, the diocesan Council could not agree upon further division of the diocese, West Virginia having split off as a state as well as diocese during the Civil War. However, it deed agree to appoint Rev. Francis McNeece Whittle, of the first graduating class at Alexandria's Episcopal High School, as bishop Johns' assistant as he had been Bishop Meade's. Also, a Standing Committee on Colored Populations was created, and recently freed slaves, and other African Americans were permitted to elect their own vestries, wardens and ministers if they wished to form separate congregations. Rt.Rev. Whittle led the committee, and fostered the vocation of Rev. James Solomon Russell.

Bishop Johns was twice named the "savior" of the church in Virginia. According to Rev. Dr. G. MacLaren Brydon, D.D., Historiographer of the Diocese of Virginia, in 1957 wrote that Bishop Johns "was enabled upon two different occasions to save the Episcopal Church and the Diocese of Virginia from great calamity." First, he brought the diocese of war-wrecked Virginia "back into the fellowship of the Protestant Episcopal Church in the United States," and second, "was in the years 1873-75 at the time when the . . . radical element [formed] a Reformed Episcopal Church, [B]ecause of his influence the majority of the clergy and people would go with him . . . . John Johns stood firm as a rock . . . [and in Virginia] the movement stopped right there. . . [T]he stand taken by Bishop Johns had saved the Church."