[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Austin E. Lathrop

Ferber's 1958 novel, Ice Palace. Kennedy was played by Richard Burton in the 1960 film adaptation.

Lathrop High School was constructed in Fairbanks in 1955, and named to honor the late Fairbanks resident. The Austin E. Lathrop Residence Hall of the University of Alaska Fairbanks was opened in 1962.

Many of the top Lathrop Company lieutenants went on to have a substantial business success of their own. Augie Hiebert, who Lathrop brought to Alaska to put KFAR on the air, started Northern Television. Al Bramstedt, another of Lathrop's broadcast engineers, started Midnight Sun Broadcasters. Both had failed to convince Lathrop of the need to invest in the emerging field of television, as Lathrop felt it would take business away from his movie theaters. Both companies started television stations in Anchorage in 1953 and in Fairbanks in 1955.  Both companies also owned and operated numerous radio stations. Midnight Sun Broadcasters would operate both KFAR and KENI through to the 1980s.

Harry Hill, another Lathrop lieutenant, became a real estate developer. Anchorage's city hall, originally known as the Hill Building, was built by Hill in 1962 as office space for the federal government. The Hill Building was one of the first skyscrapers built in Anchorage's central business district. All three of these individuals were seeded with money from Lathrop's estate.

In the 1970s, Lathrop's theaters and their successors were owned by a media conglomerate named Wometco. In Alaska, they were referred to as "Wometco-Lathrop Theaters."

In the 1980s, the downtown core of Fairbanks was the subject of discussions related to urban renewal in the wake of the completion of the trans-Alaska pipeline and the shift in business following the completion of 3 shopping malls in 1977. The buildings constructed by Lathrop on Second Avenue were considered for demolition until the intervention of persons concerned with maintaining Lathrop's legacy in the community. The Lathrop Building (516 Second Avenue, completed 1936) would be sold to Jim Whitaker and his wife for what has been publicly described at numerous civic meetings as being pennies on the dollar.

In 1988, Alaska Business Monthly nominated Lathrop to the Alaska Business Hall of Fame.

References 

 Biography at the University of Alaska
 Austin Eugene Lathrop genealogy
 "Mining, Media, Movies"

Bibliography
 Tower, Elizabeth A. Mining, Media, Movies: Cap Lathrop's Keys for Alaska's Riches 1991
 Tower, Elizabeth A. Alaska's First Homegrown Millionaire 2006 ()

External links
 Austin Lathrop at 100 Years of Alaska's Legislature

1865 births
1950 deaths
Accidental deaths in Alaska
Alaska Republicans
Businesspeople from Fairbanks, Alaska
Mayors of places in Alaska
Members of the Alaska Territorial Legislature
20th-century American politicians
Politicians from Anchorage, Alaska
People from Cordova, Alaska
Politicians from Fairbanks, Alaska
People from Lapeer County, Michigan
People from Valdez, Alaska
People of pre-statehood Alaska
Railway accident deaths in the United States
University of Alaska regents