[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Mercenaries in popular culture

such as Kyle Katarn and the infamous Boba Fett.
 Predators (2010) - Royce, the protagonist of the movie, is a mercenary.
 The Expendables series of movies about a group of elite mercenaries, starring Sylvester Stallone, Jason Statham, Dolph Lundgren, Jet Li, Mickey Rourke, Randy Couture, Steve Austin, Terry Crews, Bruce Willis, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Jean-Claude Van Damme, Liam Hemsworth, Chuck Norris, Antonio Banderas, Wesley Snipes, Mel Gibson, Harrison Ford, Kelsey Grammer, Ronda Rousey, Tony Jaa, and 50 Cent.
 Mercenaries (2011) - A war drama film starring Billy Zane and Kirsty Mitchell about a group of Mercenaries sent to the Balkans to rescue the US ambassador and his aid.
 The Dark Knight Rises (2012) - Bane and a younger Ra's al Ghul (prior to becoming the head of the League of Shadows) are portrayed as mercenaries. In addition, the newly resurrected League of Shadows is made up of a band of mercenaries under Bane's command.
Justice League: The Flashpoint Paradox (2013) -  also features an altered Deathstroke fighting against Aquaman and Wonder Woman.

Television
 The Ogrons, ape-themed aliens, served as mercenaries, tending to work for many races including the Daleks and The Master on the science fiction series Doctor Who, most famously in the episodes "Day of the Daleks" and "Frontier in Space".
 Soldier of Fortune (1955) had John Russell and Chick Chandler as two do-anything-go-anywhere adventurers; however, none of the episodes involved them being hired to wage war.
 Have Gun Will Travel (1957–1963) featured Richard Boone as "the man called Paladin" whose services were hired in each episode, answering a requesting telegram pr a newspaper article with a business card bearing the title of the show (although Paladin was hired more as a "problem solver" than as a professional soldier). Paladin's symbol was the knight piece in chess, which would explain his unexpected moves during the episode. In one episode of  the later television show The Richard Boone Show, Boone played a modern version of Paladin.
 The A-Team is a 1980's series about a team of benevolent mercenaries. The violence was usually "toned down" to an almost cartoonish level to make the series acceptable for prime-time viewing (everybody shoots, no one gets hit).
 The anime television series Area 88 portrays fictional mercenaries in a country called Asran where foreign freelance pilots of all nationalities are assembled in Area 88, an isolated air force base that houses the military's only mercenary unit to fight in Asran's civil war.
 Molotov Cocktease from the Adult Swim cartoon The Venture Bros. is a former KGB agent who went freelance, presumably after the dissolution of the Soviet Union.
 One of the major antagonists in the TV series Jericho is a mercenary group called Ravenwood, which is alleged to be inspired by Blackwater Worldwide. They are a subsidiary of a large government contractor and are often operating on private agendas.
 The character Jayne Cobb in the Firefly series is a career mercenary who joined the crew of the Serenity after his previous employer hired him to track their ship only to switch sides when offered a larger percentage and better perks. When later offered a bribe to again switch sides, Jayne refuses. When confronted, he explains that he would have but, "The money wasn't good enough." Despite questionable loyalty, Jayne remained more or less loyal to the Serenity crew until the end of the series.
 The comedy machinima series Red vs. Blue uses the mercenary premise regularly, usually around Tex and Wyoming, who themselves, were freelance mercenaries.
 The soap opera Days of Our Lives features a villain named Stefano DiMera, a wealthy Italian businessman with a history of dabbling in organized crime and terrorism, and who has utilized a cadre of private mercenaries, including John Black and his own nephew Andre DiMera, to execute some of his more outlandish operations. Flashbacks on this show have included Black leading a team of soldiers in battle in some type of (unidentified) Third-World conflict. DiMera has also kidnapped and brainwashed some of his own antagonists, including Roman Brady, Hope Williams, and Steve Johnson, into serving as his agents.
 In LOST a group of mercenaries come to take over The Island, kidnap Ben Linus, and kill everyone on the Island in order to completely secure it for their employer, Charles Widmore, so he can exploit the Island's mythical properties for his own gain.
 Shadow Company is a documentary directed by Nick Bicanic and Jason Bourque and narrated by Gerard Butler. It is an introduction to the mercenary and private military company industry, concentrating on the role the industry has been playing in recent conflicts. It was released on DVD in August 2006.
 In SuperNews!, one episode serve as a parody on the Blackwater company, who has hired John Rambo, Boba Fett and the Predator, and Yosemite Sam as their drill sergeant, to search and find Osama bin Laden.

Music