[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of 2006 human rights incidents in Egypt

r to Egypt in 2003, made allegations that he was beaten repeatedly in the early stages of his imprisonment, including while he was in U.S. custody.

May 11:	A High Court summoned judges Mekky and Bastawisi to appear, but the two judges refused to enter the court amid such a large presence of police.

May 11:	Outside the Judges' Club, the police attacked and beat anyone who tried to demonstrate, clubbing men and women as well as at least half a dozen journalists trying to cover the events.  Authorities arrested 255 demonstrators and journalists.
May 17:  	The Minister of Interior issued an order banning any peaceful assemblies or demonstrations in front of the High Court Building.
May 18:  	A Supreme Judicial Council disciplinary tribunal exonerated Judge Mekky on charges that he had "disparaged the Supreme Judicial Council" and "talked to the press about political affairs." But on the same grounds, the court issued a rebuke and denied a promotion to Judge Bastawisi.

May 18:	Police arrested over 300 pro-reform protesters and beat several others.
May 18:	A Cairo appeals court upheld the December 2005 conviction and 5-year prison sentence of Ayman Nour.

May 25:  	300 pro-reform judges staged a sit-in outside the High Court Building to demand the independence of Egypt's judiciary.

May 25:	Police arrested Karim el-Shaaer and Mohamed el-Sharqawi at a pro-judges demonstration outside the Journalists' Syndicate.  Police allegedly tortured and sodomized Sharqawi at a Cairo police station.

May 28:  	Prison medical authorities administered a medical exam on Mohamed el-Sharqawi but did not treat him for his injuries.

June 2006 

June 2:  	Police allegedly assaulted BBC correspondents Dina Samak and Dina Gameel while the two are reporting on a meeting of the General Assembly of the Journalists' Syndicate.
June 3:  	Police seized 2,000 unlicensed DVDs of The Da Vinci Code and the Egyptian Coptic Christian church demanded the film be banned in Egypt.

June 4:  	Police arrested nine senior MB members.

June 5:	The Foreign Ministry demanded that the International Republican Institute, a U.S. NGO which promotes democracy, suspend its activities in the country.
June 7:	The Egyptian Parliament postponed discussion of the judicial reforms bill.
June 12:  	Police shot rubber bullets and tear gas at an MB protest that was being held in support of prominent MB member Hassan al-Hayawan, who was on trial in the town of Zagazig.   Police injured ten Egyptians and briefly detained 110 others.
June 12:  	A Zagazig State Security Emergency Court acquitted MB member Hassan al-Hayawan of charges of illegal possession of weapons and belonging to an illegal organization. Police detained MB member Hassan al-Hayawan immediately after he was acquitted.

June 13:  	Culture Minister Farouk Hosni moved to ban the film The Da Vinci Code.

June 16:  	Egyptian Organization for Human Rights released a statement opposing Culture Minister Farouk Hosni's calls to ban the film The Da Vinci Code.

June 18:  	A self-professedly devout Egyptian woman in a museum destroyed three sculptures by Egyptian artist Hassan Heshmat.  The attack followed a fatwā issued by the Grand Mufti of Cairo, Ali Gomaa, which banned all decorative statues of living beings.

June 19:  	Police arrested 31 MB members in the North Coast town of Marsa Matrouh on charges of holding illegal meetings.

June 21:  	The Yacoubian Building opened amid criticism, acclaim, and calls for censorship.

June 22: 	An Egyptian court released blogger Alaa Seif al-Islam from Tora Prison. Alaa had been imprisoned since May 7.
June 23:  	An Egyptian court sentenced Al-Dustour chief editor Ibrahim Issa and reporter Sahar Zaki to a year's imprisonment for insulting the president.  In April, the Al-Dustour newspaper reported on a lawsuit that accused Egyptian President Mubarak of misusing public money during the privatization of state-owned companies. The man who filed the lawsuit, Said Abdullah, was also given a year's jail. The three were also fined 10,000 Egyptian pounds.

June 23:  	Three hundred demonstrators at Press Syndicate called for the release of protesters that were being detained with criminals at Tora Prison.

June 23:	London-based Arab Press Freedom Watch condemned the Education Ministry's decision to fail secondary-school student Alia Farag Megahed for criticizing Mubarak and US President George W. Bush in a final-exam paper.
June 27:	An Administrative Court ruled in favor of blocking blogs that "threaten national security."

June 30:  	Thousands of worshipers at the Al-Azhar Mosque protested against Israel's onslaught on the Gaza Strip.

July 2006 

July 4:  	A group of Coptic Christians began legal proceedings to sue Bishop Maximus I for setting up an alternative orthodox church in Egypt.

July 5:  	112 MPs called for the censorship of the film The Yacoubian Building.

July 8: 	Twenty-six Egyptian newspapers did not print in a show of protest against the proposed new press law.