[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Duplex mismatch

ansmission timer grows progressively longer between attempts, eventually a retransmission will occur when there is no reverse traffic on the connection, and the acknowledgment are finally received. This will restart the TCP traffic, which in turn immediately causes lost packets as streaming resumes.

The end result is a connection that is working but performs extremely poorly because of the duplex mismatch. Symptoms of a duplex mismatch are connections that seem to work fine with a ping command, but "lock up" easily with very low throughput on data transfers; the effective data transfer rate is likely to be asymmetrical, performing much worse in the half-duplex to full-duplex direction than the other. In normal half-duplex operations late collisions do not occur. However, in a duplex mismatch the collisions seen on the half-duplex side of the link are often late collisions. The full-duplex side usually will register frame check sequence errors, or runt frames. Viewing these standard Ethernet statistics can help diagnose the problem.

Contrary to what one might reasonably expect, both sides of a connection need to be identically configured for proper operation.  In other words, setting one side to automatic (either speed or duplex or both) and setting the other to be fixed (either speed or duplex or both) will likely result in either a speed mismatch, a duplex mismatch or both. A duplex mismatch can be fixed by either enabling autonegotiation (if available and working) on both ends or by forcing the same settings on both ends (availability of a configuration interface permitting). If there is no option but to have a locked setting on one end and autonegotiation the other (for example, an old device with broken autonegotiation connected to an unmanaged switch) half duplex must be used. All modern LAN equipment comes with autonegotiation enabled and the various compatibility issues have been resolved. The best way to avoid duplex mismatches is to use autonegotiation and to replace any legacy equipment that does not use autonegotiation or does not autonegotiate correctly.

References

External links 
 What Is A Duplex Mismatch?
 Detecting Duplex Mismatch on Ethernet

Ethernet