[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Gaston (Massachusetts politician)

district of the city, and Gaston was criticized for failing to show decisive leadership during attempts to bring the fire under control.  This weak showing, combined with a poor response to a smallpox epidemic in the city, contributed to his loss in a bid for a third term.

Governor of Massachusetts

In 1873, Gaston ran for Governor of Massachusetts.  The dominant Republican Party had been split in 1872 by the formation of the Liberal Republicans, and the state's Democrats sensed an opportunity.  Gaston ran on a platform calling for a liberalization of the state's harsh alcohol prohibition laws, which his opponent, incumbent Republican William B. Washburn, had supported.  Gaston narrowly lost the election.  Washburn resigned in 1874 after winning election to the United States Senate, and Gaston ran in 1874 against Acting Governor Thomas Talbot.  Talbot also supported the continuance of statewide prohibition, vetoing popular legislation for loosening restrictions on alcohol.  Gaston was also helped by discontent with the corruption endemic in the administration of President Ulysses S. Grant and the disunity among the Republicans, from whom Benjamin Butler siphoned votes with a third-party run.  Gaston ended up winning a comfortable victory.  He became the first Democrat to win the governorship since before the Civil War, ending a string of consecutive Republican victories. His victory was also an early indicator of the growing power of Irish Americans in the state, who made up an important base of his support.

During his term as governor, Gaston was widely viewed as moderate, "more patriot than partisan", as one Boston newspaper put it. Gaston promoted the repeal of the state's prohibition law, replacing it with restrictions and licensing of alcohol sales determined by the cities and towns.  He also reduced the size of the state constabulary, which had enforced the old prohibition law.  He came under criticism within his own party, however, for his failure to turn partisan Republican appointees out of their offices and replace them with Democratic stalwarts.

Gaston's quest for a second term was ended by public outrage over his failure to sign the death warrant of convicted juvenile murderer Jesse Pomeroy.  Pomeroy, then fourteen years old, had been convicted December 10 1874 of first degree murder for the murder of Horace H. Millen April 22, 1874, and been sentenced to death.  There was public clamor favoring his execution, especially after he attempted to escape from prison. Gaston, despite two rulings by the Governor's Council that clemency be denied, refused to sign the execution order.  It was an unpopular move that probably contributed to his loss in the 1875 election.  Republican Alexander H. Rice, who defeated Gaston in an otherwise lackluster campaign, also refused to sign the execution order, but his Council eventually recommended commutation of Pomeroy's sentence to life in solitary confinement.

Later years
After his term as governor ended, Gaston returned to his law practice.  His practice, established in 1865 with Harvey Jewell and Walbridge A. Field, was highly successful.  Gaston was known to not particularly like criminal law, but he was acknowledged as one of the period's leading trial lawyers.  Gaston represented Archbishop John Joseph Williams and Father John H. Fleming when the parents of a teenage girl sued after Fleming lost an image of an angel that the girl believed was given to her by the Blessed Virgin Mary.

He served as president of the Boston Bar Association from 1880 to 1881.  He died in 1894, and is buried in Forest Hills Cemetery.

See also
 1868 Massachusetts legislature
 Timeline of Boston, 1870s

References

Bibliography

American people of French descent
Governors of Massachusetts
Massachusetts Democrats
Massachusetts state senators
Members of the Massachusetts House of Representatives
Mayors of Boston
Mayors of Roxbury, Massachusetts
People from Killingly, Connecticut
1820 births
1894 deaths
Massachusetts Whigs
19th-century American politicians
Democratic Party governors of Massachusetts
Brown University alumni