[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ali Mohamed (double agent)

echniques of unconventional warfare including kidnappings, assassinations, and hijacking planes, which he had learned from the American Special Forces." According to FBI special agent Jack Cloonan, in one of Mohamed's first classes were Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri, and other al-Qaeda leaders.

In 1993, Mohamed escorted Ayman al-Zawahiri, posing as a Kuwaiti Red Crescent representative, on a speaking tour across the United States. He also traveled to Africa to survey embassies in Africa such as the Nairobi, Kenya, embassy which Al-Qaeda later bombed. In May, he became an FBI informant after being approached by John Zent in San Jose, informing U.S. Department of Defense counterintelligence analysts about the existence of al-Qaeda's training camp network in Afghanistan. It is believed that Egyptian Islamic Jihad, which had not yet formally merged with al-Qaeda, authorized the leak on al-Qaeda in order to gain access to American intelligence information in return. Although the meeting with Mohamed proved to provide the United States with some of the most valuable intelligence on al-Qaeda for years, the FBI did not act on Zent's report and the DOD did not take notes on the meeting.

In 1994, al-Qaeda operative Mohammed Atef refused to allow Mohamed to know which name and passport he would be traveling under, expressing concerns that Mohamed could be working with the American authorities.

In a televised interview Mohamed explained his rationale for his efforts: "Islam without political dominance cannot survive."

1993 Vancouver airport incident
Mohamed was detained in early 1993 by the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) at Vancouver International Airport to which Mohamed had come to meet an associate of Osama bin Laden, who was caught there upon arriving from Damascus with two forged Saudi passports. The RCMP was about to arrest Mohamed but he told the RCMP that he was an FBI asset and was released immediately by the RCMP at the request of the FBI.

Arrest and trial 
In 1998, two weeks after the bombings, FBI agents searched Ali's apartment. They found evidence of terrorist activities which included plans and scripts of Al-Qaeda training. Ali Mohamed had made plans to leave the country to meet with Osama bin Laden. However he was subpoenaed to testify in the trial of the other suspects. The same day of the trial, Mohamed was arrested as a key suspect in the embassy bombings.

Just before the trial, the FBI ordered that a polygraph test to be conducted on Mohamed but it later was discarded after Mohamed struck a guilty plea to receive life sentence without parole. The deal between Mohamed and the government was struck on October 13, 2000. He was charged with 5 counts of conspiracy. The sentencing trial as shown below identified the specific counts that Ali Mohamed was to be indicted. 

The first count charges a violation of title 18, under the United States code, section 2332(b) which is the conspiracy to kill nationals of the United States of America wherever they are in the world. In such case, the citizens were located at the embassy of the United States of America in Kenya and Tanzania.

The second count was conspiracy to murder, kidnap and maim outside the United States. This would include the conspiracy to kill US nationals employed by American military in the embassies. 

Count three was conspiracy to murder, through violating sections 1114 or 1116. Under section 1116, Ali sought to kill United States government employees under their roles as employees of the United States of America. 

Count four charges a conspiracy to destroy buildings or property owned or leased by the United States government. The government proved that Ali attempted and planned to destroy or damage buildings or property owned or leased by the United States government.