[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Multibody system

Lagrange multiplier  is related to a constraint condition  and usually represents a force or a moment, which acts in “direction” of the constraint degree of freedom. The Lagrange multipliers do no "work" as compared to external forces that change the potential energy of a body.

Minimal coordinates 

The equations of motion (1,2) are represented by means of redundant coordinates, meaning that the coordinates are not independent. This can be exemplified by the slider-crank mechanism shown above, where each body has six degrees of freedom while most of the coordinates are dependent on the motion of the other bodies. For example, 18 coordinates and 17 constraints could be used to describe the motion of the slider-crank with rigid bodies. However, as there is only one degree of freedom, the equation of motion could be also represented by means of one equation and one degree of freedom, using e.g. the angle of the driving link as degree of freedom. The latter formulation has then the minimum number of coordinates in order to describe the motion of the system and can be thus called a minimal coordinates formulation. The transformation of redundant coordinates to minimal coordinates is sometimes cumbersome and only possible in the case of holonomic constraints and without kinematical loops. Several algorithms have been developed for the derivation of minimal coordinate equations of motion, to mention only the so-called recursive formulation. The resulting equations are easier to be solved because in the absence of constraint conditions, standard time integration methods can be used to integrate the equations of motion in time. While the reduced system might be solved more efficiently, the transformation of the coordinates might be computationally expensive. In very general multibody system formulations and software systems, redundant coordinates are used in order to make the systems user-friendly and flexible.

Flexible multibody 
There are several cases in which it is necessary to consider the flexibility of the bodies. For example in cases where flexibility plays a fundamental role in kinematics as well as in compliant mechanisms.

Flexibility could be take in account in different way. There are three main approaches:
 Discrete flexible multibody, the flexible body is divided into a set of rigid bodies connected by elastic stiffnesses representative of the body's elasticity
 Modal condensation, in which elasticity is described through a finite number of modes of vibration of the body by exploiting the degrees of freedom linked to the amplitude of the mode
 Full flex, all the flexibility of the body is taken into account by discretize body in sub elements with singles displacement linked from elastic material properties

See also 
 Dynamic simulation
 Multibody simulation (solution techniques)
 Physics engine

References 

 J. Wittenburg, Dynamics of Systems of Rigid Bodies, Teubner, Stuttgart (1977).
 J. Wittenburg, Dynamics of Multibody Systems, Berlin, Springer (2008).
 K. Magnus, Dynamics of multibody systems, Springer Verlag, Berlin (1978).
 P.E. Nikravesh, Computer-Aided Analysis of Mechanical Systems, Prentice-Hall (1988).
 E.J. Haug, Computer-Aided Kinematics and Dynamics of Mechanical Systems, Allyn and Bacon, Boston (1989).
 H. Bremer and F. Pfeiffer, Elastische Mehrkörpersysteme, B. G. Teubner, Stuttgart, Germany (1992).
 J. García de Jalón, E. Bayo, Kinematic and Dynamic Simulation of Multibody Systems - The Real-Time Challenge, Springer-Verlag, New York (1994).
 A.A. Shabana, Dynamics of multibody systems, Second Edition, John Wiley & Sons (1998).
 M. Géradin, A. Cardona, Flexible multibody dynamics – A finite element approach, Wiley, New York (2001).
 E. Eich-Soellner, C. Führer, Numerical Methods in Multibody Dynamics, Teubner, Stuttgart, 1998 (reprint Lund, 2008).
 T. Wasfy and A. Noor, "Computational strategies for flexible multibody systems," ASME. Appl. Mech. Rev. 2003;56(6):553-613. .

External links 
 http://real.uwaterloo.ca/~mbody/ Collected links of John McPhee

Mechanics
Dynamical systems