[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Ivan Rakitić

half-hour, Rakitić burst into the Spanish penalty area but could not direct his header past goalkeeper Iker Casillas after being picked out by a wonderful Luka Modrić pass. It proved to be a costly miss, with Spain's Jesús Navas later scoring an 88th-minute winner to send the Croatians crashing out.

2014 World Cup
In the 2014 World Cup qualifying campaign, on 12 October 2012 Rakitić scored a goal from a free-kick against Macedonia at Philip II National Arena to help secure a 1–2 victory for Croatia. Eventually, after the playoffs, the team qualified for the World Cup final stages. They were drawn into Group A alongside Brazil, Mexico and Cameroon. Croatia played the opening match against Brazil, which they lost 3–1. In the second match, Croatia won 4–0 against Cameroon, but did not progress as they lost 1–3 against Mexico, with Rakitić providing the assist for the only Croatian goal.

Euro 2016
Rakitić scored his first and only goal in the Euro 2016 qualifiers against Bulgaria. He was selected to be part of the Croatian squad at Euro in France. Croatia were drawn in Group D along with Spain, Czech Republic and Turkey. Rakitić started Croatia's opening game where they secured a narrow victory by one goal against Turkey. On 17 June 2016, Rakitić scored a goal to double Croatia's lead against the Czech Republic, but later the game was turned around when the play was halted briefly after Croatian fans threw flares onto the pitch. Shortly after the restart, the referee rewarded Czech Republic a penalty and the game ended in a 2–2 draw.

After a 2–1 win over defending champions Spain, Croatia topped Group D and went on to face Portugal in the next round. Croatia, however, lost 1–0 after Portugal's Ricardo Quaresma scored a 117th-minute, extra-time winner to send Croatia out of the tournament. Rakitić later stated that "Croatia did not deserve to go out and the best team were going home". Rakitić appeared in all of Croatia's matches and ended the tournament by scoring one goal.

2018 World Cup

On 4 June 2018, Rakitić was named in Croatia's 23-man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. On 21 June 2018, Rakitić scored Croatia's third goal in a 3–0 victory over Argentina in their second group stage match of the tournament.

On 1 July, Rakitić scored the winning penalty kick in the penalty shoot-out against Denmark, as Croatia progressed to the quarter-final. One week later, on 7 July, Rakitić again scored the winning penalty kick in the penalty shoot-out against Russia, as Croatia progressed to the semi-final. Croatia reached the final of the tournament, where they were defeated 4–2 by France on 15 July.

2018–19 Nations League
For the inaugural edition of the UEFA Nations League, Croatia was drawn in the group with Spain and England. 

Rakitić took part in three out of four matches, celebrating his 100th international cap in the historical 0–6 loss to Spain in Elche. He missed the deciding fixture against England at the Wembley Stadium, that saw the winner go through to the finals, due to a hamstring injury, as Croatia lost 1–2 and finished at the bottom of the group.

Retirement
During Euro 2020 qualifying, Rakitić took part in only four out of eight games due to injuries and complicated club situation.

On 21 September 2020, the Croatian Football Federation unexpectedly announced that Rakitić retired from the international duty. At the time of his retirement, he had made 106 appearances and scored 15 goals, making him fourth most capped player (after Darijo Srna, Luka Modrić and Stipe Pletikosa) and ninth joint top goalscorer in the history of the national team. He stated:
Saying goodbye to the Croatian national team is the most difficult decision in my career, but I felt that this was the moment when I had to break away and make that decision. I enjoyed every game I played for my homeland, and unforgettable moments from the World Cup will remain among my favourites. I am convinced that we still have a great team with a bright future ahead. I wish my friends and teammates all the luck in the world for the upcoming challenges, and in me they will have the biggest fan.