[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 63]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ther
gold, nor silver, nor carpets, nor carved work in their houses; every
man makes for himself all that the real wants of life require, and with
his own hands performs everything which is necessary to be done. Their
food consists either in frozen milk, or the flesh of the reindeer, or
that of the bear, which they frequently hunt and kill. Instead of bread
they strip off the bark of firs, which are almost the only trees that
grow upon those dismal mountains, and, boiling the inward and more
tender skin, they eat it with their flesh. The greatest happiness of
these poor people is to live free and unrestrained; therefore they do
not long remain fixed to any spot, but, taking down their houses, they
pack them up along with the little furniture they possess, and load them
upon sledges, to carry and set them up in some other place.

_Tommy._--Have you not said that they have neither horses nor oxen? Do
they then draw these sledges themselves?

_Harry._--I thought I should surprise you, Master Tommy. The reindeer
which I have described are so tractable, that they are harnessed like
horses, and draw the sledges with their masters upon them nearly thirty
miles a-day. They set out with surprising swiftness, and run along the
snow, which is frozen so hard in winter that it supports them like a
solid road. In this manner do the Laplanders perform their journeys,
and change their places of abode as often as is agreeable. In the spring
they lead their herds of deer to pasture upon the mountains; in the
winter they come down into the plains, where they are better protected
against the fury of the winds; for the whole country is waste and
desolate, destitute of all the objects which you see here. There are no
towns, nor villages; no fields enclosed or cultivated; no beaten roads;
no inns for travellers to sleep at; no shops to purchase the necessaries
or conveniences of life at; the face of the whole country is barren and
dismal; wherever you turn your eyes, nothing is to be seen but lofty
mountains, white with snow, and covered with ice and fogs; scarcely any
trees are to be seen, except a few stunted firs and birches. These
mountains afford a retreat to thousands of bears and wolves, which are
continually pouring down and prowling about to prey upon the herds of
deer, so that the Laplanders are continually obliged to fight them in
their own defence. To do this, they fix large pieces of flat board,
about four or five feet long, to the bottom of their feet, and, thus
secured, they run along, without sinking into the snow, so nimbly, that
they can overtake the wild animals in the chase. The bears they kill
with bows and arrows, which they make themselves. Sometimes they find
out the dens where they have laid themselves up in winter, and then they
attack them with spears, and generally overcome them. When a Laplander
has killed a bear, he carries it home in triumph, boils the flesh in an
iron pot (which is all the cooking they are acquainted with), and
invites all his neighbours to the feast. This they account the greatest
delicacy in the world, and particularly the fat, which they melt over
the fire and drink; then, sitting round the flame, they entertain each
other with stories of their own exploits in hunting or fishing, till the
feast is over. Though they live so barbarous a life, they are a
good-natured, sincere, and hospitable people. If a stranger comes among
them, they lodge and entertain him in the best manner they are able, and
generally refuse all payment for their services, unless it be a little
bit of tobacco, which they are immoderately fond of smoking.

_Tommy._--Poor people! how I pity them, to live such an unhappy life! I
should think the fatigues and hardships they undergo must kill them in a
very short space of time.

_Mr Barlow._--Have you then observed that those who eat and drink the
most, and undergo the least fatigue, are the most free from disease?

_Tommy._--Not always; for I remember that there are two or three
gentlemen who come to dine at my father's, who eat an amazing quantity
of meat, besides drinking a great deal of wine, and these poor gentlemen
have lost the use of almost all their limbs. Their legs are so swelled,
that they are almost as big as their bodies; their feet are so tender
that they cannot set them to the ground; and their knees so stiff, that
they cannot bend them. When they arrive, they are obliged to be helped
out of their coaches by two or three people, and they come hobbling in
upon crutches. But I never heard them talk about anything but eating and
drinking in all my life. _Mr Barlow._--And did you ever observe that
any of the poor had lost the use of their limbs by the same disease?

_Tommy._--I cannot say I have.

_Mr Barlow._--Then, perhaps, the being confined to a scanty diet, to
hardship, and to exercise, may not be so desperate as you imagine. This
way of life is even much less so than th