[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Arturo Escobar (anthropologist)

ing to systematically change the "third world". In addition, he argues that Truman's discursive construction was infused with the imperatives of American social reproduction and imperial pretensions. As a result, the development apparatus functioned to support the consolidation of American hegemony.

Escobar encourages scholars to use ethnographic methods to further the post-development era by advancing the deconstructive creations initiated by contemporary social movements (without claiming universal applicability). Indeed, the Colombia case study in Encountering Development demonstrates that development economists' "economization of food" resulted in ambitious plans but not necessarily less hunger. A new 2011 edition of the book begins with a substantial new introduction, in which he argues that "postdevelopment" needs to be redefined and that a field of "pluriversal studies" would be helpful. He further explored the concept of a plurivrse in his 2018 book Designs for the Pluriverse.

Political ecology
Escobar received a fellowship from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation in 1997 to study "Cultural and Biological Diversity in the Late Twentieth Century". This project culminated in the publication of his book Territories of Difference: Place, Movements, Life, Redes by Duke University Press in 2008, which "analyzes the politics of difference enacted by specific place-based ethnic and environmental movements in the context of neoliberal globalization". It was written after years of fieldwork in Colombia with a group of Afro-Colombian activists of Colombia’s Pacific rainforest region called the Proceso de Comunidades Negras (PCN).

Bibliography 
2020. Pluriversal Politics: The Real and the Possible. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
2018. Designs for the Pluriverse: Radical Interdependence, Autonomy, and the Making of Worlds. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
 2016. Territorios de diferencia. Lugar, movimientos, vida, redes Popayán. Editorial Universidad del Cauca. Colombia, 2016.
 2016. Autonomía y diseño. La realización de lo comunal  Popayán. Editorial Universidad del Cauca. Colombia, 2016.
 2014. Feel-thinking with the Earth (in Spanish: Sentipensar con la tierra). Medellin, Colombia: Ediciones Unaula, 2014.
 2012. La invención del desarrollo Popayán. Editorial Universidad del Cauca. Colombia, 2012.
 co-edited with Walter Mignolo. 2010. Globalization and the Decolonial Option London: Routledge.
 2008. Territories of Difference: Place, Movements, Life, Redes. Durham, NC: Duke University Press.
 Co-edited with Gustavo Lins Ribeiro. 2006. World Anthropologies: Disciplinary Transformations in Contexts of Power. Oxford: Berg.
 Escobar, A. and Harcourt, W. (eds) 2005 Women and the Politics of Place. Bloomfield, CT: Kumarian Press.
 Co-edited with Jai Sen, Anita Anand, and Peter Waterman. 2004. The World Social Forum: Challenging Empires. Delhi: Viveka. German edition: Eine andere Welt Das Weltsozialfoum. Berlin: Karl Dietz Verlag, 2004.
 Co-edited with Sonia Alvarez and Evelina Dagnino 2000. Cultures of Politics/Politics of Cultures: Revisioning Latin American Social Movements. Boulder: Westview Press. (Also published in Portuguese and Spanish). Portuguese edition: Cultura e Política nos Movimentos Sociais Latino-Americanos. Belo Horizonte: Editoria UFMG, 2000.
 1995. Encountering Development: The Making and Unmaking of the Third World (1995). Princeton: Princeton University Press. Best Book Award, New England Council of Latin American Studies, 1996. (In Spanish)1998.  La invención del tercer mundo: Construcción y Deconstrucción del Desarrollo. Bogotá [Colombia]: Norma.
 Co-edited with Sonia Alvarez. 1992. The Making of Social Movements in Latin America: Identity, Strategy, and Democracy. Boulder: Westview Press.

See also 
 Alter-globalization
 Decoloniality
 Degrowth
 Development anthropology
 Development criticism
 Postdevelopment theory

References

External links 
 Arturo Escobar's website
 
 

Colombian anthropologists
21st-century American anthropologists
Latin Americanists
Political ecologists
Colombian emigrants to the United States
Postmodernists
Development specialists
People from Caldas Department
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill faculty
Living people
1952 births
Cornell University College of Agriculture and Life Sciences alumni
American politicians of Colombian descent