[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# William Evans-Gordon

that "not a day passes but English families are ruthlessly turned out to make room for foreign invaders. The rates are burdened with the education of thousands of foreign children".

Evans-Gordon and the BBL were instrumental in setting up a Royal Commission on immigration of which he was a member.

Over a two-month period, Evans-Gordon travelled extensively in Eastern Europe, found out at first hand about the highly-restrictive conditions imposed on Jews in the Pale of Settlement and in Rumania His book (with map) about his fact-finding mission, The Alien Immigrant,  is an even-handed account of his research. In the first chapter, it highlights the apparent concern of the British Board of Deputies for and sometimes its antipathy toward the refugees from foreign shores.  Although it contains some gratuitous low-level antisemitism, the book in general disinterestedly records the situation of the Jews and at one point favourably compares conditions of the poor of Libau to the "horrors of the East End." On the other hand, the conditions of hand-loom workers in Łódź moved him to this description: The industry is carried on under appalling conditions. I shall never forget the places in which I saw this work being done. It would need the pen of a Zola to describe them. Three or four looms were crammed into one room with as many families. I have never, even in Vilna or the East of London, seen human beings condemned to live in such surroundings. They had the appearance of half-starved consumptives.

The last chapter contains examples of other unwelcome aliens such as organised gangs of German robbers. The book was dedicated "To my friend Edward Steinkopff", who bought the deep blue St. James's Gazette in 1886. The St. James Gazette under its new owner may have been connected with the start of a new anti-alienism movement in the press in 1886.

The book was used in the evidence that he presented to the Aliens Commission in its inquiries and eventually resulted in the Aliens Act 1905, which placed restrictions on Eastern European immigration, but discussion of the Bill in Parliament provoked considerable opposition. Winston Churchill was MP for Manchester North West, where one third of his constituents were Jewish. Like his father, Lord Randolph Churchill, Churchill bucked the trend of widespread antisemitism in the British upper classes and actively opposed the Aliens Bill. In an open letter to Nathan Laski (a prominent member of the Jewish community in his constituency and father of Harold Laski), Churchill quoted a speech by Lord Rothschild, a Liberal supporter and member of the Aliens Commission:"The Bill introduced into the House of Commons proposes to establish in this country a loathsome system of police interference and espionage, of passports and arbitrary power exercised by police officers who in all probability will not understand the language of those upon whom they are called to sit in judgement. This is all contrary to the recommendations proposed by the Royal Commission. [...] The whole bill looks like an attempt on the part of the Government to gratify a small but noisy section of their own supporters and to purchase a little popularity in the constituencies by dealing harshly with a number of unfortunate aliens who have no votes."
A committed Zionist, Churchill crossed the floor of the House of Commons on the day the letter appeared.

Despite the repeated denials of Arnold White and Evans-Gordon, anti-Semitism was a central element of the campaign for the Aliens Bill 1900–1905. The indigent refugees from Russia, Rumania and Poland had further defenders in Parliament, such as Sir Charles Trevelyan, 3rd Baronet, Liberal MP for Elland who, speaking against the Aliens Bill in 1904, said:  "Among many people already – not many in this House, but many people outside of it – there is a frankly anti-Semitic movement, and I deplore it. I believe this is an evil step in the same direction as the Governments of Russia and Rumania have been going. It may be that it is not intended, but the action of many Members of this House has been calculated to excite the feeling which we know to exist in part of our population, and with the case of the persecution of Dreyfus reverberating through the West of Europe there is no use saying that there is no danger of this kind in our own country. I think it is a fortunate thing that we have been peculiarly free from any anti-Semitic movement in England, and we have not lost by it. We have had statesmen, manufacturers, merchants, and the like who themselves, or their predecessors, came to this country as aliens exactly as do those people you now wish to exclude. It seems to me a useless and short-sighted, and at this moment very largely an inhuman policy, to keep out those who may, after all, be like those of whom I have just spoken".