[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Israel Fire and Rescue Services

The Israel Fire and Rescue Services  (Hebrew: כבאות והצלה לישראל, Kaba'ut VeHatzala Le'Israel; also שירותי כבאות להצלה, Sherutei Kaba'ut VeHatzala) is the national Israeli fire and rescue organization. The organisation also provides rescue services from terror attacks, car accident and dangerous substance spillages, along with Magen David Adom, the National EMS. They are also involved in public education and awareness campaigns. The service is accessed by calling 102 from any phone. As of 2022, the commissioner of the services is Eyal Casspi.

Organization

There are 24 metro regions that have central major fire stations with supplemental smaller stations in neighboring villages and cities. After the 2010 Mount Carmel forest fire where many prison guards, civilians, police officer and two firefighters were killed, the government decided to create the Israel's Fire and Rescue Authority and organized the fire service on a national level like the police. The Israel Fire and Rescue Services consists of about 2,500 paid, professional firefighters along with an additional 200–400 "fire-scout" volunteers. There are 11 Hazardous Materials Units in Israel. All stations provide auto-extrication and are equipped with the latest gear for rescue and fire suppression. Major stations have a heavy rescue unit and ladder truck company. The fire-rescue apparatus are custom built in Israel at  Beit Alfa Technologies of Beit Alpha Kibbutz on chassis of Mercedes-Benz, Man, Iveco, E-One, Chevrolet, and Ford modified to Israeli specifications in Israel. Most apparatus repairs and servicing is done by firefighter/mechanics in-station, as most stations have a fully equipped mechanic garage with lifts, welding equipment, and tools.

Organizational structure

Until the National Fire and Rescue Authority was established on February 8, 2013, firefighting services relied on 24 city firefighting and rescue associations (four municipal and 20 city union). In areas unrelated to the firefighting and rescue professions or to firefighters, the firefighting authority was part of the local authority to which it belonged, and is subordinate to it. The professional subject was the Firefighting and Rescue Commission. The Commission was headed by a firefighter and rescue officer with the rank of captain.

It is composed of seven districts (North, Hof, Dan, South, Central, Judea, Samaria and Jerusalem), with the head of each district A district commander stands under the commander of the district, all the station commanders and the other firefighters in the district.

Fire stations are divided into three types: a regional station (also called "main station"), under which sub stations can be found ("small stations"). The purpose of the substations is to reduce the time of arrival of the teams and to respond to the event. If the sub-station staff, called for the event, needs immediate further assistance, it reports to the main station and sends additional aid teams. The number of crew members and the number of firefighters in the substations varies according to the quantity available to that district. There are sub stations with two firefighters and one fire truck, as opposed to substations with four firefighters and two fire engines, and so on. The firefighters in the substation must maintain their station, equipment, and fire engines in accordance with the Fire Department's orders, just as in the main station. There are several sub stations that operate in a seasonal format, especially during the summer months in areas where there are many fires.

Another type of station is the spatial station, which also has secondary stations, but it is a smaller station than the main station and the roles are smaller.

The training of firefighters in Israel takes place at the National Fire and Rescue School in its present form, starting in practice in early 1979.

From April 2011, the head of the IAA was headed by Shahar Ayalon, until May 2, 2016, when he was appointed general manager of the Israel Railways. [5] From May 2016 to March 2017, Deputy Commissioner Shimon Ben-Ner Acting Chief of Staff Didi Simchi – Firefighting and Rescue Commissioner and Chief Firefighter.

Most of the fire and rescue services as of 2018 are Rabbi Haim Pearl. In the past they served as rabbis David Simchon and Menachem Perl [6].

Districts
The Authority is composed of seven districts according to the geographic region. Each district is subject to a number of regional stations and sub-stations [7].