[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ivan Ergić

and showed strong performances. As Juventus wanted to re-call him to them, he injured himself. After operations on both groins, he also fell ill with glandular fever. He missed the rest of the season and the entire of the following, with them exception of one match at the end of the 2003–04 season.

2004–05
In the summer of 2004, because of his depression, Ergić was sent to the University Psychiatric Clinics "UPK" Basel, where he spent four months with inpatient treatment. When he made his illness public, FC Basel stood to him. The then patron Gigi Oeri visited Ergić several times in the clinic and the head Christian Gross gave him the required time and campaigned for a contract extension. He signed definitive for FCB for a suspected CHF1.6 million.

Ergić returned to the team during the winter break of their 2004–05 season and appeared in ten league matches, always as substitute. They ended the season as Swiss champions with 10 points advantage over second placed Thun.

2005–06
To the beginning of their 2005–06 season, he was fully integrated in the team again. In their first game Ergić scored their winning goal as FCB were 1–0 victors over Schaffhausen. As Swiss champions, Basel entered the 2005–06 Champions League third qualifying round. However, they were drawn against German Bundesliga club Werder Bremen and they lost 4–2 on aggregate. Subsequently, Basel dropped into the 2005–06 UEFA Cup, where against NK Široki Brijeg in the first round, they sealed a 6–0 aggregate win to qualify for the Group stage. Here Basel were then drawn into Group E, alongside Strasbourg, Roma, Red Star Belgrade and Tromsø. Basel qualified for the knock-out stage and in the round of 32 Basel were drawn against AS Monaco, this was won 2–1 on aggregate. In the round of 16 Basel were drawn against Strasbourgh winning 4–2 on aggregate. In the quarter-finals, drawn against Middlesbrough they won the first leg 2–0, but Middlesbrough fought back to win the return match 4–1 and the tie 4–3 on aggregate. Ergić appeared in all of these games bar one.

Basel started into the 2005–06 Super League season well and led the championship right until the last day of the league campaign. On the final day of the league season Basel played at home against Zürich. Mladen Petrić had scored an equaliser after FCZ had taken an early lead. But then a last-minute goal from Zürich's Iulian Filipescu meant the final score was 1–2 in favour of the away team and it gave FCZ their first national championship since 1980–81. The title for Basel was lost on goal difference. Ergić played in 31 of the teams 36 league games, scoring four goals. The last minute loss of the Championship and the subsequent riots, the so-called Basel Hooligan Incident, meant that the club would suffer the consequences.

2006–07
Ergić was given the captaincy as Pascal Zuberbühler transferred to West Bromwich Albion in the summer of 2006. FC Basel's European campaign started in the first qualifying stage of the 2006–07 UEFA Cup, here they beat Kazakhi side FC Tobol 3–1 on aggregate. In the second qualifying round they were drawn against FC Vaduz from Liechtenstein, narrowly progressing on the away goals rule after a 2–2 aggregate draw. In the first round Basel won 7–2 on aggregate against FK Rabotnički to qualified for the group stage. Here Basel played their first match at home against Feyenoord, this ended in a 1–1 draw. Their second was away and FCB lost 3–0 against Blackburn Rovers. At home against AS Nancy the match was drawn 2–2 and the final game ended ended with a 3–1 defeat against Wisła Kraków. Basel ended the group stage in last position in the table and were eliminated. Captain Ergić played in all of these ten matches. At the end of the 2006–07 Super League season Basel were runners-up, one point behind championship winners Zürich. In the Swiss Cup Basel advanced to the final, beating FC Liestal in the first round, Lugano, FC Baulmes, Aarau and Wil in the semi-final. In the final they played Luzern and won this 1–0 thanks to a penalty goal in the third minute of added time.

2007–08
Basel played in the 2007–08 UEFA Cup. Winning both matches in the qualification round and both matches in the play-off round, they team advanced to the group stage, which they ended undefeated in second position, after playing 1–0 at home against Stade Rennes, 0–0 away against Dinamo Zagreb, 1–0 at home against Brann and 1–1 away against Hamburger SV, to continue the knockout stage. But then they were eliminated here by Sporting CP. Ergić played in nine of these ten matches, scoring four goals. At the end of the 2007–08 season he won the Double with the club. They won the League Championship title with four points advantage over second placed Young Boys. In the Swiss Cup via FC Léchelles, SC Binningen, Grasshopper Club, Stade Nyonnais and in the semi-final Thun, Basel advanced to the final, and winning this 4–1 against AC Bellinzona they won the competition.