[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Somali Police Force

aredness to assist in initiatives aiming to build up the Somali security forces through experience-sharing and training. The meeting concluded with a tripartite memorandum of understanding agreeing to promote partnership and cooperation, including a cooperative agreement to develop the police force.

In August 2014, the Somali and U.S. governments reached an agreement in Washington, D.C. stipulating that the United States would contribute $1.9 million toward security sector reform, development and capacity-building efforts in Somalia. The pact was signed by Finance Minister of Somalia Hussein Abdi Halane, U.S. Special Representative for Somalia James P. McAnulty, and Deputy Assistant Secretary for the Bureau for International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL) Todd Robinson. It is primarily slated to provide support to the Somali National Police Force's Criminal Investigative Division (CID), with an emphasis on implementing policies, practices and procedures that buttress citizen services and human rights. The INL will fund the initiative. The treaty is the second of its kind between the Somali government and INL.

In January 2015, Foreign Affairs Minister of Somalia Abdirahman Duale Beyle and a Turkish delegation signed a bilateral treaty in Mogadishu pertaining to police support.

Equipment

Current police vehicles inventory 
Somali Police vehicles have two liveries, white with blue doors and a solid blue colour with Police insignia and 888 displayed.

Leadership

Chief of the Somali Police

Commissioners of the Somali Police

The current Somali Federal Police Commissioner appointed in June 2018 is Brigadier General Bashir Abdi Mohamed "AMEERIKO", his is a 32-year Police Force veteran and was previously Director of the Criminal Investigation Department

.

See also

 National Intelligence and Security Agency
 Somali Custodial Corps

Notes

References
 Stig Jarle Hansen, Al-Shabaab in Somalia: The History and Ideology of a Militant Islamic Group 2005–12, Hurst & Co., 2013

Further reading
 Alice Hills (2014) Security Sector or Security Arena? The Evidence from Somalia, International Peacekeeping, 21:2, 165–180, DOI:10.1080/13533312.2014.910400

External links

 

Law enforcement in Somalia