[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kris Commons

vil Town, the team who had gained a playoff final spot at Forest's expense the previous May. Commons was named in the PFA League One Team of the Year.

Derby County
In June 2008 it was announced that Commons had signed for Derby County on a free transfer, penning a three-year contract with the club.

2008–09
He made his full league debut against Doncaster Rovers on the opening day of the 2008–09 season, which Derby lost 1–0, and played in Derby's opening five league fixtures before injury forced him to miss much of the next six weeks. He made his return at the end of October and scored his first goal for the club from a free kick in a 3–2 defeat away to Blackpool. Under Paul Jewell's management, Commons played predominantly as a wide midfielder but, following Jewell's resignation on 28 December following a 1–0 home defeat to Ipswich Town, he was moved into a supporting striker role by caretaker manager David Lowe for the first leg of the 2008–09 League Cup semi-final against Manchester United. Commons scored the only goal of the game, a 25-yard strike, as Derby ran out surprising 1–0 winners and was awarded the Man of the Match Award. Jewell's permanent successor, Nigel Clough, kept Commons in his new role and he played alongside Rob Hulse in Derby's attack for the rest of the season. Commons enjoyed his best form of the season in Clough's first few months in charge, scoring the winner against Coventry City, and netting twice in a 4–1 rout of Blackpool. He also scored the winner in a 3–2 win over Nottingham Forest in an FA Cup Fourth Round replay, as Derby came from 2–0 down to claim a first win at The City Ground for over 30 years. Derby fans named the goal the seventh greatest in the club's history, behind Commons' goal against Manchester United in the League Cup in joint fifth, in a poll as part of the club's 125th Anniversary celebrations. Commons' rich vein of form was curtailed when injury ruled him out for six weeks at the end of February before returning to the side for the final eight games of the season. He ended his first season at Derby with five goals from 30 league starts.

2009–10
Commons began the 2009–10 season alongside Hulse as Derby beat Peterborough United 2–1. Commons grabbed his first of the season in the following match, as Derby lost 3–2 away to Scunthorpe United. However, once again, injury curtailed Commons productivity as he appeared in just one match between 20 October and 2 January, a 0–0 draw away to eventual champions Newcastle United, where he came on as a 69th-minute substitute. An extended run in the first team followed and Commons once again approached his best from and helped revive Derby's stuttering campaign and dragged them away from the relegation zone. The team netted a 3–0 home win over Newcastle and a 5–3 victory over Preston North End. Commons provided the assist for Rob Hulse's winner as Derby beat Nottingham Forest 1–0 and ended their rivals' 19 match unbeaten streak. However, an injury sustained in the first half of a 1–0 home defeat to Swansea City on 20 February ruled Commons out until the final game of the season, against Cardiff City on 2 May, as Derby avoided relegation for the second time in two seasons. Commons completed a full 90 minutes on just one occasion and managed just 11 league starts and a further nine substitute appearances, scoring three times.

2010–11
Commons started the 2010–11 season playing as one of the three advanced midfielders behind the main striker in Derby's new 4–2–3–1 formation. He managed his best run of games for almost 18 months when he started seven of Derby's opening eight games, appearing as substitute in the other, and scored two goals, including the winner in a 2–1 opening day victory at Leeds United. Despite this, Nigel Clough voiced his concerns over Commons' early season form, saying after a 1–1 draw with Barnsley: "For the amount of good possession we got to Kris Commons on Saturday, we didn't get anything from it and I said that to him after the game. We got the ball to him in decent areas, running at the back four, 10 yards outside the box, and we didn't get a cross, shot or save from the goalkeeper. If he is going to play in there he must start producing something." Commons responded with seven goals in his next nine games, including braces in a 3–1 win over Middlesbrough (in which he also missed a penalty), a 3–2 win at Doncaster Rovers and a 2–0 win at Ipswich Town to take his goal tally to nine from 15 league starts.