[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peter Hart (historian)

med he personally interviewed two anonymous ambush veterans in 1988-89 and listened to recorded interviews with three further unnamed Kilmichael veterans. The recordings (known as 'the Chisholm tapes') were made in 1970 by Father John Chisholm as research for Liam Deasy's Toward Ireland Free (1973).

Hart stood by his work, stating that critics have failed to "engage with the book's larger arguments about the nature of the IRA and the Irish Revolution" and believing they are closed to "a real debate where people concede some things and put forward others or are skeptical about weak points and accept the strong points." Hart's last known interview, speaking in English, was in a TG4 Irish language programme on Tom Barry, broadcast in January 2011. The programme questioned Hart's use of anonymous sources and other claims. More of the interview was broadcast in December 2022, in a documentary on the April 1922 killings.

In his 2011 book, Michael Collins and the Anglo-Irish War: Britain's Failed Counterinsurgency, author J.B.E. Hittle, a retired U.S. career intelligence officer-turned historian, acknowledged Hart's overall contribution in re-examining standard histories of the period, but concluded that Hart's historical method is "problematic". Hittle cited Hart's "overall naivete" about guerrilla warfare, in particular, what he viewed as Hart's underestimation of the importance of certain counterintelligence cases to the outcome of the war, as well as faulty methodologies.

Probably due to the degree of controversy Hart had aroused, his entry in the Dictionary of Irish Biography was written, not by a historian specialising in the Irish revolution, but by John Gibney, associate editor, whose specialty is the seventeenth century.

Publications
 The I.R.A. & Its Enemies (1998)
 The I.R.A. at War (2003)
 Mick - The Real Michael Collins (2005)

References

External links
 Peter Hart homepage at the Memorial University of Newfoundland.
 Obituary to Hart in the Newfoundland Globe and Mail
 Irish Times obituary for Peter Hart
 A review of Hart's historiography, John Dorney, theirishstory.com
 Examining Peter Hart, Niall Meehan, Field Day Review 10 2014
 Troubled History - A Tenth Anniversary Critique of Peter Hart's The IRA and its Enemies, Brian Murphy, Niall Meehan'
 Marú in Íarthar Chorcaí, TV documentary, TG4 (Ireland), 7 December 2022. Includes 2010 interview with Peter Hart. 

1963 births
2010 deaths
21st-century Canadian historians
Canadian male non-fiction writers
Christopher Ewart-Biggs Memorial Prize recipients
Canada Research Chairs
Yale Graduate School of Arts and Sciences alumni
Writers from St. John's, Newfoundland and Labrador
Academic staff of the Memorial University of Newfoundland
Alumni of Trinity College Dublin
Academics of Queen's University Belfast
Queen's University at Kingston alumni
Place of death missing
Revisionism (Ireland)