[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nanjing Foreign Language School

Nanjing Foreign Language School (NFLS, ) is a middle and high school located in Xuanwu District, Nanjing, Jiangsu, People's Republic of China. It was established in 1963 under the direction of Zhou Enlai, the first Premier of PRC, and is one of the oldest foreign language schools in China. Its mottos are "Chinese Soul, Global Vision" and "Seek the truth, Scale the height, Be erudite, Be modest".

History

Establishment and Early History 
Starting from the mid 1950s, the Chinese Government recognized its shortage of diplomats with strong language potency. To address this issue, a number of foreign language schools were established in major cities of China under the direction of Prime Minister Zhou Enlai, aiming to cultivate the diplomatic talents in demand. One of these schools was the then Jiangsu Labor and Farmer Instant High School, which was renamed Nanjing Foreign Language School upon its re-establishment in 1963. The instant high school, which had served as a pre-college training school for cadres, had better faculties and facilities than other secondary schools in Nanjing, paving a good foundation for the development of Nanjing Foreign Language School. There were students of three different grades in the school's first Class: the 3rd grade, selected from various elementary schools in Nanjing; the 7th grade, admitted from current year graduates; and the 10th grade, who had already studied German and French in the No.11 Middle School. The school was established as a boarding school, which was rare among Chinese elementary and secondary schools, in order to foster a better environment for language learning.

The campus was originally a Japanese military camp during the Second Sino-Japanese War, with three quadrangles for soldiers, a western-style mansion for officers, and a training ground. Dormitories, a three-story teaching building, and a ceremony hall were added during the instant high school period. In 1965, a new main teaching building was constructed, which was called "The Car Building" by students and faculties due to its shape resembling a truck.

Development 
Despite its advantages over other high schools in facilities and support, the school's early development was largely restrained by economic and educational limitations in China. Teaching buildings with modern teaching facilities were not available, and "non-built-up" areas, such as woods, pond, river, and agricultural lands, were still part of the campus. However, NFLS managed to maintain an advanced education philosophy that focused more on "quality-oriented education", especially regarding foreign language education.

School Structure 
Nanjing Foreign Language School consists of a three-year middle school and a three-year high school offering the National Curriculum. In addition to the National Curriculum, NFLS also offers three international programs, including the International Baccalaureate, GCE A-Level, and BCA program.

The current principal is Zou Zheng.

As of 2019, NFLS has established several branch schools in Nanjing and around Jiangsu Province:

 NFLS Xianlin Campus, established in 2002 in collaboration with Nanjing Government, twelve-year private boarding school;
 NFLS Hexi Campus, established in June 2012, three-year public middle school;
 Nanjing Pukou Foreign Language School, established in August 2012, nine-year public school;
 NFLS Fangshan Campus, established in 2018, twelve-year private school;
 NFLS Huai'an campus; operational from 2018-2019 onward with classes from the preschool to high school levels.

A new campus at Daxiaochang in the city south is currently under construction, and is scheduled to complete in 2022.

Nanjing Foreign Language School has provided A-Level courses since 2006. It also has a program working with most of the 20 top universities in Australia and another program with some top 20 universities in Canada. Now NFLSers are studying or living in over 30 countries.

Admissions 
Widely recognized as one of the best middle/high schools in Nanjing, admission to NFLS is highly selective.