[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Variants of the M113 armored personnel carrier

were retired as early as a year after being upgraded, the remaining vehicles are now set to be replaced along with the Bison in the coming decade by the ASCV (A LAV 6 support vehicle variant) produced by General Dynamics Land Systems-Canada as announced by the Government of Canada on August 4, 2020.

Under the APCLE program, there were a number of variants created, these include:
 MTVL (Mobile Tactical Vehicle Light) – Standard APC variant fitted with a Cadillac-Gage 1 metre turret taken from a AVGP Grizzly, armed with a M2HB .50cal machine gun and a C6 GPMG. Also used as a light munitions carrier. The MTVL series could also be fitted with mission specific equipment such as wire cutters mounted above the headlights on the front of the vehicle or Wegmann 76 mm Multi-Purpose Grenade Launcher Tubes on the front of the turret (usually 8 launchers with 4 on each side of the turret in rows of 2) or the front of the hull. A total of 25 of the variant were produced.
 MTVC (Mobile Tactical Vehicle Heavy Resupply) – A replacement for the M548 logistical carriers, It is a flatbed variant of the MTVL with fold-down armoured sides and a tailgate. It provides improved carrying capacity and protection over the previous carrier along with a hydraulically operated crane mounted at the rear of the armoured cab, which is able to handle materials with a load capacity of 1,590 kg at a reach of up to 6.3 m. It can be fitted with a FFNW (Fitted For Not With) position allowing a RWS to be installed on the vehicle if redistribution is required for operational reasons. Production of the variant for Canadian Forces began in 2002 like the other variants with an order for 53 vehicles but seems to have been cancelled by 2006 with an unknown amount produced.
 MTVE (Mobile Tactical Vehicle Engineer) – Military engineering version equipped with a large plough blade on the front, a hydraulically powered auger on the rear driver's side, and hydraulic hoses for use with hydraulic tools opposite the auger. Fitted with a Cadillac-Gage 1 metre turret taken from a AVGP Grizzly, armed with a M2HB .50cal machine gun and a C6 GPMG. A total of 28 of the variant were produced.
 MTVF (Mobile Tactical Vehicle Fitter) – Repair team vehicle, similar to the M113A3 MRT, used for repairing M113s in the field. Equipped with either a Nanuk Remotely Controlled Weapon Station (Remote Weapon Station) system or a FFNW (Fitted For Not With) position allowing a RWS to be installed on the vehicle if redistribution is required for operational reasons. When armed with the Nanuk Remotely Controlled Weapon Station it mounts a C6 GPMG with a 220-round ammunition box. Using either the day camera or thermal imaging camera, an LCD screen and joystick, the crew commander can engage targets from the protection of the vehicle without exposure. The vehicle is also fitted with a HIAB crane. A total of 36 of the variant were produced, 24 with RWS and 12 with FFNW.
 MTVR (Mobile Tactical Vehicle Recovery) – A armoured recovery vehicle equipped with a 20,000 kg Pacific Car and Foundry Company model P30 Planetary Winch and an integrated Star Machine and Tool Company bearing mounted model 300-S crane for recovering M113s or other vehicles of up to 11,340 kg in the field. Equipped with either a Nanuk Remotely Controlled Weapon Station (Remote Weapon Station) system or a FFNW (Fitted For Not With) position allowing a RWS to be installed on the vehicle if redistribution is required for operational reasons. When armed with the Nanuk Remotely Controlled Weapon Station it mounts a C6 GPMG with a 220-round ammunition box. Using either the day camera or thermal imaging camera, an LCD screen and joystick, the crew commander can engage targets from the protection of the vehicle without exposure. A total of 23 of the variant were produced, 18 with RWS and 5 with FFNW.
 MTVA (Mobile Tactical Vehicle Ambulance) – A conversion of existing MTVL variants that were considered surplus to operational requirements into armoured ambulances. Potentially equipped weapon systems depend on the exact variant they were converted from but would likely either be a Nanuk Remotely Controlled Weapon Station (Remote Weapon Station) system or a FFNW (Fitted For Not With) position allowing a RWS to be installed on the vehicle if redistribution is required for operational reasons. When armed with the Nanuk Remotely Controlled Weapon Station it mounts a C6 GPMG with a 220-round ammunition box. An unknown amount of vehicles were converted into this variant.
 M577A3 Command Post – Otherwise known as the TLAV CP (Tracked Light Armoured Vehicle - Command Post) or LAV-T/CP, nicknamed the 'Queen Mary', it carries a communications suite in a heightened hull, the same as other M577 of the A3 standard. A total of 33 of the variant were produced.
 M113A3 MRT – Otherwise known as the TLAV MRT (Tracked Light Armoured Vehicle - Mobile Repair Team) or LAV-T/MRT, the vehicle is similar to previous MRT variants, used for repairing and a