[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kent Bellows

Kent Bellows (June 26, 1949 – September 14, 2005) was an artist best known for his figurative works in the realist style. His artwork is sometimes referred to as meticulous realism, a subcategory referring to the artist's startling attention to detail.

The 1950s
Kent Bellows was born on June 26, 1949, in Blair, Nebraska. As a young boy, Bellows attended Saturday film matinees at the Home Theater and became enamored with cinema, an interest that continued throughout his life and was influential to his art. He was known in the small community as “that kid who can draw”.

The 1960s
Bellows’ father was a commercial artist and watercolorist. He recognized his son's natural inclination towards art and taught him what he knew from his own training and experience. In later years, Bellows referred to his father as his “best critic” and “a great influence.” In 1965, Bellows, his parents, and his two younger sisters moved to Omaha, Nebraska, where he attended high school. He earned money selling artwork and playing keyboards with rock-and-roll bands. His main four year band experience was with the “Blue Ruins” from Omaha, NE. Band members included Paul Knight, Robert Knight, Greg DeMarco and Mark Mayhan.

Following high school, Bellows studied art history at the local university for two years and experimented with various artistic styles and mediums. During this time, he continued to play keyboards with bands, including performers Sonny and Cher during a Midwest tour.

The 1970s
Making a decision to focus solely on developing his artistic talent, Bellows sought out patrons in the tradition of the old masters for financial support. These included Omaha native Warren Buffett. Mr. Buffett referred Bellows to his wife, Susie, a lover of the arts. Mrs. Buffett agreed to provide support for one year in exchange for artwork. Out of this relationship developed a lifelong friendship. In 1970, Bellows resided briefly in Connecticut and then moved to Berkeley, California, but soon settled back in Omaha, where he lived for the remainder of his life.

Bellows’ early works were included in Joslyn Art Museum’s 1970 Midwest Biennial Show as well as other exhibitions around Omaha. His early works included abstracts and figurative pieces, some with a Native American theme. Acrylic was his primary medium during this period.

In 1971, Bellows took his first trip to Europe to study the art of the great masters throughout Italy and France.

In 1972, his work was halted due to pain caused by a ganglion cyst that was wound around the tendons of his left wrist. This was crippling for Bellows, who was left-handed. He was referred to the Mayo Clinic, where the cyst was removed in a long and complicated surgery. Bellows soaked his wrist in a therapeutic hot wax bath daily for the rest of his life to treat his lingering wrist pain.

After renting a house with a friend and then living in a patron’s carriage house for a year, Bellows moved into a midtown Omaha apartment, where he lived and worked for the remainder of the decade. He lived there with Elizabeth Irvin, to whom he was married in 1976. Bellows earned a portion of his living during this period through illustration work for publications such as Omni and Rolling Stone, often with a science fiction theme. One such illustration, which appeared in Rolling Stone in 1975, featured science fiction writer Philip K. Dick, who later wrote in a letter to Bellows, “You gave me a reflected self or identity and I suddenly believed I was real…From the moment I saw your picture, I was changed back to my old, real self…you cured me of my identity-less sickness. This is heavy stuff, but true.”

The 1980s
Bellows and his wife divorced in 1979. A year later, Bellows met and married Angela Shomaker. Bellows, Angela, and her three children from a former marriage moved into an older home in midtown Omaha where Bellows set up a studio in the basement. He supported his new family through commissioned portraiture throughout the early 1980s. This period led the artist to a more serious focus on the human figure, and a greater interest in the medium of graphite.

In 1985, Bellows learned that New York gallery owner Peter Tatistcheff was coming to the region, and Bellows asked a Blair man who owned several of Bellows’ works to invite the gallery owner to join him for dinner as a scheme for Bellows to meet him and share his portfolio. Two weeks later, Bellows had signed with the Tatistcheff Gallery. This event marked the start of a very prolific period of two decades during which Bellows produced primarily figurative artwork using graphite, charcoal, pastel, egg tempera, acrylic, and oil.