[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Rowlett's Station

remained in control of the field of engagement and continued to ensure the movement of Union men and supplies on the Louisville and Nashville Railroad. Casualties from both sides were scattered over a wide area, making recovery and the accounting of those lost, wounded, or missing a difficult task.

In the weeks following the battle, the 32nd Indiana gained nationwide recognition in the newspapers for its stand against Confederate forces at Rowlett's Station. The battle was one of the few times during the Civil War when the Union infantry successfully defended itself in the open against repeated Confederate cavalry assaults.

Casualty reports varied and were initially overstated. General Buell reported Confederate casualties at 33 dead, including Col. Terry, and at least 50 wounded. General Hindman acknowledged Terry's death, but claimed few losses of his men and as many as 75 Union dead. Col. Willich initially reported casualties for the 32nd Indiana as one officer and 10 men killed, 22 wounded, and 5 missing; however, the regiment's final count was 46 (13 killed, 28 wounded, and 5 captured).

The 32nd Indiana Regiment's dead were originally buried near the battle site. In 1867 the state of Kentucky transferred the remains of 21 Union soldiers, 14 of them from the 32nd Indiana, and a limestone tablet known as the 32nd Indiana Monument bearing an inscription in German in the infantry soldiers' honor to Cave Hill National Cemetery at Louisville, Kentucky. In December 2008 the monument was removed from the national cemetery for conservation treatment due to its deteriorated condition. It was relocated indoors at the Frazier History Museum in Louisville in August 2010 as a long-term loan from the National Cemetery Administration. Although the stone monument has been moved from its original location, it is generally considered to be the oldest surviving American Civil War monument in the United States. A replacement monument to the 32nd Indiana was dedicated at Cave Hill National Cemetery on December 16, 2011.

The 8th Texas Cavalry Regiment changed its name to "Terry's Texas Rangers" in honor of the fallen colonel.

The Battle of Rowlett's Station was soon overshadowed by Union victories at Mill Springs, Kentucky, and Fort Henry and Fort Donelson, Tennessee.

Order of battle
Union Army
Brig. Gen. Alexander McDowell McCook

Infantry 
 32nd Indiana Infantry Regiment

Artillery
 Battery A, Kentucky Light Artillery (Stone's Battery)
 Battery A, 1st Ohio Light Artillery

Confederate Army
Brig. Gen. Thomas Carmichael Hindman

Infantry
 1st Arkansas Infantry Battalion
 2nd Arkansas Infantry Regiment
 6th Arkansas Infantry Regiment

Artillery
 Swett's Company, Light Artillery (Warren Light Artillery)

Cavalry
 6th Arkansas Cavalry Battalion
 8th Texas Cavalry Regiment

See also
 German-Americans in the Civil War
 List of battles fought in Kentucky

Notes

References

External links
 Papers at the Terry's Texas Rangers website

Rowlett's Station
Rowlett's Station
Rowlett's Station
Rowlett's Station
Hart County, Kentucky
1861 in Kentucky
1861 in the American Civil War
December 1861 events