[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Swift

llegal according to the US Uniform Code of Military Justice and Geneva Convention. As a result, the administration requested, and Congress passed, the Military Commissions Act of 2006, to authorize a form of military tribunals to try the detainee cases. The president signed the law October 17, 2006.

Beginning in 2007, Hamdan was charged under the new law and in 2008 tried by a military jury of the Military Commissions. It acquitted him of conspiracy for terrorism but convicted him of assisting efforts. It sentenced him to five and a half years, crediting him for the time he had already been detained. In November 2008, the US transferred Hamdan to Yemen, where he served the last month of his sentence. After release, he rejoined his family in Sana. In October 2012, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia overturned the conviction.

Forced retirement
In June 2006, Swift learned that he would be forced to retire from the Navy, as he had not been promoted to commander but "passed over" a second time. The Navy has an "up or out" promotion policy., for a second time had not been selected for promotion. He left the military that spring, the Associated Press reported. Swift said he learned about two weeks after the Hamdan decision that he would not receive a promotion to commander. Media such as The New York Times and Vanity Fair reported that the timing was not a coincidence and suggested it was politically motivated. The Deputy Judge Advocate General of the Air Force, Charles J. Dunlap Jr., later said that suggestion was without evidence.

From fall 2007 to spring 2008, Swift taught at Emory Law School as a Visiting Associate Professor and Acting Director of its newly established International Humanitarian Law Clinic.

Honors
Swift was the subject of a biographical article in the December 2004 issue of Esquire. 
In December 2005 he was chosen as runner-up "Lawyer of the Year" by the National Law Journal for his challenge to the Guantanamo review tribunals. 
In December 2005 Swift and Lieutenant Colonel Sharon Shaffer were awarded the Joe A. Callaway Award for Civic Courage by the Center for the Study of Responsive Law, in Washington, D.C.
In June 2006, the National Law Journal named Swift as one of "The 100 most influential lawyers in America."

His decorations and medals include: 
Surface Warfare Badge
Navy Commendation Medal (2 awards)
Navy Achievement Medal (6 awards)
Navy Expeditionary Medal
Humanitarian Service Medal
Sea Service Ribbon (4 awards)

See also

Hamdan v. Rumsfeld
Matthew Diaz

References

External links
"Navy Lawyer Charles Swift Battles Bush in Guantanamo Bay Case", Bloomberg.com, March 2006
"Testimony of Lieutenant Commander Charles D. Swift", U.S. Senate Judiciary Committee, June 2005
Carol J. Williams, "Marine Corps Issues Gag Order in Detainee Abuse Case", Los Angeles Times, October 15, 2006 (article about Canadian citizen and detainee, Omar Khadr) 
Nat Hentoff, "Eroding detainees rights", The Washington Times, October 30, 2006
FY07 Navy Line O5 Board
Jonathan Mahler: The Challenge, Authors@Google video lecture (45 min). September 26, 2008

Guantanamo Bay attorneys
1961 births
Living people
People from Franklin, North Carolina
Seattle University School of Law alumni
Temple University Beasley School of Law alumni
United States Navy officers
United States Naval Academy alumni
American military lawyers