[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 33rd Illinois Infantry Regiment

illiam Plummer Benton's Union brigade arrived, the Confederates retreated rapidly. During the battle, Edward M. Pike of the 33rd Illinois earned the Medal of Honor for saving a cannon from falling into enemy hands. After failing to make contact with the Union fleet, Curtis occupied Helena, Arkansas.

The 33rd Illinois was on duty near Helena until 1 September 1862, including being in action at Totten's Plantation on 2 August. The regiment was assigned to the 1st Division, District of Eastern Arkansas in July–November 1862. The unit skirmished at Bolivar Township in Poinsett County, Arkansas, on 24 September and Friars Point, Mississippi, on 28 September. The regiment was assigned to the 1st Brigade, 1st Division, Army of Southeast Missouri in November 1862 – March 1863. It marched first to Pilot Knob, Missouri, and arrived at Van Buren, Missouri on 15 November. As part of a column under Benton, the regiment made a winter campaign in southeast Missouri, ending at Pilot Knob on 1 March 1863. A soldier from the 33rd Illinois wrote that their brigade commander Benton lacked the proper qualities to be a general, and that the most courageous thing the man had ever done was to marry a woman after a 10-day courtship.

Vicksburg

The 33rd Illinois transferred to the 1st Brigade, 14th Division, XIII Corps, Department of the Tennessee during the period March–July 1863. The regiment was ordered to Ste. Genevieve, Missouri, on 5 March, and was then shipped to Milliken's Bend near Vicksburg, Mississippi, where it remained until 25 April. The unit began its participation in the Vicksburg campaign when it moved to Bruinsburg, Mississippi, on 25–30 April. During the campaign, the 33rd Illinois was in Benton's brigade together with the 99th Illinois, 8th Indiana, and 18th Indiana Infantry Regiments. Benton's brigade was part of Brigadier General Eugene Asa Carr's division, Major General John Alexander McClernand's corps, and Major General Ulysses S. Grant's army. The 33rd Illinois fought at the Battle of Port Gibson on 1 May, Battle of Champion Hill on 16 May, Battle of Big Black River Bridge on 17 May, and Siege of Vicksburg on 18 May–4 July.

The regiment sustained losses of 13 wounded at Port Gibson, 1 killed and 2 wounded at Champion Hill, and 13 wounded at Big Black River Bridge. The highest casualties were suffered during the 22 May assault: 15 killed and 87 wounded. Captain Henry M. Kellogg was killed in action on 20 May. At Port Gibson, Benton's brigade fought on the far right flank. At Champion Hill, Carr's division marched on the center road behind Brigadier General Peter J. Osterhaus' division and was only lightly engaged. At Big Black River Bridge, Benton's brigade attacked north of the railroad. Carr's other brigade under Brigadier General Michael Kelly Lawler make the decisive breakthrough. The 33rd Illinois captured 14 pieces of artillery. During the 22 May assault, Benton's brigade unsuccessfully attacked the 2nd Texas Lunette. Attacking at 10:00 am, the 33rd Illinois reached the ditch in front of the Confederate defenses but could go no farther. The soldiers took cover in the ditch while the Confederates tossed lighted shells down the slope. It was not until 7:00 pm that they were able to withdraw. During the siege, the soldiers of the 33rd Illinois found that eating blackberries alleviated a case of dysentery. Through 1 June, losses totaled 19 killed and 102 wounded, but 10 of the wounded men died. Vicksburg surrendered to Grant on 4 July 1863.

Department of the Gulf
The 33rd Illinois took part in the Jackson Expedition, which involved continuous fighting during 9–16 July 1863. While skirmishing on 13 July, Private Joseph W. Fifer from the regiment was wounded. Fifer would later become governor of Illinois. The Confederate defenders evacuated Jackson, Mississippi, a few days later. The 33rd Illinois was part of 1st Brigade, 1st Division, XIII Corps in July–August 1863. The unit had garrison duty at Vicksburg until August 20 when it was transferred to the Department of the Gulf, where it served until June 1864. The regiment garrisoned New Orleans, Brashear City, and Berwick, Louisiana, until October 1863. The unit participated in the Western Louisiana Campaign on 3 October–10 November. For the 33rd Illinois, this operation up the Bayou Teche was a lark in which the soldiers stole "wagonloads" of chickens from the inhabitants. While marching through New Iberia the men of the regiment began howling. The men claimed that this scared the townspeople so badly that they began to fly French flags from their homes. The regiment served with Union troops from eastern states. According to one 33rd Illinois soldier, the easterners, "wore more feathers and less dust than those from the West." When soldiers of the 33rd Illinois and the 3rd Rhode Island Cavalry Regiment got into a drunken fistfight, the Illinoisans ended with fewer injuries.