[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gary Franks

his time in Congress led to speculation about a run for higher office. Franks declared his candidacy for U.S. Senate in 1998, challenging incumbent Senator Chris Dodd. He ran unopposed for the Republican nomination. Franks was defeated by Dodd in the election, receiving just 32 percent of the vote.

Subsequent career
In 1999, Franks founded and became a partner in the public affairs firm, Gary Alvin Associates, LLC based in Washington, DC. Franks has served as an adjunct professor at Georgetown University and is currently a visiting professor at Hampton University and the University of Virginia He also served as president and chairman of Pacific Rim Trading & Investment Corp., a Fort Lauderdale group that recycles American scrap metal from America to China.
	
In 2010, 13 years after leaving Congress, Franks was profiled by the Waterbury newspaper, the Republican-American, in a piece detailing what the newspaper alleged were his history of unpaid debts, back taxes, and foreclosed properties. Although Franks was registered to vote in Waterbury, the article stated that he had not done so in 10 years, during which time he and his wife lived in Maryland and Florida under alternate versions of their legal names. Franks has contested the Republican-American's account. In an interview in September 2015, he stated: "Most of those things are lies. I've had the same name all my life. I have lived in my same residence for 12 years. I have visited and have lived in a little place in Florida for a year or so". Franks stated in the interview that rental properties that he had bought while he was a politician were burned down by the Ku Klux Klan, and that after he sued a hospital following the death of his sister, the "hospital has taken it upon itself to retaliate in this manner, working through one or two newspapers to spread these stories that are just so fictitious and so libelous, and so hateful".

In 2015, Franks was featured in the Wall Street Journal piece "Making the Republican Case for Black Support." Franks says, "Yes, you’ve got to show up but it’s more than that. You’ve got to explain that participating in only one half of a [two-party] system doesn’t work. You’ve got to show contrasts between what Democrats have done and what Republicans have done on issues like school choice and faith-based interventions.”

Political views
Franks ran as a candidate in favor of welfare reform and an opponent of affirmative action.  He was a supporter of the nomination of Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court. He opposed increased taxation and supported a reduced capital gains tax and an amendment to ban desecration of the American flag.

Franks opposed the Civil Rights Act of 1990. One of his claims was that it would enforce quotas that would encourage companies to move out of Connecticut to states with a greater proportion of whites. However, he did vote for the Civil Rights Act of 1991.

After becoming the first Republican voting member of the Congressional Black Caucus, Franks was ejected from the strategy sessions of the caucus on the claim he was a Republican mole.

During his time in Congress, Franks supported abortion rights. Years later, he changed his mind. In a 2022 Boston Herald column, Franks expressed concern particularly for black women, whom he considered to have a disproportionate number of abortions: "I supported the so-called pro-choice position while in Congress. These are votes I regret today and pray for God’s forgiveness on so many levels.... I implore the U.S. Supreme Court to do everything in its power to stop the madness. Socioeconomic reasons should not be justification to abort a pregnancy in America. We, as a society, are better than that."

Personal life
Franks married Donna Williams in 1990; they have two daughters and a son. He is a Baptist.

See also 
 List of African-American United States representatives

References

External links
 Black Americans in Congress bio of Franks

 

|-

|-

1953 births
African-American members of the United States House of Representatives
African-American people in Connecticut politics
Baptists from Connecticut
Connecticut city council members
Living people
Politicians from Waterbury, Connecticut
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Connecticut
Yale University alumni
21st-century African-American people
20th-century African-American people