[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Michael Netzer

to criticize artists whom they inspired.

In 1994 Netzer returned to Israel. In 1998, he teamed up with Sofia Fedorov to establish a visual media production studio called Netzart Fedorov Media which allowed Netzer to develop his skills in computer-generated illustration, advertising and web design.

In 2010, Netzer returned to mainstream comics, producing art for Kevin Smith's Green Hornet from Dynamite Entertainment, along with illustrating a chapter of Erich Origen and Gan Golan's The Adventures of Unemployed Man from Little, Brown, publishers of the satire Goodnight Bush by the same writers. Netzer also returned to producing collector art commissions, including a series of classic cover recreations with artist Gene Colan, represented by writer/agent Clifford Meth. In 2011, he produced three covers for Kfir from Israeli Zanzuria Comics.

Web activism
A 40-day retreat to the Dead Sea resort of Ein Gedi in February 2003 inspired Netzer to go back to his early spiritual themes and activism. In January 2004, Netzer launched his first web site, "The New Comic Book of Life", outlining his theories on superhero mythology and the role it plays in cultural evolution. On the site, Netzer revealed unpublished material espousing this manifesto from 1977 to 1981, which had never seen publication. He also apologized to colleague Neal Adams for his lawsuit against him in the previous decade, though in 2018 Netzer renewed his assertion that he created the character of Ms. Mystic, leading to a great deal of public acrimony between the two.  In November 2004, he launched a second web site, "The Comic Book Creator's Party", calling on comics creators to form a political union for participating in the 2008 U.S. presidential election, and quoting notable comics creators' references to the socio-political climate in America and abroad. Netzer has since launched several other web sites, including "The Comic Book Creators' Guild", "Growing Earth Consortium" and "Michael Netzer Online", the site-complex portal.

While producing no mainstream comics art from the mid-1990s until 2010, Netzer maintained a web presence, speaking on comics community issues, including a campaign to bolster comic fandom's support for J'onn J'onzz The Martian Manhunter, facing a rumored demise in DC Comics Final Crisis miniseries. In early 2009, Netzer founded and launched Facebook Comic Con.

Following his conviction that art should contribute towards the betterment of society, Netzer joined Comics For All in May 2010, a collective of Israeli comics artists that aims to promote the medium as a cultural and educational tool for aiding underprivileged children. The organization operates under the auspices of comic book retailer chain Comics N' Vegetables, and contributed to the retailer winning the Will Eisner Spirit of Comics Retailer Award in 2011. Netzer participates in various activities on a pro bono basis.

Save the Comics campaign
In early 2011 Netzer launched a campaign, Save the Comics, to bring public attention to the undercurrents of a decades-long sales slump for printed comic books. The initiative came on the heels of his participation in an industry-wide debate on a revolution in creator-owned properties.

On 10 February 2011, Netzer lodged an online complaint at the Federal Trade Commission web site against DC Comics and Marvel Comics calling for industry leaders to turn their attention back to the business of comic book publishing.

In June 2011, Netzer responded to the controversial story in Action Comics #900, in which Superman is compelled to renounce his American citizenship after participating in an Iranian anti-government demonstration. He produced a two-page short satire, wherein Superman returns to Tehran with Batman and Wonder Woman, who all participate in an anti-American demonstration. An image of the three heroes burning American and Western Allies flags, drew sharp criticism from the Bleeding Cool audience. Netzer responded by burning the original art of the controversial image, and filming a video clip of it, to demonstrate the value of the satire.

In May 2013, Netzer led a campaign on behalf of comics writer Don McGregor when Dynamite Entertainment promoted the revival of Lady Rawhide, created by McGregor and Mike Mayhew. Dynamite publisher Nick Barrucci responded in dismissal of McGregor's publicly aired frustration at hearing about his creation being revived in press releases, and that the creators' credits were omitted from the announcements. Netzer's campaign at Bleeding Cool, The Beat, Facebook and his own site led the publisher to appear at Netzer's Facebook profile and apologize to McGregor. The campaign received some criticism for its intensity, but was also noted by others for helping bring the issue of creators' rights and their treatment by publishers to the forefront of industry dialogue.

Published works