[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Choi Si-won

member Donghae. The series is a live-action adaptation of Japanese shōjo manga titled Skip Beat! by Yoshiki Nakamura.

In 2012, Choi starred in SBS' comedy satire drama The King of Dramas, based around Korean television production. He plays Kang Hyun-min, a top celebrity with a prickly personality.

Choi starred in multiple projects in 2015. He co-starred in Hong Kong historical-action film Dragon Blade with Jackie Chan, crime thriller Helios and sports drama To the Fore alongside Eddie Peng and Shawn Dou. He also starred in the Chinese romance drama Fall In Love With You Again and was cast in Billion Dollar Heir, a Chinese adaptation of the 2013 hit drama The Heirs.
Back in Korea, Choi starred as the second male lead in MBC's romantic comedy She Was Pretty. He received critical acclaim for his acting performance and comedic portrayal of the character, and experienced a rise in popularity.  He released a single for the drama titled "Only You", which ranked atop the music charts. In 2015, Choi Siwon with EnterMedia Pictures (CEO Lee Dong Hoon) purchased the rights to the 2011 Daum webtoon Interview, authored by Rude Vico.

In October 2017, Choi started in the tvN's youth romance drama Revolutionary Love alongside Kang So-ra. This marked his first project after releasing from his mandatory military enlistment on 18 August 2017.

In April 2019, Choi starred in KBS’s crime comedy drama My Fellow Citizens!. In 2020, he starred in an episode of the science fiction anthology series SF8.

In 2021, Choi starred in the TVING web series Work Later, Drink Now and made a cameo appearance in the movie New Year Blues. In addition to his appearance, he also released the track "Nobody but You" as part of the Work Later, Drink Now soundtrack. In 2022, Choi starred in the ENA romantic comedy series Love Is for Suckers and returned for the second season of Work Later, Drink Now.

In 2023, Choi played a supporting role in the Netflix original series Bloodhounds.

Other ventures

Endorsements
Choi Si-won is a representative for Audi Korea. In 2015, Choi Si-won was chosen by the Swiss luxury watchmaker brand Piaget as their youngest Asian model.

Philanthropy
Choi has joined many UNICEF campaigns since 2010. He was appointed as the special representative of the South Korea committee for UNICEF on 12 November 2015.

Upon his release from the military, Choi confirmed to volunteer for a UNICEF campaign in Vietnam from 21 to 25 August 2017, alongside fellow labelmate Jaemin of NCT Dream. The campaign is named as "SMile for U" which is a music education programme for children with disabilities conducted in partnership with Choi's agency.

Ambassadorship 
In 2023, Choi was named the PR Ambassador of the 14th Gwangju Biennale.

Impact and influence
In 2008, Choi and his fellow Super Junior-M members appeared on Chinese postage stamps, becoming the first South Korean artists to do so. The stamps were sold at a charity event to raise funds for victims of an earthquake which happened in China earlier that year.

In 2013, Choi, along with Psy, became the first K-pop stars to attend the Met Gala. In October 2015, he became the first Korean to reach 5 million Twitter followers. In 2016, Choi was listed in Forbes magazine's "30 Under 30 Asia." He was described as "one of South Korea’s most sought-after singers and actors." 

A wax figure of Choi was unveiled at Madame Tussauds in Hong Kong on 19 November 2015.

Personal life
Choi graduated from Apgu Jeong High School in February 2006 and from Inha University in February 2012 alongside fellow member Kim Ryeowook.

Choi is well known as a devout Protestant Christian, and has said in an interview that after his career, he would like to become a missionary. He frequently posts Bible quotes on his Twitter and Weibo accounts. He has also collaborated with the Christian singing group 3rd Wave Music along with other K-pop artists.

Choi enlisted as a conscripted policeman on 19 November 2015. He was discharged from mandatory military service on 18 August 2017.

Controversies 
On 30 September 2017, an untied French bulldog owned by Choi's family bit their neighbor, 53-year-old businesswoman Kim who ran Hanilkwan, an upscale Korean cuisine restaurant. This resulted in the death of the victim six days after the incident. The cause was identified as sepsis, brought on by the bite. Choi and his father separately wrote letters of apology on their Instagram accounts on 21 October 2017. Although a family member of the deceased told media that the family were not willing to take any legal action, the Choi family received severe backlash from the public for not taking any precautionary measures with their dog.

Discography

Singles

Composition credits
All song credits are adapted from the Korea Music Copyright Association's database unless stated otherwise.

Filmography

Film

Television series

Web series

Television shows

Music video

Accolades

Notes

References

External links