[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Benito Carbone

ral clubs, including Fiorentina, Napoli, Perugia, Everton, Coventry City and Bradford City, showed an interest in Carbone's services. Carbone was especially strongly linked with a move to Fiorentina to return to Serie A, as a replacement for playmaker Rui Costa, who was linked with leaving the club.

Bradford City
Bradford City, who had just escaped relegation from the Premiership the previous season, and were aiming to establish themselves in the top flight, made the best offer to Carbone, and he joined the Yorkshire club on a free transfer. The club also signed Stan Collymore to play alongside him. Despite some disillusionment over Carbone's wages, he scored some memorable goals and endeared himself to the Valley Parade faithful. Bradford City were relegated and, although he played the start of the following season with them as well as pledging his future to them, he later moved on loan to first Derby County, where he scored once against former club Aston Villa, and then Middlesbrough, where he again scored once in the league against Aston Villa. In 2002, Bradford chairman Geoffrey Richmond informed him that the club would fold if they continued to pay his £40,000-a-week wages. Carbone revealed in later years that he did not want to be known as the man who made Bradford City fold, and he gave up £3.2 million.

Later career
Carbone left Bradford and returned to Italy with Como and played for Parma from 2003 to 2005. At Parma, Carbone revitalised his career under the leadership of Cesare Prandelli. Parma were in financial trouble and had to sell star players during the season such as Adrian Mutu, Adriano and Hidetoshi Nakata. During the 2003–04 season Carbone and Alberto Gilardino became the main two strikers at the club.

After a one-year stint with Vicenza, Carbone signed for a four-game guest contract with the Australian team Sydney FC as a potential replacement for Dwight Yorke, who was the club's previous marquee player. He capped his debut, against Adelaide United, with two assists and a goal. After his debut many believed he would be better than Yorke, but during his third guest game he pulled a hamstring muscle that sidelined him for at least seven weeks. Carbone failed to reach an agreement with Sydney for a long-term contract, ending his short-lived career with Sydney. In 2014, Carbone revealed his disappointment in the injury which ended his spell at the club and he revealed that he would one day like to return to the club as a manager.

Upon returning to Italy, Carbone joined northern side Pavia in August 2007, where he was appointed captain. In his first season back in the lower leagues, Carbone scored five goals in 29 appearances, as Pavia finished fourth from bottom. In total, he scored 31 goals in all competitions for the club, and his goals helped Pavia avoid relegation.

Carbone was often accused of being a mercenary, due to his frequently transferring between clubs. He was, however, very popular with the fans of his clubs, particularly at Sheffield Wednesday and Bradford City. He also waived much of the money owed to him — approximately £3.32 million — after he had moved to Como, which helped them survive going into administration in 2002.

International career
Carbone was never capped for Italy at senior level, although he represented the Under-18 side in 1989, scoring four goals in seven appearances, and he made eight appearances with the Under-21 side between 1989 and 1994, scoring three goals; he was a member of the team that won the 1994 UEFA European Under-21 Championship, notably scoring the decisive penalty in the semi-final shoot-out against hosts France. In total he made 15 appearances for the Italian youth squads, scoring seven goals.

Managerial career

Pavia
After his retirement, Carbone accepted to stay at Pavia as youth coach, guiding the Berretti under-19 team. In March 2011, he was then promoted as head coach to replace Gianluca Andrissi. He guided Pavia to a safe place in the 2010–11 Lega Pro Prima Divisione standings, leading the club out of the relegation zone in his two months in charge of the first team. At Pavia, Carbone was given the nickname 'Harry Potter' with Pavia fans believing Carbone had worked 'magic' both as a player and Manager to help them avoid relegation.

Varese
After impressing as Pavia manager, On 16 June 2011 he was surprisingly announced as new head coach of Serie B club Varese, replacing local hero Giuseppe Sannino, who left to become new boss of Serie A club Siena, after guiding the club from Lega Pro Seconda Divisione to a spot in the promotion playoffs during his last season in charge. Joining Carbone as part of Carbone's management team at Varese was ex-Internazionale player Mauro Milanese, who joined the club as Sporting Director.

On 1 October 2011, he was sacked and replaced by Rolando Maran.