[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zerelda G. Wallace

known as an inspirational speaker rather than an administrator among the social reformers of her era, Wallace was popular on the national lecture circuit for her speeches on temperance and suffrage. The speaking engagements she made throughout the United States also provided Wallace with an income.

Wallace's first efforts as a social reformer were tied to the temperance movement. On March 3, 1874, she was among the organizers of the Women's Christian Temperance Union of Indiana. Wallace was elected the Indiana chapter's first president, serving from 1874 to 1876, and also served as its president from 1879 to 1882. In November 1874 Wallace attended the national WCTU conference at Cleveland, Ohio, where she met suffragist Frances Willard. Wallace was described as a "calm" and "non-radical" activist. Her friend Willard later remarked, "A man of equal ability would have been entitled to lead a party or to organize a cabinet."

On January 21, 1875, she testified before the Indiana General Assembly, presenting 21,050 signatures on temperance petitions from forty-seven Indiana counties. Many of the legislators showed "open contempt" as Wallace spoke, and afterwards she credited the event for prompting her to become a suffragist. Later that year she attended the national WCTU conference in Cincinnati, Ohio, where the delegates approved her proposed resolution for a national vote of men and women on prohibition of the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages.

By the late 1870s, Wallace had become involved in the women's suffrage movement. In April 1878 twenty-six people who attended a meeting held at Wallace's home agreed to form the Equal Suffrage Society of Indianapolis. Wallace was elected as the group's president; May Wright Sewall, who initiated the group's first meeting a month earlier, was elected secretary. For nearly a decade the Indianapolis suffrage group did not formally join a specific suffrage organization at the national level. Instead, the Society preferred to work with several different groups that were politically active in lobbying, letter-writing campaigns, gathering petitions, and speechmaking on behalf of women's suffrage. The Society finally affiliated with the National Woman Suffrage Association in 1887.

On January 23, 1880, Wallace was one of several who testified before the U.S. Senate Committee on the Judiciary on women's right to vote. As she explained in her address, "You must admit that in popular government the ballot is the most potent means of all moral and social reforms." In 1881 Wallace was among those who lobbied the Indiana General Assembly to approve a woman's suffrage amendment to the state's constitution. The state legislature voted in favor of the suffrage amendment and a prohibition provision in 1881; however, at that time Indiana law required passage in two consecutive sessions of the general assembly followed by approval from the state's voters before the legislation could become state law. At the next legislative session in 1883, the Indiana House of Representatives approved the woman suffrage resolution by a 53 to 42 vote, but the Indiana Senate refused to act on it. The Indiana legislature took no further action on woman suffrage until 1920, when it ratified the Nineteenth Amendment to the U.S. Constitution.

In the early 1880s, after the failure to achieve women's suffrage in Indiana, Wallace felt that a national constitutional amendment would be the fastest and most efficient way to achieve voting rights for women. In 1883 she sent a letter to suffragist Susan B. Anthony expressing her sentiments, and Anthony read Wallace's inspirational letter to delegates attending the fifteenth annual convention of the National Woman Suffrage Association. This group, which was headed by Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Anthony, was one of the two major suffrage groups in the United States at that time. The other was the American Woman Suffrage Association, led by Lucy Stone and Julia Ward Howe. In 1890 the two groups joined forces to form the National American Woman Suffrage Association.

Between 1883 and 1888, Wallace was active in the women's suffrage movement at the national level as head of the franchise (suffrage) department of the national WCTU. In 1887 she was a founder of the Indiana chapter of the National Woman Suffrage Association and delivered an address at the NWSA's national convention. She also served three years as its vice president at large. In 1888 Wallace spoke at the International Conference of Women in Washington, D.C. By that time she was a well-known and popular speaker on social reform issues, especially temperance and woman suffrage.

Later years
In the late 1880s, after Wallace collapsed on a speakers podium, she became less active in the women's suffrage and temperance movements. She spent her final years at the home of her daughter, Agnes, in Cataract, Owen County, Indiana.