[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Erzurum Congress

rritories of Anatolia from intrusion of the foreign powers. On 28 June, the British Assistant High Commissioner in Constantinople, Rear Admiral Richard Webb wrote a statement to Sir Richard Graham on the state of the Turkish resistance in the eastern Empire and the blossoming Greco-Turkish conflict.

Meeting at Amasya
In June 1919, Kemal held a secret meeting with several prominent Turkish statesman and military leaders including Ali Fuat Pasha and Hüseyin Rauf (Rauf Orbay) in the town of Amasya. The Amasya meeting kept in remote communication with Turkish General Kâzım Karabekir Pasha who was in command of the 15th Army Corps stationed at Erzurum at the time. The meeting set forth the ideological groundwork for the future Turkish National Movement and subsequent Congress of Erzurum. Following the meeting at Amasya, Kemal issued a telegram to many Turkish civil and military figures laying out the ideas expressed by the Turkish nationalists at Amasya. Below is the opening statement of the so-called Amasya Circular
 1. The integrity of the country, the independence of the nation are in danger.
 2. The central government is unable to discharge the duties for which it is responsible. As a result, the nation is regarded as nonexistent.
 3. Only the will and resolution of the nation can save the independence of the nation.
Meanwhile, General Kâzım Karabekir began issuing invitations for a gathering of Turkish Eastern Anatolian delegates to be held in the city of Erzurum. Kemal continued to Erzurum to begin the task of setting up the meeting of Turkish delegates. In order to avoid any charges of treason or rebellion against the still legitimate Ottoman Sultanate, Kemal resigned from his post. To maintain a semblance of legality, Kemal gained the support of the Association for the Defence of the Rights of Eastern Anatolia, a Defence of Rights Association which was founded in Erzurum in March 1919 and was legally registered and recognized by the vilayet of Erzurum.

Proceedings
On 23 July 1919, a congress of fifty-six delegates from the vilayets of Bitlis, Erzurum, Sivas, Trabzon and Van gathered in Erzurum for the assembly called by Mustafa Kemal and Kâzım Karabekir. On the first day of the proceedings, which was the anniversary of the Young Turk Revolution, the delegates elected Mustafa Kemal as chairman of the congress. The congress made a number of important decisions that were to shape the future conduct of the Turkish War of Independence. Namely, it reaffirmed the provinces' desires to remain within the Ottoman Empire (rather than be partitioned by the Allies); refused to accept any mandate scheme for the empire nor accord Christian elements such as Greeks or Armenians with any special privileges; and resolved to resist any such measures, should they try to be implemented. The congress managed to draft the first version of the Misak-ı Millî or National Pact. Before dispersing on 17 August, the congress elected members for a "representative committee" (heyet-i temsiliye), with Kemal as its head.

While the congress was in session, General Kâzım Karabekir was issued a direct order from the Sultanate to place Kemal and Rauf under arrest and assume Kemal's position as Inspector-General of the Eastern Provinces. He defied the government in Constantinople and refused to carry out the arrest.

The conference was held in the building which once housed the Sanasarian College, a prestigious school and erstwhile regional center of Armenian culture and education in the years preceding the Armenian genocide.

Resolutions
The language of the resolutions was as follows:
 The territorial integrity and indivisibility of the homeland must be protected. (Manifesto Art. 6: section regarding Regulations Article 3, Article i of the Regulations and the Manifesto)
 The nation would resist foreign occupation and inference. (Articles 2 and 3 of the Regulations ; Articles 3 of the Manifesto.)
 A provisional government would be formed if the government in Constantinople is incapable of maintaining the nation's independence and unity. (Regulations Article 4; Manifesto Article 4.)
 The aim is to consolidate the national forces into a ruling factor and to establish the will of the nation as the sovereign power. (Article 3 of the Manifesto.)
  The nation shall not accept the status of a mandate or a protectorate. (Manifesto Article 7.)