[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lamartine Griffin Hardman

ed as the Federal Fuel Administrator for the state of Georgia in 1914–1917, during the "Great War" (now known as World War I). His was the responsibility of enforcing the nationwide rationing of coal, especially to evaluate and dole out fuel to those industries that were essential to the war effort.

Georgia Governor, 1927–1931
Hardman campaigned unsuccessfully for the office of governor twice, the first time in 1914, losing to Nathaniel E. Harris, and again in 1916, losing to Hugh M. Dorsey. His third try came in 1926, against three other candidates. He campaigned on the promise to bring more business-like administration to state government. The election ended up in a run-off with fellow Jackson County politician and chair of the Georgia Highway Department, John Holder of Jefferson. Hardman won the run-off with 276 county unit votes to Holder's 138: a rather narrow victory.

He was the oldest elected governor in the state's history, being 71 at the time of his first election.

The 1926 race for governor between John Holder and Dr. L.G. Hardman created a bitter political split between the neighboring cities of Commerce and Jefferson, the two largest in Jackson County. (It is said that the rivalry lives on in the athletic rivalries of the town's two high schools.) Hardman made efforts to remove John Holder from the chairship of the Highway Department, but Holder, much better connected to the legislature than Governor Hardman, was able to keep his post. Highway work progressed slowly during this time while the two rivals continued their political feud.

Two years later he was elected for a second term, again opposite his rival, John Holder.

As governor, Hardman oversaw the renovation of the Georgia State Capitol building in Atlanta, the procurement of the Rhodes home as a depository for the state archives, and a plant to produce license tags.

One of his most significant contributions to the state while in the office of governor was the establishment of a study in governmental efficiency, called the Allen Commission on Simplification and Coordination, headed by prominent Atlanta businessman, Ivan Allen Sr. However, the findings of this commission were not implemented until after Hardman had left office; the Great Depression dampened any support for the sweeping changes he might have garnered with the General Assembly. The findings paved the way for the sweeping governmental reorganizations of Hardman's gubernatorial successor, Richard Russell, Jr.

An interesting anecdote has been told about Governor Hardman: Two men had been convicted of murder and sentenced to death.  A third person then confessed that she and the male confederate had actually committed the fatal crime.  Lawyers for the two condemned men begged Hardman for a stay of execution until the new evidence could be evaluated.  The governor settled the matter by studying photographs of the two men, concluding that they were definitely criminal types, and permitting their executions.

Due to his age, Hardman's terms as governor were plagued by ill-health and fatigue. After completing his two terms, he spent his final years in his home in Commerce (he was none-too-pleased that Harmony Grove had changed its name some three decades before), he died of heart failure at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta on February 18, 1937.

He is buried in Gray Hill Cemetery in Commerce, Georgia.

Legacy
Hardman Hall at the University of Georgia was completed in 1918 and named for L. G. Hardman.

The Governor L. G. Hardman House is a historic site in Commerce, Georgia. (Link to historic site marker)

Hardman Farm State Historic Site near Helen, Georgia

The Medical Association of Georgia's Lamartine Hardman Cup is named in memory of Dr. Hardman.

References

Further reading

External links
 Lamartine Hardman in New Georgia Encyclopedia
 Lamartine G. Hardman Collection at the University of Georgia
 
 
 Home of Gov. L. G. Hardman historical marker

Democratic Party members of the Georgia House of Representatives
Democratic Party Georgia (U.S. state) state senators
Democratic Party governors of Georgia (U.S. state)
1856 births
1937 deaths
Physicians from Georgia (U.S. state)
People from Commerce, Georgia
American temperance activists