[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Gerak Khas (Malaysian Army unit)

t of a plane with a Proton Wira. Gerak Khas was represented by only Ahmed Abdul Rahman and Maznan Mat Isa (Warrant Officer Class II at the time). The expedition is a collaboration between the Malaysian Armed Forces, the Royal Malaysia Police, and a Proton-sponsored adventure club. There is one female skydiver who is a mother of five children, and the youngest skydiver is 21 years old.
 Muit Ahmad – Muit bin Ahmad (Service number: 928133) is a PGB recipient. In 1977, he was awarded the PGB for his participation in a military operation in Sarawak. He left the military in 1986 with the rank of Color Sergeant.
 Moorthy Maniam – Moorthy was a member of Malaysia's first ten-man expedition, including M. Magendran, to the summit of Mount Everest in 1997. In 1998, he was involved in a military training accident that left the lower half of his body paralysed. He died in 2005 and was promoted to the rank of Sergeant posthumously.
 Rusli Buang – Lance Corporal Rusli bin Buang (Service number: 19151) is a posthumous recipient of the Malaysian highest valour award, the Grand Knight of Valour. On 6 July 1971, he was killed in action in Chemor, Perak.
 Sigai Nawan – Sigai anak Nawan (Service number: 901370) is a recipient of the PGB. In 1974, he was awarded the PGB for his 1972 mission in Kanowit, Sarawak. Sigai was a member of 5 Troop, Yankee Squadron, which was stationed at Pagar Ruyong Camp in Sibu, Sarawak, and was on standby as a quick reaction force at the time. His squadron received an emergency call to assist two different units under attack, and his troop was dispatched to one of the locations, Ulu Dap in Kanowit. He was involved in two gunfights there and managed to kill two enemies. After ten years of service, he retired with the rank of Corporal.
 Zaini Mohamad Said – In the year 2000, an extremist group, Al-Mau'nah, led an armed rebellion to overthrow the government. The Malaysian Armed Forces and Royal Malaysia Police are working together to subdue the rebellion that has made Sauk in Perak its base. Zaini was in charge of the military part. The rebel leader, Amin, desired to meet with the commanders of both military and law enforcement forces, so Zaini and Abdul Razak Mohd Yusof, representing the Royal Malaysia Police, agreed to meet with the rebel leader at Sauk. During the meeting, Amin attempts to shoot Zaini, but Zaini quickly pushes the rifle barrel to the side, causing Amin to instantly kill one of his own men, Halim. Both Zaini and Abdul Razak were awarded the Malaysian highest valour award, the Grand Knight of Valour, for their bravery. He retired from the military in 2001 with the rank of Lieutenant General.
 Zaki Nordin – Zaki bin Nordin (Service number: 16075) was a PGB recipient. He and Trooper Md Ali Ahmad were both awarded PGB for the same operation, Operation Gonzales in Perak. He was a sergeant when he retired from the army. He died on 10 March 1984.

 In popular culture Books, televisions and movie.'''
 2011: "Beret Hijau", an RTM TV series about a village boy who aspires to be a commando.
 2011: Rejimen Gerak Khas: Pasukan Khusus Tentera Darat Malaysia, a book about Gerak Khas's history was written by Ahmad Ridzuan Wan Chik.
 2012: Menjunjung Bere Hijau], a book written by retired Army Major Nazar Talib. His life as an officer in the 21st Special Service Group was documented in the book.
 2013: Majalah Skot", a 13-part RTM documentary about the Malaysian Army Corps and Regiments. Episode 11 is about the 21st Special Service Group.
 2013: Special Forces: Malaysia GGK, a History Channel Asia documentary about Gerak Khas Selections.
 2014: Beret Hijau Musim 2, an RTM TV series about the life of the season 1 protagonist in the 11th Special Service Regiment.
 2015: Bravo 5, an action film based on true events about the five-man Gerak Khas reconnaissance patrol during the Second Malayan Emergency.
 2017: Asia's Special Forces with Terry Schappert, a four-part History Channel documentary hosted by Terry Schappert about Malaysian Gerak Khas, the Philippines' Marine Recon, Thailand's Marine Recon, the Philippines' Scout Ranger, the Sri Lankan Long Range Reconnaissance Patrol, and Taiwanese Marine Recon.

See also

Elite Forces of Malaysia
Malaysian Army 10th Parachute Brigade
 Royal Malaysian Navy PASKAL
 Royal Malaysian Air Force PASKAU
 Malaysia Coast Guard Special Task and Rescue
 Royal Malaysia Police Pasukan Gerakan Khas''

References

External links
 Unofficial Website of Malaysian SOF

Airborne units and formations
Military counterterrorist organizations
1965 establishments in Malaysia
Military units and formations established in 1965
Malaysian Army
Special forces units and formations
Special forces of Malaysia
Counterterrorism in Malaysia
Malaysia Army corps and regiments