[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Crows and Sparrows

he two-storey house epitomises and literalises the social hierarchy of the crows and the sparrow, Hou and his mistress lord it over the tenants and live upstairs, where Kong used to live as the original owner. The tenants divide up the rooms below according to their social positions and professions.

The “Crows” represent the corrupt officers and the oppressive power of the Kuomintang, while the “Sparrows” symbolize the commoners, namely the oppressed citizens of China suffering under the KMT's iron grip. The director used low angle shots to portray the Crows living upstairs as powerful dominators looming over the commoners, whilst also using high angle shots to convey the weakness and powerlessness of the Sparrows over their KMT overlords. But eventually, the Crows were overthrown, and the apartment eventually returned to the hands of the Sparrows; the common folk of China. The film underlines the co-implicating relationship between the oppressors and the oppressed by visualizing their simultaneous distance and proximity with respect to the usage of mise-en-scène, and literal physical distance. Such proximity produces a kind of porosity that allows the Sparrows to monitor the Crows––thus, facilitating their subversion of the existing social hierarchy.

Through these explorations of the conditions of the lower classes and their solidarity against the powerful, Crows and Sparrows displays a critical realism that is similar to prewar social realism.

Background

Historical background
The film was produced at the tail end of the Chinese Civil War. Fighting between the KMT (Kuomintang) and CCP (Chinese Communist Party), which had been paused in 1937 at the start of the Second Sino-Japanese War, resumed in 1945 following the surrender of the Japanese. Although the KMT began with a significant military advantage, the CCP effectively leveraged guerrilla tactics and assistance from the Soviet Union, and by 1948 the war had tipped in their favor.

China was also in the midst of an extended period of hyperinflation, with prices rising over one-thousandfold between 1935 and 1945. The effects of this were often difficult for the lower classes. Since currency was unable to effectively store value, individuals and merchants alike had to quickly move to offload money in favor of goods which wouldn't lose their value. Vendors’ inability to make careful purchases lead them to increase their markups. Compounding this, wages were often tied to cost-of-living indexes which were several days behind the rapidly increasing market prices, causing a reduction in their real value.

Social Context
Given the Nationalist government's mismanagement and economic blunders, many of Shanghai's intellectuals and lower classes eagerly awaited what they suspected was an imminent Communist victory. By early 1949, the Communist army had begun what would be its final campaigns of the war, and many in Shanghai felt that a major transformative moment was approaching. Many hoped this coming change would bring with it liberation. Among these hopeful intellectuals were a number of Shanghai filmmakers, and as the war drew to a close studios began making films which specifically addressed these developments.

Political Views 
Kunlun Film Company was created in 1947 under the direction of Zhou Enlai. All of the company's top executives were Chinese Communist Party supporters and members. The film's continued "visual metaphor" of the upstairs / downstairs, where its three protagonist families are often seen gathered at the bottom of the stairs directly confronting the greedy and abusive "crow" (Mr. Hou and his mistress) at the top of the stairs, clearly shows its support for the Communist party. This was likely intentional, as Director Zheng Junli embraced the Communist Party from beginning to end, never questioning their validity over his creative power. He followed the Party's orders to the letter. Despite the Communist Party's support for Zheng Junli's "leftist" films, the Red Guard would eventually punish him during the Cultural Revolution. At the age of 58, he died in prison in 1969. Chen Baichen, a scriptwriter, has also been a CCP member since 1932. He created many plays to promote the CCP during the civil war, but his scripts led to his being labelled a traitor and imprisoned for years. In the 1970s Zheng Junli's character was "repaired" as he was deemed a progressive and an enlightened saint. Which was not the case; in the 1950s and 60s when he was viewed as an bourgeois degenerate. Neither of which are true to his character, when he was alive he surrounded himself around "leftists" like Xia Yan and Chen Baichen.

Time Background