[Source: PubMed]

50. Front Psychol. 2020 Jun 17;11:1338. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2020.01338.
eCollection  2020.

Staying Engaged in Terrorism: Narrative Accounts of Sustaining Participation in 
Violent Extremism.

Ferguson N(1), McAuley JW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Liverpool Hope University, Liverpool, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Department of Behavioural and Social Sciences, University of Huddersfield, 
Huddersfield, United Kingdom.

Research exploring radicalization pathways and how and why people become 
involved in terrorism has expanded since the 9/11 attacks. Likewise, over the 
last decade research exploring de-radicalization and desistence from terrorism 
has grown and expanded in an attempt to promote exit from extremist or terror 
groups. However, research studies on how individuals sustain engagement in 
terrorism and their involvement with extremist organizations, often in the face 
of great adversity, are absent from the body of research. To address this 
scarcity of research this study analyzed accounts of engagement in violent 
extremism produced by Northern Irish loyalist and republican paramilitaries in 
order to explore how their paramilitary lifestyle, perpetration of acts of 
political violence and the pressure from countering threats posed by rival 
groups, and the State security forces impacted on them. The analysis utilized a 
hybrid of thematic analysis and interpretative phenomenological analysis (IPA). 
The themes raised through the analysis reflected the psychological, social and 
economic hardship associated with this lifestyle. The narrative accounts also 
illustrated psychological changes associated to engagement in violence and from 
insulation within tightly knit extremist groups. As most of the participants 
faced incarceration during their paramilitary careers, themes also reflected on 
the impact imprisonment had on them. The themes explored factors that sustained 
their involvement, including the role of identity development and identity 
fusion in sustaining their extremism, the impact of insulated group membership, 
feelings of efficacy, dehumanization processes, community support, and beliefs 
in the utility of violence.

Copyright © 2020 Ferguson and McAuley.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2020.01338
PMCID: PMC7313378
PMID: 32625152