[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Internet scavenger hunt

ance when printed. Links embedded in pdf documents are active on computers that have access to the net.

Hunts are different from a webquest since the emphasis is on facts and finding information while webquest is inquiry-oriented activity that demands that students go beyond fact-finding.

Examples

There are thousands of hunts on the web that are content focused and grade level specific.  When creating the CyberHunt, the teacher selects web sites that support their specific curriculum focus. The instructor has control over which sites have the best information to answer the questions. The students use only those sites in the activity. The intent is to focus on the material and not have students spend time using search engines or directories to accumulate numerous websites that must then be accessed, assessed and evaluated. Instead, students use their time to navigate to teacher-selected sites for the information. The CyberHunt lesson is streamlined to a simple fact-finding activity. For this reason, the typical activity takes one or more class periods to finish.

There are no firm CyberHunt rules about the number of sites, the type of questions, or the amount of activity time to be allotted. CyberHunts have been created in all shapes and forms and for all grade levels. They cover most subjects and have no set time limit. The teacher has control over the sites, the type of questions, and the final product.

References

Du Plessis, A. & Webb, P. (2011). An extended Cyberhunts strategy: Learner centred learning-by-design. Australasian Journal of Educational Technology, 27(7), 1190-1207. https://web.archive.org/web/20121012090343/http://www.ascilite.org.au/ajet/ajet27/duplessis.html

External links
 Internet Hunt Activities
 Scavenger Hunt App
  Peterson's web activities
 Introduction to Scavenger Hunts and Webquests
 A WebQuest for Spatial Skills
 Web-based bachelorette Scavenger Hunt builder
  Jill Baedke, "Using Web-Based Research Activities - CyberHunts, WebQuests, PBL++MM: How Do You Choose?"
 Mary Ann Rechtfertig, "Developing Internet CyberHunts"
 Julie Greller, "CyberHunts: Elementary School Teacher Resources"

World Wide Web
Educational technology
Educational video games