[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Court of Cassation (Belgium)

he judges can serve in any of the chambers and sections given they speak the relevant language. Whilst the court counts thirty positions for judges, temporary vacancies can exist when for example one of the court's judges retires. The judges retire when they reach the statutory retirement age of 70.

To be appointed as judge to the court, candidates must hold the Belgian nationality, must hold a law degree, must have been active in the legal sphere for at least fifteen years, and must have been a judge or prosecutor for at least ten years. Candidates must also meet the language requirements and have a clean criminal record. An opinion on each candidate will be provided to the federal Minister of Justice by the general assembly of the Court of Cassation (see further below), by the head of the court or prosecutor's office where the candidate is currently active, and by the relevant bar association. The minister of Justice will then send all candidacies to the High Council of Justice of Belgium, who will nominate one candidate. The Belgian federal government (officially "the King" as the personification of the executive) will then finally appoint or reject the nominated candidate.

In each of the six sections, a judge is appointed as "section president" (, , ). Out of the thirty judges, one is also appointed as "first president" (, , ) and one as "president" (, , ) for the whole Court of Cassation. The overall leadership over the court lies with the first president (the "chief justice"); the president has a deputy position regarding the first president. If the first president belongs to the French-speaking half of the court, the president will be chosen from the Dutch-speaking half and vice versa, so as to preserve the linguistic balance on the court.

As of 2020, the first president of the Court of Cassation is Beatrijs Deconinck (Dutch-speaking) and the president is ridder Jean De Codt (French-speaking). In 2019, Mrs Deconinck became the first female first president in the Court of Cassation's history.

Prosecutor's office 

There is a public prosecutor's office attached to the Court of Cassation, which is referred to as the prosecutor-general's office (, , ). The prosecutor-general's office is led by the prosecutor-general at the Court of Cassation (, , ). The prosecutor-general's office furthermore consists of one first advocate-general (, , ), who has a deputy position regarding the prosecutor-general, and eleven advocates-general (, , ). The thirteen members of the prosecutor-general's office exercise the duties of the office in all cases brought before the court (see further below). Just like with the first president and president of the court, if the prosecutor-general belongs to the French-speaking members of the office, the first advocate-general will be chosen from the Dutch-speaking members and vice versa, so as to preserve the linguistic balance on the office.

As of 2020, the prosecutor-general at the Court of Cassation is André Henkes (French-speaking) and the first advocate-general is Ria Mortier (Dutch-speaking).

Bar
The Court of Cassation has its own bar association, consisting of a number of "attorneys at the Court of Cassation" (, , ). The number of attorneys at the Court of Cassation is set by the Belgian federal government (currently twenty attorneys). These attorneys, whilst not employed by or part of the court, play an important role in the proceedings before the court nonetheless (see further below). Attorneys wishing to be admitted to the bar at the Court of Cassation, must have been part of another bar association for at least ten years and must pass a specific bar examination. When one of the twenty positions at the bar becomes vacant, the Belgian federal government will appoint a new attorney meeting these criteria to the bar.

The bar association is headed by the president of the bar (, , ). As of 2020, Jacqueline Oosterbosch is president of the bar.

Auxiliary services 
Administrative matters related to the judicial duties of the Court of Cassation are handled by the court clerks (, , ) of the clerk's office (, , ) of the court. In this capacity, the clerk's office receives petitions and pleadings related to proceedings before the court, keeps the records and notes of the court, and provides the court's rulings to the parties involved.

The Court of Cassation and its prosecutor-general's office also dispose over a number of law clerks called "referendaries" (, , ). The referendaries assist the judges and the members of the prosecutor's office in preparing their rulings and advisory opinions, maintain documentation related to the court's duties, and work on the translation and publication of the court's rulings.