[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nicholas Purcell of Loughmoe

ward Morres, Lieut. Ryan, Cornet Keating, and 44 dragoons.
 Troop 12.  Capt. Tobin, Lieut. Butler, Cornet Meyrick, and 44 dragoons. The Regiment probably averaged 420 dragoons and 45 officers.

During the winter of 1689 the regiment was engaged in skirmishes on the frontier, mostly around Belturbet.

Battle of the Boyne 
The first big battle of 1690 was the Battle of the Boyne, on 1 July. King James held Colonel Browne's Infantry and Colonel Purcell's Dragoons in reserve at the Battle of the Boyne, and late in the day he committed his reserve behind the Comte de Lauzun, as the latter was about to charge the Williamite right flank which faced him within cannon shot. King James ordered Sir James Carny, the reserve commander, to move the reserve up to Lauzun's right flank and Purcell's Dragoons to dismount and engage as infantry.

At this moment an aid rode up with the news that the Irish right flank had been defeated. General Sarsfield and General Maxwell rode up to say it was impossible for the horse to charge the enemy because directly ahead lay two double ditches with high banks and a brook running between them. Also at this point of time, the Williamite dragoons mounted and the whole line marched by the flank to their right in the direction of the Dublin Road. Lauzun advised the King to take his own regiment of a horse and a squadron of Purcell's Dragoons and make his way to Dublin.

Sarsfield then rallied the cavalry and dragoons and covered the retreat to Dublin. The Irish Army paused at Dublin just long enough to regroup, then moved on for the defence of Limerick. King James departed Kinsale for France 2 July 1690.

Limerick 
Purcell's Dragoon Regiment rode down to County Clare to rendezvous with the cavalry. French Major-General Boisseleau commanded the defence of Limerick, and the Williamites commenced their attack in August, and soon occupied both Ireton's Fort and Cromwell's Fort.  Shortly thereafter, on 11 August 1690, Sarsfield crossed the Shannon near Killaloe with the pick of the Irish cavalry and dragoons including Purcell's Regiment.

Sarsfield led his troopers through the Tipperary mountains to Ballyneety where the Williamite siege train had encamped for the night, about  south-east of Limerick. They took the enemy completely by surprise, and blew up two of their guns, and destroyed 12,000 pounds of powder, match and grenades. This raid became one of Sarsfield's most celebrated exploits.

Six guns salvaged from Ballyneety arrived on 16 August and the Williamite forces prepared for the forthcoming assault on Limerick.  The heavy guns arrived from Waterford and the bombardment of the walls of Limerick commenced. Many fires were started by the incendiary bombs, and finally a breach was made in the wall about forty-two yards wide. General Boisseleau dug a retrenchment behind the breach, on which he mounted guns for defence.

On Wednesday, 20 August 1690, an attack in force was made upon the redoubt, after two days of bombardment. The first attack was repulsed. The second attack succeeded. General Boisseleau ordered 300 of Colonel Purcell's Dragoons and 150 of Colonel Luttrell's Cavalry to make a sally from St. John's Gate and attempt to retake the redoubt. When the Irish thundered out they were savagely met by the Williamites. The besiegers lost over 300 men repulsing the sally. The Irish lost 100 men and two officers; Lt. Col. Robert Purcell and Lieutenant Pierce Power.

Later, Brigadier Talbot led the Irish dragoons on a well timed sally from the spur at St. John's Gate. They were met by two enemy regiments, and after bloody encounter, forced their way through, re-entering the town through the breach and taking the besiegers from the rear. The Williamites were thrown into confusion and Boisseleau seized the moment to throw in his whole force. The Irish drove the besiegers back through the breach, over the counterscarp, back to their trenches, then back to their camp, for a complete victory after a battle of four hours. The siege of Limerick was raised and the Williamites withdrew.

Deputation to St. Germain 
Colonel Purcell was one of those included in the deputation to St. Germain to persuade James to remove the Duke of Tyrconnell as head of the Army. The deputation was made up of Brigadier Henry Luttrell, Colonel Simon Luttrell, and Peter Creagh, Bishop of Cork. General Thomas Maxwell sailed to represent Tyrconnell. James met with the delegates, then took them to interview Louis XIV.

The delegates asked for a French general to command the Irish Army. On 9 May 1691, a French convoy reached Limerick with General Charles St. Ruth, two lieutenant-generals, d'Usson and de Tessé, and Brigadier Luttrell and Colonel Purcell, and also a considerable quantity of arms, ammunition and supplies.