[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jaime Guzmán

one arrested and tried for Guzmán's murder. However, after serving less than three years in a Chilean prison, he escaped and sought refuge in Cuba. In 2002, Hernández was arrested in Brazil for the kidnapping of Brazilian businessman, Washington Olivetto. He is currently serving a sentence in Chile.

The assassination of Guzmán led to the creation of the intelligence organization, La Oficina, by the Aylwin administration on April 26, 1991, to neutralize violent left-wing groups that had not accepted the premises of the Chilean transition to democracy.

Guzmán's sister and nephew postulate that Manuel Contreras and Pinochet had infiltrated FPMR to induce the assassination. Under that theory, their motivation was Guzmán's alleged willingness to collaborate with Chilean justice to clarify human rights violations.

Political views

At the age of 12, Guzmán participated in the political campaign of Jorge Alessandri, distributing propaganda. Guzmán acknowledged that he had a "close ideological and personal proximity with Jorge Alessandri," and added that "he was the person who influenced me most in my interest for politics. His presidential candidacy in 1958 and his presidency, between my 12 and 18 years, made me admire him as a superior man."

Guzmán was also influenced by his teacher Jaime Eyzaguirre and by Plinio Corrêa de Oliveira. There has been a dispute over whether or not Juan Vázquez de Mella influenced Guzmán's gremialismo thought.

Around the time of the 1973 coup, Guzmán became familiar with the ideas of Milton Friedman and the Chicago School of Economics, thanks to his contacts with Chicago Boys such as Miguel Kast.

According to historian Renato Cristi, in drafting the new Constitution of Chile, Guzmán based his work on the pouvoir constituant concept used by Carl Schmitt, a German intellectual associated with Nazism, as well as the ideas of market society of Friedrich Hayek. This allowed Guzmán to create a framework for an authoritarian state with a free-market system. In areas where Guzmán was dissatisfied with Hayek's thought, he found meaning in the Spanish translation of the book The Spirit of Democratic Capitalism by Michael Novak.

References 

1946 births
1991 deaths
Chilean anti-communists
J
Members of the Senate of Chile
Chilean people of Basque descent
Deaths by firearm in Chile
Assassinated Chilean politicians
Academic staff of the Pontifical Catholic University of Chile
Pontifical Catholic University of Chile alumni
Conservatism in Chile
Independent Democratic Union politicians
Speechwriters
Chilean scholars of constitutional law
1990s assassinated politicians