[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# WMAC Masters

)
Sheri Cook - Nicole the astronaut (Episode 1.5)
Don Dino - Referee
David "Fang" Yuen - Fight official
Norman Grossfeld - Computer voice announcer (Season 2)

Martial Arts Disciplines/Fighting Styles

Goju-Ryu
Striking Eagle

Hapkido
Black Widow

Judo
Rat

Karate
Cyclone
Great Wolf
Mouse
Red Dragon

Kenpo
Lady Lightning

Kickboxing
Baby Doll
The Machine

Kodan-Kan
Tracer

Kung-Fu
Chameleon
Star Warrior
Superstar
Tsunami
Warlock
Wizard

Shorin-Ryu
Tiger Claw
Turbo

Tae Kwon Do
The Machine
Olympus
Tarantula

Tang Soo Do
Mouse

Vale Tudo
Hollywood

Wrestling
All-American

Wushu
Bam
Kid Carmichael
Panther
Princess
Star Warrior
Yin Yang Man

Signature Moves
Hakim "The Machine" Alston...Switching Axe-Kick
Michael "Turbo" Bernardo...Double-Spin-and-Strike
Erik "Panther" Betts...Double Side-Kick
Richard "Yin Yang Man" Branden...Butterfly Kick
Chris "Red Dragon" Casamassa...Spinning Hook Front-Kick
Mike "Wizard" Chaturantabut...Shaolin Fury
Mer-Mer "Princess" Chen...Jumping Outside-Kick
Sophia "Chameleon" Crawford...Scorpion-Kick
Willie "Bam" Johnson...Bam-Slam
Michelle "Mouse" Krasnoo...Hawkeye Kick
Larry "Warlock" Lam...Spinning Side-Kick
Hien "Tsunami" Nguyen...Rainbow Kick
Tiana "Black Widow" Noguchi...Whirlwind Kick
Yuji "Cyclone" Noguchi...Cyclone Kick
Ho Sung "Superstar" Pak...Pumping Side-Kick
Ho Young "Star Warrior" Pak...Double Tornado
Herb "Olympus" Perez...Spinning Hook Back-Kick
Bridgett "Baby Doll" Riley...Slingshot Kick
Christine "Lady Lightning" Rodrigues...Classic Axe-Kick
Carmichael "Kid Carmichael" Simon...720-Degree Spin-Kick
Johnny Lee "Tiger Claw" Smith...Roundhouse-Hook Kick
Tracy "Tracer" Swedom...Classified Strike
Taimak "Striking Eagle" Guarriello...Eagle Claw-Punch
Jamie "Great Wolf" Webster...Windmill Kick

The Dragon Star

The Dragon Star represents the greatest martial artist in the world. The 8 Points of the Dragon Star represented the 8 points on how a true martial artist would live. The 8 Points are: Discipline, Courage, Forgiveness, Compassion, Honor, Wisdom, Loyalty and Respect.

In Season 2, members of Jukido were banned by the WMAC for not following the Code of the Dragon Star, but some members managed to infiltrate the competition. At end of the Season 2 finale, Hien Nguyen (Tsunami) stole the Dragon Star and brought it to a rooftop building where Michael Foley (Tracy "Tracer" Swedom) and Larry Lam (Warlock) were awaiting a helicopter.  The WMAC discontinued all competition until the Dragon Star could be recovered.

The Dragon Star was built by Jim King, the same prop maker that built The Machine Body Armor and several of the weapons for the series.  The original design of The Machine armor was redesigned by Jim King prior to its fabrication.  The new armor design was incorporated into the toy version of The Machine.

Episodes

Season 1 (1995)

Season 1 involved personal storylines of the WMAC Masters.  In the first episode, we were introduced to the masters themselves, and Hakim Alston talked about how he earned his namesake, "The Machine".  Throughout the first season, they talked about the highs and lows of the masters, from the feud between Johnny Lee Smith (Tiger Claw) and Jamie Webster (Great Wolf) due to a broken promise, Ho Sung Pak (Superstar) surrendering to his brother Ho Young Pak (Star Warrior) to Richard Branden's blindness in one eye thus began wearing an eyepatch, to Hien Nguyen (Tsunami) overcoming the odds and winning 3 Ki-Symbols for his once-empty Dragon Belt winning a bet he had with Superstar. Superstar then got a chance to challenge Olympus in a special double Dragon Star match where he won and became the new Dragon Star Champion. However, the biggest shocker was at the end of season 1 when Hakim Alston and then-Dragon Star Champion Ho Sung Pak (Superstar) got knocked off the rotating pedestal at the same time by a ninja during their Dragon Star match.  The conclusion of the match would come at the start of the next season.

Episodes