[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Droop Mountain

Cabell County, West Virginia native, was recovering from a wound received at the Battle of Gettysburg—but two regiments and a battery from his brigade were detached in the Greenbrier County area of West Virginia. Colonel Milton J. Ferguson temporarily commanded Jenkins' brigade.

Union army—Averell

Beginning Union Army commander Kelley's plan, Averell's 4th Separate Brigade departed from Beverly on November 1, 1863. Many of his men were already familiar with the territory and opposition because they had been defeated a few months earlier during August in the Battle of White Sulphur Springs. The brigade consisted of two infantry regiments, three mounted infantry regiments, one cavalry regiment, a portion of an independent cavalry battalion, two light batteries, and a signal corps detachment. The two infantry regiments were the 10th West Virginia and the 28th Ohio, while the mounted infantry regiments were the 2nd West Virginia, 3rd West Virginia, and 8th West Virginia. The infantry was often led by Colonel Augustus Moor, and Colonel John H. Oley usually led the mounted infantry. Moor was a veteran of Florida's Second Seminole War, and colonel of his regiment in the  Mexican–American War. Averell's cavalry was the 14th Pennsylvania Cavalry Regiment and a battalion of six companies from West Virginia, Illinois, and Ohio. The cavalry was led by Colonel James M. Schoonmaker, and was armed with carbines. The infantry, mounted or not, had muzzle-loader Enfield muskets. Based on earlier reports, Averell's brigade had a maximum of 3,855 officers and men present for duty.

Union army—Duffié

The mounted portion of Scammon's force, commanded by Brigadier General Alfred N. Duffié, departed from Charleston for Lewisburg on November 3. It numbered 970 officers and men with 1,025 horses, and initially consisted of the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment, the 34th Ohio Mounted Infantry Regiment, and Simmonds' Battery. Most of the men were familiar with Lewisburg, which was about  away—one soldier from the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry described this excursion as the "Third Expedition to Lewisburg". Both regiments were involved in a July 1863 raid on the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad, where they captured the town of Wytheville but inflicted little permanent damage to the railroad—and lost both of their colonels. On November 4, after crossing the Gauley River at Gauley Bridge, Duffié was delayed by blockades in the road that were so numerous that a new road had to be dug around them in some instances. Two infantry regiments, commanded by Colonel Carr B. White, joined Duffié's mounted men on November 5 at Tyree's Tavern in Fayette County.

Initial movements

Contact

In the first few days of the expedition, Averell's Brigade traveled south over the most direct route, and encountered a few bands of guerrillas and small detachments of Confederate Army soldiers. They reached the summit of Cheat Mountain at noon on November 2, and camped that evening in the Greenbrier Valley in Pocahontas County. On November 3, a squadron of the 8th West Virginia Mounted Infantry, which Averell had sent on a different route, was discovered near Green Bank, by a detachment of about 350 men from the 19th Virginia Cavalry Regiment commanded by Lieutenant George W. Siple. After a small clash, the squadron of West Virginians continued south and reunited with Averell's main force near Green Bank and Arbovale, which was about  north of Huntersville.

Siple reported the encounter to Colonel Jackson, who was headquartered with the main body of the 19th Virginia Cavalry just northwest of Hillsboro in Mill Point. Jackson warned Colonel William W. Arnett, who was  north with the 20th Virginia Cavalry Regiment near the Greenbrier River in Marling Bottom. Jackson also sent the news to nearby detachments and Brigadier General John Echols in Lewisburg. Siple's detachment became cut-off and did not rejoin the 19th Virginia Cavalry until days later—depriving Jackson of much needed manpower. While Jackson repositioned his small brigade, Averell moved further south and went into camp. His advance camped about  north of Huntersville. Averell and Jackson were now aware of each other's proximity, and Jackson needed reinforcements for his small brigade. Jackson's brigade consisted of the 19th and 20th Virginia Cavalry Regiments, a cavalry battalion consisting of four companies commanded by Major Joseph R. Kessler, and a battery that consisted of two 12-pounder howitzers. Only 750 men were available to Jackson three days later at Droop Mountain.

Averell's trap