[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# History of the French Foreign Legion

involved in the defense of Dien Bien Phu during the First Indochina War and lost a large number of men in the battle.  Towards the desperate end of the battle, Legionnaires formed the bulk of the volunteer relief force which were delivered by parachute to the base.

Post-colonial Sub-Saharan Africa

When the Front for the National Liberation of the Congo (Front de Libération Nationale Congolaise) took hostage approximately 3,000 European civilians at the village of Kolwezi, Zaire in May 1978, the French government deployed six hundreds legionnaires of the 2nd Foreign Parachute Regiment to the region in conjunction with a force of Belgian paratroopers.

Gulf War

In September 1990 the 2e REI, 6e REG and 1e REC were sent to the Persian Gulf as a part of Opération Daguet. The Legion force, comprising 27 different nationalities, was attached to the French 6th Light Armoured Division, whose mission was to protect the Coalition's left flank.

After the four-week air campaign, coalition forces launched the ground war. They quickly penetrated deep into Iraq, with the Legion taking the Al Salman Airport, meeting little resistance. The war ended after a hundred hours of fighting on the ground, which resulted in very light casualties for the Legion.

Afghanistan War
Elements of the Foreign Legion have been deployed to Afghanistan in support of the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force. Foreign Legion units have participated in ISAF operations in the Kapisa Province and Surobi District.

Personnel and recruitment 

The Foreign Legion, unlike other units of the French military which are exclusively male (e.g. submariners), does not prohibit the recruitment of women, but only Susan Travers has ever been selected. A variable number of women serve in support and administrative positions, but their uniforms do not have the traditional attributes (white cap, red epaulettes and green and blue belt).

The countries of origin of legionnaires have been highly correlated with areas experiencing political unrest. A large number of Germans, for example, joined after World War II, as did Poles before, during and after both world wars. The Legion also admits French-speakers of other nationalities, increasing the figures for Belgium and Switzerland.

The official website outlines the Legion's recruitment standards. The age limit ranges from 17 (with parental consent) to 40 years.

See also 
 Military history of France
 French Foreign Legion
 Origins of the French Foreign Legion
 List of French Foreign Legion units
 List of battles involving the French Foreign Legion

References

French Army
French Foreign Legion
Foreign Legion
Military history of France