[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Tostan

and their extensive social networks are implicated in the decision-making process, as one person or one community alone, given their links to so many other groups and networks, is insufficient to bring the practice to an end regardless of the strength of their conviction that it should be abandoned.

Community Empowerment Program 
The Community Empowerment Program (CEP) is the centerpiece of Tostan's programming. It is a three-year, non-formal curriculum based on fundamental human rights that provides participants, adults and adolescents alike, with a strong foundation of knowledge and skills with which to improve their lives and generate effective solutions to community problems. The curriculum begins with human rights learning in a way that is appropriate for the local context, after which participants articulate a shared vision of the future of their community and identify goals to make its realization possible. This happens through a process of dialogue and consensus-building among members of all groups: men and women, elders and youth, members of different social classes, ethnic groups, castes, and religions. The knowledge obtained in program sessions then helps the community to achieve these goals in an organized fashion. Instead of focusing on what is lacking or making value judgments, Tostan asks participants to think about existing community resources and how to build on them. The CEP continues to refer back to human rights throughout the course of the program.

The program is divided into two phases: the Kobi (meaning "to till the soil" in Mandinka), which contains modules on democracy, human rights, problem-solving skills, health and hygiene, followed by the Aawde (meaning "to plant the seed" in Pulaar), which contains modules on local language literacy, small enterprise development, and basic numeracy. Teaching methods consist of interactive exercises, such as small-group work, case studies, and action-research projects. These methods draw on modern and traditional African oral techniques, including theater, storytelling, dance, artwork, song, debate, and the sharing of personal experiences.

Tostan believes that the collective changes made by villagers must be self-sustaining. To this end, Tostan helps establish Community Management Committees (CMCs) that implement development efforts proposed by community members after the program's end. The CMCs are composed of 17 democratically selected members, at least nine of whom are women, and all receive training from Tostan on how to perform effectively in their positions and on the role participatory decision-making methods can play in their work.

Tostan uses the feedback it receives from participants and local leaders, both religious and secular, to regularly update and revise its programs, embracing an approach that emphasizes adaptation and adjustment based on the needs of learners, the socio-cultural context of the area, and program design elements, making it possible for the organization to expand more easily into new countries and cultural contexts. Tostan also values external research and supports external reviewers in carrying out their evaluations.

Changes to the CEP 
Over time, new modules have gradually been integrated into the CEP. Since 2009, the Jokko Initiative, which teaches participants how to use a mobile phone to send messages, both as a means of communication and as a way of practicing their recently acquired literacy skills, has been integrated into the CEP in all communities with adequate cell coverage. Tostan considers the use of mobile phones and SMS texting an effective method of accelerating positive social transformation by connecting communities, amplifying the voices of women, youth, and marginalized groups, and providing a platform for the exchange of ideas.

Past external evaluations of Tostan have found instances where community members were not able to make full use of the information gained during Tostan's programming because of a lack of resources and infrastructure. In an effort to address this shortcoming, Tostan offers Community Development Grants of between US$300 and 1,000 to CMCs and individuals during and after the CEP, which are often used either to fund community development projects or to start a community rotating microcredit fund. These funds can enable people, notably women, to launch their own income-generating activities, helping them to support their families and give back further to their communities, in addition to giving them the chance to make use of the knowledge and skills gained over the course of the CEP. The funds are controlled and distributed by the CMCs, which decide interest rates and the length of loans that they will grant.