[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# National Crime Records Bureau

rector Dr Ish Kumar and other senior officers of NCRB

4. Publication 
CFPB also compiles data collected from Finger Print Bureaux of States/UT on standard Annual Statistics Report format, and publishes the -Finger Print in India since 1997. This is the principal resource document for all concerned.

5. All India Conference of Directors of Finger Print Bureaux 
The All India Conference of Directors of Finger Print Bureaux of States/UTs, is an annual conference as mandated by the MHA. It is being held annually by CFPB (NCRB) to deliberate on recent trends in the field of finger print science and other priority issues concerning finger print fraternity of the nation. This conference was started in the year 1980 at New Delhi and is being hosted at different locations in the Country. It is completely funded by the Government of India. The 18th  edition of the conference is being held at HPA, Madhuban, Haryana on 30 and 31 March 2017.

Competition "Award of Excellence" is conducted   to identify an excellent work performed by FP Experts in States/UTs and three cash rewards of Rs.10,000/=, Rs.7,500/=, Rs.5000/= are given during the conference.

6.  All India Board Police Duty Meet 
CFPB is participating in All India Police Duty Meet (AIPDM) for conducting Finger Print Test to judge the acumen and knowledge of participating police personnel in the field.

Some Success Stories 
1. The Interpol had requested CFPB to compare finger print and demographic details of BARRIOS GUARIN Jose Mauricio with existing records in connection with Identification of an International Fugitive wanted for Homicide in Colombia (South America) vide Ref. No. 203/2010F.  It was ascertained that the fingerprint of BARRIOS GUARIN Jose Mauricio was IDENTICAL with the Right Index (RI) finger impression present on the specimen 10-digit F.P. slip of MAITA RODRIGUEZ Perd Alejandro, hence the two finger prints were found to be of one and the same person.

2. A fingerprint slip pertaining to one Singh Iqbal was forwarded by Interpol for record purpose. This slip was processed in FACTS (CFPB-AFIS) and was found to be a ‘trace’ against a record slip archived with CFPB PIN 604744. The successful search brought to light the criminal antecedents of the subjected person, who was convicted in pursuance of criminal case registered vide FIR No. 34 dated 24.09.1996 in the court of SDJM, Nabha on 20.09.2000 U/s 324/34 IPC

3. Interpol search slip from New Zealand Police vide Case Reference No. A&SP/New Zealand/FP /2016/454 Dt. 12-02-2016 was traced against the F.P. slip bearing PID No. 90474919 present in CFPB data base, of one Arvinder Pal Singh S/o Malkeet Singh R/o H. No. 53, Professor Enclave, opposite Punjabi University, Patiala, Punjab.

4. The NIA suspected that N.Shanti Metei chief of PREPAK (UPPK), a banned terrorist organization active in anti-national activities was using forged documents, and false identities, Thorough comparison of the fingerprints of T. Hemanta Sharma on land agreements, sale deeds etc., and specimen fingerprints of N.Shanti Metei, proved that N. Shanti Metei used a pseudonym for illegal purchases.

5. The Ordnance Factory, Ministry of Defence, Raipur, Dehradun, Uttarakhand, doubted the authenticity of the final list of 54-candidates selected through written and trade tests conducted by them. The CFPB compared the finger prints of all provisionally selected candidates, After thorough examination, the expert in the Bureau was able to discern, that in three cases the finger impressions were different, from one another, indicating impersonation on the part of the candidates.

6. Document case received from Dy. Director of Income Tax (inv.) relating to a search and seizure operation u/s 132 of the Income Tax Act 1961 in a case of M/s National Enterprises and Group and recovered some documents.. The documents consisted of 1536 pages with eight to twelve thumb prints on each page (i.e. over 12000 prints in total). After examination of the document, CFPB experts were able to establish that all the prints were given by 8 to 10 fingers only indicating fraudulent payment of approximately 2.25 crores. Approximately 40% finger impressions were faint, blurred or partial.