[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Siege of Worcester

small body of horse. This was repulsed by a large force which, following up the besieged, came under the fire of the town guns and suffered some loss.

Nothing was done on 22–23 May. On 24 May the besieged made a sally, fell on the Parliament foot about Rogers Hill, killing and wounding at least 40.

On 25 May a summons to surrender was sent in to the Mayor, Aldermen, and Common Council of the city of Worcester. The next day an answer refusing was returned. The besiegers, on receipt of this, began to make a line of forts between Rogers Hill, and Wheeler's Hill, for security to lodge in and to enclose the city. Soldiers and townsmen complained of want of provisions.

On 27 May Colonel Whalley and the committee sent in a reply to the Mayor's answer.

On 28 May an accidental fire burnt the besiegers' huts.

On 29 May the garrison had a review. They found that their total strength was 1,507, beside gentlemen and the city bands. They computed the besiegers to be 5,000 strong. On the same day a parley took place, but without any satisfactory result. The governor sent out a foraging party to Astley. They returned, having taken six horses and two men.

On 31 May Whalley crossed the river and occupied Hallow, placing there, in Mr. Fleet's house, 140 foot and two troops of horse.

June
On 1 June the besiegers received further reinforcements from Ludlow.

On 2 June Whalley sent ten colours of foot down to Rogers Hill, to the new works there. A great iron culverin was placed on the St Martins Gate by the defenders, to dislodge the besiegers from Rogers Hill. It burst on discharge, wounding the chief engineer. A sortie was made against Hallow, but nothing came of it. It was said that a mistake was made in making an attack in front instead of sending the men round by the Broadheath to take the besiegers in the rear.

On 3 June the besiegers extended their works from Windmill Hill to Barbourne, and thus on to the river. Some letters passed between the governor and the besiegers. The letter from the Parliamentarians is signed by Whalley, Thomas Rous, William Dingley, William Lygon, Edward Smith, Joseph Edgiock, and Henry Hunt; the list of signatures showing who the County Parliamentarians then were.

On 4 June the besiegers went on with their works at Barbourne, some skirmishing took place on Pitchcroft. This resulted in the besiegers bringing down next day 500 foot and 200 horse as a guard to protect their works. In the city a council of war was held. They ordered all shovels, spades, and mattocks to be seized and brought to certain named places. All the coal, wood, and lime in St Johns was brought into the city. All unnecessary people were sent out. A clearance round the walls, so as to make a road for cavalry to pass all round the town, was made. No one was allowed to enter or to leave without a pass. The next three days were quiet.

On 9 June the besiegers pushed on into Henwick (on the western side of the Severn by the Bromyard Road), and some as far as St Johns; one of their officers was killed. The next day a flag of truce was sent to ask for the body; it was given up, and escorted to the besiegers' lines by a number of gentlemen and a troop of horse. They were met by a number of the besiegers and drank wine together. Richard Baxter, the well known Kidderminster theologian, who was present with the besiegers, as chaplain to one of the regiments, utilised the occasion by discussing points of divinity with one of the Royalist chaplains, Dr. Thomas Warmestry. The first was "whether there is any difference between a church and any common place". After several hours' controversy the two divines are said to have parted good friends.

On 11 June, the besiegers began the bombardment with their great guns, some of the shots from which weighed 17, 19, 24, and 31 lb. One ball fell in the pantry of the Bishop's Palace. In the afternoon the guns the besiegers had placed at St Martins and the Blockhouse opened on the town, but did no damage. In their turn the besieged made a sortie against Henwick, but no result followed. The parliamentary artillery was directed by the mathematician and master gunner Nathaniel Nye, whose scientific approach to artillery was later detailed in his 1647 book The Art of Gunnery.