[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lanzhou Campaign

Lanzhou Campaign  was a series battle fought between the nationalists and the communists for the control of the largest city in northwestern China during the Chinese Civil War in the post World War II era, and resulted in the communist victory.

Prelude
After the defeat of Fufeng-Meixian Campaign () in July, 1949, the nationalists under the command of Hu Zongnan were forced to withdraw to the south of Qinling.  As Hu Zongnan's force withdrew to western China, the Ma clique's force became the major nationalist force responsible for the defense of the northwestern China.  Lanzhou, the largest city in northwestern China was critical to the security of the entire northwestern China and on the northwestern China joint defense conference held in Guangzhou, the nationalist defenders planned to defeat the enemy at the gate of the city of Lanzhou with the help from their comrades-in-arms from southern Shaanxi, southern Gansu and Ningxia.

Order of battle
Defenders: nationalist order of battle:
Shaanxi-Gansu Corps
The 82nd Army
The 129th Army
The 8th Cavalry Division
 The 14th Cavalry Division
1 Security Brigade
The 81st Army
The 91st Army
The 120th Army
The Cavalry Army

Attackers: communist order of battle:
I Corps
II Corps
XIX Corps

Strategies
The nationalist strategy was to station the 82nd Army and the 129th Army of the Shaanxi-Gansu Corps, 2 cavalry divisions, and a security brigade totaling 50,000 in Lanzhou to defend the city itself.  The nationalist 81st Army under the command of Ma Hongkui and the nationalist 91st Army and 120th Army totaling 30,000 troops would guard the left flank of Lanzhou by defending Jingtai (), Jingyuang () and Dalachi () regions.  The nationalist Cavalry Army totaling 20,000 would be stationed at Lintao and Taishi () regions to guard the right flank of Lanzhou.  The main defense of the city would be the Southern Mountain () line outside the city and the overall defense of the city was commanded by Ma Bufang's only son, Ma Jiyuan (), the commander-in-chief of the nationalist Shaanxi-Gansu Corps

The Communist troops were given instructions on behavior in the heavily Muslim populated province of Gansu, to prevent accidental insults or other incidents.

The communist strategy became clear on August 4, 1949, when the communist commander-in-chief of the 1st Field Army Peng Dehuai issued the order to take Lanzhou and Xining by concentrating majority of its force.  The plan was to have the communist 7th Army and the XVIII Corps (without its 62nd Army) to stay in Baoji and Tianshui to face nationalist force under Hu Zongnan's command to secure the left flank and the rear of the communist main force, and the 64th Army of the XIX Corps would push toward Guyuan and Haiyuan regions to face nationalist force Ma Hongkui's command to secure the right flank for the communist main force.  The communist I Corps and the 62nd Army of the XVIII Corps would push toward Longxi, Lintao, Linxia and Xunhua regions and then cross the Yellow River to attack Xining, thus cutting off the nationalists' escape route from the rear.  The communist main force consisted of the II Corps and the XIX Corps without its 64th Army totaling 5 armies near 150,000 troops would push toward Lanzhou from Xi'an via Xi'an-Lanzhou highway in two fronts, the northern front and the southern front.

First stage

On August 9, 1949, the communist 1st Field Army begun its attack toward Lanzhou and Xining from eastern Gansu.  On August 14, 1949, the communist XIX Corps took Dingxi, while on August 16, 1949, the communist II Corps took Yuzhong and the communist I Corps took Lintao, forcing Ma Bufang's nationalist Cavalry Army to flee westward.  On August 20, 1949, the communist I Corps took Kangle, threatening Linxia, while the communist II Corps and XIX Corps reached the outskirt of Lanzhou.  On August 21, 1949, a total of nine regiments from the communist II Corps and XIX Corps attacked the nationalist stronghold at Southern Mountain outside Lanzhou, but were beaten back with heavy losses after two days of fierce fighting.

The communist commander Peng Dehuai decided to call off the attack and regroup so lessons gained in the fighting could be learned and utilized for the following assaults.  On August 22, 1949, the communist I Corps took Linxia, completely annihilating Ma Bufang's nationalist Cavalry Army in the process.  As the nationalist defenders of Lanzhou were threatened from rear and right flank, Ma Bufang was forced to withdraw the nationalist 8th Cavalry Division and the nationalist 14th Cavalry Division stationed in the northern bank of the Yellow River back to Xining to strength the defense of the provincial capital of Qinghai.  The nationalist defense of Lanzhou was further weakened as a result.

On August 24, Ma Bufang reported that the Communists were defeated and 10,000 of them were dead.