[Source: PubMed]

1. Confl Health. 2021 Mar 10;15(1):15. doi: 10.1186/s13031-021-00347-8.

Reproductive health at conflict borders: a cross-sectional survey of human 
rights violations and perinatal outcomes at the Thai-Myanmar border.

Koning SM(1)(2), Scott K(3), Conway JH(3), Palta M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA. stephanie.koning@northwestern.edu.
(2)Present address: Institute for Policy Research, Northwestern University, 2040 
Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL, 60208, USA. stephanie.koning@northwestern.edu.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.
(4)Department of Population Health Sciences, University of Wisconsin School of 
Medicine and Public Health, Madison, WI, USA.

BACKGROUND: Human rights violations (HRVs) are common in conflict and 
displacement contexts. Women are especially vulnerable to HRVs in these 
contexts, and perinatal health is acutely sensitive to related stressors and 
health care barriers. However, how HRVs affect immediate and long-term perinatal 
health in chronic displacement settings has not been closely investigated. 
Furthermore, it remains unclear whether and how HRVs in these contexts are tied 
directly to displacement circumstances or other marginalizing factors affecting 
local migrant and minority populations generally.
METHODS: We investigated these questions using novel survey data from 577 women 
at the northern Thai-Myanmar border, where thousands of people have fled 
conflict in Shan State, Myanmar, for refuge in a range of precarious settings in 
Thailand, including unofficial refugee camps, villages, and worksites. We 
compared HRV exposures by ethnicity, country of birth, legal documentation, and 
residential setting. We then analyzed perinatal outcomes associated with HRV 
frequency, timing, and type.
RESULTS: Birth in Myanmar, and ethnic minority and precarious legal status more 
broadly, predicted higher HRV prevalence. HRV frequency significantly predicted 
unmet antenatal care and lower birth weight, along with HRVs related to labor 
exploitation and violence or conflict. HRVs timed closer to pregnancies 
were more adversely associated with perinatal outcomes. Resource/property 
deprivation was the strongest predictor of pregnancy complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Human rights must be urgently attended to, through expanded HRV 
screenings and responsive care, and policy changes to further protect migrant 
workers, displaced persons, and others in precarious legal status situations.

DOI: 10.1186/s13031-021-00347-8
PMCID: PMC7945312
PMID: 33691764

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.