[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mass media in Brunei

ication was in December 1958 with the editor citing the drop in advertisements from Malaysia and Singapore as the main reason for its demise.

In April 1958, another publication in Jawi started called Malaysia, printed by the Budaya Press. Sold for about 20 cents each, it too died by September 1958.

A publication by a former political party called Suara Bakti was published in October 1961 and came out every Friday was the sixth newspaper in Brunei. It dubbed itself "the largest weekly newspaper in North Kalimantan" and sold for 20 cents each. However, the newspaper came out sporadically and by December 1961 it only had about 10 editions. A new editor took over and that too lasted for only about 5 editions before closing down in January 1962.

A seventh publication called Bintang Harian and The Daily Star published in both Malay and English first appeared in March 1966. It appeared every day except Sunday and cost about 15 cents. More than 10,000 copies were printed daily as it was published not just for Brunei, but also for Sabah and Sarawak, West Malaysia, and Singapore. When it stopped publication in January 1971, more than 15,000 copies were printed. The publication stopped when the publisher, The Star Press became a subsidiary of The Brunei Press.

Two other government publications, Brunei Darussalam Newsletter and the Brunei Darussalam Daily Digest were published in October 1985 and January 1990 respectively. The former continued being published, but its readership was mostly made up of foreign readers, and it was seldom seen by local readers. The latter stopped, but efforts are in place to revive its publication.

Media Permata was the latest of a number of local Malay newspaper when it began in January 1995 as a weekly paper focusing on local news and features for the Malay literate. It was relaunched as a daily newspaper in July 1998 and remained so until today with an average of 10,000 copies of Media Permata being circulated. Media Permata is available from Monday to Friday and a weekend edition is also available for Saturday and Sunday.

The last newspaper to appear before The Brunei Times was the News Express. It started when the 20th Southeast Asian Games were hosted in Bandar Seri Begawan towards the later end of 1999. By early 2001, it too joined the ranks of other newspapers that were unable to sustain themselves in Brunei's competitive newspaper market.

Newspapers
There are three local newspapers currently circulating in Brunei:
BruDirect.com 
Brunei No.1 News Website. An online newspaper and the largest online media information tool, and a pioneer in the field of online media in Brunei Darussalam. The website has an audience of 70,000 to 80,000 visits per day.
Pelita Brunei 
A free bi-weekly Malay-language newspaper published by the government's Information Department. Circulation is around 40,000.
Borneo Bulletin 
The sultanate's first English-language daily, published by Brunei Press Sdn Bhd. Circulates around 20,000 on weekdays, 25,000 copies on Saturday and Sunday, including the New Straits Times from Malaysia, The Straits Times from Singapore and The New York Times International Edition.
Media Permata 
The sole Malay-language daily, it is published by Brunei Press Sdn Bhd. Circulation is around 10,000.

Meanwhile, there was also one defunct newspaper:
The Brunei Times 
An English-language broadsheet daily started in 2006 until 2016. Its outlook is more international than the Bulletin, which is focused on community news. It circulates around 10,000 copies. In 2011, 15,500 copies (Source: Publisher Data).
Foreign newspapers are also widely circulated in Brunei.

Broadcasting

Domestic radio and television in Brunei comes under the auspices of the national broadcaster, Radio Television Brunei (RTB) and KRISTALfm, the country's only commercial radio station which ended the monopoly of radio in 1999. The latter was operated by KRISTAL Media Sdn Bhd, a subsidiary of the DataStream Technology DevCo Group of companies, which is currently headquartered at Jalan Tungku Link. Established on 2nd January 1999, KRISTALfm transmits on frequency 90.7 MHz in the Brunei-Muara District & parts of Tutong from Bukit Subok, and 98.7 MHz in the Belait District & other parts of Tutong from Andulau. Foreign programming was also available via a Direct Broadcast Satellite Pay TV service via the Malaysian satellite TV service, Astro, which was also available in Brunei under the brand Kristal-Astro up to 2022. Indonesian TV channels such as TVRI, TVRI World, RCTI, MNCTV, GTV, iNews, SCTV, Indosiar, Ajwa TV, Mentari TV, Trans TV, Trans7, CNN Indonesia, CNBC Indonesia, Kompas TV, NET., RTV, BTV, Nusantara TV, Garuda TV, SEA Today, Aswaja TV, TV9 Nusantara, tvMu and others are also available in Brunei by Brunei and Indonesian audiences with renting or buying the digital satellite receiver.