[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Belchite (1937)

ded to take Belchite, to raise the moral, but it resisted longer than expected. This and later delays, such as the failed massive attack with tanks on Fuentes de Ebro in October 1937, made the full-scale offensive on Zaragoza fail, after more than two months of combats.

Nationalist counteroffensive

With five Nationalist divisions whereof two were withdrawn from the Madrid front, artillery and more than 100 Fiat CR.32, Heinkel He 46, Savoia-Marchetti SM.81 , Junkers Ju-52, Fiat Br.20  (Cicogna), and Heinkel He-51, the Nationalist counter offensive on the town Belchite started on 30 August and ended on 6 September, when they allowed the last defenders of Belchite to stop fighting and try to escape. The Nationalist ground troops were unable to break Republican lines surrounding Belchite, remaining 20 km away from the town, so the Nationalist aviation was key to prolong the resistance, by daily dropping ammunition, food and medicines with the big cargo planes Ju-52 and by efficiently bombing Republican positions around and within Belchite. German Legion Condor was of big importance, their fast plane Heinkel He 70 (Rayo) took daily photographs of Republican positions, helping to the destruction of many of their batteries.
The Nationalist counteroffensive to defend Zaragoza continued until the beginning of November, with hard combats around Mediana, Fuentes de Ebro and Vertice Sillero.

Aftermath
Although the Republicans gained some initial success and managed to push the front line twenty kilometres deeper into Nationalist territory, both of the main objectives of the offensive failed. The Nationalists did not postpone their big offensive in the north, as they had done before the Battle of Brunete, and the attempt to capture Zaragoza failed.

Ruins as national monument
The town was partially destroyed, but instead of rebuilding it, Franco, who reconquered the town in March 11th 1938, after Nationalist intensive bombing and artillery barrage, ordered that the ruins were left untouched as a "living" monument to the destruction caused by the Red Army, although both armies contributed. A new town was constructed near the former. The holes and caves in Lobo Hill south of Belchite from where the Spanish Republican artillery positions fired towards what is now Belchite Old Town have been preserved and are open to visitors, as well as the Nationalist positions of El Saso and Seminar.

See also

 List of Spanish Republican military equipment of the Spanish Civil War
 List of Spanish Nationalist military equipment of the Spanish Civil War

Corbera d'Ebre

References

 
 

1937 in Spain
Belchite
Belchite 1937
Belchite
Province of Zaragoza
August 1937 events
September 1937 events