[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Noa (singer)

Roberto Benigni's Oscar award-winning film. Noa also wrote the lyrics to the song now titled "Beautiful That Way", together with Dor. The song was recorded and released with the album Blue Touches Blue, and also appears on the soundtrack to the film as well as on her album Noa Gold in two versions.

Duets and collaborations
Noa and Dor have collaborated with Khaled from Algeria, Nabil Salameh, of Palestinian origin, born in Lebanon, Handallah from Nablus, Rim Banna from Nazareth, Amal Murkus from Kfar Yasif, and Mira Awad from Kfar Raameh.

Due to her success in Spain, Noa has also developed several duets with Spanish artists, singing Spanish songs in Spanish. Starting La vida es bella with singer Miguel Bosé, she also recorded Es caprichoso el azar along with Joan Manuel Serrat or Tú y yo along with Joaquín Sabina.

In May 2002, she took part in a concert at the Rome Colosseum, under the banner of "Time for Life – A Tribute for Peace", featuring Ray Charles, Mercedes Sosa, Khaled, Nicola Piovani, and artists from Afghanistan, Sarajevo, Belgrade, Africa and Ireland. In May 2004, she performed in We Are the Future, a globally telecast fund raising concert for children in conflict areas. On 2 July 2005, she performed in Bono and Bob Geldof's Live 8 concert in Rome's Circo Massimo.
In September 2005, she performed at the Ambrosetti Forum which took place in Villa d'Este, Como, Italy, in the presence of Shimon Peres, Saeb Erekat and Amr Moussa.

In November 2010, Noa and Mira Awad performed at the closing concert of the Science for Peace event hosted by the Fondazione Umberto Veronesi at the Bocconi University in Milan, Italy.

Awards and recognition

In 1998 Noa won the "Crystal Award" by the "World Economic Forum" in Davos, Switzerland, where she performed together with Palestinian artists and participated in numerous panels dealing with peace in the Middle East and the role of art and artists towards bringing it about.
In 2000, the mayor of Melpignano, Italy, awarded honorary citizenship to Noa and Nabil Salameh (a Palestinian singer songwriter) for their activity for peace.
In 2003 Noa was nominated Israel's first "Goodwill Ambassador" for FAO, the United Nation's Food and Agriculture Organization.
On 3 April 2005, Noa became the first woman to receive the medal of the "Galileo Galilei" order from the "Grand Orient", the Italian arm of the Freemasons. 
On 7 August 2005, Noa received the "Gemona Seminar" prize for artistic excellence and her contribution to peace and understanding.
In 2006, Noa won the "Mia Martini Critics' Award" at the 56th Sanremo Music Festival in Italy, appearing with the Solis String Quartet and Carlo Fava.
In 2008, Noa became a "Cavaliere della Republica" – Knight of the Italian Republic.
In 2018, she was honored with the title "Commendatore Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana" – Commander of the order of merit of the Italian republic. 
In 2018, Noa was also named "Pellegrino de Pace", Pilgrim of Peace, Assisi.
In 2019, Noa was awarded the Shulamit Aloni Lifetime Achievement Award.

Discography
Noa and Gil have written and produced three albums: Achinoam Nini and Gil Dor Live, Achinoam Nini and Gil Dor (also known as Rachel and Leah), and Achinoam Nini. Their five international albums are Noa (produced by Pat Metheny) and Calling (produced by Rupert Hine) for Geffen Records, Blue Touches Blue (produced by Mike Hedges) for Mercury Records, Now (produced by Gil Dor & Yoad Nevo) and Genes & Jeans (produced by Gil Dor) for Universal Music. In addition, Noa recorded a live album with the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, and a live CD and DVD with The Solis String Quartet.

Studio albums
Achinoam Nini and Gil Dor (September 1993)
Noa (March 1994)
Calling (May 1996)
Achinoam Nini (April 1997)
Blue Touches Blue (March 2000)
Now (September 2002)
Genes & Jeans (April 2008)
Noapolis – Noa Sings Napoli (February 2011)
The Israeli Songbook (March 2011)
Love Medicine (2015)
Letters to Bach (2019)
Afterallogy (2021)

Live albums
Achinoam Nini and Gil Dor Live (July 1991)
Achinoam Nini & the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra (April 1998)
Noa Live – DVD/Double CD with the Solis Quartet (October 2005)
Napoli-Tel Aviv (September 2006)

Compilations and other albums
First Collection (March 2001)
Noa Gold (October 2003)
There Must Be Another Way – with Mira Awad (2009)