[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thirteen Moons

by the loss of his love on top of the miseries his friends have suffered along the Trail of Tears, some self-conscious attempts to find another partner and finally the traumas he himself witnessed while fighting in the American Civil War, Will departs his only home and wanders the nation aimlessly.

Will's final encounter with Claire takes place at the Warm Springs Hotel, when both are in their fifties. Will hears talk of a Woman in Black who keeps herself aloof from the other hotel residents and remains in the mourning black from the death of her husband long past any necessary period. He comes across her one afternoon after being knife-cut by the collectors of someone to whom he owes money. She informs him that Featherstone's final death was hardly more dramatic than the first, and that her child has died as well. The pair spends another summer together, during which time Claire rejects a marriage proposal from Will and decides to leave him again. After more years, Will retires to a lonely home following a deal with the railroad built on a tract of land which he had owned. The novel ends in elegy for lost opportunities, the frontier spirit, and the memory of a native people.

Cherokee Literature Initiative
Thirteen Moons was selected by the Cherokee Literature Initiative of the Museum of the Cherokee Indians as the first literary work to be translated into the Cherokee language and syllabary. The Initiative, which was established with a grant from Charles Frazier, aims at preserving the Cherokee language. Myrtle Driver Johnson served as the translator.

Contract
Charles Frazier was given an advance payment of over $8 million for a proposal that became Thirteen Moons.  The book had an initial print run of 750,000 copies, but sold only approximately half of them. It is estimated that Random House lost $5.5 million on the advance.

References

External links
Los Angeles Times Review of Thirteen Moons - October 2006
Seattle Times review

2006 American novels

Novels set in North Carolina