[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Constantin Mille

nced sums of money in order to exaggerate the amplitude of repression, and to incite both local and international outrage. The importance and extent of Austro-Hungarian agitation remains a debated subject: it has also been argued that, in concrete terms, foreign influence proved to be insignificant.

1908-1914 politics
After 1908, Mille sided with the Take Ionescu-led politicians who split from the Conservative Party to form the Conservative-Democratic grouping. Like Ionescu, he supported measures for the union of Transylvania, Banat, and Bukovina with the Kingdom of Romania, and visited the region to attend meetings of the Romanian National Party, but, in 1908, came into conflict with its prominent activist Iuliu Maniu — while Mille insisted that Romanians in Transylvania and the Banat were to seek collaboration with left-wing forces in Romania, Maniu presented a purely nationalist perspective, indicated that he expected support from the entire Romanian community. According to Sever Bocu, who witnessed the debate, Mille considered Maniu's position "reactionary". Adevărul notably condemned the disadvantageous trade convention signed between Romania and Austria-Hungary, signaled that Romanians in the region were being subjected to violence, and alleged that the Austro-Hungarian state had included within its borders ridges of the Carpathians that it had no right to own.

When an attempt on the life of PNL Premier Ion I. C. Brătianu, carried out by a certain Stoenescu, occurred in December 1909, authorities took the measure of arresting România Muncitoare editors, who were believed to be instigators of the attack. In reaction to this, Constantin Mille accused the generoși of having left room for confusion inside the socialist camp by way of their departure to the PNL, and speculated that, through their tacit acceptance of PNL politics, they had provoked a rise in the popularity of "Anarchism". A wider polemic ensued when the socialist-turned-Liberal Garabet Ibrăileanu replied in Viitorul, defending those principles advocated by the generoși in front of both Mille and Dobrogeanu-Gherea.

In 1911, Mille wrote several articles defending Alexandru Nicolau, an activist of the newly created Social Democratic Party who was facing trial for his vocal criticism of the Romanian Army (Nicolau was eventually acquitted).

World War I
At a time when the socialist movement grouped itself around the Zimmerwald Movement and called for Romania to stay out of the World War, Mille became instead a vocal supporter of joining the Entente Powers, insisting that Romania should assist France and take over Transylvania. In a 1915 letter to Leon Trotsky, the influential socialist and Zimmerwald partisan Christian Rakovsky accused Mille of having been corrupted by Take Ionescu, and of using his newspapers for propaganda "under the mask of independence". He also claimed: "[Ionescu] thus compensated for the weakness of his party, both in men and ideas, through corrupting the press".

As the Romanian Campaign witnessed the occupation of Bucharest by the Central Powers, Mille and several of his collaborators took refuge in Iași, while other Adevărul journalists were arrested by German forces and deported to Bulgaria. He returned after the Treaty of Bucharest.

When the strike of compositors in Bucharest (December 13, 1918), organized by the Socialist Party of Romania, was repressed in violence by the authorities — who saw in it signs of Bolshevik agitation) —, Mille joined Constantin Titel Petrescu, Radu R. Rosetti, N. D. Cocea, and Toma Dragu on the defense team of arrested Socialists (of them, only communist sympathizers such as Alecu Constantinescu were found guilty, all sentenced to 5 years in prison).

Final years
After the war, Mille began editing the magazine Lupta.György Litván, A Twentieth-Century Prophet: Oscar Jászi 1875-1957, Central European
University Press, Budapest, 2006, , p.248 Again present in Transylvania in 1921, he notably met and conversed with Hungarian historian and sociologist Oszkár Jászi. In 1923, he helped create Liga Drepturilor Omului (the League for Human Rights), reuniting a left-leaning activists such as Titel Petrescu, Rosetti, Constantin Rădulescu-Motru, Virgil Madgearu, Constantin Costa-Foru, Nicolae L. Lupu, Dem I. Dobrescu, Victor Eftimiu, and Grigore Iunian; it was active until 1928.

He gradually ceased his work at Adevărul'' and, shortly before his death, handed the paper over to a consortium headed by Aristide Blank. In January 1926, during the final stage of a scandal involving Prince Carol's wartime morganatic marriage to Zizi Lambrino, he came to the attention of the secret police, Siguranţa Statului, for supporting her claim that the marriage was illegally annulled by the Supreme Court, and for offering her assistance at a time when she visited Bucharest (according to Siguranța Statului, the two were related).

References

External links