[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Kolb's Farm

derate sources were silent. Therefore, Hood's motives that day can only be inferred. Apparently, he believed that the Federals were advancing in march column and that his troops were executing a powerful flank attack against an unready opponent. The Confederate assault began a short time after 5 pm.

Stevenson arranged his division with the brigades of Brigadier Generals Alfred Cumming and Edmund Pettus on the left with Cumming in front. On the right were the brigades of Brigadier Generals John C. Brown and Alexander W. Reynolds on the right, with Brown in front. Cumming's brigade, which consisted largely of former Georgia militia, advanced through dense foliage until they received a volley from the 14th Kentucky at a range of .

Cumming's troops retreated in confusion, rallied, attacked again, and were repulsed a second time. Outflanked when the 123rd New York was driven back, the 14th Kentucky fell back to a second position and continued to resist. Finally, Hascall peremptorily ordered the 14th Kentucky to withdraw to the main line; its commander Colonel George Gallup later claimed that 69 dead Confederates were found in front of his regiment's position. When the Confederates attacked Strickland's defenses, they were driven off by rifle fire and by canister shot from Shields' 19th Ohio Battery and Paddock's Battery F, 1st Michigan.

North of the road, Brown's and Reynolds' troops quickly drove back the 123rd New York and advanced into cleared fields in front of the brigades of Ruger and Knipe. When the Confederates emerged they were pounded by the 13th New York Battery from Geary's hill. These guns were joined by the 3-inch Ordnance rifles of Winegar's Battery I, 1st New York and the 12-pounder Napoleons of Woodbury's Battery M, 1st New York from Williams' division. Stevenson's soldiers were briefly able to penetrate a hollow between Williams and Geary, but were soon compelled to recoil under the combined rifle and artillery fire. During the attack, Hooker asked for Howard to release Butterfield's division, but it could not be moved immediately. Instead, Howard sent a few reserve regiments to Hooker's aid. Later that night, Howard finally released Butterfield's division. While most of Stevenson's men fell back to the woods, some soldiers took cover in a ravine. It soon proved to be a death trap when it became the target of one of Williams' batteries.

Hindman's division stormed out of the woods after Stevenson's men began to retreat. The division moved toward Robinson's brigade and Geary's right flank. Hindman's left flank was composed of the brigades of Brigadier Generals Zachariah C. Deas and William F. Tucker. These formations halted as soon as they came under artillery fire and fled in confusion. Hindman's right flank consisted of the brigades of Brigadier Generals Edward C. Walthall and Arthur Middleton Manigault. Walthall's men went to ground as soon as they came under fire. Manigault's troops faced a patch of marshy ground in the area that complicated their advance. After trying and failing to cross a boggy creek under heavy fire, the soldiers either fled or took cover. According to Williams' account, Hindman's division was repulsed by artillery alone, Williams's infantry having taken no part in the fighting in that area.

Aftermath

Losses

Johnston admitted losing 1,000 troops in the battle. Williams reported sustaining 130 casualties, while Hascall's loss was about the same. Geary's losses were "trifling". Historian Albert E. Castel estimated that Hood's attack cost his corps 1,500 killed, wounded, and missing, two-thirds of which were from Stevenson's division. Castel calculated that total Union casualties were 250, of which 86 were from Knipe's brigade and 72 were from Strickland's brigade. The 123rd New York lost 48 casualties while the 14th Kentucky lost 12 killed and 48 wounded. Castel called the action, "more a one-sided slaughter than a battle". The above losses were echoed by an article by Scott Wilbur for the National Park Service. Wilbur also stated that the Union forces engaged in the action outnumbered Hood by 14,000 to 11,000.

Sherman-Hooker dispute
Sherman told Schofield that, "I will probably meet you today at Mrs. Kolb's." Nevertheless, Sherman spent the day with the corps of Howard and Palmer. At 5:30 pm, Hooker received a message from Sherman asking, "How are you getting along? Near what house are you?" Sherman had heard some cannon fire, but it did not seem like anything serious. Sherman returned to his headquarters at Big Shanty that evening. Hooker immediately replied but his message was unaccountably delayed. At 9:30 pm, Sherman finally received Hooker's note, which read as follows.

Sherman wondered why Hooker was anxious about his right flank since Schofield's corps was supposed to be there. He did not understand how he could have missed the sound of "two heavy attacks". At 9:30 pm, Sherman issued a reply to Hooker.