[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

clads. On their way up the Cumberland River the trip thus far was uneventful. About thirty-five miles below Fort Donelson the flotilla came upon the tug Alps, which had been used to tow Walke and his Carondelet to Fort Donelson who had proceeded alone after being rebuffed by Phelps earlier that day.

Grant was unaware of the strength at Fort Donelson when his army approached the fort, and were overconfident and jubilant from their easy victory at Fort Henry, singing songs as they marched. Grant, McClernand and Smith positioned their divisions around the fort. The next day McClernand and Smith launched probing attacks on what they figured were weak spots in the Confederate line, only to retreat with heavy losses. That night freezing weather set in. The next day, Saint Valentine's Day, Foote's gunboats arrived and began bombarding the fort, but were driven back by the heavy guns at the fort. Foote himself was wounded. At that point the battle was proving victorious for the Confederates, but soon Union reinforcements arrived, giving Grant a total force of over 40,000 men. When Foote regained control of the river, Grant resumed his attack, but a standoff still remained. That evening Confederate commander Floyd called a council of war, unsure of his next course of action. Unable to travel due to his wounds, Foote sent Grant a dispatch requesting that they meet. Grant mounted a horse and rode seven miles over freezing roads and trenches, first reaching Smith's division, instructing him to prepare for the next assault. Continuing on he met up with McClernand and Wallace and exchanged reports with the same orders to be ready for battle. Riding on, he finally met up with Foote. After they conferred, Foote and Phelps prepared to resume the bombardment.

As the Carondelet closed in within firing range it opened fire on the fort, signaling Grant and the other generals to commence their attacks. After firing ten shells at the fort it withdrew down river. The next day Walke received orders from Grant to resume firing on the fort. Soon after the Carondelet took a hit, causing considerable damage and wounding a dozen men where it withdrew and transferred his men to the Alps and began repairs on his vessel. After repairs were made, the Carondelet resumed its attack on the fort until dusk. When news of the bombardment on the fort reached Foote he was angry that the siege had already begun, as it was his understanding that Grant was going to wait for the arrival of his flotilla. in preparation for the battle Foote ordered Phelps to inspect the Pittsburg and the Carondelet, at which time he appointed him acting fleet captain for the day.

Mississippi River campaign
Phelps commanded the Eastport during the Mississippi River campaigns. Eastport sailed from Cairo, Illinois, in late in August after being repaired and converted for duty on the Mississippi River between Island No. 10 and the mouth of the White River in Arkansas. She was back at Cairo, Illinois, for repairs when, on 1 October 1862, the Eastport and the other vessels of the Western Flotilla were turned over to the Navy and became part of the Mississippi Squadron.

Island Number Ten

On the April 23, Foote made a reconnaissance of Columbus and saw no outward signs that the Confederates were abandoning their position. Foote sent Phelps to the post with a flag of truce and discovered that the Confederates were in the process of abandoning the location, and were moving most of their heavy guns to Island No. 10. Columbus was occupied by Union forces, on March 4.

Shortly after the Confederate Army abandoned their position at Columbus, Kentucky, and had fallen back to positions at New Madrid and Island No. 10. The Union Army of the Mississippi under Brigadier General John Pope, made the first probes, coming overland through Missouri and occupying the town of Point Pleasant, Missouri. After countermanding orders and delays from Halleck, Foote and Phelps, for purposes of giving naval support to Pope, departed Cairo down the Mississippi River, on March 11, with a flotilla of five gunboats, which included the USS Benton, commanded by Captain Phelps,  USS Louisville, Benjamin M. Dove,  USS Carondelet, Commodore Henry Walke,  Conestoga, George Blodgett, and the USS Cincinnati, commanded by Roger Stembel.