[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1st Battalion, 227th Aviation Regiment (United States)

d extraordinary heroism of the member so the 1st Cavalry Division (Airmobile) and attached units, under the most hazardous and adverse conditions, reflect great credit upon themselves, the United States Army, and the Armed Forces of the United States. -- Department of the Army, General Order 1967-40

Streamer embroidered "BINH THUAN PROVINCE"
The 2nd Battalion, 7th Cavalry, 1st Cavalry Division, and attached units, distinguished themselves by extraordinary heroism in connection with military operations against a hostile force in the Binh Thuan Province, Republic of Vietnam, during the period of 25 August 1966 through 4 April 1967.  The Battalion and its attached organizations, which comprised Task Force 2/7, supported the Republic of Vietnam in its revolutionary development program in Binh Thuan Province.  The area was almost entirely under Viet Cong control when Task Force 2/7 arrived in the province.  The 482nd and 840th Viet Cong Battalions and their ancillary units, operated almost at will throughout the area, except for the coastal enclaves of Phan Thiet, which was still under government control.  Operating over an area almost 5,000 square kilometers, Task Force 2/7 struck at enemy forces in a succession of brilliantly conceived and gallantly executed maneuvers. During this period, the Task Force mounted 371 combat assaults into enemy held territory.  In eight months of fierce combat, the Task Force lost 11 men while causing the enemy to lose 481 men. It captured 70 enemy soldiers, 151 weapons, 291 tons of rice, 3.6 tons of salt, and 7.4 tons of other grains.  It destroyed over 600 bunkers and numerous installations.  The spirit, devotion to duty, and courage displayed by Task Force 2/7 personnel set a superb example for the Republic of Vietnam Force in the area.  Control of Binh Thuan Province passed from the Viet Cong to the free world military forces, and the enemy was unable to operate effectively in strength by day or night.  The conspicuous gallantry, intrepidity, heroism, and audacity displayed by the members of the task force in combat are in keeping with the highest traditions of the military service and reflect great credit upon them, their units, and the Armed Forces of the United States.  -- Department of the Army, General Order 1973-02

 Valorous Unit Award (Army), Streamer embroidered QUANG TIN PROVINCE
 Valorous Unit Award (Army), Streamer embroidered BIEN HOA PROVINCE
 Valorous Unit Award (Army), Streamer embroidered FISH HOOK
 Valorous Unit Award (Army), Streamer embroidered FIRE SUPPORT BASE 6
 Meritorious Unit Commendation (Army), Streamer embroidered VIETNAM 1965–1966
 Meritorious Unit Commendation (Army), Streamer embroidered SOUTHWEST ASIA 1990–1991
 Meritorious Unit Commendation (Army), Streamer embroidered IRAQ 2009–2010

Naval Unit Commendation (Navy)
Fore exceptionally meritorious service during assigned mission in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom from 2 August 2004 to 1 February 2005.  I Marine Expeditionary Force (I MEF) (Reinforced) conducted a coordinated campaign across a 400-mile arc of the Euphrates River Valley to eliminate insurgent control over the key cities of An Najaf and Al Fallujah and the remainder of the local population in the I MEF Area of Responsibility.  The battle for An Najaf and Al Fallujah were the largest U.S. led urban operations since the Vietnam War.  Both battles saw the introduction of new and innovative tactics, techniques, and procedures which became ke to I MEF's success.  Throughout 24 days of intense conflict in An Najaf, the Marines conducted destruction raids on insurgent strongholds, captured weapons caches, and engaged in fierce close-quarter battle.  During this operation, I MEF killed more that 1,500 enemy insurgents while simultaneously preserving the sacred Imam Ali Shrine and Mosque Complex.  In response to the violent insurgent actions in Al Fallujah, a coalition force of 12,500 led by 1 MEF, boldly breached the city's fortifications and destroyed a heavily armed and well-entrenched fanatical enemy.  Countless across of individual bravery in Al Fallujah resulted in more than 2,000 enemy killed or captured as the Marines, Soldiers, and Sailors fiercely fought and cleared the city, house by house.  By their outstanding courage, resourcefulness, and aggressive fighting spirit in combat against the enemy, the officers and enlisted personnel of I Marine Expeditionary Force (Reinforced) reflected great credit upon themselves and upheld the highest traditions of the Marine Corps and the United States Naval Service.  -- Department of the Navy, MARADMIN Active Number: 074/07