[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Women of the Wall

" namely the ultra-Orthodox community. Frances Raday posits that the violent opposition by Orthodox Jews stems from the "desire of the Orthodox establishment to preserve religious patriarchal hegemony against the challenge of religious feminism," rather than an attempt to preserve Jewish Law itself.

Phyllis Chesler of Women of the Wall wrote: "We asked for our rights under civil and religious law. When we prayed, other worshipers, both men and women, verbally and physically assaulted us. We asked the Israeli state to protect us so that we could exercise our rights. The state claimed it could not contain the violence against us, and that we ourselves had provoked the violence by "disturbing/offending" the "sensibilities of Jews at worship". Women are not seen as "Jews" or as "worshipers" with "sensibilities".

See also
Role of women in Judaism
Jewish feminism
Freedom of religion
Women in Israel
Sexism in Israel

References

Bibliography 
 

 

Further reading
Chesler, Phylis and Rivka Haut (editors). Women of the Wall: Claiming Sacred Ground at Judaism's Holy Site. Jewish Lights Publishing (December 2002). A collection of 35 essays.
Haberman, Bonna Devora, Women of the Wall: From Text to Praxis. Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion 13/1 (Spring 1997): 5-34.
Shakdiel, Leah. Women of the Wall: Radical Feminism as an Opportunity for a New Discourse in Israel, Journal of Israeli History, 21(1/2) (2002)/
Sztokman, Elana Maryles. "The War on Women in Israel: A Story of Religious Radicalism and the Women Fighting for Freedom". Sourcebooks (2014)
 Jobani Yuval and Perez Nahshon. Women of the Wall: Navigating Religion in Sacred Sites. Oxford University Press, 2017.

External links

Berman, Daphna. Anat Hoffman Dares to Take On Israel’s Orthodox Establishment. Can She Win?, Moment'', March–April 2013.
Katzir, Yael. Praying in Her Own Voice . Documentary film. New Love Films: 2007.
Jobani, Yuval and Nahshon Perez. Ungoverning the Western Wall, Jewish Review of Books, March 15, 2019.

Feminism in Israel
Freedom of religion
Jewish feminism
Jewish religious organizations
Jews and Judaism in Jerusalem
Judaism-related controversies
Misogyny
Orthodox Jewish feminism
Religion in Israel
Sex segregation and Judaism
Western Wall
Women's organizations based in Israel
Women's religious organizations
Women's rights in Israel
Sexism in Israel
1988 establishments in Israel
Jewish women's organizations