[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rick Dykstra

Richard Dykstra (born April 10, 1966) is a Canadian politician. He served as president of the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario from 2016 to 2018. He also served as the MP for the Ontario riding of St. Catharines from 2006 to 2015. He was first elected to the House of Commons of Canada in the 2006 federal election. He was re-elected in 2008 and 2011 but was defeated by Liberal candidate Chris Bittle in the 2015 federal election.

Early life and career

Dykstra was born in Grimsby, Ontario. Dykstra's parents, born in the Netherlands, emigrated to Montreal in 1951 and moved to the area around Halifax a year later, where they started an agricultural company. Dykstra has a Bachelor of Arts degree in political science from Brock University, and a Master's Certificate in Project Management from York University. He served for twelve years as president of Dykstra Landscaping, a family business.

His brother, Larry Dykstra, was a Niagara Regional Councillor from 1994 to 1997.

Municipal politics

Dykstra served on the St. Catharines City Council from 1991 to 1997, representing St. Patrick's ward.  In 1992, he encouraged the provincial government of Bob Rae to lower its gas tax to combat cross-border shopping, which was adversely affecting Ontario businesses.

He served as chair of the Standing Committee on Finance for five of the six years he served on Council.  He was responsible for the first budget to decrease spending in a budget year. He also served six years on the Library Board and chaired the board in 1997.

In 1996, he attempted to have a book entitled Invisible Darkness by Stephen Williams banned from the city library. The book detailed the crimes of Paul Bernardo and Karla Homolka. Bernardo and Homolka were former residents of St. Catharines, and Dykstra argued that he was acting to protect the interests of their victims.  The board voted to keep the book in circulation, but ruled that patrons could not remove it from the library.

Dykstra ran for mayor of St. Catharines in 1997, and finished second against Tim Rigby.

Working in provincial politics
Dykstra worked for the Ontario provincial government from 1998 to 2002, during Mike Harris's administration, and served in two Ministries and in the Office of the Premier. He worked at management board as a senior policy advisor, served as chief of staff to Minister of Community and Social Services John Baird, and was director of caucus and public relations. While working for John Baird, Dykstra was among a group of political staff members who were criticized for excessive expense spending. Between January 2000 and March 2001, Dykstra billed over $7,000 while serving as Baird's executive assistant. Including $200 dinners at Toronto's Bier Market and Fiddlers Green pub.

Dykstra was appointed to the Niagara Parks Commission in 2003.

Federal politics

Dykstra co-chaired Conservative candidate Dean Allison's campaign in Niagara West—Glanbrook for the 2004 federal election. Dykstra was first elected to the House of Commons in 2006, defeating Liberal incumbent Walt Lastewka by 244 votes, one of the closest races in the country. The Conservative Party won a minority government in the election, and Dykstra sat in parliament as a government backbencher and served as a member of the Standing Committees on Justice and Finance. In 2007, he co-authored the "Dissenting Opinion of the Conservative Party of Canada" to a document entitled "Taxing Income Trusts: Reconcilable or Irreconcilable differences?" which agreed with the government's decision to implement a 31.5% tax on income trusts.

In April 2007, Dykstra and his colleague Dean Allison introduced a private member's bill proposing to eliminate the so-called Faint-Hope Clause. In November 2007, he introduced a private member's bill seeking to end the practice of giving double-credit for time served in custody prior to sentencing.

In April 2008, Dykstra introduced a motion to have the Finance Committee study the abolition of the penny.  He later brought forward a motion to have the Justice Committee study the investigative approach of the Canadian Human Rights Commission.

On November 7, 2008, Dykstra was appointed by the Prime Minister as the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Parliamentary Secretaries are charged with coordinating government policy through the committee process, and responding to questions in the House of Commons when the Minister is on official business.