[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# W71

the explosion, so care was taken to design the bomb to be "clean" to reduce these effects. Project Plowshares had previously explored the design of such clean bombs as part of an effort to use nuclear explosives for civilian uses where the production of long-lived radionuclides had to be minimized.

To maximize the production of x-rays, the W71 is reported to have used a gold tamper, rather than the usual depleted uranium or lead. The lining normally serves the primary purpose of capturing x-ray energy within the bomb casing while the primary is exploding and triggering the secondary. For this purpose, almost any high-Z metal will work, and depleted uranium is often used because the neutrons released by the secondary will cause fission in this material and add a significant amount of energy to the total explosive release. In this case the increase in blast energy would have no effect as there is little or no atmosphere to carry that energy, so this reaction is of little value. The use of gold maximizes the production of x-rays as gold efficiently radiates thermal x-rays (see Moseley's law). This efficient release of x-rays when heated is the same reason that inertial confinement fusion experiments like the National Ignition Facility use gold-covered targets. In Congressional testimony on potential dismantling of the W71, a DOE official described the warhead as "a gold mine".

In 2008, the United States Department of Energy declassified the fact that the radiation case of the W71 contained thorium metal.

Lethality
Under good conditions, the W71 warhead had a lethal exo-atmospheric radius as much as , although it was later stated to be  against "soft" targets, and as little as  against hardened warheads.

Production & service history
There were 30 to 39 units produced between 1974 and 1975. The weapons went into service in 1975, but were retired that same year, and the warheads stored until 1992 when they were dismantled. The short service life of the W71, Spartan and Safeguard Program in general, is believed to have been partly tied to it largely becoming obsolete with the development of Soviet offensive MIRV (Multiple independent re-entry vehicles) warheads, that unlike MRVs (multiple re-entry vehicles), can create a substantial spacing distance between each warhead once they arrive in space, hence would require at least approximately one Spartan missile launch to intercept each MIRV warhead. As the cost of the Spartan and an enemy ICBM were roughly the same, an adversary could afford to overwhelm the ABM system by adding ICBMs with MIRV warheads to its nuclear arsenal.

Shot Grommet Cannikin

Prior to the W71 test, a calibration test known as Milrow of Operation Mandrel was conducted in 1969. Despite political and pressure group opposition to both tests, and in particular the full yield W71, coming from then US Senator Mike Gravel and the nascent Greenpeace, a Supreme Court decision led to the test shot getting the go-ahead, and a W71 prototype was successfully tested on 6 November 1971 in Project Cannikin of Operation Grommet in the world's largest underground nuclear test, on Amchitka Island in the Aleutian Islands off Alaska. The second highest-yield underground test known occurred in 1973, when the USSR tested a 4 Mt device 392

The W71 was lowered  down a  borehole into a man-made cavern  in diameter. A  instrumentation system monitored the detonation. The full yield test was conducted at 11:00 am local time November 6, 1971 and resulted in a vertical ground motion of more than  at a distance of  from the borehole, equivalent to an earthquake of magnitude 7.0 on the Richter scale. A  and  crater formed two days later.

See also
Amchitka Milrow and Cannikin tests

References

External links 
 US nuclear weapons list at nuclearweaponarchive.org
 Spartan warhead image from nuclearweaponarchive.org
 W71 warhead information including  at Globalsecurity.org
 Time magazine, Round 2 at Amchitka

Nuclear warheads of the United States
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory
Military in Alaska
Military equipment introduced in the 1970s