[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Amuda

rd Kouchner, former foreign minister of France and co-founder of the Médecins Sans Frontières, visited Amuda and met with local senior officials.

Following the Second Northern Syria Buffer Zone agreement, SDF fighters withdrew from the city, leaving it under the military control of the Syrian Army.

Amuda under PYD 
The end of government rule in July 2012 has resulted in a rejuvenation in Kurdish culture in Amuda. Following the departure of the Syrian Army, Kurdish flags could again be sold in its markets, and a large demand for traditional Kurdish clothing likewise appeared. While the town was still under government control, a Kurdish language center was opened in 2011, working under threat. Since the arrival of the YPG the center can operate safely, resulting in an overflow of students. In late 2012 Ronahi TV was founded, the only Syrian television channel that broadcasts in Kurdish. It has 50 employees, some of them Arabs, presenting "more than 25 political, cultural, and social programs in Kurdish and Arabic".

In August 2015 a Swedish activist group from Malmö (Allt åt Alla) launched the "Rojava Electricity Project", a crowdfunding campaign on the site Indiegogo, to raise money for Amuda. The goal is to, in the span of 23 days, collect $23,000 to help repair the town's Swedish-made generators. An electricity crisis is growing in Rojava, and according to the local economic committee three of Amuda's five generators are not functioning. Once the generators have been fixed using the funds procured through the campaign, the estimate is that 1320 kW will be generated, and that 800 households that are currently cut off will receive 10 hours of electricity a day.

Demographics
In 2004 the population was 26,821, 95% of the inhabitants in the town are Kurds and the rest being Arabs and Assyrians.

Churches
 Syriac Orthodox Church of Saint Elias (كنيسة مار إلياس الحي للسريان الأرثوذكس)
 Syriac Catholic Church of Saint John the Baptist (كنيسة القديس مار يوحنا المعمدان للسريان الكاثوليك)

Notable people
 Abdulbaset Sieda, politician
 Haitham Hussein, Syrian Kurd novelist, critique writer, and reviewer
 Mahmoud Dahoud, German footballer
 Helîm Yûsiv, Syrian Kurdish writer and lawyer

See also
 Amouda cinema

References

Assyrian communities in Syria
Kurdish communities in Syria
Populated places in Qamishli District
Towns in Syria