[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John C. Tidball

1885.

When Tidball retired, he was regarded as the Army's premier artillerist. His 1880 instruction book, Manual Of Heavy Artillery Service, served for decades as the army's guidebook to artillery strategy and operations. Tidball was appointed brigadier general on the retired list, April 23, 1904.

Personal life
John C. Tidball married twice. His first wife, Mary Hunt Davis (d. 1857), was the daughter of Lieutenant Jackman Davis (d. 1828), USMA Class of 1814. The two were married May 27, 1853, and had three children together: Virginia (1855–1856), John Satterlee (b. 1856), and Walton Caldwell (1857–1896). Mary died of complications after Walton's birth, in 1857.
  
His second wife, Mary Langdon "Mamie" Dana (ca. 1845–1892), was the daughter of Major General Napoleon J. T. Dana. General Dana, only three years older than Tidball (and six ahead of him at West Point, graduating with the USMA Class of 1842), first opposed the match, given the 20 years difference in age and life experience, but eventually consented, due to Tidball's excellent reputation and the couple's obvious affection. John and Mamie were married March 19, 1870, and built a family of their own: Sue Dana (b. 1871), Alfred Dana (b. 1872), Nora Langdon (b. 1873), and twins Mabel and William (b. 1875).

He died on May 15, 1906, at the age of 81 in his residence in Montclair, New Jersey, and was buried in the post cemetery at the United States Military Academy in West Point, New York.

Writings and memoirs
John C. Tidball wrote a comprehensive overview and analysis of the U.S. Army's field artillery service in the Civil War in the Journal of the Military Service Institution from 1891 to 1893, entitled, "The Artillery Service in the War of the Rebellion."  He also wrote an unpublished study in 1905 for the U.S. Army entitled, "Remarks Upon the Organization, Command and Employment of Field Artillery During War, Based on Experiences of the Civil War, 1861–1865", which included additional insights into the artillery service. These writings were edited by Lawrence M. Kaplan and published under the title, "The Artillery Service in the War of the Rebellion" by Westholme Publishing in 2011. John C. Tidball's memoirs, yet unpublished but heavily excerpted in Eugene Tidball's 2002 biography, are a treasure trove of information. They are filled with colorful descriptions and his impressions of his more famous contemporaries, many of whom he described as "genuine army characters."  Through these writings, one can learn a great deal about John C. Tidball, along with the personalities he so brilliantly described:

Ambrose E. Burnside

Tidball served with Burnside at his first duty station after graduation from West Point. Burnside was among the other young officers who had just returned from the war with Mexico:

He had naturally a swaggering way which caused all such affections to set gracefully upon him. He was, besides, a handsome fellow with a personality that attracted attention upon all occasions; and his rollicking, off-hand effrontery carried him through with applause where one of less assurance would have been a mere figurehead.  His manly proportions and devil-may-care airishness were attractive to women, and aroused in them that admiration for masculine qualities so natural to the female sex. Always jolly and willing, he was an ideal companion among men. His rollicking songs and jovial stories awakened the dullest to rapture. Free and easy in manner and with but little regard for the nicer conventionalities of society he floated along, light hearted and gay, upon the flood tide of enjoyment, seemingly regardless of what the ebb might have in store for him. The very abandon with which he threw himself into whatever was going on exercised a captivating influence and caused him to be sought as one who could always be relied on to give animation to any occasion… [his] trick of self-abnegation seemed not only to help him along but to cover over shortcomings, as it did when dismal failure followed many of his enterprises… There was no one like Burnside.

Thomas Jonathan Jackson

Tidball and Jackson were assigned to the same company in the Corps of Cadets at West Point. They were of similar backgrounds, were both Presbyterian, were from the same section of Virginia (what is now West Virginia), and each spent most of their cadet careers as non-rank-holding cadet privates: