[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Angola–United States relations

tionship was centred on Angola's large oil industry: the U.S. received 90 per cent of Angolan oil exports, accounting in turn for seven per cent of U.S. oil imports. By 1999, Angola was the second-largest destination for American investment in sub-Saharan Africa, also concentrated in the oil sector.

Post-civil war relations 
Angola held a temporary seat on the UN Security Council in 2003, and the U.S. and other Western countries reportedly lobbied the Angolan government heavily for its support for a draft resolution which would authorise the use of force against Saddam Hussein's regime in Iraq.

In 2009, the administration of U.S. President Barack Obama declared Angola one of the U.S.'s three key strategic partners in Africa, along with Nigeria and South Africa. Both Obama and his successor, Donald Trump, advanced the bilateral security partnership – including through a 2010 U.S.–Angola Strategic Partnership Dialogue and a 2017 Memorandum of Understanding – with a particular focus on security in the Gulf of Guinea. However, the U.S. and China have sometimes been viewed as competing for influence in Angola.

Economic relations
The countries signed a Trade and Investment Framework Agreement in 2009, and Angola is eligible for preferential trade benefits under the African Growth and Opportunity Act. In 2019, total bilateral trade was worth $1.5 billion, with a $420 million trade imbalance in Angola's favour. Angolan oil exports to the U.S. have declined since 2008 and accounted for less than 0.5% of total U.S. oil imports in 2021; but Angola remained the U.S.'s third-largest trading partner in sub-Saharan Africa. Moreover, American oil companies, including Chevron and ExxonMobil, maintain major operations in Angolan oil fields. The oil sector has also fostered cultural links between the countries, including sister city partnerships (between Lafayette, Louisiana and Cabinda; and between Houston, Texas and Luanda) and corporate programmes which educate Angolan oil professionals in U.S. universities.As of 2022, the U.S. was Angola's primary source of official development assistance, just ahead of the European Union. U.S. aid disbursements to Angola amounted to $35.4 million in 2020, representing a substantial decrease from $64.4 million in 2001, and were concentrated in the health sector. During the Covid-19 pandemic, some of this assistance was provided under the COVAX programme; the U.S. government was the largest donor of Covid-19 vaccines to Angola. The Angolan military has also been a beneficiary of the U.S. International Military Education and Training programme.

Diplomatic relations 
The U.S. Embassy to Angola is located in Miramar, Luanda. It was established in July 1994 under Ambassador Edmund DeJarnette, and replaced a liaison office that had operated in Luanda since January 1992. The Angolan Embassy to the U.S. is located on 16th Street Northwest in Washington, D.C.; it also operates consulates-general in New York City and, since 2001, in the petroleum hub of Houston. António Franca was the first Angolan ambassador to the U.S. 

Both countries are members of the UN, the International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and World Trade Organization; and Angola is an observer to the Organization of American States.

See also

Frontline States
Slavery in Angola
CIA activities in Angola
1989 Angola Lockheed L-100 crash
List of diplomatic visits to the United States by Angola

References

Further reading

External links

Website of the U.S. embassy to Angola
Website of the Angolan embassy to the U.S. 
Website of the U.S.–Angola Chamber of Commerce
"U.S. Policy Towards Angola" from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archive
Declassified minutes of National Security Council meeting on Angola, June 1975
U.S. Integrated Country Strategy: Angola, 2019

 
United States relations
Bilateral relations of the United States