[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Elijah Benamozegh

fer a majestic vision of cosmic evolution, with radical implications for understanding the development of morality and religion itself.

Benamozegh's universalist views were recently promoted by Adin Steinsaltz, who made a somewhat similar attempt to unify all major world religions and philosophies.

Cosmopolitanism and patriotism
Benamozegh considered himself, simultaneously, an Italian patriot and a cosmopolitan. He believed that authentic mystical core of the Jewish tradition, which he called "Hebraism" as opposed to more isolationist exoteric Judaism, is profoundly universal and capable of uniting all world religions and nations into one brotherly cosmopolitan network. While Benamozegh believed in the unique spiritual mission of the Jews, his idea of Jewish chosenness was far from narrow particularism. According to his worldview, the Jews are chosen to serve the humanity as a priestly people, by proving a common mystical ground that transcends the boundaries of the nations and religious traditions. He also emphasized the impact of other cultures on Judaism, starting from the ancient Egyptian paganism, as well as the great role of the proselytes in the Jewish history. Unlike some exclusivist Kabbalists, Benamozegh believed that Kabbalah is a universal theology that unites all human beings and views them as equals.

At the same time, Benamozegh was a staunch Italian patriot. He even wrote a daring formulation, based on the Jewish declaration of faith: O Israelites, that you will always love Italy, that you will love her with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. Apparently, according to his panentheistic philosophy, Benamozegh viewed the Italian soil as a specially beloved expression of the Shekhinah.

Works
 "Emat Mafgia'" (The Fear of the Opponent), a refutation of Leon of Modena's attacks upon the Cabala, in 2 vols., Leghorn, 1858
 "Ger Tzedek" (A Righteous Proselyte), critical notes on Targum Onkelos, ib., 1858
 "Ner le-David" (Lamp of David), commentary on the Psalms, published together with the text, ib., 1858
 "Em la-Mikra" (Matrix of Scripture), commentary on the Pentateuch containing critical, philological, archeological, and scientific notes on the dogmas, history, laws, and customs of the ancient peoples, published together with the text under the title "Torat Adonai," Leghorn and Paris, 1862–65
 "Ta'am Leshad," refutation of Samuel David Luzzatto's dialogue on the Cabala, Leghorn, 1863
 "Mebo Kelali," general introduction to the traditions of Judaism, published in "Ha-Lebanon," 1864, pp. 73 et seq.
 "Storia degli Esseni," Florence, 1865
 "Morale Juive et Morale Chrétienne. Examen Comparatif Suivi de Quelques Réflexions sur les Principes de l'Islamisme," Paris, 1867
 "Jewish and Christian Ethics with a Criticism on Mahomedism" (English translation of the above. E. Blochman, 1873)
 "Teologia Dogmatica ed Apologetica," Leghorn, 1877 (on metaphysics)
 "Le Crime de la Guerre Dénoncé à L'Humanité," Paris, 1881 (this work won for its author a medal and honorable mention from the League of Peace and Freedom, on the proposition of Jules Simon, Édouard Laboulaye, and Frédéric Passy)
 "Ya'aneh be-Esh" (He Will Answer Through Fire), discussion of cremation according to the Bible and the Talmud, Leghorn, 1886.
 "Israël et l'Humanité" (Israel and Humanity), discussion of universal religion and the roles of and relationships between Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, 1914 (posthumous, edited by ).

References

External links 

 Jewish and Christian ethics with a criticism on Mahomedism English translation of Morale Juive et Morale Chrétienne
 The Thought and Life of Elijah Benamozegh

1822 births
1900 deaths
19th-century Italian rabbis
Maghrebi Jews
Italian critics of Christianity
Italian Orthodox rabbis
Italian people of Moroccan descent
Italian Sephardi Jews
Kabbalists
Panentheists
Livornese Jews
Sephardi rabbis
Universalists