[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology

The Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology (PINSTECH) () is a federally funded multiprogram science and technology research institute managed for the Ministry of Energy by the Pakistan Institute of Engineering and Applied Sciences (PIEAS). 

The laboratory site in Nilore was designed by the American architect Edward Durell Stone, and its construction was completed in 1965. It has been described as "[maybe] the most architecturally stunning physics complex in the world". 

In response to the war with India in 1971, the lab was repurposed as a primary weapons laboratory from its original civilian mission. Since the 1990s, the lab has been focused increasingly on civilian mission and it maintains a broad portfolio in providing research opportunities in supercomputing, renewable energy, physical sciences, philosophy, materials science, medicine, environmental science, and mathematics.

Researchers and scholars are invited from universities throughout Pakistan.

Overview

Research scope

The PINSTECH is regarded as the one of the most advanced and premium research facility in Pakistan. As of 2016, PINSTECH's major research focus is on:

Conducting scientific research and publications in nuclear field at the international level.
Technological development on nuclear sciences for peaceful usage.
Producing radioisotopes and radio pharmaceuticals for catering to the needs of nuclear medical centers, industry and research establishments.
Promoting applications of radiation and isotope technology in various scientific and technological disciplines to support national programs.
Undertaking limited production of sophisticated equipment and special nuclear materials.
Working on important non-nuclear fields which are crucial for the development of science and technology in the country.

The PAEC Chair Dr. I. H. Usmani wanted a premium nuclear facility whose operations are roughly based on the American facilities such as ORNL, ANL, LLNL, and SNL. Many scientists educated at the ORNL and ANL were initially asked to join the PINSTECH.

About the PINSTECH, Edward Stone once inscribed in these words: "This....has been my greatest work. I am proud that it looks like it belongs in this country.."

The scientific library of the institute consisted of a large section containing loaded historical references and literature on Manhattan Project, brought by Abdus Salam in 1971 prior to start of the Nuclear weapons programme under Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.

History 

The roots of the institution dated back to 1951 when Abdus Salam returned to Pakistan to join University of the Punjab. After facing a fierce opposition from his fellow scientists at the physics department of the University of the Punjab in 1953, Salam soon faced the choice between intellectual death or migration to the stimulating environment of a western institutions from Pakistan. This realization left a deep impression on him and behind his determination to create an institution to which physicists from the developing countries would come as a right to interact with their peers from industrially advanced countries without permanently leaving their own countries. Establishing the world class physics research institute, roughly equivalent to CERN, in Pakistan was a dream of Dr. Abdus Salam who initiated the establishment of PINSTECH.

Together with dr. I. H. Usmani, Salam initiated the deal with the United States to established the P in Nilore and gave its first directorship to nuclear physicist Dr. Rafi Muhammad Chaudhry of the Government College University, Lahore (GCU). For sometime, the PINSTECH became affiliated with the Quaid-i-Azam University in 1967, bearing some special materials testing. Soon, the scientists from Institute of Theoretical Physics at the Quaid-i-Azam University joined the PINSTECH to engage research in physics. After the war with India in 1971, President of Pakistan Zulfikar Ali Bhutto orchestrated to established an efforts towards a nuclear deterrence loosely based on Manhattan Project of the 1940s. Salam took over the operations of PINSTECH institute to oversee the research and development, and its eventual production of the weapons in 1972.