[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Dunsterforce

re from the Bolshevik fleet. The Ottomans attacked again from  and the 15th Division reached Petrovsk on 28 October. After several attacks the city fell on 8 November, in the last Ottoman offensive operation of the war and marked the northern limit of the Ottoman advance into the Caucasus Mountains.

On 17 September, Dunsterforce had been disbanded and North Persia Force (Major-General W. M. Thomson) took over the command of the troops in the area. The Dunsterforce officers were allowed to choose to return to their regiments, join Indian battalions or stay on in Norperforce. Marshall was told by the War Office on 2 October, that an Ottoman request for an armistice was anticipated and he was to take as much ground as possible up the Tigris, to assist the British in Syria to advance on Aleppo. Marshall planned a  advance up the Tigris, despite most of the transport being in Iran, making an advance to Aleppo out of the question. The advance began after the Ottoman armistice request and the Ottoman troops began a withdrawal on 24 October, until the Tigris Group (Dicle Grubu) of the 6th Army was surrounded and forced to surrender on 29 October, at the Battle of Sharqat (23–30 October).

A flying column pushed on but was met south of Mosul by an Ottoman delegation on 1 November, with the news that the armistice had come into force the day before and the town was occupied on 10 November. Far to the north, the North Persia Force and the Bicherakov Cossacks re-entered Baku on 17 November. The Bolshevik regime eventually defeated its enemies in Central Asia in 1921 but local operations continued against Basmachi irregulars for years afterwards. British intervention had been part of a wider attempt by the British, French, Americans and Japanese to prevent military bases and Allied war material at ports falling into the hands of the Central Powers. At first the Allies were encouraged by the Bolshevik regime but in the summer of 1918, the Allies began intriguing with the internal enemies of the Bolsheviks, which soured relations with the USSR for decades.

Order of battle

Dunsterforce
 Western Front
 Quotas of picked officers and NCOs from the British Expeditionary Force, Canadian Corps, Australian Imperial Force, New Zealand Expeditionary Force and the South African Overseas Expeditionary Force.
 Mediterranean Front
 Quotas from British and Dominion contingents of the Mediterranean Expeditionary Force.
 39th Infantry Brigade
 9th (Service) Battalion, The Royal Warwickshire Regiment
 7th (Service) Battalion, Gloucestershire Regiment
 9th (Service) Battalion, The Worcestershire Regiment
 7th (Service) Battalion, The North Staffordshire Regiment
 1st/4th Battalion, The Hampshire Regiment (platoon)
 39th Machine Gun Company, Machine Gun Corps (MGC)
 39th Supply & Transport Column, Army Service Corps (ASC)
 39th Trench Mortar Battery

See also

 26 Baku Commissars
 Malleson mission
 Republic of Azerbaijan

Notes

Footnotes

References

Books
 
 
 
 
 
  UK title: On Secret Service East of Constantinople: The Great Game and the Great War
 
 
 
 
 

Encyclopaedias

Further reading

Books
 
 
 
 
 
 

Encyclopaedias
 

Journals
 
 

Newspapers
 

Theses
 

Websites

External links
 Persia becomes Iran
 Medman, L. Dunsterforce's top ranking Canadian officer, Lieutenant-Colonel John Weightman Warden
 Newsreel of Dunsterforce, Australian War Memorial 
 Imperial War Museums. Video footage: Baku - The Occupation by 'Dunsterforce' 17th August to 14th September 1918

History of the British Isles
Ad hoc units and formations of the British Army
Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War
20th century in Armenia
Soviet Union–United Kingdom relations
20th-century military history of the United Kingdom
Military history of Azerbaijan
Military units and formations established in 1917
1910s in Iran
Military history of Qajar Iran