[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# DAM (band)

DAM () is a Palestinian hip-hop group founded in 1999 by brothers Tamer and Suhell Nafar and their friend Mahmoud Jreri from the mixed city of Lod. The group's songs are themed on protest, inequality, Israeli–Palestinian conflict, and self-criticism of Arab-Israeli society, including the violence and drug dealing within Israel's mixed cities. DAM is the best-known and most famous Palestinian hip hop group; it is also often called the "quintessential Palestinian resistance band".

DAM raps primarily in Arabic, but also in English and Hebrew. DAM has released more than 100 singles and three albums—Dedication, Dabke on the Moon and Ben Haana Wa Maana—as well as an EP—Street Poetry. DAM's music is focused on Palestinian identity, culture, and resistance, and the group has frequently used their music and profile to raise awareness of the Palestinian cause, often performing their music in collaboration with activist groups. The name DAM is an acronym for "Da Arab MCs" that also means "enduring" or "everlasting" in Arabic or "blood" in Arabic and Hebrew.

In January 2017, they signed with the London-based independent record label publishing and services, Cooking Vinyl. For their UK and EU touring schedule, the band is represented by X-Ray Touring.

Name
The name DAM is an acronym for "Da Arab MCs" that also means "enduring" or "everlasting" in Arabic (دام; dām) or "blood" in Arabic and Hebrew (دم; dam).

History

1998–2000: Early development 
DAM founders Tamer Nafar, Suhell Nafar and Mahmoud Jreri were born and raised in high-density, impoverished neighborhoods in Lod, the living conditions of which they have subsequently called those of "second-class citizens" in their music. After listening to 1990s Algerian rap groups such as , the Nafar brothers became convinced to abandon English lyrics in favour of Arabic. Tupac Amaru Shakur's songs has also been noted as an emblematic figure in rap that helped inspire DAM.

DAM leader Tamer Nafar began his career in 1998 in the Jewish–Israeli rap scene under the wing of the Tunisian–Iranian-origin Israeli rap artist Subliminal. In 1998, Tamer released his first EP, "Stop Selling Drugs," featuring his younger brother, Suhell Nafar. Nafar then formed DAM in 1999 with his brother Suheil and their friend Muhammad Jrere, but as late as 2000 the group continues to perform in concert with Subliminal and other Jewish–Israeli rappers.

DAM was created in order to give a voice, and a platform to express widespread disillusionment and discontent felt by the Palestinian youth facing discrimination and oppression from Israel. The trio having experienced adolescence in this context, used hip hops as a means of communicating their sentiments towards their difficult situations as Palestinians. In their early days, the group had limited access to recording studios and necessary equipment, and experienced censorship, surveillance and persecution by Israeli authorities.h.

They later went on to perform in the West Bank, where they sampled "famed protest poetry and traditional song material" and brough it into their rap. The film Slingshot Hip Hop features DAM's three founders as protagonists as it traces the rise of DAM and other Palestinian hip hop groups. Though DAM is sometimes mistakenly identified as the first Palestinian hip hop or rap group, they were preceded by a band named "MWR", a group from Acre that has since disbanded.

DAM started recording songs on their home computer, and most of their songs back then were recorded over known Hip Hop instrumentals. At the time, the Hip-Hop scene in Palestine was developing largely, and DAM in particular, got their start performing in Jerusalem. As a result, most of their earlier music was performed in Arabic. At the beginning of the group's history, DAM's music and lyrics focused mostly around everyday life, performing, and emotions, not containing many political references. But this changed with time. On September 3, 2000, Tamer's friend Booba (Hussam Abu Gazazae) was shot down and killed during a drive-by, an incident that drove Tamer to record his first protest song with a political reference.
A cover of Abd al Majeed Abdalla's song "Ya Tayeb al Galb", the song was called "Booba" and featured Ibraheem Sakallah in the hook.