[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Taber II

d Taber was an original incorporator. Later in 1828, Taber won a special election  as a Jacksonian to fill the U.S. House of Representatives seat left vacant by the resignation of Thomas Jackson Oakley. He served for one session of the 20th United States Congress, November 5, 1828, to March 3, 1829.

Continued career
When the Bank of Poughkeepsie was chartered in 1829, Taber was elected to its first board of directors. Taber was a delegate to the September 1830 county Democratic-Republican convention that chose delegates to the state party nominating convention that was scheduled for later that month, which chose Enos T. Throop for governor and Edward Philip Livingston for lieutenant governor. In 1831, Taber was a delegate to a nationwide protectionist convention that took place in New York City and met to argue for high tariffs and opposition to free trade. The convention's position on the issue was codified at the national level with passage of the Tariff of 1832.

On February 7, 1832, delegates to a convention of Dutchess County farmers chose Taber as one of the county's delegates to a state agricultural convention which took place in Albany on February 14. In September 1832, Taber was a delegate to the county Democratic-Republican convention that nominated delegates to the party's state convention, and he was chosen as a state convention delegate. When the New York and Albany Railroad was incorporated in June 1833, Taber was an original incorporator and was one of the commissioners appointed to oversee the corporation's initial stock subscription. In October 1835, Taber was a delegate to the county Democratic convention that nominated candidates for the state senate.

In January 1836, Taber was chosen as a Dutchess County delegate to a statewide agricultiural convention that took place In February. In May 1836, the Dutchess County Mutual Insurance Company was organized in Poughkeepsie, and Taber was elected to its first board of directors. In September 1838, Taber was a delegate to the Democratic county convention that selected delegates to the state party's nominating convention, and won election as a delegate to the state convention. In 1839, Taber was an unsuccessful Democratic candidate for the state assembly. In September 1840, Taber took part in a mass Democratic rally that was held in Poughkeepsie with the intent of building statewide support for that year's elections. He was subsequently appointed one of the campaign's vice presidents  for Dutchess County.

In September 1843, Taber was a delegate to the state Democratic convention. In October 1844, Taber was a candidate for the Democratic nomination for Congress, but lost to William W. Woodworth, who went on to win the general election. In May 1846, he was appointed one of the judges of the Dutchess County Court. In October 1846, he was a delegate to the state Democratic convention.

In 1848, New York's state Democratic convention chose Taber as a presidential elector, and he was later selected as an elector by the Free Soil Party, but Whig nominee Zachary Taylor won New York's electoral votes. In July 1849, Taber was one of the prominent Democrats who attempted to resolve the dispute between New York's Barnburners and Hunkers by serving as vice president of a union convention in Dutchess County. The county convention called for a statewide union convention, and Taber was chosen as a delegate. In August 1854, the shareholders and directors of the New York and Harlem Railroad were victimized by a fraud involving counterfeit stock certificates. During the company's response, Taber was one of the shareholders appointed to the nominating committee that proposed candidates for a reorganized board of directors.

Later life
In his later years, Taber moved to Roslyn to live with his son Stephen. He died in Roslyn on March 21, 1862 and was buried at Friends Cemetery in Westbury.

Family
On February 2, 1820, Taber married Phebe Titus. They were the parents of two sons, Samuel and Stephen. Stephen Taber also served in the state assembly and as a member of Congress.

Taber was the uncle of George T. Pierce, a member of the New York State Assembly and New York State Senate.

Notes

References

External links
 
 

1785 births
1862 deaths
People from Dover, New York
New York (state) Democratic-Republicans
New York (state) Jacksonians
New York (state) Free Soilers
Democratic Party members of the New York State Assembly
Jacksonian members of the United States House of Representatives from New York (state)
19th-century American politicians
New York (state) state court judges
Burials in New York (state)
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from New York (state)