[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Khao-I-Dang

es were provided by ICRC, Doctors Without Borders, the Thai Red Cross, CARE, Irish Concern, Catholic Relief Services, the International Rescue Committee, the American Refugee Committee, Christian and Missionary Alliance, OXFAM, Handicap International, Malteser International, and YWAM.

Camp hospital

ICRC chose KID for their first border surgical hospital where acute trauma patients were cared for, at first mainly war wounded, but later large numbers of landmine victims. Surgical equipment was donated from the French hospital ship L'Île de Lumière. Initially two hospitals (A and B) were constructed with 900 beds each in 17 wards: four pediatric wards, including one intensive feeding center; two wards for gynecology and obstetrics; two surgical wards, including an admission and emergency center; one tuberculosis center; and eight general medicine wards, In addition, there was a surgical unit with two operating rooms containing four operating tables, and a post-operative unit. There also were two hospital kitchens, a warehouse, a laboratory, and an x-ray room. Each ward housed 70-120 patients, and the capacity of the entire facility was about 1,800 patients.

The ICRC hospital began treating patients on 27 November 1979 and during its first 54 days of operation 521 surgeries were performed, 162 of these related to war injuries, including 22 amputations. Overall, 80% of operations were emergency surgery related to trauma, with the remainder performed to alleviate severe pain or bleeding. During the first two months an average of 9.5 operations per day were performed with a maximum of 16.

By late-1980 Hospital B fell into disuse and was converted into smaller buildings for other purposes, some of which were destroyed in a fire in 1981.

As of June 1984, the medical teams working at KID ICRC Hospital consisted of four surgeons, four anesthesiologists and 13 nurses sent by nine national Red Cross Societies: (Belgium, Finland, France, Iceland, Japan, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom). The medical coordinator and the administrator of the hospital were sent by the New Zealand and the Canadian Red Cross Societies respectively. Moreover, 120 Thai and Khmer medical staff assisted these teams in their work.

UN Secretary General Kurt Waldheim visited Khao-I-Dang Hospital on 6 August 1980, and Perez de Cuellar visited on 27 January 1985. Former President Jimmy Carter and First Lady Rosalynn Carter visited on 6 June 1985.

Camp closure 

Khao-I-Dang's size steadily declined as its population was resettled in other countries. It eventually became a camp made up of persons who had been rejected for resettlement; many had been rejected by more than one country. With the prospects of further resettlement diminishing, Thailand declared the camp closed at the end of December 1986. Relocations to border camps of the illegal camp residents began in March 1987. In response to international pressure, selection for resettlement of the residual population was extended again in 1988, after which Thai authorities officially decreed that all remaining refugees would be transferred to the border for repatriation to Cambodia. The residents of KID were vocal in opposition to what they felt was forced repatriation and held numerous demonstrations. By December 1989 camp population was 11,600.

The camp finally closed on 3 March 1993 during the UNTAC operation when all remaining residents were moved to Site Two Refugee Camp to await repatriation to Cambodia. At the closing ceremony, then UNHCR Special Envoy Sérgio Vieira de Mello called KID a "powerful and tragic symbol" of the Cambodian exodus and the international humanitarian response.

See also 
 Cambodian humanitarian crisis
 Indochina refugee crisis
 Nong Chan Refugee Camp
 Nong Samet Refugee Camp

References

Further reading
 Robinson, C. Terms of Refuge: the Indochinese Exodus & the International Response. London ; New York, New York: Zed Books; Distributed in the USA by St. Martin's Press, 1998.
 Thompson, Larry Clinton.  Refugee Workers in the Indochina Exodus, 1975-1982. Jefferson, NC: McFarland, 2010.

External links
Khao-I-Dang page at Thai / Cambodia Border Refugee Camps
Chhan Touch's photos of Khao-I-Dang
Personal Experience at KID 1980
Khao-I-Dang page at Columbia University's course site on Forced Migration and Health
 Williamsons Video Interviews on Khao-I-Dang
Photo gallery from Khao-I-Dang, 1982-83
Khao-I-Dang Surgical Hospital Pictures 1988/89 by Dominik Landwehr, Switzerland

Former refugee camps in Thailand
Khmer Rouge
Populated places established in 1979
1979 establishments in Thailand
1993 disestablishments in Thailand
Cambodia–Thailand border
Populated places in Sa Kaeo province
Refugee camps in Asia
Populated places disestablished in 1993