[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Metacomet-Monadnock Trail

nge for boat passage to the opposite bank). Snow is common in the winter and may necessitate the use of cross country skis or snowshoes. Ice can form on exposed ledges and summits, making hiking dangerous without special equipment. Snow and ice tend to linger on Mount Monadnock well into the spring.

Biting insects can be bothersome during warm weather. Parasitic deer ticks (which are known to carry Lyme disease) are a hazard. The trail passes through black bear habitat (especially the northern portions), although problems with bears are rare. More likely are problematic encounters with feral and domestic dogs. Skunks, raccoons, and porcupines are common and active after dark. Venomous snakes are considered extinct along most of the route, with the possible exception of the warm, dry microclimates on the Metacomet Ridge. Poison ivy is native to the M&M Trail ecosystems, but it occurs with less frequency north of the Holyoke Range, and does not thrive on Mount Monadnock at all.

Many water sources along the trail flow through inhabited areas or swamps and may be contaminated. Except during the winter, trap rock ridges tend to be dry, leaving long stretches of trail with no dependable water source. Various portions along the trail are road walks due to private ownership; contacting the AMC will provide the latest updates. Hikers seeking 'on the ground', current information regarding the status of the M&M trail should read hiker journals available on the Internet, such as Trail Journals.com

Conservation and maintenance of the trail corridor

The M&M Trail passes through public land (state parks, forests, and wildlife management areas), land managed by conservation non-profit organizations, private land under conservation easement, and unprotected private land via permission of individual land owners.

Significant threats to the trail, its ecosystems, and its viewshed included quarrying (especially on the trap rock ridges) and suburban sprawl.

The Metacomet-Monadnock Trail is maintained by volunteer efforts largely facilitated by the Berkshire Chapter of the Appalachian Mountain Club. Many groups are invested in preserving the pathway and viewshed of the Metacomet-Monadnock Trail, including The Trustees of Reservations, Mount Grace Land Conservation Trust, Friends of the Mt. Holyoke Range, the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests, the Amherst Conservation Commission, the State of New Hampshire, and the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

In 2000, the Metacomet-Monadnock Trail was included in a study by the National Park Service for inclusion in a new National Scenic Trail. This study, completed in 2006, is available on-line at the New England Scenic Trail website.  It was designated in 2009 as part of the New England National Scenic Trail, which includes the Mattabesett and Metacomet trails in Connecticut. Some sections of the Metacomet-Monadnock Trail are also designated as a National Recreation Trail (not the same as a National Scenic Trail).

See also
 Metacomet Ridge
 Metacomet Trail
 Monadnock-Sunapee Greenway
 Robert Frost Trail
 Tully Trail

References

External links
 U.S. Congress New England National Scenic Trail Designation Act. 
 Berkshire Chapter of the Appalachian Mountain Club
 Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation
 New Hampshire Department of Parks and Recreation
 Sportsman's Land Trust
 The Kestrel Trust
 The Valley Land Fund
 Pascommuck Conservation Trust
 Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests
 Mount Grace Land Conservation Trust
 The Trustees of Reservations
 Western Massachusetts Access (Farley Ledges rock climbing preserve)

Hiking trails in Massachusetts
Hiking trails in New Hampshire
Long-distance trails in the United States
Metacomet Ridge, Massachusetts
National Recreation Trails in Massachusetts
National Recreation Trails in New Hampshire
Protected areas of Cheshire County, New Hampshire
Protected areas of Hampden County, Massachusetts
Protected areas of Hampshire County, Massachusetts
Protected areas of Franklin County, Massachusetts
Protected areas of Worcester County, Massachusetts