[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Watson Kirkconnell

novations. For example, Kirkconnell believed that, not only the Icelandic sagas and the Elder Edda, but also the Old Irish Táin Bó Cúailnge and the Old Low German Heliand, "threw light on Beowulf, the Battle of Maldon, and the Caedmonian Genesis", and advocated teaching all of those texts together. 

While seeking background literature for teaching a course on Geoffrey Chaucer, Kirkconnell discovered and fell in love with the Middle Welsh poetry in strict metre by Dafydd ap Gwilym, whom he called, "a great contemporary of Chaucer, with a feeling for nature that was beyond the reach of the London vintner's son." Kirkconnell felt similarly when he discovered the Medieval Latin poetry of the Wandering Scholars and the Medieval Hebrew poetry of Solomon ibn Gabirol and Yehuda Halevi.

As a result, Kirkconnell grew to believe that Prehistoric intermarriage among the ancestors of European peoples had not been detrimental, but positive. Therefore, Kirkconnell concluded, as all Europeans are of genetically mixed ancestry, further White ethnic immigration and intermarriage would actually strengthen the development of Canada as a nation.

It was finally the 1925 death of his wife while giving birth to twin sons that brought Kirkconnell to a more tolerant position. As both a tribute and a memorial to his late wife, Kirkconnell decided to select and translate poetry from forty different languages. He worked in close collaboration with distinguished literary scholars, such as Albert Verwey, Douglas Hyde, and Pavle Popović. He eventually published the volume European Elegies in 1928. In the process, Kirkconnell came to believe that treating the languages, cultures, and literatures of White ethnic immigrants to Canada with respect would instill in them a sense of loyalty and gratitude to their adopted country. In later years, he often used the metaphor of a tapestry to express his vision for the nation's future. For the rest of his life, Kirkconnell continued to fret about the decline of the White Anglo-Saxon Protestant majority in Canada and always believed in lesser forms of scientific racism and the racial inferiority of non-Whites,

Kirkconnell continued publicizing and making translations of the national poetry of European immigrants for the rest of his life. For example, his collection A Golden Treasury of Polish Lyrics was published by The Polish Press, Ltd, in Winnipeg in 1936. Kirkconnell dedicated the book, which included his translations in chronological order from Jan Kochanowski to Maria Pawlikowska-Jasnorzewska, to the memory of Marshal Józef Piłsudski, about whom Kirkconnell also composed a funeral ode. The title page describes Kirkconnell as having been made a knight of the Order of Polonia Restituta by the government of the Second Polish Republic. 

Beginning with the poetry composed by Manitoba Icelandic-Canadians such as Stephan G. Stephansson and Guttormur J. Guttormsson, Kirkconnell also translated and publicized verse by recent immigrants to Canada and their descendants, whom he sometimes termed, "New Canadians", from Icelandic, Italian, Polish, Ukrainian, and Canadian Gaelic. 

By 1916, disinterest in the poetry of John Milton based on distaste for his Puritanism had reached a new low. Due in large part to the efforts of Ezra Pound and T.S. Eliot, the Puritan poet was even declared deposed, with little or no fanfare, in favor of John Donne and Andrew Marvell, as the Anglosphere's greatest composer of Christian poetry. In response, Kirkconnell sought during the interwar period to return John Milton to his pedestal by translating and publishing what had long been believed to been the poet's many sources of inspiration from World literature in many other languages. His blank verse translations of the neo-Classical but Biblically-centered plays of Dutch national poet Joost van den Vondel, which Kirkconnell strongly believed to have been a major influence on Milton's Paradise Lost and Samson Agonistes date from this period.

In 1936, Watson Kirkconnell was made a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada.

World War II
During the Second World War, Kirkconnell used his many contacts among Canadians of Eastern European descent to mobilize them in favor of the Allied war effort against Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Imperial Japan. These same contacts, however, had made Kirkconnell well aware of the sufferings of the relatives of his immigrant friends under both Soviet rule and occupation and he accordingly continued to write articles and to give public lectures attacking both human rights abuses under Marxist-Leninism and Stalinism.