[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Evelyn Gandy

state to make an additional $4 million within a year of the new measure. She also implemented a program to deposit state funds equally across banks in the state. A fiscal conservative, she opposed an attempt to amend the state constitution to allow the state to borrow more money through bond issues.

In 1971 Gandy ran for the office of insurance commissioner. Appealing more openly to women voters, her campaign distributed special emery boards. She defeated insurance salesman Truett Smith in the Democratic primary, taking the largest number of votes among any candidate for any office in the primary, and was unopposed in the general election. Upon taking office on January 17, 1972, she initiated an investigation into false advertising, lobbied for the passage of a no-fault insurance law, and pushed for enhanced advertising regulations and stronger licensing requirements for insurance agents. During her tenure the department released a training guide for agents to familiarize them with state standards. She also restructured the Mississippi Insurance Department into three divisions: one to manage insurance claims, one to conduct industry oversight, and another to handle complaints. In 1974 she introduced new fire safety rules for mobile home construction. That year declared her support for the ratification of the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). Since she was the highest-ranking woman politician in the state, the media frequently asked her about the ERA, and she told The Clarion Ledger, "I personally favor it. But I don't believe it is a priority item for Mississippi women. There are other matters of more importance [...] such as education and health care." She held the insurance commissionership until 1976.

Lieutenant governor 
With her term as insurance commissioner coming to a close, Gandy declared herself a candidate for the office of lieutenant governor in 1975. Her platform focused on improving job opportunities, particularly by expanding vocational training. She repeated her promise from 1963 that she would treat the position as "full time" and also called for government restructuring and campaign finance reform. Unlike in previous years, her campaign literature omitted any mention of her employment under Senator Bilbo. She led the first Democratic primary and won the runoff, against Brad Dye, with 52 percent of the vote. In the general election she faced Republican Bill Patrick, whom she defeated with 70 percent of the vote, thus becoming the first woman to serve as lieutenant governor in Mississippi and in the Southern United States. She was sworn-in on January 14, 1976.

As lieutenant governor, Gandy presided over the Mississippi State Senate, which during her tenure comprised 52 male members. She was responsible for appointing the body's committees and mostly reappointed past committee chairs to leadership positions. Under internal party pressure, she reappointed William G. Burgin as chairman of the Senate Appropriations Committee despite suspicions that he was misappropriating funds. She removed Burgin from his chair in September 1978 after he was indicted on federal corruption charges. The action was unprecedented and provoked the ire of other senior senators, though the issue faded after Burgin was convicted a year later. Gandy otherwise maintained good relationships with committee chairmen during her tenure, though her critics attacked her as a defender of the status quo. To pass legislation she favored, she enlisted the assistance of a group of supportive senators known as "The Gandy Boys". She guided the passage of a bill to establish the State Ethics Commission and the passage of the Sixteenth Section Reform Act of 1978, which reformed the leasing of public school lands (she cast a tie-breaking vote in favor of the latter measure). She and Aaron Henry co-chaired the state's delegation to the 1976 Democratic National Convention and supported the nomination of Jimmy Carter as the party's presidential candidate. She also served as acting governor of Mississippi for a cumulative total of 248 days when Governor Cliff Finch was out of the state. She left office on January 16, 1980.

Gubernatorial campaigns