[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Special Highest Court

adictory decisions of the Supreme Courts), the Court has the constitutional right to declare an unconstitutional legal provision as "powerless". This means that the unconstitutional legal provision still exists (it is not formally "null and void"), but it is expelled from the Greek "law and order". 

The decision of the Special Highest Court, declaring the unconstitutionality of a legal provision is final, irrevocable, binding for every Greek court, including the Supreme Courts, and judges the matter once for ever. No court has the right to take a different decision for the same legal provision in the future. If a court of first instance or a court of appeals or even a Supreme Court had judged the same matter in a contradictory way before the issuing of the decision of the Special Highest Court, it is obliged to reverse is judgement and to reissue it in accordance with the Special Highest Court'''s decision.

Another "Special Court"
The Special Highest Court of article 100 must not be confused with the "Special Court" of article 86 of the Constitution. This last "Special Court" is an ad hoc court, competent to judge alleged criminal acts of members of government (previous or in service), committed in their official capacity only'' (i.e. not common criminal or civil offenses committed in their personal capacity) and only when impeached by Parliament. It is also competent to judge the President of the Republic, if impeached by Parliament for intentional violation of the Constitution or for high treason.  In such cases, Parliament acts as the prosecuting attorney and the defendant(s) may be represented by lawyers of their choice, as in any court.

This "Special Court" comprises seven judges of the Court of Cassation and six judges of the Council of State, chosen by lot.  It is presided over by the seniormost judge for the Court of Cassation.

Notes

See also
Constitution
Constitutionalism
Constitutional economics
Jurisprudence
Judiciary
Rule of law
Rule According to Higher Law

Politics of Greece
Judiciary of Greece
Greece