[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 117]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

eceived a shot which broke
his thigh, as he was bravely fighting at the head of his men. Sir
Philip Sydney felt that he was mortally wounded, and was obliged to turn
his horse's head, and retire to his tent, in order to have his wound
examined. By the time that he had reached his tent, he not only felt
great agonies from his wound, but the heat of the weather, and the fever
which the pain produced, had excited an intolerable thirst, so that he
prayed his attendants to fetch him a little water. With infinite
difficulty some water was procured and brought to him, but, just as he
was raising the cup to his lips, he chanced to see a poor English
soldier, who had been mortally wounded in the same engagement, and lay
upon the ground faint and bleeding, and ready to expire. The poor man
was suffering, like his general, from the pain of a consuming thirst,
and therefore, though respect prevented him from asking for any, he
turned his dying eyes upon the water with an eagerness which
sufficiently explained his sufferings. Upon this the excellent and noble
gentleman took the cup, which he had not yet tasted, from his lips, and
gave it to his attendants, ordering them to carry it to the wounded
soldier, and only saying, 'this poor man wants it still more than I
do.'"

"This story," added Harry, "was always a particular favourite with Mr
Barlow, and he has often pointed it out to me as an example not only of
the greatest virtue and humanity, but also of that elevated method of
thinking which constitutes the true gentleman. 'For what is it,' I have
heard him say, 'that gives a superiority of manners, but the inclination
to sacrifice our own pleasures and interests to the well-being of
others?' An ordinary person might have pitied the poor soldier, or even
have assisted him, when he had first taken care of himself; but who, in
such a dreadful extremity as the brave Sydney was reduced to, would be
capable of even forgetting his own sufferings to relieve another, who
had not acquired the generous habit of always slighting his own
gratifications for the sake of his fellow-creatures?"

As Harry was conversing in this manner, the little company had left off
dancing, and were refreshing themselves with a variety of cakes and
agreeable liquors, which had been provided for the occasion. Tommy
Merton and the other young gentleman were now distinguishing themselves
by their attendance upon the ladies, whom they were supplying with
everything they chose to have, but no one thought it worth his while to
wait upon Miss Simmons. When Harry observed this, he ran to the table,
and upon a large waiter brought her cakes and lemonade, which he
presented, if not with a better grace, with a more sincere desire to
oblige than any of the rest. But, as he was stooping down to offer her
the choice, Master Mash unluckily passed that way, and, elated by the
success of his late piece of ill-nature, determined to attempt a second
still more brutal than the first. For this reason, just as Miss Simmons
was helping herself to some wine and water, Mash, pretending to stumble,
pushed Harry in such a manner that the greater part of the contents of
the glasses was discharged full into her bosom. The young lady coloured
at the insult, and Harry, who instantly perceived that it had been done
on purpose, being no longer able to contain his indignation, seized a
glass that was only half-emptied, and discharged the contents full into
the face of the aggressor. Mash, who was a boy of violent passion,
exasperated at this retaliation, which he so well deserved, instantly
caught up a drinking glass, and flung it full at the head of Harry.
Happy was it for him that it only grazed his head without taking the
full effect; it, however, laid bare a considerable gash, and Harry was
in an instant covered with his own blood, the sight of which provoked
him the more, and made him forget both the place and the company where
he was, so that, flying upon Mash with all the fury of just revenge, a
dreadful combat ensued, which put the whole room in a consternation.

But Mr Merton soon appeared, and with some difficulty separated the
enraged champions. He then inquired into the subject of the contest,
which Master Mash endeavoured to explain away as an accident. But Harry
persisted in his account with so much firmness, in which he was
corroborated by Miss Simmons, that Mr Merton readily perceived the
truth. Mash, however, apologised for himself in the best manner that he
was able, by saying, that he only meant to play Master Harry an innocent
trick, but that he had undesignedly injured Miss Simmons.

Whatever Mr Merton felt, he did not say a great deal; he, however,
endeavoured to pacify the enraged combatants, and ordered assistance to
Harry to bind up the wound, and clean him from the blood which had now
disfigured him from head to foot.

Mrs Merton, in the mean time, who was sitting at the upper end o