[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Jayhawkers!

his saloon headquarters, however, Lordan, a gang member who has found out about the trap, reaches Darcy to warn him about it.

Bleeker enters the saloon, now full of gang members, including Darcy, who, informed that the troops are here, orders his men to get out of town. Then he faces Bleeker alone.

The two of them get into a fistfight, which Bleeker wins. But as he begins to take Darcy at gunpoint outside to face the gallows, Darcy talks bitterly about the imminent "carnival" of a hanging, and Bleeker – "Darcy, you talk too much", he says – decides on a gun duel. Bleeker kills Darcy in the duel, though it appears that Darcy might have mis-aimed his shot intentionally.

Bleeker, having broken his agreement by shooting Darcy, goes outside to surrender. But the governor, hearing Bleeker's reason, tells him, "Bleeker, you don't know why you couldn't let him hang, and I don't know why I'm letting you go free. But I've got a feeling we're both right."

Cast
 Jeff Chandler as Luke Darcy
 Fess Parker as Cam Bleeker
 Nicole Maurey as Jeanne Dubois
 Henry Silva as Lordan
 Herbert Rudley as Gov. William Clayton
 Jimmy Carter as Paul
 Shari Lee Bernath as Martha
 Leo Gordon as Jake Barton
 Barbara Knudson as Mrs. Maxton

Production
The film was made by the team of Norman Panama and Melvin Frank who had a deal with Paramount. They bought the story in January 1957. Panama and Frank were best known for their comedies and had made a comic Western, Callaway Went Thataway but The Jayhawkers was serious. Frank said at the time:
The world has changed in eight years. This is no time to satirize western myth; people won't stand for the making fun of something sacred. Actually, why The Jayhawkers is in the outdoor category and has outlaws and guns and horses, it's a western only in that it takes place on the then-frontier of 1859. Something frightening happened in Kansas on the eve of the Civil War... A man on horseback tried to become A Man on Horseback. He took over only a few towns- but what would've happened if he'd seized Kansas for his empire and the Civil War had allowed him to set up a kingdom in the West? The power mad character has always threatened freedom. We had long wanted to use this theme in a story about the American past and when we found this story... it clicked.
Panama and Frank subjected the script to analysis by a psychological consulting firm.

Melvin Frank tried to interest Vivien Leigh in the female lead. Chandler made the film on loan out from Universal International. Filming started 1 December 1958.

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 

1959 films
1959 Western (genre) films
American Civil War films
American Western (genre) films
1950s English-language films
Films directed by Melvin Frank
Films scored by Jerome Moross
Films set in Kansas
Paramount Pictures films
1950s American films