[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Battlecruiser

Project 82 (Stalingrad) cruisers, of  standard load, nine  guns and a speed of . Three ships were laid down in 1951–1952, but they were cancelled in April 1953 after Stalin's death. Only the central armoured hull section of the first ship, Stalingrad, was launched in 1954 and then used as a target.

The Soviet  is sometimes referred to as a battlecruiser. This description arises from their over  displacement, which is roughly equal to that of a First World War battleship and more than twice the displacement of contemporary cruisers; upon entry into service, Kirov was the largest surface combatant to be built since World War II. The Kirov class lacks the armour that distinguishes battlecruisers from ordinary cruisers and they are classified as heavy nuclear-powered missile cruisers (T'Yazholiy atomn'iy raketn'iy Krey'Ser) by Russia, with their primary surface armament consisting of twenty P-700 Granit surface to surface missiles. Four members of the class were completed during the 1980s and 1990s, but due to budget constraints only the  is operational with the Russian Navy, though plans were announced in 2010 to return the other three ships to service. As of 2021,  was being refitted, but the other two ships are reportedly beyond economical repair.

Operators

  operates one  with one more being overhauled.

Former operators

  five surviving battlecruisers were all scuttled at Scapa Flow in 1919.
  decommissioned its only battlecruiser HMAS Australia in 1921.
  upgraded its s into fast-battleships in the 1930s, ending their operation of battlecruisers.
  last battlecruiser, HMS Renown was decommissioned in 1945, following World War II.
  two Alaska-class battlecruisers were both decommissioned in 1947.
  decommissioned its only battlecruiser TCG Yavuz in 1950.

See also

 List of battlecruisers
 List of battlecruisers of World War I
 List of battlecruisers of World War II
 List of ships of the Second World War
 List of sunken battlecruisers

Footnotes

Notes

Citations

References

External links

 Maritimequest Battleships & Battlecruisers of the 20th century
 British and German Battlecruisers of the First World War
 Navsource Online

Ship types
Battlecruisers