[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battery Directive

The Directive 2006/66/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 September 2006 on batteries and accumulators and waste batteries and accumulators and repealing Directive 91/157/EEC, commonly known as the Battery Directive, regulates the manufacture and disposal of batteries in the European Union with the aim of "improving the environmental performance of batteries and accumulators".

Batteries commonly contain hazardous elements such as mercury, cadmium, and lead, which when incinerated or landfilled, present a risk to the environment and human health.

Directive 91/157/EEC was adopted on 18 March 1991 to reduce these hazards by harmonising EU member states' laws on the disposal and recycling of batteries containing dangerous substances. Directive 2006/66/EC repealed Directive 91/157/EEC and
 sets maximum quantities for certain chemicals and metals in certain batteries,
 tasks Member States with encouraging improvements to the environmental performance of batteries,
 requires proper waste management of these batteries, including recycling, collections, "take-back" programs, and disposal,
 sets waste battery collection rates,
 sets financial responsibility for programs,
 and makes rules covering most phases of this legislation, including labelling, marking, documentation, reviews, and other administrative and procedural matters.

Directive  2006/66/EC was amended by Directive 2013/56/EU of 20  November  2013, as  regards  the  placing  on  the  market  of  portable  batteries  and  accumulators  containing  cadmium  intended  for  use  in  cordless  power  tools,  and  of  button  cells  with  low  mercury  content,  and  repealing  Commission  Decision  2009/603/EC.

General
This directive, like many other European compliance directives, is not directly applicable, but requires legislative action from European Member States. Though European directives are legislation, European Union Member States must comply with them to avoid legal action that the European Commission can bring to bear if they don't.  However Member States retain some freedom by what means they implement a directive's requirements.

The battery directive has the objective of improving the environmental performance of batteries by regulating the use of certain substances in the manufacture of batteries (lead, mercury, cadmium, etc.) and setting standards for the waste management of these batteries. Many European member states have passed battery and waste management laws. Among those nations are: Belgium, Sweden, Germany, Austria, Denmark, Finland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, France, and others. Finland and Denmark have supported a total prohibition of cadmium in batteries. Belgium and Sweden have battery recycling rates of 59% and 55% respectively. With the finalisation of the 2006 Battery Directive, European states now have specific guidelines to which to make rules to comport.

History

Early waste directives
The first of the western European directives dealing with waste management was the 
"Council Directive 75/442/EEC of 15 July 1975 on Waste." It didn't mention batteries or chemicals but specified the regulation of "particular categories of waste," which was later referenced to by both Battery Directives as a legislative or legal basis. The first version of the European Council Directive on Batteries and Accumulators 91/157/EEC was approved on 18 March 1991. It covered many battery types, including industrial, automotive, dry-cell, lead-acid, alkaline, nickel-cadmium, nickel-metal-hydride, lithium, lithium-ion, mercury, etc. The first program in the directive was set for a six-year duration, starting in 1993.

Provisions of the first directive
The 1991 battery Directive's "Article 3; MI; Annex I" stated the prohibition (with exceptions) of marketing:
 Batteries on the market after 18 September 1992 with:
1.A. more than 25 mg of mercury per cell, except alkaline manganese batteries
1.B. more than 0.025% cadmium by weight
1.C. more than 0.4% lead by weight
 Alkaline manganese batteries placed on the market after 18 September 1992 containing more than 0.025% of mercury by weight 
 Batteries on the market after 1 January 1999 with more than 0.0005% mercury by weight

Since battery recycling rates then were about 5% the directive sought to improve these rates. It set up recycling goals: separate collection and recycling, and provide recycling/collection information to the consumer. The responsibility for providing separated recycling collection was largely given to the manufacturers. Recycling requirements are found in Articles 4, 6, and 7.

There were marking provisions, including manufacturer responsibility for marking on the battery products themselves the contained substances and recycling information.