[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 80]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

n a winter's
night, and read to my father and mother, and sister, as I sometimes do,
or when I talk with you and Master Tommy upon improving subjects, I
never desire any other friends or conversation. But, pray sir, what is
Ranelagh?

_Mr Barlow._--Ranelagh is a very large round room, to which, at
particular times of the year, great numbers of persons go in their
carriages to walk about for several hours.

_Harry._--And does nobody go there that has not several friends? Because
Master Tommy said that people went to Ranelagh to meet their friends.

Mr Barlow smiled at this question, and answered, "The room is generally
so crowded, that people have little opportunity for any kind of
conversation. They walk round the room in a circle, one after the other,
just like horses in a mill. When persons meet that know each other, they
perhaps smile and bow, but are shoved forward, without having any
opportunity to stop. As to _friends_, few people go to look for them
there; and if they were to meet them, few would take the trouble of
speaking to them, unless they were dressed in a fashionable manner, and
seemed to be of _consequence_."

_Harry._--That is very extraordinary, indeed. Why, sir, what can a man's
dress have to do with friendship? Should I love you a bit better if you
were to wear the finest clothes in the world; or should I like my father
the better if he were to put on a laced coat like Squire Chase? On the
contrary, whenever I see people dressed very fine, I cannot help
thinking of the story you once read me of Agesilaus, king of Sparta.

_Tommy._--What is that story? Do let me hear it.

_Mr Barlow._--To-morrow you shall hear it; at present we have read and
conversed enough; it is better that you should go out and amuse
yourselves.

The little boys then went out, and returned to a diversion they had been
amusing themselves with for several days, the making a prodigious
snowball. They had begun by making a small globe of snow with their
hands, which they turned over and over, till, by continually collecting
fresh matter, it grew so large that they were unable to roll it any
farther. Here Tommy observed that their labours must end, "for it was
impossible to turn it any longer." "No," said Harry, "I know a remedy
for that." So he ran and fetched a couple of thick sticks about five
feet long, and giving one of them to Tommy, he took the other himself.
He then desired Tommy to put the end of his stick under the mass, while
he did the same on his side, and then, lifting at the other end, they
rolled the heap forward with the greatest ease.

Tommy was extremely surprised at this, and said, "How can this be? We
are not a bit stronger than we were before; and yet now we are able to
roll this snowball along with ease, which we could not even stir
before." "That is very true," answered Harry, "but it is owing to these
sticks. This is the way that the labourers move the largest trees,
which, without this contrivance, they would not be able to stir." "I am
very much surprised at this," said Tommy; "I never should have imagined
that the sticks would have given us more strength than we had before."

Just as he had said this, through a violent effort, both their sticks
broke short in the middle. "This is no great loss," observed Tommy, "for
the ends will do just as well as the whole sticks."

They then tried to shove the ball again with the truncheons which
remained in their hands; but, to the new surprise of Tommy, they found
they were unable to stir it. "That is very curious indeed," said Tommy;
"I find that only long sticks are of any use." "That," said Harry, "I
could have told you before, but I had a mind you should find it out
yourself. The longer the stick is, provided it is sufficiently strong,
and you can manage it, the more easily will you succeed." "This is
really very curious," replied Tommy; "but I see some of Mr Barlow's
labourers at work a little way off, let us go to them, and desire them
to cut us two longer sticks, that we may try their effect."

They then went up to the men who were at work, but here a new subject of
admiration presented itself to Tommy's mind. There was a root of a
prodigious oak tree, so large and heavy, that half-a-dozen horses would
scarcely have been able to draw it along; besides, it was so tough and
knotty, that the sharpest axe could hardly make any impression upon it.
This a couple of old men were attempting to cleave in pieces, in order
to make billets for Mr Barlow's fire.

Tommy, who thought their strength totally disproportionate to such an
undertaking, could not help pitying them; and observing, that certainly
Mr Barlow "did not know what they were about, or he would have prevented
such poor weak old men from fatiguing themselves about what they never
could perform." "Do you think so?" replied Harry; "what would you then
say, if you were to see me, little as I am, perform this wonderful