[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Revolta da Armada

ported by president Floriano. The city of Desterro, as the capital of Santa Catarina state was then called, was dominated by the rebels. At dawn on 1 December, admiral Custódio de Melo, in the Aquidabã, followed by the República and auxiliary cruisers, went south to join forces with the federalists.

On 7 December, rear admiral Luis Filipe Saldanha da Gama, then director of the Naval School, joined the movement, taking over the rebels in Rio de Janeiro, beginning the second phase of the Navy Revolt. By this time, the rebels had little ammunition and no food. The São José Fortress, on Cobras Island, was practically destroyed by the loyalist troops. On 9 February 1894, the rebels, under the command of Saldanha da Gama, landed at Ponta da Armação, in the city of Niterói, but were defeated. They were also defeated in Governador Island.

Niterói, which was the capital of the state of Rio de Janeiro, had its seven forts bombed. On 20 February 1894, the seat of government was then moved to Petrópolis, a mountain town beyond the reach of the Navy guns. Niterói would not return to host the capital in 1903.

The federal government had acquired warships, which were dubbed the "paper fleet". The command of this squadron was given to admiral Jerônimo Gonçalves, a veteran of the Paraguayan War. In March 1894, with the support of the Army and the Paulista Republican Party (PRP), the Navy Revolt was stifled. The rebels took refuge in the Portuguese ships Mindelo and Afonso de Albuquerque, ending the second phase of the revolt.

The Federalist Revolution continued in the south, where Saldanha da Gama and his men were still leading troops against the government. Custódio de Melo had taken the port of Paranaguá and was united with the federalist leader Gumercindo Saraiva. They took the city of Lapa and the government troops moved south. On 16 April 1894, the rebel battleship Aquidabã was torpedoed in Santa Catarina by the torpedo-boat destroyer Gustavo Sampaio, which was commanded by lieutenant Altino Flávio de Miranda Correia.

In the República cruiser, Custódio de Melo, commanding four merchant ships and two thousand men, unsuccessfully tried to land in the city of Rio Grande. He was defeated by troops loyal to the state governor Júlio de Castilhos. The navy rebels were defeated. Custódio took refuge in Argentina, where he delivered the ships. According to historian Helio Silva, the end of the third and final phase of the Armada Revolt happened with the death of Saldanha da Gama, on 25 June 1895, in the Battle of Campo Osório, in Rio Grande do Sul.

Photo gallery

Main ships involved in the conflict

Rebel Squad

 Battleship Aquidabã - Seriously damaged (disabled until the end of the conflict) by torpedo attack in combat against destroyer Gustavo de Sampaio in the Battle of Anhatomirim.
 Armored frigate Sete de Setembro - Sunk and burned during the Battle of Guanabara Bay.
 Protected cruiser Tamandaré
 Protected cruiser República
 Cruiser Trajano
 Gunboat Marajó - Sunk after fire during the Battle of Guanabara Bay.
 Monitor Alagoas
 Monitor Javary - Sunk by coastal artillery (Fortress São João) during the Battle of Guanabara Bay.
 Torpedoboat Marcílio Dias
 Torpedoboat Iguatemi
 Torpedoboat Araguari
 Auxiliary cruiser Pereira da Cunha - Sunk by coastal artillery (Fort Gragoatá) after explosion of its ammunition stockpile, killing all crew, Battle of Ponta da Armação (Niterói).
 Transport Ship Madeira - Sunk by coastal artillery (Fort Gragoatá) during the Battle of Ponta da Armação (Niterói).
 Transport Ship Palas - Sunk after collision with a rock in Battle of Anhatomirim.

Loyalist Squad

 Cruiser Tiradentes
 Cruiser Parnaiba
 Destroyer Gustavo Sampaio
 Monitor Solimões
 Gunboat Cananéia - Sunk by rebel Cruiser República in combat, southern Brazil.
 Gunboat Piratini - Sunk in combat against Rebel Squad in Salvador, Bahia.
 Auxiliary cruiser Nichteroy
 Torpedoboat Pedro Ivo
 Torpedoboat Pedro Affonso
 Torpedoboat Silvado
 Torpedoboat Bento Gonçalves - Seriously damaged in combat against the rebel battleship Aquidabã in Battle of Anhatomirim.
 Torpedoboat Sabino Vieira
 Torpedoboat Tamborim
 Transport ship  Itaipu

See also
Brazilian Navy
Rebellions and revolutions in Brazil

References

External links

First Brazilian Republic
Military history of Brazil
Naval mutinies
1893 in Brazil
1894 in Brazil
Blockades
Rebellions in Brazil