[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Syrian nationalism

Syrian nationalism, also known as Pan-Syrian nationalism (or pan-Syrianism), refers to the nationalism of the region of Syria, as a cultural or political entity known as "Greater Syria".

It should not be confused with the Arab nationalism, which is the official state doctrine of the Syrian Arab Republic's ruling Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party, and it should not be assumed that Syrian nationalism necessarily propagates the interests of modern-day Syria or its government. Rather, it predates the existence of the modern Syrian state, which succeeded French mandate rule in 1946. The term refers to the loosely-defined Levantine region of Syria, known in Arabic as Ash-Shām ().

Some Syrian opposition forces fighting against the current Arab Republic government are strong advocates of historical Syrian nationalism that harkens back to a "Golden Age", contesting the Ba'athist narratives of the Assad regime. The Free Syrian Army has incorporated symbols of nationalist insignia into their flags and military uniforms during the Syrian civil war.

History

Syrian nationalism history 

Syrian nationalism arose as a modern school of thought in the late 19th century, in conjunction with the Nahda movement, then sweeping the Ottoman-ruled Arab world. One of the towering historical figures in Syrian nationalism has been the Ayyubid Sultan Salah al-Din Ayubi (widely known in the West as "Saladin"), the Sunni leader who re-captured Jerusalem and led Muslims to victory against European Crusaders. Following the Balfour declaration, Sykes-Picot deal and imposition of the French Mandate, Saladin was popularized by nationalists and Islamists as a heroic figure of Syrian resistance against Zionism and Western imperialism.

Capitalizing on his status as a pan-Arab icon, the rival Ba'athist regimes in Syria and Iraq both incorporated Saladin into their official propaganda. State propaganda compared Hafez al-Assad to Saladin in official portraits, statues, literature, etc. as part of the wider promotion of the pervasive personality cult of Assadism. After his father's death, Bashar al-Assad inherited the personality cult and intensified it with technocratic themes. In contemporary Syria, Saladin is portrayed as a national hero in mass media, Arab TV shows, educational curriculum, popular culture and conservative Muslim circles.

Butrus al-Bustani, a Mount Lebanon-born convert from the Maronite Church to Protestantism, started one of the region's first nationalist newspapers, Nafir Suria in Beirut in the aftermath of the Mount Lebanon civil war of 1860 and the massacre of Christians in Damascus in the same year. Bustani, who was deeply opposed to all forms of sectarianism, said Ḥubb al-Waṭan min al-Īmān (, "Love of the Homeland is a matter of Faith"). As early as 1870, when discerning the notion of fatherland from that of nation and applying the latter to Greater Syria, Francis Marrash would point to the role played by language, among other factors, in counterbalancing religious and sectarian differences, and thus, in defining national identity.

One of the major figures in the pan-Arab trend was the Syrian Islamist cleric Muhammad Rashid Rida, who played a key role in the formation of Arab societies and campaigned for the autonomy of Arab Vilayets like Syria from the Ottoman empire. Through his seminal pan-Islamist journal Al-Manar, Rida wrote on a wide range of issues; with topics covering religion, politics, science, technology and culture. A strong proponent of Arab unity; Rida criticized the autocratic rule of Ottoman dynasts and the domination of Turkish nationalist CUP in the imperial politics. He was also a vehement opponent of European colonial powers and urged the Arab people to launch revolutionary action to resist Europe's imperialist plots. During World War 1, Rida issued a fatwa urging Syrians to support the Ottoman empire against Allied colonial powers and simultaneously oppose groups linked to the Young Turks. At the same time, he had established a secret society known as "Society of the Arab Association" (Jam'iyyat al-Jami'a al-‘Arabiyya), which was clandestinely making efforts for the establishment an Islamic Empire spanning the Arabian Peninsula, Greater Syria and Iraq; with its government being headquartered in Damascus. The empire was to be headed by an Arab Caliph, and the Caliph was to appoint a President for every five-year term, from a list of candidates suggested to him by the Council of Representatives.