[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Warcraft III in esports

zed as the eSports Player of 2004. After briefly playing StarCraft II upon its release in July 2010, MaDFrog is no longer active as a professional gamer.

Warcraft III World Championships 
There have been various Warcraft III world championships, see Warcraft III World Championships for an overview.

Korean Warcraft III Championships 
Due to the intensely competitive nature of Korean televised competition, the top tier tournaments are often considered on the same level as world championships, see Korean Warcraft III Championships for an overview of prominent Korean competitions.

Professional Warcraft III squads
Various gaming teams have a professional Warcraft III squad. These squads represent their team in such leagues as the Warcraft 3 Champions League and the NGL One professional league. Players also represent their team in various individual leagues. This needs to be updated.

MeetYourMakers - Denmark

Meet Your Makers rose to prominence as one of Warcraft III strongest's teams after moving to an all Korean line-up in 2005 signing several players that lead the team until today such as JaeWook Noh, Jung-Ki Oh and Jang Jae Ho. They stopped a long era of Four Kings domination by winning Warcraft III Champions League IX in 2006 as well as the first season of the NGL One Professional League, becoming the only team to ever hold two major titles at the same time. Following the dissolution of Four Kings in 2008, they added longtime rival Manuel "Grubby" Schenkhuizen.

SK Gaming - Germany

SK Gaming has competed in high-level Warcraft III since 2002 and was considered the dominant western team of 2002-2003 (there was no offline competition between teams in those days nor international clashes between European and Asian teams). In 2007 SK Gaming defeated MeetYourMakers 3-1 in the WC3L offline championship after acquiring Kim Sung "Remind" Sik, Lee Sung "SoJu" Duk, and June "Lyn" Park.

World Elite - China

Upon its conception in 2005 World Elite signed a number of prominent Warcraft III players including Jung Chee Chun and LI Xiaofeng and the team was considered one of the world's absolute best right away. They have competed in various offline finals ever since and won the second season of the NGL-One Professional League 2007, making them the only team to win a major league next to Four Kings and Meet Your Makers since 2004. World Elite won two of the Warcraft III Champions League offline finals. In 2008, World Elite were recognized as the eSports Team of 2008  Nowadays the team is led by LI Xiaofeng.

See also
List of Warcraft III championships
List of eSports players

References