[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# SOBT

down the electricity in the city during the approach of the hijacked airplane to make it harder for the terrorists on board to spot the Black Sea - a highly observable indicator that this was not Vienna. In the subsequent assault, the hijackers were apprehended and the hostages were freed unharmed.

On October 3, 1986, the SOMP joined the list of the few counter-terrorism units worldwide that have successfully executed operations abroad. A group of 86 Iranians, including women and children (still more than half of them are well-built men of military age), fled the general mobilization for the Iran–Iraq War. They first arrived in Turkey, where they contracted a local travel agency to organize a vacation to East Berlin, chartering a Balkan Bulgarian Airlines Tupolev Tu-154 from Burgas Airport. They planned to flee to West Berlin, seeking political asylum. When they arrived at Berlin Schönefeld Airport, however their plan was thwarted as the West Berlin authorities refused to admit them on their territory without proper visas. The East German border control officials at the airport collected their passports and refuse to let them off the airplane to contain a rising international scandal. 
The frustrated passengers took the pilots and the air hostesses of the flight and cabin crew hostages and demanded that the airplane be refuelled and diverted to Sweden. The Bulgarian government was informed and on the following morning the commander of SOMP Lt-col. Vasil Velkov flew off to Berlin together with the ready assault group under Captain Dimitar Stefanov. The assault group consisted of 5 squads of 3 master sergeants for a total of 17 people. To deceive the hijackers, the East German authorities informed them that the Swedish government has accepted the flight, but the Bulgarian Tupolev Tu-154 was unable for boarding so the group needed to board another airplane. The Bulgarian special forces devised a plan in which they hid in the Ikarus bus sent under that pretext to approach the airliner covertly. Once the ladders were in place and the doors were opened, the assault would force their way from the pilot cabin to the back of the plane. 
Although the assault group was heavily armed with AK-74s, machine guns, sniper rifles, pistols, stun, tear gas, and smoke grenades, an incredibly bold decision was made that the assault group should leave all their firearms and combat knives behind and use only hand-to-hand combat to overwhelm the hijackers to not endanger the hostages. Four of the five 3-men squads breached into the airliner with the fifth squad in reserve. The Iranians were quickly overwhelmed. The Bulgarian commandos were unharmed, and some of the Iranians suffered minor injuries. 
The plane was refuelled and took off to return to Burgas. Shortly after the plane was airborne the hijackers rioted when they found out the destination. They were again rapidly subdued but out of desperation, some of them committed suicide by cutting their wrists with shattered glass from beverages. Once the airliner landed, all the Iranians were transported to the border and turned over to the Turkish authorities.

During the 1980s the Bulgarian Communist government started a process of forceful assimilation of the Turkish minority, known as the "Revival Process", which triggered a series of terror acts in the whole country. The SOMP was directly involved in countering them and apprehending the perpetrators. In May 1986 the unit was reorganized. The name was changed from Specialized Operational Militia Unit to Specialized Unit for Combating Terrorism (Bulgarian: Специално поделение за борба с тероризма (SPBT)).

It was also taken out of the regional militia department of Sofia and subordinated to the Department "Terror", 6th Directorate of the Committee for State Security. The internal structure was also overhauled. The previous 3 assault companies, 1 signals platoon, and 1 support group were reshuffled into 4 identical operational combat detachments. Each detachment was made up of 3 sections and each section was made up of 12 operatives. This new internal organization enabled the continuous readiness of the unit. Under the new operational regimen, the detachments rotated in 24-hour shifts. A stand-by shift was followed by 48 hours of rest and recuperation and a training shift of 24 hours after which the detachment went into a 24-hour stand-by shift a so on.

After the Communist regime came down the Committee for State Security was disbanded and its directorates became separate services for intelligence, counterintelligence, combating organized crime, and close protection service for the state officials, etc. The unit was placed directly under the subordination of the Minister of the Interior.

In total 152 men are serving in the SOBT.