[Source: PubMed]

17. Arch Public Health. 2024 Jan 16;82(1):8. doi: 10.1186/s13690-023-01235-8.

Support interventions to promote health and wellbeing among women with 
health-related consequences following traumatic experiences linked to armed 
conflicts and forced migration: a scoping review.

Jolof L(#)(1), Rocca P(#)(1), Carlsson T(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)The Red Cross Treatment Center for Persons Affected by War and Torture, 
Malmö, Sweden.
(2)The Department of Health Sciences, The Swedish Red Cross University, 
Huddinge, Sweden. tommy.carlsson@kbh.uu.se.
(3)The Department of Women's and Children's Health, Uppsala University, Uppsala, 
Sweden. tommy.carlsson@kbh.uu.se.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Women exposed to armed conflicts and forced migration face 
significant health-related risks and consequences. Consequently, there is a need 
to identify and develop effective interventions that provide tailored support 
for them. The aim of this scoping review was to examine research evaluating 
support interventions promoting the health and well-being among women with 
traumatic experiences linked to armed conflict and/or forced migration.
METHODS: A scoping review of empirical studies evaluating 
non-pharmacologic/non-surgical interventions promoting health and well-being 
among adult women with traumatic experiences linked to armed, torture, and/or 
forced migration, identified through systematic searches in February 2022 within 
five databases (AMED, CINAHL, Cochrane Library, PsycINFO, and PubMed). 
Methodological characteristics and results were extracted and analyzed with 
narrative analysis using tabulations, descriptive statistics, text-based 
summaries, and thematization.
RESULTS: Assessment of 16 748 records resulted in 13 included reports. The 
methodological approaches were quantitative (n = 9), qualitative (n = 2), and 
mixed methods (n = 2), with most reports being feasibility/pilot studies (n = 5) 
and/or randomized controlled trials (n = 4). The most common recruitment 
strategy was non-probability sampling (n = 8). Most interventions were conducted 
in North America (n = 4), Asia (n = 3) or Middle East (n = 3). Thirteen 
intra-intervention techniques and five categories of components utilized within 
the interventions were identified, the most common being skill building 
(n = 12). Ten developed the interventions through theoretical frameworks or 
manuals/therapy, while five developed interventions through public or 
stakeholder involvement. Eleven studies evaluated outcomes related to 
psychological health, disorders, or distress. A large proportion of the 
investigated outcomes showed post-exposure improvements and improvements when 
compared with controls. Qualitative findings highlighted improved mental and 
physical health, empowerment and stigma reduction, and enhanced knowledge.
CONCLUSION: Few studies have developed and evaluated tailored support 
interventions for this population, containing a range of components and 
intra-intervention techniques. No clear focus was identified regarding outcome 
measures, and most studies used non-probability sampling. Few developed 
interventions through public contribution in collaboration with women. While 
limited studies show promising effects on women's mental health, more empirical 
intervention research that closely corresponds to women's needs are needed.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s13690-023-01235-8
PMCID: PMC10790529
PMID: 38225672

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.