[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Maisie Williams

speak for themselves."

In 2019, Williams presented a TEDx talk in Manchester on the topic "Don't strive to be famous, strive to be talented". She ended the talk by introducing Daisie as a social network tool for artists to collaborate with each other, and as a way for artists to take back control.

Williams is also the Creative Strategist and advisor to a platform called Contact (launched in October 2020) which was co-founded by Williams' partner Reuben Selby, who was formerly part of her Daisie team. Initially targeted at connecting agencies and fashion models (including support features including licensing and insurance). Following successful fundraising ($1.9 million (£1.4 million) seed funding), the intention is to expand into other creative fields such as photographers, stylists, videographers, and more. Contact offers an alternative approach to working in the creative industries which is currently dominated by agencies. Via Contact, individuals and businesses can discover and book creators and creative services directly, circumventing the need for an agency.

Personal pursuits

Personal life and fashion

Though Williams has been quoted saying "No dress in the world is worth giving up sword fighting", according to Vogues Janelle Okwodu, Williams has "cultivated a quirky, youthful style", while The Daily Telegraphs senior fashion editor Emily Cronin pointed out Williams' "Street style", and that as a celebrity she has been courted by the fashion industry. In 2019, Williams and her boyfriend Reuben Selby started to appear on the fashion scene as a couple, regularly in coordinated ensembles. From 2020, she collaborated with Selby with the establishment of his own sustainable genderless fashion line — which he debuted during the Paris Fashion Week in the courtyard of the Ritz Paris.

Activism and philanthropy
Williams is a vocal environmental activist. In a 2019 interview with Dazed Digital, she said "activist groups like Extinction Rebellion" were a major inspiration. Williams is a global ambassador and campaigner for dolphin trainer Ric O'Barry's Dolphin Project, taking part in protests against dolphin hunts. She has also actively supported various campaigns in support of anti-bullying, gay marriage, trans rights, Black Lives Matter, the environmental organisation Greenpeace and the clean water charity WaterAid, and used her status to encourage young people to vote (for the Labour Party). During the coronavirus pandemic, she donated £50,000 ($62,500) to support the work of the Bristol Animal Rescue Centre, from which she had adopted a dog.

Williams (in collaboration with a designer from Daisie), along with Zoe Sugg and activist Adwoa Aboah, designed a limited-edition period bag for WaterAid's non profit monthly subscription service Fempowered. Sales of the bags are intended to tackle taboos regarding periods while also raising money to tackle international inequalities of period poverty.

In April 2021, Williams was appointed the World Wildlife Fund's (WWF) first global ambassador for climate and nature. At the eve of COP26 November 2021, Williams (as the WWF Global Ambassador) delivered the opening address at the premiere of Sir David Attenborough's upcoming television series The Green Planet at Glasgow's Imax cinema.

Acting credits

Films

Television

Video games

Web series

Music videos

Theatre

Awards and nominations

Notes

References

External links

 
 
 

1997 births
Living people
Actresses from Bristol
Actresses from Somerset
English child actresses
English film actresses
English television actresses
English voice actresses
English women in business
Internet company founders
Technology company founders
21st-century English actresses
21st-century English businesspeople