[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Dražgoše

financed by revenues from a cooperative sawmill enterprise they established following the war. The state didn't see through a promise to construct a road to the village. Kavčič notes that views regarding the commemoration differ among residents, with villagers divided into two "camps" on the issue.

Another perspective is provided in documents related to the German Catholic priest, Rudolf Besel, whom the Austrian Church sent to Upper Carniola after the Germans expelled nearly all the Slovene priests and other intellectuals from Upper Carniola, since they planned to annex the region to Germany and Germanize local Slovenes. Besel was called to Dražgoše 10 days before the battle, to officiate over a funeral, where local Partisans were in attendance, and he noted "they greeted me honorably." He sought to stay entirely neutral in the war, so the Partisans gave him a pass to travel around to attend to believers in the many priest-emptied parishes throughout Upper Carniola. He was the priest who secretly buried the 41 Dražgoše villagers executed by the Germans, and later saved the gold-leaf altars from the ornate Dražgoše church before the Germans blew it up (although later the Germans stole some of its most valuable statuettes). Afterwards, sources say the Germans tried to blame the Partisans for the executions of villagers, and tried to present as a "rescue" the German jailing of Dražgoše women and children. Besel stayed on as a beloved priest after the war in Slovenia, but due mainly to enmity and distrust from the local Slovenian Church and priests, he finally left Slovenia in 1947, expressing homesickness for Slovenia thereafter.

According to a 2005 book by Corsellis and Ferrar that narrates the testimonies of anti-Partisan and anti-communist Slovene refugees and exiles after the war, the Partisans believed that uprisings such as the one at Dražgoše and the resulting reprisals turned the population against the Germans. Anti-communist Catholics believed that the Partisans staged such uprisings in or near Catholic villages deliberately so that Catholics would be targeted by reprisals, they write, and thought the battle was a "harmful waste of effort".

French literature professor and political analyst Boštjan M. Turk characterised the Battle of Dražgoše as a "national anguish and a disgrace for the Partisan movement". According to Turk, "Dražgoše represents a major defeat of the will and spirit of the resistance against the Nazis because innocent people paid for the Partisan hoax with their lives." Turk believes that, from the communist point of view, Dražgoše was a success because it raised fear among people and made carrying out the revolution and the conquest of power much easier.

The historian Stane Granda has described the Battle of Dražgoše as a "catastrophic miscalculation" and the "devastation of the village of Dražgoše", and its contemporary national celebration as an "ideological and political construction".

The historian and curator of the Slovene Military Museum, Martin Premk, notes that whereas Slovene historians in the former Yugoslavia, such as Tone Ferenc, dealt with the battle objectively, in the 1960s, a popular book by the non-historian Ivan Jan appeared, which spurred greater interest in Dražgoše, but also included some exaggerations. Then, following Slovene independence, attacks appeared on the Battle of Dražgoše, according to Premk the most ridiculous being the claim that the Partisans chose Dražgoše because they somehow knew in advance that the Germans would execute locals and burn the village in reprisal. After these extremes, Premk sees a return to more traditional assessments, which includes the fact that the Dražgoše battle resonated as an important symbol in Slovenia and even the world, of heroic resistance to German annexation. He also mentions the extreme reprisals by the Germans, including the attempt to completely wipe out the village, as proof of the threat it presented to the German forces. Premk's position has been characterized by some media as questionable and politically motivated. On the other hand, Spomenka Hribar, an author, a key figure in Slovene independence and recipient of the EU Parliament's European Citizen’s prize, states that the referenced critics of Premk, like Jože Dežman and others on the political right, engage in political and ideological manipulation of WWII history and the dead, in an attempt to slander the Partisan movement, and justify collaboration with the Nazis and fascists. Jelka Gortnar, who as a young girl witnessed the battle, told that the partisans had been betrayed by three men from Dražgoše and the neighbouring village Češnjica: Anžic, Cvirn and Pinter.

References

External links 
 

Slovenia in World War II
1942 in Slovenia
Drazgose
Slovene Partisans
Massacres in Slovenia
Dražgoše
1942 in Yugoslavia
Dražgoše
Yugoslavia in World War II
January 1942 events
Mass murder in 1942
Nazi war crimes
Battles involving Slovenia