[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Klingon culture

Worf's personal stance.

Religion 
According to legend, Kortar, the "first" Klingon, and his mate were created in a place called QI'tu'. The two destroyed the gods who made them and turned the heavens into ashes. This event is recounted in marriage ceremonies through the following singular passage:

"With fire and steel did the gods forge the Klingon heart. So fiercely did it beat, so loud was the sound, that the gods cried out, 'On this day, we have brought forth the strongest heart in all the heavens. None can stand before it without trembling at its strength.' But then the Klingon heart weakened, its steady rhythm faltered, and the gods said, 'Why do you weaken so? We have made you the strongest in all of creation. 'And the heart said... 'I am alone. 'And the gods knew that they had erred. So, they went back to their forge and brought forth another heart. But the second heart beat stronger than the first, and the first was jealous of its power. Fortunately, wisdom had softened the second heart. 'If we join together, no force can stop us.' And when the two hearts began to beat together, they filled the heavens with a terrible sound. For the first time, the gods knew fear. They tried to flee, but it was too late. The Klingon hearts destroyed the gods who created them and turned the heavens to ashes. To this day, no one can oppose the beating of two Klingon hearts."

In the episode "Barge of the Dead" on Star Trek: Voyager, B'Elanna Torres envisioned the Barge of the Dead in penance for the dishonor her Klingon mother, Miral, felt for not raising her half-human daughter to be a Klingon warrior of the Way of Kahless. As she attempted (successfully) to escape going to Gre'Thor, the realm of the dishonoured dead, B'Elanna met Kortar, whose fate when he died was to ferry Klingon souls over the River of Blood, to Gre'Thor's gates, where the demonic being Fek'lhr waited to consume particularly loathsome souls.

In the TNG episode "Rightful Heir", the clone of Kahless refers to a Klingon legend, telling of his return near a star that is visible from the night sky of the Klingon homeworld. This, combined with the Klingons' strong religious tradition, could suggest that religious beliefs might have been a driving force behind early Klingon space travel. However, several sources from the Star Trek: Deep Space Nine universe have stated that space travel was one of the legacies left behind by the marauding Hur'q, who pillaged the Klingon homeworld of Qo'nos, taking with them the sacred treasures of the Klingons, including the Sword of Kahless. Kahless's star has at least one planet orbiting it, and the first Klingons who landed there built a monastery. Warriors that came after have visited, hoping to receive enlightenment through a vision of Kahless.

Afterlife

Klingons who follow the Way of the Warrior, the belief system developed by Kahless the Unforgettable, value honor above all else. Those who die with purpose and honor are said to join Kahless, who had been the first Klingon emperor and a messianic figure in the Way of the Warrior, in the Black Fleet in Sto'Vo'Kor, a paradise where battle and feasting can eternally be shared and won. Sto'Vo'Kor is similar to Valhalla in Earth's Viking culture. In regard to "Honor" their society is based on war and combat; ritual suicide is often preferred over living life as a crippled warrior, and may allow a warrior to die with honor. To be captured rather than killed in battle brings dishonor to not only the captive but to their descendants, who are considered "tainted" for two following generations. The only ways to overcome the shame of capture are either to commit suicide or to continue to fight the captors until death-even Klingon enemies recognize the deep level of a Klingon personal honor ("By Inferno's Light", Star Trek Deep Space Nine). Those who commit treason are either put to a slow death by the Klingon High Council or their descendants are "tainted" for six following generations.("Reunion" and "The Drumhead" Star Trek the Next Generation] or are discomandated as "Social Outcasts" By Klingon Society[Sins of the Father Star Trek the Next Generation]; the only rights left by Klingon Social Outcasts is the "Right of Vengeance" (A duel to the death to avenge a murdered loved one)(Reunion:Star Trek The Next Generation)