[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bloodties

"Bloodties" is a 1993 Avengers/X-Men crossover that celebrates the 30th anniversary of both franchises. It is a direct sequel to the X-Men "Fatal Attractions" storyline, in which Charles Xavier mindwipes Magneto. The story of "Bloodties" details a civil war between the human and mutant populations of Genosha, incited by Magneto's former protégé Fabian Cortez. Unaware of Magneto's incapacitation, Cortez attempts to shield himself from his former master's wrath by kidnapping Magneto's granddaughter Luna. As Luna's father Quicksilver has strong ties to the X-Men and her mother Crystal is a member of the Avengers, both teams become involved in the Genoshan conflict. The situation is further complicated by Magneto's lieutenant and self-proclaimed heir Exodus, who seeks to kill both Cortez for his betrayal and Luna for "disgracing" Magneto's line by being merely human.

Plot

Part I: "Family Legacies"
Genosha is embroiled in a civil war between humans and mutants due to Fabian Cortez inciting it. Cortez kidnaps Luna (the granddaughter of his former leader Magneto), and forces the child to witness the chaos that is engulfing Genosha's capital Hammer Bay. Meanwhile, Nick Fury informs the Avengers of the situation in Genosha should not be in their worries until Valerie Cooper and the United Nations give the greenlight to them. Many Avenger members question the government's paranoia. When Crystal retrieves what was thought to be Luna, the Black Knight smacks her away, revealing to be a Genoshan Mutate warning the Avengers the end of Genosha is near. Professor X and the X-Men learn of the Genoshan civil war and split up, with Professor X and the Beast to leave with the U.S. Agent and Henry Peter Gyrich, and the X-Men leaving right behind them. Back at Avengers Mansion, the Avengers go against Fury's orders and decide to go to Genosha, only to have S.H.I.E.L.D. halt them. While the two strike teams make their way to Genosha, Cortez sends a threatening message to the media, stating that all remaining humans in Genosha will perish at his hands.

Part II: "Civil Disobediences"
Cortez readies an army of mutants and Mutates to eliminate the humans in Hammer Bay, while Quicksilver expresses rage that Magneto's message will come to fruition. At Avalon, Colossus contemplates what more could be done to help Genosha whilst Exodus interrupts him. Colossus admits he is done fighting for the dreams of other people, and decided to stay in space to find himself again. He leaves as Exodus watches over the comatose Magneto. On Earth, the Avengers have a battle with S.H.I.E.L.D. After the encounter, an Avengers strike team (Captain America, Black Knight, War Machine, Crystal, Scarlet Witch, and Sersi) leave for Genosha, leaving the rest of the Avengers to deal with the United Nations' response. At Genosha, Professor X and Beast break off from their UN allies to meet with the Genoshan Mutate rebels, and the U.S. Agent hijacks a vehicle to explore deeper into Genosha. Near Hammer Bay, the X-Men (Cyclops, Storm, Gambit, Rogue, Bishop, Revanche, Jean Grey, Archangel, Iceman, and Quicksilver) are confronted by Cortez and his loyalists. The Avengers arrive at Hammer Bay and encounter Exodus, who warns the heroes Magneto's will live on in Genosha once the humans in the country are exterminated.

Part III: "Bloodties"
Hawkeye, Black Widow, Hercules, Vision, Spider-Woman, and Giant-Man are taken to the UN Headquarters, where Hawkeye has a full-blown argument with the UN Director over the handling of Genosha. Elsewhere, in Hammer Bay, War Machine battles with Exodus as the rest of his teammates deal with the chaos in the streets. The U.S. Agent catches up with Beast and Professor X in the sewers, and the three discover an army of Mutates. The three are discovered by the Genoshan Magistrates. Just outside the city, the X-Men defeat Cortez's loyalists and question Cortez, only to be revealed that a Mutate was impersonating Cortez. Exodus defeats War Machine in a lengthy fight, and shifts his focus to Sersi.