[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cultural references to absinthe

The legacy of absinthe as a mysterious, addictive, and mind-altering drink continues to this day. Though its psychoactive effects and chemical makeup are contested, its cultural impact is not. Absinthe has played a notable role in the fine art movements of Impressionism, Post-impressionism, Surrealism, Modernism, Cubism and in the corresponding literary movements. The legendary drink has more recently appeared in movies, video, television, music, and contemporary literature. The modern absinthe revival has had a notable effect on its portrayal. It is often shown as an unnaturally glowing green liquid demonstrating the influence of contemporary marketing efforts.

Arts 
Absinthe has a widely documented role in 19th-century visual art and was frequently the subject of many genre paintings and still lifes of the day.

Edgar Degas' painting L'Absinthe (1876) portrayed grim absinthe drinkers in a cafe. Degas himself never called the painting "L'Absinthe"; it was either his art dealer or a later owner who gave it the name.  Years later, it set off a flurry in the London art world, and the grim realism of "L'Absinthe" (a theme popular with bohemian artists) was perceived by London art critics as a lesson against alcohol and the French in general. 
Édouard Manet began his career with The Absinthe Drinker (1858), oil on canvas demonstrating that at least he was exposed to the drink and its effects.
Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec was notorious for his consumption of the green muse. He often painted impressionistic scenes of the brothels and night spots of 19th-century Montmartre. Lautrec was even known to carry a hollow cane filled with absinthe during long nights out in Paris. An example of Lautrec's work featuring absinthe is in the painting Monsieur Boileau au café.
Paul Gauguin is known for consuming large quantities of absinthe, and his bold use of flat color has also been attributed to its influence.
Paul Verlaine was addicted to absinthe in his last (alcoholic) period. 
Picasso depicted absinthe in various media, including the paintings Woman Drinking Absinthe (1901), Bottle of Pernod and Glass (1912), and the sculpture Absinthe Glass (1914).
Vincent van Gogh was not a man of moderation, and drank large quantities of absinthe while creating his signature painting style. His ear removing episode is often attributed to overconsumption of absinthe as is his liberal use of the color yellow.

Film

A 1914 silent film, Absinthe starred King Baggot as a Parisian artist who becomes addicted to absinthe and is driven to robbery and murder.

In the 1966 film Madame X, the film's star Lana Turner becomes addicted to absinthe whilst living in Mexico, one of the few countries in which absinthe was legal in the 20th century.

A number of films such as EuroTrip, Girls Trip, and Moulin Rouge! have featured hallucination sequences after characters imbibe absinthe, in reference to the drink's mythical hallucinogenic properties. EuroTrip and Moulin Rouge! include personifications of the "green fairy" in these sequences, played by Steve Hytner and Kylie Minogue, respectively.

Literature

Classic literature
As prominent as absinthe's influence on visual art was, it is perhaps even more noteworthy in the context of 19th-century literature. Below is a short list of important authors who credited a portion of their literary success to the drink.