[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Price of oil

s do not imply a recession and a decline in stock prices. Liz Ann Sonders, Chief Investment Strategist at Charles Schwab, had earlier written that  that  positive impact on consumers and businesses outside of the energy sector, which is a larger portion of the US economy will outweigh the negatives.

While President Trump said in 2018, that the lower price of oil was like a "big Tax Cut for America and the World", The Economist said that rising oil prices had a negative impact on oil-importing countries in terms of international trade. Import prices rise in relation to their exports. The importing country's current account deficits widen because "their exports pay for fewer imports".

Speculative trading and crude oil futures
In the wake of the 1970s oil crisis, speculative trading in crude oil and crude oil futures in the commodity markets emerged.

NYMEX launched crude oil futures contracts in 1983, and the IPE launched theirs in  June 1988. Global crude oil prices began to be published through NYMEX and IPE  crude oil futures market. Volatility in crude oil prices can cause problems for the global economy. These crude oil futures contracts helped mitigate the "economic hazards of international crude oil spot price fluctuations". By 2019, NYMEX and ICE had become "representative of the world crude oil futures market"—an important factor in the world economy. Crude oil futures bring some uncertainty to the market and contribute to crude oil price fluctuations.

By 2008, there were a number of widely traded oil futures market listings. Some of the big multinational oil companies actively participate in crude oil trading applying their market perception to make profit.

Speculation during the 2007–2008 financial crisis
According to a U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) 29 May 2008 report the "Multiple Energy Market Initiatives" was launched in partnership with the United Kingdom Financial Services Authority and ICE Futures Europe in order to expand surveillance and information sharing of various futures contracts.  Part 1 is "Expanded International Surveillance Information for Crude Oil Trading."  This announcement received wide coverage in the financial press, with speculation about oil futures price manipulation. In June 2008 Business Week reported that the surge in oil prices prior to the financial crisis of 2008 had led some commentators to argue that at least some of the rise was due to speculation in the futures markets. The July 2008 interim report by the Interagency Task Force found that speculation had not caused significant changes in oil prices and that the increase in oil prices between January 2003 and June 2008 [were] largely due to fundamental supply and demand factors."  The report found that the primary reason for the price increases was that the world economy had expanded at its fastest pace in decades, resulting in substantial increases in the demand for oil, while the oil production grew sluggishly, compounded by production shortfalls in oil-exporting countries.

The report stated that as a result of the imbalance and low price elasticity, very large price increases occurred as the market attempted to balance scarce supply against growing demand, particularly from 2005 to 2008. The report forecast that this imbalance would persist in the future, leading to continued upward pressure on oil prices, and that large or rapid movements in oil prices are likely to occur even in the absence of activity by speculators.

Hedging using oil derivatives
The use of hedging using commodity derivatives as a risk management tool on price exposure to liquidity and earnings, has been long established in North America. Chief Financial Officers (CFOS) use derivatives to dampen, remove or mitigate price uncertainty. Bankers also use hedge funds to more "safely increase leverage to smaller oil and gas companies." However, when not properly used, "derivatives can multiply losses" particularly in North America where investors are more comfortable with higher levels of risk than in other countries.

With the large number of bankruptcies as reported by Deloitte "funding [for upstream oil industry] is shrinking and hedges are unwinding." "Some oil producers are also choosing to liquidate hedges for a quick infusion of cash, a risky bet."

According to John England, the Vice-chairman Deloitte LLP, "Access to capital markets, bankers' support and derivatives protection, which helped smooth an otherwise rocky road, are fast waning...The roughly 175 companies at risk of bankruptcy have more than $150 billion in debt, with the slipping value of secondary stock offerings and asset sales further hindering their ability to generate cash."