[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Special Forces of Zimbabwe

eir exploits in the Second Congo war, the SAS and commando regiments are forever honored from their professional performance as arguably the greatest ever special forces to ever operate on African soil and for that type of warfare. In the ZNA they are the most respected, mysterious and feared unit. 

 Zimbabwe Mounted Infantry or Grey's Scouts, a horse-mounted reconnaissance unit. The main unit used to be based at Guinea Fowl. The battalion conducts border patrols and anti-poaching operations. The regiment is commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Bothwell Brian Chigaba.
 Boat Squadron with five sub-units:
A Troop, with a strength of 40 men, equipped with a few interceptor craft.
B Troop with assault boats to ferry troops ashore
C Troop, with a large transporter, the Ubique—a 72 tonne landing craft capable of carrying 30 tonnes of men and equipment including armoured cars. Ubique was also armed with 12.7 and 7.62 mm machine guns for self-protection and covering fire purposes.
D Troop, a support group trained for protecting beachheads and making assault landings for non-specialised units, employing mortar and support weapons.
E Troop was deployed for the purposes of guarding the harbours on Lake Kariba and around the rest of the squadron, as required.
There is also a diving school, equipped with a decompression chamber, operated in conjunction with the commandos.

Operations

Angola
Some sources claim Zimbabwean commandos led the final assault on UNITA leading to the eventual killing of Jonas Savimbi. Zimbabwe sent 2,000 troops to help the Angola government end the war.

Mozambique
Special Forces launched several search and destroy operations against RENAMO guerrillas.

 5–9 December 1984 the Parachute Group and Special Air Service (SAS) spearheaded Operation Lemon.
 20 August 1985 in Operation Grapefruit the Parachute Group and One Command Battalion supported 3 Brigade in taking over the MNR Muxamba base.
 28 August 1985 SAS and Commando Regiment units lead raid on Casa Banana.
 24 January 1986 in Operation Octopus, Paras and Commandos were dropped near Marromeu to secure the town and the sugar refinery. 27 January 1986 several Para drops were made in support of the operation.

Congo
Zimbabwean commandos led by Captain Chrispen Nyachiwowo defended Kinshasa against rebels and invading Ugandan and Rwandan army units. Due to the river networks in the DRC, the Boat Squadron saw extensive use during the course of Zimbabwe's involvement.

In August 1998, the ZDF had one SAS squadron supporting a battalion of paratroopers defending N’Djili from a Rwandan offensive. The Parachute Regiment suffered a heavy blow when 15 soldiers and their CASA 212 were captured after landing on an airstrip already controlled by the invading forces. It is believed the DRC government army unit they were supposed to join had defected to the rebels.

Zimbabwean SAS ambushed a column of rebel Type-59 tanks close to Kinshasa, knocking out the lead tank and creating panic in the rest of crews, who then abandoned their tanks and ran away. When the rebels attacked the airport, Zimbabwean SAS and paratroopers remained in possession of the military side of the airport, plus the control tower, and eventually defeated the offensive.

The battle of Kinshasa was won by the Air force of Zimbabwe, which operated from the section of the airport controlled by ZDF troops. It played a crucial role in the securing of Kinshasa as the ZNA could not move since the rebels were all over the place. It was the jets of 5 squadron, which played a crucial role together with helicopter squadrons of the AFZ who managed to neutralise the rebels by destroying their tanks and heavy artillery.

The AFZ gained much respect as they demonstrated expertise and professionalism throughout the entire war. It was the Zimbabwean airmen who secured the Matadi corridor, Bukavu and the Inga dam with the support of the Zim commandos, SAS, Paras and Amphibious sqn.

For more on past operations, please see the Zimbabwe National Army page.

See also
Special forces of Rhodesia

References

External links
 Brief history of ZNA's Mounted Infantry & Parachute Battalion

Military units and formations of Zimbabwe