[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Police Academy 6: City Under Siege

amsey as Sergeant Laverne Hooks 
 Leslie Easterbrook as Lieutenant Debbie Callahan  
 George Gaynes as Commandant Eric Lassard 
 G. W. Bailey as Captain Thaddeus Harris
 Lance Kinsey as Lieutenant Carl Proctor
 George R. Robertson as Commissioner Henry Hurst
 Bruce Mahler as Sergeant Douglas Fackler

Others 
 Kenneth Mars as The Mayor / "The Mastermind" 
 Gerrit Graham as "Ace" 
 Brian Seeman as "Flash" 
 Darwyn Swalve as "Ox"
 Sippy Whiddon as M.G.
 Daniel Ben Wilson as Eugene Tackleberry Jr.
 Billie Bird as Mrs. Stanwyck
 Arthur Batanides as Mr. Kirkland
 Greg Collins as SWAT Leader
 Anna Mathias as Bank Teller
 Melle Mel as Rap Man
 Peter Elbling as Store Manager
 Allison Mack as Little Girl 
 Roberta Haynes as Bus Passenger
 Dean Norris as Cop
 Charlie Adler as Mastermind (voice)
 Paul Maslansky as Payphone Man

Landmarks 
Some of the landmarks and people in the film reference Toronto, the city where most of the first four Police Academy films were filmed. The police station is called Oakdale Police Station, referencing the Oakdale area of Toronto which a small area between the western intersections of Highway 400 and Finch Avenue, extending to just south of Sheppard Avenue, and east just past Jane Street.  This is often referred to as part of the Downsview area of Toronto. Additionally, the criminal organization behind the crime wave in the city is called the Wilson Heights Gang, a reference to Wilson Heights Boulevard, a street in the Downsview area. The specific area itself is called Wilson Heights as well.

Production 
Police Academy 6: City Under Siege was filmed entirely in Los Angeles, California.

Reception

Critical response 
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 0% rating based on 7 reviews. On Metacritic, the film has a score of 16% based on reviews from 8 critics, indicating "Overwhelming dislike". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film a grade B−.

Pete Hammond in Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide gave Police Academy 6: City Under Siege a BOMB rating, writing that "This entry is only—repeat only—for those who thought Police Academy 5 was robbed at Oscar time". The DVD/Video Guide by Mick Martin and Marsha Porter gave the first two Police Academy films 2 stars out of 5; and each subsequent film received a Turkey (their lowest score). Chris Hicks of the Deseret News observed that "No. 6 has a bit less emphasis on vulgarity, indicating that the filmmakers know where their primary audience is—in grade school."

Variety wrote: "Director Peter Bonerz and writer Stephen J. Curwick (the latter taking his second Academy shift) both cut their teeth on TV sitcoms, and it shows. Rarely has a film cried out so desperately for a laughtrack."
Richard Harrington of The Washington Post wrote: "In Police Academy 6: City Under Siege, the humor (kind word, that one) vacillates between the soporific and the moronic."

Johanna Steinmetz wrote in the Chicago Tribune: 

Chris Wellman of the Los Angeles Times:

Box office 
The film performed poorly at the US box office, opening on March 10, 1989 in second place behind Lean on Me with an opening weekend gross of $4,032,480. It was the first Police Academy film not to place first in the US weekend box office. It ultimately took in a low total of $11,567,217 in the US and Canada  and $33,190,000 worldwide.

References

External links 
 
 
 
 

 6
1989 films
1980s police comedy films
American sequel films
1980s English-language films
Films shot in Los Angeles
Warner Bros. films
Films scored by Robert Folk
Films directed by Peter Bonerz
1989 comedy films
Films produced by Paul Maslansky
1980s American films