[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 shelling of Beit Hanoun

a possibility that the shelling of Beit Hanoun constituted a war crime."

Tutu has vigorously protested the overall response to the incident: "The right to life has been violated not just through the killings [in Beit Hanoun], but also through the lack of an adequate investigation of the killings."

Aftermath 
Andrew Exum has stated that the Israeli military had a "long history of mistakes causing many civilian casualties." About the 2006 shelling, he said that: "it was found it was caused by a faulty programming card in a counter-battery radar system, called Shilem, designed to track an enemy projectile's trajectory back to its point of origin and direct artillery fire back at that spot. The inquiry also found that the artillery crew had not recalibrated their weapons overnight and did not have spotters monitoring whether their fire was accurate, so 12 to 15 artillery shells were fired before it was realised they were hitting an apartment complex. It is not clear what changes the IDF made to its targeting methods as a result."

International response
 Amnesty International described the killing as an appalling act and called for an immediate, independent investigation. It said the Israeli investigation had been seriously inadequate and failed to meet international standards.
 Arab League secretary general Amr Moussa said "These massacres of children, women and civilians are unjustified and incomprehensible and unexpected. Israeli policies in the Palestinian territories have gone too far."
 Speaking on behalf of the European Union, Finland's UN ambassador Kirsti Lintonen recognized Israel's "legitimate right to self-defense" but urged Israel to "exercise utmost restraint" and underlined that "action should not be disproportionate or in contradiction to international law." "We call on Israel to end its incursion in Gaza," she added, while pressing Palestinian leaders to put an end to the firing of rockets on Israeli territory.
 Italian Foreign Minister Massimo D'Alema suggested that the strike was a deliberate action by the Israeli government to stop Hamas from forming a government of national unity in the Palestinian territories.  He told his party's newspaper L'Unita, "What happened in Beit Hanoun is a result of political choices."
 Russian Foreign ministry officials urged  "both sides to stop the bloodbath – by ending these attacks, whose victims are totally innocent people, and taking urgent measures to stabilise the situation and restart political dialogue."
 Syrian foreign ministry officials called the incident a "savage attack", "a challenge to the international community" that "must be vehemently condemned." Syria also asked the UN Security Council to stop "massacres" committed by Israel and punish it for its "repeated crimes."
 Turkish foreign ministry officials described it as a "disproportionate and indiscriminate use of force"  that will lead into indefinite postponement of peaceful co-existence between Israelis and the Palestinians.
 United Kingdom Foreign Secretary Margaret Beckett said: "It is hard to see what this action was meant to achieve and how it can be justified... Israel must respect its obligation to avoid harming civilians."
 United States Ambassador John Bolton said that while Washington deeply regretted the loss of Palestinian lives, it also believed that Israel has the right "to defend itself and the lives of its citizens".

References

External links 
 Video: Technical Error at Beit Hanoun, documentary featuring interviews with surviving members of the al-Athamneh family; the executive director of B'Tselem; and the head of the Israeli Defense Forces foreign-press unit (interviews conducted in January 2007).

Beit Hanoun
Israeli attacks against the Gaza Strip
November 2006 events in Asia
2006 in the Gaza Strip