[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# European University Institute

sed on data collection. Launched in 2018, EGPP was established as the successor programme to the European Union Democracy Observatory (EUDO), active between 2006 and 2016. In 2020, Daniele Caramani took over the directorship of EGPP from Brigid Laffan, who was founding director from 2018 until 2020.

Migration Policy Centre
The Migration Policy Centre has been founded in January 2012 and conducts policy-oriented research on global migration, asylum and mobility. It serves governance needs at European and global levels, from developing, implementing and monitoring migration-related policies to assessing their impact on the wider economy and society.

Centre for Media Pluralism and Media Freedom
The Centre for Media Pluralism and Media Freedom (CMPF) was set up to raise awareness of media diversity and freedom issues in Europe. Co-financed by the European Union, it is composed of experts in legal studies, new media policies, media markets and economics, political science and political communications. Through its programme of research, debate, training and dissemination of results, the CMPF works with academics, policy makers, regulators, market stakeholders, journalists and others interested in the debate.

Middle East Directions Programme

The Middle East Directions Programme (MEDirections) is a research programme that promotes multidisciplinary research on the Middle East and North Africa to address turbulent changes in the region that profoundly impact its peoples and cause repercussions for Europe. Based on fieldwork findings and collaboration with researchers from the region, MEDirections seeks the new paradigms and the new research focus that are needed to analyse the region and its on-going transformations to better guide policy-making.

Historical Archives of the EU 

The Historical Archives of the European Union (HAEU) preserve and make accessible the documents produced by the European Union's institutions according to the thirty-year rule governing public access to archival material. The HAEU were established following decisions of the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC) and the Council in 1983 to open their historical archives to the public. An agreement between the European Commission and the European University Institute in 1984 led to the creation of the HAEU. The Archives are administered by the EUI and are operative in Florence since 1986.

Doctoral and master programmes

Doctoral Programme
The EUI prepares researchers for developing and defending a doctoral thesis in the fields of economics, history and civilization, law, and political and social sciences. Around 150-160 research grants are awarded annually by the EU Member States and other European national authorities to successful candidates. A Ph.D. from the European University Institute is an internationally recognised qualification.

While each department structures its own four-year programme, in all researchers are involved in seminars and other events where they are encouraged to participate and present their work. During their Ph.D. students may travel within the EU and further afield to conduct research, while there are also exchange opportunities.

Grants and fees
There are funding options available to researchers, with the majority of EU member states offering grants which cover living costs and tuition fees. There are additional agreements with non-EU member states, while the Italian and Spanish ministries of foreign affairs provide grants to a number of countries. Academics not covered by grants pay €12,000 each year in tuition fees and be able to guarantee at least €1,200 monthly to cover living costs, although fees may be reduced or waived for candidates from developing countries.

For all persons except for PhD and LLM researchers, grants or salaries are paid by the EUI. These persons – trainees, administrative staff, Fellows and Professors – are paid equally. By contrast, PhD and LLM researchers' grants are determined (and generally paid) directly by the Member States. Whilst the EUI Convention's Declarations says that States should aim for grants to be 'comparable', there is wide variation in grants. This is in addition to wide variation in conditions (such as healthcare, parental leave and other grants). Additionally, whilst the EUI pays the same grant to all fourth-year PhD researchers (€1,365, the amount it estimates as necessary to live in Florence), several States top this up.

As of 2020/21, the basic grant/salaries (and top-ups) stood as follows:

Masters Programme in Law
Since 1984 the European University Institute has offered law students a one-year programme leading to the degree of Master in Comparative, European and International Law (LL.M. degree level).