[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nuclear espionage

e Iran-Iraq war broke out. This led nuclear research to become a major priority not only at the governmental level, but also at the private level. Iran has stated that their reason for nuclear research is for solely nonmilitary purposes such as for agricultural, medical, and industrial advancements.

The world powers do not like the addition of more countries with the opportunity to create nuclear weapons. Due to this the world powers made deals with Iran which led to the halt of nuclear research in the 2010s. This did not last long before IAEA started to get test readings that showed Iran had enriched uranium over eighty percent. This is higher enrichment than the little boy bomb that was used at Hiroshima which was right at eighty percent. That let the world know that Iran had the capability to enrich to a level great enough to produce a working nuclear weapon. The other thing they would need is a working bomb designed which is easier to steal than to discover. This has been shown by the Soviet Union, China, and Pakistan. 

The ways of committing espionage have multiplied with the increase dependence on technology. This venerability is where a nation like Iran can benefit. They have one of the world's best cyber arsenals, and it only continues to grow. This allows them to perform cyberattacks much like North Korea has done to either gain access to nuclear weapon plans or get them as ransom. The United States and Israel would both be likely targets of a cyber espionage attack by Iran due to their previous attack on Iran. The attack by the United States and Israel was a malware called Stuxnet that was sold to Iran which eventually caused severe damage to their nuclear program There are other reasons it is believed that Iran may use cyberattacks to acquire the missing link to their nuclear weapons development. That is because  they have used cyberattacks before even on the United States with regard to the attack on JPMorgan. This attack was linked to seven Iranians by the United States Justice Department. This new era of technology gives places like Iran the opportunity to retaliate. The most dangerous way they can retaliate is to commit espionage to acquire working nuclear weapon designs. This will most likely lead to an increase in nuclear weapons research in surrounding countries. That is dangerous because of the religious disagreements in the area between the Sunni (Egypt) and Shia (Iran) Muslims.

This new cyber aspect of espionage has led to many efforts by nuclear weapons welding countries to scour their systems to try to find weak spots where there are venerable. Some countries have even started pouring money into cyber defense programs like United Kingdom. They have annually put two billion dollars toward a cyber defense system in an attempt to keep their assets protected. Espionage has become easier with a whole new route to gain access to private information. It has also become a harder thing to prevent.

India 
India's path to become a nuclear power began with successful nuclear detonation during the operation known as Smiling Buddha in 1974. The official name for the project was Pokhran-I. It wasn't until May 13, 1998 that Pokhran-II, the next major development of India's nuclear weapons program, was detonated. It consisted of one fusion bomb and four fission bombs. This led then Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee to officially declare India as a nuclear power.  However, India was involved in the nuclear dealings of the world much sooner than this.

India was involved with assisting espionage between the United States and China in October 1965. The CIA enlisted 14 American climbers to scale Nanda Devi and working in cooperation with the Indian Intelligence Bureau, successfully planned the Nanda Devi Plutonium Mission. The objective of the mission was for the 14 climbers to work in unison to place a Radioisotope Thermoelectric Generator (RTG), powering a detector on the peak of Nanda Devi, thus allowing the U.S. to spy on China. More specifically, the Xinjiang Province. This was due to the lack of intelligence that the U.S. had on Chinese nuclear capacities during the Vietnam War. Ultimately, the mission failed due to one of the generators being lost during a snowstorm. However, this failed mission has had lasting impact on the region. Snow from the mountain carries into the Ganges , a crucial river for the survival and daily lives of millions of people that live in this region. It is thought that the generator was carried down the mountain by an avalanche. The river also has significant religious and spiritual importance to Hindus,  who worship the river as Ganga. The CIA, knowing about the radioactive material being lost, sent climbers back to the area to search for the generator in 1966. This attempt was unsuccessful.  In 1967 a new generator was sent with the climbers and was placed atop the peak of Nanda Kot. This mission was a success, and the U.S. was able to spy on the Chinese region.