[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mount Victoria railway station

. The original internal finishes include decorative plaster ceiling and moulded plaster cornices to the waiting room and ladies waiting room, moulded timber architraves to original building joinery, plasterboard ceilings to amenities, and tile and carpet floorings. All fireplaces have been enclosed.

Station building platform 1 (1913)
External: A single-storey building with slate gabled roof, gabled lantern roof to the centre and terracotta ridge capping. The walls are of face brick with black tuckpointed red brick jack arches to the openings. The walls have a brick plinth with red splay bricks. The south 5 bays are recessed with red bricks to the head of the recesses. The platform side of the building has timber framed double-hung windows with multi-paned upper sashes and double doors with coloured multi-pane fanlights. A double-hung ticket window is also located at the south end of the building. The building has various gabled wings at the rear. A cantilevered awning over the platform is supported on steel brackets on stanchions. It returns around the south side of the building and extends north to link with the lavatory building. A fretwork valance finishes the bay between the platform building and the lavatory. The half timber panelled gable end is visible behind the awnings.

Internal: The Platform 1 building is generally used by station staff and consists of two locked rooms and a general waiting room in the centre. The waiting room features decorative plaster ceiling, moulded timber architraves to window and door surrounds, a timber moulded dado above rendered dado line, timber skirting board and bricked in fireplace. Staff rooms were not accessible.

Platform 1 Lavatory Block ()
External: A single-storey face brick men's lavatory building with a parapeted gable on the platform side featuring roughcast frieze between moulded string courses. The roof is of corrugated metal with exposed rafters. The other features include a four-panelled door with arched fanlight, a louvered/fixed window on the north side with segmental brick arch and decorative stone sill, and a double window on the platform elevation with louvered upper sashes, segmental arch and decorative stone sill.

Platform 2 Lavatory Block ()
External: A single storey face brick gabled building with a brick screen wall on the south side providing privacy to the men's toilet entry. The building has a corrugated metal roof and plain bargeboards. The door and window openings have segmental arch lintels with louvers to the windows on east side and slots for ventilation in the gable ends.

Signal box (1911)
External: A large two-storey face-brick and timber signal box with a corrugated iron gabled roof featuring simple bargeboards, turned timber finial and boxed eaves. The gable end is clad with rusticated weatherboards and has a timber vent. The signal box is located on the Platform 2 (Down side) with the floor level raised above platform level. It has 6-pane horizontal sliding band windows on the upper floor some with internal steel security mesh. There are 9-pane arched windows on the ground floor with rendered sills. Access is via steel stairs to a landing on the south elevation.

Internal: The signal box retains many of its original/early equipment within a refurbished and interiors including plasterboard panelled ceilings, modern light fittings, vinyl floor coverings, modern kitchen facility and cupboards. Early timber panelled walls in the store room still exist. The signal box and its 48 lever mechanical frame were decommissioned in 2022.

Barracks/Rest House (1911 – 1913)
External: Located to the northeast of the station near No.26 Patrick Street, the barracks building is a single-storey gabled building on north–south axis with enclosed verandahs on the east and west elevations. The building is constructed of face brickwork, stretcher bond to the end walls, and Flemish bond under the verandahs. The gables have plain bargeboards with fretted timber boards to enclosed verandah ends. The large roof has been sheeted with corrugated metal. A large brick gable on the east side facing Patrick Street marks the original entry and is emphasized by a breakfront in the verandah. The verandah feature fibrocement panels to the bottom with brick base and band single-pane louvered windows to the upper portion. A brick chimney is located on the kitchen side of the building.

Internal: The floor layout of the barracks has been altered. An outer passageway exists, which was formally the verandah and external facades. Double-hung windows with simple concrete window sills, timber doors and simple face-brick walls are evident with ventilation grilles along the concrete base. The interior consists of six bedrooms, and a communal kitchen and lounge room area. Floors are tiled and modern fluorescent lights have been installed. Rooms were refurbished with modern skirting boards, architraves, bathroom amenities, and kitchen facilities.