[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# List of Shaman King characters

outspoken and enthusiastic whenever an opportunity to fight arises. She also usually drives the five girls around in their red Lublin van, though Sharona and occasionally Ellie have done so as well. Her Guardian Ghost is a hammer spirit, Korogashi, and its medium is the golden rings on her fingers.

 
 
 A sweet little girl, Millie is the youngest and smallest member of the Lily Five and is frequently seen in the company of Ellie. When her powers emerged, she was abandoned by her mother when she was little. as She and Ellie are the first to appear in the 2001 anime series in an attempt to thwart Yoh from properly qualifying for the second round of the Shaman Tournament by eliminating him before he faces Tao Ren. Millie tends to interact with Yoh's group more than the rest of the girls of the Lily Five and develops a small crush on Lyserg Diethel. Her Guardian Ghost is Onibi, who appears in a shape of a fireball with a face that resembles that of a fox, that merges with her slingshot merges with a crossbow.

 
 
 A tomboy Valley girl, Ellie sides with Millie and is the first member of the Lily Five to appear before Yoh. The pair frequently work together and Ellie is usually the first to come to Millie's aid. Ellie comes across as superficial and shallow but cares about only her friends, especially Millie. When her shamanic powers emerged, Ellie was broken up with by her boyfriend who refused to hear ghost stories. Her shaman medium is her pink French nails and her guardian ghost is Kamaitachi, which is a pink sickle weasel Once merged with her pink nails, they become a bear-like claw that can extend long.

 
 
 The quiet navigator and genius of the group, Lilly is a teenager who wore glasses, a brown sweater-vest with a short rolled-up sleeved white T-Shirt with a long point neck collar, and a pleated tartan checkered miniskirt.  When her powers emerged, she was bullied and ridiculed by her own classmates.  as Lilly speaks little, but when she does, it is a joke that responds to Ellie and Millie. Her Guardian Ghost is a Winter white dwarf hamster named Jangurian and her shaman medium is her own glasses. When her Over Soul is formed, Lilly is able to use her glasses, which will become a pair of white binoculars to help the group navigate.

Team Niles
 is a team from Giza Egypt. They use the power received from ancient times as part of their shamanic abilities. Placed against X-Laws team X-I, Lyserg was given the order to defeat and kill them at all costs. However, a combination of both his and Morphine's hesitation allowed leader Anatel to release a deadly Over Soul that would kill him. With no other choice, Iron Maiden Jeanne released her full power, killing the group's leader with the spirit Shamash, and the other members with other torture devices.

 
 
 Leader of Niles, regarded as a great friend by his teammates and deeply admired by his younger twin brother, considers himself to be the finest Egyptian shaman ever and wants to prove the greatness of Egyptian black magic. A former high government official, he is a descendant of an Egyptian pharaoh and the son of a millionaire whose fortune was built on foreign trade. Anatel wore a mask similar to the king Tutankhamun in battle and commanded one-thousand spirits as part of his Over Soul abilities. Anatel is named for pharaoh Anat-her and Pocky.

 
  (2021)
 A slender shaman who wears an Anubis mask in combat, he considers himself the world's best mummy maker. He is a childhood friend of Anatel and works as an archeologist. Khafre serves as Team Niles' tactician and strategist in combat. His spirit is , the mummy of an exceptional female Egyptian warrior and pharaoh's confidante, though her sarcophagus is destroyed by Lyserg before she is summoned. Khafre is named for pharaoh Khafre and Pretz.

 
 
 A large-set bald-headed man who wears a pyramid with a single eye in it for a mask. Stated to have access to unlimited Furyoku, but he does not have very much Furyoku though he recovers it quickly. He is one of Anatel's childhood friends and the former president of a travel agency. His spirit is a scarab beetle, who provides Nakht with exceptional defense. Nakht is named for Nakht and Nabisco's Picola.