[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Urby Emanuelson

t saw him substituted in the 66th minute, as the club lost 2–1. As a result, Ajax lost their chance to qualify for the UEFA Champions League following a 0–0 draw in the return leg. At the end of the 2007–08 season, he went on to make forty–one appearances and scoring three times in all competitions.

At the start of the 2008–09 season, Emanuelson started in the first three matches, playing once in the centre–midfield position and twice in the left–back position before missing two matches due to illness. He returned to the starting line–up against SC Heerenveen on 5 October 2008, and played the whole game, as Ajax lost 5–2. Emanuelson then contributed five assists for the club by the end of the year. On 21 December 2008 he scored his first goal of the season, in a 6–0 win against De Graafschap. By November, Emanuelson began playing in different midfield positions for Ajax. But at one point, he did play in the left–back position against NEC Nijmegen on 18 January 2009, as the club won 4–2. His second goal of the season came on 15 February 2009, in a 2–0 win against rival, Feyenoord. After missing one match due to a stiff neck Emanuelson sustained during a UEFA Cup third round first leg against Fiorentina and set up the only goal of the game in a 1–0 win, he returned to the starting line–up in the return leg against them and helped the side go through to the next round following a 1–1 draw. By March, Emanuelson then publicly criticised Manager Marco van Basten for his substitution policy after he was substituted five times in the last eight league matches. Emanuelson then scored his third goal of the season, in a 7–0 win against Willem II on 12 April 2009. During a 6–2 loss against PSV Eindhoven in a follow–up, he suffered a suspected ankle injury that saw him substituted in the 38th minute. But Emanuelson was given all clear after the medical team said his injury was not bad as first thought. Despite suffering another injury later in the 2008–09 season, he continued to remain involve in the last remaining matches and scored his fifth goal of the season, in a 1–0 win against FC Twente in the last game of the season. Following this, Emanuelson went on to make forty–two appearances and scoring four times in all competitions.

Ahead of the 2009–10 season, Emanuelson was linked with a move to Bayern Munich to link up with Manager Louis van Gaal but he made it clear that he wanted to stay at Ajax. At the start of the 2009–10 season, Emanuelson continued to regain his first team place, playing in different midfield positions. Having publicly refused to play in the left–back position prior to the start of the season, he eventually played in the position following the fitness of Timothée Atouba. On 16 August 2009 Emanuelson scored his first goal of the season, in a 4–3 loss against PSV Eindhoven. He played in both legs of the UEFA Europa League Play-off round against Slovan Bratislava, as the club won 7–1 on aggregate. However, Emanuelson received a straight red card in the 81st minute for a tackle, in a 2–2 draw against Roda JC on 4 October 2009. After serving a one match suspension, he returned to the starting line–up against AZ Alkmaar on 25 October 2009 and scored his second goal of the season, in a 4–2 win. This was followed by scoring twice against FC Dordrecht and once against Feyenoord. His sixth goal of the season came on 17 December 2009 in the UEFA Europa League match against Anderlecht, as Ajax lost 3–1. On 4 January 2010, his contract talks with the club was broken down. Emanuelson said it would have been a disappointment to leave the club on a free transfer just two months prior to the contract broken down. Amid to the contract, he later scored two more goals later in the 2009–10 season against PSV Eindhoven and VVV-Venlo. In the last game of the season against NEC Nijmegen, Emanuelson set up two goals, as Ajax won 4–1 to finish second place after finishing behind FC Twente, who won the league title. He started in the 2009–10 Dutch Cup final against rivals, Feyenoord, and set up the second goal of the game for Siem de Jong, who scored twice to help the club to make it 2–0 in the first leg. In the return leg, Emanuelson helped Ajax beat Feyenoord, 4–1, winning the KNVB Cup for the third time in his career. Shortly after the end of the match, Emanuelson made it clear to reporters that he wanted to stay at the club following reports of him being linked to PSV Eindhoven. Despite being absent on two more occasions later in the 2009–10 season, Emanuelson went on to make forty–eight appearances and scoring eight times in all competitions, a target he successfully predicted.