[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mariazell Railway

line. The line from Ober-Grafendorf to Wieselburg an der Erlauf still exists but is not in use. The section from Ober-Grafendorf to Mank was the last part of the line to see narrow gauge trains, but has not been used since 2010. There are plans to convert this latter section into a heritage railway.

Operation 
On weekdays, Himmelstreppe trains operate every hour between St. Pölten and Laubenbachmühle. Depending on the time of year, between 6 and 10 of these trains continue to and from Mariazell. On weekends and public holidays, a slightly reduced service is operated, but this is supplemented in summer by some regular trains hauling panoramic coaches, and by additional trains hauled by electric or steam locomotives.

Accidents and incidents
On 26 June 2018, a Himmelstreppe unit was derailed at St. Pölten. Thirty people were injured, three seriously.

Rolling Stock 

The normal passenger service on the line is now provided by a fleet of nine low-floor EMUs built by Stadler Rail, which entered service between 2012 and 2014. In summer these pull matching panoramic first-class coaches from a fleet of four. The three-car articulated EMUs are designed to operate up to 80 km/h, and are prominently branded Himmelstreppe ("Stairway to Heaven"), a name chosen to reflect the line's terminus in the pilgrimage centre of Mariazell.

A number of the line's older electric locomotives (the 100-year-old class 1099), diesel locomotives (class 2095), diesel railcars (class 5090) and passenger coaches have been retained for special services. Additionally, one class 1099 has been donated to the Vienna Technical Museum and another may be rebuilt to return it to its original, pre-1959, state. The two class 4090 EMUs, built in 1994, are stored out of doors at St. Pölten Alpenbahnhof and face an uncertain future. The remaining stock has all been stored, sold on or scrapped.

For nostalgic runs, the Mh.6 steam engine stationed in Ober-Grafendorf is brought in. This was a private initiative in the 1990s by several Mariazell Railway employees who managed to fetch back the Mountain Line's original locomotive.

Power supply 

Due to its history and early provenance, the Mariazell Railway is run on the unusual voltage of 6.5 kV and frequency of 25 Hz, provided by its own supply from the EVN power company.

For the power supply of the whole Mariazell Railway and the region along the line, three 25 Hz multi-phase generators at the Wienerbruck power station were used with an apparent power of 6,600 kVA. This accounts for the single-phase railway supply's apparent power of 4,500 kVA. The equipment is driven by water from the Lassing and the Erlauf. The railway current generated at the Wienerbruck power station at 6.5 kV was partly fed directly into the power lines near the power station, and also partly stepped up to 27 kV to be transmitted to the substations at Kirchberg and Ober-Grafendorf. As a backup against power outages, a power station consisting of two diesel generators, each producing 420 kVA single-phase apparent power, was built at the Alpenbahnhof in St. Pölten.

Right from the beginning, the power cables for public supply and those for the railway supply were mounted on crossbars above the catenary on the wire gantries. Even today – although the public supply has been changed to three-phase at 50 Hz – about 21 km of community power lines are still in service. However, in the 1970s and 1980s, a separate 20-kV line was built between Loich and Frankenfels by the power supplier EVN, which is responsible for public power supply in the area, leaving only the 27-kV line for the railway and the catenary itself on the wire gantries.

In 1923, below the Wienerbruck power station, the Stierwaschboden Reservoir and the Erlaufboden power station were built with three generators. In the second half of the 1960s, the aging power generation and distribution system was renewed. The railway power is now usually generated by the 2.8-MVA equipment at Erlaufboden power station. It consists of a synchronous machine for 25 Hz single-phase AC, 50 Hz multiphase, and a Francis turbine. An old, smaller inverter set in Erlaufboden and two old 25 Hz machines in Wienerbruck power station serve as reserves for the railway. Two further generators in Wienerbruck and three in Erlaufboden with all together 11.5 MVA generate 50 Hz multiphase current.