[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1976 World Snooker Championship

The 1976 World Snooker Championship (officially known as the 1976 Embassy World Snooker Championship) was a professional ranking snooker tournament that took place at two venues, Middlesbrough Town Hall, and Wythenshawe Forum, Manchester, from 7 to 23 April 1976. Qualifying matches were played at the Prince of Wales Hotel, Southport, and at the Park House Hotel, Blackpool from 29 March to 2 April.  The tournament was promoted by Maurice Hayes's company Q Promotions on behalf of the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association. The winner received £6,000 from a total prize fund of £15,300.

The winner of the title was Ray Reardon, who defeated Alex Higgins 27–16 in the final at Wythenshawe Forum, to claim his fifth World Championship. Reardon was the defending champion, having won 31–30 against Eddie Charlton in the 1975 final. During the 1976 final, Reardon made several complaints about the environment, which was adjusted to accommodate him. Charlton had complained earlier about a table, which was found to be non-standard, invalidating his break of 137.

There were seven century breaks in the championship, the highest of which was 138 by John Spencer. It was the last World Championship before the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield became the regular venue. For the first time, the tournament was sponsored by the cigarette company Embassy; the relationship endured for 30 years.

Overview
The World Snooker Championship is the preeminent tournament in professional snooker. Joe Davis won the first World Championship in 1927, organised by the Billiards Association and Control Council, the final match being held at Camkin's Hall in Birmingham, England. Staged annually until 1940, the tournament was put on hiatus during World War II and went into decline in the post-war era; the 1952 World Snooker Championship was contested by only two players and was replaced by the World Professional Match-play Championship, which was also discontinued in 1957. The title was contested on an occasional challenge basis until 1969, when the World Championship reverted to a knockout tournament format.

The 1976 championship featured sixteen professional players competing in one-on-one snooker matches in a single-elimination format, each match played over several . These competitors in the main tournament were selected using a combination of the top players based on results from the three previous years and the winners of a pre-tournament qualification stage. The tournament was promoted by Maurice Hayes's company Q Promotions on behalf of the World Professional Billiards and Snooker Association. The defending champion was Ray Reardon, who had defeated Eddie Charlton 31–30 in the 1975 final to win his fourth title.

There were 27 entrants for the 1976 tournament. In addition to Reardon, several former champions entered. Multiple-time champions Fred Davis and John Pulman had first entered in 1937 and 1947 respectively. John Spencer (1969 and 1971) and Alex Higgins (1972) were the only players to have won the tournament since 1969 apart from Reardon. The draw for the tournament was due to be televised on the BBC Television current affairs programme Nationwide, with recorded footage of three players as part of the segment. Although Higgins was at the Lime Grove Studios as planned, Spencer said that he was unaware that he was expected to be at the Manchester studios, and Dennis Taylor was playing in a tournament in Portsmouth, so could not attend the Birmingham studio. Graham Miles was appointed as a substitute for Taylor, but got stuck in traffic and abandoned his journey when he realised he would not arrive on time. The draw was not televised; WPBSA officials met actress Glenda Jackson at Lime Grove by chance, and she agreed to make the draw. The main tournament matches were held at either Middlesbrough Town Hall or at the Wythenshawe Forum, Manchester.

The tournament was sponsored by tobacco company W.D. & H.O. Wills, using their Embassy brand. As part of the arrangement, they also sponsored a Women's Open tournament, an international amateur tournament, and an open tournament for players in the UK. Embassy's sponsorship of the word championship, which followed an approach by Hayes, endured for the next 30 years. It was the last world championship before the Crucible Theatre in Sheffield became the regular venue.

Prize fund 
The winner of the event received £6,000 from a total prize fund of £15,300. The planned breakdown of prize money for the event is shown below, but it was later decided that there would not be a playoff for third and fourth place.

 Winner: £6,000
 Runner-up: £2,000
 Third Place: £1,200
 Fourth Place: £1,100
 Quarter-finalists: £600
 Last 16: £300
 Highest break:£200

Tournament summary