[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eddie Wolstenholme

£300. Santos (given a two-match ban) and Suffo (fined £3,000) never played for United again. The score at the time of the abandonment was 0–3, and the result was allowed to stand despite the game not being completed. The match was subsequently popularised with the title "the Battle of Bramall Lane".

In the final minute of the Everton versus Chelsea match at Goodison Park on 7 December 2002, and with the score 3–1 to the away side, he sent off David Unsworth of Everton for "violent conduct" (using his knee) after an incident involving Chelsea's Danish winger, Jesper Grønkjær. After the match was over, Everton manager David Moyes had to be dissuaded from confronting Wolstenholme in his dressing room by five police officers. The referee would only say: "Striking an opponent is a red-card offence and it doesn't matter what you strike him with. Things will have to go through the proper channels now and I'll probably look at it again." Despite this, the red card was eventually confirmed, although Everton did manage to prevent Wolstenholme from being involved during their match against Bolton 21 days later, Matt Messias replacing him as fourth official.

On 12 February 2003, he was fourth official during the 3–1 home defeat for England against Australia in a friendly match at Upton Park, London. This was the most notable appointment throughout his sparse international involvement.

After the 2–0 home win by Millwall over Coventry in the Football League Championship on 5 May 2003, Wolstenholme retired from refereeing, having officiated for only two seasons in the Premiership.

He then took up the role of a referees' assessor. While in that position prior to a Premier League match between Burnley and Newcastle United at Turf Moor in November 2018, Wolstenholme suffered a heart attack. The match was delayed by 30 minutes and he was hospitalised. He was later required to have heart bypass surgery.

Retirement and family life
Wolstenholme carried out the trade of engineering fitter in Preston, Lancashire, before briefly becoming a full-time paid referee from 2001 until his retirement in 2003. He has since become Referees' Officer for the Lancashire County Football Association. He still lives in the Pleckgate area of Blackburn, with his wife, Fiona, and they have two children, a son and a daughter.

References

External links
Eddie Wolstenholme Referee Statistics  at soccerbase.com (from 1997 only)

English football referees
Premier League referees
1954 births
People from Blackburn
Living people
Bamber Bridge F.C. players
Men's association football players not categorized by position
English men's footballers