[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Heckler & Koch HK69A1

The HK69A1 is a 40 mm grenade launcher developed and produced by the German arms manufacturer Heckler & Koch (H&K). The weapon was designed to engage enemy troops and strongpoints out to a distance of 350 m; it can also be used to deploy smoke grenades and illumination flares.

Development
The launcher's history dates back to the late 1960s, when development began of a weapon intended to be fitted (using a special mount) under the barrel of the 7.62×51mm NATO G3A3 rifle. In 1972 the prototype was unveiled of what would ultimately become the Granatpistole HK69. After being evaluated, the decision was made to develop an autonomous stand-alone version of the grenade launcher, which was created in 1979 and designated the HK69A1. In the 1980s the weapon was adopted into service with the German Army as the Granatpistole 40 mm (known also in the abbreviated form GraPi). It is also used by the special forces and security personnel of several other countries.

Design details
The grenade launcher is a single-shot, shoulder-fired, breech-loaded weapon that fires a projectile using the High-Low System. The main component is the frame that contains and integrates all of the weapon's mechanisms and assemblies. The weapon features a rifled barrel, which is hinged at the front and tilted upward ("break action") for loading and removing spent shell casings. The barrel in the "combat ready" position locks into the frame with a rotary latch, mounted at the rear of the frame. The grenade launcher does not have an extractor; instead notches were cut into the base of the barrel that enable the operator to remove spent shell casings manually.

The HK69A1 has a single action firing mechanism with an exposed hammer that is cocked manually with the thumb after loading a round. A manual safety secures against accidental firing; the safety is ambidextrous and provides a lever on each side of the frame, above the trigger (the lever in the "S" position – indicates the weapon is safe; "F" – ready to fire).

The grenade launcher is aimed using iron sights that consist of a front post (adjustable for elevation) and a rear sight that has a flip-up dual aperture for short-range engagements (50 and 100 m settings) and a folding ladder-type leaf sight for long distance firing (has notched steps for 150, 200, 250 and 350 m), that is folded down and over the barrel when stowed. The weapon has a synthetic pistol grip, a lightweight telescopic metal stock with a rubber shoulder pad and sling swivels for use with a sling. The grenade launcher is typically carried in a thigh holster.

Variants
The HK69A1 is also available in a 40 mm police variant, called the MZP 1 (short for Mehrzweckpistole 1 > "Multipurpose Pistol #1"). It is equipped only with a flip sight with 50, 100 and 150 m range adjustments; the leaf sight was removed. The MZP-1 weighs , the remaining parameters are identical to those of the HK69A1.
It is used as a tear gas grenade launcher. Dual use as signal-/flare launcher is possible but no longer common (German police).

A version fitted with a 37mm barrel (rifled rather than the typical smoothbore used with 37mm munitions) was adopted by Britain as the L104A1.  The bore was rifled to increase the accuracy of the L21A1 plastic baton round, thus reducing the likelihood of unintentionally hitting a vulnerable part of the body and causing a fatal injury.

Based on the HK69A1 is the HK79 underslung grenade launcher, designed to be mounted under the barrel of the G3 and G41 series of assault rifles (with the exception of the short, carbine versions). When attached, the HK79 does not affect the accuracy of the rifle, since the barrel is free to oscillate. Handling and operating functions of the rifle are not affected by the presence of the launcher. The weapon is used by the armed forces of Nicaragua, Norway and Panama. The HK79 is a single-fire, manually operated weapon, whose breech-loaded steel barrel is tilted downward for loading and unloading (compared to the HK69A1, which hinges upward). The barrel in the closed position is locked into battery with a rear-mounted latch. The weapon lacks an extractor; cuts made into the barrel's base assist the user in manually removing spent cartridges.