[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Solomon's Porch

ount. The maps drawn by these early explorers show the Temple of Herod as being a furlong by a furlong square, stretching 606 feet in each direction from the SW corner of the Temple Mount with its east wall landing on a substructure called Triple Gate.  A collection of these maps can be viewed here.

Trumpeting Stone Helps to Verify Southwest Corner as Included in Herod's Temple 
In 1968, Archaeologist Benjamin Mazar made a notorious find at the base of the SW corner of the Temple Mount, which further identifies the location of  Herod's Temple Complex. The discovery of the Trumpeting Place confirms that the existing SW corner of the mount was part of Herod's 606 x 606 ft temple complex, as described by Josephus. The trumpeting stone fell during the destruction of the Temple in 70 CE, cracking the pavement stones of the first-century street below.
  
As of 2016, clear evidence of two particular sets of blocked gates can be seen in the southern wall of the Temple Mount. These are known as the Double Gate and the Triple Gate.

Triple Gate 

The three arches of Triple Gate are not the original gates to the great halls within. In regards to the sealing of the gates, many scholars teach that these arches were blocked up by the Crusaders. Some believe they were blocked during the Muslim rule of Sultan Suleiman.

Double Gate is closer to the SW corner of the Temple Mount. The triple arches, closer to the SE corner of the Temple Mount, are called “Triple Gate”. Both sets of gates are currently below ground level of the Mount. This was not always the case. Before the destruction of Herod's Temple, (which existed from 16 BCE – 70 CE) the ground level of the southern section of the Temple Mount (below the Al Aqsa Mosque)  was approximately 30–40 feet lower than it is today. Temple Mount expert, Norma Robertson, details this research in Locating Solomon's Temple.

Josephus verifies that the porch, or “cloisters”,  east of the Holy House and east of the outer court (Woman's Court), along the east wall of Solomon's and Herod's Temple complex, were indeed built by King Solomon - Solomon's Porch. 
 
"These cloisters belonged to the outer court, and were situated in a deep valley, and had walls that reached four hundred cubits [in length], and were built of square and very white stones, the length of each of which stones was twenty cubits, and their height six cubits. This was the work of King Solomon, who first of all built the entire temple" (Josephus Flavius Ant. 20:9, section 7)

As seen in the diagram above, the *outer court was also the Women's Court which extended to the east wall of the Temple complex. Solomon's Porch belonged to, or was joined to, the Woman's Court and contained the East Gate to the Temple complex. 
 
Explorer James Barclay accessed the subterranean  ruins of Triple Gate in 1844. His diagrams and descriptions of the ancient structure reveal evidence of its three great halls. His research is documented in The City of the Great King, 1858, p. 509. Of particular importance is the fact that Barclay testified that all of the piers in Triple Gate could be dated “back to the time of Solomon”. He went on to conclude that the vaulted, arched ceilings, in the underground halls were added to the ancient piers at a later date.

Using Barclay's and Norma Robertson's research, we can assume that approx 606 feet (one Greek furlong) from the SW corner of the Temple Mount, and approx 40 feet below the current ground level of the Mount, one would find three, now blocked up, arched entryways in the south wall. Behind those arches are the great halls of Triple Gate with its foundation piers originally built by Solomon.

Triple Gate as one of the Huldah Gates? 

Some assume that Triple Gate and Double Gate were two passageways leading up to the Temple Mount. The historic record gives no evidence of this being the case. In fact, Josephus writes that there was only one gate located in the middle of the southern wall of the Temple. (Antiquities of the Jews, Book 15, Ch. 11.5) The claim that Triple Gate and Double Gate were passageways leading up to the surface of the Temple Mount, is a complete fabrication, not mentioned in any of the historical records, including the Mishna.  According to the evidence, Triple Gate is situated on the east wall of Herod's Temple, exactly where Solomon's Porch would have been located.