[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Elders (organization)

Prize laureate and former president of South Africa, was the founder of The Elders.
 Desmond Tutu, Archbishop Emeritus of Cape Town, former Archbishop Primate of the Anglican Church of Southern Africa and former Chair of South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, Nobel Peace Prize laureate

Donors and team
The work of The Elders is coordinated and supported by a small team based in London. The team is headed by Alistair Fernie, who was appointed chief executive officer (CEO) in November 2021.

The Elders are independently funded by a group of donors, who also make up The Elders' Advisory Council: Richard Branson and Jean Oelwang (Virgin Unite), Peter Gabriel (The Peter Gabriel Foundation), Kathy Bushkin Calvin (The United Nations Foundation), Jeremy Coller and Lulit Solomon (J Coller Foundation), Randy Newcomb (Humanity United), Jeffrey Skoll and Sally Osberg (Skoll Foundation), Jeff Towers (Jeffrey Towers and Associates), and Marieke van Schaik (Dutch Postcode Lottery). Mabel van Oranje, former CEO of The Elders, sits on the advisory council in her capacity as Advisory Committee Chair of Girls Not Brides.

The Elders publish annual reports detailing the organisation's income and spending activity.

Work
The Elders use their independence, collective experience and influence to work for peace, justice, human rights and a sustainable planet.
In their 2023-27 Strategy, The Elders' focus will be on three existential threats -- the climate crisis, nuclear weapons and pandemics -- and the continuing scourge of conflict. The Elders also have four cross-cutting commitments across all initiatives: human rights, gender equality and women's leadership, multilateralism and intergenerational dialogue.

Current work

The Climate Crisis 
In 2023-27, The Elders will aim to hold big emitters to account for policies that align with the 1.5°C limit and the global nature goal, and accelerate just transitions. They will seek to influence the shape of the new climate finance goal to be agreed by 2025, and push for implementation of the UN agreement to operationalise a loss and damage fund. The Elders support the re-engineering of global development finance institutions to raise the trillions needed to tackle the climate crisis, and want to see the voices of youth and women heard and respected, so a new political space can be created for more ambitious climate actions.

Pandemics 
The Elders will advocate for a robust global PPR (Pandemic Preparedness and Response) agenda that should be treated as a global public good, requiring global public investment. Tackling pandemics must involve all parts of society, government, and the economy, and resilient and publicly funded health systems based on the principles of Universal Health Coverage (UHC) are crucial.

Nuclear Weapons 
The Elders' goal is a world where current and future generations are free from the threat of nuclear destruction. They will use their moral voice to challenge world leaders, embolden multilateral approaches, and mobilise civil society. This includes advocating for more voices to be heard in decision-making, particularly women and youth.

Conflict 
The Elders will focus their efforts on advocating for international law and accountability, and on engagement in a limited number of conflict situations where the Elders have the ability to play a distinctive role. They will initially prioritise Russia’s war on Ukraine, and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

Past Work

Universal health care (2016-22)
At the Women Deliver conference in May 2016, The Elders launched a new initiative to campaign for universal health coverage (UHC) as part of their efforts to support and implement the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).

The initiative focused on four areas: 
1)	Promoting UHC as the best way to achieve the health Sustainable Development Goal. 
2)	Promoting UHC's health, economic and political benefits; 
3)	Prioritising women, children and adolescents in UHC's implementation; 
4)	Reiterating the role of public financing in sustainably funding UHC.

In September 2016, Gro Harlem Brundtland delivered a keynote speech at a high-level event on the sidelines of the 71st UN General Assembly in New York. Joined by Margaret Chan, Director-General of the WHO and health ministers of South Africa and Thailand, she called for courageous leadership to achieve Universal Health Coverage by 2030.

In January 2017, Kofi Annan sent letters to Indian leaders to commend the progress made in reforming the Indian healthcare system, and Gro Harlem Brundtland and Ernesto Zedillo delivered keynote speeches at the Prince Mahidol Awards Conference in Bangkok, Thailand. Gro Harlem Brundtland highlighted the importance of inclusive health policy  and Ernesto Zedillo explained how to sustainably implement Universal Health Coverage.