[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Selman

night Hardin went to the Acme Saloon and played dice.  Shortly before midnight Selman walked into the saloon to confront Hardin.  Drawing his gun at the door he walked up behind Hardin. He fired, shooting Hardin in the back of the head – supposedly as Hardin went for his gun – killing him instantly.

As Hardin lay on the floor, Selman fired three more shots into him.  Selman was arrested, charged with murder and stood trial. He testified that he realised that Hardin had noticed him enter in the mirror and that Hardin had gone for his gun. Selman swore he fired in self-defense. A hung jury resulted in his release on bond, pending retrial.

Death
On the night of April 5, 1896, Selman was killed in a shootout by US Marshal George Scarborough. The two men were playing cards and argued. It has been alleged that the argument was over Selman killing Scarborough's good friend Bass Outlaw on that same date two years earlier.  However, this is highly unlikely, as Scarborough and Selman were friendly for many years and Outlaw was generally disliked by the other Rangers – buried with no mourners present.

Instead, it is far more likely that Scarborough's testimony when tried for killing Selman was truthful, to wit: John Jr. had fallen in love and eloped with a Mexican girl, whose father, an ambassador, disapproved.  When they were found the father had the younger Selman jailed in Juarez. On the night of his death, Selman Sr., who was drinking with Scarborough said he wanted to talk privately. According to Scarborough, they exited to the alley where Selman asked him to help spring Young John from the jail across the border the next morning. They discussed a time to meet and then Selman invited Scarborough back in to have a drink.  Scarborough declined whereupon Selman exclaimed "You God damned son-of-a-bitch, I am going to kill you!" Selman drew first and Scarborough then shot him in self-defense. Selman died hours later.

When it was found that Selman's gun was not at the scene Scarborough was arrested for murder.  Just before his trial, a thief, Cole Belmont, was arrested and it was then discovered that he had Selman's gun.  The thief said he saw the shooting and stole the gun before the crowd arrived.  Scarborough was acquitted and released.

Burial
Selman was originally buried in an unmarked grave in the Catholic section of El Paso's Concordia Cemetery, although he was not known to be Roman Catholic.  News reports of the day clearly state the burial was in the Catholic section.  His grave marker, however, was placed in the middle of the Protestant section of the cemetery.

References

Notes
 : John Henry Selman; at FrontierTimes.com
 Selman Guest Ranch, Harper County, Oklahoma ; selmanguestranch.com

Further reading
 John Selman, Gunfighter; Metz, Leon Claire; 1992.

External links 
 

1839 births
1896 deaths
1879 crimes in the United States
1896 murders in the United States
People from Madison County, Arkansas
People from Grayson County, Texas
American murderers
Deaths by firearm in Texas
Confederate States Army personnel
Lawmen of the American Old West
American escapees
Outlaws of the American Old West
Escapees from Texas detention
People shot dead by law enforcement officers in the United States