[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

"QQE".

São Tomé and Príncipe
The government uses commercial aircraft for travel.

Senegal

An Airbus A320neo registered 6V-SEN is currently used for VIP transport. An Airbus A319, acquired in 2011 to replace a Boeing 727, is also used.

Any plane carrying the president uses the callsign "SENE001".

Seychelles
The government uses commercial aircraft for travel. In particular, during a state visit to Mauritius in November 2020, President Wavel Ramkalawan used a Beechcraft 1900D (reg: S7-DES) from IDC Aviation (Islands Development Company).

Sierra Leone
The government uses commercial or private aircraft for travel. They have also been known, like Guinea-Bissau and Comoros, to utilise other aircraft's VIP aircraft for travel. Any aircraft carrying the President flies under the callsign "SIER001".

Somalia
The government of Somalia operated a Beechcraft 1900 turboprop which has been scrapped. They now use private or commercial planes, or they use other countries' government planes.

South Africa

The President of South Africa travels in a Boeing 737 (BBJ) ZS-RSA "Inkwazi" which is designated as "South African One" and operated by the South African Air Force's 21 Squadron, which is based at AFB Waterkloof near Pretoria, the executive capital, i.e. the seat of the executive branch of the South African government.

21 Squadron also operates a fleet of two Falcon 50s ZS-CAS and ZS-CAQ and a Falcon 900B ZS-NAN. The Falcon 900 is normally used by the Deputy President and high-ranking cabinet ministers.

A Boeing 727 registered ZS-PVX and a Gulfstream registered P4-BFY have also, in the past, been used to VIP travel when the Boeing 737 is unavailable. The President also uses aircraft from South African Airways for particular long haul flights.

In 2015 the South African president, president Jacob Zuma, had asked Armscor to procure a business jet with the capability of carrying at least 30 passengers and traveling long range distances and which is much larger than the current presidential jet (Inkwazi). Models being considered included the Boeing 777, Boeing 787 and Airbus A340. This purchase was never authorised and the plans for a new jet were scrapped after Zuma was removed as president.

Any plane carrying the President uses the callsign "LMG1".

South Sudan 
The government currently charters planes from RwandAir and Kenya Airways, due to their respective countries' governments having good relations with the South Sudanese government. There were small efforts made to purchase a designated presidential plane, but this was met with opposition from political parties.

Tanzania

The Tanzania Government Flight Agency operates a Gulfstream G550 (5H-ONE) and a Fokker F28-3000 (5H-CCM), and a Fokker 50 (5H-TGF). Whenever a plane is carrying the president, it uses the callsign "TANZANIA 001".

Togo
In the past, the government utilised multiple different aircraft for travel, such as a Boeing 707, a Douglas DC-8-55, a Gulfstream II, and a Fokker F-28-1000. All these aircraft have been scrapped, and the government now uses private planes, particularly a Burkina Faso registered Dassault Falcon 8X, and an Airbus A318. Whenever a plane flies with the president, it carries the callsign "TOGO01".

Uganda

The Gulfstream Aerospace G550 (reg: 5X-UGF) is used to transport the President and government officials.
The Ugandan president uses a Mil Mi-171 of the Uganda People's Defence Force for internal flights. The helicopter was delivered in early 2016 after the government had budgeted 11.3 billion Ugandan Shillings for the new helicopter. It is equipped with a cloak room, snackbar, bathroom and luggage compartment and seats up to 12 passengers. The plane uses the callsign "RAU1/2".

Zambia

The first Zambian president, Kenneth Kaunda, used a Douglas DC-8 of the now liquidated Zambia Airways among other national carriers. His departure from office saw the new president, Frederick Chiluba acquire a more modern look for government and thus a Challenger CL604 (reg:9J-ONE) was acquired.

In 2019, a Sukhoi Superjet 100 in a business jet configuration was ordered but was later cancelled.

Also, at the end of 2018, the Zambian Air Force bought a Gulfstream G650 (AF001) for the president. This deal caused a great resonance and scandal within the country.

Any aircraft carrying the President uses the callsign "AFZ1".

Zimbabwe