[Source: PubMed]

20. Commun Med (Lond). 2023 Nov 22;3(1):162. doi: 10.1038/s43856-023-00385-8.

Migrants' mental health recovery in Italian reception facilities.

Caroppo E(#)(1), Calabrese C(#)(2)(3), Mazza M(4)(5), Rinaldi A(6), Coluzzi 
D(6), Napoli P(6), Sapienza M(7); UOC Salute Mentale working group; Porfiri 
M(8), De Lellis P(9).

Collaborators: Monfrinotti I, Bosio M, Colosimo F, Rita F, Perrelli F, Rosso A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health, Local Health Authority Roma 2, Rome, Italy. 
emanuele.caroppo@aslroma2.it.
(2)Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, University 
of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy.
(3)Institut de Neurosciences des Systémes (INS), Aix Marseille Université, 13, 
Marseille, France.
(4)Institute of Psychiatry and Psychology, Department of Geriatrics, 
Neuroscience and Orthopedics, Fondazione Policlinico Universitario A. Gemelli 
IRCCS, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Università Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, Rome, Italy.
(6)Migrant Health Unit, Local Health Authority Roma 2, Rome, Italy.
(7)Department of Life Sciences and Public Health, Università Cattolica del Sacro 
Cuore, Rome, Italy.
(8)Center for Urban Science and Progress, Department of Mechanical and Aerospace 
Engineering, and Department of Biomedical Engineering, New York University 
Tandon School of Engineering, Brooklyn, NY, USA. mporfiri@nyu.edu.
(9)Department of Electrical Engineering and Information Technology, University 
of Naples Federico II, Naples, Italy. pietro.delellis@unina.it.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: Forced migration leaves deep marks on the psychological well-being 
of migrants, with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and other psychological 
conditions being prevalent among them. While research has clarified the extent 
to which pre-migration trauma is a predictor of mental health outcomes, the role 
of post-migration stressors in the settlement environment are yet to be fully 
characterized.
METHODS: We monitored mental health of a cohort of 100 asylum-seekers during 
their 14-day COVID-19-related quarantine in reception facilities in Rome, Italy, 
through the administration of six questionnaires (a demographic survey, the 
WHO-5 well-being index, the Primary Care PTSD Screen for Diagnostic and 
Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders 5 (DSM-5), the Harvard Trauma 
Questionnaire, the Trauma and Loss Spectrum-Self Report, and the LiMEs-Italian 
version). Through the combination of statistical analysis and supervised 
learning, we studied the impact of the first contact with the reception system 
on asylum-seekers' mental health and sought for possible risk and shielding 
factors for PTSD.
RESULTS: We find that sheltering in refugee centers has a positive impact on 
migrants' mental health; asylum-seekers with PTSD reported more traumatic events 
and personality characteristics related to loss and trauma; life events are 
predictors of PTSD in asylum-seekers.
CONCLUSIONS: We identify past traumatic experiences as predictors of PTSD, and 
establish the positive role the immediate post-migration environment can play on 
migrants' psychological well-being. We recommend for host countries to implement 
reception models that provide effective protection and integration of 
asylum-seekers, similar to those in the Italian system.

Plain Language Summary: Traumatic experiences before and during migration can 
impact the psychological well-being of migrants. This can result in 
post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), a disorder in which prior experience of 
traumatic events can lead to severe anxiety. We asked migrants to fill in 
questionnaires about their well-being during a 14-day quarantine in reception 
facilities in Rome, Italy. We evaluated whether the migrants had symptoms of 
PTSD and the impact of the quarantine on their mental health. We found that 
migrants who had experienced past traumatic events were more likely to have 
PTSD, and that staying in a safe and welcoming place in Italy helped improve 
their mental wellbeing. These findings underline the importance of designing 
suitable policies to support migrants’ mental health when they arrive in host 
countries.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1038/s43856-023-00385-8
PMCID: PMC10665420
PMID: 37993495

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.