[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Institute for Information Infrastructure Protection

ols in securing cyber infrastructure. The interdisciplinary team working on the new project will include cyber security and business researchers from Dartmouth College, organizational psychologists from George Mason University, and researchers and practitioners from Hewlett-Packard.

Usable Security

In April 2011, I3P convened a NIST-sponsored workshop examining the challenge of integrating security and usability into the design and development of software. One of the several workshop recommendations was the development of case studies to show software developers how usable security has been integrated into an organization's software development process. Consequently, the I3P has begun a Usable Security Project. Using a uniform study methodology, the project will document usable security in three different organizations. The results will be used to understand how key usable security problems were addressed, to teach developers about solutions, and to enable other researchers to perform comparative studies.

Information Sharing

The nation's Critical Infrastructure is under threat of cyber attack today as never before. The main response to the cyber threat facing the country is increased information sharing. Traditionally, agencies store data in databases, and the information is not readily available to others who might benefit from it. The Obama administration made it clear that this strategy will not work – data must be readily available for sharing. The preferred way to do this would be using a cloud, where numerous government agencies would all store information, and the information would be available to all who have the appropriate credentials.  This model has tremendous added benefits – but what are the associated risks? Researchers from RAND and The University of Virginia took on the challenge of answering that question in our Information Sharing Project.

2010-2011 Research Projects

Privacy in the Digital Era

Researchers from five I3P academic institutions are engaged in a sweeping effort to understand privacy in the digital era. Over the course of 18 months, this research project will take a multidisciplinary look at privacy, examining the roles of human behavior, data exposure, and policy expression on the way people understand and protect their privacy.

Leveraging Human Behavior to Reduce Cyber Security Risk

This project brings a behavioral-sciences lens to security, examining the interface between human beings and computers through a set of rigorous empirical studies.  The multi-disciplinary project draws together social scientists and information security professionals to illuminate the intricacies of human perceptions, cognitions, and biases, and how these impact computer security.  The project's goal is to leverage these new insights in a way that produces more secure systems and processes.

2008-2009 Research Projects

Better Security Through Risk Pricing

I3P researchers on this project have examined ways to quantify cyber risk by exploring the potential for a multi-factor scoring system, analogous to risk scoring in the insurance sector. Overall, the work takes into account the two key determinants of cyber risk: technologies that reduce the likelihood of attack and internal capabilities to respond to successful or potential attacks.

2007-2009 Research Projects

Survivability and Recovery of Process Control Systems Research

This project builds on an earlier I3P project in control-systems security to develop strategies for enhancing control-system resilience and allowing for rapid recovery in the event of a successful cyber attack.

Business Rationale for Cyber Security

This project, an offshoot of an earlier study on the economics of security, addresses the challenge of corporate decision-making when it comes to investing in cyber security.  It attempted to answer questions such as, “How much is needed?”  “How much is enough?”   “And how does one measure the return on investment?”  The study includes an investigation of investment strategies, including risks and vulnerabilities, supply-chain interdependencies, and technological fixes.

Safeguarding Digital Identity

Multidisciplinary in scope, this project addresses the security of digital identities, emphasizing the development of technical approaches for managing digital identities that also meet political, social, and legal needs.  The work has focused primarily on the two sectors for which privacy and identity protection are paramount: financial services and healthcare.

Insider Threat

This project addresses the need to detect, monitor, and prevent insider attacks, which can inflict serious harm on an organization. The researchers have undertaken a systematic analysis of insider threat, one that addresses technical challenges but also takes into account ethical, legal, and economic dimensions.