[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Baghdadi Mahmudi

eported that a Tunisian court ruled that Mahmudi should be extradited to Libya. His lawyer, Mabrouk Korchid, said that "The judge decided to extradite him to Libya, it’s an unfair decision, a political decision. If any harm comes to him in Libya, the Tunisian justice system will be a party to that".

On 4 December 2011, Tunisian interim President Foued Mebazaa confirmed that he would not sign a decree to extradite Mahmudi due to fears that he would be subjected to torture if returned to Libya.

On 21 December 2011, it was reported that Mahmudi's health was "seriously degraded" following a hunger strike in his prison.

On 12 May 2012, it was revealed that Mahmudi's phone was wiretapped during the Libyan Civil War and recordings of his mobile phone calls from February to June 2011 were released by Al Jazeera.

On 24 June 2012, it was reported that Mahmudi was finally extradited to Libya. His lawyer argued that Mahmoudi was beaten by Libyan security officers in Tripoli after his extradition.

His trial began on 10 December 2012 in Libya. He was accused of aiding the state to kill civilians and financial crimes. The trial has been deferred on several occasions and, as of 2014, has not resulted in a verdict.

On 20 July 2019, Mahmudi was released for health reasons.

In January 2022, Mahmoudi, who had distanced himself from politics and was allegedly living in the United Arab Emirates, filed a complaint against Tunisia before the Libyan institutions and before the international criminal court for his 2012 extradition from Tunis to Tripoli.

See also

General People's Committee of Libya
List of heads of government of Libya

References

1945 births
Living people
Libyan defectors
Government ministers of Libya
Members of the General People's Committee of Libya
Prime Ministers of Libya
People extradited from Tunisia
People extradited to Libya
People of the First Libyan Civil War
Deputy Prime Ministers of Libya
Health ministers of Libya
Libyan politicians convicted of crimes