[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# History of Harringay (1880–present)

The advance of late Victorian urbanisation during the last twenty years of the 19th century swept away the 18th and early 19th-century houses, their grounds and the farmland. By 1900 Harringay was completely urbanised.

Urbanisation & change
From 1894, Harringay was spread across the borders of the former urban districts, later municipal boroughs, of Hornsey and Tottenham in Middlesex.

Following the Second World War, Harringay began to change as immigration began to impact the nature of the town. In 1965 it was unified under one local authority with the creation of the London Borough of Haringey.

1880 to 1940

The development of West Harringay

The earliest development in West Harringay followed the development of Finsbury Park and the construction of Endymion Road, which was started in about 1875 by the Metropolitan Board of Works. A small area of land between the Tottenham & Hampstead Junction Railway, Finsbury Park and Endymion Road was laid out as streets and fully developed by 1885.

Before this development was complete, the British Land Company purchased most of the Harringay Park Estate in June 1881. It was bought from successful builder William Hodson who had acquired the land in 1880 from the executors of Edward Chapman, the last owner of Harringay House and grounds. Also in 1881 the Great Northern Railway Company purchased a large slice of land, about half a mile long by 800 feet wide, at its broadest. The land, which ran along the western boundary of the estate, was used to construct a large railway sidings.

Having acquired the land, the British Land Company was responsible for most of the development of West Harringay.  Originally established as part of the land reform movement, by the time the company was involved in Harringay's development it was operating as a purely commercial land company. Its role in Harringay was with the preliminaries of estate development—laying out the estate, building the roads and supplying major services. Once this was complete it auctioned off the land to builders.

For development purposes, the area was divided into two-halves: the 'Hornsey Station Estate' and the 'Harringay Park Estate'. The former estate was located close to Hornsey Station and included around a half of the total area of the Harringay Park Estate; it ran from Sydney Road to Effingham Road. To the south, the Harringay Park Estate included all the roads from Beresford Road to Atterbury Road.

The development of the railways in the area was critical to the development of housing.  By 1880 the area was already well served with Hornsey, Harringay Green Lanes and Finsbury Park Stations. With the opening of Harringay station by the Great Northern Railway on 2 May 1885, the area was amongst the best served in London.

The pattern of housing development started closest to the railway stations.  In the case of the 'Hornsey Station Estate' the first roads to be laid out were those nearest to Hornsey Station. Similarly, on the 'Harringay Park Estate', the earliest roads to be built were those nearest to Finsbury Park and Harringay Green Lanes stations. The pattern of subsequent development was for the Hornsey Station Estate to spread gradually southwards, whilst the Harringay Park Estate, likewise, was extended northwards until the two met.

The first mention of development on the estate was made in a report of the Plans Committee of the Hornsey Local Board in October later in the same year, when plans for the 'Hornsey Station Estate' were submitted by the British Land Company. In March 1881 plans were submitted for the 'Harringay Park Estate'.

Most of the auctions for both estates took place in the Auction room adjoining the Queen's Head Tavern, Green Lanes. On 7 July 1881 a local press advertisement appeared announcing the auction of the first portion of the Station estate. More than a year later, in September 1882, an advertisement announcing the auction of the first portion of the Harringay Park Estate appeared. This delay in the development of the Harringay Park portion was due to problems associated with providing adequate drainage facilities in the more difficult hilly terrain of the Harringay Park part of the estate. There was also the problem of finding a satisfactory way to divert the course of the New River in order to facilitate the provision of more building land. Because of the total size of the estates, it was some time before they were both fully laid out and the individual plots sold.

The first roads to be laid out were the Wightman Road, (as far as present day Beresford Road) set out by the Great Northern Railway Company, and what is now Effingham Road, by the British Land Company.