[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wolfgang Leonhard

organization of prisoners of war and expatriates. First he worked for its weekly newspaper "Free Germany", whose editor-in-chief was Rudolf Herrnstadt.

Anton Ackermann, one of the leaders of the "National Committee", made Leonhard an announcer at the Committee's radio station, "Radio Free Germany".

In East Germany
Leonhard was chosen as a member of one of the two groups of German communists who were the first to return to Germany as soon as the Red Army had reached German territory. Each group consisted of ten members. Leonhard was in the Ulbricht Group, led by Walter Ulbricht, later (from 1950 to 1971) Secretary-General of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany (Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands, or SED). Their task was to organize the administration of the Soviet occupation zone. "It has to look democratic, but we must have control of everything," Ulbricht told them. Therefore, deputy mayors and chief constables as well as heads of personnel departments and departments of education had to be Communists. Other administrative jobs could go to people of a different political persuasion in order to gain support from as many groups as possible.

In the following years Leonhard continued to work for the Central Committee of the Communist Party, which became the  Socialist Unity Party of Germany (SED) in April 1946 after the Social Democratic Party in the Soviet zone had been forced to merge with it. Among other things he was involved in journalism and political instruction. In September 1947 he became a lecturer in the history department of the party's college Karl Marx.

Escape to Yugoslavia
Like Anton Ackermann, Wolfgang Leonhard thought that the creation of a German socialist state would follow a more democratic pattern than the developments he had experienced in the Soviet Union. His first criticism and doubts about Stalinism came as early as in 1936, when his mother was arrested, but his basic belief in Marxism–Leninism persisted for years.

On April 16, 1948, Walter Ulbricht gave a five-hour speech at the SED college outlining the plans for the Soviet-occupied sector. He identified the SED as the future governing power and asserted that people should seek to reach their own goals through the state apparatus. This speech convinced Leonhard that Germany was not going to follow a different path to socialism, but would replicate the Soviet system. In March 1949, he fled to Yugoslavia via Czechoslovakia. Yugoslavia had been expelled from Cominform, the successor organization of Comintern under Soviet leadership, and was establishing its own totalitarian type of socialism.

When asked in January 1996 what would have happened to him had the East German government caught him during his escape to Yugoslavia, Leonhard said, "Oh, execution. Because I was a high ranking official. I was the first high ranking official escaping from East Germany who was trained in Moscow, in the Soviet Union."

In Yugoslavia, Leonhard was in charge of the German programmes of Belgrade Radio.

In the West
From Yugoslavia, Wolfgang Leonhard then went on to West Germany, where he worked as a political writer and as an expert on Eastern Europe.  He later said that it was then that he chose the focus of his life's work: "In West Germany I looked around and I decided my life I will devote to one question only, the Soviet Union. . . . My only aim was from 1950 onwards to study what happened and will happen in the Soviet Union and the Soviet bloc."

After his postgraduate studies at St Antony's College, Oxford University, from 1956 to 1958, and his work as a senior research fellow at the Institute for Russian Studies of Columbia University, in New York City, in 1963 and 1964, Leonhard became a professor at Yale University. 

Professor Leonhard taught Soviet history and the history of international Communism at Yale from 1966 to 1987. His popular lecture course on the history of the Soviet Union was one of the largest courses there in the 1980s, and was commonly referred to as "Wolfgang."  One of Leonhard's students at Yale was the future president George W. Bush, who wrote that Leonhard's History of the Soviet Union was "one of my most memorable courses," and "an introduction to the struggle between tyranny and freedom, a battle that has held my attention for the rest of my life.

Leonhard was a visiting professor at the universities of Michigan at Ann Arbor in the United States; and Mainz, Trier, Kiel, Chemnitz, and Erfurt in both West Germany and the former East Germany.  He delivered lectures in places including Tokyo, Bombay, Accra, Ghana, and Colombo, Sri Lanka. 

He was the author of numerous books and essays on Eastern Europe and Communism.  His 1955 memoir, Die Revolution entlässt ihre Kinder ("Child of the Revolution"), was translated into many languages and was an international bestseller.