[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andrei Karyaka

He also went on to say that he would file a lawsuit against the newspaper which published the controversial interview. In May 2006, Karyaka would return to Benfica's squad for the first time since December. He would play 59 minutes in the last fixture of the 2005–06 season against Paços de Ferreira.

In July 2006, Karyaka won a lawsuit against the publication who he allegedly interviewed for. It was revealed that the interview publicized by the newspaper was a fabrication. Despite a second half of the season being excluded from the Benfica squad as well as being surrounded by controversy during his first season with Benfica, he remained with the Lisbon side for another season. Under the new management of Fernando Santos for the 2006–07 season, he was primarily used as a fringe player in Benfica's squad. His most notable moment of his second season with Benfica was scoring against Celtic in a 2006–07 UEFA Champions League group stage match.

Return to Russia
In January 2007, he signed for Saturn Moscow on loan. After a successful loan spell with Saturn where the club finished fifth in the league and scored ten goals in twenty eight appearances, Saturn purchased him from Benfica for €2 million. His three-year spell with Saturn proved to be successful as he managed 108 appearances, scoring eighteen goals. In January 2011, he moved to Dynamo Moscow. His stay with the Moscow outfit proved to be short-lived as he left the club after only twelve appearances. Following his departure from Dynamo Moscow, he signed for Volga Nizhny Novgorod.

International career
Born in Ukraine, and called up for various of their youth national teams, Karyaka never came on pitch for a single national team game. He received a call up to the Ukraine national team on 24 May 2001, but the Russia and Uzbekistan national teams were interested in him as well. On 29 May, he made the decision to play for the Russian team, and consequently received his first call-up on 7 August of the same year, playing his first game on 16 August against Greece. Since then, Karyaka has been one of the vital players for the Russian midfield, starting 27 games and scoring 6 goals. He was part of the 2004 European Football Championship and played all three games for 140 minutes.

International goals

|}

Honours
Benfica
Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira: 2005

References

External links
 Career statistics 
 Biography at Krylia Sovetov 
 Russia – Record International Players, rsssf.com
 
 

Russian men's footballers
Russia men's international footballers
Ukraine men's student international footballers
Ukrainian men's footballers
Russian people of Ukrainian descent
Russian people of Uzbekistani descent
Ukrainian people of Uzbekistani descent
Russian expatriate men's footballers
Ukrainian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Russia
Expatriate men's footballers in Portugal
Russian expatriate sportspeople in Portugal
1978 births
Living people
UEFA Euro 2004 players
FC Metalurh Zaporizhzhia players
FC CSKA Kyiv players
FC CSKA-2 Kyiv players
PFC Krylia Sovetov Samara players
S.L. Benfica footballers
FC Leon Saturn Ramenskoye players
FC Dynamo Moscow players
Ukrainian Premier League players
Russian Premier League players
Primeira Liga players
Footballers from Dnipro
FC Volga Nizhny Novgorod players
Russian football managers
Men's association football midfielders