[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 9th Michigan Infantry Regiment

nnesota surrendered to Forrest, without having fired a shot.

The six captured companies of the Ninth were paroled, and made their way to Camp Chase, just outside Columbus Ohio. Eventually most of the regiment found their way home, waiting for word of their exchange so they could again take up arms.

Tullahoma Companies 
The other four companies remained at Tullahoma for some time, continuing to fortify that location. A month later, August 29, 1862, Forrest attacked the Union garrison at McMinnville, Tennessee, which consisted of the 18th Ohio and Company D of the Ninth Infantry. Thirteen of Forrest's men were killed in the attack; however none the Union garrison's defenders were mortally wounded. The following month, September 11, 1862, the companies engaged Forrest at Tyree Springs, Tennessee. Its only casualty was Major Fox's son, Charles, who died twelve days later. The Ninth would endure only two other combat deaths during its existence. Both of them died in October 1864, from wounds suffered at Atlanta. Major Fox escorted his son's body home for burial, but did not return to the Ninth Regiment. He resigned on January 29, 1863, and was immediately commissioned colonel and charged with raising and organizing the Twenty-seventh Michigan Infantry.

Reconstitution at Bowling Green 
After finally being exchanged, the six captured companies rejoined the regiment in Bowling Green on November 3, 1862. On Christmas Eve, three events happened which lifted the regiment's spirits tremendously. First a Court of Inquiry into the events at Murfreesboro praised the actions of the Ninth, and laid all the blame for the failures at Murfreesboro at the feet of Col. Lester, whom it cashiered. Four other officers from the 3rd Minnesota were also court-martialed for cowardice at Murfreesboro. Second, General Thomas assigned the Ninth to be his headquarters guard. Men of the regiment believed that Gen. Thomas said that "he had a special duties for the regiment that had repulsed Forrest three times". Finally, Colonel Parkhurst returned to the regiment.

The Court of Inquiry report was so favorable to Colonel Parkhurst that Gen Thomas appointed him provost marshal of the XIV Corp, and the ninth was made provost guards of General George Thomas' Fourteenth Corps, Army of the Cumberland as it was now called.

General Thomas' XIV Corps Headquarters Guard 
At the Battle of Stones River on December 26, 1862. When the Union right was crushed at Stone River, the Ninth did most gallant service in checking the stampede to the rear, by firmly holding the Nashville Pike, the disorganized forces were stopped and returned to their commands. Major General Thomas complimented Colonel Parkhurst and the regiment for the very important service rendered at this critical point of battle.

The regiment was mustered out on September 15, 1865.

Total strength and casualties 
Over its existence, the regiment carried a total of 2074 men on its muster rolls.

The 9th Michigan lost 2 officers and 22 enlisted men killed in action or mortally wounded and 4 officers and 281 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 309
fatalities.

Commanders 
Colonel William W. Duffield
Colonel John Gibson Parkhurst

See also 
List of Michigan Civil War Units
Michigan in the American Civil War

Notes

Sources 
The Civil War Archive

Units and formations of the Union Army from Michigan
1865 disestablishments in Michigan
1861 establishments in Michigan
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865