[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Irfan Bachdim

d J. League first-division side Ventforet Kofu. According to Ventforet, the club thought highly of the forward's potential during a tryout held by the J. League Players Association. His fast playing style as a winger caught the club's eye even though he was not in top physical condition at the time.

Ventforet general manager Satoru Sakuma said Bachdim will be the J. League's first Indonesian player and his contract will run through the end of the 2014 season. However, he failed to win playing time.

Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo 
Japanese media on Monday, 22 December 2014 published that J2 league team Hokkaido Consadole Sapporo had signed Bachdim from Ventforet Kofu despite the Indonesian international's lack of playtime. Bachdim was one of six new players whom the club presented on 20 January 2015. On 3 May 2015, Bachdim made his first J2 appearance in Consadole Sapporo's 3–0 win over Jubilo Iwata. After replacing Brazilian teammate Nildo on the right flank, Bachdim drew cheers from the crowd when he streaked up the sideline and sent a well-placed cross in his first play.

Bali United 
After injuries upset his football experience in Japan, Bachdim in 2017 returned to Indonesia to play for the up-and-coming Bali United F.C., which has developed a strong fanbase since the club began to play in Bali island's Gianyar Regency in 2015. It was in Bali where Bachdim found his professional and personal comfort zone. He was the favorite of the fans who often see him ride a scooter to the training pitch from his private residence. He played 66 times for the club and impressed with his goals and trademark sideline dribbles under loud chants from the fans who had their own song for the player who they called the prince. Bachdim helped give the tourist island of Bali its first national football title when Bali United won the 2019 Liga 1 competition.

Unfortunately, his injuries often recurred in Bali, forcing him to slide down the pecking order and give way for fitter players throughout the years. In early 2020, Bali United made it clear that his service would not be retained. His fans gave a heartfelt send-off after his last session as a Bali United player. On 14 February 2020, Bachdim was officially introduced at less glamorous Liga 1 club PSS Sleman, which is also known for its ultras who have propelled a revolution in the club. Sleman fans, however, were unimpressed when Bachdim expressed his love for Bali and Bali United during the transition.

PSS Sleman 
Before Bachdim could endear himself to the supporters of his new club, the 2020 Liga 1 competition stopped only after three games due to the COVID-19 pandemic that led to restrictions against professional football matches for one full year. He renewed his contract in 2021 after PSS signed his brother-in-law and former Persema teammate Kim Kurniawan, pledging he would fulfil his mission to boost PSS move forward.

Persis Solo
In 2021, Bachdim joined Liga 2 club Persis Solo After resigning from Liga 1 club PSS Sleman. He made his league debut on 15 November 2021 in a match against PSIM Yogyakarta at the Manahan Stadium, Surakarta. On 30 December 2021, Bachdim scored his first goal for Persis against RANS Cilegon in the 40th minute at the Pakansari Stadium, Cibinong.

International career 

Irfan Bachdim on 1 December 2010 debuted for the Indonesian national team at the 2010 AFF Championship and helped the squad reach the final match. His two goals in the competition propelled him into football stardom in Indonesia. From this point, he became a regular choice for the national team until late 2019 under different coaches. He was called up for the February 2020 national team training under new coach Shin Tae-yong.

Career statistics

International

International goals 
Scores and results list Indonesia's goal tally first.

Honours

Club 
Consadole Sapporo
 J2 League: 2016
Bali United
 Liga 1: 2019
Indonesia President's Cup runner-up: 2018
PSS Sleman
 Menpora Cup third place: 2021
Persis Solo
 Liga 2: 2021

International 
Indonesia
 AFF Championship runner-up: 2010

Individual
 Thai League  Dream ASEAN XI
Liga 1 Best XI: 2017

Personal life 
Bachdim is a celebrity in Indonesia. He is well known for starring in many product advertisements including Pocari Sweat, Suzuki, Nike, and many more. He is one of the very select few Indonesian footballers who have appeared in other scopes outside of football. He is massively popular domestically among female fans due to his looks and personality.