[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Soulton Hall

Soulton Hall is a Tudor country house near Wem, England. It was a 16th century architectural project of Sir Rowland Hill, publisher of the Geneva Bible. Hill was a statesman, polymath and philanthropist, later styled the "First Protestant Lord Mayor of London" because of his senior role in the Tudor statecraft that was needed to bring stability to England in the fall out of the Reformation. The building of the current Soulton Hall, undertaken during the tumult of the Reformation,  is therefore associated with the political and social work required to incubate the subsequent English Renaissance.

Soulton Hall is understood to be constructed in an elaborate set of humanist codes drawing together concepts from classical antiquity, geometry, philosophy and scripture.  It is further understood that the building influenced the architecture of many later buildings of similar style.

With a hidden chapel in its basement, a priesthole, and bookcases hidden within its thick walls to hide heretical documents, Soulton Hall is likely to have served as a base for the conspiracy which led to the publication of the Geneva Bible, which bears the name of Rowland Hill on its frontispiece as publisher. 

The grounds of the hall contain archaeology of a lost theatre. Emerging scholarship links the manor to Shakespeare, and in particular the play As You Like It which concerns the estate of a character called "Old Sir Rowland".

Mentioned in the Norman Domesday Book, Soulton has housed a manor since late Anglo Saxon times, and a "lost castle" rediscovered in 2021 undergoing a multi-season archaeological investigation by DigVentures. 

The modern manor incorporates a working farm pioneering various sustainable agriculture approaches, and also houses a series of contemporary monuments including standing stones and long barrow burial site.

Sir Rowland Hill's renaissance hall

The present hall building was constructed between 1556 and 1560 by Sir Rowland Hill, but is only the corps de logis (private block) of a much bigger palace complex subsequently muted and lost in intervening stages of development. It is constructed of brick, produced at the site, with Grinshill stone dressings.

Hill was the first Protestant Lord Mayor of London in 1549, and, as Sheriff of London. Hill was the coordinator of the Geneva Bible project and an enthusiastic patron of the arts, in particular drama. He has been linked with the character of Old Sir Rowland in Shakespeare's As You Like It. He was also involved in the case which established Parliamentary Privilege.

House of state, literary connections and inspiration 
Soulton was acquired by Hill and his protégé Thomas Leigh in 1556 from Thomas Lodge.  Lodge's son, also called Thomas Lodge, would have been familiar with the woods at Soulton.  Lodge Jr was the writer and dramatist, who wrote prose tale of Rosalynde, Euphues Golden Legacie, which, printed in 1590, from which William Shakespeare took inspiration when writing his pastoral comedy 'As you like it'.

Hill was a close associate of Thomas Wriothesley, 1st Earl of Southampton (whose grandson Henry Wriothesley, 3rd Earl of Southampton was the dedicatee of Shakespeare's sonnets) to the point of attending the private burial with the family on his death.

The third Earl's wife Elizabeth Vernon is associated with Hill via her grandfather, who shared his childhood with Rowland Hill with them both being baptised at Hodnet within a couple of years of each other, and both families having stationed links to the area.  Another Vernon, Margaret Vernon, a daughter of George Vernon, was the wife of Sir Thomas Stanley, whose family reputedly patronised Shakespeare, and is and is also associated with the writer to whom their epitaphs have been attributed to the writer in St Bartholomew's Church in Tong, Shropshire.

Within the building are traces of older Tudor or medieval building phases on the site, with timber materials re-used from predecessors of the manor's various halls. Examples of simple pargeting can be seen within the building.

To the east of the hall is what is now a walled garden, accessed by steps from the terrace on the north, or by a Tudor gate to the north.

At the front of the hall is a Pillared forecourt, again part of the 1550s design concept.

Clandestine features

Geometric code

Cosmati pavement and Rombic dodecahedrons 
The Tudor hall's unusual quoining relate to Anglo-Saxon architecture, while incorporating other features at that time only seen in the architecture of Corpus Christi College Cambridge. This together with its unusual strict geometry and the mathematical relationship between the hall and walled garden, represent a geometric philosophical allegory seen in stately architecture as diverse as the Anglo-Saxon Mercian royal crypt at Repton, and the Coronation Theatre of Henry III at Westminster Abbey with the Cosmati Pavement at its centre.