[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 31]
# Constructive set theory

unctions on ", to extract the set  of all its subsets. In other words  being a set would imply the Powerset axiom.

Over , there is a single, somewhat clearer alternative axiom to the Subset Collection schema. It postulates the existence of a sufficiently large set  of total relations between  and .

This says that for any two sets  and , there exists a set  which among its members inhabits a still total relation  for any given total relation .

On a given domain , the functions are exactly the sparsest total relations, namely the unique valued ones. Therefore, the axiom implies that there is a set such that all functions are in it. In this way, Fullness implies Exponentiation. It further implies binary refinement, already over .

The Fullness axiom, as well as dependent choice, is in turn also implied by the so-called Presentation Axiom about sections, which can also be formulated category theoretically.

Metalogic of CZF
 has the numerical existence property and the disjunctive property, but there are concessions:  lacks the existence property due to the Subset Schema or Fullness axiom. The existence property is not lacking when the weaker Exponentiation or the stronger but impredicative Powerset axiom axiom is adopted instead. The latter is in general lacking a constructive interpretation.

Unprovable claims
The theory is consistent with some anti-classical assertions, but on its own proves nothing not provable in . Some prominent statements not proven by the theory (nor by , for that matter) are part of the principles listed above, in the sections on constructive schools in analysis, on the Cauchy construction and on non-constructive principles. What follows concerns set theoretical concepts:

The bounded notion of a transitive sets of transitive sets is a good way to define ordinals and enables induction on ordinals. But notably, this definition includes some -subsets in . So assuming that the membership of  is decidable in all successor ordinals  proves  for bounded formulas in . Also, neither linearity of ordinals, nor existence of power sets of finite sets are derivable in this theory, as assuming either implies Power set. The circumstance that ordinals are better behaved in the classical than in the constructive context manifests in a different theory of large set existence postulates.

Consider the functions the domain of which is  or some . These are sequences and their ranges are counted sets. Denote by  the class characterized as the smallest codomain such that the ranges of the aforementioned functions into  are also itself members of . In , this is the set of hereditarily countable set , which is uncountable as it also contains all countable ordinals.  does not prove such a set exists, even when countable choice is assumed.

Finally, the theory does not prove that all function spaces formed from sets in the constructible universe  are sets inside , and this holds even when assuming Powerset instead of the weaker Exponentiation axiom. So this is a particular statement preventing  from proving the class  to be a model of .

Ordinal analysis
Taking  and dropping set induction gives a theory that is conservative over  for arithmetic statements, in that sense that it proves the same arithmetical statements for its -model . Adding back just mathematical induction gives a theory with proof theoretic ordinal , which is the first common fixed point of the Veblen functions  for . This is the same ordinal as for  and is below the Feferman–Schütte ordinal .
Exhibiting a type theoretical model, the full theory  goes beyond , its ordinal still being the modest Bachmann–Howard ordinal.
Assuming the class of trichotomous ordinals is a set raises the proof theoretical strength of  (but not of ).

Being related to inductive definitions or bar induction, the regular extension axiom  raises the proof theoretical strength of . This large set axiom, granting the existence of certain nice supersets for every set, is proven by .

Models
The category of sets and functions of  is a -pretopos. Without diverging into topos theory, certain extended such -pretopoi contain models of . The effective topos contains a model of this  based on maps characterized by certain good subcountability properties.

Separation, stated redundantly in a classical context, is constructively not implied by Replacement. The discussion so far only committed to the predicatively justified bounded Separation. Note that full Separation (together with ,  and also  for sets) is validated in some effective topos models, meaning the axiom does not spoil cornerstones of the restrictive recursive school.