[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Court of Cassation (Belgium)

e in a lower court case. There exists a non-negligible difference between criminal and non-criminal cases regarding the chances of success of an appeal in cassation: whilst 41% of the non-criminal cases resulted in a cassation, only 14% of the criminal cases resulted in a cassation as well.

Trivia 

 At the beginning of each "judicial year" (, , ) on the 1st of September, the Court of Cassation holds a ceremonial session with all of the magistrates (judges and prosecutors) of the court, where the prosecutor-general will hold an oration, usually on a legal topic. This oration is known as a "mercurial" (, , ). During the ceremony, the magistrates wear their ceremonial attire.
 The ceremonial attire of the magistrates of the Court consists of a red court dress and white jabot. In addition, the ceremonial dresses of the first president of the Court and of the prosecutor-general are lined with ermine. The magistrates may wear any decorations or medals awarded to them on their court dresses. These dresses are only worn on ceremonial occasions; during normal hearings the judges and prosecutors wear a simple black court dress with white jabot and red girdle. Both their ceremonial and usual court attire are prescribed by the law.
 Each year in October, the prosecutor-general at the court must submit a report to the Belgian Federal Parliament, listing all of the laws or legal provisions that caused problems during the last judicial year. This concerns laws and legal provisions that turned out to be difficult to interpret or apply by the courts and tribunals of Belgium. This report is meant to allow legislators to correct or improve defective, ambiguous or otherwise problematic legislation.
 Most rulings of the Court of Cassation, as well as some of the advisory opinions given by the prosecutor-general's office, are bundled and published yearly as a reference work. The Dutch-language rulings are published in the Arresten van het Hof van Cassatie, the French-language rulings in the Pasicrisie belge.
 The Court of Cassation of Belgium is a member of the  (abbreviated as AHJUCAF), which is an organisation founded in 2001 that encompasses around fifty supreme courts from primarily or partially French-speaking nations. The organisation aims to promote the cooperation and the exchange of ideas between the participating supreme courts.

See also
 Court of cassation (general article)
 Council of State (Belgium)
 Constitutional Court (Belgium)

References

Terminology in Dutch, French and German

Legislation

Journal articles and publications

Other references

Literature 

 Van Eeckhoutte, Willy; Ghysels, Jan (2014). Cassatie in strafzaken [Cassation in penal cases] (in Dutch). Mortsel: Intersentia. .
 Maes, Bruno & Wouters, Paul (eds.); De Codt, Jean (2016). Procederen voor het Hof van Cassatie – Procéder devant la Cour de cassation [Litigating before the Court of Cassation] (in Dutch and French). Antwerp: Knopspublishing. .
 Parmentier, Claude (2018). Comprendre la technique de cassation [Understanding the technique of cassation] (in French) (2nd ed.). Brussels: Larcier. .
 Baudoncq, Frederiek (2018). Voorziening in cassatie [Appeal in cassation] (in Dutch). Mechelen: Wolters Kluwer. .

External links 
Website of the Court of Cassation of Belgium
Website of the bar association at the Court of Cassation
Page on 'Belgium' on the website of the Network of the Presidents of the Supreme Judicial Courts of the European Union
Page on 'Belgium' on the website of the Association des hautes juridictions de cassation des pays ayant en partage l'usage du français

Cassation
Belgium Court of Cassation
Courts in Belgium
Courts and tribunals established in 1831