[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 79]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

o, that I could not help laughing ready to
split my sides. And then the gentlewoman, at whose house I was, took me
to a place where there was a large room full of candles, and a greater
number of fine gentlemen and ladies, all dressed out and showy, who were
dancing about as if they were mad. But at the door of this house there
were twenty or thirty ragged, half-starved women and children, who stood
shivering in the rain, and begged for a bit of bread; but nobody gave it
to them, or took any notice of them. So then I could not help thinking
that it would be a great deal better if all the fine people would give
some of their money to the poor, that they might have some clothes and
victuals in their turn.

_Tommy._--That is indeed true. Had I been there I should have relieved
the poor people; for you know I am very good-natured and generous; but
it is necessary for gentlemen to be fine and to dress well.

_Harry._--It may be so; but I never saw any great good come of it, for
my part. As I was walking along the streets one day, and staring about,
I met two very fine and dressy young gentlemen, who looked something as
you did, Master Tommy, when you first came here; so I turned off from
the foot-way to let them pass, for my father always taught me to show
civility to people in a higher station; but that was not enough, it
seems, for just as they passed by me they gave me such a violent push,
that down I came into the kennel, and dirtied myself all over from head
to foot.

_Tommy._--And did they not beg your pardon for the accident?

_Harry._--Accident! it was no accident at all; for they burst out into a
fit of laughter, and called me a little clodpole. Upon which I told
them, if I was a clodpole they had no business to insult me; and then
they came back, and one of them gave me a kick, and the other a slap on
the face; but I told them that was too much for me to bear, so I struck
them again, and we all three began fighting.

_Tommy._--What! both at once? That was a cowardly trick.

_Harry._--I did not much mind that; but there came up a fine smart
fellow, in white stockings and powdered hair, who it seems, was their
servant, and he was going to fall upon me too; but a man took my part,
and said, I should have fair play, so I fought them both till they did
not choose to have any more; for, though they were so quarrelsome, they
could not fight worth a farthing; so I let them go, and advised them not
to meddle any more with poor boys who did nothing to offend them.

_Tommy._--And did you hear no more of these young gentlemen?

_Harry._--No; for I went home the next day, and never was I better
pleased in my life. When I came to the top of the great hill, from which
you have a prospect of our house, I really thought I should have cried
with joy. The fields looked all so pleasant, and the cattle that were
feeding in them so happy; then every step I took I met with somebody or
other I knew, or some little boy that I used to play with. "Here is
little Harry come back," said one. "How do you do; how do you do?" cried
a second. Then a third shook hands with me; and the very cattle, when I
went to see them, seemed all glad that I was come home again.

_Mr Barlow._--You see by this that it is very possible for people to
like the country, and be happy in it. But as to the fine young ladies
you talk of, the truth is, that they neither love, nor would be long
contented in any place; their whole happiness consists in idleness and
finery; they have neither learned to employ themselves in anything
useful, nor to improve their minds. As to every kind of natural
exercise, they are brought up with too much delicacy to be able to bear
it, and from the improper indulgences they meet with, they learn to
tremble at every trifling change of the seasons. With such dispositions,
it is no wonder they dislike the _country_, where they find neither
employment nor amusement. They wish to go to _London_, because there
they meet with infinite numbers as idle and frivolous as themselves; and
these people mutually assist each other to talk about trifles, and waste
their time.

_Tommy._--That is true, sir, really; for, when we have a great deal of
company, I have often observed that they never talked about anything but
eating or dressing, or men and women that are paid to make faces at the
playhouse, or a great room called _Ranelagh_, where everybody goes to
meet his friends.

_Mr Barlow._--I believe Harry will never go there to meet his friends.

_Harry._--Indeed, sir, I do not know what Ranelagh is; but all the
friends I have are at home; and when I sit by the fireside on a winter's
night, and read to my father and mother, and sister, as I sometimes do,
or when I talk with you and Master Tommy upon improving subjects, I
never desire any other friends or conversation. But, pray sir, what is
Ranelagh?

_Mr Barlow._--Ranelagh is a very large round room, to which