[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Information Control Division

eign film markets under the guise of assisting in the "reeducation" of post-war Germany. Many have also critiqued the large American replacement of German media, especially in the German film industry, for its erasure of German voices and perspectives for their own reconciliation with their history.

Along with those who critiqued the film industry, there were heated debates about the way in which the ICD would handle radio broadcasting in Germany. Many believed that a pillar of democracy was free speech, and a free radio system, one that was run by the German people for commercial interests, was necessary in the pursuit of that pillar. ICD and OMGUS officials agreed with this reasoning but they also stated that they "would not approve any organizational plan which by reason of either ownership or corporate system contravenes the instructions for establishment of free and independent organization”. Additionally, IDC Chief Gordon Textor stated that there was an “insufficient number of stations to permit free competition among" potential private radio stations in Germany. At the time, these comments were met with criticism in the United States, with many arguing that private stations would contribute to German democratic values and capitalistic interests.

By 1947, there were considerable changes to the ideological direction of the ICD. The ICD still functioned under their original intent to democratize and reeducate the German population under American standards, but they pursued the output of new anti-communist and anti soviet propaganda in an effort to combat the attacks on United States German occupation policies coming from Soviet-controlled German territories. The usage of ICD resources and personnel to facilitate the production of this material was not an approach that all members of the ICD agreed on. For example, Field Hornie, Chief of ICD Radio Control Branch in Munich and two colleagues resigned based on these new policies. Hornie and colleagues did not agree with the argument that the establishment of an anti-communist agenda and the refutation of the charges made my Soviet-occupied Germany was necessary to achieve their original goal of Nazism rejection and reeducation.

Discontinuation 
The goal of the third phase of the ICD was to fully return mass media and communications to the German people through a careful licensing process wherein the ICD would grant publishing and media creation licenses, without a pre-publication or post-publication process, to individuals that would produce content that embodied values consistent with anti-Nazism and democratic values. In the beginning of this phase, the content created by those given a license were still subjected to pre-publication screenings to make sure the content followed ICD guidelines. After this stage, those licensed would be subjected to post-publishing scrutiny by the ICD, with publishers still facing the possibility of their licenses being revoked if they deferred from ICD guidelines. The final stage of this process was the removal of all restrictions and scrutiny by American forces and the rendering of complete media control to German civilians. The ICD maintained specific criteria for who they would grant licenses for content creation. The ICD only granted media licenses to German individuals and did not allow licenses to be distributed to corporations. Control of German media was officially handed over to the Germans in 1949 and the need for most of ICD the facilities and its operations lessened.

See also 

 Allied-occupied Germany
 Office of Strategic Services
 Psychological warfare
 Denazification
 Reconstruction of Germany
 Democratization

References 

Wikipedia Student Program
Psychological operations units and formations of the United States Army
Cold War
Allied occupation of Germany