[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Legality of Holocaust denial

pain, although justifying the Holocaust or any other genocide is an offence punishable by imprisonment in accordance with the constitution.

Switzerland 
Holocaust denial is not expressly illegal in Switzerland, but the denial of genocide and other crimes against humanity is an imprisonable offence.

Ukraine
In September 2021, the Verkhovna Rada passed a law defining antisemitism and banning it in the country. This law includes denying the mass extermination of Jews in the Holocaust as part of its definition of antisemitism.
When committed by an individual is punishable by a fine or a prison sentence of up to five years.
Public officials would also be fined or imprisoned for up to five years, and banned from holding certain offices for up to three years.

United Kingdom
There is no statute in the United Kingdom making Holocaust denial illegal, however judicial notice that the Holocaust occurred was taken in the case of R v Chabloz and the defendant in that case was charged with sharing 'grossly offensive' material related to Holocaust denial. Some contend that this judgement sets a precedent for Holocaust denial related material being deemed "grossly offensive" and contrary to the Communications Act 2003.

United States
In the United States, Holocaust denial is constitutionally protected free speech because of the First Amendment.

A United States court in 1981, in a case brought by Mel Mermelstein, took judicial notice of the occurrence of gassings in Auschwitz during the Holocaust, declaring that a legally incontestable fact.

European Union
The European Union's Executive Commission proposed a European Union-wide anti-racism xenophobia law in 2001, which included the criminalization of Holocaust denial. On July 15, 1996, the Council of the European Union adopted the Joint action/96/443/JHA concerning action to combat racism and xenophobia. During the German presidency there was an attempt to extend this ban. Full implementation was blocked by the United Kingdom and the Nordic countries because of the need to balance the restrictions on voicing racist opinions against the freedom of expression. As a result, a compromise has been reached within the EU and while the EU has not prohibited Holocaust denial outright, a maximum term of three years in jail is optionally available to all member nations for "denying or grossly trivialising crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes".

The EU extradition policy regarding Holocaust denial was tested in the UK during the 2008 failed extradition case brought against the suspected Holocaust denier Fredrick Töben by the German government. As there is no specific crime of Holocaust denial in the UK, the German government had applied for Töben's extradition for racial and xenophobic crimes. Töben's extradition was refused by the Westminster Magistrates' Court, and the German government withdrew its appeal to the High Court.

2019 European Court of Human Rights decision 
On October 3, 2019, in the case Pastörs v. Germany (application no. 55225/14), the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR) unanimously ruled that a decision of the German courts determining that the statement made by the German politician, Udo Pastörs, that "the so-called Holocaust is being used for political and commercial purposes" as well as other Holocaust denial comments were a violation of the memory of the dead and an intentional defamation of the Jewish people and that the courts had not violated Article 10 (freedom of expression) of the European Convention on Human Rights in convicting him for this offense. Furthermore, the ECHR decided by four votes to three that there had been no violation of Article 6 § 1 (right to a fair trial) of the European Convention on Human Rights.

Prosecutions and convictions 
Laws against Holocaust denial have been enforced in most jurisdictions that have them. Convictions and sentencings include:

See also 

Anti-fascism
Criticism of Holocaust denial
Freedom of expression
Genocide recognition politics
Thoughtcrime
Secondary antisemitism

Rwandan genocide denial, which is illegal in Rwanda

Notes

References

External links 
 Jonathan Josephs, Holocaust Denial Legislation – A justifiable infringement of freedom of speech?  (Université Libre de Bruxelles; Working Papers du Centre Perelman de philosophie du droit, n° 2008/3) 
 Voices on Antisemitism Interview with Brigitte Zypries from the U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum

Holocaust studies
Holocaust denial
Holocaust denial
Holocaust denial in Israel
Holocaust denial in the European Union