[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Albert G. Jenkins

but he never recovered, dying twelve days later. He was initially buried in New Dublin Presbyterian Cemetery. After the war, his remains were reinterred at his home in Greenbottom, near Huntington, West Virginia. He was later reinterred in the Confederate plot in Spring Hill Cemetery in Huntington.

Jenkins's home, Green Bottom, is now operated by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. In 1937, Marshall University constructed Jenkins Hall, naming it in honor of the Confederate cavalry officer. In 2018, the university reviewed the name given Jenkins’ history as a slaveholder and staunch defender of slavery. They chose to keep the name while contextualizing the history of racism and slavery. On July 7, 2020, the Marshall University Board of Governors voted unanimously to remove the name from its education building.

In 2005, a monument to General Jenkins was erected in Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania, commemorating his service during the Gettysburg Campaign. In the summer of 2020, the monument was removed.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)
 Alberta Gallatin Jenkins

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Evans, Clement A., ed. Confederate Military History: A Library of Confederate States History. 12 vols. Atlanta: Confederate Publishing Company, 1899. .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .
 Tagg, Larry. The Generals of Gettysburg. Campbell, CA: Savas Publishing, 1998. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links
 Congressional biography
 West Virginia Division of Culture and History biography
 Ghosts of Green Bottom

1830 births
1864 deaths
People from Cabell County, West Virginia
Harvard Law School alumni
Washington & Jefferson College alumni
Members of the Confederate House of Representatives from Virginia
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
People of West Virginia in the American Civil War
Confederate States of America military personnel killed in the American Civil War
American planters
American kidnappers
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Virginia
Members of the United States House of Representatives who owned slaves
19th-century American politicians
Activists from Virginia
United States politicians killed during the Civil War
Burials at Spring Hill Cemetery (Huntington, West Virginia)
Lawyers from Charleston, West Virginia
Slave owners killed in the American Civil War
Proslavery activists killed in the American Civil War
Confederate war crimes
War criminals