[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zirve Publishing House murders

m the Heavy Penal Court in Istanbul. Asked about a document that he was alleged to have written, Günaydın denied any connection with retired Major General Levent Ersöz, who was arrested with reference to the Ergenekon case, or the Istanbul president of an ultra-nationalist association, Levent Temiz.

On 13 February 2008 Amnesty International issued an urgent action on the lawyer Orhan Kemal Cengiz, a lawyer, who was threatened and intimidated because of his legal work on behalf of one of three men killed in April 2007. The organization stated that threats against the human rights defender intensified since November 2007, when the trial began of those accused of killing. The action was terminated, when the authorities provided a bodyguard for the lawyer.

At the 11th hearing, on 12 September 2008, the chief suspect's girlfriend, Turna Işıklı, said that she already knew before the murders that he was going to be under interrogation on the day after they were committed.

In November 2008 the judge presiding over the Malatya murder case, Eray Gürtekin, announced that the Malatya and Ergenekon indictments were to be merged.

On July 17, 2009 one of the witnesses who is in the custody of the gendarmerie failed to appear in court. Another witness also failed to appear in court at this time, claiming she was busy with university studies. On July 22, 2009 it was reported that a letter was sent to prosecutors in which it was stated that gendarmerie commander Colonel Mehmet Ülger instigated the murders.

In December 2010, a suspect in the Zirve case told the court that the National Strategies and Operations Department of Turkey (TUSHAD), the armed side of Ergenekon, is still planning attacks against non-Muslims in the country.

On 17 March 2011 the papers reported that the trial was merged with the main Ergenekon trial in Istanbul. On orders of the prosecutor in the Ergenekon trial, Zekeriya Öz, police operations were carried out in 9 provinces and the former commander of the gendarmerie in Malatya, Major Mehmet Ülger and another 19 people were detained.

At the end of June 2012, Turkish media reported that the indictment maintained that the murder was organized by a clandestine organization within the armed forces called the National Strategies and Operations Department of Turkey (TUSHAD), which was alleged to have been established in 1993 by Gen. Hurşit Tolon on instructions from Ergenekon, while Tolon was serving as secretary-general of the General Staff.

In 2013 evidence emerged that the Malatya Gendarmerie had carried out detailed surveillance of the Zirve Publishing House prior to the murders.

Release
On 7 March 2014, five suspects who were still detained were released from their high-security prison and put under house arrest after a Turkish court ruled that their detention exceeded newly adopted legal limits.

Sentence
The five perpetrators – caught red-handed at the crime scene – were handed three consecutive life sentences, two military personnel were given sentences of 13 years 9 months and 14 years 10 months and 22 days, and sixteen other defendants were acquitted.

See also 
 Ergenekon
 Hrant Dink
 Andrea Santoro
 Luigi Padovese

References

Further reading 
 Carswell, Jonathan; Wright, Joanna: Married to a Martyr - A Story of tragedy and Hope. Authentic Media (2008), 
 Carswell, Jonathan; Wright, Joanna; Baum, Markus: Susanne Geske: "Ich will keine Rache" - Das Drama von Malatya. Brunnen-Verlag, Gießen 2008, 
 İsmail Saymaz, Nefret - Malatya: Bir Milli Mutabakat Cinayeti ("Hate - Malatya: A Murder of National Consensus"), Kalkedon Yayıncılık, 2011.

External links 

 Video of Malatya Martyr Necati Aydın's son at his father's memorial service with English subtitles 
 Video of Malatya Martyr Tilmann Geske's daughter at her father's memorial service with English subtitles 
 "German Seminary Investigates Malatya Murders". May 1, 2007. 
 "Martyrs Killed by Conspiracy: Investigation links Malatya murders to cabal of generals, politicians". Damaris Kremida. Christianity Today. July 2009. 
 "Final verdict and arrests of the Five Murderers". Middle East Concern 28 September 2016. 

Terrorism
Human rights abuses in Turkey
Ergenekon (allegation)
April 2007 events in Turkey
Anti-Christian sentiment in Turkey
Turkish nationalism
2007 murders in Europe
Persecution of Christians in Turkey
Persecution of Christians by Muslims