[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Atto of Vercelli

g “Canons and Statutes of the Church of Vercelli.” Paul Collins prefers the abbreviated Capitulare, simply meaning “capitulary.” It is clear in their writing, however, that Collins, Korfmacher, and Fowler-Magerl reference the same work, namely Atto's compilation of and additions to ecclesiastic law.

In this work, Atto assembled preexisting law from multiple resources: the decrees and letters of several popes, decrees from up to thirteen different councils, and the canon of Theodulf of Orléans. Portions of the decretals used are from a collection known as the False Decretals or Collectio Isidori Mercatoris. Some say that Atto's compilation deals exclusively with legislation in his diocese in Northern Italy.

The collection as a whole generally discusses legislation surrounding clerical discipline and lifestyle. For example, this set of canon law demands clerics to be very well versed in scripture and ecclesiastic law, including knowing the Apostles' Creed and the Nicene Creed verbatim. It requires clerics to be able to preach and celebrate Mass in Latin. It prohibits economic actions such as leasing property, acquiring interest on loans, and general business transactions. It also castigates those who renounce their faith for the worship of false idols, which Atto found to be a hazard to orthodoxy in his flock. As always, Atto devoted some of his efforts in canon law towards the greater good of his congregation: his collection included the requirement of clerics to bury their parishioners, and to be able to teach them both reading and writing.

References

Sources
 
 
 Boenig, Robert. Saint and Hero: Andreas and Medieval Doctrine. Lewisburg: Bucknell University Press, 1990.
 Collins, Paul. The Birth of the West: Rome, Germany, France, and the Creation of Europe in the Tenth Century. New York: PublicAffairs, 2013.
 Filotas, Bernadette. Pagan Survivals, Superstitions, and Popular Cultures in Early Medieval Pastoral Literature. Toronto: Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies, 2005.
 Fowler-Magerl, Linda. Clavis Canonum: Selected Canon Law Collections Before 1140. Hanover: Hahnsche, 2005.
 Korfmacher, W. C. "Atto of Vercelli." In New Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 1. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1967.
 Petry, Ray C, ed. No Uncertain Sound: Sermons that Shaped the Pulpit Tradition. Philadelphia: Westminster Press, 1948.
 Valtorta, Benedetta. Clavis Scriptorum Latinorum Medii Aevi. Auctores Italiae (700-1000). Florence: SISMEL - Edizioni del Galluzzo, 2006.
 Wemple, Suzanne F. “The Canonical Resources of Atto of Vercelli (926-960).” Traditio 26 (1970): 335-350.
 Willhauck, George Alan. “The Letters of Atto, Bishop of Vercelli: Text, Translation, and Commentary.” Ph. D Dissertation, Tufts University, 1984.
 Zeigler, A.K. “Medieval Literature.” In New Catholic Encyclopedia. Vol. 9. New York: McGraw-Hill, 1967.

880s births
Year of birth uncertain
961 deaths
Bishops of Vercelli
10th-century Italian bishops
10th-century writers in Latin
10th-century Italian writers
10th-century jurists