[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thurgood Marshall Jr.

d one of Washington's top campaign and election lawyers by Washingtonian Magazine, a leading lawyer in government relations law by The Best Lawyers in America, and included on the Best Lawyers List of the Washington Post Magazine. Newsweek named him one of the 100 people to watch in the new century.

Publications 
Marshall has authored or co-authored columns that have appeared in the Tampa Bay Times, Sabato's Crystal Ball (UVA Center for Politics), The Straits Times, Politico, The Hill, The Legal Times, The Washington Post, and The National WWII Museum.

Other work 
Marshall is a board member or trustee with the Campaign Legal Center, The Third Way and the Schwarzenegger Institute for State & Global Policy.  He serves on the local DC boards of President Lincoln's Cottage, the Dean's Advisory Council for the UMD School of Public Policy, and the DC Grays.  Marshall was a senior advisor to AllAmericaPAC, a political organization establish by former Senator Evan Bayh. Marshall was the director of congressional relations for Wesley Clark's 2004 presidential campaign. He has been involved with the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, serving on the board of the Foundation for eight years and promoting environmental science and other science education. He also volunteers at a local food bank and other community service outlets in the Washington, D.C. area.

Marshall has been a member of the United States Postal Service Board of Governors, Ford Foundation, Corrections Corporation of America, Genesco, The Third Way, National Women's Law Center, the University of Arkansas Clinton School of Public Service, and the Supreme Court Historical Society. He has been a member of the Ethics Advisory Committee of the United States Olympic Committee since its inception in 2001 until 2012 and chaired the Advisory Commission of the American Bar Association Standing Committee on Election Law.

He has participated in election and election law observer missions to Bosnia, Chile, Ecuador, and Nicaragua. Marshall is also a veteran of U.S. presidential campaigns.

Personal life 
Marshall and his wife Teddi Levy Marshall, the vice president and founder of Rolling Greens Inc., were married on April 25, 2008. They were married at the Supreme Court of the United States and Associate Justice Stephen G. Breyer performed the ceremony. The couple lives in the Washington, D.C., area and they have two sons, Thurgood William and Edward Patrick Marshall.

References

External links
Biography at Morgan Lewis website

1956 births
20th-century African-American lawyers
20th-century American lawyers
Georgetown Day School alumni
American jurists of Filipino descent
Clinton administration personnel
Living people
University of Virginia School of Law alumni
Lawyers from Washington, D.C.
American politicians of Filipino descent
CoreCivic people
Genesco people
Phillips Exeter Academy alumni
Dalton School alumni
Thurgood Marshall
Lawyers from New York City