[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zons

Zons (), formerly known as Feste Zons (Fortress Zons), today officially called Stadt Zons (Zons Town) is an old town in Germany on the west bank of the Lower Rhine between Cologne and Düsseldorf.  It has been a part (Stadtteil) of the town of Dormagen since 1975. In 2020 its population was 5,452.

Geography 
The east border of Zons is the river Rhine. The river can be crossed by ferry.  On the opposite bank a  road leads to Düsseldorf-Urdenbach northeast of Zons. South of Zons is fields and a few Populus trees. The southern road passes two farms and leads to another part of Dormagen, Rheinfeld.  West of Zons is extensive meadows with the willows here and there. At some distance the small hamlet Nachtigall lies at the Bundesstraße 9.  Northwest of Zons is the Zons Heath. The northern road leads to Stürzelberg, another part of Dormagen.  North of ferry slip and ship pier begins the nature reserve Zonser Grind on the western bank of the Rhine.

History

Middle Ages

The first time Zons was mentioned in a document is in the so-called last will and testament of Cunibert, Bishop of Cologne, which was written in the middle of the seventh century but is only known in a version of the late eleventh century.  In the document the names of   Zuonizo  or  Zuonize are mentioned  with their origin still unclear until today.   In a deed of gift of  Archbishop Heribert of Cologne the name of Zons appears in a location reference, „Burgula bei Zünce“ (Burgula near Zünce).,<ref>Monatsschrift des Düsseldorfer Geschichtsverein, 1881, issue 4, p. [39]34; Volume as digital download retrieved 24 May 2014.</</ref> Burgula being the site of today's Haus Bürgel,  an old mansion built on the ruins of a Roman settlement.<ref>Short article in English about Haus Bürgel and its ancient history; shows its location nowadays on the east bank of the Rhine on Google Maps;  retrieved 24 May 2014.</</ref>

Archaeological finds indicate that there was a Merovingian settlement in Zons in the seventh century, yet its exact location is not determined.  Documents verify a Fronhof  of the archbishop of Cologne (Fronhof = estate of a feudal lord receiving socage)  existing in Zons at least since the beginning of the twelfth century .  In the 1980s archaeological excavations  in the castle area  uncovered foundations of buildings which are regarded as remains of the proprietary church of the lord of the manor which was part of the building complex of the Fronhof.

At about the middle of the thirteenth century Zons castrum (castle) was fortified.  The location of the older rural settlement of Zons can only be presumed based on field-names and  topography. The field-name  „Im Hofstädtchen“ at today's Aldenhovenstraße near the Old Town could reference to this settlement with the crossing paths at this spot being a possible additional indicator.

In 1372 the Archbishop of Cologne  moved the Rhine toll castle from Neuss upstream to Zons protecting it with walls and moats and granting Zons the town privileges in 1373.  At the centre of the fortress was the thick fortified Friedestrom Castle which served the administration and protection of the toll and housed the administration of the new parish Zons.  The obviously planned building of the toll fortress with town walls was finished probably in the 15th century.

The rectangular to trapeziform town layout is surrounded by a wall strengthened with basalt stones. The wall stretches in north–south direction over about  and in west–east direction over . At the corners are towers built in different shapes: to the northeast the rectangular Rhein-, Zoll- or Peters-Turm (Rhine, Toll or Peters Tower); to the northwest the circular Krötschenturm (Krötschen Tower); to the southwest the circular Mühlenturm (Mill Tower), which was converted from a defensive tower  to a tower mill as late as the Late Middle Ages; to the southeast the Schlossturm (Palace Tower) and in town at the castle wall the circular Juddeturm (Judde Tower:  high, roof starts at  height,  baroque roof ).   The name Juddeturm  probably refers to the patrician family Jude in Cologne.

Two public gates gave access to the town: in the north the Rheintor (Rhine Gate), in the west the Feldtor (Field Gate). During the 19th century the first was partly, the latter almost entirely dismantled. A third outer gate, the Südtor (South Gate), which is preserved best, is the entrance from the zwinger (enclosed killing ground) to the Vorburg (lower ward).