[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Heroína (ship)

make an impression on the masters of ships in the area.  Some ship-masters were alarmed by Jewett's appearance, fearing being robbed or captured and one contemplated an armed response. Weddell was able to convince him Jewett was no danger and after being introduced to Jewett, he overcame his fears.

Weddell left the islands on 20 November 1820 noting that Jewett had not completed repairs to the Heroína. On leaving the Islands, Jewett took the American schooner Rampart as a prize, an incident that had diplomatic repercussions with the United States of America.

Capture
In February 1821, Jewett was relieved of command being replaced by Guillermo Roberto Mason.  On June 14, 1821 Heroína captured the Spanish brig Maipú, which was incorporated into the flotilla.  Mason also attacked and seized the Portuguese ships Viscondesa and Providencia before putting into Gibraltar for repairs.

On 20 March 1822 the Heroína was met by the Portuguese 44-gun frigate Pérola off Gibraltar. The Pérola managed to approach the Heroína and fired a broadside at point-blank range, ravaging the deck on the Heroína and forcing Mason to surrender. The Heroína was taken to Lisbon as a prize. For his action the Portuguese commander, captain Marçal de Ataíde Barahona, was made a knight of the Portuguese Military Order of the Tower and of the Sword, of Valour, Loyalty and Merit.  The actions of the Heroína in seizing Portuguese ships led to her being labelled as a pirate ship.

Mason was held by Portugal for two years before returning to Buenos Aires.

References

Bibliography
Child, Jack. Geopolitics and Conflict in South America: Quarrels Among Neighbors. New York; Praeger, 1985, pp. 112–115.
Gough, Barry. The Falkland Islands/Malvinas: The Contest for Empire in the South Atlantic. London: Athlone Press, 1992, pp. 55–59.
Strange, Ian J. The Falkland Islands. London: David & Charles Press, 1983, p. 194.
Pereira, José António R. A Marinha Portuguesa na Época de Napoleão - campanhas navais 1807-1823; volume II: A Armada e o Brasil. Lisbon, Tribuna de História, Edição de Livros e Revistas Lda, 2005, p. 79.
Instituto dos Arquivos Nacionais Torre do Tombo (National Archives Institute, Portugal) – Mercês de D. Maria II, book V

Frigates of Argentina
Ships built in France
Military history of Argentina
Maritime history of Argentina
Privateer ships
Maritime incidents in March 1822
Captured ships