[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

hen God reproved him with having himself gone astray and with believing in the golden calf, he said: "Lord, why doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people". Moses atoned for the sin of making the calf; he even atoned for all the sins of humanity down to his time, freeing men from their burden of sin.

Moses loved the people, showing his affection on every occasion. During the battle with Amalek he sat on a stone, and not on a cushion which he could easily have procured, because, Israel being at that time in trouble, he intended to show thereby that he suffered with them. When he begged God, before his death, to recall the oath that he (Moses) should never enter the land of Israel, God replied, "If I recall this oath I will also recall the oath never to destroy Israel," whereupon Moses said: "Rather let Moses and a thousand like him perish than that one of the people of Israel should perish". Moses requested that the Shekinah might rest in Israel only in order that Israel might thereby be distinguished among all peoples; that if they sinned and were penitent, their intentional sins might be regarded merely as trespasses; and that when Israel should suffer under the yoke of the nations, God would protect the pious and the saints of Israel. All the injuries and slanders heaped upon Moses by the people did not lessen his love for them.

The words "They looked after Moses" are differently interpreted. According to one opinion the people praised Moses, saying: "Hail to the mother who has borne him; all the days of his life God speaks with him; and he is dedicated to the service of God." According to another opinion they reproached and reviled him: they accused him of committing adultery with another man's wife; and every man became jealous and forbade his wife to speak to Moses. They said: "See how fat and strong he has grown; he eats and drinks what belongs to the Jews, and everything that he has is taken from the people. Shall a man who has managed the building of the Tabernacle not become rich?". Yet Moses was the most conscientious of superintendents, and although he had been given sole charge of the work, he always caused his accounts to be examined by others. He was always among the workmen, showing them how to do the work.

In the Tabernacle

When everything was prepared Moses set up the Tabernacle alone. He fastened the ceiling of the tent over it, as he was the only one able to do so, being ten ells tall. During the seven days of the dedication he took the Tabernacle apart every day and set it up again without any help. When all was completed he gave a detailed account of the various expenses. During the seven days of the dedication, or (according to another account) during the forty years of the wandering in the desert, Moses officiated as high priest. He was also king during this entire period. When he demanded these two offices for his descendants God told him that the office of king was destined for David and his house, while the office of high priest was reserved for Aaron and his descendants.