[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# French battleship Bretagne

cided that all capital ships should be concentrated in Mers El Kébir, so he instructed them to steam there. Bretagne and Provence arrived there on 27 May, where they rendezvoused with the Force de Raid, France's most modern ships, in an unsuccessful effort to deter Italy from joining the war.

Loss 

Following the French surrender on 22 June 1940, the French fleet was to be disarmed under German and Italian supervision. The British high command was concerned that the French ships would be seized by the Axis powers and placed in service. The Axis navies would then overmatch the Royal Navy. Prime Minister Winston Churchill therefore ordered Vice-Admiral James Somerville, the commander of Force H, to neutralise the French fleet at Mers-el-Kébir. He was instructed to order the French vessels to either join the British with the Free French, surrender for internment, to scuttle themselves, or be sunk. On 3 July, Somerville arrived and delivered the ultimatum; the French rejected it, and so the British ships opened fire.

Bretagne, having remained in Mers El Kébir since being stationed there one month earlier, was hit by four  projectiles from , , and  (no ship is individually credited). The first two shells struck simultaneously at 16:59 in the third salvo. The first hit the ship near turret No. 4, causing a large explosion that sent flames as high as the masthead and blew a hole in the side of the hull. The resulting flooding limited the explosion's effect on the ship. The second shell struck above the waterline, and detonated in the centre engine room, killing all but one of the sailors inside. It knocked out all power and damaged the internal communication system of the ship. Seven minutes later, two other large shells struck Bretagne. One detonated near Turret No. 3 and ignited some ready-use projectiles which were stored in lockers next to the anti-aircraft mounts. At 17:09 a large explosion occurred in the ship and she rolled over and capsized with the loss of 36 officers, 151 petty officers and 825 seamen. The Société de matérial naval du Midi attempted to salvage the wreck in late 1942, but it was called off after a diver was seriously injured by an explosion when attempting to cut through the hull with an oxy-acetylene torch. The Serra Frères company salvaged Bretagnes wreck, breaking up the vessel for scrap beginning in 1952 and completing the job on 21 December 1954.

Notes

Citations

References

Further reading 

 

Bretagne-class battleships
World War I battleships of France
World War II battleships of France
Shipwrecks of Algeria
World War II shipwrecks in the Mediterranean Sea
Ships built in France
1913 ships
Naval magazine explosions
Maritime incidents in July 1940