[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Coptic Orthodox Church in the United States

USA. Member of the Eritrean and Coptic Holy Synods. (1991 - Present)
Michael, General Bishop in Virginia, United States, assistant to the Pope  (2009 - Present)
Gabriel, General Bishop in New Jersey and Patriarchal Exarch for the Archdiocese of North America, assistant to the Pope. (2022 - Present)

Auxiliary bishops 
Suriel, Bishop of the Diocese of Melbourne, currently serving as auxiliary to Metropolitan Serapion in the Holy Diocese of Los Angeles, Southern California, and Hawaii. (1997; 2018 - Present)
Abraham, Auxiliary Bishop and assistant to Metropolitan Serapion in the Holy Diocese of Los Angeles, Southern California, and Hawaii. (2016 - Present)
Kyrillos, Auxiliary Bishop and assistant to Metropolitan Serapion in the Holy Diocese of Los Angeles, Southern California, and Hawaii. (2016 - Present)
Basil, Auxiliary Bishop in Florida and assistant to Metropolitan Youssef in the Holy Diocese of the Southern United States. (2018 - Present)
Gregory, Auxiliary Bishop in Texas and assistant to Metropolitan Youssef in the Holy Diocese of the Southern United States. (2018 - Present)

Deceased hierarchs 

 Karas, Bishop Abbot of the Monastery of Saint Antony the Great, in Newberry Springs, California. (1993 - 2002)

Dioceses 
The Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria has Churches and congregations in the following regions within the United States:

Archdiocese of North America

Before the establishment of any dioceses in the US and Canada, all churches were part of the Archdiocese of North America under the direct care of the Patriarchate of Alexandria, led by the Pope of Alexandria, with the headquarters at Cedar Grove, New Jersey. Throughout the years, the archdiocese was served by papal exarchs or vicars, representing the Pope, some of which were:

 Bishop David as General Bishop for New Jersey and an enthroned bishop for New York and New England.  
 Heg. Fr. Saraphim El-Souriani as a monk-hegumen who was then ordained and enthroned to be the Bishop of the Diocese of Ohio, Michigan, and Indiana
 Bishop Karas as a General Bishop who was then enthroned to be the Bishop of Pennsylvania And Affiliated Regions 
 Bishop Angelos as a General Bishop who is currently the General Bishop for the Churches of Northern Shoubra, Cairo
Bishop Michael as a General Bishop for the Churches established by the Pope in Virginia
Bishop Gabriel as a General Bishop for New Jersey.

All churches that are not under the jurisdiction of an established diocese are part of the Archdiocese. As of November 11, 2017, the Archdiocese is divided administratively over the following regions:

 Archdiocese of North America - New Jersey
 Archdiocese of North America - Chicago & Midwest (Illinois, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Missouri, Iowa, Kansas, Nebraska)
 Archdiocese of North America - Virginia
 Archdiocese of Northern California and Western US
 Archdiocese of Central Canada

Diocese of Los Angeles, Southern California and Hawaii

The Diocese was established by the enthronement of Metropolitan Serapion (a General Bishop at the time) by the hands of Pope Shenouda III in November 1995.

This Diocese is served by one metropolitan and three general/auxiliary bishops:

 Metropolitan Serapion who is the first Metropolitan of the Coptic Orthodox Diocese of Los Angeles, Southern California  and Hawaii.
 Bishop Kyrillos, General Bishop of Education in the Coptic Orthodox Diocese of Los Angeles, Southern California  and Hawaii.
 Bishop Abraham, General Bishop of the Diakonia Ministry (Social Services) in the Coptic Orthodox Diocese of Los Angeles, Southern California  and Hawaii
Suriel, Former Bishop of the Diocese of Melbourne, currently serving as auxiliary to HE Metropolitan Serapion in the Coptic Orthodox Diocese of Los Angeles, Southern California and Hawaii.

The Diocese has around 41 churches, a theological school (seminary) and a charity organization called Saint Verena Charity, named after the Coptic Saint Verena). The Diocese has 17 Hegumen and 40 Presbyters. The Diocese of Los Angeles is based at 3803 W. Mission Blvd. Pomona, California 91766 USA.

Also located in California is the Coptic Orthodox Monastery of Saint Anthony the Great in Barstow and the St. Paul Brotherhood in Murrieta. Both monasteries are under the jurisdiction of Metropolitan Serapion.

Diocese of the Southern United States

The Diocese was established by the enthronement of Bishop Youssef by the hands of Pope Shenouda III in November 1995.