[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tamar (novel)

eir tragic life stories. Dad had the same twist to his mouth, the same determination to get things said."
Sonia Hyde is a character who was abandoned by her husband, Jan. She is Tamar's mother and married to Jan Hyde. In the prologue Jan says, "If I say I like it, [Sonia]'ll probably hate it."

1945

 Dart (Dr. Ernst Lubbers/William Hyde), a Dutch resistance fighter in the SOE (the Special Operations Executive), trained in London. He is Tamar's wireless operator in the Netherlands after they are deployed. He falls in love with the character Marijke to the point of obsession. Later in the story, Tamar Hyde, his granddaughter, depicts him as "living in a world full of mirages and mazes, of mirrors and misleading signs. He [is] fascinated by riddles and codes and conundrums and labyrinths, by the origin of place names, by grammar, by slang by jokes ... by anything that might mean something else. He live[s] in a world that was slippery, changeable, fluid."
 Tamar (Christaan Boogart) is a Dutch Resistance fighter and an agent in the SOE (the Special Operations Executive) deployed in the Netherlands with his partner Dart in 1944–45. Tamar is the leader and organizer of all the resistance groups in his area of the Netherlands. He is Tamar Hyde's biological grandfather, and is said to have "thick dark hair cut short at the sides and a rather long narrow [face] ... the kind of features that a romantic novelist might describe as 'finely chiseled'"
 Marijke Maartens, a Dutch woman with "a fall of dark hair that [comes] almost to the narrow shoulders, framing [her] pale oval face", is Tamar's lover. In the novel, she lives on Sanctuary Farm near the town of Mendlo. Her parents died when she was young, so she lives with her grandmother, Oma. Later in the story, she is shown as developing dementia. She is Tamar Hyde's grandmother.
 Koop de Vries is a leader of one of the many Dutch Resistance groups in the Netherlands that appear in the novel. He and four other characters lead a violent rebellion against the Nazis in the area, where Tamar acts as the leader of the resistance. Koop is very skeptical of Tamar's ability to lead, so his group prefers to be alone and act independently. Koop is said to be "tall and hawkish, his face resembl[ing] a primitive weapon carved from bone."
 Trixie Greydanus is a fictional Dutch woman and Tamar and Dart's courier. She rides her bicycle to take messages back and forth for them with her infant daughter Rosa. In the novel, Trixie acts very determined and hard to sway. In her old age, Tamar's father Jan, describes her: "She had the same bright chestnut-colored eyes as Rosa. She was wearing a lot of careful makeup, and her hair was strange. Cut in a very old-fashioned style and dyed a dark blond colour".
 SS Lieutenant General Hanns Albin Rauter is a Nazi general who is the "head of internal security for Holland". He "considers happiness to be a form of mental deficiency".

Themes

For the New York Times Book Review, Elizabeth Devereaux noted on the topic of major themes of Tamar that "river metaphors and allusions flow freely, suggesting a world of secrets and false identities that is 'slippery, changeable, fluid'", and that "the reclamation of identity is a tortured process." Peet himself explained that "my books are about discovering or inventing who you are."

Regional celebration

In Merseyside an edition of Tamar was Wirral Paperback of the Year in 2007. Mal Peet met with some of the teenagers who took part in Wirral Paperback of the Year on 7 March 2008. Tamar was part of Liverpool Reads in 2008.

Style

Booklist complimented how "Peet's plot is tightly constructed, and striking, descriptive language, full of metaphor, grounds the story." School Library Journal points out how "Peet deftly handles the developing intrigue that totally focuses readers". School Library Journal also compliments how Tamar is "masterfully crafted, written in cinematic prose, and peopled by well-drawn, multi-dimensional characters." In the novel New York Times Reviewer Elizabeth Devereaux praises how "Mal Peet shows both restraint and daring." Also, Booklist praised the novel's "intricate wrapping of wartime dramar and secrecy." Booklist Publications added to the praise by saying how "Strikingly edcriptive language grounds this dramatic novel." Kirkus Reviews called the writing "Beautifully detailed." Kirkus Reviews also complimented Tamar by commenting "Stark in its realistic portrayal of the horror and random violence of war [and its d]escriptions of the daily brutality of merely surviving."

Reception

Literary critics remarked on Mal Peet's exceptional storytelling.  Jan Mark wrote: "This sombre and distinguished book is as fine a piece of storytelling as you are likely to read this year", and The Bookseller review said: "Beautifully written and absolutely gripping, this is exceptional storytelling."