[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Undefeated (1969 film)

ia
 Robert Donner as Judd Mailer
 Pedro Armendariz Jr. as Escalante
 James Dobson as Jamison
 Rudy Diaz as Sanchez 
 Richard Angarola as Petain
 James McEachin as Jimmy Collins
 Gregg Palmer as Parker 
 Juan García as Colonel Gomez
 Kiel Martin as Union Runner 
 Bob Gravage as Joe Hicks

Production 

The original script was by Stanley Hough and Casey Robinson, neither of whom is credited in the final film. Producer Robert Jacks bought it in December 1967, announcing James Lee Barrett would do the final script.

In May 1968, Jacks announced the film would be made through 20th Century-Fox. Andrew McLaglen signed to direct as the first of a two-picture deal with Fox. In August 1968 John Wayne agreed to star. The following month, Rock Hudson signed to co-star.

The stunt coordinator was Hal Needham, later a film director.

According to Rock Hudson's lover Marc Christian, John Wayne started out picking on Hudson during filming, but the two men became friends. In Mark Griffin's biography of Hudson, All that Heaven Allows, Wayne is shown to have initially started to "direct" Hudson, constantly suggesting what he should do on camera. When Hudson began to do the same to Wayne, Wayne pointed his finger at Hudson and said, "I like you." The suggestions stopped, and the two men became frequent partners in chess and bridge.

Filming took place in Sierra de Órganos National Park, near the town of Sombrerete, Zacatecas, Mexico.

Reception
The film earned $4.5 million in rentals in North America.

According to Fox records, the film required $12,425,000 in rentals to break even, but by December 11, 1970, the film had made only $8,775,000, which resulted in a loss for the studio.

See also
 List of American films of 1969
 John Wayne filmography
 O'Flaherty, Daniel C. General Jo Shelby: Undefeated Rebel, University of North Carolina Press, 1954; ; republished, 2000.
 The Shadow Riders

References

External links
 
 
 
 

1969 films
1969 Western (genre) films
1960s English-language films
1960s historical adventure films
20th Century Fox films
American Civil War films
American historical adventure films
American Western (genre) films
Films directed by Andrew McLaglen
Films set in Mississippi
Films scored by Hugo Montenegro
Second French intervention in Mexico films
1960s American films