[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Albert Hoffmann (Nazi)

t Deputy Gauleiter of the recently established Gau Upper Silesia where he also served as Gau chairman (Gauobmann) for the German Labour Front administration. On 3 June 1941, he also secured a seat in the Reichstag representing electoral constituency 17 (Breslau), where he replaced a deceased deputy.

From 5 May to 20 September 1942 Hoffmann was detailed to serve as Reichsleiter Martin Bormann's representative on the commission headed by Generalleutnant Walter von Unruh, seeking to mobilize the population for total war and replenish losses of manpower. In this capacity, Hoffmann traveled widely through the occupied eastern territories, including the General Government, Ostland and Ukraine. On 17-18 July 1942, Hoffmann, accompanied by Reichsführer-SS Heinrich Himmler and Gauleiter Fritz Bracht, attended a gassing operation of Jews in the Auschwitz concentration camp, which was located in his Gau. He gained insights into the actions of the Einsatzgruppen murders, the death camps of Operation Reinhard, the Germanization process and the brutal measures used to recruit Ostarbeiter (Eastern workers), and he made suggestions for improvement (Verbesserungsvorschlägen) from the Party Chancellery as well as Hitler and Joseph Goebbels. After completing his detail to the Unruh commission, Hoffmann was transferred from the RSHA to the personal staff of the Reichsführer-SS on 21 September 1942. He also returned to his post as Deputy Gauleiter in Kattowitz (today, Katowice) where he also served as Gau economics adviser.

Gauleiter in South Westphalia 
On 26 January 1943 Hoffmann was appointed Acting Gauleiter of Gau Westphalia-South, succeeding Paul Giesler who had been transferred to Gau Munich-Upper Bavaria. At the same time, Hoffmann also was made Reich Defense Commissioner for his Gau. On 1 August he was named to the Prussian State Council by Prussian Minister President Hermann Göring, becoming the last known appointee to that body. On 9 November he received his final promotion to SS-Gruppenführer. In December of the same year, Hitler appointed Hoffmann as Goebbels' deputy in his capacity as Reich Inspector for Civil Aerial Warfare Measures, despite the fact that Goebbels favored another candidate for the post. On 17 April 1944, Hofmann was made permanent Gauleiter of Westphalia-South. On 25 September 1944 he was placed in command of the Volksturm units in his jurisdiction. In October he was named Reich Defense Commissioner for the entire Rhineland and Ruhr regions.

On 26 February 1945, Hoffmann issued to the police, Party and civil officials in his jurisdiction the following order, sanctioning the vigilante lynching of downed Allied fighter-bomber pilots:

Jagtbomber pilots who are shot down are in principle not to be protected against the fury of the people. I expect from all police officers that they will refure to lend their protection to these gangster types. Authorities acting in contradiction to the popular sentiment will have to account to me.

Hoffmann, who did not enjoy widespread popularity even within the Nazi Party's top ranks owing to his arrogance and bossy manner, was said to have been a staunch Nazi right through to the war's end. Shortly before the war ended, as Allied troops were invading his jurisdiction, he ordered the destruction of numerous bridges and other infrastructure in accordance with Hitler's Nero Decree. Leaving Bochum on 10 April 1945, he retreated first to Harkortberg near Wetter and then to Haßlinghausen (today, part of Sprockhövel). Finally, on 13 April 1945, Hoffmann discussed setting up a Werwolf operation before dissolving his Gau staff and the Volkssturm organization in Westphalia-South. He and his staff went into hiding with false papers and civilian clothes.

Post-war trial, conviction, and sentence
After fleeing and hiding out for several months, Hoffmann was finally discovered and arrested by British troops on 4 October 1945 in the village of Marienau, where he was posing as a farm worker. He was first imprisoned and interrogated in Iserlohn and then interned in a camp in Recklinghausen. He testified as a witness to atrocities in the Nuremberg Trials against the main Nazi war criminals. He later was himself charged in two British military criminal cases in Recklinghausen (October 1946) and Hamburg (December 1948) in connection with the murders of Allied  airmen and foreign forced laborers. However, he was acquitted for lack of evidence. He was then tried by a German denazification tribunal at Benefeld-Bomlitz and received a prison sentence of 4 years and 9 months in December 1948. He only served part of his sentence, in consideration of time served and was pardoned by the Minister President of Lower Saxony.