[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pre-election day events of the 2006 Singaporean general election

s game]". The PAP candidates for these two wards will be Eric Low and Sitoh Yih Pin respectively. Both lost in the previous elections but had been working the ground in these wards since. They were assisted by Goh Chok Tong who had been given the special assignment to help the PAP win the two wards.

Goh had suggested that if Eric Low and Sitoh Yih Pin won the election, they would be given extra latitude when speaking and voting in parliament and not be subjected to the political Whip. Goh also said that he would help Sitoh to gain a post in the new Cabinet should Sitoh be elected. Hougang and Potong Pasir residents were also been promised upgrades $100 and $80 million if PAP manages to retake both seats. Both of these constituencies have been denied the chance to upgrade their estates as well as to provide lifts that stop on every floor, for as long as they are in opposition hands. When the PAP shaved WP's vote share from 58% to 55% in the last election, then Prime Minister Goh had offered to upgrade Hougang estate if the WP's chief's share of vote was reduced to 52%.

As of the recent 2020 election, while Hougang has proved to be the most difficult opposition ward to reclaim, Potong Pasir has successfully returned to PAP fold in 2011 despite winning by an inferior margin of 0.72%, and would hold for another term when PAP improved their margin to 32.82% in the 2015 elections.

Nomination forms
As of 21 April, the day following the issue of the writ of election, 39 nomination forms were collected from the Elections Department office at Prinsep Street in which 20 were for Single-seat constituencies and the remaining 19 for Group Representative Constituencies. These included 18 applications to the Malay Community Committee and 13 for the Indian and other minority committee. The Elections Department has also received five donation reports and declaration forms.

Remarks in The New Democrat
In April 2006, the SDP published an article headlined "Govt's role in the NKF scandal" in the SDP party newspaper, The New Democrat, about the National Kidney Foundation Singapore scandal.  On 22 April, letters of demand were served on twelve individuals and the publisher. Drew and Napier, the law firm acting for Lee Hsien Loong and Lee Kuan Yew, says that the newspaper article alleges that the two Lees are "dishonest and unfit for office", that Lee Kuan Yew "devised a corrupt political system for the benefit of the political elite", and that he managed the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation in a "corrupt manner". In addition, according to the letter of demand, the newspaper also alleged that Lee Hsien Loong had "perpetuated a corrupt political system for the benefit of the political elite" and how he and his Government "had access to the information which has now been unearthed about NKF but corruptly concealed and covered up the facts to avoid criticism". The letters demand that damages be paid and an apology made in the media by 25 April.

On 22 April, the lawyer acting for the Central Executive Committee of the SDP had said that he was instructed to defend the case vigorously.

As of 27 April, four of SDP's eleven committee members had publicly apologised, while the chairman of the party had refused to apologise as it would constitute "an admission of guilt". An apology has been formally rejected by the party, though it would not oppose individual members from making personal apologies. M Ravi, the lawyer representing most of the accused, has rejected claims made in the letters that allegations made in the paper were "highly defamatory", and he "[does] not see how a government or public body could be defamed". On 27 April, Chee said that the threat of legal action is already seriously affecting SDP's campaign at Sembawang GRC: "Lawyers for Mr Lee Kuan Yew and Mr Lee Hsien Loong have gone as far as to sue the printer, so much so that he is so frightened he dares not publish our election material." SDP was still seen selling the publication, and the Lees are seeking aggravated damages.

After the Polling Day, a meeting on the defamation suit was called by Francis Yong, vice-chairman of the SDP, in the SDP headquarters. At that time the Chee siblings had yet to make an apology, the meeting was to persuade the siblings to do so, but was unsuccessful. Lawrence Lai, a member of the Centre Executive Committee, walked out after an hour of the meeting, while others declined to comment.