[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# LGBT rights in Malaysia

, a court found five men guilty for "attempting" gay sex, under section 28 of Selangor's Sharia law, and sentenced them to fines, imprisonment and six strokes of the cane each. The five men were arrested during a 2018 raid on a private residence in Selangor, in which a total of 11 men were arrested.

In 2021, a man who was arrested on sodomy charges filed a lawsuit against the state government of Selangor. Subsequently, the Federal Court of Malaysia declared that any state laws within Malaysia can not be in conflict or override with clear federal laws banning gay sex.

In 2022, Malaysian authorities raided a Halloween party, arresting dozens of participants that were a part of the LGBTQ+ community. Numan Afifi, an LGBT rights activist who was among those arrested, referred to it as "outrageous state oppression".

In 2023, Malaysian authorities seized rainbow-coloured watches made by Swatch from its Pride collection. Eleven shopping malls with Swatch outlets around Malaysia, including in the capital Kuala Lumpur, were raided in May. In July, Swatch stated that they will sue Malaysia.

In July 2023, English pop rock band The 1975 was forced by the organisers of Good Vibes Festival to prematurely end their performance after their lead vocalist Matty Healy criticised the country's widespread anti-LGBT laws and kissed fellow band mate Ross MacDonald. Matty added that they initially didn't want to visit Malaysia, stating that "I made a mistake. When we were booking shows, I wasn't looking into it," he said. "I don't see the fucking point... of inviting The 1975 to a country and then telling us who we can have sex with." Human rights and LGBT activist Peter Tatchell, writing for The Guardian wrote that criticism of Healy and the band "deflect attention from where the criticisms should be most urgently directed: against the homophobia of the Kuala Lumpur regime." He also expressed that Healy is no white saviour for showing solidarity to the community as "queer rights are a universal human right, not a western one". That same month, 8 individuals were arrested by the police in Kuala Lumpur for staging a demonstration supporting LGBT rights.

Adoption and family planning

Based on the Adoption Act 1952 (Adoption Act) and the Registration of Adoption Act 1952 (ROAA), there is no restrictions for a single person to adopt regardless of sexual orientation or gender identity.

Gender identity and expression

Human Rights Watch reports that state-level Sharia (Islamic) laws prohibit cross-dressing, and transgender people "face arbitrary arrest, physical and sexual assault, imprisonment, discriminatory denial of health care and employment, and other abuses."

Transgender individuals have often been arrested by police officers under the civil laws governing "public indecency", and if they are Muslim, can be further charged by religious officers under Sharia Laws for "impersonating" women. A 2014 Human Rights Watch report alleged that transgender people are subjected to "assault, extortion, and violations of their privacy rights" by police, and humiliation, physical and sexual assault by Religious Department officials.

In 1998, 45 Muslim transvestites were charged and convicted in court for dressing as women, and 23 more transgender persons faced similar fines and imprisonment in 1999.

It has been estimated that a large number of transgender persons are forced to work on the streets as commercial sex workers to earn a living.

In November 2014, three transgender women from the state of Negeri Sembilan arrested for cross-dressing via Sharia law successfully appealed for review of the judicial law at the Court of Appeal for appropriate clothing of people with gender dysphoria. Due to the lack of a mention of gender dysphoria and the lack of medical evidence for a state legal adviser's claim that transgender people were insane, the court unanimously declared the anti-cross-dressing Sharia law as void and violating the constitutional right of "freedom of expression, movement and the right to live in dignity and equality". On 8 October 2015, the Federal Court of Malaysia overturned the ruling on procedural grounds. The Court found that the three women should have obtained judicial permission of a Federal Court judge when they commenced their constitutional challenge. Although a High Court judge had granted permission in November 2011, the Federal Court ruled that it had done so erroneously.