[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kashmir Princess

ang had recruited Chow to plant the bomb to kill Zhou Enlai. Apparently, he had bragged to friends about his role in the bombing, and had also spent large amounts of money before he left Hong Kong. The Hong Kong Police tried to extradite Chow, but Taiwan refused and denied that Chow was a KMT agent.

Steve Tsang collected evidence from British, Taiwanese, American and Hong Kong archives that points directly to KMT agents operating in Hong Kong as the perpetrators of the aircraft bombing. According to him, the KMT had a special-operations group stationed in Hong Kong responsible for assassination and sabotage. Designated the Hong Kong Group under Major-General Kong Hoi-ping, it operated a network of 90 agents. In March 1955, the group recruited Chow for the assassination because his job at the airport gave him easy access to the Air India plane, and offered him HK$600,000 and refuge in Taiwan, if necessary.

A Chinese Foreign Ministry document declassified in 2004 also indicates that the KMT secret service was responsible for the bombing.

China had from the outset accused the United States of involvement in the bombing, but while the CIA had considered a plan to assassinate Zhou Enlai at this time, the Church Committee – a US Senate select committee that investigated the US intelligence community - reported that these plans were disapproved of and "strongly censured" by Washington. In a 1971 face-to-face meeting in the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, Zhou directly asked Henry Kissinger about US involvement in the bombing. Kissinger responded, "As I told the Prime Minister the last time, he vastly overestimates the competence of the CIA." However, in 1967, an American defector in Moscow, John Discoe Smith, had claimed that he had delivered a suitcase containing an explosive mechanism to a Chinese nationalist in Hong Kong.

Commemorations 
Captain D.K. Jatar and stewardess Gloria Eva Berry, were posthumously awarded the Ashoka Chakra Award for "most conspicuous bravery, daring and self-sacrifice". The same award was later given to the survivors of the incident: First officer M.C Dixit, ground maintenance engineer Anant Karnik, and navigator J.C. Pathak. Together, they were the first civilians to be awarded the Ashoka Chakra Award for outstanding bravery, and Berry was the first woman to ever receive the award.

In 2005, the Xinhua News Agency hosted a symposium to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the crash; three Xinhua journalists had been among the victims.

See also
 Timeline of airliner bombing attacks

References

Further reading  
 Li, Hong. "The Truth Behind the “Kashmir Princess” Incident". In Selected Essays on the History of Contemporary China, (Leiden, The Netherlands: Brill, 2015), 
 "Air India: The Story of the Aircraft", Air Whiners, 2004-07-26
 "China marks journalists killed in premier murder plot 50 years ago", Xinhua News Agency, 2005-04-11
 "China spills Zhou Enlai secret", China Daily, 2004-07-21
 Minnick, Wendell L. "Target: Zhou Enlai", Far Eastern Economic Review, 1995-07-13, pp. 54–55. (Archive)

External links 
 
Final Report

Explosions in 1955
Zhou Enlai
Aviation accidents and incidents in 1955
Mass murder in 1955
Massacres committed by Taiwan
Airliner bombings
Assassinations
Cross-Strait relations
Failed assassination attempts in Asia
History of Hong Kong
1955 in China
1955 in Indonesia
Terrorist incidents in Asia in 1955
Anti-communist terrorism
Aviation accidents and incidents in Indonesia
Accidents and incidents involving the Lockheed Constellation
Air India accidents and incidents
Terrorist incidents in Indonesia
Hong Kong–Taiwan relations
CIA activities in Asia
Individual aircraft
April 1955 events
State-sponsored terrorism
1955 disasters in Indonesia
1955 murders in Asia