[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Kazakhstan–United States relations

tween their countries and prospects for "deepening relations in trade, economic, political, cultural and humanitarian spheres," according to the Kazakhstan embassy website. In later statements Donald Trump expressed his view that the two leaders "developed an immediate relationship" in this meeting.

On January 16, 2018, President Donald Trump met with President Nazarbayev in the White House, the first such visit in Washington by the Kazakh head of state since a 2006 meeting with then-President George W. Bush. Prior to the meeting, Kazinform, a Kazakh state-news agency and one of the largest media outlets in Kazakhstan, stated that the meeting would focus on "the promotion of regional and global security," including specific situations in Afghanistan, Syria, and Russia, as well as a centering on Kazakhstan's cooperation with the US in nuclear nonproliferation. In their public remarks from Washington, President Trump highlighted economic cooperation between the countries, citing deals with companies General Electric and Boeing, while also referring to regional security cooperation in Saudi Arabia. Trump praised Kazakhstan for their economic deals and Nazarbayev's "great, great job" as president. President Nazarbayev positively referred to American support for Kazakhstan's independence and growing economic cooperation. Nazarbayev also praised President Trump's signing of tax cut legislation in December 2017, calling it an "outstanding decision," and alluding to similar legislation passed in Kazakhstan.

Kassym-Jomart Tokayev and Under-Secretary of State 
Kazakhstan President Tokayev met with Under-Secretary of State for Political Affairs David Have on August 21, 2019, in Astana, Kazakhstan. The meeting was important as it was one of the first official meetings with the new President administration of Kazakhstan. It was a chance for both sides to reiterate their commitment to common goals in the bilateral relations.

Kassym-Jomart Tokayev and Donald Trump 
President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev met for the first time with President Donald Trump on September 25, 2019, on the sidelines of the 74th session of the United Nations General Assembly. The presidents agreed to strengthen cooperation in political, trade, economic, humanitarian and security spheres.

C5+1 meetings
C5+1 is a format for dialogue between foreign ministers of the United States and the Central Asian countries. The first C5 +1 meeting was held in November 2015 in Samarkand, Uzbekistan. The second meeting took place on August 3, 2016, in Washington, D.C. The foreign ministers stressed the importance of developing the transport, logistics and energy potential of Central Asia. Secretary of State John Kerry emphasized the willingness of the U.S. to promote initiatives on counterterrorism, trade and investment, economic development, and clean energy in the Central Asian countries. The six ministers agreed to launch five projects related to these goals, which the U.S. plans to support with up to $15 million.

The 2019 C5+1 meeting was held in Astana, Kazakhstan, on August 21. The U.S. delegation was led by Under-Secretary of State for Political Affairs David Hale.

Next C5+1 meeting took place in New York on September 22, 2019. The newly appointed foreign minister of Kazakhstan, Mukhtar Tileuberdi, led the Kazakh delegation. The US delegation was led by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo. The parties discussed ways to expand trade and investment ties as well as integration processes.

Response to the September 11, 2001 attacks 

After the September 11, 2001 attacks, Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev sent a message to U.S. President George W. Bush expressing "indignation about terrorist acts that resulted in loss of numerous lives." The "civilized community must unite and take effective measures to fight international terrorism. All the Kazakhstan people sympathize with the American people in their grief and mourn aver [sic] the tragedy."

According to the Center for Defense Information, the Kazakh government has been "extremely supportive [of] the U.S.-led war against terrorism." The government offered the use of a major airport for Operation Enduring Freedom. Over 800 U.S. flights over Kazakh territory were approved and went ahead. CDI's profile of Kazakhstan credits security forces for "step[ing] up efforts to protect U.S. government facilities and oil facilities with U.S. private investment" and pledging to "freeze the assets of terrorists identified on the U.S. designated terrorist asset-freeze list." The U.S. officially gave the Kazakh government US$52.893 million in 2002, $47 million in 2003, and $36.2 million in 2004. In addition, U.S. Government agencies spent $92 million in assistance programs in Kazakhstan in 2003.