[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Human rights in Morocco

5 We have information based on interviews from people who have been in Guantanamo Bay that there are secret detention centres. Even the US government doesn’t bother to hide this, and we have information from released prisoners on Jordan, on Morocco, on Egypt and Libya, but not on Romania and Poland.

Human rights organizations and bodies
 Association Marocaine des Droits de l'Homme (AMDH) - a non-profit human rights non-governmental organization founded on 24 June 1979
 Organisation Marocaine des Droits Humains (OMDH) - a non-profit human rights non-governmental organization founded on 10 December 1988
 Conseil Consultatif des Droits de l'Homme (CCDH) - a governmental human rights body founded by late King Hassan II
 Annakhil Association for Women and Children (AEFE) - an independent, non-profit NGO in the Tensift-El Haouze region in the south of Morocco with an aim to improve the social, legal, economic and sanitary situation of women and children by offering a framework for reflection and resolution of problems.
 Ligue marocaine de la défense des droits de l'homme (LMDDH) - a non-profit human rights non-governmental organization founded in 1972
 Association des droits numériques (ADN) - a non-profit digital rights non-governmental organization founded in 2014

Historical situation
The chart shows of Morocco's ratings since 1972 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is "free"; 7, "not free".

International treaties
Morocco's stances on international human rights treaties are as follows:

See also

 Amina Filali
 Gender equality in Morocco
 LGBT rights in Morocco
 List of human rights articles by country
 Human rights in Western Sahara

Notes
1.Note that the "Year" signifies the "Year covered". Therefore the information for the year marked 2008 is from the report published in 2009, and so on.
2.As of January 1.
3.The 1982 report covers the year 1981 and the first half of 1982, and the following 1984 report covers the second half of 1982 and the whole of 1983. In the interest of simplicity, these two aberrant "year and a half" reports have been split into three year-long reports through interpolation.

References

External links
Amnesty International USA - Morocco and Western Sahara includes links to annual reports
Human Rights Watch - Morocco
2006 annual report
Morocco's Truth Commission: Honoring Past Victims during an Uncertain Present, November 2005
International Freedom of Expression Exchange - Morocco - IFEX
United States Department of State - Country Reports on Human Rights Practices
2007 2005 Morocco
2007 2005 Western Sahara
United States Library of Congress – Country Profile: Morocco Federal Research Division, May 2006