[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Herb Plews

best known for his defensive abilities. He had a lifetime fielding percentage of .967 at second base. Plews said of his career, "I enjoyed every minute of it, and if I had to do it over, I would certainly do the same thing." He kept in touch with Yost and Roy Sievers once his playing days were over.

Personal
In 1955, Plews married Shirley Mae Williams, a dental assistant. They had one child, son Reese. The couple continued to live in Montana during his offseasons, when Plews worked as a mailman. During the seasons, Shirley rarely missed attending his games. When Plews reached the major leagues, Congressman Lee Metcalf was so excited over this development that he read all the details of Plews's baseball career into the Congressional Record on April 17, 1956. After retirement, Plews played handball as a hobby, winning several championships in his town. He was one of the inaugural members of the Helena Sports Hall of Fame (inducted 2003) and the Helena Senators Baseball Hall of Fame (inducted 2014).

After retiring from baseball, Plews worked for cement plants. First, he worked for a Kaiser Permanente plant in Montana, but later, he moved to Colorado, where he worked at one in the Denver area started by former major leaguer Dale Mitchell. In 2006, he and Shirley moved to a retirement community in Boulder, Colorado. Shirley died of cancer in 2009, and Plews died on December 12, 2014. At his death, he was the only athlete from the Helena area to play Major League Baseball.

References

External links

1928 births
2014 deaths
Arkansas Travelers players
Baseball players from Montana
Binghamton Triplets players
Birmingham Barons players
Boston Red Sox players
Denver Bears players
Hawaii Islanders players
Illinois Fighting Illini baseball players
Kansas City Blues (baseball) players
Major League Baseball second basemen
Minneapolis Millers (baseball) players
Norfolk Tars players
Quincy Gems players
Sportspeople from Helena, Montana
Tacoma Giants players
Toronto Maple Leafs (International League) players
Washington Senators (1901–1960) players
United States Army soldiers
Helena High School alumni