[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Northern Cheyenne Indian Reservation

ecome quite active in basketball, with their team playing a winning game against the Harlem Globetrotters and winning a state championship in the 1950s. The Busby White River Cheyenne Mennonite Church is located in Busby. In 1976 the reservation had 2400 people and Marie Sanchez was the Chief Judge.

Ashland, Montana, is to the east. In 1884 a Catholic boarding school, the St. Labre Indian School, was established there. The 460 residents of Ashland are about 75% American Indian. They are also very active in basketball. When Busby became part of their district, they had notable rivalry basketball games in the late 1940s and on. Birney, Montana, population about 100, 86% Indian, is south of Lame Deer and Ashland. Part of Birney, "White Birney", lies south of the reservation.

Colstrip, Montana, is a neighboring industrial city devoted to coal mining and electrical generation. Located 20 miles north of the reservation, it has a population of about 2,300 residents, of which approximately 240, or 11%, are American Indians. It is also where some Cheyenne attend public school or live for work.

Major employers within the community that contribute to the economy on the reserve include St. Labre Indian School, power and construction companies, the federal and tribal governments, farming and ranching, small businesses, and the education system.

Education 
Chief Dull Knife College, originally named Dull Knife Memorial College, is an open admission Native American tribal community college and land grant institution. It is located on the reservation, in Lame Deer, and has a current enrollment of 141 students. On average, more than half of the graduates move on to four-year colleges. The college is accredited by the Northwest Commission on Colleges and Universities. It is member of the American Indian Higher Education Consortium and American Association of Community Colleges.

Northern Cheyenne Tribal School is the reservation's tribal school located in Busby, MT. 

The reservation is the recipient of a 2010 Promise Neighborhoods grant from the United States Department of Education, through the local Boys & Girls Clubs of America.

The St. Labre Catholic boarding school is also on the reserve and educates children in pre-K-12. It serves nearly 450 students and embraces the North American culture while also celebrating catholic faith and educating children. They integrate North American culture within the school curriculum allowing for formal education to take place in addition to cultural education. Along with the school, this facility also runs a Shiloh Youth Group Home, Childcare Center, Community Outreach Services, Elderly Outreach Services, and a Work Incentive Program. These programs along with the school aim to educate the community members ad provide them with skills in order to become independent in any way they need. There is also a St. Labre museum which houses important Cheyenne artifacts and aims to display history of the culture and language in hopes people with learn from it.

Notable Northern Cheyenne people

References

Sources 
 We, the Northern Cheyenne People
 Northern Cheyenne Reservation and Off-Reservation Trust Land, Montana/South Dakota United States Census Bureau

External links

 
 "Bringing the Story of the Cheyenne People to the Children of Today", Montana state curriculum, 218-page pdf

Northern Cheyenne Tribe
American Indian reservations in Montana
American Indian reservations in South Dakota
Buffalo jumps
Federally recognized tribes in the United States
Geography of Big Horn County, Montana
Geography of Meade County, South Dakota
Geography of Rosebud County, Montana
1884 establishments in Montana Territory