[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Green Table

sually curved, his cunning nature further accentuated by the indirectness of his focus and his multi-directional spatial patterns. Such elements combine to make The Green Table a truly innovative work and the depth and universality of its humanistic content give it a timeless and meaningful quality.

Allusions to the Danse Macabre (Dance of Death) 
Along with other German choreographers of the early 20th Century such as Mary Wigman, Valeska Gert, and Anita Berber, choreographer Kurt Jooss explored concepts relating to death. However, unlike Wigman, Gert, and Berber, Kurt Jooss directly employs the imagery of the processions found in traditional paintings depicting this "Dance of Death" or "Danse Macabre". 

As a result of the various famines, lengthy wars, and epidemics (The Black Plague) of the fourteenth century, the Dance of Death represented a collective Western (European) ideal of the inescapable nature of Death's dance with humans of any status. In many of the paintings and texts referencing the Dance of Death, the dance is depicted and referenced as some kind of linear procession - a line of people. With a personification of Death, a skeleton, in front, they lead the humans, dead, arms linked with one another, in some direction, mimicking a type of social dance. 

In "The Aftermath", the last scene of Jooss' The Green Table follows six preceding scenes that illustrate war and its effects on archetypal humans/characters. After these characters - the soldiers, the loved ones, an escort, etc. - are fatally affected by the deadly effects of war, they appear and dance in a linear formation and resemble the processional nature of "The Dance of Death". In fact, Jooss referred to The Green Table as, ''Totentanz," a term that translates to "Dance of the Dead"; furthermore, the German choreographer's The Green Table took inspiration from a 15th century painted mural that employed the same visualization of humans in a processional dance with Death. 

The traditional concept and subsequent depictions of "The Dance of Death" arise from historical mass deaths and were employed in order to evoke a sense of Death's inevitability, of human mortality to hunger, violence, and illness. Jooss, although he remains consistent with the themes of Death's inevitability and human mortality, expands upon the ideals already instilled in the traditional concepts of the Dance of Death in a manner that presents a lens of antiwar politics. 

Following "The Farewells", "The Battle", "The Partisan", "The Refugees, and "The Brothel", the physical manifestation of the Death's foreboding figure marches on stage to initiate the final scene: "The Aftermath". As he marches on stage, he is followed by the aforementioned procession of war's victims. As Death holds a blue-stained white flag above their heads, they slowly fall to the ground as Death's choreographic timing demands. This scene solidifies The Green Table as one of the first modern political choreographic pieces when using the dramatic deaths of various types of characters - humans - to represent the inevitability of Death during war among various everyday humans while the caricatured Politicians continue their repetitive and futile deliberations. 

Kurt Jooss, influenced by the Dance of Death's visual component - the procession of the dead, expanded upon the traditional ideals of Death's inevitability and human mortality to create a choreographic commentary on the detrimental effects of war. Jooss's choreography claims that in war especially, Death's inevitability and human mortality are most apparent among various (all) humans, except for the Politicians who choose to start and end the war. They remain unharmed, nonchalant of, and separate from the procession of the dead.

Notes

References
 Bremster, M. ed. International Dictionary of Ballet, Vol. 1 and 2. Detroit: St James Press, 1993. 

Ballets by Kurt Jooss
1932 ballet premieres
Death in music