[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 54]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

is friend that, in what
he had done, he had only discharged a debt of gratitude and friendship.
'You were,' said he, 'my generous benefactor; you had a claim upon my
life by the benefit you had already conferred; that life would have been
well bestowed had it been lost in your service; but since Providence
hath otherwise decreed, it is a sufficient recompense to me to have
proved that Hamet is not ungrateful, and to have been instrumental to
the preservation of your happiness.'

"But though the disinterestedness of Hamet made him underrate his own
exertions, the merchant could not remain contented without showing his
gratitude by all the means within his power. He therefore once more
purchased the freedom of Hamet, and freighted a ship on purpose to send
him back to his own country; he and his son then embraced him with all
the affection that gratitude could inspire, and bade him, as they
thought, an eternal adieu.

"Many years had now elapsed since the departure of Hamet into his own
country, without their seeing him, or receiving any intelligence from
him. In the mean time the young Francisco, the son of the merchant, grew
up to manhood; and as he had acquired every accomplishment which tends
to improve the mind or form the manners, added to an excellent
disposition, he was generally beloved and esteemed.

"It happened that some business about this time made it necessary for
him and his father to go to a neighbouring maritime city; and as they
thought a passage by sea would be more expeditious, they both embarked
in a Venetian vessel, which was on the point of sailing to that place.
They set sail, therefore, with favourable winds, and every appearance of
a happy passage; but they had not proceeded more than half their
intended voyage, before a Turkish corsair (a ship purposely fitted out
for war) was seen bearing down upon them, and as the enemy exceeded them
much in swiftness they soon found that it was impossible to escape. The
greater part of the crew belonging to the Venetian vessel were struck
with consternation, and seemed already overcome with fear; but the young
Francisco, drawing his sword, reproached his comrades with their
cowardice, and so effectually encouraged them that they determined to
defend their liberty by a desperate resistance. The Turkish vessel now
approached them in awful silence, but in an instant the dreadful noise
of the artillery was heard, and the heavens were obscured with smoke
intermixed with transitory flashes of fire. Three times did the Turks
leap with horrid shouts upon the deck of the Venetian vessel, and three
times were they driven back by the desperate resistance of the crew,
headed by young Francisco. At length the slaughter of their men was so
great that they seemed disposed to discontinue the fight, and were
actually taking another course. The Venetians beheld their flight with
the greatest joy, and were congratulating each other upon their
successful valour and merited escape, when two more ships on a sudden
appeared in sight, bearing down upon them with incredible swiftness
before the wind. Every heart was now chilled with new terrors, when, on
their nearer approach, they discovered the fatal ensigns of their
enemies, and knew that there was no longer any possibility either of
resistance or escape. They therefore lowered their flag (the sign of
surrendering their ship), and in an instant saw themselves in the power
of their enemies, who came pouring in on every side with the rage and
violence of beasts of prey.

"All that remained alive of the brave Venetian crew were loaded with
fetters, and closely guarded in the hold of the ship till it arrived at
Tunis.

"They were then brought out in chains, and exposed in the public market
to be sold for slaves. They had there the mortification to see their
companions picked out one by one, according to their apparent strength
and vigour, and sold to different masters. At length a Turk approached,
who, from his look and habit, appeared to be of superior rank, and after
glancing his eye over the rest with an expression of compassion, he
fixed them at last upon young Francisco, and demanded of the captain of
the ship what was the price of that young man. The captain answered that
he would not take less than five hundred pieces of gold for that
captive. 'That,' said the Turk, 'is very extraordinary, since I have
seen you sell those that much exceed him in vigour, for less than a
fifth part of that sum.' 'Yes,' answered the captain, 'but he shall
either pay me some part of the damage he has occasioned, or labour for
life at the oar.' 'What damage,' answered the other, 'can he have done
you more than all the rest whom you have prized so cheaply?' 'He it
was,' replied the captain, 'who animated the Christians to that
desperate resistance which cost me the lives of so many of my brave
sailors. Three times did we leap upon their deck, with a fury that