[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# André Marty

dvantage of the chaos that prevailed during the early days of de Gaulle's Provisional Government by starting a revolution. However, it failed to generate support either from other PCF leaders or from the rank and file. Marty's efforts ended when Soviet premier Joseph Stalin vetoed the plan.

Postwar

Marty was once again elected to the National Assembly after the war, though high profile attacks in the press (many by men formerly under his command) had greatly diminished his influence within the party.

His career effectively ended when Étienne Fajon, a prominent Communist deputy and a minor press baron, denounced Marty and his former comrade from Black Sea Mutiny days, Charles Tillon, as police spies. The Affaire Marty-Tillon, as it became known, dragged on for several months with many accusations and counteraccusations from both sides. It ended with Marty's expulsion from the PCF on 7 December 1952.

Fajon's accusations were almost certainly false. It is likely that in a swiftly changing political climate, with the Cold War rapidly heating up, Marty had simply become a political liability. He wrote an account of "L'affaire Marty", which was published in Paris in 1955.

Marty remained a deputy until 1955, when he retired to a village near Toulouse. He died of lung cancer on 23 November 1956.

Other people's impressions

In literature
Andrè Marty is mentioned in Ernest Hemingway's novel For Whom the Bell Tolls in chapter 42.

He also figures in the first volume of Peter Weiss's novel The Aesthetics of Resistance.

In the introduction to Orwell In Spain, his behaviour towards non-Communist Party pro-Republican forces is characterised by Christopher Hitchens as "coldly hateful".

Marty is a character in the 2022 novel published in Spain by Lola Alemany De Color de Amapola 978-84-18756-64-1. This novel recreates the life of three women working as translator-interpreters for the Marty and International Brigades in Albacete.

References

Sources

Antony Beevor, The Battle for Spain: The Spanish Civil War (1936–1939), Weidenfeld, 2006. 
Fred Copeman, Reason in Revolt, Blandford Press, 1948
Jack Jones, Union Man, HarperCollins, 1986. .

Notes

External links
 

1886 births
1956 deaths
People from Perpignan
French Communist Party politicians
Members of the 13th Chamber of Deputies of the French Third Republic
Members of the 14th Chamber of Deputies of the French Third Republic
Members of the 16th Chamber of Deputies of the French Third Republic
Members of the Provisional Consultative Assembly
Members of the Constituent Assembly of France (1945)
Members of the Constituent Assembly of France (1946)
Deputies of the 1st National Assembly of the French Fourth Republic
Deputies of the 2nd National Assembly of the French Fourth Republic
Members of Parliament for Seine-et-Oise
Members of Parliament for Seine
French military personnel of World War I
People who were court-martialed
Recipients of French presidential pardons
French Anti-Francoists
French people of the Spanish Civil War
International Brigades personnel
Members of the Francs-tireurs et partisans
French people of the First Indochina War
French people of the Algerian War
Deaths from lung cancer in France
Prisoners and detainees of France