[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# War in Darfur

ur, but identified few if any weapons of Russian origin. (The section "Chinese weapons and ammunition" receives 20 pages in the report, whereas the only mention of Russian arms is to be found in the sentence "the majority of...mines [in South Sudan] have been of Chinese and Soviet/Russian origin.").

China and Russia denied the accusation by stating that they had not broken any UN sanctions. China has a close relationship with Sudan and increased its military co-operation with the government in early 2007. Because of Sudan's plentiful supply of oil, China considers good relations with Sudan to be a strategic necessity. China has direct commercial interests in Sudan's oil. China's state-owned company CNPC controls between 60 and 70 percent of Sudan's total oil production. Additionally, it owns the largest single share (40 percent) of Sudan's national oil company, Greater Nile Petroleum Operating Company. China consistently opposed economic and non-military sanctions on Sudan.

In March 2007, threats to boycott the Olympic games were made by French presidential candidate François Bayrou, in an effort to stop China's support. Sudan divestment efforts concentrated on PetroChina, the national petroleum company with extensive investments in Sudan.

Criticism of the international response
Gérard Prunier, a scholar specializing in African conflicts, argued that the world's most powerful countries have limited themselves to expressing concern and demand for the United Nations to take action. The UN, lacking initiative and will, initially left the African Union to deploy a token force without a mandate to protect civilians.

On 16 October 2006, Minority Rights Group (MRG) published a critical report, challenging that the UN and the great powers could have prevented the crisis and that few lessons appeared to have been drawn from the Rwandan genocide. MRG's executive director, Mark Lattimer, stated that: "this level of crisis, the killings, rape and displacement could have been foreseen and avoided ... Darfur would just not be in this situation had the UN systems got its act together after Rwanda: their action was too little too late." On 20 October 120 genocide survivors of The Holocaust, and the Cambodian and Rwandan genocides, backed by six aid agencies, submitted an open letter to the European Union, calling on them to do more, proposing a UN peacekeeping force as "the only viable option".

Coverage by the media
Watchers of the Sky, a 2014 documentary by Edet Belzberg, interviews former journalist and United States Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power about the war in Darfur. Also featured is Luis Moreno Ocampo, former ICC jurist and lead prosecutor on the ICC investigation in Darfur. The Brutality of the militias, the violence which was used by the armed forces, the corruption and the human rights abuses were also shown on ER television series (e.g. episodes 12x19, 12x20), as well as in the 2007 documentaries They Turned Our Desert Into Fire and The Devil Came on Horseback.

See also

 Banu Hilal
 Bibliography of the Darfur conflict
 Breidjing Camp
 Chadian Civil War (2005–10)
 Command responsibility
 Darfur genocide
 First Sudanese Civil War
 History of Darfur
 History of Sudan
 Human rights in Sudan
 Genocides in history
 Genocide of indigenous peoples
 List of civil wars
 List of conflicts in Africa
 List of ethnic cleansing campaigns
 List of famines
 List of ongoing armed conflicts
 List of wars 2003–present
 List of wars and anthropogenic disasters by death toll
 Lost Boys of Sudan
 Second Sudanese Civil War
 Slavery in Sudan
 Team Darfur

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links
 
 Photographer's Account – "The Cost of Silence: A Traveling Exhibition"

2000s conflicts
2000s in Sudan
2010s conflicts
2010s in Sudan
 
Civil wars of the 21st century
Ethnicity-based civil wars
Responsibility to protect
Proxy wars
Genocides in Africa