[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Consent to Kill

in hiring the assassins and sends Rapp to Abel's office. There Rapp finds Tayyib torturing Abel's secretary for information on Abel's whereabouts. Rapp kills Tayyib's men, and he and Coleman capture Tayyib. A conscience-stricken Claudia is revealed to be the one who gave the CIA information on Abel.

Abel's secretary reveals to Rapp and Coleman that Abel is in Austria. Rapp flies there and captures Abel at his mountain retreat and tortures him for information. Abel reveals that Rashid was the mastermind behind the plot. He also gives information on the assassins. After hearing this, Rapp, who has become much more violent and vengeful after the killing of his wife, burns Abel alive inside the house.

Rapp travels to Spain where Rashid is staying. Coleman bribes Rashid's guards, who are British SAS sympathetic to Rapp, to let them in. Rapp completely covers Tayyib's body with explosives and drops him off in front of the mosque where Rashid is staying. Once Rashid's personal guards have Tayyib in custody, Rapp detonates the explosives, killing Tayyib and all the guards. Rapp finds Rashid and beats him severely before he puts a phosphorus grenade in his mouth and pulls the pin, melting Rashid's head.

In the epilogue, set nine months later, Rapp trails Louis and Claudia to Tahiti. Claudia has had her baby and Louis has retired. Rapp aims a gun at Louis's head, but once he hears that the baby was named after his deceased wife, he realizes she would not want her death avenged like this.  He turns and leaves Louis, Claudia, and Anna unharmed. He then throws the gun into the ocean and continues walking down the boardwalk outside.

Film adaptation
In a radio interview on the Hugh Hewitt show on February 6, 2009, Vince Flynn disclosed that he has signed a movie deal for this book to be the first of the Mitch Rapp books to make it to the big screen. The screenplay was written by Jonathan Lemkin but it has not yet been picked up by a studio.
On January 1, 2010, Variety announced that Antoine Fuqua (Training Day, Shooter, Olympus Has Fallen) would direct a planned adaptation of Consent to Kill for CBS Films with Lorenzo DiBonaventura and Nick Wechsler producing.

Though CBS Films has expressed interest in Gerard Butler, Colin Farrell and Matthew Fox as possible candidates for Mitch Rapp Teen Wolf alum Dylan O'Brien subsequently won the part by 2016 for the movie adaptation of American Assassin.

Footnotes

References
Consent to kill, Vince Flynn, Atria Books. New York. (2005)

2005 American novels
American thriller novels
Novels by Vince Flynn