[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Ludu U Hla

include:
  - A Person of Substance 1977
  - One Thousand Errant Ways of an Alcoholic
  - Two Thousand Errant Ways of an Alcoholic
  - A World of Errant Ways of a Heroin Addict 1974
  - Tobacco and Man, co-authored with Daw Amar who smoked from age 8 till her 40s and whose family business was tobacco

It has been said that, in the history of Burmese literature, no other writer has been as prolific as U Hla. He appeared to have an all consuming passion for the world of letters, and an inexhaustible amount of energy in not only writing, publishing and travelling for research and to give talks but in corresponding with all his friends and his readers. He remained active in civic and communal life; the Ludu couple was invited by the authorities to give talks to students from both Rangoon and Mandalay Universities taking part in a campaign for the reconstruction of the damaged temples of Bagan in the great earthquake of 1975.

Final years
U Hla was imprisoned for the fifth time in 1978, this time with his wife Daw Amar and their youngest son Nyein Chan (b. 1952) who were both released later than U Hla in 1979. His second son Po Than Gyaung had gone underground in 1976 to join the Communists like his brother before him. U Hla's death at the age of 72, in August 1982, was unexpected by most who knew him as someone who had always lived a healthy life, although he developed diabetes later in life. He was suddenly taken ill just as he was about to be interviewed by a Japanese woman researcher accompanied by the writer Maung Tha-ya, rushed to hospital, and he died the same evening.

U Hla was survived by his wife Ludu Daw Amar (b. 1915), daughter Than Yin Mar (b. 1943, rtd. professor of medicine who has started writing as well assuming the pseudonym Dr. Mya Myitzu), son Po Than Gyaung (b. 1945, current spokesman for the Communist Party of Burma), daughter Tin Win (b. 1947, in charge of Kyipwa Yay Press), and son Nyein Chan (b. 1952, a popular writer of short stories and travelogues, he started writing after his father's death under the name Nyi Pu Lay). Ludu Daw Amar (b. 1915) died recently on 7 April 2008 at the age of 93.

Ludu U Hla was a prime example of what an individual could achieve in a lifetime for the common good, although he would be the first to condemn one-upmanship. History is full of able men who fell by the wayside and lost sight of their own goals and forsook their own principles and convictions. U Hla was of the people, for the people, and never abandoned the people he loved and set out to serve from a very young age. To paraphrase one of his younger colleagues, Ludu Sein Win, even though U Hla had never taken up arms in the revolutionary struggle from colonial times, for he had such great compassion, and if his far-sightedness and forbearance were seen as ineptitude by young radicals, he was a "saintly revolutionary", to be compared with China's Lu Hsun, though not a revolutionary saint.

See also
Ludu Daw Amar

References

External links
The Rightful Owner Karen Folk Tales by Ludu U Hla
The Cocksparrow and the Hensparrow a Kayin folktale as retold by Ludu U Hla
Ludu U Hla (1910-1982) - writer, journalist The Myanmar Chronicle, January 2006
The Wedding a short story by Nyi Pu Lay
Half a Century of Publishing in Mandalay by Anna Allott (PDF full article), Center for Burma Studies, Northern Illinois University, USA
Junta Reins in Mandalay Writers Yeni,The Irrawaddy, October 17, 2006
Ludu Daw Amar celebrates 91st birthday at different venue Mungpi, Mizzima News, November 29, 2006
Ludu Sein Win hospitalised Mizzima News, February 8, 2007

1910 births
1982 deaths
Burmese writers
Burmese journalists
Burmese activists
People from Bago Region
20th-century journalists