[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Thomas of Cantimpré

Thomas of Cantimpré (Latin: Thomas Cantimpratensis or Thomas Cantipratensis) (Sint-Pieters-Leeuw, 1201 – Louvain, 15 May 1272) was a Flemish Catholic medieval writer, preacher, theologian and a friar belonging to the Dominican Order. He is best known for his encyclopedic woek on nature De natura rerum, for the moral text Bonum universale de Apibus and for his hagiographical writings.

Biography
Thomas of Cantimpré was born of noble parentage in 1201, at Sint-Pieters-Leeuw (a small town near Brussels), in the Duchy of Brabant.

In 1206 his father (returning from Palestine, where he had fought alongside Richard I of England) sent Thomas to Liège, where he began to tackle the difficulties of the trivium and quadrivium, studying from age 5 to age 11; in Liège he also had the chance to meet Jacques de Vitry, who was preaching there.

In 1217, at the age of 16, he entered the Canons Regular of St. Augustine at the Abbey of Cantimpré, near Cambrai,  where was later ordained a priest. He was to  spend fifteen years at Cantimpré, a constant source of edification for his brethren.

Later, in 1232, Thomas of Cantimpré entered the Dominican Order in Leuven (again in the Brabant), and in 1233 was sent by the Order to  Cologne, so that he could pursue advanced theological studies: here, Thomas had the opportunity to study and make progress under the direction Albertus Magnus.

After 4 years in Cologne, Thomas was sent to Paris for further scholarly studies at the Dominican studium of Saint-Jacques, in preparation for his preaching mission.

By 1240, he had returned to Louvain, where he was appointed Magister of philosophy and theology, a charge he exercised with great distinction. In 1246, still at Louvain, he became subprior and lector. 

The last part of his life was dedicated to preaching and he  undertake missions throughout the Brabant, Germany, Belgium and France: for his great success in this field, Thomas was also honored with the title of "Preacher General".

Thomas of Cantimpré died in Leuven, supposedly on 15 May 1272.

Writings

Thomas of Cantimpré was the author of several works of different types, all written in Latin.

In the hagiographical field, works include  the Vita Joannis abbatis primi monasterii Cantimpratensis, a Supplementum ad vitam Mariae Oigniacensis, and also three lives dedicated to holy women belonging to the Diocese of Liège, namely, the'Vita S. Christinae virginis Mirabilis dictae, Vita preclare virginis Margarete de Ypris and Vita Piae Lutgardiae.

A minor work – only 105 lines – is the Hymnus de beato Jordano, written in honor of the blessed Jordan of Saxony (died 1237), a key figure  of the Dominican Order.

 De natura rerum 

Thomas' most significant work may be 'De natura rerum''' (or Liber de natura rerum), a work of natural history to  which he dedicated almost twenty years of labour,  between 1225 and 1244. Among his publications, it was the one which had the greatest diffusion, as witnessed by the large number of surviving manuscripts, but also by the many authors who later drew upon it.

Bonum universale de apibus 
Thomas of Cantimpré was also the author of the Bonum universale de apibus, a work of moral and spiritual edification – composed between 1256/57 and 1263, but probably around  1259 – which is based on the allegory of life in a community of bees to deal with issues related to moral conduct and to the duties of superiors and subordinates.

The Bonum universale de apibus is organized in 2 books: the first one () deals with the "prelates" (bishops, abbots and other high-ranking clergy), while the second one (De subditis) deals with subordinates (both monks and laity). Each chapter presents at the beginning the exposition of a property of bees, followed by an allegorical interpretation of a moral kind and then by a series of exempla. While the passages on bees and allegorical interpretations are taken (as the author himself recounts) from 'other books', Thomas takes up the matter of each exemplum "from his own experience or from contemporary oral, religious or secular sources". Overall, the text therefore represents "a treatise on practical theology and morals".

Like the De natura rerum, the Bonum universale had great fortune: the manuscript tradition is prolific, more than a hundred manuscripts. There were made also several prints: a print in Deventer before 1478, then one in Paris and three more (1597, 1605, 1627) in Douai. The text has also inspired many writers during the centuries, including Johannes Nider, who took inspiration from the Bonum universale for the structure of his Formicarius (1436–1438).

A modern critical edition of the work is still lacking.