[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Displacement ventilation

Displacement ventilation (DV) is a room air distribution strategy where conditioned outdoor air is supplied at a low velocity from air supply diffusers located near floor level and extracted above the occupied zone, usually at ceiling height.

System design 
A typical displacement ventilation system, such as one in an office space, supplies conditioned cold air from an air handling unit (AHU) through a low induction air diffuser. Diffuser types vary by applications. Diffusers can be located against a wall ("wall-mounted"), at the corner of a room ("corner-mounted"), or above the floor but not against a wall ("free-standing"). The cool air accelerates because of the
buoyancy force, spreads in a thin layer over the floor,
reaching a relatively high velocity before rising due to heat exchange with heat sources (e.g., occupants, computers, lights). Absorbing the heat from heat sources, the cold air becomes warmer and less dense. The density difference between cold air and warm air creates upward convective flows known as thermal plumes. Instead of working as a stand-alone system in interior space, displacement ventilation system can also be coupled with other cooling and heating sources, such as radiant chilled ceilings or baseboard heating.

History 
Displacement ventilation was first applied in an industrial building in Scandinavia in 1978, and has frequently been used in similar applications, as well as office spaces, throughout Scandinavia since that time. By 1989, it was estimated that displacement ventilation comprised the 50% in industrial applications and 25% in offices within Nordic countries. Applications in the United States have not been as widespread as in Scandinavia. Some research has been done to assess the practicality of this application in U.S. markets due to different typical space designs and application in hot and humid climates, as well as research to assess the potential indoor environmental quality and energy-saving benefits of this strategy in the U.S. and elsewhere.

Applications 
Displacement ventilation has been applied in many famous building such as the Suvarnabhumi International Airport in Bangkok, Thailand, the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory Flight Projects Center building, and the San Francisco International Airport Terminal 2 among other applications.

General characteristics

Airflow distribution 
The thermal plumes and supply air from diffusers, which determines the velocity of airflow at floor level, play an important role in DV systems. It is necessary to carefully set the airflow rate from the diffuser to avoid drafts.

Conditioning type 
Due to the unique properties of thermal stratification, displacement ventilation is typically used for cooling rather than for heating. In many cases, a separate heating source, such as a radiator or baseboard, is used during heating periods.

Space requirement 
Displacement ventilation is best suited for taller spaces (higher than 3 meters [10 feet]). Standard mixing ventilation may be better suited for smaller spaces where air quality is not as great a concern, such as single-occupant offices, and where the room height is not tall (e.g., lower than 2.3 meters [7.5 feet]).

Benefits and limitations

Local discomfort: vertical temperature difference and draft 
Displacement ventilation systems are quieter than conventional overhead systems with better ventilation efficiency. Hence, it could enhance indoor air quality and provide desirable acoustic environment. Displacement ventilation systems are appropriate in space where high ventilation is required, such as classrooms, conference rooms, and offices.

Displacement ventilation can be a cause of discomfort due to the large vertical temperature gradient and drafts. According to Melikov and Pitchurov's research, sensations of cold caused by vertical temperature difference and draft are usually occurred at the lower leg/ ankle/ feet region, while warm sensations at the head are reported. The research also indicates, that the draft rating model could predict the draft risk with good accuracy in rooms with displacement ventilation systems.

There is a tradeoff inherent in these two issues: by increasing the flow rate (and the ability to remove greater thermal loads), the vertical temperature gradient can be reduced, but this could increase the risk of drafts. Pairing displacement ventilation with radiant chilled ceilings is an effort to mitigate this problem. According to some studies, displacement ventilation systems can only provide acceptable comfort if the corresponding cooling load is less than about 13 Btu/h-sf or 40 W/m2.

Indoor air quality 
One benefit of displacement ventilation is possibly the superior indoor air quality achieved with exhausting contaminated air out of the room. Better air quality is achieved when the pollution source is also a heat source.