[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Yemen

ard for women to obtain contraception, or to take operation for treatment without a husband's permission. Yemen's high child mortality rate and the fourth fastest growing population in the world are attributed to a lack of women's decision-making in their pregnancy and access to healthcare services.

Women are vulnerable to sexual assault by prison guards, and there is a lower, if any, punishment for violence against women than men.
The law stipulates protection of women from domestic violence, but in fact there are few protections for women who suffer from domestic violence and no systematic investigation of such occurrences has been conducted. Spousal abuse or domestic violence is not generally reported to the police because of social norms and customs, meaning that women remain silent under these abuses.

Freedom of the press
In 2005, Yemen ranked 136th of 167 nations in terms of press freedom. The government holds a monopoly on all television and radio and bans journalists for publishing "incorrect" information. In 2001, journalists at the newspaper Al-Shura received 80 lashes for defaming Abdul Majeed al-Zindani, the leader of the country's largest Islamist party. The newspaper was also shut down. According to Human Rights Watch, "Under the regulations for the 1990 Press Law, issued in 1993 and 1998, newspapers have to apply to the Ministry of Information for annual renewal of their license... in mid-2000 only about half of Yemen's 200 publications had been granted a license."

The UN Human Rights Office (OHCHR) documented several human rights violations against journalists in Yemen that included killings, disappearances and death sentences committed by the parties warring in the Yemeni armed conflict. On June 2, 2020, in Dar Sa’ad district, AFP journalist Nabeel Al-Qitee’e was assassinated in front of his home. On 11 April 2020, four journalists were sentenced to death and six others were jailed by the Specialized Criminal Court in the capital of Sana’a, controlled by Houthi rebels. Since the start of the conflict in 2015, 24 media organizations have been seized, 26 TV channels and newspaper agencies were shut down. According to OHCHR, 357 human rights violations and abuses were documented to have taken place against journalists, including 184 arrests and detentions, 28 killings, 45 assaults, 2 forced disappearances and one abduction.

On 6 November 2020, Human Rights Watch revealed that four journalists arbitrarily detained by Houthi authorities in Yemen since 2015 were charged with death penalty and given inadequate medical care during imprisonment. The four detainees were arrested and sentenced to death without a fair trial on 11 April 2020, by a Houthi-controlled court in Sanaa. The court charged the journalists for treason and spying for foreign states considering their journalistic work.

Freedom of religion

The Constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the Government generally respected this right in practice; however, there were some restrictions. The Constitution declares that Islam is the state religion, and that Shari'a (Islamic law) is the source of all legislation. Government policy continued to contribute to the generally not free practice of religion; however, there were some restrictions. Muslims and followers of religious groups other than Islam are free to worship according to their beliefs, but the Government prohibits conversion from Islam and the proselytization of Muslims.

Although relations among religious groups continued to contribute to religious freedom, there were some reports of societal abuses and discrimination based on religious belief or practice. There were isolated attacks on Jews and some prominent Zaydi Muslims felt targeted by government entities for their religious affiliation. Government military reengagement in the Saada governorate caused political, tribal, and religious tensions to reemerge in January 2007, following the third military clash with rebels associated with the al-Houthi family, who adhere to the Zaydi school of Shi'a Islam.

Since the start of the Shia insurgency, many Zaidis accused of supporting Al-Houthi, have been arrested and held without charge or trial. According to the US Department of State, International Religious Freedom Report 2007, "Some Zaydis reported harassment and discrimination by the Government because they were suspected of sympathizing with the al-Houthis. However, it appears the Government's actions against the group were probably politically, not religiously, motivated".

LGBT rights

Homosexuality is illegal in Yemen in accordance with the country's Shari'ah legal system. LGBT persons in Yemen are likely to suffer discrimination, legal, and social challenges. Punishments for homosexuality range from flogging to death. Yemen is one of the seven countries to apply a death penalty for consensual sexual acts between adults of the same sex.

Gay and lesbian websites are blocked by the government.