[Source: PubMed]

41. Soc Sci Med. 2026 Mar;393:118902. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2025.118902. Epub 
2026 Jan 3.

Health among sexual and gender minority people affected by armed conflict and 
forced displacement: Call for a biocultural and minority stress framework.

Gibb JK(1), Glass DJ(2), Jaber B(3), Kteily-Hawa R(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, USA; 
Kinsey Institute, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN, USA; Irsay Institute for 
Sociomedical Science Research, Indiana University, Bloomington, Indiana, USA; 
Department of Anthropology, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, USA. 
Electronic address: jkgibb@iu.edu.
(2)Department of Anthropology, University of Toronto - St. George, Toronto, ON, 
Canada. Electronic address: delaney.glass@utoronto.ca.
(3)Department of Anthropology, University of Illinois, Chicago, USA; Center for 
Contemporary Arab Studies, Georgetown University, Washington D.C., USA.
(4)Family Studies and Human Development, Faculty of Health Sciences, Western 
University, London, ON, Canada.

Sexual and gender minority (SGM) populations are vulnerable to the intersecting 
challenges of armed conflict and forced displacement (ACFD), yet their unique 
health needs remain largely overlooked. We synthesize current scholarship on SGM 
populations affected by ACFD, with a focus on structural, psychosocial, and 
biological mechanisms that may impact SGM health. SGM populations face 
compounded risks during ACFD, including social exclusion, targeted violence, and 
limited access to humanitarian aid. These psychosocial stressors-heightened by 
social isolation and identity concealment-may be exacerbated by structural 
inequities, such as exclusion from shelters, healthcare, and legal protections. 
Chronic exposure to these conditions activates pathways of systemic 
inflammation, dysregulated immune responses, and metabolic disruption, which may 
enhance risks for a range of physical and mental health outcomes, including 
cardiovascular disease, PTSD, and accelerated biological aging. Our narrative 
review and conceptual synthesis demonstrates a paucity of empirical evidence 
regarding SGM populations affected by ACFD, for complex reasons which are 
discussed. Additionally, our review underscores that there is multi-sectoral 
awareness that further research and research-to-policy initiatives are needed to 
improve health and access. Drawing from Minority Stress Theory (MST) and 
biocultural anthropology, we advocate for an integrative conceptual approach 
that researchers can adopt to examine how structural violence, resource 
insecurity, and stigma may become biologically embedded, leading to adverse 
health outcomes in the context of ACFD. This review underscores the need to 
develop integrated, holistic approaches to study the experiences of SGM 
populations and promote health equity in and beyond crisis settings.

Copyright © 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2025.118902
PMID: 41579698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
report no conflicts of interest.