[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# André Bikey

am Sabadell. On 16 September 2013, Bikey signed a one-year contract with Greek Superleague side Panetolikos. On 10 November, he scored both goals in the "Canaries" 2–1 win over Levadiakos at Panetolikos Stadium. He made a total of 26 appearances for Panetolikos over the course of the 2013–14 season.

In July 2014, Bikey returned to England to sign for Championship side Charlton Athletic on a two-year contract after impressing manager Bob Peeters on trial. He scored his first and only goal for Charlton in a 1–1 draw with Wolverhampton Wanderers at The Valley on 16 September. He featured 34 times for the "Addicks" in the 2014–15 season, but was a peripheral figure after Guy Luzon took charge in January. On 31 August 2015, Bikey's contract was cancelled by mutual consent.

In October 2015, Bikey signed for Indian Super League team NorthEast United as a replacement for the injured Miguel Garcia. He featured nine times during the 2015 season, scoring one goal, as César Farías's "Highlanders" posted a fifth-place finish. In July 2016, Bikey signed for fellow Indian Super League side FC Pune City after being signed by Antonio López Habas. However, he was unable to feature for the club due to injury.

On 17 March 2017, Bikey once again returned to England and signed for EFL League One side Port Vale on a deal until the end of the 2016–17 season. He was signed by caretaker manager Michael Brown to provide cover for his only two fit centre-halves. Brown emphasized that Bikey was still recovering fitness from a quadriceps injury and that there was no timescale on how soon he would be able to play for the first team. However injury trouble with Remie Streete meant Bikey was forced to play despite struggling with fitness and hamstring problems of his own, and Bikey was in fact one of the "Valiants" better players towards the end of the season.

On 29 August 2017, Bikey signed with newly formed Indian Super League side Jamshedpur after being recruited by former Reading manager Steve Coppell. On 18 August 2018, he joined Steve Coppell at Indian Super League rivals ATK. He played two Tercera División games for CF Igualada in the 2019–20 season.

International career
Bikey was named by head coach Artur Jorge in the Cameroon squad for the 2006 Africa Cup of Nations in Egypt, and won his first cap after coming on as a substitute for Raymond Kalla in a 2–0 win over Togo in a group stage game at Cairo's Military Academy Stadium on 25 January. He went on to play in the quarter-finals, and converted his penalty in the shoot-out defeat to the Ivory Coast on 4 February. He was dropped by new coach Arie Haan after the tournament, and then turned down a call-up under Jules Nyongha in March 2007.

He was named by Otto Pfister in Cameroon's squad for the 2008 Africa Cup of Nations in Ghana. On 31 February, he was sent off in the semi-final win over Ghana after a bizarre incident where he pushed a Ghanaian stretcher bearer in the dying seconds of the match. The medic in question, Samuel Ashia, said that "It was very forceful, and I landed badly. It didn’t hurt at the time but the next day my head ached and the area around my waist did, too... he hasn't apologised and I will be happy when he does, because no player should do that." Bikey was banned from the final and Cameroon were fined US$5,000 by the CAF. Egypt went on to beat Cameroon in the final.

He scored his first and only international goal in a 3–0 victory over Mauritius in a World Cup qualification match in Curepipe on 8 June 2008. He was named in Cameroon's squad for the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. He played in all three group games as well as the quarter-final, where Cameroon were beaten 2–0 by Brazil in extra time at the Shenyang Olympic Sports Center Stadium.

He was named in the squad for the 2010 Africa Cup of Nations in Angola, and played in Cameroon's 3–1 extra-time defeat to Egypt at the Estádio Nacional de Ombaka in the quarter-finals on 25 January. However, he was benched for much of the tournament by Paul Le Guen and was not named in the squad for the 2010 FIFA World Cup. He was recalled by new head coach Javier Clemente and won the last of his 25 caps in a 3–0 friendly victory over Poland on 11 August 2010.

Coaching career
On 27 July 2020, Bikey was named José Gomes' assistant at Spanish Segunda División side UD Almería. He joined Gomes again in 2022 to be his assistant at rival Segunda División side SD Ponferradina.

Style of play
Primarily a defender, he could also play in midfield. He had great strength and athleticism, as well as good technical ability. He was described by the Middlesbrough Gazette as an "absolute monster, a physically imposing hulk with a massive turning circle who did a solid if sometimes erratic job at Boro but was always worth at least one heart-stopping moment of madness per game". He celebrated his goals with a hat-trick of somersaults.