[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Government procurement in the United States

or non conforming deliveries?

FAR Part 49 should be read that to get information on terminations including notice to cure and show cause notices.  The more the Government tries to give the contractor chances to remedy their default, the more the Government bolsters its case that T4D is appropriate.

The various courts that review T4Ds have a high standard of review for T4Ds, so the Government should consider making sure the T4D is well supported and the Government has had little or no role in the contractors non-conforming performance as well as ensuring there is a clearly defined deliverable, several chances to cure and nothing in the record that indicates the Government failed to do something that was condition precedent to performance or the Government interfered with contract performance or failed to provide required cooperation/support.  (For example, failure to provide security escorts or access to a work site thus causing delays on the part of Contractor performance).

The key point for T4Ds is that it is the only way that a Government agency can use prior year single year appropriated funds, such as O&M or many types of procurement funds, for reprocurement of the item in question. Accordingly, it is very important the Agency get the acquisition right up front because bad work statements and poor contract administration destroy the Government's ability to T4D, thus keep their prior year funds to get a replacement contractor.

Defense Contract Management Agency (DCMA) has a Terminations Handbook which is very useful in dealing with terminations for convenience issues.

Real options analysis
One approach to analysing government procurement of large systems such as weapons systems is to use real options analysis. Such procurements can be done in single annual lots ("single-year procurements" or SYPs), or, with Congressional approval, multi-year procurement (MYP) contracts. Multi-year contracts generally lower the risk for the contractor, and thus the unit price paid by the Government. One way to look at this situation is that a multi-year contract contains a real option for the contractor to escape the uncertainty associated with a sequence of single-year contract negotiations (analogous to a put option). Real options analysis can give an estimate of the value to the contractor of transferring revenue risk to the Government as a function of the contract's size and the volatility of the contract's value, even though the option is not actively traded. The negotiated price is also influenced by the attitudes towards risk of the negotiating parties.

Wartime contracting
Allegations of waste and corruption in government procurement during wartime have led to special oversight measures being put in place. During World War II this function was provided by the bipartisan Truman Committee established in 1941. After allegations of contract fraud and waste were made regarding expenditure during the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the Commission on Wartime Contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan was established, modelled on the Truman Committee.

Contractor voice
One organization which provides a contractor perspective is the Coalition for Government Procurement (CGP), a non-profit association of commercial contractors. The CGP is based in Washington, D.C. and is registered under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995.

See also
Conjoint analysis – useful in determining essential elements of an acquisition from a customer's perspective.
 Cost-plus contract
 Economic conversion
 Federal Information Technology Acquisition Reform Act
 Governmentwide acquisition contracts
 Contract adjustment board
 Defense Acquisition University
 Defense Contract Audit Agency, responsible for audits of many defense contractors
 Defense Contract Management Agency, responsible for contract administration of US Department of Defense contracts.
 NASA SEWP, an example of an acquisition contract that expanded from its original narrow focus to serve the entire Government
 No-bid contract
 Small and medium enterprise
 Top 100 US Federal Contractors
 United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Vol. I – 
 Vol. II –