[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

icane Katrina after media investigations revealed that one FEMA contractor allegedly engaged in profiteering by misrepresenting timesheets and hourly rates. Kennedy also urged Governor Blanco to ban family members of state officials from securing construction contracts during the rebuilding effort. 

In 2013, Kennedy reported 30 Louisiana nonprofits to the legislative auditor's office after they failed to file financial reports. In 2014, he launched an investigation into Act 859, an unconstitutional state retirement bill that benefited state police chief Mike Edmonson and one other state trooper. Kennedy said he received hundreds of emails from state employees who found the legislation unfair and claimed that the state's police officer retirement fund was underwater because "for years the legislature passed special interest legislation like this to help a select few".

In 2014, Kennedy urged state prosecutors to start pressing charges against people who committed food stamp fraud. Kennedy noted that more than $1.1 million in food stamp debit cards were sent to people in jails, $107,000 was sent to ineligible felons, and $2 million was spent outside the state—implying that the funds were likely sent to nonresidents.

Tobacco settlement 

In 1988, Louisiana was one of 46 states to enter into a settlement with tobacco companies over smoking-related illnesses whereby each state could choose between annual payments or a smaller lump sum. Louisiana took the annual payments. As treasurer, Kennedy structured a deal to auction off part of the annual payments in exchange for a lump sum to hedge against the possibility that the tobacco companies could go bankrupt. At the time, Kennedy said, "If your rich uncle died and left you $4.4 billion, all of it in Philip Morris stock, what would you do? I would diversify." The proceeds from that sale were invested in trust funds earmarked for education, health care, and TOPS—a higher education scholarship program. 

Kennedy opposed future sales of the debt. He argued that his early sale was only a hedge against a potential bankruptcy of the tobacco companies and should not be used as a short term fund to address immediate spending. In 2007, the Louisiana State Bond Commission voted to sell more of the settlement and Kennedy was the lone opposition vote. 

In 2015, Governor Jindal announced a plan to sell the remainder of the tobacco settlement in one lump sum of $751 million to help him address budget shortfalls rather than accepting the remaining $1.2 billion in annual payments. Kennedy opposed the plan, saying that taking the lump sum would be a "bonehead move" that the legislature would not support and adding: "I’ve talked to a number of legislators. I think most of them would rather drink weed killer than do this." He argued that the sale would stop a one-time budget problem without addressing spending, leaving a debt bomb for future generations. The legislature sided with Kennedy, and Jindal's plan dissolved.

START college savings plan 

In 1997, Louisiana launched its Student Tuition Assistance and Revenue Trust Savings Program to allow people to start a 529 plan to save for their children’s education. As treasurer, Kennedy expanded five new investment options to give parents the choice of investing in the stock market in addition to the fixed returned securities options. He also put these investment options online to make it easier for parents to watch and manage their investments. During Kennedy’s tenure, Louisiana's START program was ranked fifth-best in the nation.

Switching political parties 

In the 2004 election, Kennedy endorsed Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry over George W. Bush.

After being courted by the Republican Party for months, Kennedy declared in a letter to his constituents that he was leaving the Democratic Party and joining the Republicans, effective August 27, 2007. In his letter, he stated that he would run again for state treasurer later that year.

Working with governors 

As treasurer, Kennedy often clashed with governors and state legislators from both political parties, especially over spending and tax increases. He advocated for reducing state bureaucracy by cutting unnecessary state government jobs. 

In 2009, Kennedy criticized Governor Kathleen Blanco for including more than $9 million in spending he deemed "pork". He sent Blanco a six-page document of suggested cuts she could make as line-item vetoes. Kennedy said his list was "based upon the fact that many of the entities do not appear to be government entities, the lack of information about many of the items or entities, and that many of the items should have been considered through the entire process and/or included in other appropriate places in the budget to ensure proper public scrutiny, input and accountability."