[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Australian Capital Territory

and exported 28,815 MWh to the grid (power consumed locally was not recorded).

The ACT has the highest rate with internet access at home (94 per cent of households in 2014–15).

Economy 

The economic activity of the Australian Capital Territory is heavily concentrated around the city of Canberra.

A stable housing market, steady employment and rapid population growth in the 21st century have led to economic prosperity and, in 2011, CommSec ranked the ACT as the second best performing economic region in the country. This trend continued into 2016, when the territory was ranked the third best performing out of all of Australia's states and territories.

In 2017–18, the ACT had the fastest rate of growth in the nation due to a rapid growth in population, a strongly performing higher education sector as well as a significant housing and infrastructure investment.

Higher education is the territory's largest export industry. The ACT is home to a significant number of universities and higher education providers. The other major services exports of the ACT in 2017-18 were government services and personal travel. The major goods exports of the territory in 2017-18 were gold coin, legal tender coin, metal structures and fish, though these represent a small proportion of the economy compared to services exports.

The economy of the ACT is largely dependent on the public sector with 30% of the jobs in the territory being in the public sector. Decisions by the federal government regarding the public service can have a significant impact on the territory's economy.

The ACT's gross state product in 2017-18 was $39.8 billion which represented 2.2% of the overall gross domestic product of Australia. In 2017-18 the ACT economy grew by 4.0 per cent, the highest growth rate of any jurisdiction in Australia. This brought real economic growth over the three years to June 2018 to 12 per cent.

See also

Community Based Corrections
Human Rights Act 2004
Index of Australia-related articles
Jervis Bay Territory
Revenue stamps of the Australian Capital Territory

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links

Government of the Australian Capital Territory
Legislative Assembly of the Australian Capital Territory
Supreme Court of the Australian Capital Territory
Statistical Subdivisions of the Australian Capital Territory
List of public art in Australian Capital Territory

 
Capital districts and territories
1911 establishments in Australia
Enclaves and exclaves
States and territories established in 1911