[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# July Theses

tural dictates. Other writers were anxious not to jeopardise their privileges and afraid that the Party might use the Theses to bring new "writers" into a rebellious Union. They instead preferred subtle evasion of their constraints and so were reluctant to back the pair of more outspoken dissidents.

Within three years, the balance of power in the writers' community had shifted from the 1960s generation to the protochronists; writers eager for greater influence could now obtain it by specialising in the production of ideology. These included both figures on the decline who hoped to revive their careers, such as Barbu (whose career had suffered at the expense of oppositionists), and younger writers like Păunescu, an initial opponent. The two factions remained in open conflict for a decade, but by 1981 the Party had rendered the Union impotent by freezing its funds and restricting its activities — no more Writers' Conferences were allowed after that year. Instead, with the greater emphasis on ideology, force, and centralisation, and with more funds, the protochronists remained more influential until the Romanian Revolution of December 1989, having been reinforced by the "Mangalia Theses" in the summer of 1982. Particularly in the 1980s, Romanian culture and science became increasingly isolated internationally.

Also as a result of the Theses, sociology was removed as a university discipline and what was left was taught at the Party's Ștefan Gheorghiu Academy.  The number of those allowed to study non-technical subjects at the university was sharply cut; fewer books were published; and the privileges formerly accorded to intellectuals were reduced. In 1974, the Academy of Sciences was forced to take on Elena Ceaușescu as a member and then its head; she politicized it to such an extent that its prestige and much of its serious research were destroyed.

Notes

References
 Barbu, Bogdan, Vin americanii! Prezența simbolică a Statelor Unite în România Războiului Rece, Humanitas, Bucharest, 2006, .
 Bozóki, András, Intellectuals and Politics in Central Europe, Central European University Press, Budapest, 1991, .
Cioroianu, Adrian, Pe umerii lui Marx. O introducere în istoria comunismului românesc ("On the Shoulders of Marx. An Incursion into the History of Romanian Communism"), Editura Curtea Veche, Bucharest, 2005, .
 Deletant, Dennis, Ceaușescu and the Securitate: Coercion and Dissent in Romania, 1965–1989, M.E. Sharpe, London, 1995, .
 Liiceanu, Gabriel, The Păltiniș Diary: A Paideic Model in Humanist Culture, Central European University Press, Budapest, 2000, .
Tismăneanu, Vladimir, Stalinism pentru eternitate, Polirom, Iași, 2005  (translation of Stalinism for All Seasons: A Political History of Romanian Communism, University of California Press, Berkeley, 2003, ).
 Verdery, Katherine, National Ideology Under Socialism: Identity and Cultural Politics in Ceaușescu's Romania, University of California Press, Berkeley, 1991, .

Romanian Communist Party
Socialist Republic of Romania
Speeches by heads of state
Socialist realism
Censorship in Romania
1971 in Romania
Nicolae Ceaușescu
Political and cultural purges
1971 speeches
July 1971 events in Europe