[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Substratum in Vedic Sanskrit

d Proto-Indo-Iranian during its development in the Sintashta culture in distant contact with the Bactria–Margiana Archaeological Complex, and then many more words with the same origin enriched Old Indic as it developed among pastoralists who integrated with and perhaps ruled over the declining BMAC.

Examples:
 BMAC * 'soma plant (ephedra)’ → Skt. ; Av. 
 BMAC *atʰr̥ → Skt. átharvan 'priest', Av. āθrauuan-/aθaurun- 'id.', Pehlevi āsrōn; Toch. A atär, B etre 'hero'
 BMAC *bʰiš- 'to heal' → Skt. bhiṣáj- m. 'physician'; LAv. bišaziia- 'to cure'
 BMAC *dr̥ća → Skt. dūrśa- 'coarse garment'; Wakhi δirs 'goat or yak wool', Shughni δox̆c 'body hair; coarse cloth' 
 BMAC *gandʰ/t- → Skt. gandhá-; LAv. gaiṇti- 'odor' 
 BMAC *gandʰ(a)rw- 'mythical beast' → Skt. gandharvá-; LAv. gaṇdərəβa-
 BMAC *indra theonym → Skt. Índra; LAv. Iṇdra daeva's name
 BMAC *išt(i) 'brick' → Skt. íṣṭakā- f. (VS+); LAv. ištiia- n., OP išti- f., Pers. xešt; Toch. B iścem 'clay'
 BMAC *ǰaǰʰa/uka 'hedgehog' → Skt. jáhakā; LAv. dužuka-, Bal. ǰaǰuk, Pers. žūža
 BMAC *jawījā 'canal, irrigation channel' → Skt. yavīyā-; OP yauwiyā-, Pers. ju(y)
 BMAC *k/ćan- 'hemp' → Skt. śaṇa; MP šan, Khot. kaṃha, Oss. gæn(æ)
 BMAC *majūkʰa 'wooden peg' → Skt. mayūkha-; OP mayūxa- 'doorknob', Pers. mix 'peg, nail'
 BMAC *nagna → Skt. nagnáhu- (AVP+) m. 'yeast'; Sogd. nɣny, Pashto naɣan, Pers. nān 'bread'
 BMAC *sćāga ~ sćaga 'billy-goat' → Skt. chāga-; Oss. sæǧ(æ), Wakhi čəɣ 'kid'
 BMAC *sikatā 'sand, gravel' → Skt. sikatā-; OP θikā 'sand', Khot. siyatā, Buddh. Sogd. šykth
 BMAC *sinšap- 'mustard' → Skt. sarṣapa; Khot. śśaśvāna, Parth. šyfš-d'n, Sodg. šywšp-δn, Pers. sipan-dān 'mustard seed'  
 BMAC *(s)pʰāra 'ploughshare' → Skt. phāla-; Pers. supār
 BMAC *sūčī 'needle' → Skt. sūćī; LAv. sūkā-, MP sozan, Oss. sūʒīn ~ soʒīnæ
 BMAC *šwaipa 'tail' → Skt. śépa-, Prākrit cheppā-; LAv. xšuuaēpā-
 BMAC *(H)uštra 'camel' → Skt. úṣṭra-; Av. uštra-, Pers. šotor

Harappan

Witzel initially used the term "Para-Munda" to denote a hypothetical language related but not ancestral to modern Munda languages, which he identified as "Harappan", the language of the Indus Valley civilization. To avoid confusion with Munda, he later opted for the term  "Kubhā-Vipāś substrate". He argues that the Rigveda shows signs of this hypothetical Harappan influence in the earliest level and Dravidian only in later levels, suggesting that speakers of Harappan were the original inhabitants of Punjab and that the Indo-Aryans encountered speakers of Dravidian not before middle Rigvedic times. Krishnamurti deems the evidence too meagre for this proposal. Regarding Witzel's methodology in claiming Para-Munda origins, Krishnamurti states: "The main flaw in Witzel's argument is his inability to show a large number of complete, unanalyzed words from Munda borrowed into the first phase of the Ṛgveda... It would have been better if [Witzel] said we did not know the true source of 300 or so early borrowings into the Ṛgveda." This statement, however, confuses Proto-Munda and Para-Munda and neglects the several hundred "complete, unanalyzed words" from a prefixing language, adduced by Kuiper and Witzel.

Living donor languages
A concern raised in the identification of the substrate is that there is a large time gap between the comparative materials, which can be seen as a serious methodological drawback. One issue is the early geographical distribution of the South Asian languages.  It should not be assumed that the present-day northern location of Brahui, Kurukh, and Malto reflects the position of their ancestor languages at the time of Indo-Aryan development. Another problem is that modern literary languages may present a misleading picture of their prehistoric ancestors. The first completely intelligible, datable, and sufficiently long and complete epigraphs that might be of some use in linguistic comparison are the early Tamil Brahmi inscriptions starting in the 2nd century BC, and the Tamil inscriptions of the Pallava dynasty of about 550. Similarly there is much less material available for comparative Munda and the interval in their case is at least three millennia.  However reconstructions of Proto-Dravidian and Proto-Munda now help in distinguishing the traits of these languages from those of Indo-European in the evaluation of substrate and loan words.

Dravidian
There are an estimated thirty to forty Dravidian loanwords in Vedic. Those for which Dravidian etymologies are proposed by Zvelebil include  kulāya "nest",  kulpha "ankle",   "stick",  kūla "slope",  bila "hollow",  khala "threshing floor". However Witzel finds Dravidian loans only from the middle Rigvedic period, suggesting that linguistic contact between Indo-Aryan and Dravidian speakers only occurred as the Indo-Aryans expanded well into and beyond the Punjab.