[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania

thlehem Steel. Harrisburg Car Manufacturing Company began as a railroad car manufacturer in 1853, and in 1935, the firm changed its name to Harrisburg Steel Company.

U.S. census reports show that, from 1820 to 1920, Harrisburg ranked within the nation's top 100 most populous urban areas.

Civil War

During the American Civil War, Harrisburg was a significant training center for the Union Army, with tens of thousands of troops passing through Camp Curtin. It was also a major rail center and a vital link between the Atlantic coast and the Midwest, with several railroads running through the city and over the Susquehanna River. As a result of that importance, it was a target of General Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia during its two invasions. The first time, the 1862 Maryland Campaign, Lee planned to capture the city after he had taken Harpers Ferry, West Virginia, but he was prevented from doing so by the Battle of Antietam and his subsequent retreat back into Virginia.

The second attempt was made during the Gettysburg Campaign and was more substantial. Two full divisions of Richard S. Ewell's Second Corps approached Harrisburg in June 1863 from the southwest through Cumberland County, and a third division under Jubal Early planned to cross the Susquehanna River at Wrightsville, Pennsylvania, and to attack Harrisburg from the rear. In response, Union Major General Darius N. Couch, commanding the Department of the Susquehanna, dispatched troops to the present-day borough of Camp Hill, in the Cumberland Valley, approximately  west of Harrisburg. Laborers hired by Couch quickly erected earthworks and fortifications along the western portion of Bridgeport, adjacent to Camp Hill. The two largest of them became known as "Fort Couch" and "Fort Washington".

On June 29, two Confederate cavalry companies attacked Union militia positions around Oyster Point but were driven back with two wounded. That allowed officers from Ewell's staff to get a view of Harrisburg's fortifications from what is now the Drexel Hills development of New Cumberland. Based on their information, Ewell prepared for an attack, but the same day, Lee ordered Ewell to pull back. Lee had recently discovered that the Union Army of the Potomac was closer than he had thought, and he desired to concentrate his forces near the South Mountain range to parry oncoming Union forces, a move that culminated in the Battle of Gettysburg. Ewell left two cavalry units behind at a place known as Sporting Hill, on the west side of Camp Hill. Brigadier General William F. Smith, commanding the 1st Division of the Department of the Susquehanna, sent two militia infantry regiments and a cavalry company to locate the Confederates. Both forces collided the next day and fought a short skirmish at Sporting Hill before the Confederates withdrew. The Skirmish of Sporting Hill is considered by many to be the northernmost battle of the Civil War.

City Beautiful 
In the late 19th century, Harrisburg was an undeveloped industrial urban center that suffered from lack of clean water, poor drainage, frequent flooding, and absence of recreational green space. When the Capitol burned down suddenly on February 2, 1897, congressional groups associated with western (Pittsburg) and eastern (Philadelphia) factions seriously discussed the plausibility of transferring the capital city to a more suitable location. In December 1900, Mira Lloyd Dock, who had recently returned from an international trip to Europe, lectured about Harrisburg's potential to the city's Board of Trade. Arguing that Pennsylvania’s capital city should be clear and healthful, the Board created the Municipal League for Civic Improvement which implemented an era of rapid transformation. The Municipal League found support in Vance McCormick, who was elected mayor of Harrisburg on a campaign for improvement. The city expanded its city park system, which eventually included 1,100 acres; built steps and esplanade along the Susquehanna River, which still exist today as Riverfront Park; paved seventy miles of roads; and improved the city water system. The city's population increased from 51,000 to 73,000 between 1900 and 1920.