[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Encounter (magazine)

Encounter was a literary magazine founded in 1953 by poet Stephen Spender and journalist Irving Kristol. The magazine ceased publication in 1991. Published in the United Kingdom, it was an Anglo-American intellectual and cultural journal, originally associated with the anti-Stalinist left. The magazine received covert funding from the Central Intelligence Agency who, along with MI6, discussed the founding of an "Anglo-American left-of-centre publication" intended to counter the idea of Cold War neutralism. The magazine was rarely critical of American foreign policy and generally shaped its content to support the geopolitical interests of the United States government.

Spender served as literary editor until 1967, when he resigned. The revelation of the covert CIA funding of the magazine occurred that year. He had heard rumours but had not been able to confirm them. Thomas W. Braden, who headed the CIA's International Organizations Division's operations between 1951 and 1954, said that the money for the magazine "came from the CIA, and few outside the CIA knew about it. We had placed one agent in a Europe-based organization of intellectuals called the Congress for Cultural Freedom." Frank Kermode replaced Spender, but he too resigned when it became clear the CIA was involved. Roy Jenkins observed that earlier contributors were aware of U.S. funding but believed it came from philanthropists, including a Cincinnati gin distiller.

Encounter experienced its most successful years in terms of readership and influence under Melvin J. Lasky, who succeeded Kristol in 1958 and would serve as the main editor until the magazine ceased publication in 1991. Other editors in this period included D. J. Enright.

Founding and first editors 
In October of 1953 Encounter first launched, it included a monthly Anglo-American journal of politics and culture, and was sponsored by the Paris-based Congress for Cultural Freedom (CCF). The CCF was an organization of largely center-left artists and intellectuals founded in 1950. In line with its title, it was dedicated to countering on behalf of the non-communist West the overtures and influence in the culture of the Soviet Union, which remained under the rule of Joseph Stalin until 1953, and the Communist Party for several further decades.

The covert partial funding of Encounter by the Central Intelligence Agency (and Britain's MI6), via such American organizations as the Farfield Foundation, and thence to the CCF, was revealed in 1967 in the pages of Ramparts, The New York Times, and the Saturday Evening Post. According to CIA official Ray S. Cline the journal "would not have been able to survive financially without CIA funds". Its bibliography shows shifting patterns of high-journalistic political allegiance, especially in the cultural sphere. Shifts on both sides of the Atlantic triggered by the rise of the "neoconservative" tendency in opposition to the prevailing left-liberalism in elite opinion are evident.

The choices for the first two Encounter co-editors, the American political essayist Irving Kristol (1920–2009) and the English poet Stephen Spender (1909–95) were telling, and in retrospect, can be seen to have set in template much of the course of the magazine's evolution even over its final twenty-three years succeeding Spender's resignation in 1967, after the revelations of covert CIA-funding.

Irving Kristol and the New York intellectuals 
Irving Kristol edited the political articles in Encounter from 1953 until 1958, and though still a self-described liberal at the time, he was already laying the foundations of his eventual stance, from the late 1970s until his death in 2009, as the "godfather of neoconservatism." Influenced by his experiences in the City College of New York cafeterias of the late 1930s, where Marxists, Trotskyists and Stalinists argued freely, Kristol had already, as early as 1952, in his writings in Commentary during the McCarthy years, set the tone for the neo-populist critique of liberal "new class" elites he would later seed during his almost forty-year stint (1965–2002) as founding co-editor of The Public Interest, the public-policy quarterly.