[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Israel Democracy Institute

nce 1993, the conference has served as the meeting place for public discourse and professional knowledge relating to economy and society in Israel. Its main goal is to improve decision-making processes in government, so as to ensure better social and economic policies that will benefit all Israelis.

Israeli Democracy Index 
The Israeli Democracy Index provides an annual assessment of the quality of democracy in Israel. It is prepared on the basis of a large-scale survey conducted every year since 2004 with a representative sample of the Israeli population, comprising around 1,500 interviewees aged 18 and above. The survey is designed to identify trends in Israeli society on substantial issues relating to the fulfillment of democratic values and goals, and to the functioning of government systems and elected officials. The Index contains an analysis of the survey results, and aims to enrich public discourse on the state of democracy in Israel by giving access to a broad database of relevant information.

Alongside this general assessment, the Index also focuses each year on a particular topic connected to Israeli democracy. The subjects chosen so far include: opinions of Israeli youth (2004); the media in Israeli democracy (2005); tenth anniversary of the Rabin assassination (2005); political parties in Israel (2006); cohesion in a fractured society (2007); civil society in Israel (2008); twentieth anniversary of mass immigration from the Soviet Union (2009); democratic principles in Israel in practice (2010); the social protest, a year on (2012); civilian opinions on the socioeconomic situation (2014); the Rabin assassination, twenty years on (2015); and opinions in Haredi society (2016).

Outstanding Parliamentarian Award 
The institute's Outstanding Parliamentarian Award seeks to encourage high-quality parliamentary activity and to recognize those who perform it.

The award is given annually to two Knesset members, one from the governing coalition and one from the opposition, based on a comprehensive review of several fixed criteria used to determine good parliamentary performance. First, a database is created of the activity of all Knesset members (excluding ministers, deputy ministers, the Speaker of the Knesset, and the previous year's winners of the award) across a range of parameters: attendance at committee meetings, private legislation passed during that year's Knesset session, queries submitted, agenda item proposals debated in the plenum, brief and full-length speeches delivered at plenary sessions, commissioning of research studies from the Knesset Research and Information Center, and plenary attendance, as well as reprimands and punishments received from the Knesset Ethics Committee. Next, the award committee, chaired by retired Justice Theodore Orr, convenes to discuss the list of candidates, and selects the honorees based on the data provided as well as on additional criteria, such as the broader public influence and importance of the candidates' parliamentary work.

The Outstanding Parliamentarian Award helps improve both the quality of Knesset members' work and the public perception of the Knesset as Israel's legislative body.

Political and Electoral Reform 
The Forum for Political Reform in Israel was founded by Arye Carmon, driven by "a sense of the need to launch processes that will bring about a significant change in the capabilities and functioning of the parliament in general, and in particular, of those who hold the levers of power," as he described it. The forum was chaired by former Supreme Court President Meir Shamgar, and its members included academics, retired justices, leading public figures, and businesspeople.

The forum examined the expected impact of reforms to the electoral, governmental, and party-political systems proposed by the Israel Democracy Institute, and formulated practical proposals for legislation and public policy accordingly.

In 2015, the Israel Democracy Institute published an updated plan for political and electoral reform, proposing structural changes to the political system that would result in the formation of two major blocks of political parties providing clear alternatives for government.

Parliament online journal 
Parliament is an online journal exploring topics related to governance, law, and society from both local and international perspectives. The first issue was published in print in 1993, and up until 2007 the journal contained articles on such subjects as elections in Israel and around the world, Israeli society, constitution and basic laws, religion and state, security and the armed forces, political participation, political parties, the European Union, and many others. In 2007, the format of the journal was changed so that each issue is dedicated to a single main topic. The journal was also taken online, and is no longer published in a print format.