[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Anti-Japanese sentiment in China

Anti-Japanese sentiment in China is an issue with modern roots (post-1868). Modern anti-Japanese sentiment in China is often rooted in nationalist or historical conflict, for example the atrocities and war crimes committed by the Japanese in the First Sino-Japanese War, Boxer Rebellion (Eight-Nation Alliance), Siege of Tsingtao, Second Sino-Japanese War and Japan's history textbook controversies.

Bitterness in China persists over the Second Sino-Japanese War and Japan's post-war actions. This sentiment may also be at least to some extent influenced by issues related to Chinese people in Japan.

According to a 2017 BBC World Service Poll, mainland Chinese people hold the largest anti-Japanese sentiment in the world, with 75% of Chinese people viewing Japan's influence negatively, and 22% expressing a positive view. Anti-Japanese sentiment in China was at its highest in 2014 since the poll was first conducted in 2006 and was up 16 percent over the previous year. However, anti-Japanese sentiment significantly decreased by 2018; a poll done in 2018 by Genron NPO showed that 42.2% of Chinese people looked positively to Japan, up from 31.5% in 2017.

Earlier history
Throughout Chinese history, except for the Wokou raids (Japanese pirates) during the late Ming dynasty and the Japanese invasions of Korea which Ming China intervened on the side of Korea, there had been little serious conflicts between China and Japan.

However, due to the Meiji Restoration, Japan became a modern power and attempted to expand their empire in Asia, including China. In the late Qing dynasty, Japan seized concessions in parts of the Chinese mainland and annexed Taiwan and Penghu from China, as well as removing the vassal states of Ryukyu Kingdom and Korea from China’s sphere of influence and later annexing them. Dissatisfaction with the settlement and the Twenty-One Demands by the Imperial Japanese government led to a severe boycott of Japanese products in China in 1915.

The Tungans (Chinese Muslims, Hui people) had anti-Japanese sentiment.

Effects of Interwar period wars and World War II
After the Mukden Incident in 1931, which was used as pretext for the Japanese invasion of Manchuria, Manchuria came under Japanese control. A puppet state named Manchukuo was set up with the deposed emperor Puyi as the head of state. In 1937, the Marco Polo Bridge Incident that happened in Peking (Beijing) became the pretext to the start of the Second Sino-Japanese War. Most reasons for anti-Japanese sentiment in China can be directly traced to the Second Sino-Japanese War, which was also the first theatre of World War II. As a consequence of the war, China suffered 7 million to 16 million civilian deaths and 3 million military casualties. In addition, the war caused an estimated US$383.3 billion in damage and created 95 million refugees. Many major cities including Nanjing, Shanghai, and Beijing were occupied in 1937 by the Japanese. Notable incidents included the Nanking Massacre. In Manchuria, Unit 731, a medical unit of the Japanese army, researched biological and chemical warfare using Chinese civilians as test subjects, who were referred to as human 'logs' in the medical journals. Women from many Asian countries, including China and Korea, were made to serve as prostitutes in military brothels (and were often referred to as "comfort women") under Japanese occupation.

Postwar issues
There is deep resentment over the veneration of Japanese war veterans in the Yasukuni Shrine, where a number of war criminals are enshrined, treated as kami or important spirits, and the fact that the shrine openly states that the purpose of Japanese military involvement in Asia was to bring prosperity and liberation to Asians. This is further exacerbated by attempts to whitewash Japan's role in the war in certain school history textbooks, such as by softening some statements and removing others. That some popular media such as comics, books, movies, or documentaries depicting Japanese wartime involvement in atrocities are withdrawn due to nationalist or popular sentiment further contributes to this image. As examples, critics point to the withdrawal of Iris Chang's The Rape of Nanking from planned publication and the censorship of scenes of the Nanking Massacre from the Japanese theatrical release of The Last Emperor.

China refused war reparations from Japan in the 1972 Joint Communiqué. Japan gave official development assistance (ODA), amounting to 3 trillion yen (US$30 billion). According to estimates, Japan accounts for more than 60 percent of China's ODA received. About 25 percent of the funding for all of China's infrastructure projects between 1994 and 1998 — including roads, railways, telecom systems and harbours — came from Japan.