[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lambdin P. Milligan

Lambdin Purdy Milligan (March 24, 1812 – December 21, 1899) was an American lawyer and farmer who was the subject of Ex parte Milligan , a landmark case by the Supreme Court of the United States. He was known for his extreme opinions on states' rights and his opposition to the Lincoln administration's conduct of the American Civil War.

Believing that the Confederate states of the South had the power under the U.S. Constitution to secede from the Union, Milligan opposed the war to reunite the nation. He became a leader of the secret Order of American Knights (formerly the Knights of the Golden Circle and later the Order of the Sons of Liberty) and advocated violent revolution against the U.S. government. U.S. Army forces arrested him at his home and tried him and other conspirators by military commission for disloyalty and conspiracy. Found guilty, he was sentenced to death. A habeas corpus appeal made its way from the federal circuit court in Indianapolis to the U.S. Supreme Court, which in 1866 ruled that the application of military tribunals to citizens when civil courts are open and operating was unconstitutional.

Following the Court's ruling on April 3, 1866, Milligan and the others were released from custody. He returned home and practiced law in Huntington, Indiana, where he later filed a civil suit claiming damages for the military arrest and trial. On May 30, 1871, the jury found in Milligan's favor, but federal and state statutes limited the award for damages to five dollars (~$ in ) plus court costs.

Early life and education
Milligan, who was of Irish descent, was born on a farm near Saint Clairsville, in Kirkwood Township, Belmont County, Ohio. His parents were Moses Milligan Sr, a soldier in the American Revolutionary War, and Mary (née Purday) Milligan. Lambdin was the eighth of nine siblings.

Milligan's formal schooling ended when he was eight years old. Milligan's father wanted him to attend college to study medicine, but his mother disagreed, insisting that if none of their other children could pursue high education, then neither should seventeen-year-old Lambdin. Despite his father threatening to disinherit him, Milligan left home. He began teaching in the local schools at the age of nineteen, but turned to law, studying at a firm in Saint Clairsville. Milligan was admitted to the Ohio bar on October 27, 1835. He was among the class of nine new lawyers that included Edwin M. Stanton, who became a member of Lincoln's cabinet during the American Civil War.

Milligan moved to Cadiz, in Harrison County, Ohio, where he continued his law practice, before relocating to Huntington County, Indiana, in 1845. At Huntington, Milligan edited a local newspaper, The Democratic Age, in 1849–50, but it went out of business within a year. He resumed his law practice in 1853.

Marriage and family
Milligan married Sarah L. Ridgeway on October 27, 1835, the same day he passed the Ohio bar. The couple had three children. Sarah died on November 20, 1870. Three years later, on August 12, 1873, Milligan married Maria L. (née Humphreys) Cavender, a widow who was a native of Madison, Indiana.

Lawyer and anti-war Democrat
From his youth, Milligan was active in partisan politics. As a young man, he took a prominent role in Belmont County Democratic Party affairs in defense of Jeffersonian states-rights positions. During the Nullification Crisis of the early 1830s, he echoed South Carolinian John C. Calhoun's stance that the states could "nullify" offensive federal laws. He followed Calhoun into the Whig Party, but then followed Calhoun back to the Democratic Party when President Martin Van Buren wooed him back to the fold. Milligan continued to be active in Democratic Party affairs after his move to Indiana. Resuming his law practice after a hiatus of real estate speculation and holding county positions, he developed a solid reputation as a successful lawyer, mostly representing small railroad companies. Milligan also ran as a Democrat for political office, but consistently lost at the polls. In 1862 he failed to secure Indiana's Democratic nomination for a seat in Congress, and in 1864 he failed to get the Democratic nomination for governor of Indiana. In the course of his career, he only managed to win the post of township trustee.

Milligan was highly outspoken in political affairs and was labeled a Copperhead for his frank opposition to the Civil War. Milligan, who advocated compromise before the war, was a staunch supporter of state sovereignty and opposed the federal government's efforts to keep southern states from seceding from the Union. Once the war began, he opposed the Lincoln administration's conduct of it.