[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Zdravko Kuzmanović

o the club became questionable.

With his first team opportunities limited, Kuzmanović was linked with a move back to Serie A, with Genoa, Bologna and Sampdoria and was expected to leave the club in the January transfer window. Another factor to leave the club was a dispute with manager Urs Fischer.

Loan to Udinese
On 21 January 2016, Basel announced that they had loaned out Kuzmanović to Udinese until the end of the season. This came after Kuzmanović was given permission to leave the club's training camp to join Udinese.

Kuzmanović made his Udinese debut in a 0–0 draw against Lazio on 31 January 2016. Since his return, Kuzmanović became a first team regular in midfield position, which he enjoyed playing and went on to make sixteen appearances, for the club. Despite being rumoured to join Udinese on a permanent basis for 5 million euro, Kuzmanović returned to his parent club instead.

Loan to Málaga
On 30 June 2016, Kuzmanović was loaned to La Liga side Málaga for one year. He made his Málaga debut in the opening game of the season, coming on as a 71st-minute substitute for goalscorer Juanpi in a 1–1 home draw against CA Osasuna.

After loan
Under trainer Marcel Koller Basel won the Swiss Cup in the 2018–19 season. In the first round, Basel beat FC Montlingen 3–0, in the second round Echallens Région 7–2 and in the round of 16 Winterthur 1–0. In the quarter-finals Sion were defeated 4–2 after extra time and in the semi-finals Zürich were defeated 3–1. All these games were played away from home. The final was held on 19 May 2019 in the Stade de Suisse Wankdorf Bern against Thun. Striker Albian Ajeti scored the first goal, Fabian Frei the second for Basel, then Dejan Sorgić netted a goal for Thun, but the end result was 2–1 for Basel. Kuzmanović played in four cup games and scored a goal in the semi-final against Zürich.

On 12 June 2020 the club announced that the contract with Kuzmanovic would not be prolonged. Between the years 2005 to 2007 and again from 2015 to 2020 Kuzmanovic played a total of 131 games for Basel scoring a total of 12 goals. 62 of these games were in the Swiss Super League, 12 in the Swiss Cup, two in the Champions League, 14 in the UEFA Europa League and 41 were friendly games. He scored five goals in the domestic league, three in the domestic cup, two in the UEFA Cup and the other two were scored during the test games. After that, Kuzmanović announced that he ended his playing career.

International career

In early 2007, Serbian FA began talks with him about the possibility of playing for the Serbia national team and he accepted the call up to the squad against Kazakhstan and Portugal in March 2007. He scored his first two goals for Serbia in the away game versus Belgium, but they weren't enough to get a point, since Serbia lost 3–2. Although Kuzmanović was born in Thun and played for Switzerland at youth level, he has decided to play for Serbia on the senior level, stating: "I'm Serbian and I want to give all for my country, it's a matter of what you feel in your heart and I must listen to it."

He played once at 2007 UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship qualifying for Switzerland U21 thus being ineligible to play for Serbia at the same campaign, which Serbia lost to the Netherlands in the final. He also played a friendly versus France U21 in February 2007 before he accepted the call-up from Serbia.

In the 2010 FIFA World Cup, Kuzmanović was among twenty–three players named in the Serbia squad for the World Cup. Then in a match between Serbia and Ghana, Kuzmanović conceded a penalty by handling the ball. Ghana scored and won the match 1–0. Despite this, Kuzmanović went on to appear in two more World Cup matches, though Serbia was eliminated in the group stage.

Career statistics

Club

International

International goals

|}

Honours

Basel
 Swiss Cup: 2018–19

References

External links

 
 Profile at Swiss FA 
 Zdravko Kuzmanović at reprezentacija.rs 
 
 

1987 births
Living people
People from Thun
Men's association football midfielders
Men's association football defenders
Serbian men's footballers
Serbian expatriate men's footballers
Serbia men's international footballers
Swiss men's footballers
Switzerland men's under-21 international footballers
FC Basel players
ACF Fiorentina players
VfB Stuttgart players
Inter Milan players
Udinese Calcio players
Málaga CF players
Swiss Super League players
Serie A players
Bundesliga players
La Liga players
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in Germany
Expatriate men's footballers in Spain
Swiss people of Serbian descent
Serbian people of Bosnia and Herzegovina descent
2010 FIFA World Cup players
Footballers from the canton of Bern