[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2006 Samoan general election

General elections were held in Samoa on 31 March 2006 to determine the composition of the 14th Parliament. The main contesting parties were that of incumbent Prime Minister Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, of the Human Rights Protection Party (HRPP); and the Samoan Democratic United Party (SDUP). In addition, three other parties, the Christian Party (SCP), the Samoa Party (SP), and the Samoa Progressive Party (SPP), competed in the election. The result was a landslide victory for the HRPP, which won 33 of the 49 seats. The newly founded SDUP secured ten seats, and the remaining six were won by independents. After the election, three independents joined the HRPP, increasing the party's seat count to 36.

Background
During the previous Samoan general election in 2001, the incumbent HRPP won 23 seats but fell short of a majority to form a government. The opposition Samoan National Development Party (SNDP) won 13 seats, whilst the newly founded Samoan United People's Party secured a single seat, and independents won the rest. Le Mamea Ropati became the SNDP leader, following Tui Ātua Tupua Tamasese Efi's resignation. The HRPP was able to remain in power due to the support of independents.
Following the election, certain independents formed the Samoan United Independents party (SUIP). In December 2003, the SNDP and the SUIP merged to form the Samoan Democratic United Party, with Le Mamea Ropati as its leader and Asiata Sale'imoa Va'ai, previously leader of the SUIP, as deputy leader.

Electoral system

During the time of the 2006 election, Samoa's legislative assembly was composed of 49 seats, each serving a five-year term. 47 of the 49 members of parliament were elected from electoral constituencies, whilst the remaining two were elected through independent voters. Candidates were elected using First past the post voting.

Only Matai (chiefs) were permitted to contest any of the 47 constituencies, whilst the other two seats were open to all individuals. Once the final election results are confirmed, the leader of the majority party is appointed prime minister by the O le Ao o le Malo (head of state). The O le Ao o le Malo then appoints cabinet ministers on the advice of the prime minister.

Campaign

The incumbent HRPP government campaigned on the economy, specifically on the economic growth of five per cent, which occurred in 2005. The HRPP also promised to continue development projects if re-elected. The ruling party pledged to proceed with developing roads, schools and the overall education system and tourism by upgrading hotels and advances in agriculture, specifically in crops and livestock. The party also emphasised Cultural preservation and vowed to construct more sports venues for the upcoming South Pacific Games. Tuila'epa predicted the HRPP would secure a two-thirds majority.

The opposition SDUP, on the other hand, led by Le Mamea Ropati, a former HRPP cabinet minister, attacked the HRPP for its past corruption scandals and highlighted the high cost of living. The SDUP pledged to remove the Value Added Goods and Services Tax from essential food items, which they said was the cause of a price hike. Le Mamea claimed that the HRPP would increase the tax if re-elected. The SDUP also attacked the ruling party for causing the national doctors' strike. This strike arose after the HRPP government began to implement a 42% salary increase for civil servants, which was to occur in a series of phases over three years but declined to raise wages for individuals in the health care sector. The Samoan Medical Association was also outraged at the government for this action since they had proposed an increase for doctors in 2004. Despite the SDUP scrutinising the ruling party for the strike, these attacks did little to lower the HRPP's vote count at the ballot box.

The Samoan Christian Party was led into the election by Tuala Falenaoti Tiresa Malietoa, the first woman to lead a political party in Samoan history and the wife of the O le Ao o le Malo, Malietoa Tanumafili II. The Christian party, whose executives were solely composed of women, sought to promote development in all sectors of Samoan society. Tuala stated "...from the beginning of time, the Samoan women have been free and uninhibited in our own cultural organisation. We bring in a new perspective and a new and a fresh attitude to national governance and national development."

The Samoa Progressive Party ran a single candidate, former cabinet minister Toalepaiali'i Toesulusulu Siueva Pose II. Toalepaiali'i criticised the HRPP government for its focus on roads when exports had decreased, which he said had the potential to undermine the benefits of road development. The party campaigned on prioritising education and catering to the needs of citizens, particularly mental and physical development.