[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yousef Beidas

e in New York near the Rockefeller Center, Beidas's bank also controlled a shipyard in Marseille, the Londonderry Hotel in Park Lane and a section of the Champs-Élysées. He also opened up a cinema production company "Studio Baalbek" in 1956, hoping to make Lebanon the "Hollywood of the Middle East".

Beidas' rise to a key player in Lebanon's economy aroused business enmities among the country's elites, for whom banking was a traditional and closed family-based monopoly. They resented the fact that a Palestinian interloper had assumed control over central parts of the national infrastructure. Beidas used part of his capital, furthermore, to finance the PLO's Fatah, which was becoming the political and military arm of the Palestinian diaspora. As early as 1962 (16 April) the then President of Lebanon, the Maronite Fuad Chehab, concerned about what he perceived to be the 'obscure powers' of international finance extending, though Beidas's companies, their tentacles into the Lebanese economy, sounded out General Pierre Rondot about the possibility of fighting against Beidas's interests in order to weaken his influence. Saudi Arabia's Faisal of Saudi Arabia in particular was discontented by the radicalism of the cause Beidas supported. Lebanese rumours claimed he was a British agent promoting British over French interests. In the jargon of the streets the Bank's name was spelt backwards to yield artni, a slang expression for "He cheated me". In the early 60s, the Emir of Kuwait, Abdullah Al-Salim Al-Sabah, who was holidaying at the time in the mountain resort of Aley demanded to see the 5 million dollars he had deposited with Intra. Beidas managed to put together the sum, and drove out to the Emir's villa, where he proceeded to slowly count the money out. Before he had finished, the Emir expressed his satisfaction that all was right, but Beidas, outraged by the lack of trust, told him to keep his cash.

Collapse of Intra Bank
At the time Intra bank faced the crisis that led to its bankruptcy, it and the empire Beidas formed around it has a value estimated at between $350 million  and $500 million. Beidas told George de Carvalho that on the eve of the crisis, Intra was 60% of all domestically controlled banking.

The collapse of Intra Bank in October 1966 brought the Lebanese economy to a halt and sent shockwaves throughout the Middle East. The circumstances which surrounded Intra's fall remain to this day controversial issues. The surprisingly weak support from the Lebanese government and the very public allegations over Charles Helou's role in the affair have been attributed to such issues as Beidas' Palestinian origin and envy over Beidas' almost complete control of the Lebanese economy.

The bank had incurred losses in gold, copper and American equities. Much of Beidas' Intra Bank money was tied up in non-liquid real estate properties, and, with a sudden jump in Eurobank interest rates on dollar deposits when the US government took measures to curb domestic inflation, a crisis ensued. Furthermore, Beidas had, reportedly, bet all of his available liquid capital against the American dollar. A rush began, on Thursday 13, and Intra paid out $70 million, which by nightfall left only $330,000 in the Bank's coffers. The acting head of the bank, worth personally some $50 million, informed the Lebanese cabinet that he would personally guarantee his bank's balance sheet, but they refused to budge from their position.

Irregularities were later discovered, -- none of them abnormal within Lebanon's banking system—such as loans to directors exceeding what was legally permissible, and dividend payments to Intra companies that were losing money. Beidas had also used funds held in trust to secure personal loans from Chase Manhattan and the Banco di Roma. Checks on Intra documents indicated false account statements, and an understating of liabilities to the tune of $40 million. In addition, Beidas has undercut the local norm advising that 25% of deposits be retained in liquid cash. Intra reduced this margin to 5% in its business practice.