[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Rabiu Kwankwaso

ria.

On his 64th birthday in 2020, Kwankwaso inaugurated a 300-pupil capacity school which he built in Rano local government, Kano. The school is solar-powered and has a block housing six classrooms.  The school was built through KDF in line with Kwankwaso's vision and mission to support education.

Corruption 
On 9 March 2004, the chief judge of Kano state swore in the six-member commission of inquiry which was headed by Hon. Justice Ahmed Badamasi as chairman to inquire into the activities of Kwankwaso. The commission commenced sitting on 19 March 2004 and made its report available and for the government to issue the white paper by November 2004, when he was indicted.

In 2015, the Concerned Kano State Workers and Pensioners group filed a petition to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission claiming that Kwankwaso had broken the Kano State Pension and Gratuity Law of 2007 right before leaving office earlier in 2015. According to the group, Kwankwaso had directed that pension remittances be used for housing development but supposedly intervened in a housing project to allocate houses to his associates. Ultimately, the housing allocations and alleged misappropriation of funds reached around 10 billion naira according to the Concerned Kano State Workers and Pensioners group.

On 2 July 2015, Justice Mohammed Yahaya of the Kano High Court had restrained the EFCC from arresting or restraining Kwankwaso in its investigation for alleged misappropriation of N10 billion pension funds while serving as Kano State governor. But two weeks later on 16 July 2015, the same judge in the Kano High Court voided his earlier order and granted the EFCC a judgement to enable the commission to investigate, arrest and prosecute Kwankwaso. Justice Muhammed Yahaya also fined Kwankwaso N50,000 for "time-wasting."

Later in 2016, The EFCC denied and refuted claims of any pending corruption case and prosecution against Kwankwaso. Kwankwaso himself has strongly denied and rejected any corruption allegations against him, describing it as mere political blackmail, mischievous and untrue which is sponsored by his enemies and political rivals to tarnish his image and reputation. Kwankwaso filed suit in court through his lawyer seeking compensation for tarnishing his image.

In September 2021, the Premium Times found that the EFCC had invited Kwankwaso for questioning earlier that month on the alleged pension fund misappropriation from 2015; Kwankwaso initially ignored the commission before turning himself in on 16 October for questioning. However, these are only mere speculations, as Kwankwaso has never been convicted or taken to court on corruption charges. He voluntarily visited the EFCC in order to clarify some rumours that were spread by his political opponents. He was not arrested nor was he found guilty of the politically motivated allegations. 

During a speech he delivered at Chatham House in the UK, Kwankwaso publicly stated that he has been involved in politics for over 30 years and has never faced corruption charges.

Presidential candidate 
In 2014, Kwankwaso announced his intention to run for the position of President of Nigeria under the newly established opposition party, the APC party. He participated in the party's primary election in Lagos, where he came in second place after Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, who went on to win the 2015 general election and become the President of Nigeria.

Following a disagreement with his former Deputy Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, Kwankwaso left the APC and joined the PDP. In 2018, he contested in the PDP presidential primary election held in Port Harcourt and came in fourth place, while former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar, emerged as the winner. However, Atiku later lost in the 2019 general election.

In 2022, Kwankwaso abandoned the PDP and joined the New Nigeria Peoples Party (NNPP). He contested and won the presidential primary held in Abuja later that year. During the 2023 Nigeria presidential election, Kwankwaso and his running mate, Bishop Isaac Idahosa, secured fourth place with nearly 1.5 million votes. Prior to the general election, Kwankwaso was one of the candidates invited to the Royal Institute of International Affairs, Chatham House, UK, to discuss his vision for Nigeria.

See also 
List of governors of Kano State

References

External links

Defence ministers of Nigeria
Members of the House of Representatives (Nigeria)
Governors of Kano State
People from Kano State
1956 births
Living people
Nigerian Muslims
Peoples Democratic Party state governors of Nigeria
All Progressives Congress politicians
Kaduna Polytechnic alumni
Members of the Senate (Nigeria)
Politicians from Kano
Politicians from Kano State