[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage

The Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH) is a non-profit charitable organisation registered under the Societies Registration Act, 1860.

In 2007, the United Nations awarded INTACH a special consultative status with United Nations Economic and Social Council.

History
INTACH was founded in 1984 in New Delhi with the vision to create a membership organisation to stimulate and spearhead heritage awareness and conservation in India.

Since 1984, INTACH has pioneered the conservation and protection of India's natural and cultural heritage and is today the largest membership organisation in the country dedicated to conservation.

Today it has chapters in 215 Indian cities, as well as chapters in Belgium and the United Kingdom.

The Memorandum of Association and Rules and Regulations of INTACH constituted the first Governing Council of the Trust with the following members: Rajiv Gandhi, Pupul Jayakar, L. K. Jha, M. G. K. Menon, Kapila Vatsyayan, Rajeev Sethi, B. K. Thapar, Martand Singh, Bilkees I. Latif, Madhavrao Scindia, and J. B. Dadachanji.

In 2007, INTACH signed a memorandum of understanding with AusHeritage, Australia's noted heritage network, to collaborate on South Asian and South East Asian regional initiatives.

Work
Among the tasks undertaken by INTACH are restoration of monuments and their management; advocacy for heritage property conservation; public awareness through heritage walks and buses; establishment of heritage clubs in schools; and holding of awareness workshop for teachers of schools and colleges and heritage walks to various unprotected sites.

Activism 
INTACH has been involved in several protests against destruction and proposed demolition of heritage structures, including Errum Manzil and Osmania Hospital in Hyderabad, and Janata Bazaar in Bengaluru.

Restoration 
Over the years, INTACH has taken up restoration and protection of hundreds of monuments that fall outside the coverage of Archaeological Survey of India and other government agencies, and at times local authorities hand over the upkeep and restoration of heritage structures to INTACH directly.

After developing Raghurajpur, Odisha, India, a place famous for its master ‘Pattachitra’ artists and ‘Gotipua’ dance troupes as a heritage village, which has now become a major rural tourist destination, it later used the same pattern to develop Padmanabhpur village, Ganjam district, Odisha, India, famous for its weavers and folk dancers, into another heritage destination.

In 2007, the government of Goa signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with INTACH for restoration, conservation and maintenance of 51 officially listed heritage and cultural monuments in the state. This includes the restoration and conservation of the 16th century Reis Magos Fort in Goa, then in 2008, INTACH signed anouth a memorandum of understanding with the Government of Delhi for the conservation of 92 monuments in Delhi, in the preparation of the Commonwealth Games 2010.

Logo 

The INTACH Logo, based on the anthropomorphic copper figure from Shahabad, Uttar Pradesh, belonging to the enigmatic Copper Hoards of the Ganga Valley (circa 1800—1700 BC) is the perceived brand image of INTACH. The classic simplicity and vitality of its lines make it a striking example of primitive man's creative genius.