[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Administrative divisions of the Philippines

The Philippines is divided into four levels of administrative divisions, with the lower three being defined in the Local Government Code of 1991 as local government units (LGUs). They are, from the highest to the lowest:
 Regions () are mostly used to organize national services. Of the 17 regions, only one—the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao—has an elected government to which the central government has devolved competencies.
 Provinces (), independent cities (), and one independent municipality (Pateros)
 Component cities () and municipalities () within a province
 Barangays (formerly known and sometimes still referred to as barrios) within a city or municipality

Other divisions also exist for specific purposes, such as:
 Geographic island groups in popular and widespread use;
 Local administrative districts in use by some local governments;
 Judicial regions for regional trial courts;
 Legislative districts for the election of legislators at national, regional, and local levels;
 A special geographic area used for the organization of Bangsamoro barangays in Cotabato; and
 Special-purpose districts for various government agencies.

Administrative divisions

Regions

Administrative regions 
Administrative regions are groupings of geographically adjacent LGUs that are established, disestablished, and modified by the president of the Philippines based on the need to more coherently make economic development policies and coordinate the provision of national government services within a larger area beyond the province level. No plebiscites have been conducted so far to democratically confirm the creation, abolition, or alteration of the boundaries of regular administrative regions, as the Constitution does not mandate it.

An administrative region is not a local government unit (LGU), but rather a group of LGUs to which the president has provided an unelected policy-making and coordinating structure, called the Regional Development Council (RDC). Metro Manila, formally the National Capital Region, is recognized by law as a "special development and administrative region", and was thus given a metropolitan authority; the Metro Manila Council within the MMDA serves as the region's RDC.

Administrative regions are composed of provinces and/or independent cities, or, in the case of Pateros, an independent municipality. The Philippine Statistics Authority further divides the LGUs of Metro Manila into four numbered geographic districts for statistical purposes.

Autonomous regions 

The 1987 Constitution allows for the creation of autonomous regions in the Cordillera Central of Luzon and in the Muslim-majority areas of Mindanao. However, only the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao and its predecessor, the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, have been approved by voters in plebiscites held in 1989, 2001, and 2019. Voters in the Cordilleras rejected autonomy in 1990 and 1998; hence, the Cordillera Administrative Region remains a regular administrative region with no delegated powers or responsibilities.
 
The sole autonomous region at present, the Bangsamoro Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao, comprises local government units that have consented by plebiscite to be placed under the authority of the Bangsamoro regional government. An autonomous region, while possessing a government, is not a local government unit (LGU) per se, as the autonomous regional government's organization and structure are not defined by the Local Government Code of 1991, unlike provinces, cities, municipalities, and barangays. Rather, an autonomous region is a group of LGUs to which Congress has provided via statute a very specific form of regional governance structure, along with certain powers and responsibilities.

Local government units 

In the Local Government Code of 1991, a local government unit (LGU) can take the form of a province, a city, a municipality, or a barangay. All LGUs have local legislatures (Sanggunian) and local chief executives (governor, mayor, or barangay captain) that are elected by popular vote.

Per the Local Government Code of 1991, section 25, the President of the Philippines exercises direct supervisory authority over provinces and independent cities (i.e., highly urbanized and independent component cities); thus, LGUs that belong to these categories form the primary level of LGUs in the Philippines. Pateros, by virtue of not belonging to any province, effectively also constitutes a primary level LGU.

Provinces 

A province is composed of component cities and municipalities, over which it exercises supervisory authority. Each province is headed by a governor. Its legislative body is the Sangguniang Panlalawigan.

Cities and municipalities