[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Staunton and Parkersburg Turnpike

s part of the Confederacy or Union had yet to be resolved. Following the end of hostilities, most of the portion which had considered itself part of the Confederacy Virginia rejoined the Union, with the exception of two northern counties which chose to join West Virginia in 1866.

American Civil War

During the American Civil War, some of the earliest campaigns of the Civil War were fought for control of the Staunton–Parkersburg (S-P) Turnpike, as well as the adjacent portion of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O).

The Battle of Rich Mountain took place on July 11, 1861. The Union victory at Rich Mountain gave the Union Army control of the S-P turnpike, of the Tygart's Valley, the covered bridge at Philippi, and of all of the territory of western Virginia to the north and west, including the B&O railroad.

The harsh winter conditions in the mountain climate convinced the leaders of both armies to move on, and they were soon involved in Stonewall Jackson's Valley campaign. The region essentially remained under Union control for the remainder of the War.

Conflict over debt of Virginia Board of Public Works
Following the end of the Civil War, and the Reconstruction period, Virginia faced a massive debt problem. Much of this had originated in investments made by the Board of Public Works, including improvements such as this turnpike by then located chiefly in West Virginia. In 1871, the United States Supreme Court decided the first of two cases concerning the new state, ruling in Virginia v. West Virginia that Berkeley and Jefferson Counties would be part of the new state, confirming the 1866 election results in those counties fronting on the Potomac River (and north of this turnpike). Still, Virginia and West Virginia owed money for debts on infrastructure which had been destroyed during the war and had to be replaced.

The recovering state did not have adequate revenues to pay all these debts. Sharp political divisions in Virginia on this issue resulted in creation of a new major political group in the late 1870s, the Readjusters, a coalition of Democrats, Republicans, and African-Americans seeking a reduction in Virginia's prewar debt by allocating an appropriate portion to the new State of West Virginia.

For several decades, Virginia and West Virginia disputed the new state's share of the Virginia government's debt. The issue was finally settled when the United States Supreme Court in Virginia v. West Virginia (1911) ruled that West Virginia owed Virginia $12,393,929.50. The final installment of this sum was paid off in 1939.

Past its heyday
By the end of the 19th century, virtually every hollow in West Virginia was reached by railroad lines. These served the lumber and coal industries, bringing with them new jobs and prosperity. While through-traffic along the turnpike became less important than in the past to local needs it remained an important thoroughfare.

Beginning primarily in the boom years of the 1920s, the state paved many highways to provide for automobiles. Although the state made some re-routing improvements, considerable sections of the original turnpike remained the best available route through the state. Much of it east of Beverly to Staunton became U.S. Route 250.

National Scenic Byway
The West Virginia portion of the Staunton–Parkersburg Turnpike was named a National Scenic Byway in 2005. The state and local communities have developed resources to assist travelers and tourist attractions to appeal to a wide range of interests. The best news for shunpikers, in addition to many local amenities close by, is that there are no tolls on the turnpike these days.

See also
 List of turnpikes in Virginia and West Virginia
 White Top

References

External links
 Staunton-Parkersburg Turnpike Alliance

National Scenic Byways
Pre-freeway turnpikes in the United States
Turnpikes in Virginia
Historic trails and roads in Virginia
Historic trails and roads in West Virginia
U.S. Route 250
U.S. Route 33