[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ivan Sechenov

fifty-three famous Russian medical scientists from the Russian Federation, the Soviet Union, and the Russian Empire who were born in 1757—1950. Physicians of all specialities listed here. Among them Vladimir Bekhterev, Vladimir Demikhov, Sergei Korsakoff, Ivan Pavlov, Nikolay Pirogov, Victor Skumin.

Selected works
1860 "Materials on future of physiology", Материалы для будущей физиологии.. St. Petersburg (Part I "Some facts for the future study of alcohol intoxication", in Russian)
1862 "On animal electricity", О животном Электричестве. St. Petersburg (in Russian)
1863 "Reflexions of the brain", Рефлексы головного мозга. Medical newspaper, Медицинский вестник 47-48 ("Reflexes of the brain", in Russian)
1866 "Physiology of the nervous system", Физиология нервной системы. St. Petersburg (in Russian)
1873 "Who should and How to develop Psychology", "Кому и как разрабатывать психологию?." Vestnik Evropy 4 (in Russian)
1897 The Physiological Criteria of the Length of the Working Day
1900 Participation of the Nervous System in Man's Working Movements
1901 Participation of the Senses and Manual dexterity in Sighted and Blind Persons
1901 Essay on Man's Working Movements

Commemoration
1954 the area around Sechenov's birthplace was renamed Sechenovsky District of Nizhny Novgorod Oblast
1955 Moscow Medical Academy was given name of I.M.Sechenov; its campus includes memorial of Sechenov
1956 Institute of Evolutionary Physiology in Leningrad was reorganized as a part of USSR Academy of Sciences and named after I.M.Sechenov

References

 Zusne, Leonard. 1984. Biographical Dictionary of Psychology. Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press. 
 Ivan Sechenov at University of Illinois at Chicago, Department of Neurology
 Ivan Sechenov at Max Planck Institute for History - part of "The Virtual Laboratory, Essays and Resources on the Experimentalization of Life"

Russian physiologists
1829 births
1905 deaths
Military Engineering-Technical University alumni
Corresponding members of the Saint Petersburg Academy of Sciences
Honorary members of the Saint Petersburg Academy of Sciences
Determinists
Burials at Novodevichy Cemetery
20th-century Russian scientists
19th-century scientists from the Russian Empire
Russian scientists