[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Koreans in Mexico

s, protests at the North Korean embassy, and other activities.

In Polanco, Mexico City, there is a Korean cultural center, Korean Cultural Center, Mexico City, with activities both artistic (exhibitions, traditional music concerts, folk art shows) and academic (language and Korean history courses).

In Mérida, Yucatán there is a Museum of Korean Immigration (Museo Conmemorativo de la Inmigración Coreana a Yucatán).

The Hospital de la Amistad Corea-México ("Korea-Mexico Friendship Hospital") is located in Mérida, Yucatán.

In literature
One literary portrayal of the early Korean community in Mexico was Kim Young-ha's 2003 Korean-language novel Black Flower, translated into English by Charles La Shure. The book won Kim the 2004 Dong-in Literary Award as well as a nomination for the 2012 Man Asian Literary Prize.

Notable individuals
Dai-won Moon is a South Korean-born, naturalized Mexican martial artist and is known as the "Father of Mexican Taekwondo". 

Ssoni Park is a hair stylist with a salon in Pequeño Seúl (Zona Rosa) who attracts clients from across the country including many models, actors and singers, including the Banda el Recodo, Klezmeron, friends of architect Michel Rojkind, and those who sought her services after she appeared in the credits of a short film by Raquel Romero Monterrubio. 

Digital creator Sujin Kim, better known as Chingu Amiga, is also one of the best-known Koreans in Mexico and Latin America. She moved from South Korea to Monterrey in 2016 to work in the Mexican headquarters of Korean companies as a graduate economist, she studied International relations at the Autonomous University of Nuevo León in the Faculty of Political Sciences and International Relations. Kim also worked as a Korean-language teacher at the same university and on her own website. In 2021, she gained recognition on social media with short videos in which she shared her life and her experiences as a Korean living in Mexico, gaining more than 20 million followers on TikTok and 7 million on YouTube. Since 2022 she lives in Mexico City due to her internet career.

See also

 Mexico–North Korea relations
 Mexico–South Korea relations
 Pequeño Seúl

Notes

Bibliography
()

 ()

Further reading

External links
 Los que llegaron - Coreanos from Canal Once
 Korean Immigrants To Mexico - "Aenikkaengs"

Mexico
 
Ethnic groups in Mexico
Mexico
Mexico–North Korea relations
Mexico–South Korea relations
Asian Mexican