[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gerald O. Young

n South Carolina, before his retirement from the Air Force on June 30, 1980, at the rank of lieutenant colonel.

Later life
Young died of brain tumor at the age of 60 and was buried at Arlington National Cemetery, in Arlington, Virginia.

Awards and decorations
His decorations include the following:

Medal of Honor citation
For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty. Capt. Young distinguished himself while serving as a helicopter rescue crew commander. Capt. Young was flying escort for another helicopter attempting the night rescue of an Army ground reconnaissance team in imminent danger of death or capture. Previous attempts had resulted in the loss of 2 helicopters to hostile ground fire. The endangered team was positioned on the side of a steep slope which required unusual airmanship on the part of Capt. Young to effect pickup. Heavy automatic weapons fire from the surrounding enemy severely damaged 1 rescue helicopter, but it was able to extract 3 of the team. The commander of this aircraft recommended to Capt. Young that further rescue attempts be abandoned because it was not possible to suppress the concentrated fire from enemy automatic weapons. With full knowledge of the danger involved, and the fact that supporting helicopter gunships were low on fuel and ordnance, Capt. Young hovered under intense fire until the remaining survivors were aboard. As he maneuvered the aircraft for takeoff, the enemy appeared at point-blank range and raked the aircraft with automatic weapons fire. The aircraft crashed, inverted, and burst into flames. Capt. Young escaped through a window of the burning aircraft. Disregarding serious burns, Capt. Young aided one of the wounded men and attempted to lead the hostile forces away from his position. Later, despite intense pain from his burns, he declined to accept rescue because he had observed hostile forces setting up automatic weapons positions to entrap any rescue aircraft. For more than 17 hours he evaded the enemy until rescue aircraft could be brought into the area. Through his extraordinary heroism, aggressiveness, and concern for his fellow man, Capt. Young reflected the highest credit upon himself, the U.S. Air Force, and the Armed Forces of his country.

See also

 List of Medal of Honor recipients for the Vietnam War
 Young's Park on Guemes Island, Washington is named after him.

References

External links
  www.billiongraves.com Headstone picture
 
 

1930 births
1990 deaths
United States Air Force Medal of Honor recipients
United States Air Force personnel of the Vietnam War
Aviators from Illinois
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
Recipients of the Air Medal
Recipients of the Distinguished Flying Cross (United States)
Shot-down aviators
United States Air Force officers
United States Navy personnel
Vietnam War recipients of the Medal of Honor
American Vietnam War pilots
United States air attachés
Deaths from brain cancer in the United States
Deaths from cancer in Washington (state)
American expatriates in Panama
American expatriates in Colombia
University System of Maryland alumni
Military personnel from Chicago