[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Baitullah Mehsud

ng the government of reneging on the deal, Baitullah resumed attacks on security forces.

2006–2007
By 2006, Baitullah Mehsud's growing influence in South Waziristan led terrorism analysts to label him as "South Waziristan's Unofficial Amir".

An official in Frontier Constabulary described his army:

In June 2006 Taliban-aligned Waziri tribes began negotiating another ceasefire with Pakistani forces.

In a January 2007 interview with the BBC Urdu Service, Baitullah extolled the virtues of jihad against foreigners and advocated taking the fight to the U.S. and to Britain.

After the siege of Lal Masjid in July Baitullah turned his forces against the Pakistani state.

In December 2007, Mehsud was declared the first leader of the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan.

2008 ceasefire
In February 2008, Mehsud announced that he had agreed to another ceasefire with the government of Pakistan although the Pakistani military claimed that operations against Mehsud's forces continued.  The New York Times, however, reported that anonymous high-level officials in the Pakistani government confirmed the deal. In April Baitullah circulated a pamphlet that ordered his followers not to undertake any attacks inside Pakistan due to ongoing peace talks.

In July 2008, Baitullah issued a statement that threatened to take action against the Khyber Pakhtunkhwa government if it did not step down within five days. The NWFP parliamentary leaders promptly refused.

Rumors of death in September 2008
Various news media sources reported the death of Baitullah Mehsud on 30 September 2008 at the age of 34 due to kidney failure. Many of his close associates, including his aide, his doctor and a Taliban spokesman, vehemently denied the rumors. According to the spokesman, Mehsud was "fit and well." Mehsud's doctor also said he had spoken with him after the rumors of his death. The rumors proved to be false.

Second marriage

Mehsud entered a second marriage in November 2008.
Mehsud's first wife bore his four daughters and he may have hoped his second wife, "the daughter of an influential cleric," Ikramuddin Mehsud, would bear him a son.

Leadership dispute continues
In February 2009, senior Taliban leaders Baitullah Mehsud, Hafiz Gul Bahadur and Maulvi Nazir put aside their differences in an effort to refocus against a common enemy.  Nazir had previously feuded with Baitullah for his sheltering of Uzbek militants whom Nazir had fought to evict from South Waziristan.  As a result of the February agreement, Maulvi Nazir ended support for Qari Zainuddin Mehsud, who the Daily Times described as the "self-appointed successor of ... Abdullah Mehsud."  Zainuddin's group then allied with a group led by another militant, Turkestan Bhittani, they in turn made an alliance with the MI of Pakistan Army, which provide them safe heavens in Tank, Dera Ismail Khan and Abbottabad regions of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa. This alliance proved to be a major blow to BaitUllah Mehsud and his allies, limiting their influence in the bordering regions of his strong base South Waziristan, that is, Tank and Dera Ismail Khan.  Qari Zainuddin Mehsud and Turkestan Bhittani groups were involved in many illegal activities in those regions, such as kidnappings, extortion and killings. 

On 27 March 2009, Pakistan's Daily Times reported that Baitullah Mehsud's group was engaged in a dispute with Qari Zainuddin's group for control of South Waziristan. Both groups had distributed pamphlets leveling accusations against the other groups' leader.  Qari Zainuddin stated that Baitullah's group was not practicing jihad because Islam forbids suicide attacks.  Baitullah's pamphlet claimed that the slain Abdullah had been a government puppet and Qari Zainuddin was a traitor to Islam and to the Mehsud tribe.

The rivalry culminated on 23 June 2009, when a gunman shot and killed Zainuddin in Dera Ismail Khan. The gunman had served as one of his bodyguards and after the incident was suspected to be Baitullah's agent.

Bounties
On 28 June 2009 the Pakistani government announced a reward of Rs.50,000,000 for information that leads to the capture, dead or alive, of Baitullah.  The bounty coincided with a previous offer from the United States, which offered $5,000,000.

Death in August 2009
On the night of 5 August 2009, while he was staying with his second wife at his father-in-law's house in Zangara, a U.S. drone attacked the premises. According to former CIA director Leon Panetta, he was observed on the roof of the house and identified by the distinctive hat he wore. According to The Times, it may have been his desire to father a son that ultimately led to his demise.