[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Terrorism in Australia

ges to hold up a jihadist black flag against a window of the café. On the early hours of 16 December, police breached the café and fatally shot Monis following the escape of several hostages. Two hostages also died, while another four people, including a police officer, were injured in the incident.

The designation of the 2014 Sydney hostage crisis, also known as the Sydney Martin Place siege, has been subject to debate among terrorism experts and news commentators. Initially, during the early stages of the incident, the Australian government and NSW authorities did not label the event as a terrorist attack; however, as the siege continued, NSW police authorised the engagement of the state's counterterrorism task force, treating the incident as an act of terrorism. Commentators have debated whether the perpetrator of the attack, Man Haron Monis, was in fact a terrorist and whether his actions can be classified as an act of terrorism. One terrorism expert described Monis's actions as those of a "lone-wolf terrorist ... driven by a desire for attention and to be in the spotlight." Another wrote in an opinion column that the attack "was very different from first-generation or second-generation terrorist attacksbut it was terrorism, and terrorism of a brutal and more unpredictable sort." Scott Stewart supervisor of the analysis of terrorism and security issues for Statfor said that this hostage-incident exhibits many of the elements associated with grassroots terrorism. By contrast, criminologist Mark Lauchs stated that the event "was not about religion and neither was it a terrorist attack." Media outlets have also provided conflicting designations for Monis; John Lehmann, editor of The Daily Telegraph, wrote how Monis filled the criteria of an Islamic State terrorist, while a columnist for The Guardian wrote how the designation of a terrorist is misplaced and would only serve the interests of ISIL. On 15 January 2015, Australia's Treasurer Joe Hockey declared the siege in Sydney's Martin Place as a terrorist incident for insurance purposes.

The difference between terrorism and terrorising acts was noted in one analysis as "enormously important"in Monis's case, terrorism "was clearly an element, but he was coming to the end of his rope with a variety of legal processes; there was clearly some mental instability." One argument was that the gunman's lack of ties to any movement did not preclude his being a terrorist as it is "an inclusive club".

Nick O'Brien, associate professor of counter terrorism at Charles Sturt University has said Islamic State's magazine claim that the Sydney siege gunman is a righteous jihadist should not be lightly dismissed. Dr David Martin Jones, Senior Lecturer at the School of Government, University of Tasmania has said not to underestimate the politically destabilising intent of Monis's lone-actor violence, as it is a considered tactic and a strategic goal of ISIL.

Parramatta shooting (2015)

On 2 October 2015, an Iranian-born Iraqi-Kurdish youth shot dead 58-year-old Curtis Cheng, an accountant who worked for the New South Wales Police Force, outside the Parramatta Police headquarters. The terrorist then shot at special constables guarding the building, and was shot dead by them. NSW Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione said "We believe that his actions were politically motivated and therefore linked to terrorism." Four other 'alleged Islamic State members' were arrested and charged in relation to the shooting.

Minto stabbing (September 2016) 
On 10 September 2016, Islamist Ihsas Khan attacked a man in a park in Minto, New South Wales. The victim was chased and repeatedly stabbed or slashed with a knife. Khan was charged with attempted murder and with committing a terrorist act. Crown prosecutor Peter Neil SC said there was evidence to suggest Mr Khan had been planning to attack a civilian at random on September 11 to coincide with the anniversary of the Al Qaeda attacks on the United States.

Queanbeyan stabbing (April 2017)

On 7 April 2017, a pair of 15- and 16-year-old boys entered a service station in the city of Queanbeyan, New South Wales and stabbed the attendant, 29-year-old Zeeshan Akbar of Pakistani descent, who died at the scene. Two other men were also attacked and injured nearby. Elsewhere a man was carjacked, struck with a hammer and stabbed. The 16-year-old's mother had told police that she believed her son had been radicalised in recent weeks and that he sympathised with Islamic State and had also posted concerning posts on Facebook. The police treated this as an act of terrorism. The two were arrested after a car chase. On 1 May 2020 at the NSW Supreme Court both boys were sentenced. The 16-year-old received a jail term of 35-and-a-half years. The 15-year-old received 18 years and 4 months.

Brighton siege (June 2017)