[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 8

when gamma secretase cleaves LRP8 as well as the ligand amyloid precursor protein (APP).  The degradation products control transcription factors, which lead to the expression of a tau protein.  The cascade dysfunction caused by the altered gene expression may be implicated with Alzheimer's disease.

The presence of amyloid beta (Aβ) protein deposits in neuronal extracellular space is one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease. The role of ApoER2 in Alzheimer's disease is relevant, yet incompletely understood. New evidence suggests ApoER2 plays a major role in the regulation of amyloid-β formation in the brain. The amyloid-β peptide is derived from the cleavage of APP by gamma secretase.  ApoER2 works to reduce APP trafficking by altering break down. This interaction decreases APP endocytosis leading to an increase in amyloid-β production. In addition, the expression of ApoER2 within intracellular compartments leads to increased gamma secretase activity, a protease which works to cleave APP into Aβ.

ApoER2 splice variants can act as a receptor for alpha-2-macroglobulin which can have a role in clearance of alpha-2-macroglobulin/proteinase complex.  Proteases may play a role in synaptic plasticity balancing proteolytic activity and inhibition, which is controlled by proteolytic inhibitors such as alpha-2-macroglobulin.  Studies have shown that a high presence of alpha-2-macroglobulin is present in the neuritic plaques in many Alzheimer patients.  Isolation of cDNA encoding proteins associated with Aβ was used to discover alpha-2-macroglobulin.  These discoveries may link alpha-2-macroglobulin and its receptors, one of them being ApoER2, to Alzheimer's disease.

ApoER2 interaction with reelin and ApoE has implications with Alzheimer's disease.  Binding of reelin to ApoER2 leads to cascade of signals that modulate NMDA receptor functions.  ApoE competes with reelin in binding to ApoER2 resulting in weakened reelin signaling. Reduced reelin signaling leads to impaired plasticity in neurons and increases in the phosphorylation of tau protein, which is a microtubule stabilizing protein that is abundant in the Central Nervous System (CNS), producing neurofibrillary tangles which are implicated in Alzheimer's disease.

Antiphospholipid syndrome 

Antiphospholipid syndrome is an autoimmune disease characterized by thrombosis and complications during pregnancy, often leading to fetal death.  It is caused by the presence of antibodies against anionic phospholipids and β2-glycoprotein I (β2GPI). The anti-β2GPI antibodies are most prevalent in causing the symptoms of the disease. When bound by an antibody, β2GPI begins to interact with monocytes, endothelial cells, and platelets. ApoER2 is thought to play a key role in the process of platelet binding. β2GPI has the proper binding site for interaction with ApoER2 and other LDL family receptors, and it is speculated that the antibody/β2GPI complexes interact with ApoER2 on platelets.  This causes the phosphorylation of a p38MAPkinase, resulting in the production of thromboxane A2. Thromboxane A2 functions to activate more platelets, and this leads to a greater chance for blood clots to form. There is also speculation that the antibody/β2GPI complexes sensitize other cell types through various LDL family receptors to lead to less common symptoms other than thrombosis.

Cancer 
ApoER2 has been found to promote ferroptosis resistance in cancer. Loss of ApoER2 results in insufficient selenium levels, leading to failed translation of the key ferroptosis regulator and selenoprotein GPX4.

Major depressive disorder 

Reduced expression of ApoER2 in peripheral blood lymphocytes can contribute to major depressive disorder (MDD) in some patients. Major depressive disorder is the most common psychiatric disorder, where people show symptoms of low self-esteem and a loss of interest in pleasure.  By studying the levels of ApoER2 mRNA, low levels of ApoER2 were discovered.  Results from experiments have shown that this could be because of transcriptional alterations in lymphocytes.  However, low levels of ApoER2 do not appear to correlate with the severity or duration of the disease. It only aids as a trait marker in identification of the disease.  The impact of the low levels of ApoER2 mRNA function relating to the disease remains unknown.

References

Further reading

External links 
 Are You reelin in the Years? Not without Alternative Splicing

Low-density lipoprotein receptor gene family
Receptors