[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Hyde Park Barracks, Sydney

g in NSW.

Hyde Park Barracks, Sydney (inclusive of the Sydney Mint), was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

There is a diversity of structures which document the evolution of the Hyde Park Barracks complex from the late Georgian era to modern times: from the era of convict cell blocks and enclosed penal institutions, through to judicial courts and offices and present-day museum. It contains two fig trees on Macquarie Street which are symbolic of a number of significant town planning schemes throughout the 19th century, such as the creation of Chancery Square, (now known as Queen's Square). Within the complex are structures associated with the first purpose-built government institution for the housing of convicts. It is associated with the development of the legal system in NSW being the location of the first meeting in 1830 of the bench of magistrates for the Court of General Sessions and the first location of the Metropolitan District Court established under the District Courts Act, 1958. It is associated with other historic landmarks in the area such as the former Rum Hospital, St James' Church, Hyde Park, the Domain, St Mary's Cathedral and Macquarie Street.

The place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.

It contains elements such as the perimeter walls, parts of the two gate lodges, one former pavilion and parts of another, some external and probably internal walls on the northern range of buildings which are associated with the convict architect Francis Greenway's design. Together with the central barracks building, the place possesses a rich architectural history from the earliest days of European settlement in Australia.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

It contains a museum which is a centre of tourist and cultural activity in Sydney.

The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

The site contains areas of potential archaeological significance which are likely to provide significant insight into the establishment of the place and its subsequent developmental history.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

It is the oldest example of a walled penal institution in Australia. The barracks provide rare evidence of the standards and skills of building practice, architectural design and urban planning in early 19th century Sydney

Operations 
The Hyde Park Barracks are part of the Sydney Living Museums series. Other locations in the series are the Susannah Place Museum, the Museum of Sydney and the Justice & Police Museum. A pass can be purchased at any of the locations that will enable visitors to visit all four locations at a discounted price.

Gallery

See also

 Architecture of Sydney
 Culture of Sydney
 Sydney Mint

References

Bibliography

Attribution

External links 

Hyde Park Barracks, Sydney Living Museums
 A Place For The Friendless Female: Sydney's Female Immigration Depot (online version of the Hyde Park Barracks Museum exhibition by the same name)
 Tonkin Zulaikha Greer (Website)
 UNESCO announcement of World Heritage listing
 [CC-By-SA] 
  [CC-By-SA]
 Colonial Secretary's papers 1822-1877, State Library of Queensland- includes digitised letters written about Hyde Park Barracks to the Colonial Secretary of New South Wales. Reel 8 Item 2347 includes list of prisoners forwarded from the Hydpe Park Barracks to various penal settlements in Australia.

Former Barracks in Australia
Convictism in New South Wales
Australian Convict Sites
Neoclassical architecture in Australia
Museums in Sydney
Prison museums in Australia
Historic Houses Trust of New South Wales
1819 establishments in Australia
Adaptive reuse of industrial structures
New South Wales State Heritage Register
Francis Greenway buildings
Government buildings in Sydney
Military installations in New South Wales
Courthouses in New South Wales
Articles incorporating text from the New South Wales State Heritage Register
Macquarie Street, Sydney
World Heritage Sites in New South Wales
Military history of New South Wales