[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Organoaluminium chemistry

quent step, these hydrides are treated with more alkene to effect hydroalumiunation:
2 [HAl(CH2CHR)2]3 + 3 CH2=CHR → 3 [Al2(CH2CHR)3

Diisobutylaluminium hydride, which is dimeric, is prepared by hydride elimination from triisobutylaluminium:
2 i-Bu3Al → (i-Bu2AlH)2 + 2 (CH3)2C=CH2

Carboalumination

Organoaluminum compounds can react with alkenes and alkynes, resulting in the net addition of one organyl group and the metal fragment across the multiple bond (carboalumination). This process can proceed in a purely thermal manner or in the presence of a transition metal catalyst. For the uncatalyzed process, monoaddition is only possible when the alkene is substituted. For ethylene, carboalumination leads to a Poisson distribution of higher alkylaluminum species. The reaction is regioselective for 1-alkenes. The so-called ZACA reaction first reported by Ei-ichi Negishi is an example of an asymmetric carboalumination of alkenes catalyzed by a chiral zirconocene catalyst.

The methylalumination of alkynes in the presence of Cp2ZrCl2 is employed for the synthesis of stereodefined trisubstituted olefin fragments, a common substructure in terpene and polyketide natural products.  The synthesis of (E)-4-iodo-3-methylbut-3-en-1-ol shown below is a typical application of this reaction:

For terminal alkynes, the reaction generally proceeds with good regioselectivity (>90:10 rr) and complete syn selectivity, even in the presence of propargylic or homopropargylic heteroatom substituents.  Unfortunately, extension of the zirconocene-catalyzed methylalumination to alkylalumination with higher alkyls results in lower yields and poor regioselectivities.

Laboratory preparations
Although the simple members are commercially available at low cost, many methods have been developed for their synthesis in the laboratory, including metathesis or transmetalation. 
Metathesis of aluminium trichloride with RLi or RMgX gives the trialkyl:
AlCl3 + 3 BuLi   →   Bu3Al + 3 LiCl
Transmetalation:
2 Al + 3 HgPh2   →   2 AlPh3 + 3 Hg

Reactions
The high reactivity of organoaluminium compounds toward electrophiles is attributed to the charge separation between aluminium and carbon atom.

Lewis acidity
Organoaluminium compounds are hard acids and readily form adducts with bases such as pyridine, THF and tertiary amines.  These adducts are tetrahedral at Al.

Electrophiles
The Al–C bond is polarized such that the carbon is highly basic.  Acids react to give alkanes.  For example, alcohols give alkoxides:

AlR'3  +  ROH   →   1/n (R'2Al−OR)n  +  R'H

A wide variety of acids can be employed beyond the simple mineral acids.  Amines give amido derivatives.  With carbon dioxide, trialkylaluminium compounds give the dialkylaluminium carboxylate, and subsequently alkyl aluminium dicarboxylates:

AlR3  +  CO2   →   R2AlO2CR
R2AlO2CR   +   CO2   →   RAl(O2CR)2

The conversion is reminiscent of the carbonation of Grignard reagents.

Similarly, the reaction between trialkylaluminum compounds and carbon dioxide has been used to synthesise alcohols, olefins, or ketones.

With oxygen one obtains the corresponding alkoxides, which can be hydrolysed to the alcohols:
AlR3  +  3/2 O2   →   Al(OR)3
A structurally characterized organoaluminum peroxide is [{HC[C(Me)N-C6H5]2}Al(R)-O-O-CMe3] [R=CH(SiMe3)2].

The reaction between pure trialalkylaluminum compounds and water, alcohols, phenols, amines, carbon dioxide, sulfur oxides, nitrogen oxides, halogens, and halogenated hydrocarbons can be violent.

Applications
Organoaluminium compounds are widely used in the production of alkenes, alcohols, and polymers.  Some relevant processes include the Ziegler Process for the production of alcohols from ethylene.  Several technologies exist for the oligomerization of ethylene to give alpha-olefins. Organoaluminium compounds are used as catalysts for alkene polymerization to polyolefins, for example the catalyst methylaluminoxane.

References