[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Healing of periapical lesions

pletion of endodontic therapy may produce highly favorable results when followed by conventional therapy, even when the periapical area is very large. The use of chlorhexidine gluconate and calcium hydroxide for infection control was shown to lead to substantial healing of a large periapical lesion.

The traditional thought that it is necessary to complete endodontic therapy as quickly as possible may be related only to the initial steps of therapy, namely, a thorough instrumentation, thus ensuring a proper biomechanical preparation. While completion of the procedure with immediate obturation might secure the decontaminated root canal system, delaying this step in order to allow for application of medicaments has been shown to be beneficial. Periodic application and renewal of calcium hydroxide over a year's time (four applications over a 12-month period), has been shown to represent a nonsurgical approach to resolving even extensive inflammatory periapical lesions.

Antibiotic coverage
The use of adjunctive antibiotics is usually uncalled for when proper debridement procedures can be executed in a conventional periapical lesion of endodontic origin; however, they can be centrally important to the treatment of a progressive or persistent infection. It has been proposed, however, that disinfection of the root canal by means of an antibacterial agent, such as propolis or otosporin, can lead to improved healing by reducing and controlling pulpal and periapical inflammatory reactions. This would, in turn, promote the healing process as well as provide for better control, prevention and reduction of post-treatment pain and discomfort.

Biologic mediators
There are a number of active biologic mediators that have been implicated in promoting apical resorption. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), which are endogenous zinc-dependent catabolic enzymes, are primarily responsible for the degradation of much of the tissue matrices built on such architecturally important substances as collagen and proteoglycan core proteins. Their biologic activities have been extensively researched and reviewed, and their importance in the pathogenesis of apical periodontitis is obvious. Furthermore, concentrations of IgG antibodies have been found to be nearly five times higher in lesions of apical periodontitis than in uninflamed oral mucosa.

Prostaglandins, specifically PGE2 and PGI2, are important in inflammation and have been implicated in promoting apical resorption. This is because neutrophils, which are rich sources of PGE2, are present when the majority of rapid bone loss occurs during the initial stages of apical periodontitis. It has been illustrated clinically that parenteral administration of indomethacin, an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase, can act to suppress resorption of apical hard tissue.

The predominant mechanism of bone resorption in a periapical lesion, as in the rest of the body, is the performed by osteoclasts. In the periapical lesion, mediators that are normally produced primarily only by osteoblasts are released by many other cells as well, overstimulating proosteoclasts. As a result, these begin to proliferate and several cells fuse to form multinucleated giant cells capable of spreading over the infected, injured site and cause resorption of the periapical alveolar bone.

Endodontic success and failure

It is possible that after conventional endodontic therapy has been completed, little to no resolution of the periapical lesion occurs over a considerable amount of time; there is a great deal of current research that discusses the possible reasons for this outcome and suggests possible treatment options. For example, it has been demonstrated that there is an association between nonresolving apical periodontitis lesions and the presence of cholesterol clefts within the periapical lesion; in fact, an incidence of up to 44% has been reported! It was shown that macrophages joined to form multinucleated giant cells and then produced a well-circumscribed area of tissue reaction, not unlike the granulomatous tissue reactions of a typical foreign body reaction, and persisted for up to 8 months. Similarly, endodontic materials as well as food debris may also be the cause of persistent periapical lesions. It was once shown that contaminated gutta percha resulted in a persistent periapical lesion for more than a decade!

Non-surgical endodontic retreatment therapy
For retreatment of a non-healing lesion, there is really no magical method that can be employed; the course of action is merely to achieve what was supposed to have been achieved the first time. Keeping in mind the notion that endodontic retreatment is a problem-solving exploit will substantially increase its success.