[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1913 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1913 in New Zealand.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
 Head of State — George V
 Governor — Arthur Foljambe, 2nd Earl of Liverpool

Government
The 18th New Zealand Parliament continues, with the Reform Party in government.

Speaker of the House — Arthur Guinness (Liberal) until 10 June, then Frederic Lang (Reform Party) from 26 June
Prime Minister — William Massey
Minister of Finance — James Allen

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition — Joseph Ward (Liberal Party) from 13 September.

Judiciary
 Chief Justice – Robert Stout

Main centre leaders
 Mayor of Auckland — James Parr
 Mayor of Wellington — John Luke
 Mayor of Christchurch — Henry Holland
 Mayor of Dunedin — John Wilson, then William Downie Stewart Jr

Events 
22 March: The world's first automatic totalisator is used at the Easter meeting at Ellerslie Racecourse in Auckland.
13 April: Frederik E. Sandford flies the rebuilt biplane Manurewa at the Avondale Racecourse. The Manurewa was formerly owned and flown by the Walsh Brothers before it crashed (see 1911) but is now owned by a syndicate and been rebuilt by Sandford and William Miller.
19 April: American Arthur "Wizard" Stone flies a Blériot XI monoplane for  from the cricket ground at Auckland Domain.
24 April: "Wizard" Stone flies for an estimated  from Alexandra Park.
April or May: Frederik Sandford flies the first woman passenger in New Zealand, a Miss Lester.
9 July: The first suspected case in a Smallpox outbreak is reported. It is later confirmed and the outbreak becomes an epidemic. 
31 August: Sandford flies west from Avondale covering  at , but crashes at New Lynn on the return to Avondale.
22 October: Wellington watersiders go on strike.
23 October: Wellington watersiders are locked out sparking nationwide waterfront strikes.
29 October: Over 1000 Wellington strikers hold a protest meeting at the Basin Reserve.
30 October: The first "special constables" arrive in Wellington.
8 November: "Special constables" occupy Auckland wharves leading to a general strike.
10 November: A general strike is called in Wellington but it is not supported.
23 November: The general strike in Auckland ends.
1 December: Auckland Exhibition opens.
20 December: Wellington waterfront strike is called off.

Undated

Arthur Schaef makes short powered hops in his second, unnamed, aircraft, at Lyall Bay, Wellington.
Hector and Seaforth McKenzie fly their Hamilton biplane at Marton.
Percy Fisher and Reginald White fly an aircraft of their own design at Greytown. The event is also filmed.

Arts and literature

See 1913 in art, 1913 in literature, :Category:1913 books

Music

See: 1913 in music

Film
Hinemoa — first New Zealand feature film, made by Gaston Méliès 
How Chief Te Ponga Won His Bride – also by Gaston Méliès and the Star Film Company 
Loved by a Maori Chieftess- also by Gaston Méliès and the Star Film Company 
The River Wanganui – one of five short films made in New Zealand by Gaston Méliès and the Star Film Company
See: 1913 in film, List of New Zealand feature films, Cinema of New Zealand, :Category:1913 films, :Category:1913 film awards

Sport

Chess
 The 26th National Chess Championship was held in Nelson, and was won by J.C. Grierson of Auckland, his second title.

Golf

Men's
 The seventh New Zealand Open championship was won by Ted Douglas.
 The 21st National Amateur Championships were held in Otago 
 Matchplay: B.B. Wood (Christchurch) — 2nd title

Women's
 Matchplay:  Mrs. G Williams.
 Strokeplay: Mrs G. Williams – 3rd title

Horse racing

Harness racing
 New Zealand Trotting Cup: Ravenschild 
 Auckland Trotting Cup: Jewel Chimes

Thoroughbred racing

Rugby league
New Zealand national rugby league team

Rugby union
 Auckland defend the Ranfurly Shield against Wellington (6–5) and Poverty Bay (27–3) before losing it to Taranaki (11–14)

Soccer
Provincial league champions:
	Auckland:	Everton Auckland
	Canterbury:	Sydenham
	Hawke's Bay:	Waipukurau
	Otago:	Kaitangata FC
	Southland:	Rangers
	Wanganui:	Eastbrooke
	Wellington:	Wellington Thistle

Tennis
 Anthony Wilding is ranked the world's No.1 player and records a unique triple, winning world championships in hard court, lawn and indoor.

Births

January
 6 January – Bill Broughton, jockey
 8 January – Dennis Smith, cricketer
 12 January – Jack Taylor, rugby union player, coach and administrator
 13 January – Norman Henderson, cricketer
 17 January – Arthur Cutler, cricketer
 18 January – Douglas Dalton, rugby union player
 19 January – Henry Waine, cricketer
 31 January – Jim Blandford, cricketer

February
 2 February – Harry Wigley, pilot, tourism industry leader
 13 February – Minden Blake, World War II flying ace, inventor
 15 February
 Jean Horsley, artist
 Helmut Rex, Presbyterian theologian
 18 February – Nola Millar, theatre director
 20 February – Helen Shaw, short-story writer, poet, editor
 24 February – Rowan Nicks, surgeon