[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eretz Nehederet

o were not part of the regular team and were not directly involved in current events. These sketches often began as viral videos on YouTube and other online platforms.

The show's structure, apart from special episodes and selected segments, remains consistent with minor changes between each season:

 Main Sketch: An in-studio sketch that opens the show, often characterized by extreme and provocative elements.
 Main Panel: Eyal Kitzis interviews studio guests from the week's political agenda.
 Headlines Satire: A collection of satirical news headlines. Starting from the 11th season, Alma Zack presented the headlines alongside Kitzis for a while. In the 13th season, the headlines became a separate segment called "Additional Headlines" airing on Fridays. In the 14th season, this segment returned with a different format.
 Secondary Panel: Eyal Kitzis interviews guests from the fields of culture, entertainment, and sports.
 Additional Headlines Segments.
 Field Reporting: Segments addressing common phenomena in Israeli society.
 External Productions: Mini-shows hosted and produced by various individuals, both well-known and newcomers.
 Recurring Sketches: A series of sketches critiquing an Israeli group or phenomenon, airing throughout the season.

Recurring parodies 
Uzi Cohen, former deputy mayor of Ra'anana and Likud central committee member, by Eli Finish
Benjamin Netanyahu by Edelman
Judy Shalom Nir-Mozes, wife of former Foreign Minister Silvan Shalom, by Orna Banai
Shimon Peres by Eli Finish
Pnina Rosenblum, model and sometime politician, by Edelman
Shelly Yachimovich, journalist-turned-politician (under the name Helly), by Tal Friedman

Characters
Following is a list of characters shown in Eretz Nehederet, both parodied real-life persons, and entirely fictional characters.

Notable sketches

In May 2010, a sketch played off tensions between Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and American President Barack Obama, with Netanyahu trying to smooth over differences as they meet in the White House. A series of accidents caused Netanyahu to set the American flag on fire, stomp on it, and then torch a copy of Obama's proposed Middle East peace plan.

In November 2010, the group used the video game characters Angry Birds in a mock up peace treaty sketch. The skit satirized recent failed Israeli-Palestinian peace attempts. The video quickly went viral across the world. It received favorable coverage from a variety of independent blogs such as Digital Trends, Hot Air, and Intomobile, as well as from online news media agencies such as The Christian Science Monitor, Haaretz, The Guardian, and MSNBC.

In May 2016, the group created the "ISIS at the Eurovision" sketch.

Reactions
Muhammad Abu Tir of Hamas has expressed his discontent with the way he was represented on the program (as a terrorist disguised as a party arranger, who constantly invites Israelis to his "parties" while rolling his eyes).

In a speech on March 21, 2013, President Barack Obama quipped that "any drama between me and my friend, Bibi, over the years was just a plot to create material for Eretz Nehederet. [...] That's the only thing that was going on. We just wanted to make sure the writers had good material."

Canadian journalist and podcaster Malcolm Gladwell discussed the show on his podcast Revisionist History in an episode on satire. Gladwell discusses his own sadness at how American comedians like Tina Fey use satire to mock but never wish to have their point get across, and cites Eretz Nehederet as a key example of political satire done right.

References

External links
Eretz Nehederet on IMDb
Official website (in Hebrew)
Full Episodes (in Hebrew)
Interview with Alma Zak (in Hebrew)
Background article on the show
Overview of the show (New York Times)

Israeli satirical television series
2003 Israeli television series debuts
Israeli political satire
News parodies
2000s satirical television series
2010s satirical television series
Channel 2 (Israeli TV channel) original programming
Viral videos
Hebrew-language television shows
Channel 12 (Israel) original programming