[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Douglas (businessman)

om its ore.  Although Douglas had no formal education in chemistry, he was considered competent enough to fill the Chair of Chemistry at his hometown's Morrin College affiliated with McGill University, from 1871 to 1874. His evening lectures were among the most popular in the history of the College.

Mining-related inventions
With Thomas Sterry Hunt, Douglas was involved with many experiments in the hydrometallurgy of coppers and devised what is known as the "Hunt-Douglas" process (first patented 1869) for extracting copper from its ores. Douglas was also the inventor of several other improvements in the mining industry, consisting of the invention for calcining ores (1884), a furnace for calcining ores (1898), a process for extracting copper from cupriferous nickel ore (1892), a process for separating and recovering copper (1896), and an improved smelting furnace in 1897.  During the early 1870s, he traveled to copper mines in Chile and Ore Knob, North Carolina to introduce the Hunt & Douglas process.  In 1874, he introduced an improvement on the Hunt-Douglas process at J. Oscar Stewart's quartz mill in Georgetown, Colorado to also recover silver.  In 1890, he hired the young Dr. L. D. Ricketts, one of the brightest metallurgists of his generation, to introduce the Hunt Douglas process in Arizona. Then, in little over a decade, Douglas employed research chemists at each of the major Phelps Dodge operations in Arizona: Morenci, Globe, Bisbee, and, later, Tyrone, New Mexico, directed by a chief chemist in the Phelps Dodge research labs outside New York City. Dr. Douglas' emphasis on research chemistry supported by Phelps Dodge was one of the first such efforts in the mining industry.  He is praised as a proponent of the open exchange of ideas, scientific and technological innovations, especially during the secretive years of 19th century copper metallurgy.

Phelps Dodge and the Copper Queen Mine
Douglas' patents attracted attention in the United States, and in 1875 he quit his teaching post to work as superintendent for the Chemical Copper Company, Phoenixville, near Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, then a major center of the chemical industry. In 1883, after the Phoenixville works burned down, he made his last permanent move, to the New York City area to be closer to the financial hub. During this period, he also performed mining consultant work, which took him to mining camps across the far West. In 1880, Douglas was recruited by Professor Benjamin Silliman Jr. of Yale (and stockholder in the Chemical Copper Company), to report on the Detroit Copper Company of Morenci, Arizona Territory as a favor for Phelps Dodge and Company. While working for Chemical Copper, Douglas had opportunity to view fabulously rich specimens from a mine in Bisbee, Arizona Territory known as the Copper Queen mine, the latter's bonanza orebody having been opened by a San Francisco firm two years previously. Only a day's travel from Morenci, Douglas visited the other claim, then looked around the tight confines of Mule Canyon. Adjacent the Copper Queen was the Atlanta claim, which Douglas also reported on for the New York import/export trading concern. Douglas urged Phelps Dodge to option the Detroit Copper Co. ($75,000) and to purchase the Atlanta claim outright. Asked if he would manage operations in the West as a representative of Phelps Dodge, he agreed. Douglas was given the choice of a flat fee or a ten per cent interest in the property for his services, of which he chose the latter, a decision that subsequently made him a fortune.

In 1885, Douglas helped negotiate the purchase of the Copper Queen for Phelps Dodge after the Atlanta and Copper Queen both hit the Atlanta ore body, resulting in the formation of the Copper Queen Consolidated Mining Company, with Douglas as president and general manager. Under Douglas, the Copper Queen Mine in Bisbee, Arizona Territory, became one of the top copper producing mines in the world. Its former headquarters office (built 1896) is now the Bisbee Mining & Historical Museum.

His deep interest in transportation and mining were united in an essay he wrote in 1885 on "Historical and Geographical Features of the Rocky Mountain  Railroads" which detailed the  geological features of the land near the Union Pacific, Central Pacific, Denver and Rio Grand, Southern Pacific,  Atlantic and Pacific, Northern Pacific, and the Canadian Pacific railroads.