[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mala, Kerala

further, thick, tall trees and small temples (Kavu) catch our attention. That leads to the 'Sarpakavu.' The serpent gods Nagaraja (male god) and Naga Yakshi (female god) reside in the eastern portion of Mekkattu Mana. There are no idols of these gods, but daily poojas are conducted in their honour.

Population
The people of Mala have high social and secular values. Different communities live in peace with each other despite very diverse beliefs. Mala panchayath population is 40% Hindus, 35% Christian, and 25% Muslims.

Transport
The Ksrtc bus stand was the brainchild of former chief minister of Kerala, Sri K. Karunakaran. Mala also has a private bus stand that has frequent schedules to Thrissur, Chalakudy, Kodungaloor, Aluva. The boat service was a traffic method before road transport was regular. Nearest villages of Mala town is Neithakudy, Paranattukunnu, Kunnathukad, Vadama, Kavanad, Pattalapady, Kottamuri, Kodothkunnu.

Politics
With the redrawing of constituencies, Mala became part of the Kodungallur Assembly constituency and Chalakudi Lok Sabha constituency. Mala panchayath is ruling by Left Democratic front with a huge majority.
Seat share in Mala Panchayath (CPM-6, CPI-5,JDS-1 CONGRESS-6, BJP-2, INDEPENDENT-nil). Leader K. Karunakaran is from Mala.

Cinema

Cinema is a small part of the people in Mala. Ganga Movies and Mahalakshmi cinemas (Ashtamichira) are theatres now. Late Mala Aravindan, and Joju George is the notable actors from Mala, also Jibi Mala movie writer and director, late Mohan Raghavan, who directed T.D. Dasan std. VI B, Aniyan Chithrasala Cinematographer are from here.
In Mala, there are some short filmmakers, who are hoping the entry to the industry. Rahul John is a well-known celebrity photographer who has been in the Malayalam film industry for years. Cyril Cherian, who was the director and actor of the Short Film 'IF,' got first prize in Manorama CSFF 2016 and also Tom John's short film 'Jose?' which came in the final round was widely appreciated for the script with the given topic MISSED CALL.

References

External links
 http://www.mala.co.in

Cities and towns in Thrissur district