[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of Shaman King characters

Renim and Bron appear briefly to order Silva back to his Plant and reveal their Over Souls as they greet Yoh and the invaders. Renim's spirit is a chameleon named . His Over Soul specializes in stealth removing any of his scent sound and presences allowing him to hide perfectly even in plain sight.

 
 
 A Patch official who oversees the Beach Plant, first seen working in the Patch Cafe and responsible for the Kabbalahers amongst other teams. It is possible that due to name association he is Kalim's brother. Though he easily defeats the majority of the invaders using his versatile spirit, , which has access to the different properties and abilities of every kind of Plant on the planet, he is eventually overcome and defeated by Joco.

 
 
 A Patch Priestess who oversees the Space Plant and escorts Hao to the King's Shrine, serving as his last line of defense while he merges with the Great Spirit. She wears an armored Oversoul created from her spirit ally , the spirit of an alien that came to Earth more than a thousand years ago and provided the Patch with its technology. In her Over Soul state, Rutherfor can manipulate gravity for her attacks.

 
 The first and only official to die in the preliminary rounds of the Shaman Fight and a close friend of Silva, regarded as one of the Patch's finest dancers. He was killed when he tested Tao Ren. Officially, Ren passed with one hit but when Chrom commented that Ren should train a little bit more, Ren went insane and killed him. His death drives Nichrom to seek revenge against Ren, who secretly feels deep regret for killing Chrom. Chrom's spirit is a locust, . His medium was probably the armor-like plates on his vest. Seeing that his brother's Plant was the 7th Plant of the Cave, it was most likely Chrom's Plant to protect if he had survived.

 
 
 Zinc is a shaman of the Patch Tribe that appears in the 2001 anime only who, along with Nichrom, fights Kalim and Silva when they attempt to help Yoh Asakura. Due to the fact he is in the 2001 anime, he doesn't have a Plant. Like Nichrom he is given a power boost by Hao, while still possessing nine guardian ghosts to form a suit of spiritual armor. Like Silva, the spirits can also be combined into Totem Pole Cannon like the Silver Arms.  His guardian ghost (most likely the first one he over souled) is a vulture or a buzzard with his medium being the feather plates he wore.

 
 
 Five year-old Twin sisters who Silva looks after; priestesses who are tasked to pass knowledge of Shaman Fight to future Officials and prepare the Shaman King candidate for purification before merging with the Great Spirit. When Hao awakens from his slumber, he took the girls' souls and killed them instantly when they gaze upon him. But they were revived after Hao's defeat to serve as his intermediataries with the Patch Priests.

X-Laws
The  is a paramilitary organization whose purpose is to eradicate all evil and suffering, founded by Luchist Lasso with the intention of defeating Hao Asakura. Each member holds a personal vendetta against Hao for ruining their lives in one fashion and utilize Archangels (Arch-spirits) as spirit allies with supercars as mediums. Ultimately, Hao kills X-III early in the tournament and later X-II when they attempt to assassinate him. X-I survives long enough to join Yoh's assault on the Plants. In the 2001 anime, most of the other X-Laws die during their final assault on Hao after Jeanne's failed attempt to trap him in the Gate of Babylon.

Team X-I
The top members of the X-Laws.