[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Destruction Derby 2

s to one stop because the team did not want to detract from the action and because a penalty system would have added a lot of extra work. Cars nearing destruction were designed to behave in a realistic and unpredictatable fashion through effects such as losing the bonnet (hood) and catching on fire.

Wrecking Racing was meant to enable a broad range of strategies, such as keeping up but watching out for destruction opportunities, destroying the cars in front, and destroying everything without concern for position. This was hard to balance, but it proved possible to win with each of those strategies. Edmondson came up with Stock Car Racing after watching the Banger World Finals at Arena Essex and noticing that there were some cars simply racing rather than trying to destroy each other. The normal race mode was implemented simply because the engine could support running a traditional race. For Destruction Derby mode, more varied arenas were implemented to take advantage of a new physics system developed by Reflections. Edmondson decided against implementing features such as speed boosts and collectibles because he did not want the game to feel like an arcade game and wanted the car physics to be as realistic as possible. Destruction Derby 2 was released on the PlayStation in North America in November 1996, and in Europe on 18 January 1997. A PC version soon followed. The next installment in the Destruction Derby series, Destruction Derby Raw, was released in 2000.

Reception 

The PlayStation version received positive reviews. Andrew Collins of the Official UK PlayStation Magazine believed the features are "massively improved" over the original, and said its "superbly polished" gameplay made it one of the best PlayStation racing games. His main criticism was that he thought the Destruction Derby Practice mode can make players complacent. The Electric Playground complimented the scenery and damage effects. Electronic Gaming Monthlys two sports reviewers praised the larger tracks and improved crashes, and both assessed it as "Better in every way than the first game". Johnny Ballgame of GamePro stated that "The original Destruction Derby looks like a mere hubcap compared to the gold-rimmed gameplay and trunkful of new features of Destruction Derby 2." He cited the longer tracks, arena mode, and light sourcing, but gave the game less than perfect scores as he found the announcer grating and judged the worsened steering after crashes to inordinately favor realism over enjoyment. Game Revolution described the Stock Car Racing as "almost perfect", and the tracks as "extremely cool", but criticised the steering sensitivity. Ed Lomag of Computer and Video Games lauded the improved car mechanics and track design and also liked that the UK PAL version runs in full screen at a full frame rate, thus proving British developers could make decent British PlayStation games. Despite these compliments, he criticised the game's limited re-playability. Edge praised the improved damage system resulting from the new physical modelling routines, saying the crashes are much more intense than the original. The 3D engine was described as "impressive", but the lack of a link-up multiplayer mode was criticised. Next Generation commented, "As with most ground-breaking titles ... Destruction Derby created as many new problems as solutions, and the developers of Destruction Derby 2 have done an extremely nice job of correcting these faults with a much improved sequel." The reviewer elaborated that the game's larger tracks than the original allow the player to both build up more momentum for crashes and enjoy more of a conventional racing challenge, and that the added ability for cars to leave the ground enables true 3D crashes. Absolute PlayStation described the game as a "vast improvement" over the original, but said the gameplay is identical and "rather shallow". Gamezilla's Mark Skorupa described the graphics as "top notch", but also said that it breaks what was good in the original game. IGN believed that the game compensates too much for the lack of difficulty of the first game through an overly aggressive artificial intelligence and by making it "impossible" to catch up with the other cars. Despite this, they praised the car physics and graphics. Jeff Kitts of GameSpot extensively praised the improved crashes and new tracks: "The winding, narrow, claustrophobic roadways of the first Destruction Derby have been replaced with huge, wide superspeedways worthy of games like NASCAR Racing and The Need for Speed." He remarked that the slippery road surfaces make the game more difficult to play, but considered it overall a major improvement over the first game. Jeuxvideo.com praised the playability of the game and the soundtrack, but criticised the commentary as "repetitive".