[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Valley Heights railway station

kshop shed, turntable, and the ash disposal tunnel and pits are all of high integrity; the locomotive watering facilities are of moderate integrity; the trackwork is of moderate integrity; the trestling foundations are of moderate integrity; and the overhead catenary masts are of moderate integrity.

Modifications and dates 
27 November 1911 – station destroyed by bushfire,
1912 – repairs to station buildings destroyed by bushfire,
1914 – new roundhouse and depot brought into use,
1924 – additional water supplies at depot,
1925 – improvements to facilities, including ash tunnel for locomotive ash handling,
1949 – upgrading facilities for crew amenities,
1957 – electric locomotives take over from steam locomotives as bank engines,
1960s – improvements to allow for servicing and repairs to electric locomotives, members room/meal room lean to addition to Roundhouse, northern wings added to former amenities building (visitor centre and refreshment rooms)
1973 – machine workshop annex added
1987 – the first floor level of brickwork at signal box was removed in 1987 and a steel / urethane sandwich extension added,
1988 – reduced use of bank engines as larger electric locomotives are used on main line work,
1992 – footbridge, upgrading work, concrete deck and stairs,
1993 – depot closed.
1990s – extensive repairs to roundhouse
2007-2008 – new work shed constructed near ash disposal tunnel, former amenities building (refreshment room and visitor centre) repaired and refurbished, ongoing work in roundhouse, chargeman's office (museum) repaired and refurbished, ash disposal tunnel cleaned and restored, amenities (toilets) repaired and refurbished
2009 – Original water column is in the process of being reinstated
N.d – Station building, some internal alterations, brick screen to lavatories at southeast end. Barge boards replaced.

Transport links
Blue Mountains Transit operates one bus route via Valley Heights station, under contract to Transport for NSW:
690P: Springwood station to Penrith station

Heritage listing 
As at 18 November 2010, the Valley Heights railway station is of state significance as part of the early construction phase of railway line duplication and deviation between Glenbrook and Springwood demonstrating the technological and engineering achievements in railway construction at the beginning of the 1900s. The station has strong associations with the adjacent Locomotive Depot and is also evidence of development in Valley Heights maintaining its landmark quality within the non-urban townscape. The station building together with the matching lamp room is a good example of a standard island platform building and demonstrates typical architectural elements of the Federation free classical style station buildings that were built across the Blue Mountains with the duplication of the railway line in 1902.

The Valley Heights Locomotive Depot is of state significance as an important locomotive depot, and the principal service and maintenance facility for bank engines working over the Main Western line between Sydney and Lithgow for almost 80 years. The collection of buildings and structures including the roundhouse, former chargeman's office, amenities building, turntable, ash disposal tunnel and pits, locomotive watering facilities, trackwork, trestling foundations and overhead catenary masts provide insight into the workings of an important transport and freight hub at the height of its operation. The place also has a strong industrial aesthetic quality and is of technical and research significance providing valuable information about the age of steam.

The roundhouse building is rare in NSW, being the third roundhouse constructed by the NSW Government Railways, and now the oldest of only seven other remaining roundhouses in the state. This style of building is unique to the railways and there are some building elements of the roundhouse that are unique, principally the roof form, which was not used at any of the other roundhouse sites.

The site has a high level of social significance given its contribution to the development of the town historically, and more importantly, as demonstrated by the strong and continued community interest and involvement with the site. The depot is affiliated with three community and volunteer groups, indicating a strong sense of community involvement and ownership of the site.

Valley Heights railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.