[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ștefan Voitec

ed this cover to network with anti-fascist cells, placing Voitec's protegé Mircea Ștefanovici in the editorial offices of Tinerețea magazine. In his more public activities, Voitec and Mușoiu attended a ceremony honoring the memory of novelist Panait Istrati, which had Alexandru Talex for a speaker.`

Voitec still remained on the PSDR's leadership committee in the anti-fascist underground. By mid-1943, he had been attracted into the movement which sought to depose Antonescu, taking shape as the Patriotic Anti-Hitlerite Front. As PSD delegates, Voitec and Victor Brătfăleanu received from the PCR news that the Comintern had been abolished, which, as Voitec noted, "settled all disputes". He then mediated between the PSDR and the Union of Patriots; the Anti-Hitlerite Front was created in Ghelerter's home, once Voitec resumed contacts with old friends from the CNA and PCR. The Siguranța tolerated his visits with Pătrășcanu, who was under nominal house arrest in Poiana Țapului.

Voitec and Pătrășcanu worked on a shared platform of the Singular Workers' Front, grouping the two left-wing parties; drafted on April 10, it was first publicized on May Day. During May–June 1944, there was a rapprochement of all pro-Allied forces working against Antonescu; a Bloc of Democratic Parties or National Democratic Bloc was formed by the PSDR, the PCR, the National Peasants' Party and the National Liberal Party. With Iosif Jumanca, Voitec served on the initiative committee, which was also joined by Communists Constantinescu-Iași and Vasile Bîgu, by National Peasantists Ioan Hudiță and Nicolae Penescu, as well as by three National Liberals—Bebe Brătianu, Victor Papacostea, and Constantin C. Zamfirescu. Voitec and Jumanca then served as Bloc Secretaries, on behalf of their party. A note by Hudiță suggests that, at the time, Voitec resented Petru Groza and his Ploughmen's Front, who were prevented from joining the coalition. Hudiță claims that Voitec circulated rumors according to which Groza was spying for the Soviets.

The 1944 Romanian coup d'état of August 23, closely followed by a Soviet occupation, brought regime change in Romania. Voitec and Pas were not directly involved in the coup, but awaited its unfolding at a residential building in Rosetti Square. Once informed of Antonescu's arrest, they made their way to the Adevărul offices, where they reissued the socialist newspaper Libertatea. Shortly after, Voitec was promoted to the PSDR Central Committee. On September 3, Voitec, alongside Constantinescu-Iași, Mihai Ralea, Stanciu Stoian and others, produced an appeal calling for a purge of "criminal elements [from] Nazi and Nazi-camouflaged organizations", including the Iron Guard. For a while, he was in Switzerland, and sent his impressions to be published by Fapta, Mircea Damian's Bucharest newspaper.

Voitec was Minister of Education—appointed, with Titel Petrescu's support, in Constantin Sănătescu's post-war government. In office from November 5, 1944, some 25 days later he promulgated the "Voitec Law", which reversed educational segregation and allowed Jewish students to matriculate in Romanian schools. This was closely followed by a decree, also signed by Pătrășcanu, Gheorghe Vlădescu-Răcoasa, and Ghiță Pop, which stated that self-reports were the only basis for describing citizens' ethnicity, and made it illegal for the state to research or impose one's ethnic affiliation. Another one of his first ordinances added gymnasium to state-subsidized compulsory education. In March 1945, Voitec joined Parhon, Simion Stoilow, and George Enescu as an honorary patron of the People's University, which was linked to the Romanian Society for Friendship with the Soviet Union. The same month, he intervened to stop Sever Bocu and other National Peasantists from creating the regional University of Timișoara, only allowing a School of Medicine and Faculty of Agronomy to be formed. 

In May, Voitec took personal charge of the de-fascization process in education, forming a unified Purging Committee, and legislating that all teaching staff had to submit reports on their activities in 1938–1944. From September, he issued specific orders for "book cleansing" of school libraries, including the elimination of foreign publications, and, in 1946–1947, introduced instead material put out by "democratic publishing houses". By then, his wife had also taken up political assignments. As Minister of Justice, Pătrășcanu assigned her to lead the National Orthodox Society of Romanian Women (SONFR), jointly with Titel Petrescu's wife Sofia—effectively, a liquidation committee, as SONFR was no longer active until being finally outlawed in 1948.