[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ruperto Kangleon

differences with the next president, Elpidio Quirino on the leadership of the Armed Forces of the Philippines, Kangleon resigned as Defense Secretary on August 31, 1950. Kangleon was trying to ask President Quirino to remove the generals whom he considered deadwood to which the President disagreed.

Senate
Kangleon’s resignation from the Cabinet paved the way for his entry into the politics. Kangleon ran for Senate even without the endorsement of the incumbent President Quirino. He became senator and was appointed chairman of the Senate Committee on Veterans and Military Pensions and vice chairman of the Committee on National Defense and Security. He championed the cause of the Filipino veterans by filing bills and resolutions for their welfare and advancement. However, even before he could finish his six-year term in the Senate, Sen. Kangleon succumbed to myocardial infarction on February 27, 1958, exactly a month away from his 68th birthday. 

The Filipino nation led by President Carlos P. Garcia mourned his untimely death.  Sen. Kangleon was buried at the Manila South Cemetery on March 4, 1958, and was reinterred in his hometown of Macrohon, Leyte on February 27, 1994.

Memorials
  Camp Kangleon, regional headquarters of the Philippine National Police in Tacloban City, Leyte, is named after him.

See also
Department of National Defense (Philippines)
List of American guerrillas in the Philippines
 List of Philippine legislators who died in office

References

Kengleon's Biography

Philippine Army personnel
Filipino military personnel of World War II
Secretaries of National Defense of the Philippines
1890 births
1958 deaths
Philippine Military Academy alumni
Recipients of the Distinguished Service Cross (United States)
Senators of the 4th Congress of the Philippines
Senators of the 3rd Congress of the Philippines
People from Southern Leyte
Liberal Party (Philippines) politicians
Quirino administration cabinet members
Roxas administration cabinet members