[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# History of the Jews in Malta

The history of the Jews in Malta spans two millennia. A Jewish community is attested on the islands by the 4th-5th century. Jews prospered in Malta under Arab and Norman rule. They were expelled in 1492, and a community could only re-establish itself after 1798 under British rule. In the 19th and 20th century, the Jewish community in Malta welcomed refugees from Italy and Central Europe, escaping Nazi rule. Today, a small community remains well established on the islands.

Antiquity

Traditionally, the first Jew to have set foot on Malta was Paul of Tarsus, whose ship according to the legend foundered there in 62 CE. Paul went on to introduce Christianity to the island population.

Six burial sites with carved menorahs in the Rabat catacombs (each with a dozen tombs) indicate that Jews lived side by side with Christians and pagans in Malta during the 4th and 5th centuries, during late Roman and then Byzantine times. The community, led by a council of elders (gerousia), could have gathered up to 300 persons.

Fatimids, Normans and Aragonese

There are no archeological or documentary findings of Jewish presence in Malta during the Fatimid period (870-1090 CE), although in nearby Sicily under the same Arab rule Jews and Christian lived peacefully. Likewise, there is no trace of Jewish presence during Norman rule, from 1091 CE. Only in 1241 the chronicles of Gilibertus Abbate report as few as 25 Jewish families in Malta and 8 in Gozo compared to 681 Muslim and 1,047 Christian families in Malta, and 155 and 203 respectively in Gozo, although the interpretation of these numbers is contested.

In 1285 the Jewish mystic Avraham Abulafia from Saragozza, expelled from the Jewish community of Palermo, retired to live his last years in solitude on Comino, where he wrote Imrei Shefer, Words of Beauty,  or Sefer haOt, Book of the Sign. In 2003 the presumed remains of Abulafia and of other Jewish Maltese of the 1st Century CE were symbolically reburied in the Jewish Cemetery, Marsa.

In Mdina, during medieval times, the street along the north side of the cathedral (today's Triq il-Fosos) was the Jewish quarter; Jews paid a special tax to the town's Universita, being granted in exchange a monopoly on apothecaries and dyers.
In the Militia List of 1419-1420 (a register of male adults in Malta, excluding Birgu and Gozo), the column for "la Giudecca" (the Jewish quarter of Mdina) lists 57 conscripted Jewish men. This leads to an estimate of up to 350 Jews in Malta at the time. Families had typical Jewish surnames such as Meyr/Mejr, Melj, Nefus, Levi, Catalanu, de Marsala.

In 1479 Malta and Sicily came under Aragonese rule and the 1492 Edict of Expulsion forced all Jews to leave the country. Because they made up such a large portion of the island's population, the Spanish Crown forced them even to pay compensation for the tax losses caused by their own expulsion.
It is not clear where the Jews of Malta went, but they may have joined the Sicilian community in the Levant. It is also likely that several dozen Maltese Jews converted to Christianity to remain in the country as did many Sicilian Jews.

Knights of Malta

In 1530 Charles V of Spain gave Malta to the Knights of Saint John, who ruled the island until 1798. During these three centuries, there was no free Jewish population on the islands. Those Sicilian conversos who had moved to Malta, attracted by the Knights' liberal policy towards the Jews of Rhodes, had to continue practicing their religion in secrecy.

Malta was frequently mentioned for its large enslaved Jewish population in Jewish literature of the period. The Knights would capture Jews and Muslims during corsairing raids against Ottoman merchant ships and coastal towns, and keep them hostage in the bagnos (prisons) of Birgu, Valletta or Senglea, to extort ransom. It would be up to Jewish Societies for the Redemption of Captives (Pidion Shevuim) to raise such amounts from Jewish communities across Europe, including Livorno, London and Amsterdam. Failing rescue, Jews would be sold as indentured servants, and given a Christian name, to be freed by the Master only on deathbed. Those Jews (particularly women) who peddled their services as healers and diviners would often face the Inquisition.
Those free Jews who wished to visit the islands had to receive a special permission of the Grand Master of the Order and had to enter Valletta's walls through one small port near the Auberge de Baviere, still known as the Jews' Sallyport.

In 1749 a baptised Jew, Giuseppe Antonio Cohen, revealed to the authorities the plot of a Muslim slave revolt. For his deed, he was granted a pension of 500 scudi and the ownership of a building in Strada Mercanti, Valletta, which from 1773 owned the Monte di Pietà.

British colonial period