[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bob Corker

the primary to offer the Frist campaign his assistance. He went on to campaign for Frist in the general election.

From 1995 to 1996, Corker was the Commissioner of Finance and Administration for the State of Tennessee, an appointed position, working for Governor Don Sundquist.

Mayor of Chattanooga

Corker was elected mayor of Chattanooga in March 2001 with 54% of the vote, and served from 2001 to 2005. While in office, he outlined a bold vision and enacted a series of changes that transformed the city. He was elected on an aggressive and specific platform, focused primarily on economy development, public safety, and education. Within six months in office, he had already implemented initiatives to address each area.

With a focus on bringing good paying jobs to the city, he developed, in conjunction with the state and county, Enterprise South, a 1,200-acre industrial park, which is now home to several industries, including Volkswagen Group of America's manufacturing headquarters. He also recognized the need for access to capital to assist start up and emerging businesses and created the Chattanooga Opportunity Fund, a $1.5 million fund established for investment in locally owned start-up companies, minority owned companies, and existing small businesses. Chattanooga has since been named one of the best cities for startups by Forbes and has developed a strong, locally focused financing ecosystem.

He also sought to enhance the city's ability to recruit companies reliant on high-level technology. Part of that vision became reality when Chattanooga became the first and only city with a direct fiber optic connection to Oak Ridge National Laboratory and the world's fastest computers, which helped both businesses and government advance technology use in the city. To this day, the community is using this unique connection to the supercomputers in Oak Ridge to develop Smart City concepts for the future.

He also laid out and executed a digital vision for the city during his tenure. He launched MetroNet with a goal of providing super-speed Gigabit Ethernet (Gig-E) connection to the Internet for businesses in the downtown and Southside. After piloting the project in City Hall and realizing the magnitude of the opportunity, he asked the Electric Power Board (EPB), the city-owned utility, to take on the task. As a result of Corker's vision and EPB's execution, Chattanooga has since been dubbed the "Gig City" and became the most connected city in the Western Hemisphere, offering Internet speeds of up to 10 gigabits per second to every home and business in EPB's 600-square mile service area.

He implemented a merit-based bonus system for teachers. The system, established in 2002, awarded teachers and principals bonuses for improving student performance at Chattanooga's lowest performing schools. Two years after its implementation, a study published in The Tennessean showed that the percentage of third graders reading at or above grade level had increased from 53% to 74%. However, a report by the think tank Education Sector suggested that specific teacher training had at least as much to do with the student improvement.

In 2003, Corker started a program called ChattanoogaRESULTS, facilitating monthly meetings with public service department administrators to evaluate their performance and set goals for improvement. The program was continued by Corker's successor, Ron Littlefield. Corker has credited the increased collaboration between departments for decreasing crime in Chattanooga. City data showed a nearly 26% decrease in crime and a 50% reduction in violent crimes between 2001 and 2004.

During his first annual State of the City address as mayor, Corker announced a $120 million riverfront renovation project and stated it would be completed in 36 months. The project was announced with no identified funding source or architectural plans. The 21st Century Waterfront Plan included an expansion of the Hunter Museum of Art, a renovation of the Creative Discovery Museum, an expansion of Chattanooga's River Walk, and the addition of a new salt water building to the Tennessee Aquarium. Corker's vision for the riverfront also included building pads for the private sector to build additional housing along the riverfront and magnificent new public parks and space for outdoor recreation. It was the largest public-private undertaking in the community's history. Half of the project was financed with a city bond, while Corker led a fundraising team in more than 81 meetings in 90 days that raised $51 million from the private sector. A hotel-motel tax was implemented in 2002 to fund the city's debt service on the bonds, fulfilling a commitment Corker made that there would be no financial burden on the citizens of Chattanooga. The 21st Century Waterfront opened 35 months later, as Corker had promised, and is widely credited with transforming the city of Chattanooga.