[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lupinus albus

nly useful treatment is the use of soil insecticides or seed treatment with systemic insecticides.

Aphids are also a problem. Mostly they are found during budding and early pod stages. They reduce crop yield and the numbers of flowers and also lead to pod formation. They can also transmit diseases.

Other pests
 bean seedling maggots (causing seedling to wilt and die)
 beetle and moth larvae (kill seedling)
 slugs (attack leaves)
 thrips (attack flowers and leaves)
 mired bugs (attack young seed pods)
 budworms (feed on pods and seeds)

Nutritional aspects 

The chemical composition of lupin seeds depends on the cultivation region except from the protein content which is independent from environmental conditions. The white lupin seeds contain a high amount of proteins. The net protein utilization is slightly lower than that of animal protein. The fats have a ratio of omega-6 (w-6) to omega-3 (w-3) from 2:1, whereby oleic acid (w-9) accounts for about 50% of the fat. The carbohydrates found in the seeds are mainly soluble and insoluble fibre and the starch content is very low. Therefore, lupin seeds have a low glycaemic index. The main macroelements found in white lupin seeds are K, Mn, and Mg, and the prevailing microelements are Ca, Fe, and Na.

The white lupin seeds have a low or very low content of antinutrients. Their removal is possible through food processing treatments (e.g. dehulling, germinating, cooking, soaking, fermentation, extraction). Total alkaloid content in sweet white lupin cultivars does not currently exceed 0.02%. Some of the sulphur-containing amino acids (about 4% of the proteins) may have an allergenic effect. The main allergens are Lup-1 (a conglutin b, vicilin-like protein), Lup-2 (conglutin a, legumin-like protein).

Animal nutrition

Ruminants 
Although an excessive use of L. albus, or other lupine species, can cause unwanted side-effects, this species seems to be promising to use at least as a feeding supplement for animals including livestock. While L. albus is used in Australia to provide sheep fed, with low-grade roughage with protein in form of a whole-grain feed supplement, there are concerns regarding product quality and safety. This is due to the susceptibility of some lupine cultivars towards Diaporthe toxica. This fungus can cause a fatal intoxication with lupine seed, called lupinosis, which appears to mainly affect sheep.

While there were no major negative health effects found in cattle, it is has been found that supplementation with L. albus can cause a decrease in milk protein concentration and milk protein yield in dairy cows. This has to be kept in mind when lupine seeds should be used as a substitute for other protein sources in the diet of the ruminant. Nonetheless, roasted seeds of L. albus appear to be a good source of rumen protected fatty acids.

Non-ruminants 
As opposed to the advantages in ruminant diets, L. albus should not be considered as an optimal feed for pigs. Research indicated that a diet based on white lupine results in poorer growth rates due to reduced feed intake, compared with other lupine species, such as L. angustifolius. As experiments showed, the feeding of L. albus can negatively affect the digestibility and the nutrient uptake in piglets.

Although broilers can tolerate a high share of lupine seeds in their diet, an excess use should be avoided, as it causes moist faeces, which negatively affects hygiene and, therefore, promotes health risks. It has been shown that L. albus has the potential to partly replace the use of soybean in poultry production.

White lupin seeds have also been recommended for a long time to feed rabbits, being a good source of protein and energy. The seeds are also a potential useful feed for aquaculture, to replace partially fish meal or soybean meal.

See also
 Lupin bean and Lupinus for species and genus information, and for other uses of the lupin bean.

References 
 Kurlovich B.S. (2002) Lupins. Geography, classification, genetic resources and breeding, St. Petersburg, "Intan", 468p.
 Gladstones, J.S. 1974. Lupinus of the Mediterranean region and Africa. Bull. West. Austr. Depart. of Agr. 1974. N 26. 48 p.
 Gladstones, J.S. 1998. Distribution, Origin, Taxonomy, History and Importance. In: J.S. Gladstones et al. (eds.), Lupin as Crop Plants. Biology, Production and Utilization, 1-39.
 Zhukovsky, P.M. 1929. A contribution to the knowledge of genus Lupinus Tourn. Bull. Apll. Bot. Gen. Pl.-Breed., Leningrad-Moscow, XXI, I:16-294.
 Zohary, D. and Hopf, M. (2000) Domestication of plants in the Old World, third edition. Oxford: University Press.

Specific

External links 

 Classification for Kingdom Plantae Down to Species Lupinus albus L.
 pfaf.org
Seed proteome reference maps at Lupin Protein Team

albus
Plants described in 1753
Taxa named by Carl Linnaeus