[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Greek constitutional amendment of 2008

trast to the current situation, where the lands gained after 1912 lie de jure under the authority of the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople per the Patriarchical Volume of 1850 and the Synodical Act of 1928. According to Sartzetakis, this would be the only way to achieve ecclesiastical unity.

Election of the President
Papandreou proposed the direct election of the President by the people, albeit only in the cases the necessary majority in the Hellenic Parliament could not be achieved, emphasizing that a potential political deadlock could thus be avoided. K. Karamanlis rejected this proposal and asserted that the present constitutional provisions needed no modification, although in 2001 he had also supported the direct election of the President.

Konstantinos Mitsotakis stayed firm in his traditional position for the direct election of the President by the people. Thereby, he disagreed with ND's current official stance as expressed by its leader. Supporters of Mitsotakis' and Papandreou's proposal, such as Giannis Pretenderis, argue that as the people directly elect their mayor or prefect, they should also in the same way elect the Head of State, whose constitutional role is much more important. On the other hand, Christos Sartzetakis argued that the direct election of the President was not allowed by Article 110 of the Constitution.

Justice
The heads of the supreme courts are appointed by the Cabinet of Greece for a 4-year term. Ch. Sartzetakis disagrees with these procedure and proposed that the heads of the supreme courts should be chosen by lot among the vice-presidents of each supreme court. He also expressed opposition to the 4-year term, as well as with Karamanlis' proposal for the creation of a Constitutional Court. The foundation of this court was dynamically supported by Georgios Souflias.

Outcome
In the event, Karamanlis' ambitious plans would not be fulfilled, especially after PASOK's withdrawal from the procedure. The Parliament was convened to take its final decisions as regards the constitutional amendment after the elections of 2007. Finally, in May 2008, only 3 of the 38 proposals of New Democracy were passed by the necessary majority of 180 votes, and finally adopted:
the absolute prohibition of any professional occupation for the members of the Hellenic Parliament is lifted (articles 57 and 115).
the Parliament is given the right to amend allocations of the state budget, and to monitor their implementation (article 79);
special legislative care should be taken for the insular and mountainous regions of Greece (article 101).

External links
PASOK's official site about the Constitutional amendment
Propositions of former president Christos Sartzetakis
Forums concerning the upcoming amendment

Notes 

2008 documents
2008 in law
2008 in Greece
2008 in Greek politics
May 2008 events in Europe
Constitution of Greece
History of Greece since 1974