[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 24]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

d in 2011 to allow smoking in taverns that serve alcohol and food as long as patrons under 21 are not allowed in. Smoking is also now allowed in designated areas of family restaurants if the smoking area is physically enclosed and separated from the non-smoking area and minors are prohibited inside.

New Hampshire
Statewide ban on smoking in bars, restaurants, and some other workplaces: On September 17, 2007, the Indoor Smoking Act went into effect, banning smoking in schools, child daycare facilities, grocery stores, elevators and public conveyances (except when rented for private purposes), restaurants, bars, and private clubs when open to the public. Private clubs and religious and fraternal organizations (including bars and restaurants inside these places), hotel and motel rooms, rented halls and rooms under control of the renter, college dormitory rooms, public housing, nursing homes, areas designated by hospitals, and alcohol/drug rehabilitation facilities are exempt from smoking regulation and can allow smoking indoors freely. All other places must designate smoking and nonsmoking areas and post appropriate signs. On January 1, 2010, House Bill 392 went into effect. It established an on-premises cigar, beverage, and liquor license and allowed for cigar smoking at public cigar bars. Towns only can regulate smoking more strictly with regard to fire safety and sanitation. In 2003, the New Hampshire Supreme Court ruled that this means state law preempts towns from enacting stricter local smoking bans for health reasons.

New Jersey

Statewide smoking ban: On April 15, 2006, the New Jersey Smoke-Free Air Act went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in New Jersey, including all bars and restaurants, strip clubs, hospitals, psychiatric facilities, as well as outside portions of school grounds. The Act exempts cigar bars, tobacco retail stores, tobacco manufacturing facilities, private residences and private automobiles, off-track betting parlors, and designated hotel/motel smoking rooms. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the Act. On January 16, 2019, smoking was outlawed on all public beaches and in state parks. Violating the Act can result in a fine of between $250 and $1,000, depending how many violations one has incurred within a year.
Atlantic City, banned on 75% of casino gaming floors.
Pequannock, banned in public parks with ball-fields or playgrounds in July 2011 through ordinance introduced by Mayor Rich Phelan.

New Mexico
Statewide smoking ban: On June 15, 2007, the Dee Johnson Clean Indoor Air Act went into effect, banning smoking statewide in all enclosed workplaces in New Mexico, including all bars and restaurants, as well as within a "reasonable distance" of the entrances to those places. The Act exempts (1) private residences except when being used to provide commercial childcare, adult care, or healthcare, (2) retail tobacco stores, (3) cigar bars, (4) tobacco manufacturing facilities, (5) casinos, (6) quit-smoking programs, (7) designated outdoor smoking areas, (8) private clubs, (9) limousines under private hire, (10) designated hotel/motel smoking rooms, (11) enclosed areas within restaurants, bars, and hotel/motel conference/meeting rooms that are being used for private functions, (12) cultural or ceremonial activities by American Indians, (13) non-bar/restaurant businesses with fewer than two employees that is not usually accessible to the public and all employees agree to allow smoking, and (14) stage, motion picture, or television productions involving smoking as part of the production. Penalties are $100 for a first violation, $200 for a second violation within 12 months and $500 for the third and subsequent violations. Local governments may regulate smoking more stringently than the Act.

New York