[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Royal Bahamas Police Force

oner to commissioner) are responsible for setting strategic objectives and policies, policing plans, development, and mobilization of the force. The Senior Executive Leadership Team consists of one Commissioner (COP), one Deputy Commissioner (DCP), and eight Assistant Commissioners (ACPs). They are:

 Clayton Fernander,  – Commissioner of Police  
 Leamond Deleveaux – Deputy Commissioner of Police 
 Theophilus Cunningham, MBA, BSc, AA – Assistant Commissioner of Police (Grand Bahama & Northern Bahamas District)
 Kendal Strachan – Assistant Commissioner of Police (Operations Management & Tactical Support) 
 Craig Stubbs – Assistant Commissioner of Police (Public Safety & Community Policing Services)
 Kirkwood Andrews, MSc, BS - Assistant Commissioner of Police (Corporate Services)
 Bernard K. Bonamy Jr. – Assistant Commissioner of Police (Family Islands District)
 Dellareece Ferguson – Assistant Commissioner of Police (Human Resources & Training)
 Zhivago Dames, MBA, BS – Assistant Commissioner of Police (Information & Communications Technology)
 Kenwood Taylor – Assistant Commissioner of Police (Crime Management & Criminal Investigations)

Activities

Operation Rapid Strike
Operation Rapid Strike is a project launched on 19 January 2011 at 5:00 pm by Commissioner Ellison Greenslade of the Royal Bahamas Police Force. The mandate of this operation is to "restore peace and civility to our communities". The stated aims of the project is to hunt persons involved in an array of crimes including murder, armed robberies, stabbings, break-ins, firearms related charges, etc. The operation is led by senior ranking officers such as superintendents. Other ranks inside the operation include inspectors, supervisory officers and junior officers. Some equipment used by the members of the operation include two thirty-two seat buses provided by the Government of the Bahamas.

See also
Royal Bahamas Defence Force
Fox Hill Prison
Government of The Bahamas

References

External links
Official website commissioner

Government of the Bahamas
Law enforcement in the Caribbean
Government agencies established in 1840
Law enforcement in the Bahamas
Law of the Bahamas