[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Traverse City State Hospital

Traverse Commons Redevelopment Corporation and secured an agreement to renovate the historic buildings. Their efforts have led to the gradual but successful preservation and re-use of the former Building 50 as part of The Village at Grand Traverse Commons, a residential and commercial development. 

As of 2014, these buildings and cottages are occupied or being close to completion on the Minervini Groups property of the state hospital. Building 50, 56, 58, 60, 61, 63, 67, and 69 are all occupied. Cottages 19, 20, and 36 are all occupied. The farmstead is not part of the Minervini Group; the owners are Garfield Township Parks and Recreation. But the visitor center and botanical garden are all volunteered. Projects that are done turning one of the former granary building into a pavilion, however the basement still exist under the concrete floor. Another building was turned into a visitor center and one of the two cathedral barns has been done. The barn will increase event space in the park. In 2015, a reflection pool using a former silo foundation was developed and more gardens were planted. A a partly burnt horse barn is intended to be transformed into a wall garden using its stone foundation.

Description
The Traverse City State Hospital contains multiple buildings located on a large rolling campus. Many of the buildings are constructed from matching buff brick from the Markham brickyard in nearby Greilickville. Building 50, the visual centerpiece of the complex, is a three-story building on a stone foundation containing 386,740 square feet of space. Towers, bracketed eaves, and dormers demonstrate a Victorian ambiance. Much of the property adjacent the complex has been converted to public land, including sprawling hiking trails and redeveloped cattle barns once utilized by the hospital, today known as Historic Barns Park.

Gallery

See also
 Mental hospitals
 Psychiatry
 Kirkbride Plan

References

Further reading

External links

 Minervini webpage
 Kirkbride Buildings —  Information, history, photographs
 Grand Traverse Pavilions — An assisted living center that shares the Grand Traverse Commons and some of the former hospital cottages.
 Historical farmstead  — Historical barns park

Hospital buildings completed in 1885
Traverse City, Michigan
Psychiatric hospitals in Michigan
Defunct hospitals in Michigan
Kirkbride Plan hospitals
Buildings and structures in Grand Traverse County, Michigan
Michigan State Historic Sites
Former psychiatric hospitals
History of mental health in the United States
Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Michigan
National Register of Historic Places in Grand Traverse County, Michigan
Hospital buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Michigan
1885 establishments in Michigan
Hospitals established in 1881
Hospitals disestablished in 1989
1989 disestablishments in Michigan