[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Manhattan Municipal Building

passengers per minute. The loggia under the southern wing still exists, with staircases leading to the subway from both the north and south. It is supported by a set of columns and has a ceiling of white Guastavino tiles. The loggia under the northern wing is no longer extant, having been enclosed.

The Chambers Street subway station, served by the , consists of two levels below the building: the mezzanine (shared with the Brooklyn Bridge–City Hall station, served by the ) and the platform level. The station opened in 1913 and was intended as the Brooklyn Rapid Transit Company's main subway terminal in Manhattan, but fell into disrepair after businesses moved uptown in the 1930s. When the Municipal Building was completed, there were also supposed to be new station buildings for the adjacent elevated IRT and BRT stations, designed in the same architectural style. The tracks from the Chambers Street station would have also connected directly to the elevated tracks on the Brooklyn Bridge, but the connection was never opened.

Structural features 
While the layer of bedrock under the Municipal Building was quite close to the surface underneath the southern part of the building, the bedrock dropped to a depth of about  under the northern portion of the site, where it would be extremely difficult to dig caissons. A layer of sand was present to a depth of , while the average depth of the bedrock under the building was about . The contract for the foundations was the largest to be awarded for a single building in the United States, with  being excavated at a cost of $1.5 million.  The foundations incorporated  of concrete for the piers, as well as 70,000 barrels of cement.

The foundations also include 106 caissons;  the southern two-thirds of the site contain 68 caissons extend to the bedrock, while the northern third contains 38 caissons that only extend to the quicksand. The caissons range in size from  in diameter to  across, extending to an average depth of . The maximum depth of the caissons was  below grade; for the northern part of the site, the Foundation Company built larger caissons resting on sand at a depth of . While the caissons under the southern two-thirds of the building carry , the larger caissons under the northern third of the building carry only . Each caisson was positioned so that the columns above did not interfere with the subway station. 

The Municipal Building's frame had  of steel, which required 20 derricks to erect. The superstructure weighed a total of . The above-ground walls, and half of the beams in the superstructure, were carried by steel-plate girders at the first floor, spanning the subway station. The girders were connected to other steel beams, which distributed the building's entire weight to the caissons. Each of the first-floor girders were about  deep and grouped in sets of two or three. The Municipal Building's largest girders, supporting the Chambers Street arch, were  long and up to  deep; these girders weighed as much as . Above the girders and caissons are 167 columns that rise through the upper stories. The largest column in the superstructure measured  long and weighed .

Interior 
Except for the fourth story, all of the upper floors were devoted to offices. The elevator banks and stairs were on the eastern side of the building, while the offices were concentrated along the western side and on the north and south wings. There were four staircase shafts that extended the height of the building. In addition, 33 elevators were provided in the initial construction, though this number was later expanded to 37. Of the original elevators, 32 were accessible from the lobby; they were grouped in two banks of 16 cabs each. Most of the elevators from the lobby traveled only to the 25th story, where a separate elevator connected the 25th through 37th floors. During the 1934 elevator replacements, eight of the elevator shafts were shortened to make way for office space.

Because the basement is mostly taken up by the subway station, most of the mechanical equipment is located on the fourth floor. As such, the fourth floor has a much lower ceiling than the other stories. The basement contains some space for boilers, while the elevators are controlled by a dispatching room on the 26th floor. There are also four emergency-exit staircases.