[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Helium hydride ion

form larger clusters such as He2H+, He3H+, He4H+, He5H+ and He6H+.

The dihelium hydride cation, He2H+, is formed by the reaction of dihelium cation with molecular hydrogen:
  + H2 → He2H+ + H
It is a linear ion with hydrogen in the centre.

The hexahelium hydride ion, He6H+, is particularly stable.

Other helium hydride ions are known or have been studied theoretically. Helium dihydride ion, or dihydridohelium(1+), , has been observed using microwave spectroscopy. It has a calculated binding energy of 25.1 kJ/mol, while trihydridohelium(1+), , has a calculated binding energy of 0.42 kJ/mol.

History

Discovery in ionization experiments
Hydridohelium(1+), specifically , was first detected indirectly in 1925 by T. R. Hogness and E. G. Lunn. They were injecting protons of known energy into a rarefied mixture of hydrogen and helium, in order to study the formation of hydrogen ions like ,  and . They observed that  appeared at the same beam energy (16 eV) as , and its concentration increased with pressure much more than that of the other two ions. From these data, they concluded that the  ions were transferring a proton to molecules that they collided with, including helium.

In 1933, K. Bainbridge used mass spectrometry to compare the masses of the ions  (helium hydride ion) and  (twice-deuterated trihydrogen ion) in order to obtain an accurate measurement of the atomic mass of deuterium relative to that of helium.  Both ions have 3 protons, 2 neutrons, and 2 electrons.  He also compared  (helium deuteride ion) with  (trideuterium ion), both with 3 protons and 3 neutrons.

Early theoretical studies
The first attempt to compute the structure of the HeH+ ion (specifically, ) by quantum mechanical theory was made by J. Beach in 1936.  Improved computations were sporadically published over the next decades.

Tritium decay methods in chemistry
H. Schwartz observed in 1955 that the decay of the tritium molecule  =  should generate the helium hydride ion  with high probability.

In 1963, F. Cacace at the Sapienza University of Rome conceived the decay technique for preparing and studying organic radicals and carbenium ions. In a variant of that technique, the exotic species like the methonium cation are produced by reacting organic compounds with the  that is produced by the decay of  that is mixed with the desired reagents.  Much of what we know about the chemistry of  came through this technique.

Implications for neutrino mass experiments
In 1980, V. Lubimov (Lyubimov) at the ITEP laboratory in Moscow claimed to have detected a mildly significant rest mass (30 ± 16) eV for the neutrino, by analyzing the energy spectrum of the β decay of tritium.  The claim was disputed, and several other groups set out to check it by studying the decay of molecular tritium . It was known that some of the energy released by that decay would be diverted to the excitation of the decay products, including ; and this phenomenon could be a significant source of error in that experiment. This observation motivated numerous efforts to precisely compute the expected energy states of that ion in order to reduce the uncertainty of those measurements. Many have improved the computations since then, and now there is quite good agreement between computed and experimental properties; including for the isotopologues , , and .

Spectral predictions and detection
In 1956, M. Cantwell predicted theoretically that the spectrum of vibrations of that ion should be observable in the infrared; and the spectra of the deuterium and common hydrogen isotopologues ( and ) should lie closer to visible light and hence easier to observe.  The first detection of the spectrum of  was made by D. Tolliver and others in 1979, at wavenumbers between 1,700 and 1,900 cm−1.  In 1982, P. Bernath and T. Amano detected nine infrared lines between 2,164 and 3,158 waves per cm.

Interstellar space
HeH+ has long been conjectured since the 1970s to exist in the interstellar medium. Its first detection, in the nebula NGC 7027, was reported in an article published in the journal Nature in April 2019.

Natural occurrence

From decay of tritium
The helium hydride ion is formed during the decay of tritium in the molecule HT or tritium molecule T2. Although excited by the recoil from the beta decay, the molecule remains bound together.