[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Parliamentary Ombudsman

vil service which they monitor. For this reason the Institution is often said to be of an extraordinary nature. This means, for instance, that the activities of the ombudsmen are not intended to replace the supervision and application of the law that devolves on other organisations in the community.

Even though from a constitutional point of view monitoring the application of law by public authorities is the prerogative of the Riksdag, for reasons of principle it has been considered unacceptable to incorporate any political considerations into this supervision. For this reason the independent attitude adopted by the parliamentary ombudsmen has applied to their relationship with the Riksdag as well. For instance, the Riksdag is not considered able to issue directives to the ombudsmen about any individual case, nor can it express opinions retrospectively about how a case was dealt with or the final adjudication. Instead the authority of the Riksdag over the activities of the ombudsmen finds expression in the instructions issued to the parliamentary ombudsmen and in the funds allocated to the office. It is the Riksdag that decides on the budget for the parliamentary ombudsmen – not the government or the Ministry of Finance.

Finland
Finland has had the institution of parliamentary ombudsman (Finnish: , Swedish: ) since 1920. The office of the ombudsman has one ombudsman and two assistant ombudsmen (Finnish: , Swedish: ). The officials are elected for a term of four years and their duties closely resemble the jurisdiction of their Swedish counterparts. The other Finnish official charged with the supervision of public power is the Chancellor of Justice. The jurisdiction of the two offices overlaps, but the parliamentary ombudsman is the authority specially charged with the handling of complaints by military servicemen, conscripts, prisoners and other persons in closed institutions. He also regularly inspects prisons, garrisons and Finnish peacekeeping missions abroad. The other special duty of the parliamentary ombudsman is the supervision of police undercover and wiretapping activities.

Norway
The Norwegian Parliamentary Ombud has existed since 1962.

Denmark
The Danish parliamentary ombudsman has existed since 1955. It investigates complaints against public authorities and can also take up cases on its own initiative.

Iceland

The Icelandic parliamentary ombudsman was established in 1987. It oversees the actions of state and local authorities.

See also
Ombudsman
European Ombudsman (EU)
Parliamentary and Health Service Ombudsman (UK)
Lokayukta

References
Wieslander, Bengt, The Parliamentary Ombudsman in Sweden (translated by David Jones), Stockholm: Bank of Sweden Tercentenary Foundation, 1994. .

External links
The website of the Parliamentary Ombudsmen of Sweden
The website of the Parliamentary Ombudsman of Finland 
The website of the Parliamentary Ombudsman of Denmark
The website of the Parliamentary Ombudsman of Iceland
The website of the Parliamentary Ombudsman of Norway

Politics of Sweden
Politics of Finland
Politics of Iceland
Ombudsmen in Sweden
1800s neologisms
1809 introductions
Ombudsman posts