[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Notifiable disease

rections départementales des affaires sanitaires et sociales (DDASS),
 Epidemiologists from the Institut de veille sanitaire (InVS),
 Drugs sellers.

Anonymous records are then used by the government health-insurance system.

Ill people must cure them and in many case are put in quarantine.

Animal 

Only infectious diseases are notifiable to the authorities. The complete list can be found in the Article L. 223-22 du code rural, it is updated with every new entry on World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) lists A and B and with European Union mandatory lists.

New Zealand

Human 

Notification is regulated under the Health Act 1956, except for tuberculosis which is regulated under the Tuberculosis Act 1948. All diseases
 List of national notifiable diseases

United Kingdom

Human 

Requirement for the notification of infectious diseases originated near the end of the 19th century.  The list started with a few select diseases and has since grown to 31.  Currently disease notification for humans in the UK is regulated under the Public Health (Control of Disease) Act 1984 and Public Health (Infectious Diseases) Regulations 1988.  The governing body is Public Health England  Public Health England
List of Notifiable Diseases can be found here Notifiable diseases and causative organisms: how to report.

Children 

There are also requirements for notification specific to children in the National standards for under 8s day care and childminding that state:

Animal 

In the UK notification of diseases in animals is regulated by the Animal Health Act 1981, as well as the Specified Diseases (Notification and Slaughter) Order 1992 (as amended) and Specified Diseases (Notification) Order 1996 (as amended). The act states that a police constable should be notified, however in practice a Defra divisional veterinary manager is notified and Defra will investigate.
 List of Notifiable Diseases

United States
In the past, notifiable diseases in the United States varied according to the laws of individual states. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) also produced a list of nationally notifiable diseases that health officials should report to the CDC's National Notifiable Diseases Surveillance System (NNDSS). A uniform criterion for reporting diseases to the NNDSS was introduced in 1990.

See also 
 List of notifiable diseases
 Public Health Emergency of International Concern
 Disease surveillance

References 

Infectious diseases
Health law
Medical crime