[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Theodor Lessing

r Fritz Haarmann had been a spy for the Hanover police, and this resulted in him being excluded from covering the trial. In the same year he wrote an unflattering piece on Paul von Hindenburg, describing him as an intellectually vacuous man who was being used as a front by sinister political forces:

It was Plato's view that the leaders of men should be philosophers. No philosopher ascends the throne in Hindenburg. Only a representative symbol, a question mark, a zero. One might say "Better a zero than a Nero." Sadly, history shows that behind every zero lurks a future Nero.

This article earned him the enmity of nationalists, and his lectures were soon disrupted by anti-Semitic protestors. Lessing received only limited support from the public, and even his colleagues argued that he had gone too far. A six-month leave of absence failed to calm the situation. On 7 June nearly a thousand students threatened to move their studies to the Technische Universität Braunschweig unless he was removed, and on 18 June 1926 the Prussian minister Carl Heinrich Becker bowed to public pressure by putting Lessing on indefinite leave on a reduced salary.

Escape from the Nazis and assassination

On 30 January 1933 the Nazi Party entered government and in February, after the suppression of the Das Freie Wort congress, Lessing started packing his bags. On 1 March he and his wife fled to Marienbad in Czechoslovakia, where he continued to write for German-language newspapers abroad. But in June it was reported in Sudeten newspapers that a reward had been announced for his capture.

On 30 August 1933 he was working in his study on the first floor at the Villa Edelweiss (today at Třebízského 33) when he was shot through the window by assassins. He died the next day at the hospital in Marienbad.

Literary works / editions 
 African Spirs Erkenntnislehre, Gießen, Münchow, 1900  Lessing's dissertation at Erlangen.
 Geschichte als Sinngebung des Sinnlosen. (Beck) 1919    bzw. Leipzig: Reinicke Verlag 1927 . Neu: München: Matthes & Seitz 1983.  
 Haarmann. Die Geschichte eines Werwolfs. 1925
 Meine Tiere. 1926
 Blumen. 1928
 Der jüdische Selbsthaß. 1930  Jewish Self-Hate, translated and annotated by Peter C. Applebaum, Introduction by Sander L. Gilman, Afterword by Paul Reitter, Edited by Benton Arnovitz. Berghahn Books 2021. 
 Einmal und nie wieder. Erinnerungen, aus dem Nachlass herausgegeben 1935
 Die verfluchte Kultur. Matthes & Seitz 1981. 
 Jörg Wollenberg (Hrsg.): Theodor Lessing – Ausgewählte Schriften. Donat Verlag Bremen
 Band 1: Theodor Lessing: 'Bildung ist Schönheit' – Autobiographische Zeugnisse und Schriften zur Bildungsreform. Bremen 1995
 Band 2: Theodor Lessing: 'Wir machen nicht mit!' – Schriften gegen den Nationalismus und zur Judenfrage. Bremen 1997
 Band 3: Theodor Lessing: 'Theaterseele' und 'Tomi melkt die Moralkuh' – Schriften zu Theater und Literatur. Bremen 2003
 "Geschichte als Sinngebung des Sinnlosen". Zum Leben und Werk des Kulturkritikers Theodor Lessing (1872-1933), hrsg. von Elke-Vera Kotowski, Hildesheim 2006

See also 
Munich phenomenology

Notes