[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert Jaulin

nce.

A long reflection on the dynamics that led to worldwide ethnocide, its different “masks”, its history and, according to him, one of its earliest manifestations, monotheism, led Robert Jaulin to a complete reappraisal of the phenomenal and conceptual fields polarized by the notion of ethnocide.

This reassessment took its final shape in the 1995's work, L’univers des totalitarismes : Essai d’ethnologie du “non-être” (in free translation: "The Universe of Totalitarianisms: An Ethnological Essay on “Non-Being”"). In this book, the notion of “totalitarianism” (which should not be mistaken for Hannah Arendt’s concept of totalitarianism) depicts the underlying dynamics of which ethnocide becomes a manifestation among others.

Robert Jaulin defines totalitarianism as an abstract scheme or machine of non-relation to cultural otherness characterized by the expansion of "oneself " ("soi") through an election/exclusion logic. The totalitarian machine operates by splitting the universe into its own “agents” on the one side, and its “objects” on the other, whether they be individuals, families, groups, societies or whole civilizations. It proceeds by depriving the later of their quality of cultural subjects through the erosion and finally the suppression of their space of tradition and cultural invention, which mediates their relation with themselves, i.e. their reflexivity. With the mutilation of their “field of cultural potentialities”, as Jaulin calls it, the totalitarian dynamics transforms its “objects” into new “agents” of expansion, reduced to a mock self-relation defined by the horizon of a potential election. However, to become actual this election needs to articulate with a pole of exclusion; thus the need of a new expansion of this universe of non-relation, the universe of totalitarianisms, by definition an endlessly expanding universe whose theoretical limits paradoxically coincide with its own self-destruction.

The election/exclusion logics works by means of pairs of contradictory and, therefore, mutually exclusive terms. Their content may be as varied as the different semantic domains invested by the totalitarian machine: chosen/doomed, religion/magic, truth/falseness, literate/illiterate, savage/civilized, subject/object, intellectual/manual, proletarians/capitalists, science/illusion, subjectivity/objectivity, etc. In all these contradictory pairs, one of the poles “means” to occupy the whole field; but at the same time, its own meaning and “existence” depends on the virtually excluded pole.

According to Robert Jaulin, the asymmetrical relation portrayed by these pairs is but the starting point of totalitarian movement, its static and temporary position. Its dynamics derives from the “wished for” or prospective inversion of the relation between its two poles. This may happen through the totalitarian pair defining the pre-existing situation, the design of a new one or, more often, through recovery and adaptation of old formulas.

The recovery of the Marxist proletarian/capitalistic contradictory pair or the even older monotheistic chosen/doomed couple by many Independence or Prophetic Movements in the former European colonies as a means of inverting the pre-existing totalitarian field is an instance of the shifts through which the “totalitarian trajectory” reinvents itself. This example also shows the place of ethnocide within the overall totalitarian dynamics as the dialectical alternate to totalitarian inversion.

Such an inexorable and elementary logic, with its ability to migrate to, pervade and finally destroy ever-differing cultural and social worlds, accounts for the endlessly restarted trajectory of totalitarianism's two-pole field through time and space.

Bibliography 

 La Mort Sara, Paris, 10/18, 1971 (1967)
 La Paix blanche, Introduction à l'ethnocide, Paris, Éditions du Seuil (Combats), 1970
 Gens de soi, gens de l'autre, Esquisse d'une théorie descriptive, Paris, 10/18, 1974
 Les Chemins du vide, Paris, Éditions Christian Bourgois, 1977
 Jeux et jouets, Paris, Éditions Aubier, 1979
 Notes d'ailleurs, Paris, Éditions Christian Bourgois, 1980
 Mon Thibaud : le jeu de vivre, Paris, Éditions Aubier Montaigne, 1980
 Le Cœur des choses. Ethnologie d'une relation amoureuse, Paris, Éditions Christian Bourgois, 1986
 La Géomancie, Paris, Éditions de la Maison des Sciences de l'homme, 1988
 Géomancie et Islam, Paris, Éditions Christian Bourgois, 1991
 L'Univers des totalitarismes, Essai d'ethnologie du "non être", Paris, Éditions Loris Talmart, 1995

In collaboration
 De l'ethnocide, 10/18
 Anthropologie et calcul, Paris, 10/18, 1970
 L'Ethnocide à travers les Amériques, Paris, Éditions Fayard, 1972 (translated in Spanish, Editores Siglo XXI, 1976)
 Pourquoi les mathématiques ?, Paris, 10/18, 1974
 La Décivilisation, Bruxelles, Éditions Complexe, 1974

Posthumous
Exercices d'ethnologie, de Robert Jaulin, Roger Renaud (Éditeur), Paris, Éditions P.U.F., 1999

References