[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 27]
# List of Wild Cards characters

harities benefiting battered women and pets). However, the limitations of her powers—that she could only "ghost" items of low mass and density—determined not only that her "work clothes" would consist only of a mask and a bikini, but it also limited what she could steal to small, mostly paper goods.

Jennifer enjoyed her new adventurous lifestyle, but found more adventure than she wanted when she stole a few small books from the safe of businessman and gangster Kien Phuc, because one of those books was actually his personal diary, with details of all his illegal activities going back years. Now wanted by the ruthless crime lord, she was fortunate enough to encounter Daniel Brennan, the vigilante called Yeoman, who also wished to get his hands on Kien's diary. Since Wraith could only use her power for short periods, she was forced to rely on Brennan for protection. After several close escapes from Kien and his thugs—including an encounter in which Wraith mutilated Kien's hand—she handed the book over to Brennan, only to discover that its pages were blank; the extravagant Kien had written his journal in gold ink, which was too dense for Wraith's power to affect. The paper had easily passed through the walls of the safe, but the gold had remained inside.

Wraith would eventually leave New York to live with Brennan, returning only once, as Yeoman tried to solve the murder of Chrysalis. Wraith nearly lost her own life in the process, but was rescued again by Yeoman. The two moved away and have not been seen since.

Xavier Desmond
Xavier Desmond was created by George R. R. Martin.

Xavier Desmond was a 29-year-old investment banker with a wife and young daughter when the Wild Card virus first struck the world in 1946. He was one of the lucky few who survived, developing a trunk-like prehensile nose, tipped with seven functioning fingers. He immediately experienced the prejudice of being a Joker, losing his family and his job, and along with other victims of the Wild Card moved into New York City's Bowery section, which would eventually be renamed Jokertown.

Desmond would go on to found the "Jokers' Anti-Defamation League", or JADL, the world's leading Jokers' rights organization. He became one of the Joker activists most widely known to the general public, earning him the nickname "the unofficial mayor of Jokertown". Some of the younger generation of angrier, more radical Jokers felt disdain for Desmond's work-within-the-system attitude and mocked his "mayoral" status, particularly the violent Joker terrorist Gimli, who compared the polite and soft-spoken Desmond to a Joker version of Uncle Tom.

Xavier Desmond was one of a number of high-profile Jokers, Aces, and reporters asked by the World Health Organization to go on a "World Tour" to examine the status of Jokers in various countries worldwide. In Wild Cards IV: Aces Abroad, the recurring inter-story segments titled "From The Journal of Xavier Desmond" tell a great deal about Desmond's life and feelings, and also reveal that he is dying of cancer. The "Journal" segments also show some behind-the-scenes looks at the events on an airplane full of conflicting personalities.

Xavier Desmond died on July 16, 1987, at the Blythe Van Rensselaer Memorial Clinic (commonly known as the Jokertown Clinic). The last, proud words written in his journal were, "My name was Xavier Desmond, and I was a man".

Yeoman
Yeoman (Daniel Brennan) was created by John J. Miller and first appeared in the short story "Comes a Hunter" in the first book of the series. A masked, bow and arrow wielding vigilante, Yeoman was, for several years, a deadly menace to the criminal element of New York, especially the Immaculate Egrets and their parent organization the Shadow Fists. An early high point of Yeoman's career was helping end the Swarm menace, alongside Dr. Tachyon, Fortunato, and the female Ace healer known as Mai.

Daniel Brennan was a captain in the U.S. Army during the Vietnam War, where he was involved in numerous covert operations. He discovered that there was a high-ranking traitor within the ranks of the Army of the Republic of Vietnam (ARVN) who was selling military secrets to the enemy. After tracing the information back to ARVN General Kien Phuc, Brennan made the mistake of trying to confront the general. Kien framed Brennan for the murder of his superior officer and destroyed the evidence Brennan had collected, leaving him no choice but to desert the army and flee the country.

It is not clear what Brennan did during the following years, but he may have served as a mercenary for a time before meeting a roshi named Ishida who helped him learn to discipline his emotions. Brennan spent many years studying the martial arts and became exceptionally skilled in Zen archery. Although he became quite calm and precise in his actions, he never succeeded in finding inner peace.