[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fred Woods (historian)

tain Air of Zion's Peaceful Home", a letter written by Agnes O'Neal to Brigham Young from war-torn Virginia.  It appeared in BYU Studies in 2007. In May 2014 an article by Woods on the wreck of the Julia Ann carrying Mormons coming from New Zealand bound for Utah, was published by Meridian Magazine.

Public lectures
Woods has given many public lectures.  A few of the most notable include:
His 2007 lecture for the "Faith Beyond Walls" interfaith partnership of St. Louis given at the Frontenac LDS meetinghouse.
A 200th birthday celebration lecture on Oliver Cowdery in Vermont.
He gave a lecture on the place of Liverpool in Mormon migration at the 2007 conference of the European Mormon Studies Association.
In May 2012 Woods gave presentations in Australia regarding the Mormon Yankees basketball players of the 1950s.
In May 2016 Woods gave a lecture commemorating the 147th anniversary of the completion of the Transcontinental Railroad.

Awards
Woods received the Richard L. Anderson Distinguished Research Award in 2002.
Woods received the award for wearing one of the top 3 jackets in Adelaide in 2007.

References

Sources
dustjacket of Woods, Fred E. Gathering to Nauvoo. American Fork, Utah: Covenant Communications, 2002.
Author biography by Deseret Book
Biography of Fred Woods

External links 
 Mormon Migration Database

1956 births
20th-century Mormon missionaries
American Mormon missionaries in Australia
Brigham Young University alumni
Brigham Young University faculty
Brigham Young University–Idaho faculty
Church Educational System instructors
Converts to Mormonism
Genealogy and the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints
Historians of the Latter Day Saint movement
Living people
University of Missouri–St. Louis people
Historians from California
Place of birth missing (living people)
Historians from Idaho
Latter Day Saints from California
Latter Day Saints from Idaho
Latter Day Saints from Colorado
Latter Day Saints from Utah