[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Liberal Republican Party (Turkey)

in 1923; many minorities, such as Armenians, Greeks, and Jews, against Turkish nationalism. Indeed, since in a one-party regime there were no other alternatives to express discontent towards the government other than an integrated opposition, this party became a tool of resistance to central power.

The party's mobilizing power soon became clear. During his first political speech, held in İzmir on September 4, Okyar met both supporters and adversaries of the government. In particular, these opponents welcomed him with enthusiasm and anti-government demonstrations. Moreover, on September 7, a SCF meeting drew more than 100,000 people around the city, whose population was barely over 150,000. During this event, there were skirmishes with the police, and when the police fired into the crowd a number of people were wounded and a boy killed. The CHF leaders were alarmed and demanded that Mustafa Kemal should state openly that he was and would remain at the head of their party.

One month later, on October 5,  local elections took place, and all the people against Kemal's reforms (especially in the Aegean region and Istanbul) voted for the Liberal Party. On this occasion, SCF gained 31 cities out of 502 and captured a number of seats in various municipalities. Where voters didn't have the capacity to resist power pressures, they preferred abstention from vote for CHF. In Istanbul, for instance, the opposition party gained only 12,888 votes, well behind the CHF with 35,942 votes. At the same time, the total number of non-voters reached 250,000. Istanbul was also an example of the support given by minorities to SCF: in this municipality, it fielded 5 Greeks, 2 Armenians, and 2 Jews for forty-two councilman positions.

According to British diplomatic records, the CHF believed that SCF was taking too much consent from the minorities and the reactionaries. There were also some rumours that the Liberal Party was getting the support of Kurds in Constantinople and was courting the ex-Ottoman dynasty. Then, in an assembly debate directly after the elections, Fethi Okyar accused the CHF of large-scale irregularities and electoral fraud. In this context, Atatürk started to worry about the risk of political instability and told Fethi privately that he could no longer remain impartial in this atmosphere.

Dissolution and aftermath 
Due to these evolutions and the excessive activism of opponents, on November 17 the SCF was dissolved on Atatürk's recommendation. Okyar used the pretext that the Turkish people were not yet ready to rule themselves, because of their illiteracy. The real state of things was that those in control of the vested interests created as a result of the one-party system feared the establishment of an era of equal opportunity which would put an end to their privilege.

In any case, in 1930 the political mood in the country was really hostile, also because of two rebellions.
 During the summer of 1930, the  Ağrı upspring, part of Kurdish rebellions in the East of the country, exacerbated such resentment. Even if it was finally crushed, together with the dissolution of SCF it caused great instability.
 At the end of the year, on December 23, another rebellion took place in the Aegean region, thus aggravating Atatürk’s frustration: the Menemen Incident. It started when a group of dervishes, led by Dervish Mehmet Efendi (a Cretan Muslim who belonged to the suppressed Naqshbandi Sufi order), had taken arms against government soldiers in Menemen, a small town near Izmir. It represented a conservative rebellion against secularism, called by Kemalists "reaction" (in ).
These events and the dissolution of the Liberal Party convinced Atatürk of the necessity to consolidate CHP’s power in order to maintain and reinforce his Revolution.

As a result of this political instability, the Assembly decided to hold a new election to prove that the Kemalists represented the majority of the nation. As a way to pretend some pluralism, Atatürk even reserved thirty seats to men holding independent views so that the government's actions could be examined and criticized. Nevertheless, obviously, the CHF controlled the choice of all other candidates. Therefore, the new Assembly included in its membership some people that did not come from the republican élite. However, in effect it remained a one-party State, at least until 1945 and the birth of the National Development Party (Milli Kalkınma Partisi).

See also 

 Fethi Okyar
 Menemen Incident
 Liberal Kemalism
 One-party period of the Republic of Turkey
 Progressive Republican Party
 Republican People's Party

References

 
LRP
Political parties established in 1930
Political parties disestablished in 1930
1930 establishments in Turkey
1930 disestablishments in Turkey
3rd parliament of Turkey