[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Reno Park

ply as Reno, although the original developers of the land marketed their subdivision “Reno City.” Only a few physical remains of the neighborhood exist, most prominently a singular fire hydrant located on one of the park's many hills and the original elementary school building, named for Jesse Reno.

Conversion to park and government buildings
Public utilization of the land under Fort Reno Park has depended heavily on its nature as DC's highest point. As suburbanization pushed north and west of Rock Creek Valley, demand for drinking water increased dramatically. In 1893, Charles C. Glover, a banker with large investments in the area, acquired two large plots at the location of the Dyer farmhouse and fort and donated them to the District of Columbia. Subsequently, the DC government built a reservoir and pump house at the site, destroying the remains of the ramparts.

Plans to memorialize the Civil War Defenses of Washington date to the 1860s, particularly the idea of a road connecting the high points that once served as redoubts.

During the Cold War, a Presidential Emergency Facility installation was constructed at Fort Reno, disguised as a water tower. Known as the "Cartwheel" facility, it was in fact a microwave transmission array rising from a large underground bunker. A crew lived on site and maintained the facility. The tower was a part of a string of similar installations that connected the White House to "Site R" Raven Rock in Waynesboro, Pennsylvania.

Features and activities

Music venue
Fort Reno's annual free summer concert series started in the Summer of 1968, amid social unrest following the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr.

The 2014 series was the subject of drama, as the National Park Service suddenly demanded that organizers pay for US Park Police to be present at each concert. Unable to fund this position which was more than the entire budget for the concerts, organizers cancelled the concert series for the 2014 season. The cancellation generated several news articles, Twitter outrage, a petition with 1,600 signers, and the ire of public officials who stepped in to pressure the agencies to swiftly issue the permit and meet with the concert organizer to resolve issues.  After this meeting, the 2014 line-up was announced.

High point 

The highest natural elevation at Fort Reno, , is lower than the top of the Washington Monument, which rises  from nearly sea level.

The high point in Fort Reno is marked by a small metal disk set into the ground. The Highpointers Foundation is working with the National Park Service to place a sign near the USGS marker so that the spot is easier to locate.

See also
"Fort Reno (U.S. National Park Service)"
Outline of District of Columbia
Index of District of Columbia-related articles
List of mountain peaks of the United States
List of U.S. states by elevation

Notes

References
 Helm, J. B., 1981, Tenleytown, D.C. — Country village to city neighborhood, Washington, DC.

External links

Fort Reno Concert Series
Highpointers Foundation

Reno Park
Parks in Washington, D.C.
National Park Service areas in Washington, D.C.
Forts on the National Register of Historic Places in Washington, D.C.
1927 establishments in Washington, D.C.
American Civil War on the National Register of Historic Places
Reno (Washington, D.C.)
Works Progress Administration in the District of Columbia
Tenleytown