[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# 36th Iowa Infantry Regiment

nted brigade up to within two miles of Brittons' Mills. Realizing that the rebels could attack them at first light with overwhelming numbers, and having no artillery and just a small cavalry detachment with them, the regiment loaded their wagons and made a forced march back into Camden after dark.
.

Disaster at Mark's Mills 
A 240-wagon supply train arrived at Camden from the federal base at Pine Bluff on 20 April, but it only carried half-rations for ten days. With supplies short, Steele ordered Lt. Colonel Francis Drake, Thirty-sixth Iowa, to take temporary command of the 2nd Brigade to escort these wagons back to Pine Bluff. At Pine Bluff, Drake was to refill the wagons and escort the train back to Camden. Colonel William McLean, the brigade commander was reported to be "indisposed," while Colonel Charles Kittredge, next in line for command of the 2nd Brigade, was reported sick in quarters; Kittredge thus sent his number two, LTC Drake in his place to command the train and the 2nd Brigade. Major Augustus H. Hamilton assumed direct command of the 36th Iowa on this operation. The remainder of the brigade included elements of the 1st Indiana Cavalry and 5th Missouri Cavalry, the 43rd Indiana Infantry, 77th Ohio Infantry, and four artillery pieces in two section of Battery E, 2nd Missouri Light Artillery—about 1,200 troops in all. Additionally, the 1st Iowa Cavalry Regiment, which had served its 3 years and was on its way home on furlough and for re-enlistment, was scheduled to follow and catch up with Drake's train on the 1st or 2nd day. The brigade also included a section of 75 civilian Negro pioneer laborers whose job it was to move ahead of the train, felling trees and laying them down to build corduroy roads over the muddy, difficult route. The train with escort left Camden on Friday, 22 April and Drake soon found that an additional entourage of some 50–75 civilian wagons carrying teamsters, sutlers, cotton speculators, about 300 Negro refugees and other assorted camp followers had joined the expedition. Due to very muddy road conditions, progress was slow and the column was harassed by cavalry scouts belonging to Rebel General Jo Shelby's "Iron Brigade" on the first day out from Camden. Shelby had no interest in bringing on a general engagement but was ranging widely east of the Ouachita River to keep an eye on Union forces operating there. The scouts who skirmished with Drake on the first day immediately informed Shelby of the large supply train, and when Shelby linked up with a large Confederate Task Force commanded by Major-General James Fagan the following day, Fagan decided to make a forced march with 7 brigades 50 miles east to establish and ambush position. By mid-afternoon of the second days of march—a Sunday—Drake had reached the western approach to the Moro River—essentially a large creek that habitually went out of its banks in a wide swath due to spring rains. Lieutenant Samuel Swiggett, B/36th, recounted in his memoirs that, while no surface water could be discerned in the Moro Bottom, the ground was so saturated by the recent rains that anyone or anything attempting to cross it would become hopelessly buried deep in mud and muck.

Steele had cautioned Drake not to attempt to cross the Moro Bottom after dark, and additionally, the civilian teamsters were starting to get out of hand, complaining to Drake about the rigors of the pace, according to Swiggett. Rather than proceed, therefore, Drake halted the column on the west bank of the Moro Bottom on Sunday afternoon. In his official after-action report, Drake stated that he stopped the column that Sunday "evening". The timing is very much in dispute, for Captain Swiggett later noted in his memoirs that the column halted long before nightfall and in fact had gone into camp on the west bank at 2 pm Sunday.  Captain Swiggett opined that, had Drake exhibited more backbone by insisting on moving across Moro Bottom Sunday afternoon, the entire train could have crossed safely before nightfall, would have been well on its way to Pine Bluff, and would have avoided the tragedy to come. Although Drake could perhaps claim later that he was technically following Steele's orders by going into bivouac when he did, Swiggett noted that there was a strong sense of gloom and foreboding in the federal camp as they lay there immobile on Sunday afternoon. As it was, Drake posted cavalry squads of 25 troopers each 2 miles to his front and 5 miles to his rear on Sunday, with orders for them to scout all roads for 5 miles in all directions at daybreak on Monday.