[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Soulton Hall

nd is recorded as "Svltune". The Domesday Book records the manor as having previously been freely held by Brihtric — most likely the same Brihtric who was the brother of Eadric Streona the Ealdorman of Mercia from 1007 to 1017. Both Brihtric and Eadric were slain by King Cnut on Christmas Day, 1017.

Based on its Domesday Book entry there are likely to have been buildings on or near to the site of the extant hall prior to the Norman Conquest, but these have yet to be identified archaeologically.

Post-Norman

A Norman (possibly Adulterine) castle was constructed approximately 300 meters to the north-east of the extant hall either during the Anarchy of the early 1100s, or later, certainly by the 1250s. 

The location is marked by a mound which can still be seen. This site is located around the point at which the roadway crosses a narrow gap in some wet terrain which would likely have had a strategic reason for establishing a fortification in that location. This building is believed to have burnt down at some point in the late 14th century.

A grant of the manor in 1299 indicates that some of the ancient marker posts marking the boundary with Wales formed part of the boundary of the manor.

The manor supported the clergy of the King's Chapel of St Michael in Shrewsbury Castle.

Post-1556

Civil War 

In September 1642, Charles I passed within sight of Soulton Hall, and subsequently set up a temporary capital at Shrewsbury. 

In 1643, the first Parliamentary garrison in Shropshire was declared at nearby Wem. On 17-18 October, the Royalists responded by sending a large force to the district, described as follows:3 cannon, 2 drakes, one great mortarpiece that carried a 30ln. bullet, had 120 odd wagons and carriages laden with bread, biskett, bare and other provisions and theire armye being formydable as consistynge of neer 5,000.The Royalist attackers only formed up on one side, approaching Wem only from Soulton Road. The engagement does not seem to have been seriously interested in taking Wem with the commander, Lord Capel, light-heartedly smoking his pipe half a mile from the town on that road. The town was not taken and the manoeuvre lasted less than a day resulting in this couplet.The women of Wem and a few musketeers.

Beat the Lord Capel and all his Cavaliers. 

Immediately after the engagements around Soulton, Charles I disbanded his temporary headquarters in Shropshire and made for Oxford.

The Battle of Edge Hill, followed a few days later on 23 October 1642. After this incident it is further recorded the houses of the family "[were] pillaged, and ransacked by the rebel [parliamentarians]", and after this that family had to go into hiding in the Hawkstone landscape and caves.

The following February of 1643, Price Rupert is recorded as being repeatedly in the district.

Restoration 
In the late 17th century Soulton had passed to Thomas Hill, who attended Oriel College, Oxford matriculating in 1662, and went on to be made High Sheriff of Shropshire in 1680. He was later made a commissioner in an act of Parliament in 1698. He was buried in Wem Church with his wife Elizabeth, a member of the Corbet family.

Another member of the family, Richard Hill was admitted to Grays Inn in 1657. 

Soulton Hall became the venue of an abortive witch trial some time around 1660. The suspected witch under accusation by local townsfolk of Wem was brought before Thomas Hill of Soulton, as justice of the district. The accused was spared any judicial processing as a witch and that allegation was dismissed, in contrast to the harsh persecutions of the time.

Eighteenth century and later 

There are records that Benjamin Franklin was in communication with the family and was aware of the place. 

There is an 1801 bridge on which Thomas Telford worked on the B5065, known as Soulton Bridge.

There are also the remains of a water mill active from at least the 1300s until the mid-to-late 1800s near Soulton Wood.

The manor is still owned by the wider family of the original family of Sir Rowland Hill via female descent.

Culture 

In 1483, Henry Stafford, 2nd Duke of Buckingham was arrested on the edge of the manor following the failure of Buckingham's rebellion. This incident is referred to by William Shakespeare in the play Richard III, in ACT IV, scene iv.

Filming 
There is periodic filming at the manor, including recently of BBC Countryfile .

Contemporary drama and live performance 

In 2020, during the crisis in live performance and theatre resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, outdoor performance was reintroduced to Soulton. The National Youth Theatre (NYT) gave their first live in person performance since the restrictions following the lockdown that was brought about by the COVID-19 pandemic. The play was a new, specially devised work called The Last Harvest In 2021, the NYT returned with a performance of Animal Farm.