[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Indiana Pi Bill

The Indiana Pi Bill is the popular name for bill #246 of the 1897 sitting of the Indiana General Assembly, one of the most notorious attempts to establish mathematical truth by legislative fiat. Despite its name, the main result claimed by the bill is a method to square the circle, although it does imply various incorrect values of the mathematical constant , the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter. The bill, written by a physician who was an amateur mathematician,  never became law due to the intervention of Prof. C. A. Waldo of Purdue University, who happened to be present in the legislature on the day it went up for a vote.

The mathematical impossibility of squaring the circle using only compass and straightedge constructions, suspected since ancient times, had been rigorously proven 15 years previously, in 1882, by Ferdinand von Lindemann. Better approximations of  than those implied by the bill have been known since ancient times.

Legislative history 

In 1894, Indiana physician Edward J. Goodwin (ca. 1825 – 1902), also called Edwin Goodwin by some sources, believed that he had discovered a correct way of squaring the circle. He proposed a bill to state representative Taylor I. Record, which Record introduced in the House under the long title "A Bill for an act introducing a new mathematical truth and offered as a contribution to education to be used only by the State of Indiana free of cost by paying any royalties whatever on the same, provided it is accepted and adopted by the official action of the Legislature of 1897".

The text of the bill consists of a series of mathematical claims (detailed below), followed by a recitation of Goodwin's previous accomplishments:

 

Goodwin's "solutions" were indeed published in the American Mathematical Monthly, though with a disclaimer of "published by request of the author".

Upon its introduction in the Indiana House of Representatives, the bill's language and topic occasioned confusion among the membership; a member from Bloomington proposed that it be referred to the Finance Committee, but the Speaker accepted another member's recommendation to refer the bill to the Committee on Swamplands, where the bill could "find a deserved grave".  It was transferred to the Committee on Education, which reported favorably. Following a motion to suspend the rules, the bill passed on February 6, 1897 without a dissenting vote.  

The news of the bill occasioned an alarmed response from Der Tägliche Telegraph, a German-language newspaper in Indianapolis, which viewed the event with less favor than its English-speaking competitors.  As this debate concluded, Purdue University professor C. A. Waldo arrived in Indianapolis to secure the annual appropriation for the Indiana Academy of Science. An assemblyman handed him the bill, offering to introduce him to the genius who wrote it. He declined, saying that he already met as many crazy people as he cared to.

When it reached the Indiana Senate, the bill was not treated as kindly, for Waldo had talked to the senators previously.  The Committee on Temperance to which it had been assigned had reported it favorably, but the Senate  on February 12, 1897, postponed the bill indefinitely.  It had been nearly passed, but opinion changed when one senator observed that the General Assembly lacked the power to define mathematical truth.  Influencing some of the senators was a report that major newspapers, such as the Chicago Tribune, had begun to ridicule the situation.

According to the Indianapolis News article of February 13, 1897, page 11, column 3:

... the bill was brought up and made fun of.  The Senators made bad puns about it, ridiculed it and laughed over it.  The fun lasted half an hour.  Senator Hubbell said that it was not meet for the Senate, which was costing the State $250 a day, to waste its time in such frivolity.  He said that in reading the leading newspapers of Chicago and the East, he found that the Indiana State Legislature had laid itself open to ridicule by the action already taken on the bill.  He thought consideration of such a proposition was not dignified or worthy of the Senate.  He moved the indefinite postponement of the bill, and the motion carried.

Mathematics

Approximation of  

Although the bill has become known as the "Pi Bill", its text does not mention the name "pi" at all. Goodwin appears to have thought of the ratio between the circumference and diameter of a circle as distinctly secondary to his main aim of squaring the circle. Towards the end of Section 2, the following passage appears:

This comes close to an explicit claim that , and that .