[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# City of Echoes

Pelican claim the record focuses on the 'homogenous effects of globalization', I think I am excused in wanting a touch more than an intricate guitar riff and a thumping bass line to ponder over [...] I struggle to gain a tangible meaning solely from crashing cymbals underpinning distorted guitars."

Much criticism has been leveled at the drumming of Larry Herweg, with Grayson Currin writing for Pitchfork Media that he "has consistently prevented his Chicago-based instrumental four-piece from being as transcendent as they've long been touted," and that on this album "it's worse than it's ever been, largely because it now seems that the excellent and consistently developing guitar duo of Laurent Schroeder-Lebec and Trevor de Brauw are better than they've ever been." Pelican themselves are aware of this ubiquitous criticism. Guitarist Trevor de Brauw states in a Decibel feature that "on the first two records, Pelican was a guitar band. On this one, we’re an actual band, which makes a world of difference to me", and that "some people think of instrumental music as music where the players need to be shredding constantly. That was never the direction of Pelican—we never wanted to be like Don Caballero or Hella." An Allmusic review posits that on this release "Herweg is allowed a far greater range of expression, and actually plays against the beat in places, seeming to be out of time, while creating a new space for the guitars to enter in terms of tempo and texture."

Decibel placed the album at number thirteen in its list of the top 40 albums of 2007.

Track listing
All songs written by Pelican.

Personnel

Band members
Trevor de Brauw – guitar
Bryan Herweg – bass
Larry Herweg – drums
Laurent Schroeder-Lebec – guitar

Other personnel
John Golden – mastering
Robin Laananen – photography
Aaron Turner – album art and design
Andrew Schneider – production
Will Duncan – production and recording assistance
Greg Norman – production and recording assistance
Jon São Paulo – production and recording assistance
Stephen Sowley – production and recording assistance
Jeff Spatafora – production and recording assistance
Rob Vestor – production and recording assistance

Chart positions

References

External links
Official promo site, including sound clips

Pelican (band) albums
2007 albums
Hydra Head Records albums
Albums with cover art by Aaron Turner