[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ahmed Abdul Qader

r, and it recommended the release of Qader and 54 other individuals.

Transfer to Estonia

He was accepted as a refugee by Estonia on January 14, 2015.
The government decided to  offer an invitation to Qader on October 9, 2014.  The invitation told him he would be allowed to apply for asylum status.

Estonia had been in discussions to accept individuals formerly held in Guantanamo, for years. The Baltic Times reported, on August 29, 2009, that Estonia was prepared to accept multiple individuals. However, on October 12, 2010, Russia Today reported that Foreign Minister Urmas Paet, informed the Estonian legislature that Estonian law barred accepting the former captives.

In 2011, the whistleblower site WikiLeaks published formerly secret diplomatic cables that stated the USA had offered to pay Estonia 62600 euros for every captive Estonia took.

Third party comments

On December 24, 2014, Linda Greenhouse, a long-time commentator on the United States Supreme Court, writing in The New York Times, wrote about Ahmed Abdul habeas corpus petition, and comments made by more senior judges on his case.

Sara Davidson, writing in the New Yorker magazine and Wells Bennett, writing for Lawfare, both commented on his case, following his transfer to Estonia.

Alleged disappearance

On June 28, 2015, Mark Mackinnon, reporting from Tallinn, for The Globe and Mail, reported that Akhmed Abdul Qader had "disappeared".

On July 7, 2015, an article in Postimees stated, that: "Up to now, the man has not been outside the country."

New York Times interview

On July 29, 2016, Charlie Savage of The New York Times, profiled Qader after an extensive interview.  According to Savage, Qader reported 'terrible anxiety problems'.  He reported that Qader was too anxious to travel, and sometimes couldn't leave his apartment.  He described feeling anxious to go anywhere, for fear that, coincidentally, there is an explosion nearby, and his proximity makes him the prime suspect.

The Estonian government provides Qader with a studio apartment, a stipend, language lessons, health care, and a coach to help him adjust to life in Estonia.

Qader's family arranged a marriage for him, conducted via Skype, but his wife hadn't been able to join him yet.

Savage said that Qader had a pleasant surprise when his boss realized that his new apprentice was the recent refugee who had been held in Guantanamo.  He had kept his history private, even from his boss, when he was hire in the fall of 2015.  However, his boss was friendly, and curious about his history, and invited him to a family dinner to share it.  However, one drunken neighbor had harassed him, had left garbage at his door, and Qader had to phone the police. After that, harassment by the neighbor stopped.

References

Detainees of the Guantanamo Bay detention camp
Yemeni extrajudicial prisoners of the United States
Living people
People from Sanaa
Year of birth missing (living people)