[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Grand River land dispute

g to replace her with deputy mayor Bob Patterson as their spokesperson on the issue.
 April 28 – Caledonia residents once again gather to demand an end to the blockade.

 April 30 – The provincial government appoints former premier David Peterson to help negotiate a settlement in the conflict.

May 

 May 16 – Protesters open one lane of Argyle St. after an accident closed McKenzie Rd., the main detour route into Caledonia from points south of Town. After the accident is cleared, protesters close Argyle St. again, though they agree to let emergency vehicles through.
 May 19 – In a letter to the Haudenosaunee Confederacy Council of Chiefs, the Government of Ontario announces that there will be an indefinite moratorium on construction on the Douglas Creek Estates site.
 May 19 – Several Caledonia residents establish a counter-blockade on Argyle St., to prevent the protesters from accessing the site.
 May 22 – Early in the morning, native protesters removed their blockade on Argyle St. Traffic remained blocked by the Caledonia residents' counter-blockade.
 May 22 – Around 2:00 PM, protesters re-establish a barricade across Argyle St., using an electrical transmission tower and two backhoes, which dig a trench across the road. The two sides face each other separated by dozens of OPP officers. Scuffles including fistfights and verbal assaults continued to break out throughout the day, resulting in injuries to natives, residents and police.
 May 22 – A truck crashes through the gates of a hydro substation, setting it on fire and damaging two transformers. This causes a blackout throughout Haldimand and parts of Norfolk counties, as well as over $1 million in damages.
 May 22 – Six Nations Confederacy Chief Allen McNaughton (Tekarihoken) says, "As the world has seen, our protest has been firm but peaceful. Our people are responding without weapons, using only their bodies to assert that we are a sovereign people with a long history and that we cannot be intimidated."
 May 22 – A state of emergency is declared late in the evening due to the escalation of violence and the power-outage.
 May 22 – In Saskatchewan, Cree protesters blockade the Yellowhead Highway near North Battleford in solidarity with the Six Nations protesters in Caledonia. Following negotiations with the Royal Canadian Mounted Police, the roadblock is removed after about two hours.
 May 23 – At 1:30 PM, protesters offer to remove the barricade across Argyle St. as long as the counter-barricade is removed as well. By 3:20 PM the road is fully open to traffic.
 May 24 – Power is restored to Caledonia during the morning hours.
 May 27 – Power is restored to all areas affected by the blackout.