[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Canadian immigration and refugee law

s serious criminal or medical offences, since deportation meant the immigrant was barred from entering Canada for life. After 1978, the government could issue 12-month exclusion orders and a departure notice, if the cause for a person's removal was not serious, but in some cases, it could be severe.

The enforcement team with the Department of Citizenship and Immigration Canada was responsible for enforcing the Act at border crossings with the United States as well as checkpoints at international airports in Canada.

The 1976 Immigration Act was replaced by the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (IRPA) in 2002.

Current enabling laws

Immigration and Refugee Protection Act 

The primary statute regarding immigration and refugee law in Canada is the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (IRPA), accompanied by the Immigration and Refugee Protection Regulations and Protection of Passenger Information Regulations. First introduced in 2002 to replace the former Immigration Act of 1976, the many changes brought on by IRPA included broader discretion for immigration officers when evaluating applications.

Other relevant legislation include the Citizenship Act, and certain immigration and refugee-related provisions of the Criminal Code.

Immigration detainees in Canada are held in Immigration Holding Centres (IHCs; French: ), under the auspices of the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA). Immigration detainees may also be kept in provincial jails, either because the IHCs are full, there is no centres in their region, or the detainee's file has a link to criminality. Detainees can include: asylum seekers without sufficient amount of necessary identification papers; foreign workers whose visas had expired; and individuals awaiting deportation.

Protecting Canada's Immigration System Act 

The Protecting Canada's Immigration System Act (Bill C-31) was established in hopes of amending Canadian immigration and refugee law by addressing the number of "bogus refugees" and claimants from European Union democracies.

Safe Third Country Agreement 

Under the Canada–United States Safe Third Country Agreement (STCA), people from a country that is not Canada or the United States who attempt to enter Canada at a legal border crossing seeking refugee status will be turned back.

There are 4 types of exceptions to the STCA: refugee claimants who have a family member in Canada; unaccompanied minors under the age of 18; individuals holding a valid Canadian visa; and those who have been charged with or convicted of an offence that could subject them to the death penalty in the United States or in a third country. The STCA also does not apply to claimants who entered Canada at a "location that is not a port of entry."

International laws 
The Government of Canada is held to comply with the following international laws in relation to migration and refuge/asylum:

 United Nations Convention against Torture (CAT), signed in New York on December 1984.
 Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees, signed in Geneva on 28 July 1951
 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees, signed in New York on 1 January 1967.
 Vienna Convention on Consular Relations — Article 36 requires that foreign nationals who are arrested or detained be given notice, "without delay," of their right to have their embassy or consulate notified of that arrest. 
 Hague Adoption Convention, signed 29 May 1993

Current laws regarding administration

Department of Citizenship and Immigration 
The Department of Citizenship and Immigration Act established Canada's Department of Citizenship and Immigration (now known as Immigration, Refugees and Citizenship Canada), to be presided by the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration.

The Revolving Funds Act authorized the establishment of certain revolving funds, including for the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Under the Act, the Minister is able to make expenditures out of the Consolidated Revenue Fund of Canada "for the purpose of passport and other travel document services in Canada and at posts abroad," as well as revenue received regarding that purpose.

Canada Border Services Agency 
The Canada Border Services Agency Act established the Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA), which was created by Order in Council on 12 December 2003. The Act renders the CBSA responsible for providing integrated border services that support Canada's national security priorities and that facilitate the free flow of persons and goods (including plants and animals) that meet all requirements under the program legislation.

The Act also set out the responsibilities, mandate, powers, duties, and functions of the CBSA's President and of the Minister responsible for the Agency (Minister of Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness).

Immigration and Refugee Board 
Sections 151 through 186 of the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (IRPA) dictate the functions and composition of the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada (IRB).