[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Orion's Belt (film)

orway was part of the Cold War and how unimportant a single human is in superpower politics. It commented that Michelet was a political author, which allowed him to problematize political issues which were not acceptable for public debate. It also agreed with Harris' choice to remove all flashbacks.

Dagbladet commented that the film downplayed the left-wing political aspect of the book and instead focused on the storyline and action. It commented that with increased funding for special effects, Solum was able to achieve his true potential as an action director. It praised Paalsgard for the cinematography and the natural integration of nature footage and backdrops. Following the presentation of the shortened and new ending version, Dagbladet stated that "they could just as well have kept the old one". Klassekampen praised the film for its action and accepted that it had reduced the amount of intrigue in the novel. The character of Jansen was applauded, as it showed how small an individual is against the superpowers. As the only newspaper, Klassekampen praised the film music. Variety stated that the film was "a superbly mounted, convincingly told adventure thriller. Action scenes, such as the helicopter attack, are excitingly staged, and the suspense never lets up. As the rugged Tom, Helge Jordal is very good." However, the magazine criticized the title.

The film took a hat-trick at the inaugural Amanda Award, Norway's premier film awards. It won for best feature film, Jordal won for best male actor, and Bøhren and Åserud won for best film music. Orion's Belt was nominated for best film at the International Mystery Film Festival of Cattolica, and Ola Solum won the award for best direction. The composers were awarded the 1986 Film Critics' Prize for the music. In 2007, Dagbladet ranked Orion's Belt as Norway's tenth-most important film.

In May 2012, Tomas Backström announced plans for a remake of the film. He stated that he had secured half the necessary NOK 40 million in financing and that he hoped for state grants for the rest. Actors planned for the remake include Aksel Hennie, Nicolai Cleve Broch, Ola Rapace and Tuva Novotny.

Distribution
The cinema version was distributed by Kommunenes Filmcentral in Norway and New World Pictures internationally. The film received a 16-year rating in Norway and Finland, and a 15-year rating in Sweden. In the United Kingdom and the United States, it was rated Parental Guidance. Orion's Belt premiered on 8 February 1985 at eight cinemas in seven Norwegian cities.

In Norway, 700,000 people saw the film at the cinema; it grossed NOK 14,172,994 in Norway and slightly less than NOK 3 million abroad. A third version of the film was made later, aimed at the American cinema market. It was a dubbed version of the Norwegian recording but had a slightly different ending.

The first DVD version was produced in 2004. The issue was criticized for not removing film grain and for cropping the image to 4:3 instead of 16:9. It further did not feature improvements to the sound and was available only in stereo. Subtitles were absent, despite the fact that some lines of the Norwegian-language version were in English. It did not include bonus material, the English-language version or the alternative ending. On 21 September 2005, Norsk Film published a new DVD version. The film was cleaned up and shown in widescreen, with the audio being digitally remastered and presented in Dolby 5.1 and DTS. Bonus material included in the release included the full English-language version, a 40-minute documentary on the production, two commentary tracks and new interviews with the main contributors.

Music
The music for the film was composed by Geir Bøhren and Bent Åserud. They traveled to Svalbard to gather inspiration and found that the lack of vegetation distorted one's sense of direction. Inspiration was gathered more from the associations of the nature and culture in Svalbard, rather than that of a traditional action film. This included such elements as listening to whale and Inuit song. For the storm scenes, the team made a Richard Wagner-inspired piece, which was distinct from the Inuit-inspired music. At the end of the piece was a flute melody, which was then adapted to become the theme song, Svalbardtema. Although the music was not mentioned in the original reception, it later became very popular and has become a de facto anthem for the archipelago. Bøhren and Åserud established themselves as film music composers with Orion's Belt and composed the music for nearly all of Solum's later films.

References

Bibliography