[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Eli Rosenbaum

whose actions embody the Museum’s vision of a world where people confront hate, prevent genocide, and promote human dignity." The award was accepted on behalf of the office "by former OSI Director Eli Rosenbaum, under whose leadership the majority of the unit’s prosecution successes were achieved."

War crimes in the Russo-Ukraine conflict
During a surprise visit to Ukraine on June 21, 2022, United States Attorney General Merrick Garland issued an announcement that Rosenbaum had been tapped to lead a team to investigate war crimes in that nation. Rosenbaum was tasked with coordinating efforts throughout the federal government to hold accountable those responsible for committing war crimes in Ukraine. It was announced that he would be assisted by prosecutors from the Justice Department’s Human Rights and Special Prosecutions Section. The team will also support the Justice Department's ongoing investigation of potential war crimes over which the United States has jurisdiction, including the wounding and killing of American journalists covering the Russian invasion.

Regarding the congressional bill introduced after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which would allow the United States to prosecute war criminals even if neither the war criminals nor their victims are Americans, Rosembaum said: "The word that guides us is: we will be relentless. So the message to perpetrators or would-be perpetrators is: if you act on criminal orders or issue criminal orders, you may well have to spend the rest of your life looking over your shoulder. Don’t think about being a tourist after the war in most of Europe, because if we know about you, if Ukrainians know about you, if the ICC knows about you, you may just get arrested and extradited. So it’s a different world."

Notes

References

1955 births
Living people
People from Westbury, New York
Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania alumni
Harvard Law School alumni
American lawyers
20th-century American Jews
Nazi hunters
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett people
American anti-fascists
Jewish anti-fascists
21st-century American Jews