[Source: PubMed]

76. JMIR Res Protoc. 2020 Nov 30;9(11):e17324. doi: 10.2196/17324.

The Precision Health and Everyday Democracy (PHED) Project: Protocol for a 
Transdisciplinary Collaboration on Health Equity and the Role of Health in 
Society.

Strange M(#)(1)(2), Nilsson C(3), Zdravkovic S(2)(4), Mangrio E(#)(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Political Studies, Malmö University, Malmö, Sweden.
(2)Malmö Institute for Studies of Migration, Diversity & Welfare, Malmö 
University, Malmö, Sweden.
(3)Department of Experimental Medical Science, Lund University, Lund, Sweden.
(4)Department of Care Sciences, Malmö University, Malmö, Sweden.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: The project "Precision Health and Everyday Democracy" (PHED) is a 
transdisciplinary partnership that combines a diverse range of perspectives 
necessary for understanding the increasingly complex societal role played by 
modern health care and medical research. The term "precision health" is being 
increasingly used to express the need for greater awareness of environmental and 
genomic characteristics that may lead to divergent health outcomes between 
different groups within a population. Enhancing awareness of diversity has 
parallels with calls for "health democracy" and greater patient-public 
participation within health care and medical research. Approaching health care 
in this way goes beyond a narrow focus on the societal determinants of health, 
since it requires considering health as a deliberative space, which occurs often 
at the banal or everyday level. As an initial empirical focus, PHED is directed 
toward the health needs of marginalized migrants (including refugees and asylum 
seekers, as well as migrants with temporary residency, often involving a legally 
or economically precarious situation) as vulnerable groups that are often 
overlooked by health care. Developing new transdisciplinary knowledge on these 
groups provides the potential to enhance their wellbeing and benefit the wider 
society through challenging the exclusions of these groups that create pockets 
of extreme ill-health, which, as we see with COVID-19, should be better 
understood as "acts of self-harm" for the wider negative impact on humanity.
OBJECTIVE: We aim to establish and identify precision health strategies, as well 
as promote equal access to quality health care, drawing upon knowledge gained 
from studying the health care of marginalized migrants.
METHODS: The project is based in Sweden at Malmö and Lund Universities. At the 
outset, the network activities do not require ethical approval where they will 
not involve data collection, since the purpose of PHED is to strengthen 
international research contacts, establish new research within precision 
strategies, and construct educational research activities for junior colleagues 
within academia. However, whenever new research is funded and started, ethical 
approval for that specific data collection will be sought.
RESULTS: The PHED project has been funded from January 1, 2019. Results of the 
transdisciplinary collaboration will be disseminated via a series of 
international conferences, workshops, and web-based materials. To ensure the 
network project advances toward applied research, a major goal of dissemination 
is to produce tools for applied research, including information to enhance 
health accessibility for vulnerable communities, such as marginalized migrant 
populations in Sweden.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a need to identify tools to enable the prevention and 
treatment of a wide spectrum of health-related outcomes and their link to social 
as well as environmental issues. There is also a need to identify and 
investigate barriers to precision health based on democratic principles.
INTERNATIONAL REGISTERED REPORT IDENTIFIER (IRRID): DERR1-10.2196/17324.

©Michael Strange, Carol Nilsson, Slobodan Zdravkovic, Elisabeth Mangrio. 
Originally published in JMIR Research Protocols 
(http://www.researchprotocols.org), 30.11.2020.

DOI: 10.2196/17324
PMCID: PMC7735904
PMID: 33252352

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.