[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Israeli cuisine

by outdoor picnics at which salads and barbecued meat feature prominently.

Shavuot
In the early summer, the Jewish harvest festival of Shavuot is celebrated. Shavuot marks the peak of the new grain harvest and the ripening of the first fruits, and is a time when milk was historically most abundant.

To celebrate this holiday, many types of dairy foods (milchig) are eaten. These include cheeses and yogurts, cheese-based pies and quiches called pashtidot, cheese blintzes, and cheesecake prepared with soft white cheese (gvina levana) or cream cheese.

Cultural appropriation
The widespread borrowings from Arab cuisine in the Israeli kitchen and labelling of the resultant foodstuffs as "Israeli" has led to the charge that the situation amounts to cultural appropriation. A notable example that has been lamented by Palestinians, Lebanese and other Arab populations is falafel, which has been self-proclaimed as an Israeli national dish despite being of likely Egyptian origin. Though never a specifically Jewish dish, it has been long been consumed by Syrian and Egyptian Jews, and was adopted into the diet of early Jewish immigrants to the Jewish communities of Ottoman Syria. As it is plant-based, Jewish dietary laws classify it as pareve and thus allow it to be eaten with both meat and dairy meals. Palestinian-Jordanian academic Joseph Massad has characterized the celebration of falafel and other dishes of Arab origin in American and European restaurants as Israeli, to be part of a broader trend of "colonial conquest". The Lebanese Industrialists' Association has raised assertions of copyright infringement against Israel concerning falafel.

See also

 Cuisine of the Mizrahi Jews
 Cuisine of the Sephardic Jews
 Jewish cuisine
 Ancient Israelite cuisine
 Kosher restaurant
 List of Israeli dishes
 List of restaurants in Israel
 Mediterranean diet
 Mediterranean cuisine
 Middle Eastern cuisine
 Levantine cuisine
 Mesopotamian cuisine
 Assyrian cuisine
 Cypriot cuisine
 Yemeni cuisine
 Egyptian cuisine
 Turkish cuisine
 North African cuisine

References

Bibliography
 Ansky, Sherry, and Sheffer, Nelli, The Food of Israel: Authentic Recipes from the Land of Milk and Honey, Hong Kong, Periplus Editions (2000) 
 Cooper, John, Eat and Be Satisfied: A Social History of Jewish Food, New Jersey, Jason Aronson Inc. (1993) 
 Ganor, Avi, and Maiberg, Ron, Taste of Israel: A Mediterranean Feast, BBS Publishing Corporation (1994) 
 Gur, Janna, The Book of New Israeli Food: A Culinary Journey, Schocken (2008) 
 Marks, Gil, The World of Jewish Cooking: More than 500 Traditional Recipes from Alsace to Yemen, New York, Simon & Schuster (1996) 
 Nathan, Joan, The Foods of Israel Today, Knopf (2001) 
 Roden, Claudia, The Book of Jewish Food: An Odyssey from Samarkand to New York, New York, Knopf (1997)

External links

Asif: Culinary Institute of Israel – non-profit organization and culinary center dedicated to exploring Israel's food culture
Israel Food Guide – information and recipes
Overview: Israeli Food – articles and recipes
Israeli Foods  – articles and recipes
Israeli Kitchen – food, wine and bread from the heart of Israel
The Treasure Box Project – preserving Jewish ethnic cuisines in Israel

 
Jewish culture
Jewish cuisine
Middle Eastern cuisine
Mediterranean cuisine