[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Molecular logic gate

A molecular logic gate is a molecule that performs a logical operation based on one or more physical or chemical inputs and a single output. The field has advanced from simple logic systems based on a single chemical or physical input to molecules capable of combinatorial and sequential operations such as arithmetic operations (i.e. moleculators and memory storage algorithms). Molecular logic gates work with input signals based on chemical processes and with output signals based on spectroscopic phenomena. 

Logic gates are the fundamental building blocks of electrical circuits. They can be used to construct digital architectures with varying degrees of complexity by a cascade of a few to several million logic gates. Logic gates are essentially physical devices that produce a singular binary output after performing logical operations based on Boolean functions on one or more binary inputs. The concept of molecular logic gates, extending the applicability of logic gates to molecules, aims to convert chemical systems into computational units. Over the past three decades, the field has evolved to realize several practical applications in molecular electronics, biosensing, DNA computing, nanorobotics, and cell imaging, among others.

Working principle 

For logic gates with a single input, there are four possible output patterns. When the input is 0, the output can be either a 0 or 1. When the input is 1, the output can again be 0 or 1. The four output bit patterns that can arise corresponds to a specific logic type: PASS 0, YES, NOT, and PASS 1. PASS 0 always outputs 0, whatever the input. PASS 1 always outputs 1, whatever the input. YES outputs a 1 when the input is 1, and NOT is the inverse of YES – it outputs a 0 when the input is 1.

AND, OR, XOR, NAND, NOR, XNOR, and INH are two-input logic gates. The AND, OR, and XOR gates are fundamental logic gates, and the NAND, NOR, and XNOR gates are complementary to AND, OR, and XOR gates, respectively. An INHIBIT (INH) gate is a special conditional logic gate that includes a prohibitory input. When the prohibitory input is absent, the output produced depends solely on the other input.

History and development 
One of the earliest ideas for the use of π-conjugated molecules in molecular computation was proposed by Ari Aviram from IBM in 1988. The motivation for this work was to develop theoretical models for mixed-valence type-σ-π-σ-bonded molecules and explore their stereochemical properties for potential applications in molecular devices. The system comprised two π-conjugated systems, 1 and 2, made of oligothiophenes joined by a spiro linkage, and connected to gold electrodes by thiol linkers. π-system 1 is non-conducting in its neutral state, whereas system 2 is electrically conducting in its radical cation form. The twisted structure of the system courtesy of the spiro linkage provides hindrance to the transport of electrons between the two π-systems. However, through electrodes directed toward the linkage, a strong electric field could facilitate electron transfer from system 1 to system 2, with the radical cation going the opposite way.

The first practical realization of molecular logic was courtesy of de Silva and coworkers in their seminal work, in which they constructed a molecular photoionic AND gate with a fluorescent output. While a YES molecular logic gate, as described previously, can convert signals from their ionic to photonic forms (hence the term “photoionic”), they are singular-input-singular-output systems. To build more complex molecular logic architectures, two-input gates, namely AND and OR gates, are needed. Some early works made some progress in this direction, but could not realize a complete truth table as their ionic forms (protonated) could not bind to the substrate in all cases. De Silva and co. constructed an anthracene-based AND gate made up of tertiary amine and benzo-18-crown-6 units, both of which were known to show photoinduced electron transfer (PET) processes. In the system shown, they both acted as receptors, connected to the anthracene-based fluorophore by alkyl spacers. The PET is quenched upon coordination with protons and sodium ions, respectively, for the two receptors, and would lead the anthracene unit to fluoresce. The truth table for an AND gate was completely realized as the system would exhibit a fluorescence output only in the presence of both protons and sodium ions in the system.

Examples of molecular logic gates

YES molecular logic gate 
An example of a YES logic gate comprises a benzo-crown-ether connected to a cyano-substituted anthracene unit. An output of 1 (fluorescence) is obtained only when sodium ions are present in the solution (indicating an input of 1). Sodium ions are encapsulated by the crown ether, resulting in a quenching of the PET process, and causing the anthracene unit to fluoresce.

AND molecular logic gate