[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1926 Nassau hurricane

rapid rise of rivers. Total losses in Puerto Rico were estimated at $2.350 million. The storm is known as the San Liborio hurricane for its effects in Puerto Rico. Estimated damage amounted to around $3 million in eastern Santo Domingo as the storm center passed over the eastern half of Hispaniola.

The Bahamas
The cyclone caused significant damage over much of the central Bahamas. The storm destroyed 500 homes—90% of the total—on Great Exuma Island, "swept away" roads and bridges, and ruined unharvested agricultural produce, including the entire corn crop. Dead livestock littered the landscape. On Eleuthera, the storm downed coconuts and other fruit crops; strong winds and high tides leveled 240 dwellings, 14 churches, and two schools on the island. On the island, the storm rendered most roads unusable and washed the primary causeways out to sea, leaving  of water covering the island. At least 74 drownings occurred on nearby Cat Island. The storm also wrecked most of the homes on the Berry Islands. On Bimini, the hurricane razed a lighthouse and a wireless station; strong winds tore roofs off several churches and other buildings. After the storm, the crew of the USS Bay Spring delivered over  of munitions and construction materials to aid the stricken residents. Nearby settlements on Andros lost most or all of their buildings; in some areas the storm ruined the sisal crop, felled 95% of the coconut trees, destroyed stone buildings, and left water more than  deep. Although damage reports are not clear, the storm caused the most significant losses on New Providence, especially in Nassau, where "some roofs were torn off entirely" and the storm was "more fearful and devastating than any most people can remember", according to an eyewitness account posted in the July issue of the Monthly Weather Review. Trees, power poles, and various debris littered streets, and many people were left homeless. Automobiles at Nassau were also reported damaged by the storm, and flooding was reported.

Florida
Areas near the point of landfall reported significant damage to buildings, crops, and communications wires, especially New Smyrna Beach. The storm disrupted telephone and electric service in Daytona Beach, while high tides destroyed beachfront businesses and sank watercraft. Points farther south along the Florida coast, such as Miami, received only a brush from the storm, resulting in rains and some light wind damage, mainly to fruit crops. The Palm Beach area reported extensive coastal flooding that damaged coastal structures. The storm was also reported to have caused damage around the point of landfall in Melbourne, where uprooted citrus trees and roofs blown off were reported. An observer on Merritt Island reported a heavy storm surge along the Indian River that damaged or destroyed homes, docks, and boats. Substantial rainfall attended the storm in its passage over Florida, peaking at  at Merritt Island. Damage estimates in Florida exceeded $2.5 million.

Records
Prior to the record-breaking 2005 Atlantic hurricane season, this was the strongest hurricane ever recorded in July until Hurricane Dennis of 2005, a strong Category 4 hurricane with top sustained winds of  and a pressure of , surpassed the intensity of the July 1926 hurricane.

See also

List of Atlantic hurricanes
 List of Florida hurricanes

References

Bibliography

External links
 July issue of the Monthly Weather Review
 Hurricane history of Nassau, Bahamas
 July 1926 storm compared to Dennis and Emily of July 2005
 Puerto Rico Hurricanes and Tropical Storms

Nassau
Category 4 Atlantic hurricanes
Hurricanes in the Bahamas
Hurricanes in Puerto Rico
Nassau Hurricane
20th century in Nassau, Bahamas