[Source: PubMed]

44. BMJ Open. 2023 Apr 19;13(4):e067332. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-067332.

Negative and protective experiences influencing the well-being of refugee 
children resettling in Germany: a qualitative study.

Abdelhamid S(1), Lindert J(2), Fischer J(3), Steinisch M(4).

Author information:
(1)Medical Faculty Mannheim, Center for Preventive Medicine and Digital Health 
(CPD), Division of General Medicine, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany 
shaymaa.abdelhamid@medma.uni-heidelberg.de.
(2)Department of Social Work and Health, University of Applied Sciences 
Emden/Leer, Emden, Germany.
(3)Medical Faculty Mannheim, Center for Preventive Medicine and Digital Health 
(CPD), Division of General Medicine, Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany.
(4)Medical Faculty Mannheim, Center for Preventive Medicine and Digital Health 
(CPD), Division of Public Health, Social and Preventive Medicine, Heidelberg 
University, Heidelberg, Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Conflict, forced migration and searching for safety in a foreign land 
are all experiences common to refugee children. They experience potentially 
traumatic events that are distinct from the general population, yet current 
adverse childhood experience (ACE) studies do not cover these events. Studies 
that do examine refugee children's experiences typically focus on a single stage 
of migration or adversities from the community, offering insight into only a 
fraction of their realities. This study aimed to identify potentially 
traumatising and protective experiences subjectively perceived as influencing 
refugee children's well-being from all stages of migration and all 
socio-ecological levels.
DESIGN: Qualitative study with thematic analysis of semi-structured individual 
and group interviews. Themes were organised within a socio-ecological model.
SETTING: Non-profit organisations, youth welfare facilities and societies that 
organise civic engagement for refugee families in the Rhine-Neckar region in 
Germany provided rooms where interviews could be conducted.
PARTICIPANTS: Refugee parents and children who spoke one of the four most common 
languages of those seeking asylum in Germany in 2018 were included. This study 
excluded refugees who were not fleeing a conflict area. Forty-seven refugee 
parents and 11 children (aged 8-17 years) from Syria, Iraq, Palestine, 
Afghanistan and Eritrea participated.
RESULTS: Eight major themes emerged from interviews including six reflecting 
potentially negative experiences and two potentially protective themes. These 
themes evolved from experiences such as family dispersion, displacement, 
rigorous immigration and national policies, as well as constructive parenting 
and community support.
CONCLUSION: It is increasingly important to identify these diverse experiences 
as the refugee population continues to grow, and the increased prevalence of 
poor health outcomes in refugee children continues to be widely documented. 
Identifying ACEs specifically relevant to refugee children could contribute to 
understanding potential pathways and could further serve as a starting point for 
tailored interventions.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2022-067332
PMCID: PMC10124287
PMID: 37076150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.