[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hedda Sterne

narratives of the post-war American art scene. At the time of her death, possibly the last surviving artist of the first generation of the New York School, Hedda Sterne viewed her widely varied works more as in flux than as definitive statements.

In 2006, the art historian Josef Helfenstein wrote:

From the very beginning of her outstanding but unknown career, Sterne maintained an individual profile in the face of Jackson Pollock, Willem de Kooning, Mark Rothko, and Barnett Newman, all of whom she knew personally. Her independence reflected an immense artistic and personal integrity. The astonishing variety of Sterne's work, spanning from her initial appropriation of surrealist techniques, to her investigation of conceptual painting, and her unprecedented installations in the 1960s, exemplify her adventurous spirit. Yet, the heterogeneity of her styles, and her complete disinterest in the commercially driven art world, have contributed to her exclusion from the canon. When the heroic male narratives of modernism begin to fade, we may, eventually, be ready to recognize this amazingly idiosyncratic body of work. Sterne's art is, indeed, a manifesto in favor of the untamable forces of the mind and the continually changing flux of life.

In 2016 her biography was included in the exhibition catalogue Women of Abstract Expressionism organized by the Denver Art Museum.

In 2016, Sterne's work was exhibited at Van Doren Waxter under the title "Machines 1947-1951". The New York Times wrote:

Her first show at the gallery, it features paintings and monotype prints that were made at the same moment: the decade after Ms. Sterne arrived in New York from Bucharest, Romania, having barely escaped the Nazis. These muted, mostly tan and blue canvases depict machines inspired by farm equipment in Vermont, and reveal her sometime alliance with the Surrealists (especially a fellow Romanian artist, Victor Brauner). Anthropomorphic and uncanny, the paintings in "Machines" also recall the work of Francis Picabia, Eduardo Paolozzi and Lee Lozano ... It is wonderful to see Ms. Sterne finally coming out from behind the famous photograph and being seriously considered as a painter.

Collections
 Albrecht-Kemper Museum of Art, St. Joseph, Missouri
 Amon Carter Museum of American Art
 Art Institute of Chicago
 Buffalo AKG Art Museum
 Metropolitan Museum
 Museum of Modern Art
 National Gallery of Art
 Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts
 Smithsonian American Art Museum
 Toledo Museum of Art
 Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Richmond
 Whitney Museum

See also
 List of centenarians (artists)

References

External links
 The New York Times obituary
 ArtDaily obituary
 Sarah Boxer, The Last Irascible, NY Review of Books
 Artcyclopedia.com on Hedda Sterne
 Images of Sterne's work from the Moma Collection
 The Hedda Sterne Foundation

Books
 Hedda Sterne;  Sarah L Eckhardt;  Josef Helfenstein;  Lawrence Rinder;  Krannert Art Museum.; University of Virginia. Uninterrupted flux : Hedda Sterne, a retrospective. (Champaign, Ill. : Krannert Art Museum and Kinkead Pavilion, 2006) (Worldcat link: Uninterrupted flux: Hedda Sterne, a retrospective) ; 
 Hedda Sterne; Queens Museum of Art. Hedda Sterne, forty years  : the Queens Museum, February 2–April 14, 1985. (Flushing, N.Y.  : The Museum, 1985) (Worldcat link: Hedda Sterne, forty years: the Queens Museum, February 2-April 14, 1985.) OCLC 12215770
 Michel Butor, Hedda Sterne, La Révolution dans l'Arboretum  (New York: Philippe Briet Editions, 1995). A collection of four poems by Michel Butor written for Hedda Sterne, and fifteen drawings by Hedda Sterne selected by Michel Butor from four series. Published in 500 copies, this work was printed in May 1995 in Albuquerque, New Mexico. The fifteen color plates are of the same dimensions as the original drawings. The set of twelve folios is presented in a white case made in Phoenix, Arizona.
 Cosmin Nasui, Hedda Sterne – The Discovery of Early Years 1910-1941 (PostModernism Museum Publishing House 2015, ). Study presenting the research on the Avangardist Romanian born artist Hedda Sterne's life and work in Europe, until she left for New Work in 1941. Dimensions: 6×9 in, 142 pgs.
 Eleanor C Munro. Originals : American women artists (New York : Da Capo Press, 2000) (Worldcat link: Originals: American women artists) ; 
 Marika Herskovic, New York School Abstract Expressionists Artists Choice by Artists, (New York School Press, 2000.) . p. 38

Articles
 PostModernism Museum presents works by Hedda Sterne at Art 15 London, Artdaily.org, May 21, 2015.
 Glueck, Grace. "Art in Review; Hedda Stern", "New York Times", March 10, 2006. Accessed April 13, 2008.
 Simon, Joan. "Patterns of thought: Hedda Sterne". Art in America, 95.2 2007. 110–59.
 Boxer, Sarah. "The Last Irascible," New York Review of Books, December 23, 2010.