[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science & Technology

in RPD.

Atomic and Nuclear Radiation Group
Fast Neutron Diffraction Group (FNDG)
Electronic and Magnetic Materials Group (EMMG)
Nuclear Track Studies Group
Nuclear Geology Group
Radiation Damage Group
Mathematical Physics Group (MPG)
Theoretical Physics Group (TPG)
Chemistry Research Division (CRD)

Nuclear Chemistry Division (NCD) - The Nuclear Chemistry Division was founded in 1966 by Dr. Iqbal Hussain Qureshi. As of today, the division is the largest Divisions of the PINSTECH comprising five major groups. Nuclear Chemistry Division has gained experience in the characterization of reactor grade and high purity materials by using advanced analytical techniques and it is dealing with environmental and health related problems.

Applied Chemistry Division
Laser Development Division

Directorate of System and Services
The Directorate of System and Services (DSS, headed by Dr. Matiullah, consists of 5 research divisions that are listed below:

Health Physics Division (HPD) - The Health Physics Division (HPD) was established in 1965 by the small team of health physicists. Founded as a group, it was made a division of PINSTECH in 1966. The division heavily involves its research in medical physics and using nuclear technology in medical and agricultural sciences. 
Nuclear Engineering Division (NED) - The Nuclear Engineering Division (NED, headed by Dr. Masood Iqbal, is one of the most prestigious and well-known Division of Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science and Technology (PINSTECH). The Division was established in 1965 with the objective to develop technical expertise mainly in the area of Nuclear Reactor Technology. The NED has been used to provide technical assistance and training to the field of reactor technology.
Electronics Maintenance Division (EMD) - The Electronics Division (ED, headed by Mr. Hameed, was formally established in 1967, recognizing its important role in scientific research and development at PINSTECH. The Division has rendered valuable service to the scientific effort by carrying out maintenance of scientific equipment and development of electronic instruments for use in research and development projects. In 1989, the ED was involved in the upgrade program of the PARR-I Reactor led by PAEC chairman Munir Ahmad Khan. The ED had supplied and developed electronic material and system for the PARR-I Reactor, and had successfully converted PARR-I to utilize HEU fuel into LEU fuel. An outstanding achievement ED was the design and engineering of nuclear instrumentation of research reactor ( PARR-1) which required a very high degree of sophistication and reliability.

General Services Division (GSD) - The General Services Division (GSD) is responsible for the routine operational research, maintenance repairs of the laboratories, upkeep and development of engineering services such as civil, electrical, mechanical workshops, air conditioning as well as water supply to PINSTECH and annexed labs.

Computer Division (CD) - Computer Division (CD) was established in January 1980 with an aim to provide service and support to the researchers and scientists of PINSTECH in the area of computer hardware and software. Although computer division is still providing computer hardware and software services but it has gradually shifted its activities from being only a service provider division to an important design and development division.

Directorate of Technology
The Directorate of Technology (D-TECH) consists of 3 divisions that are  Materials Division (MD), Isotope Application Division (IAD), and the Isotope Production Division (IPD).This is currently overseen by Dr. Gulzar Hussain Zahid, Chief Engineer.

Materials Division (MD) - Materials Division (MD) was established in 1973, with aim of to provide technical assistance to other PAEC's projects on development, production and characterization of materials.
Isotope Application Division (IAD) - The Isotope Application Division (IAD) was established in PINSTECH by Dr. Naeem Ahmad Khan in early 1971. Having known as the problem solver in the institute, the IAD is responsible for solving the problems in Isotope Hydrolog, Environmental Pollution, Non-Destructive Testing, Industrial Applications, Life Sciences, and Isotope Geology.  IAD also extends expert services to solve relevant problems faced by the industrial sector and different organizations.
Isotope Production Division (IPD) - The Isotope Production Division (IPD) It contains Molly Group, Generator Production group, Kit production Group. IPD also involves in modification of exiting isotope production facility.