[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New immigrants in Hong Kong

tudents may rise owing to the disruptions in family relations and changes in family ecologies.  It is also claimed that home-school co-operation can hardly be established if the mother, who has arrived in Hong Kong, does not know Cantonese.

Influx of mainland women coming to Hong Kong to give birth

In the 2001 case Director of Immigration v. Chong Fung Yuen, the Court of Final Appeal held that a boy born in Hong Kong to two mainland parents neither of whom was a Hong Kong resident nevertheless was entitled to the right of abode. 
 
The number of children born to non-Hong Kong permanent residents in Hong Kong hospitals has increased almost 100 times from 2001 to the first 10 months of 2006. The number of babies born to mainland mothers soared to 20,000 in the first 10 months of 2006 from less than 9,000 in 2002. Thousands of women from the mainland come to Hong Kong to give birth because it entitles their babies to permanent residency there. The benefits include a free education and subsidised health care as part of Hong Kong's British-inspired welfare policies. Hong Kong residents pay as little as $12.80 to give birth at a hospital because of extensive government subsidies.

To limit mainland mothers coming to give birth, starting 1 February 2007, pregnant women from the mainland have to pay $5,000 for their hospital care before they are even allowed to enter Hong Kong. Under the new release rules, immigration officers will be instructed to turn back any mainlander who appears to be at least seven months pregnant and has not paid.

Opposition
Politician Gary Fan has taken an anti-immigration stance, Fan has been frequently calling for the government to take back the approval rights on One-way Permits from Chinese authorities and to reduce the quota of such permits. Fan also refers to immigrants from mainland China and the quota of 150 daily permits as "the root of the housing problem".

In January 2013, Gary Fan and Claudia Mo formed a group called "HK First". They co-sponsored a controversial ad which claimed that reducing immigration would help the people of Hong Kong to get to the bottom of the housing problem, while rejecting claims of bias or discrimination against mainlanders, despite condemnation from the Equal Opportunities Commission. Fan later introduced a motion on adhering to the need to "put Hong Kong people first" in formulating policies, but the motion was ultimately defeated.

Many political parties in Hong Kong are opposed to large Chinese immigration due to freedoms and cultural reasons and locals resources,  especially in primary schools, public housing and certain jobs. these parties include Neo Democrats, Hong Kong Indigenous and Youngspiration.

A survey in 2012 found that 50.6 per cent of Hong Kongers thought the number of mainland immigrants should decrease. Only 16% thought immigration should increase.

See also 
Hong Kong drifter
Mainland Chinese Hongkongers
Mainlanders (Hong Kong)

References

Ku, A. 2001. “Hegemonic Construction, Negotiation, and Displacement: The Struggle   over Right of Abode in Hong Kong.” International Journal of Cultural Studies, no.4(3): 259–278.
Kuah, K.E. 1999. "The split-family phenomenon: a new immigrant family structure.” in G. Wang and J. Wong (eds). Hong Kong in China: The Challenges of Transition. Singapore: Time Academic Press. pp. 203–230.
Kuah, K.E.; and Wong, S.L. 2001. “Dialect and Territory-Based Associations: Cultural and Identity Brokers in Hong Kong.” in P.T. Lee (eds). Hong Kong Reintegrating with China:P, Cultural and Social Dimensions. Hong Kong: Hong Kong University Press.
Rao, N., Yuen, M.T. 2001. “Accommodations for Assimilation: Supporting Newly Arrived Children from the Chinese Mainland to Hong Kong” in Childhood Education, no. 77 (5): 313–318
Siu, Y.M. 1996. “Population and Immigration.” in M.K. Nyaw and S.M. Li (eds.) The Other Hong Kong Report 1996. Hong Kong: The Chinese University Press. pp. 326–347.
So, A.Y. 2002. Social Relations between Pearl River Delta and Hong Kong : A Study of Cross-border Families. Hong Kong: Centre for China Urban and Regional Studies, Hong Kong Baptist University.
Tang, H.H. 2002. New Arrival Students in Hong Kong: Adaptation and School Performance.  M.Phil thesis, Department of Sociology, The University of Hong Kong.
Wong, C.Y. 2000. The Family Functioning of Newly Arrived Families in Hong Kong. Hong Kong: Hong Kong Family Welfare Society.

External links 
Article "Hong Kong: Children, China" at Migration News

Society of Hong Kong
Ethnic groups in Hong Kong
Euphemisms