[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# UK deaths in custody

over 30 organisations. During the 10-month delay to publish the review, the deaths of Rashan Charles and Edson Da Costa in contact with London's Metropolitan Police reignited widespread public concern about deaths in custody, particularly those concerning restraint related deaths of young Black men.

Deaths of children and young adults in prisons
Up to date statistics on the deaths of young adults in prisons are kept by Inquest on their website. The Youth Justice Board (YJB) reports on deaths of children in prisons in their remit (YOI and STC).

There have been a small number of little publicised deaths in secure children's homes, as well as deaths in STCs  and YOIs. 
 
In the year ending March 2016, there were no self-inflicted deaths of children (aged under 18) in youth justice prisons according to the YJB. There was one death in July 2015, of 16-year-old Daniel Adewole at HMYOI Cookham Wood. Daniel's death was classified as death by 'natural causes' as he died following an epileptic seizure, however the coroner at his inquest highlighted failures of prison staff in properly responding to the death. Coroner Patricia Harding concluded that prison officers should have entered the cell of Daniel Adewole much sooner as officers waited 38 minutes after they first received no response at Daniel's cell door, before opening his door where he was found unconscious following an epileptic seizure.

Prior to that, there were three deaths during the year ending March 2012. Between the years ending March 2006 and March 2016, there were six deaths.

Between 1990 and 2004, 25 children killed themselves in prison and two died in secure training centres. On 19 April 2004 a 15-year-old boy, Gareth Myatt, died while being restrained by guards at Rainsbrook Secure Training Centre which at the time was run by G4S. Several months afterwards on 9 August 2004, Adam Rickwood, 14, died of a self-inflicted death at the (now closed) Hassockfield Secure Training Centre, hours after being restrained by staff. The inquest jury into Adam's death did not find a direct link between the restraint and his death, but it was clear that this was a distressing incident and critics drew links between the incident and his suicide.

Harris Review: Changing Prisons, Saving Lives 

Chaired by Lord Toby Harris and published in July 2015, the Harris Review is an independent review into self-inflicted deaths in custody of 18 to 24 year olds from 1 April 2007 to 31 December 2013. It made 108 recommendations to strengthen the protection of young people in prisons and support learning after self-inflicted deaths in prison. The report was welcomed by campaigners, calling it a 'watershed moment'. However the Government responded in December 2017, rejecting 33 of the recommendations and simply stating 'agree', 'agree in part', 'agree in principle', or claiming the recommendation was beyond its remit or 'subject to wider reforms for the majority of the rest. The majority of recommendations are yet to be implemented.

List of campaigns around people who have died in custody in the UK
Terence MacSwiney
Thomas Ashe
Michael Fitzgerald
Frank Stagg
Michael Gaughan
Patrick "Giuseppe" Conlon
Bobby Sands
Death of Sarah Reed
Death of Sean Rigg
Death of Habib 'Paps' Ullah
Death of Roger Sylvester
Death of Leon Patterson
Death of Rocky Bennett
Death of Christopher Alder
Death of Brian Douglas
Death of Joy Gardner
Death of Ricky Bishop
Death of Sarah Campbell
Death of Mark Nunes
Death of Paul Coker
Death of Paul Jemmott
Death of Harry Stanley
Death of Glenn Howard
Death of Mikey Powell
Death of Jason McPherson
Death of Lloyd Butler
Death of Azelle Rodney
Death of Habib Ullah
Death of Olaseni Lewis
Death of David Emmanuel (aka Smiley Culture)
Death of Kingsley Burrell
Death of Demetre Fraser
Death of Mark Duggan
Death of Anthony Grainger
Death of Sheku Bayoh
Killing of Alton Manning

References

Prisoners who died in British detention