[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Popham

ts could be completed. Under this program, construction of Fort Baldwin on the headland above Fort Popham began in 1905 with longer-range guns, which eventually rendered Fort Popham obsolete. However, at the time Fort Baldwin was built, Fort Popham remained important due to the minefield facilities.

Fort Popham was probably part of the Coast Defenses of the Kennebec command at some point. However, references indicate this command was combined with the Coast Defenses of Portland at some time prior to 1917. During World War I, Forts Popham and Baldwin were garrisoned by about 200 men of the 13th and 29th Coast Artillery companies of the Coast Defenses of Portland. Although Fort Baldwin was disarmed in 1924, the mine facilities at Fort Popham may have remained operational through World War II, during which Fort Baldwin was rearmed with towed artillery.

Present
The fort, located two miles (3 km) from popular Popham Beach State Park, is open to the public as Fort Popham State Historic Site. It was added to the National Register of Historic Places as Fort Popham Memorial on October 1, 1969, reference number 69000012.

Gallery

See also 
 National Register of Historic Places listings in Sagadahoc County, Maine

References

Further reading 
For this fort's role in Jefferson's embargo, see Smith, Joshua M. "Maine's Embargo Forts", Maine History, Vol. 44, No. 2 (April 2009), pp. 143–154.

For this fort's role in the War of 1812, see Burrage, Rev. Henry S. "Captain John Wilson and Some Military Matters in the War of 1812", Collections and Proceedings of the Maine Historical Society, second series, 10 (1899), pp. 403–429.

External links 

 Fort Popham State Historic Site Department of Agriculture, Conservation and Forestry 
 Coast Defense Study Group, information on all US forts
 American Forts Network, lists forts in the US, former US territories, Canada, and Central America
 FortWiki, lists most CONUS and Canadian forts
 Information and photos about Fort Popham (personal blog)
 Information and photos about Fort Popham (unofficial Maine Historic Sites page)

Infrastructure completed in 1869
Popham
Tourist attractions in Sagadahoc County, Maine
Protected areas of Sagadahoc County, Maine
Maine state historic sites
Popham
1869 establishments in Maine
Closed installations of the United States Army
National Register of Historic Places in Sagadahoc County, Maine
Popham Colony