[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carl Dickinson

atford career. He scored his first goal for the "Hornets" on 27 September against fellow relegation strugglers Millwall, in a 2–1 win at Vicarage Road. He also scored a long-range strike against Bristol City in a 2–2 draw on 29 November. He ended the 2011–12 campaign with 41 appearances to his name.

On 22 October 2012, Dickinson re-joined former club Portsmouth on an initial month-long loan. Manager Michael Appleton was replaced by Guy Whittingham during this spell, and Whittingham decided not to extend Dickinson's loan. He played five games, which all ended in defeats, and he picked up four yellow cards. On 12 February 2013, Dickinson joined Coventry City on a 28-day loan, in a move that reunited him with former Barnsley boss Mark Robins. He started six League One games for both Portsmouth and Coventry. On 24 July 2013, Dickinson had his contract at Watford cancelled by mutual consent, after being deemed surplus to requirements by manager Gianfranco Zola.

Port Vale
Dickinson joined Port Vale in July 2013, signing a one-year contract. Manager Micky Adams stated that: "Carl has performed at a higher level than League One and that experience will be invaluable for us, especially as he can perform at centre-back as well as left-back." He was well received by Vale supporters despite previously being a popular player at local rivals Stoke. He opened the 2013–14 season in a centre-back partnership with Chris Robertson, and said he "enjoyed the challenge" and that "if I can make centre-half my shirt, happy days." He managed to start every game until picking up a suspension in mid-October. His performances made him a strong contender for the club's Player of the Year award and made him a popular player with supporters. At the end of the season he signed a new two-year contract.

He was appointed as club captain in August 2014, taking the armband from the departed Doug Loft. He scored his first goal for the "Valiants" and only his fourth career goal in a 3–1 victory at Doncaster Rovers on 16 August, earning himself a mention on the Football League team of the week in the process. However, he was dropped from the starting line-up two months later after admitting "I haven't been good enough for the standards I set myself every day". After returning to the first team he stated that a talk with manager Rob Page helped him to calm down as he had put "a bit too much pressure" on himself after taking over the captaincy. He remained in poor form however, but said the criticism from the fans did not affect him after providing the assist for Tom Pope in the win against nearby rivals Walsall on 14 February.

He was an ever-present for the first 26 games of the 2015–16 season before being sent off for an off the ball incident in a 2–1 defeat at Rochdale on 28 November; earlier in the game he also gave away a penalty though opposition manager Keith Hill admitted Dickinson had made an "excellent challenge... I think the referee has got that wrong". Whilst serving his suspension he defended his teammate's from booing, stating that negative fans who booed should "shut up and get behind the team". He was offered a new contract in the summer, though the offer included a "considerable pay cut". He announced his departure from the club in June 2016. Dickinson was named as Port Vale's second best left-back of the 2010s in a public poll taken in January 2020 by The Sentinel; he received 40% of the vote, 10% behind Lee Collins.

Notts County
Dickinson signed a two-year contract with EFL League Two side Notts County in June 2016. He and the club endured a difficult 2016–17 campaign, which Dickinson said was the most "mentally challenging" of his career after the "Magpies" faced a change of ownership, manager and an unexpected relegation battle. He had expected to help lead a promotion charge under manager John Sheridan, but ended the season at Meadow Lane fighting on-loan Arsenal defender Marc Bola for the left-back spot under new boss Kevin Nolan. During the 2017–18 season he faced a battle with Daniel Jones for the left-back spot. He made 32 appearances by the end of the 2017–18 campaign and was released in May 2018.