[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# I'billin

ges. The town was regularly searched for people who were not registered in the November 1948 census. On 8 January 1949 villagers from I'billin were amongst a group of 128 men, women and children, who were expelled into the West Bank at 'Ara. The town remained under martial law until 1966.

Education

In 1965 Abuna Elias Chacour, an Arab Christian from Kafr Bir'im, later Archbishop of Galilee, established a school open to all local children, regardless of religious affiliation. This developed into the Mar Elias Educational Institutions, an educational complex consisting of a kindergarten, elementary school, junior high school, high school. And formerly used to include a college and a university. The educational complex is located on Jabal al-Ghoul (Hill of Demons), on property belonging to the Melkite Church. The hill has been renamed Jabal al-Nour (Hill of Light).

"Mar Elias University" was established in 2003, claiming to be the first Arab university in Israel, though it is not officially holding a University status. It is recognized by the Council for Higher Education in Israel as a campus and operates as a branch of the University of Indianapolis in the United States. But the Israeli government ordered its closure hence it was turned into Mar Elias High School, part of the Mar Elias Educational Institutions.

Economy
Ibillin historically depended on agriculture, especially the growth of sheets and vegetables (most notably cucumbers). Ibillin is also one of only municipalities in Israel that are allowed to raise pigs and to house pig farms on its land and it exports to multiple Arab Christian and Russian restaurants and factories all throughout Israel who sell pork products (most notably the Russian "Marcel Brothers - אחים מרסל" company based in Haifa).

Ibillin also relies on tourism to the Daoud Courtyard Open Air Museum, where one can visit the house of Saint Mariam Bawardi.

Notable businesses in Ibillin:

Naser Recycling ( "Naser Company for Waste Recycling", Hebrew: ), the only privately owned waste management company in Israel. Based in Ibillin, it owns and operates a waste handling complex (located in Ibillin) that includes a municipal solid waste separation plant, a compost plant, a landfill and an electricity generator powered by the methane gas generated by the waste. The company also used to formerly operate a landfill located in Hatzor HaGlilit. The company is owned by Samir Naser Daoud and is one of few automatic waste separation plants in the Middle East operated by Arabs.
Mar Elias Educational Institutions (): educational complex consisting of a kindergarten, elementary school, junior high school, high school. The Institution is owned by Abuna Elias Chacour.
Daoud Courtyard  (, Hebrew: ): One of the last heritage complexes in the Galilee villages. The complex is 120 years old and includes the house of Saint Mariam Bawardi, the Daoud family house and garden (one of the first and oldest buildings still standing in Ibillin built during the British Mandate of Palestine), and a Palestinian olive oil press.
Shaheen Honey ().

Notable people

 Aqil Agha (c. 1820–1870), Galilean strongman
 Mariam Baouardy (1846–1878), Catholic saint
 Elias Chacour (born 1939) Former Archbishop of the Melkite Catholic Church for Akko, Haifa, Nazareth, and all Galilee
 Shawqi Habib (1929–2018), (:ar:شوقي_حبيب) Chemistry Teacher, Writer, Poet, First Arab to graduate from the Technion Israel Institute of Technology
 Saleh Saleem (born 1953), former politician
 Miriam Toukan (born 1982), singer

Gallery

See also
 Arab localities in Israel
Mariam Baouardy
Mar Elias Educational Institutions
Galilee

References

Bibliography

 

, London,

External links
Welcome To I'billin
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 5: IAA, Wikimedia commons
Local Council of Ibillin (Arabic)
Pilgrims of Ibillin (organization in the USA)
Daoud Courtyard, Ibillin Museum and location of the house of St. Mariam Baouardy.

Arab localities in Israel
Arab Christian communities in Israel
Local councils in Northern District (Israel)