[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Youssef Nada

n of Ticino. The road to enter his property, and home, crossed through Switzerland. This is why his being banned from Swiss territory placed him in a state of virtual house arrest for a number of years.  It explains why the Swiss SECO made it legal entanglements with the Swiss government inevitable.

Personal life
Nada has a son Hazim Nada, born in Silver Spring, Maryland, who founded a commodities-trading business in 2008 to support his studies. He became victim of a UAE funded smear campaign by a Geneva-based private intelligence firm named Alp Services of Mario Brero, exposed in a March 2023 article in the New Yorker. Allegations that his business was a cover for a Muslim Brotherhood cell by a journalist Sylvain Besson and Africa Intelligence prompted World-Check to flag him, so banks stopped to service him and eventually destroyed his business.

Claims about Nada

Meeting in Algeria
A 1986 article in London-based Asharq Al-Awsat reported that Nada, along with Ahmed Ben Bella, a former president of Algeria, held a secret meeting at his Switzerland home attended by "major figures in some of the world’s most violent groups."  Other attendees of the meeting included the "Blind Sheikh" Omar Abdel-Rahman and Sayyed Mohammad Hussein Fadlallah, a leading Lebanese Shi'ite Muslim scholar.

In an interview on al-Jazeera, Nada himself vehemently denied any such thing to have occurred  citing that well-known hatred between the individuals made such a meeting implausible. Nada claimed further that the London-based newspaper which made the allegations had links to Arab governments opposed to the Muslim Brotherhood.

"The Project"
In a November 2001 raid on offices and residences associated with Youssef Nada, journalist Sylvain Besson, who Nada accuses of targeting him with nefarious conspira ies, claims that an untitled document, written in Arabic and dated 1 December 1982, ostensibly outlining a plan to infiltrate and defeat Western countries was found. Later referred to as "The Project" by  the Swiss-French journalist. While the document itself has no mention whatsoever of the Muslim Brotherhood and is neither proved to have come from Nada's house (see Nada's interview at Al-Jazeera Shahed Ala Al-Asr), as claimed by the conspiracy theory of the book, the author adds the title the Project to such document and concludes on his own inferencing that it is to be deemed  a Muslim Brotherhood document. Mr. Nada totally disputes both the document and the conspiracies (see Al-Jazeera Bila Hudud interviews).

The accusations in the book follow lines very similar to those of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion.

Nada's rebuttal
Nada said that the aforementioned stories were fabrications, made for political purposes. This is a claim at least partly supported by the findings of the Swiss and Italian investigations, which cited that the accusations against him appeared to have political roots.

Beyond this, Nada says that from mid-1997, numerous western journalists appeared to be acting in the service of various foreign intelligence agencies in the Middle East, supporting claims that benefitted certain regimes in the Arab world and that such journalists knew well were false. The names he focuses on are Sylvain Besson, Guido Olimpio, Richard Labaviere, Mark Hosenball, Michael Isikof and Victor Comras, Lorenzo Vidino all journalists who have pushed defamatory allegations against Nada and which were found baseless by all the authorities who investigated them.

Terror investigations

Swiss and Italian investigation, 2001–2005
Although the claims against him were made by the United States, the nature of the UN terror sanctions program made Nada's treatment as a terror suspect international.  Therefore, most of the actions taken in his direction were in the hands of Swiss and Italian authorities, due to his residential and business linkages to the two countries.

In November 2001, the Swiss government froze 24 bank accounts associated with Nada, and the Swiss federal prosecutor's office, led by Claude Nicati, began an aggressive inquiry into the activities of Nada and Taqwa co-director Ali Ghaleb Himmat. Both men repeatedly denied any connection with Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaeda network.

Ultimately the Federal Court in Bellinzona ordered the prosecutor to close the investigations, having produced no evidence to support any form of charges.

Swiss and Italy drop investigation, ask UN to remove his terror-listing
On 1 June 2005, the Swiss case was dropped due to lack of evidence. The Prosecutor was admonished by the Court for opening a file on Nada without any specific reason. The Italian case was closed in 2007, after a lengthy investigation whereby the Prosecutor stated that the grounds for opening the case appeared to be more political and agenda-driven rather than judicial or evidence based. Italian premier newspaper Corriere della Sera reported on this.