[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nicholas Sheehy

e witnesses who had previously testified against Sheehy also testified in this trial, in addition to Mrs. Mary Brady (Moll Dunlea), an "abandoned character". The evidence was widely considered as fabricated by local Anglo-Irish landowners and the Anglican Vicar of Clogheen in south County Tipperary.

Evidence was presented in favour of Sheehy, that he was "a respectable man and a man of property" by a Mr Keating, who said that Father Sheehy was in his house at the time of the murder. Mr Keating's testimony was dismissed in court by a Protestant clergyman (Mr Hewitson), who declared Keating was unreliable. Mr Keating was then arrested and sent to Kilkenny Gaol based on Mr Hewitson's allegations to frustrate his giving evidence. Although the judge was later much criticised for his conduct of the trial, it has been argued that his summing up was actually favourable to the accused.

Sheehy was convicted and sentenced to be hanged, drawn and quartered. He asserted his innocence before his death of all the charges made against him. He said in his final speech, after being sentenced to death, that he was being put to death for a crime which had never been committed; the murder victim (John Bridge) was alleged to be in Cork after the date of the "crime" and it is thought that he emigrated to Newfoundland.

Sheehy's attorney, on hearing the sentence of death, said to the judge, magistrates and jurors, "If there is any justice in heaven, you will die roaring."

Execution 
Sheehy was hanged at Clonmel on 15 March 1766. Others accused were also convicted for the murder of John Bridge and executed (3 May 1766), including Edmond Sheehy, cousin of the priest, and Ned Meehan, a prominent Catholic farmer who refused to bear witness against Sheehy when offered his liberty in prison. Sheehy was hanged on a scaffold in Clonmel opposite St. Peters and Paul's Church, where there was a plaque to commemorate his death. His head was then severed and stuck on a spike over Clonmel Gaol, as a warning against agrarian violence and remained above the porch at Clonmel jail for ten years.

His sister, Catherine Sheehy Burke (whose husband Richard was cousin to Edmund Burke), eventually obtained her brother's body and had him buried in the graveyard at Shanrahan.

Legacy 
To this day, Father Sheehy is regarded as a martyr. In the late 19th century and early 20th century, there was an effort to have him canonised, which reportedly was dropped after the records collected for his cause were destroyed in a fire.

His trial and execution inflamed and polarised nationalist opinion, and had a great effect on his cousin Edmund Burke.

People visited his grave at Shanrahan cemetery near Clogheen to take clay, because it was rumoured to have healing powers. It is claimed that out of respect, birds didn't peck his head for the ten years it was left on the spike.

Notes

External links 
 'The Case of Fr. Nicholas Sheehy. Priest - Patriot - Martyr'
 A photo of Nicholas Sheehy's grave

1728 births
1766 deaths
18th-century Roman Catholic martyrs
Irish land reform activists
Irish rebels
18th-century Irish Roman Catholic priests
Executed Roman Catholic priests
People from County Tipperary
Executed people from County Tipperary
People executed by the Kingdom of Great Britain
Deaths by hanging