[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bayan Ko

splendor".

Pag-ibig ko sa kanyang palad // nag-alay ng ganda’t dilag as sung by Asin and others, may be rendered as "My love, as per her fate, offered up beauty and splendor to her".

Asin also replaces makita kang sakdal laya "to see you absolutely free" with makita kang malaya "to see you free".

Arrangements
While largely unchanged from the De Guzmán arrangement, the song has renditions by different composers and singers, notably by Lucio D. San Pedro (National Artist for music), Asin, and Freddie Aguilar. Aguilar's cover is one of the most famous renditions of the song; an often overlooked detail is that the instrumental section of this version is Pilipinas Kong Mahal, another Filipino patriotic song. Asin's rendition included another de Jesús work, Kay Sarap Mabuhay Sa Sariling Bayan, as a preluding stanza to the main lyrics. Sung mostly by Leftist groups, the stanza is included as the bridge replacing Pilipinas Kong Mahal with the prelude of Ang Bayan kong Hirang.

On 7 November 1988, an a capella version by Josephine Roberto, featuring the cast of That's Entertainment, was used for Towering Power: A Musical Dedication, which was for the launching of GMA Network's 777-foot tower.

Allison Opaon sang a Japanese version in Yokohama on 18 November 2006, during a concert-rally against political killings in the Philippines.

This song has also been arranged by Robert Prizeman and sung by the vocal group Libera when touring the Philippines.

Domino de Pio Teodosio (with guitar) sang a special arrangement of Bayan Ko by Reginald Vince M. Espíritu (oboe) and Anjo Inacay (cello) at the John F. Kennedy School of Government on 7 March 2011. The performance, which was for visiting world leaders during the school's International Week, was organized by the Philippine Caucus of the Kennedy School.

In popular culture
In 1984, the song title was used for the movie Bayan Ko: Kapit sa Patalim directed by Lino Brocka. The song was censored from the film as one of the conditions for the film's release in the Philippines.
In 2013, the song was used for a series of the same title.

References

Asian anthems
Filipino patriotic songs
Tagalog-language songs