[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Senate (Belize)

t convening after a general election. The person elected president may be a senator (provided he does not concurrently hold a ministerial position) or a person external to the Senate. The vice-president must be a member of the Senate who does not hold a ministerial portfolio. (Constitution, Art. 66)

Current senators 
(as of November 12, 2020)
 Hon. Carolyn Trench Sandiford President
 Hon. Collet Montejo, PUP Vice-President
Hon. Eamon Courtenay, PUP
Hon.Isabel Bennett, PUP
Hon.Christopher Coye, PUP
Hon.Erica Jang, PUP
Hon.Bevinton Cal, PUP
Hon.Michael Peyrefitte, UDP
Hon.Aldo Salazar, UDP
Hon.Sheena Pitts, UDP
Hon.Kevin Herrera
Hon.Elena Smith
Hon.Bishop Alvin Benguche
Hon.Osmany Salas

Recent history 
Senators occasionally use their position as a springboard for election to the lower house which really wields much of the legislature's power. Most senators who do go on to contest elections usually have the backing of their party establishment.

In October 2006, three new senators, Esther Ayuso Ramirez, Deborah Mencias-McMillan and Diego Bol were appointed on the advice of the leader of the opposition to replace outgoing Senators Marcel Cardona, Ambrose Tillett and Arthur Roches. This frees Roches and Cardona to run for House seats in 2008.

In June 2007, as a result of an Executive reshuffle, Eamon Courtenay was removed as a senator. He was replaced by Ambassador to the United States and OAS, Lisa Shoman (ironically, they were both respectively informed of their demotion and promotion by phone while participating in a meeting in Panama.) Courtenay and Minister of Natural Resources John Briceno were fired on Monday June 4.

September 2007 brings more upheaval to the Senate. Channel 5 reported that Anthony Chanona resigned over disagreements with a recent bill argued before the Senate. His replacement, David Hoy, was named in November.

The 2008 Belizean constitutional referendum saw a majority of those voting support an elected senate but on a much lower turnout than in the simultaneous general election; the newly elected UDP government decided not to implement the reform.

Following the 2012 elections, Collet Montejo and Karen Boden joined the long-standing Shoman but were shunted out in 2014 in favour of Andrews and Sylvestre. Montejo, Andrews and Sylvestre are expected to run for seats in the next general elections.

See also 
List of presidents of the Senate of Belize

References

External links 
 http://www.ipu.org/parline/reports/2032_A.htm

 
1981 establishments in Belize
Belize