[Source: PubMed]

36. Glob Health Res Policy. 2023 Sep 5;8(1):38. doi: 10.1186/s41256-023-00319-w.

Infectious disease control: from health security strengthening to health systems 
improvement at global level.

Zhang XX(#)(1)(2), Jin YZ(#)(3)(4), Lu YH(5)(6), Huang LL(7), Wu CX(8)(9), Lv 
S(1)(2)(7), Chen Z(10)(11), Xiang H(12)(13), Zhou XN(14)(15)(16).

Author information:
(1)School of Global Health, Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China.
(2)One Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University-The University of Edinburgh, 
Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Global Health, School of Public Health, Peking University, 
Beijing, People's Republic of China.
(4)Institute for Global Health and Development, Peking University, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China.
(5)School of Public Health, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China.
(6)Global Health Institute, Fudan University, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China.
(7)National Institute of Parasitic Diseases at Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research), NHC Key 
Laboratory of Parasite and Vector Biology, WHO Collaborating Centre for Tropical 
Diseases, Shanghai, People's Republic of China.
(8)Department of Global Health, School of Public Health, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(9)Global Health Institute, Wuhan University, Wuhan, People's Republic of China.
(10)Department of Health Policy and Management, College of Public Health, 
University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA.
(11)School of Economics, Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences, University 
of Nottingham Ningbo China, Ningbo, Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.
(12)Department of Global Health, School of Public Health, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, People's Republic of China. xianghao@whu.edu.cn.
(13)Global Health Institute, Wuhan University, Wuhan, People's Republic of 
China. xianghao@whu.edu.cn.
(14)School of Global Health, Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, People's Republic of 
China. zhouxn1@chinacdc.cn.
(15)One Health Center, Shanghai Jiao Tong University-The University of 
Edinburgh, Shanghai, People's Republic of China. zhouxn1@chinacdc.cn.
(16)National Institute of Parasitic Diseases at Chinese Center for Disease 
Control and Prevention (Chinese Center for Tropical Diseases Research), NHC Key 
Laboratory of Parasite and Vector Biology, WHO Collaborating Centre for Tropical 
Diseases, Shanghai, People's Republic of China. zhouxn1@chinacdc.cn.
(#)Contributed equally

Since the twenty first century, the outbreaks of global infectious diseases have 
caused several public health emergencies of international concern, imposing an 
enormous impact on population health, the economy, and social development. The 
COVID-19 pandemic has once again exposed deficiencies in existing global health 
systems, emergency management, and disease surveillance, and highlighted the 
importance of developing effective evaluation tools. This article outlines 
current challenges emerging from infectious disease control from the perspective 
of global health, elucidated through influenza, malaria, tuberculosis, and 
neglected tropical diseases. The discordance among government actors and absent 
data sharing platforms or tools has led to unfulfilled targets in health system 
resilience and a capacity gap in infectious disease response. The current 
situation calls for urgent action to tackle these threats of global infectious 
diseases with joined forces through more in-depth international cooperation and 
breaking governance barriers from the purview of global health. Overall, a 
systematic redesign should be considered to enhance the resilience of health 
systems, which warrants a great need to sustain capacity-building efforts in 
emergency preparedness and response and raises an emerging concern of data 
integration in the concept of One Health that aims to address shared health 
threats at the human-animal-environment interface.

© 2023. Wuhan University Global Health Institute.

DOI: 10.1186/s41256-023-00319-w
PMCID: PMC10478312
PMID: 37670331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Hao Xiang and Zhuo Chen are on the editorial 
board of Global Health Research and Policy. They were not involved in the 
peer-review or handling of the manuscript. The authors have no other competing 
interests to disclose.