[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dika Newlin

t to Montclair State University to direct the Electronic Music Laboratory. In 1976, she resigned to spend two years writing and composing, and then in 1978 joined Virginia Commonwealth University to develop a new doctoral program in music. She also worked as the university's composition coordinator.

Newlin, among the last surviving students of Schoenberg, was "one of the pioneers of Schoenberg research in America," according to Dr. Sabine Feisst, a professor of musicology at Arizona State University. Newlin later wrote a biography of Schoenberg for the Encyclopædia Britannica, in addition to many other articles and translations on musical subjects.

Newlin's compositions include three operas, a piano concerto, a chamber symphony, and numerous chamber, vocal and mixed-media works. Her mixed-media compositions are largely lost because no one recorded them on video; sound recordings exist in the University of North Texas Music Library.

Newlin also translated many of Schoenberg's works from German to English. Newlin herself sang in a costumed performance of Schoenberg's Pierrot Lunaire, which she had translated into English, in Lubbock, Texas in 1999.

Punk rocker
Starting in the mid-1980s, Newlin unveiled a new persona in the form of a leather-clad punk rocker with bright orange hair.  In this guise, she appeared in horror movies by Richmond producer Michael D. Moore. In director Tim Ritter's 1995 film Creep, she played a person wearing a leather motorcycle jacket who puts poison in baby food at a supermarket.

That same year, Moore directed the documentary about Newlin titled Dika: Murder City.  The title was taken from a song Newlin had performed in her solo "cabaret" act for a few years before it became a popular performance piece for her band ApoCowLypso, formed in 1985 with fellow area singer/songwriters Brooke Saunders and Manko Eponymous as well as Hunter Duke on drums. With Apocowlypso Newlin performed lead and backing vocals as well as percussion (washboard, tambourine, temple bells) in their peculiar live shows and on the cassette-only EP "Meat the Apocowlypso," the "Electronic Preacher/Richmond Flood" single, and the bootleg "Let It Was" recording.  After going through over 20 bass players in their short time together, the members of Apocowlypso went their separate ways in 1988 to pursue other projects.

Newlin was in the GWAR movie Skulhedface in 1994.

Miscellaneous
In 1939 the New York Herald Tribune wrote that Dika Newlin had the highest I.Q. score of any Michigan State University student at that time.

On 13 August 1964 Newlin was in London for the premiere of the full-length Performing Version of Mahler's unfinished 10th Symphony prepared by Deryck Cooke. After the performance, she presented Cooke with the Kilenyi Mahler Medal of the Bruckner Society of America.

Newlin posed for a pinup calendar when she was in her seventies.

Reporters who interviewed her at home noted that a medieval suit of armor was suspended over her mattress on the floor of her bedroom.

During the 1980s and 1990s, Dika Newlin could often be seen in Richmond wheeling her papers and other belongings along the sidewalk of Grace Street in a shopping cart,  between her teaching job at VCU and her columnist job at Richmond Newspapers, some 12 blocks away.  She would typically be wearing a gaudy dress and gaudier red lipstick and by the end of the walk would be huffing and puffing from the exertion.  This comical image she presented in these daily walks caused her to be known locally as "The Bag Lady of Music".

Newlin died in Richmond, Virginia from complications of a broken arm she suffered in an accident on June 30, 2006.

List of works 

 Piano trio, op. 2
 Der du von dem Himmel bist, 1968
 Ageless Icon: The Greatest Hits of Dika Newlin, 2004
 Alien Baby
 Septet in Seven Movements
 Love Songs for People Who Hate Each Other
 Machine Shop
 Murder Kitty

Operas 

 Smile Right to the Bone, 1941
 Feathertop, 1942
 The Scarlet Letter, 1945

Symphonic works 

 Cradle Song

Lied Songs 

 A little flower
 I saw in Louisiana a live-oak growing
 Lullaby
 To Mrs. Anna Flaxman