[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# East Dundry

with its large flattish walled-garden that was its farm yard. These two higher farms installed separate hydraulic rams in the late 1800s and were served by them until the late 1950s. The farms needed ample water for their dairy herds prosperously supplying milk to Bristol by horse and cart.></ref>Ch

North Hill Farm laid a 6-inch diameter, china-clay pipe (still visible in places in the steep nearby stream) from the spring below Upton Farm to a ram in a small stone hut on the south side of the valley-bottom stream. There remains a narrower metal pipe (crossing the stream and then all under the soil) up and through Nuthill field to North Hill Farm – much higher than the Upton Farm spring. The ram near the stream below Walnut Farm pumped water up to the farm. Upton farm also had (has?) a hidden, disused hydraulic ram near the same spring.

Day and night, the rams thumped every 20 seconds or so ></ref>Ch and were audible throughout East Dundry until the 1950s. Walnut Farm ran their ram well into the mid sixties with the ram feed water supply coming from an open-topped limestone cistern built into the south side of the valley containing approximately 12 cubic metres of water bubbling up from an underground spring. The ram was housed in a small shed 40 metres into the base of the valley next to the stream with the waste wash from the ram flowing into it. The delivery pipe from the ram ran north up to a holding tank at the farm. Once a mains water supply was installed (1957/8) the water from the ram was used solely for livestock and washing down the yards. The rhythmic thumping of the ram had a shorter frequency than the one mentioned at North Hill Farm with gentle knocks about every 3 to 4 seconds.

Mains water
Water (pumped up Dundry hill from the small pumping station half-way up Broad Oak Hill road) was only supplied to the hamlet in 1957/8 after negotiations since 1952. Dundry village had mains water supplied years earlier than East Dundry.></ref>Ch

Gas supply 
Gas was first supplied in the 1960s when a gas main to Chew Magna was routed through East Dundry passing up from Bristol along the track north of North Hill Farm, down the hamlet's lane to Cross Cottage, down in the field at the west end of Cross Cottage's garden, along the road past Spring Farm and up the track towards Rattledown Farm.  In a few years every joint of this relatively high-pressure-gas steel pipeline had to be resealed when the supply was converted from town to natural gas all the way from the North Sea. Later the pipeline was reduced in pressure to minimise gas losses and only served East Dundry.></ref>Ch

Telephones and data fibre 
East Dundry telephone subscribers were originally served by a network of poles and overhead open-wire cables all the way some 6 kilometres from the Chew Magna manual telephone exchange. Due to the Second World War and the following austerity, two houses often shared one of the few available lines with party lines (for example The Dingle had the number Chew Magna 81 from 1931 and the neighbouring North Hill Cottage later shared the line with the number ></ref>Ch Chew Magna 1081). In the late 1950s Bristol's automatic Strowger Bedminster exchange 66xxxx numbers served the hamlet, changing later></ref>Ch to 63xxxx and yet later 963xxxx. Subscriber Trunk Dialling became available on 5 December 1958 to call a few UK cities. Bristol had the dialling code 0BR2 progressively changing to 0272 (the same on the dial as 0BR2), and then 0117 plus 7-digit Bristol numbers.

During the lead-up to Christmas 1962 there were light falls of snow></ref>W Duncan Ogilvie (myself) was a child there</ref>. Around Christmas Eve, after a slight thaw, freezing started again with significant snowfalls during Boxing Day, later to be known as ‘The Big Freeze of 1963’. The previously partially-melted light and fluffy snow formed dense solid ice on the thin copper telephone lines increasing their weight. This and fresh snowfalls stretched the copper wires until they reached the ground. The multiple overhead open-wire phone lines were after the winter replaced by a single multi-core cable suspended from the poles. A few years later the cable was buried in the fields north of East Dundry Lane and the poles were removed.

A fibre link to East Dundry was made in the early 2020s underground west-to-east in the fields on the north side of East Dundry Lane, and distributed overhead to most of East Dundry properties.

Tithes 
The Tithe Acts of 1936 and 1951 established the compulsory redemption of English tithes by the state where the annual amounts payable were less than £1, so abolishing the bureaucracy and costs of collecting small sums of money. This applied to East Dundry as elsewhere.

Notable residents
The plant pathologist Lawrence Ogilvie lived in The Dingle (now Dingle House).></ref>Ch
The sculptor Doris Kathleen Flinn lived in The Rookery.

References

External links
Parish website

Hamlets in Somerset