[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# SLOMR

irgil Chender from Sighișoara, were arrested on charges of "parasitism" and "hooliganism", and placed under house arrest, interned in psychiatric hospitals, deported, imprisoned or expelled from the country after serving their sentences. Father Calciu-Dumitreasa was sentenced to ten years in prison.

A number of trade unionists were also obliged to sign statements disclaiming the existence of the SLOMR. At the same time, the authorities launched a campaign of slander and harsh threats designed to destroy the union. After he arrived in Germany, Gibson became the speaker of the SLOMR in the West. Together with a group of Romanian dissidents from France and Switzerland, he informed the World Confederation of Labour in Brussels and the United Nations' International Labour Organization about the free trade union movement in Romania and about the human rights violations. The support group was able to convince both organisations to post a complaint against the regime in Bucharest.

After the initial arrest of the leaders of the union, others took over the task of organising the union but a month later they were arrested as well and the remainder were subjected to permanent harassment. In a last and successful attempt to dismantle the entire organization, in June several hundred union members were arrested throughout the country at the same time. The communist Romanian regime alleged not to have any knowledge of the new union.

Notes

References
Reports nr.218/1982, 222/1983, 233/1984, 236/1984 of the International Labour Organization
Dennis Deletant, Ceaușescu and the Securitate, M. E. Sharpe, Armonk, New York, 1995; Occidentul și disidența din România sub regimul lui Ceaușescu ("The West and Romanian Dissidence Under the Ceaușescu Regime")
Nicolette Frank, "La Roumanie en accusation avant son congrès syndical", in La Libre Belgique, from 2. April 1981.
Victor Frunză, Istoria stalinismului în România ("History of Stalinism in Romania"), Humanitas, Bucharest, 1990
 , Raport pentru condamnarea regimului politic comunist ca nelegitim și criminal (Report Regarding the Condemnation of the Communist Regime as Illegitimate and Criminal), October 2005 (at the Group for Social Dialogue site)
 Andrei Luca Popescu, "Un sindicat în ciuda lui Ceaușescu" ("A Union Despite Ceaușescu"), in Cotidianul, November 17, 2006
Adolph Sturmthal, Alexander J. Motyl, Adrian Karatnycky, Worker's Rights, East and West, Transaction Publishers, Piscataway, 1980

Bibliography
Carl Gibson,
"Un pas spre libertate. Sindicatul liber al oamenilor muncii din R.S. România", in Presa Libera Română, March 1, 1981
"Widerstandsbewegungen gegen die Ceausescu-Diktatur", in Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, November 15, 1988
Mariana Hausleitner, "Politischer Widerstand in Rumänien vor 1989", in Halbjahresschrift für süosteuropäische Geschichte, Literatur und Politik (special edition: "Opposition und Repression im Realsozialismus"), Dinklage, 1996
Ion Solacolu, a short history of the SLOMR movement (with an interview with Carl Gibson), in Dialog, March 1989 (special issue), published by the Democratic Circle of Romanians in Germany. Includes the text of the SLOMR constitution as written down by Ionel Cană in March 1979.

External links
A quarter of a century since the SLOMR at the Sighet Memorial site
 News program archive at Radio Free Europe Romanian edition; February 27, 2007 edition features 's interview with Carl Gibson on the Timișoara SLOMR and its legacy.

1979 establishments in Romania
1979 disestablishments in Romania
Drobeta-Turnu Severin
Socialist Republic of Romania
History of Bucharest
International Confederation of Free Trade Unions
Political repression in Romania
Trade unions in Romania
Trade unions established in 1979
Trade unions disestablished in 1979