[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lobsang Tenzin

y Approach" 
Rinpoche is a staunch supporter of the middle path and in sync with the views of the Dalai Lama. He is of the opinion that the Tibet issue is alive on the international forum and has received widespread support due to its right direction and commitment to non violence.

In his own words

“Tibet cause is a just cause and not a power struggle. It is neither a political struggle nor a battle against the system. It is the struggle between truth and falsehood; justice and injustice.”

A lifelong campaigner of Gandhian principles, he seeks not only political freedom for the Tibetan people but also to preserve the Tibetan Culture. In an interview he said,

“Our ultimate goal is not just political freedom but the preservation of Tibetan culture. What will we gain if we win political freedom but lose what gives value to our lives? It is why we reject the option of violence. For respect for life is an inseparable aspect of the Tibetan culture we are fighting for."

Note on his name 
Lobsang Tenzin is his given Tibetan name. His legal name in India is Samdhong Rinpoche, although in fact this is a Tibetan religious title, like the Dalai Lama. In English he is commonly called Professor Rinpoche, and accepts this although it is incorrect. Tibetans address him as Rinpoche, which literally means "the precious one", used to be styled tulkus (incarnate lamas).

Publications 
 Buddhist Meditation
 Zam-gdoṅ Rin-po-cheʼi gsuṅ bśad daṅ gsuṅ rtsom phyogs bsgrigs
 Samdhong Rinpoche Uncompromising Truth for a Compromised World
 Bod kyi da ltaʼi dza drag gnas bab daṅ ṅa tshoʼi las ʼgan

References

Citations

Sources 
 Samdhong Rinpoche: Uncompromising Truth for a Compromised World (World Wisdom, 2006)

External links 

 Interview of Prof Samdhong Rinpoche - The Tibetan Prime Minister in Exile with Saransh Sehgal
 News of his election
 Central Tibetan Administration
 / Chancellor Sanchi Buddhist-Indic Studies University Sam Dong Rimpoche http://www.sanchiuniv.org.in
 Australia-Tibet Council: Interview with Samdhong Rinpoche
 Author Page

1937 births
People from Dharamshala
Living people
Gandhians
Tibetan pacifists
Prime Ministers of Tibet
Rinpoches
Tibetan diaspora
Central Tibetan Administration
Tibetan Buddhist monks
Tibetan politicians