[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jari Askins

presided over a legislative session held in Guthrie, Oklahoma's capitol at the time of statehood.

2010 gubernatorial campaign

Askins announced on January 4, 2009, that she would run for governor in 2010 to succeed term-limited Brad Henry. She was the first candidate to declare an intention to run.

As announced on July 27, 2010, Jari Askins won the Democratic primary against then-Oklahoma Attorney General Drew Edmondson and was on the November ballot for governor, facing Republican candidate Mary Fallin. The Askins vs. Fallin race and the simultaneous Diane Denish vs. Susana Martinez race in New Mexico were the third and fourth cases of woman vs. woman gubernatorial races in U.S. history. The two Oklahoma candidates participated in a single lieutenant governor's debate on October 19, 2010.  Fallin won the election, becoming Oklahoma's first female governor. Askins only carried four counties, including her home county of Stephens County.

Post-electoral career
In April 2015, Governor Mary Fallin, named Askins as a special advisor on child welfare and implementation of Oklahoma's Pinnacle Plan. In the role, Askins was responsible for reforms to Oklahoma's Department of Human Services ordered by courts, following a class action lawsuit related to deficiencies found in Oklahoma's foster care system.

Shortly after her appointment as a special advisor, Askins was next appointed to government service tied to the judicial branch. Askins was selected in September 2015 by the Oklahoma Supreme Court to lead the Oklahoma Administrative Office of the Courts, succeeding retiring director Michael Evans. Askins performed the role under the supervision of the Chief Justice of the Oklahoma Supreme Court, to oversee Oklahoma's judicial system. Included in the responsibilities of the Director are operations, budget and personnel matters in all 77 district courts and Oklahoma's courts of special jurisdiction.

Personal life
Askins has been inducted into the Oklahoma Women's Hall of Fame. According to her campaign website, she is an active member of the First Christian Church of Duncan, a Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) congregation.

Electoral history

See also 
List of female lieutenant governors in the United States

References

External links
Oklahoma Lieutenant Governor Jari Askins official state site
Jari Askins for Governor official campaign site
Jari Askins – Women of the Oklahoma Legislature Oral History Project, Oklahoma Oral History Research Program

|-

|-

1953 births
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
American Disciples of Christ
Candidates in the 2010 United States elections
Lieutenant Governors of Oklahoma
Living people
Democratic Party members of the Oklahoma House of Representatives
Oklahoma lawyers
People from Duncan, Oklahoma
University of Oklahoma College of Law alumni
Women state legislators in Oklahoma