[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Azerbaijan–Georgia relations

Foreign relations exist between Azerbaijan and Georgia, two neighboring small nations which were former Republics of the Soviet Union. Azerbaijan has an embassy in Tbilisi and Georgia has an embassy in Baku. Both countries are full members of the Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) and the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC). The two countries are among the four founding members of the GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development alond with Ukraine and Moldova.

Relations between the two countries are close and cordial. Former Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili has once described relations as "whoever opposes Azerbaijan or Georgia is an enemy of both our countries."

Diaspora 
There are 284,761 Azeris in Georgia. They are the largest minority of Georgia and comprise 6.5% of Georgia's population mostly in Kvemo Kartli, Kakheti, Shida Kartli and Mtskheta-Mtianeti. There is also a large Azeri community in the capital city of Tbilisi. The Georgian minority in Azerbaijan is less sizable and they are known as Ingiloy.

History
Georgia and Azerbaijan have maintained cordial relations ever since the first establishment of their independent statehoods in 1918. On June 16, 1919, Azerbaijan Democratic Republic and Democratic Republic of Georgia signed a first defensive treaty against the White troops of General Anton Denikin's Volunteer Army, who were threatening to start an offensive on their borders. In spite of the territorial dispute over Zaqatala district and Georgia's concerns over Azerbaijan's support to the short-lived South West Caucasian Republic, the two countries maintained peaceful relations  in the chaotic years of the Russian Civil War. When Azerbaijan was occupied by the Bolshevik forces in April 1920, several members of the Azerbaijani political élite moved to Georgia, which too fell to the advancing Soviets early in 1921.  Both states became union republics of the USSR in 1922 and maintained good relations.

In 1991, both Azerbaijan and Georgia restored their independence and diplomatic ties were established between them on November 18, 1992. In an effort to balance regional interests, on October 10, 1997, Azerbaijan and Georgia became two of the four founding members of GUAM Organization for Democracy and Economic Development. Countries broadly cooperate in regional energy development, transportation and economic partnership projects such as Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline, Kars-Tbilisi-Baku railway, the TRACECA, the BSEC. Regional military and security alliance of Georgia and Azerbaijan develops along NATO's Partnership for Peace Program and the common protection of Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline with Turkey.

Energy
Georgia, under Zviad Gamsakhurdia, signed a cooperation agreement with Azerbaijan regarding the economic, scientific, technical, and cultural spheres in December 1990. In February 1993, Georgia under Shevardnadze, concluded a far-reaching treaty of friendship, cooperation, and mutual relations with Azerbaijan, including a mutual security arrangement and assurances that Georgia would not reexport Azerbaijani oil or natural gas to Armenia. In 1993, Azerbaijan attempted to pressure Georgia into joining the blockade against Armenia during the first Nagorno-Karabakh War but to no avail.

The two countries are connected by several important regional projects, including the "Baku-Supsa and "Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan” oil pipelines and "Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum” gas line. The two nations are also working on the Baku-Tbilisi-Kars railway which would connect them to Europe. Azerbaijan is also one of the most significant trading partners of Georgia.

Trade
Georgian exports to Azerbaijan include cement, locomotives and other railway vehicles, mineral and chemical fertilizers, mineral waters, strong drinks, glass and glass wares, and pharmaceuticals, among other things. Azerbaijani exports to Georgia include oil and petroleum products, natural gas, plastic wares, waste foodstuff, furniture and building constructions.

Border