[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hot zone (environment)

measures need to be implemented. These may include containment and cleanup procedures, personal protective equipment for workers or responders, monitoring of air and water quality, evacuation or restriction measures, and remediation efforts to reduce or eliminate the presence of hazardous chemicals.

Nuclear
The presence of radioactive contamination poses potential risks to human health and the environment. Exposure to radioactive materials can occur through inhalation, ingestion, or direct contact with contaminated surfaces. The effects can vary depending on the type and amount of radiation, duration of exposure, and individual susceptibility.

Short-term effects of radioactive contamination can include radiation sickness, burns, and acute health effects. Long-term exposure may increase the risk of developing various cancers, genetic mutations, and other chronic health conditions.

Contamination can also have environmental consequences, including damage to ecosystems, disruptions in the food chain, and the persistence of radioactive materials in the environment for extended periods.

In March 2011, a 9.0-magnitude earthquake and its accompanying tsunami struck a nuclear power station in Fukushima Daiichi area of northeastern Japan. A number of safety systems were badly damaged by the tsunami leading to a loss-of-coolant (LOCA) event which damaged the nuclear core of several reactors.  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) announced that the subsequent release of radioactivity into atmosphere qualified as the highest level of radiological event scale, INES level 7. The radioactive materials released in Fukushima Daiichi area are mostly iodine-131 and cesium-137.

The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency estimated the cancer consequence of the Fukushima Daiichi accident. From the government statistics, around the two million people who live within 80 kilometre radius of the nuclear plate, and about one million people live in areas contaminated with cesium-137.

Land contamination 
The loss of coolant further caused hydrogen explosions in the facility. As the fuel temperature went up, zirconium alloy cladding reacted with the hot steam removing oxygen from water molecule, leaving hydrogen gas. The hydrogen gas was ultimately vented off into the reactor building, because of the design of the facility, mixing with air and creating an explosive environment.

Disease 
Diseases are estimated that thyroid cancer is the main cancer which affected by the nuclear accident. High amount of radioactive iodine mainly causes thyroid cancer, and most of the cases are the result of releasing iodine-131. If people consume food and water contaminated by iodine-131, iodine-131 (which has a half-life of eight days) concentrates in the thyroid. The most contaminated food and drink are raw milk and vegetables in Fukushima Daiichi area. Milk production was blocked after six days of the nuclear explosion.

Nuclear accidents are very serious matters. As you can see from the above statements, they can cause massive panic, disease, and not to mention the fact that humans and other organisms may not be able to inhabit the affected area for many years to come. A perfect example of this is the nuclear accident in Chernobyl, Ukraine. Chernobyl is near Pripyat, Ukraine and also the country of Belarus. Chernobyl is now a ghost town. They had a malfunction with their nuclear power plant, and now there is still a hot zone there. This hot zone actually has a name, the Chernobyl Exclusion Zone.

Violence
Violence can induce a hot zone, as occupants are subject to attacks, crossfire, or even direct fire targeted at them specifically. The most identifiable violent hot zones are in war zones, such as the war in Afghanistan. Soldiers are constantly fighting with other soldiers and insurgents to attempt to accomplish tactical goals. Hot zones are not good places to appear as a member of either of the opposing teams, because one may be prone to attacks or capture. Although war zones may have the most targeted attacks, crime ridden neighborhoods are the most common areas for crossfire to occur, and subsequently the most victims of crossfire are here.

Climate change 
Climate change hot zones, also known as climate change "hotspots," refer to regions that are particularly vulnerable to the impacts of climate change. These areas are projected to experience significant changes in temperature, precipitation patterns, sea-level rise, and other climate-related factors. Climate change hot zones can vary depending on the specific impact being considered. The most vulnerable areas are: