[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Maritime security operations

Maritime security operations (MSO) are the actions of modern naval forces to "combat sea-based terrorism and other illegal activities, such as hijacking, piracy, and slavery, also known as human trafficking." Ships assigned to such operations may also assist seafaring vessels in distress. These activities are part of an overall category of activities which fall short of open warfare called military operations other than war (MOOTW). MSO also involve the marine environmental protection, creating a safer and clean environment.

The United States Coast Guard, along with several other agencies such as Navy, Maritime Administration, the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Federal Maritime Commission are American agencies that have a role in the regulation of U.S ports. Their mission is to create a safer and reliable international ocean transportation system, to protect the public from any unfair and deceiving practice.

A primary component of MSO requires inspections and, at times, forced boardings of vessels at sea. These actions are called visit, board, search, and seizure (VBSS). Also arrests and VBSS of ships which may have been sighted (via lookouts) from a distance to be underway and not responding to communications made to her or may have some form of smaller attached crafts which may be seen to be used as other means to attack larger crafts.

Who

Maritime Security Operations are conducted by many international navies, coastguards and border forces.

In the United States there are two major naval forces that conduct such operations; the United States Coast Guard and the United States Navy. Although they both have very distinct jobs from one another, one of their major jobs is to be able to provide security operations.

The U.S Coast Guard is a branch of the United States Armed Forces, they have eleven official missions. Their role is to provide port & waterway security, drug interdiction, search and rescue, marine environment protection, ICE operations, aids to navigation, living marine recourses, marine safety, defense readiness, law enforcement and migrant interdiction along with several other missions. Overall, their role is to provide a safer maritime industry.

Along with the U.S Coast Guard, the U.S Navy is also another branch if the Unites Stated Armed forces. Unlike the Coast Guard, the Navy is a projection of force in areas beyond the U.S shores. Their operations go beyond the shores; they provide aid to military out on the sea, carry troops to other countries, strategic plans for attacks and protect the sea lanes.

Operations

Today's modern naval force have been able to detect, strategize, and prevent dozens of several illegal activities. Piracy, being one of the must known crime in the maritime industry has not been able to control its activities. Piracy was known to have a great presence during the early 1500s, up to this day the number of piracy activity is still significantly large. From the beginning of the twentieth century, the number of piracy attack have been found to be cyclical in nature, taking its high points in 2003 and 2010. In spite of this high point, several organization against anti-piracy such as the Northern Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO)  have been able to disrupt pirates attacks protecting vessel and their crew member along with their cargo.  As a safety measure, the U.S Coast Guard encourage the ships' captain to know his crew, deliver a detailed plan of his sea trip to a trusted friend, final check before departing, notify Coast Guard of any suspicious activity, and finally consider clearing local customs before departing on a foreign cruise. Taking these protective measures will lessen the possibility of piracy or high jacking.

A significant amount of contraband such as drugs has entered many ports through vessels claiming to be caring different types of cargo. Drug Interdiction is one of the eleven Coast Guard official missions, they aim to prevent drug traffic by intersecting drug carrying vessels out at sea. Mariners aboard a vessel that have information that a ship is involved in narcotics trafficking are required to contact their nearest Coast Guard unit. Several cargo ships have been contained with thousands of kilos on board. In the mid-year of 2015, the  marked its tenth successful interdiction since October 2014. Joining forces with the U.S Coast Guard and the Canadian Navy they contained 11,700 kilograms of cocaine off the coast of Central America. While conducting a regular patrol the USS Gary tailed and located a small coastal freighter. After observing the crew discarding suspicious contraband overboard Gary launched a small boat to recover the suspected contraband.