[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Martin Agronsky

n before, during and after the Watergate break-in hearings broadcast on PBS that led, ultimately, to Nixon's resignation on August 9, 1974. Evening Edition went off the air in late 1975. Due to PBS experiencing "escalating program costs", it cut many shows going into 1976, including Evening Edition.

Though Agronsky had been on coast-to-coast stations for many years, the relatively local programming which he headlined "did much to make Agronsky an influential national figure."

Agronsky At Large
For PBS, Agronsky and Paul Duke interviewed president Gerald Ford in 1975. Agronsky then did a one-hour interview show weekly on PBS during 1976 titled Agronsky at Large, where he interviewed such guests as Alfred Hitchcock and Anwar Sadat shortly before the Egyptian leader's assassination. He also interviewed Muhammad Ali and George F. Kennan, a recording of which is held in the American Archive of Public Broadcasting's Peabody Awards collection.

Interviewing Jody Powell, president Jimmy Carter's press secretary, in 1977, Agronsky suggested that the "honeymoon" period between the media and new presidents had been effectively curtailed following the Vietnam War and Watergate.

Impact and legacy
During his 52-year journalism career (print from 1936 to 1940 and radio and television from 1940 to 1988) Agronsky worked for all three commercial networks in the United States. He is believed to be the only broadcast journalist/commentator to have worked for all three, and is the only person to work for all three and PBS. He was the first television reporter to interview a sitting Supreme Court Justice.

The moderator-led panel discussion format of news shows was, in 1984, described as "Martin Agronski style". Agronsky & Company pioneered the "talking heads" news format.

His papers, containing approximately 30,000 items, are held in a collection in the Library of Congress.

Personal life
Profiling him for his Peabody win, Newsweek noted that Agronsky was a figure, being 5'11" and dark-haired. He married Helen Smathers on September 1, 1943. Smathers was a United States Army nurse whom he met in 1942 while covering MacArthur in Melbourne. Agronsky returned to the U.S. in March 1943, whereupon he expedited Smathers's return. They were married in Baltimore, Maryland, at City Hall, grabbing a stranger off the street to be their witness. They went on to have four children: Marcia, Jonathan, David, and Julie. He built a modernist house for his family in Washington, D.C. in 1951, though grew sick of the style by 1953. In 1964, his home set on fire, suffering $35,000 worth of damage, and he broke his heel jumping from the second floor porch to get out. Helen died on February 18, 1969, of cancer. Agronsky then married Sharon Hines on April 22, 1971; the marriage produced one child, Rachel. The American National Biography says that Agronsky and Hines divorced after fifteen years. He died at his Rock Creek Park home in Washington, D.C., on July 25, 1999, of congestive heart failure. He was 84.

Agronsky's son Jonathan Ian Zama Agronsky is an American journalist and biographer. He attended St. Albans School in Washington, D.C., before studying English at Dartmouth College; enrolling in 1964, he failed his studies twice before graduating with an AB in 1971. He used his studentship to avoid the draft for the Vietnam War, something about which he has expressed embarrassment, despite disagreeing with the war. He began professionally writing in 1967. Though he followed his father's career, he had planned to be a college football player, joining a team at the age of eight and playing varsity halfback at prep school before joining and, ten days later, quitting the team at Dartmouth due to injury and malcontent. Some of his earlier columns include contributing to the Penthouse Vietnam Veterans Advisor column in the 1970s and 1980s; he also wrote an article on Marion Barry in the magazine in 1991, a topic on which he was an expert, publishing a book on Barry the same year. At this time he worked for Voice of America in Washington, D.C. He also wrote for the Washington City Paper. As well as journalistic writing, he has written books and scripts for film and radio. His book on Barry, The Politics of Race, was said by Kirkus Reviews to give "a careful, sober, and balanced account of Barry's decline and fall, and of a manipulation of the politics of race", but to "not explore the profound political cleavages evident in the result of Barry's trial". He has written on other legal matters, including in 1987 on Miranda rights in ABA Journal. In 2009 he was included in The Nine Lives of Marion Barry, a documentary film about the controversial politician. In 2020, he began writing a book on David Whiting.

Filmography

Awards and honors

In 1987, Agronsky gave the commencement address at San Diego State University.

Notes

References

Citations

Sources
Audio-visual media

Bibliography

Collections

Features

Literature

News

Trade press

Web