[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Električni Orgazam

story collection, written by David Albahari, and the poem of the same name, written by Miloš Komadina in his poetry book Etika trave (Grass Ethics). The song music and lyrics were written by Gojković, except for "Pričam o tebi" ("I Am Talking About You"), for which the music was written by Čavajda.

The album did not repeat the success of the previous releases, leading Đukić to leaving the band and moving to New York. The band, being in the personnel crisis, firstly featured Ivan Pajević on guitar, then former Siluete member Nikola Čuturilo, until the full-time member became Branislav Petrović "Banana", a former Bezobrazno Zeleno and Pasta ZZ member. In 1986, when the band was about to record the album Distorzija, bassist Jovanović left the band and stopped his musical career. His replacement was the former Katarina II and Du-Du-A member Zoran Radomirović "Švaba". The comeback album, Distorzija, with simple rock songs, featured the hit songs "Debela devojka" ("Fat Girl"), "Ja sam težak kao konj" ("I Am Heavy As A Horse"), "Ne postojim" ("I Do Not Exist"), "Vudu bluz" ("Voodoo Blues"), "Kapetan Esid" ("Captain Acid"), "Ša la la" ("Sha La La"), and "Lui Lui" ("Louie Louie"), a cover of Richard Berry song. The album was produced by Gojković and Stančić, and the cover for the album was done by the painter Radovan Hiršl.

The next release was the live album Braćo i sestre (Brothers And Sisters), recorded in October 1986 at the Zagreb club Kulušić. The album, featuring the guest introduction by Dražen Vrdoljak and guest vocals by Ljubomir Đukić on the song "Locomotion", included the new track "Bejbe, ti nisi tu" ("Baby, You Are Not Here"), a cover version of the Rolling Stones song "Out of Time". Two years later, in 1988, the band, with the same musical style, released the album Letim, sanjam, dišem (Flying, Dreaming, Breathing), and the songs "Igra rock 'n' roll cela Jugoslavija" ("The Whole Yugoslavia Is Dancing To Rock And Roll"), "Ti" ("You"), "Poljubi me i priznaj mi" ("Kiss Me And Confess"), and "Sve ste vi naš devojke" ("All of You Are Our Girlfriends") became immediate hits. The album was produced by Gojković, Stančić and Theodore Yanni, and featured guest appearance by Partibrejkers guitarist Nebojša Antonijević "Anton" and Bajaga i Instruktori keyboard player Saša Lokner.

On Summer of the same year, the band promoted the album with a concert at Tašmajdan Stadium. During the same year, they released the greatest hits compilation album Najbolje pesme 1980-1988 (The Best Songs 1980–1988), and disbanded. Radomirović and Petrović joined the band Trans. Gojković pursued a solo career, releasing his first solo album Evo sada vidiš da može (Now You See It Is Possible), released in 1989, and worked on the Kako je propao rokenrol (The Fall of Rock 'N' Roll) and Crni bombarder (Black Bomber) movie soundtracks. With Vlada Divljan, he released two music albums for children Rokenrol za decu (Rock 'N' Roll For Children), and Rokenrol bukvar (Rock 'N' Roll Alphabet), and the two, with Stančić and Radomirović, released the album Lutka koja kaže ne (A Doll That Says No). Čavajda went to Australia in 1988, and returned in 1991, joining Gojković and Radomirović on the Lutka koja kaže ne tour.

Reformation, Čavajda's departure (1991–1994) 

The reformed Električni Orgazam released the compilation album Seks, droga, nasilje i strah / Balkan Horror Rock (Sex, Drugs, Violence and Fear / Blakan Horror Rock), featuring new studio material on the A-side, including "Mala lopta metalna" ("Little Metal Ball") composed by Čavajda and Gojković, and live recordings, made at the Novi Sad concert performance. The followup, the live album Balkan Horror Rock II, released on compact cassette only, featured the rest of Novi Sad concert recordings and "Svečane bele košulje" ("Ceremony White Shirts") and "Mjau, mjau" ("Meow, Meow"), made at the B92 birthday concert. The album covers for both releases were designed by Linda Čavajda, Čavajda's wife.

In 1992, Čavajda, Gojković and Radomirović, with Ljubomir Jovanović, Ekatarina Velika frontman Milan Mladenović, and Partibrejkers members Zoran Kostić "Cane" and Nebojša Antonijević "Anton" formed the anti-war group Rimtutituki, recording the single "Slušaj 'vamo" ("Listen Up"), released by Radio B92. The following year, in September, the band, with Ekatarina Velika, Partibrejkers, and the Zagreb band Vještice, performed in Prague and Berlin on the concerts entitled Ko to tamo pjeva (Who's That Singing Over There). Električni Orgazam was also one of the first Serbian bands to perform in Ljubljana after the independence of Slovenia on early 1991, with the band Majke from Vinkovci, also playing in Maribor, Koper and Hum. At the time, the band often performed in the Republic of Macedonia.