[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moro Nuba people

lans also have specialized roles, including performing religious ceremonies and leading raiding parties. Before Condominium rule, the Moro had no system of tribal leadership. However, colonial powers implemented a system of elected meks, who had assistance from junior chiefs from surrounding hills. 

The Moro are split into five specific age groups, which are ngere (ages 1–15), epidi (ages 15–22), udoming (ages 23–30), maji (old adults, and utari (elders). Epidi commonly engage in stickfighting as a form of entertainment and friendly competition, and they are encouraged to do so. Each age group also has specialized responsibilities, such as ngere helping with household tasks and udoming leaving the plains to work in mechanized agriculture. The transition of age groups is often accompanied by ceremony closely related to agriculture.

Language
The Moro Nuba speak the Moro language of the Kordofanian languages group, in the major Niger–Congo language family. Additionally, Moro is structurally similar to Bantu languages, despite not sharing any cognates. It follows a subject-verb-object word order. The Moro people do not have a written language, meaning that much of their history, especially migration and movement, has been forgotten.

Human rights abuses 
Because of its close proximity to the Sudan-South Sudan border, violence between both states in various conflicts, notably the Second Sudanese Civil War, has taken place in the Nuba Mountains, including the hills where the Moro live. The Moro, among other Nuba peoples, have been subject to the crossfire of intense violence between both forces, and have been targeted by Sudanese militias for their support or association with the Sudan People's Liberation Movement and Army (SPLM/A). The 1989 Popular Defense Forces Act, which allowed militias to act as paramilitary forces on behalf of the Sudanese government, was particularly devastating for Moro people as ethnic militias like the Baggara were more inclined to violence against differing ethnic groups. In addition, displaced Nuba peoples have been relocated into "peace camps", where they are used as cheap labor for mechanized agriculture. Large populations of displaced Moro have also fled to Omdurman, South Sudan, and Egypt.

Various human rights concerns have been raised over the unprovoked attacks on Nuba peoples, including the Moro. Attacks on the Nuba sponsored by the Sudanese government have been touted as genocide-by-attrition, as an intentional erasure of these peoples. The Sudanese government has also been accused of the ethnocide of the Moro, who claim indigenity to the Nuba Mountains. Such targeted violence continues to happen today, perpetrated by Sudan's Rapid Support Forces (RSF) who operate under General Abdel Fatteh al-Burhan, who took power through a military coup in October 2021.

See also
Index: Nuba peoples

External links

References

Joshua Project

Nuba peoples
Ethnic groups in Sudan