[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 27]
# List of Shaman King characters

nd calculating even before most of Hao's followers, gunning down several of them with an M134 Vulcan after revealing that because he does not believe in souls he is not affected by the forbidden killing curse from the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu.  He manages to disappear after Mansumi is captured by Anna.

 
 
 A South American Native American who was living homeless in New York City when he became Joco's mentor, convincing Joco to leave his gang and adopt his ideology of laughter being the best medicine to solving the world's problems. Though it made him a target of Joco's gang, Orona accepted his death due to his age and health issues with the knowledge that Joco would carry his legacy. Orona remained spirit to observe Joco's progress, making himself known after Joco died and guided him to Pascal Avaf.

 
 
 Lilirara, a member of the Seminoa tribe, is angry at the Patch Tribe and believes that the Patch Tribe massacred her ancestors. She tries to prevent the shamans of this present Shaman Fight from reaching the Patch Village, telling them that the Patch Tribe is really killers and that the same fate that befell the Seminoa will befall them. Hao later reveals that it was he, not the Patch Tribe, who killed the Seminoa. Hao then kills Lilirara right after Yoh's group departs for Patch Village, her spirit being among the many who offer help to Yoh's group against Hao in the final battle.

 
 The father of Horohoro and Pirika, who describes himself only as an office worker and is commonly referred to as "Oyaji" (meaning "old man") by his son. He adamantly believes that once his children leave home, he is no longer responsible for their well-being; however, he also hopes that they will become strong and does not care if they abandon their heritage to do so.  During the Shaman Fight, Kalim brings him to save Horohoro when Horohoro is forced to fight against Blocken and Big Guy Bill to save the Icemen. However, Lycan elects to do nothing, revealing that he had come only because Pirika had begged him to and leaves the island on a makeshift raft right in front of Bill, who is overpowered by Lycan's spirit Gororo. Before he leaves, he repeats the creed that he has always told Horohoro – "the strong prey upon the weak" – but adds that those words do not mean one should give up.  He is later captured by Mansumi Oyamada and brought abroad his ship as a prisoner. After he is freed, he appears at the barbecue held by the Asakura and Tao families and their allies, where he catches a tuna fish and waits with Pirika as Anna announces the final furyoku levels of Yoh and his friends.

Guardian Ghosts

 
 
 A samurai who died during the Muromachi period 600 years ago, Amidamaru is Yoh's ghost companion. He is very powerful and wise but quite taciturn and extremely devoted to Yoh ("Yō-dono" in Japanese). He was greatly known around the town of Funbari, where he had died 600 years prior to killing several hundred other samurai soldiers during a battle. He is the original wielder of the legendary katana , a sword forged by his best friend, Mosuke. The same sword is reproduced as a "spirit sword" and used by Yoh Asakura during the Shaman Fight while the original is kept in a museum. His name is based on the Buddha Amitābha, the principal figure in the Pure Land Buddhist sect. At the conclusion of the series, he becomes the guardian ghost of Yoh and Anna Kyoyama's son, Hana Asakura.