[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Youssef Bey Karam

he fact that surprised the enemy. Karam defeated the army and snatched the victory. Enemies lost about a thousand soldiers, between dead and injured. As for Karam and his friends, they took 600 rifles and 30 barrels of gunpowder. Unfortunately, seven of Karam's friends were killed during the combat.

The Battle of Bnachii, between Karam and Daoud Pasha's soldiers, was different from the others. A battle where courage beat the huge number of soldiers: the skilful and well trained Aramram army against a horde of Ehdeniens. This horde did not have ammunitions or new weapons, but the only thing that was encouraging it was its deep love for Lebanon and its intent to defend its rights.

In Beirut however, Daud Pasha rallied support from the European ambassadors, who actively opposed Karam and refused to recognize any government he may form.

Second exile
At a meeting at Bkerke, the French Ambassador ordered Karam in the name of Napoleon III, to leave Lebanon in return for French guarantees of safety for his men and entourage. Karam was warned that to refuse would mean to place his men and the welfare of his people in jeopardy. On Thursday 31 January 1867, Karam left Lebanon on board a French ship bound for Algeria.

Karam traveled from Algeria to European capitals explaining the plight of the Lebanese people and stressing their desire to form a sovereign and independent state. Whilst there, he wrote many letters and memoirs in support of self-rule for Lebanon. Most of his writings have survived to this day.

Karam also traveled to European capitals seeking economic help for Lebanon. He offered to mortgage all his personal Lebanese holdings, amounting to five million francs, to French businessmen in return for the establishment of coal mines and a railroad network in Lebanon.

Death

April 4, 1889, Karam suffered from pneumonia worse than the first one. He called his private doctor Paul Shanize who examined him and declared that our hero's life is in danger. After two days he had a heart attack. It was his last hours. Doctors asked his friends to stay next to him. Karam knew that he was going to die, but what hurt him the most was that he was going to die away from his homeland. He thought of his funeral, thus he revealed to his confessor, the Father Karoubim, that he wants a decent funeral and burial. He gave him an amount of money for this purpose, he gave as well the Baroness Vetry another amount in order to buy candles and flowers and put them on his coffin and tomb.

On the morning of the 7 April 1889, Youssef Bey Karam died near Naples, Italy. His last words were "God ... Lebanon". The Italian hosts place a placard on his grave that reads: "this is the resting place of the Youssef Boutros Karam, the Lebanese Prince". Even though, he was never officially a prince, this title was bestowed upon him affectionately due to his stature, behavior, and moral values. The news of his death overwhelmed Lebanon in general and Zgharta and the north in particular with grief.

On 14 September 1889, his body was brought back to his homeland, the land of his youth, resistance, victories and pride. He was finally in Ehden where thousands gathered to honour the hero of Lebanon. His body was later placed in a specially built coffin with a glass top inside Saint Georges Cathedral. Hundreds of thousands of Lebanese have since visited Karam's resting place. In addition to paying their respect, they pay homage to the spirit of Youssef Bey Karam who sacrificed himself ‘so that Lebanon shall live’.

Battles

 Maameltein and Aafas - Sunday 6 January 1866
 Great Battle of Bnachii - Sunday 28 January 1866
 Sebhel - Thursday 1 March 1866
 Ehmej and Anaya - Wednesday 14 March 1866
 Wadi En Nousour  - Thursday 22 March 1866
 Aitou and Kfarfou - Friday 15 June 1866
 Hadath - Wednesday 4 July 1866
 Ayn El Jawz and Bchenata - Saturday 7 July 1866
 Ayn Karna and Wadi Miziara - Monday 20 August 1866
 Ehden - Saturday 15 December 1866
 Ejbeh and Aarjes - Thursday 10 January 1867
 Wadi El Salib - Thursday 17 January 1867

Beliefs

Many of his beliefs were extracted from among other sources:

An open letter in which Karam calls for the establishment of a 'League of Nations' or 'Human Rights Association' as he called it. Karam explained that this would be an International Organisation, which would work for world peace and guarantee the rights of small nations.
A letter to Amir Abdul Kader Al Jazaa'iri encouraging him to liberate all Arabs from the Ottoman Empire and then establishing a form of 'Arab League', where each member State would retain sovereignty and independence.

Body

In the beginning of May 1889, all the Bey of Karam family sent a delegation to Italy in order to return their dean's body to Lebanon. After severe negotiations, in which the French ambassador in Constantinople interfered, the delegation was able to have a permit from the Sublime Porte to return Karam's body to Lebanon.