[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Police misconduct

l Rights in 1981, and by 1999 an estimated 27% of police agencies serving populations of over 50,000 people had implemented these programs. The systems collect data such as complaints, which triggers an intervention at a certain point. After the intervention, the officer is monitored as a follow-up.

It had been argued that civil liability could create new deterrents to police misconduct. Following major liability settlements in the Breonna Taylor and George Floyd cases insurance companies began to significantly raise rates for liability insurance. Insurance companies also began to inquire about the practices of the law enforcement agencies requesting insurance and requiring modification of their practices as a condition of obtaining coverage. Police commissioners and citizen review boards have been cited as institutions that can help reduce police misconduct. There is some variation as to how much access the civilian reviewers are given to internal police documents and personnel files. Decertification of police has been cited as another possible remedy. Surveys suggest that officers are aware of the detrimental impacts of police misconduct and hold strong opinions as to what strategies are preferable. The exclusionary rule has been one classic deterrent to obtaining evidence through police misconduct, but it is proposed that it be replaced with restitution to victims of misconduct.

United Kingdom

England and Wales
The Police Complaints Board was founded in 1977 to oversee the handling of complaints. This was succeeded by the Police Complaints Authority and the Independent Police Complaints Commission. The current police misconduct authority is the Independent Office for Police Conduct (IOPC), which was created in 2018. The IOPC investigate only the most serious matters, with the majority of complaints and misconduct cases handled internally by the respective force. In the 2018/19 financial year, 31,097 complaint cases were recorded by police forces in England and Wales.

Northern Ireland 
Complaints about the Police Service of Northern Ireland are handled by the Police Ombudsman for Northern Ireland.

Scotland 
The Scottish Police Investigations and Review Commissioner oversees complaints about Police Scotland.

See also
Contempt of cop
Gypsy cop
Lists of killings by law enforcement officers
Mass arrest as a war crime
Photography Is Not a Crime (weblog)
Presumption of guilt
Prisoner abuse
Professional courtesy in law enforcement

Individuals
H. Rap Brown
Antonio Buehler
Patricia Feerick
Rodney King
Epaminondas Korkoneas
Abner Louima
Cory Maye

Whistleblowers
Adrian Schoolcraft 
Frank Serpico

Accused
Richard Cain
Lon Horiuchi
Bernard Kerik
Stacey Koon and Laurence Powell
Johannes Mehserle
Patrick Pogan
Salvatore Rivieri
Roger Rogerson
Justin Volpe

Incidents
39th District corruption scandal
Conflicts involving Critical Mass
Death of Jean Charles de Menezes
Death of Harry Stanley
Death of Otto Zehm
Knapp Commission
The Los Angeles May Day Mêlée
Mafia cops
MOVE Organization
NYPD subway sodomy incident
Rampart Scandal
Shooting of Sean Bell
Shooting of Oscar Grant
Shooting of Corey Jackson
Shooting of Kathryn Johnston
Wickersham report

Organizations
Christopher Commission
COINTELPRO
FBI
Internal affairs
Newham Monitoring Project
People's Law Office

References

Further reading

 Wang, Peng (2017). The Chinese Mafia: Organized Crime, Corruption, and Extra-Legal Protection. Oxford: Oxford University Press.

External links
Police brutality archive worldwide evidence
CBC - The Secret Policeman - with link to article by Mark Daly
Police Misconduct News - Daily News on Police Misconduct in United Kingdom
Fatal Encounters - Database of killings by police in the United States

 
Misconduct
Police corruption