[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

The following is a timeline of major events leading up to and immediately following the United States presidential election of 2008. The election was the 56th quadrennial United States presidential election. It was held on November 4, 2008, but its significant events and background date back to about 2002. The Democratic Party nominee, Senator Barack Obama of Illinois, defeated the Republican Party's nominee, Senator John McCain of Arizona.

2002

October 2002
October 2 – Columnist Maureen Dowd writes an article in The New York Times entitled "Can Hillary Upgrade?", which claims that former First Lady Hillary Clinton, serving as the junior United States senator from New York, has softened her criticism of the then-pending invasion of Iraq because "Clinton knows that any woman who hopes to be elected president cannot afford to be seen as too much of a dove", and that she might seek the Democratic Party's nomination in 2008.

2003

November 2003
November 27 – In an interview with the German magazine Bunte, Hillary Clinton states that she will not be a candidate for the presidency in 2004, and when told that some were disappointed with that decision, replies "I know. Well, perhaps I'll do it next time around." This is interpreted to mean that she will consider a run in the 2008 race, if the 2004 Democratic nominee is unsuccessful.

2004

July 2004
July 27 – Illinois State Senator and United States Senate candidate Barack Obama delivers the keynote address at the Democratic National Convention. After the speech, MSNBC's Chris Mathews praises Obama's performance and predicts that he will someday be the nation's first African American president saying "I have seen the first black president there".

November 2004
November 2 – President George W. Bush wins re-election defeating Senator John Kerry in the 2004 United States presidential election.
November 9 – Following John Kerry's loss in the 2004 election, Cameron Kerry, John Kerry's brother and political confidante states in regards to another presidential run "That's conceivable... I don't know why that [last week's loss] should necessarily be it. I think it's too early to assess. But I think that he is going to continue to fight on for the values, ideals, and issues this campaign is about."

2005

February 2005
February 7 – After the second inauguration of George W. Bush, in an interview with Fox News Sunday, Vice President Dick Cheney is asked whether he will seek the Republican nomination for the presidency in 2008. He replies "I've got my plans laid out, I'm going to serve this president for the next four years and then I'm out of here." When pressed further, Cheney responds to a potential presidential run by stating "Not only no, but hell no" and quotes General William Tecumseh Sherman's famous statement "If nominated, I will not run. If elected, I will not serve."

2006

March 2006

 March 11 – The 2006 Southern Republican Leadership Conference Hotline Straw Poll is won by Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist with 36.9 percent of the vote.
 March 21 – United States senator and 1988 presidential candidate Joe Biden of Delaware announces that he will seek the Democratic nomination in 2008.

April 2006
 April 17 – Former United States Senator Mike Gravel of Alaska states his intention to run for the Democratic presidential nomination a speech before the National Press Club.

May 2006
 May 20 – The Wisconsin State Republican Convention Straw Poll is won by United States Senator George Allen of Virginia, with 17.4 percent of the vote.
May 22 – Senator Christopher Dodd of Connecticut tells The Hartford Courant that he has "decided to do all the things that are necessary to prepare to seek the presidency in 2008."

October 2006
October 12 – Former Democratic Governor of Virginia Mark Warner states that he will not seek the presidency in 2008.
October 22 – Despite having stated that "I can unequivocally say I will not be running for national office in four years", Senator Barack Obama of Illinois states in relation to a presidential run "I don't want to be coy about this: given the responses that I've been getting over the last several months, I have thought about the possibility, but I have not thought about it with the seriousness and depth that I think is required ... After November 7, I'll sit down and consider, and if at some point I change my mind, I will make a public announcement and everybody will be able to go at me."
 October 30 – Massachusetts Senator John Kerry makes a "botched joke" about education and the Iraq War, which dominates the news for several days. Republican Representative Duncan Hunter of California announces the formation of an exploratory committee for a presidential run.