[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Bureau of Investigation (Finland)

und the National PCB Criminal Intelligence Centre and the PCB Intelligence Units specialised in air, sea and land traffic. NBI hosts the national centres of Interpol, Europol and Schengen cooperation as well as develops new forensic investigation methods, equipment and material for the police force.

Organization 
In the fiscal year 2016, the National Bureau of Investigation's budget was approximately 72.5 million euros. NBI headquarters has been located in the Tikkurila district of Vantaa within the Capital region area since 1994. The Bureau also hosts field offices in Tampere, Turku, Mariehamn, Joensuu, Oulu and Rovaniemi. The headquarters houses the Crime Museum, which holds about 6 000 pieces of criminal history, including tools used in crimes and punishment as well as documents and photos with most of the collections from the 20th century. As of January 2014, NBI has been divided into three divisions in addition to administrative services:
 Criminal Investigation Division
 Criminal Intelligence Division
 Forensic Laboratory
The Criminal Investigation Division is further divided into sections on organised crime, homicide, financial crime and information gathering—and the Criminal Intelligence Division contains a separate section on international affairs as well as a Financial Intelligence Unit (FIU). NBI had 696 staff, of whom 39% were women, at the end of 2016. Most of the Bureau's personnel serve as law enforcement officers (60%) mainly in investigative and intelligence duties. Civilian staff include experts, such as chemists, laboratory assistants, clerks, engineers and linguists.

See also 

 Crime in Finland
 Finnish Border Guard
 Finnish Security Intelligence Service
 International criminal law
 Judicial system of Finland
 Law enforcement in Finland

References

External links 
 Ministry of Interior official website
 National Bureau of Investigation official website.

Criminal justice
Law enforcement agencies of Finland
National Central Bureaus of Interpol
1954 establishments in Finland
Government agencies established in 1954
Finnish intelligence agencies
Organized crime in Finland