[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Steregushchiy-class corvette

en Algeria ordered two ships. The cost was estimated at US$120–150 million per ship. One was to be delivered to the Algerian Navy in 2014 and one in 2015, but over five years later, the IISS Military Balance 2020 did not list any such vessels in service with the Algerian Navy (IISS MB 2020, p. 341).

Operational history
Steregushchiy started sea trials in November 2006 and was commissioned in the Baltic Fleet on 14 November 2007.
Soobrazitelnyy, the second ship in the class, was launched on 31 March 2010 and was expected to start sea trials in November/December 2010. The ship was commissioned in October 2011.
Boikiy was commissioned in May 2013.
Stoikiy was commissioned in May 2014. Flag-raising ceremony was conducted on 27 July 2014.
Sovershennyy was launched in 2015 and joined the Pacific Fleet in late July 2017.
Gromkiy was commissioned in December 2018.
Hero of the Russian Federation Aldar Tsydenzhapov was commissioned in December 2020.
Merkury was commissioned in May 2023.
 Rezky was commissioned in September 2023.

2017 
On 14 October 2017, Soobrazitelny, Boikiy and tanker Kola embarked a deployment to the Mediterranean Sea and the Red Sea. The ships returned to their homeport on 14 January 2018 and were greeted by the commander of the Baltic Fleet Vice-Admiral Aleksandr Nosatov.

2020 

The first six corvettes participated in a large-scale exercise of the Russian Navy in March–April 2020. The exercise has been suggested to be an answer to the largest NATO post-Cold War simulation of amphibious landing in Europe Defender 2020.

The Russian exercise started with corvette Stoikiy and tank landing ship (LST) Korolyov being deployed to the North Sea in early March. In mid and late March, the three remaining corvettes saw deployments as well. Boikiy was active in the southern North Sea, together with LSTs Minsk and Kaliningrad, while Steregushchiy and Soobrazitelnyy were active in the central North Sea. Auxiliary ships present included the tug Nikolay Chiker, tankers Kola and Akademik Pashin, as well as special-purpose ship Yantar. Adding the Yaroslav Mudry's deployment to the Indian Ocean, this means that all active major surface combatants of the Baltic Fleet were active at the same time, which was an unprecedented event at the time and can be roughly compared only with the Ocean Shield 2019 exercise, where two LSTs, three corvettes and a frigate were active in the Baltic Sea. At the same time, however, frigates Admiral Grigorovich, Admiral Essen and Admiral Makarov of the Black Sea Fleet were also active. On 26 March, the combined Russian force with two Black Sea Fleet frigates, three corvettes and two LSTs of the Baltic Fleet was tracked by a nine-ship strong Royal Navy squadron.

At the Pacific Fleet, Sovershennyy and Gromkiy held an exercise along with cruiser Varyag, destroyers Bystryy, Admiral Tributs, Admiral Panteleyev, tracking ship Marshal Krylov and icebreakers Sadko, Ivan Susanin, as well as civilian icebreaker Kapitan Khlebnikov in the Sea of Japan. Another exercise was held in the Bering Sea by corvettes MPK-82, MPK-107, Ust-Ilimsk, Kholmsk, Moroz, Razliv, Iney, Smerch and two minesweepers.

The second stage of the exercise started on 8 April, when Steregushchiy, Soobrazitelnyy and Stoikiy were again deployed to the Baltic Sea. A day earlier, frigate Admiral Kasatonov, submarine Sankt Peterburg and tug Pamir of the Northern Fleet were reported to be in the Norwegian Sea on their way to the Baltic Sea as well.

The intense period of exercises continued in mid April. At the Pacific Fleet they involved one LST and six anti-ship corvettes. At the Northern Fleet they included two anti-ship, three anti-submarine corvettes and supposedly six nuclear submarines. The Baltic Fleet held three more exercises involving two LSTs, six anti-ship corvettes, two anti-submarine corvettes as well as other ships. Boikiy was deployed to the English Channel with tanker Akademik Pashin on 30 April.

In November–December 2020, corvettes Steregushchiy, Boikiy and tanker Kola took part in an unusually intensive Russian naval activity in the North Sea and areas near the United Kingdom. The deployments could have been an answer to the sailing of US, British and Norwegian warships to the Barents Sea for the first time after the Cold War earlier in 2020. Destroyer Severomorsk, accompanied by the tanker Sergey Osipov had been active in the area, as well and shortly afterwards destroyer Vice-Admiral Kulakov, accompanied by the tanker Akademik Pashin and intelligence ship Viktor Leonov. Vice-Admiral Kulakov, unusually, sailed west of the United Kingdom, in the area where the Russian Navy hasn't been known to be active since 2009 (in 2012 there was a friendly port call of Vice-Admiral Kulakov to Cork). Russian ships in the area included also submarine Staryy Oskol, tug Kapitan Guryev and patrol ship Vasily Bykov.