[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Frank Oliver (politician)

ic positions apparently suited local sentiment as he was elected to the Territorial Assembly and as MP multiple times, often with majority of votes in the district.

His later political career 
After the Liberal government was denied power in 1911, Olivere served in the House of Commons until 1917. 

He ran for re-election in the new riding of West Edmonton in 1917 and received the most votes cast in the riding. His lead though was eliminated when officials of Borden's party distributed its army vote and he did not retain the seat. 

Oliver ran in 1921 to regain his Edmonton West seat but this time he was defeated by a candidate of the United Farmers of Alberta.

Legacy 
The area of western downtown Edmonton west of 109th Street was named Oliver after the man; later a major commercial strip in the neighbourhood was named Oliver Square.

On August 2, 2021 the Toronto Daily Tribune story, "Edmonton’s Oliver Square changes name after community consultation." It reported, "A member of Parliament and federal minister first elected to office in 1883, Oliver is known for drafting discriminatory legislation, including policies that pushed Indigenous people off their traditional lands." Since mid-2020 the Oliver Community League, neighbourhood residents, Indigenous community members and community members from other marginalized groups have been consulting on a new name for the neighbourhood.

Mount Oliver in the Victoria Cross Ranges is named after him.

The Oliver Canadian Northern (now CNR) railway station in today's northeast Edmonton, and the surrounding area of same name, honours this man. The Alberta Hospital (Edmonton) is located in Oliver.

The Oliver School District (1899-1957) was named after him. This was done in recognition of Oliver, as NWT Assemblyman, having a great deal to do with the Act that established the school district system in the North-West Territories.

Death
Frank Oliver died in 1933 in Ottawa, Ontario.

His body was brought to Edmonton, and it was interred in the Edmonton Cemetery.

References

Bibliography

Notes

External links

 
 
 Frank Oliver, Manitoba Historical Society
 Frank Oliver and the 1905 election Alberta Heritage
 Frank Oliver and the Michel Band

Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Northwest Territories
1853 births
1933 deaths
Liberal Party of Canada MPs
Laurier Liberals
Members of the House of Commons of Canada from the Northwest Territories
Members of the House of Commons of Canada from Alberta
Members of the King's Privy Council for Canada
Persons of National Historic Significance (Canada)
Racism in Canada