[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Stuart London

ppocrates" due to his relatively high success rate.

In 1674, the Worshipful Society of Apothecaries first opened their Physic Garden in Chelsea in order to grow plants for medicine. The garden may have included England's first greenhouse, which was recorded there by John Evelyn in 1685.

Education 

In 1611, the former monastery buildings at London Charterhouse were bought by Thomas Sutton, who died shortly afterwards. In Sutton's will, he left the bulk of his estate, including the buildings at Charterhouse, to establish Charterhouse School for 40 boys and almshouses for 80 pensioners. These were opened in 1614. In 1603, James I knighted 133 men in a single evening in its Great Hall, and its governors included famous figures of the day such as Francis Bacon, William Laud, and the Duke of Monmouth.

The boys at St. Paul's School were known for their plays, which were attended by talent scouts from professional theatres such as the Globe. Famous pupils of the school from this era include John Milton, Samuel Pepys, John Churchill, and Edmond Halley.

The Shakesperean actor Edward Alleyn founded Dulwich College as a school for poor boys in the 1610s. The Latymer School in Fulham received its first students in 1627. Colfe's School was refounded in 1652, and Haberdashers' Aske's School was established in 1690.

In 1698, a new group called the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge was founded at St. Mary-le-Bow in Cheapside. The society in turn founded several charity schools, at which the students received a free uniform in a distinctive colour, often gaining a nickname such as "Bluecoats" or "Greencoats". The Grey Coat Hospital School was one of these, founded by eight Westminster shopkeepers in order to educate the beggar children of the area. In the next 12 years, 80 such schools were founded across London.

Crime and law enforcement 

In October 1605, a search carried out in the basement of the Houses of Parliament revealed a man called Guy Fawkes with matches in his pocket and 36 barrels of gunpowder. Fawkes had been recruited to join the Gunpowder Plot by a group of fellow Catholics including Robert Catesby, Thomas Percy, and John Wright. The king was due to visit Parliament and Fawkes' plan was to blow the place up with the king inside. Several of the conspirators, including Fawkes, were hanged, drawn and quartered in Old Palace Yard in Westminster.

A riot of London apprentices took place on Shrove Tuesday in 1617. The Cockpit Theatre on Drury Lane was stormed, and the mob destroyed the actors' costumes, sets and scripts. In Wapping, several houses were pulled down and the sheriff pelted with stones. In 1661, a Christian sect called the Fifth Monarchists rioted in the streets for two days in London. They were led by a wine merchant called James Venner, and believed that they must pave the way for the return of Christ and the Fifth Monarchy prophesied by Daniel in the Bible. They opposed the Restoration of Charles II and the Church of England. About 40 people were killed during the riots. On St. David's Day in 1662, the Welshmen of London celebrated by wearing a leek in their hats, while the English put up mocking dolls and scarecrows with leeks in their hats. While drunk, an English cook put a leek in his own hat and addressed a Welsh lord as his "fellow countryman". The mockery turned into a fight with swords drawn, and the Welsh lord and his retinue were forced to flee onto the Thames. The Sacheverell Riots took place in 1710 in support of Henry Sacheverell, whose anti-Nonconformist sermons were thought seditious by the government. Nonconformist buildings and the homes of politicians were attacked. Sacheverell was found guilty, but given a very light sentence, and his supporters celebrated the verdict all over London.

In 1674, workmen at the Tower of London discovered a box underneath a staircase containing the skeletons of two children. These were presumed to be the Princes in the Tower, 15th-century royal boys who were thought to have been murdered on the orders of Richard III. The bodies were buried in Westminster Abbey with royal honours.

Duelling, either with pistols or with swords, was a popular way for upper-class men to settle arguments, although they were not legal. In 1694, a duel took place between John Law and Beau Wilson in Bloomsbury Square. Wilson was killed and Law convicted of his murder and sent to Newgate Prison.

Each of the City's wards had a constable whose job was to keep order by breaking up fights and, if necessary, making arrests. There was a town watch made up of selected men who patrol the streets armed with halberds. From the Interregnum period, London also had a trained band of soldiers who drilled in Finsbury Fields who marched about the city with pikes once a week. There were 800 Parliamentary soldiers who were stationed in the Old St Paul's Cathedral as it was a central meeting place at the time.

Religious suppression