[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rockfour

l World) gained the critics' love though the complexity of the materials that merged their psychedelic rock influences with more contemporary sounds in the style of the 2000s Flaming Lips, The Shines and Grandaddy .

May 2013 saw the release of another English-language studio album, Too Many Organs.

Reunion with LuLai
In November 2014, the band officially announced they will be reuniting with former lead singer Eli LuLai, 10 years after parting ways. In the announcement the band indicated the reunion would not be a singular event but they plan to collaborate as a band in the future. The announcement was followed by a release of a new single with Lulai, "Helkikei Avak" ("Fractions of dust"), and a special live show in Tel Aviv in early 2015. Due to audience demand, 2 more live shows were added. In March 2015, the reunited band released another single, "Namer shel niyaar" ("Paper tiger").

In January 2016, the band held live shows in honor of the 20th anniversary of their iconic album "Ha'ish Shera'a Hakol". It was then also announced that Issar Tennenbaum had left the band and that they would be joined by Itamar Levi. Subsequently they have also performed with Yoni Tennenbaum on drums.

Style

Psychedelia

From Ha'ish Shera'a Hakol on, Rockfour have kept strictly to a neo-psychedelic style, writing and recording songs using techniques of such classic psychedelic rock groups as The Beatles, The Zombies, The Who, The Byrds, and early Pink Floyd.  However, because Rockfour freely recombine their influences, and adopt a playing style significantly more aggressive than that of their influences (with the exception of the record-setting loudness of The Who), the resulting sound is modern and distinct.  Among their psychedelic influences, the use of extended three-part harmonies and the unique sound of the 12-string Rickenbacker guitar stand out especially.

Other Genres

Rockfour sometimes employ the compositional style, though not the winding melodies, of progressive rock groups such as King Crimson and Genesis, most notably on the songs "She's Full of Fears" from Supermarket and "Old Village House" from Memories of the Never Happened.  The mellotron, played in a style quite close to that of Robert Fripp of King Crimson, has also appeared on many of the band's studio recordings.

Starting with One Fantastic Day, they have incorporated the heavy, distorted guitar-sound of alternative rock, though it was toned down since the departure of LuLai.  Live performances of older material maintain this style.

Members
Eli LuLai (lead vocalist, guitars)
Baruch Ben Yitzhak (guitars, vocals)
Marc Lazare (bass, vocals)
Yaki Gani (keyboards, guitars)
Yoni Tennenbaum (drums)

Past members
Amir Tzoref (guitars)
Issar Tennenbaum (drums, backing vocals)
Itamar Levi (drums)

Other significant contributors
Danny Recht - production on Ha'ish Shera'a Hakol
Noam Ledderman - drums on Behazara L'shablul
Gadi Pugatsch - keyboards and vocals
Noam Rapaport - mellotron and piano on Supermarket
Jim Diamond - production on Nationwide
Reuven Amiel - Grammy-winning producer and mixing engineer, worked with Rockfour first demos that actually are rare  and desirable  pieces in the underground Market.

Discography

Studio albums

Hebrew
 Resheth Parparim (Butterfly Net) 1991
 Ha'ish Shera'a Hakol (The Man Who Saw Everything) 1995
 Behazara L'shablul (Shablul Revisited - literally, Back to the Snail) 1996
 Haolam Hamufla (The Wonderful World) 2010
 Erez Ir 2020

English
 Supermarket 2000
 One Fantastic Day 2001
 Nationwide 2004
 Memories of the Never Happened (Anova Music, 2007)
 Too Many Organs (Anova Music, 2013)

Other releases

Hebrew
 Rockfour Behofa'a 1999 (Live)

English
 Another Beginning 2001 (Compilation of English-language tracks from Supermarket and One Fantastic Day)
 Where The Byrds Fly 2001 (3 track CD-EP)
 For Fans Only! 2003 (b-sides, covers and rarities)

External links
 Official site
 

Israeli indie rock groups
Psychedelic rock music groups
Musical groups established in 1988