[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Piestewa Peak

Piestewa Peak ( ; , formerly Squaw Peak), at  is the second highest point in the Phoenix Mountains, after Camelback Mountain, and the third highest in the city of Phoenix, Arizona.  It is located in the Piestewa Peak Recreation Area within the Phoenix Mountain Preserve, near Piestewa Freeway (Arizona State Highway 51). Piestewa Peak is named in honor of Army Spc. Lori Ann Piestewa, the first known Native American woman to die in combat in the U.S. military, and the first female soldier to be killed in action in the 2003 Iraq War.

Name 

Since at least 1910, the name Squaw Peak had been used in reference to the mountain. Other historic names included Squaw Tit Mountain, Phoenix Mountain and Vainom Do'ag, the Pima name for the mountain. As the term "squaw" is considered derogatory by many, numerous efforts to change the name of the mountain were made through the years. State Representative Jack Jackson, himself a Navajo, submitted a bill to change the name annually beginning in 1992, which generated repeated and often raw debates in Arizona.  

In 1997, the local youth group of the American Indian Movement filed a petition with the State Board on Geographic and Historic Names to change the name to Iron Mountain, the English translation of the mountain's native Pima name.  The board researched the issue for nearly a year before ruling in July 1998 that too much doubt existed as to whether the name Vainom Do'ag actually referred to the mountain in question or another nearby peak and the petition was rejected, although the board left the door open to alternative possible name-changes.

U.S. Board on Geographic Names policy is to consider changes to features using the word "squaw" when approved by local authorities, but petitioners are strongly urged to choose new names that relate to Native American women and/or culture.  In 2003, newly elected Governor Janet Napolitano petitioned the state board to rename the mountain for Lori Piestewa.  The Governor's lobbying, while ultimately successful, proved to be controversial.  The controversy stemmed in part from the fact that governor's request violated a required waiting period of five years after a person's death prior to renaming a geographic feature; Piestewa had been killed earlier that year while deployed on active military duty in Iraq.  Tim Norton, a Phoenix police officer who at the time was serving as the director of the Arizona State Board on Geographic and Historic Names, refused to place the request on the board's agenda, citing the five-year requirement.  Mario Diaz, an aide to Napolitano, subsequently contacted Norton's supervisor with the police department in an attempt to pressure Norton into changing his mind, but the supervisor refused, stating it was not a police department issue and was outside of his authority.  Diaz' actions were picked up on by the press and resulted in strong criticism from both the public sector as well as fellow politicians, with some politicians considering a formal inquiry.  Napolitano herself publicly admonished Diaz, but the controversy dogged Napolitano during her reelection campaign and throughout her tenure as governor.

The state board, absent its director, approved the name change to Piestewa Peak on April 17, 2003, less than a month after Piestewa's death.  The U.S. Board on Geographic Names, however, refused to accept a similar petition at the time, citing their own five-year waiting rule.  Five years later the board agreed to review the request as the waiting period had passed.  The board also considered other potential alternatives, including Swilling Peak for area pioneer Jack Swilling.  Ultimately, the national board voted 11–2 to approve the name change to Piestewa Peak, while indicating that the original name of Squaw Peak might still be used in publications as a secondary reference.

Natural history 

As a landform, Piestewa Peak is relatively young, formed roughly 14 million years ago. However, it is composed of much older rock, primarily schist.

Flora in this area is typical of the lower Sonoran Desert and includes almost all varieties of Arizona cactus such as saguaro, barrel, hedgehog, pincushion, jumping cholla and prickly pear. Trees and colorful shrubbery include palo verde, mesquite, ironwood trees, creosote (dominate), ocotillo, brittle bush, desert lavender and giant sage shrubs.

Wildflowers are abundant in the early spring and include Mexican gold poppies (deep yellow), brittlebush (yellow), lupine (purples), desert globemallow (orange) and scorpionweed (purple). Fiddleneck and bladderpod also are blooming in some areas. These are in addition to the many varieties of flowering cacti.