[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Callie Torres

Rhimes stated that: "Callie and Erica have an undeniable chemistry, and watching the story unfold is something the writers are looking forward to. I wanted to illuminate their relationship in the same way we do all relationships on the show — it will be funny, sweet, honest, and a little bit dirty."

She explained that in developing the relationship between the two: "we wanted it to be real – not some stunt to get people talking. We wanted to see what would happen if a woman suddenly had feelings for another woman." The two characters shared a kiss at the end of the season 4 finale, with which D. Williams of AfterEllen.com noted: "Callie and Erica became the only regular lesbian/bisexual female characters currently on network television. This is also the first time that 2 regular characters on a network show have begun a lesbian romance, as opposed to one becoming involved with a new lesbian character introduced expressly for that relationship." Before continuing with the storyline, the show's producers consulted with the Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation to ensure they maintained realism throughout. Trish Doolan, star of April's Shower was invited to consult in the workshop sessions which took place, and surmised that; "They were really wanting to be truthful to the 2 characters they're focusing on in the woman-woman relationship", with Nikki Weiss, who also consulted, adding: "they didn't want to stereotype anything either, and write from a place where they didn't understand it. ... I don't think they did it as a stunt to get people back to watching after the strike. I really think that they wanted to develop these two characters, and that you could see a closeness with them way before they ever decided any kind of — I think they just have a chemistry together, as actresses, too. You could tell that in the room. They definitely have a chemistry."

In the show's fifth season, Torres embarked on a relationship with Arizona Robbins (Capshaw). Fans refer to the relationship between the two by the portmanteau "Calzona" (for Callie + Arizona). Rhimes praised the chemistry between Callie and Arizona in contrast, comparing it to that between the show's primary couple Grey and Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey), and stating: "They have that little thing that makes you want to watch them." In "An Honest Mistake", Torres was initially rejected by Robbins, with Robbins citing Torres' "inexperience" as a factor. Series writer Peter Nowalk offered the insight:

The couple ultimately decided to begin a relationship, however, the two experience difficulties, but eventually reunite. Rhimes commented on their reconciliation: "I love [Callie] with Arizona. ... I like that they make me feel hopeful about love." Rhimes has mentioned of their relationship in season 6: "I would like to see Callie happily in a long-term relationship. We have so much to explore with them, because we barely know anything about [Arizona]."

Callie and Arizona have a five-year relationship, ultimately marrying in season 7 and divorcing in season 11. Callie starts a new relationship with Penny Blake and leaves to go to New York with her in the season 12 finale. Shonda Rhimes spoke on Ramirez's abrupt departure, saying, "This one was different because it wasn't a big planned thing. I had a different plan going and when Sara came in and said, 'I really need to take this break,' I was lucky that we'd shot the end of the season with her going to New York."

Reception
{{quote box|width=25em|align=right|quote=What was truly revolutionary about Callie is that she was never defined by any single aspect of herself. She was curvy, Latina, and bisexual, and she was also a funny, frustrating, and lovable doctor with an amazing career and strong friendships. Callie was never expected to be perfect. She was allowed to be as messy as every other character on Grey's Anatomy, and, for everyone who identified with her as a whole or in part, it was a huge relief to see this woman who represented so many perspectives be allowed to just be awesome.|source= Sabienna Bowmna of Bustle}}