[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ipswich River

Ipswich River is a small river in northeastern Massachusetts, United States. It held  significant importance in early colonial migrations inland from the ocean port of Ipswich. The river provided safe harborage at offshore Plum Island Sound to early Massachusetts subsistence farmers, who were also fishermen. A part of the river forms town boundaries and divides Essex County, Massachusetts on the coast from the more inland Middlesex County. It is  long, and its watershed is approximately , with an estimated population in the area of 160,000 people.

Historically, the settlement of Essex County began at the oldest community there, the tiny seaport of Agawam (later renamed Ipswich, and not to be confused with present-day Agawam in Hampden County), and typically proceeded westward and northward along the Ipswich or its tributary creeks.  When Middlesex County was formed in the Massachusetts Bay Colony, only Salem and Charlestown across the Charles River mouth and Boston harbor's inner estuary from Boston's much smaller hill dominated peninsula were older settlements.  
 
The upper river runs through and drains at least parts of Burlington, the lower river forms part of the borders between the towns of:
 North Reading and Lynnfield
 Middleton and the city of Peabody
 Middleton and Danvers, and 
 Boxford and  Topsfield.

The wide swamps along the river made it impossible to ford the stream anywhere east of Wilmington in colonial times. The only route north out of Boston to the northeast (today called the North Shore) was via the Andover Road, an often muddy track, later made a wagon road which forded the stream just below the confluence of Lubbers and Maple Meadow brooks.

Geology
The topography of eastern Massachusetts was determined most by the fact that, at the maximum glaciation of the Pleistocene Era, it was the site of the edge of the last glaciation, at approximately 18,000 BC. This glacier had planed the land under it nearly flat. Gravel- and boulder-lined streams ran along its surface. From 18,000 to about 10,000 BC, the glacier receded, dropping its stony contents as eskers and moraines, the dominant features of the region. The glacier's recession created ridges, deposited sand and gravel, the dominant material of the riverbed, over which mud has been deposited. Low-gradient drainage created the meandering streams, which typically drop no more than 30–40 feet.

Usage
The first written record about the Ipswich River is from 1638 when John Winthrop bought from Chief Masconomet and the Agawam tribe the lands along the river and exclusive fishing rights for 20 pounds sterling.

Most of the land along the river is privately owned but in certain recreational areas non-motorized boats, fishing, and swimming are allowed.  It is attractive to canoeists and birders. In the swampy and wetland areas a wide variety of birds and smaller wildlife species can be seen.

Drinking water for many communities is provided from Ipswich River.  It is estimated that source of public drinking water for approximately 350,000 people comes from the river's watershed although most of these people live outside the area.  There are some concerns about the quality of the water as the river dries up and some places become a dumping ground for tires.

Geography