[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Life of Joseph Smith from 1839 to 1844

lation of these plates.  Smith may not have sensed the fraud; however he never pursued their translation.  Whiddon, Wiley, and Fugate never said anything further regarding their fraud until 1879, when one of the party signed an affidavit revealing their fabrication and their desire to ensnare Smith.

The plates were lost in the Civil War but re-discovered by a Mormon scholar in the archives of the Chicago Historical Society Museum in the 1960s.  Non-destructive tests were permitted to be done in 1965 by a Mormon Physicist, George M. Lawrence.  In his report Lawrence wrote: The dimensions, tolerances, composition and workmanship are consistent with the facilities of an 1843 blacksmith shop and with the fraud stories of the original participants."  This conclusion was not accepted by the Church at large and the original claim of Smith's translation persisted in Church books and publications until 1980 when conclusive tests were completed that determined the plates were made from a modern alloy.

Nauvoo Legion

Among the powers granted to the City of Nauvoo under its city charter was the authority to create a "body of independent militarymen."  This force was a militia, and it became known as the "Nauvoo Legion".  By 1842, the militia had 2,000 troops, and at least 3,000 by 1844, including some non-Mormons. In comparison, the U.S. Army had only 8,500 men in this period.

Although the charter authorizing the Nauvoo Legion created an independent militia, it could be used by the state governor, the President of the United States, or the mayor of Nauvoo.  Joseph Smith himself was Nauvoo's second mayor, and Nauvoo also appointed him  highest ranking officer of the Legion, a Lieutenant General. This rank is one step above Major General which most contemporary militias employed as their commanding rank.  One motive for the higher rank was to prevent Smith from being tried in a court martial by officers of lesser rank.  In 1837 the Missouri militia had contemplated a court martial against Smith, a civilian at that time.

In the last month of his life, June 1844, Smith declared martial law in Nauvoo and deployed the Legion to defend the city.

Arrest attempt
On 6 June 1843, Joseph Smith was indicted by a grand jury in the circuit court of Daviess County, Missouri on the charge of treason against the state.  On June 13, 1843, Governor Reynolds dispatched Sheriff Joseph H. Reynolds to apprehend Smith. In Illinois, Reynolds was joined by Constable Harmon T. Wilson (of Hancock County, IL).  On June 21, the two placed Smith under arrest when he was staying outside Nauvoo near Dixon, IL. Once they had Smith in their custody, Reynolds and Wilson were themselves placed under arrest by Sheriff Campbell of Lee County, IL.  Campbell transported Smith, Reynolds, and Wilson to the Municipal Court of Nauvoo. On July 1, the Municipal Court of Nauvoo dismissed the warrant and freed Smith.

Increasing tensions
In December 1843, Smith petitioned Congress for the right to make Nauvoo an independent federal territory with the right to call out federal troops in its defense. Then, probably unwisely, Smith also decided to desert both Whigs and Democrats, and announced his own candidacy for President of the United States.  Meanwhile, he made plans to scout possible sites for a large Mormon settlement in Oregon or California.

Council of Fifty
In March 1844, Smith organized a secret Council of Fifty, a policy-making body based on what Smith called "Theodemocracy" and which was in effect a shadow government. One of the Council's first acts was to ordain Smith as King of the Kingdom of God. And, as if they had just organized an independent state, Smith and the Council sent ambassadors to England, France, Russia, and the Republic of Texas. In April, Smith predicted "the entire overthrow of this nation in a few years."

United States presidential campaign

Smith wrote to the leading presidential candidates and asked them what they would do to protect the Mormons. After receiving noncommittal or negative responses, Smith announced his own third-party candidacy for President of the United States, suspended regular proselytizing, and sent out the Quorum of the Twelve and hundreds of other political missionaries. The Anointed Quorum chose Sidney Rigdon as Smith's running mate. His top aide Brigham Young campaigned for Smith.

Political positions
Smith proposed the redemption of slaves by selling public lands and decreasing the size and salary of Congress; the closure of prisons; the annexation of Texas, Oregon, and parts of Canada; the securing of international rights on high seas; free trade; and the re-establishment of a national bank.

Smith's death

Dissent in Nauvoo