[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

Reporter, and the Variety
Nicole Kidman along with 84 other Hollywood people signed their names on what read:

"We the undersigned are pained and devastated by the civilian casualties in Israel and Lebanon caused by terrorist actions initiated by terrorist organisations such as Hezbollah and Hamas.

"If we do not succeed in stopping terrorism around the world, chaos will rule and innocent people will continue to die.

"We need to support democratic societies and stop terrorism at all costs."

Other film gurus that signed included actors: Michael Douglas, Dennis Hopper, Sylvester Stallone, Bruce Willis, Danny DeVito, Don Johnson, James Woods, Kelly Preston, Patricia Heaton and William Hurt; and directors: Ridley Scott, Tony Scott, Michael Mann, Dick Donner and Sam Raimi; as well as star tennis player Serena Williams and media tycoon Rupert Murdoch. Supporters of the ad included chairman and owner of Paramount Pictures, Sumner Redstone, and billionaire mogul, Haim Saban.

American actor-writer-producer Bill Maher, despite heavily criticizing President Bush in the interview, said on 28 August 2006 on Larry King Live: Absolutely and the proof of that is that they ask Israel to maintain a level of restraint when they're attacked that no other country would ever be asked to uphold.

I mean can you imagine if there was a terrorist organization that took over the country on our northern border, which would be Canada, and they started shelling us in our northern cities and Minnesota and Bangor, Maine was being shelled, what do you think George Bush would do?

I think he would nuke them before breakfast. And, look, you know I don't like George Bush but he is the best president we've ever had on Israel because for some reason he gets that.

...
the media always likes the underdog or what they perceive as the underdog, not that they're really the underdog at this point. Did you see those pictures of Hezbollah handing out cash?

...
So, you know, I feel really bad for Lebanon. I'm sorry you got your country all bombed up. But, you know, when you let a terrorist organization take over your country that's what's going to happen. I'll tell you two Arab countries that never get bombed, Egypt and Jordan, because they made a peace treaty with Israel. Try it.

According to an NBC-Wall Street Journal poll, when asked whether they approve or disapprove of the job that George W. Bush is doing in handling the military conflict between Israel and the Lebanese group Hezbollah, 45% of Americans approved, 39%
disapproved, and 16% were not sure. When asked to think about the events of the past week in the Middle East, 54% of Americans answered that their sympathies are more with Israel, 11% answered more with Arab nations, 11% both, 11% neither, and 13% not sure.

In August 2006, University of Chicago political scientist John Mearsheimer accused Israel of using the kidnapping of its soldiers by Hezbollah as an excuse to attack Lebanon and start the 2006 Lebanon War. Mearsheimer stated that "Israel had been planning to strike at Hezbollah for months. Key Israelis had briefed the administration about their intentions." When asked if there was any "hard evidence" to support his statements, Mearsheimer cited the "public record" and "Israeli civilian strategists", then repeated the allegation that Israel was seeking "a cover for launching this offensive."

Reporter and columnist Michael Totten wrote that "Hezbollah lost and Hezbollah knows it." He questioned why Hezbollah did not attack Israel when the IDF attacked Hamas in Gaza in 2008, and noted that most of Nasrallah’s supporters "want Hezbollah to deter Israeli invasions, not to invite Israeli invasions". Totten concluded that Nasrallah's boasts "play well in much of the Arab world", but that the 2006 "victory" seemed "empty at home."

Yemen
Thousands came together in the capital city, Sana'a, on 19 July to protest the Israeli attacks against the Palestinians and Lebanese. The demonstration was organized by the ruling and opposition political parties.

Reactions by special interest groups

American Israel Public Affairs Committee

On 18 July the US Senate passed S.Res. 534 98-0 by unanimous Consent, "Condemning Hezbollah and Hamas and their state sponsors and supporting Israel's exercise of its right to self-defense".  Resolution 534 calls for the release of Israeli soldiers who are being held captive by Hezbollah or Hamas; condemns the governments of Iran and Syria for their continued support for Hezbollah and Hamas; urges all sides to protect innocent civilian life and infrastructure; and strongly supports the use of all diplomatic means available to free the captured Israeli soldiers. On 20 July 2006, the US House of Representatives passed resolution 921 supporting Israel’s right to defend itself and condemning attacks against the State of Israel. The final vote was 410 to 8 in favour of the resolution.