[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tobias Billström

, Billström said that "Sometimes we have the impression that the person who is hidden lives with a nice blonde Swedish lady in her fifties or sixties who wants to help. But that's not true. The vast majority [of hidden illegal immigrants] live with their compatriots who are not blond and blue-eyed."

The statement was severely criticised by both opposition parties as well as the other governing parties in the Alliance coalition government. The leader of the Moderate Youth League, youth league of the Moderate Party, Erik Bengtzboe also criticised the statement, and called for Billström to apologise and to think about what he had said.

Some even called for Billström's resignation from the position of Minister for Migration and Asylum Policy. The right-wing Sweden Democrats party leader Jimmie Åkesson welcomed Billström's statement and said "that he was on the right track".

In the early afternoon on the same day, Billström officially apologised for his statement and said that his words came out in the wrong way, and that what he said was not what he really meant. Fredrik Reinfeldt, the Prime Minister of Sweden, welcomed Billström's apology.

First Deputy Speaker 
Billström was elected First Deputy Speaker on 29 September 2014. He resigned from the position in October 2017, to become Moderate Party leader in the Riksdag.

Minister for Foreign Affairs (2022-present)
On 18 October 2022, he was announced as Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Kristersson Cabinet. On his first day Billström stated that he would not use the term "feminist foreign policy" as his predecessor.

List of international trips made by Tobias Billström 
Since becoming Minister for Foreign Affairs, Billström has made a number of international trips.

Other activities 
 Migration Policy Institute (MPI), Member of the Transatlantic Council on Migration
 Wilfried Martens Centre for European Studies, Member of the Executive Board

Personal life 
He is the first openly bisexual person to serve as minister in a Swedish cabinet. He is married to Sofia Åkerman with whom he has one daughter.

TV license controversy 

On 11 October 2006, less than a week after he took office, it was revealed that Billström deliberately had neglected to pay his television licence for ten years, despite owning a television. Billström stated that his neglect was based on his political standpoint against public service, but that he had come to appreciate public service and that he believed that citizens and especially legislators should follow the law. Billström also expressed his ambition to repay his debt with interest. However, on 12 October 2006, Radiotjänst i Kiruna AB, a private agency tasked with collecting the license fees, filed criminal charges against Billström together with two other ministers in the Reinfeldt Cabinet: Cecilia Stegö Chilò and Maria Borelius, with the latter two resigning on 14 and 16 October 2006. Billström stated that he intended to remain in office and had no intention of resigning.

Honours
National
  : Recipient of the Golden Jubilee Badge Medal of King Carl XVI Gustaf (15 September 2023)
Foreign
  : Order of the Cross of Terra Mariana, 1st Class (2 May 2023)
  : Order of Independence (Jordan), Grand Cordon (15 November 2022)
  : Order of Prince Henry, Grand Cross (5 May 2008)
  : Order of the Balkan Mountains, 1st Class (9 October 2007)

References

External links 

  
 Tobias Billström at the Government Offices website 
 Tobias Billström at the Riksdag website 
 Billström's blog (inactive) 

1973 births
Living people
Politicians from Malmö
Lund University alumni
Alumni of the University of Cambridge
Members of the Riksdag from the Moderate Party
European People's Party politicians
Swedish Ministers for Migration and Asylum Policy
Swedish Ministers for Employment
Swedish male bloggers
Swedish LGBT politicians
Swedish bisexual people
Bisexual male politicians
Members of the Riksdag 2002–2006
LGBT legislators
Members of the Riksdag 2006–2010
Members of the Riksdag 2010–2014
Members of the Riksdag 2014–2018
Members of the Riksdag 2018–2022
Members of the Riksdag 2022–2026
Swedish Ministers for Foreign Affairs