[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# OneVoice Movement

li and Palestinian societies by activating their network of volunteers through new initiatives, empowering individuals to take personal responsibility to end the occupation, and providing concrete, tangible facts on why ending the conflict is beneficial to their bottom lines.

Programs and campaigns

One Million Voices (2007) 
Throughout 2007, OneVoice challenged Israelis and Palestinians to ask "What Are You Willing to Do to End the Conflict?" at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, OneVoice Youth Leaders presented video statements from Tel Aviv,  Jerusalem, and Ramallah on the campaign to 2,000 dignitaries. Attendees included Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, then-Israeli Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni, and then-Israeli Vice-Premier Shimon Peres.

Later that November, OneVoice led a delegation to the Annapolis Conference to express the support of the overwhelming majority of Israelis and Palestinians for the two-state solution and to demonstrate solidarity with the leaderships as they committed to reaching an agreement within one year. OneVoice launched a 365-day countdown clock for civic action and installed 11 digital screens – five in Ramallah and six in Tel Aviv – displaying countdown clocks set for one year: one year to end the occupation, one year to achieve an independent Palestinian state at peace with Israel, one year to end the violence and the conflict, and one year for citizens to take a stand in support of the negotiations.

Imagine 2018 (2008-2011) 
"Imagine: 2018" sought to transform apathy into inspiration among average Israelis and Palestinians by asking them to visualize what the region would look like in 10 years if a peace agreement were signed.

In cooperation with the Palestinian and Israeli ministries of education, OneVoice launched an essay contest in classrooms throughout Israel and the West Bank. From 2,500 submissions, winning essays were chosen on their potential to inspire citizens to build a future based on two states for two peoples. OneVoice asked leading Israeli, Palestinian, and Hollywood filmmakers to select one essay as the inspiration for a 1–5 minute short film. The "Boy and Soldier" and "Palestine International Airport" were among the winners of the contest, while "Israel & Palestine to Co-Host World Cup in 2018?" went viral.

At the end of the contest, OneVoice Israel received third prize in the Effie Awards’ non-profit organizations category, and the most creative and provocative essays from "Imagine 2018" were published in Hebrew and Arabic and disseminated to dozens of top Israeli and Palestinian leaders.

Saying What Needs to Be Said (2009–2010) 
OneVoice partnered with experts in public opinion polling from Israel, Palestine, and the international community to develop an iterative methodology to gauge public opinion as well as engage the public in crafting a consensus on the issues at the core final status issues. Using the results of the poll, OneVoice launched a series of town hall meetings across Israel and Palestine, revealing the often private views of the majority in each society and demonstrating that there was a partner on the other side despite the recent violence.

I.M.P.A.C.T. and O&E 
I.M.P.A.C.T. (Informing and Mobilizing Political Actors, Communities, and Thinkers), formally the International Engagement Program (IEP), works to build relationships with policy makers, influential communities, and thought leaders to foster an environment for a larger contingent of American citizenry to be informed of OneVoice's peace efforts through community events, private individual meetings, conference participation, and delegations to Israel and Palestine.

The Outreach and Education Program (O&E) has delivered conflict resolution training to schools and universities and has facilitated community discussions on the conflict in the United Kingdom and Western Europe since 2011. It has engaged thousands of people in London, Birmingham, and Manchester through community, school, university, and religious outreach. O&E holds an annual summer residential program to empower outstanding UK students interesting in ending the conflict.

Peace, It Also Pays Off and shekel campaigns (2014) 
"Peace, It Also Pays Off" was a OneVoice Israel campaign that reminded Israelis of the economic consequences of continuing the conflict and occupation at the expense of social and economic programs. The campaign asked Israelis to consider how they would rather spend 32 billion shekels—the amount the conflict costs Israel each year.

The data used for the social media and grassroots elements of the campaigns was based on analysis from Netanya College, the Molad Center, and the Adva Center. "Peace, It Also Pays Off" highlighted the positive impact an agreement with the Palestinians will have on the daily economic issues Israelis care about most—from affordable housing to food prices, from the job market to healthcare.