[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 24]
# List of South African slang words

– Tap water
Dintshang? – What's happening?
Ke shap – I am good.
Sati – Saturday
Spani – Work
Achuz – Friend (from "accused". Someone with whom you have committed a crime and appear in court alongside. "Can accused no.1 and accused no.2 please stand."
Choof – Crystal Meth

Gayle language (gay slang) 

Slang developed in the 1970s to allow the speakers to converse in public without drawing attention – usually referring to girls' names often with the first letter in common with the intended meaning: See the article Gayle language.
 abigail – abortion
 ada – backside
 agatha – a gossip
 aida – AIDS
 amanda – amazing
 annie – anus
 barbara – straight man
 belinda – blind
 bella – to hit or slap "I will bella you if you don't stop staring at that beulah."
 bertha – Hilda's big sister (really, really ugly), after Big Bertha, the giant cannon
 beulah – beautiful, usually referring to a good looking man
 cilla – cigarette
 betty bangles – policeman
 carol – cry
 chlora – coloured person
 connie – come
 cora – common
 diana – disgusting or dead
 dora – a drink; drunk
 elsie geselsie – chatterbox
 erica – erection
 esterjie – ecstasy
 ethel – old person
 frieda – sexually frustrated
 fuella – furious
 gail – chat
 gayle – the name for this slang
 gonda – a vagina
 grazelda – extremely ugly
 harriet – hairy man
 hilda – ugly (or horrible), usually referring to a not-so good looking guy
 iona – Indian
 jenny – masturbate
 jessica – jealous
 julia – jewellery
 lana – penis (from alliteration Lana Lunch)
 laura – lover
 lettie – lesbian
 lily – law (the police)
 lisa – male model
 lulu – laugh
 marie – mad
 marjorie – margarine
 mary – obvious homosexual
 mathilda – migraine
 maureen – murder
 mavis – effeminate queen
 mildred – mentally deranged
 milly – crazy (mad) – milder than mildred
 mitzi – small
 monica – money
 nancy – no
 natalie – native person
 nelly – neurotic
 nora – stupid or naive
 olga – old and ugly
 pandora – inquisitive queen
 patsy – dance, party
 polly – Portuguese homosexual
 priscilla – policeman
 reeva – revolting
 rita – rent boy
 sally – suck
 sheila – shit (action or insult)
 stella – steal
 trudy – someone that's beyond help
 ursula – understand/understanding
 vast – very ("She's vast nora, my dear!")
 vera – vomit
 wendy – white (caucasian)
 lodge – house
 pram – car

Example 

Jinne man, just put on your tekkies and your costume, don't be dof! We're going to walk to the beach and then go for a swim, if you want to come with you better hurry up, chyna. Ag nee, I stepped on a shongololo, I just bought new tekkies the other day! You know what, lets just forget about the beach and have a braai instead, all we need is some meat, mieliepap, some cooldrinks, maybe a brinjal and some other veggies. And if someone can bring some biscuits for a banofi pie that would be great. Hey bru, it's lekker day today for a jol ek sê! I'm warning you my dad won't tolerate any gesuipery, he'll klap you stukkend! Is it? Ja, he's kwaai! He was tuning me just now from his bakkie my bokkie is a soutie and a rooinek. Eish! Well at least he's duidelik.

See also 
 Gayle language
 Languages of South Africa
 List of colloquial South African place names
 List of lexical differences in South African English
 South African English

References

Bibliography

External links

Languages of South Africa
South African
Slang
South African English