[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 55]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

the other, 'can he have done
you more than all the rest whom you have prized so cheaply?' 'He it
was,' replied the captain, 'who animated the Christians to that
desperate resistance which cost me the lives of so many of my brave
sailors. Three times did we leap upon their deck, with a fury that
seemed irresistible, and three times did that youth attack us with such
cool determined opposition that we were obliged to retreat ingloriously,
leaving at every charge twenty of our number behind. Therefore, I repeat
it, I will either have that price for him, great as it may appear, or
else I will gratify my revenge by seeing him drudge for life in my
victorious galley.'

"At this the Turk examined young Francisco with new attention; and he
who had hitherto fixed his eyes upon the ground in sullen silence now
lifted them up; but scarcely had he beheld the person that was talking
to the captain when he uttered a loud cry and repeated the name of
_Hamet_. The Turk, with equal emotion, surveyed him for a moment, and
then, catching him in his arms, embraced him with the transports of a
parent who unexpectedly recovers a long-lost child. It is unnecessary to
repeat all that gratitude and affection inspired Hamet to say, but when
he heard that his ancient benefactor was amongst the number of those
unhappy Venetians who stood before him, he hid his face for a moment
under his vest and seemed overwhelmed with sorrow and astonishment,
when, recollecting himself, he raised his arms to heaven and blessed
that Providence which had made him the instrument of safety to his
ancient benefactor. He then instantly flew to that part of the market
where Francisco stood waiting for his fate with a manly, mute despair.
He called him his friend, his benefactor, and every endearing name which
friendship and gratitude could inspire; and, ordering his chains to be
instantly taken off, he conducted him and his son to a magnificent
house, which belonged to him in the city. As soon as they were alone,
and had time for an explanation of their mutual fortunes, Hamet told the
Venetians that, when he was set at liberty by their generosity, and
restored to his country, he had accepted a command in the Turkish
armies; and that, having had the good fortune to distinguish himself on
several occasions, he had gradually been promoted, through various
offices, to the dignity of Bashaw of Tunis. 'Since I have enjoyed this
post,' added he, 'there is nothing which I find in it so agreeable as
the power it gives me of alleviating the misfortunes of those unhappy
Christians who are taken prisoners by our corsairs. Whenever a ship
arrives, which brings with it any of these sufferers, I constantly visit
the markets and redeem a certain number of the captives, whom I restore
to liberty. And gracious Allah has shown that he approves of these faint
endeavours to discharge the sacred duties of gratitude for my own
redemption, by putting it in my power to serve the best and dearest of
men.'

"Ten days were Francisco and his son entertained in the house of Hamet,
during which time he put in practice everything within his power to
please and interest them, but when he found they were desirous of
returning home, he told them he would no longer detain them from their
country, but that they should embark the next day in a ship that was
setting sail for Venice. Accordingly, on the morrow he dismissed them,
with many embraces and much reluctance, and ordered a chosen party of
his own guards to conduct them on board their vessel. When they arrived
there, their joy and admiration were considerably increased on finding
that, by the generosity of Hamet, not only the ship which had been
taken, but the whole crew were redeemed and restored to freedom.
Francisco and his son embarked, and, after a favourable voyage, arrived
without accident in their own country, where they lived many years
respected and esteemed, continually mindful of the vicissitudes of human
affairs, and attentive to discharge their duties to their
fellow-creatures."

When this story was concluded, Mr Barlow and his pupils went out to walk
upon the high road, but they had not gone far before they discovered
three men, who seemed each to lead a large and shaggy beast by a string,
followed by a crowd of boys and women, whom the novelty of the sight had
drawn together. When they approached more near, Mr Barlow discovered
that the beasts were three tame bears, led by as many Savoyards, who get
their living by exhibiting them. Upon the head of each of these
formidable animals was seated a monkey, who grinned and chattered, and
by his strange grimaces excited the mirth of the whole assembly. Tommy,
who had never before seen one of these creatures, was very much
surprised and entertained, but still more so when he saw the animal rise
upon his hind legs at the word of command, and dance about in a strange,
uncouth manner, to the sound of music.