[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Norwegian passport

JPEG format and with a digital key to verify that the data contained is authentic and hasn't been tampered with. Fingerprint data was required to be stored on Schengen member states’ passports from 2009. Norway started storing fingerprint data of persons applying for a new passport on 6 April 2010.

Languages
For ordinary and emergency passports, the data page/information pages are printed in Norwegian (Bokmål and Nynorsk), Northern Sami and English. Northern Sámi was added in 2020. However, for diplomatic, service and special passports, all content (including the cover and inner pages) are printed in English and French only.

Until the 1990s, the data and information pages of ordinary passports were printed in Norwegian, French, English and German. French and German were dropped when the data were moved to just one page.

New passports 

The Norwegian Police Directorate and Kripos (the national unit for combating organized and other serious crime) launched a design competition for new passports, ID-cards and travel documents. It was later announced that the winner of the competition was “The Norwegian Landscape” by Neue Design Studio, an Oslo-based graphic design company. 

The new passports were set to be issued in 2016. But first Neue had to work closely with the National Police Directorate in order to combine the winning design with the necessary security measures that are required of passports. The purpose of the competition was to redesign the document with a high quality of design whilst still serving its purpose and functionality. Further, the new design was to increase the security of Norwegian passports, ID-cards and travel documents.

In 2016 it was announced that the introduction of new passports was postponed to the middle of 2018. In August 2019 it was announced that the introduction of new passports was postponed for the seventh time, to October 2020. The new passports were introduced on 19 October 2020.

National ID card 

Norwegian national ID cards were released 30 November 2020. As an alternative to presenting a passport, Norwegian citizens are entitled to use a valid national identity card to exercise their right of free movement within EFTA the EEA, and Svalbard.

Furthermore, the card can be used as a travel document to the European Microstates, Balkan countries, French Overseas Territories, Montserrat (for max. 14 days) and organized tours to Tunisia.
It was usable to the United Kingdom until 1 October 2021.

Issuing
Application is done at special passport offices or embassies. As of 2021 there were 79 indoor offices (including one in Svalbard) and 43 locations for mobile (bus) offices. Emergency passports are only issued at major Norwegian airports (Oslo-Gardermoen, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim) or embassies.

Identification requirements
When doing the application identification of the applicant is needed. This is done by:
Showing a Norwegian passport, valid or expired, if having any (if stolen or lost, must be reported as such)
If having no Norwegian passport, showing a valid Norwegian identity card, e.g. bank card
If having no identity document, a document such as a letter from employer or school certifying the identity
New citizens need a letter of approval of Norwegian citizenship, the Residence permit card, and passport from the other country or Refugee travel document

The identity is clarified when there is no doubt that the information or documents that the applicant has given supports the applicants identity.

Different spellings of the same name
Names containing special letters (æ, ø, å) are spelled the correct way in the non-machine-readable zone, but are mapped in the machine-readable zone, æ becoming "AE", ø becoming "OE", and å becoming "AA". This follows the standard for machine-readable passports, which must not contain letters other than A–Z.

Manufacturing defect
Machine-readable Norwegian passports issued between 1999 and 2005 suffered from a manufacturing defect that could result in the identity page coming loose, thus invalidating the passport. The Norwegian passport authorities replaced such passports free of charge.

Visa requirements

Visa requirements for Norwegian citizens are administrative entry restrictions by the authorities of other states placed on citizens of Norway.  Norwegian citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 185 countries and territories, ranking the Norwegian passport 7th overall in terms of travel freedom (tied with the Czech Republic, Greece, Malta, the United Kingdom and the United States) according to the Henley Passport Index.