[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Czech Republic–United States relations

e a great influence on public opinion. After Barack Obama was elected the President of the United States, there were speculations that he might stop the project. The final decision to scratch the plans was announced on 17 September 2009 by a phone call from Obama to Czech Prime Minister Jan Fischer.

In June 2011, Alexandr Vondra, a Czech defense minister, told the U.S. that his country was withdrawing from the European missile defense system, stating: "We will seek other opportunities for the Czech Republic to participate in the Alliance system in the future; but this does not change anything about our support for NATO missile defense."

In January 2014, the Czech government approved of the sale of 28 sub-sonic L-159 military planes in a deal worth up to $25.8 million to the United States.

Czech Role as Protecting Power in Syria
As of February 2012, due to the escalating Syrian civil war, the U.S. Embassy in Syria closed down. After the Polish embassy also closed, the Czech Republic in its stead assumed protecting power responsibility for the United States.

All U.S. citizens needing help are directed to go to the Embassy of The Czech Republic in Damascus. The US State Department's travel tips include "The Government of the Czech Republic, acting through its Embassy in Damascus, serves as Protecting Power for U.S. interests in Syria. The range of consular services the Czech Republic provides to U.S. citizens is extremely limited, and those services may require significantly more processing time than at U.S. embassies or consulates outside of Syria."

Notes

See also
 Czech American
 List of Czech Americans
 United States–European Union relations
 Foreign relations of the Czech Republic
 Foreign relations of the United States

References
 US State Department Copy of public domain text

External links

Artem Zorin, American policy towards Czechoslovakia, 1918–1945
History of Czech Republic – U.S. relations

 
Bilateral relations of the United States
United States