[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Francis Xavier Pierz

r of 1836, Bishop Rese transferred Pierz to the mission of Sault Ste. Marie, where Father Pierz fought to keep the struggling mission operating. He also sailed to other missions around the shores of Lake Superior, where he served Catholics among the Ottawa and Ojibwa, who spoke Algonquian languages.

On June 28, 1838, he reached Father Baraga at La Pointe, Wisconsin. After a friendly visit, Fr. Baraga persuaded Father Pierz to re-establish the mission at Grand Portage, Minnesota (now the Grand Portage Indian Reservation). The formerly great fur trading depot had declined with the removal of the North West Company's inland headquarters north to Fort William in 1803. The Ojibwa Indians living there had turned to commercial fishing on Lake Superior and selling their catches for a considerable profit to the American Fur Company. Pierre Picotte, a Métis who worked as an agent for the company, had been instructing local Ojibwe in the Catechism and preparing them to join the Catholic Church. Father Pierz's letters describe how impressed he was by the zealous Ojibwa embrace of Catholicism, particularly by teenaged boys and young men, which Fr. Pierz described as the complete opposite of what he was accustomed to as a priest in Europe. They also reveal that, unlike local Protestant missionaries, Fr. Pierz did not believe in the then commonly held idea that, "Indians must be civilized before they can be Christianized."

In obedience to Pope Gregory XI's 1373 "règle d'idiom", a commandment for the Catholic clergy to communicate with their flocks in the local vernacular, instead of allowing the Church to become a tool of linguistic imperialism and coercive language death, Fr. Pierz preached and taught in the Ojibwe language and trained the Grand Portage parish choir to sing hymns in Ojibwe, almost certainly that he learned from Bishop Baraga's hymnal, as well.

Also at Grand Portage, Pierz arranged for the clearing of a plot of farmland and orchard which, in keeping with Ojibwe ways, was owned and worked in common. He helped negotiate the sale of their surplus produce to nearby mining settlements. He founded a Catholic school for the children of the mission. His letters provide a vivid glimpse into daily life on the mission. The Catholic missions at Fort William, Ontario and Isle Royale were also under his jurisdiction. In October 1839, the bishop ordered Pierz to move to take over the missions at Harbor Springs, Michigan (now Little Traverse Bay Bands of Odawa Indians). He remained there for 12 years.

Minnesota
In Spring 1852, after a series of disputes with his bishop, Pierz secured a release from the Diocese of Detroit. He was recruited for the newly organized Diocese of Saint Paul, where Bishop Joseph Crétin urgently needed priests to serve his vast territory.

Father Pierz was assigned a mission field, comprising the whole of Minnesota Territory north of the Twin Cities. He established his headquarters in the village of Crow Wing. Traveling on foot between his missions, Pierz carried on his back all that was necessary for saying Mass. 

The first Mass in the St. Cloud area was offered by Fr. Francis de Vivaldi, a missionary to the Winnebago reservation in Long Prairie, Minnesota, in 1851. The Mass took place inside a log cabin, located midway between Sauk Rapids and the ghost town of Watab and 3/4 miles inland from the Mississippi River, and owned by James Keough, a former merchant seaman from County Wexford, Ireland.

Keough later recalled, "The congregation present was made up of Irish and French Canadians. The altar was prepared by a half-breed (sic) lady, the wife of a Canadian Frenchman. I am the owner of the table used as an altar on that occasion. Some time after this Father Pierz came among us, and subsequently built the first Catholic church at Sauk Rapids."

During an later interview, Father Aloysius was almost certainly referring to Mrs. James Keough (née Katherine Brady of Spanish Point, County Clare), when he said, "Father Pierz changed his clothes thoroughly once a year. And that was when he reached Sauk Rapids, where an Irish lady always had a new clean clothes laid out for him which she bought or made and she would quite force him to change."

Meanwhile, the Ojibwa dubbed Fr. Pierz, "Old Man, Black Gown." Viewing him as a man of great spiritual power, they occasionally stole his socks to use as a folk remedy against rheumatism. As he had previously done at Grand Portage, Fr. Pierz continued to both preach and to teach his converts hymns in the Ojibwe language.