[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Cinema of Lebanon

cision (1981), and The Leap of Death (1982) were popular because they depicted a society free of war where law and order actually existed.  Other commercial films, like Ghazl Al-Banat, incorporated the war in the narrative. The era of commercial film production ended with the Israeli war on Lebanon.

Post-War Revival
After the war, Beirut reemerged as one of the centers of mass media production in the Arab world. While media production was concentrated around television, there were attempts to revive the film industry in Lebanon, especially by fresh graduates of Lebanese film schools. While filmmaking schools are a rarity in the region, by the mid-1990s, six of Beirut's universities were offering degrees in cinema and television and that attracted an influx of students from Arab countries who chose to receive some or all of their media training in Lebanon. Financing of film production in Lebanon in this period was mainly dependent on foreign support, both European and from the Lebanese diaspora.

The civil war was a major theme for Lebanese filmmakers since 1975, and this trend continued in the early post-war era where films continued to be affected thematically by the war. Films made after the war had a common theme of returning to the war setting and dealing with trauma common to post-conflict societies.

Many films, such as Jocelyne Saab's experimental film, Once Upon a Time in Beirut, examined the destruction that was left after the war. Maroun Baghdadi's Beyrouth Hors la Vie won the Special Jury Prize at Canned in 1991. Other's like Jean-Claude Codsi's Histoire d'un retoure examined the issue of returning to the country after years of exile and war. In 1994, Codsi's film won the jury award at the Festival international du film Francophone de Namur in Belgium.

In 1997, Youssef Chahine's French-produced film, Destiny, was shot on location in Lebanon, including the historic mountain town of in Beiteddine.

While many films produced in the 1990s were hits at international festivals, Lebanese viewers were not drawn to the mainly war-themed films. An exception was West Beirut (1998), which was a local and an international hit. It was not only the first Lebanese film, but also the first Arabic-language film to have general release in America. The film, that received worldwide attention, was the first Lebanese film that the post-war generation in Lebanon actually saw in cinemas, and it ushered a new era in Lebanese filmmaking that historian, Lina Khatib calls a renaissance.

Renaissance in the 21st century
While there is no government initiatives and public sector support for cinema in Lebanon, the private sector with companies such as Abbout, Orjouane Productions, The Attic, Né à Beyrouth and Boo Pictures have created an ecosystem for independent film production, albeit dependent on regional funding and international co-productions, especially from Europe.

A mélange of local issues and Western aesthetics characterized this period of Lebanese filmmaking. Films in this period gained domestic appeal where many films were not only commercially successful as evident in box-office sales of Bosta, Caramel, Stray Bullet, and Where Do We Go Now? but also were able to compete with imported, American films. Funding of films remained reliant on European organizations, such as Fonds Sud Cinéma in France and Organisation Internationale de la Francophonie. Philippe Aractingi's Bosta is one of the few films that was completely funded locally.

2000s
Ghassan Salhab's Terra Incognito (2002) screened in Un Certain Regard in Cannes. In 2003, Randa Chahal's The Kite examined the issue of families separated due to the occupied territories in southern Lebanon. Her film won the Silver Lion at the Venice Film Festival.

Also in 2003, Georges Schoucair returned to Lebanon after studying film in France and established Abbout Productions, the country's first post-war production house, which has become Lebanon's "foremost production house and one of the most prominent companies for art-house films in the region".