[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Human rights in Asia

ivil society and the UN human rights system, NHRIs can bring together various governmental and non-governmental actors
 As permanent institutions, NHRIs are able to track issues over extended periods to identify trends in the level of rights fulfillment

Association for Human Rights in Central Asia 

The Association for Human Rights in Central Asia (AHRCA) is a French independent human rights organization founded in 2006. This association focuses primarily on human rights monitoring, reporting on numerous human rights infraction including torture, abysmal working conditions, LGBTQ restrictions, media repression, etc. The AHRCA monitors states that lie within Central Asia, including Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan. Rather than enacting change themselves, AHRCA heavily relies upon international rights mechanisms to bring change to Central Asia. The AHRCA focuses include but are not limited to:
 Protection against torture
 Support for political prisoners
 Protection of Refugees
 Freedom of Religion
Recent activist initiatives include the AHRCA calling for an international boycott of Uzbek cotton as it relies heavily upon compulsory child labor when harvested.

Human Rights Watch 

Human Rights Watch (HRW) is widely regarded as one of the world's most reliable nongovernmental human rights organizations. HRW was established in 1978 and monitors countries around the globe, publishing more than 100 annual reports and generating extensive media coverage of human rights infractions. Furthermore, HRW meets regularly with state governments and intergovernmental organizations (i.e. the United Nations, European Union, African Union, etc.) to provide policy advice, briefings, etc. Aside from the extensive monitoring HRW published annually, the organization also focuses heavily on facilitating change in the regions they work within. For example, HRW actively organizes and covers protests or activist movements against a wide variety of issues (i.e. garbage burning in Lebanon). HRW has been involved in the Asian region for numerous years, regularly releasing various reports and criticisms on every Asian country. These reports focus on a number of issues, including fundamental freedoms, women's rights, child labor, etc.

The European Union 

	In addition to the previously-mentioned regional governmental institutions and non-governmental organizations that contribute to East Asian human rights regulation and oversight, the European Union (EU) has played an active role in recent years. Whilst the EU has previously not been expected to intervene in East Asian human rights questions, the institution's commitment to the Global Human Rights Sanctions Regulation Agreement expanded EU jurisdiction to cover global human rights violations, including those that transpire within East Asia. Initial draftings of this regulatory framework began on December 9, 2019. On November 17, 2020, the European Council formally established the Agreement. The framework is specifically committed to "developing a new horizontal EU global human rights sanctions regime to tackle serious human rights violations and abuses worldwide". The EU has been monitoring East Asian human rights development for several years now, as demonstrated by the issuance of several public statements condemning countries for committing violations. One of the earliest statements dates back to 2009 when the EU publicly scrutinized the Chinese government for executing nine Christian citizens. Despite the novelty of its active engagement with East Asian human rights oversight, the EU's most substantial efforts can be recognized with regard to the ongoing anti-Uighur violence that is occurring in the Xinjiang province of China. In February 2020, the EU issued a statement arguing that China's Chen Mingguo is responsible for “arbitrary detentions and degrading treatment inflicted upon Uighurs and people from other Muslim ethnic minorities, as well as systematic violations of their freedom of religion or belief”. In addition to these accusations, the EU orchestrated a variety of travel bans and asset freezes within Xinjiang's operational borders, thus demonstrating the effectuation of tangible, policy-based sanctions in the face of East Asian human rights violations.

Significant human rights violations

2005 Andijan unrest