[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# National initiative

ive through popular vote is one among several efforts pursued by Gravel, including previous attempts to promote constitutional amendments during his tenure as a Senator. While it's stated that former presidential candidate Ralph Nader supports the initiative, this assertion requires proper citation.

In popular culture
A proposal for a national initiative is featured as part of the plot in the 1977 film Billy Jack Goes to Washington, the fourth and last of the Billy Jack series.  In the film, Billy Jack is appointed a United States Senator.  Seeking to keep him out of the Senate on a day when a controversial energy bill is being voted on, another Senator suggests he meet with a grassroots group that day instead.  The group is working to pass a national initiative and Billy Jack becomes convinced of their cause.  Billy Jack ends up filibustering in the Senate giving a long speech supporting a national initiative.

Mike Gravel and the National Initiative are featured in the documentaries Dear America, directed by Nico Holthaus, and It's Time We Talked.

Mike Gravel presidential campaign for 2008

The former United States Senator Mike Gravel in 2006 declared his candidacy for the 2008 Democratic nomination for President of the United States motivated primarily by his ardent support for direct democracy and the National Initiative proposal with which he is closely associated.

Tom Steyer presidential campaign for 2020
Steyer's platform included creating a process for national initiative.

References

External links

Links to The National Initiative 
 The Democracy Foundation's National Initiative web site
 Philadelphia 2 website, which is conducting the actual vote (2013)
 Text of the proposed Amendment
 Text of the proposed Act
 Ralph Nader in Support of the NI4d
 US People's Virtual Party in Support of the NI4d

Independent analysis and references 
 Direct Democracy and Civic Maturation by Alan Hirsch, Hasting Constitutional Law Review Volume 29, Number 2, Winter 2001
 full text available here with permission from Hasting's
 This page (on the Democracy Foundations's web site) contains a list of papers presented at The Democracy Symposium on February 16, 2002 in Williamsburg, VA, USA
 The Initiative and Referendum Almanac: A Comprehensive Reference Guide to the Initiative and Referendum Process by M. Dane Waters (need page reference)
 Initiative & Referendum Institute at the University of Southern California references The National Initiative
 Why I Reject Mike Gravel's National Initiative by Alexander S. Peak
 Analysis of the Amendment and Act done by David Parrish (now deceased).  This document remains part of The Democracy Foundation's archives.

Foreign equivalent efforts 
 European Citizen Initiatives

Initiatives in the United States
Proposed amendments to the United States Constitution