[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Domenico Morfeo

Domenico Morfeo (born 16 January 1976) is a retired Italian football player, who played as midfielder, usually as an attacking midfielder. Throughout his career, he played for several clubs in Italy, and also spent short spells at many top Italian clubs. At international level, he represented the Italy national under-21 football team. A highly skilful and creative playmaker, with an eye for goal, he was regarded as one of Italy's most promising players in his youth, but he failed to live up to his potential in his later career.

Club career

Early years and emergence with Atalanta
Born in Pescina, Abruzzo, after joining the Atalanta B.C. youth academy in 1988, at the age of 14, Morfeo enjoyed a highly successful youth career with the Bergamo primavera squad, under manager Cesare Prandelli, winning the Campionato Allievi in 1992, and later the Trofeo Dossena, the Campionato Nazionale Primavera, and the Torneo di Viareggio in 1993, establishing himself as one of Italy's most promising under-21 players. 

Morfeo subsequently began his professional career when he was promoted to the Atalanta B.C. senior side, making his Serie A debut with the club later that year, at the age of 17, on 19 December, in a 2–1 home win over Genoa. he scored his first two goals for the club after coming on as a substitute against Lecce, helping Atalanta to come back from behind to earn a 3–3 draw; he finished the 1993–94 season with 9 appearances and 3 goals. 

After helping Atalanta to gain Serie A promotion during the 1994–95 Serie B season under manager Emiliano Mondonico, Morfeo soon came to prominence with the club during the 1995–96 season alongside Christian Vieri, scoring 11 goals in 30 league appearances, at the age of 19. The following season, he scored less frequently, managing only five goals, but provided several assists for his new attacking partner Filippo Inzaghi; together, they formed a formidable offensive partnership, and Inzaghi finished the season as the league's top-scorer.

Fiorentina and loan struggles
Morfeo's precocious performances led to a move to Fiorentina in 1997, for an undisclosed fee. During his time in Florence, despite the presence of the attacking trio of Manuel Rui Costa, Gabriel Batistuta and Luís Oliveira on the team, he initially managed to find space in the starting eleven under manager Alberto Malesani, although following the arrival of Edmundo, he later struggled to find playing time; in spite of the competition for a starting spot, he still managed 5 goals in 26 appearances for the club, and also provided several assists for his teammates throughout the season. 

After failing to appear in Fiorentina's opening five league matches under new manager Giovanni Trapattoni the following season, Morfeo was sent on loan to Italian giants Milan in 1998, who had been impressed by the youngster's performances the previous season; however, his time at the Milanese club was largely unsuccessful, as several injuries and disagreements with manager Alberto Zaccheroni limited his playing time, and he only managed to obtain eleven appearances, mostly as a substitute, scoring one goal. Furthermore, Milan's rigorous use of the 4–4–2 system and subsequent switch to a 3–4–3 formation, neither of which featured an attacking midfielder, meant that Morfeo was often forced to play out of position as a winger, where he was not as effective or influential to the team's attacking play; as a result, he was often benched. Despite his mixed success throughout the season, he still managed to win his only professional trophy with the club that year, as Milan finished the 1998–99 season by claiming the Serie A title. 

Due to his subsidiary role in Milan's title victory, his loan was not renewed the following season, and Fiorentina instead loaned him out to Cagliari. Morfeo's first half of the season was largely unsuccessful, as he managed only one goal in five appearances due to injury; in January 2000, he moved on loan to Verona, where he was reunited with his former Atalanta youth coach, Prandelli. In the second half of the 1999–2000 season, despite another injury, his performances improved drastically, and he scored five goals in ten appearances playing as a second striker, as well as providing several decisive assists, which ultimately helped Verona avoid relegation.