[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rhetorical modes

same guidelines that hold for a descriptive or narrative essay can be used for the descriptive or narrative paragraph.  That is, such a paragraph should be vivid, precise, and climactic, so that the details add up to something more than random observations.

Examples include:
Journal writing
Poetry

Exposition
Expository writing is a type of writing where the purpose is to explain or inform the audience about a topic. It is considered one of the four most common rhetorical modes.

The purpose of expository writing is to explain and analyze information by presenting an idea, relevant evidence, and appropriate discussion. In narrative contexts (such as history and fiction), exposition provides background information to teach or entertain. In other nonfiction contexts (such as technical communication), the purpose is to teach and inform.

The four basic elements of expository writing are the subject being examined; the thesis, or statement of the point the author is trying to prove; the argument, or backing, for the thesis, which consists of data and facts to serve as proof for the thesis; and the conclusion, or restatement of the proved thesis.  There are two types of subject, according to Aristotle:  thesis, or general question such as, "Ought all people to be kind to one another?" and hypothesis, or specific question:  "Ought Elmer to be kind to his enemy Elmo?"  One may be aided in the proper formation of a thesis by asking the questions an sit, "Does it exist?"; quid sit, "What is it?"; and quale sit, "What kind is it?"

Examples include:
 Business
Business letters
Reports
Press releases
 Journalism
How-to essays, such as recipes and other instructions
News article
 Personal
Personal letters
Wills
 Academic and technical communication
Scientific writing
Scientific reports
Scientific journal articles
Academic writing
Term papers
Textbooks
General reference works
Encyclopedia articles
Technical writing
User guides
Technical standards

An expository paragraph presents facts, gives directions, defines terms, and so on. It should clearly inform readers about a specific subject. An expository essay is one whose chief aim is to present information or to explain something. To expound is to set forth in detail, so a reader will learn some facts about a given subject. However, no essay is merely a set of facts. Behind all the details lies an attitude, a point of view. In exposition, as in other rhetorical modes, details must be selected and ordered according to the writer's sense of their importance and interest. Although the expository writer isn't primarily taking a stand on an issue, they can't—and shouldn't try to—keep their opinions completely hidden. To expound is to set forth in detail, so that a reader will learn some facts about a given subject.  However, no essay is merely a set of facts.  Behind all the details lies an attitude, a point of view. There is no interesting way of expounding certain subjects without at least implying a position.

Argumentation 
An argument is a discussion between people representing two (or more) sides of an issue.  It is often conducted orally, and a formal oral argument is a debate.

The purpose of argumentation (also called persuasive writing) is to prove the validity of an idea, or point of view, by presenting sound reasoning, discussion, and argument to thoroughly convince the reader. Persuasive writing/persuasion is a type of argumentation with the additional aim to urge the reader to take some form of action.

Examples include:
 Advertising copy
 Critical reviews
 Critiques
 Editorials
 Job application letter
 Job evaluation
 Letter of recommendation
 Letters to the editor
 Résumés

When an essay writer's position is not implied but openly and centrally maintained, the essay is argumentative.  An argument is simply a reasoned attempt to have one's opinions accepted.  The ideal is to present supporting evidence which points so plainly to the correctness of one's stand that one can afford to be civil and even generous toward those who believe otherwise.

Another form of persuasive rhetoric is the use of humor or satire in order to make a point about some aspect of life or society. Perhaps the most famous example is Jonathan Swift's "A Modest Proposal".

See also
Fiction writing
Literature

Notes

References

External links
The Expository Essay
What is Expository Writing?

Narratology
Composition (language)
Modes