[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Oliveira (surname)

Oliveira is a surname in Portuguese-speaking countries, such as Brazil and Portugal, and to a lesser extent in former Portuguese colonies. In Portuguese, 'de Oliveira' means 'of the Olive Tree' and/or 'from the Olive Tree'.

'de Oliveira' is also a Sephardic surname, used prior to the start of the Portuguese Inquisition as a way for Jews to avoid prosecution and under torture to become new Catholics. Since those people were targeted, and since Portugal had just recently discovered Brazil (1500), many of those people fled to Brazil and other colonies of Portugal.

Similar names in other languages include the Italian Olivetti and Oliveto.

Origin of the surname

The surname identifies this family with the Olive Tree and the symbolic characteristics existing on the tree. On the coats of arms where it appears, it is the symbol of peace, of victory, of fame and immortal glory. In archaic Portuguese, we find the register of surnames with variations of their spelling, such as Olveira and Ulveira. By the time of King Diniz I, king of Portugal in 1281, Oliveira was already "an old, illustrious and honorable family," as the king's books of Inquisitions show.

‘Oliveira’ is classified in the genealogical-Jewish study as of proven Jewish origin. Before the Inquisition the “de Oliveira” were also in Spain. Before the Islamists conquered the Iberian peninsula it was called ‘ha-Levi’ or ‘ha-Itshari'.
‘De Oliveira’ who settled in Portugal, Galicia and Spain, adopted a translated form of their family name to disguise their Judean origin. And as according to USP historian Anita Novinsky – world authority in Portuguese Inquisition – 1 out of every 3 Portuguese who arrived in Brazil in the first decades of the 16th century after the discovery of Brazil by Pedro Alvares Cabral (he himself a new christian and member of the Order of Christ a Knights Templar order made exclusively of Judeans) were new Christians well over 2 million during the entire 16th century. The ‘de Oliveira’ and their cousins Benveniste and Antunes arrived largely and concentrated mainly in the Northeast Region and Minas Gerais State in southeast Brazil.

The chronicles of the time themselves attest to the presence of Levi, Levy and de Oliveira families in large numbers in colonial Brazil. Rabbi Abraham Benveniste who was born in 1433, in the city of Soria, in the province of Cáceres, in the Kingdom of Spain adopted the 'De Oliveira' family name in Portugal. He was a direct descendant of Rabbi Zerahiá ben-Its'haq ha-Levi and Gerona, who lived in the 12th century and was called ha-Its'hari, or Its'hari, because his genealogy goes to the children of Its'har, who was uncle of the prophet Moshe Rabenu. 'De Oliveira' became internally among Judeans of the Diaspora the family name to be used exclusively by Judeans who could still trace and prove their genealogy to the tribe of Levy and to Judeans could trace and prove they were direct offspring of hebronites so both the priesthood and royal lineage took 'De Oliveira' so they could be later traced. They were also allowed to marry only among Levites and Hebronites themselves following biblical paternal lineage.

The offspring of the tribe of Levy and Hebron intentionally settled between Spain Galicia and Portugal for two reasons, first because it is inland and far from the great centers of Spain, where the first killings of Judeans or pogroms began, promoted by fanatical Catholic priests of the Dominican and Carmelite orders, which urged the ignorant old Christian population to kill the New Christian Jews and the unconverted Judeans and also gave them freedom to cross the borders among the different countries accordingly to the laws of each State.

Toponymic

"Oliveira" is a Portuguese toponymical surname, locally originating in Paço de Oliveira, modern-day North province. Oliveira derives from Latin olīva, which ultimately derives from Proto-Indo-European *hloywom. Its first documented use dates back to the 13th century, from Évora noble Pedro de Oliveira, and his son, Braga archbishop D. Martinho Pires de Oliveira. Further tracing of its origins show that it derives from  ancient Roman aristrocats from the gens Oliva.

People with the surname