[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tutor Perini

The five-level, below-grade parking structure required one of the largest excavations in the history of Las Vegas. Over one million cubic yards of dirt was removed from the site to create a 90-foot-deep opening to begin construction.

Purple Line Extension Project, Sections 2 & 3 in Los Angeles, CA

Tutor Perini is building on two sections and four stations on the Purple Line Extension: Wilshire/Rodeo, Century City/Constellation, Westwood/UCLA, and Westwood/VA Hospital. Tutor Perini is also the Design-Build Contractor for the Purple Line Extension Section 3 Tunnels contract which will add 2.56 miles of new rail to the Purple Line. The Westwood/UCLA station will be located under Wilshire Boulevard between Veteran Avenue and Westwood Boulevard. The Westwood/VA Hospital station, including two crossovers, will be located to the west of the I‐405 Freeway and south of Wilshire Boulevard and will include a pedestrian bridge to the south of Wilshire. Both stations will be constructed of cast-in-place concrete in a subterranean environment in the middle of major urban shopping districts and commercial city streets. Tutor Perini will design not only the major support-of-excavation (SOE) down to a depth of up to 100 vertical feet below street level but also temporary traffic decking system to carry vehicular traffic over the stations box cavities during stations construction. From the current terminus at Wilshire/Western, the Purple Line Extension will extend westward for about 9 miles with seven new stations. It will provide a high-capacity, high-speed, dependable alternative for those traveling to and from LA's “second downtown.” Section 2 of the three sections will deliver 2.55 miles of twin-bored tunnels and two new stations at Wilshire/Rodeo and Century City Constellation. In January 2017, phase two of the project, which will extend trackage 2.6 miles (4.2 km) further to Century City, was awarded a $1.6 billion grant from the Federal Transit Administration, covering the majority of the $2.6 billion estimated cost of the project. On January 27, the Metro board awarded a $1.37 billion construction contract to a joint venture between Tutor Perini Corporation and O&G Industries, with construction scheduled to be completed by 2025.

Airport Expansion - John F. Kennedy International Airport in New York, NY

This project includes the rehabilitation and extension of runway 4L-22R. The existing asphalt runway was milled six inches deep and topped with a two-inch asphalt leveling course. The runway was then overlaid with 18 inches of Portland Cement Concrete Pavement (228,000 cubic yards). The runway was widened by 50 feet and extended by 700 feet. The finished product was a 12,700-foot long by 200-foot-wide new runway with 40-foot-wide shoulders that handles about 25 percent of the annual operations of the airport.

Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington D.C.

The complex is the second largest federal building constructed since the Pentagon and offers a mix of office space, cultural, commercial, entertainment and educational space.

Terminal One - Newark Liberty International Airport in Newark, NJ

The Terminal One project at Newark Liberty International Airport involves the design and construction of a new 1 million-square-foot, 33-gate domestic terminal with an open and modern layout. This Tutor Perini/Parsons Design-Build project also includes the N60 Frontage Road Bridge and a pedestrian bridge with moving walkways. In addition, the scope of work involves site clearing, an underground hydrant fueling system, the abatement and demolition of multiple buildings, structures, pavement, and utilities.

Lincoln Financial Field - Philadelphia Eagles in Philadelphia, PA

Lincoln Financial Field is a concrete and steel structure, with a red brick headhouse at the main entrance. It accommodates 69,000 spectators and encompasses approximately 1,600,000 sf of floor space.

SR 99 - Alaska Way Viaduct Replacement Tunnel in Seattle, WA

The SR 99 Alaskan Way Viaduct is being replaced with an approximately two-mile-long double-deck tunnel underneath downtown Seattle. Replacing the viaduct with a tunnel allows the highway to remain open for much of construction, thus minimizing closures and impacts to traffic. Once the tunnel opens, the viaduct will be taken down to clear the way for new public space along Seattle's downtown waterfront.
Seattle Tunnel Partners, is responsible for designing and building the SR 99 tunnel. In addition to boring the tunnel and building the highway within it, STP is responsible for building highway ramps and other connections at the north and south ends of the tunnel. They are also constructing buildings at each tunnel portal to house lighting, ventilation and other systems needed to operate the tunnel.

Hurricane Katrina Repairs in Mississippi, Louisiana, & Florida Gulf Coast