[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George D. Prentice

gaged in a pistol duel with Reuben T. Durrett over statements made between their two rival newspapers.
Prentice also contributed columns to the New York Ledger for several years, and in 1859, a New York firm published Prenticeana: or wit and humor, which would be republished shortly after his death.

Civil War and aftermath
Prentice supported the Union in the 1850s and the Constitutional Union Party in 1860, but disagreed with many of President Lincoln's policies during the Civil War, especially the decision to emancipate slaves. In 1861 Prentice joined a group that urged Kentucky not to secede from the Union but instead establish itself as a neutral party in the war. Nonetheless, Louisville was occupied by Union troops for almost the entire war, and resentment seethed. Both Prentice's sons joined the Confederate army, and the elder, William, died September 21, 1862 (shortly after the Battle of Antietam and as Union troops massed in Louisville to attack General Braxton Bragg's forces). His son Clarence rose to the rank of Major in Dortch's 2nd battalion, Kentucky Cavalry. In 1864 Prentice created the famous "Sue Mundy" guerrilla character to mock Union General Stephen G. Burbridge, military commander of Kentucky.

After the war Prentice opposed many of the policies of Reconstruction, as did the city's other major editor, Walter N. Haldeman of the Louisville Courier, which Union forces had seized and shut in September 1861 because of Haldeman's Confederate sympathies (he moved to Nashville, Tennessee, and then Madison, Georgia, and returned to Louisville a hero after the war's end). Prentice's paper was one of the few that criticized federal rebuilding policies of the time. Prentice remained as editor of the paper during and after the 1868 merger of the Louisville Courier, Louisville Journal and Louisville Democrat that created The Courier-Journal, although he soon died and Haldeman's protege and dedicated Confederate veteran Henry Watterson became editor and would write and speak widely about his Southern viewpoint (although born in Washington DC as the son of a Tennessee Congressman).

Death and legacy

He died of influenza on January 22, 1870, less than two years after his wife, and was buried in Cave Hill Cemetery.

His successor editor at the Louisville Courier-Journal delivered and printed a eulogy, and a Philadelphia publisher republished the 1859 essay collection in 1870 with a new preface. Although the newspaper survives to this day, Prentice's legacy became generally unfavorable over time, with a 1993 feature article on the newspaper's history calling Prentice's writings "raw bigotry" and a 2005 article recalling the Bloody Monday riot.

A statue of Prentice by Alex Bouly was completed in 1875. It was originally displayed at the Courier-Journal building in Louisville, Kentucky, but was moved in 1914 to the front of the Louisville Free Public Library's main branch.

It has been a source of occasional controversy, due to Prentice's famous anti-Catholic and anti-immigrant rhetoric. A compromise reached at one point involved the city placing a new plaque for the statue, describing Prentice's "tarnished legacy." The statue was removed and placed into storage in 2018.

A Liberty ship, the SS George D. Prentice, was launched in 1943 and remained in service until 1969.

See also
Mary Louisa Chitwood
Louisville in the American Civil War

References

Further reading

Congleton, Betty Carolyn. "George D. Prentice and Bloody Monday: A Reappraisal," Register of the Kentucky Historical Society, 65 (1965) pp 220–39

External links

1802 births
1870 deaths
People from Preston, Connecticut
Louisville, Kentucky, in the American Civil War
American newspaper editors
Writers from Louisville, Kentucky
People of Kentucky in the American Civil War
Burials at Cave Hill Cemetery
Kentucky Know Nothings
Kentucky Whigs
19th-century American politicians
Deaths from influenza
Infectious disease deaths in Kentucky
19th-century American journalists
American male journalists
19th-century American male writers
American male poets
Courier Journal people
American proslavery activists