[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Icky Thump (song)

the Malloy Brothers. The video was filmed in Nashville, Tennessee, though it is set in Mexico. It features Spanish subtitles acting as a translation of the lyrics. The video debuted on MTV's Total Request Live on July 17, 2007, marking the first time a White Stripes video was ever on the countdown.

Icky Trump 
During the campaigning for the 2016 United States presidential election, then Republican candidate Donald Trump used one of the White Stripes' most iconic tracks, "Seven Nation Army" in a campaign video, much to the dismay of Jack White, a staunch Democrat and supporter of Bernie Sanders (White has even performed music as an opening act for Sanders' rallies, as if opening for a concert). In response, Jack and Meg White posted on the White Stripes Facebook page together for the first time in five years in a since deleted post  to threaten legal action (nothing came of this threat, though they did have a valid basis for a case), as Trump's campaign had done so without the permission of the White Stripes or Third Man Records, in violation of U.S. Copyright Law. It also stated that they were 'disgusted by this association, and by the illegal use of their song' and that they had 'nothing whatsoever to do with this video'.

In further response, White and White, through the online TMR merchandise store, released a T-shirt referred to by the website as the "Anti Trump Unisex T Shirt", reusing the colors and font from the Make America Great Again campaign's iconic hats, that read "Icky Trump" on the front, wordplay on Donald Trump's last name. The shirt was available for sale only during the election campaigning, then went back up in October of 2020, when Donald Trump was once again running for U.S. President. Again, they were discontinued after the election finished.

The back of the shirts reused the aforementioned immigration verses, starting with "White Americans" and including everything up to and including "...And a prostitute too."  Interestingly, the first two lines read "White Americans? What? / Nothing better to do?" while the original official lyrics (present on the vinyl record's sleeve) read "White Americans, what? / Nothing better to do".

Notably, this all came just a few months after Trump had done something similar to Queen, using their hit "We Are the Champions" not once, but twice, while walking on stage. Due to its use as a walk-out song, and not in any released media, this was not in violation of copyright law, but it did come after explicit request from the band that he not use any of their songs.

Track listings
7-inch white vinyl (companion to the NME-distributed record that was given away with copies of the magazine on stands June 6)
 "Icky Thump"
 "Etching" (no audio)

Standard 7-inch
 "Icky Thump"
 "Baby Brother"

CD single
 "Icky Thump" – 4:18
 "Catch Hell Blues" – 4:16

Personnel
 Jack White – vocals, guitar, clavioline, production
 Meg White – drums

Charts and certifications

Weekly charts

Year-end charts

Certifications

References

External links
 Official website of the band
 Song lyrics, made available on the White Stripes' official website.
 'Icky Thump' song of the day on thishereboogie.com 11 Dec 2008

2007 singles
2007 songs
Macaronic songs
Music videos directed by The Malloys
Number-one singles in Scotland
Protest songs
Punk blues songs
Songs written by Jack White
Third Man Records singles
XL Recordings singles
Warner Records singles
The White Stripes songs
Works about immigration to the United States