[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Elizabeth Schuyler Hamilton

n Hamilton and Elizabeth, there had been some talk in at least one letter of a "secret wedding". In early April 1780, they were officially engaged with her father's blessing, which was something of an anomaly for the Schuyler girls with Elizabeth's two sisters, Angelica and Catherine, both eloping. 

Hamilton followed the Continental Army when they decamped from Morristown in June 1780. In September that year, Eliza learned that Major John André, head of the British Secret Service, had been captured in a foiled plot concocted by General Benedict Arnold to surrender the fort of West Point to the British. André was once been a house guest in the Schuyler Mansion in Albany as a prisoner of war en route to the Province of Pennsylvania in 1775; Eliza, then seventeen, might have had a juvenile crush on the young British officer who had once sketched for her. Hamilton, while envious of André for his actions during the war, promised Eliza he would do what he could to treat the British intelligence chief accordingly; he even begged Washington to grant André's last wish of execution by firing squad instead of by hanging, but he was hanged to death despite the request. After two more months of separation punctuated by their correspondence, on December 14, 1780, Alexander Hamilton and Elizabeth Schuyler were married at the Schuyler Mansion.

After a short honeymoon at the Pastures, Eliza's childhood home in Albany, New York, Hamilton returned to the Continental Army and the Revolutionary War in early January 1781. Eliza soon joined him in New Windsor, New York, where Washington's Continental Army was now stationed, and she rekindled her friendship with Martha Washington as they entertained their husbands' fellow officers. Soon, however, Washington and Hamilton had a falling out, and the newlywed couple moved, first back to Eliza's father's house in Albany, then to a new home across the river from the New Windsor headquarters. There, Eliza busied herself in creating a home for them and in aiding Alexander with his political writings, including parts of his 31-page letter to Robert Morris, in which Hamilton communicated his extensive understanding of government finance, which he later employed as the nation's first U.S. Secretary of the Treasury during Washington's presidency. Parts of the letter to Morris are in Eliza's handwriting.

Soon, however, Eliza moved again, this time back to her parents' house in Albany. This may have coincided with the discovery that she was pregnant with their first child, who was born the following January and named Philip, in honor of Eliza's father. While apart, Alexander wrote her numerous letters assuring her not to worry for his safety; in addition, he wrote her concerning confidential military secrets, including the lead-up to the Battle of Yorktown that autumn. Meanwhile, the Revolutionary War began raging close to her home, when a group of British soldiers stumbled upon her residence at the Pastures, seeking supplies. According to some accounts, the family was spared from any losses thanks to her sister Peggy, who told the British soldiers that her father had gone to town to get help, which caused them to flee from the area.

After the Battle of Yorktown, which was won decisively by American forces and led the British to recognize their defeat in the war, Alexander rejoined Eliza in Albany, where they remained for almost another two years prior to relocating to New York City in late 1783. Earlier that year, Angelica and her husband John Barker Church, for business reasons, moved to Europe. Angelica lived abroad for over 14 years, returning to the United States twice in 1785 and again in 1789. On September 25, 1784, Eliza gave birth to her second child, Angelica, named after Eliza's older sister.

In 1787, Eliza sat for a portrait, painted by Ralph Earl while Earl was being held in debtors' prison. Alexander heard of Earl's predicament and asked if Eliza might be willing to sit for him, to allow him to make some money and eventually buy his way out of prison, which he subsequently did. At this time, she and Alexander had three young children; their third child, Alexander Jr., was born in May 1786, and she may have been pregnant then with their fourth child, James Alexander, who was born the following April.