[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Avery Company

nicknamed the Yellow Fellow and remained a large part of the company's business for the next thirty years. Avery made a variety steam engines, including  , ,  and  hp models. They also made Corn King and Corn Queen cultivators, separators, wagons, horse stalk cutters and a steel-mounted water tank.

In 1892, Robert died and Cyrus became president. John B. Bartholomew, who started with the company on December 8, 1879, driving a team to haul lumber for a US$1.10 per day, was made vice-president. He was also the brother of Cyrus' wife, Minnie.

Reputation for innovation

In 1894, Avery introduced a mechanical corn picker which tractor expert Jack Norbeck described as 'so different and unusual that at the time farmers wouldn't buy it because it would put too many people out of work.' Avery also invented removable piston sleeves for its gas tractors starting in 1916. Other tractor manufacturers eventually adopted the same practice. It also offered the first farm toy ever manufactured as a favor: they gave away miniature Avery tractors,  high and of cast iron, made by Hubley.

Capitalization growth

In 1900 the company's stock was valued at US$1,000.000. In 1902, Avery purchased the Hannah Wagon Co., and it continued to grow until 1912 when it was valued at US$2,500,000. Cyrus Avery left active management of the company in 1902 and built a new home in Galesburg. In September, 1905, Cyrus M. Avery died. His son, George Luzerne Avery, had served as his father' secretary and was made a director of the company upon his father's death. George's uncle, J. B. Bartholomew, became president.

 The Avery company made many traction engines, such as the 1907 steam tractor model. At that time steam was the only form of power and the tractor resembled a miniature locomotive. In 1909, Avery began manufacturing gasoline tractors. They shortly gained a reputation for producing huge tractors, including the very large for its day  Avery steam traction engines, weighing  each. Large tractors were needed across the prairie from North Dakota to Texas to turn the virgin sod, often with roots as thick as a man's thumb, into tillable soil. Even teams of 16 horses were not strong enough to pull gang plows through the dense bunch grasses whose roots grew as deep as  into the earth. The first small steam traction engines, adapted from the design of stationary engines used to thresh wheat and gin cotton, weren't strong enough and broke down repeatedly.

The competitive landscape changed during that same year, 1909, when the Holt Manufacturing Company of Stockton, California, arrived in Peoria. Holt, a builder of steam-powered harvesters and traction engines and already a leader in crawler tractors, purchased the bankrupt Colean Manufacturing Company, which had manufactured farm implements and steam traction engines across town. Holt established their eastern manufacturing branch there, under the name Holt Caterpillar Company—the predecessor to Caterpillar Inc.  In the same year, Avery's first tractor was a huge  model with a 12- by 18-inch bore and stroke. The competition included the 15-30 Model O Quincy tractor, made in 1911; the Fairbanks-Morse 15-25 of the same year and the 20-hp International Harvester Company Mogul of 1909. Unfortunately, their first tractor failed to perform, and they pulled it from the 1910 Winnipeg Tractor Demonstration.

Broad line of products manufactured

In 1912, the entire Avery Company plant covered more than twenty-seven acres. The company, progressive for its time, established a dispensary on site that was staffed five hours each day by two doctors. It also started its own insurance company about the same time. The main factory building and the associated warehouses covered another six and a half acres. The sections of the plant were joined by a company-designed trolley system used to transport parts. At the time, it manufactured steam and gasoline traction engines, mounted steel water tanks, self-lift plows, farm wagons, corn planters, traction hauling wagons, traction steam shovels, threshing machinery and all required attachments, riding and walking cultivators, single and double row stalk cutters and gasoline tractors. At its height, it called itself "The Largest Tractor Company in the World" and employed 2,600 men, manufacturing eight different tractors along with motor cultivators and trucks. The company offered a broad line of tractors and engines, ranging from one–row cultivator to a huge  tractor.

Truck manufacturing