[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zé Roberto

José Roberto da Silva Júnior (born 6 July 1974), commonly known as Zé Roberto, is a Brazilian former professional footballer who played as a left wing-back or as a midfielder. Currently, he is a technical advisor to Palmeiras, acting directly with the players and the coaching staff.

Club career

Early career
Zé Roberto started in the youth ranks of Palestra de São Bernardo but it was while playing for Portuguesa, as a left-back, that he became known throughout Brazil after finishing as runner-up in 1996 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A.

He then joined Real Madrid in January 1997 for a brief spell, where he helped them win the 1996–97 Spanish league championship. He was also part of the Madrid's 1997–98 UEFA Champions League winning squad, scoring his only goal for the club in the opening group match against Rosenborg BK, before moving back to Brazil to play for Flamengo midway through the season. In an interview in 2012, Zé Roberto spoke of his decision to leave Madrid because of his ambition to play for Brazil at the 1998 FIFA World Cup in France and had limited opportunities to prove his talents in Spain.

The first half of 1998 Zé played for Flamengo under manager Paulo Autuori alongside Romário, Palinha, Juan (who would later play for Leverkusen and AS Roma), and his former Portuguesa teammate Rodrigo Fabri for the Rio de Janeiro State Championship, finishing disappointingly as runners-up. After this he was signed by German Bundesliga club Bayer 04 Leverkusen.

Bayer Leverkusen
He joined Bayer Leverkusen in the summer of 1998. It was at Leverkusen that he really made a name for himself, quickly becoming a popular figure at the club. During his four-year stay, Bayer enjoyed their most successful period, finishing as runners-up in the German Bundesliga on three occasions.

On 4 December 2001, he opened the scoring with a curling free kick against Deportivo de La Coruña in the 64th minute, as Bayer comprehensively beat the Spanish side 3–0 in the second group stage of the Champions League. Following Bayer's victory over Liverpool in the quarter-finals of the Champions League on 9 April 2002, Zé Roberto announced that he would be joining former teammate Michael Ballack at Bayern Munich. Despite the transfer distractions, Zé Roberto helped Bayer reach the final of the Champions League on 15 May 2002, losing 2–1 to former club Real Madrid in Glasgow. In four years at the club, Zé Roberto appeared in 113 league matches scoring 16 goals.

Bayern Munich and Santos

In May 2002, Zé Roberto joined Bayern Munich for a reported fee of €12 million, signing a three-year deal, linking up with emerging German talent Sebastian Deisler and former Leverkusen teammate Michael Ballack. With Bayern, he claimed the domestic league and cup double three times between 2002 and 2006. He found his starting spot threatened under new coach Felix Magath and left the club in 2006. Following the announcement that he would not return to Bayern Munich, he publicly criticized the club's style of play and predicted struggles if changes were not made.

Being a free agent, Zé Roberto signed through his agent Juan Figer a three-year contract with Club Nacional de Football in Montevideo, a club he would never play for.  In August 2006, it was announced that Zé Roberto would join Santos FC in Brazil for one year. He helped the team win the 2007 Campeonato Paulista, his first title in a Brazilian competition. He scored seven goals in the 2007 Copa Libertadores, where Santos reached the semi-finals.
During his time with Santos, Zé Roberto appeared in 48 official matches and scored 12 goals, playing for the first time in his career as an attacking midfielder.

In June 2007, it was announced that Zé Roberto would return to Bayern Munich, which paid one million euro to Nacional for a two-year loan. He stated, "It was as if I’d never been away", en route to winning a fourth domestic double with the Bavarians. The revitalised Zé Roberto demonstrated all his newly acquired skills by scoring five goals and forming a rock-solid partnership with Mark van Bommel in his new role in central defensive midfield. 

Zé Roberto made a successful start to the 2008–09 season, scoring four goals in his first 11 starts. He would conclude his second spell at the club appearing in 59 league matches and scoring nine goals.

Zé Roberto left the club at the end of the 2009 season after Bayern executives refused to offer him a new two-year deal.

Hamburger SV

Zé Roberto's contract with Bayern ran until 30 June 2009. The club offered him a contract until 2010, though he declined. Bundesliga side Hamburger SV officially announced his signing to a two-year contract on 2 July 2009. Der Spiegel reported that Hamburg actually paid €4 million sign-on fees to Zé Roberto's agent Juan Figer, which Bayern also paid €1 million in 2007.