[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Georgios Tsolakoglou

the Greeks considered to have defeated and wished to, in the words of John Keegan, "...deny the Italians the satisfaction of a victory they had not earned...". However, at Benito Mussolini's insistence, the surrender ceremony was repeated a third time to include Italian representatives on 23 April. 

On 26 April 1941, Tsolakoglou wrote a letter to Adolf Hitler, whom he referred to as the "Führer of the German People" proclaiming his willingness to head a collaborationist government, which he promised would consist of senior generals. At the time, Athens had not fallen and the British Expeditionary Force consisting of a division each from Australia and New Zealand plus a British armored brigade together with the rest of the Royal Hellenic Army were retreating into the Peloponnese to be rescued by the Royal Navy, to take them to Crete. Hitler called Tsolakoglou's letter "a gift from Heaven", and immediately accepted his offer, believing it would hasten the fall of Greece. What Hitler wanted in Greece was a government that would obey German orders and ensure that the majority of the work in administering Greece on behalf of the Reich be done by Greeks rather than Germans. As the majority of the Greek civil servants, judges, and policemen who had served the 4th of August Regime were willing to obey orders from Tsolakoglou's government, this was exactly what Hitler wanted as he preferred to occupy Greece lightly in order to free up manpower for the invasion of the Soviet Union, which was scheduled for later in the spring of 1941. Hitler's first choice for heading a collaborationist government in Greece would have been the legal government headed by King George II and Prime Minister Emmanouil Tsouderos, but as the government had retreated to Crete to continue the struggle, Tsolakoglou was considered a satisfactory substitute.      

Tsolakoglou himself wrote in his memoirs: "I found myself before a historic dilemma: To allow the fight to continue and have a holocaust or, obeying the pleas of the Army's commanders, to assume the initiative of surrendering.... Having made my decision to dare, I did not consider responsibilities.... Until today I have not regretted my actions. On the contrary, I feel proud."

Prime Minister of the collaborationist government

Cabinet
On 30 April 1941, Tsolakoglou was appointed Prime Minister of a collaborationist government by the Axis occupation authorities. Several other generals who had served in the Greco-Italian War became members of the Tsolakoglou government, such as Generals Panagiotis Demestichas and Georgios Bakos. Archbishop Chrysanthus of Athens refused to swear in Tsolakoglou as prime minister, and was replaced as archbishop by Damaskinos of Athens, who proved more willing to administer the necessary oaths to Tsolakoglou and his cabinet. The narrowness of Tsolakoglou's support was reflected in the composition of his cabinet, which consisted of six other generals, the professor of medicine Konstantinos Logothetopoulos, whose principal qualification for office seemed to be was that he was married to the niece of Field Marshal Wilhelm List, and a shady, disreputable businessman Platon Hadzimikalis, whose main qualification for office was that he had many connections with German businesses and was considered to be a clever man. As a cabinet minister, Hadzimikalis turned out to be so corrupt that his wife eventually left him (divorce was not legal in Greece at the time), saying she could not in good conscience go on living with a man who was enriching himself by plundering the public coffers at a time when thousands of Greeks were starving to death.