[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# BeTipul

premiered on October 17, 2011, on HBO under the title Bez tajemnic ("Without Secrets"), starring Jerzy Radziwiłowicz in the main role and with three seasons having aired as of 2013.
The Hungarian version, titled Terápia ("Therapy"), starring Pál Mácsai, Erika Marozsán premiered on October 22, 2012.

Serbia
 is the title of the Serbian adaptation. It premiered on October 19, 2009 on Fox Televizija. The main actor is Predrag Miki Manojlović as Dr. Ljubomir. The cast also includes: Snežana Bogdanović, Sergej Trifunović, Nenad Jezdić, Tamara Vučković, Nataša Janjić and Dragana Dabović as his patients and Branka Cvitković as Ljubomir's own therapist.

Netherlands
The title of the Dutch adaptation is In therapie. It premiered on July 26, 2010. The director is Alain de Levita. The therapist is played by Jacob Derwig. The other characters are played by Carice van Houten, Elsie de Brauw, Halina Reijn, Dragan Bakema, Gaite Jansen, Frederik Brom, and Kim van Kooten (Derwig's real life wife).
The second season of the series aired on July 25, 2011 with Paul as a patient instead of the psychologist, who is played by Peter Blok.

Slovenia
 is also the title of the Slovenian version. It premiered on September 26, 2011 on POP Brio. The main actor is Igor Samobor as Dr. Roman. The cast also includes: Maša (Jana Župančič), Matej (Marko Mandić), Zarja (Nika Mansevski), Dana (Maša Drganc), Aleš (Dejan Spasič), and Silva Čušin as his patients, and Ema as Roman's own therapist.

Portugal
The Portuguese adaptation of BeTipul premiered on January 4, 2016, on RTP 1, under the title Terapia ("Therapy"). Actor  is cast in the role of Mário Magalhães, the protagonist and equivalent character to Reuven Dagan, and Veteran actress Ana Zanatti as Graça Ribeiro, Mário's own therapist and mentor. Leonor Silveira plays Theo's wife Catarina Magalhães. Patients are played by Catarina Rebelo, playing Sofia Cruz a 16 year old victim of a car accident, Nuno Lopes playing Alexandre Gomes, a SWAT Operative, Soraia Chaves as Laura Dias a Nurse about to get engaged but in love with someone else, and finally Filipe Duarte and  as Jorge and Ana Velez, a couple living an obsessive marriage. The series is directed by Patrícia Sequeira.

Italy

In Treatment is also the title of the Italian version. It premiered on April 1, 2013 on Sky Italia, starring Sergio Castellitto as Dr. Giovanni Mari. The cast includes: Sara (Kasia Smutniak), Dario (Guido Caprino), Alice (Irene Casagrande), Lea (Barbora Bobulova) and Pietro (Adriano Giannini) as Dr. Mari's patients, Eleonora (Valeria Golino) as his Wife and Anna (Licia Maglietta) as Mari's own therapist.

Croatia
The Croatian version, titled , premiered on September 16, 2013 on Croatian Radiotelevision. The main actor is Elvis Bošnjak as therapist Tomislav Vukov. The cast also includes Ana Karić, Leon Lučev, Goran Bogdan, Dijana Vidušin, Iva Babić, Nina Violić, Žarko Savić, Frane Mašković, Suzana Nikolić and Katarina Strahinić. The screenplay was adapted by Lada Kaštelan.

North Macedonia
The Macedonian version, titled На терапија, premiered on September 18, 2017 on Sitel (TV channel). The main actor is Nikola Ristanovski as therapist Viktor Terziev. The cast also includes Jelena Jovanova, Tony Naumovski, Angela Dimitrova, Visar Vishka, Dragana Kostadinovska, Bedija Begovska, Amernis Noksikji, Dejan Lilic and others. The screenplay was adapted by Darko Mitrevski, Ognen Georgievski, Eleonora Veninova i Sasho Kokalanov.

France
The French version, titled En thérapie was directed by Éric Toledano and Olivier Nakache and set after the Bataclan attack in November 2015. Starring Frédéric Pierrot, the series premiered on January 28, 2021 on Arte TV. The series was subtitled and aired in Australia on SBS on Demand under the title In Therapy in November 2021. A second season was aired from April 2022, with each series comprising 35 episodes.

Asia and the Pacific

Russia
Channel One premiered the Russian adaptation in 2012, titled Без свидетелей (Bez Svideteley) or "Without Witnesses". The first and so far only season consists of 45 episodes of 26 minutes each. While very closely tracking the original BeTipul script, the Russian version features a female in the leading role, played by Ksenia Kutepova as the psychotherapist.

Japan
Shinryouchuu -in the Room- (Japanese: 心療中-in the Room-; lit. "Now visiting -in the Room-") is the title of the Japanese adaptation. It premiered on January 12, 2013 on Nippon Television. The main actor is Goro Inagaki as psychologist Ryou Tenma. The main difference from the original show is that Dr. Tenma specialises in treating high school students.

References

Further reading
 Baht, Roni (2010) A Psychologist Across the Lines: Consulting for the TV Series BeTipul (In Treatment) – A Personal Perspective. Contemporary Psychoanalysis, 46-2, pp. 235–249

External links