[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hamilton Police Service

bruary 25, 1992 (shot by a suspect during an apprehension).

Crisis response
The Crisis Response Unit consists of three specialized units that respond to different niches of social disorder: the Crisis Support & Outreach Team; the Mobile Crisis Rapid Response Team; and the Social Navigation Program.

The Crisis Support & Outreach Team (COAST) is a partnership between the Hamilton Police Service, Halton Regional Police Service, and St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, and serves residents in need of long-term mental health supports. The Team is responsible for connecting clients to care options, helping clients complete mental health assessments in partnership with police, and providing urgent, over-the-phone crisis support to the client and their caregivers and family members.

Like COAST, the Mobile Crisis Rapid Response Team is a partnership between the Hamilton Police Service, Halton Regional Police Service, and St. Joseph's Healthcare Hamilton, and is responsible for responding to urgent crisis calls made to 9-1-1 between the hours of 8 AM and 4 AM, seven days a week. The teams consist of a uniformed, specially-trained officer and a mental health professional responding together in a marked police cruiser. After the teams attend an incident, clients are connected to COAST for follow-up care.

The Social Navigation Program is a partnership between the Police Service and the Hamilton Paramedic Service, and is responsible for providing street support to marginalized and homeless Hamiltonians. The program connects clients with long-term care and services in partnership with a variety of social service providers in an effort to reduce the load on the judicial and hospital system. Unlike COAST, however, the program connects with clients at the point of police contact, as opposed to at the client's request.

Emergency response
During the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany, a terrorist attack was carried out against eleven Israeli Olympic team and delegation members who were killed along with a German police officer.  The attack became known as the Munich Massacre.  This attack prompted police agencies around the world to examine their capabilities in addressing such an attack of terrorism.  As a result of international incidents of hostage takings like the one in Munich, plus other firearms related incidents in Canada and abroad, Chief Gordon Torrance had been planning to form a special unit to deal with high risk situations.  The 1976 Summer Olympics were to be held in Montreal, Quebec.  From June 23 to July 3, 1976, Hamilton was to be the host of the Pre-Olympics Basketball Tournament.  Thirteen countries would be represented at that tournament, including Israel.  The Munich Massacre was still fresh on the minds of those planning security for this event.

In September 1975, the chief issued a policy and procedure to deal with armed and barricaded persons.  On Monday, November 3, 1975, Paul Lariviere of Champlain St., Hamilton, exchanged gunfire with Hamilton Police from his residence.  An officer who had a revolver eventually killed him.  Lariviere was found to have two rifles in his apartment.  This incident was a catalyst for the Hamilton Police Service to form a specialized unit.  On November 8, 1975, a decision was made by Chief Torrance to form a tactical unit that would begin training in January 1976.  The unit was to be based on the concept of the New York City Police Department SWAT. The unit was known as "TEAM" which stood for  ‘tactical emergency assault men’.

The mandate of the TEAM was to attain a peaceful ending to police calls involving hostage-taking, gun and other weapon-related incidents. Five TEAM officers were initially sent to the Anti-Sniper and Survival School at the FBI Academy in Quantico, Virginia.  They also took on the responsibility of explosives disposal (EDU) and received this training through the Royal Canadian Mounted Police.  The fifteen-man unit became operational on June 13, 1976. When the first female officer became a member of the unit, the name was changed to the emergency response unit (ERU).  ERU members are trained to handle a variety of weapons, deal with dangerous, high-risk situations, and are utilized when entering a premises for the execution of search warrants.

Marine

The Marine Unit was established in 1921 as the Hamilton Harbour Police, an unarmed special constabulary maintained by the Hamilton Harbour Commission. The Harbour Police were responsible for marine safety across the Hamilton Harbour and for security policing on Commission-owned properties, a responsibility it maintained until 1986, when the constabulary was disbanded, with the security division privatized and the harbour policing division amalgamated into the Hamilton-Wentworth Regional Police.