[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Barry Goldwater

ister and a rabbi. His ashes were buried at the Episcopal Christ Church of the Ascension in Paradise Valley, Arizona. A memorial statue set in a small park has been erected to honor the memory of Goldwater in that town, near his former home and current resting place.

Legacy

Buildings and monuments

Among the buildings and monuments named after Barry Goldwater are the Barry M. Goldwater Terminal at Phoenix Sky Harbor International Airport, Goldwater Memorial Park in Paradise Valley, Arizona, the Barry Goldwater Air Force Academy Visitor Center at the United States Air Force Academy, and Barry Goldwater High School in northern Phoenix. In 2010, former Arizona Attorney General Grant Woods, himself a Goldwater scholar and supporter, founded the Goldwater Women's Tennis Classic Tournament to be held annually at the Phoenix Country Club in Phoenix. On February 11, 2015, a statue of Goldwater by Deborah Copenhaver Fellows was unveiled by U.S. House and Senate leaders at a dedication ceremony in National Statuary Hall of the U.S. Capitol building in Washington, D.C. Barry Goldwater Peak is the highest peak in the White Tank Mountains.

Goldwater Scholarship
The Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Program was established by Congress in 1986. Its goal is to provide a continuing source of highly qualified scientists, mathematicians, and engineers by awarding scholarships to college students who intend to pursue careers in these fields.

The Scholarship is widely considered the most prestigious award in the U.S. conferred upon undergraduates studying the sciences. It is awarded to about 300 students (college sophomores and juniors) nationwide in the amount of $7,500 per academic year (for their senior year, or junior and senior years). It honors Goldwater's keen interest in science and technology.

Documentary
Goldwater's granddaughter, CC Goldwater, has co-produced with longtime friend and independent film producer Tani L. Cohen a documentary on Goldwater's life, Mr. Conservative: Goldwater on Goldwater, first shown on HBO on September 18, 2006.

In popular culture
In his song "I Shall Be Free No. 10", Bob Dylan refers to Goldwater: "I'm liberal to a degree, I want everybody to be free. But if you think I'll let Barry Goldwater move in next door and marry my daughter, you must think I'm crazy." In the 1965 film The Bedford Incident, the actor Richard Widmark playing the film's antagonist, Captain Eric Finlander of the fictional destroyer USS Bedford, modelled his character's mannerisms and rhetorical style after Goldwater.

Military awards
 Command Pilot Badge
 Service Pilot Badge (former U.S. Army Air Forces rating)
 Legion of Merit
 Air Medal
 Army Commendation Medal
 American Defense Service Medal
 American Campaign Medal
 European–African–Middle Eastern Campaign Medal
 Asiatic–Pacific Campaign Medal with campaign star
 World War II Victory Medal
 Armed Forces Reserve Medal with three bronze hourglasses

Other awards 
 Presidential Medal of Freedom (1986)
 American Legion Distinguished Service Medal
 Marconi Gold Medal, Veteran Wireless Operators Association (1968)
 Marconi Medal of Achievement (1968)
 Bob Hope Five Star Civilian Award (1976)
 Good Citizenship Award, Daughters of the American Revolution
 33rd Degree Mason
 The Douglas MacArthur Memorial Award
 Top Gun Award, Luke Air Force Base
 Order of Fifinella Award – Champion of the Women Air Force Service Pilots (WASP) (1978)
 Thomas D. White National Defense Award 1978
 Conservative Digest Award (1980)
 Senator John Warner Award for Public Service in the field of Nuclear Disarmament (1983)
 Alexander M. Haig, Jr. Memorial Award (1983)
 National Congress of American Indians Congressional Award (1985)
 Space Pioneer Award, Sixth Space Development Conference (1987)
 James Madison Award, American Whig-Cliosophic Society (1988)
 National Aviation Hall of Fame (1982)

Books 
 The Conscience of a Conservative (1960)
 Why Not Victory? A Fresh Look at American Policy (1963)
 Where I Stand (1964)
 Conscience of a Majority (1971)
 The Coming Breakpoint (1976)
 Arizona (1977)
 With No Apologies: The Personal and Political Memoirs of Senator Barry M. Goldwater (1980)
 Goldwater (1988)

Relatives 
Goldwater's son Barry Goldwater Jr. served as a Congressman from California from 1969 to 1983. He was the first Congressman to serve while having a father in the Senate. Goldwater's uncle Morris Goldwater served in the Arizona territorial and state legislatures and as mayor of Prescott, Arizona. Goldwater's nephew Don Goldwater sought the Republican nomination for governor of Arizona in 2006, but he was defeated by Len Munsil.

See also 
 Electoral history of Barry Goldwater
 Goldwater Institute
 Goldwater rule

Notes

References