[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Vremya

Vremya (, lit. "Time") is the main evening newscast in Russia, airing on Channel One Russia (Russian: , Pervy kanal) and previously on Programme One of the Central Television of the USSR (CT USSR, Russian: ). The programme has been on the air since 1 January 1968 (there were no broadcasts from August 1991 to December 1994) and has broadcast in color since 1974.

Editorial line
In the Soviet days of Vremya, the programme had a pro-government bias and typically did not report on news that could potentially fuel anti-government sentiment. The programme presented reports that promoted socialism and portrayed the West in a negative manner. The newsroom was tied to the Politburo of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union's Central Committee. This situation changed after Glasnost, when a director of news was introduced alongside the news being sourced from official outlets. This made CT USSR report accurately on the collapse of the Soviet Union's satellite communist countries in Eastern Europe in 1989. This also made Vremya to be shown uncensored and critical, triggering the protests that hastened the end of the Soviet Union.

In the Russian Federation era, Vremya became a "flagship propaganda outlet" of the government. Reporting during the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine featured the Kremlin's messaging, at the same time independent news outlets were shut down.

Schedule and popularity
Vremya is produced in three daily editions, scheduled for transmission in Moscow at 13:00, 17:00 and 21:00 local time (= UTC+3), the last of these having been the programme's main edition ever since its inception in 1968. Given the country's vast size (it stretches over eleven time zones) editions of Vremya are also broadcast (either live or deferred) at Moscow time plus two, four, six, and eight hours, according to locality.

During the Soviet era, the programme's main edition was also carried simultaneously on the primary channel of each republican station: AzTV, Belarus 1, Eesti Televisioon, Georgian Public Broadcasting, Kazakhstan-1, Channel 1 of the Kiev Telecentre, LTV1, Lithuanian National Radio and Television, Uzbekistan 1, etc. The program was also simulcast in autonomous republics as well. Since the premier in 1968, Vremya has been aired via satellite.

The broadcast lasts 30 minutes, but in special circumstances (more especially during the Soviet era), the broadcast is extended beyond the 30 minutes allotted when necessary (such as the Red Square state ceremonies and parades, CPSU Party Congress telecasts together with other CPSU-led activities, plenary sessions of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR, and deaths of Soviet leaders Leonid Brezhnev, Yuri Andropov and Konstantin Chernenko). Even highlights of the celebrations of the Union-wide holidays were also broadcast.

Starting in the mid-1970s, another 30-minute late edition was presented on the All-Union Programme (launched in 1956) around 11:00 pm. (This was in the form of a live simulcast of Vremya in the next Orbita transmission zone, occasionally a repeat of the 9:00 pm programme, especially in the European USSR.) Prior to that, both channels aired Vremya simultaneously at 9:00 pm, then a replay broadcast would be aired the next morning when the First Programme signed on around 7:30 am (later 6:30 am) after the exercise programme, before airing children's programming and schools and colleges programmes, all produced together with the USSR Ministry of Education and were also seen on Programme 4. Later, a live morning edition was shown at 6:30 am, before the breakfast programme 120 minut (which continues today on Channel One Russia as Dobroye Utro, Russian: ) on weekdays (on weekends a morning edition of Vremya aired at 8:00 am after sign-on).