[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# LGBT in New Zealand

New Zealand society is generally accepting of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) peoples. The LGBT-friendly environment is epitomised by the fact that there are several members of Parliament who belong to the LGBT community, LGBT rights are protected by the Human Rights Act, and same-sex couples are able to marry as of 2013. Sex between men was decriminalised in 1986. New Zealand has an active LGBT community, with well-attended annual gay pride festivals in most cities.

The 2021 Household Economic Survey, conducted by Statistics New Zealand, estimated there to be 169,500 LGBT+ people aged 18 and over in New Zealand, 4.4 percent of the adult population.

History

Pre-colonial
The Māori language word  had historically referred to devoted relationships between people of the same sex, but in modern terminology encompasses LGBT identity and sexuality. The word  (literally 'to become a woman') describes those who were assigned male at birth but are female, while the term  has the opposite meaning, that being a person assigned female at birth but is male.

Homosexuality and same-sex relationships, gender diversity, and people of diverse sex characteristics, have been documented in Aotearoa for centuries. Academic Elizabeth Kerekere has found that prior to the imposition of colonial law and morality,  were simply "part of the  [family]." Same-sex relationships and activities appear to have been acceptable amongst pre-colonial Māori. Some stories, for example that of Tutanekai and Tiki, centre on same-sex couples. A British missionary, Richard Davis, found homosexual relationships between men to be a familiar part of Māori life, and although homosexual relationships between women have not been well documented, they were certainly not condemned.

Colonisation and criminalisation 
Some of the earliest European colonists in New Zealand were Christian missionaries who arrived in the early nineteenth century and eventually converted most of the Māori population to Christianity. They brought with them the Christian doctrine that sodomy was sinful, meaning many Māori were forced to hide or destroy evidence of their  selves. Despite this, one missionary, William Yate, was sent back to England in disgrace after being caught engaging in sex with young Māori men.

When New Zealand became a British colony in 1840, British law was adopted in its entirety, making "buggery" illegal and a capital offence. In 1893, all kinds of sexual activity between men was criminalised, with penalties including imprisonment, hard labour, and flogging. Sexual acts between women were never criminalised.

Underground subculture 
Despite discriminatory laws, a small queer subculture developed. Pākehā settlers on the goldfields or in rural areas were mostly male, and some had sexual relationships with each other. However, as settlers began to move to cities the numbers of convictions for same-sex activities increased.

A number of gay men were involved in New Zealand's literary subculture, including Frank Sargeson. However even in these circles, homosexuality was not always accepted.

By as early as the 1930s, queer subcultures were so developed that a shared language had developed, emerging out of "elements of prison slang, pig Latin, Polari, gay slang, Māori and localised dialect," used primarily by male and trans women sex workers. These communities often referred to themselves as "kamp." Carmen Rupe identified as kamp when she was living in Auckland in the 1950s, and recalled "three aunties" who her particular kamp circle revolved around; Hinemoa and Freda, who were Māori, and Auntie Mamie, from Rarotonga. Rupe writes that all three "went to great trouble and effort preparing for their parties", which were the centre of this community.

Alongside private parties, nightlife venues were a key part of these communities. After the change of licensing laws in 1967, Rupe was able to found her first of several famous establishments, Carmen's International Coffee Lounge, located on Vivian Street in Wellington. "Carmen's" was a social hub for people from all walks of life, often attracted to the venue by the notoriety of its openly trans proprietor. However, it also operated as a relatively safe space for queer people, one of a series of trans-owned and operated establishments that both socially and economically supported local communities. Chrissy Witoko's "The Evergreen" was another such venue, also on Vivian Street, established in 1984. Hers was renown as a safe community hub, and was also a drop-in centre for both local gay and lesbian activist and support groups, and for sex workers, prior to the establishment of the New Zealand Prostitutes' Collective. In late 1971, the KG (Kamp Girls) club for lesbians was formed in Auckland.

Activism and law reform