[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Albaugh-Dover Co.

The Albaugh-Dover Co. was an American manufacturer of farm implements, tractors, and automobiles based in Chicago, Illinois.

Automobiles
The Aldo was a simply-constructed, high-wheeled, two-passenger motor buggy sold from 1910 until early 1911. It featured an air-cooled, opposed two-cylinder engine with 12 hp (N.A.C.C. rating) of  displacement. The vehicle used a planetary transmission with double chain drive, and tiller steering. Wheelbase measured , and the large carriage wheels 36 × 1.5 in. It had a right hand drive configuration.

The price was $395, but very few were sold. Albaugh-Dover then concentrated on their farm implement (cream separators) and gear cutting business.

Tractors

In December 1917, the company moved into the production of tractors by buying the ailing Kennell-Colwell Co. of Norfolk, Nebraska. It was renamed the Square Turn Tractor Company and operated as a subsidiary. The tractor was sold as the Albaugh-Dover "Square Turn" from Chicago.

It was a curious looking vehicle in a motorized tricycle layout. Its four-cylinder engine was mounted on a rear axle with large iron wheels. The driver sat behind a small, steerable iron front wheel, and directly in front of the grille. The engine was a Climax Model K with a bore of  and a stroke of , resulting in a displacement of . Power output measured 18 hp at the draw bar and 35 hp on the pulley. This engine ran on either gasoline or kerosene.

The transmission was called Giant Grip Drive, with "no clutch to slip" and "no gear to strip". This indicates a friction drive. Base price was $1,875, which included an Oliver plow. The complete vehicle weight was . Albaugh-Dover mentioned that the tractor could be used by only one operator.

In 1924, Albaugh-Dover was bought out by a group of former shareholders. After investing $200,000, it was reorganized as the Albaugh-Dover Manufacturing Company, and returned solely to farm implement production and gear cutting. The Square Turn Tractor Company was sold by sheriff's order in 1925.

References

1910s cars
Defunct motor vehicle manufacturers of the United States
Vehicles introduced in 1910
Motor vehicle manufacturers based in Illinois