[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Canal Street station (New York City Subway)

contain plaster molding. The newer portion has 1950s green tile at the end of the platforms. There are also Independent Subway System (IND)-type "To Canal Street" signs. New lights were installed. Non-original name tables and small "C" mosaics exist.

Image gallery

BMT Nassau Street Line platforms 

The Canal Street station on the BMT Nassau Street Line has three tracks and two island platforms, but only the western island platform is accessible to passengers. The J stops here at all times and the Z stops here during rush hours in the peak direction. The station is between  to the north and  to the south.

During the late 1910s, contractors waterproofed the station, placing a layer of brick and a  layer of concrete under the trackbeds. Lead plates were installed under the trackbeds where they crossed over the Bridge Line platforms.

Formerly, Canal Street resembled a typical express station, except that the inner tracks dead-ended at bumper blocks at the south end with a platform-level connection joining the southern ends of the two platforms. After a reconfiguration of the Nassau Street Line in 2004, the eastern (former "northbound") platforms were abandoned and the platform-level connection was removed, allowing the former southbound express track to continue south. The westernmost (former "southbound") platform remains in operation and both tracks provide through service; southbound traffic using the former southbound "local" track and northbound traffic using the former southbound "express" track. The former northbound local track is now used only for non-revenue moves, train storage and emergencies while the northbound express stub track was removed. The former northbound "local" track merges with the former southbound "express" track (now the northbound track) south of the station.

Within the tunnels north and south of the station, each of the BMT Nassau Street Line's four tracks is separated by a concrete wall, rather than by columns, as in older IRT tunnels. These walls were intended to improve ventilation, as air would be pushed forward by passing trains, rather than to the sides of the tunnel. The wall between the two inner tracks had a thick concrete wall, with openings at infrequent intervals, where train crews could step aside when a train approached. To the north and south of the stations, the wall between the two western tracks, as well as the wall between the two eastern tracks, have openings at frequent intervals.
There was an opening in the center wall about  from the end of the station that had a narrow platform, which was used by train crews to cross between trains on the center tracks. In 2004, this opening was sealed with new tiling as the eastern platform was in the process of being closed.

South of this station there are unused stub tracks that lead from Chambers Street and used to connect to the southern tracks of the Manhattan Bridge. These tracks were disconnected with the opening of the Chrystie Street Connection in 1967 and now end at bumper blocks.

BMT Broadway Line platforms 
The four platforms of the Canal Street station are located on two levels and are depicted as the same station on the New York City Subway map, but have two distinct station codes and were built as separate stations. Both are part of the BMT Broadway Line. Local trains traveling to Lower Manhattan and to Brooklyn via the Montague Street Tunnel stop at the Main Line platforms, while express trains traveling to and from Brooklyn via the Manhattan Bridge stop at the Bridge Line platforms.

The original mosaics at the Broadway Line stations depicted the canal that had run through the area, as seen in a 1796 sketch. The mosaics appeared to also depict the house of U.S. vice president Aaron Burr, who lived near the canal along what is now Broadway. The platforms feature mosaics containing Chinese characters, reflecting the station's location in Chinatown. The symbols on the red wall plaques mean "money" and "luck" and the "Canal Street" name tablet has characters that read "China" and "Town". The platform walls also feature the names "Canal Street" and "Chinatown" in Chinese ().

The station has an art installation entitled Empress Voyage February 22, 1794  by Bing Lee, installed in 1998 as part of the MTA Arts & Design program. The art installation contains motifs inspired by Chinese characters. The platforms are decorated with teapots resembling the Chinese characters for "good life", while the mezzanine has symbols that variously resemble the characters for "Asia", "cycle", or "quality". Lee's art covers some of the station's original mosaics.

Main Line platforms (upper level)