[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Samaria Ostraca

a'ala Za(kar)
Single
Eliba
Akhima
Akhaz
Sheba
Qedar of Saq
Uzza
Kheles of Khaserot
Akhzai of Khaserot
"Yau" Combinations
Yeda'yau
Gera Yauyosheb. (Gera son of Yauyosheb)
Mafna-yau Natao (son of) of Yasot
Abed-yau. (Servant of Yau)
Abi-yau. (Child of Yau)
Marnayau Gaddiyau. (Marnayau son of Gaddiyau)

In these personal names unfamiliar as most of them are, we are struck at once with the fact that Ba'al occurs in their formation with as great frequency as Yahveh or Yah appears
in Biblical names of the Kingdom of Judah. It is significant of the influence of Sidonian worship of Ba'al in the Northern Kingdom. Yet, if the syllable "yau" is part of the word
Yahveh, with "h" dropped out, it would appear that in some families the worship of Yahveh is also reflected in the family name.

These lists of names bear clear testimony as to the co-existence of Ba'al worship alongside of the worship of Yahveh in Northern Israel.

On the sherds found, the only years mentioned are the ninth, tenth, fifteenth, and seventeenth, and the only materials are wine and oil.

Biblical names
The names Kheles, Akhinoam, Akhimelek, Kha-nan, Ba'ara (female), Gomer (female), Meribaal, are all Biblical, while Gaddiyau and Shemaryau are the northern forms of Gedaiah and Shemariah. Some of the Ba'al combinations are of course, Phoenician—e.g., Ba'alzamar. The names Abiba'al,
Ahaz, Sheba9 Elisha, 9Uzza, Ela, Gera, Rafa, and Natan (Nathan), are all Biblical.

As no complete jar seems to have been found, it is impossible to say what the quantities were, nor can we say whether the jar of oil and the jar of wine were equivalent in value. The
inscribed jar-handles of revenue jars found on Ophel appeared for several reasons to belong to jars of no great size, but here again no complete jar was found. No inscribed jar-handles, such as were found at Tel Gezer and the Ophel, were found at Samaria.

See also
List of artifacts significant to the Bible
Arad ostraca
Lachish letters

Bibliography
 Noegel, Scott B. "The Samaria Ostraca.", The Ancient Near East: Historical Sources, Blackwell (2006), 396–399.
 Duncan, J.Garrow. "Digging Up Biblical History Recent Archeology In Palestine And Its Bearing On The Old Testament Historical Narratives".

References

9th-century BC inscriptions
8th-century BC inscriptions
1910 archaeological discoveries
Hebrew inscriptions
KAI inscriptions
Ancient Israel and Judah
Ostracon
Collection of the Istanbul Archaeology Museums
Archaeological artifacts