[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Masoud Shojaei

ojaei joined Tractor S.C. on a three-year contract. 8 days later, he made his debut in a 3–0 defeat against Esteghlal F.C. in which he was chosen as the side's first captain. On 19 April 2019, he was assaulted by a supporter of his own team who invaded the pitch after a 1–0 home defeat of Paykan FC.

Midway through the 2019–20 campaign, Shojaei was offered the interim position after Mustafa Denizli's departure. He declined, instead being named assistant to Ahad Sheykhlari while also being involved in the taking of decisions in training.

Nassaji
On 5 October 2021, Shojaei joined Nassaji on a two-year contract, reuniting with former Tractor manager Saket Elhami. Following his arrival, he was named the team's new captain. On 27 February in the 2022 Hazfi Cup Final, he played the first half of a goalless draw with Aluminium Arak that his team won on penalties.

International career

Whilst at Saipa, Shojaei earned a place in Iranian national under-23 team, catching the eye of full side coach Branko Ivanković. He was first called up to play for the latter in November 2004, for a 2006 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Laos – it was the only cap he would win until the training camp prior to the finals in Germany, held in Switzerland; he was included in the final squad but only appeared once in the tournament, replacing injured Mohammad Nosrati in the early minutes of the 1–1 draw against Angola.

Shojaei began appearing more regularly in the 2010 World Cup qualification stages, scoring in a 1–1 draw against South Korea in the final game. However, Team Melli did not qualify for the tournament in South Africa. Iran did manage to reach the 2014 World Cup, with Shojaei as a regular starter in the qualifiers.

On 1 June 2014, Shojaei was included in Carlos Queiroz's list for the World Cup. He appeared as a substitute in the team's opening draw with Nigeria, and was selected in the starting line-up for the following group matches against Argentina and Bosnia-Herzegovina.

On 30 December 2014, Shojaei was called into Iran's 2015 AFC Asian Cup squad. He scored the nation's second goal in its opening 2–0 defeat of Bahrain, in Melbourne.

Shojaei captained the squad in 2018 World Cup qualification home matches against China and Uzbekistan. On 10 August 2017, Mohammad Reza Davarzani, Iran's deputy sports minister, said on Iranian state television both Shojaei and teammate Ehsan Hajsafi would never be invited to the national team again for playing with their club Panionios against Israel's Maccabi Tel Aviv FC; however, the Iranian Football Federation later stated it would review the case and reach a decision after speaking with both, with Hajsafi eventually returning to the side in November and Shojaei stating that they were pressured by their club to play.

On 18 March 2018, Shojaei was called up for friendlies against Tunisia and Algeria, being criticised after his return against the former by an Iranian member of parliament who called for his life ban. He was eventually selected for the finals in Russia as team captain, becoming the first Iranian player to travel to three World Cups. He made his debut in the tournament on 15 June in a 1–0 group stage win against Morocco, but sat on the bench for the next two games in an eventual group stage elimination.

In December 2018, Shojaei was selected for Iran's 23-man squad for the 2019 AFC Asian Cup. He became the only Iranian to participate in seven international tournaments.

Activism
 
Shojaei expressed support for the Iranian Green Movement on 17 June 2009, when he wore a green bracelet against South Korea in a World Cup 2010 qualifier along with five other players. During the match, he also wore a green undershirt previewing a possible goal celebration.

Shojaei discussed corruption in Iranian football in an interview with Radio Farda, and also spoke out against child sexual abuses in December 2016. He was subsequently summoned to the Ethics Committee of the Football Federation Islamic Republic of Iran.

A vocal advocate of lifting stadium ban for women in Iran, Shojaei openly expressed his regret that his mother, sister and wife were unable to see him play. He reportedly called for repealing the ban, when he met with president Hassan Rouhani in July 2017.

Personal life
Shojaei's sister, Maryam, was also an activist campaigning for women's rights in Iran.

Career statistics

Club

International

Scores and results list Iran's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Shojaei goal.

Honours
AEK Athens
Super League: 2017–18

Tractor
Hazfi Cup: 2019–20

Nassaji
Hazfi Cup: 2021–22

Iran
Islamic Solidarity Games: Bronze medal 2005

Individual
Super League Greece Team of the Season: 2016–17

References

External links

TeamMelli official profile