[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Muhammad Aladdin

in the Second conviction saying to ArabLit magazine, on October 23, 2013, that  ‘’They would use us as make-up for the same ugly face’’. As a consequence, he was banned from article writing in Egypt.

Aladdin wrote for MTV’s Rebel Music about Ramy Essam as ‘’The Revolution Singer’’ in November 2013.

Writings
Aladdin's literary career began in 2000, when he co-wrote the comic, youth-oriented series Maganin (Mad People), published by Al Mobdeoun publishing house. The series have stopped in 2002 after 10 issues, some of which reached 20,000 copies in Egypt and the Arab world. In 2001 he started writing on cinema and light-content essays for 5 issues of another series called Ice Cream from the same publishing house and in 2002 he wrote another series called Comicia for Dar Al Hussam; this lasted for 4 issues.
 In 2002, he was one of two writers to participate in an internationally funded workshop on comic-book creation. The result was the tri-lingual Arabic, English, and French. comic album The Adventures of Prince Seif Ibn Zi Yazan (Cairo, Ahamd El Attar, nd 2004).
 In 2003, he published his first conventionally literary book, Al Daffa Al Ukhra (The Other Shore), a volume of short stories published by The General Organization for Cultural Palaces, an organ of Egypt's ministry of culture. the book was well received by readers and other writers alike.
 In 2004, Aladdin won The General Organization for Cultural Palaces' prize (3rd rank) in its pan-Egyptian central contest, for his unpublished first novel Al Dawa’ir (The Circles). In the same year excerpts from his second novel (was unpublished back then) The Twenty-Second Day (Arabic: اليوم الثاني و العشرون) appeared in the prestigious literary magazine Akhbar al-Adab, then to be published in the Egyptian El-'Ain Publishing House  in 2007.
 In 2008, he had 2 new books published, The Idol (novel) (Arabic: الصنم), a novel from El-'Ain publishing, and The Secret Life of Citizen M (Arabic: الحياة السرية للمواطن م), a short-stories collection, from Mezan publishing house. He also had the second printing of The Gospel According to Adam released by Mezan.
 In 2005, he began writing comics for the Saudi children's magazine Basem.
 In October 2009, his story New Lover, Young Lover was published in the American A Public Space  in its Cairo portfolio, it was translated by Humphrey T. Davies (The Yacoubian Building, Gate of the Sun (Novel)), and was first published in Arabic in November 2009 by the Egyptian Supreme Council for Culture in a special anthology titled "The Best Egyptian Short Stories.
 In 2009, he published his fourth novel The Foot (novel) (Arabic: القدم) from El-'Ain Publishing house.
 In 2012, he published his short-stories collection Young Lover, New Lover (Arabic: الصغير والحالي) from Merit Publishing house, soon it was chosen as one of the most important books of the year by Al Saqia Al Thaqafia The Cultural Wheel, a notable arts and literature centre in Egypt, it was the only short story collection chosen.
Along with the American translation of the main title story, a Russian translation for one of the stories within it, The Voice (short story), was published by the Russian newspaper Moskovskij Komsomolets in their Egypt edition, translated by Sarali Gintsburg. In March 2014, the same story was translated to Italian by Barbra Benini and published in Editoriaraba, a notable Italian blog dedicated to Arabic Literature, in 24 hours it was reblogged  on the blog MedShake on the ISPI website, an Italian prestigious research institute on international politics.
 In January 2014, Aladdin has his fifth novel published, A Well-Trained Stray by Al ‘Ain Publishing. It was released in Italian in September 2015 by the Italian publishing house Il Seriente, under the name Cani Sicolti.
 In January 2014, Aladdin has his fourth short stories collection, as three long story volume The Season of Migration to Arkidea by Merit publishing, The title story was translated into Dutch and Italian before actually published in book in Arabic.

Other works
 He participated in The Arab Short stories Conference, and The Arab Novel Conference, both held 2008 and 2009 respectively, and organized by The Supreme Council for Culture-Egypt.
 In 2010 he gave a lecture about his works in the Edinburgh University's Middle Eastern Society.
 He participated in the Dutch famous festival Writers' Unlimited in 2015.
 Aladdin has held a creative writing workshop for children of Alexandria upon the request of Bibliotheca Alexandrina in 2004.
 Lectured on creative writing in International Labour Organization's (ILO) International Programme on the Elimination of Child Labour (IPEC) Scream program .  in Cairo, 2005.

External links
 Aladdin's official webpage 
 Interview with Muhammad Aladdin 
 Author's page at Kasra 
 An article about Al Dafa Al Ukhra in Akhbar Al Adab 
 Excerpt from Al Yawm Al Thani Wal 'Ishrun in Akhbar Al Adab

References