[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of American and British defectors in the Korean War

while they were POWs.

At about 4:00 am on 24 February 1954, a train carrying the 21 American defectors crossed the Yalu River into China. The Chinese soon shipped some of the men off to study language and politics. Others went to mills, factories, and farms across Eastern China.

List of defectors

American
Adams, Clarence (Cpl.). A soldier from Memphis, Tennessee.  Adams, an African-American, cited racial discrimination in the United States as the reason he refused repatriation. While a prisoner, Adams took classes in Communist political theory, and afterwards lectured other prisoners in the camps.  Because of this and other collaboration with his captors, his prosecution by the Army was likely upon his repatriation. During the Vietnam War, Adams made propaganda broadcasts for Radio Hanoi from their Chinese office, telling black American soldiers not to fight: "You are supposedly fighting for the freedom of the Vietnamese, but what kind of freedom do you have at home, sitting in the back of the bus, being barred from restaurants, stores and certain neighborhoods, and being denied the right to vote. ... Go home and fight for equality in America." Adams married a Chinese woman and lived in China until the increasingly anti-Western atmosphere of the Cultural Revolution led him to return to the United States in 1966. The House Un-American Activities Committee subpoenaed Adams upon his return but did not question him publicly. He later started a Chinese restaurant business in Memphis.  Clarence Adams died in 1999 and is buried in Memorial Park Cemetery in Memphis. Adams' autobiography An American Dream: The Life of an African American Soldier and POW Who Spent Twelve Years in Communist China was posthumously published in 2007 by his daughter Della Adams and Lewis H. Carlson.
Adams, Howard Gayle (Sgt.). From Corsicana, Texas.  He worked in a paper factory in Jinan.  He refused all media requests for interviews.
Belhomme, Albert Constant (Sgt.). A native of Belgium who emigrated to the United States as a teenager. He lived in China for ten years, working in a paper factory in Jinan, before returning to Antwerp.
Bell, Otho Grayson  (Cpl.). Originally from Olympia, Washington. Chose not to return despite having a wife and baby girl back in the United States. In China, Bell was sent to a collective farm with William Cowart and Lewis Griggs (see below). Bell described himself, Cowart and Griggs as "the dummy bunch", saying they were sent to the farm because they could not learn Chinese. They returned to the United States together in July 1955, were arrested, but were released when it was found that the military no longer had jurisdiction over the defectors after they were dishonorably discharged.  Bell died in 2003.
Corden, Richard  (Sgt.). A native of Chicago. He returned to the United States in January 1958. He was reported to live in Milwaukee in 1961 and moved to Chicago in 1962. He reportedly continued to support Communism after returning to the United States. He died in 1988 and is buried in Wood National Cemetery in Milwaukee.
Cowart, William (Cpl.). Returned with Bell and Griggs (see below). Later the three soldiers sued for their back pay. The case went to the United States Supreme Court, which held that Bell, Cowart and Griggs were entitled to their back pay from the time they were captured to the time they were dishonorably discharged.
Douglas, Rufus  (Sgt.). Died in China a few months after arrival in 1954. The manner of his death is not certain but is believed to have been from natural causes.
Dunn, John Roedel (Cpl.). Born in Altoona, Pennsylvania on 29 June 1928. He married a Czechoslovak woman while in China and settled in Czechoslovakia in December 1959. Died in Slovakia in 1996.
Fortuna, Andrew (Sgt.). Originally from Greenup, Kentucky. He was awarded two Bronze Stars for his service in Korea before he was captured. He returned to the United States on 3 July 1957. He worked in Portsmouth, Ohio, in 1958; in Detroit, Michigan, from 1963–64; and Chicago in 1964. He was reported to be in Gary, Indiana, as of 1964. He died in 1984.
Griggs, Lewis Wayne. Returned with Bell and Cowart in 1955. He was listed as a senior majoring in sociology at Stephen F. Austin State University, graduating in 1959. He died in 1984.
Hawkins, Samuel David (Pfc.). From Oklahoma City. He married a Russian woman in China and returned to the United States in February 1957, shortly before his wife was permitted to come to the United States. He successfully petitioned the government to change his discharge from dishonorable to other than honorable. He raised a family, and has given interviews to the press on the condition that his location not be disclosed.
Pate, Arlie (Cpl.). Worked in a paper mill before returning with Aaron Wilson (see below) in 1956.  He died in 1999.
Rush, Scott (Sgt.). Married in China. After living in China for ten years, he and his wife moved to the United States and settled in the Midwest.
Skinner, Lowel