[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mian Ghulam Jilani

h Infantry Division who was the Force Commander for the Bajaur Campaign of October 1960. After the Nawab of Dir Sir Shah Jehan Khan and his son Khan Shahabud Din Khan of Jandol were captured on 28 October 1948, Maj Gen Attiqur Rahman MC moved back to Peshawar and Jilani took over as Force Commander.

Retirement
After retiring from the army, he was hired by Fakhrudin Valika as a General Manager with the Valika Group in Karachi.

Political career
He joined the National Awami Party (Wali) and became a member of the provincial assembly of North West Frontier Province from his home constituency in Mardan in the 1970 Pakistani general election after receiving 16,346 votes. He was the head of the NAP-Ws youth wing, Zalmay Pakhtun.

Arrest
He was an outspoken critic of the government of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto and was arrested by the Pakistan Peoples Party government on 15 February 1973.

His wife Mrs. Nancy Habiba Jilani filed a writ petition against his detention, and the judgment of the Lahore High Court was authored by Nasim Hasan Shah, J. and is reported as: Mrs. Habiba Jilani V Federation of Pakistan (PLD 1974 Lahore 153). The Lahore High Court declared the detention valid.

In a crackdown on his party, a smear campaign was launched against him and Jilani was frequently arrested. Zulfikar Ali Bhutto then attempted to bribe Jilani with offers of high positions—all to no avail. Nonetheless, all charges against Jilani were repeatedly dismissed by the courts. Amnesty International adopted him as a "prisoner of conscience" in 1974.

Escape from Jail
Jilani managed to escape from guards during a hospital visit in 1975 and was granted political asylum in the United States. He became a US citizen in 1981.

US Residency
After becoming a citizen of the United States, he gave speeches at colleges, government agencies, and veterans organizations. He shared his experiences in Pakistan and discussed global military affairs.

Death
He died of Pneumonia at his daughter's home in Fairfax, Virginia on 1 March 2004.

Bibliography
Judgments on the Constitution, Rule of Law, and Martial Law in Pakistan by Chief Justice Dr Nasim Hassan Shah, edited by Prof Dr M A Mannan (OUP 1993)
Pakistan. Problems of Governance by Mushahid Hussain & Akmal Hussain (Vanguard Books 1993) (p. 30, 87 & 90)

Foreign decorations

References

1913 births
2004 deaths
Aligarh Muslim University alumni
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by Pakistan
British Indian Army officers
Forman Christian College alumni
Foreign recipients of the Legion of Merit
Frontier Force Regiment officers
Indian Army personnel of World War II
Indian prisoners of war
People with acquired American citizenship
Pakistani emigrants to the United States
Pakistani generals
20th-century Pakistani military personnel
People from Sibi District
Rashtriya Indian Military_College alumni
Military personnel of World War II
World War II prisoners of war held by Japan
Pakistani escapees
Escapees from Pakistani detention
Pakistani torture victims
Pashtun politicians
20th-century military personnel
Pashtun military personnel
Pashtun businesspeople