[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Muslim-majority countries

ters. Following the release of its main founder and president Almasari, the committee was reformed in London where it received attention from human rights organisations worldwide. CDLR's work shed much-needed light on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia that was previously clouded in secrecy.

The events which have followed since the early 1990s such as the end of the Cold War, the Gulf War and the 9/11 terrorist attacks on the United States of America, have further impacted the issue of human rights in Saudi Arabia, more so than any other country. Since these events, Saudi Arabia has steadily opened itself up to scrutiny by international agencies; they have also participated and engaged the human rights front more actively. The country has allowed visits from UN Special Rapporteurs and Working Groups. Saudi Arabia has also joined international human rights legal agreements, which means that the country is legally subject to Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (CERD), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), the Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment (CAT) and the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC).

While some have lauded the progress made, others have remained highly critical of the country. In a 2013-human rights review of Saudi Arabia by CountryWatch, it is said that Saudi Arabia has a "poor record of human rights" with the country's law "not [providing] for the protection of many basic rights". The report goes on to detail the many shortcomings in the country such as corruption, lack of transparency, the presence of corporal punishments and the lack of separation between the three branches of the government (i.e. judicial, executive and legislaive).

By 2017, Saudi Arabian authorities had intensified their efforts in cracking down against human rights activists. Many activists, including one who provided information to Amnesty International, have been detained or appeared in court for their work, an indication that Saudi Arabian authorities plan to continue their crackdown on peaceful opposition. Human rights activists disappear, are prosecuted, jailed, or forced into exile.

Pakistan

The human rights situation in Pakistan is generally regarded as poor by domestic and international observers. Initially, the 1973 Constitution twice enjoins "adequate provision shall be made for minorities" in its preamble, and the Fourth Amendment (1975) guaranteed at least six seats in the National Assembly would be held by minorities to safeguard their "legitimate interests". However, the human rights record of Pakistan declined under the dictatorship of the US-supported General Zia. General Zia introduced Sharia Law which led to Islamization of the country. The current regime in Pakistan has been responsible for torture, extrajudicial executions and other human rights violations. Forced conversion and Honor killings are also common in Pakistan. Freedom House has assessed Pakistan as "Partly Free" with a relatively low score of 37/100, indicating that it does not qualify as a "free democracy." This classification is based on a range of factors, including the military's influence, incidents involving Islamist militants, and constraints imposed on civil liberties.

Turkey

Turkey is considered by many as being the exemplary country of the Muslim world where a satisfactory compromise is made between the values of Islamic, Western and Russian civilisations.  One of the main reasons cited for Turkey's significant improvement in its human rights efforts over the past few decades is the country's push towards satisfying European Union pre-conditions for membership.  In 2000, AI, on the back of visits made to the country to observe human rights practices, found that Turkey was demonstrating signs of greater transparency compared to other Muslim countries. In 2002, an AI report stated that the Turkish parliament passed three laws "…aimed at bringing Turkish law into line with European human rights standards."  The same report further noted that "AI was given permission to open a branch in Turkey under the Law on Associations."

Some of the latest human rights steps taken by Turkey include "the fourth judicial reform package adopted in April, which strengthens the protection of fundamental rights, including freedom of expression and the fight against impunity for cases of torture and ill-treatment; the peace process which aims to end terrorism and violence in the Southeast of the country and pave the way for a solution to the Kurdish issue; the September 2013 democratisation package which sets out further reform, covering important issues such as the use of languages other than Turkish, and minority rights."