[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Patrik Fitzgerald

Patrik Fitzgerald (born Patrick Joseph Fitzgerald, 19 March 1956, Stratford, East London) is an English singer-songwriter and an originator of folk punk. The son of working-class Irish immigrant parents, he began recording and performing during the punk rock movement in 1977, after working briefly as an actor.

Early recordings
His early songs were generally short, sarcastic efforts, recorded with just an acoustic guitar and occasional studio effects, with lyrics containing a large amount of social comment. Fitzgerald was soon regarded as an original of his genre, somewhere between a punk-poet and an urban folksinger, and was lauded in some circles as "the new Bob Dylan". After starting out as a busker, he approached David Bowie's original manager, Ken Pitt, requesting his services; Pitt declined but an audition was set up with Noel Gay in 1975 who also turned Fitzgerald down.

In 1976 Fitzgerald auditioned, alongside Mick Jones and Tony James for the band London SS, again without success. After a spell acting in a communal theatre group (9 months in Stratford's The Soapbox Theatre), he drifted towards the developing Punk scene. He was a regular customer at the Small Wonder record shop in London, and when Small Wonder launched a record label Fitzgerald was one of the first to submit a demo – and got a deal, with the new label releasing his first three EPs, the first being Safety-Pin Stuck in My Heart, still his best-known work, and one which he subtitles "a love song for punk music". Patrik became a regular performer at London punk gigs, and supported The Jam on their national tour.

Polydor era
These early recordings attracted interest from Polydor Records who signed him up to record his first LP, Grubby Stories in 1979, recorded with established punk musicians including Robert Blamire of Penetration and John Maher of the Buzzcocks, produced by Peter Wilson. The LP contained 17 tracks, seven of them recorded with these musicians.

Two singles ("All Sewn Up" and "Improve Myself") were released by Polydor, either side of the album and Fitzgerald undertook a tour with a new group of musicians: Colin Peacock (guitar), Charlie Francis (bass) (later to join Toyah), and Rab Fae Beith on drums (later of The Wall and UK Subs).

Fitzgerald appeared in the post-punk documentary Rough Cut and Ready Dubbed in 1979/80 contributing the title song "Island of Lost Souls" and one performance of "Tonight" with Colin Peacock on keyboards.

Early 1980s
After being dropped by Polydor, he continued to play solo acoustic concerts, gradually forsaking the ironic, sarcastic mode for a more deeply etched, darker formulation.

Now without a manager, Fitzgerald returned again to acoustic solo performance, then releasing a single under the pseudonym Josef Garret, then, using a borrowed Revox, he began recording a series of backing tapes to use in live performance. These recordings, based partly on the former group's unreleased material, with Patrik playing everything, were released in 1982 by Red Flame Records as his second album Gifts and Telegrams.

At this point, Patrik Fitzgerald formed a small group of solo performers, working under the banner Ghosts of Individuals, and featuring himself, David Harrow, U.V. Pop (Ultra Violent PØP), Kevin Hewick and Anne Clark (known for her solo albums on Red Flame). The forerunner of London's cabaret scene, the Ghosts, like Fitzgerald's
music, was aimed at, and appealed to London's loners .

In 1981, he released a five track 12-inch titled Tonight EP. This recording was credited to a trio, Patrik Fitzgerald Group, comprising Fitzgerald – credited with songs, guitars piano etc., Colin Peacock – credited with synthesizer and guitar, and Lester Broad – credited with saxophone. Engineer was given as abbey. This EP had three tracks on side one – "MR & MRS", "Animal Mentality" and "Tonight". Side two contained "A Superbeing" and "Waiting for the Final Cue".

Following this, in mid-1983, Patrik Fitzgerald formed a collusion with a peripheral musician from the Ghosts, clarinet player Alistair Roberts, and along with three more brass instruments players he recorded his next LP, Drifting Towards Violence. The music on it is mostly acoustic, accompanied by the gloomy sound of the brass section and hard-hitting lyrics. Released by the Belgian label Himalaya the record went completely unadvertised, and, consequently, sank without leaving a trace. The release was followed by a solo tour of Europe, where Fitzgerald has retained a loyal following.