[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kobi Alexander

r powered housing project for 100 low-income Namibian families.

Despite fighting extradition to the United States, Alexander announced on January 28, 2008, that he has filed suit against Comverse. Alexander claims the firm owes him $72 million in severance, unexercised stock options, and bonus pay.

On July 3, 2008, a Namibian court split decisions for and against Alexander granting his request to remove the judge currently assigned to preside at his extradition hearing while declining to assign a magistrate of his choosing. Additionally, the Namibian High Court did not, at Alexander's attorneys' request, rule unconstitutional the Extradition Act which would allow Alexander to be imprisoned at some point during the upcoming extradition hearing. As reported by Bloomberg.com on November 19, 2008, a hearing to request Alexander's extradition to the United States was postponed until March 4, 2009, pending Alexander's appeal to Namibia's Supreme Court regarding which judge should hear the case. This appeal, not yet scheduled, will likely be adjudicated in March or April 2009.
The final outcome of the extradition proceedings can be several years away pending the appeals process. Despite impending extradition proceedings, Alexander has invested heavily within the country.

In 2011, Alexander settled the civil charges with the SEC and gave up bank accounts worth $46 million to federal authorities.

On August 22, 2016, it was reported by Scott Cohn on CNBC that Alexander would return to the US to face criminal charges.  On February 23, 2017, Judge Nicholas Garaufis of the Eastern District of New York sentenced Alexander to 30 months in prison.  On March 1, 2018, Alexander was transferred to Israel to carry out his remaining sentence. Later in 2018 he was released from prison.

References

Further reading

1952 births
Living people
American fraudsters
Businesspeople from New York (state)
American expatriates in Namibia
Fugitive financiers
Fugitives wanted by the United States
Hebrew University of Jerusalem Faculty of Social Sciences alumni
Israeli businesspeople
Israeli emigrants to the United States
Israeli Jews
New York University Stern School of Business alumni
American white-collar criminals
People charged with fraud