[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Đồng Hới

n and biological research activities (mainly Phong Nha Cave and, from September 2010, Thiên Đường Cave and Sơn Đoòng Cave are available for visitors).

Đồng Hới is included in former battlefield tours where travelers can visit once-dangerous fields along the Annamite Range and the Hồ Chí Minh trail.

Đồng Hới is accessible by road (National Route 1 (Vietnam) - Asian Highway 1, Hồ Chí Minh Highway), by rail at Đồng Hới Railway Station on the Hà Nội–Hồ Chí Minh City Railway, or by air from Hà Nội or Hồ Chí Minh City at Đồng Hới Airport. 

Đồng Hới Airport was put into use on 18 May 2008, and the first commercial flight was from Hanoi's Noi Bai International Airport, followed by air link with Ho Chi Minh City's Tân Sơn Nhất International Airport from 1 July 2009.

The city provides tourists with 98 hotels and guest-houses from 1 to 3-star hotels like Cosevco Hotel (which is closed and not available for booking), Saigon-Quảng Bình Hotel, Nam Long Hotel and Nam Long Plus Hotel (all available for online booking through several sites) and the 4-star resort of Sun Spa Resort. The cuisine includes seafood, the traditional "hot pot", Vietnamese and European-style meals. In 2005, the city welcomed nearly 300,000 visitors.
Flagstick broke ground on another new project on February 1 – FLC Dong Hoi Golf Links in Quang Binh Province.

A complex of 10 contiguous golf courses, three clubhouses, more than 1,000 villas, a large resort hotel, commercial village and convention centre is under construction in seaside area of Dong Hoi and Quang Ninh District, Le Thuy District, which is scheduled to achieve the completion of all construction of the first phase by November 2016, with spring 2017 set as the opening date for play.

Economy
The Hòn La bay is 4-km2, with the depth up to 15 m, suitable to develop into a deep-water sea port. A port is currently () under construction north of Đồng Hới. When finished it will be able to accommodate ships up to 50,000 metric tons, on a 32ha of land, has a loading capacity of 10-12 million tonnes per year and is expected to facilitate business for Quảng Bình's industrial and economic zones.

Two industrial parks (north-west Đồng Hới Industrial Park and Hòn La Industrial Park) are under construction and partially available to investors. The city achieved an average economic growth rate of 12.32% during 2010–2013 period. The economic contributors for 2013 were as follows: industry and construction accounting for 35.5%, services 50.9%, agriculture-forestry-fishery 13.6%. GDP per capita in 2015 was $3871,3.

Education
Đồng Hới is home to Quảng Bình University, a multidisciplinary university. There are several schools here, notably Võ Nguyên Giáp Gifted High School, and Đào Duy Từ High School.

See also 
 Đồng Hới Citadel

References

External links 
 
 
 Đồng Hới town became city
 Website office of Đồng Hới city
 Đồng Hới on wikimapia
 Đồng Hới by images

 
Populated places in Quảng Bình province
Districts of Quảng Bình province
Cities in Vietnam
Provincial capitals in Vietnam