[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Guilherme Finkler

Guilherme Finkler (born September 24, 1985) is a retired Brazilian footballer who played as an attacking midfielder, well known as Guilherme in Brazil and Gui Finkler in Australia and New Zealand.

Early life
Finkler was born in Caxias do Sul in the Brazilian state of Rio Grande do Sul in 1985.

Finkler has a wife, Karine, and a daughter, Rafaela.

Club career

Early career
Finkler played for Brazilian side Juventude, scoring four times in 15 appearances in the 2006 season. Upon returning from a long spell at Cianorte he played in three further matches in 2007. Finkler's subsequent Brazilian club was Juventude's city rival, Caxias.

England and Belgium
During the 2006-2007 season, Finkler played for Wolverhampton Wanderers in the EFL Championship. After scoring several goals in pre-season games the club took the season-long loan option on Finkler. However, he never made a first-team appearance in competitive games. His loan was cut short in January 2007 by mutual consent. Finkler continued his stay in Europe throughout the 2006–2007 season on loan at Belgian Pro League club Mouscron.

Melbourne Victory
Finkler signed for Melbourne Victory on 22 June 2012, before the 2012–13 A-League season.

Season 2012–2013
Finkler made his debut for the Victory in round 1 against crosstown rivals Melbourne Heart. After playing regularly for the Victory, Finkler suffered a season-ending injury in round 12 against A-League debutant club Western Sydney Wanderers. His anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) was ruptured in a heavy tackle. The injury took Finkler out of the game for nearly a year. Before his injury, Finkler had been leading the A-League season 2012/2013 assists count with eight. He made his return to football in the 2013–2014 season.

Season 2013–2014

Finkler made substitute appearances in the opening 0–0 draw with Melbourne Heart and in round 2 visiting Adelaide. Finkler scored his first goal for Melbourne Victory (also Victory's first goal of the season), in a 2–2 draw against Adelaide United.

After the departure of Ange Postecoglou to coach the Australian national team, assistant-turned-manager Kevin Muscat had Finkler play the final 10–25 minutes of matches to build up match fitness and strengthen his post-operation knee. In a game against Perth Glory on Friday 13 December 2013, Guilherme came off the bench for the final 17 minutes and scored his first ever home goal following Adama Traore's solitary goal of the season, to make it 2–0.

The final derby with John Aloisi in charge of the Heart took place with both teams desperate for a win. Heart had not won a match since a 3–1 win over Sydney in February 2013, and Victory to try to stay in the top 5. Again Finkler started the game on the bench. Troisi scored a goal and was subbed for Finkler after just under an hour, and Finkler laid up Mitch Nichols with a sublime pass to put Victory 3–0 up against the 10-man Heart. Finkler's improvement after returning from injury led to more time on the pitch and a regular starting XI place.

Finkler scored against Western Sydney Wanderers with a free kick taken at the end of the match to save the game for the Victory. Melbourne Victory coach Kevin Muscat and Western Sydney Wanderers coach Tony Popovic both praised the goal, which was taken from close to the same spot that Finkler had used an earlier free kick from to cross the ball in. These tactics were not working, and with Finkler taking several corners from the RHS, it was unlikely the Wanderer's defense would be breached with a cross. Deep into injury time, Victory won a free kick 30 yards from goal, taken by Finkler. He decided not to curve the ball into the smaller Victory forward line to be again cleared by the WSW defense, and took Ante Covic the WSW keeper, as well as many teammates and the opposition defense by surprise by having a shot and scoring a memorable goal to draw the match, ending a pattern of home defeats by WSW.

On Saturday 4 January 2014, Guilherme Finkler was named in the Melbourne Victory starting XI for the first time since his knee injury sustained exactly one year and one day prior. his knee for his club's match against Brisbane Roar. He was subbed off after just over an hour against league leaders Brisbane Roar, with the score 0–1, when Victory had a defender sent off.

On 14 January 2014, Finkler appeared as a substitute for Andrew Nabbout after 19 minutes in a game against Western Sydney. The match lasted for longer than most, with two drinks breaks per half due to the heatwave that was over Melbourne (which affected working conditions in several professions, and other sports including the Australian Open, seeing compulsory breaks in play). Finkler scored his fourth goal for the season in the 90th(+6) minute to make the score 3–1 to his team.

On 22 February, Finkler scored two goals and played a full match for the first time in the season as the game against Adelaide United finished 4–3 in his club's favor.