[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Behaalotecha

Numbers chapter 12

God's reference to Moses as "my servant" (, avdi) in Numbers 12:7 and 12:8 echoes God's application of the same term to Abraham. And later, God used the term to refer to Caleb, Moses, David, Isaiah, Eliakim, son of Hilkiah, Israel, Nebuchadnezzar, Zerubbabel, the Branch, and Job.

The Hebrew Bible reports skin disease (, tzara'at) and a person affected by skin disease (, metzora) at several places, often (and sometimes incorrectly) translated as "leprosy" and "a leper." In Exodus 4:6, to help Moses to convince others that God had sent him, God instructed Moses to put his hand into his bosom, and when he took it out, his hand was "leprous (, m'tzora'at), as white as snow." In Leviticus 13–14, the Torah sets out regulations for skin disease (, tzara'at) and a person affected by skin disease (, metzora). In Numbers 12:10, after Miriam spoke against Moses, God's cloud removed from the Tent of Meeting and "Miriam was leprous (, m'tzora'at), as white as snow." In Deuteronomy 24:8–9, Moses warned the Israelites in the case of skin disease (, tzara'at) diligently to observe all that the priests would teach them, remembering what God did to Miriam. In 2 Kings 5:1–19, part of the haftarah for parashah Tazria, the prophet Elisha cures Naaman, the commander of the army of the king of Aram, who was a "leper" (, metzora). In 2 Kings 7:3–20, part of the haftarah for parashah Metzora, the story is told of four "leprous men" (, m'tzora'im) at the gate during the Arameans' siege of Samaria. And in 2 Chronicles 26:19, after King Uzziah tried to burn incense in the Temple in Jerusalem, "leprosy (, tzara'at) broke forth on his forehead."

In classical rabbinic interpretation
The parashah is discussed in these rabbinic sources from the era of the Mishnah and the Talmud:

Numbers chapter 8
Rabbi Levi taught that God gave the section of the lights of the Menorah, Numbers 8:1–4, on the day that the Israelites set up the Tabernacle. Rabbi Rabbi Joḥanan said in the name of Rabbi Bana'ah that the Torah was transmitted in separate scrolls, as Psalm 40:8 says, "Then said I, 'Lo I am come, in the roll of the book it is written of me.'" Rabbi Shimon ben Lakish (Resh Lakish), however, said that the Torah was transmitted in its entirety, as Deuteronomy 31:26, "Take this book of the law." The Gemara reported that Rabbi Joḥanan interpreted Deuteronomy 31:26, "Take this book of the law," to refer to the time after the Torah had been joined from its several parts. And the Gemara suggested that Resh Lakish interpreted Psalm 40:8, "in a roll of the book written of me," to indicate that the whole Torah is called a "roll," as Zechariah 5:2 says, "And he said to me, 'What do you see?' And I answered, 'I see a flying roll.'" Or perhaps, the Gemara suggested, it is called "roll" for the reason given by Rabbi Levi, who said that God gave eight sections of the Torah, which Moses then wrote on separate rolls, on the day on which the Tabernacle was set up. They were: the section of the priests in Leviticus 21, the section of the Levites in Numbers 8:5–26 (as the Levites were required for the service of song on that day), the section of the unclean (who would be required to keep the Passover in the second month) in Numbers 9:1–14, the section of the sending of the unclean out of the camp (which also had to take place before the Tabernacle was set up) in Numbers 5:1–4, the section of Leviticus 16:1–34 (dealing with Yom Kippur, which Leviticus 16:1 states was transmitted immediately after the death of Aaron's two sons), the section dealing with the drinking of wine by priests in Leviticus 10:8–11, the section of the lights of the Menorah in Numbers 8:1–4, and the section of the red heifer in Numbers 19 (which came into force as soon as the Tabernacle was set up).

A Midrash taught that God instructed in Numbers 8:2, "the seven lamps shall give light toward the center of the Menorah," so that the evil inclination should not mislead one to believe that God needed the light. Rabbi Simeon reported that when he went to Rome, he saw the Menorah there, and all the lamps faced the middle lamp.

Rava also read Numbers 8:2 to say that the seven lamps gave light toward the center of the Menorah, and deduced from this that the middle in a series may be favored.  Rava taught that if the first Torah reader on a weekday reads four verses of the obligatory ten verses read on weekdays, that reader is to be commended; if the second (middle) reader reads four verses, that reader is to be commended; and if the third (last) reader reads four verses, that reader is to be commended.  In support of the proposition that one should commend the middle reader if that reader reads four verses, Rava taught that Numbers 8:2 says that the lights were made to face the western lamp—the middle lamp of the Menorah—and the western lamp faced the Divine Presence; and Rabbi Joḥanan taught that this shows that the middle one is specially prized.