[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Freedom of navigation

ministry.

On September 30, 2018, the  was undertaking a FONOP near the Gaven and Johnson Reefs in the Spratly Islands when the , approached to within  of the Decatur, in what the US Navy termed "a series of increasingly aggressive maneuvers" This forced the Decatur to maneuver to avoid a collision.

In December 2018 China deployed naval forces to warn off the  while it made a FONOP around the Paracel Islands without approval of the Chinese government. "The Southern Theatre Command organized navy and air forces to monitor the US vessel, and gave warning for it to leave", a statement by the Southern Theatre Command said in response to the U.S. FONOP. The Statement also called for the U.S. to properly manage its navy and air fleet to avoid miscalculations.

The U.S. FONOPs continued into 2020. The U.S. Navy conducted its first FONOP in 2020 on January 25 by sending the littoral combat ship  past Chinese claims in the Spratly Islands. During the FONOP China sent two fighter-bombers scrambling overhead to intimidate the Montgomery, according to Chinese state media. The January 25 patrol was officially aimed at China, Taiwan, and Vietnam. Specifically, the Navy challenged the notion that innocent passage through claimed territorial waters requires previous notification.

On April 28, 2020, the Japan-based guided-missile destroyer  conducted a freedom of navigation operation in the vicinity of Paracel Island chain off Vietnam. The PLA's Southern Theatre Command claimed its forces forced the USS Barry out of disputed Spratly Islands waters; a US Navy spokesman denied that Barry had been ejected by the PLA and stated "all interactions that occurred were in accordance with maritime norms". The operation was carried out during the COVID-19 pandemic which have seen accusation from both Beijing and Washington accusing each other of trying to take more military control over the South China Sea during the pandemic. The operation done by the USS Barry was followed up the next day on April 29 with a FONOP around the Spratly Islands done by . This was the first time the U.S. conducted two FONOPs within two days. The back-to-back missions has been seen by some as a new U.S. strategy under the Pentagon slogan "strategic predictability, operation unpredictability."  After the FONOP by USS Bunker Hill a spokesperson from the United States Seventh Fleet responsible for carrying out the operations said: "The United States will fly, sail, and operate wherever international law allows—regardless of the location of excessive maritime claims and regardless of current events."

FONOPs done by non-U.S actors in South China Sea

In 2015 Australia confirmed that it had been conducting "routine" FONOP flights over disputed territory in the South China Sea.

In May 2017, Japan sent an  and two destroyers on a three-month tour of the South China Sea, where they conducted exercises with an . This was Japan's biggest foray into the region since the Second World War.

In April 2018, three Australian naval vessels transited the South China Sea towards Vietnam and, along the way, met a 'robust' challenge from the Chinese navy.

At the June 2018 Shangri-La Dialogue, ministers from France and the UK jointly announced that their ships would sail through the South China Sea to continue to uphold the collective right to freedom of navigation. The announcement came after the UK and France announced separately in July 2017 and May 2018 respectively that they would increase their involvement in the South China Sea.

The Royal Navy also conducted what is believed to be a FONOP with , a 22,000-ton amphibious transport dock, in late August 2018 in the waters near the Paracel Islands. The FONOP conducted by Albion was unlike many U.S. FONOPs a traditional assertion of freedom of navigation on the high seas. Beijing denounced Albion mission because it sailed within its territorial waters around the Paracels without seeking prior approval. A spokesperson from the Royal Navy said that "HMS Albion exercised her rights for freedom of navigation in full compliance with international law and norms." The British FONOP has been seen by commentators as a signal that the Royal Navy is likely to be a regular party patrolling the South China Sea.

Chinese view of FONOPs in South China Sea
China views FONOPs in the South China Sea, and particularly those undertaken with military vessels, as provocative, as they assert that freedom of navigation does not apply to military vessels within foreign EEZ's and territorial waters. China also claims that FONOPs violate Chinese law, including the "Law of the People's Republic of China on the Territorial Sea and the Contiguous Zone" and the "Declaration of the Government of the People's Republic of China on the Baselines of the Territorial Sea". The Chinese Navy and Coast Guard often shadow foreign vessels on FONOPs.