[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Amadu Bangura

p of non-commissioned officers. In April 1968, he led the Sergeants' Coup and overthrew Brigadier Andrew Juxon-Smith and his National Reformation Council (NRC). Bangura arrested every high-ranking officer in the army and police so that he could restore the constitution and democracy to Sierra Leone.

There was another side to Bangura. Some accused him of being a bully, a tribalist, with no regard for authority in the military, as violent and having no principles. Being an army personnel, he betrayed his profession not once but twice. Firstly, by joining Stevens and other APC cohorts to plan an invasion of Sierra Leone, the very country he was employed and nurtured to protect and defend. The army was unhappy about this but the worst was to come when Bangura connived with some NCOs to overthrow the NRC government and impose Stevens on the people. Some argued that Stevens knew his violent potential and his position in the heart and mind of the army. Some of Bangura's associates were in the pay pocket of Stevens, hence they were spies. Bangura did plan a coup and Stevens knew every stage of the process that he let it go on to have grounds to liquidate Bangura. The army was happy to see the end of Bangura and when the hour came, they looked the other way while Bangura and his political friend slugged it out.

Bangura was political army personnel, while Sir Albert, as a lawyer was a constitutionalist and resorted to due process. Stevens was a thug (rally man) and street graduate and enjoyed sending closed associates to the gallows and displayed their bodies in public as a trophy of political prowess. Stevens was quoted as saying that he was no Sir Albert who was afraid of Bangura thus sending him abroad as a diplomat that he (Stevens) would teach Bangura a lesson in politics by sending him down the gallows. When this hour came, Bangura had no ally and he was left in the hands of his former friend turned enemy.

Bangura was appointed acting Governor-General of Sierra Leone by the ACRM. Bangura, who was not politically ambitious, served briefly from 18 April 1968 to 22 April 1968. He gave the post of Prime Minister to Siaka Stevens, leader of the All People's Congress, the post of Prime Minister. Bangura did not do this for any personal reasons but because his predecessor Governor General Sir Henry Lightfoot Boston had declared the APC the winners of the election.

Political prisoner 

Bangura was a magnetic and popular figure. The army was devoted to him and this made him potentially dangerous to Stevens' new agenda in the shifting political climate of Sierra Leone. Bangura was widely considered the only person who could put the brakes on Stevens.

Stevens had campaigned on a platform of socialist principles. However, when he became Prime Minister he abandoned his pre-election promises and employed an authoritarian model of governance. Bangura, an ardent Democrat, was greatly disappointed and he criticised Stevens' policies.

Stevens began to cut funds for the army which he saw as a threat to him attaining absolute power. Bangura spoke out against the Stevens regime and was promptly arrested in 1970. He was charged with conspiracy and plotting to commit a coup d'état against the Stevens government.

Execution 
In 1970, Prime Minister Stevens had Bangura arrested and charged with conspiracy. Bangura was sentenced to death by execution for treason against the state.

In spite of the fact that Bangura had put Stevens in power after The 1968 Sergeants' Coup, his requests for clemency were denied.

On 29 March 1970, the day of his execution, Bangura wept in disbelief and refused to be led to the gallows. He was beaten to death and concentrated acid was poured on his remains.

To prevent people from making a martyr of Bangura, Stevens ordered his body to be buried at an undisclosed location which he had paved over with the Kissy Road.

After Stevens retired from office he told a reporter that he regretted having Bangura killed, stating "I should not have allowed those executions."

Siaka Stevens wrote in his book,"I am fully aware that many people were shocked when these sentences were carried out and that even today, much speculation goes on as to what prompted me to allow the law to take its course. There is even a fantastic rumour circulating that I had actually decided to commute the sentences to terms of imprisonment but that certain strong party members had forced me to change my mind. Let me put the record straight here and now. No single person, nor even the demonstrations in favour of the death sentence that filed through the city, had any influence whatsoever on the action I was obliged to take. For me it was a dreadful act. I had to wrench myself out of my own character."

References