[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Israel Fire and Rescue Services

d earthquakes in cooperation with Israel Police helicopters; and other joint training sessions with the Home Front Command, JNF, the Nature and Parks Authority, Magen David Adom, and the National Emergency Authority.

Appliances and Equipment
Firefighting and Rescue Vehicles in Firefighting Services

 Caesar – Vehicle Commander The Chief Firefighting and Rescue Officer (GMC) or regional command vehicle – serves as a mobile operations room during a multi-dimensional event.
 Abir – Light Rescue Vehicle. A vehicle used in most cases for various rescue and rescue operations, such as accidents.
 Alon – a vehicle for extinguishing forest fires and a grove suitable for traffic on narrow roads and hard areas, equipped with fire extinguishing equipment in open areas
 Sela – command vehicle commander and deputy service for their operational use.
 Vulcan – a rescue vehicle and light hazardous materials. Contains variable extraction equipment and equipment for handling hazardous materials.
 Vehicle for monitoring activities at hazardous materials event Vehicles The vehicle carries monitoring devices that enable the monitoring of hazardous substances
 Almog – a vehicle for the treatment of hazardous materials containing special equipment (suits, sealing equipment, pumping equipment, etc.) for the treatment of leakage / spills of hazardous materials.
 Ga'ash – a rescue and rescue vehicle with equipment and means for dealing with road accidents, rescue from heights, demolitions, flooding and lighting.
 Nesher – A dedicated fire-fighting and rescue vehicle of the crane type with a loading basket, a water cannon for extinguishing and additional equipment. At varying heights – 38 to 42 meters.
 Hawk – a dedicated fire-fighting and rescue vehicle with a lift ladder, a water cannon for extinguishing additional equipment. Different hawks also contain three cubic meters of water. Their height varies from 30 to 37 meters.
 Saar – a standard fire-fighting and rescue vehicle containing different fire extinguishing equipment, three cubic meters and 300 liters of foam concentrate, ladders and other equipment. This vehicle is the most common vehicle and is launched first for any event. Also called in the professional jargon – an initial exit vehicle.
 Rotem – a fire and rescue vehicle for initial intervention. Usually a Ford or Chevrolet pickup truck. Contains limited fire extinguishing equipment and contains a water cistern and 30 liters foam concentrate. The main advantage of this vehicle is the speed of its arrival at the event.
 Eshed – a dedicated fire truck for water supply. Contains fire extinguishing equipment and varying water amounts between 12 and 13 cubic meters of water and foam concentrate.
 Lightning – a light fire engine. Includes extinguishing equipment and water quantity of one cubic meter. Most commonly used in forest and forest fires.
 Fire Extinguisher – A light and quick fire extinguisher, with good surface offenses, contains a variable water quantity of up to 200 liters, a rolling roller and a small water pump. Used in field and forest fires.
 Trailing air bank – A compressor is installed on it to fill air-breathing vessels for teams operating in multi-dimensional fires. Is towed to the scene by another fire truck and operated by the firefighter at the scene.
 Trailing water cannon and foam – drag on it installed a high water cannon or foam. Was dragged to the scene by another fire truck. He must receive water from a fire truck because he does not have a water pump.
 Hoses supply vehicle – a vehicle containing various water hoses for the use of large-scale fires.

The fire engines and other equipment change from station to station. Each station can purchase different types of vehicles according to its needs. Types of fire engines also vary (Mercedes, Man, Iveco, DAF, E-ONE, etc.). The equipment in fire engines must be in accordance with a standard set by the Firefighting and Rescue Commission, but every station may equip its vehicles with additional equipment according to its needs.

In addition, a motorcycle can be used to extinguish the fire, which is used to respond quickly to extinguishing fires.

References

External links
Official website (in Hebrew)
Official website (in English)
 

1960 establishments in Israel
Emergency services in Israel
Fire departments
Organizations based in Tel Aviv