[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nuestro Himno

en to "whoever wants [them]," because those are the verses "Americans don't want or won't sing," alluding to the stereotype that undocumented immigrants take the jobs that other Americans don't want.

On the second season of Mind of Mencia, comedian Carlos Mencia decodes the first verse of the song.

In September 2012 the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of American History highlighted another Spanish translation of the national anthem, commissioned in 1945 by the U.S. State Department for use in Latin America. Two prior Spanish translations of the anthem were considered difficult to sing to the music of the English version. The State Department's Division of Cultural Cooperation approved "El Pendón Estrellado," the translation submitted by the Peruvian composer Clotilde Arias. Arias' translation was considered more faithful to the original English verses than prior Spanish translations.

Spanish
Amanece, lo veis?, a la luz de la aurora?
lo que tanto aclamamos la noche al caer?
Sus estrellas, sus franjas flotaban ayer,
En el fiero combate en señal de victoria.
Fulgor de lucha, al paso de la libertad, 
Por la noche decían: «¡Se va defendiendo!»

¡Oh, decid! ¿Despliega aún su hermosura estrellada
Sobre tierra de libres la bandera sagrada?

English translation
Day is breaking: Do you see by the light of the dawn
What so proudly we hailed at last night's fall?
Its stars, its stripes, streamed yesterday,
Above fierce combat as a symbol of victory.
The splendor of battle, on the march toward liberty.
Throughout the night, they proclaimed: "We march on to defend it!"

O say! Does its starry beauty still wave
Above the land of the free, the sacred flag?

See also
Immigration reform
Jimi Hendrix's Star Spangled Banner
List of United States immigration legislation
United States immigration debate
Official Spanish (singable) translation of the Star Spangled Banner

References

External links
Blog of Nuestro Himno creator, Adam Kidron of UBO
MP3 audio file of Nuestro Himno, provided by the New York Times
 "An Immigrant's 'Star-Spangled Banner," by NPR Staff, October 10, 2012—Clotilde Arias' 1945 Spanish version of the National Anthem. 
NPR: A Spanish Version of 'The Star-Spangled Banner' – includes a link to a full version of the song (See relevant info about NPR's translation on the discussion page)

American culture
Spanish-language songs
Wyclef Jean songs
Ivy Queen songs
2006 singles
Pitbull (rapper) songs
Aventura (band) songs