[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# American Airlines Theatre

in a mechanical core within the New 42nd Street Building. Three elevators and two staircases were built when the theater was reconstructed. One of the elevators is housed within an old fire escape shaft. On the 42nd Street side of the New 42nd Street Building, a  space was added for backstage areas.

Two stories were built above the roof, with reception, kitchen/dining, and bar areas; they are supported by the four columns in the auditorium. The additional stories are placed on a separate structure that does not touch the roof of the auditorium. The upper stories contain a subscribers' lobby facing 43rd Street, as well as a smaller private lounge for large donors. The subscribers' lobby, covering  or , was originally named for snack company Nabisco, which had paid $500,000 for naming rights. This lobby consists of a foyer with a carpeted floor, as well as a main area with a gold-and-blue ceiling and gilded wall mirrors. The Wall Street Journal reported in 2015 that the subscribers' lobby was often unused, since many subscribers instead gathered in the ground-floor lobby during intermissions.

The private lounge is immediately above the subscribers' lobby. It was originally intended for donors who contributed over $1,500 annually to the Roundabout Theatre Company. It is known as the Langworthy Lounge, after donor Norma S. Langworthy. The space can fit 40 people seated for a dinner or 70 people standing for a cocktail reception.

Other spaces 
The building also contains  of rehearsal and performing space for New 42nd Street. There are two studio/reception spaces and 14 rehearsal rooms. The New 42nd Street Studios, as the rehearsal rooms are called, span five stories. The studios contain  ceilings, sprung floors, and full-height mirrors. The other stories were designed with lower ceilings. The office space in the building is leased to nonprofit theatrical groups. Roundabout has its offices there, as do the Williamstown Theatre Festival and Parsons Dance Company. The building also houses The Duke on 42nd Street, a 199-seat off-Broadway theater, on the second floor. It is named for philanthropist Doris Duke, who donated $3.5 million toward its construction. The Duke on 42nd Street is housed within an enclosure measuring  across and  high. The building's ground level contains  of retail space next to the American Airlines Theatre's lobby.

History
Times Square became the epicenter for large-scale theater productions between 1900 and the Great Depression. Manhattan's theater district had begun to shift from Union Square and Madison Square during the first decade of the 20th century. From 1901 to 1920, forty-three theaters were built around Broadway in Midtown Manhattan. George Keister had designed several of these Broadway theaters, including the Selwyn, Astor, Belasco, and Earl Carroll theaters, in addition to other commissions such as Harlem's Apollo Theater. The Selwyn brothers, meanwhile, developed several Broadway theaters on 42nd Street. Before the Selwyn Theatre was developed, the brothers operated the Harris Theatre on 42nd Street.

Original Broadway run

Construction and opening 
At the beginning of January 1917, the Selwyn brothers announced their intention to build a theater on 240–248 West 43rd Street, with an entrance on 42nd Street. The theater was planned to have 1,100 seats and, according to The New York Times, "novel features" such as rehearsal rooms and a women's lounge. In May 1918, the Selwyns filed plans with the Manhattan Bureau of Buildings for their theater, to be designed by George Keister. In addition, Keister designed a renovation for the existing three-story building on 42nd Street, owned by Mary L. Cassidy, into an office structure. Crosby Gaige would oversee the theater and office building's construction. The project was expected to cost $200,000 in total, and the theater would be known as the Selwyn. At the time, it was one of three theaters being erected on the block of 42nd Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues, which already had nine theaters.