[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# American Task Force on Palestine

of safeguards, partnerships and services is particularly suited to attract donors who have an interest in promoting peace and security.  ACP believes there is an intimate connection between improving living conditions and providing hope and the reality of a secure peace between Israel and Palestine.

Publications
In 2006, ATFP published a volume summarizing its efforts and positions to date, Principles and Pragmatism: Key Documents from the American Task Force on Palestine, edited by board member Saliba Sarsar, associate vice president of Monmouth University, and Hussein Ibish, a senior fellow at the task force. The task force had previously issued its  “Palestine – Israel 101” power-point slideshow on the history of the conflict and prospects for peace in the region.  ATFP has also created a brief video on the history of Palestinian Americans, “Snapshots of Palestinian Americans.”

In 2009, ATFP Senior Fellow Hussein Ibish published the book What’s Wrong with the One-State Agenda? (ATFP, 2009). It offers a critique from a pro-Palestinian point of view of the idea of creating a single state for all Israelis and Palestinians instead of the goal of ending the occupation and forging a negotiated peace agreement with Israel.

ATFP has also published numerous issue and policy analysis papers.

Criticism
In a July 20, 2007, article published by The Electronic Intifada, Palestinian commentator Osamah Khalil called for a boycott of officials and institutions associated with the Palestinian Authority, "including diplomatic fronts like the American Task Force on Palestine, a group that boasts among its slim record of 'achievements,' sponsoring polo matches and hosting a speech by Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice." Khalil viewed the Palestinian Authority as fundamentally antithetical to the goal of Palestinian liberation.

In March 2005, dozens of organizations representing Palestinian refugee communities signed a statement in response to statements made by ATFP president Ziad Asali "declaring that various statements and false representations by the president of the Washington-based "American Task Force on Palestine" (ATFP) Dr. Ziad Asali nullifying the Palestinian right to return and demeaning the Palestinian and Arab people are reprehensible and entirely outside the consensus of our people." The statement alleged that "voices such as Asali's are part of a larger concerted effort to introduce a false veneer of moderation as a replacement for the legitimate inalienable rights of the Palestinian and Arab people, represented by their right to return, sovereignty and self-determination.".

In 2007, ATFP answered many of its most persistent criticisms in an issue paper addressing a wide range of attacks against the organization.

Board of directors
 Ziad J. Asali, M.D.
 Naila Asali
 Husam Atari
 Jesse I. Aweida
 Peter Aweida
 Ameen Estaiteyeh
 Rima Idrissi Garrow
 Essam Ghalayini
 Adnan M. M. Mjalli
 Fuad Sahouri
 Saliba Sarsar, Ph.D.
 Mohammed Shadid
 Ali Zaghab, Ph.D.

See also
 American Palestine Public Affairs Forum
 Hussein Ibish
 Palestine Investment Conference
 Tareq Salahi
 Ziad Asali

References

External links
American Task Force on Palestine official website

Ghaith al-Omari at the New America Foundation
Ghaith al-Omari at Middle East Progress
Column archive at The Daily Star

2003 establishments in the United States
Arab-American organizations
Charities based in Washington, D.C.
Foreign charities operating in the State of Palestine
Foreign policy political advocacy groups in the United States
Israel–United States relations
Non-governmental organizations involved in the Israeli–Palestinian peace process