[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Portia Perez

in the Queens of Chaos 2 tournament in Paris, France and also debuted for Real Quality Wrestling in London's York Hall, challenging RQW Women's Champion "Jezebel" Eden Black. She returned to Europe for a third time in April 2007, wrestling shows in England and Ireland over the course of four weeks.

On September 23, 2011, Perez made her Japanese debut for the Universal Woman's Pro Wrestling Reina promotion, when she and Nicole Matthews entered the Reina World Tag Team Championship tournament, defeating Mia Yim and Sara Del Rey in their first round match. The following day, Perez and Matthews were defeated in the finals of the tournament by La Comandante and Zeuxis. Perez returned to Japan on January 14, 2013, to work for the World Wonder Ring Stardom promotion. For the appearance, Perez teamed up with Kellie Skater and Tomoka Nakagawa as "Team Shimmer" in the Artist of Stardom Championship tournament, defeating Planet (Io Shirai, Mayu Iwatani, and Natsumi Showzuki) in their first-round match. Later that same day however, the trio were defeated in the final of the tournament by Kawasaki Katsushika Saikyou Densetsu Plus One (Act Yasukawa, Natsuki☆Taiyo, and Saki Kashima). On January 19, Perez defeated Natsumi Showzuki in a singles match at another Stardom event. The following day, Perez, in her final match of the tour, teamed with Skater in a tag team match, which they lost to Hiroyo Matsumoto and Yuzuki Aikawa.

Retirement
On October 10, 2015, Perez announced she would be forced to retire from professional wrestling due to a major neck injury that required surgery. She wrestled her final match at the following day's Shimmer tapings, where she, Nicole Matthews, Kimber Lee and Lacey were defeated by Daizee Haze, Kellie Skater, Lexie Fyfe and Madison Eagles.

Championships and accomplishments
 Anarchy Championship Wrestling
 ACW Heavyweight Championship (1 time)
 ACW American Joshi Championship (2 times)
 American Joshi Queen of Queens (2010)
 Great Canadian Wrestling
 GCW W.I.L.D. Championship (1 time)
 Main Event Wrestling
 MEW Women's Championship (1 time)
 New Horizon Pro Wrestling
 Global Conflict Shield Tournament (201
 Pro Wrestling Illustrated
 Ranked No. 25 of the top 50 female wrestlers in the PWI Female 50 in 2010
 Shimmer Women Athletes
 Shimmer Tag Team Championship (2 times) – with Nicole Matthews
 Squared Circle Wrestling
 2CW Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Jason Axe

References

External links

 
 NCW Femmes Fatales profile
 CageMatch profile

1987 births
21st-century Canadian women
21st-century female professional wrestlers
Canadian female professional wrestlers
Living people
Sportspeople from Brockville
Professional wrestlers from Ontario
Shimmer Tag Team Champions