[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marcelo Dascal

Gesellschaft as a special gift for its members. He published many articles on Leibniz, his contemporaries, and his influence. Dascal was co-founder of the Israel Leibniz Association (in Hebrew: Agudat Leibniz Israel) and a member of the Leibniz Association of America and of the Leibniz Gesellschaft.

In his earlier work, Dascal focused mainly on Leibniz's philosophy of language, and established the now accepted view that natural languages and other semiotic systems play, for Leibniz, a crucial role in our mental life, and therefore cannot be overlooked in understanding his epistemology. In his last work, Dascal emphasised the fact that, alongside Leibniz's well known and advertised idea of a formal semiotic system, the "Universal Characteristic", which would be the ideal tool for human cognition, based on a strictly deductive or "calculation" model of rationality, Leibniz was also concerned with those aspects of rational thought and action which were not accountable for in terms of such a model. Accordingly, he developed a model of what came to be known later as "soft" rationality. Dascal conducted intensive research on this rather underestimated aspect of Leibniz's rationalism.

Philosophy of language, pragmatics and cognitive science
In the philosophy of language, Dascal's work focused on the theory of language use, i.e., pragmatics. He contributed both to sociopragmatics and to psychopragmatics (a concept he created), as well as securing a proper philosophical foundation for these two branches and for their distinction from other components of a theory of meaning. His contributions to the cognitive sciences are closely related with his work on the mental use of language.

He published Pragmatics and the Philosophy of Mind (Amsterdam, 1983), and edited the relevant volume of the Enciclopedia IberoAmericana de Filosofia, (Madrid, 1999) and Misunderstanding (a special issue of the Journal of Pragmatics, 1999). He also co-edited the trilingual, two volume, two-thousand page Philosophy of Language: A Handbook of Contemporary Research (Berlin, 1992, 1995), and, more recently; Negotiation and Power in Dialogic Interaction. A Portuguese translation of his book Interpretation and Understanding (2003) was published in 2006.

In order to foster the study of the relationship between the use of language (and other semiotic systems) and cognition (and other kinds of mental life) Dascal founded and edited the interdisciplinary journal Pragmatics & Cognition (Amsterdam). Since 2005, the journal publishes an annual Special Issue devoted to Cognition & Technology.

Personal life
He lived in Israel since 1965. He was married to Varda. They had 3 children -  Hagit, Shlomit and Tamar and eight grandchildren - Adi, Lior, Ohad, Noga, Jonathan, Gilead, Almog, and Naomi. .

Published works
 Interpretation and Understanding, Philadelphia: John Bejamins, 2003

References

External links
Dascal homepage

1940 births
Hebrew University of Jerusalem alumni
Indiana University faculty
Academic staff of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
Academic staff of Tel Aviv University
Israeli philosophers
Brazilian emigrants to Israel
2019 deaths
Date of birth missing
Brazilian expatriates in the United States