[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Weakless universe

r a weakless universe is that supernova explosions are necessarily neutrinoless. The resulting efficiency of production and dispersion of heavy elements (in particular, oxygen) into the interstellar medium for subsequent incorporation into habitable planets has been questioned by Clavelli and White.

Baryogenesis 
Baryogenesis and leptogenesis within the Standard Model rely on the weak interaction: For matter not to be wiped off by anti-matter at the very early universe, the universe must either have to start with a different amount of each (i.e. initial non-zero baryon number), or admit Sakharov's conditions to baryogenesis. In the latter case, there are two options:
 Baryon number conservation is broken perturbatively, so that the Lagrangian includes explicit baryon-number non-conserving interactions. In order to prevent fast proton decay, this interaction has to be with either heavy, exotic particles that are also created abundantly in the universe and interact in peculiar ways with the baryonic matter, or very weak, or both. If the particles interacting with baryons are not strongly (and/or electromagnetically) interacting themselves, the strong interaction (and/or electromagnetic interaction) has to be part of a larger, spontaneously broken, gauge symmetry.
 Baryon number conservation is broken non-perturbatively, i.e. by quantum anomaly. At least one such mechanism is chiral anomaly, which requires the existence of the weak interaction, or at least something very similar to it:  
 There has to be a chiral gauge interaction, where the fermions are in its fundamental representation.
 In order not to be anomalous itself (as gauge interaction anomaly leads to inconsistency), the gauge group is highly restricted, with SU(2) symmetry being the only option among SU(N) groups.
 Mass terms break chiral symmetry, so in order for baryon masses to be possible, the chiral gauge interaction has to be spontaneously broken, leading to a Higgs mechanism.
 Since the electromagnetic and the strong gauge groups also need to be non-anomalous, this leads to additional constraints. For example, if the sum of electromagnetic charges of all quark types is positive (more generally, non-zero), then there have to be additional, negatively charged particles, coupled to the chiral gauge group, which will also be created during baryogenesis - namely, the leptons.

Harnik, Kribs, and Perez argue that the Standard Model does not explain the observed size of the baryon asymmetry either, and that their weakless universe model only focuses on the time where the asymmetry already exists.

References

External links
 

Nuclear physics
Electroweak theory