[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dutch People's Union

tionalist activists inspired by the former Action Front of National Socialists/National Activists in West Germany, and which claimed solidarity with the Palestinians in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and with other groups they considered to be anti-imperialist.

Kusters' chairmanship (since 2001) 

In 2001, Constant Kusters became party chairman and set out to moderate the NVU's appearance. In the same year, Glimmerveen left the party on bad terms, followed by other prominent members such as Eite Homan and "Hitler imitator" . Glimmerveen became one of Kusters' biggest critics when he publicly aired the NVU's dirty laundry in 2003 and even threatened Kusters with legal action unless he quietly left the party. Nonetheless, the NVU was the most active far-right party in the Netherlands throughout the 2000s. During street actions it was supported by a Dutch chapter of the British neo-Nazi group Racial Volunteer Force (RVF).

In 2015, the NVU attracted media attention when supporters of the party appeared in various municipalities on consultation evenings about the arrival of processing facilities for asylum seekers in the context of the European migrant crisis.

The party has claimed close cooperation with the right-wing populist Forum for Democracy (, FVD). These claims were substantiated by, among other things, screenshots of bank statements of payments by the FVD to the NVU to rent a venue for a party meeting with FVD prominents Thierry Baudet and Theo Hiddema, and logs of Facebook Messenger conversations and email traffic between the FVD and NVU. Baudet has denied this collaboration, but did expel an FVD member who was also active for the NVU.

Criticism 
One of the biggest critics of NVU leader Constant Kusters was Joop Glimmerveen, who had been the face and leader of the party since the early 1970s and its ideologue until the end of the 1990s. In 1996, after almost 11 years of inactivity, Glimmerveen handed the NVU over to Kusters and Eite Homan.

Glimmerveen had given up party membership in 1994 but remained in control of the editorial rights of the party newspaper Wij Nederland. Kusters writes and edits the current party newspaper Wij Europa, which Glimmerveen could not stand for both its ideological course and its "shoddy production".

In 2003, Glimmerveen published a special edition of Wij Nederland, subtitled  (), filled with letters to Kusters, the latter's responses, and Glimmerveen's own vision for the NVU. Among other things, Glimmerveen accused Kusters of embezzling party funds to "supplement his meagre unemployment". He also threatened Kusters with court action if he did not sort out the financial management of the NVU.

Glimmerveen died on 25 December 2022, at the age of 94.

Abvakabo ban 
In a combined effort with the Anne Frank Foundation, the former trade union Abvakabo forbade its members from being affiliated with organizations such as the NVU, ANS, and RVF. Other affiliations it proscribed were those of the ethnonationalist Voorpost and Netherlands National Youth (, NJN), the Dutch chapter of the British neo-Nazi group Blood & Honour, the Turkish ultranationalist Grey Wolves, and the NVU/CP'86 splinter group Association for Dutch Nationalists (, VNN). In 2012, the Dutch Equal Treatment Commission ruled that barring members of the NVU and Voorpost from other memberships is prohibited discrimination on the basis of political affiliation.

Election results 
The Dutch People's Union participated in municipal council elections in several cities in 1974, 1982, 1986, 1998, 2002, 2006 and 2010. In none of these elections did party members gain enough votes for a seat on the council. The NVU also participated in the provincial council election for Gelderland in 2003 and 2007, but here too did not receive enough votes for a seat on the council. In 1977, 1981, and 1982, the party participated in the general election for the House of Representatives, but was unable to secure parliamentary representation.

* Party was listed as Lijst Glimmerveen

Notes

References 

 

1971 establishments in the Netherlands
Formerly banned far-right parties
Nationalist parties in the Netherlands
Neo-Nazi political parties in Europe
Neo-Nazism in the Netherlands
Political parties established in 1971