[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# SPLA-Nasir

al-Ghazal.  However, there had been little preparation for the announcement in these areas.  Only the SPLA units already under the Upper Nile command rallied to the call, along with the Nuer Anyanya-2 units promised by the government.  Meanwhile, the Meban under Lam's command defected to SPLA-Torit.

Resulting fighting
There was immediately some skirmishing between SPLA troops who declared for Riek and those who remained loyal to Garang.  However, the Shilluk SPLA based around the White Nile were deeply riven, resulting in bloody fighting.  In September, Garang ordered one of his commanders, William Nyuon Bany, to advance along the Jonglei Canal to Ayod.  A series of offensives and counteroffensives resulted.  Nasir forces briefly occupied Twic East county, deep in Dinka territory, in November and December, resulting in clear attacks aimed at killing and displacing civilians.  The human rights violations resulted in a loss of support for SPLA-Nasir both domestically and abroad.  It also became increasingly clear that SPLA-Nasir was receiving military support from the Sudanese government, leading many to suspect that they were forming an alliance.

The topic of Sudanese support to SPLA-Nasir is highly controversial.  Riek's influential wife Emma McCune denied any such connection and Riek's numerous supporters refused to believe the leaked evidence.  In September 1991, Lam established contact with government representative Ali al-Hajj Muhammad, who funneled money through SPLA-Nasir's Nairobi office.  Similarly, an SPLA-Nasir representative was sent to Khartoum to set up a liaison office, where he met Omar al-Bashir, Hassan al-Turabi and army commanders.  The stance of SPLA-Torit, who were able to monitor government support activities over radio, was that this proved that the coup was entirely a plot of the government.  In an attempt to cause a similar split in the north, Torit forces were put under the command of Daud Bolad and sent to start an insurgency in Darfur, western Sudan.  Sources within SPLA-Nasir present a picture in which the leaders thought they could use government support tactically to quickly overthrow Garang, while maintaining an anti-government strategy.  When the initial coup failed, the Nasir command required more government support and thus was increasingly directed by Khartoum.  In January 1992, the Nasir faction and Khartoum announced an agreement in Frankfurt.  The agreement, which contained no mention of independence for the south, caused two Dinka members of the negotiating delegation to quit in disgust.

The split in the southern rebel movement and SPLA-Nasir support allowed the government to regain the initiative and seize territory it had previously lost.  In the 1992 government offensive, troops moved freely through SPLA-Nasir territory and regained parts of Jonglei and East Equatoria by July.  SPLA-Torit launched a major attack on Juba in response that proved unsuccessful.  The government and SPLA-Nasir also persuaded William Nyuon Bany to defect to their side in September 1992.

The government refrained from a large-scale offensive the following year.  This was partly due to concerns that the American Operation Provide Relief and subsequent operations in Somalia might lead them to declare a no-fly zone over Southern Sudan.  Regardless, there were significant land engagements through the 1992-1993 dry season.  Also, at the beginning of 1993, Nyuon moved south and established lines of communication with the Lord's Resistance Army (LRA), a rebel group active in northern Uganda.  The government would eventually agree to supply the LRA in return for the LRA attacking the SPLA-United lines of supply across the Ugandan border.  In 1993, the organization announced that it was changing its name to "SPLA-United". Khartoum resumed full scale operations for the 1994 dry season, but SPLA-Torit had begun to regain the initiative as their diplomatic climate improved and increasing signs of economic and social strain in the north from the war.

Dissolution
The collaboration of SPLA-United with the government increasingly harmed its support among the populace as well as caused troops to leave in disillusionment.  From 26 September to 16 October 1994, SPLA-United held a National Convention in Akobo and announced that it was renaming itself the South Sudan Independence Movement/Army (SSIM/A).  However, Lam Akol left the convention in protest at a proposal for self-determination for areas outside of the south.  He later announced that he was the chairman of the SPLA-United, based in Tonga, that was separate from the newly renamed SSIM/A.  (Depending on the source and time period, "SPLA-United" may thus refer to one of two organizations.)