[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Trisakti University

t of Photography
Department of Interior Design
Department of Product Design
Department of Cinematography

Academic profile

Reputation and recognition 

Trisakti University has achieved world recognition in general, and particularly for the quantity and quality level of the job uptake for graduates.

International recognition of the visible courses from Trisakti University has held:
Double Degree Bachelor Program on 12 courses with Indiana-Purdue University Indianapolis, US; University of Missouri St. Louis, US; Curtin University, Sydney, Australia; Hogeschool Utrecht, University of Applied Science, Utrecht, The Netherlands; Northampton University, United Kingdom, Koffie Annan Business School The Netherlands, Saxion University of Applied Science of The Netherlands, Curtin University, Perth Western Australia, Inholland University of Applied Science The Netherlands.
Double Degree Master of Management at the Maastricht School of Management, the Netherlands, Markfield Institute of Higher Education UK, La Trobe University in Australia, Prince of Songkla University Thailand, United Emirates University, and the Asian Institute of Management in the Philippines.
International Class Doctoral Program with the Maastricht School of Management Netherlands, Colorado State University, US, Markfield Institute of Higher Education UK, La Trobe University in Australia.
In addition, international recognition is characterized by the presence of a number of foreign students from more than five countries. Whereas recognition of the quality nationally marked by the increasing quality of accreditation. In the academic year 2013/2014 of 45 study programs held by Trisakti University were accredited.

In addition, the Faculty of Medicine of Trisakti University, the result of Indonesia physician competency test (UKDI) is good, with a passing grade to 90% equal with other faculty of medicine in leading universities. The Faculty of Medicine Trisakti University is the only faculty of medicine which currently the graduates own certificate from the Center of Work Development and Hiperkes, so that the graduates of the Faculty of Medicine Trisakti University can directly work in the companies.

Next is that the 23 lecturers have national achievement by gaining trust to be a team / resource / jury nationally. Trisakti University lecturers are also trusted from the National Accreditation of University Board - Ministry of National Education is marked by the appointment of 15 tenured faculties of the faculty of the Trisakti University to become national assessors. Some lecturers earn the trust as Assessor of Certification Expertise.

The uptake of the working world can be measured with the alumni position indicator, the waiting span to get a job, the suitability of science, and the recognition of user graduates. Based on the alumni search results year 2013/2014, data showed that the average waiting span to get a job for graduates is less than three months, and considered very good; and good on the attributes of integrity, professionalism, communication, cooperation, self-development, and IT skills ability. This achievement needs to be improved, especially in terms of suitability science.

Quality and quantity uptake world of work cannot be separated from the academic achievements in the form of hard skills and soft skills competence, as well as character development of Trisakti University's graduates. Until the academic year 2013/2014, there are 104.247 graduates who occupy important positions in the country, such as Governor of Jakarta and the Chairman of the House of Representatives. Besides, there are alumni who work abroad, such as in America, Europe, Australia, Canada, Africa, Middle East, China, Malaysia and Singapore.

Research 
In the field of research, in 2013 and 2014 Trisakti University won the competition to obtain a grant from the Directorate of Research and Community Services, Dikti, total of 39 studies, with details MP3EI 2 studies, 3 Fundamental research grants, competitive grants: 11 studies, Leading Research Universities: 20 studies, RAPID: 1 and 2 studies Doctoral dissertation. Lecturers involved in 38 research over 120 lecturers of 742 lecturers at 16% overall. Additionally, obtained funds from outside of the ministry as much as Rp 283.400.000 and €18,156 or equivalent to Rp 290.496.000.

Trisakti University also fund research conducted in each faculty lecturer in 216 studies, carried out by 277 lecturers and 70 students. So, the total of 252 research studies conducted at Rp 5.946.067.000. This amount has been far beyond the standard AIPT average amount of research funding per faculty per year to Rp 13 million (> Rp. 3 million). Although in terms of the amount of research still needs to be improved further.