[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Codex Azcatitlan

chtitlan when the Mexica first arrived there in the earlier Migration segment. His shield is also similar in design to that of Huitzilopochtli's on folio 1v, with a quincunx that references Huitzilopochtli's reign as the Fifth Sun. These signs all identify Ecatl as a holy warrior of Huitzilopochtli.

Folio 24r depicts the evacuation of Cuauhtemoc's wife Tecuichpotzin from Tenochtitlan on 31 August 1521, after the former's surrender of the city. Three boats, each seating a woman, sail along the bottom of the page. Above them, five more women stand on top of some buildings. Their clothing denote them as being wealthy, with the woman at far right possibly being Tecuichpotzin.

Post-conquest segment
Folios 24v to 25r break the established flow of narrative to present its content in two vertical columns per page.

The segment begins on folio 24v with a pile of bones, representing the destruction of Tenochtitlan. Next the elite of Tlatelolco are shown leaving the city to resettle under Spanish rule beneath a glyph for Amaxac, where Cuauhtemoc surrendered. This was also the site of departure for the city's populace after the surrender in August 1521. Four native rulers sit below, representing Cuauhtemoc, Coanacoch of Texcoco, Tetlepanquetzal of Tlacopan, and Temilotl of Tlatelolco. Next, the beginning of Christianization in the 1520s is marked by a vertical line of nine friars; a tenth friar baptizes an indigenous man. Above and between the nine priests is a palo volador dance with four participants and a musician on top of the pole. Following the priests are a series of images (digging stick, wood, water) that symbolize the reconstruction of Tenochtitlan-Tlatelolco as Mexico City under Tlacotl, whose name is represented by the hand grasping an animal's head. Above the construction is a representation of a battle at Colhuacan.

The right half of folio 24v and all of folio 25r, recount the events of the years 1524 to 1526. Its content pertains to the events of Cortés's expedition to Honduras and his killing of Cuauhtemoc, supposedly for plotting to kill Cortés, while other Spaniards were doing likewise. The left side of folio 24r pertains to the expedition while the right concerns events back in the former Aztec Empire.

The time of Cuauhtemoc's death, the ritual month of Tozoztontli, is marked by the tlacuilo in the upper-right corner of folio 24v. Below the dating glyphs is the inspiring actor of the killing, Mexicatl Cozoololtic, who accused Cuauhtemoc of plotting to kill Cortés and La Malinche. Mexicatl Cozoololtic watches from afar as a Mayan lord, possibly Paxbolonacha, brings drums out of a building for a celebration at Acallan. Following this is the hanging of the tlatoque) at Hueymollan and the appointing by Cortés of Tlacotl as governor of Tenochtitlan. Tlacotl appears in bust form, below a seated tlatoani, looking into an indigenous palace. The Tlatoani is then connected by dots to a series of glyphs marking the location of the killings and promotion. While Cortés was in Honduras, a power struggle erupted between the man he left in charge, Alonso de Estrada, and two of his other men, Gonzalo de Salazar and Pedro Almíndez Chirino. Salazar and Chirino seized Cortés's estate and then murdered his cousin Rodrigo de Paz, depicted as the corpse in the top right in the Church of San Francisco in Mexico City. With Cortés's aid, Estrada arrested Salazar and Chirino and then beheaded their supporters, as shown in the bottom left. Estrada is rendered just above this second act of killing.

The final extant page of Codex Azcatitlan, folio 25v, records the arrival of Mexico's first bishop, Julián Garcés and the torture of native persons for the location of Moctezoma's treasure. The page begins with a heavily damaged rendering of a meteorological event and a death by stoning in the ritual month of Atlcahualo. Garcés and an entourage that includes a seated tlatoani cover the upper half of the page and a mounted woman in the bottom left corner. The indigenous man is either the governor of Tenochtitlan or Tlatelolco, while the other members of the entourage are denoted as being of high status by their umbrellas. The woman in the bottom left is thought to be María Estrada, a member of Cortés's original expedition. On the lower half of the page, a Spaniard approaches two corpses tied to stakes that separate him from a chest.

See also

 Mesoamerican codices
 Aztec codices
 Lorenzo Boturini
 Aztecs
 Aztlán
 Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire

Notes

Citations

References

External links
 Codex Azcatitlan on the World Digital Library

Azcatitlan
Azcatitlan
History of the Aztecs
Azcatitlan