[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 171]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

herefore it was just that I should stay
and taste the Scythian food. A bit of dried flesh, which I afterwards
found was that of a horse, some sour coagulated milk, with an infusion
of certain herbs, thickened with a coarse kind of flour, were then
brought in and placed upon the ground. I had learned, during my travels
in different countries, to discard the false antipathies which so many
nations entertain against the diet as well as manners of each other.
Whatever is adapted to support life is proper for the food of man; habit
will reconcile us to any kind of food; and he that can accustom himself
to be the most easily contented, is happiest and best prepared for
performing the duties of life. I therefore placed myself by the side of
Arsaces, and fed without any visible repugnance upon the diet, which
would have excited abhorrence in the minds of all my countrymen. With
them it was a work of the greatest importance to settle the formalities
of a meal; to contrive a new and poignant sauce, to combine contrary
flavours in a pickle, to stimulate the jaded appetite to new exertions,
till reason and everything human sank under the undigested mass of food,
were reckoned the highest efforts of genius; even the magistrate did not
blush to display a greater knowledge of cookery than of the laws; the
debates of the senate itself were often suspended by the fear of losing
a repast; and many of our generals prided themselves more on the
arrangement of their tables, than the martial evolutions of their
troops.

"'After we had eaten some time, Arsaces asked me what I thought of the
Scythian method of living? 'To speak my sentiments,' said I, 'it is more
formidable to your enemies than agreeable to your friends.' He smiled at
my sincerity, and I departed; but from this hour he distinguished me
with marks of peculiar favour, and admitted me to all his councils.

"'This envied mark of distinction gave me no other pleasure than as it
sometimes enabled me to be useful to my unhappy countrymen, and mitigate
the rigour of their conquerors. Indeed, while the great Arsaces lived,
his love of justice and order was so great, that even the conquered were
safe from all oppression; the peasant pursued his useful labours
unterrified by the march of armies, or, unsolicited, brought the produce
of his fields to a voluntary market; merchants from all the neighbouring
nations crowded to our ports, attracted by the order and justice which
were enforced in every part of Arsaces' dominions; and even the
vanquished themselves, defended from oppression and protected in their
possessions, considered the success of the Scythians rather as a
salutary revolution than as a barbarian conquest.

"'Such was the pleasing prospect of affairs, when an unexpected disease,
the consequence of unremitted exertions, put an end to the glorious life
of our conqueror; and with him perished all hopes of safety or happiness
of the Syrians. His authority alone was capable of restraining so many
needy chieftains, so many victorious barbarians; the spirit of rapine
and plunder so long represt, began now to spread through all the army;
every officer was an independent tyrant, that ruled with despotic
authority, and punished as rebellion the least opposition to his will.
The fields were now ravaged, the cities plundered, the industrious
peasants driven away like herds of cattle, to labour for the caprice of
unfeeling masters, or sold in distant regions as slaves. Now it was that
the miserable and harassed Syrians began to find that the riches which
they so much esteemed, were but the causes of their ruin, instead of
being instrumental to their safety. The poor, accustomed to hardship,
have little to fear amid the vicissitudes of life; the brave can always
find a refuge in their own valour; but all the bitterness of existence
is reserved for those who have neither courage to defend what they most
value, nor fortitude to bear the loss.

"'To increase the weight of our misfortunes, new tribes of barbarians,
attracted by the success of their countrymen, issued from their deserts,
and hastened to share the spoil. But rapine admits not faith or
partnership; and it was not long before the vanquished beheld their
conquerors animated by implacable rage against each other, and suffering
in turn the violence and cruelties they had inflicted.

"'At length one of the principal officers of Arsaces, who is said
originally to have descended from the mountain which you inhabit, was
raised to empire by the successful efforts of his soldiers. He has
already attacked and destroyed all his competitors, and assembled under
his banners the remainder of their forces. _Tigranes_ (for thus he is
named) possesses all the courage and activity of Arsaces, but he is
destitute of his generosity and clemency. His ambition is vast and
boundless; he grasps at universal empire, and rejoices to scatter ruin
and destruction in his