[Source: PubMed]

69. J Glob Health. 2024 Nov 15;14:04218. doi: 10.7189/jogh.14.04218.

Synergies and dis-synergies between universal health coverage and global health 
security: A case study of Cambodia.

Yam LYE(1)(2), Chhoun P(3), Liang D(4), Huang J(4), Yi S(1)(3)(5).

Author information:
(1)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore and 
National University Health System, Singapore, Singapore.
(2)College of Health and Medicine, Australian National University, Canberra, 
Australia.
(3)KHANA Center for Population Health Research, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
(4)Department of Hospital Management, School of Public Health, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.
(5)Public Health Program, College of Education and Health Sciences, Touro 
University California, Vallejo, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: After the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, the global 
community's increased focus on pandemic preparedness has driven efforts such as 
the Pandemic Treaty proposed by the World Health Organization (WHO) and the 
Pandemic Fund managed by the World Bank. While these initiatives will enhance 
countries' capabilities in pandemic preparedness, synergies could be achieved by 
exploring the intersections between universal health coverage (UHC) and global 
health security (GHS). This is particularly relevant for developing countries 
like Cambodia. As it transitions to higher income status and reduces its 
reliance on external funding, the synergistic development of UHC and GHS will 
help Cambodia maximise health investment and align with its population health 
goals. We aimed to identify synergies and dis-synergies between UHC and GHS and 
recommend implementations that the government can consider moving forward.
METHODS: We conducted a rapid review of policy documents based on the World 
Health Organization (WHO) Health System Framework and undertook consultations 
with key stakeholders in Cambodia.
RESULTS: Our findings show the synergies between the two agendas in Cambodia 
resulted from having a central coordinating authority through the Ministry of 
Health (MoH), an extensive primary care network, and intersecting human 
resources that drive both UHC and GHS. We also identified potential 
dis-synergies such as vertical programmes and funding sources, inadequate 
regulation and engagement of the private sector, and underutilisation of 
information and data. Recommendations include cross-consultations between 
departments within the MoH when developing policies in GHC or UHC, and training 
programmes to increase awareness of the synergies between UHC and GHS.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings reinforce those of previous case studies in 
Bangladesh, Ethiopia, and Ghana, offering recommendations for building resilient 
health systems by integrating UHC and GHS.

Copyright © 2024 by the Journal of Global Health. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.14.04218
PMCID: PMC11563567
PMID: 39541504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of interest: The authors completed 
the ICMJE Disclosure of Interest Form (available upon request from the 
corresponding author) and disclose no relevant interests.