[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 146]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

ered from the words of our Saviour himselfe,
(Mat. 25.41.) where he saith, it shall be said to the wicked in the last
day, "Go ye cursed into everlasting fire prepared for the Devil and his
Angels:" which place is manifest for the permanence of Evill Angels,
(unlesse wee might think the name of Devill and his Angels may be
understood of the Churches Adversaries and their Ministers;) but then
it is repugnant to their Immateriality; because Everlasting fire is no
punishment to impatible substances, such as are all things Incorporeall.
Angels therefore are not thence proved to be Incorporeall. In like
manner where St. Paul sayes (1 Cor. 6.3.) "Knew ye not that wee shall
judge the Angels?" And (2 Pet. 2.4.) "For if God spared not the Angels
that sinned, but cast them down into Hell." And (Jude 1,6.) "And the
Angels that kept not their first estate, but left their owne habitation,
hee hath reserved in everlasting chaines under darknesse unto the
Judgement of the last day;" though it prove the Permanence of Angelicall
nature, it confirmeth also their Materiality. And (Mat. 22.30.) In the
resurrection men doe neither marry, nor give in marriage, but are as
the Angels of God in heaven:" but in the resurrection men shall be
Permanent, and not Incorporeall; so therefore also are the Angels.

There be divers other places out of which may be drawn the like
conclusion. To men that understand the signification of these words,
Substance, and Incorporeall; as Incorporeall is taken not for subtile
body, but for Not Body, they imply a contradiction: insomuch as to say,
an Angel, or Spirit is (in that sense) an Incorporeall Substance, is
to say in effect, there is no Angel nor Spirit at all. Considering
therefore the signification of the word Angel in the Old Testament, and
the nature of Dreams and Visions that happen to men by the ordinary way
of Nature; I was enclined to this opinion, that Angels were nothing
but supernaturall apparitions of the Fancy, raised by the speciall
and extraordinary operation of God, thereby to make his presence and
commandements known to mankind, and chiefly to his own people. But the
many places of the New Testament, and our Saviours own words, and in
such texts, wherein is no suspicion of corruption of the Scripture, have
extorted from my feeble Reason, an acknowledgement, and beleef, that
there be also Angels substantiall, and permanent. But to beleeve they be
in no place, that is to say, no where, that is to say, nothing, as they
(though indirectly) say, that will have them Incorporeall, cannot by
Scripture bee evinced.




Inspiration What

On the signification of the word Spirit, dependeth that of the word
INSPIRATION; which must either be taken properly; and then it is nothing
but the blowing into a man some thin and subtile aire, or wind, in such
manner as a man filleth a bladder with his breath; or if Spirits be not
corporeal, but have their existence only in the fancy, it is nothing but
the blowing in of a Phantasme; which is improper to say, and impossible;
for Phantasmes are not, but only seem to be somewhat. That word
therefore is used in the Scripture metaphorically onely: As (Gen. 2.7.)
where it is said, that God Inspired into man the breath of life, no more
is meant, then that God gave unto him vitall motion. For we are not to
think that God made first a living breath, and then blew it into Adam
after he was made, whether that breath were reall, or seeming; but only
as it is (Acts 17.25.) "that he gave him life and breath;" that is,
made him a living creature. And where it is said (2 Tim. 3.16.) "all
Scripture is given by Inspiration from God," speaking there of the
Scripture of the Old Testament, it is an easie metaphor, to signifie,
that God enclined the spirit or mind of those Writers, to write that
which should be usefull, in teaching, reproving, correcting, and
instructing men in the way of righteous living. But where St. Peter (2
Pet. 1.21.) saith, that "Prophecy came not in old time by the will
of man, but the holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy
Spirit," by the Holy Spirit, is meant the voice of God in a Dream, or
Vision supernaturall, which is not Inspiration; Nor when our Saviour
breathing on his Disciples, said, "Receive the Holy Spirit," was that
Breath the Spirit, but a sign of the spirituall graces he gave unto
them. And though it be said of many, and of our Saviour himself, that he
was full of the Holy Spirit; yet that Fulnesse is not to be understood
for Infusion of the substance of God, but for accumulation of his gifts,
such as are the gift of sanctity of life, of tongues, and the like,
whether attained supernaturally, or by study and industry; for in all
cases they are the gifts of God. So likewise where God sayes (Joel
2.28.) "I will powre out my Spirit upon all flesh, and your Sons and
your Daughters shall prophecy, your Old men shall dream Dreams, and your
Young men