[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Koch

a bedroom, depending upon the needs of the composition. In this instance, the painting over the mantle is a Tiepolo entirely of Koch's creation. Tiepolo never painted it, and the Kochs never owned it. Nonetheless, Koch thought it was a fine placement for a Tiepolo such as this one, and so here it is."

In his personal works, Koch created unusual and complex compositions, sometimes through the use of mirrors, as in Interior of Studio (1956). The painting at first appears to be a casual genre scene, with a handsome young man, Ernest Ulmer, one of Dora's piano students, relaxing on a sofa, center, while Dora is on the phone, left. Reflected in the large mirror behind Ulmer is the opposite end of the room, where piano student Don Edmans and Koch's father are engaged in conversation before the glare of a window. Also semi-obscured by the glare is Koch standing at his easel, gazing intently at Ulman (and at the viewer via his reflection). Koch seems to have given the painting to Ulmer, "which hung in his own living room for many years", and who donated it to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 2007.

Ulmer posed for Koch's "most self-revealing painting", The Sculptor (1964, oil on canvas, 80" x 59 7/8", Brooklyn Museum). Its original title was Prometheus, the god who stole fire from Mount Olympus. A full-length standing male nude seen from behind, Ulmer towers over the seated Koch and holds a cigarette lighter at hip level, while the artist leans in to get a light. The lighter illuminates Koch's face and its flame is vividly reflected in his glasses, "a sexually loaded reference to Prometheus's gift of fire to mankind".

As punishment for the theft of fire, Zeus chained Prometheus to a rock and sent an eagle each day to tear out his liver. Koch was an occasional sculptor, and modeled Prometheus and Hercules, a work depicting Hercules wrestling with the eagle to rescue the chained Prometheus. A large version of this appears in the background of The Sculptor, and Ulmer may have posed for the sculpture as well as the painting.

Koch's most frequent model was Dora, who appeared in dozens of his paintings, including tender double portraits painted for their wedding anniversaries.

 Exhibitions, awards and honors 
While living in Paris, Koch exhibited at the 1929 Salon de Printemps of the Société des Artists Français, and received an honorable mention.

His first one-man show was in 1939 at Kraushaar Galleries in New York City, from which East River (1934) was purchased for the Brooklyn Museum. Kraushaar represented him for the next thirty-four years, and presented more than a dozen one-man shows.

He exhibited at the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts from 1939 to 1945, and in 1952 and 1962. Two of his works were chosen for the Whitney Museum of Art's 1941 annual exhibition, Paintings by Artists Under Forty. The Metropolitan Museum of Art hosted American Painting Today, A National Competitive Exhibition in 1950, at which The Monument was shown. He first exhibited at the National Academy of Design in 1948, and was awarded the Altman Prize in 1959 and 1964, the Saltus Medal in 1962, the Morse Medal in 1968, and the Engle Prize in 1972.

He was elected an Associate of the National Academy of Design in 1953, and an Academician in 1954. He was awarded the National Arts Club's 1963 gold medal, and was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1970.

The US Senate authorized Leon Kroll, Julian E. Levi, and Koch to select American art to be exhibited in the Hall of Education at the 1964 New York World's Fair.

The Museum of the City of New York hosted a 1963 exhibition: John Koch in New York, 1950–1963. The New York Cultural Center hosted a 1973 retrospective exhibition of his work. Kraushaar Galleries hosted a 1980 memorial exhibition of his work.

The New York Historical Society organized a 2001–2002 posthumous exhibition, John Koch: Painting a New York Life. In a Time Magazine review, critic Robert Hughes compared Koch's highly cultured "painted world" to that of Vermeer, and the artist's consummate skill in painting surfaces to John Singleton Copley. "Memory and desire: Koch's great understated themes."

In 2022, the Hammer Museum at University of California, Los Angeles, organized the exhibition Joan Didion: What She Means, curated by The New Yorker theater critic Hilton Als, the exhibition pays homage to writer Joan Didion. The show traveled to the Pérez Art Museum Miami in 2023, and works by John Koch were included alongside artworks by 50 other modern and contemporary international artists such as Félix González-Torres, Ana Mendieta, Betye Saar, Maren Hassinger, Silke Otto-Knapp, Vija Celmins, Ed Ruscha, Pat Steir, among others.