[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of Acton, Massachusetts

ds shared a double track right-of-way that runs along Nashoba Brook to North Acton where they diverged near the North Acton Station, which was located at the end of Harris Street. The Framingham and Lowell right-of-way is now known as the Bruce Freeman Rail Trail and is various stages of completion.

In 1850, the Fugitive Slave Act was passed. In response, Acton Town Meeting passed a set of resolutions condemning the Act. The governor of Massachusetts, John C. Andrew, urged all towns to prepare their militia units for the threatening war. On April 12, 1861 the Civil War Began.

On April 15, President Lincoln issued a call for 75,000 volunteers. By 7:30 the next morning, Captain Tuttle with his entire command of 52 men reported to Lowell, fully equipped and ready for duty. Company E of Acton of the 6th Massachusetts Militia was to be the first company of the first regiment of the Union Army to arrive in Washington in response to the President's call.

In addition, the Acton reservists were among the troops at Fort Sumter when it was fired upon.

In 1874, the population of the town was almost 1700. The town established its first newspaper The Acton Patriot and the residents of West Acton formed the first library The Citizen's Library. In 1890, the Memorial Library was completed and given to the town by William A. Wilde as a memorial to the Acton soldiers who fought in the Civil War.

The 1900s: The Growth of Suburban Acton

1900-1950 
At the beginning on the 20th century, Acton had approximately 2120 residents. The primary business of the town was agriculture. The 20th century saw substantial growth and change in the town.

In 1912, after prolonged debate, a Water District was established which provided water initially to the West Acton and South Acton villages. At this time, each of the five villages had its own fire department. On July 22, 1913, there was a very serious fire in West Acton. It destroyed houses, barns, businesses and factories.  The whole village might have burned if not for the newly installed water system.  After the fire, Town Meeting voted to establish a town-wide volunteer fire department.

Acton had excellent roads due to a contribution from a former Acton resident - Alvin Nothrop. He had grown up in Acton before moving to Washington D.C., where he became a successful merchant. He donated money to the town of Acton to purchase a stone crusher for improving local roads. Because of this contribution, Acton had water-bound macadam highways long before its neighbors.  With the advent of the Automobile, the railroads serving East and North Acton fell into decline. The Nashua and Acton line was completely abandoned in the mid-1920s while passenger service ceased on the Framingham and Lowell line in the 1930s with the last vestiges of service on the line occurring to North Acton lumberyards in the early 1990s. This line too, has been formally abandoned. The Framingham and Lowell line is in the process of being converted into a rail trail, with the Acton portion scheduled for 2015.

The Board of Health was instituted in 1901 and its first task was to administer the smallpox vaccine to the children in the local schools.

Each village in Acton had its own grade school but the town struggled with how to provide a high school education for its students. For most of the early 20th century (until 1925), Acton students were sent to Concord's high school.  In 1925, Acton population was large enough to sustain its own high school, which was built on Massachusetts Avenue (rt 111) near the intersection of Main Street (rt 27).  The building, which still stands, was converted into use as an elementary school and then, in 2012, was converted into residential housing.

1950-2000 
The last half of the 20th century saw enormous growth and change in Acton. In 1950, the town had a population of 3,500 which grew to 17,000 by 1974. This was largely caused by the growth in industry in suburban areas - facilitated by the construction of Route 128. Acton did not attract a large number of industrial sites because of the limited water supply. 

Instead, Acton became a bedroom community with an increased housing demand due to two main factors, the Baby Boom and the Cold War. As GI-Bill educated women and men in Boston and its inner suburbs entered the employment sector they found housing in their hometowns expensive and tight leading many to look beyond State Highway 128 which was being absorbed into the Interstate system as s portion of Interstate-95. At the same time, the Cold War expansion of Fort Devens, Hanscom AFB, and Natick Labs accompanied by the growth of high technology DoD contractors spurred a large increase in college-educated professionals seeking housing within commuting distance. To meet this demand and benefit financially, a lot of Acton's farmland began to turn into housing developments.