[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# George Munro, 1st of Newmore

Sir George Munro, 1st of Newmore (1602–1693) was a 17th-century Scottish soldier and member of parliament from the Clan Munro, Ross-shire, Scotland.  He was seated at Newmore Castle. Between 1629 and 1634 Munro held command in the Swedish army during the Thirty Years' War, and from 1642 in the Scottish Covenanter army during the Irish Confederate Wars before changing his allegiance to the Royalist cause of Charles I in 1648 during the Scottish Civil War and Irish Confederate Wars.

Lineage

George Munro, 1st of Newmore was the third son of Colonel John Munro, 2nd of Obsdale, who was, in turn, a son of George Munro, 1st of Obsdale, who in turn was a younger son of Robert Mor Munro, 15th Baron of Foulis, chief of the Clan Munro. George's elder brother was Sir Robert Munro, 3rd Baronet of Foulis, who became chief of the Clan Munro in 1651. As a cadet of the Munro of Obsdale family, George is also sometimes referred to as George Munro of Obsdale and as he later owned the lands of Culrain is also sometimes referred to as George Munro of Culrain.

Thirty Years' War
Munro grew up a bold, powerful and fearless man, playing a conspicuous part in the history and feuds of his time. He entered the army and accompanied his famous uncle, General Robert Monro (and his great-uncle, chief Robert Munro, 18th Baron of Foulis) to the Continental Thirty Years' War, in which he very rapidly distinguished himself. In 1629 when the war broke out between Sweden and Austria, George Munro gave his services to Gustavus Adolphus and served under him with distinction. George Munro commanded the left wing of the Swedish army at the Battle of Lutzen on 6 November 1632 in which the Swedish army was victorious over the Imperialists. However, after Lutzen, arguing ensued amongst many of the officers of the Swedish army and as a result, they were defeated at the Battle of Nördlingen. The petty differences on the part of those in command led to no properly defined plan of attack and George Munro was so disgusted with these matters that he returned home to Scotland.

Irish Confederate Wars
Munro fought in the Irish Confederate Wars under his uncle Robert Monro who commanded the Scottish Covenanter army. Between 1642 and 1646 George and his uncle Robert were generally successful against their enemies the O'Neils, and during that time the Munros put down a rebellion in Ulster in 1642 and captured Belfast in 1644. In 1644 Robert Monro was recalled to Scotland to oppose the Royalist victories of James Graham, 1st Marquess of Montrose, and command of the Scottish Covenanter army in Ireland fell to his nephew George Munro, 1st of Newmore whose principles inclined him to favour the Royalists.

General Robert Monro was defeated by the Irish Confederates at the Battle of Benburb in Ireland in 1646 and Carrickfergus Castle was surrendered to the English Parliamentarian George Monck in 1648. As a result, Robert Monro was imprisoned by Oliver Cromwell in the Tower of London. George Munro then returned to Scotland in 1648, where he was appointed General by Charles I of England, thus becoming a royalist.

Civil War in Scotland
George Munro, having returned to Scotland with 1200 horse and 2100 foot soldiers, was sent to support the royalist James Hamilton, 1st Duke of Hamilton. The Scottish royalists were defeated at the Battle of Preston (1648) by the Parliamentarian forces of Oliver Cromwell. But before the battle Munro had refused to serve under James Livingston, 1st Earl of Callendar who was the second in command under the Duke of Hamilton. An argument had ensued, and as a result, Munro's involvement in the battle was limited. George Munro had an intense dislike for Callender, and Callendar saw no reason why Munro should be allowed an independent command.