[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Otto Braun (communist)

Otto Braun (28 September 1900 – 15 August 1974) was a German communist journalist and functionary of the Communist Party of Germany with a long and varied career. His most significant role was as a Comintern agent sent to China in 1934 to advise the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) on military strategy during the Chinese Civil War. At the time Braun adopted a Chinese name, Li De (). It was only many years later that it became known that Otto Braun and "Li De" were the same person.

Early life

Otto Braun was born in Ismaning, Upper Bavaria, near Munich. Even though his mother was still alive, he grew up in an orphanage.

He enrolled at a teachers' training college in Pasing in the Munich area. In June 1918, Braun was drafted into the ranks of the Bavarian army, part of the Imperial German Army, but the First World War ended before he could face combat duty.

After the armistice he went back to complete his studies at the teachers' training college. However, he did not take a job as a primary school teacher. Rather, he joined the newly-founded Communist Party of Germany (KPD). He embarked on what would be a lifelong vocation and career and travelled widely, mainly in North Germany.

Communist activity in the 1920s and early 1930s

It seems that it was in 1921 that Braun became a full-time paid KPD party worker.

He was involved in an affair concerning the theft of some sensitive documents from Colonel Freyberg, a White Russian emigrant based in Berlin. For his part, he was detained by the police in July 1921. He was put on trial but managed to hide his communist connections and to convince the court that he was a "right-winger." The bias that was often exhibited by the judicial system of the Weimar Republic caused the masquerade to help him get off with a light sentence. In fact, he did not go to jail, but went into hiding.

By that time, he was already a central member of the KPD apparatus by not only regularly writing articles for the party papers but also, after 1924, heading the party's "counter-espionage" efforts. He was also deeply involved in its militia and paramilitary activities.

The police caught up with him again in September 1926. He first served his "Freyberg sentence" of 1922 and then was kept in detention at the Moabit Prison. However, on April 11, 1928, a band of Communists, including his then-lover Olga Benário, succeeded in staging his jail break.

The daring escape got worldwide publicity. Braun and Benário then made their way to Moscow, where they became involved in the Communist International. Both of them were at the Lenin School, which was operated by the Comintern. Braun went to the Frunze Military Academy while Benário worked as an instructor of the Communist Youth International, first in the Soviet Union, then in France and England, where she participated in coordinating anti-fascist activities.

Braun and Benário parted ways in 1931. She went on to marry the famous Brazilian revolutionary leader Luís Carlos Prestes and went to live in his country. She was finally arrested by the Getúlio Vargas dictatorship and extradited to Germany, where she was eventually killed by gas at the Bernburg Euthanasia Centre. She is remembered as a martyr by the Brazilian and German left. For his part, Braun embarked on the most significant and, in some ways, the most controversial, part of his revolutionary career, as the Comintern representative in China.

In 1933, Braun married the Chinese communist Xiao Yuehua. They had a son, but they divorced because Otto fell in love with the more beautiful and educated LI Lilian.

In 1938, Braun married another Chinese communist actress LI Lilian. On August 28, 1939, Braun flew back to the Soviet Union and never again met LI Lilian.

In China
In 1932, following his graduation at the Frunze Academy, Soviet Military Intelligence's Fourth Directorate dispatched Braun to Harbin in Manchuria, China. From there he traveled to Shanghai, where he joined the local Comintern bureau. There he was in military affairs under the orders of "General Kleber" (nom de guerre of Manfred Stern), who maintained a "military section" in the city, and in political issues under Arthur Ewert, a fellow German Communist.

However, Shanghai was at that time a backwater in Chinese revolutionary affairs, the local communist movement having been effectively crushed by Chiang Kai-shek's Kuomintang (KMT) in the Shanghai massacre of 1927. The CCP had subsequently retreated to the countryside and started to organize in the province of Jiangxi. In the later part of 1933 Braun arrived in Ruijin, at that time capital of the "Chinese Soviet Republic" set up by the surviving Chinese Communists, where he became a military adviser.