[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# West Bengal Police

st Bengal Police.
The Special Task Force (STF) of West Bengal, formed around three years ago, to combat modern urban organized crimes - terrorism, organized gangs, illegal arms, ammunition, drugs and fake currency across the state is all set to get a police station of its own and a designated court.

SVSPA
The Swami Vivekananda State Police Academy (SVSPA) is the state level police training institution catering to the training needs of West Bengal Police and Kolkata Police. The Academy conducts basic training for DSP Probationers, Cadet Sub-Inspectors of both Armed & Un-Armed branches and Recruit Constables for West Bengal Police and also for Warders and Inspectors of Correctional Services, Sub-Inspectors and Sergeants of Kolkata Police. The Academy also conducts Pre-promotional training for Constables, Asst. SI's and SI's for their promotion to the next rank besides conducting various short in- service training courses on different professional issues. SVSPA is well equipped with in-house faculty members both for academic indoor training and outdoor training. Besides, a number of eminent faculty members from different disciplines take classes for the training programs. These include academicians, experts from Forensic Science Medicine, scientific officers/experts from Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) & Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), lawyers, judicial  officers  and  senior police officers.

Recruitments
Entries are done at the following ranks:
 Recruitments to the posts of Constables / Lady constables, Sub Inspectors and Lady Sub inspectors are done by West Bengal Police Recruitment Board.
 West Bengal Police Service: Officers selected through West Bengal Civil Service (Group-B) etc., examination conducted by West Bengal Public Service Commission are appointed as Deputy Superintendent of Police.
 Indian Police Service: Officers selected through Civil Service Examinations conducted by Union Public Service Commission are appointed as Assistant Superintendent of Police during their probationary period. Upon confirmation to the service, they are appointed as Additional Superintendent of Police.

Eastern Frontier Rifles

The Eastern Frontier Rifles are an armed police force of the WBP, the purpose of which is to control major law & order problems, communal riots and terrorist attacks. Many contingents of EFR are deployed in various disturbed areas of the State. However, in recent years the effectiveness of this force has been weakened by overuse and prolonged deployment at Police Stations for day-to-day law & order duties. The headquarters of EFR is at Salua, near Kharagpur.

Counter Insurgency Force

The specialised force of the CIF was raised by the Government following the worsening situation in the Jungle Mahals. The force was charged with the specific task of curbing presence of the maoists within the state. The force was allowed its own recruiting process so as to select the best men from within the force. The force is headed by an Additional Director General of Police ranked officer.

Insignia of West Bengal Police (State Police)

Equipment 

INSAS rifle in 5.56mm NATO
OFB Excalibur Rifle - 292 unit on order.
Revolvers 
Pistol Auto 9mm 1A
AK 47
Heckler & Koch MP5
Sterling Submachine Gun : Indian Version 
SLR: Indian Version of FN FAL
7.62mm SLR: With special tube attachment.
Lee-Enfield .303 British Rifle : Indian Version
OFB 12 Bore Pump Action Gun.
51mm Mortar
0.203 Riot Gun
Gas Gun
Grenade

See also 
 Kolkata Police
 West Bengal CID

Notes

References

External links
 List of all West Bengal police stations from the West Bengal govt's official site
 Criminal Investigation Department, West Bengal

State law enforcement agencies of India
 
1861 establishments in British India
Government agencies established in 1861