[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Noh-Varr

"pocket battlefield" that can simulate unique combat environments for the user by adjusting local physics.

Noh-Varr is adept at the sciences of interdimensional & extra-dimensional travel. He can construct and operate devices to view and traverse the timestream and alternate dimensions.

Reception

Critical reception 
Andrew Wheeler of ComicsAlliance referred to Noh-Varr as "Marvel's first male pin-up," writing, "Noh-Varr hit all the usual beats of the comics sex symbol. He found more than one reason to take his clothes off. He played with his look. He showed us his butt. Yet Noh-Varr wasn't quite like all those thousand female heroes. Noh-Varr wasn't only there to be sexy. He got to both kick some ass and experience some angst. He had his crowning moment of awesome... And his crowning moment of douche. He had plot. Personality. Agency. Gillen and McKelvie weren't setting out to replicate the mistakes that are made with female sex symbols. They upped the game for sex symbols everywhere. Sexy can be important... But a sexy character should not be interchangeable with a sexy lamp. To quote Kelly-Sue DeConnick: "[I]f you can replace your female character with a sexy lamp and the story still basically works, maybe you need another draft." (That's the clean version. The dirty version utilizes the phrase "f---ing hack".) Gillen and McKelvie didn't invent Marvel Boy, and they didn't invent his sexy; they just gave him his sexy back. Marvel Boy was made to be sexy, in the 2000's Marvel Boy by Grant Morrison and J.G. Jones. Noh-Varr was young, dumb and full of... sexuality, from his first appearance. Created because Morrison thought comics weren't being "sexy enough," Noh-Varr was a pouty bad boy in tight, tight shorts whose nemesis was an assassin in a dominatrix outfit. "Sexy" is his motif in the same way that "spider" is Peter Parker's." Lauren Davis of Gizmodo called Noh-Varr one of the "male superheroes who truly are sexualized the way women are in comics," saying, "Now this is a great example of a character being portrayed as sexy in a fun and sweet way that doesn't overwhelm the scene. In Kieron Gillen and Jamie McKelvie's Young Avengers #1, we see Kate Bishop watching Noh-Varr dance in her room. It's her gaze that's on him, and some readers can appreciate Noh-Varr in the same way that Kate does, but at the same time, it's a nice character moment. And it's much sexier than running one's hands down an unwilling Batman's chest." Afreen Khan of Sportskeeda dubbed Noh-Varr as an "outright sex symbol," stating, "Noh-Varr, in simpler terms, is a hunk. He is a part of the Marvels and goes by many aliases. The most popular ones are Marvel Boy and Protector. The superhero was introduced in the self-titled 2000 comic. As one of the many younger superheroes, he was also a part of the Young Avengers. [...]  That’s not all. One of the main reasons the post about Park Seo-joon reprising Noh-Varr has gained so much attention is because of the hero’s sexual orientation. The Young Avenger is canonically bisexual, or pansexual. [...] Social media was bombarded with excited fans' reactions after the Twitter account of Marvel Updates posted that the actor would be playing Noh-Varr. A major reason for it is that the queer superhero is one of the few comic characters who was explicitly portrayed as a s*x symbol, in a good way. " Benjamin Riley of Special Broadcasting Service described Noh-Varr was one of the "queer superheroes who changed the face of comics," asserting, "This one’s cheating a bit—Marvel Boy’s status as a queer character is debatable, but aside from being one of the hottest male superheroes in recent memory, the alien Noh-Varr (his real name) certainly has a queer sensibility. He’s also another Young Avengers alum—Marvel Boy’s teammate and sometime girlfriend Kate Bishop jokes at one point that she’s the only "straightie" on the team. What makes Marvel Boy queer isn’t just his sexuality (he implies his race doesn’t have sexual identities, only sexual acts) it’s how the comic treats him, visually: in a medium dominated by the male gaze, he’s not only sexy, he’s sexualized."

Noh-Varr also has received significant discussion in scholarly literature such as Lyubansky, Sweeney, and Beam & Clay-Buck.

Accolades