[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Derby High School, Bury

ke District. One "highlight" of any visit was a trek up the Old Man of Coniston and for some of the older boys, an attempt to gain entry to the Ship Inn which was facing the property at Bowmanstead. Lowfield has recently been sold and has been renovated (pictures are on the school's alumni website).

As well as a holiday, many pupils including Head Boy Jim Metcalf and Head Master George Sawtell worked on the property and made it 'livable' in the year after purchase. During such early work a stash of gelignite was found in the grounds.

Notable alumni and faculty

Alumni
Susan Bassnett, Academic. Pro-Vice-Chancellor at the University of Warwick, Professor in the Centre for Translation and Comparative Cultural Studies and author of over 20 books.
David Crausby, Member of Parliament (Labour) for Bolton North East since 1997.
Peter Skellern, Musician and Singer/Songwriter. First hit was "You're a Lady", in 1972, which reached number three in the UK Singles Chart.
 David Whittaker, Video Game Music Composer and Programmer, for most of the 1980s and early 1990s. Alumnus from 1968-1973.

Faculty
Dave Edmundson, P.E. teacher, went on to be Secretary of Lancashire County Cricket Club and then Chief Executive of Burnley Football Club. In 2007, he was appointed as general manager of a new body called the 'Football League Trust', to oversee Community and Youth Development activities at Football League clubs, arising from the Premier League's 'solidarity payments' to the League.
 Warren Bradley taught at the school in the mid '60s. He had played football for Manchester United immediately after the Munich air disaster. He was also capped for England. He coached the school first eleven which for a time included Jimmy Kerr, a young Scottish footballer who had come to the town to play for Bury.

References

External links

 Alumni webpage 
 2007 Ofsted report

Educational institutions established in 1959
Secondary schools in the Metropolitan Borough of Bury
1959 establishments in England
Community schools in the Metropolitan Borough of Bury
Schools in Bury, Greater Manchester