[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Quality Migrant Admission Scheme

2 years.

In October 2023, the government said it would now allow people from Vietnam, Laos and Nepal to apply for the visa.

Statistics 
In May 2020, statistics from the 2019 year were provided by the immigration department. In 2019, a total of 874 people were approved under the scheme. Of the 874,

 845 were approved under the General Points Test, and the other 29 were approved under the Achievement-based Test
 565 were male, and 309 were female
 647 were aged between 18–39, 140 were aged between 40–44, 66 were aged between 45–50, and 21 were aged between 50 or above
 803 were from mainland China, 18 were from the United States, 14 were from Canada, 8 were from Australia, and 31 were from elsewhere
In 2022, 2,845 people were approved under the program, and in the first half of 2023, 7,022 people were approved, with 98.3% coming from mainland China.

Requirements
Age: Applicants must be aged 18 years and up
Financial Requirement: Applicants must be able to demonstrate that they are capable of supporting and accommodating themselves and their dependants, if any, on their own without relying on public assistance during their stay in Hong Kong;
Good Character: Applicants must meet normal immigration and security requirements.  They should not have any criminal or adverse immigration record in Hong Kong or elsewhere;
Language Proficiency: Applicants must be proficient in Chinese (Mandarin or Cantonese) or English;
Basic Educational Qualification: Applicants must have a good education background, normally a first degree supported by documentary evidence.  In special circumstances, good technical qualifications, proven professional abilities and/or experience and achievements supported by documentary evidence may be considered.
Nationality: Nationals of Afghanistan, Cambodia, Cuba, Laos, North Korea, Nepal and Vietnam may not apply under QMAS.

Advisory committee
The twenty-member Advisory Committee on Admission of Quality Migrants and Professionals advises the Director of Immigration on applications received under QMAS. As of 2012, the membership of the Committee comprises:

Ms Marjorie Yang Mun-tak (Chairperson)
Dr Wilco Chan Wai-hung
Mr Cheng Chi-ming
Mr Cheung Leong
Professor Nicole Cheung Wai-ting
Mr David Ho Chi-hoo
Mr Ko Chi-sum
Ms Serena Lau Sze-wan
Ms Christina Maisenne Lee
Mr Sunny Lee Wai-kwong
Professor Leung Mee-lee
Ms Lo Po-man
Dr Edward Lo Wai-chau
Mr William Ma Wing-kai
Mr Joseph Ngai
Dr Pan Pey-chyou
Professor Grace Tang Wai-king
Mr Ivan Ting Tien-li
Representative from the Labour and Welfare Bureau
Representative from the Security Bureau
Representative from the Labour Department

Notable examples
Barry Beck, Canadian National Hockey League player
Hins Cheung, Singer
Hu Jun, Chinese actor
Lan Rao, Chinese soprano
Lang Lang, Chinese pianist
Li Yundi, Chinese pianist
Li Ning, Chinese Olympics gold medalist for gymnastics
Tang Wei, Chinese actress
Zhang Ziyi, Chinese actress
Zhou Mi, Chinese badminton player
Zhou Xun, Chinese actress

References

External links
Official website (English)

Immigration to Hong Kong