[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Kathy Kelly

h 2020, Kabul seamstresses were employed to eventually produce some 2,000 duvets the first winter and 3,000 the second, with ensuing seasons of the project work still underway. In visits over these years, Kelly also helped form the APV's women's community. Kelly continues in regular visits to Kabul.

In April 2014 Kelly was arrested protesting drone piloting at Beale Air Force Base in California

In May 2014 Kelly travelled to Jeju Island in South Korea to join in local protests against a naval base being built on the island for use by the United States.  Protests focused on threatened environmental and cultural damage, and also the undesirability for the region of an announced "Asia Pivot" in US military strategy.

In June 2014 Kelly and another activist entered Whiteman Air Force Base approaching base guards with a loaf of bread and a letter indicting drone warfare, requesting to meet with the base commander.  She stood trial for trespassing in December 2014 and in late February 2015 began serving a three-month sentence at the "FMC Lexington" federal prison in Kentucky, her fourth stay in a US federal prison.

In August 2015 Kelly helped organize and joined a 90-mile walk through Wisconsin linking increasingly militarized, racially targeted police violence inside the US with ongoing US drone assassinations of high-risk civilians, their neighbors and families, in multiple Middle Eastern and North African countries.

In June 2016, Kelly traveled to five cities in the Russian Federation seeking to build activist connections opposing a revitalized cold war, and to report Russian perspectives on increasing NATO military buildup along the country's borders.

In January 2017 Kelly was convicted of trespass for having obstructed transit at an April 2016 Black Lives Matter demonstration protesting the Minnesota police's shooting of Jamar Clark.

In April, 2017, Kelly helped organize and then participated in a 6-day fast across from United Nations headquarters in New York, called "A Fast for Yemen Because Yemen Is Starving."

In 2017 she  visited Qatar at the QLC (Qatar Leadership Conference), a youth conference held in Doha.  The 2019 onset of the COVID-19 pandemic saw Kelly interrupting regular journeys to Kabul.

From 2012 through 2018 Kelly accompanied Voices on peace walks, in 2012 from Madison, Wisconsin, to a NATO summit in Chicago, in 2013 from Rock Island to Des Moines Air National Guard base, in 2014 from Chicago to the Air National Guard base at Battle Creek, Michigan, and in 2018 from Savannah, Georgia to Georgia's Kings Bay Naval Base in support of the Kings Bay Plowshares 7.

Author and speaker
Kelly has reported on her time on peace teams and in prison in numerous articles for peace and religious journals, and for websites such as CounterPunch and CommonDreams.org. Several of her essays have appeared in books on the Iraq War. In 2005 she authored "Other Lands Have Dreams: From Baghdad to Pekin Prison" (CounterPunch), collecting and expanding on her letters from Iraq and from prison. She is co-author of "Prisoners on Purpose: a Peacemakers Guide to Jails and Prison". (Progressive Foundation:1989), and co-editor of "War and Peace in the Gulf"(Spokesman:2001). She spends much of her time touring the country on speaking engagements for schools, churches, festivals, and activist groups from whom she accepts but does not require a stipend. Associates have commented in interviews on her heavy work and travel schedule, noting in one instance that "Jail is the only place she can rest". Her latest articles have focused on the experiences of Afghan and Yemeni people facing consequences of US military and economic warfare.

Education
B.A. Loyola University at Chicago 1974
Masters in Religious Education, Chicago Theological Seminary; part of a consortium of schools which included the Jesuit School of Theology at Chicago where Kelly took courses each quarter