[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richie Wellens

s, where they lost to Cardiff City on penalties.

In his second season at the club, Wellens continued to play in midfield under the reign of both Paulo Sousa and Sven-Göran Eriksson. He was named Championship Player of the Month for January, and won the club's player of the year award on 3 May 2011.

During the 2011–12 season, Wellens ended the season, back under the returning Nigel Pearson, with 46 appearances in all competitions and captaining the side 19 times, but his season ended early when he suffered a cruciate knee ligament injury, ruling him out of action for six months. On 4 October, Wellens joined Ipswich Town a one-month loan deal, and returned to Leicester after an "impressive" seven game spell.

On 23 July 2013, Wellens left Leicester City by mutual consent, having played a total of 149 games and scoring 6 goals over his four seasons with them.

Return to Doncaster Rovers
On 2 August, Wellens signed a short-term contract with former club Doncaster Rovers. Having started five of Doncaster's first six games, Wellens extended his contract until January 2014.

At the end of the season, he expected to leave the club following a collapsed takeover of the club, but signed a new two-year deal at the beginning of September.

Shrewsbury Town
Wellens joined Shrewsbury Town on a free transfer in January 2016, signing an 18-month contract. Having helped Shrewsbury to safety in League One, making twelve appearances in the second half of the 2015–16 season, he was made available on a free transfer less than five months later with manager Micky Mellon unable to guarantee him first-team football. He left in August after having game time limited.

Salford City
In September 2016, Wellens signed for National League North side Salford City. He left the club in October.

Macclesfield Town
Wellens signed for National League team Macclesfield Town in November.

Managerial career

Oldham Athletic
On 4 July 2017, Wellens returned to Oldham Athletic as a first-team coach. Following the departure of John Sheridan on 25 September, Wellens was put in charge of Oldham Athletic on an caretaker basis, with his first game in charge being a 3–2 win against Peterborough United. Wellens said he was ready to be a manager, and hoped he and the club could adopt an approach for long-term success. After a five-match unbeaten run, he was appointed manager on a permanent basis on 18 October 2017 on a two-year contract, following a recommendation from Paul Scholes. He was dismissed on 8 June 2018 after Oldham's relegation to League Two. Wellens admitted it was "the right time" to part ways, and admitted he had made mistakes that he hoped to learn from for a future managerial role.

Swindon Town
On 13 November 2018, Wellens was appointed manager of League Two side Swindon Town following the sacking of Phil Brown. His first game in charge was a 4–0 home defeat to Carlisle United, described as "the worst possible start". Wellens secured his first win as manager a week later, with a goal from Elijah Adebayo giving his side a 1–0 away win to Port Vale, and his first home victory came three days later, when academy graduate Sol Pryce scored twice on his league début to help Swindon win 3–2 against Stevenage. Wellens would guide Swindon to a 13th-place finish, ending the season with a 3–1 comeback victory against Notts County, who were relegated out of the Football League for the first time in their 157-year history as a result.

In the 2019–20 season, Wellens won the League Two title with Swindon Town on PPG during the global COVID-19 pandemic after the season was called off in March.

Salford City
On 4 November 2020, Wellens was appointed as the new manager of his former club Salford City, now playing in League Two. The first game of Wellens' reign came on 7 November, with a 2–0 win against Hartlepool in the FA Cup first round at Moor Lane, courtesy of goals from Bruno Andrade and Emmanuel Dieseruvwe in extra-time. Wellens suffered his first loss as Salford manager in his first league game in charge, a 2–0 loss against Bolton Wanderers the following week. His first league win came on 21 November against Bradford City, a 3–0 league victory with two goals from Luke Burgess and another from Ian Henderson. On 13 March 2021, Wellens guided Salford to victory in the delayed 2020 EFL Trophy Final, with a 4–2 penalty shootout victory after a 0–0 draw with Portsmouth. On 22 March 2021, it was announced that he and the club had parted company by mutual consent.

Doncaster Rovers
On 17 May 2021, Wellens was appointed manager of League One club Doncaster Rovers. On 2 December 2021, Wellens was sacked by Doncaster after just 199 days in charge with the club sitting 23rd in the table with the club having picked up just thirteen points from nineteen matches.