[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Canal Street station (New York City Subway)

ets of Broadway Line platforms to accommodate ten-car trains. The NYCTA also covered the elaborate mosaic tile walls with  white cinderblock tiles at 16 local stations on the Broadway and Fourth Avenue lines, including both the Broadway main line and Manhattan Bridge line platforms at Canal Street. 

The station agents' booths at Canal Street and Centre Street, and at Canal Street and Broadway, were closed in 1976 to save money. These booths were reopened part-time in 1978. On January 16, 1978, the transfer between the Lexington Avenue Line and the BMT platforms was placed inside fare control. The free transfer was intended to encourage increased ridership. Previously, the BMT stations were all connected with each other, but people transferring between the BMT and IRT had to pay a second fare.

1990s to present 

With the exception of three months in 1990, train service to the Manhattan Bridge line's platforms was suspended from 1988 to 2001 while the Manhattan Bridge's southern pair of subway tracks was rebuilt. The platforms remained open for passengers transferring between the other routes, since they were the only connections between the other platforms in the complex. Service between Manhattan and Brooklyn was redirected to the Main Line platforms and used the Montague Street Tunnel. The three-month period was supposed to have allowed train service while work on the bridge was not being done, but on December 27, 1990, the discovery of missing steel plates and corrosion that threatened the bridge's integrity halted this service. During the 1990s, garbage accumulated on the unused spur tracks, and the ceiling and tiles developed water damage. In 1997, a temporary art exhibit known as the Canal Street Canal by Alexander Brodsky was installed on the northbound track, after Brodsky won an MTA Arts for Transit design competition. It consisted of a large waterproof tub filled with water, with Venetian canal boats floating inside.

In April 1993, the New York State Legislature agreed to give the MTA $9.6 billion for capital improvements. Some of the funds would be used to renovate nearly one hundred New York City Subway stations, including the entire Canal Street complex. Work on the renovation began in May 1994, at which point it was supposed to cost $44 million. To minimize disruption to the surrounding neighborhood, workers only conducted excavations at night. The work included modifications to staircases, re-tiling for the walls, new tiling on the floors, upgrading the station's lights and the public address system, installing new lighting, and installing two elevators. The elevators made the Lexington Avenue Line platforms compliant with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA).

The project was originally supposed to be complete in December 1997. The MTA hosted tours of the station during the renovation, selling tickets to members of the public who wished to see the work in detail. During the renovation, in October 1995, workers accidentally drilled into the foundation of a neighboring building named Fu Long Plaza, causing that building to tilt. Water main breaks also delayed the project. By mid-1999, the completion of the station's renovation had been postponed nearly three years, to November 2000. In advance of the reopening of the Manhattan Bridge's southern tracks, the Manhattan Bridge line platforms were also renovated with new lighting, tiles, and third rails. The Manhattan Bridge line platforms reopened on July 22, 2001.

Station layout

The complex consists of four originally separate stations joined by underground passageways. Three of the four run in a north–south direction, crossing at Broadway (Broadway main line), Lafayette Street (Lexington Avenue Line), and Centre Street (Nassau Street Line). The Manhattan Bridge line platforms are directly underneath Canal Street itself, extending west–east. The Bridge line platforms serve as transfer passageways between all other lines. After leaving Canal Street, the Manhattan Bridge Line makes a hard right onto Broadway.

The station serves multiple neighborhoods, including Chinatown, Little Italy, SoHo, and Tribeca. Some relative depths of the stations in the Canal Street complex are as follows:
 IRT Lexington Avenue Line,  below street
 BMT Broadway Line, main line, 
 BMT Nassau Street Line, 
 BMT Broadway Line, Manhattan Bridge branch,

Exits