[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

.

 
 A female test pilot of the UN. She is also an old acquaintance of Robert Spacey. She was engaged by the Gundam Exia in an American military base on Okinawa when she was inspecting the Shell Flag's features. She proved herself to be a great pilot as she was able to survive the battle uninjured.

 
 An ace pilot of the Earth Sphere Federation Army with an unconventional style of piloting solar furnace equipped mobile suits. He is worshipped as a hero known as the "Steel Cowboy", but also hated as the "Devil of Unification". Despite being well-regarded, his piloting ability cannot measure up to the Gundam Meisters and he has poor analytical skills.

Mobile Suit Gundam 00I 
 
 An Innovade with the same pattern as Ribbons Almark: type 0026. He is physically 18 years old. As an Innovade, Leif has the ability to distinguish humans from Innovades and he has been charged with finding and educating other qualified Innovades.

 
 An Innovade who has been working as a doctor and was previously affiliated with Doctors without Borders. Though he is 40 years old, his nature as an Innovade prevents him from aging like humans and he physically appears to be only 20 years old. He has lived in human society for over twenty years, despite Veda's average limit of 10 years before recalling Innovades to have their memories wiped and replaced, likely because of his renown as a doctor. Dr. Telicyra is responsible for awakening Leif as an Innovade.

 
 An enigmatic Innovade who has lived in human society for over 130 years as a result of his information link to Veda being severed, though he is still monitored. At one point, he married and raised a family. Over the past 100 years he has killed other Innovades for reasons unknown, but appears to suffer emotionally when he kills. Since many of his victims have the same outward appearance, Veda intervened to hide his mass murders and Lars has never been caught. His left eye is artificial.

 
An eight-year-old Innovade who is dressed like a young girl, despite identifying as a male. Bryn appears to only be able to communicate through his powerful quantum brain waves; when he is captured and imprisoned in the same Earth Federation facility as Allelujah Haptism, he is able to "speak" to Hallelujah through their quantum brain waves. During his imprisonment, Bryn's blood is drained by Dr. Clay Lihichyte, the doctor who created the Trinity siblings, and rendered physically immobile as a result.

 
 An Innovade with the same base sequence as Telicyra, but her sex has been set as female. As an Innovade, she is capable of awakening other Innovades. She is currently acting as a member of Katharon alongside Hermiya. Both she and Telicyra apparently want to conceal they are Innovades of the same type, though they eventually refer to each other as brother and sister.

 
An Innovade who presumably has the same base sequence as Hanayo (Gundam Meister 874) and Hayana, since her appearance to them is very similar. Unlike Hanayo and Hayana, she appears cheerful and has been seen at a Katharon base. She has the ability to erase and reset Innovades. Like her comrades, she has been tasked by Veda to be an observer to perfect Aeolia Schenberg's plan.

An Innovade with the same base pattern as Ribbons Almark, the pilot of the 1 Gundam and a rogue agent of Celestial Being with access to Veda. Like Ribbons, he can transfer himself into another body if his current one is destroyed, though his transfers take more time. In Gundam 00P, Beside uses the ability to transfer his mind to take control of Hixar Fermi and attack Grave Violento. However, when Grave defeats Beside, he is unable to initiate a complete transfer into a new body; the partial transfer results in the awakening of Leif Recitativo. Because of their shared consciousness, Beside haunts and tries to take control of Leif in order to further his own goals until Telicyra is able to wipe Beside from Leif's mind.

See also

References

General citations

Episodes 

Characters
Lists of Gundam characters