[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 1993–94 in English football

Newcastle beat Wimbledon 4–0 at home, and leaders Manchester United now have an 11-point lead after beating QPR 2–1 at Old Trafford, with their nearest rivals Norwich and Arsenal drawing 0–0 at Highbury. An entertaining mid-table game in Division sees Stoke beat Barnsley 5–4 at the Victoria Ground.

31 October 1993 – Manchester United end October as Premier League leaders with an 11-point margin over their nearest rivals Norwich City, Arsenal, Blackburn Rovers and Aston Villa who are all bracketed together on points. Swindon are still bottom of the league and their winless run has now stretched to 13 games, while Southampton and Sheffield Wednesday are still in the relegation zone. Liverpool have improved after last season's wobbles to occupy seventh place. Charlton Athletic are top of Division One, with Leicester City occupying second place. The playoff zone is occupied by Crystal Palace, Tranmere Rovers, Middlesbrough and Derby County. Nottingham Forest and Wolverhampton Wanderers, who both began the season in promotion form, have slipped into the bottom half of the table.

3 November 1993 – Manchester United are eliminated from the European Cup on away goals by Turkish side Galatasaray, while Arsenal progress to the next stage of the European Cup Winners' Cup with a 7–0 away victory over Standard Liège of Belgium.

4-5 November 1993 – 34-year-old goalkeeper Dave Beasant joins Southampton from Chelsea in a £300,000 deal, while the national record fee for a goalkeeper (a record of which Beasant was once a holder) is broken when Tim Flowers exits The Dell from Blackburn Rovers for £2.4million.

6 November 1993 - Sheffield Wednesday climb out of the relegation one with a 4–1 win over Ipswich at Portman Road. Chelsea are on the brink of the relegation zone after losing 4–1 to Leeds at Elland Road. Leicester go top of Division One with a 3–0 home win over Southend.

7 November 1993 – The Manchester derby at Maine Road sees City take a 2–0 lead in the first half with two goals from Niall Quinn, only for Eric Cantona (twice) and Roy Keane to overturn City's lead and win the game 3–2 for United. In Division One, a Steve Bull hat-trick sees Wolves beat Derby at the Baseball Ground and ensure that they remain in the hunt for a playoff place.

17 November 1993 – England beat San Marino 7–1 in their final World Cup qualifying game, but fail to qualify for the finals, as Holland beat Poland. Media reports suggest that manager Graham Taylor is likely to resign or be sacked imminently.

20 November 1993 – Alan Shearer scores both of Blackburn's goals in their 2–0 home league win over his old club Southampton, as his new club close in on the leading pack in the Premier League. Manchester United maintain their 11-point lead of the table by beating Wimbledon 3–1.

21 November 1993 - Andy Cole scores a hat-trick for Newcastle in a 3–0 home win over Liverpool in the Premier League, lifting Kevin Keegan's men into eighth place, displacing their opponents whose promising start to the season has given way to what appears to be another frustrating league campaign.

23 November 1993 - Blackburn climb five places into second place in the Premier League with a 2–1 home win over Coventry.

24 November 1993 – Graham Taylor announces his resignation as England manager after being vilified by the media (notably The Sun newspaper, who branded him a "turnip") for failing to achieve qualification for the 1994 World Cup. On the same day, Swindon Town finally win a Premier League game at the 16th attempt in their first-ever top division campaign, beating Queens Park Rangers 1–0 at home with a goal from Keith Scott. Manchester United now have a 12-point lead at the top of the table despite being held to a goalless draw at home to Ipswich. Newcastle's surge continues as a 4–0 home win over Sheffield United lifts them into fourth place and pushes the visitors into the drop zone.

27 November 1993 – QPR manager Gerry Francis rules himself out of the running to become the next England manager. Manchester City striker Niall Quinn suffers a knee injury against Sheffield Wednesday. Manchester United now have a 14-point lead at the top of the Premier League after beating Coventry 1–0, while Blackburn and Newcastle both drop points.

29 November 1993 – Peter Swales resigns as Manchester City chairman after 20 years. Francis Lee, who had been campaigning for control of the club's board since early in the year, succeeds him.