[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mount of Temptation

Mount of Temptation, in Palestinian Arabic  (), is a mountain over the city of Jericho in the West Bank, in the State of Palestine; ancient Christian tradition identifies it as the location of the temptation of Jesus described in the New Testament Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke, in which it is said that, from "a high place", the Devil offered Jesus rule over all the kingdoms of the world.

Since at least the 4th century, Christian tradition has specifically associated the forty days of Jesus's fasting that preceded his temptation with a cave on Jebel Quruntul. Eventually, it came to be associated with the high mountain in the Gospel's description of temptation.

The city of Jericho lies at the feet east of Mount Quruntul, at  below sea level, with the nearby Jordan River and the Dead Sea at even lower elevations, further to the east and southeast. The Mount has around  of prominence over Jericho, which translates to an elevation of  above sea level, and offers a commanding view of its fabled surroundings to the east.

Quruntul had previously been the location of a Seleucid and Maccabean fortress known as Dok (also Doq and Dagon), which was the site of the assassination of Simon Maccabeus and two of his sons in 134.

Centuries after the death of Jesus, the Mount became the site of a lavra-type monastery, turned into a Catholic monastery during the era of the Crusades, and then into an Orthodox monastery since the late Ottoman period. Since 1998, the monastery halfway up the mountain has been connected with the tell holding the remains of ancient Jericho via a cable car and a center of religious tourism. In 2014, the mountain and monastery were made part of the State of Palestine's "Jericho Oasis Archaeological Park". It has also been nominated to the Tentative List for World Heritage status as part of religious traditions of El-Bariyah, the Judaean Desert.

Names

Related to the Gospels
The standard Koine Greek texts of the New Testament state that, after his baptism in the Jordan River, Jesus went into a "solitary" or "desolate place" (, eis tḕn érēmon, or , en tē̂ erḗmō). All three passages where this is mentioned are traditionally translated into English as "the wilderness", although the same term is variously rendered in other locations in the Bible as a "secluded place", a "solitary place", or "the desert". As the second temptation in Luke and the third in Matthew, from "a high mountain" (, eis óros hypsēlòn), the Devil offered Jesus "all the kingdoms of the world" (, pásas tàs basileías toû kósmou, or , tē̂s oikouménēs). On the Crusader-period Uppsala Map of Jerusalem, it appears as "mons excelsus", literally "high mountain" (see here, top right quadrant).

When this passage was connected to a specific hill in late Antiquity, it was eventually given the name  (, , , , , etc), after the 40-day period mentioned in the biblical accounts,  being a Late Latin form of classical  ("forty").

This was preserved in Arabic as  (, Jebel el-Qurunṭul), also transliterated Jabal al-Qurunṭul, Jebel Kuruntul, Jebel Kŭrŭntŭl, Jabal al-Quruntul, and Jabal al Qarantal, and eventually properly translated as Jebel el-Arba'in (جبل الأربعين, Jabal al-Arba'in, 'Mount of the Forty').

The name , later Mount of Temptation, was first attested in English in 1654.

In modern times, the name has been calqued into Arabic as  (), literally 'Mount of the Temptation'.

Related to the ancient fortress
The Hebrew name of the Maccabean fortress on this hill is not separately recorded but was transliterated into Greek as Dōk (; ; ) in 1 Maccabees and as Dagṑn () in the works of Josephus. The same name was preserved as Douka () as late as the early monasteries founded in the 4th century and two small settlements near the springs at the base of the mountain continue to bear the name Duyūk (). In Modern Hebrew, it is called Qarantal (), after the Arabic name.

Christian traditions

In the Synoptic Gospels of the Christian Bible, after his baptism by John in the River Jordan, Jesus is said to have been driven by the Spirit into the "wilderness", where he fasted for 40 days and 40 nights before being tempted by the "devil" or "Satan". The account in Mark says as much in brief summary. The account in Matthew describes the devil tempting Jesus first with his ability to provide himself food to end his hunger, then traveling to the Temple in Jerusalem and tempting him with threatening suicide to prompt action from God's angels, and finally traveling to a high mountain and tempting him with dominion over all the kingdoms of the world with the attendant glory. On each occasion, Jesus refuses to misuse his power to sate human appetites, to misuse his position to test God's will, or to countenance worship of anyone other than God. The account in Luke is essentially the same, but the order of the last two temptations is reversed.