[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# May 1965

icers against the fictitious Council.
Born: 
John C. Reilly, American actor and comedian, in Chicago
Shinichirō Watanabe, Japanese film director, producer, and screenwriter, in Kyoto
Died:
 Hans Jüttner, 71, German former SS leader
 Sonny Boy Williamson II (Aleck Miller), 52, American blues musician

May 25, 1965 (Tuesday)
World heavyweight boxing champion Muhammad Ali and the man whom he had beaten for the title in 1964, former champion Sonny Liston, faced each other in a much-anticipated rematch in Lewiston, Maine.  The match, seen by 4,280 in the small Central Maine Youth Center, started at 9:30 p.m. and was shown in theaters on closed-circuit television, and heard on the radio by millions of people.  Despite all the hype, the fight was over in only 60 seconds into the first round.  Ali struck Liston with what would become known as the "Phantom Punch", which few of the people watching saw on television because of the camera angle; "For many", a reporter would write the next day, "Liston seemed to fall without being hit."  As Liston lay on the canvas, the referee, former boxing champion Jersey Joe Walcott, forgot to begin counting, and admitted later, "I did not count out Liston.  I was told that he was on the floor 12 seconds.  Then I awarded the knockout." Liston got back up, Ali and Liston began fighting again, and Walcott separated the two men and stopped the bout.
Born: Yahya Jammeh, President of the Gambia since 1994; in Kanilai

May 26, 1965 (Wednesday)
After a week of civil warfare arising from a strike of tin miners, the offices of co-presidents of Bolivia were created, with President René Barrientos sharing power equally with General Alfredo Ovando Candía until new civilian presidential elections could be arranged. Barrientos would resign on January 2 to run in the campaign.
The new SOLAS Convention (International Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea), opened for signing in 1960, entered into force worldwide.
The United States Senate passed an amended version of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, by a 77-19 margin. Voting against the bill were 17 Democrats and two Republicans, all from the southern United States. An amendment was added in order to get the bill to pass, avoiding a prohibition of the poll tax; as one author would note later "The compromise amendment... stated that Congress was against the use of poll taxes as a condition for voting, but it did not actually ban the use of the taxes."
Born: Dilip Joshi, Indian actor, in Porbandar

May 27, 1965 (Thursday)
The first Australian troops in the Vietnam War departed on HMAS Sydney, with the 1st Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment being in the original group.
New Zealand Prime Minister Keith Holyoake announced in Parliament that 120 troops from the 16th Field Regiment, Royal New Zealand Artillery would become the first of that nation's troops to be committed to the Vietnam War. "Nothing will give Australian soldiers more satisfaction than to be in company with troops from New Zealand”, Holyoake told the opening session of Parliament in Wellington.
The Konfrontasi between Indonesia and Malaysia continued with the start of the Battle of Sungei Koemba, an ambush launched by the 3rd Battalion, Royal Australian Regiment (3 RAR), along the Sungei Koemba river in Kalimantan, the Indonesian side of the island of Borneo.
Playing on its home field, Inter Milan of Italy defeated S.L. Benfica of Portugal, 1–0, before a crowd of 80,000 fans at the San Siro stadium to win its second consecutive European Cup in soccer football. Because of heavy rains that fell before the game, the field was slippery. The lone goal was made by Jair da Costa.
The best-selling song by The Rolling Stones, "(I Can't Get No) Satisfaction", was released as a single in the United States by London Records, 15 days after it was recorded. It would not be released in the Stones' native Britain until August 20.
Born: Todd Bridges, American television actor best known for Diff'rent Strokes; in San Francisco
Died: Antonio Ligabue, 65, Italian Naïve artist

May 28, 1965 (Friday)
An explosion in a coal mine killed 375 miners in Dhanbad, located in the Bihar state in East India.  The cause was later attributed to an excess of coal dust from blasting an ignition by an electrical spark, which caused a tremendous explosion that killed hundreds of people underground, and more than 100 who were on the surface. 
Japan's House of Councillors voted 121 to 69 to pass the Farmland Reward Bill that had already cleared the House of Representatives, to compensate former landowners who had lost their property in the reforms that followed World War II.  Law 121, 1965 would take effect on June 3.
Born: Mary Coughlan, Irish Fianna Fáil politician, in Donegal
Died: P. R. Stephensen, 63, Australian political activist