[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

d from wounds. 
24 October – Three Free State soldiers are killed in an ambush at Graney, County Kildare and five wounded. Their tender is ambushed on the road to Baltinglass.
A Free State soldier is also killed in Limerick.
25 October – Éamon de Valera, at the request of the IRA Army Executive, sets up a "Republican Cabinet", formed from Anti-Treaty TDs to: "be temporarily the Supreme Executive of the Republic and the State, until such time as the elected Parliament of the Republic can freely assemble, or the people being rid of external aggression are at liberty to decide freely how they are to be governed".
Two Free State soldiers are killed, one in a firefight near Abbeydorney, County Kerry, the other by a sniper in Dundalk.
At an action near Castletownroche, County Cork, three IRA fighters are reported by the press to have been killed and nine wounded, having returned to the village for a funeral.
A Free State soldier is fatally wounded by a sniper in Castletownmount, near Dundalk.
28 October – Three Free State soldiers are killed.
Two Free State soldiers die in hospital in Limerick. One mortally wounded by a grenade attack in Limerick City on the 24th, another accidentally shot by another soldier cleaning a Thompson submachine gun.
29 October – An Anti-Treaty IRA column under Michael Kilroy attacks and takes Clifden, County Galway, capturing 80 Free State soldiers, after a ten-hour gun battle. The Irregulars burn the barracks there and take the Free State soldiers rifles before retreating. In a separate incident, a Free State soldier is killed by a landmine.
30 October – National Army troops raid Ballyheigue County Kerry. One Anti-Treaty fighter is killed, allegedly after he had been taken prisoner.
Late October – The bodies of four Anti-Treaty IRA men are found in hay stack at Rockview, Delvin, County Westmeath. They were killed by their own bomb while trying to blow up a bridge.
31 October – A civilian, James Cullinan of Kilnamona, County Clare, is shot dead by the roadside near his home by unknown gunmen.

November 1922
1 November – A 20 strong Anti-Treaty IRA column encounters 250 Free State troops at Brockagh Fahy, County Mayo. Six Republicans are captured, one is wounded and another is killed.
Five civilians are wounded by a grenade blast at an ambush in Henry Street, central Dublin.
2 November – Skirmish near Headford, County Kerry, one Anti-Treaty IRA man and a Free State soldier are killed.
3 November – Tom Powell and his East Mayo Anti-Treaty IRA unit are captured in Ballinrobe, County Mayo.
Republicans attack Free State General Richard Mulcahy's official residence adjoining a military barracks in Portobello, Dublin. A grenade is thrown into the house and fire is opened with revolvers before troops from the barracks are mobilised. One Anti-Treaty fighter is shot dead.
3 November – A Free State soldier and a civilian are killed in a car accident at North Wall, Dublin.
4 November – Ernie O'Malley, second-in-command of the Anti-Treaty IRA, is captured following a shoot out with Free State soldiers in a house on Ailesbury Road in Donnybrook, south Dublin. O'Malley is hit over 20 times, but survives and is taken prisoner. He shot dead a National Army soldier in the gun fight.
Two Free State soldiers are killed by a land mine and gun attack on a patrol near Dundalk. Another two are killed in Kerry.
Skirmish between National Army and Republican troops who attack military posts in two villages, Enniskean and Ballineen in West Cork. Five Free State soldiers are injured, two fatally. Republican losses are at least two dead; a section commander Tadhg O'Leary and a volunteer, both IRA West Cork Brigade.
5 November – 4 civilians are killed in Tubbercurry, three are shot dead by anti-Treaty fighters and one shot by Free State troops at a roadblock.
The National Army arrests Republican at checkpoint and executes him on the side of the road, in Peake near Coachford, County Cork.
Two British merchant sailors are shot dead by National Army troop in Youghal, County Cork when they failed to stop at a checkpoint.
6 November – Republicans attack the National Army barracks at Glanmire, County Cork. One civilian is wounded in the crossfire.
A prisoner, Michael Buckley, is shot dead in Limerick Prison by National Army troops for 'signalling to political prisoners'.
8 November – Five people are killed in an attack in Dublin. Anti-Treaty IRA fighters attack Wellington Barracks in Dublin. They open fire with machine guns and rifles from across the Grand Canal on National Army troops drilling on the parade square. In the ensuing firefight, one Free Soldier is killed and fourteen wounded, seven of whom require surgery. Two Republicans are killed and six captured, along with a machine gun, by Free State reinforcements rushed from Portobello. Two civilians are killed in the crossfire and many wounded. One of the IRA dead, James Spain, is allegedly executed while unarmed after capture.
One Civil Guard is mortally wounded.
A