[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Danish Americans

later as a master photographer documenting the New Deal and the plight of America's Depression Era. 
William Mortensen, born to Danish immigrant parents in Park City, Utah, became an American art photographer, primarily known for his Hollywood portraits in the 1920s–1940s in the pictorialist style.

Dance 
The three Christensen brothers: Lew, Harold, and Willam are well known in the history of American ballet. The three carved out careers as choreographers, teachers and directors, and clearly helped ballet flourish in the United States. Willam Christensen (1902–2001) especially, was the founder of the San Francisco Ballet. The three brothers were born into a Danish-American Mormon family in Brigham City, Utah.

Design 
Peter Bentzon, he was a Danish West Indies-born American master silversmith and the only early-American silversmith of African-ancestry whose silverwork has been identified. He produced his masterpieces on both St. Croix and in Philadelphia,
Jens Risom a craftsman from Copenhagen, who emigrated in 1939, was renowned for his furniture design, as co-founder of the Hans Knoll Furniture Company, and as a trustee at the Rhode Island School of Design. 
Tage Frid, another Danish furniture designer, who came to the United States in 1948, is likewise known for his wood furniture design and professorship at the Rhode Island School of Design from 1962 to 1985. In the field of metalsmithing, 
John Prip, who was born in New York to a Danish father and an American mother, performed his apprenticeship in Denmark and returned to the United States where he became known for his silverwork and design. Many years after creation, some of Prip's designs are still in production by the Reed & Barton Silver Company. Prip taught at both the Rochester Institute of Technology and the Rhode Island School of Design.

Food 
According to Louis' Lunch, the hamburger was created by the owner, Louis Lassen (1865 Denmark – March 20, 1935 New Haven, Connecticut) in 1900 in response to a customer's hurried request for a lunch to go. Louis' Lassen's restaurant is recognized in the Library of Congress as the origin of the hamburger, but other claimants and detractors exist.

Science 
Jens Clausen revolutionized the study of evolutionary genetics in botany, while Erik Erikson revolutionized developmental psychology with his theory on social development. Niels Ebbesen Hansen was a noted pioneer in plant breeding.
Charles Christian Lauritsen was a physicist. In the final months of World War II he was part of the team of scientists who invented the atomic bomb.
Mikkel Frandsen was a physical chemist noted for his experiments involving chemical thermodynamics, oil, and heavy water.
Adam Giede Boving served as assistant curator of entomology in the Zoological Museum in Copenhagen from 1902 to 1913 and after emigration became a research associate at the Smithsonian; in 1939 he joined the staff of the Bureau of Entomology at United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) until his retirement in 1945.

Sports 
James J. Ward (born in Denmark as Jens P. Wilson) stands as an early pioneer aviator and biplane exhibition flyer. He was among those who attempted the first transcontinental (New York to San Francisco) air race in 1911.

Oscar Mathæus Nielsen, also known as Battling Nelson, was a boxer who held the world lightweight championship on two separate occasions. He was nicknamed "the Durable Dane". Nelson was born in Copenhagen, Denmark, and emigrated to the United States in 1883. 
John Gutenko, also known as Kid Williams, was a boxer who held the world bantamweight championship. Gutenko was born in Rahó, Austria-Hungary to a Danish father and emigrated to the United States in 1904. 
Morten Andersen was a pro football kicker in the NFL for the New Orleans Saints from 1982 to 1994. As a kicker, he held the NFL scoring record until October 28, 2018, when it was broken by Colts kicker Adam Vinatieri. He also played for the Atlanta Falcons from 1995 to 2000, and then again from 2006 to 2007. Other NFL teams he has also played for are the New York Giants in 2001, Kansas City Chiefs from 2002 to 2003, and the Minnesota Vikings in 2004. 
Earl W. Bascom was a professional rodeo champion and rodeo equipment inventor. Called the "father of modern rodeo" and the "father of rodeo bareback riding," he invented the modern bareback rigging in 1924 which helped rodeo bareback bronc riding become an international sport.  He was the first inductee of the National Bareback Riding Hall of Fame.
George Nissen was an Americans gymnast and inventor who developed the modern trampoline and made trampolining a worldwide sport. 
Related to American sports culture, competitive swimming and sports apparel have never been the same since Danish-American Carl C. Jantzen and his partners founded the Jantzen Knitting Works in Portland, Oregon, in 1910.