[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Soulton Hall

mathematical relationship between the hall and walled garden, represent a geometric philosophical allegory seen in stately architecture as diverse as the Anglo-Saxon Mercian royal crypt at Repton, and the Coronation Theatre of Henry III at Westminster Abbey with the Cosmati Pavement at its centre. 

The geometry is understood, as stated by James D. Wenn include commentary on sacred geometry:

Soulton’s sermon in stones concerns the geometry of the rhombic dodecahedron — a solid that has certain ‘perfect’ characteristics, including that it can fill space (as cubes can), and is the 3D projection of a 4D Platonic Solid called the hyperdiamond. The former characteristic lends it an allegorical quality, because the concept of a civilised person fitting into a society, often represented by cubes, is made a little more complex and nuanced. Everybody can fit into a harmony, but it may take some patience — indeed, tolerance — to find the right fit. The connection to the fourth spatial dimension invokes ideas of God’s power beyond the constraints of time, as discussed by ancient theologians such as Boethius.

Even before Boethius, these ideas were discussed in ancient Greek philosophy. Plato’s book Timaeus sought to reflect the harmony of the natural world, and by the invention of the Atlantis story (which later inspired Bacon), attempted to encourage civic harmony, too.

Representation of Holy Amandal

Soulton is thought to have been copied by Francis Bacon when he built Verulam House. It is further thought that the construction of Soulton Hall (with its lost pyramidal roof) is done to represent a Holy Almandal.

Ellusis 

The whole precinct of the hall and linked courts to the north, east and south is matched to the geometry of the Telesterion at Ellusis, giving a compound of 55 yards square. This shows conscious engagement with those Greek mysteries. At Soulton a nine grid is laid over the precinct to give compartments of 55 foot squares.  The current hall itself if 55 foot cubed: a number which recurs at the Washington Monument, amongst other places. These observations were first made in modern times by James D. Wenn.

Parker connection 
These features of the hall's design may have been influenced by the scholarship of Hill's contemporary, historian and protestant theologian Matthew Parker of Cambridge.

Concealed chapel 

The basement of the house contains a room called the 'Ædicule'; a concealed chapel in the east front (which is the only truly symmetrical face of the 1550s design and is intended to conjure Solomon's Temple).

The central position of this room was prioritised so strongly that its doorway interrupts a load-bearing wall supporting the hall above, thus requiring that other walls had to be reinforced. It is the only room in the building to have a central window.

The house's alignment is taken from this room which addresses the range of dates possible for the celebration of Easter.

Dancing pavement 

To the south of the current hall is a cobbled yard of Victorian date (1847). It is based on similar patterns seen at the preserved Tudor Hall at Plas Mawr it is likely the design was taken from Tudor features within the hall lost during subsequent renovations. Scholars have interpreted this as a dancing pavement linked to some of the ideas of harmony explored by Ptolemy.

Priest hide 

There is a priest hide on the principle floor of the house in the south west corner of the building in a turret containing several chimneys, in the interior of the room (believed to be Sir Rowland Hill's studiolo). It is not known whether this hiding place was ever used but provides evidence of early intent to use the building as a safehouse, from the time of its construction. More associated with the hiding of Catholics during the reign of Elizabeth I of England, the early date of the priest hole's inclusion in the architecture at Soulton combined with Rowland Hill's position suggests they were more likely intended for use to hide prominent protestants such as Matthew Parker from the inquisitions of Mary I. Uniquely among protestant leaders Parker did not flee England yet somehow survived. His whereabouts, and that of his library during this time have always been a matter of speculation. It has thus been inferred that Parker may have been sheltered at Soulton by Rowland Hill, with whom he was later associated, not least by both being Commissioners for Ecclesiastical Causes at the dawn of Elizabeth I's reign.

The history of the priest-hole has been memorialised by the addition of a modern plaque which says:  Behind this tablet lies a space believed to have been intended to be used to hide scholars and priests from the authorities during the turmoil of the sixteenth century.
This memorial honours all who have suffered persecution for their beliefs.

On the beams in this room there are also quotations from Michel de Montaigne.

Epidaurus Court, a Tudor theatre space