[Source: Semantic Scholar | Fields:  | Year: 2025 | Citations: 0]

Title: A Review of the Indo-Pacific Strategy in the Trump 2.0 Era and South Korea's Security Response Strategy

Abstract:
The primary purpose of this study is to forecast how the Trump administration’s second term Indo-Pacific (hereinafter referred to as the Indo-Pacific) strategy will unfold, analyze the challenges it poses to South Korea’s security, and propose a response strategy. As analyzed in this paper, based on the ‘America First’ principle, the Trump administration’s second term Indo-Pacific strategy is expected to continue the principles of the first administration while further strengthening containment of China and a US-centric order. Specifically, the Trump administration is expected to further strengthen networks centered on multilateral cooperation, such as the ‘Quad’ and ‘AUKUS,’ while deterring military activity against China, expanding information warfare, and expanding ‘Freedom of Navigation Operations (FONOPs)’. Furthermore, it is expected to increase defense cost-sharing and expand responsibilities for allies, and, if necessary, utilize the card of reducing US forces. Consequently, South Korea faces the ‘economic security’ dilemma of participating in US efforts to contain China while maintaining economic cooperation with China. Furthermore, the expanded and realigned role of the South Korea-US alliance could increase the burden. If the Trump administration deprioritizes the North Korean nuclear issue, it is expected to pose a major challenge to South Korea’s security. Therefore, this paper presents South Korea’s response to the US’s plan to expand the role of USFK to contain China, ensuring the security and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific region. At the same time, South Korea emphasized the importance of institutionalizing trilateral security cooperation among South Korea, the US, and Japan, and multilateral cooperation with partner nations such as Australia, India, and NATO. Accordingly, it proposed expanding the security platform by strengthening relations with UNC member states. Consequently, to prepare for the potential intensification of US-China conflict and competition under the Trump administration’s second-term Indo-Pacific strategy, South Korea will need to pursue flexible policies that prioritize national interests and mitigate the asymmetry of the South Korea-US alliance.