[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Martha Washington Inn

Lee.  Captain Stoves is dead."  Beth died a few weeks later from typhoid fever.
Many of the female students who later attended the college, as well as inn employees and guests, have heard Beth's sweet violin music in the night.  Others report that Beth visits Room 403 to comfort her Yankee soldier.

 Reappearing Bloodstain
A young Confederate soldier in Abingdon was assigned to carry important papers about the location of the Union army to General Robert E. Lee.  He was hopelessly in love with a young woman at the college.  Knowing the risks he was facing, the brave soldier felt he must say farewell to his lady love before leaving.  The soldier traveled through the cave system underlying Abingdon and used a secret stairway to enter the college.  As the soldier was saying goodbye to his love, two Union officers came up the stairs and found them.  With no way to escape, the young Confederate soldier was shot in front of his sweetheart, and, when he fell, his blood stained the floor.  The strange thing is that through the years, the bloodstain continues to appear.  Carpets over the area often develop mysterious holes over the stains.  Even after the floors have been refinished, the stain continues to reappear, a sad reminder of the tragedy of the Civil War.

The Phantom Horse

A phantom horse waits for his master outside the front steps, a Union soldier that was shot in front of the house in 1864.  On moonless nights, the horse has been seen roaming the grounds searching for his owner and awaiting the call to ride home.

The Basement Walls

The basement holds the spirits of black slaves, they were kept in an underground chamber and some were buried within its stone walls.

The Trail Of Mud

Numerous accounts of a soldier hobbling with help from a crutch and leaving a trail of mud in his wake have been reported from a hallway of the Inn.  Long past medical help, there is only speculation why he is here at the old hospital, a ball leaving only a hideous mangle of bone and sparse flesh had split his head.

The Angry Spirit In The Tunnel

A tunnel once connected the Martha Washington Inn with the Barter Theatre. The entrance on the inn's side has been closed off for several years, but the section below the theater is still used to run electrical cables. Actors who used the tunnel to walk between the inn and the theater in the 1930s and 1940s reported encountering a malevolent spirit. The specter was never seen but sensed as a strong evil presence. The spirit is believed to be either a man who was killed when the tunnel collapsed in 1890 or a Confederate soldier who used the tunnel to smuggle ammunition out of the inn's basement during the Civil War.

See also
 List of Historic Hotels of America
 Abingdon, Virginia
 Barter Theatre

Footnotes

References
 Warmuth, Akers, Donna., "Legends, Stories and Ghostly Tales of Abingdon and Washington County, Virginia"., Laurel Publishing., Boone, North Carolina., 2005

External links
 The Martha Washington Inn official site
 Official Virginia Tourism site article on the Inn

Hotels in Virginia
American Civil War hospitals
Buildings and structures in Washington County, Virginia
Hotels established in 1935
1935 establishments in Virginia
Historic district contributing properties in Virginia
Preston family of Virginia
Historic Hotels of America