[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Timeline of the 2006 Lebanon War

crisis, but gave no other details.  Furthermore, Iran's state news agency confirmed Hezbollah Secretary General Hassan Nasrallah's presence in Damascus.  Although Hezbollah has received significant Iranian assistance in the past, Iranian officials denied assisting Hezbollah in the current conflict.

Saturday, July 29
"IDF leaves Bint Jbeil area."Israeli newspaper declared. During the morning hours most of the units who took part in Bint Jbeil began to withdraw from the area. The battle for Bint Jbail has symbolized Israel's difficulty in pushing guerrillas back from the border, whether by air bombardment or ground assault. Armored forces are still fighting. Israel has declared it succeed in it mission and killed more than 70 militant in Bin Jbeil.  It was reported the next day that this had been an IDF "withdrawal" and that Hizbollah still held Bint Jbeil.

There were IDF missile attacks around the area of Al Safeer, in the Al Dahia Al Janoubiyya area of Beirut, and shelling of the Jarhou’ area in southern Lebanon.  North of Beirut IDF shelling destroyed the Al Assy Bridge.  Shelling attacks were also made against Jabal Abu Rashid, Borka, Jbour and Al Nahry in Al Biqa plains.  Sahl Al Khiyam, in Marj Oyoun area, in southern Lebanon were also shelled with artillery as well as Al Tayba and Markaba villages. The area around Sour city and outlying villages was also shelled. An IDF spokeswoman said that the IDF had attacked 51 targets overnight and on Saturday at dawn, destroying 37 buildings used by Hezbollah.

IDF deployed a Patriot interceptor missile battery north of Tel Aviv, in response to Hezbollah firing Khaibar-1 rockets at Afula on July 28.

Sunday, July 30

Under cover of artillery strikes IDF ground troops pushed towards the villages of Taiba and Adisa.  The IDF said the village was being used as a launching site for rocket attacks. One IDF soldier was shot and wounded near Adisa. A quantity of weapons were also recovered. IDF jets bombed unreported targets in Khiyam and the bombing of Qana caused a large number of civilian fatalities.

Fire from Regular Lebanese Army in Yammouni was reported against IDF Choppers attempting to land in the area. The Lebanese dispersed following airstrikes by IDF.

Monday, July 31
Despite a reported qualified suspension in Israeli aerial activity beginning on midnight July 30, IDF bombers hit the area around Tayba. CNN reported that the Israeli Army had explained the bombing was to "protect ground forces operating in the border area and were not aimed at specific targets".  The bombing led to damage of an unspecified number of Lebanese Army vehicles in the area.  The Israeli Army apologised for the damage.

On July 31, 2006, Hezbullah said that its forces hit an Israeli corvette near the city of Tyre; Israel denied that any of its ships was hit.

One Lebanese Army personnel was killed, and three were injured in an IDF Naval attack on the Lebanese military base north of Tyre.  The towns of Al-Awayda area, Kafr Shuba' and Kafr Hamam were also hit with IDF artillery strikes.  The Tyre–Kila area was also the scene of IDF air strikes, a ground incursion, and clash with Hezbollah which left three IDF tank personnel wounded.  There were unconfirmed reports of a late-night incursion by IDF on the western range of the Lebanese mountains and four Israeli IAF raids targeted the Faraya road around Hermel in the Bekaa valley.

August 1–4

Tuesday, August 1