[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gerak Khas (Malaysian Army unit)

Dickson, Negeri Sembilan
 Imphal Camp in Kuala Lumpur
 Sungai Udang Camp in Malaccca
 Slim Camp in Cameron Highlands, Pahang
 Erskine Camp in Kuala Kubu Bharu, Selangor
 Iskandar Camp in Mersing, Johor

Only two are still under the command of the 21st Special Service Group. The camps are as follows:

Sungai Udang Camp 
Sungai Udang Camp is known as the 'Home of the Commandos' and the spiritual home of the Gerak Khas. The Pusat Latihan Peperangan Khas (PULPAK; 'Special Warfare Training Centre') was established here in 1975 as part of the 3rd Malaysian Plan and the expansion of the Armed Forces. Due to overcrowding at Sungai Udang Military Camp, the 22nd Commando Regiment relocated to Kuala Kubu Bharu in 1983. This camp is still occupied by two Gerak Khas regiments today.

Iskandar Camp 

The 21st Special Service Group, one of its combat regiments, and all support units have relocated to the new special operations force base in Mersing, Iskandar Camp. Iskandar Camp is located  south of Mersing and spans an area of . There are 200 buildings, 20 kilometres of roads, three bridges, a harbour, helicopter landing pads, parade squares, and other facilities. The total cost of the project was MYR 422 million. The new base was named Kem Iskandar after Johor's late Sultan, Iskandar of Johor, a staunch supporter of Gerak Khas and its former Colonel-in-Chief.

Organisations

21st Special Service Group 
The great majority of Gerak Khas commandos are members of the 21st Special Service Group (21 SSG). The Malaysian Army's 21 SSG is a brigade-sized independent special operations unit that reports directly to the Chief of Army. There are three special forces combat units under 21 SSG, which are supported by numerous special forces support units. A Major General commands the 21st Special Service Group.

Special Forces Directorate
The Special Forces Directorate is a small group of around 20 personnel, tasked with planning and co-ordination of resources and equipment of 21st Special Service Group. The directorate also provides assistance during operational deployment of 21st Special Service Group units and formulate policy guidelines. The Cell also undertakes Planning and Intelligence tasks as well as Operational Research Section.

Others 
Aside from the 21 SSG, some Gerak Khas commandos are assigned as instructors at the Special Warfare Training Centre, which is managed by the Malaysian Army Training and Doctrine Command. One company of Gerak Khas commandos was also assigned to the Malaysian Army Ready Battalion as a special operations element. Some Gerak Khas commandos were also attached to HANDAU (now known as PASKAU) as the RMAF Air Rescue Team in the 1980s.

National Special Operations Force 

In 2016, Malaysia's main counter-terrorism operators merged to form a single special operations task force. Some 11th Special Service Regiment operators have been chosen to serve in the National Special Operations Force. The National Special Operations Force was disbanded in July 2018.

Defense Special Operations Division 
Following the disbandment of the National Special Operations Force in 2018, the Malaysian Armed Forces intend to establish a joint special operations task force similar to the NSOF, but only for special forces units from the Malaysian Armed Forces. This unit, known as the Defense Special Operations Division or Bahagian Operasi Pasukan Khas Pertahanan in Malay language, was established in 2020. Some Gerak Khas commandos have been assigned to the DSOD.

91st Intelligence Operations Group 
This unit, known as the Pasukan Khas Perisikan Tempur ('Special Combat Intelligence Force'), was formed on 1 April 1972 with 35 commandos from the Gerak Khas and assigned as a combat intelligence unit to the Royal Intelligence Corps. This unit later expanded to become the 91st Intelligence Operations Group. Its members are still sent to the Special Warfare Training Centre for the Basic Commando Course today.

Units

Recruitment, selection and training

Special Warfare Training Centre

On 1 August 1976, the Special Warfare Training Centre, also known as PULPAK from its Malay name – Pusat Latihan Peperangan Khusus, was established. Prior to its establishment, the 1st Malaysian Special Service Regiment was in charge of all Gerak Khas training. PULPAK is still supported by 21 Cdo, 22 Cdo, and 11 SSR in terms of manpower and expertise. PULPAK's role is to provide specialised courses and training for all military and law enforcement personnel in accordance with current circumstances: