[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Welshman Ncube

part of the Mathonsi Ncube Law Chambers firm, where he is the senior partner at the firm's Bulawayo offices.

Amendment 19 

Amendment No 19 in 2008 paved the way for the implementation of the power-sharing agreement which formed the Government of National Unity, made of ZANU PF, MDC-T and the MDC.

Ncube became the center of Amendment No 19 of the Previous Zimbabwean constitution. This Bill would amend the Constitution in the following principal respects: firstly, to substitute the Chapter on Citizenship by another Chapter making more comprehensive provision on the same topic; secondly, to make specific provision for the appointment and functions of the committee of Parliament known as the Committee on Standing Rules and Orders; thirdly, to provide that the appointment by the President of the chairperson of Zimbabwe Electoral Commission, and of the members of the Anti-Corruption Commission, must be done in consultation with the Committee on Standing Rules and Orders; fourthly to provide for the appointment and functions of a Zimbabwe Media Commission; and finally to make certain transitional amendments pursuant to the agreement between the Presidents of the Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front (ZANU-PF) and the two formations of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC), on resolving the challenges facing Zimbabwe, which was signed in Harare on 15 September 2008.

Background 
After the 2002 disputed presidential election the SADC and the Commonwealth advised Zimbabwe to start a dialog to resolve the issues raised by the MDC. Ncube represented the MDC in the talks and Patrick Chinamasa represented ZANU PF. The talks were facilitated by former South African President Kgalema Montlanthe and Professor Adebayo Adedeji of Nigeria. Unreasonable as it seemed, Ncube refused any settlement beyond that of an Inclusive Government. The talks went on for years. When the MDC split, Tendai Biti joined the negotiations as the secretary general of the MDC-T.  After the 2008 electoral crisis, the negotiations between Welshman Ncube, Patrick Chinamasa and Tendai Biti laid ground for new negotiations that formed the Inclusive Government.

Ncube, together with Priscila Misihairabwi –Mushonga (representing MDC) Nicholas Goche and Patrick Chinamasa (ZANU PF), and Tendai Biti and Elton Mangoma (MDC-T) constituted the team of negotiators which negotiated the Global Political Agreement (GPA) under the auspices of the then South African President Thabo Mbeki who was the SADC appointed facilitator to the Zimbabwe political dialogue during 2008. The GPA gave birth to the Inclusive Government. The Inclusive Government became responsible for arresting what was then an unprecedented decline of both politics and economics in Zimbabwe.

Minister of Commerce and Industry 
Ncube became the Minister of Industry and Commerce in the Inclusive Government from February 2009 to July 2013 and in that capacity chaired the COMESA Council of Ministers during 2010 and 2011. He was also the country's representative at the EU ACP Council of Ministers during his stint in government. He also served in the SADC Council of Ministers and the SADC, COMESA and EAC Tripartite Council of Ministers.

Distressed and Marginalized Areas Fund (Dimaf) 
In his capacity as the Minister of Commerce and Industry, Ncube sourced funds amounting to US$40 million from the international community to revitalize distressed companies in marginalized areas. CABS Bank was the government's disbursing partner, out of 60 companies that applied for the fund only 3 received the funding due to tight regulations and rules. Despite Ncube's directive to CABS bank to relax the rules and regulations so that more companies could benefit from the fund, CABS defied his directive and as a result the companies that re-applied still did not meet the minimum requirements. The debate about the fund continued until CABS deposited the money back into government's bank account.

Essar deal 
Ncube signed a deal with Essar Steel that would allow the Indian steel giant to rehabilitate the existing obsolete equipment of Zisco Steel. The success of this deal would provide for over 500 people to be employed. However, the deal failed due to a lack of clearance and consent from other ministries was required. In fear that Ncube would be looked to provide solutions to solve Zimbabwe's high unemployment rate, ZANU PF ministers refused to grant the need clearance. In 2015 the new government reopened negotiations with Essar. The government and Essar Africa Holdings agreed on an improved Zimbabwe Iron and Steel Company (Ziscosteel) deal, providing for a complete overhaul of the company's equipment that has been lying idle for years.

Political career