[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Book of Numbers

in Canaan. As chapters 1–10 progress, the theme of God's presence with Israel comes to the fore: these chapters describe how Israel is to be organized around the Sanctuary, God's dwelling-place in their midst, under the charge of the Levites and priests, in preparation for the conquest of the land.

The Israelites then set out to conquer the land, but almost immediately they refuse to enter it, and Yahweh condemns the whole generation who left Egypt to die in the wilderness. The message is clear: failure was not due to any fault in the preparation, because Yahweh had foreseen everything, but due to Israel's sin of unfaithfulness. In the final section, the Israelites of the new generation follow Yahweh's instructions as given through Moses and are successful in all they attempt. The last five chapters are exclusively concerned with land: instructions for the extermination of the Canaanites, the demarcation of the boundaries of the land, how the land is to be divided, holy cities for the Levites and "cities of refuge", the problem of pollution of the land by blood, and regulations for inheritance when a male heir is lacking.

A large part of the theological theme in Numbers is the righteousness and holiness of God being met with human rebellion. The two censuses not only show the different response of two generations but rather that God had remained faithful despite the rebellion of the Israelites. The theme of the book should seem to be more centrally focused on the faithfulness and holiness of God as this is a common theme that runs through the Pentateuch and also through the book of Numbers.

Census numbers 
The book of Numbers records in some detail the population of the fighting men in Israel as to be over 600,000. This would translate to a total population of 1.5 to 2.5 million Israelites. However, scholars have proposed multiple alternatives as such a large number of Israelites cannot be accepted. Some scholars see this as non-historical and are fabricated numbers, opting instead to focus on Numbers as a theological book and not a historical one. 

Others say that the literature is not referring to the actual number and the word for 'thousand' is actually referring to noun to signify a group or clan, however this poses a problem of undermining the book of Numbers as there are many inconsistencies that cannot be resolved. Most scholars who hold this view posit a much lower number for the fighting  men of Israel, closer to 20,000. Based on the nature of the book and the many accounts of tax payment and records of animals and persons, it is most likely that Numbers is referring to an actual account of numerical recounting of the Israelite people. A more likely explanation to the large number stated in the book is that the actual numerical metric cannot really be established today. This would require us to take the values given as they are as any other alternatives raises more problems than solutions.

Judaism's weekly Torah portions in the Book of Numbers 

 Bemidbar, on Numbers 1–4: First census, priestly duties
 Naso, on Numbers 4–7: Priestly duties, the camp, unfaithfulness, and the Nazirite, Tabernacle consecration
 Behaalotecha, on Numbers 8–12: Levites, journeying by cloud and fire, complaints, questioning of Moses
 Shlach, on Numbers 13–15: Mixed report of the scouts and Israel's response, libations, bread, idol worship, fringes
 Korach, on Numbers 16–18: Korah's rebellion, plague, Aaron's staff buds, duties of the Levites
 Chukat, on Numbers 19–21: Red heifer, water from a rock, Miriam's and Aaron's deaths, victories, serpents
 Balak, on Numbers 22–25: Balaam's donkey and blessing
 Pinechas, on Numbers 25–29: Phinehas, second census, inheritance, Moses' successor, offerings and holidays
 Matot, on Numbers 30–32: Vows, Midian, dividing booty, land for Reuben, Gad, and half of Manasseh
 Masei, on Numbers 33–36: Stations of the Israelites' journeys, instructions for conquest, cities for Levites

See also
 Balaam
 Book of the Wars of the Lord
 Inverted nun (only appears twice in the Book of Numbers and seven times in the Book of Psalms)
 Ketef Hinnom scrolls
 Ordeal of bitter water
 Priestly Blessing
 Torah
 What hath God wrought (disambiguation)
 Wilderness of Sin

References

Citations

Sources

 

  

Plaut, Gunther. The Torah: A Modern Commentary (1981),

Further reading

External links

 במדבר Bamidbar – Numbers (Hebrew – English at Mechon-Mamre.org)