[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paul Buckle

he remained at St. James' Park, playing in 43 games the following season and 25 the season after.

Buckle then joined Football Conference side Aldershot Town in 2002, before dropping down a further division to play for Weymouth in 2003, in addition to being employed as a youth-team coach at Exeter.

He was made caretaker manager at Weymouth after the club sacked Steve Claridge, obtaining a win and three draws in his four games in temporary charge. He left the club on 16 December 2004 to return in a non-paid playing role at Exeter, now themselves in non-League football. He made four appearances before joining Tiverton Town for a short time, playing in 12 games.

In March 2005, Buckle returned to Exeter City once more, this time as player-coach under manager Alex Inglethorpe, continuing in this role under Inglethorpe's successor Paul Tisdale. Buckle continued to play regularly during this spell, making 70 appearances and eventually became assistant manager.

Coaching and management

Exeter City
In his role as assistant manager, he helped lead Exeter City to the Conference National play-off final at Wembley at the end of the 2006–07 season, although they lost to Morecambe.

Torquay United
After his time at Exeter City, Buckle was keen to pursue his own job as a manager and, in June 2007, he was appointed manager of relegated Torquay United by new Chief Executive Colin Lee, his former youth team manager at Brentford.

In his first season at Plainmoor he led Torquay to a third-placed finish in the Conference Premier and thus a place in the end of season play-offs to get back into the Football League. Torquay faced Buckle's former club and local rivals Exeter City. Despite a 2–1 win in the away leg, Exeter hit back and Torquay lost 4–1 at home (5–3 on aggregate). Buckle also took Torquay to the FA Trophy final, however, that was also to end in disappointment as the Gulls were defeated 1–0 by Ebbsfleet United at Wembley.

Despite a slow start to the next campaign, Torquay bounced back to again qualify for the play-offs and finished the league in fourth place. They defeated Histon in the semi-finals 2–1 on aggregate to set up a final against Cambridge United. Torquay beat Cambridge 2–0 with goals from Chris Hargreaves and Tim Sills to return to the Football League at the second attempt.

In September 2009, Buckle signed a two-year contract extension following speculation that he was to be offered the vacant managerial position at another of his former clubs, Colchester United. After being in or hovering just above the relegation zone for much of the 2009–10 campaign, Buckle eventually led Torquay to 17th place in the table following a strong finish to the season, in which they kept a club record seven consecutive clean sheets.

The next season proved more successful, with Torquay under Buckle spending much of the season in or just outside the play-off places. A seventh-placed finish, achieved on goal difference, led the club to play third-placed Shrewsbury Town in the play-off semi-final, which Torquay won 2–0 on aggregate. However, following a 1–0 defeat to Stevenage at Old Trafford in the play-off final on 28 May 2011, Buckle left the club to join newly relegated Bristol Rovers.

Bristol Rovers
Buckle's first act as Bristol Rovers manager was to successfully persuade Torquay assistant manager Shaun North, goalkeeper Scott Bevan and striker Chris Zebroski to join him. After signing a total of 19 players, and releasing or selling 19 of Rovers existing players from the previous season's relegation, a run of four wins from the first ten games left the club in mid-table. However, things quickly worsened, with the club winning only two further league games before January and Buckle publicly falling out with Bristol Rovers' fan favourite Stuart Campbell, who he released from his contract in December 2011 after a dressing room bust up that involved Phil Kite (physio). Buckle was alleged to have passed derogatory remarks about Rovers fans which became physical. Buckle's position at the club became increasingly unstable following home defeats to Crewe Alexandra and Plymouth Argyle that left the club just outside the relegation zone and, on 3 January 2012, he was sacked by Bristol Rovers after a 2–0 loss to struggling Barnet.