[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry M. Judah

m by Schofield, Judah was given one last chance to redeem himself at the Battle of Resaca. In his haste to seize victory, he did not properly reconnoiter the battlefield terrain beforehand or use his artillery in the fight. It would be his last field command, as Schofield soon removed him from duty.

Judah was placed on routine administrative duty in the Department of the Cumberland until the end of the war, stationed in Marietta, Georgia. He was appointed a brevet lieutenant colonel and colonel in the Regular Army on March 13, 1865. On May 12, he received the surrender of Brig. Gen. William T. Wofford's estimated 3,000 to 4,000 Confederate soldiers. Since no crops had been grown here on the battlefields in 1864 and, as the surrender had paralyzed the local economy and government, the citizens and former soldiers lacked food, funds and employment. Judah, seeing that aid was needed to prevent suffering, issued corn and bacon to the needy until a crop could be harvested. The rations helped put the Georgians and their economy back on a sound basis, and served as a humanitarian gesture.

Later years and death
After the war, Judah mustered out of the volunteer army on August 24, 1865 and reverted to his Regular Army rank of major. He served on garrison duty in Plattsburgh, New York, where he died a year later. He was entombed at Kings Highway Cemetery in Westport, Connecticut.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)

Notes

References
 Denslow, William R., 10,000 Famous Freemasons from A to J Part One. Whitefish, Montana: Kessinger Publishing, 1957. .
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Warner, Ezra J., Generals in Blue: Lives of the Union Commanders, Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1964, .
Georgia historical marker for Wofford's surrender to Judah
Georgia historical marker commemorating Judah's benevolent issuance of food rations

External links

Military biography of Henry Judah from the Cullum biographies

Union Army generals
United States Military Academy alumni
1821 births
1866 deaths
People of California in the American Civil War
United States Army officers
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
People from Snow Hill, Maryland