[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Werder (Havel)

dominant fruits grown in the area are cherries, apples, and strawberries but raspberries, gooseberries, currants, blackberries, apricots, peaches, pears, and plums are also cultivated. Vegetables are also grown, especially tomatoes, the bulk of which are cultivated in local greenhouses.

Viticulture

Wine cultivation is the city's second-oldest trade after fishing, brought to this area before 1300 by monks of the Cistercian Order. The wine of the Margraviate of Brandenburg (Mark Brandenburg) was by the end of the 13th century one the region's most important exports to eastern and northern Europe. The Hohenzollern dynasty that came from Franconia to Brandenburg, made the wine of the Brandenburg Mark part of its court. Until the death of the Great Elector, the wine was drunk in his residence. The first Wine Master Order of Brandenburg was founded in 1598 by the Elector Johann Georg, and at that time it was reported that Havel would also have vineyards just like the ones in the Moselle. However, the viticulture in this area was not trouble-free. The winters could be extremely hard on occasion, when many vines would get frostbite. This happened in the winter of 1739/40, when the frost lasted until June. In the first half of the 18th century, grapes were grown on more than 100 hectares in Werder. The vines at that time were Weißer Elbling, Weißer and Roter Schönedel, and Rotfranke grapes. Nevertheless, more red wine than white wine was grown. The Werderaner Wachtelberg (Quail's Mountain) is the oldest winegrowing location beyond the island of Werder. On the island, vineyards were located on the Muhlenberg hill. The vineyards existed before their envelopment by fruit trees, especially apricots and peaches. The fruits were transported with great care in the Obsttienen (small wooden transport containers). 

In 1887 it was reported that 2 vineyards remained. Wine cultivation ended when the last vines in Werder were frostbitten in the winter of 1955/56. In 1985 the Fruit Production Cooperative of Werder was founded on the Werderaner Wachtelberg, with a vineyard covering 4.8 hectares. Today about 30,000 vines grow there on nearly 7 hectares of land. Dornfelder, Regent, Saphira, and Müller-Thurgau grapes are grown here, among other varieties. Within the scope of the Federal Garden Show (Bundesgartenschau) in Potsdam, Wine Teaching Paths were established at the Werderaner Wachtelberg. Today 38 red and 40 white wine varieties are grown here. The Werderaner Wachtelberg vineyard lies at a latitude of 52 degrees and 22 minutes north, far to the north of the typical winegrowing areas in Europe. In 1991 the vineyard was given Großlagenfreie Einzellage classification in the Weinanbaugebiet Saale-Unstrut (winegrowing area on the Saale and Unstrut rivers) and was also recognised by the EU. It is at the most northern registered position for quality-tested wine cultivation (QbA) in Europe and the world.

Notable people
 Anna Simson (1835–1916), women's rights activist
 Karl Hagemeister (1848–1933), landscape painter
 Burglinde Pollak (* 1951), pentathlete
 Brigitte Ahrenholz (1952–2018), rower
 Adolf Damaschke (1865–1935), politician and economist, lived in Werder since 1907
 Bruno Kramm (* 1967), musician

Gallery

International relations

Twin towns — Sister cities
Werder is twinned with:
 Oppenheim, Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany
 Almdorf, Schleswig-Holstein, Germany
 Hjørring, Denmark
 Tczew, Poland
 Biržai, Lithuania
 Muan-gun, South Korea

See also
Großer Plessower See

References

 Werder, in: Meyers Konversationslexikon, 4. Aufl. 1888-89, Bd. 16, S. 534.
Werder News at the Werder (Havel) Blog.
Thomas's Glassware Tour 2006. Werder/Havel. Retrieved April 3, 2006.
Werder upon Havel City Council 2006.City Council of Werder upon Havel's official website. Retrieved April 3, 2006.

External links

 Official website of Werder (Havel)  + 

Localities in Potsdam-Mittelmark