[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jason Raize

eath. I don't think he had figured it out yet [what to do next]". He took a job working as a general hand at a stud farm in Yass, New South Wales called Hardwicke Stud, owned by Olympic gold medalist Lawrence Morgan. This was also a place where he had friends whom he met while filming there in 2001.

Raize was last seen alive at 10:30 am on February 2, 2004. A missing person's report was filed the following day, as his friends had become increasingly concerned by his absence. Raize's body was found at 11:15 am on February 7. He had hanged himself in a shed on the property.

Memorial and legacy
A public memorial service for Raize was held on April 8, 2004, at Broadway's New Amsterdam Theatre, where Raize had performed as Simba for almost three years. The service included speeches by Raize's sister, Lisa, and Disney Theatrical's Thomas Schumacher, a performance by Raize's former The Lion King co-star Heather Headley, a slide show and home movies from his younger days, clips of Raize performing in The Lion King, and a montage from his Keeping it Wild television series. The service ended with a traditional South African celebration of passing into the next world led by cast members of The Lion King. The Orpheus Theatre in Oneonta issued two annual Jason Rothenberg Raize Scholarships which underwrite tuition to the theater's summer music theater workshops for youths with financial need.

Due to his death, Denahi did not appear in Brother Bear 2''.

References

External links 
 The Raize Resource: web resource about the life and career of Jason Raize
 
 

1975 births
2004 deaths
American male film actors
American male musical theatre actors
American male stage actors
People from Oneonta, New York
American expatriates in Australia
Suicides by hanging in New South Wales
20th-century American singers
20th-century American male actors
20th-century American male singers
2004 suicides
American Musical and Dramatic Academy alumni