[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Paul Shaw (footballer)

Paul Shaw (born 4 September 1973) is an English retired footballer who played as an attacking midfielder. He has also worked as a coach at F.C. New York and with Orlando City U-23.

Playing career
Shaw started his career as a trainee at Arsenal, turning professional in 1991. His debut came against Nottingham Forest on 3 December 1994. Unable to break into the Arsenal first team, Shaw spent periods on loan with Burnley, Cardiff City and Peterborough United during his time at Arsenal, before he was sold to Millwall in September 1997. He made 13 appearances in six years for the Gunners, all but one of them as substitute, scoring two goals with both coming against Southampton in the 1996–97 season, one at home and one away.

Shaw spent three years with Millwall before moving to Gillingham in 2000. He left Gillingham for Sheffield United in 2004 but unable to break into the first team had a loan spells at Rotherham United. He subsequently signed for the team but after just 17 appearances moved on a free transfer to Chesterfield in 2006. He found his opportunities at Saltergate limited, and left the club by mutual consent in August 2007 and joined Oxford United shortly afterwards. In October 2007 he left Oxford to join Hungarian team Ferencvárosi TC.

Shaw returned to English football by joining Retford United of the NPL Premier Division. He left the club in February 2011 and signed as captain of the new American side F.C. New York in the USL Pro league on 1 March 2011.

On 23 May 2011, it was announced that Coach Matt Weston had resigned from his position at F.C. New York, and Paul Shaw had been made interim head coach.

Coaching career
On 21 May 2012, Shaw was named the boys' senior academy coaching director for the youth academy of Orlando City Soccer Club.

References

External links

Ferencváros profile 

1973 births
Living people
People from Burnham, Buckinghamshire
Footballers from Buckinghamshire
English men's footballers
Men's association football forwards
Arsenal F.C. players
Burnley F.C. players
Cardiff City F.C. players
Peterborough United F.C. players
Millwall F.C. players
Gillingham F.C. players
Sheffield United F.C. players
Rotherham United F.C. players
Chesterfield F.C. players
Oxford United F.C. players
Ferencvárosi TC footballers
F.C. New York players
Retford United F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
Nemzeti Bajnokság I players
USL Championship players
English expatriate men's footballers
English expatriate sportspeople in Hungary
English expatriate sportspeople in the United States
Expatriate men's footballers in Hungary
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
Orlando City SC non-playing staff