[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Martin Stein

s creators could not come up with a story that they liked.
 Martin Stein / Firestorm appears in Justice League Action, voiced by Stephen Tobolowsky. This version is a college friend of Mister Terrific who became Firestorm during an attack on the Hudson plant by bandits seeking plutonium.

Arrowverse

Martin Stein / Firestorm appears in media set in The CW's Arrowverse, portrayed by Victor Garber. 
 First appearing in the live-action TV series The Flash, this version developed the F.I.R.E.S.T.O.R.M. matrix until he was exposed to dark matter energy amidst the explosion of Harrison Wells' particle accelerator and presumed dead. As a result, Stein became fused with his matrix and Ronnie Raymond. Stein initially holds primary control over their fused form until Team Flash develops a way to safely separate them. Following this, Stein and Raymond master their powers and assist the Flash in fighting the Reverse-Flash until Raymond sacrifices himself to close a singularity that had opened over Central City. Afterward, Stein continues to assist Team Flash until the F.I.R.E.S.T.O.R.M. matrix begins to destabilize without a partner of the same blood type, endangering his life. Eventually, Team Flash find Stein's new partner in Jefferson "Jax" Jackson and the pair leave Central City to master their powers.
 Stein appears in the animated web series Vixen. 
 Stein appears in the live-action TV series Legends of Tomorrow, with Graeme McComb additionally portraying a younger version. In the first season, he and Jax are recruited by Rip Hunter to join his Legends and defeat Vandal Savage. Amidst the team's mission, Stein is captured by and forcibly fused with Valentina Vostok, who intends to use his powers to create a Soviet Firestorm, but he is able to break free with Jax's help. By the season finale, Stein and Jax develop the ability to transmute matter and use it to foil Savage's plot to undo history. In the second season, Stein helps his teammates combat the Legion of Doom, encounters his past self, and inadvertently causes timeline changes that grant him a daughter named Lily Stein. Despite initially viewing Lily as a time paradox, he eventually comes to accept her. By the third season, Stein has become a grandfather after Lily has a son named Ronnie, prompting Ray Palmer and Team Flash to develop a formula capable of separating the F.I.R.E.S.T.O.R.M. matrix so Stein can be with his family. During the "Crisis on Earth-X" crossover, Stein is fatally injured while helping the Legends and Earth-1's heroes defeat Nazis from Earth-X, but drinks the formula to spare Jackson from suffering his fate, sacrificing himself in the process.

Video games
 Martin Stein / Firestorm appears as a playable character in Injustice 2, voiced by Fred Tatasciore. This version fuses with Jason Rusch, with both serving as allies of Batman who help to restore order following the fall of Superman's Regime. In their arcade ending, Firestorm attempts to defeat Brainiac by overheating his Skull Ship's engines, but cause it to explode and destroy the collected worlds within. Though they know their allies will never look at them the same way again after their mistake, they still pledge to help Batman if needed.
 Martin Stein / Deathstorm appears as a playable character in Lego DC Super-Villains, voiced by Lex Lang.

References

External links
 Firestorm at Don Markstein's Toonopedia. Archived from the original on July 29, 2016.
 
 
 

1978 comics debuts
Articles about multiple fictional characters
Characters created by Al Milgrom
Characters created by Gerry Conway
Characters created by John Ostrander
Comics characters introduced in 1978
Comics by John Ostrander
DC Comics American superheroes
DC Comics characters with superhuman senses
DC Comics metahumans
DC Comics male superheroes
DC Comics scientists
DC Comics television characters
Fictional characters who can turn intangible
Fictional characters with eidetic memory
Fictional characters with absorption or parasitic abilities
Fictional characters with density control abilities
Fictional characters with elemental transmutation abilities
Fictional characters with fire or heat abilities
Fictional characters with nuclear or radiation abilities
Fictional characters with energy-manipulation abilities
Fictional characters with X-ray vision
Fictional nuclear physicists
Merged fictional characters