[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Norma Chávez

ot Shapleigh, Texas Civil Rights Project, ACLU, LULAC, MALDEF and many other organizations, stood up against and defeated legislation filed by a special interest group that would have disenfranchised over 75,000 voters from voting in El Paso County Water Improvement District No. 1 manager elections.

Rep. Chávez filed legislation and led the historical initiative in the Texas House of Representatives, declaring the first Texas holiday honoring a Latino, for civil rights activist and labor leader César Chávez.  She also honored Cesar Chávez by passing legislation that designated Loop 375 as the César Chávez Border Highway.   Rep. Chávez also filed and passed "the coyote bill" creating a state penalty for those individuals who use Texas highways, lands, and waterways to transport undocumented workers for a profit.  She passed an amendment to the Texas Constitution which prohibits home equity lenders from redlining in Texas. Additionally, Rep. Chávez introduced and passed a floor amendment to protect farm workers' right to know when pesticides are used and passed legislation protecting temporary workers from discrimination. Her initiatives in the field of health care include the authoring and passage of legislation establishing the Border Health Institute, legislation creating the Texas Tech Diabetes Research Center as well as legislation creating the Border Telemedicine Pilot Project.  She also passed legislation creating a NAFTA Impact Zone and providing technology training for workers displaced by NAFTA.

Rep. Chávez passed legislation that created the Center of Law and Border Studies at the University of Texas at El Paso and legislation that created El Paso County Criminal Courts at Law No. 1 and No. 2.

She passed historic legislation to expand the Texas Transportation Commission from 3 to 5 members, which increased border representation on transportation issues.

Community service

Chávez has served on the Executive Committees of the Greater El Paso Chamber of Commerce and the Business Opportunities Council and is currently a member of both the El Paso Hispanic Chamber of Commerce and the Greater El Paso Chamber of Commerce.

In 1995, as a citizen, Chávez organized a citizen lobby, including 170 small businesses, legislative members, small and big business interests, and citizens, which aided in the passage of state legislation that de-centralized automobile emissions testing.

By considering the health and environmental hazards, Chávez organized efforts to prevent nuclear waste from being disposed at Sierra Blanca.

A former public-action organizer for the United Farm Workers, Chávez has organized public support for a fair and just food supply and for issues affecting migrant farm workers. Chávez has received training by the Industrial Areas Foundation.

Chávez was a board member of Community Alliance Promoting Education Alternatives (CAPEA), an organization which seeks positive intervention and prevention in the lives of at-risk youth.

Chávez is a former board member of the Friends of the El Paso Museum of Art.

2009 lobbyist controversy  
On July 16, 2009, the El Paso Times reported that Chávez had her staff request that 17 lobbyists pay for a $3,500 celebration for her earning a Bachelor of Arts degree. The event had a Longhorn ice sculpture, mariachis, a barbecue lunch and cake. Chávez preferred not to disclose anything in this regard. 

One lobbyist, Claudia Russell who represented El Paso County, said she paid $150 to the party after Chávez's staff requested a contribution. "I don't know if I wanted to," Russell said. "I just kinda felt it was my duty to." On July 28, 2009, the El Paso Times published a letter by Russell that said, "Because these events are not unusual and because I attended the event, when asked, I mistakenly stated that I helped sponsor the event. After reviewing my records, I did not sponsor Rep. Chávez's graduation party. I confused it with an earlier event that I did help sponsor. I apologize for the mistake. But let me make one thing perfectly clear: I was not asked by Rep. Chávez's staff to contribute to the graduation party. Furthermore, I did not make a contribution." Chávez said she would not allow Russell into her office any more.

Russell said that she contributed to another of Chávez's parties, not the graduation party. Chávez claimed she was lying and wanted an apology. Chávez met with County Judge Anthony Cobos, County Commissioner Anna Perez and a top executive at Bickerstaff, Heath, Delgado, Acosta, the law firm that employs Russell. But the county's commissioners said a public apology was unnecessary and inappropriate. "This isn't about Claudia or the county," Perez said. "The story was about lobbyists paying for that party," County Commissioner Anna Perez said.

None of the lobbyists talked to the newspaper, and Chávez would not release their names.