[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# State Anti-fascist Council for the National Liberation of Bosnia and Herzegovina

PJ leadership likely inferred from the meeting that the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina in future Yugoslav federation would be equal to Serbia or Croatia and used this argument to win over to the Partisan movement influential Muslims by offering the prospect of satisfying their demand for autonomy.

Namely, when the Cvetković–Maček Agreement was reached in 1939 and the Banovina Croatia established, it was widely expected that Serbian and Slovene banovinas would also be set up soon. In response, the leading Muslim political party in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Yugoslav Muslim Organisation (Jugoslavenska muslimanska organizacija, JMO) demanded establishment of an autonomous Bosnian banovina as well. There was a parallel attempt to procure autonomy or the status of a Nazi German protectorate for Bosnia and Herzegovina as the Muslim-led and Banja Luka-based Council of National Salvation saw Ustaše persecution of Serbs and Chetnik reprisals against Muslims as an existential threat. A culmination of the autonomist efforts materialised in the Memorandum of November 1942 sent to Adolf Hitler, seeking autonomy under German protection and blaming the "Serb insurrection" on the illegitimate Ustaše régime and plotting by the Jews. The Memorandum compared the proposed status of Bosnia and Herzegovina to that enjoyed by the Banovina Croatia in Yugoslavia.

Even though the provincial committee of the KPJ unanimously favoured Bosnia and Herzegovina becoming an equal part of Yugoslav federation with other future republics, the future status of Bosnia and Herzegovina was not settled before November 1943. There were competing proposals to establish it as a top-level federal unit or an autonomous province subordinated directly to the federation in some manner, or to Serbia or Croatia. In preparation for the second session of the AVNOJ, a delegation of the provincial committee of the KPJ for Bosnia and Herzegovina met with the central committee of the KPJ and the Partisan Supreme Headquarters in Jajce to discuss the matter.

At the meeting, the provincial committee delegation led by Rodoljub Čolaković and Avdo Humo proposed giving Bosnia and Herzegovina the same status meant for Serbia or Croatia. Humo argued that other arrangements would lead to a clash between Croatia and Serbia over addition of Bosnia and Herzegovina to their territory. Any inclusion of Bosnia and Herzegovina in Croatia or Serbia was universally rejected at the meeting as likely to stoke up Greater Croatian or Greater Serbian chauvinism. However, the central committee was split on the issue of the status of a federated republic or autonomous province. Edvard Kardelj supported Čolaković's and Humo's proposal, but Moša Pijade, Sreten Žujović, and Milovan Đilas were opposed. The dispute was settled by Tito in favour of Bosnia and Herzegovina becoming a republic.

Convening and work

First session

The ZAVNOBiH was first convened in Mrkonjić Grad. Its first session was attended by 247 provisional delegates, 193 of whom had voting rights. They included Partisan commanders, prominent communists, as well as non-communist delegates. There were representatives of pre-war political parties such as the JMO, the Croatian Peasant Party (Hrvatska seljačka stranka, HSS), the Agrarian Party, the Democratic Party, and the Independent Democratic Party (Samostalna demokratska stranka, SDS). Ultimately, 173 of the assembly’s delegates were ratified. At least 80 delegates were drawn from Bosanska Krajina, 55 from East Bosnia, and 35 from Herzegovina. About 60% of the delegates were Serbs (corresponding to Serb participation in Bosnia and Herzegovina-founded Partisan units) and a quarter were Muslims.

In its first session held on 25–26 November, the ZAVNOBiH was established as the representative legislative body of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was meant to demonstrate Bosnian patriotism and diversity of segments of society united in opposition to the Axis occupation and was intended to motivate a broader support for the Partisan resistance.