[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Henry Hu

Henry Hu Hung-lick  GBM GBS JP (, born 20 January 1920) is a barrister in Hong Kong who formerly served as the vice-chairman of the Reform Club, Legislative Council member, and vice-chairperson of the Urban Council.

Diplomat career 
Born into a poor family, Hu only received a formal education beginning at the age of 9, but finished all his primary education requirements within 2.5 years, and earned an excellent result in the secondary school admission examination among all students in Chekiang. Hu graduated from the National University of Political Science in 1942 where he studied diplomacy.

In 1945, Hu, along with his wife whom he just married, went to Tashkent, Soviet Union to begin his diplomatic career. Following the change of regime in China after which the Republic of China government retreated to Taiwan, he decided to study at the University of Paris and received a doctoral degree and a diploma of high studies in international law and international affairs in 1952. He qualified as a barrister in the UK in 1954, and began his legal practice upon his return to Hong Kong a year later.

Hu, long a patriot of his homeland, eventually gave up being a barrister in Hong Kong, reportedly because of his unwillingness to revoke his Chinese nationality. During his legal practice in Hong Kong, Hu handled some infamous cases, including the Happy Valley cardboard box murder.

Political career 
Hu was elected to the Urban Council in 1965, criticising the government on its fare increase for Star Ferry foot passengers. Hu then was appointed to the Legislative Council in 1976 as an unofficial member, and met Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping in 1979, becoming the first Hong Kong legislator to enter the PRC. His Legco membership term ended in 1983, and he entered Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference four years later.

Personal life 
Hu married Chung Chi-yung; together they had two children. They co-founded Hong Kong Shue Yan College, which would become the first private university in Hong Kong.

References

Urban Council, Urban Council Annual Report, 1974
Hong Kong Newspaper Clippings Online

1920 births
Living people
Recipients of the Gold Bauhinia Star
Recipients of the Grand Bauhinia Medal
Members of the Urban Council of Hong Kong
Place of birth missing (living people)
Reform Club of Hong Kong politicians
Politicians from Shaoxing
Members of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference
Members of the Preparatory Committee for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region
Barristers of Hong Kong
Members of the Selection Committee of Hong Kong
Hong Kong centenarians
Men centenarians
Members of the Election Committee of Hong Kong, 2021–2026
Chinese emigrants to British Hong Kong