[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neil Redfearn

g the appointment of Alan Little. Redfearn started a second spell in caretaker charge on 4 March 2002 due to the enforced absence of Little. However, his contract with the club was terminated on 25 April and having been snubbed for the permanent manager's job he joined Boston United as player-coach.

Redfearn spent the better part of two years at Boston, before finishing his Football League career at Rochdale in the spring of 2004. Rochdale did not offer him a new contract at the end of the season, meaning he finished his Football League career with 790 appearances and so being fifth in the all-time list of most Football League appearances. His last league appearance for Rochdale took his total to . after which Redfearn dropped down to the Conference, where he became player-coach at Scarborough, managed at the time by his former Oldham teammate Nick Henry. He signed a new contract with Scarborough in April 2005. When Henry was dismissed on 24 October 2005 Redfearn was named caretaker manager, before being appointed permanently on 1 November while remaining registered as a player. Redfearn resigned on 6 July 2006 after Mark Patterson was brought in as assistant manager. He subsequently signed with Northern Premier League First Division side Bradford Park Avenue later that month. He made his 1,000th competitive appearance on 4 November 2006, when Bradford Park Avenue faced Solihull Borough in the second qualifying round of the FA Trophy.

Redfearn quit Bradford Park Avenue in March 2007, joining Northern Premier League First Division rivals Stocksbridge Park Steels, but left on 19 June to become manager of Conference Premier side Northwich Victoria. He resigned on 17 September 2007, after the club only managed one point from their first nine games, leaving them bottom of the Conference Premier.

He joined Northern Premier League Premier Division club Frickley Athletic as a player in September 2007. He left the club over a month later to join Bridlington Town on 5 November. He left them in January 2008 after the departure of manager Ash Berry. He was appointed as York City's youth team coach in February. He joined Emley in July, where he would play when his commitments with York's youth team allowed. Redfearn moved onto Salford City of the Northern Premier League Division One North in October 2008. He took over as caretaker manager at York on 21 November 2008, following Colin Walker's dismissal, and was in charge for the team's 2–2 draw against Crawley Town. Following Martin Foyle's appointment as manager on 24 November, Redfearn took up the position of assistant manager at the club.

Coaching and managerial career

Leeds United
Redfearn left York over a month later after being appointed coach of the under-18 academy team at Leeds United on 30 December 2008 and he assumed this role on 1 January 2009. He took over as manager of the Leeds reserve team in December 2010 following the dismissal of Neil Thompson. He was appointed caretaker manager at Leeds following the dismissal of manager Simon Grayson on 1 February 2012. Three days later he won his first match in charge by beating Bristol City 3–0. It was later confirmed by club chairman Ken Bates that Redfearn would retain the managerial post for the following three games. After two wins and two defeats in his four-game spell as manager, Redfearn was replaced as manager by Neil Warnock as permanent manager on 18 February 2012. In April 2012, Redfearn guided Leeds' Under 18's side to a second-place finish in the Under-18s League, narrowly missing out on top spot to Newcastle's Under-18s team.

Following the departure of Neil Warnock on 1 April 2013, Redfearn again took charge of the first team for the game at for the 2–1 away defeat against Charlton Athletic on 6 April.

Redfearn's spell as the Head of academy was praised due to the influx of Leeds academy players breaking through into the first team such as Dominic Poleon, Chris Dawson, Sam Byram, Alex Mowatt, Lewis Cook and Kalvin Phillips.

On 28 August 2014, Redfearn was appointed caretaker head coach after head coach Dave Hockaday and his assistant Junior Lewis were dismissed by owner Massimo Cellino, having been in the job for only 70 days. This was the third time Redfearn had been appointed as a caretaker manager/head coach of Leeds. Redfearn picked up a victory in his first game back in charge with a 1–0 win on 30 August against Bolton Wanderers. On 20 September, Redfearn's Leeds picked up a 3–0 win over local rivals Huddersfield Town. After recording a record of three wins and one draw in his latest stint as caretaker, Leeds announced that Redfearn would be stepping back down into a role described as "Academy manager and head of coaching." with Darko Milanič appointed the new head coach of Leeds on a two-year deal replacing previous head coach Dave Hockaday, he was joined at Leeds by his SK Sturm Graz Assistant Novica Nikčević.