[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Abram Wakeman

Abram Wakeman (May 31, 1824 – June 29, 1889) was an attorney, businessman, and politician from New York City. An important figure in the creation of the Republican Party in the mid-1850s, and a supporter of the Union during the American Civil War, he was most notable for his service as a U.S. Representative from New York.

A native of Greenfield Hill, Connecticut, Wakeman completed a college preparatory education, taught school while studying law, and attained admission to the bar in 1847.  He practiced in New York City, and also became involved in several businesses, including banks, railroads, and insurance companies.

A political colleague of William H. Seward and Thurlow Weed, Wakeman became active in politics as a Whig and served in the New York State Assembly (1850–1852) and as a city Alderman (1854–1856). In 1854, Wakeman was elected to Congress, and he served one term, 1855 to 1857. He helped found the Republican Party in 1855, and was a delegate to the 1856 Republican National Convention. During the American Civil War, Wakeman was a strong supporter of the Union, and provided important organizational and financial aid. His support for the Abraham Lincoln administration resulted in lucrative political appointments as Postmaster of New York City (1862–1864), and Surveyor of the Port of New York (1864–1869).

In his later years, Wakeman was one of the developers of Coney Island as a resort and amusement destination, and realized a substantial profit when he sold out to a syndicate of investors.  He died in New York City, and was buried at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn.

Early life
Wakeman was born in Greenfield Hill, Connecticut on May 31, 1824, the son of Jonathan and Clara Wakeman. Wakeman undertook college preparatory studies at Fairfield Academy in Connecticut and graduated from Herkimer Academy in Little Falls, New York. He taught school while studying law with the firm of Capron & Lake in Little Falls. After completing his studies with New York City attorney Horace Holden, Wakeman was admitted to the bar in 1847.

Start of career
After becoming an attorney, Wakeman commenced practice as Horace Holden's junior partner. He later practiced as the senior partner of Wakeman, Latting & Phelps, the junior member of which was Edward John Phelps. Wakeman was also active in several business ventures, and was a director or executive of several banks, railroads, and insurance companies. He was one of the original incorporators of the Irving Savings Institution and an incorporator and director of the Hamilton Fire Insurance Company. He was also a director of the New York and Hempstead Plains Railroad, and later the New York, Bay Ridge and Jamaica Railroad.

Political career
In the early 1840s, Wakeman became active in politics as a Whig, and he became a colleague of Thurlow Weed, William H. Seward, and Henry Jarvis Raymond, the leaders of the party in New York state. He was a member of the New York State Assembly (New York Co., 4th D.) in 1850 and 1851. From 1854 to 1856, he was a member of the city's Board of Aldermen. Wakeman was elected as a Whig to the 34th Congress (March 4, 1855 – March 3, 1857). With the collapse of the Whig Party in the mid 1850s, Wakeman was one of the organizers of the new Republican Party. He was an unsuccessful Republican candidate for reelection in 1856 to the 35th Congress and served as delegate to the 1856 Republican National Convention.

American Civil War
At the outbreak of the American Civil War, Wakeman raised the 81st Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment and briefly became its commander with the rank of colonel, an honor often accorded to the individual responsible for raising and equipping a unit. As was the usual custom, Wakeman resigned before the unit left for the front lines, and was succeeded by James Miller, a veteran of the Mexican–American War.

As a strong supporter of the Union, the administration of Abraham Lincoln, and the Republican Party, Wakeman had a claim to party patronage, which was recognized when he was appointed Postmaster of New York City, a lucrative post he held from March 21, 1862, to September 18, 1864. In 1863, Wakeman presided over the New York State convention of the National Union Party, the wartime combination of Republicans and pro-Union Democrats, and he was a delegate to the party's 1864 national convention. When New York City opponents of the Lincoln administration and military conscription rioted in 1863, Wakeman was singled out because he was a prominent federal official; a mob broke into his Yorkville home to steal all the clothing and furniture, then burned the house to the ground.