[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

o defend the Confederate capital, Richmond, Virginia. He did not believe the reports of Averell and General Alfred N. Duffié (commander of the First Cavalry Division) that said enemy infantry, artillery, and cavalry were in the area.  Crook was mistaken, and both cavalry units made accurate reports.

On July 24, Averell was ordered to conduct a flanking maneuver near Front Royal to cut off what Crook believed was a small band of Confederates. Averell encountered a much larger enemy force than he was led to expect, and the Second Battle of Kernstown began. As portions of Crook's force began retreating (some in panic) north through Winchester, he finally understood the situation. He organized a more orderly retreat. Powell's brigade (including the 1st West Virginia Cavalry) and an infantry brigade led by Colonel Rutherford B. Hayes (future President of the United States) were among the few organized units remaining. They became the rear guard against the pursuing Confederate cavalry. The battle was over by the end of July 25, as all soldiers were soaked in cold rain. Crook retreated north across the Potomac River, and the Confederates reoccupied Martinsburg (in addition to controlling Winchester). The 1st West Virginia Cavalry lost a total of 28 men killed, wounded, missing, or captured.

Chambersburg and Moorefield
The regiment was part of Averell's cavalry force that pursued Confederate Generals McCausland and Bradley Johnson after the rebels burned the Pennsylvania community of Chambersburg. After multiple skirmishes and Confederate threats to burn more towns, McCausland's two brigades of cavalry were caught in Battle of Moorefield, West Virginia. In a surprise attack at dawn on August 6, 1864, Averell captured over 400 Confederates. In this battle, Powell rode with Henry Capehart and the 1st West Virginia Cavalry. After the 3rd West Virginia Cavalry charged across the South Branch of the Potomac River and met strong resistance from the Confederate 17th Virginia Cavalry, they were reinforced by the 1st West Virginia—and the two regiments overwhelmed the Confederates. Powell's report said "The thanks of the brigade are also due to the First West Virginia Cavalry for the timely support given to the Third West Virginia Cavalry at a time when the enemy seemed conscious of our weakness, and attempted to rally their forces and to repel the advance of our lines, and for its joint operation with the Third Virginia Cavalry, driving the enemy into the mountains for a distance of twelve miles, killing, wounding and capturing many, also capturing one battle-flag and two pieces of artillery." Despite Averell's successes, General Philip H. Sheridan assumed command of all Union troops in the Shenandoah Valley on August 7.

Battle of Opequon
The Battle of Opequon, also known as the Third Battle of Winchester, began in the morning on September 19, 1864. Some historians consider this the most important battle of the Shenandoah Campaign. Sheridan's Army of the Shenandoah defeated Early's Army of the Valley. Union casualties were about 5,000 out of 40,000 men, while Confederate casualties were about 3,600 out of 12,000 men. Generals and colonels on both sides were killed, including Confederate Colonel George S. Patton Sr.—grandfather of the famous World War II tank commander, General George S. Patton. Confederate General Robert E. Rodes was killed, and Confederate cavalry generals Fitzhugh Lee and Bradley Johnson were among the wounded. General David Allen Russell, killed in action, was among the Union casualties. The majority of the Union casualties were in the infantry. Averell's Second Cavalry Division had only 35 casualties, including four from the 1st West Virginia Cavalry.

Battle of Fisher's Hill
The Battle of Fisher's Hill occurred on September 21–22, 1864. Early's Confederate army was pursued from Winchester to Fisher's Hill, where the rebels had strong fortifications and an advantageous location given the terrain. The 1st West Virginia Cavalry was part of a diversion that enabled Crook's infantry to secretly position itself to the rear of the Confederate line. Crook's surprise attack broke through the Confederate lines, and was the major reason for the Union victory. The 1st West Virginia Cavalry was part of Powell's cavalry brigade that pushed through the gap created by Crook, and chased rebels as they fled south.

After the battle, Sheridan pressured his officers to pursue Early's retreating army. Sheridan became impatient with Averell, who he considered too cautious. On September 23, Sheridan replaced Averell with Powell. Henry Capehart was designated commander of Powell's old brigade, and Capehart's brother, Charles, became commander of the 1st West Virginia Cavalry Regiment. Powell's Second Cavalry Division pursued Early further south.