[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Refugees of Iraq

to the safe area.

On February 15, 1991, President George H.W Bush called upon the Iraqi people to overthrow Saddam Hussein, which did not occur until 2003 under the administration of his son, President George W. Bush, and incited the recent Iraq War.

Iraq War (2003–2011) and civil war (2006–2008)

Refugees from Iraq have increased in number since the US-led invasion into Iraq in March 2003. After Saddam Hussein fell in 2003, over 30,000 refugees returned home within two years.  But by 2006, they were fleeing again due to sectarian violence that culminated with the al-Askari mosque bombing in February 
2006. The US occupation and ethnic conflict among Iraqis ended the minority Sunni governance and allowed the Shi’ite majority to regain control, which worried Iraq’s Sunni majority neighbors, including Saudi Arabia. Terrorist organizations like Al Qaeda have taken advantage of the chaos and violence to establish a presence in Iraq.

By February 16, 2007, António Guterres, the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, said that the external refugee number fleeing the war reached 2 million and that within Iraq there are an estimated 1.7 million internally displaced people. The refugee traffic out of the country has increased since the intensification of civil war.

As many as 110,000 Iraqis could be targeted as collaborators because of their work for coalition forces. A May 25, 2007 article notes that in the past seven months only 69 people from Iraq have been granted refugee status in the United States. Roughly 40% of Iraq's middle class is believed to have fled. Most are fleeing systematic persecution and have no desire to return.

Iraqi insurgency and civil war (2011–2017)

Internally displaced Iraqis

There is also a significant number of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Iraq. As of April 2017 International Organization for Migration estimated that there were about 3 million Iraqis displaced within the country. Recent statistics from United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) state that as of 2019 there are 2 million internally displaced refugees within Iraq.  As the battle to retake areas from ISIS continues, thousands of Iraqis are being displaced on a daily basis. Many IDPs face difficult conditions, and due to continued instability and lack of resource are unlikely to be able to go home in coming months.

At the end of July 2007 the NGO Coordinating Committee in Iraq (NCCI) and Oxfam International issued a report, Rising to the Humanitarian Challenge in Iraq, that declared that one-third of the populace was in need of aid. The NCCI is an alliance of approximately 80 international NGOs and 200 Iraqi NGOs, formed in Baghdad in 2003. The report, based on survey research of the nation's civilian population, found that 70 percent of the Iraqi population lacks proper access to water supplies. Only 20 percent of the population has proper sanitation and 30 percent of children experience malnutrition. About 92 percent of children experience problems learning. These figures represent sharp increases since 2003. There is a need to address the elderly, disabled population, and disadvantaged families through physical, mental, and social support to help them return to Iraq once the war ends and conditions are stabilized.

Host countries

Iraqi refugees have mainly fled into urban centers across region, rather than in refugee camps. There are roughly 2 million Iraqi refugees living in countries neighboring Iraq and 95% of them still live in the Middle East - although other nations in Europe have begun to accept Iraqi refugees. It is difficult for refugees and their children to obtain legal status in a middle eastern country as they are treated as temporary "guests" rather than as "refugees". Current regional host countries include Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Lebanon, Kuwait, Iran, small numbers in Iraq, the Gulf States, and Turkey. Only Egypt and Turkey have signed the UNHCR refugee convention, and even then with heavy restrictions and limited effective protection.

Israel

Following the Farhud of 1941, many Jewish refugees sought ways to escape the violence in the Kingdom of Iraq, which had become an independent state in 1932. Following the independence of Israel in 1948, it became illegal for Iraqis to emigrate to Israel. In 1951-1952, the Israeli government clandestinely orchestrated the Operation Ezra and Nehemiah, during which almost the entire Jewish community was rescued, and initially settled in temporary refugee camps in Israel.

Jordan