[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# André Milongo

André Ntsatouabantou Milongo (20 October 1935 – 23 July 2007) was a Congolese politician who served as Prime Minister of the Republic of the Congo from June 1991 to August 1992. He was chosen by the 1991 National Conference to lead the country during its transition to multiparty elections, which were held in 1992. He was also the founder and President of the Union for Democracy and the Republic (UDR-Mwinda), a political party. From 1993 to 1997, he was President of the National Assembly, and he was again a deputy in the National Assembly from 2002 to 2007.

Early life and political career

A member of the Lari ethnic group, Milongo, one of four children in his family, was born in October 1935 in Mankondi, a village located to the south-west of the capital Brazzaville, in the Boko District of Pool Region.

After his primary and secondary schooling in Brazzaville, Milongo earned a Master's Degree in Law at the University of Nancy, after which he studied at the École Nationale d'Administration (ÉNA) in Paris, graduating in 1964. That year is also known as the "Blaise Pascal generation" at ÉNA. He was among only four Congolese citizens to have graduated from ÉNA.  Former Togolese prime minister Edem Kodjo was a classmate of Milongo at ÉNA.

Milongo began his professional career in 1964 as the first National Treasurer (Trésorier Payeur Général) in the newly independent Republic of the Congo, a position he held for five years. In this position, he rigorously managed the country's public funds. After this, he became director of the country's foreign investments in 1969 (Directeur General des Investissements) at the Ministry of Planning, remaining in that position until 1973. Two prime ministers also enlisted his help as an economic policy advisor under the government of Marien Ngouabi.

Milongo married Ndambo Marie-Therese Laurentine on 4 February 1967, and with her he had seven children.

He was elected to the board of governors at the African Development Bank in the Ivory Coast in 1976, and represented eight African countries: Congo, Cameroon, Benin, Cote d'Ivoire, Burkina Faso, Niger and Mauritania. He held that position for 7 years, before being elected to the board of governors at the World Bank in Washington, D.C. in 1983, where he met his colleague Nicephore Soglo. He remained at the World Bank until 1990.

In the early 1990s, the Republic of the Congo was going bankrupt because of the loss of support from the Soviet Union after the collapse of Communism.  This led to the emergence of a new generation of African leaders like Nicéphore Soglo in Benin, Alassane Ouattara in the Ivory Coast and André Milongo. At the end of the Sovereign National Conference of 1991, the Conference elected Milongo as Prime Minister on 8 June 1991. As Prime Minister, he was given executive powers and placed in charge of directing the country's transition to multiparty elections in 1992. The National Conference additionally assigned the positions of Minister of Defense and Minister of Mines and Energy to Milongo.

Milongo's government was dominated by members of the Lari and Bakongo ethnic groups. Tensions between the government and the army led to a serious crisis in January 1992. It was alleged that, in order to gain control of the army, members of Milongo's government spread rumors that the army was plotting a coup. Furthermore, in moves viewed as being directed against loyalists of President Denis Sassou Nguesso, Milongo appointed Colonel Michel Gangouo, who had been implicated in a 1990 coup attempt against Sassou Nguesso, as Secretary of State for Defense on 2 January 1992. He made further changes to the military command, which he said were intended to fight tribalism, in mid-January. The army strongly opposed these changes and demanded that Milongo reverse them. The Higher Council of the Republic (CSR), which was acting as the transitional parliament, judged that the coup rumors had been created by members of Milongo's government and requested that Milongo accede to the army's demands. Milongo refused to dismiss Gangouo, however, at which point soldiers took over the international airport as well as state radio and television, fired on Milongo's supporters, killing several, and called for Milongo's resignation. Milongo went into hiding and called for international assistance. Gangouo then resigned from his position and Milongo appointed a new Minister of Defense who was supported by the army; however, he also placed himself in supreme command of the army.