[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ferrocarril Transístmico

oth the railroad and the canal, business declined drastically after 1914, not helped by the Mexican Revolution and the onset of the First World War. The railroad continued to handle substantial passenger traffic well into the fifties, but ceased to be a significant carrier of freight.

Redevelopment

On 7 June 2020, President of Mexico Andrés Manuel López Obrador announced the beginning of the rehabilitation of the line. It will cost 3 billion pesos to begin the project, but in total, the project will cost 20 billion pesos.

The project for the rehabilitation of the line will result in the speed of freight trains increasing from  to , more than three times the current speed. Furthermore, this project will also lead to the introduction of a passenger train, which will be able to reach speeds of up to .

It will also enable links to existing freight lines, including the Palenque-Coatzacoalcos and Chiapas-Veracruz lines, as well as another railway line that extends from the Interoceanic Corridor of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec (CIIT, by its initials in Spanish) to the city of Tapachula, in Chiapas. 

The work includes the application of aluminum-thermal welding on rails, application of paint on bridges and structures, dismantling, weeding, and cleaning of ditches. This will be done  through the work of crews of personnel for the railroad, and through the hiring of private companies.

The Medias Aguas-Salina Cruz section of the passenger railway performed its first tests in September 2023, including an official trip by the President and his staff, and the director of the CIIT, viceadmiral Raymundo Morales Ángeles, stated that it will begin passenger operation in December, though cargo operations did officially begin in September. This opening includes 227 kilometers of roads, 82 bridges and 290 drainage works. The modernization of this section, known as Line Z (), includes complementary works such as nine passenger stations, seven slopes, two supply stations, seven workshops, four yards, a single control and dispatch center, and two depots.

Rolling stock 

In August 2023, the website Railtech.com reported a number of InterCity 125 high-speed train sets, originally built for British Rail, had been seen at the Port of Great Yarmouth being loaded on to a ship bound for Mexico. Unconfirmed reports suggested this second-hand rolling stock was bound for the Ferrocarril del Istmo de Tehuantepec.

On September 4, 2023, the news website Diario del Istmo posted a story containing a powerpoint slide from the Sistema Portuario Nacional, confirming that a group of 3 Class 43 locomotives and 11 Mark 3 coaches had been exported to Mexico for use on Ferrocarril del Istmo de Tehuantepec.

In addition to these InterCity 125 trainsets, several other types of rolling stock will be used. The Ferrocarril Transístmico purchased two EMD SD70M locomotives from the Union Pacific Railroad. and 12 passenger cars (including 3 Amfleet cars and the Stampede Pass, a dome car built by the Budd Company in 1954) from the Railway Excursion Management Company (Railexco). The first of the SD70Ms were presented on August 13, 2023.

In addition to these, on August 26, 2023, the two Stadler Citylink sets from the former Puebla-Cholula Tourist Train were brought to Coatzacoalcos railway station for use on the Ferrocarril Transístmico.

Transport Routes in the Isthmus of Tehuantepec
Map from Wikicommons

See also
 Coatzacoalcos–Palenque Line, another line to be operated by Ferrocarril Transístmico
 Ixtepec–Ciudad Hidalgo Line, another project by Ferrocarril Transístmico, to be opened in July 2024
 American-Hawaiian Steamship Company
 Ferrocarril de Veracruz al Istmo
 List of Mexican railroads

References

Further reading 

 

Transistmico
Government-owned companies of Mexico
2023 in rail transport