[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Raid on Entebbe (film)

Raid on Entebbe is a 1977 NBC television film directed by Irvin Kershner. It is based on the Entebbe raid, an Israeli military operation to free hostages at Entebbe Airport in Uganda, on July 4, 1976. The portrayal of Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin was Peter Finch's final performance; he died five days after the film's release.

Raid on Entebbe portrays the rescue of the hostages, the discussions within the Israeli government, and the controversy prompted by the rescue. It was one of three films made in the 1970s based on the Entebbe raid, Victory at Entebbe was rushed through production by ABC and broadcast one month earlier in December 1976. Operation Thunderbolt (1977, Israel) was the third  A fourth film, Entebbe (titled 7 Days in Entebbe in the U.S.) was released over four decades later in 2018.

Plot
On 27 June 1976, four terrorists belonging to a splinter group of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine under the orders of Wadie Haddad boarded and hijacked an Air France Airbus A300 at Athens. With President Idi Amin's blessing, the terrorists divert the airliner and its hostages to Entebbe Airport in Uganda. After identifying Israeli passengers, the non-Jewish passengers are freed while a series of demands are made, including the release of 40 Palestinian militants held in Israel, in exchange for the hostages.

The Cabinet of Israel, led by Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, unwilling to give in to terrorist demands, is faced with difficult decisions as their deliberations lead to a top-secret military raid. The difficult and daring commando operation, "Operation Thunderbolt", will be carried out over 2,500 miles (4 000 km) from home and will take place on the Jewish Sabbath.

While still negotiating with the terrorists, who now numbered seven individuals including Palestinians and two Germans, the Israeli military prepared two Lockheed C-130 Hercules transports for the raid. The transports refueled in Kenya before landing at Entebbe Airport under the cover of darkness. The commandos led by Brig. Gen Dan Shomron had to contend with a large armed Ugandan military detachment and used a ruse to overcome the defenses. A black Mercedes limousine had been carried on board and was used to fool sentries that it was the official car that President Amin used on an impromptu visit to the airport.

Nearly complete surprise was achieved but a firefight resulted, ending with all seven terrorists and 45 Ugandan soldiers killed. The hostages were gathered together and most were quickly put on the idling C-130 aircraft. During the raid, one commando (the breach unit commander Yonatan Netanyahu, brother of future Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu), and three of the hostages, died. A fourth hostage, Dora Bloch, who had been taken to Mulago Hospital in Kampala, was murdered by the Ugandans on Idi Amin's orders.

With 102 hostages aboard and on their way to freedom, a group of Israeli commandos remained behind to destroy the Ugandan Air Force MiG-17 and MiG-21 fighters to prevent a retaliation. All the survivors of the attack force then joined in flying back to Israel via Nairobi and Sharm El Sheikh.

Cast

 Peter Finch as Yitzhak Rabin
 Charles Bronson as Brigadier General Dan Shomron
 Yaphet Kotto as Idi Amin
 Martin Balsam as Daniel Cooper
 Horst Buchholz as Wilfried Böse
 John Saxon as Major General Benny Peled
 Jack Warden as Lieutenant General Mordechai Gur
 Meshach Richards as Major General Allon
 Sylvia Sidney as Dora Bloch
 Robert Loggia as Yigal Allon
 Tige Andrews as Shimon Peres
 Eddie Constantine as Captain Michel Bacos
 David Opatoshu as Menachem Begin
 Allan Arbus as Eli Melnick
 Stephen Macht as Lieutenant Colonel Yonatan "Yoni" Netanyahu
 James Woods as Captain Sammy Berg
 Harvey Lembeck as Mr. Harvey
 Dinah Manoff as Rachel Sager
 Kim Richards as Alice
 Aharon Ipalé as Major David Grut
 Mariclare Costello as Gabrielle Krieger
 Larry Gelman as Mr. Berg

Production
Raid on Entebbe was filmed entirely in the United States, with the Stockton Metropolitan Airport in Stockton, California, serving as both Entebbe Airport and an Israeli Air Force (IAF) base. Producers Blatt and Scherick turned to the "Hollywood Squadron", the 146th Airlift Wing of the California Air National Guard to provide three C-130 Hercules transports.
Scenes were also shot at the Van Nuys Military airport, Los Angeles; these included footage of passenger jets, and the interior of a C-130 in which Bronson made his speech to the team about to attack Entebbe.