[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Via Giulia

aron ("Mascherone") on a background with volutes in marble, crowned by the symbol of the Farnese, a metal Fleur-de-lis. The fountain was moved against the wall in 1903, losing most of its charm. The poet Wilhelm Waiblinger died in 1830 in the house opposite to it.

3 Palazzo Farnese (Via Giulia 186)

The garden façade of this palace building is oriented towards the Via Giulia. In 1549 it was designed according to Vignola's drawings and completed by Giacomo della Porta in 1589. The garden between the façade and the Via Giulia was once adorned by the Farnese bull (now in the National Archaeological Museum in Naples). The palace is now the French Embassy in Italy.

3a Camerini Farnesiani (Via Giulia 253-260)

Behind the row of lower buildings ("Camerini Farnesiani"), which today belong to the French Embassy, lay a small palace with garden, the Palazzetto Farnese, built around 1603 by Cardinal Odoardo Farnese as his hermitage, also known as Eremo del Cardinale ("Cardinal's hermitage"). This private retreat of the Cardinal, decorated with frescoes by Giovanni Lanfranco, was accessible from Palazzo Farnese through a terrace and the Arco Farnese. The building still stands along Via Giulia, but its original internal disposition has been changed through several interventions, while its giardino segreto ("secret garden") with its loggia with three arches open on the river  has been destroyed.

4 Arco Farnese
The bridge connects Via Giulia to the Palazzo Farnese. It was erected in 1603, and was used to observe festive processions, games, and horse races in Via Giulia, particularly during Carnival. The arch was part of a project conceived by Pope Paul III and never realised, which foresaw the connection of Palazzo Farnese with the Villa Farnesina in Trastevere by means of a private bridge over the river.

5 Santa Maria dell'Orazione e Morte (Via Giulia ad. 262)

The church, built in 1575–76, is located in the immediate vicinity of Palazzo Farnese and belonged to the Compagnia della Morte ("Death's Brotherhood") founded in 1538. The fraternity was tasked with burying the dead that – having been recovered from the river or found in the area surrounding Rome – were not claimed by anyone. The building was demolished in 1733 and rebuilt by Ferdinando Fuga in 1737. Its cemetery on the banks of the Tiber was demolished when the river was regulated in 1886.

6 Palazzo Falconieri also Palazzo Odescalchi Falconieri (Via Giulia 1)

The original building was built in the 16th century for the Roman noble family of the Ceci and directly adjoins the church of Santa Maria dell'Orazione e Morte. It was sold by the Ceci in 1574 to the Odescalchi family before being passed to the Farnese in 1606. Eventually the Florentine nobleman Orazio Falconieri bought it in 1638 for 16,000 scudi. From 1646 to 1649 he commissioned the architect Francesco Borromini to extend the palace. The sides of the façade on Via Giulia are decorated with two pilasters in the shape of large hermas with female breasts and falcon heads. The façade on the Tiber side features a three-arched loggia dating back to 1649. From 1814 Cardinal Joseph Fesch, uncle of Napoleon Bonaparte lived there, and from 1815 to 1818 he hosted his stepsister Laetitia Ramolino, the emperor's mother. In 1927 the Kingdom of Italy ceded the palace to the Hungarian State, which established it as the seat of the Hungarian Academy ("Accademia d'Ungheria"). Today, in addition to the academy, the palace is home to the Pontificium Institutum Ecclesiasticum Hungaricum in Urbe.

7 Palazzo Baldoca-Muccioli (Via Giulia 167)
The history of the palace is closely linked to the neighbouring Palazzo Cisterna. Both properties were acquired and rebuilt by the sculptor Guglielmo della Porta. Guglielmo began to work around 1546 in the service of Pope Paul III who at the death of Sebastiano del Piombo entrusted him with the lucrative office of Keeper of the Seals (. it is possible that della Porta considered the building only an investment, since he rented it in 1574 to the florentine knight Nicolò de Gaddis. The palazzo was owner later by the Baldoca and Muccioli families. At the beginning of the 20th century the palace served as the residence of the English ambassador in Rome, Sir Rennell Rodd, who bought and had it badly restored in 1928.

8 Palazzo Cisterna (Via Giulia 163)
The Palazzo Cisterna was built by Guglielmo della Porta and served as his residence. Above the architrave of the windows on the first floor the inscription "FRANCISCVS TANCREDA ET GVILELMVS D(ella) P(orta) ME(ediolanensis) – S(culptor) CI(vis) RO(manus)" can be read. From a letter to a friend, it appears that the palace was completed in 1575. In 1600 Spanish missionaries acquired the palace and sold it to the Cisterna family at the beginning of the 20th century. It was partially sold to the Ducci family in the second half of the 20th century.

9 Santa Caterina da Siena in Via Giulia (Via Giulia ad. 151)