[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 20th Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment

aptain McMullin's Rangers met with enthusiastic greeting at every station along the road from Harrisburg. The Rangers are quartered in the woods near the First City Troop. The latter are in fine health and spirits. The Scott Legion, encamped three miles south of the town, bear their fatigue well....

Ordered to move out with their brigade on June 8, the 20th Pennsylvania Volunteers made camp at Greencastle, Pennsylvania before moving again to sites in Maryland near the St. James School (Hagerstown) and Williamsport. On July 2, they moved out with the entire Army of the Shenandoah, making their way to Martinsburg and Bunker Hill, Virginia, where they were assigned to protect the army's main column as it moved on to Charlestown in an attempt to pin down General Joseph E. Johnston's Confederate forces. Continuing their forward movement, the 20th Pennsylvania then joined with other Union troops from the Army of the Shenandoah to seize and occupy Keyes' Ford.

On July 24, the regiment was ordered back to Philadelphia, where it was mustered out August 6, having honorably completed its three months' service.

Casualties
According to rosters for the 20th Pennsylvania, which are maintained online by the Pennsylvania State Archives, only one member of the regiment was reported as a casualty – Pvt. Thomas H. Ford of Company D, who was honorably discharged on a surgeon's certificate of disability. Based on these same records, no other casualties were incurred by the regiment during its three-month tenure of service.

References

Gallery

External resources
 Conservation, in Pennsylvania Civil War Battle Flags. Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission.
 Hardee, William Joseph. Hardee's Rifle and Light Infantry Tactics. Memphis, Tennessee: E.C. Kirk & Co., 1861.
 20th Regiment, in Registers of Pennsylvania Volunteers, 1861–1865. Harrisburg, Pennsylvania: Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission.
 20th Regiment Pennsylvania Volunteers (Pennsylvania in the Civil War)

See also

List of Pennsylvania Civil War Units

Units and formations of the Union Army from Pennsylvania
Military personnel from Philadelphia
Military units and formations established in 1861
1861 establishments in Pennsylvania
Military units and formations disestablished in 1861