[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Al Gore

poken Word Album in 2009.

Selected publications

Books
 
 
 Know Climate Change and 101 Q and A on Climate Change from 'Save Planet Earth Series', 2008 (children's books)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Putting People First: How We Can All Change America. (with William J. Clinton). New York: Times Books, 1992 .

Articles
 "Toward Sustainable Capitalism: Long-term incentives are the antidote to the short-term greed that caused our current economic woes . The Wall Street Journal, June 24, 2010.(With David Blood)
 "We Can't Wish Away Climate Change ." The New York Times, February 27, 2010.
 "The Climate for Change ." The New York Times, November 9, 2008.
 Vice President Al Gore's introduction to Earthwatch: 24 Hours In Cyberspace. February 8, 1996. 24 Hours in Cyberspace
 "Foreword by Vice President Al Gore ." In The Internet Companion: A Beginner's Guide to Global Networking (2nd edition)  by Tracy LaQuey, 1994.
 "Introduction. In Silent Spring by Rachel Carson. 1994. New York : Houghton-Mifflin.
 The Climate Change Action Plan. Washington, D.C.: The White House, October 1993 (with William J. Clinton).
 "Infrastructure for the global village: computers, networks and public policy." Scientific American Special Issue on Communications, Computers, and Networks, September 1991. 265(3): 150–153.

See also 
Environmental activism of Al Gore
Vice presidency of Al Gore

Notes

References

Bibliography

 Agre, Phil. Who Invented "Invented"?: Tracing the Real Story of the "Al Gore Invented the Internet" Hoax. October 17, 2000
 Campbell-Kelly, Martin; Aspray, William. "Chapter 12." Computer: A History of the Information Machine. New York: BasicBooks, 1996.
 Chapman, Gary and Marc Rotenberg. The National Information Infrastructure:A Public Interest Opportunity . In Computers, Ethics, & Social Values. Deborah G. Johnson and Helen Nissanbaum (eds.). Englewood Cliffs: Prentice Hall, 1995: 628–644.
 Cockburn, Alexander. Al Gore: A User's Manual (2000) (with Jeffrey St. Clair) 
 Kirk, Andrew G. Counterculture Green: The Whole Earth Catalog and American Environmentalism. Lawrence: Univ. of Kansas Press, 2007.
 Rheingold, Howard. "Afterword to the 1994 edition." The Virtual Community: Homesteading on the Electronic Frontier (revised edition).  Cambridge: MIT, 2000.
 Stix, Gary. Gigabit Gestalt: Clinton and Gore embrace an activist technology policy . Scientific American, May 1993.
 Turque, Bill, Inventing Al Gore, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2000,

External links 

 Board of Trustees at World Economic Forum
 
 
 
 
 
  including his Nobel Lecture December 10, 2007

Living people
1948 births
1992 United States vice-presidential candidates
1996 United States vice-presidential candidates
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century vice presidents of the United States
20th-century American writers
20th-century Baptists
21st-century American businesspeople
21st-century vice presidents of the United States
21st-century American non-fiction writers
21st-century Baptists
Activists from Nashville, Tennessee
American bloggers
American climate activists
American financiers
American investors
American male bloggers
American male writers
American mass media owners
American Nobel laureates
American non-fiction environmental writers
American people of Scotch-Irish descent
American philanthropists
American political activists
American political writers
American war correspondents of the Vietnam War
Anti-consumerists
Baptists from Tennessee
Businesspeople from Tennessee
Businesspeople from Washington, D.C.
Candidates in the 1988 United States presidential election
Candidates in the 2000 United States presidential election
Centrism in the United States
Climate change in the United States
Clinton administration cabinet members
Columbia University faculty
Democratic Party (United States) presidential nominees
Democratic Party (United States) vice presidential nominees
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Tennessee
Democratic Party United States senators from Tennessee
Democratic Party vice presidents of the United States
Directors of Apple Inc.
Google people
Al
Grammy Award winners
Harvard College alumni
International Emmy Founders Award winners
Internet pioneers
Journalists from Washington, D.C.
Kleiner Perkins people
Members of the American Philosophical Society
Middle Tennessee State University faculty
Military personnel from Tennessee
Military personnel from Washington, D.C.
Nobel Peace Prize laureates
People from Belle Meade, Tennessee
People from Carthage, Tennessee
Politicians from Nashville, Tennessee
Primetime Emmy Award winners
Private equity and venture capital investors
Sierra Club awardees
St. Albans School (Washington, D.C.) alumni
United States Army personnel of the Vietnam War
United States Army soldiers
University of California, Los Angeles faculty
Vanderbilt University alumni
Vice presidents of the United States
Washington, D.C., Democrats
Writers from Tennessee