[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Meadowcroft Rockshelter

very early human habitation of the Americas. Meadowcroft Rockshelter may be one of the oldest known sites of human habitation in North America, providing a unique glimpse into the lives of prehistoric hunters and gatherers. Paleoindian, Archaic, and Woodland remains have all been found at the site.

The Miller complex
An unusual type of arrowhead was found at the site, which has been named the Miller Lanceolate projectile point. Similar unfluted lanceolate points have also been found at the adjacent sites. As Goodyear writes:Enough lithic artifacts were recovered to define the Miller complex. This complex consists of thin bifaces, including one lanceolate point, the Miller Lanceolate; small prismatic blades; retouched flake tools and blades, and debitage related to late-stage core and biface reduction and tool kit maintenance.The Miller complex is further defined by surveys done in the Cross Creek watershed, where other lanceolate points, small prismatic blades, and small polyhedral blade cores have been recovered. According to Adovasio et al., this complex has a Eurasiatic and Siberian appearance. These authors also note that small blades and polyhedral cores are absent from subsequent Paleoindian fluted-point assemblages in this region, reinforcing the technological distinctiveness of the Miller complex.

The adjacent Krajacic Site is located about ten miles southeast of Meadowcroft, and it is also important in defining the Miller complex. This site yielded a great variety of distinctive Meadowcroft-style blade implements and several small, cylindrical polyhedral cores.

At Cactus Hill in Virginia, similar points have been found, where they are dubbed as the Early Triangular type. Some similar finds were made at the Page-Ladson site in Florida as well.

Because of the very long occupational sequence at Meadowcroft, it became a very important site and is seen as quite valuable for comparative analysis:

The Pre-Clovis artifacts from Meadowcroft Rockshelter include a lanceolate point (named the Miller Lanceolate), bifaces, unifaces, prismatic blades, core fragments, and debitage. Remains from other Pre-Clovis sites (e.g., Cactus Hill and Saltville, Virginia, Topper, South Carolina, etc.) are usually compared to the Meadowcroft assemblage. In addition, claims for Pre-Clovis inhabitants in other sections of the New World also are evaluated with Meadowcroft in mind.

According to some scholars, Clovis, Folsom, and other fluted point complexes may have derived from such unfluted lanceolate points.

Other relevant northeastern US sites

Other sites in the northeastern United States with evidence of possible pre-Clovis human presence include: Burning Tree Mastodon (Ohio), Mitchell Farm (Delaware), Barton (Barton Village Site, Maryland), Miles Point, and Parson's Island.

Tourism and historical designations 
Renovations to the rock shelter in 2008 were made so that visitors can see some of the tools and campfires made by the first Americans thousands of years ago. The rockshelter is recognized as a Pennsylvania Commonwealth Treasure and is an official project of Save America's Treasures. The historic site also includes a recreation of a 16th-century Monongahela village as well as 18th and 19th century buildings from European and United States settlement.

The site was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978.  In 1999, the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission installed a historical marker noting the historic importance of the site.  It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 2005.  It is also designated as a historic public landmark by the Washington County History & Landmarks Foundation.

See also
Chiquihuite cave
List of Native American archaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in Pennsylvania
List of National Historic Landmarks in Pennsylvania

References

Citations 

 Meadowcroft Rockshelter and Museum of Rural Life
 "The Greatest Journey," James Shreeve, National Geographic, March 2006, p. 64.  Shows dates 19,000 to 12,000 years ago; as well as Clovis (13,500 years ago) and Monte Verde 14,800 years ago.
 Heinz History Center

Further reading 
 Pittsburgh Post-Gazette article on Meadowcroft expert
 American Indian Village reenactment
Adovasio, J. M., with Jack Page.  The First Americans: In Pursuit of Archaeology's Greatest Mystery.  New York: Random House, 2002. Chapter 7 focuses on the Meadowcroft Rockshelter; the rest of the book sets the dig and the controversy surrounding it in a broader scholarly context.
Chandler, Graham. "The Dawn of Civilization" Equinox, 96 (1998): 18. A brief article about the site and its artifacts.
Shea, Neil. "The First Americans?" National Geographic, 207.5 (2005): 2.
"Who's Really on First?", Natural History, 109.9 (Nov 2000): 10.  Presents differing opinions between James Adovasio and Anna Curtenius Roosevelt regarding the accuracy of  dating artifacts from Meadowcroft.

External links