[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Treaty 4

Treaty 4 is a treaty established between Queen Victoria and the Cree and Saulteaux First Nation band governments. The area covered by Treaty 4 represents most of current day southern Saskatchewan, plus small portions of what are today western Manitoba and southeastern Alberta.
This treaty is also called the Qu'Appelle Treaty, as its first signings were conducted at Fort Qu'Appelle, North-West Territories, on 15 September 1874. Additional signings or adhesions continued until September 1877. This treaty is the only indigenous treaty in Canada that has a corresponding indigenous interpretation (a pictograph made at the time by Chief Paskwa).

Reasons for the treaty
In 1870, Hudson's Bay Company sold Rupert's Land for £300,000 to the Dominion of Canada. The Company's land covered the edge of the Rocky Mountains to the Great Lakes and was divided into the Province of Manitoba and the North-West Territories. The Indigenous peoples whose traditional territories were sold were not included in the land transfer negotiations. After learning of the transaction, the Indigenous people demanded recognition and compensation. 

The subsequent years, between 1871 and 1877, saw the first seven of the eleven numbered treaties signed by Canada and the Prairie First Nations. The government of Canada negotiated the first five Numbered Treaties to gain land from the First Nations for settlement, agricultural and industry. Also, Prime Minister John A. Macdonald saw the land as necessary to complete a transcontinental railway, which would run through the cities of Regina, Moose Jaw, and Swift Current in southern Saskatchewan. The Canadian Government feared that potential conflict with Indigenous people could disrupt the advancement in the west. Generally, the Indigenous people knew that change was inevitable because their natural food source was fading and settlers were arriving. They believed treaty negotiations would provide protection and resources. Both parties cooperated with the treaty negotiations.

The making of the treaty 
Treaty 4 was made on 15 September 1874, between select Cree, Saulteaux and Assiniboine Indigenous who lived in the specified area, and "her most Gracious Majesty the Queen of Great Britain and Ireland". However, decisions were made by the Canadian Prime Minister Alexander Mackenzie, his government and the treaty commissioners. The treaty was signed at Fort Qu’Appelle, which at the time was a Hudson's Bay Company outpost and is the cause for the nickname 'Qu’Appelle Treaty'. The land which is represented by the treaty is the south of contemporary Saskatchewan. Treaty 4 is the first of the numbered treaties in which First Nations adhered to the treaty after it had been determined and signed, therefore they had to accept the terms as is. The commissioners for Canada were: Alexander Morris, appointed as Lieutenant-Governor for Manitoba and the North-West Territories in 1872, who acted as the primary negotiator; David Laird, the Minister of the Interior; and William Christie, the Esquire of Brockville in Ontario. These men were selected by the Canadian government as representatives, but they stated that the Indigenous people were making a deal with the Queen herself. A number of Metis attended the Treaty negotiations as interpreters and signed Treaty 4 as witnesses. On 7 September 1876, the Metis at Fort Walsh submitted a petition to Inspector Walsh on behalf of the Metis of the four districts of Assiniboia to join Treaty 4, but their request was declined.