[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Racing FC Union Luxembourg

Racing Fussball Club Union Luxembourg (), usually abbreviated to Racing-Union, is a football club based in Luxembourg City in southern Luxembourg.

The etymology of the name originates from Racing Club Luxembourg and Union Sportive Luxembourg, two successful historic clubs of the many that merged to create it. Other clubs that were merged throughout history to form the current club include CA Spora Luxembourg, Sporting Club Luxembourg, CS Alliance 01, FC Aris Bonnevoie, US Hollerich Bonnevoie and Jeunesse Sportive Verlorenkost.

History

Glorious Early Days
Racing Club Luxembourg was founded in 1907 and became the first official Champion of Luxembourg by winning the title in 1909–10. RC Luxembourg also won the first Cup in 1922. Along with Sporting Club Luxembourg and Union Sportive Hollerich, the three clubs of the capital dominated Luxembourgish football in its early days. The supremacy of the capital city's footballers was such that, for the first official match of Luxembourg's national team against France on 29 October 1911, the starting lineup was entirely composed of Racing, Sporting and Union players. The match finished 4–1 in France's favour.

First Mergers
The domination of the capital city's football clubs drew to a close at the end of the 1920s with the emergence of teams from the south of the country, such as CS Fola Esch and Red Boys Differdange. The decline of sporting success thus led to a phenomenon that was to have a profound impact on the footballing community in the commune, namely the propensity of clubs to engage in mergers.

The first big merger occurred in 1923 with the union of the two first Champions of Luxembourg: Racing & Sporting. The origins of Racing were on the Limpertsberg, where they had their pitch on what is today the location of the "Schueberfouer" before moving to the route d'Esch in 1912. It won the first Luxembourg Cup, beating Jeunesse Esch 2–0 in the final. Sporting, the club of the centre of Luxembourg City, had found a pitch on what is today the Winston Churchill Square in 1910 and had also signed off in glory by bringing home the 1919 Championship. In 1923, the two clubs united under the new name of CA Spora Luxembourg. The name "Spora" came from the first three letters of SPOrting and the first two of RAcing. This club would not only become one of the most successful, but also one of the largest sports clubs in the country with athletics, fencing, tennis and others.

Barely two years later, in 1925, the most successful of the clubs, Union Sportive Hollerich / Bonnevoie, merged with Jeunesse Sportive, from the Verlorenkost area of the city. Union desired this merger in order to be able to play on the much higher quality and better-situated pitch located in Verlorenkost. From this moment on the club became known as Union Sportive Luxembourg, playing their matches in Verlorenkost on what is today the site of Racing FC Union's home ground, Stade Achille Hammerel.

These two mergers would quickly be crowned by success: Union, whose team was full of Luxembourgish internationals, won its sixth title in 1927. Spora for its part had also begun a period of tremendous success, which up to the Second World War would see them winning seven championship titles as well as three cup wins.

CA Spora's Golden Age
The period from CA Spora's foundation up until the occupation of Luxembourg by the Nazis, as well as after 1945, was gilded by the "Blue-Yellows". On their magical pitch in the middle of a residential area of Luxembourg City, in permanent contact with its inhabitants and, above all, the youth, Spora experienced a near-explosive success. During this time it gained a reputation for organising large events of its home ground. From 1924 onwards, Spora organised a 3 Nations Cup during the Easter weekend. Two foreign teams would be invited, and this authentic competition ended up becoming much more important than a simple round of friendly matches. Over 25 editions the Luxembourgish crowd would be able to witness such illustrious teams as Austria Vienna with its wunderkind Mathias Sindelar, PSV Eindhoven, Slavia Prague, Young Fellows Zurich, Beerschot Antwerp, Lanerossi Vicenza and even the Brazilian AC Bangu. These matches lasted up until the day Spora moved to a new pitch on the Route d'Arlon to a Stadium that is today home of the Luxembourgish national team, the Stade Josy Barthel.

Union's Renaissance and the Rise of Aris
The 1961 Championship title would be the last for CA Spora for a while. Before completely disappearing from the peak of Luxembourgish football, they did manage to snag two cup wins in 1965 and 1966, under the auspices of their player-coach Vic Nurenberg. The former professional scored a hattrick against Real Madrid for his team OGC Nice in the 1960 Champions League.