[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexander Cummings (territorial governor)

rnment in Colorado. Colorado citizens were forced to take sides between pro-state and anti-state factions and the legitimacy of Cummings' authority.  President Johnson vetoed Colorado admission to statehood as the "state" constitution allowed only white males older than twenty-one the right to vote.

Cummings had a bitter feud with the territorial government second in command, pro-state Secretary of the Colorado Territory, Samuel Hitt Elbert. Cummings was not satisfied with the quality and location of the territorial offices and accused Elbert of deliberatively selecting them to inconvenience him and the territorial government.  Cummings selected a better office and when he moved, took the Great Seal of the Territory which was used to affix public documents.  Elbert demanded the return of the seal since it was his official duty to use the seal.  Cummings accused Elbert of attempting to use the seal to illegally reverse the 1864 vote to reject Colorado statehood and break up the territorial government. Pro statehood newspapers such as the Rocky Mountain News took up Elbert's cause and published negative stories about Cummings including his past record with the War Department. The feud escalated to Cummings' superior, U.S. Secretary of State William H. Seward and prompted the resignation of Elbert.

Cummings encouraged investment in mining and the development of railroads. In the 1866 election for territorial delegate to Congress, Cummings backed Alexander Cameron Hunt, an anti-statehood candidate over George Chilcott.  The election was marked with scandal when votes were illegally counted in Chilcott's favor.  The Territorial Canvassing Board declared Chilcott the winner while Cummings called the election for Hunt.  The issue was escalated to the House Committee on Elections and Chilcott was sworn in as a "sitting delegate".

Another bill for Colorado statehood was entered into the Congress in December 1866 and was debated in January 1867.  The Congress was going to reject the bill as it still did not allow African Americans the right to vote.  Congress passed the bill when the bill was re-written allowing the right to vote to African Americans but it was again vetoed by President Johnson claiming that controversial census results did not meet the requirement for congressional representation and a state legislature resolution rejected statehood.

In January 1867, the Colorado territorial legislature passed a law forbidding African Americans from serving on juries.  Cummings vetoed the bill but the legislature overrode the veto. Cummings political enemies launched a campaign to discredit him and accused him of paying his daughter for work not performed and for grossly overpaying for the shipment of goods for the Department of Indian Affairs.

Cummings resigned as territorial governor on April 27, 1867 upon learning that President Andrew Johnson had appointed Hunt to succeed him.

Cummings was appointed collector of internal revenue for the Fourth District of Pennsylvania by President Johnson.  He was nominated for Commissioner of Internal Revenue but was not confirmed by the Senate.  The end of President Johnson's term in 1869 briefly ended Cummings political connections.  He may have studied law and published a revised version of a law book where he refers to himself as a "Counsellor of Law".  With the election of Rutherford B. Hayes to the presidency, Cummings was appointed as U.S. Consul to the Kingdom of Hawaii.

Cummings died in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, in 1879 while conducting consular activities  and was interred in an unmarked grave in Laurel Hill Cemetery in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.  A simple governmental issue tombstone currently marks his grave.

See also
History of Colorado
Law and Government of Colorado

External links
Library of Congress - Reply to Governor Cummings letter in the Press of November 8

Citations

Sources
 
 
 

1810 births
1879 deaths
19th-century American newspaper publishers (people)
19th-century American politicians
Ambassadors of the United States to Hawaii
Burials at Laurel Hill Cemetery (Philadelphia)
Colorado Republicans
Governors of Colorado Territory
Politicians from Williamsport, Pennsylvania
People of Pennsylvania in the American Civil War
Union Army colonels