[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jakob Sverdrup (politician)

Jakob Liv Rosted Sverdrup (27 March 1845 – 11 June 1899) was a Norwegian bishop and politician. Born into a prominent local family and well-educated, Jakob followed in the footsteps of his father Harald Ulrik Sverdrup and his uncle Johan Sverdrup by pursuing both a theological and political life. He served five terms in the Norwegian Parliament between 1877 and 1898, and was a cabinet member on several occasions. Originally a member of the Liberal Party, he later joined the Moderate Liberal Party, having partially been the cause of the split that formed the Moderate Liberal Party. He has been referred to as "one of the most controversial figures in modern Norwegian history".

Personal life
Sverdrup, born in Christiania, was the first of Harald Ulrik Sverdrup and Caroline Suur's eight children, one of five sons. Raised in Balestrand in the county of Nordre Bergenhus Amt, his father was a prominent local figure in ecclesiastical and political affairs, as a priest, mayor and member of the Norwegian Parliament. Johan Sverdrup, his uncle, was Prime Minister of Norway from 1884 to 1889. Jakob Sverdrup was close to his brother Georg Sverdrup, who emigrated to the United States in 1874 and later became the President of the Augsburg Seminary. His youngest brother Edvard Sverdrup became a professor of the MF Norwegian School of Theology in Oslo.

Jakob Sverdrup fathered the academics Jakob Sverdrup, Jr. and Georg Johan Sverdrup, and was the uncle of oceanographer and meteorologist Harald Ulrik Sverdrup.
 His daughter Aslaug Sverdrup took the doctor's degree too, and was married to biologist Iacob Dybwad Sømme from January 1930 to 1942.

Career
Sverdrup enrolled as a student, and graduated with the cand.theol. degree in 1869. Inspired by Grundtvigianism, he founded a folk high school in Sogndal in 1871. Serving as savings bank director as well as mayor of Sogndal, he was the manager of Sogndal folk high school from its foundation, but left that post to his brother Hersleb Sverdrup after a few years, before Henrik Mohn Dahl took over. In 1878 Jakob Sverdrup left Sogndal to become vicar in Leikanger. As a theologian, Sverdrup was a pietist, and sided with the laity movement, proposing that lay priests be given the right to preach. Together with Ole Vollan he had started the magazine Ny Luthersk Kirketidende in 1877, an organ which spoke against the Conservative High Church Lutheranism of the time. Sverdrup also published several pamphlets during his life, and in 1897 he published Forklaring over Luthers lille katekisme af J. R. Sverdrup, a revision of the explanation of Luther's Small Catechism originally written by his father.

National politics
Sverdrup was elected to the Norwegian Parliament in 1877, representing the constituency of Nordre Bergenhus Amt. He was re-elected in 1880 and 1883, and joined the newly established Liberal Party, of which his uncle Johan was the founder and chairman. When the Liberal cabinet Sverdrup took over in 1884, Jakob Sverdrup was a candidate for the position as Minister of Education and Church Affairs. However, due to King Oscar II opposing this, Sverdrup was instead appointed a member of the Council of State Division in Stockholm, effective from 26 June 1884.

However, already on 1 August 1885 Sverdrup was appointed Minister of Church Affairs, replacing Elias Blix. He held this position for a year, but had already become embroiled in controversy. In June 1885 the Norwegian Parliament had voted over whether to grant a poet's pension to the novelist Alexander Kielland. A Christian conservative wing of the Liberal Party, informally spearheaded by Lars Oftedal, stopped this proposition together with the Conservative Party. Kielland was seen as undermining Christian authority and morale in general. The decision was lambasted by Bjørnstjerne Bjørnson, who personally sent a similar application the next year; when it was voted down, Bjørnson protested by renouncing his own poet's pension. A commentator in the liberal newspaper Verdens Gang stated that Jakob Sverdrup was the true mastermind of his uncle's cabinet. The newspaper also speculated on a possible split of the Liberal Party, citing the Kielland case as a part of a broader trend that the Liberal Party failed to actually reform society in a liberal direction. Talks of "Moderate" and "True" Liberals had surfaced already ahead of the 1885 election.