[Source: PubMed]

34. Eur J Psychotraumatol. 2025 Dec;16(1):2497167. doi: 
10.1080/20008066.2025.2497167. Epub 2025 May 16.

Prevalence of war-related posttraumatic stress disorder in adolescents: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Zasiekina L(1)(2)(3), Griffin A(1)(4), Blakemore SJ(1), Hlova I(3), Bignardi 
G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, England.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.
(3)Department of General and Clinical Psychology, Lesya Ukrainka Volyn National 
University, Lutsk, Ukraine.
(4)Social, Genetic and Developmental Psychiatry Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, 
Psychology and Neuroscience, King's College London, London, UK.

Background: Posttraumatic stress disorder is common in civilians who are 
currently experiencing, or who have experienced, war. Most previous studies have 
focused on adult populations and, despite the recognised detrimental effect of 
war trauma on adolescent mental health, there remains a paucity of evidence on 
the prevalence of war-related PTSD in adolescents.Objective: This pre-registered 
(https://osf.io/dqg2z) systematic review and meta-analysis aims to understand 
the prevalence of PTSD, as well as both risk and protective factors for 
developing PTSD, in adolescents aged 10-24 years from across the world who are 
experiencing, or have experienced, war-related traumatic events, described in 
papers published in a 10 year period (2013-2023). We also examine how the choice 
of PTSD diagnostic assessment tool influences prevalence rates.Method: Medline 
(PubMed), PsycINFO (EBSCOhost), and PTSDpubs (ProQuest) were searched, which 
resulted in 21 papers eligible for inclusion. Data was searched, extracted and 
synthesised using the software tool Covidence.Results: The age range of 
adolescents in the included papers was 11-19 years. The average prevalence of 
PTSD was 29.4% (95% CI [18.7%, 43.0%]), although prevalence rates across studies 
were highly inconsistent (I2 = 99.4%). Prevalence rates were significantly 
higher in studies conducted longer after war exposure, and the PTSD diagnostic 
assessment tool used influenced prevalence.Conclusions: There is high prevalence 
of PTSD in adolescents during and after war. The prevalence of war-related PTSD 
increases with time in the post-war period, highlighting the need for access to 
psychological services following war. This study underscores the importance of 
defining age ranges and using validated and culturally sensitive assessment 
tools when interpreting prevalence rates of PTSD in adolescents.

Plain Language Summary: We examined the prevalence of PTSD, as well as both risk 
and protective factors for developing PTSD, in adolescents across the world who 
are experiencing, or have experienced, war-related traumatic events.The average 
prevalence of PTSD among adolescents who have experienced war-related traumatic 
events is 29.4% with higher prevalence rates in studies conducted longer after 
war exposure.The study underscores the importance of validated and culturally 
sensitive assessment tools when interpreting prevalence rates of PTSD, as well 
as developing psychological services for adolescents in the post-war period.

Antecedentes: El trastorno de estrés postraumático (TEPT) es común en civiles 
expuestos a conflictos armados. Aunque los efectos del trauma de guerra en 
adolescentes están bien reconocidos, la evidencia sobre la prevalencia 
específica del TEPT en esta población sigue siendo limitada. Objetivo: Esta 
revisión sistemática y metaanálisis (pre-registrada en https://osf.io/dqg2z) 
tuvo como objetivo estimar la prevalencia del TEPT, así como identificar 
factores de riesgo y protección en adolescentes (10–24 años) expuestos a eventos 
traumáticos relacionados con la guerra. También se examinó el impacto de la 
herramienta de evaluación utilizada en las tasas de prevalencia. Se incluyeron 
estudios publicados entre 2013 y 2023. Método: Se realizaron búsquedas en 
Medline (PubMed), PsycINFO (EBSCOhost) y PTSDpubs (ProQuest). Veintiún estudios 
cumplieron los criterios de inclusión. Los datos fueron extraídos y sintetizados 
utilizando Covidence. Resultados: Los adolescentes en los estudios tenían entre 
11 y 19 años. La prevalencia media del TEPT fue del 29,4% (IC 95%: 18,7%–43,0%), 
con alta heterogeneidad entre estudios (I² = 99,4%). Las tasas fueron mayores en 
estudios realizados más tiempo después del conflicto. Asimismo, las herramientas 
diagnósticas utilizadas influyeron significativamente en la prevalencia 
observada. Conclusiones: El TEPT relacionado con la guerra es altamente 
prevalente en adolescentes, especialmente en contextos posbélicos. Estos 
hallazgos destacan la necesidad urgente de servicios de salud mental accesibles 
después de la guerra. Además, se subraya la importancia de definir adecuadamente 
los rangos de edad y utilizar instrumentos de evaluación validados y 
culturalmente sensibles para obtener estimaciones fiables de prevalencia.

DOI: 10.1080/20008066.2025.2497167
PMCID: PMC12086914
PMID: 40377181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).