[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 9th West Virginia Infantry Regiment

wha River until all the civil boats and barges were well underway to Point Pleasant. Then Lightburn's cavalry fought their way back to the road to Ravenswood drawing away some of Loring's cavalry while privateers blasted into the Confederate Infantry, but was followed by Confederate field artillery.

Having held their line, the 9th and 5th infantry began their boarding side boats and moving the skirmish line down river towards Point Pleasant. Loring's infantry fight progressed down the Kanawha shores well above the refugee fleet seemingly going to take the fight all the way to the mouth of the river. Lightburn had figured on rejoining the frontline troops at the mouth of the Kanawha where an Ohio artillery detachment set a trap for Loring's troops. Some historians have regarded this as one of the most intelligent execution of a military recall and retreat manoeuvre exercised. But, Loring knew when to stop his push. The Confederate occupation of six weeks was for the salt from which they caravan to the south to keep their meats supply from spooling.

A counter-assault took the Union some time to reorganize and was executed from October 21 to November 10, 1862. The 9th and 5th were a part of the Union expedition up the Kanawha Valley by boat and horse.  General Loring withdrew and left the salt works destroyed. Stationed at Point Pleasant to guard the packets and refugees, the K-Company had a significant number civilian steamboat workers recruited.

1863-64

From January to June, 1863, the 9th Infantry was ordered to Winchester and then Beverly. They scouted to Wardensville, Strasburg, and the area from April 25 to the 30th. They were at Winchester on May the 4th. The 9th marched to West Creek arriving on May 23 and back again to Winchester June 18. After these skirmishes and battles they were recalled to their routine sentry duty guarding river fords and towns in the Kanawha Valley until May, 1864.  They were the sentry line on the West Virginia shores during the Battle of Buffington Island.

In the spring of 1864, the 9th was ordered to join George Crook's expedition against the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad which took place from May 2 to the 19th. They took action at Cloyd's Mountain on May 9 and at New River Bridge on May 10. Some elements were at Cove Mountain or Grassy Lick near Wytheville on May 10, also. The 9th fought at Salt Pond Mountain and Gap Mountain on May 12 and the 13th. Soon afterwards, they were assigned to Major General David Hunter's expedition against Lynchburg from May 26 to July 1. They fought at Lexington on June 11, moved on to battle at Diamond Hill June 17 and marched to the battle at Lynchburg on June 17 and July 18. A recall was ordered and July 9 retreated to Charleston from June 19 to July 1. Moving from there, they were at Buford's Gap June 20 and around the Salem area on June 21.

The 9th skirmished the Shenandoah Valley from July 12 to 15. The marched to Stephenson's Depot July 20. They were at the Battle of Kernstown, Winchester, July 23 to 24th and Martinsburg on July 25. Several of the best men were selected for detached service in Blazer's Scouts, a mounted unit that was to guard supply lines and combat John S. Mosby's rangers.

The 9th West Virginia Infantry was a part of Sheridan's Shenandoah Valley Campaign August from 6th to November 1. They were at Halltown August 24 and 26 and Berryville September 3. They participated in the Battle of Opequon, Winchester, September 19. They moved on to Fisher's Hill September 22. From there, the 9th took part in the Battle of Cedar Creek on October 19. From there, they marched to Camp Russell and remained until November, 1864.

The 9th West Virginia was amalgamated with 5th West Virginia Volunteer Infantry Regiment on November 9, 1864, to create the 1st West Virginia Veteran Volunteer Infantry Regiment.

After the war, General Isaac H. Duval recounted, "We were in some defeats as well as many victories, and in our defeats and retreats the Ninth Regiment was never panic-stricken, but always came off as it went into battle, shoulder to shoulder. We never allowed the enemy to go through us in advancing or retreating."

Casualties
The 9th West Virginia Volunteer Infantry Regiment suffered 3 Officers and 96 enlisted men killed in battle or died from wounds, and 1 officer and 107 enlisted men dead from disease for a total of 207 fatalities.

Colonels
Colonel Leonard Skinner, December, 1861.

Lieutenant-colonel William C. Starr, December, 1861.

Major Benjamin M. Skinner December, 1861.

Colonel Isaac H. Duval, September 9, 1862.

Colonel Carr B. White, Brigade Commander May 9, 1864.

References

The Civil War Archive

See also
West Virginia Units in the Civil War
West Virginia in the Civil War

Units and formations of the Union Army from West Virginia
1861 establishments in Virginia
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1864