[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mirek Topolánek

seized photos under suspicion of a violation of privacy. One photo, according to world media showed Topolánek naked at Villa Certosa (Silvio Berlusconi's summer house) in May 2008. In the end, Topolánek admitted the naked man sunbathing near a topless women in Berlusconi's Villa Certosa was himself.

On 20 March 2010 Blesk and Lidové noviny newspapers reprinted passages from an interview Topolánek gave to Czech gay magazine LUI which contained his several controversial statements criticising brainwashing allegedly perpetrated by Christian churches and claims which were deliberately misinterpreted so that both gay and Jewish people lack integrity of moral character, but Jews more so. He also expressed his contempt towards voters of ČSSD and described their view on minorities as 'imprison them all and kick up their arses'. He did apologize for his statements, which he claimed were taken out of context, on 21 March 2010. LUI published full video footage of the interview. Prime Minister Fischer replied to Topolánek's statements describing them as 'stupid, insulting and misleading'. He also expressed his desire to restrain his contact with Topolánek to a minimum.

In the light of this controversy, Topolánek decided to step down as election leader of Civic Democratic Party in the May 2010 legislative election. The deputy chairman Petr Nečas took up his post. In April 2015 he was expelled from ODS for failing to pay a members' fee.

Business career 
Topolánek started a business career after he left politics. His business focuses on consultancy, mediation of business and services, real estate activities, real estate management and maintenance, development and development of technical designs, research and development, advertising and marketing and media representation. His business was successful. Topolánek himself admitted that contacts he made in politics helped him to succeed in business.

2018 presidential election 

On 3 November 2017, Václav Klaus Jr. stated that Topolánek was seeking nomination of the Civic Democratic Party (ODS) for the 2018 presidential election. Media also speculated that TOP 09 could eventually endorse him. Topolánek discussed his candidacy with party's leader Petr Fiala and asked Civic Democratic senators for their signatures.

On 5 November 2017, Topolánek announced his candidacy. He started to gather signatures from Senators. Topolánek's candidacy was praised by politicians from the Civic Democratic Party. Leader Petr Fiala hailed Topolánek as a serious and experienced candidate. Lidové Noviny reported that Civic Democrats will support Topolánek's candidacy. Topolánek was also praised by the leader of TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek who believes that Topolánek could use his experiences as former Prime Minister and former President of the European Council. The Civic Democratic Party endorsed Topolánek on 6 November 2017. The Party of Free Citizens also suggested it could endorse him. Party leader Tomáš Pajonk stated that the party is yet to decide whom to support.

Topolánek launched his campaign on 30 November 2017. Topolánek stated that his foreign politics would be pragmatic but also would support human rights. He is opposed to migrant quotas and adoption of the Euro.

The first round was held on 12 and 13 January 2018. Topolánek received 4.3% of votes and came sixth. Topolánek then admitted his defeat and endorsed Jiří Drahoš for the second round.

After 2018 presidential election
Topolánek returned to work for EPH holding after his presidential campaign. On 9 January 2019, Topolánek announced his plans for a talkshow called Topol Show. The first episode was released on 7 February 2019. Topolánek invited his former political rival Pavel Bém. He eventually announced on 13 December 2022 his candidacy for the President of Confederation of Industry of the Czech Republic.

Political views
Topolánek considers himself to be a liberal conservative politician. He stated that his values are conservative while his economical views are Liberal.

Topolánek stated that ODS should embrace Klausism as its ideology when he was leader of the party. He also supported indirect election.

Prior to the 2017 legislative election Topolánek stated that ODS should take more patriotic stances which he believed would prevent rise of Tomio Okamura and extremists. He warned against copying Alternative for Germany. Topolánek also stated that the Civic Democratic Party and the Party of Free Citizens were the only real political parties that had rational stances towards the European Union and considers other parties to be too pro-EU. He was also very critical of ANO 2011 and Andrej Babiš whose politics he called "theft guaranteed by state." He has also criticised French president Emmanuel Macron stating that a speech he gave demonstrated "arrogance and a disregard for EU law".