[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Anti-Indian sentiment

uage use. The film's title was consistently challenged for having the word "dog" in it. The protest took place in Patna where it was written on a signboard "I Am Not a Dog". Activists stated that slum dwellers would continue to protest until the film's director deleted the word "dog" from the title.

Co-director Loveleen Tandan was too criticized by producer Christian Colson. Colson defined her partnership with Boyle as a mismatch.  Colson noted that the title of "co-director (India)" given to Tandan was "strange but deserved" and was developed over "a Coca-Cola and a cup of tea" in order to identify her as "one of our key cultural bridges." During the 2009 Oscar awards ceremony, Tandan was ignored and all credit for the film was taken by Boyle.
Some filmmakers and actors from Bollywood were also critical of Slumdog Millionaire including Aamir Khan, Priyadarshan and Music Director Aadesh Shrivastava.

See also 

Anti-Bengali sentiment in India
 2008 bombing of Indian embassy in Kabul
 Anti-Brahminism
 Anti-Hindu sentiment
 Anti-Pakistan sentiment
 Anti-Romani sentiment
 Barbara Crossette
 Criticism of Buddhism
 Criticism of Hinduism
 Criticism of Islam
 Criticism of Jainism
 Criticism of Sikhism
 List of ethnic slurs
 Persecution of Buddhists
 Persecution of Hindus
 Persecution of Muslims
 :Category:Persecution of Sikhs
 Racism against Asians
 Saffron terror
 Separatist movements of India

References 

 Sources

Further reading 
 Idi Amin & Indophobia: General Amin and the Indian Exodus from Uganda by Hasu H. Patel, Issue: A Journal of Opinion, Vol. 2, No. 4 (Winter, 1972), pp. 12–22. 
 
K.K. Aziz. (2004) The Murder of History: A Critique of History Textbooks used in Pakistan. Vanguard. 
Nayyar, A. H. & Salim, Ahmad. (2003) The Subtle Subversion: The State of Curricula and Text-books in Pakistan - Urdu, English, Social Studies and Civics. Sustainable Development Policy Institute. The Subtle Subversion
Rosser, Yvette Claire (2003). Islamization of Pakistani Social Studies Textbooks. New Delhi: Rupa & Co. .
Rosser, Yvette Claire (2004). Indoctrinating Minds: Politics of Education in Bangladesh. New Delhi: Rupa & Co. .

External links 

 "Islamic Resurgence in Bangladesh: Genesis, Dynamics and Implications". by Taj I. Hashmi, Asia-Pacific Center for Security Studies.
 "Terror sans Frontiers: Islamic Militancy in North East India". by Jaideep Saikia, University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign, July 2003.
 "What does 'anti-Indian' mean?" . by Zafar Sobhan, The Sunday Guardian.
 "Australia and anti-Indian violence", The Economist, 18 June 2009.
 "America's New Anti-India Backlash". by David J. Karl, Bloomberg Businessweek, 13 May 2010.
 "Religion and Anti-Indianism in Pakistan" by Yoginder Sikand, New Age Islam, 31 December 2010.
 "Bangladesh's anti-Indian gun running and insurgent havens persist". by Dr. Subhash Kapila, South Asia Analysis Group, 29 April 2004.
 "Why are some Bangladeshis anti-Indian?" by Habibul Haque Khondker, The Daily Star, 24 July 2009.
 "Rethinking anti-Indianism in Nepal" by Trailokya Raj Aryal, MyRepublica, 25 April 2010.
 "Increasing Anti-Indianism in Nepal: Myth or Reality" . Telegraphnepal.com.
 "India can afford anti-Indianism". by S. Prasannarajan, India Today, 10 December 2010.

Racism
 
India–Pakistan relations
Indology
Indian
India
Asian-Australian issues