[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Erica Frank

Erica Frank is a U.S.-born educational inventor, physician, medical and educational researcher, politician, and public health advocate.  Since 2006, she has been a professor in the Faculty of Medicine at the University of British Columbia (UBC); she is the Inventor/Founder of NextGenU.org, and the steward of the 1985 Nobel Peace Prize commemorative medal awarded to the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War - Canada.

Education
Frank  (born in 1962) received a B.A. in Honors and Independent Studies degree from Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts in 1982, an M.D. degree in 1988 from Mercer University (Macon, Georgia) and an M.P.H. degree in 1984, with an emphasis on Health Education and Epidemiology, from Emory University (Atlanta, Georgia). She interned from 1988 to 1989 at the Cleveland Clinic (Cleveland, Ohio), completed a preventive medicine residency in 1990 at Yale University  (New Haven, Connecticut), was an NIH Prevention Research Fellow from 1990 to 1993 at Stanford University (Palo Alto, California) in preventive medicine, and is board certified in preventive medicine and a Fellow of the American College of Preventive Medicine.

Professional experience
In 2006, Frank became the Tier I Canada Research Chair in Preventive Medicine and Population Health at UBC.  Before moving to UBC she was a full Professor, Vice Chair for Academic Affairs, and Director of the Division of Preventive Medicine at Emory University School of Medicine in Atlanta, Georgia. She clinically specialized in cholesterol management at Emory's indigent health clinics and in their tertiary referral center from 1993 – 2004. During that time she also served as a Research Physician, Medical Epidemiologist, and Medical Consultant at the U.S. CDC, in Cancer Control, Health Care and Aging, Injury Control, Nutrition and Physical Activity, STD Prevention, and the Office on Smoking and Health.

She is an advocate for public health, most notably having served on the boards of the American College of Preventive Medicine (1997–2003) and Physicians for Social Responsibility (1998–2009, including serving as PSR's president from 2008 to 2009), and as an elected municipal official with special responsibilities for public health and sustainability for the University Neighbourhoods Association of the University of British Columbia (2007–2013). She has also served as a board member, executive committee member, and/or president of the American Journal of Preventive Medicine, American Medical Association (AMA) Council on Long Range Planning, AMA Section on Medical Schools’ Governing Council, Association of Teachers of Preventive Medicine Foundation, Center for Policy Analysis on Trade and Health, DuPont Epidemiology Advisory Board, DuPont Health Advisory Board, National Committee on Foreign Medical Education and Accreditation, UBC President's Commission on  Sustainability, and the Ulrich and Ruth Frank Foundation for International Health.  Frank is Research Director of the Annenberg Physician Training Program in Addiction Medicine (since 2005), served as a senior medical scientist for the Occupational Health and Safety Agency for Healthcare of BC (2006–2007), and has travelled and/or worked in 70 countries.  She founded the Ulrich and Ruth Frank Foundation for International Health in 1988 when she graduated from medical school (naming it for her parents, Ulrich and Ruth Frank, as a thank you to them for giving her an extraordinary education), and continuously served as its president until 2019.

She is the inventor/founder (in 2001) of NextGenU.org, now (since 2020) with registrants in every country, and offering, with its university partners, the world's first opportunities for certified courses for free.  Starting with a focus in the health sciences, www.NextGenU.org's free courses, certificates, and degrees (through partner universities) span from college-level pre-health sciences and community health worker trainings, through fully developed Graduate Medical Education and the first globally freely available degree content, a Master's in Public Health.   Professor Frank has tested and published on this model in North American medical, public health, and undergraduate students, and in community health workers and primary care physicians in Kenya and in India.  In May 2021, Frank launched STEPS (STEM Teacher/student Education for Primary School) as co-Principal Investigator with African, Japanese, and U.S. colleagues.  This will allow the study of NextGenU.org's uniquely free educational ladder as it now extends from primary school to graduate education.