[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Víctor Vázquez (footballer, born 1987)

Víctor Vázquez Solsona (born 20 January 1987) is a Spanish professional footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder for Major League Soccer club Toronto FC.

After starting out at Barcelona he went on to spend most of his career with Club Brugge, appearing in 165 competitive games with the latter club and winning the 2014–15 Belgian Cup. He also competed professionally in Mexico, Canada, the United States and Qatar, winning a domestic treble with Toronto FC in 2017.

Club career

Barcelona
Born in Barcelona, Catalonia, Vázquez joined the youth system of FC Barcelona at the age of 11. At La Masia, he was part of the iconic class of 1987 team, playing alongside future first team players Cesc Fàbregas, Lionel Messi and Gerard Piqué, and being considered at one point to be the best player of the group, ahead of Messi. He progressed through the youth ranks, making his debut for the first team on 12 April 2008 after coming on as a substitute for Santiago Ezquerro in the final 15 minutes in a 2–2 La Liga away draw against Recreativo de Huelva. Pep Guardiola called him for the team's pre-season in the following campaign, where he appeared in three official games, but none in the domestic league.

Vázquez started and finished the 3–2 home loss to FC Shakhtar Donetsk on 9 December 2008, in the last UEFA Champions League group stage match, but was again mainly registered with the reserves. On 8 February of the following year he suffered a serious knee injury in a game with the latter, going on to miss the remainder of the season in Segunda División B.

Due to the lengthy calendar in 2009–10, many first-team players were given breaks towards the end of the year. Thus, on 29 December 2009, four Barça B players were called by Guardiola: Thiago, Gai Assulin, Jonathan dos Santos and Vázquez; all returned to where they had come from the following month.

On 7 December 2010, after coming from the bench for fellow youth graduate Jeffrén Suárez, who suffered an early injury, Vázquez scored his first goal for Barcelona's first team, contributing to a 2–0 home win against FC Rubin Kazan for the Champions League group stage, as the hosts had already secured the first place in their group.

Club Brugge
In late April 2011, after 14 years at the Camp Nou (including youth years), Vázquez agreed to join Club Brugge KV, and a three-year contract was signed the following month. In March 2013 he extended his link until 2016, being considered a key player and essential to the further development of the squad according to sporting director Arnar Grétarsson.

At the end of the 2014–15 season, after again being first choice as his team won the regular season in the Belgian Pro League, eventually finishing second, and also capturing the Belgian Cup, Vázquez was voted the Belgian Professional Footballer of the Year. He also helped his side to a quarter-final run in the UEFA Europa League in his last year with the club and, across all competitions, made 173 appearances over five seasons, scored 25 goals and provided 50 assists, including seven goals and four assists in 33 matches in the latter tournament.

Cruz Azul
On 30 December 2015, Cruz Azul signed Vázquez to a three-year contract for US$1.5 million. His time in Mexico was largely unsuccessful, however, and he only made a limited number of appearances before leaving; he played 23 competitive games during his spell at the Estadio Azul, scoring once and providing one assist.

Toronto FC
Vázquez transferred to Canadian club Toronto FC on 20 February 2017. He scored his first goal on 18 March in a 2–0 away win over the Vancouver Whitecaps FC. Throughout his first season in Major League Soccer, he drew praise in the media for adding depth to his new team's attacking play, courtesy of his vision and distribution, and formed a notable partnership in midfield with captain Michael Bradley, who was in turn freed from much of the team's creative responsibilities and played more of a defensive role, while still sharing some of the playmaking duties with the Spaniard; Vázquez's playmaking ability and link-up play with forwards Sebastian Giovinco and Jozy Altidore saw him finish as the second highest assist provider of the regular season (16) while also notching eight goals, as Toronto captured the Canadian Championship followed by the Supporters' Shield for most points in the league, after a 4–2 home win over New York Red Bulls on 30 September in which he scored from an injury time penalty.