[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 187]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

upid resignation to
their hearts, and pampering up their sickly virtue, at the expense of
their sex. Hang their virtue!"

Algitha laughed.

"It _is_ somewhat self-regarding certainly, in spite of the incessant
renunciation and sacrifice."

"Oh, self-sacrifice in a woman, is always her easiest course. It is the
nearest approach to luxury that society allows her," cried Hadria,
irascibly.

"It is most refreshing to hear you exaggerate, once more, with the old
vigour," her sister cried.

"If I have a foible, it is under-statement," returned Hadria, with a
half-smile.

"Then I think you haven't a foible," said Algitha.

"That I am ready to admit; but seriously, women seem bent on proving
that you may treat them as you like, but they will 'never desert Mr.
Micawber.'"

Algitha smiled.

"They are so mortally afraid of getting off the line and doing what
might not be quite right. They take such a morbid interest in their own
characters. They are so particular about their souls. The female soul is
such a delicate creation--like a bonnet. Look at a woman trimming and
poking at her bonnet--that's exactly how she goes on with her soul."

Algitha laughed and shrugged her shoulders.

"It has trained her in a sort of heroism, at any rate," she said.

"Heroism! talk of Spartan boys, they are not in it! A woman will endure
martyrdom with the expression of a seraph,--an extremely aggravating
seraph. She looks after her soul as if it were the ultimate fact of the
universe. She will trim and preen that ridiculous soul, though the
heavens fall and the rest of her sex perish."

"Come now, I think there are exceptions."

"A few, but very few. It is a point of honour, a sacred canon. Women
will go on patiently drawing water in sieves, and pretend they are
usefully employed because it tires them!"

"They believe it," said Algitha.

"Perhaps so. But it's very silly."

"It is really well meant. It is a submission to the supposed will of
heaven."

"A poor compliment to Heaven!" Hadria exclaimed.

"Well, it is not, of course, your conception nor mine of the will of
heaven, but it is their's."

Hadria shrugged her shoulders. "I wish women would think a little less
of Heaven in the abstract, and a little more of one another, in the
concrete."

"Nobody has ever taught them to think of one another; on the contrary,
they have always been trained to think of men, and of Heaven, and their
souls. That training accounts for their attitude towards their own sex."

"I suppose so. A spirit of sisterhood among women would have sadly upset
the social scheme, as it has been hitherto conceived. Indeed the social
scheme has made such a spirit well-nigh impossible."

"A conquering race, if it is wise, governs its subjects largely through
their internecine squabbles and jealousies. _But what if they
combine----?_"

"Ah!" Hadria drew a deep sigh. "I wish the moment of sisterhood were a
little nearer."

"Heaven hasten it!" cried Algitha.

"Perhaps it is nearer than we imagine. Women are quick learners, when
they begin. But, oh, it is hard sometimes to make them begin. They are
so annoyingly abject; so painfully diffident. It is their pride to be
humble. The virtuous worm won't even turn!"

"Poor worm! It sometimes permits itself the relief of verbal
expression!" observed Algitha.

Hadria laughed. "There are smiling, villainous worms, who deny
themselves even _that!_"

After a long silence, Algitha taking the poker in her hand and altering
the position of some of the coals, asked what Hadria meant to do in the
future; how she was going to "turn," if that was her intention.

"Oh, I cannot even turn!" replied Hadria. "Necessity knows no law. The
one thing I won't do, is to be virtuously resigned. And I won't 'make
the best of it.'"

Algitha laughed. "I am relieved to hear so wrong-headed a sentiment from
you. It sounds more like your old self."

"I won't be called wrong-headed on this account," said Hadria. "If my
life is to bear testimony to the truth, its refrain ought to be, 'This
is wrong, this is futile, this is cruel, this is damnable.' I shall warn
every young woman I come across, to beware, as she grows older, and has
people in her clutches, not to express her affection by making
unlimited demands on the beloved objects, nor by turning the world into
a prison-house for those whom she honours with her devotion. The hope of
the future lies in the rising generation. You can't alter those who have
matured in the old ideas. It is for us to warn. I _won't_ pretend to
think that things are all right, when I know they are not all right.
That would be mean. What is called making the best of it, would testify
all the wrong way. My life, instead of being a warning, would be a sort
of a trap. Let me at least play the humble rôle of scarecrow. I am in
excellent condition for it," she added, grasping her thin wrist.

Algitha shook her head anxious