[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Purulia arms drop case

The Purulia arms drop  happened on 17 December 1995 when unauthorised arms were dropped from an Antonov An-26 aircraft in Purulia district in the Indian state of West Bengal. The chief accused "Kim Davy" (real name Niels Holck, alias Niels Christian Nielsen) has been vocal about his involvement in the arms drop. He asserts he tried to procure arms to protect members of Ananda Marga from communists and claims that it was a conspiracy of the Congress Indian government together with R&AW and MI5 to overthrow the communist government in West Bengal and he was given assurances from the central government about his safety and return to Denmark. He further alleges that MP Pappu Yadav, in association with the then Prime Minister of India P. V. Narasimha Rao facilitated his safe exit from India. Niels Holck is author of the book De kalder mig terrorist (transl. They call me Terrorist). Niels Holck was involved in a 14-year journey from 1982 involved in community building projects like building schools in Guatemala, agricultural projects in Ananda Nagar, Purulia, India and attending tiger conferences in Russia. According to Holck, the Government of India at the time permitted arms drop operation for Ananda Marga to be able to protect its projects and people from the onslaught of Communists in Bengal. The Communists in Bengal had been targeting and killing people involved with Ananda Marga projects right from the 1970s, and this continued well into the 1990s.

Background
A Latvian aircraft dropped a large consignment of arms including several hundred AK-47 rifles and more than sixteen thousand rounds of ammunition over a large area in Jhalda, Khatanga, Belamu, Maramu villages of Purulia district on the night of 17 December 1995.  
Several days later, when the plane re-entered Indian airspace, it was intercepted by an Indian Air Force MiG-21 and forced to land in Bombay.

Motive and recipient
While the true motive is shrouded in mystery and conjecture, the BBC, after its investigation into it, alleged that arms were intended for the socio-spiritual organization Ananda Marga. Niels Holck, who claims the central government itself was behind the arms drop to disrupt harmony and exterminate the CPI(M) supporters, has been vocal about his involvement in procurement of weapons to help protect the mission of Ananda Marga in Purulia from CPI(M). Niels Holck (Kim Davy) has given numerous public interviews about his involvement in the arms drops and has asserted that he was compelled to procure arms to protect members of Ananda Marga with whom he had formed close friendships, working shoulder to shoulder on social service projects in Ananda Nagar, Purulia, since the State of West Bengal and Government of India in 1995 were ineffective in curbing violence against Ananda Marga. He has said in all his public interviews and the documentary that the central government at the time and RAW supported this arms drop operation as destabilizing CPI(M) in West Bengal worked in the interest of the central government.

An Indian court in 1997 determined that the Ananda Marga group was indeed the intended recipient of the guns and ammunition. Based on the pilot's testimony, along with other evidence such as a photograph of the Ananda Marga headquarters on the aircraft, the Judge ruled: "as per the materials available I hold that it has been established from the materials on record that the places where the arms were targeted to be dropped were of Anandamargies and precisely three storied white building was the target point and at that target point the arms were tried to be dropped from a flying aircraft and the aircraft has been pin pointed as per the evidence and materials on record."
However, despite the passage of years, many details of the incident are wrapped in mystery, and there has been considerable speculation as to the purpose and modality of the operation.

Arrest and sentencing
The crew of the aircraft consisted of five Latvian citizens and Peter Bleach, a British citizen and an ex Special Air Service operative turned mercenary who was based in Yorkshire and involved in arms dealing. (However, Annie Machon, the former MI5 officer, accuses Bleach of being an MI6 agent in her book "Spies, Lies and Whistleblowers".  In numerous interviews, Bleach has always evaded questions on this subject and has declined to answer questions on his military background.) According to Bleach, he told Defence Export Services Organisation and local North Yorkshire Police Special Branch about the planned delivery of weapons to India in August 1995 as soon as he discovered it was illegal. He claimed that he continued to arrange to buy a plane from the Latvian state airline with police approval. However, North Yorkshire Police's Special Branch denied this.