[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Palestinian art

et, when sponsors from Gulf states found out the Israeli government is supporting the creation of the museum. Abu Shakra had to give up on the plan to build a new museum. He currently tries to receive an official recognition as a museum in the gallery's present 1700 square meter building.

Galleries

In 1996, after 25 years of police service, Said Abu Shakra decided to open the first art gallery in Israel entirely dedicated to contemporary Palestinian art in his hometown Umm el-Fahem, the Umm el-Fahem Art Gallery. Nevertheless, besides Palestinian and Arab artists, the gallery does also showcase Jewish and foreign artists. Indeed, when in 1999 Yoko Ono exhibited her art in the gallery, the institution came to public attention. According to the BBC, the Japanese artist wanted "to "balance" a show of her work in the Israel Museum in Jerusalem". Some of her art work is still shown in the permanent exhibition of the gallery.

The Gallery promotes mainly temporary shows, dealing with a wide range of subjects but sometimes with a special focus on memory and history of the region. This is in accordance with the 2008 started project of an archive collecting Palestinian testimonies (see The Umm el-Fahem Museum of Contemporary Art project). Besides the exhibitions and the archive, the gallery offers symposiums, activities and educational workshops around topics such as art but also sensitive issues such as the role of women or children at risk.

Umm el-Fahem, the biggest Arab city in Israel, is known for its conservative Islam but Said Abu Shakran says that he does not have any problems with anybody in the town. None of the exhibitions shows nudity and the gallery invites the town's religious leaders to its exhibition openings.

In 2010, the Palestinian artist Ahmad Canaan and the Jewish Israeli entrepreneurs Amir Neuman Ahuvia and Yair Rothman established the Jaffa Art Salon. First planned as a contemporary exhibition and hosted by the Tel Aviv-Yafo Municipality, it turned thanks to its success into an established gallery. The gallery is located in an old warehouse in the Jaffa port. From 2010 to 2011, the gallery hosted shows from various Palestinian artists from within the Israeli territory and from beyond the Greenline and from Gaza. Since 2012, the Art Salon opened it shows featuring both Jewish Israeli and Arab artists.

Palestinian artists in the Arab world
Originating from the Palestinian culture that crystallized in the refugee camps mainly in Lebanon and Jordan, Palestinian artists in the Arab world were among the first to put forward a vision of Palestinian contemporary art. As the Palestinian Authority became more central to Palestinian nationalism, their number and influence in the Palestinian art field has decreased, and diasporic Palestinian artists in Europe and the United States, have become increasingly prominent.

One such artist whose works were exhibited in the Made in Palestine exhibit that toured the United States in 2005 is Mustafa Al-Hallaj.

Born in what is now Israel, Al-Hallaj is known throughout the Arab world, where he has been described as "Syria's most famous artist" and an "icon of contemporary Arab graphic arts." Al Hallaj died in 2002 in a fire at his home while trying to save his artwork. In Self-Portrait as God, the Devil, and Man, Al-Hallaj uses rows of overlapping images and intricate etchings that took 10 years to complete to present "an epic retelling of the history of Palestinians from the 11th century BC to the present."

Palestinian artists in the US and in Europe

A number of prominent Palestinian artists live and work outside of the Arab world, namely in the US and in Europe. Notable among them are leading international conceptual artists Mona Hatoum, who is based in London, and Emily Jacir, who is based between New York and Ramallah. Prominent painters such as Jumana El Husseini, Kamal Boullata and Hani Zurob are based in France, while pioneering abstract painter Samia Halaby has resided in New York since the late 1970s. Rising new media artists Larissa Sansour (based in Denmark), Bissan Rafe (based in US and The Netherlands), and Sama Raena Alshaibi (based in US); have also become one of the recent new names in the Palestinian daispora spotlight. Such artists have played a crucial role in developing and expanding contemporary Palestinian art by pushing for the acceptance of the Palestinian narrative in the mainstream art world despite apparent hostilities, controversies, and setbacks due to blatant censorship and various political contexts. While the subject of Palestine has remained paramount for such artists, especially in light of forced exiles, many in the diaspora have maintained cutting-edge approaches, gaining recognition for the new and innovative ways through which they approach Palestine's complex history, its current reality, and uncertain future.