[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Isabel Weld Perkins

o Washington to find Americans suffering from an influenza epidemic and volunteered to assist those in need. Her contributions as a nurse resulted in being awarded the American Red Cross Service Medal, the French Croix de Guerre with bronze star, and the Medal of Elisabeth of Belgium.

Perkins Manor

In addition to her Weld inheritance from her mother's family, Isabel inherited a stately manor in New Hampshire from her commodore father.  Larz and Isabel spent considerable time here and she even opened the doors of this regal mansion to the public for a few summers.  This stately manor was called the Larz Anderson estate during this time but has since been divided into eight apartments and is again known as Perkins Manor.

Memberships and honors
Like her husband, Isabel was active in patriotic and hereditary societies including the Daughters of the American Revolution and The National Society of the Colonial Dames of America.

In 1930, she received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from Boston University.

Death
Isabel died in 1948. Her ashes are interred in the Anderson Tomb in the St. Mary Chapel of the Washington National Cathedral with her husband Larz Anderson.

Estates and collections

Anderson House

Weld money funded a luxurious mansion at Dupont Circle in Washington, D.C.  The Andersons used this as their winter residence from approximately New Years through the beginning of Lent, except when they were traveling abroad or aboard their private steam yacht, The Roxana. After Larz died, Isabel gave the property to the Society of the Cincinnati, of which Anderson was a member. Anderson House now serves as the society's national headquarters and a museum.

Anderson Memorial Bridge

Isabel Anderson's money also built a bridge across the Charles River connecting Boston and Cambridge, Massachusetts. The project was undertaken by Larz Anderson in honor of his father, Nicholas Longworth Anderson, Harvard Class of 1858.  The bridge stands next to Weld Boathouse, a local landmark named after and paid for by her uncle, George Walker Weld.

Weld Estate 

Isabel purchased  in Brookline, Massachusetts, from her 1st cousin.  To this estate, which had been in Isabel's family for generations, the Andersons added a twenty-five room mansion that they used for summers and Christmas holidays.  The mansion, overlooking the Boston skyline, was remodeled to resemble Lulworth Castle, an ancestral home associated with the Welds.  They named the place "Weld" in honor of Isabel's grandfather.  Isabel willed this property to the Town of Brookline and it is now Larz Anderson Park.

Auto collection

Shortly after they wed, the Andersons began assembling an extraordinary collection of horse-drawn carriages, sleighs and motorcars.  In donating these along with the property, Isabel Anderson stipulated in her will that these be known as the "Larz Anderson Collection."  Fourteen of the original thirty-two vehicles remain in the collection and are still on display as part of the Larz Anderson Auto Museum, the oldest collection of motorcars in the United States.

Bonsai collection

After Larz's death, Isabel donated 30 of their bonsai to the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University along with the funds necessary to build a shade house for their display.  Following her death, the remaining nine trees were donated to the Arboretum including an 80-year-old hinoki cypress that had been given to the Andersons by the Emperor of Japan.

The BC Eagle

The Andersons' residence in Tokyo was adorned with a gilded bronze eagle sculpture which stood in front of their home.  The Andersons brought the eagle back to the United States and it remained on their Brookline property after their death.

In 1954, the gilded sculpture was donated to Boston College and is now considered synonymous with the "BC Eagle", the university's mascot.

References

External links 
Larz and Isabel Anderson: Wealth and Celebrity in the Gilded Age.
The Larz Anderson Bonsai Collection at Harvard University

Bibliography
Anderson, Larz: Letters and Journals of a Diplomat, New York, 1940.
Anderson, Isabel: Under the Black Horse Flag, Boston, 1926
Del Tredici, Peter: "Early American Bonsai: The Larz Anderson Collection of the Arnold Arboretum", Arnoldia (Summer 1989)
Moskey, Stephen T: "Larz and Isabel Anderson: Wealth and Celebrity in the Gilded Age," (iUniverse 2016).

Sources
Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University, Larz Anderson and Isabel Weld Perkins 
Harvard Magazine, "The Welds of Harvard Yard" by associate editor Craig A. Lambert
Historic Houses In Dorset, "Lulworth Castle"
Jamaica Plain Historical Society, "The Weld Family"
"Self-Guided Walking Tour of Weld at Larz Anderson Park"
Larz Anderson Auto Museum, "The Andersons"
Project Gutenberg, Book of Annals and Reminiscences of Jamaica Plain by Harriet Manning Whitcomb