[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Zero-suppressed decision diagram

gure 13 may not seem significant by any means, the advantages of a ZDD become obvious as the grid gets larger. For example, for an eight by eight grid, the number of simple paths from corner to corner turns out to be
789,360,053,252 (Knuth). The paths can be illustrated with 33580 nodes using a ZDD.

A real world example for simple paths was proposed by Randal Bryant, "Suppose I wanted to take a driving tour of the Continental U.S., visiting all of the state capitols, and passing through each state only once. What route should I take to minimize the total distance?" Figure 14 shows an undirected graph for this roadmap, the numbers indicating the shortest distances between neighboring capital cities. The problem is to choose a subset of these edges that form a Hamiltonian path of smallest total length. Every Hamiltonian path in this graph must either start or end at Augusta, Maine(ME). Suppose one starts in CA. One can find a ZDD that characterizes all paths from CA to ME. According to Knuth, this ZDD turns out to have only 7850 nodes, and it effectively shows that exactly 437,525,772,584 simple paths from CA to ME are possible. By number of edges, the generating function is 
                       ;
so the longest such paths are Hamiltonian, with a size of 2,707,075. ZDDs in this case, are efficient for simple paths and Hamiltonian paths.

The eight-queens problem
	
Define 64 input variables to represent the squares on a chess board. Each variable denotes the presence or absence of a queen on that square. Consider that, 
	In a particular column, only one variable is "1".
	In a particular row, only one variable is "1".
	On a particular diagonal line, one or no variable is "1".
Although one can solve this problem by constructing OBDDs, it is more efficient to use ZDDs. Constructing a ZDD for the 8-Queens problem requires 8 steps from S1 to S8.
Each step can be defined as follows:
	S1: Represents all choices of putting a queen at the first row.
S2: Represents all choices of putting a queen at the second row so as not to violate the first queen. 
S3: Represents all choices of putting a queen at the third row so that it does not violate the previous queens. 
	…
S8: Represents all choices of putting a queen at the eighth row so that it does not violate the previous queens.
	
	The ZDD for S8 consists of all potential solutions of the 8-Queens problem. 
	For this particular problem, caching can significantly improve the performance of the algorithm. Using cache to avoid duplicates can improve the N-Queens problems up to 4.5 times faster than using only the basic operations (as defined above), shown in Figure 10.

The knight's tour problem

	The Knight's tour problem has a historical significance. The knight's graph contains n2 vertices to depict the squares of the chessboard. The edges illustrate the legal moves of a knight. The knight can visit each square of the board exactly once. Olaf Schröer, M. Löbbing, and Ingo Wegener approached this problem, namely on a board, by assigning Boolean variables for each edge on the graph, with a total of 156 variables to designate all the edges. A solution of the problem can be expressed by a 156-bit combination vector. According to Minato, the construction of a ZDD for all solutions is too large to solve directly. It is easier to divide and conquer. By dividing the problems into two parts of the board, and constructing ZDDs in subspaces, one can solve The Knight's tour problem with each solution containing 64 edges. However, since the graph is not very sparse, the advantage of using ZDDs is not so obvious.

Fault simulation

	N. Takahashi et al suggested a fault simulation method given multiple faults by using OBDDs. This deductive method transmits the fault sets from primary inputs to primary outputs, and captures the faults at primary outputs. Since this method involves unate cube set expressions, ZDDs are more efficient. The optimizations from ZDDs in unate cube set calculations indicate that ZDDs could be useful in developing VLSI CAD systems and in a myriad of other applications.

Available packages 
 CUDD: A BDD package written in C that implements BDDs and ZBDDs, University of Colorado, Boulder
 JDD, A java library that implements common BDD and ZBDD operations
 Graphillion, A ZDD software implementation based on Python 
 , A CWEB ZDD implementation by Donald Knuth.

References

Further reading
 
 Ch. Meinel, T. Theobald, "Algorithms and Data Structures in VLSI-Design: OBDD – Foundations and Applications", Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, 1998.
 
 
Lynn, Ben. "ZDDs." ZDDs - Introduction, Stanford University, 2005, crypto.stanford.edu/pbc/notes/zdd/.
 
Knuth, Donald E. The Art of Computer Programming, Vol 4. 22 Dec. 2008.