[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Military Advocate General

the criminal records of soldiers prior to their recruitment, handles prisoner releases in the framework of peace agreements, and treats appeals to the Supreme Court. The Supervisory Dept. attends to criticisms of MAG bodies, and coordinates its activities with investigatory entities outside the IDF.

Department of the Legal Advisor to the Region of Judea and Samaria
The legal advisor in the Israeli-occupied West Bank, referred to as the Israeli district name of Judea and Samaria Area, is charged with providing legal advice regarding military activities and military administration to the military commander of the West Bank and to the head of the civil administration. In that role, the division has a difficult task in balancing security interests with humanitarian concerns and plays an active role in settling disputes between Israelis and Palestinians. The division provides legal advice on various aspects of security measures, planning and zoning, land registration, economic activity, municipal governance, etc. Additionally, the division plays a major part in the financial war against terrorist organizations in both seizing terror-related funds and the tracking and arresting of individuals involved in those activities. Lastly, the division plays a central role in planning the route, determining passage arrangements, as well as petitions to the High Court of Justice and compensation issues relating to the Security Barrier.

School of Military Law
The School of Military Law is responsible for providing training in the IDF on matters of military law and for the professional development of those serving in the MAG Corps. The School of Military Law also trains and accredits IDF officers to conduct disciplinary proceedings, and supervises disciplinary proceedings in the IDF. The School of Military Law also coordinates the process for requests by soldiers for pardons or sentence reduction.

The legal training provided by the School of Military Law to IDF commanders and soldiers include in-depth studies of military law, analysis of real events and lessons-learned, practical workshops, the use of advanced training methods and conducting certification courses. The primary topics covered in these trainings are the areas of international law relevant to IDF activity and other legal issues relating to IDF activities, such as command responsibility. The School of Military Law also operates the Military Training and Exercise Administration, the purpose of which is to challenge IDF commanders with the legal aspects of operational scenarios during trainings and exercises that take place in the IDF.

The School of Military Law is also responsible for training and accrediting officers and soldiers in the MAG Corps, upon their arrival to the unit and throughout their service. For decades, the School of Military Law has run the Legal Officer Training Course, which constitutes the MAG Corps' accreditation course and is the flagship course for MAG Corps officers. This course is the bridge between legal studies in university and the military context, and prepares dozens of new officers annually for the challenges they will face in their new roles as they join the ranks of the MAG Corps. The School of Military Law also provides advanced command and management courses for officers, a course for soldiers serving as legal assistants, and more. Additionally, the School of Military Law runs continued legal education courses, professional seminars and conferences.

The School of Military Law responsibility extends to training and accrediting officers to be able to adjudicate disciplinary hearings for soldiers ("disciplinary officers"). The School of Military Law trains all officers in the IDF to become "disciplinary officers", and conducts specialized training for senior officers and officers who are appointed to adjudicate special offences.

The School of Military Law also provides ongoing instruction and advice to commanders and soldiers with respect to disciplinary proceedings, among others, through a designated call center. The School of Military Law provides regular advice to commanders regarding their authorities and particular disciplinary proceedings. The School of Military Law also provides information to soldiers regarding their rights and provides them with the option to ask questions regarding their particular disciplinary proceedings.

The School of Military Law coordinates the supervision of disciplinary proceedings in the IDF on behalf of the Deputy Military Advocate General. The School of Military Law assists the Deputy Military Advocate General in examining claims by soldiers with respect to the standard of the disciplinary proceedings conducted against them, and to deal with cases that require intervention, including invalidating proceedings or ordering a new hearing. This is all done in accordance with the authority conferred to the Deputy Military Advocate General pursuant to Military Justice Law.