[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# COPS (animated TV series)

ertainment acquired the rights to the series, releasing Volume 1, featuring the first 32 episodes of the series, on February 15, 2011. Volume 2, featuring the remaining 33 episodes, was released on September 13, 2011. They released C.O.P.S. – The Complete Series on DVD in Region 1 on March 14, 2017.

Reception
Hal Erickson, author of Television Cartoon Shows, An Illustrated Encyclopedia stated that "C.O.P.S. had potential though it was a potential left unrealized by the dishearteningly flat animation style". Erickson noted that C.O.P.S. "scored with a sturdy inner lining of social satire" such as Mayor Davis' cost-cutting attempts that would unwittingly aid the cause of the villain. IGN gave the show a rating of three out of ten, stating that "to fully appreciate this series one must have a tolerance for clunky, mechanical animation (the kind that says 'We really didn't spend too much money on it') and a love for '80s-style action"; and that "it offers little in terms of character development. I mean, all any kid needs to know is the C.O.P.S are the good guys and Big Boss and crew are the bad guys. Beyond that, the cartoon does offer one element to behold: its emphasis on gadgetry".

Notes

References

External links

 
 
 COPS at Facebook

1988 American television series debuts
1988 American television series endings
1980s American animated television series
1988 Canadian television series debuts
1988 Canadian television series endings
1980s Canadian animated television series
Television series set in 2020
Television series set in the future
First-run syndicated television programs in the United States
Television series by DIC Entertainment
English-language television shows
Television shows based on Hasbro toys
Fictional law enforcement agencies
American children's animated action television series
American children's animated adventure television series
American children's animated science fiction television series
Canadian children's animated action television series
Canadian children's animated adventure television series
Canadian children's animated science fiction television series
Television series by Claster Television