[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Grand Bay-Westfield

ay 4, 2022, the winning named was revealed to be Grand Bay-Westfield. There were 2,165 votes cast, with Grand Bay-Westfield receiving at least 51% of the vote. Pending approval by the province, Grand Bay-Westfield will come into effect as the name for the governing body of Entity 51 on Jan. 1, 2023.

Prior to the official creation of the new local government of Grand Bay-Westfield, there will be a by-election in the portion of the local service district of Westfield. While Grand Bay-Westfield's councillors are usually elected at-large, for the purposes of providing representation to the annexed portion of Westfield the town will be divided into two wards until the next quadrennial municipal election. Ward 1 will include the current town of Grand Bay-Westfield and Ward 2 will be the portion of the local service district (LSD) of Westfield.

Beyond the addition of a portion of the adjacent LSD, there will be other minor changes to the boundaries of Grand Bay-Westfield. These changes include some alterations along the county line, the Loch Alva Wilderness Area, and at Robin Hood Lake.

Demographics 
In the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Grand Bay-Westfield had a population of  living in  of its  total private dwellings, a change of  from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of  in 2021.

Transportation

Rail
In 1869 the European and North American Railway Western Extension was opened through the area between Saint John and Vanceboro, Maine.  The rail line changed ownership to the New Brunswick Railway before becoming part of the Canadian Pacific Railway mainline from Saint John to Montreal in the 1880s.  CPR established several stations through the area (Grand Bay, Pamdenec, Epworth Park, Ingleside, Ononette, Hillandale, Westfield Beach, Lingley, Sagwa, and Nerepis).  The rail line was sold in 1995 and is now operated as the New Brunswick Southern Railway.

Roads
Route 177 is the town's main road, called River Valley Drive in the Grand Bay section of town and Nerepis Road in the Westfield part. Other main streets are Woolastook Drive, which winds through the highlands of Grand Bay, and Inglewood Drive is host to the Pamdenec, Epworth Park, Brandy Point & Ingleside subdivisions on Grand Bay's shore front. Also, NB Route 102 which begins north of Fredericton ends in Westfield. Highway 7, the main route from Saint John to Fredericton, passes through the western extremity of the town.
In September, 2008, part of the ground that supports the railway tracks were washed away after Hurricane Hannah.

Marine

From 1816 to 1946, steamship transport was the primary means of both passenger and cargo transportation between Saint John and Fredericton. Along the river, various stopping places were established. The area encompassed by the present town of Grand Bay-Westfield included two such stops, the Westfield Wharf and the Epworth Park Wharf. The former was owned by the Provincial and later Federal governments for public use and eventually came to be repurposed as a ferry landing and boat launch after the steamboat traffic stopped. The latter was privately owned, and ceased to be maintained in the 1930s.

The town has a ferry landing at the end of Ferry Road in Westfield. The Westfield Ferry, a cable ferry route operated by the provincial Department of Transportation using a pair of ferries, connects Westfield with the community of Hardings Point on the Kingston Peninsula. There is a popular campground just a few feet from the Hardings Point ferry landing.

The Canadian Coast Guard maintains a seasonal (summer only) search and rescue station at Brundage Point near the Westfield ferry landing.  Inshore Rescue Boat Station Saint John (IRB Station Saint John) operates a Zodiac Hurricane 733 fast rescue craft in the lower Saint John River, covering all areas downstream from Evandale to the Reversing Falls, including the Kennebecasis River and Belleisle Bay. IRB Station Saint John is tasked by Joint Rescue Coordination Centre Halifax.

Neighbourhoods