[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# March 1973

d as champions of U.S. women's college basketball championship in the second AIAW women's basketball tournament, winning 59 to 52 over the Queens College Lady Knights, hosts of the tournament in the Queens borough of New York City.
The pilot episode of the sitcom Open All Hours (which would later be voted 8th-best in the Britain's Best Sitcom poll), was broadcast on BBC2.
Chicago ran its electric trolleybus service for the last time as the Chicago Transit Authority retired the last of its "trolley coaches" that had run from overhead electrical wires.
Born: Si Thu Lwin, popular Myanmar (Burma) recording artist and actor; in Rangoon, Burma (now Yangon, Myanmar)
Died: 
Alexander Orlov, 94, former colonel in the Soviet Union's NKVD secret police agency who defected to the United States with his family rather than return to the Soviet Union after being recalled. After the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953, he published his memoir The Secret History of Stalin's Crimes.
Edward Steichen, 93, Luxembourg-born American photographer

March 26, 1973 (Monday)
Women were admitted into the London Stock Exchange for the first time.
The UCLA Bruins won the NCAA basketball championship with an 87 to 66 score against Memphis State University in St. Louis. Bill Walton of the Bruins scored 44 points by hitting all but one of his shooting attempts, and setting a new record. The victory was UCLA's 75th in a row in regular season and playoff play, and gave Coach John Wooden his ninth title in 10 years.
The long-running daytime soap opera The Young and the Restless premiered on the CBS television network in the U.S., described as involving "the intertwining fortunes of two families in a small city in upper Mid-America, Genoa City". A critic observed the show as "a complicated mix of traditional soaper fare ('I'm not a child anymore— I'm a woman!') and clever innovations (simultaneous development of several characters' lives, and unprecedented use of popular and even classical music) that could make the series a classic of its kind."

On the same day, The $10,000 Pyramid, a game show, made its debut. Dick Clark hosted, and the first celebrity guests were Rob Reiner and June Lockhart.
The government of South Vietnam released one of its most well-known political prisoners, former presidential candidate Truong Dinh Dzu, who had been incarcerated for more than five years after running in the 1967 presidential election on a platform of negotiating for peace with the Communist Viet Cong.
Born: Larry Page, U.S. computer scientist and entrepreneur; in Lansing, Michigan
Died: Noël Coward, 73, English playwright, composer, director, actor and singer

March 27, 1973 (Tuesday)
 At the Academy Awards, The Godfather won Best Picture, while Cabaret won 8 Oscars on the night. Marlon Brando was voted the Academy Award for Best Actor by his peers for his performance as the title character, Vito Corleone, but declined to accept the award as a protest against the depiction of American Indians in U.S. films. Sacheen Littlefeather, an activist for Native American civil rights and actress claiming (later disproven) White Mountain Apache descent, gave the rejection speech on Brando's behalf.
Canada's Welland By-Pass, a  long canal between Port Robinson and Port Colborne, Ontario, opened to ship traffic, with the Canadian Coast Guard icebreaker CCGS Griffon being the first to traverse the waterway. 
The flying of airliners at supersonic speed over the United States was barred by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), effective April 27, three years after the proposed new regulations were first published for notice and comment.
Died: Mikhail Kalatozov, Soviet Georgian film director, 69