[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sural nerve

r peripheral nerve grafting and serves as the primary diagnostic site for nerve conduction studies for understanding of peripheral nerve pathologies. It is frequently a site of iatrogenic nerve injury during percutaneous repair of the Achilles tendon or surgical interventions on the lower extremity.

The sural nerve is also a source for iatrogenic injuries during orthopedic interventions of the lower ankle and extremity. For this reason, and due to its large size and significant length it has had a significant contribution in medicine in the form of nerve biopsy and diagnostics of peripheral nerve diseases. Sural mononeuropathy is uncommon, however If affected, it can be due to diabetes, peripheral neuropathies, or trauma.  Sometimes inflammatory or vasculitic diseases will selectively involve the sural nerve.  In addition, the sural nerve will be involved in any kind of generalized peripheral sensory or sensorimotor neuropathy. Sensory changes from sural neuropathy are variable but usually occur in the posterolateral aspect of the leg and the dorsolateral foot. These can sometimes be painful with paresthesias and dysesthesias. Nerve conduction studies can be used to delineate sural nerve lesions.  Treatment will depend on the cause of the neuropathy.  Occasionally biopsy of the nerve is performed for diagnostic purposes.  For example, ganglions are usually resected.  Traumatic neuropathy is usually treated non-surgically. It is often the donor nerve when a nerve allograft is performed.

Sural nerve block

A sural nerve block can be used for quick anesthetization to the foot and lower leg.  Because this technique requires few injections to reach adequate anesthesia, a smaller volume of anesthetic is needed.  The sural nerve is rather superficial, which makes it more accessible to surgeons. Therefore, it is relatively easier than other procedures.  Also, due to its superficial properties, the sural nerve is easily blocked at multiple levels at or above the ankle. In one study, regional anesthesia of the foot and ankle, when performed by surgeons, was completely successful 95% of the time.  Sural nerve block is not advised if a patient is allergic to the anesthetic solution, has infected tissue at the injection site, has severe bleeding disorder, or has preexisting neurological damage.

Additional images

References

External links
Referenced papers:
 Steele et al. 208 sample cadaveric review 2021
 Ramakrishnan et al.systematic review on sural nerve formation 2015

Anatomy web references
 
 
 Cutaneous field

Nerves of the lower limb and lower torso