[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Book of Hosea

y scholars" finding references to cultic sexual practices in the worship of Baal, in Hosea 2, to be evidence of an historical situation in which Israelites were either giving up Yahweh worship for Baal, or blending the two.  Hosea's references to sexual acts being metaphors for Israelite 'apostasy'.

Hosea 13:1–3 describes how the Israelites are abandoning Yahweh for the worship of Baal, and accuses them of making or using molten images for 'idol' worship.  Chief among these was the image of the bull at the northern shrine of Bethel, which by the time of Hosea was being worshipped as an image of Baal.

Contribution 
Hosea is a prophet whom God uses to portray a message of repentance to God's people. Through Hosea's marriage to Gomer, God shows his great love for his people, comparing himself to a husband whose wife has committed adultery as a metaphor of the covenant between God and Israel. Hosea influenced latter prophets such as Jeremiah. He is among the first writing prophets, and the last chapter of Hosea has a format similar to wisdom literature.

Like Amos, Hosea elevated the religion of Israel to the altitude of ethical monotheism, being the first to emphasize the moral side of God's nature. Israel's faithlessness, which resisted all warnings, compelled him to punish the people because of his own holiness. Hosea considers infidelity as the chief sin, of which Israel, the adulterous wife, has been guilty against her loving husband, God. Against this he sets the unquenchable love of God, who, in spite of this infidelity, does not cast Israel away forever, but will draw his people to himself again after the judgment.

See also
 Reap the whirlwind (phrase)

Notes

External links 

Jewish translations:
 Hoshea – Hosea (Judaica Press) translation [with Rashi's commentary] at Chabad.org
Christian translations:
Online Bible at GospelHall.org
 Hosea at The Great Books (New Revised Standard Version)
 Isagogical Study of the Book of Hosea by: Paul R. Hanke
 Reconsidering the date and provenance of the Book of Hosea by: James M. Bos
 

 
8th-century BC books
Twelve Minor Prophets