[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# France and the United Nations

ange, France is also leading the fight for international environmental law, working with experts from 40 countries from around the world in different stages of development and presenting the “Global Pact for the Environment” to the UN. A resolution was adopted by the General Assembly on 10 May 2018.

Human Rights 
Human rights are a key focus of the UN and are one of the fundamental principles of the French Republic as a nation and society as well as in its foreign policy. The UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights passed in 1948 is partially inspired by France’s own Déclaration des droits de l’Homme et du citoyen from 1789 and many parallels can be drawn between the two.  France works with the UN to advocate “the universal and indissociable nature of human rights”. It has consistently played a leading role in this area through its roles on the Human Rights Council  (see: ) and the Security Council. Some UN human rights focus areas France is deeply engaged in are promoting women’s rights, protecting journalists and freedom of the press, combating impunity, arbitrary detention and enforced disappearance, universal abolition of the death penalty, and fighting against child soldier recruitment.

Future of France-UN relations

French Candidature for the Human Rights Council 2021-2023 
France and the United Nations share a long-standing commitment to universal human rights. The Human Rights Council (UNHRC) is a body within the UN made up of 47 states which are responsible for advocating and defending human rights throughout the world. The 47 member states are elected for three-year terms by the UN General Assembly and seats are distributed based on equitable geographical distribution. Since the UNHRC was founded in 2006, France has been a member three times (2006-2008, 2009-2011, 2014–2016) and plays an active role in UNHCR missions even when it is not a member. France is determined to promote humanist diplomacy in response to new 21st century threats and violations it sees to universal human rights. As such, on the 22nd of February 2020, France Diplomacy announced its candidacy to the Human Rights Council for the 2021-2023 term on Twitter. Four days later, on the 26th of February, Mr. Jean-Yves Le Drian, the French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, presented France’s candidacy for the council at the opening of its 43rd session in Geneva:“Institutions and the very principle of multilateralism are exposed to unprecedented attempts at destabilization. France won’t resign itself to seeing fundamental rights flouted, democracy weakened, or multilateralism dismantled. On the contrary, we’ll continue to defend human rights by every means and in every forum where our voice can be heard. This is why France is putting forward its candidacy for the Human Rights Council for the 2021-2023 term." ~ Mr. Jean-Yves Le Drian, Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs.France’s 2021-2023 candidacy has three key priorities to guide its actions which fall in line with UN values:

 Strengthening international mobilization for women’s rights.
 Protecting those who defend human rights, often at risk to their own lives.
 Defending the fundamentals of democracy, including ensuring the safety of journalists and the right to reliable information.

UNHRC supposed to only accept members who are truly committed to human rights and are not abusing human rights themselves. With other candidates like Russia, Cuba and Saudi Arabia applying, which are authoritarian to varying degrees and do not hold high standards of in the promotion of human rights themselves in their domestic and foreign policies, it is likely France will be elected over such countries. Though France is not immune of rights abuse concerns from the UN, such as over their counter-terrorism laws, according to the UNHRC, it remains one of the countries most committed to universal human rights.

UN Reform 

France has been a key stakeholder in recent calls for UN reform to make the organization more efficient and more representative of the current world order which has changed immensely since the end of WWII when UN structures were established. Multilateralism is now under the threat of power politics and France has been vocal about the need to fix this through reform of the UN. There are 3 main areas of reform France has proposed or supported over the last decade.