[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Command Authority (Pakistan)

es, and the Director-General of the SPD. The DCC includes the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff committee (as deputy chairman of DCC), the chiefs of the armed forces, the director general of the SPD, and a "representative of the strategic organization and scientific community (science adviser)".

Since the 1970s onward, the National Command Authority is responsible for policy formulation and will exercise employment and development control over all strategic nuclear forces and strategic organizations. It consists of an Employment Control Committee and a Development Control Committee, as well as the Strategic Plans Division (SPD) which acts as its secretariat. The SPD is responsible for the management and administration of the country's tactical and strategic nuclear weapons stockpile. It was created the same year as the NCA was formed.

Their directives are to be operationalized by a new SPD under the control of a Director-General at the rank of Lieutenant-General (Air Marshal or Vice-Admiral) in charge of the management and administration of the tactical and strategic nuclear forces. The current director-general of the SPD is Lt Gen Sarfraz Sattar after replacing Lieutenant-General Mazhar Jamil.

Since its establishment, Pervez Musharraf, as President of Pakistan, had served its first chairman. However, after the 2008 General Elections, Pakistani lawmakers introduced a new law which was passed unanimously by the Pakistani Parliament. The bill placed the NCA's Authority under the Prime Minister’s command.

Subordinate Commands

The directives of the NCA are to be operationalised by the:

Strategic Plans Division
Army Strategic Forces Command
Naval Strategic Forces Command
Air Force Strategic Command

See also 
Nuclear doctrine of Pakistan
List of missiles of Pakistan
Pakistan and weapons of mass destruction

References

External links 
 CSIS Missile Threat - Pakistan
 National Command Authority Act, 2010
 Global Security Report
 FAS Report

Military of Pakistan
Nuclear weapons programme of Pakistan
Pakistan federal departments and agencies
2000 establishments in Pakistan
Continuity of government in Pakistan
Government agencies established in 2000
Strategic forces of Pakistan