[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# David Sharp (mountaineer)

at he was in trouble and two other more inexperienced climbers from his group went missing at around the same time. One of the two missing climbers was Malaysian Ravi Chandran (also known as Ravichandran Tharumalingam), who was eventually found but required medical attention after getting frostbite.

Some members of the group of climbers Sharp was with, including George Dijmarescu, realised Sharp was missing when he did not return later in the evening on May 15 and nobody reported seeing him.  Sharp was an experienced climber who had previously turned around when he had experienced problems and it was surmised that Sharp had sought shelter at one of the higher camps or bivouacked somewhere higher up on Everest, so his failure to return to camp did not initially cause serious concern. High-altitude bivouacs are very risky but are sometimes recommended in certain extreme situations.

Sharp ultimately died under the rocky overhang, sitting with arms clasped around his legs, next to Green Boots. The "cave" is situated approximately  above the high camps, commonly called Camp 4 but the extreme cold, fatigue, lack of oxygen and darkness made a descent to Camp 4 very dangerous or next to impossible.

Accounts of the fatal climb

Himex expedition – first team
Himex organised several teams to climb Everest during the 2006 climbing season expedition. The first team was guided by mountain climber and guide Bill Crouse. At around 01:00 on 14 May, Crouse's expedition team passed by Sharp during their ascent near the location on the North route known as the "Exit Cracks". When Crouse's team descended around 11:00, they saw Sharp once again but this time he was higher up on the mountain at the base of the Third Step. By the time Crouse's expedition had descended to the Second Step, more than one hour later, they looked back to see that Sharp was above the Third Step but was climbing very slowly and had only moved about .

Turkish team
Another source of information about Sharp were reports from a team of Turkish climbers. They left their high camp in the evening on 14 May and were essentially traveling in three separate groups.

Late in the evening to early morning, the Turkish team members encountered Sharp in the darkness while they were ascending. The first group encountered Sharp around midnight, noticed he was alive and thought that he appeared to be a climber taking a short break. Sharp supposedly waved them on. Some time later, others who noticed Sharp thought he was already dead; recovery of a dead climber's body is almost impossible due to the conditions so far up the mountain. It is thought that Sharp might have fallen asleep between these two encounters. The fact that Sharp wanted to sleep was noted by other climbers who encountered him later on, and a quote attributed to him telling people that he wanted to sleep was later reported in some news media stories.

Some of the Turkish team summited early in the morning on 15 May while some turned back near the summit due to difficulties one of their team members was having. The Turkish team members who turned back encountered Sharp again at about 07:00 and one of them was the Turkish team leader, Serhan Pocan, who had previously passed Sharp in the night and thought Sharp was a climber who had recently died. In the daylight, Pocan realised that Sharp was alive and in serious trouble.

Sharp had no oxygen left, had serious frostbite and some limbs were frozen. Two of the Turkish climbers stayed, gave him something to drink and tried to help him move. When they themselves began to run low on oxygen, they were forced to leave but with the intent to return with more oxygen. Their initial effort to help was complicated by their own problems trying to get Burçak Özoğlu Poçan down safely; she was the climber in their group having medical problems. Serhan Pocan placed radio calls to the rest of the team coming down from the summit about Sharp and continued descending with Burçak.  At about 08:30, two other members of the Turkish team cleaned out Sharp's iced up mask to give him oxygen but they had started to run out themselves and had to descend. The remaining Turks later attempted to further help Sharp along with some Himex expedition members.

Himex expedition – Second team
The vanguard of the second team of Himex climbers included Max Chaya, New Zealand double-amputee Mark Inglis, Wayne Alexander (who designed Inglis' prosthetic climbing legs), Discovery cameraman Mark Whetu, experienced climbing guide Mark Woodward, and their Sherpa support team, including Phurba Tashi. The team left their high camp around  late in the evening near midnight on 14 May. Chaya and the Sherpa porter/guide he was climbing with were out in front by about half an hour.