[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Proposed states and union territories of India

region in the 2014 Maharashtra Legislative assembly election, receiving a majority in the Maharashtra Legislative assembly. However, BJP did not create a separate state after winning the election. In the following 2019 legislative assembly election, BJP was defeated, only winning 29 seats.

Manipur

Kukiland 
Kukiland a proposed separate state for the Kuki people. The demand for a separate state or union territory began in the 1980s. After the 2023 Manipur violence the demand resurfaced. Kuki-Zomi people protested against the Meitei people. Ruling BJP government in the state rejected the demand. However, ten MLAs from the ruling party as well as from the opposition demanded Kukiland saying that Kuki people will not survive in Meitei-majority Manipur. The Kuki State Demand Committee an extremist group which supports a separate homeland for the Kuki-Zomi people in the state of Manipur and is also supported by the Kuki National Army. KSDC covers almost 60% of the area of Manipur, including Southern Manipur and surrounding areas of Sadar hills, Imphal.

Meghalaya

Garoland

Garo Hills Autonomous District Council (GHADC) is seated at Tura and is one of the three Autonomous District Councils within Meghalaya state, and one of fourteen autonomous regions of India. The region of Garoland covers the districts of East Garo Hills, West Garo Hills, South Garo Hills, North Garo Hills, and Southwest Garo Hills.

The Garo National Council is a political party in Meghalaya in northeastern India. Founded by Clifford R. Marak, the party fights for the creation of a Garo-majority state, to be carved from the districts of West Garo Hills, East Garo Hills, and South Garo Hills. The Garoland demand of GNC is different from that of the separatist guerrilla Achik National Volunteer Council, who also demands that parts of Assam ought to be part of Garoland.

GNC won one seat in the Garo Hills Autonomous District Council elections in 2002.

In the 2003 Meghalaya state assembly elections, GNC had put up seven candidates, who together received 8,483 votes.
Clifford Marak, the only GNC MLA in the state legislature, died on 1 March 2015 of liver and kidney disease.

Khasi-Jaintia Hills (Khasiland) state 
HSPDP a regional political party which is also part of Conrad Sangma led MDA has demanded to bifurcate state into two states, Garo hills as Garoland and Khasi-Jaintia Hills as Khasiland. However the other ally of MDA, UDP has not supported the demand by saying that the bifurcation of state would create problems. The "Hill State People's Democratic Party" (HSPDP), the oldest regional political party of Meghalaya, for about 50 years has been demanding a separate Khasi-Jaintia state to be carved out from Meghalaya, by citing Article 371 of the Indian Constitution.

Mizoram

Chakmaland

Chakmaland is a proposed union territory for the predominantly Buddhist Chakma people in western Mizoram, which came under Indian territory from the Chittagong Hill Tracts after the Partition of India. Chakmas have been demanding to convert the existing Chakma Autonomous District Council and areas of Tlabung in Mizoram into a union territory. The Chakma people have faced discrimination by the predominantly Christian Mizo people.

Nagaland

Frontier Nagaland

An organisation named Eastern Nagaland People's Organization(ENPO) has called separate state for frontier districts (Longleng, Mon, Tuensang, Noklak, Shamtor and Kiphire) ahead of 2023 Nagaland Legislative Assembly election. They also called for boycott of upcoming state election. These region comprises 20 state assembly seats.

These region of Nagaland is inhibited by tribes of Konyak, Khiamniungan, Chang, Sangtam, Tikhir, Phom and Yimkhiung.

During British era, this region was under Tuensang Frontier earlier was part of North-East Frontier Agency(Later to Assam state until 1957).

Odisha

Kosal 

The Kosal state movement is an effort by people of the Western Odisha region to secede from the state of Odisha.[when?] [citation needed] Organizations like Western Odisha Yuva Manch (WOYM), Kosal Youth Coordination Committee (KYCC), Kosal State Coordination Committee (KSCC), KOSHAL SENA are mainly leading this.

The demand for secession from the state of Odisha arose mostly because of the prolonged underdevelopment and backwardness of this region. Pro-separatist groups have repeatedly claimed the state government is not doing enough for the development of undeveloped districts of western Odisha.

To develop the western Odisha region, the state government has established a Western Odisha Development Council (WODC). A significant budget is allotted to this council from the total budget of Odisha. However, the WODC headquarters is located in the state capital Bhubaneswar rather than in Western Odisha.

Punjab

Greater Punjab