[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Moses in rabbinic literature

to him.

Moses then begged that one of his children or one of the children of his brother Aaron might succeed him. God answered that his children had not devoted themselves to the Law, whereas Joshua had served Moses faithfully and had learned from him; he therefore deserved to succeed his teacher.

Then Moses said: "Perhaps I must die only because the time has come for Joshua to enter upon his office as the leader of Israel. If Joshua shall now become the leader, I will treat him as my teacher and will serve him, if only I may stay alive." Moses then began to serve Joshua and give him the honor due to a master from his pupil. He continued to do this for thirty-seven days, from the first of Shevat to the seventh of Adar. On the latter day he conducted Joshua to the tent of the assembly. But when he saw Joshua go in while he himself had to remain outside, he became jealous, and said that it was a hundred times better to die than to suffer once such pangs of jealousy. Then the treasures of wisdom were taken away from Moses and given to Joshua. A heavenly voice was heard to say, "Learn from Joshua!" Joshua delivered a speech of which Moses understood nothing. Then, when the people asked that Moses should complete the Torah, he replied, "I do not know how to answer you," and tottered and fell. He then said: "Lord of the world, until now I desired to live; but now I am willing to die." As the angel of death was afraid to take his soul, God Himself, accompanied by Gabriel, Michael, and Zagziel, the former teacher of Moses, descended to get it. Moses blessed the people, begged their forgiveness for any injuries he might have done them, and took leave of them with the assurance that he would see them again at the resurrection of the dead.

Gabriel arranged the couch, Michael spread a silken cover over it, and Zagziel put a silken pillow under Moses' head. At God's command Moses crossed his hands over his breast and closed his eyes, and God took his soul away with a kiss (mitat neshika). Then heaven and earth and the starry world began to weep for Moses.

Although Moses died in the territory of the tribe of Reuben, he was buried in that of tribe of Gad at a spot four miles distant from the place of his death. He was carried this distance by the Shekinah, while the angels said to him that he had practised God's justice (Deuteronomy 33:22). At the same time the bat kol cried out in the camp of the people: "Moses, the great teacher of Israel, is dead!"

God Himself buried Moses in a grave which had been prepared for him in the dusk of Friday, the sixth day of the Creation. This tomb is opposite Beth-peor, in atonement for the sin which Israel committed with the idol Peor. Yet it cannot be discovered; for to a person standing on the mountain it seems to be in the valley; and if one goes down into the valley, it appears to be on the mountain.

Personal qualities

All the different cycles of legends agree in saying that Moses was very wealthy, probably on the basis of Numbers 16.15; they differ, however, as to the source of his wealth. According to one, he derived it from the presents and treasures given to him by the Ethiopians when they took the crown away from him. According to another, Jethro gave him a large sum of money as dowry when he married Zipporah. Still another story relates that Moses received a large part of the booty captured from Pharaoh and, later, from Sihon and Og. In two other versions, Moses became wealthy by a miracle. One says that Moses became rich through the breaking of the tablets, which were made of sapphires; in the other, God created a sapphire quarry in Moses' tent.

Moses was also distinguished for his strength and beauty. He was, as stated above, ten ells tall and very powerful. In the battle against Og, Moses was the only one able to kill that king. His face was surrounded by a halo; this was given to him in reward for having hidden his face on first meeting God in the burning bush, or he derived it from the cave in the cleft of the rock or from the tablets, which he grasped while God was holding one side and the angels the other. Another legend says that a drop of the marvelous ink with which he wrote down the Torah remained on the pen; and when he touched his head with the pen he received his halo.

Moses was called the "father of wisdom" on account of his great sagacity. He possessed forty-nine of the fifty divisions of wisdom. The question why the pious sometimes have bad luck while the sinners are fortunate was solved for him. He wished to know also how good deeds are rewarded in the future world, but this was not revealed to him.

Piety was not burdensome to him. His prayers were immediately answered. He was so prominent a figure that his authority was equal to that of an entire sanhedrin of seventy-one members, or even of the whole of Israel.

His prophetic powers