[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Genocyber

is a 1992 Japanese manga series by Tony Takezaki. One volume of the manga was published, and the story remains unfinished. It was adapted by Koichi Ohata into a five-part original video animation (OVA) series in 1994. The plot of the anime differs significantly from the manga. Both are notable for their extreme graphic violence.

The OVA was produced by Bandai Visual and released in North America by U.S. Manga Corps. Genocyber was also released by Manga Entertainment's UK and Australian Divisions in The Cyberpunk Collection but only episodes 1-3 were released in these regions; this collection also included two other cyberpunk OVAs, Cyber City Oedo 808 and A.D. Police. The remaining two parts were not released into English until U.S. Manga Corp obtained the rights and had Central Park Media dub the remaining two episodes that were not dubbed by Manga UK.

In September 2020, Discotek Media announced they have acquired the distribution rights to Genocyber.

Plot

Episode 1: A New Life
The world's nations are beginning to form a new global government. The first OVA is centered around a young girl named Elaine and details the development and creation of a "Genocyber", an ultimate biological weapon created by combining the powers and consciousness of two psychic sisters. The project is directed by a mad scientist and funded by the Kuryu Group (The Kuryu Group was called Kuron in the English dub by Manga UK, but this was corrected by Central Park Media for episodes 4 and 5), a huge Japanese corporation that is a world leader in military research. Starting off in Hong Kong, the story follows Elaine, a nervous young girl. She is central to the ambitions of the scientist who wants to combine her powers with those of her crippled sister, Diana, to activate the Genocyber. Both were children of a former colleague of the mad scientist, whom he betrayed to receive funding for his research.

In its physical form, Genocyber is a gigantic humanoid monster, which the scientist calls a Vajra. In addition to having almost unlimited strength and regenerative abilities, Genocyber also possesses incredible telekinetic and pyrokinetic powers.

After a brutal search by the scientist and his masked henchmen for Elaine that kills dozens, Elaine is chased by cyborg agents of the Kuryu group, and the scientist is later arrested for going rogue and conducting his own research without the group's approval. During a battle where Diana wears a cybernetic suit of her own to try to catch her, Elaine supposedly dies, which leads to the cyborgs arresting the scientist and collecting Diana. However, Elaine (from within Diana) then uses her psychic power to merge with her and become Genocyber. In the ensuing battle, in which the scientist is killed, huge fires are started, and numerous buildings are heavily damaged, Genocyber also destroys the cyborg agents and throws one of them through a moving airplane. The next morning, Elaine finds that her only friend, a young homeless boy called Rat, whom she met before she was captured, has died after falling from a construction site, likely having been dropped by Wakayama, one of the Kuryu cyborgs. Elaine becomes filled with anger and screams, turning into Genocyber, and initiating a massive explosion which completely destroys Hong Kong, leaving only a barren wasteland in its place.

Episodes 2–3: Vajranoid Attack & Global War
The second OVA apparently occurs shortly after the first one ended. A country called Karain has withdrawn from the United Nations (in protest of the new world government) and launched an invasion of a neighboring country. In response, the United States agrees to deploy a Carrier Strike Group to support offensive operations against Karain. This fleet is to be led by the Alexandria, a massive futuristic Supercarrier stationed off the coast of Japan.

However, satellite photographs have identified an unknown superweapon believed to have been deployed by Karain (in fact, the image is of Genocyber, which destroyed several helicopters after they attacked and killed Elaine's friends). Concerned about the power of this new weapon, the United States military requests assistance from the Kuryu Group. Realizing that the image is in fact of Genocyber (although this is kept secret), the Kuryu Group agrees to send a team of its top scientists to the Alexandria. The Kuryu scientists, including the mentally unstable Sakomizu, bring on board their own secret weapon, a newly created Vajra, out of anticipation that the fleet will encounter Genocyber.

Unlike Genocyber, this new Vajra has a completely robotic body that enables it to almost literally fuse with any machine or weapon it operates. This is demonstrated when the Vajra fuses with a fighter aircraft, enhancing the fighter's capabilities far beyond anything that would be possible for a human pilot.