[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Berlin Wall

omise in North America), in which the heroine, left behind in East Berlin, waits for news of her husband after he makes his escape over the Berlin Wall.
Peter Schneider's The Wall Jumper, (1984; German: Der Mauerspringer, 1982), the Wall plays a central role in this novel set in Berlin of the 1980s.

Music
Music related to the Berlin Wall includes:
Stationary Traveller (1984), a concept album by Camel that takes the theme of families and friends split up by the building of the Berlin Wall.
"West of the Wall", a 1962 top 40 hit by Toni Fisher, which tells the tale of two lovers separated by the newly built Berlin Wall.
"Holidays in the Sun", a song by the English punk rock band Sex Pistols which prominently mentions the Wall, specifically singer Johnny Rotten's fantasy of digging a tunnel under it.
David Bowie's "Heroes", inspired by the image of a couple kissing at the Berlin Wall (in reality, the couple was his producer Tony Visconti and backup singer Antonia Maaß). The song (which, along with the album of the same name, was recorded in Berlin), makes lyrical references to the kissing couple, and to the "Wall of Shame" ("the shame was on the other side"). Upon Bowie's death, the Federal Foreign Office paid homage to Bowie on Twitter: see also above
"" (1984), a song by the Dutch pop band , about the differences between East and West Berlin during the period of the Berlin Wall.
"Chippin' Away" (1990), a song by Tom Fedora, performed by Crosby, Stills & Nash on the Berlin Wall, which appeared on Graham Nash's solo album Innocent Eyes (1986).
"Hedwig and the Angry Inch," a rock opera whose genderqueer protagonist Hedwig Robinson was born in East Berlin and later, living in the United States, describes herself as "the new Berlin Wall" standing between "East and West, slavery and freedom, man and woman, top and bottom." As a result, she says, people are moved to "decorate" her with "blood, graffiti and spit." (1998)
The music video for Liza Fox's song "Free" (2013) contains video clips of the fall of the Berlin Wall.

Visual art
Artworks related to the Berlin Wall include:

In 1982, the West-German artist  created about 500 artworks along the former border strip around West Berlin as part of his work series Border Injuries. On one of his actions he tore down a large part of the Wall, installed a prepared foil of 3x2m in it, and finished the painting there before the border soldiers on patrol could detect him. This performance was recorded on video. His actions are well-documented both in newspapers from that time and in recent scientific publications.
The Day the Wall Came Down, 1996 and 1998 sculptures by Veryl Goodnight, which depict five horses leaping over actual pieces of the Berlin Wall.

Games
Video games related to the Berlin Wall include:
The Berlin Wall (1991), a video game.
Ostalgie: The Berlin Wall (2018), video game by Kremlingames, where the player, playing as the leader of the GDR from 1989 to 1991, can take down the Berlin Wall themselves or as a result of events in the game, or keep the wall intact as long as the country exists.

See also 

Berlin Wall graffiti art
Chapel of Reconciliation
Checkpoint Charlie stand-off (October 1961)
Deborah Kennedy (artist), American artist whose works were featured on the wall before its fall
Dissolution of the Soviet Union (1991)
East German balloon escape
Green Line (Lebanon)
Korean Demilitarized Zone
Military Demarcation Line
List of Berlin Wall segments
List of walls
Operation Gold
Ostalgie
Peace lines
Removal of Hungary's border fence with Austria
Reunification of Jerusalem
The Wall – Live in Berlin (rock opera/concert, 21 July 1990)
World Freedom Day (United States)

Notes

References

Sources

Childs, David (2001). The Fall of the GDR: Germany's Road To Unity, Longman, Pearsoned.co.uk. 
Childs, David (1986) [1983]. The GDR: Moscow's German Ally, London: George Allen & Unwin, .
Childs, David (2001). The Fall of the GDR, Longman.  Amazon.co.uk 
Childs, David (2000). The Two Red Flags: European Social Democracy & Soviet Communism Since 1945, Routledge. 
Childs, David (1991). Germany in the Twentieth Century, (From pre-1918 to the restoration of German unity), Batsford, Third edition. 
Childs, David (1987). East Germany to the 1990s Can It Resist Glasnost?, The Economist Intelligence Unit. . WorldCat.org 

Taylor, Frederick (2006). The Berlin Wall: 13 August 1961 – 9 November 1989. Bloomsbury 

Luftbildatlas. Entlang der Berliner Mauer. Karten, Pläne und Fotos. Hans Wolfgang Hoffmann / Philipp Meuser (eds.) Berlin 2009. 
Sarotte, Mary Elise (2014). Collapse: The Accidental Opening of the Berlin Wall, New York: Basic Books, 
Sarotte, Mary Elise (2014) [1989]. The Struggle to Create Post-Cold War Europe (Second Edition) Princeton: Princeton University Press, 

Further reading

External links

Berlin Wall on OpenStreetMap (zoomable and scrollable)
Other resources:

Berlin Wall image group on Flickr
Berlin Wall Online, historical chronicle