[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Logstown

ment of the Colonial period...had a devastating effect on the archaeological record of the last organized native villages of the western part of the state. Further destruction occurred as industry and development expanded, and any remains that survived the initial onslaught [were] likely wiped away.

In 2019 the National Park Service conducted a survey of the route traveled by George Washington from Williamsburg, Virginia to Fort LeBoeuf between October, 1753 and January, 1754, to determine the feasibility of designating this a National Historic Trail. The report notes that "The site of Logs Town, an Indian village that Washington visited in 1753, also has...potential for an archeological survey."

See also
 Legionville
 Lower Shawneetown
 History of Pennsylvania 
 French and Indian War
 History of Pittsburgh
 Meshemethequater
 Opessa Straight Tail
 Kakowatcheky

Further reading 
 Logstown on the Ohio (1894)
 1752 Treaty of Logstown
 Henry Wilson Temple, Logstown (1918)
 George P. Donehoo, "Logstown," excerpt from "A History of Indian Villages and Place Names in Pennsylvania," in Milestones, Vol 3, No 2. Spring 1977
 The Story of Logstown Revisited: "Logstown: A Legacy Lost" published by the Logstown Associates Historical Society, South News, September 4, 1997
 Jenny Wagner, "Native Americans shaped Beaver County, from its land to its Politics," The Times Online, Feb 25 2015
 Shawn MacIntyre, "Logstown." Posted on January 7, 2020
 Leon J. Pollom, "Logstown1: You Don’t Know Logstown," Now Then, Pittsburgh: Interesting Bits of the Past. Posted November 4, 2018
 Leon J. Pollom, "Logstown2: Where Drowned Trees Went," Now Then, Pittsburgh: Interesting Bits of the Past. Posted November 7, 2018

References 

Iroquois
French and Indian War
Native American populated places
1720s establishments in the Thirteen Colonies
History of Pittsburgh
Populated places established in 1725
Geography of Beaver County, Pennsylvania
History of Beaver County, Pennsylvania
Shawnee history
Native American history of Pennsylvania
George Washington
Peace treaties of the United States
Former populated places in Pennsylvania
Former Native American populated places in the United States
1754 disestablishments