[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# No. 1 Radio School RAF

No. 1 Radio School is based at RAF Cosford and forms part of the Defence School of Communications and Information Systems. Its motto is Thorough, which was the motto of the Royal Air Force Electrical and Wireless School.

Mission 
"To train and develop Air minded war-winners to enable Information Advantage through Cyber and Space capabilities to achieve Cross Domain Effects across the RAF and Defence"

History 

The School was originally known as The School for Wireless Operators, and was part of the Royal Flying Corps, when it was formed at the Town Hall, Farnborough in 1915. The school was transferred to the Royal Air Force (RAF) in 1918 when the RAF was formed by Lord Trenchard, in 1919 the school was moved from Farnborough to RAF Flowerdown in Hampshire.

The school had a number of name changes from The Electrical & Wireless School, to No 1 Signals School, until finally becoming known as No 1 Radio School in 1943, when all radio and signal schools were called radio schools and there were 15 in total.

In 1950 the school moved from RAF Cranwell to RAF Locking where it remained for the next 48 years, until it was disbanded on 1 Oct 98, where it became known as Communications-Electronics (C-E) Training Wing, 1 School of Technical Training (Det RAF Locking). The school was then re-formed at DSAE Cosford as No 1 Radio School, in Flowerdown Hall on the 60th anniversary of No 1 Radio School in 2003.

The school also incorporates the Aerial Erector School (AES) which is based at RAF Digby.

Role 
No. 1 Radio School is responsible for Phase 2 and 3 training of RAF Engineering Communications Electronics (Eng CE) officers,  Trade Group 4 Cyberspace Communications Specialists (formerly I.C.T. Technicians)  and Communications Infrastructure Technicians (commonly known as Aerial Erectors).

Phase 2 Training:
 Phase 2 training provides initial specialist training to prepare Service personnel for their first employment in the wider RAF. Phase 2 training normally follows on from Phase 1 Training, which is initial training in the basic military skills required by all Service personnel.

Phase 3 Training:

 Phase 3 Training prepares Service personnel for further employment with increased skill base and/or responsibility. It also encompasses training to meet career aspirations and professional development.

Training

The Radio School currently consists of 3 squadrons to deliver and support all the required Phase 2 & 3 training. These squadrons consist of:

* Training Delivery Squadron (TDS) which comprises 5 flights:
 Air Defence and Systems (ADAS) Flight - Covers Air Defence RADAR systems, Air Field Navigational aids and communication systems. These courses are primarily Phase 3 operational courses for locations around the World.
 Network Applications - This area covers Network Applications and Network Information Systems including Cyber Courses as well as an introduction to Programming.
 Network Infrastructure. This flight covers core network installation and fault resolution tasks; specifically: Health & Safety, Data Communications theory and installations, Information Technology Essentials, Introduction to Networks and Structure Cabling.
 Networks Deployed. This area focuses on the theory and practical execution of Radio and Satellite Communications from a Phase 2 aspect and delivers the DII Land Deployed Phase 3 training.
 Engineering Management Training Flight. The Phase 2 training of Engineering Officers', Phase 2 training of Information Communication Technology technicians in Air Operations and technical documentation as well as the delivery of Trade Management Training for newly promoted Junior and Senior Non-Commissioned Officers.

 Academic Accreditation Group (AAG). Deals with all the relevant course accreditation to professional bodies and companies including the management of the No1 Radio School CISCO Academy programme.
 Cyberspace Communications Specialist phase 2 students - Lecturers deliver communication principles (Maths, Electronics, Radio) and Information Management principles.
 Foundation Degree students - Lecturers deliver advanced communications and Radar principles, CISCO network management training along with Information management and Cyber Security delivery.
 Phase 3 training - Lecturers deliver CISCO Network theory and practical training via CISCOs NetAcad platform and through the use of physical equipment as well as Information administration and management training.  These courses ensure students are fully prepared for front-line operational environments.