[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# WERG

90.5 FM and began transmitting from its new antenna in Summit Township. On-air, the station is now identified by dial position and call letters: 90.5 WERG.  The new-and-improved signal brought clear reception throughout Northwestern Pennsylvania, eastern Ohio, western New York, and southern Ontario.

In 2014, 90.5 WERG was the recipient of the Abraham & Borst Award for "Best College Station in the Nation."  Later that year, 90.5 WERG moved from its fourteen-year home in the Walker Building to the brand-new Center for Communication and the Arts, located at 700 Peach Street on the Gannon Campus.  Offices and studio facilities are located in Room 201 on the second floor of the SCA building.  The building was officially dedicated and blessed at 10:00 am on September 5, 2014.

90.5 WERG is an NBC News Radio affiliate, and also carries regional newscasts from Erie News Now.

Super Soul Saturday

Super Soul Saturday has been a part of WERG Radio for over forty years.  What started out as a student involvement project has evolved to a valuable community resource providing alternative music, information, and entertainment not available elsewhere on the radio dial.

In 1979, A.J. Miceli, chairman of the Department of Theatre and Communication Arts at Gannon University, was approached by Bobby "K" Kaigler about the possibility of joining Homer "Lee" Smith's Saturday show on WERG.  Soon, James "Jim Christopher" Eaton was added to form what became the nucleus of Super Soul Saturday.  Other dedicated volunteers joined, and Super Soul gradually became a fixture on WERG's weekend schedule.

The "Hall of Fame" of Super Soul Saturday personalities include many familiar names to long-time listeners.  Winston "Sony" Ellis (1975) worked at WUFO and WKBW in Buffalo, NY.  Dion Clarke (1975), at television stations in both New York City and Atlanta.  Steve Collins (1975) was heard on radio stations WRIE and K-104 here in Erie, PA before leaving to work at KDIA and KBLX in San Francisco and Berkeley, California.  Ken Darby (1976) worked with several television stations in Florida; Harry Hairston (1977) was on WQLN radio and both WSEE and WICU television before joining the Fox Television Network in Detroit, Michigan. James "Jim Christopher" Eaton was on many local radio stations, including WQLN, WEYZ, WLVU, and Classy 100.  Many members of the Super Soul staff were affiliated with Q-1400 (WBLQ) in the mid-eighties, including Homer "Lee" Smith, Bobby K, Timmie Mack, Danny "Mr. J" Jones,  The Captain, John "Chilly J" Norton, and Dorothy Smith.

Mike Carbone (Mike West) joined Super Soul Saturday after working with and producing Mix Shows and re-mixing music for WBLK-FM in Buffalo, NY and CING-FM in Toronto. Mike West was awarded Top Mix DJ in the US in 1990 by the Westwood One Radio Network after winning their nationwide Club Mix Competition.

From those early years, the present Super Soul Saturday program has expanded into a block format consisting of music (R&B, Gospel, Classic Soul, Blues, Jazz, Rap, Club, House, and Hip Hop), public service, and community-oriented information.

Super Soul Saturday airs for thirty-three hours on 90.5 WERG every weekend, from midnight Saturday until 9am Sunday morning.

External links
WERG official website
www.facebook.com/905werg

ERG
ERG