[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Siege of Oviedo

machine gun ammunition and the fighting reverted to hand to hand combat. The attackers fought from house to house by cutting holes in the walls joining the houses. The defenders were almost out of ammunition when several Nationalist airmen managed to drop 30,000 rounds to them.

Aranda's last stand

Aranda had only 500 defenders left and he pulled them into the center of the town for a last stand.  By that time, the Popular Front militia captured Oviedo's last power plant, leaving the entire town powerless.  Aranda retreated into the barracks in the middle of the defense, and with a radio powered by a car battery, he exhorted the defenders to "fight like Spaniards to the end".  He sent a message to the Nationalist relief column from Galicia to state that his troops were out of ammunition, but that they would fight to the last.  The Popular Front militias had suffered enormous losses themselves, estimated at least 5,000 casualties; they were low on ammunition but were making slow progress. Then, on 16 October, with the defenders facing annihilation, the Galician relief column arrived and the Popular Front militias, almost out of ammunition, halted their assault.

Relief and end of siege

The Nationalists won a narrow corridor into the city and held it until the end of the War in the North a year later.  The Popular Front militias abandoned the town and retreated to their positions occupied at the start of the siege.  Oviedo, however, was no longer in danger.

From 25 to 27 October there were further actions in the outskirts of the city, in places like San Claudio and Naranco, in a successful nationalist attempt to widen the corridor. Both sides employed armoured fighting vehicles and light tanks, like the Nationalist Trubia or the Republican Renault F17. In a sweep across Naranco, a nationalist Trubia tank captured a disabled Landesa armed tractor, left in no-man land since breaking down on 10 September. The last significant Republican offensives of 1936 on Oviedo occurred on 27 November, 1 December and 10 December, all of them supported by BA-3/6 armoured cars. Little or no ground was gained, at the cost of at least two armoured vehicles.

The final all-out  offensive of the Republican army on Oviedo took place on 21 February 1937, when a mechanized force of four T-26 tanks, ten Renault FTs, a few Landesa tractors and Trubia Naval tanks, supported by a number of armoured trucks, attempted to break through the rebel lines. The Nationalists deployed their Trubia A4s and the captured Landesa tractor, by then worn down after months of heavy service, in defensive positions guarding the main approaches to the inner city. They were supported by Ferrol armoured vehicles from the Galician relief column. The nationalist tanks launched a successful counter-attack in the Postigo area the first day of the government's  forces assault, which was contained by 27 February. The Republican lost two tanks at San Claudio, three others at San Lazaro on the 28 and other three at Los Catalanes by the beginning of March. Aranda would continue to serve the Nationalist cause including the Battle of Teruel and other actions during the war.

See also 

 List of Spanish Nationalist military equipment of the Spanish Civil War
 List of Spanish Republican military equipment of the Spanish Civil War

Notes

Battles of the Spanish Civil War
Oviedo
Conflicts in 1936
Sieges involving Spain
Mass murder in 1936
1936 in Spain
July 1936 events
August 1936 events
September 1936 events
October 1936 events
Tank battles involving Spain