[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tămădău affair

he accepted. Indeed, the moral and political responsibility for the departure of Mr. Mihalache and our friends is mine.

He denied, however, any subversive goal:

The purpose as designed by me was that, through going abroad, they were to inform foreign countries of the situation in Romania.

Outcome

Later the same day (July 14, 1947), authorities stormed into the PNȚ headquarters and confiscated all documents held in the archive, a move followed by other searches for documents in various locations. On July 19, the Assembly of Deputies of Romania voted to outlaw the party press (including Dreptatea), and to lift the parliamentary immunity of PNȚ deputies. The entire party leadership was arrested on the same day, and the party was banned on July 30 on the basis of a report filed by Teohari Georgescu. In parallel, Soviet authorities handed Georgescu the handwritten testimony of a former Abwehr agent, Alfred Petermann, who alleged that Maniu had worked as an agent for the British Secret Intelligence Service during the war and kept contact with Alfred Gardyne de Chastelain.

The regular sentence for illegally attempting to leave the country was three to six months, but all those involved and those judged to have been involved were sentenced to harsh penal labour sentences. In particular, Maniu and Mihalache were sentenced to life imprisonment for high treason. Maniu died in Sighet Prison in 1953 and Mihalache in Râmnicu Sărat Prison ten years later. Most other important party activists were sentenced in the following years. Corneliu Coposu, who was to lead the re-established party after the Romanian Revolution of 1989, was also arrested and imprisoned in connection with the Tămădău Affair.

Constantin Titel Petrescu, the leader of a splinter group of the Social Democratic Party, which had refused cooperation with the Communists, also came up during the trial and was later tried and convicted. The diplomat Neagu Djuvara, who was present at the Romanian Legation in Sweden, was mentioned in one of the testimonies at the trial and opted not to return to his country.

The episode was soon after used against Romanian Foreign Minister Gheorghe Tătărescu, the leader of the National Liberal Party-Tătărescu (which was aligned with the Communists but had criticised several of their policies). He was attacked by the PCR newspaper Scînteia for having allegedly failed to act against a pro-Maniu conspiracy inside his ministry, was unceremoniously demoted and was replaced by the Communist activist Ana Pauker.

References

Sources

Adrian Cioroianu, Pe umerii lui Marx. O introducere în istoria comunismului românesc ("On the Shoulders of Marx. An Incursion into the History of Romanian Communism"), Editura Curtea Veche, Bucharest, 2005.  
Victor Frunză, Istoria stalinismului în România ("The History of Stalinism in Romania"), Humanitas, Bucharest, 1990
 Ioan Lăcustă, "În București, acum 50 ani" ("In Bucharest, 50 Years Ago"), in Magazin Istoric, October 1997
Tatiana Pokivailova, Ioan Chiper, "Procesul Maniu în arhivele de la Moscova" ("The Maniu Trial in the Moscow Archives"), in Magazin Istoric, April 2002
 Toma Roman Jr., "«Politicește, Ion Antonescu habar n-avea ce face»" ("«Politically, Ion Antonescu Had No Idea of What He Was Doing»"), interview with Neagu Djuvara, in Plai cu Boi, No.11
 Cristina Vohn, "Lovitura de teatru – Înscenarea de la Tămădău" ("Theater Coup – The Tămădău Frameup"), in Jurnalul Național, August 16, 2006

External links
 Silviu Brucan, "Pedeapsa trebuie să fie maximă!" ("The Penalty Must be the Maximum One!"), article of November 10, 1947, republished by Adevărul

1947 in Romania
Political repression in Romania
Socialist Republic of Romania
National Peasants' Party
Political scandals
Trials in Romania
Trials of political people