[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pacific coast theater of the American Civil War

s. To prevent any further attempts to seize Pacific coast shipping, General McDowell ordered each passenger on board American merchant steamers to surrender all weapons when boarding the ship and every passenger and all baggage was searched. All officers were armed for the protection of their ships.

Confederate Commerce Raiding
CSS Alabama operated in the Pacific for only a few weeks in the southwest Pacific, capturing three ships. CSS Shenandoah was the second and last Confederate raider to enter the Pacific Ocean. However, her attacks came too late, at the end of the war or afterward, and did most of her damage after the war was over, capturing 38 vessels, mostly whalers. When word of the attacks came, the Pacific Squadron sent ships out to hunt the raider down but did not find her. On 21 June 1865, the Shenandoah captured the whaler William Thompson.  The captain of that ship, Francis Smith, informed an incredulous Commander James Waddell that the war had ended some weeks previous.  Without concrete proof that the war had ended, the Confederate ship continued its raiding activities.  Finally, on 2 August, sailors of a British bark headed back to Liverpool from San Francisco brought news of the surrender at Appomattox, the capture of Jefferson Davis, and the surrender of the last Confederate forces.  With this incontrovertible proof, Commander Waddell ordered all operations against American ships cease and the Shenandoah set sail for Great Britain to avoid its sailors being tried for piracy.

Indian Wars in the Department of the Pacific
The campaign classification established by the United States National Park Service lists only one major campaign and battle in this theater, the Battle of Bear River. However, there were several campaigns against various Indian tribes besides the eastern Shoshone, as described below.

In Northern California there was the ongoing Bald Hills War (1858–1864) against the Chilula, Lassik, Hupa, Mattole, Nongatl, Sinkyone, Tsnungwe, Wailaki, and Whilkut. From 12 December 1861, this theater was incorporated into the District of Humboldt with its headquarters at Fort Humboldt. The Bald Hills War was essentially a protracted irregular war requiring garrisons protecting settlements and escorting pack trains and also long patrols sometimes resulting in skirmishes.

California units remained in New Mexico Territory and west Texas as garrisons defending the area from a return of the Confederacy and fighting the Navajo and the Apache Wars until after the Civil War when they were relieved by Federal Troops in 1866.

In 1862–1863, California Cavalry units from the Southern California District fought the Owens Valley Indian War against the Owens Valley Paiutes, or Numa, and against their allies among the Kawaiisu in the Sierra Mountains to the west.

Throughout the Civil War, Oregon and California Volunteer patrols had several clashes with the Ute, Goshute, Paiute, Bannock, and Shoshone bands in Oregon and the Territories of Washington (later Idaho), Utah, and Nevada (from 1863, the state of Nevada). However, the invasion of the territory of the Snake Indians by gold miners in 1863 brought on the Snake War. The Volunteers of California, Oregon, and Washington Territory fought the Snake Indians until relieved by Federal troops in late 1865; the war continued until 1868.

Other operations east of the Rocky Mountains and west of the Mississippi River are included in the trans-Mississippi theater.

See also
California in the American Civil War
Oregon in the American Civil War
Washington Territory in the American Civil War
Utah Territory in the American Civil War
Nevada in the American Civil War
New Mexico Territory in the American Civil War
Arizona Territory in the American Civil War

Notes

External links
West Point Atlas map of principal Civil War campaigns
National Park Service Civil War at a Glance

 
Theaters of the American Civil War
California in the American Civil War
Idaho in the American Civil War
Idaho Territory
Hawaiian Kingdom and the American Civil War
Nevada in the American Civil War
Oregon in the American Civil War
Utah in the American Civil War
Utah Territory
Washington (state) in the American Civil War
Washington Territory
West Coast of the United States