[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# India–Pakistan relations

often been political in nature. During the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan General Zia-ul Haq travelled to India for a bout of "cricket diplomacy" to keep India from supporting the Soviets by opening another front. Pervez Musharaff also tried to do the same more than a decade later but to no avail. 

From 2012, India stopped playing bilateral cricket series against Pakistan. Now it only plays against them in ICC and Asian Cricket Council events such as the Cricket World Cup, T20 World Cup, Asia Cup and ICC Champions Trophy. In 2017, the then Sports Minister of India, Vijay Goel opposed further bilateral series due to Pakistan's alleged sponsoring of terrorism, saying that "there cannot be sports relations between the two countries [while] there is terrorism from the Pakistani side." The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) also opposed any further series without the permission of the Indian government. The BCCI also does not allow Pakistani players to play in the Indian Premier League.

In tennis, Rohan Bopanna of India and Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi of Pakistan have formed a successful duo and have been dubbed as the "Indo-Pak Express".

Diasporic relations
The large size of the Indian diaspora and Pakistani diaspora in many different countries throughout the world has created strong diasporic relations.
British Indians and British Pakistanis, the largest and second-largest ethnic minorities living in the United Kingdom respectively, are said to have friendly relations with one another. It is quite common for a "Little India" and a "Little Pakistan" to co-exist in South Asian ethnic enclaves in overseas countries. There are various cities such as Birmingham, Blackburn and Manchester where British Indians and British Pakistanis live alongside each other in peace and harmony. Both Indians and Pakistanis living in the UK fit under the category of British Asian. The UK is also home to the Pakistan & India friendship forum. In the United States, Indians and Pakistanis are classified under the South Asian American category and share many cultural traits. In the US, intermarriage between Indians and Pakistanis is common.

The British MEP Sajjad Karim is of Pakistani origin. He is a member of the European Parliament Friends of India Group, Karim was also responsible for opening up Europe to free trade with India. He narrowly escaped the Mumbai attacks at Hotel Taj in November 2008. Despite the atrocity, Karim does not wish the remaining killer Ajmal Kasab to be sentenced to death. He said: "I believe he had a fair and transparent trial and I support the guilty verdict. But I am not a supporter of capital punishment. I believe he should be given a life sentence, but that life should mean life."

Trade links

The size of India-Pakistan trade is very small relative to the size of their economies and the fact that they share a contiguous border. Trade across direct routes has been curtailed formally, so the bulk of India-Pakistan trade is routed through Dubai.

See also

Foreign relations
 Foreign relations of India
 Foreign relations of Pakistan
 South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)

History
 History of India
 History of the Republic of India
 History of Pakistan
 History of the Kashmir conflict

Human rights
 Human rights in India
 Human rights in Pakistan
 Persecution of Hindus
 Persecution of Muslims

Cultural issues
 Hindi-Urdu controversy
 Anti-Pakistan sentiment
 Indophobia

Wars and skirmishes
 Indo-Pakistani Wars
 India–Pakistan border skirmishes

Sports
 India-Pakistan cricket rivalry
 India-Pakistan field hockey rivalry

References

Bibliography 
 
 .
 .
 .
 
 .
 .
 
 .
 .
 
 .
 .
 .
 .
 .

Further reading
 
 Budania, Rajpal, "India's Pakistan Policy: A Study in the Context of Security," South Asian Studies, Vol.30:2,1995.
 Burke, S.M.,Mainsprings of Indian and Pakistani Foreign Policies, Minneapolis, University of Minnesota, 1974.
 Brines Russel, The Indo-Pakistan Conflict, London, Pall Mall Press, 1968.
 Malone, David M., C. Raja Mohan, and Srinath Raghavan, eds. The Oxford handbook of Indian foreign policy (2015) excerpt pp 370–83.
 Thomas Powers, "The War without End" (review of Steve Coll, Directorate S:  The CIA and America's Secret Wars in Afghanistan and Pakistan, Penguin, 2018, 757 pp.), The New York Review of Books, vol. LXV, no. 7 (19 April 2018), pp. 42–43.  "Forty-plus years after our failure in Vietnam, the United States is again fighting an endless war in a faraway place against a culture and a people we don't understand for political reasons that make sense in Washington, but nowhere else."  (p. 43.) Pakistan's support of Afghanistan's Taliban guerrillas, including provision of sanctuary, relates to Pakistan's hope of acquiring India's Kashmir.  (p. 42.)