[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nodocephalosaurus

l surface that is lightly pitted, with a rugose texture on the posteromedial part. The upper side of the parietals are covered with a thin osteodermal covering and a large plate-like osteoderm occupies the front part of the parietal table which contacts the posterior-most lateral frontal osteoderm. 

A rugose osteoderm is present in the posterior region of the parietals where the squamosal horn attaches to the end dorsolateral side of the skull. Both pterygoids are incomplete and a fracture occurs near the front where the pterygoids join the basicranium. The front half of the anterior wings of the left pterygoid is partly preserved, while the front half of the anterior wings of the left pterygoid is missing. The quadrate is incomplete and has a distinct ridge along the front surface. The quadratojugal bears an osteodermal covering on its side projecting end. The upper surface of the quadratojugal has an upper surface that is broad and relatively smooth in lateral view, with some irregular pitting. The lower portion of the anterodorsal-most part of the quadratojugal has a sub-triangular shape. The osteodermal covering of the medial side is confined to the lower edge of the horn. Foramina are present and are irregularly spaced along the upper part of the osteodermal covering. Sullivan (1999) originally reconstructed the quadratojugal horn as pointing ventrally. However, Arbour & Currie (2015) suggested a new interpretation where the quadratojugal horn is rotated clockwise, nearly completes the ventral border of the orbit, but results in a gap between the quadratojugal and squamosal. The squamosal bone is covered in an osteodermal covering and can only be inferred. The squamosal horn is broken off at its base from the squamosal region of the skull. Due to the distortion of the posterior part of the skull, the articulation of the squamosal horn is uncertain. The squamosal horns arches towards the back, terminating in a rounded point. The underside surface of the horn is broader than the dorsal surface and is sub-triangular in cross section, which is somewhat laterally compared to that of Scolosaurus or Oohkotokia. The supraorbitals are covered in osteoderms that lie dorsoanteriorly to the orbit as seen in Pinacosaurus. The osteoderms of the external surface are characterised by the presence of rugose ornamentation consisting of pits and poorly defined ridges.
 
The osteoderms of the cranium are similar to those seen on Saichania and Tarchia in their arrangement and morphology. The skull roof preserves frontonasal osteoderms. Two rows of osteoderms extend across the left frontal, although the lateral row is not well defined. Small, sub-inflated osteoderms are present near the region of the frontoparietal contact. A small saddle with a small, raised osteoderm lies at the upper region between the supraorbital osteoderms. In front of the saddle lies a polygonal osteoderm that has a low, raised central apex. The frontal series consists of four well-defined osteoderms at the medial edge. The upper part of the frontoparietal contact lies a polygonal plate-like osteoderm. In front of the osteoderm is another but with a slightly raised centre. The upper region of the parasagittal plane preserves a small, conical osteoderm. Behind the osteoderm are a set of incomplete osteoderms that may represent a part of the right side of the skull. As in other ankylosaurids, the region corresponding to the parietal table of the skull consists of a low-relief osteodermal covering. Nodocephalosaurus shares similar anatomical features with Akainacephalus, such as the lateral orientation of the external nares and the morphology of the supranarial, loreal and frontal caputegulae. Numerous cranial osteoderms possibly referable to the right side of the skull were recovered which vary in size and shape. The largest osteoderm probably represents the posterior-most parasagittal osteoderm and is highly inflated with a sub-square base outline.

Classification
Sullivan (1999) originally considered Nodocephalosaurus to be closely related to Saichania and Tarchia, although this was not based on the result of a phylogenetic analysis but rather the presence of bulbous caputegulae on the skull. However, Vickaryous et al. (2004) interpreted it as Ankylosauridae incertae sedis. Thompson et al. (2012) found Nodocephalosaurus to be sister taxon to a clade containing Talarurus, Tianzhenosaurus, Tarchia and Saichania, while Arbour & Currie (2015) found it to be sister taxon to Talarurus, a position also recovered by Arbour & Evans (2017), Zheng et al. (2018), and Rivera-Sylva et al. (2018). Wiersma and Irmis (2018) found Nodocephalosaurus to be within a southern Laramidian clade containing Akainacephalus that is nested within Asian taxa rather than other Laramidian taxa and suggested that this clade was a separate biogeographic dispersal event from Asia independent from the main radiation of Laramidian ankylosaurids.