[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Peacebuilding

ive. More recently, Ben Hillman has criticized international donor efforts to strengthen local governments in the wake of conflict. He argues that international donors typically do not have the knowledge, skills or resources to bring meaningful change to the way post-conflict societies are governed.

Perpetuation of cultural hegemony
Many academics argue that peacebuilding is a manifestation of liberal internationalism and therefore imposes Western values and practices onto other cultures. Mac Ginty states that although peacebuilding does not project all aspects of Western culture on to the recipient states, it does transmit some of them, including concepts like neoliberalism that the West requires recipients of aid to follow more closely than most Western countries do. Barnett also comments that the promotion of liberalization and democratization may undermine the peacebuilding process if security and stable institutions are not pursued concurrently. Richmond has shown how 'liberal peacebuilding' represents a political encounter that may produce a post-liberal form of peace. Local and international actors, norms, institutions and interests engage with each other in various different contexts, according to their respective power relations and their different conceptions of legitimate authority structures. Knowles and Matisek adapt to the inherent problem of peacebuilding by arguing for a better vision of security force assistance (SFA) - donor states/actors trying to build effective host-nation security forces in a weak state - where they shift the focus from military effectiveness (a typical western hegemonic approach) to one that empowers local informal security actors to take ownership of their security and to be a part of the strategic vision of the state. Such an approach attempts to bypass the inherent flaws of SFA imposing a Western security architecture on a state that does not have the institutions, resources, or civil-military relations to support this 'alien' form of security sector reform (SSR).

See also
Education for justice
Environmental peacebuilding
Religion and peacebuilding
Peace and conflict studies
Peacebuilding in Jammu and Kashmir
Nation-building
State-building
Structural-Peace with theatre and simulation

Notes

References and further reading
 Adhikari, Monalisa. "Peacebuilding with “Chinese characteristics”? Insights from China's engagement in Myanmar's peace process." International Studies Review 23.4 (2021): 1699-1726.

 Doyle, Michael W., and Nicholas Sambanis. "International peacebuilding: A theoretical and quantitative analysis." American political science review 94.4 (2000): 779-801. online

 Rae, James DeShaw. Peacebuilding and Transitional Justice in East Timor (Lynne Rienner Publishers, 2022).

 
Humanitarian aid
International development
Global citizenship