[Source: PubMed]

2. Int J Prev Med. 2025 Aug 26;16:51. doi: 10.4103/ijpvm.ijpvm_43_22. eCollection
 2025.

The Impact of Economic Sanctions on Health and Strategies for Mitigation: A 
Glance at the Case of Iran.

Mohammadshahi M(1), Rakhshan ST(2), Nateghinia S(3), Damiri S(4), Sakha MA(5), 
Mostafavi H(6), Nasiri T(7)(8), Ghorbani M(9), Shams L(10), Jahanmehr N(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, National Institute of Health Research, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Health Management, policy, and Economics, School of Public 
Health, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Skull Base Research Center, Critical Care Quality Improvement Research 
Center, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Department of Health Management, Policy, and Economics, School of Public 
Health, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Health Education and Promotion, Deputy of Health, Iran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(6)Health Equity Research Center, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(7)Health Management Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical 
Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(8)Faculty of Health, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(9)Allameh Tabataba'i University, Tehran, Iran.
(10)Department of Health Policy and Management, School of Public Health and 
Safety, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Sanctions can affect humanitarian, GDP growth, the value of the 
national currency, income inequality, poverty, food security, and health. This 
study aims to represent the relationship between sanctions and public health and 
the strategies to deal with it.
METHODS: The study used a mixed-methods approach. We used data and information 
from two sources: a scoping literature review and a survey on experts' opinions 
(10 participants from health policymakers, managers, and researchers). Inductive 
thematic analysis was adopted to analyze the qualitative data with the MAXQDA 
software version 10.
RESULTS: The international economic sanctions affect directly and indirectly on 
targeted population's right to access social welfare and health. The literature 
review about Iran showed that the sanction had affected public health in four 
general respects: Economic, Sociocultural, political, and direct health factors. 
The strategies to deal with sanctions categorized into two themes are the health 
sector and the health-related extra-sector.
CONCLUSIONS: The devastating effects of economic sanctions directly and 
indirectly on health have significantly reduced financial and physical access to 
drugs and medical equipment in Iran, leading to a substantial decline in public 
health, The UN and the international community should anticipate these 
side-effects of sanctions to prevent further humanitarian catastrophes in the 
future.

Copyright: © 2025 International Journal of Preventive Medicine.

DOI: 10.4103/ijpvm.ijpvm_43_22
PMCID: PMC12440346
PMID: 40964203

Conflict of interest statement: There are no conflicts of interest.