[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ezriel Carlebach

in its cultural insert music, performing and visual art by examples of creative works by Jewish artists. Four to five evenings of the week Carlebach went to the theatre and afterwards composed his reviews, dictating them – freely phrasing – to his assistant Ruth Heinsohn, who right away typed them.

In summer 1932 – again financed by Haynt – he travelled to the USSR, among others to Crimea and Birobidzhan, in order to give an account of Jewish life under communist reign. In his report ('Sowjetjudäa', In: Israelitisches Familienblatt and in Haynt) he came to the conclusion that there were neither the possibilities nor an adequate milieu for a genuine Jewish life.

Albert Einstein occasionally brought the Sowjetjudäa series up for discussions, so that they had a much broader response than usual. Especially adversaries of Hitler, who relied on the USSR and who naïvely or willfully downplayed the crimes there, were incited to question their stance or to be angry with Carlebach. He assessed the broad controversy on the subject being a journalistic success.

"The articles brought forth a flurry of anonymous threatening letters and a vile pamphlet attack upon him from Hamburg's 'Jewish Workers' Study Group.'" The camouflage name of this group (in German: Arbeitsgemeinschaft jüdischer Werktätiger, Hamburg) aimed at rather disguising the harassing of Carlebach, the avowed Jew, by the Communist Youth Federation, section Hamburg.

On the night of January 3, 1933, the harassment culminated in an assassination attempt. A gunshot cut through his hat just luckily missing him. Carlebach fell over, got concussed and lost consciousness. The police found him later senseless. Israelitisches Familienblatt offered a reward of 2,000 reichsmarks for the capture of the person who did it. By February he had recovered so far that he could resume his work for Israelitisches Familienblatt. Soon after he moved to Berlin.

Such experience notwithstanding he continued to attack Nazism. Earlier Carlebach had discovered that Joseph Goebbels, who so vehemently defamed Jews and their alleged detrimental influence, had studied with Jewish professors.

Right after the Nazis' Machtergreifung Carlebach was arrested. He attributed the arrest to Goebbels, who resented Carlebach for revealing his Jewish connections. Carlebach  was released from custody because no judicial warrant existed but was forced to go into hiding. He found people who provided him with a hideout and forged papers. In order to move about in the streets of Berlin, Carlebach  dyed his hair and dressed in an SA uniform. In this way, he monitored from within how Nazism tightened its power in Germany and wrote daily articles for Haynt in Warsaw under the pseudonym Levi Gotthelf (לוי גאָטהעלף).

On May 10, 1933, he incognito attended as an observer the central book-burning on Opernplatz in Berlin, where also his books were thrown into the fires. Meanwhile, Haynt strove to get Carlebach out of the country. Finally – bearing the counterfeited papers of an Upper Silesian coal miner – he was smuggled  over the border close to city of Katowice in the then Polish part of Upper Silesia.

Carlebach's series of articles, being the first inside story on the Nazis' takeover, appeared in Haynt and was republished in Forwerts (פֿאָרווערטס) in New York. In concert with the Zionist Jehoszua Gottlieb, the folkist journalist Saul Stupnicki (Chief editor of Lubliner Tugblat לובלינער טאָגבלאט) and others Carlebach organised in Poland a countrywide series of lectures named Literary Judgments on Germany. The German ambassador to Poland, Hans-Adolf von Moltke, attended the start lecture in Warsaw, sitting in the first line.

Carlebach was then permanently appointed at modest salary with Haynt, whose articles – like that one on 'The anti-Semitic International' (of Nuremberg) reappeared in other newspapers such as Nowy Dziennik in Cracow, Chwila in Lwów, Di Yidishe Shtime (די יידישע שטימע) in Kaunas, Frimorgn (פֿרימאָרגן) in Riga and Forverts in New York.

Living in Polish exile he got onto the second list (March 29, 1934) of Germans, which were arbitrarily officially denaturalised according to a new law, which also ensued the seizure of all his property in Germany.

In 1933 and 1934 Carlebach  traveled for Haynt to report on the Zionist Congress, the International Congress of National Minorities and Goebbels' speech  as German main delegate at the League of Nations in Geneva on September 29, 1933. His speech An Appeal to the Nations was an éclat and the subsequent press conference accordingly well attended. Nevertheless, on the sidelines Carlebach and Goebbels had a sharp argument on co-operatives exemplified by the newspaper company Haynt.