[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Roy D. Chapin Jr.

as chairman until he retired, in October 1978, to his ranch in California. He summed up his career in an interview given upon his retirement: "I love the business and never really considered doing anything else." He remained on AMC's board of directors until 1987, when Chrysler acquired the company.

Chapin served on the board of directors of other companies, including Whirlpool Corporation, American Natural Resources (an energy company engaged in natural gas transmission and storage), Coastal Corporation, and Gould Corporation. He was an avid outdoor enthusiast and his hobbies included hunting, fishing, and ranching, as well as book collecting. He was also involved in the area of conservation and served on the boards of organizations that included the Atlantic Salmon Federation, Ducks Unlimited, and Trout Unlimited.

Roy Chapin died of heart failure on Nantucket Island, off the coast of Massachusetts, at the age of 85. His son, William R. Chapin, was named president of the Automotive Hall of Fame in 2010.

Legacy 

Chapin was inducted into the Automotive Hall of Fame in 1984.

Although much smaller than the domestic "Big Three" automakers (General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler), AMC prospered during the early years when Chapin was in charge, as sales of its compact cars benefited from rising energy prices and the company's international expanded.

Chapin was also known for his persuasion powers with the automaker's investment banks and his Wall Street contacts; winning concessions on many occasions that helped AMC remain afloat. His efforts to integrate Jeep into AMC contributed to the popularity, from the early 1970s onward, of the sports utility vehicle (SUV) market. The ownership of the Jeep brand was crucial to the company's survival until 1987 and Chapin's "legacy was what kept American Motors together instead of being sold off as factories and other pieces" according to Robert Casey, transportation curator at the Henry Ford Museum.

To summarize his life, Chapin was considered a true 'gentleman' who grew up in the auto industry and was knowledgeable, warm, and accessible; in short, a patrician with a common touch.

References

Notes
 Fracassa, Hawke. "Roy D. Chapin Jr., ex-AMC chairman gambled to save Jeep". The Detroit News, August 7, 2001.
 Higgins, James V., "Roy Chapin Jr. mastered how to survive in auto industry". The Detroit News, August 12, 2001.
 The Bentley Historical Library at the University of Michigan has a collection of Chapin's personal correspondence, speeches, papers relating to international business operations of AMC and its divisions, and photographs. Roy D. Chapin, Jr., Papers: 1928-2001. 23.3 linear ft.

1915 births
2001 deaths
20th-century American businesspeople
Hotchkiss School alumni
Yale University alumni
American chief executives of manufacturing companies
American chief executives in the automobile industry
American Motors people