[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Tajikistan

ights, Liberties, [and] Basic Duties of Individuals and Citizens". This chapter of the constitution states basic rights for the people of Tajikistan such as the rights to life and judicial protection. There have been many instances where the Government of Tajikistan has not upheld this constitution.

During 2016, human rights within Tajikistan were frequently violated, including imprisonment of opposition party members and leaders and persecution of human rights lawyers. Modification of the constitution by President Emomali Rahmon paved the way for him to reign over the country until his eventual death. The government of Tajikistan has made multiple arrests of activists within other nations that oppose government policies and ‘corruption’.   In the year 2013, the Tajik government passed a law stating that torture while in custody was considered illegal, yet a UN report shows that these acts still occur. Men continue to violate the constitution by participating in physical, mental and sexual abuse against women. This has affected about a third of the women living in Tajikistan.

Tajikistan continues to struggle with human rights. High rates of unemployment, poverty, and crime contribute to this ongoing problem.

Historical situation
The following chart shows Tajikistan’s ratings since 1991 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is "free"; 7, "not free".

See also

 Capital punishment in Tajikistan
 Human rights in Asia
 LGBT rights in Tajikistan

Notes
1.Note that the "Year" signifies the "Year covered". Therefore the information for the year marked 2008 is from the report published in 2009, and so on.
2.As of January 1.
3.In March 2007, President Emomali Rahmonov changed his surname to “Rahmon”, dropping the “-ov” suffix.

References

External links
 Censorship in Tajikistan - IFEX
 Report on Tajikistan 2006 - Amnesty International
 Country Report on Human Rights Practices in Tajikistan - US Department of State
 Record Breaking Winter Weather Hits Children in Tajikistan the Hardest Central Asia Health Review  Feb. 17, 2008