[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Samuel Heilman

nd Menachem Friedman. (Friedman was also criticized for not disclosing that he had served as an expert witness against the rebbe in a lawsuit involving ownership of the Chabad library, which may invite suspicion of an agenda-driven or biased opinion. Heilman responded that "we have no ax to grind".)

Shortly after publication Orthodox Rabbi Shmuley Boteach criticized the book, writing in The Jerusalem Post that the book's central thesis had a "fatal flaw", though he concluded that the book had "merit" and provided a "humanizing portrait." David Klinghoffer asserted that "there are peculiar omissions and contradictions. ... Readers of this biography may wonder if the authors have failed to grasp their subject", in his review for London's Jewish Chronicle. Jonathan Mark of the New York Jewish Week derided the book in a review, including a section where he referred to a "spitball [rather than] any substantiated academic conclusion, not what you'd expect from a pair of professors who demand to be taken seriously."

Controversy
In 1996, Heilman was quoted in the press as opposing the appointment of Thomas Bird as head of the Jewish Studies program at Queens College. Leon Wieseltier, literary editor for the New Republic, criticized Heilman for "behaving like a tribalist". Queens College President Allen Sessoms also criticized Heilman, though he subsequently appointed the late Dr. Benny Kraut, an Orthodox Jew, as head of the program.

Works
Heilman is the author of a number of articles and reviews, as well as ten books: Synagogue Life, The People of the Book, The Gate Behind the Wall, A Walker in Jerusalem, Cosmopolitans and Parochials: Modern Orthodox Jews in America (co-authored with Steven M. Cohen), Defenders of the Faith: Inside Ultra-Orthodox Jewry, Portrait of American Jews: The Last Half of the 20th Century, When a Jew Dies: The Ethnography of a Bereaved Son, Sliding to the Right: The Contest for the Future of American Jewish Orthodoxy, and The Rebbe: The Life and Afterlife of Menachem Mendel Schneerson (co-authored with Menachem Friedman). Heilman is also editor of the Death, Bereavement, and Mourning (Transaction Books, 2005), and is a frequent contributor to a number of magazines and newspapers. For a time, he was a regular columnist for The Jewish Week, and was editor-in-chief of Contemporary Jewry'' from October 2003 to April 2015.

References

External links
Prof. Samuel Heilman's webpage at Queens College/CUNY
Articles by Samuel Heilman on the Berman Jewish Policy Archive @ NYU Wagner
Debate between Chaim Rapoport and Samuel Heilman

1946 births
Living people
21st-century American Jews
Jewish American writers
American Orthodox Jews
CUNY Graduate Center faculty
Queens College, City University of New York faculty
American sociologists
University of Pennsylvania alumni