[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 8th Vermont Infantry Regiment

the 8th Vermont Infantry did not give up their flag and withdrew in good order.  Falling back slowly, they rejoin the rest of the XIX Corps around Belle Grove plantation.  The 8th Vermont continued to fight all day, ultimately helping to turn the dawn route at Cedar Creek into a major Union victory.

In 1883, a monument of Vermont marble was placed at the site where the 8th Vermont made their stand.  The monument was paid for by Herbert E. Hill, a Vermont businessman who wanted to honor his state's Civil War heroes.  The monument is located in its original place on the battlefield about 150 yards east of the Valley Pike, now U.S. Route 11 between Middletown and Strasburg, Virginia. The monument was well maintained under recent private ownership. In 2012, the property was acquired by Cedar Creek and Belle Grove National Historical Park, which provides visitor access, though currently only through ranger-led programs.

On October 19, 2014 a Vermont Roadside Historic Site Marker commemorating the Vermont soldiers who took part in the battle, including the 8th Vermont Regiment, was unveiled on US Route 11 in Middletown. The marker was put up on the edge of the Cedar Creek Battlefield and is the only Vermont Roadside Historic Site Marker outside the State of Vermont.

Casualties 

Cedar Creek was the last active engagement in which the 8th Vermont Infantry Regiment participated.  During the course of the war a total of 1,772 men served in the 8th Vermont Infantry.  Of that number, the unit lost during its term of service: 104 men killed and mortally wounded, 8 died from accident, 20 died in Confederate prisons, and 213 died from disease; for a total loss of 345 men.

The regiment mustered out of service on June 28, 1865.

Notable members
John L. Barstow, later governor, served in the 8th Vermont
Henry W. Downs, Medal of Honor recipient
William H. Gilmore, regimental quartermaster sergeant, served as Adjutant General of the Vermont National Guard.
Henry Moses Pollard, Congressman from Missouri, was a veteran of the 8th Vermont.
Captain Samuel Walker Shattuck, mathematician
Stephen Thomas, Medal of Honor recipient and later lieutenant governor, commanded the regiment as a colonel.

References

External links 
Vermont in the Civil War
Vermont National Guard Library and Museum

Units and formations of the Union Army from Vermont
Military units and formations established in 1862
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865
1862 establishments in Vermont