[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Crime prevention

following acts of terrorism such as the September 11, 2001 attacks.

Situational crime prevention uses techniques focusing on reducing on the opportunity to commit a crime. Some of techniques include increasing the difficulty of crime, increasing the risk of crime, and reducing the rewards of crime.

Situational crime prevention

Introduction and description
Situational crime prevention (SCP) is a relatively new concept that employs a preventive approach by focusing on methods to reduce the opportunities for crime. It was first outlined in a 1976 report released by the British Home Office. SCP focuses on the criminal setting and is different from most criminology as it begins with an examination of the circumstances that allow particular types of crime. By gaining an understanding of these circumstances, mechanisms are then introduced to change the relevant environments with the aim of reducing the opportunities for particular crimes. Thus, SCP focuses on crime prevention rather than the punishment or detection of criminals and its intention is to make criminal activities less appealing to offenders.

SCP focuses on opportunity-reducing processes that: 
 Are aimed at particular forms of crime; 
 Entail the management, creation or manipulation of the immediate environment in as organised and permanent a manner as possible; and 
 Result in crime being more difficult and risky or less rewarding and justifiable.

The theory behind SCP concentrates on the creation of safety mechanisms that assist in protecting people by making criminals feel they may be unable to commit crimes or would be in a situation where they may be caught or detected, which will result in them being unwilling to commit crimes where such mechanisms are in place. The logic behind this is based on the concept of rational choice - that every criminal will assess the situation of a potential crime, weigh up how much they may gain, balance it against how much they may lose and the probability of failing, and then act accordingly.

Situational Crime prevention can be applied using twenty-five opportunity reducing techniques:

 Increase the Effort: Includes target hardening (e.g. Tamper-proof packaging), controlling access to facilities (e.g. Electronic card access), applying screen exits (e.g. Electronic merchandise tags), deflecting offenders (e.g. dispersing pubs) and controlling tools or weapons (e.g. Disabling stolen mobile
phones).

 Increase the Risks: Includes extending guardianship (e.g. neighbourhood watch), Assisting natural
surveillance (e.g. adequate street lighting), Reducing anonymity (e.g. compulsory taxi identification cards), utilising place managers (e.g. rewarding vigilance) and strengthening formal surveillance (e.g. Security guards).

 Reduce the Rewards: Includes concealing targets (e.g. unmarked bullion trucks), removing targets (e.g. women's refuges), identifying property (e.g. cattle branding), disrupting markets (e.g. monitoring of pawn shops) and denying benefits (e.g. speed humps).
 Reduce Provocations: Includes reducing frustrations and stress (e.g. efficient queues and polite service), avoiding disputes (e.g. Separate enclosures for rival soccer fans), reducing emotional arousal (e.g. controls on violent pornography), neutralising peer pressure (e.g. targeting and removing troublemakers from a school) and discouraging imitation (e.g. V-chips in televisions).
 Remove the excuses: Includes setting rules (e.g. rental agreements), posting instructions (e.g. 'No Parking' signs), alerting conscience (roadside speed display boards), assisting compliance (e.g. easy library check-out) and controlling drugs and alcohol (e.g. alcohol free zones)

One example of SCP in practice is automated traffic enforcement. Automated traffic enforcement systems (ATES) use automated cameras on the roads to catch drivers who are speeding and those who run red lights. Such systems enjoy use all over the world. These systems have been installed and are advertised as an attempt to keep illegal driving incidences down. As a potential criminal, someone who is about to speed or run a red light knows that their risk of getting caught is nearly 100% with these systems. This completely disincentivizes the person from speeding or running red lights in areas in which they know ATES are set up. Though not conclusive, evidence shows that these type of systems work. In a Philadelphia study, some of the city's most dangerous intersections had a reduction of 96% in red light violations after the installation and advertisement of an ATES system.