[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Walk of the People – A Pilgrimage for Life

tion, about 16 people started from San Francisco and walked to New York in six months. More people joined in Europe, and the project, led by pacifist leaders A.J. Muste and Bradford Lyttle, covered some 5,900 miles in just ten months. Unlike numerous projects, they were able to walk through Russia. 

 The Longest Walk, 1978, Long Walk for Survival, 1980. These Native American-led projects from California to Washington, D.C., raised awareness for environmental issues and protection of native sites.

 A Walk to Moscow, 1981-83. This peace walk originated from a shorter project along the West coast from Santa Cruz, Calif., to Bangor, Wash., in 1980. Some members rested there for a few months, then continued across the country, staying in Boston for the winter of 1981-82. Walkers trekked across the United Kingdom, France, Belgium and the former West Germany, before having to stop for nine months in a border village to negotiate for visas to walk in Czechoslovakia and Poland. Some also traveled to cities in Russia by train.

 Bethlehem Peace Pilgrimage, 1982-83. This 6,500-mile walk from Seattle to Israel was led by Jesuit Fr. Jack Morris and Fr. George Zabelka, the pastor for the airmen who dropped the atomic bombs on Japan.  

 Peace Pilgrimage of Europeans, 1984. European and American peace activists walked from Bangor to D.C., where they displayed an amazing chain of about 10,000 photographs around the Lincoln Memorial pool showing the massive number of people protesting missiles in Germany.

 On the Line, 1984. Walkers traced the route of trains carrying nuclear weapons from Bangor to Charleston, S.C. 

 Great Peace March for Global Nuclear Disarmament, 1986. About 1,200 long-term walkers began from Los Angeles, but they bogged down two weeks later in the desert under internal and financial problems. Some 500 marchers reorganized and continued to walk, with about 400 of those making it all the way to D.C. and several hundred more joining for the final leg. Some kept going in Europe and were part of the Soviet-American walk in Russia in 1987. 

 International Walk in India, 1987-88. Several hundred people walked 600 miles from Ahmedabad, India, to New Delhi for peace and rural development. The project was organized by Friends of All, an organization founded by Prem Kumar.

 Interfaith Pilgrimage for Peace and Life, 1994-95. Led by Nipponzan-Myōhōji-Daisanga Japanese Buddhist monks, this walk started in Auschwitz, Poland, and ended in Nagasaki, Japan. More than 1,000 people joined at various times along the 3,000-mile walk that passed through war zones in Bosnia, as well as troubled parts of Israel, the West Bank, Jordan, Iraq, Cambodia, Vietnam and the Philippines.

 Peace by Peace, 2002. A group of women inspired by Peace Pilgrim walked about 3,500 miles from Berkeley, Calif., to D.C.

References

Further reading 
 
 
 
 

 

Peace movements
Anti–nuclear weapons movement
Peace marches
Hiking
Environmental movements
Walking
Pilgrimages
Environmental protests in the United States