[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dean Ornish

cholesterol. The Ornish diet emphasizes consumption of fruits, legumes, vegetables and whole grains. The diet also recommends the use of fish oil supplements. The Ornish diet is part of Ornish's Program for Reversing Heart Disease which also includes exercise, meditation, stress reduction and yoga.

The Ornish diet has been authorized as a cardiac rehabilitation program by Medicare."Intensive Cardiac Rehabilitation (ICR) Program - Dr. Ornish's Program for Reversing Heart Disease". Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services.
 
Critics have stated that Ornish has not provided sufficient clinical evidence to support his claims and his studies have not been replicated."Bill Clinton’s Diet". Science-Based Medicine. Retrieved December 18 2021. Nutritionists have described the Ornish diet as a high-carbohydrate low-fat fad diet.Rolfes, Sharon Rady; Pinna, Kathryn; Whitney, Ellie. (2014). Understanding Normal and Clinical Nutrition. Cengage Learning. p. 293.  The Ornish diet can lower blood cholesterol but a criticism is that it restricts fish, nuts and olive oil which may protect against heart disease.

Nutritionist Fredrick J. Stare commented that the Ornish diet is too low in fat for most people to follow and it may result in deficiencies of essential fatty acids. Stare noted that although the diet has been shown to stop the progression of arterial blockage in persons with cardiac disease, the diet is unbalanced and too extreme for most people to stick with long-term. Because of the restricted nature of the Ornish diet it has a high discontinuation rate; the American Heart Association and the U.S. Department of Health have not recommended the diet.

In 2008, The Gale Encyclopedia of Diets noted potential risks of the Ornish diet:

In March 2015, The New York Times published "The Myth of High-Protein Diets", an article by Ornish critical of diets high in animal fats and proteins. Science and health writer Melinda Wenner Moyer responded to Ornish in Scientific American; in it, she criticized Ornish's research and dietary recommendations, saying he used what she considered to be misleading statistics. Her article elicited a lengthy response from Ornish, who defended his position by citing a number of research studies, saying that she was mistaken regarding the statistics he had cited, and identifying serious flaws in the studies she said conflicted with his claims.  In reply, Moyer wrote another article critical of Ornish's arguments, concluding: "Ornish's diet would probably be an improvement on the current American diet—if people could actually follow it long-term. But his claims about the dangers of saturated fat and red meat go beyond the science and in some cases contradict it."

BibliographyDr. Dean Ornish's Program for Reversing Heart Disease New York: Random House, 1990; Ballantine Books, 1992. Eat More, Weigh Less  New York: HarperCollins Publishers, 1993, Everyday Cooking with Dr. Dean Ornish New York: HarperCollins Publishers, 1996, Love & Survival: The Scientific Basis for the Healing Power of Intimacy New York: HarperCollins, 1998.The Spectrum  New York: Ballantine Books, 2008. UnDo It!'' with Anne Ornish. New York:  Ballantine Books, 2019.

References

External links 

 

1953 births
Living people
20th-century American physicians
21st-century American physicians
American cookbook writers
American health and wellness writers
American Jews
American nutritionists
American vegetarianism activists
Baylor College of Medicine alumni
Brand name diet products
Massachusetts General Hospital residents
Physicians from Dallas
Plant-based diet advocates
Rice University alumni
University of California, San Francisco faculty
University of Texas at Austin College of Liberal Arts alumni