[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Anishinaabe clan system

warriors and police (Ogichidaa), as well as the healers.  Many members of the clan continue in these roles today.  The bear clan provided most of those who participated in the Bad River Train Blockade.  In fiction, the police officers in the novels of Louise Erdrich come from the bear clan.

Eagle 

Now one of the most common clans, the eagle totem was once of the smaller clans.  However, the number of eagle totem members grew when new members whose paternal ancestors were Americans were assigned to this totem.  Since the first sustained contact by the Anishinaabe with the United States was through government officials, the symbol of the American eagle was taken for a clan marker. Members of the Eagle clan include:
William Whipple Warren – a 19th-century Ojibwe historian
Nahnebahwequa – Mississauga Ojibway missionary and spokeswoman
Kahkewaquonaby – Mississauga Ojibway Methodist missionary and spokesman
Anton Treuer – Leech Lake Band Ojibwe historian and language activist

External links 
 Nindoodemag: The Significance of Algonquian Kinship Networks in the Eastern Great Lakes Region, 1600–1701
 Aboriginal totem signatures, the Great Peace of Montreal, 1701
 DEEDS / NATIONS — Directory of First Nations Individuals in South-Western Ontario 1750 - 1850 by Greg Curnoe, showing some treaty-signatory doodem
 Introduction to Kinship Terms  by Dr. J. Rand Valentine.

References 

 Benton-Banai, Edward. (1979) The Mishoomis Book.
 Hilger, M. Inez. (1951)  Chippewa Child Life and Its Cultural Background.
 Johnson, Basil. (1990)  Ojibway Heritage.
 Tanner, John. (1830) A narrative of the captivity and adventures of John Tanner, (U.S. interpreter at the Saut de Ste. Marie,) during thirty years residence among the Indians in the interior of North America, ed. Edwin James.
 Warren, William W. (1851) History of the Ojibway People.
 Mooney and Thomas. (1910) Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico.

Anishinaabe culture
Great Lakes tribal culture
Odawa
Ojibwe
Potawatomi
Clans
Native American history of Michigan
Native American history of Minnesota
Native American history of Wisconsin