[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Bella Dodd

46, New York party secretary Bill Norman told her "Nobody gets out of the Party. We throw you out, but you don't get out by yourself." She was warned that leaving the Party would descend into becoming a "stool pigeon." She remarked, "That is a hard word to live with. It is a hard word to live with."

She encouraged others to testify: 
 "As far as I know, no one in New York City has been hurt by the fact that he was in the Party if he went to the superintendent and said, 'I was a member. I am no longer.' His or her name hasn't been mentioned publicly. The people who got notoriety are those who asked for it by refusing to answer the question."
 "The people I know, and I knew practically everyone in New York City who appeared before the various committees, I know of no one who has appeared and claimed the fifth amendment, in New York City, who was not a member of the Communist Party...  It is my opinion that those attorneys who advise their clients to take the fifth amendment are putting their clients into a noose."

She claimed that more than 1,500 teachers nationwide were members of the Communist Party, and that the Party recruited teachers and professionals, but kept their participation highly secret. However, "99.99% [of American teachers] are loyal Americans." In the Party, she said, there was no academic freedom, "no room for difference of opinion."

Dodd named both teachers and public intellectuals who were Party members, fellow travellers, or useful idiots ("suckers", as Kunzig characterized them), including Moe Finkelstein (American Committee for Democracy and Intellectual Freedom), Franz Boas, Albert Einstein, and Christian Gauss.

Later life

Dodd continued as a lawyer for the rest of her life.

In 1968, Dodd made an unsuccessful run for a seat in the US Congress as the candidate of the New York Conservative Party; she lost by a significant margin. She came in last place with 3% of the vote, against Democratic incumbent Leonard Farbstein (easily reelected with 53%), Donald Weeden (Republican), Ralph Denat (Liberal), and David McReynolds (Peace and Freedom).

Dodd died in Manhattan on April 29, 1969, at age 64 after gall bladder surgery. She was buried at Gate of Heaven Cemetery in Pleasantville, New York.

Works

See also
 Marie Carré
 Elizabeth Bentley
 Sylvia Callen
 Louis F. Budenz
 Charles J. Hendley
 Dale Zysman

References

External links

 School of Darkness (Dodd's autobiography)
 Kirkus Review of School of Darkness

1904 births
1969 deaths
American communists
American communists of the Stalin era
American Roman Catholics
People from the Province of Potenza
Burials at Gate of Heaven Cemetery (Hawthorne, New York)
Conservative Party of New York State politicians
Converts to Roman Catholicism from atheism or agnosticism
Federal Bureau of Investigation informants
Hunter College alumni
Italian anti-communists
Italian anti-fascists
Members of the Communist Party USA
American anti-communists
American anti-fascists