[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# House in multiple occupation

d Kingdom, an HMO has the following characteristics:
 at least three tenants live there, forming more than one household and
 toilet, bathroom or kitchen facilities are shared between tenants.

Definitions of what constitutes an HMO and a household are set out in the law for each legal jurisdiction.

England and Wales
A home is a large HMO if all of the following apply:
 at least five tenants live there, forming more than one household
 toilet, bathroom or kitchen facilities are shared between tenants
Before 1 October 2018, there was an additional criterion that the building was three or more storeys.
Landlords of large HMOs must apply for a licence and must comply with certain standards and obligations.

HMOs do not need to be licensed if they are managed or owned by a housing association or co-operative, a council, a further education institute or student housing provider, a health service or a police or fire authority.

Where an Article 4 direction has been applied by a local authority, planning permission is required for the change of use of a dwelling house to HMO accommodation in the area designated. This is usually to protect the housing mix in particular areas of a city; for example in Newcastle upon Tyne article 4 directives have come into force in parts of Heaton, Jesmond, South Gosforth, Sandyford and Spital Tongues.

Local authorities
In England and Wales, local authorities manage and enforce the licensing of HMOs.

Depending on the region of the authority, they have some or all of the following powers, to vary:

 the minimum size of a property requiring a licence 
 the licence fee and
 the conditions of the licence.

Penalties in England and Wales
Failure to apply for or comply with the terms of a licence for an HMO constitutes a criminal offence. Tenants may be able to recover up to 12 months' rent from an unlicensed HMO landlord. Since the Housing and Planning Act 2016 (HaPA), tenants can make a Rent Repayment Order (RRO) application directly against the landlord and without waiting for the council to prosecute first (the situation under the Housing Act 2004 (HA)). Some tenants have been successful in recovering rent from landlords of unlicensed HMOs.

Northern Ireland
Northern Ireland is a separate legal jurisdiction within the UK and all HMOs must be registered and must comply with certain standards and obligations. In Northern ireland a property is an HMO if three or more people live in it, these people form at least three separate families or households and at least one person is paying some form of rent to live in the property. New regulations came in to force in April 2019 and a new licensing scheme managed by local councils has replaced the centralised registration scheme. Landlords must pass a fit and proper persons test, fixed penalties have been introduced HMO managers have to adhere to a Code of Practice.

Scotland
Scotland is a separate legal jurisdiction within the UK and all HMOs must be registered and must comply with certain standards and obligations. An HMO in Scotland is a property that is shared by three or more tenants who are not members of the same family or household. The landlord must be "a fit and proper person" and there are annual inspections to check the property (2006 Act). Hostels and halls of residence for students or nurses are considered to be HMOs in Scotland and the Scottish Government is considering extending the definition of an HMO. At the end of March 2019 there were over 15,600 licences in force and 87% of these were accounted for by the four major cities and the Fife local authority (Aberdeen, Dundee, Edinburgh and Glasgow). Edinburgh accounts for almost two in five of Scotland's HMO licences due to its higher rents, large student population, tourist lets and young professionals sharing.

HMO investment

HMOs are popular with buy-to-let investors because, it is believed, they have higher income-generating potential than ordinary or 'vanilla' buy-to-let properties. By splitting single properties into multiple bedsits that are each let out on separate tenancy agreements, landlords can also reduce their exposure to loss of earnings through rental arrears or voids. While HMOs may generate higher income, HMO investments, at least in heavily regulated Scotland, entail significantly higher initial costs if compared with regular buy-to-let properties due to significant costs of licensing, safety checks and certificates, fireproofing, alarms, joinery and other required remedials.

Controversy

Some argue that HMO investment is necessitated by insufficient housing supply in the UK, whilst others argue that it is exploiting it.

Finance