[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dyab Abou Jahjah

Dyab Abou Jahjah (, born 24 June 1971 in Hanin, Lebanon) is an Arab political activist and writer who was active in Europe between 2001 and 2007. He is the founder and former leader of the Arab European League (AEL), a Pan-Arabist movement that supports the interests of Muslim immigrants in Europe. Since then, Abou Jahjah has distanced himself from identity politics and holds a non-ethnic, secular, and leftist framework.

Personal life

He was born and grew up in southern Lebanon in Hanin, near the Lebanese-Israeli border. He gained refugee status in 1996 and became a Belgian citizen through marriage to a Belgian woman, from whom he much later divorced. He is now married to a Belgian Muslim woman, Nabila Boujdaine of Moroccan origin, who was also on the electoral lists for his MDP party in 2004. N. Boujdaine is the sister of Saida from the book Saida, written by De Standaard journalist, Tom Naegels and is the partner in a new organisation, Safe Have Aid,  established by Dyab Abou Jahjah and his brother. He holds a Master's degree in political science from the Université catholique de Louvain.

Abou Jahjah has written several books, among them an autobiography entitled "Between Two Worlds - the Roots of a Freedom Fight" that sold 7,000 copies in Belgium and the Netherlands. He was also the subject of two political biographies, one written by Mohammed Benzakour and the other by Maroun Labaki, and a political analysis book written by the Belgian communist writer Ludo De Witte.

Move to Belgium
In 1991, at the age of 19, Abou Jahjah left Lebanon: "I wanted to go abroad like a lot of Lebanese young people". Abou Jahjah studied at Université catholique de Louvain (UCL) in Louvain la Neuve and obtained a master's degree in  political science and International relations. After several odd jobs during his study time, including factory work and construction labour, he became the director of vzw Welkom, the Immigrant working body for the Belgian ABVV trade Union.

Political views

Abou Jahjah is a Social democrat and moderate Muslim, although he later revealed that he is rather a Muslim by culture and agnostic on faith. He is an opponent of assimilation. He believes immigrants should be treated as full citizens who can keep their own culture, rather than being treated as guests. He was compared to the American activist Malcolm X, also a Muslim, who opposed assimilation and the melting pot model of integration.  He sees the integration of Armenians in Lebanon as the ideal model. He has said that, "America's race laws are more advanced than here. I have relatives in Detroit and they are Arab-Americans but they feel American. I don't feel European. Europe needs to make its concept of citizenship inclusive to all cultures and religions.

Arab European League

In 2000 Abou Jahjah founded the Arab European League in Antwerp, a city with a large Muslim population. In the 2003 election the Arab European League partnered with the Marxist-Leninist Workers' Party of Belgium to form the RESIST (electoral list), which failed to win any seats and soon dissolved. 
In 2004 he started the MDP, but this party didn't obtain any elected participants. Early in 2006 Abou Jahjah announced that he will no longer be leading the AEL nor holding a leadership position.

Sabra and Shatila

In 2001, Abou Jahjah founded the Sabra and Shatila committee, which brought a lawsuit against former Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon for his alleged role in the Sabra and Shatila massacre committed, in adjacent refugee camps, during the Israel-Lebanon war in 1982.

9/11

He said of Arab reaction to the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks that "Most of us ... felt that day something that can not be described as joy, or as happiness, but rather as that sweet revenge feeling. We all had – except that small minority- a "what goes around comes around’" attitude", but he continued that "Now, almost two months after the eleventh of September, we see things clear(er). It is terrible how criminals can cause by their acts the misery for so many people, people of their own kind and people of their alleged enemy. How violence will breed violence that will breed more violence".

Negative attitudes towards homosexuals
In his own column in the Belgian daily De Standaard, he stated "We (Belgians with Arab roots) are predominantly negatively disposed towards homosexuals. This isn't because we're immigrants, but rather because we're men. The idea that another man could desire us sexually, is for most heterosexual men a nightmare that can render them aggressive."

Means to an end
Abou Jahjah considers democracy a strong means to an end. Sharia would be instated after a democratic process. Indeed, his messages are altogether mixed  Jahjah suggested in a televised debate that a similar attack was likely in the Netherlands. "It's logical," he said. "You make war with us, we make war with you."

Controversies

Arrest