[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1976 World Snooker Championship

Reardon "won without ever displaying his most dominating form", and that he "looks in a class of his own and there is no obvious successor in sight. Similarly, The Times report of the final session concluded that "Reardon looked a class above the rest." Part of the final was shown on BBC Television.

Aftermath
The Sponsored Events Manager for W.D. & H.O. Wills, Peter Dyke, commented that it had been an "interesting and rewarding involvement" and said that the company would be interested in maintaining an involvement with snooker. However, he complained that the promoter, Hayes, had declined to tell the company details of income from gate receipts and other sources. Hayes's company Q Promotions went out of business shortly afterwards; it had been beset by problems including confusion over bookings for professionals it managed, including Higgins, which led several snooker clubs to pursue costs from the company. Mike Watterson, whose first sporting promotion had been a match between Higgins and Reardon in 1972, subsequently became the promoter for the 1977 Championship. Sports historian Ian Morrison wrote that following the "near disaster" of 1976 for the sponsors, "Watterson convinced them that he could make the championships work, and the following year he proved himself correct." A similar account is provided by Everton: "Pessimists feared that Embassy would pull out of snooker forthwith. They stayed because there was the prospect of more television coverage and better promotion... Watterson promoted the championship with an efficiency and flair it had never previously experienced."

Main draw
Numbers in parentheses indicate seeding. Winning players are denoted in bold.

Qualifying
Results of the qualifying competition are shown below. Winning players are denoted in bold.

Century breaks
The following century breaks were made at the tournament. The highest break of the tournament was 138 made by Spencer in his match against Taylor.

 138  John Spencer
 137*, 129  Eddie Charlton
 133, 115, 106  Ray Reardon
 121  Alex Higgins
Not officially recognised, because five of the six pockets were found to be oversized.

Associated tournaments
Of the other events sponsored by Embassy as part of their deal, Vera Selby won the Women's Open, which is now regarded as the first edition of the World Women's Snooker Championship. She defeated Muriel Hazeldene 4–1 in the final, and won £500 and a wristwatch worth £500. Each snooker club in the UK was able to nominate two entrants for the Embassy International. The matches were played over a single frame. Dennis Hughes was awarded the £500 winner's prize after defeating Colin Myers by 99 points to 14 in the final. John Virgo took £500 for winning the invitational Embassy International Amateur Tournament, the results of which are shown below.

Embassy International Amateur Tournament main draw
All matches were the best of seven frames. Winning players are denoted in bold.

References

World Snooker Championships
World Snooker Championship
World Snooker Championship
World Snooker Championship
Sport in Middlesbrough
Sports competitions in Manchester