[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jeffrey Carney

bronze and the medal of "Waffenbrüderschaft (Brotherhood in Arms)" in gold. His internal Stasi file shows the value of the work he performed for the Stasi and the KGB, earning praise from KGB General Chebrikov as well as from General Zaitsev of the Group of Soviet Forces in Germany (GSFG).

Capture

A break in the case came after the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989, when many Stasi records became available to foreign investigators and journalists. In April, 1991, Carney was located with the help of at least two former Stasi intelligence officers turned informants. In preparation for his apprehension, he was quickly assigned to the 7350th Air Base Group at his former base, Tempelhof Central Airport, several months before his apprehension. (Ironically, this assignment was official and had the unintended consequence of assigning Carney to a unit that supported Desert Shield/Desert Storm in 1991. As a result, Carney received the National Defense Service Medal while in solitary confinement at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, several years later.) On 22 April 1991, Carney was apprehended on a public street by AFOSI agents near his residence on Pintschstraße 12, in Friedrichshain, which used to be in the Soviet sector of Berlin. Immediately following his apprehension, he was taken to Tempelhof Airport, identified, and underwent nearly 28 hours of intense interrogation; after this, Carney refused to answer any more questions after his repeated requests for counsel had been denied. At this point the AFOSI, in consultation with other U.S. agencies, decided to quietly remove Carney from German territory. He was secretly flown to the United States aboard military aircraft the following day. Carney's arrest and return to the United States was coordinated at the highest levels of the United States government without consulting German officials. The U.S. Ambassador to the Federal Republic of Germany, Vernon Walters, personally acted as adviser to the Commander-in-Chief, United States Air Forces Europe, urging haste.

Conviction
Carney pleaded guilty to charges of espionage, conspiracy, and desertion and was sentenced in December 1991 to 38 years in prison. Carney served the mandatory portion of his sentence at both Quantico, Virginia, and, later, the United States Disciplinary Barracks in Fort Leavenworth, Kansas. Carney was released in 2002, after serving 11 years, seven months, and twenty days on a twenty-year sentence in accordance with his pretrial agreement.

Later life
After his release from prison, Carney attempted to return to Germany claiming to be a German citizen. However, as East Germany never naturalized him as a citizen and thus he had obtained his German passport fraudulently, German authorities refused to grant him a passport. He is reported to be living in Ohio. In November 2011 Carney submitted a lengthy manuscript detailing his life as a spy to the United States Air Force for security review. After numerous delays, the manuscript was finally cleared on July 26, 2012. The book, Against All Enemies: An American's Cold War Journey, was published in 2013.

References

Further reading

External links 
 Jeff Carney - The Cold War Spy You've Never Heard Of
 Focus TV Broadcast, 19 May 1998; the first public acknowledgement on German television about the kidnapping of Jens Karney.
 B. Kerner Show, ZDF, 24 June 2003; Jens Karney speaks on German television for the first time about his kidnapping by US personnel.
 Ein Stasi-Maulwurf bei der NSA (A Stasi Mole in the NSA). Die unglaubliche Geschichte des Sergeant Carney (The Unbelievable Story of Sergeant Carney). Documentary length 52 Min., Directed by Jürgen Ast, produced by MDR, first broadcasting July 5, 2016 on the ARTE network.

Year of birth missing (living people)
Living people
American people convicted of spying for East Germany
Defectors to East Germany
American defectors
Fort Leavenworth
United States Air Force airmen
American expatriates in East Germany
American LGBT military personnel
National Security Agency people
American emigrants to East Germany
Gay military personnel
People convicted of desertion
Prisoners and detainees of the United States military
United States Air Force personnel who were court-martialed