[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Saclepea

Located in the heart of Nimba County, Liberia, Saclepea (sometimes spelled “saglelpie” on world maps) was a town of more than 12,000 citizens in 2008. Saclepeans are predominantly from the native Mah tribe, and they speak the Mano dialect. During Liberia’s civil war, Saclepea was a primary recruiting and training area for child soldiers, many of whom still reside in the city. Now, Saclepea hosts one of Liberia’s regional offices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. A camp for refugees from the neighboring country of Côte d’Ivoire is situated on the outskirts of town.

Location 
Saclepea is near the geographic center of Nimba County in north-eastern Liberia. It is approximately 50 kilometers from Ganta, Liberia’s second-largest city. Driving distance from Saclepea to the capital city, Monrovia, is approximately 375 kilometers.

Climate 
Saclepea experiences two seasons: rainy and dry. Rainy season generally lasts from May through September, and the rest of the year is dry, hot, and dusty, with average daytime temperatures in the nineties Fahrenheit (32-37 °C). Even during the dry season, nights can be very cool, with lows sometimes in the fifties Fahrenheit (10-15 °C).

Economy 
Saclepea's economy was destroyed by Liberia's civil war. Trussell and Moore describe the players in and process of Local Economic Development (LED) that helped move Saclepea from post-war relief to rehabilitation and development. They list Saclepea's economic strengths as well as opportunities for further development.

Saclepea’s retail economy is driven by its weekly market, the largest outdoor market in Liberia. Every Tuesday, people from all over Nimba County and surrounding counties pour into Saclepea to participate as vendors or customers in Saclepea’s market.

Local industries include:
Farming – mostly subsistence, but larger palm and rubber tree farming operations are growing with support from NGOs (e.g. World Food Program, Adventist Development and Relief Agency), Saclepea’s Women's Center+, local churches, national government, and Liberia’s Cooperative Development Agency (CDA).
Transportation – Taxi providers (car and motorcycle) are unionized but without standardization. Taxis are available for local or long-distance travel, but they are often unreliable due to vehicle and roadway maintenance issues.
Food preparation – mostly roadside stands.  A few spartan restaurants and bakeries exist in central district.
Business centers – many small shops that sell cell phones and phone cards and provide related services such as phone charging, powered by small generators.
Other small retail – In addition to weekly market retail, Saclepea has many, small free-standing and roadside stand retail shops. Items sold by these shops include phone cards, clothing, cassette tapes/CDs, cigarettes, candy/snack foods, mattresses, floor laminate, etc.
Construction – commercial and individual furniture. There are approximately 20 carpenters in the city of Saclepea.  Stymied by the lack of power tools and the inability to obtain a loan to purchase them, many of them are seeking to form cooperatives in order to add strength to their borrowing power.
Building materials
Artists – very little activity; no tourism, so no sales of souvenirs. A few local artists design and print T-shirts, mostly commercial art. A few musicians, although all music recording, production and distribution is done in Monrovia. A couple of small shops for video, photography, and photo processing produce portraits and are hired by journalists, sports teams, law enforcement, etc., for photo documentation.  Digital photography is becoming more prevalent.
Journalism – two radio stations (Radio Saclepea and Radio Ylamba), one nascent news periodical (KOMA NIMBA).
Tailoring – large and well organized, with eight tailoring shops in Saclepea. Has a city union president. Offers apprenticeships.
Finance – although no banks currently exist in Saclepea (at this writing, EcoBank is considering opening a branch there) there are several Savings & Credit institutes which offer savings accounts and small loans.
Mineral Water - Saclepea's first mineral water bottling facility opened in February 2014.

+Saclepea has a very active Women’s Center whose mission is to increase awareness of and decrease instances of gender-based violence. Founded in 2008 by Saclepea native Theresa Monmia, the Saclepea Women’s Center works to encourage women’s economic independence and employs social workers to settle domestic disputes.