[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1958 in poetry

River of the Soul Chinese (Taiwan)

Awards and honors

United Kingdom
 Queen's Gold Medal for Poetry: Francis Cornford
 Foyle Prize for Poetry: Dame Edith Sitwell, Collected Poems
 Guinness Poetry Awards:
 Ted Hughes,  The Thought Fox
 Thomas Kinsella, Thinking of Mr. D
 David Wright, A Thanksgiving

United States
 Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress (later the post would be called "Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress"): Robert Frost appointed this year.
 National Book Award for Poetry: Robert Penn Warren, Promises: Poems, 1954-1956
 Pulitzer Prize for Poetry: Stanley Kunitz, Selected Poems 1928-1958
 Bollingen Prize: E.E. Cummings
 Fellowship of the Academy of American Poets: Robinson Jeffers
 Harper's Eugene F. Saxton Fellowship; Conrad Hilberry
 Huntington Hartford Foundation Award: Robert Frost
 Jewish Book Council's Harry Kovner Memorial poetry awards: I.J. Schwartz for contributions to Yiddish poetry; Aaron Zeitlin for Bein Ha-Esh Yeha-Yesha
 Yale Series of Younger Poets award: William Dickey for Of the Festivity

American Academy of Arts and Letters
 American Academy of Arts and Letters Gold Medal in Poetry: Conrad Aiken
 Marjorie Peabody Waite Award: Dorothy Parker

Poetry Magazine
 Levinson prize: Stanley Kunitz
 Oscar Blumenthal prize: Siydney Goodsir Smith
 Eunice Tiejens prize: Mona Van Duyn
 Bess Hokin prize: Charles Tomlinson
 Union League Civic and Arts Foundation prize: Jean Garrigue
 Vachel Lindsay prize : Hayden Carruth
 Harriet Monroe Poetry Prize: Stanley Kunitz

Poetry Society of America
 Shelley Memorial Award: Kenneth Rexroth
 Alexander Droutzkoy Memorial gold medal: Robert Frost
 Walt Whitman Award: James E. Miller, Jr.
 Reynolds Lyric Award: John Fandel
 William Rose Benet Memorial Award: Robert A. Wallace
 Edna St. Vincent Millay Award: Robert Penn Warren
 Poetry Chap-Book Award: Arthur Waley
 Emily S. Hamblen Memorial award: Sir Geoffrey Keynes for The Complete Writings of William Blake
 Arthur Davison Ficke Memorial award: Ulrich Trobetzkoy
 Laura Speyer Memorial award: Mary A. Winter
 Borestone Mountain Poetry Award: John Hall Wheelock, Poems Old and New

France
 Grand Prix Littéraire de la Ville de Paris: Maurice Fonbeure for poetry
 Grand Prix de Poésie de l'Académie française: Mme. Gérard d'Houville

Other
 Mondadori, Viareggio poetry prize (Italy): S. Quasimodo, La terra impareggiabile
 Canada: Governor General's Award, poetry or drama: A Suit of Nettles, James Reaney

Births
Death years link to the corresponding "[year] in poetry" article:
 January 5 – Harold Rhenisch, Canadian poet
 April 15:
 Anne Michaels, Canadian poet and novelist
 Benjamin Zephaniah, British dub poet
 November 27 – Andrew Waterhouse (suicide 2001), English poet and environmentalist
 Also:
 Jill Battson, Canadian poet
 Lionel Fogarty, Australian poet and political activist
 James Lasdun, English poet and fiction writer
 Subodh Sarkar, Bengali poet, writer, editor and academic in India
 Margaret Smith, American poet, musician and artist

Deaths
Birth years link to the corresponding "[year] in poetry" article:
 January 3 – Gerald William Bullett, 64, English author and critic
 March 13 – Vallathol Narayana Menon (born 1878), Indian, Malayalam language poet
 March 24 – Seamus O'Sullivan (born 1879), Irish
 May 5 – James Branch Cabell, 79, whose 52 books included poetry, of a cerebral hemorrhage (to help people remember the pronunciation of his name, he composed the ditty, "Tell the rabble my name is CA-bell.")
 June 10 – Angelina Weld Grimke (born 1880), African American lesbian journalist and poet
 June 25 or 28 – Alfred Noyes, 77 (born 1880), English poet
 September 8 – Geoffrey Winthrop Young, 81 (born 1876), English mountaineer, poet and educator
 September 11 – Robert W. Service, 84 (born 1874), Scots-Canadian poet who wrote The Cremation of Sam McGee
 October 29 – Zoë Akins, 72, American poet and dramatist who won the 1935 Pulitzer Prize for her drama version of Edith Wharton's The Old Maid
 November 12 – Masamune Atsuo 正宗敦夫 (born 1881), Japanese poet and academic
 December 20 – Sir John Collings Squire, British poet, writer, historian and influential literary editor
 Also:
 Emil Barth (born 1900), German
 Francis Carco, French poet and novelist
 Yves Gérard le Dantec, French

See also

 Poetry
 List of poetry awards
 List of years in poetry

Notes

20th-century poetry
Poetry