[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Leopoldo López

velling to the United States and meeting with Republican senator Rick Scott, López declared that the United States would not lift sanctions "without significant advances". In December, during the 2021 Chilean presidential election, López met with far-right candidate José Antonio Kast, endorsing him.

Awards and honors
 2007 – Kenyon College Honoris Causa Doctorate Law.
 2007, 2008 – Premio Transparencia Award, to the most transparent city mayor of Venezuela, granted by the Venezuela branch of Transparency International.
 2008 – Third place, World Mayor Project, for being a "hands-on mayor as well as a national politician fighting for democratic openness and fairness in Venezuela".
 2009 – The Most Innovative People Award for Resiliency from the Future Capitals World Summit.
 2014 – Harvard University Alumni Achievement Award for the support of democracy and transparency in Venezuela. 
 2014 – Foreign Policy listed López in its Leading Global Thinkers of 2014 publication.
 2015 – National Endowment for Democracy awarded López its Democracy Award in May 2015.
 2015 – Cádiz Cortes Ibero-American Freedom Prize was awarded "given the unblemished defense of freedom in your community and minimum requirements of the realization of human rights in the same, which has led them to be subject to public rebuke of their government, including the flagrant situation of imprisonment or the cutting of your minimal civil rights".
 2015 – One of Spain ABC's Ten Faces in the World in 2015.
 2016 – Courage Award, Geneva Summit for Human Rights and Democracy, shared with Antonio Ledezma, "for inspiring the world with their extraordinary courage in the defense of liberty and universal human rights".
 2017 – Florida Medal of Freedom awarded by Governor of Florida, Rick Scott.
 2017 - Sakharov Prize, along with the Venezuelan opposition.
 2018 – Nominated for the Nobel Peace Prize

Publications

Notes

External links

  
 New York Times: Leopoldo Lopez interview (February 2018)

 
1971 births
Living people
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by Venezuela
Politicians from Caracas
Kenyon College alumni
Harvard Kennedy School alumni
Venezuelan people of Spanish descent
Venezuelan people of Basque descent
Justice First politicians
Mayors of places in Venezuela
A New Era politicians
Popular Will politicians
Venezuelan democracy activists
Venezuelan escapees
Venezuelan politicians convicted of crimes
Venezuelan dissidents
People of the Crisis in Venezuela
Venezuelan Roman Catholics
Venezuelan torture victims
Exiled politicians
Escapees from Venezuelan detention
2014 Venezuelan protests