[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Vietnamese passport

Vietnamese passports () are issued to citizens of Vietnam to facilitate international travel. They enable the bearer to exit and re-enter Vietnam freely; to travel to and from other countries in accordance with visa requirements, and secure assistance from Vietnamese consular officials when abroad, if necessary.

All Vietnamese passports are issued by the Department of Immigration (Cục Quản lý Xuất nhập cảnh) on behalf of the Ministry of Public Security. Only Vietnamese citizens are eligible for this passport. The passport is valid for ten years. By law, a valid unexpired Vietnamese passport is conclusive proof of Vietnamese citizenship, and therefore can be used in lieu of a National ID card for identification (such as flying within Vietnam) domestically.

Vietnamese passport booklets conform with the recommended standards (i.e. size, composition, layout, technology) of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). There are three types of passport booklets. Vietnamese passports are property of the government of Vietnam and must be returned to the Vietnamese government upon demand.

Vietnam started issuing electronic passports to citizens in March 2023.

History

North Vietnam (1954 - 1975) 
Passports were first issued in North Vietnam in 1959 when the first legislation regulating passport and went into effect. Under the legislation, the validity of passport was 3 years and can be extended, but for no more than 5 years since the original issuance date; and only those who were 18 and older were eligible for a passport.

In 1966, the North Vietnamese government passed a new law restricting the eligibility for passport. Effectively, only those who traveled aboard "for official purposes", including:

 Specialists and experts
 Journalists working for Vietnamese News Agency
 Students studying overseas

were eligible for regular passport.

State of Vietnam (1947 - 1954) and South Vietnam (1954 - 1975) 
A passport with the name "Vietnam" was first issued under the State of Vietnam, which had a red cover at the time. The Republic of Vietnam also issued its own passports.

Application
As of 1 July 2022, there are two methods of applying for a Vietnamese passport: fully online & hybrid (online & offline). Before that, the passport application in Vietnam was performed entirely offline; citizens came to the immigration office and submitted documents. Regardless of the method used, an application form is required for the issuance of a passport.

Forms 
There are 2 types of passport application form:

Fees
The Vietnamese passport is one of the cheapest in the world in terms of processing fees. As of 2022, the cost for a first-time passport or renewal (if applicant's most recent passport is undamaged and can be submitted with the application) is 200,000 Vietnamese đồng (VND); approximately US$7, and 400,000 Vietnamese đồng (VND) if applicant's most recent passport is damaged or stolen.

Visa requirements

As of 29 July 2022, Vietnamese citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 55 countries and territories, ranking the Vietnamese passport 92nd in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.

Vietnamese passport allows its bearer to stay up to 30 days visa-free, mostly in ASEAN countries. Otherwise, Vietnamese passport holders need to apply for visa in advance to gain entry to most other developed nations.

Passport design

Front cover 
Vietnamese passports are purple blue in colour, with the words "SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIET NAM" and "CỘNG HÒA XÃ HỘI CHỦ NGHĨA VIỆT NAM" inscribed at the top of the front cover, and the emblem of Vietnam emblazoned in the centre of the front cover, whilst the words "HỘ CHIẾU" and "PASSPORT" are respectively inscribed below.

A current Vietnamese passport contains 48 pages and 2 purple blue cover pages. The cover is described by Vietnamese and English respectively, it makes Vietnamese passport become the only one passport which do not use French as description language in the former French Indo-China states when Laotian and Cambodian passport have the French description in cover.

Request page 
On the back of the front cover, there is a note from Vietnamese Government addressed to the authorities of all other states:

Signature and authority page page 
The signature page (which is located on the third page) has a blank section for the signature of a passport holder. A passport is not valid until it is signed by the passport holder in black or blue ink. If a holder is unable to sign his passport, it is to be signed by a person who has legal authority to sign on the holder's behalf.

The issuing authority is also printed on this page. If a passport is issued inside Vietnam, the issuing authority will be Cục Quản lý Xuất nhập cảnh/ Vietnam Immigration Department. If a passport is issued outside of Vietnam the issuing authority will be Đại sứ quán Việt Nam tại (quốc gia)/ Embassy of Vietnam in (country's name)

Data page