[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alberto J. Mora

al Michael Lohr, the Judge Advocate General of the Navy, and Dr. Michael Gelles, the Chief Psychologist of the NCIS, and learned more about the Guantanamo interrogation practices, and determined that they were "unlawful and unworthy of the military services", and that they would investigate further.

Mora obtained a copy of a request by the commander of JT-170, Major General Michael Dunlavey, to Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld for authorization to apply extraordinary interrogation techniques, including "stress positions, hooding, isolation, 'deprivation of light and auditory stimuli', and use of 'detainee-individual phobias (such as fear of dogs) to induce stress; a legal brief accompanying the request that supported the legality of such techniques, by the Senior Judge Advocate to JT-170, Lieutenant Colonel Diane Beaver; and an approval of the request by Rumsfeld. The legal brief held that "cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment could be inflicted on the Guantanamo detainees with near impunity".

Mora found the brief to be "a wholly inadequate analysis of the law" and that the approved request was "fatally grounded on these serious failures of legal analysis" because it provided no bright line standard for what techniques would be prohibited; the techniques it approved "could produce effects reaching the level of torture"; and that "even if the techniques as applied did not reach the level of torture, they almost certainly would constitute 'cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment, and either way would be unlawful.

In the following weeks, Mora actively argued with a large number of the most senior lawyers and officials of the military and the Defense Department that the interrogation techniques that had been approved were unlawful. On January 15, 2003, he received word from William Haynes, the General Counsel of the Department of Defense, that Rumsfeld would be suspending the authority for the extraordinary interrogation techniques later that day. Mora was "delighted" and "reported the news widely".

Working Group and Yoo Memo
Two days later, Rumsfeld directed Haynes to establish a Working Group to develop a new set of guidelines for interrogation techniques, headed by Mary L. Walker, General Counsel of the Air Force. Mora worked actively to establish interrogation guidelines prohibiting coercive interrogation techniques, citing scientific evidence that they were ineffective, as well as legal arguments that they were unlawful.

However, early in the process, the Working Group was provided with a legal brief from the Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel (OLC), and told they should follow its guidance. This was the same brief that later became infamous as the "Torture Memo", largely written by OLC deputy director John Yoo.

Mora regarded the OLC memo as lengthy and seemingly sophisticated, but otherwise identical to the Beaver brief he had already argued against. Mora argued against the conclusions of the OLC memo, arguing that the OLC memo was "fundamentally in error" and "virtually useless as guidance... and dangerous." With Walker's encouragement to share his views, he circulated an opposing draft memo, entitled "Proposed Alternative Approach to Interrogations".

But, according to Mora, contributions from members of the Working Group began to be rejected if they did not conform to what was already in the OLC memo, and Walker, the head of the Working Group, said of his arguments, "I disagree and moreover I believe [the General Counsel of the Defense Department] disagrees." Mora evaluated the work being prepared by the Working Group as containing "profound mistakes in its legal analysis" and as "unacceptable". Mora met with DOD General Counsel Haynes who disagreed with Mora's arguments.