[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sports Federation and Olympic Committee of Hong Kong, China

y, stating "Many national sports associations (NSAs) rely on public funding for operation and hosting sports events. However, some members of the public query some NSAs for their failure to make effective use of the funding to promote and develop sports events, resulting in a waste of public money."

In June 2006, the LCSD and ICAC held a seminar, named "Striving for Good Corporate Governance" to brief more than 100 members of NSAs on ways prevent corruption. The Deputy Director of the LCSD said that "As users of public funds, sports bodies must not only discharge their obligations under the Subvention Agreement but also conduct their business in a transparent, fair and open manner."

In 2007, an investigation was conducted by the Ombudsman, who was concerned about whether the LCSD had appropriate mechanisms to monitor NSAs for conflict of interests. The issue stemmed from a March 2006 complaint that the Hong Kong Amateur Athletic Association (HKAAA) had awarded a contract to a company owned by the HKAAA's chairman. Separately, in early 2007, the LCSD organized two workshops for NSAs on governance.

In October 2009, the Audit Commission submitted a report to the Legislative Council, with recommendations to tighten up supervision of taxpayer funds to NSAs.

2010s 
In January 2010, the LCSD's Sports Commission wrote a policy named "Governance of National Sports Associations", outlining methods that the LCSD would take to further promote transparent governance from NSAs. In November 2010, a newspaper published an open letter, which questioned the criteria used to select Roller sports athletes for the 2010 Asian Games. The government responded that only the SF&OC and NSAs were responsible for selecting athletes, and that "While the Government respects the autonomy and independence of the SF&OC and NSAs, we nonetheless closely monitor the use of public money by these organisations to ensure that it is deployed effectively in promoting sports development."

In 2011, the ICAC formulated the "Best Practice Reference for Governance of National Sports Associations - Towards Excellence in Sports Professional Development". ICAC's goal was to enhance governance and transparency from NSAs. Additionally, ICAC further mentioned that the report was for "Addressing public concern on the governance of national sports associations (NSAs)". In 2020, the Audit Commission found that the SF&OC had yet to implement some of the best practices.

In 2013, ICAC hosted another seminar with coaches from 33 NSAs, on the prevention of issues such as bribery and conflicts of interest.

In February 2015, the Legislative Council released an 85-page research report on the SF&OC, which pointed out deficiencies, such as "NOCs in Hong Kong and Singapore have hitherto released limited publicly available information regarding their operations. While they have uploaded their respective constitution onto their websites, other relevant documents such as annual reports, balance sheets and statements of accounts are not available in the public domain. In comparison, NOCs in Australia, Japan and the US show a high degree of openness and transparency with proactive disclosure of relevant information for the public understanding and scrutiny of their operations."

In 2015, a seminar was co-hosted between the SF&OC and the Equal Opportunities Commission (EOC), on eliminating sexual harassment in the sports sector. However, three years later in 2018, it was revealed that only 10 of 79 NSAs had created guidelines against sexual harassment. The chairman of the EOC stated that "We are disappointed to see many NSAs that have not produced such guidelines and policies".

In August 2016, the Hong Kong Economic Journal released an article, accusing the SF&OC and Timothy Fok of various transgressions. For example, it claimed Timothy Fok has power on all important subcommittees, including those which select athletes, and those which control finances. In addition, it claimed that Timothy Fok appointed his son, Kenneth Fok, as vice-president, without transparency, and that Kenneth Fok has no record in any type of sporting achievement.

2020s 
In April 2020, the government's Audit Commission released a 141-page report after investigating the Olympic Committee, describing various failures with the SF&OC, including lax governance. The Audit Commission noted that around half of SF&OC's 29 subcommittees had not met for two years. Procurement rules were also not followed, including the SF&OC getting only single quotes from suppliers instead of tendering offers, causing a rising deficit of HK$33,000 in 2014-15 to HK$588,000 in 2018-19.