[Source: PubMed]

76. Int J Equity Health. 2025 Nov 21;24(1):326. doi: 10.1186/s12939-025-02694-x.

Conceptualising hardship areas in Sub-Saharan Africa: a scoping review.

Auma CMN(1), Karing'u P(2), Harriss E(3), English M(2)(4), Oliwa J(#)(2)(5), 
Okiro EA(#)(6)(4).

Author information:
(1)Population and Health Impact Surveillance Group, KEMRI-Wellcome Trust 
Research Programme, Nairobi, Kenya. Cmuseka@kemri-wellcome.org.
(2)Health Services Unit, KEMRI-Wellcome Trust Research Programme, Nairobi, 
Kenya.
(3)Bodleian Health Care Libraries, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(4)Centre for Tropical Medicine and Global Health, Nuffield Department of 
Clinical Medicine, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(5)Department of Public Health, Institute of Tropical Medicine, Antwerp, 
Belgium.
(6)Population and Health Impact Surveillance Group, KEMRI-Wellcome Trust 
Research Programme, Nairobi, Kenya.
(#)Contributed equally

INTRODUCTION: Many national development strategies are implemented at the 
subnational administrative level, serving as critical units for service 
delivery. Some subnational levels remain underserved and face significant 
obstacles to achieving equitable development. In Sub-Saharan Africa, underserved 
regions are often called hardship areas; however, there is no clarity on how 
such areas are defined across various contexts. Therefore, this scoping review 
aimed to delineate the definitions of hardship areas across countries in 
Sub-Saharan Africa and develop a unified typology of their features.
METHODS: This scoping review followed the framework by Arksey and O’Malley, 
aligned with Preferred Reporting Items for Systematic Reviews and Meta-Analyses 
extension for Scoping Reviews. We searched Ovid Embase, Ovid MEDLINE, CINAHL via 
EBSCOhost, Ovid Global Health, and Scopus from 1st January 2010 to 8th October 
2024, as well as grey literature from websites. We imported the retrieved 
articles into Covidence. One reviewer conducted the title and abstract 
screening. For full-text review, one reviewer assessed all the articles, whereas 
the second reviewer independently evaluated a random sample of 20%, achieving a 
90% agreement. Data were systematically extracted, tabulated, and synthesised 
using deductive and inductive thematic approaches.
RESULTS: Of the 15,017 articles screened, 210 articles met the inclusion 
criteria. Only 137 articles were included, as the remaining 73 provided no new 
information. We identified several definitions and synthesised them into 79 
relatively distinct features. These were grouped into 6 contextual themes: 
physical/geographical location and accessibility, social services, economic and 
livelihood challenges, demographic characteristics, security and governance, and 
natural and man-made disasters, with 16 subthemes.
STRENGTHS AND LIMITATIONS: We applied the Arksey and O’Malley framework, which 
fostered collaborative engagement in developing the research topic and search 
strategy. Limitations included few primary studies capturing lived experiences, 
a focus on three AFRHiCARE countries which restricted broader policy 
comparisons, and omission of non-English publications.
CONCLUSION: In Sub-Saharan Africa, hardship is a multidimensional notion with 
context-dependent features. The typology developed in this review lays the 
groundwork for geospatial characterisation of hardship, bridges definitional 
gaps, and supports transparent, effective, and equitable policy responses.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The online version contains supplementary material 
available at 10.1186/s12939-025-02694-x.

DOI: 10.1186/s12939-025-02694-x
PMCID: PMC12639685
PMID: 41272747

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: The review 
itself did not seek ethical approval as it used publicly available literature. A 
complete list of references and the search terms used in the search strategy 
have been included as additional files Consent for publication: Not applicable. 
Competing interests: Mike received a grant from NIHR and Wellcome and sits on a 
research advisory board for a Wellcome-funded trial. Emelda is supported by 
Wellcome Trust Senior fellow grant, she is a work package lead for NIHR funded 
project, and served as a consultant for the President’s Malaria Initiative, the 
World Health Organisation Maternal Health “NORMS” Project, and Vaccines & Immune 
Therapies Effectiveness Evidence Scientific Advisory Committee.