[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# György Sárosi

György Sárosi (; 5 August 1912 – 20 June 1993) was a Hungarian footballer. Sárosi was a complete footballer renowned for his versatility and technique among other things, and he played in several positions for Ferencváros and the Hungary national team. Essentially a second striker, he could also operate in midfield or central defence, and he helped Ferencváros win five Hungarian league titles between 1932 and 1941. He is considered one of the greatest players of the pre-war era.

He scored a goal in the 1934 FIFA World Cup, but his finest hour came when he captained Hungary to the 1938 FIFA World Cup finals, where he scored five goals in the tournament, including one in the final to reduce Italy's lead to 3–2, although a Silvio Piola goal eventually finished off the Hungarians. He finished with the bronze ball for being the third-highest goalscorer of the tournament.

He was named the 60th European Player of the Century in the IFFHS Century Elections. He is also fifth in the all-time top-goalscorers list for the Hungary national team, with 42 goals from 62 appearances.

After his retirement he moved to Italy, where he managed a number of clubs, including Genoa, Juventus, Bari and Roma. He was also manager of Lugano. He died in 1993 aged 80.

Early life 
Born Gyorgy Stefanicsics in Budapest on 5 August 1912, the family name was later changed to Sarosi to make them sound more Hungarian. His father was a tailor and raised three children (György, László and Béla); All three became national team athletes – Béla Sárosi also became a footballer, while László Sárosi played water polo (as did his son of the same name, not to be confused with a namesake footballer of that generation, who is no relation). During his school years, in addition to football, György played tennis, table tennis, water polo and athletics. In addition to his perfect technical skills, he stood out from the field in terms of tactics and game intelligence.

He completed his schooling at the Eötvös High School in Reáltanoda Street. The school's football team was in the KISOK league. He was already playing here, with two of his later teammates, Hada and Lazarus. The coach of the Ferencváros youth team Zsazsa saw him play several times in the school team.

He joined Ferencvaros's youth ranks as a 15-year-old. When the capital giants wanted to tie him to a professional deal a couple of years later, though, the youngster had other ideas. "I wanted to become a lawyer," Sarosi recalled. "I saw football as something to play for fun, not a career. However, my father (who was struggling for work as a tailor) convinced me that too many people were losing jobs in the depression, and that I was good enough to make a real go of being a footballer."

Club career

1930-1932 : Rise to the first team 
Aged 18 years old, on 15 March 1931, he made his debut in the first team, in the Ferencváros - Bástya (7: 0) championship match. This is how the newspapers evaluated their performance after the match: "Sárosi turned out to be what we expected. Equivalent to a good Bukov, he is in a great location, has a great fit, has a high level of game intelligence, and is the main working judge, a developing centerhalf. He played a definite national team form." "He was only a boy, but on the pitch it seemed like he was the man playing against kids in the park," said Zoltan Blum, who handed Sarosi his bow. "It was just so easy to him. He was big, really strong, quick, never lost a header. He was impossible to bully. Moreover, he played with such confidence – even at that age he played with the confidence of a captain. He would stride out of the defence with the ball, taking on opponents and launching attacks."

His first league goal was in 1930-31 against the Pécs-Baranya on 17 and 24 May 1931.

Winning the 1931-32 championship was an unforgettable experience for Sárosi. He played in 19 out of 22 matches due to injury or illness. On 8 September 1932, the Hungarian Cup final was played on Hungária út. Hungária - Ferencváros 4-3. A game that Ferencváros lost.

1933-1938 His best years

Magyar Kupa final 
At the age of 20, György Sárosi was already one of the best players in the world, and had one of the best performances ever against Ujpest in the 1933 Magyar Kupa Final in which Ferencvaros won 11-1; Ujpest won the league that season. György Sárosi scored 3 goals and 4 assists, the newspapers gave him the best rating (1) as he was named the MVP of the game.