[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Michael Iaconelli

rrest L. Wood (FLW) Cup, he finished second to Greg Hackney by 3 ounces.

Iaconelli's 2010 season began at the Bassmaster Classic on Lay Lake in Birmingham, Alabama. He posted a sixth-place finish with 37 lbs and 6 oz. Iaconelli's other lone top ten finish of the season came on the California Delta.

At the 2011 Bassmaster Classic held on the Louisiana Delta, Iaconelli posted an eleventh-place finish.  Following the Elite Series tournament on Lake Guntersville (Al.), Iaconelli had surgery at the Huntsville Orthopaedic Clinic to remove blood pooling in his right calf.  Iaconelli finished 12th in the Guntersville event despite fishing the entire tournament with the injured leg.  Iaconelli said he believes the injury occurred during the Sabine River tournament the previous week while he was changing a prop.12

Mike won the 2014 Bassmaster Elites at Delaware River, on his home water near Philadelphia.

Iaconelli co-founded The Bass University with fellow professional bass angler Peter Gluszek in 2009.  The Bass University is a bass fishing education organization specializing in bass fishing seminars, online training, and on-water education.

Iaconelli's Television Shows and Media

Going Ike 
Originally created as a YouTube video series by Iaconelli in 2010, Going Ike became a television series in 2017 on the Pursuit Channel. Going Ike reveals thrilling footage captured while filming at epic fishing destinations. Iaconelli puts a unique twist on the traditional fishing show by featuring new, game-changing fishing tactics, difficult challenges, and the stunning emotional moments of catching trophy fish. Watch Going Ike

IKE LIVE! 
Iaconelli hosts 'IKE LIVE!', a fishing talk show that includes the top professional anglers in bass fishing, pro athletes & other fishing enthusiasts as special guests. On this show, Iaconelli simultaneously records his in-studio podcast & web series. Watch Ike Live

City Limits Fishing 
City Limits Fishing follows Iaconelli to various big cities like Detroit, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Washington, D.C. and Seattle. The premise of the show is to catch a limit of fish, in a limited amount of time, within the city limits.

Television Appearances

truTV 
Greatest Sports Ever, Season 1 Episode 3. Mike is featured for his celebrations after catching a fish.

Comedy Central 
The Daily Show: Ed Helms takes a look at Mike Iaconelli, a renegade bad boy in the world of bass fishing. Watch The Daily Show with Jon Stewart's 'Fishing for Attention' n

Career Tournament Stats and Additional Bio Information
-Bassmaster:  http://www.bassmaster.com/anglers/michael-iaconelli

-Major League Fishing: https://www.majorleaguefishing.com/angler-detail/mike-iaconelli/5388

-Fishing League Worldwide (FLW):  https://web.archive.org/web/20120305061103/http://www.flwoutdoors.com/community/profile/home.cfm?uid=102108

https://www.bassfishinghof.com/inductee/mike-iaconelli

Charity 
Iaconelli founded The Ike Foundation in July 2014. The main goal is getting more kids involved with the sport of fishing. The Ike Foundation donates fishing tackle to kids and youth organizations, hosts kids fishing and fundraiser events, and assists other charitable organizations including civic organizations and existing youth fishing organizations.

Personal life
Mike is married to Rebecca "Becky" Iaconelli and he has four children: Drew, Rylie, Vegas, and Estella.  Mike and Becky renew their wedding vows each year with themed or destination wedding ceremonies such as a pirate wedding with a Captain Jack Sparrow officiant in 2010.

Mike has also been designated by several pro tours as an ambassador to those not part of a community.

References

12-Bassmaster.com April 14, 2015, article by Mike Suchan.

External links
 
 Official Website
 Bass Resource
 City Limits Fishing

Living people
American fishers
Rowan University alumni
1972 births
Sportspeople from Philadelphia
People from Pittsgrove Township, New Jersey
People from Runnemede, New Jersey