[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas H. Carter

s particular election is said to have initiated the famous "War of the Copper Kings." Nonetheless, Carter was elected as a Delegate to Congress and served a short term from March 4, 1889, to November 7, 1889, when the Territory of Montana was admitted as a state into the Union.

United States House 

The people of Montana again elected Carter as their first Representative to Congress on October 1, 1889, when he defeated long-time territorial delegate and leading Montana Democrat Martin Maginnis, and he served from November 8, 1889, to March 3, 1891. Importantly, Carter served as chairman of the Committee on Mines and Mining, a remarkable achievement for a freshman legislator in the House of Representatives, and, as one historian suggested, due to his friendship with legendary Speaker of the House Thomas B. Reid of Maine.  Carter was an unsuccessful candidate in 1890 for reelection, losing a close election to Butte lawyer and Democrat William W. Dixon by 283 votes, or less than 1% of the total votes cast.  President Benjamin Harrison appointed Carter as the Commissioner of the General Land Office from 1891 to 1892, when he was elected chairman of the Republican National Committee.  He was the first Catholic to be the chairman of the Republican Party.

United States Senate 

Carter was elected as a Republican to the United States Senate and served from March 4, 1895, until March 3, 1901. As a Senator he was chairman of the Committee on Relations with Canada (Fifty-fourth Congress), the Committee on the Census (Fifty-fifth and Fifty-sixth Congresses).  President William McKinley appointed him a member of the board of commissioners of the Louisiana Purchase Exposition and he served as its president.  Carter was elected again as a Republican to the United States Senate and served from March 4, 1905, to March 3, 1911. He was not a candidate for reelection. He died from a lung infarction while at home in Washington, D.C., on September 17, 1911. His funeral was held at St. Paul's Roman Catholic Church, and he was interred at Mount Olivet Cemetery in the city.

Legacy 

In Glacier National Park, two natural features are named for Thomas H. Carter: a glacier and a peak.  Two towns in Montana named for Carter are Carter in Chouteau County, and Cartersville in Rosebud County.  Carter County, Montana was also named in his honor in 1917.

Citations

References

Further reading
Thomas H. Carter Papers at the Library of Congress
 Thomas Carter Correspondence Selections and Related Material (1901–1971), Merrill G. Burlingame Special Collections Library, Montana State University Collection website

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1854 births
1911 deaths
People from Scioto County, Ohio
American people of Irish descent
American Roman Catholics
Delegates to the United States House of Representatives from Montana Territory
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Montana
Republican Party United States senators from Montana
Republican National Committee chairs
19th-century American politicians
Carter County, Montana
General Land Office Commissioners
People from Pana, Illinois
People from Portsmouth, Ohio
Politicians from Burlington, Iowa
Politicians from Helena, Montana
Montana lawyers
Burials at Mount Olivet Cemetery (Washington, D.C.)
19th-century American lawyers