[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Thomas A. Cullinan

Thomas Allen Cullinan (1838 – June 18, 1904), also known as Tom Allen, was a law enforcement officer in Kansas. He served as city marshal of Junction City, Kansas, from 1871 to 1904. Before that he was a seaman, miner, fur trapper and hunter. He served in the Union Army during the American Civil War.

Early life
Tom Allen was born in Kilrush, Ireland in 1838 to well-to-do parents.

Career

Young seaman and pilot

When he was eleven years old, he became a seaman and spent six years exploring the world. He worked at first for the English revenue service, where he visited ports in British Isles, France, Hamburg, and the Mediterranean.  He then went to the East and West Indies and South America. During that time he learned how to navigate and take charge of a ship. In 1854, he was in Crimea and the following year he worked on a passenger ship from Liverpool to New York. He then traveled within the United States as a seaman on the Great Lakes. During that time, he survived a shipwreck on Lake Erie and also became a proficient Mississippi River pilot.

Fur trapper and hunter

In 1857, he was an employee of the American Fur Company and traveled to the Rocky Mountains. He hunted and trapped animals from Yellowstone to the Taos Valley. During the summer of 1858, he spent some time at a ranch in New Mexico on the Cimarron River owned by Lucien Maxwell and Kit Carson. Both ranchers offered Allen a job as a partner, but Allen refused.

Miner and explorer

Tom Allen traveled to the Denver region and became a miner. Moreover, he staked a claim with three other men to land extending . There was a dispute to the ownership of the land and the four men (including Allen) reinforced their collective stake by erecting a large log house with firing ports in each wall. The land dispute progressed to the point where a company of 80 armed men were dispatched to remove Allen and his co-claimants. Allen allowed one of the armed men to step forward and revealed the defenses placed on the land. The armed man reported back and everyone in the 80-strong company decided to leave. Oddly enough, the land in what is now downtown Denver was eventually sold for a meager amount of money to Francis J. Marshall.

Allen was involved in his first major fistfight during his stay in Denver. When he saw a gentleman publicly strike a woman, Allen challenged the assailant to a no-holds-barred confrontation. Afterwards, Allen lectured the attacker for an hour and a half on the evils of domestic violence.

A man known as the "Terror of the Gulch" attempted to steal Tom Allen's sluice water. As a result, Allen attempted to settle the matter diplomatically. This option ultimately failed and Allen offered to solve the dispute either "according to the rules of the ring" or through "rough-and-tumble." The Terror chose the latter, which allowed for the use of fighting techniques such as eye-gouging, biting, stomping, and head butting. A crowd emerged as Allen demonstrated the dynamics of "rough-and-tumble." In the end, the "Terror of the Gulch" was beaten and left the area.

Explorer

Many merchants in Denver employed Allen and two of his land co-claimants, Jack Menzies and David Thompson, to explore the Colorado River. This expedition took place eight years before the explorations of Major John Wesley Powell. Unfortunately, Allen and his associates were captured by the Native American Utes after only  into their expedition. When one of the tribesmen pulled Allen's ear, Allen punched the Ute and made him fall to the ground. Afterwards, Allen told the chief in Spanish that the Utes were cowards and that he could defeat the tribe's best warrior. Unfortunately, there is no confirmation as to whether the chief fulfilled Allen's request or was merely amused by Allen's bravado. Overall, Allen and his land co-claimants were set free. He returned to Leavenworth.

Civil War

During the American Civil War, Allen enlisted in the Union Army as a scout in the eastern states. He served with St. Clair and "Red Clark", riding through Kansas, Missouri, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Tennessee.

In 1863, he was in Leavenworth, Kansas, when the town was occupied by a group of paramilitary units known as the Jayhawkers. Two police officers were shot and the town marshal was forced to leave. Upon the urgent request of the authorities, Allen decided to become chief of police. Allen faced the Jayhawkers using his "rough-and-tumble" techniques. In thirty days, he restored order to Leavenworth and afterwards relinquished his position.

Junction City marshal
After the war and until 1871, he came to Junction City and had contracts to supply meat to the military and railroad construction crews. In 1871, he became the city marshal of Junction City. The mayor, George Martin, stated that "The post was not a sinecure." Various brothels and saloons elicited rabble rousing troops from Fort Riley, as well as travelers coming from intersecting railway lines.