[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rashid Rauf

had been found to justify his extradition.

22 August: In Pakistan, law enforcement authorities continued to interrogate Rauf over his role in the plot. Pakistani Interior Minister Aftab Khan Sherpao said British police were conducting inquiries in Pakistan but were not involved in questioning Rauf.

26 August: Pakistani Interior Minister Aftab Ahmad Sherpao said Rauf had "wider international links" and was in touch with an Afghanistan-based al-Qaida leader. He did not offer any evidence to back up his claim. Pakistan has withheld information about at least seven suspects, whom security officials say were arrested on Rauf's information. Pakistan has no extradition treaty with Britain, but Sherpao said they would consider deporting Rauf to London if a request was made.  Rauf, in his mid-20s, is believed to have been interrogated by Pakistan agents near the capital, Islamabad.

13 December: Terrorism charges against Rauf are dropped.  The Pakistani court finds there is no evidence that he is involved in terrorism.  The British government stated this did not affect their proceedings against the other suspects.

14 December 2007: Rauf allegedly escaped from jail. Authorities say he escaped after freeing himself from handcuffs. The two police officials on duty were arrested by Islamabad police. The police also tightened security at public transport routes and especially in Rauf's native town, Mirpur.  A month after this report surfaced, Rauf's lawyer denied he had escaped and said he was probably still in custody.

2008: Rauf had contact with Bryant Neal Vinas and other named al-Qaeda leaders before the 19th August 2008 attack on Forward Operating Base Salerno, an American who joined al-Qaeda. Vinas was captured in November 2008, and convicted of participating in and supporting al-Qaeda plots in Afghanistan and the US

22 November 2008: Rauf is reportedly killed in a US missile strike in Pakistan. After the Pakistan government failed to hand over his body, his family disputed the reports and believed he was still alive.

8 April 2009: British security sources claim Rauf was the mastermind behind an alleged terror cell, the members of which were arrested in North West England. It is unclear whether they thought he was still alive at this time.

27 October 2012: Rauf's family confirmed that he was killed in a US drone strike and announced that they planned to file a wrongful death lawsuit against the British government, accusing them of assisting the US in organising the attack.

References 

1980s births
2008 deaths
21st-century criminals
British al-Qaeda members
British escapees
British people imprisoned abroad
Date of birth missing
Deaths by drone strikes of the Central Intelligence Agency in Pakistan
British male criminals
English people of Pakistani descent
Escapees from Pakistani detention
Pakistani al-Qaeda members
Pakistani criminals
Pakistani escapees
People from Birmingham, West Midlands
Place of birth missing
British expatriates in Pakistan
People charged with terrorism