[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Anarchism in Brazil

ssistance funds for their members. The 1907  authorized state expulsion of foreigners who compromised a risk to "national security or public tranquility", including anarchist militants, and was widely used in its first year.

The Brazilian Workers' Confederation (COB) and the 1913 Workers' Congress 

In March 1908, in Rio de Janeiro, two years after the First Brazilian Workers' Congress was held, the Brazilian Workers' Confederation (COB) was founded, which proposed to represent around 50 workers' associations. In accordance with its constitution, the COB began to publish the periodical A Voz do Trabalhador in Rio de Janeiro, whose first issue appeared at the beginning of the year. From the beginning, the COB campaigned against the Sortition Law, approved in January of that year, which instituted compulsory military service. From 1908 onwards, there was a decline in strike activity, in the context of increasing repression and the deterioration of the economy with the end of the growth cycle. As a result, the first phase of the COB only lasted until December 1909, when the twenty-first issue of A Voz do Trabalhador came out, which then closed its doors. However, the COB promoted, during this period, a series of rallies against a proposed war between Brazil and Argentina and against the execution of anarchist educator Francisco Ferrer by the Spanish government. The last major strike of the period took place in January 1909, involving the Great Western railroad workers in Pernambuco, Paraíba, Rio Grande do Norte and Alagoas, demanding wage improvements. The movement ended after twelve days, with the promise of the governor of Pernambuco, , to intervene with the company in favor of the strikers' demands.

The election of marshal Hermes da Fonseca as president of Brazil in 1910 brought some novelties to the traditional political framework and to the relations between the State and the labor movement. He was the first presidential candidate to mention on his platform the existence of a workers' problem to be solved. During his government, he sought dialogue with the reformist trade unionists, incorporating the reformist leader Sarandy Raposo, founder of the Brazilian Cooperative Trade Union Confederation (CSCB), at the Ministry of Agriculture's Unions and Cooperatives Propaganda Office, in addition to initiating a program for the construction of proletarian villages, interrupted in 1914. However, Hermes da Fonseca also supported a hardening of the Adolfo Gordo Law.