[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# El pecado de Oyuki (TV series)

(English title: Oyuki's Sin alt. The Sin of Oyuki, in Japanese ) is a Mexican telenovela produced by Lucy Orozco for Televisa in 1988. The series was based on an original comic book of the same name by Yolanda Vargas Dulché, who also adapted the screenplay for television. The comic tells the story of Oyuki, a young Japanese woman unfairly exploited by her evil brother. Her tragedy is intensified by falling in love with the son of the English ambassador in Japan, which triggers a series of obstacles in her path generated by the cultural shock.

The story was adapted for the telenovela format by Vargas Dulché and produced by Lucy Orozco for Televisa.

The world premiere of the telenovela was in the United States in 1987 through Univision with one hour episodes during primetime. It was not until February 1988 when it premiered in Mexico also in primetime through El Canal de las Estrellas.

The main characters of the story were played by Mexican actress Ana Martín and Argentine actor Boy Olmi.

The telenovela became one of the biggest successful projects by Mexican television at that time, nationwide and also internationally.

Plot
In the early 1970s, in a small Japanese village, lives Oyuki Ogino (Ana Martín), a beautiful woman, good and honest, whose beauty and physical attributes are used by her ambitious brother Yutaka Ogino (Salvador Sánchez), who forces her to work as a Geisha and begins to exploit her.

Forced by her brother, Oyuki begins to work while men pay large amounts for her to entertain with her show. One of those men is Irving Pointer (Boy Olmi), a painter of English origin and the son of Sir Charles Pointer (Jorge Martínez de Hoyos), the ambassador of the United Kingdom in Japan. Irving begins to paint Oyuki and both end up falling in love, but Yutaka has other plans for his sister. He plans to marry Oyuki to Togo Fushoko (Yoshio), one of the richest men in Japan. Oyuki rejects Fushoko and unleash the fury of Yutaka.
When Yutaka flees from justice after committing a crime, Oyuki can be together Irving. But Irving's mother, Lady Elizabeth (Martha Roth) denies that her son is related to a Japanese woman. Given the refusal of his mother, Irving decides to run away from home and marries Oyuki.
The two manage to find happiness with the arrival of their first child, who was named Yuriko.

Furious Yutaka decides to take revenge on his sister and kills Irving. Yutaka manages to escape. All evidence does not favor Oyuki, who is captured, tried and sentenced to twenty years in prison. Her daughter Yuriko, two years old, is sent with her paternal grandparents.

After fifteen long years, Yutaka confesses his crime before dying, allowing Oyuki released from prison. Free at last, Oyuki travels in search of her daughter Yuriko (Cecilia Gabriela), who is now a sophisticated English lady of 17 years old and sees her mother as a stranger.

Cast
Ana Martín as Oyuki Ogino
Salvador Sánchez as Yutaka Ogino
Jorge Martínez de Hoyos as Sir Charles Pointer 
Rafael Sánchez Navarro as Orson Brooks
Martha Roth as Lady Elizabeth Pointer 
Anna Silvetti as Eliane Rohmer 
Yoshio as Togo Fushoko 
Boy Olmi as Irving Pointer 
Cecilia Gabriela as Yuriko (Lily) Pointer 
Patricio Castillo as Bertoldo Nottingham
Evangelina Elizondo as Diana
Noe Murayama as Kyozo
Erika Kasuga as Sumiko 
Patricia Bernal as Margarita
Aurora Clavel as Nanae Tayota 
Margo Su as Kiku 
Ana Luisa Peluffo as Ivette
Guillermo Murray as Richard Rohmer 
Jorge Pais as Thomas Davidson "Tom"
Marta Zamora as Helen
Nuria Bages as Renee Sagan 
Carla Nakatani as Kikusan Tayota
Blanca Torres as Orson's mother
Margarita Isabel as Mary
Manuel Guízar as Vedo Shibayama 
Carlos Riquelme as John Gibson
Enrique Gilabert as Mr. Lemond 
Alicia Encinas as Reyna Lemond 
Rosita Pelayo as Greta
Carmelita González as Shizuko 
Angelina Peláez as Keiko 
Eva Calvo as Leonor 
Frances Ondiviela as Tracie, secretary of Sr. Pointer  
Teo Tapia as Antonino
Luis Manuel Pelayo as Rigoberto Smith

Production
The executive producer Lucy Orozco made her debut in the telenovelas of Televisa on the right foot. The original idea was to record the telenovela entirely in Japan, however, Lucy, after a journey of two months of research in that country, convinced Mr. Vice President of Televisa Victor Hugo O'Farrill, to record in Mexico. Televisa build some streets of Tokyo and other Japanese cities in the hill of the Ajusco, located in the south of Mexico City. Studio finally managed to recreate on 20 hectares of land, several elegant quarters of Tokyo and a large temple. Complete streets were created, with lampposts, signs, pavement and a simulation of the Bullet Train of Tokyo. Cars with the steering wheel on the right side were imported from Europe..