[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Schweitzer Mountain

ght skiing. Huguenin also saw the construction of the 82-room Green Gables Lodge. Ultimately, the Brown family ran out of operating cash and was unable to market the resort as a destination alternative. In November 1996, the resort was put into receivership, filing for bankruptcy the following year.

The Harbor Era 
On December 31, 1998, Harbor Properties purchased Schweitzer Mountain Resort from U.S. Bank for the sum of $18 million. The Seattle-based company, operators of Stevens Pass and Mission Ridge (sold in 2003) ski areas in Washington, made immediate improvements by providing equipment for slope management. The Green Gables lodge was extensively remodeled, individual units were offered for sale, and the complex re-opened as the Selkirk Lodge. A six-passenger chairlift (Stella) was installed in the summer of 2000, serving the Northwest Territory in Colburn Basin. The high-speed Stella six-pack replaced chairlift #5, a fixed grip double.  With the addition of Stella, the resort totaled .

In 2003, the mountain added a new dimension to its array of services, Selkirk Powder Company aka Selkirk Powder, a State of Idaho licensed outfitter and guide service. Selkirk Powder is an independent concession founded by Ken Barrett and Chip Kamin (d 2013). Selkirk Powder Company operates on Schweitzer private property outside of the ski area boundary and the abutting Priest Lake State Forest. Selkirk Powder began guided tour operations with snowmobile tours from the summit of Schweitzer into the Priest River Valleys. Selkirk Powder began offering snowcat skiing in 2007. In 2017 Selkirk Powder began offering helicopter skiing. www.selkirkpowder.com

The McCaw Era 
In July 2005, the mountain's ownership status changed again when Harbor Resorts' ownership was dissolved, leaving the resort with a sole owner—McCaw Investment Group (MIG) of Seattle. This allowed for the addition of the Idyl-Our T-Bar, the Hermit's Hollow Tubing Center, and a SunKid Magic Carpet in time for the 2005-06 season. The Idyle-Our T-Bar/Little Blue expansion added , five new named trails, and increased backcountry and sidecountry opportunities.

In February 2007, Schweitzer announced an ambitious expansion program. Included was a $6 million lift expansion, primarily the replacement of the original lift at the resort, Chair One, with two lifts: a high-speed detachable quad, the Basin Express, on the lower portion, and a fixed-grip triple lift, the Lakeview Triple, on the upper portion. The Basin Express uses the old Chair Seven liftline, to the right of Chair One's. (Former Chairs Two, Three, & Seven were removed in the 1990 to make way for construction on the Great Escape Quad; they roughly paralleled Chair One, but did not reach the summit.) The chairs were installed in the summer of 2007.  Also included in the program was a Lakeview Lodge remodel, increased snowmaking and new grooming capacity, new chairs on the Great Escape Quad, and $2 million for infrastructure and planning for future expansions.

Also in 2007, Schweitzer Mountain Land & Timber Company, the real estate arm of Schweitzer Mountain Resort, released 35 new ski-in/ski-out lots, approved for 1-4 units per lot, for sale in the Trapper's Creek-1 subdivision. By winter of 2007-08, heated roads, skier underpasses and utilities were installed. Late in 2008 it was decided that all real estate offerings by Schweitzer be put on hold until further notice, due to the ongoing financial crisis and "the fact that much of life around here revolves around skiing." Schweitzer Mountain Real Estate (dba Schweitzer Land & Timber Company) was merged with New Schweitzer, LLC, giving President and CEO Tom Chasse more power regarding the overall "experience" of the resort and how the real estate fits in with the skiing. Once development begins again, the next real estate release after Trapper's Creek will likely be the first homesites in the GreyHawk neighborhood, a single-family development pad below Musical Chairs with  lots.

In addition to the Trapper's Creek and GreyHawk neighborhoods, Schweitzer was also looking in 2008 for outside developers to build up to five new condominium buildings in Schweitzer village with up to 50 units each, similar to the White Pine Lodge. The parcels were put on the market with Schweitzer Land & Timber Company, only to be removed a few months later.

In late 2009, the resort began construction on Mountainside at Schweitzer—a re-envisioned Trapper's Creek. Three fractional ownership LEED-certified homes and one LEED-certified full ownership home were completed in the spring of 2009.  Special attention has been paid to the environment, with local building materials, geothermal heating, and an architectural style that evokes northern Idaho. It is unclear whether all new homes in Mountainside at Schweitzer will be LEED-certified. Thirty lots remain to be developed.