[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edgio

ions allows cache-fill traffic and dynamic content to bypass the public internet and improve the delivery speed of content. This architecture is managed by intelligent proprietary software that increases the speed of delivery with fewer cache misses and can scale to handle surges in end-user demand.

The Edgio Platform 
The Edgio Platform is composed of services including content delivery, video packaging and content management, web acceleration, cloud security (including DDoS and WAF protection), and cloud storage.

Customers 
In August 2007, the company announced a technology and services agreement with Microsoft under which Limelight will help improve the performance, scalability, and reliability of Internet delivery of media content and online services, including video, music, games, software, and social media, across Microsoft's global Internet properties. In March 2008, the company was the infrastructure provider for the webcast of Oprah's "A New Earth" classroom series, featuring author Eckhart Tolle. The live event drew over 800,000 users. The server crashed during the event because of an error in the programming code; the crash was widely misreported as a failure of network infrastructure.

In May 2008, NBC announced that the company would be the content delivery network for the 2008 Summer Olympics webcast on NBCOlympics.com. Ultimately, the company delivered "more than 50 million unique visitors, resulting in 1.3 billion page views, 70 million video streams, and 600 million minutes of video watched" for NBCOlympics.com, using Microsoft Silverlight technology.

In June 2008, the company was the primary source of content delivery services for the online debut of Disney's Camp Rock. The 24-hour online event saw more than 863,000 total plays for the movie. In January 2009, the company delivered the inauguration of U.S. President Barack Obama to 2.5 million Internet viewers around the world, resulting in more than 9 million simultaneous multimedia streams overall flowing through the company's network. Later that year, in March, the company was the exclusive mobile content delivery provider for CBS' coverage of the 2009 NCAA tournament. Limelight Networks' technology was used to deliver coverage of the college basketball games to the Apple iPhone.

In 2012, Limelight helped deliver sporting events like the Wimbledon Tennis Championships, the Indian Cricket League, the European Championship and the RBS Six Nations’ rugby championships and helped several broadcasters deliver the 2012 Summer Games.

Described and Captured Media Program, a non profit educational organization uses Edgio to accelerate distribution by caching videos on servers as close to the user as possible.

In February 2017 Limelight was one of three content delivery networks to stream the NFL's Super Bowl.

Acquisitions 
 May 2009, the company acquired Kiptronic, Inc., a privately held provider of device-optimized content delivery solutions and dynamic advertising insertion. It exists today as the Orchestrate Video offering. 
 April 2010, the company acquired EyeWonder, Inc., a privately held provider of rich media advertising (or "interactive digital advertising") founded in 1999 for $110 million. As part of the purchase of EyeWonder, Limelight Networks, Inc. also purchased chors GmbH. Both of these businesses, which consisted of the EyeWonder business unit, were later sold to DG.
 August 2011 the company acquired Delve Networks, Inc., a privately held provider of cloud-based video publishing and analytics services. It exists today as the Orchestrate Video offering.
 May 2011, the company acquired AcceloWeb for $20 million. It exists today as the Orchestrate Performance offering.
 May 2011, the company acquired Clickability, a web content management system company, for $10 million. On December 23, 2013, Upland Software announced that they had acquired Clickability from Limelight.
 September 2021, the company acquired Moov Corporation, doing business as Layer0, a provider of sub-second web apps and APIs through an all-in-one Jamstack platform.
 June 2022, the company acquired Edgecast from Yahoo! Inc. for approximately $300 million.