[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Gerak Khas (Malaysian Army unit)

apons used by the unit, include handguns, shotguns, submachine guns, assault rifles, machineguns, sniper rifles, grenade launchers and anti-tanks, are:

Deployments/Missions
Communist Insurgency 1966–1990
During the communist insurgency, Regiment Gerak Khas commandos fought in the Malaysian jungles.

Battle of Mogadishu (1993)
Gerak Khas was involved in the high-profile operations including deployment with the Royal Malay Regiment and units of the Pakistani army to rescue trapped US Army Rangers and Delta Force in the gunfight at Bakhara Market, Mogadishu, Somalia against the forces of the warlord Mohamed Farah Aidid. One Royal Malay Regiment soldier was killed, and several others wounded.

16th Commonwealth Games
Gerak Khas was deployed with Pasukan Gerakan Khas () to provide security and was on standby for Hostage Rescue during the 16th Commonwealth Games held in Kuala Lumpur in 1998.

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Gerak Khas members were deployed to Bosnia, the one and only Special Forces unit from Southeast Asia.

2000 Sauk Siege
22nd Commando Regiment were deployed to Bukit Jenalik, Sauk, near Kuala Kangsar, in Perak to capture a group of 32 Al-Ma'unah terrorists. During the operation, one commando Corporal Matthew anak Medan and two of the police personnel Sergeant (Sarjan) Mohd Shah Ahmad and Detective Corporal Raju Saghadevan, as well as civilian Jaafar Puteh were taken hostage. Corporal Matthew was tortured and killed subsequently after refusing to cooperate with the demands of the terrorists. Detective Saghadevan was killed by the terrorists too before the remaining hostages were rescued alive after the group decided to voluntarily surrender to the Malaysian authorities.

Timor Leste 2006
The units were deployed with other troopers from the 10th Parachute Brigade and Royal Malaysian Police elite team, Pasukan Gerakan Khas to calm troubles in Timor Leste, in an Australian-led mission called Operation Astute.

Genting Sempah Incident
In July 2007, 22nd Commando Regiment co-operated with the elite 10th Parachute Brigade, PASKAU and Pasukan Gerakan Khas and supported by the US Navy, police General Operations Force, Fire and Rescue Department, Forestry Department rangers, Civil Defence Department (JPA3) and villagers were deployed to search and rescue six missing air force crew who were involved in the Sikorsky S61 Nuri helicopter crash near Genting Sempah, in Genting Highlands. However, the SAR team found the wreckage of the helicopter, with its rotor blades detached at 5 km northwest of location at 1324 hrs on 17 July 2007. All six RMAF crew on board were killed and their bodies were found in the cabin.

MALCON – UNIFIL 2007
Gerak Khas units were deployed with the 10th Parachute Brigade, PASKAL and PASKAU involved MALCON – UNIFIL to serve in Lebanon.

MALCON – ISAF
The special forces included Gerak Khas, PASKAU, 10th Parachute Brigade and PASKAL was deployed with other Malaysian contingents to involve the administrative workload at the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) in Afghanistan. The team was deployed to assist the New Zealand Armed Forces in the peacekeeping missions and humanitarian aid at the Bamiyan District, Afghanistan.

2013 Lahad Datu standoff
Gerak Khas was mobilised to Lahad Datu, Sabah during the 2013 Lahad Datu standoff alongside various other Malaysian Special Forces units. They played a major role in hunting down and neutralizing the Sulu terrorist group.

Killed on duty
Trooper Rasli Bin Buang (killed in Chemor, Perak in 1971)
Lance Coperal Saimon Bin Tarikat (killed in Kuala Kelawang, Negeri Sembilan in 1983)
Trooper Ali (killed in Sarawak in 1974)
Staff Sargeant Azman Bin Mohd Tahir (killed in Mogadishu in July 1994 during mission UNOSOM II)
Corporal Mathew a/k Medan (killed in Sauk, Perak during Operation 304 in July 2000)
Major Zahir Bin Armaya (killed in Kota Kinabalu during demonstration on 5 September 2019)

 Notable members 
Many Gerak Khas commandos have received decorations for bravery and gallantry. Aside from that, some Gerak Khas commandos have done many notable things that have etched their names in history.