[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Action Congress of Nigeria

s have given them better than even chance to secure a rerun or emerge outright victors. The Ekiti State Guber Rerun election also saw some form of alliance between the Labour Party Governor in Ondo State, Dr. Mimiko and the Action Congress under the perceived leadership of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu.

2010

The Action Congress changed their name to the Action Congress of Nigeria. The March 2010 rerun of the Ekiti Guber polls resulted in PDP Candidate and Ex-Governor, Engineer Oni being returned as winner despite widespread allegations of voter intimidation, rigging and pressures on INEC officials to release the falsified result to favor the ruling party (PDP). AC Candidate proceeded to challenge these results at the Elections Tribunal, where he lost 3–2. Pinning his appeal on the minority judgement, he sought to be installed as Governor based on the cancellation of results from two local governments where PDP allegedly perpetrated fraud and violence. A ruling from the Appeal Court (the final adjudicator of governor elections disputes) on September 14, 2010, eventually returned Dr. Fayemi of Action Congress as the 3rd Executive Governor of Ekiti State after three and half years of protracted court battles and occupancy by the usurper PDP government in the state.

On November 26, 2010, the AC Candidate in Osun State, Engr. Aregbesola was declared the duly elected governor of Osun State by the Court of Appeals sitting in Ibadan. This brings the number of AC seats recovered via the judicial process to four out of five states virtually controlled. Only one of those seats, was up for contest in the 2011 cycle i.e. Lagos State.
In December 2010, the Action Congress of Nigeria conducted its National Convention in Benin City which returned Chief Bisi Akande as the National Chairman and Senator Lawal Shuaibu replacing Dr Usman Bugaje as the National Secretary.

2011

AC has no governors in Nigeria today. The Labor Party Governor in Ondo State has been closely allied with the party.

The Action Congress of Nigeria has two major presidential aspirants contesting for the party ticket: The former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Nuhu Ribadu, and former governor of Sokoto State, Attahiru Bafarawa.

2013
In July 2013, the party officially merged with the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and members from the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA), among others, to form the All Progressives Congress.

See also
Congress for Progressive Change
All Nigeria Peoples Party
All Progressives Congress

References

2006 establishments in Nigeria
2013 disestablishments in Nigeria
Conservative parties in Nigeria
Defunct political parties in Nigeria
Pan-Africanism in Nigeria
Pan-Africanist political parties in Africa
Political parties disestablished in 2013
Political parties established in 2006
Political parties in Lagos