[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 69]
# Politics — Aristotle

t, others out of the whole; some by vote, others by lot:
and each of these different modes admit of a four-fold subdivision; for
either all may elect all by vote or by lot; and when all elect, they may
either proceed without any distinction, or they may elect by a certain
division of tribes, wards, or companies, till they have gone through the
whole community: and some magistrates may be elected one way, and others
another. Again, if some magistrates are elected either by vote or lot
of all the citizens, or by the vote of some and the lot of some, or
some one way and some another; that is to say, some by the vote of all,
others by the lot of all, there will then be twelve different methods
of electing the magistrates, without blending the two together. Of
these there are two adapted to a democracy; namely, to have all the
magistrates chosen out of all the people, either by vote or lot, or
both; that is to say, some of them by lot, some by vote. In a free state
the whole community should not elect at the same time, but some out of
the whole, or out of some particular rank; and this either by lot, or
vote, or both: and they should elect either out of the whole community,
or out of some particular persons in it, and this both by lot and vote.
In an oligarchy it is proper to choose some magistrates out of the whole
body of the citizens, some by vote, some by lot, others by both: by lot
is most correspondent to that form of government. In a free aristocracy,
some magistrates [1300b] should be chosen out of the community in
general, others out of a particular rank, or these by choice, those
by lot. In a pure oligarchy, the magistrates should be chosen out of
certain ranks, and by certain persons, and some of those by lot, others
by both methods; but to choose them out of the whole community is not
correspondent to the nature of this government. It is proper in an
aristocracy for the whole community to elect their magistrates out of
particular persons, and this by vote. These then are all the different
ways of electing of magistrates; and they have been allotted according
to the nature of the different communities; but what mode of proceeding
is proper for different communities, or how the offices ought to be
established, or with what powers shall be particularly explained. I mean
by the powers of a magistrate, what should be his particular province,
as the management of the finances or the laws of the state; for
different magistrates have different powers, as that of the general of
the army differs from the clerk of the market.




CHAPTER XVI


Of the three parts of which a government is formed, we now come to
consider the judicial; and this also we shall divide in the same manner
as we did the magisterial, into three parts. Of whom the judges shall
consist, and for what causes, and how. When I say of whom, I mean
whether they shall be the whole people, or some particulars; by for what
causes I mean, how many different courts shall be appointed; by how,
whether they shall be elected by vote or lot. Let us first determine how
many different courts there ought to be. Now these are eight. The
first of these is the court of inspection over the behaviour of the
magistrates when they have quitted their office; the second is to punish
those who have injured the public; the third is to take cognisance of
those causes in which the state is a party; the fourth is to decide
between magistrates and private persons, who appeal from a fine laid
upon them; the fifth is to determine disputes which may arise concerning
contracts of great value; the sixth is to judge between foreigners, and
of murders, of which there are different species; and these may all be
tried by the same judges or by different ones; for there are murders
of malice prepense and of chance-medley; there is also justifiable
homicide, where the fact is admitted, and the legality of it disputed.

There is also another court called at Athens the Court of Phreattae,
which determines points relating to a murder committed by one who has
run away, to decide whether he shall return; though such an affair
happens but seldom, and in very large cities; the seventh, to determine
causes wherein strangers are concerned, and this whether they are
between stranger and stranger or between a stranger and a citizen. The
eighth and last is for small actions, from one to five drachma's, or a
little more; for these ought also to be legally determined, but not to
be brought before the whole body of the judges. But without entering
into any particulars concerning actions for murder, and those wherein
strangers are the parties, let us particularly treat of those courts
which have the jurisdiction of those matters which more particularly
relate to the affairs of the community and which if not well conducted
occasion seditions and commotions in the state. Now, of necessity,
either all persons must have a right