[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Orbit portrait

allest critical value arc , called the characteristic arc which is strictly contained within every other critical value arc.  The characteristic arc is a complete invariant of an orbit portrait, in the sense that two orbit portraits are identical if and only if they have the same characteristic arc.

Sectors
Much as the rays landing on the orbit divide up the circle, they divide up the complex plane.  For every point  of the orbit, the external rays landing at  divide the plane into  open sets called sectors based at .  Sectors are naturally identified the complementary arcs based at the same point.  The angular width of a sector is defined as the length of its corresponding complementary arc.  Sectors are called critical sectors or  critical value sectors when the corresponding arcs are, respectively, critical arcs and critical value arcs.

Sectors also have the interesting property that  is in the critical sector of every point, and , the critical value of , is in the critical value sector.

Parameter wakes
Two parameter rays with angles  and  land at the same point of the Mandelbrot set in parameter space if and only if there exists an orbit portrait  with the interval  as its characteristic arc.    For any orbit portrait  let  be the common landing point of the two  external angles in parameter space corresponding to the characteristic arc of .    These two parameter rays, along with their common landing point, split the parameter space into two open components.  Let the component that does not contain the point  be called the -wake and denoted as .  A quadratic polynomial  realizes the orbit portrait  with a repelling orbit exactly when .   is realized with a parabolic orbit only for the single value 
for about

Primitive and satellite orbit portraits
Other than the zero portrait, there are two types of orbit portraits: primitive and satellite.  If  
 is the valence of an orbit portrait  and  is the recurrent ray period, then these two types may be characterized as follows:
 Primitive orbit portraits have  and .  Every ray in the portrait is mapped to itself by .  Each  is a pair of angles, each in a distinct orbit of the doubling map.  In this case,  is the base point of a baby Mandelbrot set in parameter space.
 Satellite orbit portraits have .  In this case, all of the angles make up a single orbit under the doubling map.  Additionally,   is the base point of a parabolic bifurcation in parameter space.

Generalizations
Orbit portraits turn out to be useful combinatorial objects in studying the connection between the dynamics and the parameter spaces of other families of maps as well. In particular, they have been used to study the patterns of all periodic dynamical rays landing on a periodic cycle of a unicritical anti-holomorphic polynomial.

See also
Lamination

References

Dynamical systems