[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Emmanuel Gaillard

Emmanuel Gaillard (1 January 1952 – 1 April 2021) was a prominent practicing attorney, a leading authority on international commercial arbitration, and a law professor. He founded the international arbitration practice of the international law firm Shearman & Sterling before launching Gaillard Banifatemi Shelbaya Disputes, a global law firm dedicated to international arbitration, in 2021. He frequently acted as an arbitrator in international commercial or investment disputes.

Education
Gaillard studied law at Panthéon-Assas University (D.E.A. in Private Law, 1976; D.E.A. in Criminal Law, 1977) and completed his PhD in law there in 1981. He obtained the Agrégation des Facultés de Droit in 1982. He was admitted to the Paris Bar in 1977.

Career
His practice focused on international arbitration. He acted as counsel and arbitrator and was regularly ranked as a star performer in both categories. 

In 1987, he founded the international arbitration practice of Shearman & Sterling. He has been the firm’s Global Head of Disputes and Global International Arbitration Practice Group Leader for 33 years. In February 2021, along with Yas Banifatemi, Mohamed Shelbaya, Benjamin Siino, Ximena Herrera-Bernal, Maude Dubois, Coralie Darrigade and Daniel Reich, he launched Gaillard Banifatemi Shelbaya Disputes, a global law firm dedicated to the management of international disputes, with offices in London, New-York and Paris.

Emmanuel Gaillard became Professor of Law in 1982, after obtaining the agrégation in private law. Since then, Professor Gaillard has taught at numerous universities: he was a professor of law at the Université Paris XII, he was a Visiting Professor at Harvard Law School (International Commercial Treaties, Comparative Private International Law) in 1984 and taught in the Geneva Master in International Dispute Settlement (MIDS), a program run by the University of Geneva and the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies.

He co-founded and chaired the Arbitration Academy from 2010 to 2013, which was created to address the increasing demand for specialized teaching in international arbitration. The Academy provides advanced Summer Courses in Paris to students and young practitioners interested in international arbitration. The Curriculum is conceived by international arbitration academics and practitioners to cover all aspects of international arbitration, and the Courses are taught by the most renowned experts in the fields of international commercial arbitration and investment treaty arbitration.

In September 2012, Professor Gaillard was appointed Professor of Law at Sciences Po Law School (SPLS), where he taught International Arbitration and Private International Law. In 2013, he was appointed On-site Program Director for New York University School of Law in Paris.

Emmanuel Gaillard taught at both Yale and Harvard law schools, and the Graduate Institute of International and Development Studies-based Geneva Center for International Dispute Settlement.

In 2014, he was appointed Visiting Professor at Yale Law School where he taught International Commercial Arbitration together with Professor Michael Reisman and Dr. Yas Banifatemi.

From 2018 until his death in 2021, he had also been teaching International Investment Arbitration at Harvard Law School together with Dr. Banifatemi.

In 2019, Prof. Gaillard had been appointed to the Supreme Court of the People’s Republic of China’s International Experts Committee for a period of four years. Regarded as a prestigious appointment in China, the role included “providing advice and suggestions on the formulation of judicial interpretations and judicial policies of the Supreme People’s Court,” and, in so doing, contributing to the development of international arbitration in China.

Theory and writings 

His work experience contributes to elaborate legal theory and research on international arbitration law, especially on the subjects related to Investment Law and Arbitration (ICSID), Energy Charter Treaty (ECT) and Anti-Suits Injunctions.
Many of his books and articles are cited as references on these topics (listed below). 

He was also a proponent of the existence of an autonomous arbitral legal order, arising out of but distinct from the laws of national States.