[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cound

ership of Cound Hall passed from the Cressett family to the Thursby-Pelham family by marriage and inheritance; then to the McCorquodale family - into which the young Barbara Cartland married; she lived at the Hall for some years in the late 1920s/early 1930s whilst married to Alexander McCorquodale.

In the 1960s, the then owner (Morris) divided the house into rented flats, and it was tenanted in this way until 1981, as gradually the building deteriorated and the tenants left. The hall then stood empty and derelict for 15 years, until the current owners (the Waller family) bought the house as a virtual wreck in 1996 with the intention of restoring it.

In 2004 it featured in the BBC TV programme, "Restoration" but was unsuccessful in the public competition for funds to renovate the building. English Heritage was most concerned about the building's continuing deterioration at that time, and placed the Hall on its At risk register. However, through building a new estate of houses, inside the gatehouse entrance on the east side of the estate, they raised sufficient funds to rescue the house. The Hall was now almost fully restored by 2008 and is inhabited as a family house once again.

A river port and railway
What is now the Riverside Inn, formerly the Cound Lodge Inn, on the A458 was built as a house in the early 18th century facing the river Severn and is listed Grade 2. It was an alehouse by 1745 serving turnpike traffic on the road which then ran between the inn and the river and would have also served boatmen on the river which at that time was a thriving waterway with a wharf at the location. The Shrewsbury-Much Wenlock road was diverted to its current alignment to the south of the building at some time before the construction of the Severn Valley Railway line (now disused) in 1862 and hence the former back of the house (south) has become the entrance front.

The building of the railway line and station commenced in 1858 and opened for trade in 1862 but never handled much in the way of passengers, mostly specialising in freight traffic. Mainly wool skeins, agricultural produce and specifically coal, from the busy collieries of Alveley and Highley, were the principal sources of revenue. The railway was closed in 1963 as an early casualty of the Beeching Axe. A station was provided at Cound in 1934 at Cound Halt on a continuation of the Severn Valley Railway from Ironbridge to Shrewsbury. Cound station was halfway between the stations at Cressage and Berrington at the point where the railway skirted adjacent to the River Severn. Although the railway was closed as a result of the Beeching cuts, the station had been previously scheduled for closure and was closed in 1963 before the publication of the inaugural Beeching report.

Cound today
The Cound Trout Fishery occupies a worked out and flooded sand and gravel quarry works alongside the main road. Upper Cound is a more compact group of dwellings and farms. Three new dwellings have been built opposite Cound Farm on a previously allocated housing site and there are plans entered for residential conversions of adjacent farm buildings.

After lengthy negotiations with English Heritage and local planning authorities several high value executive houses have been built in the Hall's grounds with a secure gated entrance between the estate's original gatehouses.

Governance

Parish
Cound parish council has nine elected members.

County
Cound lies within an electoral division of Shropshire Council.

Westminster
Cound is within the Shrewsbury and Atcham parliamentary constituency, represented since 2005 by Daniel Kawczynski of the Conservative Party.

Geography

Waterway
The village of Cound is situated on a low lying flood plain on the west bank of the River Severn and at the northern end of the Shropshire-Severn plain. The various settlements that make up the village are bisected by the Cound Brook, an important local tributary of the River Severn, which rises in the Stretton Hills some fifteen miles distant to the south west, although the many meanders of the brook entails a passage of closer to twenty five miles before its confluence near Eyton on Severn. The Coundmoor Brook joins the Cound Brook immediately upstream of iron Cound Arbour Bridge.

Geology
Cound stands to the east of an outcropping spur, consisting of a Pre-Cambrian limestone and sandstone sedimentary rock extension of the Longmyndian range, intruding into the Shropshire-Severn plain with major appearances at Longden, Lyth Hill, Bayston Hill, and Sharpstone Hill. North of the river Severn it does not outcrop again until it appears east of Shrewsbury as Haughmond Hill.