[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Venezia Giulia Police Force

Railway. Zones were divided into Districts open 24/7, and Border Posts. Every zone was patrolled on foot and with Emergency car. A system of public emergency calls was started, and the emergency number 223, was available, to request help or assistance by the local population.

Uniforms and weapons 

The V.G.P.F  personnel was initially issued a mixture of British, American and Italian equipment and weaponry. The 13th British Army Corps insignia, an Antelope, was adopted as the Corps Insignia.  However parade and Police Uniform were under a great British influx, resulting in an undeniable, London Metropolitan Police style. Military training was according to that of the British Army, as well as the drill instruction. The British Army's salute, with the right hand palm facing forwards with the fingers almost touching the cap or beret, was adopted. The corps was equipped with Winchester Carbine mod. 1 and 2, Automatic Colt Pistol cal. 45, Smyth and Wesson revolvers. Commissioned Officers and sergeants were issued Italian Beretta Pistol model 1934. Only night time shifts carried firearms, while during the day no weapons was carried by the personnel on duty. The V.G.P.F  identification cards were all bilingual.

Ranks 

Senior Commissioned Officers had a rank tier as follow: Superintendent Assistant, Superintendent and Chief Superintendent. These positions were exclusively held by British and American personnel. Junior Ranks from Deputy Superintendent (Major), Chief Inspector (Captain), Inspector (1st LT), Deputy Inspector (2nd LT), Sergeants (Warrant Officers) of first, second and third class, Corporal and Guard, were open to locals.

Strength 

The Venezia-Giulia Police Force in October 1945 had an initial strength of 2,482 Commissioned Officers and enlisted. At its peak, in 1949, had a strength of 6,097 men and women, decreasing to 4,296 in 1952, and in 1954, when the provisional civil administration of zone A of the FTT was eventually handed over to Italy had a total 4,366 men and women. The V.G.P.F. personnel was created following the Venezia-Giulia ethnic criteria enlisting Italians, Slovenians and Croats. In addition a small group of former Germans and Austrians P.O.W were also allow to enlist.

The Trieste riots 

On November 3, 1953, on the anniversary of the first annexation of Trieste to Italy in 1918, which is also the feast commemorating the patron saint of Trieste, Saint Giusto, the city mayor, Giovanni Bartoli, ignoring a ban of Maj. Gen. Sir Thomas John Willoughby Winterton, displayed the Italian National flag on the city hall. As he hoisted the flag, some British officers quickly removed and confiscated the flag. The day after, some local citizens, coming back from the celebration held at the Redipuglia Italian World War I memorial, improvised a demonstration in support of the Italian rule of the city. The V.G.P.F. was activated to suppress the unauthorized demonstration, and confiscate the flags waved by the demonstrators. This provoked heavy fights which soon spread out throughout the city. On November 5, 1953, the students called a strike and started a demonstration in Sant'Antonio Square, in front of the local church. As a civil police car passed by, the students stoned the vehicle. A British member of the V.G.P.F., Mr. Edwards, got off the car and confronted the demonstrators, was greeted with a hail of stones, insulted and beaten. The V.G.P.F. Riot squad arrived on the spot, to support the superintendent of C.I.D, Villanti and his men, who had witnessed the scene of Mr. Edwards stoning and went to rescue him. The crowd was soon dispersed with truncheons and with the help of a water truck. Some of the students who had found refuge in the church were chased and seriously beaten. During the afternoon the city bishop Mons Antonio Santin decided to re-consecrate the church, according to the Roman Catholic tradition, as violent acts have been committed inside.  Thousands of citizens rallied up for the rite, and as the police cars showed up the trouble soon began. Apparently a British officer member of the V.G.P.F, fired warning shots, as well as some police officers did. As a result, two persons, Piero Addobbati and Antonio Zavadil, were killed and several were injured. On November 6, 1953 a large crowd marched towards the government house on Piazza/Square, Unità d'Italia were the AMG had its seat. In the meantime cars and other police facilities in the city were destroyed and burned. The police cordoning the government house opened fire, killing Francesco Paglia, Leonardo Manzi, Saverio Montano and Erminio Bassa. In the three days of rioting, six persons were killed and 162 injured, including 79 policemen.	In his memories, Col. Richardson gave this account of the shooting at Piazza Unità d'Italia, in front of the government house, "... Mr Williams was told to go to Piazza Unità d'Italia at the Government house, with a Riot Squad. When there he ordered his men to remain into the vehicles. He wen