[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Mount Meager massif

using two sensors: one on the Hurley River Forestry Bridge and the other in the river. Damming of the Lillooet River by a landslide would be indicated by the lowering of the water level while the release of a landslide dam would be followed by water level rise.

Prehistoric

Historic

1975 landslide

A massive rock avalanche occurred at the massif on July 22, 1975. With a volume of , it buried and killed a group of four geologists at the confluence of Devastation Creek and Meager Creek. The landslide originated on the western flank of Pylon Peak and flowed down Devastation Creek for . Geologic studies have shown that the landslide was the result of a complex history of glacial erosion, loading and unloading of the toe (a protrusion at the front of the slide mass) caused by the Little Ice Age advance and subsequent retreat of Devastation Glacier due to global warming.

2010 landslide

On August 6, 2010, a massive debris flow cascaded down from Capricorn Glacier at a speed of  per second. Experts initially estimated that the volume of debris totaled , which would make it the second largest landslide on record in Canadian history, behind the  that removed  of rock from Johnson Peak, a mountain in the Nicolum Valley near Hope, British Columbia. However, the landslide was later estimated to be more than , which would make it the largest of all time in Canada.

The 2010 landslide was  wide and  long, creating a dam across Meager Creek and the Lillooet River. This created a lake just upstream. Early concerns that the dam might collapse and flood the Lillooet River valley ended a day later, when part of the dam ruptured and slowly released the accumulated water. An evacuation alert was rescinded, and nearly 1,500 residents were allowed to return to their homes on the weekend after the landslide occurred. No injuries were reported.

See also

List of Cascade volcanoes
List of volcanoes in Canada
Salal Glacier volcanic complex
Sham Hill
Tuber Hill
Volcanology of Western Canada

References

External links

 
Volcanic plugs of British Columbia
Stratovolcanoes of Canada
Active volcanoes
VEI-5 volcanoes
Subduction volcanoes
Pleistocene lava domes
Complex volcanoes
Natural disasters in British Columbia
Hot springs of British Columbia
Pacific Ranges
Pleistocene stratovolcanoes
Polygenetic volcanoes
Landslides in Canada
Two-thousanders of British Columbia