[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Pūkorokoro Miranda Naturalists' Trust

d another part migrates to the North Island. Of the New Zealand winter population of about 7,400, Miranda holds about 150 in winter.
 New Zealand dotterel (Charadrius obscurus): These plovers, that can only be found in New Zealand, breed at Miranda and can be found in small numbers most of the year.

 Bar-tailed godwit (Limosa lapponica): Only in the last years it has become clear that the godwits that migrate to New Zealand mainly come from Alaska. They belong to the subspecies baueri, that migrates to Australasia (especially New Zealand estuaries) In summer approximately 88,000 godwits stay in New Zealand, and 10,000 – 15,000 stay at Miranda. Research with small radio transmitters has shown that the birds follow a route via China when they migrate north, making the Yellow Sea a vital stepping stone. During their migration south, in September, the godwits often fly non-stop from Alaska to New Zealand. A lot of recent research concerning godwits is done at the Miranda Shorebird Centre. In 2009 a monography on godwits was published, written by Keith Woodley, manager of Miranda Shorebird Centre.
 South Island pied oystercatcher (Haematopus ostralegus): It breeds on the South Island, and migrates to estuaries of the North Island. Large flocks can be found at Miranda. The New Zealand winter population is thought to be 80,000. Of these 15,000 – 20,000 birds stay in the Firth of Thames in winter. They have the nickname "SIPO".
 Variable oystercatcher (Haematopus unicolor): This oystercatcher is another New Zealand bird that breeds at Miranda.
 Lesser knot or red knot (Calidris minutus): These arctic migrants flock together with the godwits on the high-water roosts between September and April. The New Zealand summer population is approximately 55,000, of which Miranda has 7,000 – 10,000 birds.
 Curlew sandpiper (Calidris ferruginea): This breeding bird of Siberia may be seen in small numbers in summer.
 Sharp-tailed sandpiper (Calidris acuminata): This is also a breeding bird in Siberia that visits Miranda in small numbers.
 Turnstone (Arenaria interpres): An arctic and subarctic breeding bird, visiting Miranda in small groups.
 Pied stilt (Himantopus himantopus): Of the New Zealand winter population of 18,000 birds, between 6,000 and 10,000 can be found at Miranda.
 Royal spoonbill (Platalea regia)
 Caspian tern (Sterna caspia)

Knots arrive in New Zealand in early September, followed by godwits in about the third week of September. The biggest influx occurs during October and November. Godwits and knots depart usually between mid-March and early-April. Knot numbers at Miranda gradually decline until only an over-wintering flock of about 500 birds remains.

Wader censuses
Since 1960 wader censuses at Miranda take place twice a year, in November and June.
The breeding areas of the migratory birds often have a dispersed nature. The only opportunity for any form of population monitoring is during the non-breeding season when the birds congregate in places like the tidal regions of the Firth of Thames. Counting of the shorebirds at the high tide roosts over longer periods of time can give a good indication of the population trends. The figures can be used when discussing the conservation of wetlands along the migratory routes.
The datasets collected at Miranda is one of the longest available. In 1983 the Ornithological Society of New Zealand (OSNZ) initiated a national wader count scheme. This scheme was continued until 1994 and then reinstated for the period from 2004 to 2009.

Miranda Shorebird Centre 
The Miranda Shorebird Centre can be found on the west side of the road between Miranda and Kaiaua. It's open to visitors all year, and it has information displays on wader birds of the Firth of Thames. It also houses a shop, which offers a collection of books on birds and birding and bird related souvenirs.

The centre has a library, that is open to use for research purposes.

The centre offers low budget accommodation in the forms of bunkrooms and self-contained units for individuals and (small) groups.

Keith Woodley is the centre manager since 1 May 1993.

Visitor numbers have developed from 3,000 in 1993 to 16,000 in 2008.