[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Cecily of York

immediately after his accession to the throne, appointed his uncle constable of two important castles, gave him several estates, and later returned John's father's possessions to John; in addition, John was not only restored to his father's baronial title, but also granted a new one –Viscount Wells.

There is no record of the time and circumstances of the marriage of Cecily and John Welles, who was older than the princess by about 20 years, but it happened before December 1487 or on New Year's Day 1488. Alison Weir writes that the marriage took place between 25 November and 31 December 1487; at the same time, she notes that the royal couple was present at the wedding. According to Mary Ann Everett Green, in December 1487 Cecily joined the Christmas celebrations at Palace of Placentia with her husband. On New Year's Eve, the Welles were present, among other representatives of the nobility and close associates of the king, at a dinner; Viscount Welles presented the king, as a gift from himself and his wife, with twenty shillings. At the banquet, the couple were separated: John was sitting at the table on the right side of the hall, and Cecily was at the head of the table on the left. It is not known for certain who was instrumental in the union of Cecily and John. Some historians believe that it was Henry VII who arranged the marriage of his wife's sister to his uncle in order to avoid Cecily's marriage to a more prominent representative of the nobility, since the princess became the legitimate heir to the throne in the event of the death of her sister Elizabeth and her children. On the other hand, Thomas Fuller wrote that Henry VII did not intend that Cecily be married at all, but she took matters into her own hands and chose the king's uncle as her husband, who after the conclusion of the marriage did not receive any more titles. In addition, Cecily was close to the king's mother, Lady Margaret Beaufort, who, in turn, was close to the Welles and could arrange this marriage. Regardless of who initiated the marriage, it was beneficial for both parties, as it strengthened the Lancastrian ties with the Yorkists: Cecily, who was the second contender for the throne from the House of York after her elder sister, found herself married to a man close to the king, who would not allow to draw her into political games against Henry VII.

After the celebrations at the beginning of 1488, traces of Cecily are lost for some time. She probably retired from the court and stayed in one of her husband's estates. Despite the large difference in age, the marriage was successful, and two daughters were born: Elizabeth, named after the queen, and Anne, named after Cecily's younger sister Anne of York. There is a version that the couple had three children, but there is no reliable data on the third child. It is known that Cecily was engaged in the upbringing and education of her children herself, so she stayed at home when her husband left for the court to fulfil his duties.

In 1491, John Welles was going to accompany his nephew on an expedition to France. A special act of Parliament delegated to her for this time the right to receive royal payments for her husband and use all his possessions. The king himself, in preparation for the campaign, signed a will in which Cecily's husband was named one of his fiefs. In 1492, John attended the funeral of Cecily's mother Queen Dowager Elizabeth Woodville, but the viscountess herself was absent, probably due to illness or pregnancy. Until 1498, little is known about Cecily's life. During this period (presumably in 1498) her eldest daughter Elizabeth Welles died, shortly before her betrothal with John Stanley, heir to George Stanley, 9th Baron Strange. It is known that in 1494 Cecily appeared in documents as a legatee under the will of her grandmother and namesake Cecily Neville, Dowager Duchess of York.