[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Frank Oliver (politician)

Francis Oliver  (born Francis Robert Oliver Bowsfield; September 1, 1853 – March 31, 1933) was a Canadian federal minister, politician, and journalist/publisher from the Northwest Territories and later Alberta. As Minister of the Interior, he was responsible for discriminatory Canadian government policies that targeted First Nations' land rights and Black immigration.

Early life
Oliver was born Francis Bowsfield in Peel County, Canada West, just west of Toronto. He was the son of Allan Bowsfield and Hannah (Anna) Lundy. Some disagreement in the family made him drop the name Bowsfield and adopt the name of his grandmother, Nancy Oliver Lundy.

Oliver studied journalism in Toronto, Ontario. In 1880, he moved west and founded the Edmonton Bulletin with his wife, Harriet Dunlop (1863–1943). When the first issue was printed on December 6, 1880, it became the first newspaper in what is now Alberta, and he owned it until 1923. Oliver was active in what one historian called the "Edmonton Settlers' Rights Movement" of 1880s.  Prior to the official Dominion Land Survey, Oliver and others engaged in direct action to preserve land ownership rights of Edmonton old-timers, against encroachment by later-arriving settlers, who they termed "squatters." Oliver, later-mayor Matt McCauley, Metis Laurent Garneau and several others faced criminal charges, and then a civil suit after a "squatter"'s shack was pushed into the river valley.

He also used the Edmonton Bulletin as a platform to voice his opposition to the establishment and continued existence of Papaschase Indian Reserve Number 136. He continued this practice for eight years (even while he was an elected politician), until the federal government forced the Papaschase band members from their reserve. The land was divided between railway companies, settlers, and the federal government, who later auctioned their share off to settlers.It is important to note that Indigenous communities in Canada have faced a long history of displacement, loss of land, and systemic marginalization. The struggles and negotiations surrounding Indian reserves like Papaschase Reserve reflect the complex and often contentious relationships between Indigenous peoples and the Canadian government during that time.

Political career
Oliver was elected to the North-West Council in 1883. He was the second elected member to the 1st Council of the Northwest Territories, winning the May 29, 1883 election for the newly formed Edmonton district. In 1885 his newspaper pointed out that the NWT council did not have as many elected members as its population - 100,000 - should allow it. Under the headline "Responsible Government" he called for a change in the way that the elected members were elected. The following month he pointed out that out-migration to the U.S. was stunting Canada's own population growth, and the NWT was in large measure to account for that, due to conditions created by the Conservative government in Ottawa. He blamed the out-migration on "the unwise and ever changing land regulations, the enormous reserves [(land held by the HBC and the Crown and not open to local settlement)], the ill treatment of squatters [(pioneers who had settled in the NW prior to government survey)], the discriminating tariff, the railway monopoly, and the lack of political rights (the one statement that has been made and repeated on platform after platform), and on how North-West lands and NW settlers must ultimately pay the whole cost of the CPR." 

Some of the stands he took in the NWT Council at Regina were not popular with all Edmontonians, least of all with local Conservatives. He organized a meeting in early January to refute charges that he was "an irreconcilable oppositionist with socialist tendencies," saying what he done had been in accordance "with the interests and wishes of the majority of his constituents."

In 1885 following the suppression of the Metis Rebellion, his newspaper said that the blame for the outbreak was shared "between Riel and the Ottawa government," signalling out the late minister of the Interior.
His newspaper blamed the Ottawa government's "deception, mismanagement and injustice" for having caused the rebellion.

Oliver lost his seat in the 1885 Northwest Territories election to a local physician, 25-year-old Herbert Charles Wilson, who was named Speaker of the Council. 

Oliver contested and won one of the two seats in the Edmonton district in 1888. He retained his seat by acclamation in the 1891 and 1894 elections.  During Oliver's time as a territorial representative, he contributed to the creation of the North-West Territories' first public school system.