[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 10th Cavalry Regiment (United States)

The 10th Cavalry Regiment is a unit of the United States Army. Formed as a segregated African-American unit, the 10th Cavalry was one of the original "Buffalo Soldier" regiments in the post–Civil War Regular Army. It served in combat during the Indian Wars in the western United States, the Spanish–American War in Cuba, Philippine–American War and Mexican Revolution. The regiment was trained as a combat unit but later relegated to non-combat duty and served in that capacity in World War II until its deactivation in 1944.

The 10th Cavalry was reactivated as an integrated combat unit in 1958. Portions of the regiment have served in conflicts ranging from the Vietnam War to Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom. The current structure is one squadron, the 4th Squadron 10th Cavalry Regiment unit, and one separate Armored Cavalry Troop, C Troop 10th Cavalry, in active service.  4-10 CAV is assigned to the 3rd Armored Brigade Combat Team of the U.S. 4th Infantry Division at Ft Carson, Colorado. C Troop, 10 CAV is assigned as the Armored Cavalry Troop to 1st Armored Brigade Combat Team of the U.S. 1st Cavalry Division at Ft Hood, Texas

Buffalo Soldier name

From the late 1860s on the Plain Indians called the black troopers of the US Army "buffalo soldiers". "It was the Indians who gave them the "buffalo soldiers" appellation, derived from the similarity of buffalo hair to the kinky, short black hair common to most African American males at the time.

Insignia

Coat of arms
 Shield: Per pale, dexter: paly of thirteen Argent and Gules, a chief Azure charged with a Native American chief's war bonnet affronté above a tomahawk and stone axe in saltire heads down all Proper, sinister: per fess quarterly Gules and Argent in 1st and 4th a tower Or gated Azure 2d and 3d lion rampant Gules crowned with a ducal cornet Or; on an oval escutcheon Azure a fleur-de-lis Or; and Sable a triangle on its base charged with a sun ombre de soleil Or between three mullets of the like pierced of the field.
 Crest: On a wreath of the colors Or and Sable an American bison statant guardant Proper.
 Motto: "Ready and Forward".

Regimental distinctive insignia
 Description:
 A gold color metal and enamel device 1 inch (2.54 cm) blazoned: On an heraldic wreath Or and Sable, a buffalo statant Proper.
 On a scroll of the second fimbriated of the first the motto "READY AND FORWARD" of the like.
 Symbolism:
 Black and gold have long been used as the regimental colors.
 The buffalo has likewise been the emblem of the regiment for many years having its origin in the term "Buffalo soldiers" applied by the Indians to colored regiments.
 The distinctive unit insignia is worn in pairs.
 Background:
 The distinctive unit insignia was originally approved on 13 March 1922.
 It was amended 6 December 1923 to change the wording in the description and the method of wear.
 On 19 March 1951 the insignia was re-designated for the 510th Tank Battalion.
 The distinctive unit insignia was re-designated for the 10th Cavalry on 12 May 1959.
 The current version was re-affirmed on 22 August 1991.

Symbolism

The 10th Cavalry Coat of arms was first confirmed on 11 February 1911 at Fort Ethan Allen in Vermont as "General Orders No. 1" by order of Colonel Thaddeus W. Jones. The 1911 description of the Arms is different from that used today, and has no functional difference except for symbolism. There was no symbolic explanations or reasons given for the basic symbols of the Regimental Arms in 1911 or when the arms were re-affirmed on 22 August 1991. The following is gathered from many heraldic and military sources.

Above the shield is part of the distinctive unit insignia, the "Buffalo" (American Bison). On the arms it faces left, which represents the western movement of the early unit across the United States. The black and gold on which the buffalo stands are "the colour of the negro" and the "refined gold" which the regiment represents.

The left side is for the 43 years of service (1866–1909) in the American West that were formative for the 10th Cavalry. The blue represents the sky and open plains of the west. The ceremonial war bonnet and eagle feathers honors the respect of the Native American tribes. The tomahawk and stone axe with the heads down indicate peace achieved. The vertical red and white stripes are for 13 major campaigns.

Upper right. The Castilian Coat of Arms, without the crown, represents the Spanish–American War and indirectly the Philippine Insurrection where the 10th helped liberate Cuba (1898) and fought in the Philippines (1899–1902).