[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 27]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ct to establish a
somewhat tyrannical tradition," Miss Du Prel admitted, "but instinct is
at the bottom of it. There is, of course, in our society, no latitude
for variety of type; that is the fault of so many institutions."

"The ordinary domestic idea may have been suitable when women were
emerging from the condition of simple animals," said Hadria, "but now it
seems to me to be out of date."

"It can never be entirely out of date, dear Hadria. Nature has asked of
women a great and hard service, but she has given them the maternal
instinct and its joys, in compensation for the burden of this task,
which would otherwise be intolerable and impossible. It can only be
undertaken at the instigation of some stupendous impetus, that blinds
the victim to the nature of her mission. It must be a sort of obsession;
an intense personal instinct, amounting to madness. Nature, being
determined to be well served in this direction, has supplied the
necessary monomania, and the domestic idea, as you call it, grows up
round this central fact."

Hadria moved restlessly to and fro by the river bank. "One presumes to
look upon oneself, at first--in one's earliest youth," she said, "as
undoubtedly human, with human needs and rights and dignities. But this
turns out to be an illusion. It is as an _animal_ that one has to play
the really important part in life; it is by submitting to the demands of
society, in this respect, that one wins rewards and commendation. Of
course, if one likes to throw in a few ornamental extras, so much the
better; it keeps up appearances and the aspect of refined sentiment--but
the main point----"

"You _are_ extravagant!" cried Miss Du Prel. "That is not the right way
to look at it."

"It is certainly not the convenient way to look at it. It is doubtless
wise to weave as many garlands as you can, to deck yourself for the
sacrifice. By that means, you don't quite see which way you are going,
because of the masses of elegant vegetation."

"Ah! Hadria, you exaggerate, you distort; you forget so many
things--the sentiments, the affections, the thousand details that hallow
that crude foundation which you see only bare and unsoftened."

"A repulsive object tastefully decorated, is to me only the more
repulsive," returned Hadria, with suppressed passion.

"There will come a day when you will feel very differently," prophesied
Miss Du Prel.

"Perhaps. Why should I, more than the others, remain uninfluenced by the
usual processes of blunting, and grinding down, and stupefying, till one
grows accustomed to one's function, one's _intolerable_ function?"

"My dear, my dear!"

"I am sorry if I shock you, but that is how I feel. I have seen this
sort of traditional existence and nothing else, all my life, and I have
been brought up to it, with the rest--prepared and decked out like some
animal for market--all in the most refined and graceful manner possible;
but how can one help seeing through the disguise; how can one be blind
to the real nature of the transaction, and to the fate that awaits
one--awaits one as inexorably as death, unless by some force of one's
own, with all the world--friends and enemies--in opposition, one can
avert it?"

Miss Du Prel remained silent.

"You _can_ avert it," she said at last; "but at what cost?"

"Miss Du Prel, I would rather sweep a crossing, I would rather beg in
the streets, than submit to the indignity of such a life!"

"Then what do you intend to do instead?"

"Ah! there's the difficulty. What _can_ one do instead, without breaking
somebody's heart? Nothing, except breaking one's own. And even putting
that difficulty aside, it seems as if everyone's hand were against a
woman who refuses the path that has been marked out for her."

"No, no, it is not so bad as that. There are many openings now for
women."

"But," said Hadria, "as far as I can gather, ordinary ability is not
sufficient to enable them to make a scanty living. The talent that would
take a man to the top of the tree is required to keep a woman in a
meagre supply of bread and butter."

"Allowing for exaggeration, that is more or less the case," Miss Du Prel
admitted.

"I have revolted against the common lot," she went on after a pause,
"and you see what comes of it; I am alone in the world. One does not
think of that when one is quite young."

"Would you rather be in Mrs. Gordon's position than in your own?"

"I doubt not that she is happier."

"But would you change with her, surrendering all that she has
surrendered?"

"Yes, if I were of her temperament."

"Ah! you always evade the question. Remaining yourself, would you change
with her?"

"I would never have allowed my life to grow like hers."

"No," said Hadria, laughing, "you would probably have run away or killed
yourself or somebody, long before this."

Miss Du Prel could not honestly deny this possibility. After a pause she
said:

"A woman cann