[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Newar caste system

a from the inside, non-Srēṣṭhas often tend to see them as a singular composite unit from the outside. They accord both the groups with the collective status of 'Srēṣṭha' or 'Sya:sya' because of their common socio-cultural and upper-caste and class identifier as the chief landlord/patron Hindu group.

 Chatharīya or sometimes shortened to Chatharī are the high-caste, aristocratic Sresthas and the clans within this group correspond as Kshatriya varna, and they claim descent from Suryavansha, Chandravansha, and Agnivansha houses of Kshatriya kings from the south, most of whom entered Nepal Valley with the advent of Muslim conquerors in the Indian subcontinent from 11th-13th century, and indeed many trace their roots to Malla and Karnat royalty or the nobility during the Malla era. Many scholars argue that the local term "Chatharīya" is a corruption of the word "Kshatriya", the traditional warrior and ruling class of traditional Hindu societies. They formed the core of the ruling, administrative and noble class of the Nepal Valley until the demise of the Malla dynasty in the 18th century. They usually do not call themselves "Shrestha", and rather use their family or clan titles, the main ones being- Pradhan, Malla, Pradhananga, Amatya, Joshi, Karmacharya, Hada, Vaidya,Nemkul, Maskey, Rajvanshi, Rajbhandari, Rajalawat, Kayastha, etc. All these clans presently have Kshatriya status, share a number of exogamous lineage and gotras and inter-marry between themselves. Additionally, Chatharīya and the Rajopadhyaya Brahmins are the only two Newar castes entitled to wear the sacred thread (Janeu) in the upanayana ceremony, and are given the status of tagadhari in the larger Nepali social milieu. Included among the Chathariyas, the Acharya or Achaju (alternatively Karmacharya, Guruacharya) and the Joshi hold prominent and respected position in the Newar society as ritual specialists and non-Brahmin priests. Karmacharyas serve as traditional Tantric priests of Taleju, the guardian deity of the Malla kings, as well as various other Tantric temples of Kathmandu valley. They also serve as assistant priests to Rajopadhyayas in ritual ceremonies like the Śrāddha ceremony of Chathariyas and Panchtahriyas. The Joshis serve as the astrologers as well as assistant non-Brahmin priests in various ritual functions. Despite their occupational work linking them to priestly, albeit non-Vedic, work both Karmacharyas/Achajus and Joshis however are seen as "degraded" Brahmins due to their lack of Brahmanical percepts and fall ritually as Kshatriya, and hence inter-marry with other Chathariyas.
 Pañchthariya are those who have been drawn from multiple economic and social backgrounds, especially from successful mercantile and commercial families. Although the Chathariya traditionally saw them as belonging to the Vaishya varna and avoided matrimonial ties with them, Pachathariya themselves as well as those lower in the hierarchy did not distinguish them from the Chathariya, and hence saw the Panchthariya as part of the larger Shrestha class, hence among the Kshatriya varna, this however is disputed by the Chathariya themselves as well as by the Rajopadhyaya Brahmans. Unlike the Chathariya who usually write their specific clan names, Panchthariya Shresthas generally opt to write "Shrestha" instead of their traditional family clan names that indicate their specific occupations. Panchthariyas also include Srēṣṭhas from traditional mercantile towns like Thimi, Dhulikhel, Banepa, and outside the three royal-towns of Kathmandu, Patan, Bhaktapur. This caste also include those Chathariya clans and families whose caste-status have been lowered as a result of mixed-caste progeny or other means that effectively lowered the caste status from Chathariya. Higher Chathariya clans have also seen Panchthariya as an effective buffer between themselves and those coming from effective hyepergamous traditions of many lower-status groups who may want to be accepted in the Srēṣṭha-status.
 Chārtharīya Shrestha are even lowered in the social status and consists of those from non-Srestha background who try to emulate or establish the Srestha (Chatharīya and Pañchthariya) status by pretending their norms or simply, in many cases, adopting the general caste-denoting surname like 'Shrestha' or in other instances Joshi, 'Singh', 'Achaju', or 'Pradhan'. Pañchthariya and especially Chatharīya reject the claims of such pretensions and prevent caste endogamy and commonality with such groups. To these historically established and upper Srestha ranks, Chārtharīya's efforts remain unacknowledged and hence are not counted among the Srestha fold.