[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sengunthar

chola dynasty.

Some were chieftains and commanders-in-chief of the later Cholas. Kaikkolar commanders-in-chief were known as Samanta Senapathigal or Senaithalaivar.

According to Vijaya Ramaswamy, in early thirteenth century large number of Kaikolars were migrated to Kongu Nadu from Tondaimandalam.

Vijayanagara period
After the 13th century, Sengunthars became associated with weaving completely.
According to Deepak Kumar, the Sengunthar weavers very often figure in the capacity of kudi, i.e. tenant-cultivators and also holders of kaniyachi, that is hereditary possession over the land. During the period of Sadasiva Raya of Vijayanagara empire, the sthanathar of the Brahmapuriswara temple made an agreement that they would cultivate certain lands of the Kaikkolar regiment.

According to Himanshu Prabha Ray, in 1418 in Tiruvannamalai temple, Sengunthars were given the right to blow the conch, ride palanquins and elephants and wave the temple fly whisk. In 16th century some of the Kaikolars were migrated to Kerala region from Tamil region.

Traditions and festivals
Among Sengunthar Both alcoholic and sexual abstinence are valued, as is control of the passions. But when they are concerned with the sacred locus of the interior, meat eating, blood sacrifice, spirit possession, and the worship of small gods are all prominent. Senaithalaivar thus follow both a priestly model and a Tamil tradition. The Kaikola Teesikar or Desigar who were non-Brahmin priest at temples of Murugan. Sengunthar community practices both the vegetarian and non-vegetarian traditions.

Each family (kulam) of the Sengunthar had their own Kula Deivam (deity). Sengunthars share Murugan as a common deity and additionally have any one of several other deities, such as Angalamman or Ambayamman.

The Sura Samharam festival is a traditional ritual where the Sengunthars dress as the lieutenants of Karthikeya and re-enact the killing of the demon Suran.

In the flag hoisting ceremony at Sri Lanka Nallur Kandaswamy temple, the Sengunthar families who were military heroes in old Jaffna Kingdom have rights to bring out the temple flag and carry the flag as the ceremony of Sura Samharam battle. The houses of Sengunthars are beautifully decorated curtains with the picture of rooster, the legendary vehicle of Lord Muruga hang in their houses, in the day of the flag ceremony.

Tamil nadu
Historically there were four , which in turn was divided into 17 , exclusive of , totally making 72  in the Sengunthar. The thisai  were Sivapuram (Walajabad) to the east, Thonthipuram to the south, Virinjipuram to the west, Chozhasingapuram (Sholinghur) to the north.

The head of 72 nadu was Kancheepuram nadu which was called as Mahanadu by the Sengunthars. The head officer of Mahanadu were called as Aandavar and Aandavar is highest authority leader for Sengunthars.
The head officer of the each nadu council were called as Naattaanmaikarar or Periyadhanakarar or Pattakarar.

Subgroups
There are some divisions among a section of the caste based on their traditions.

Siru Thaali Kaikolar
Siru thaali Kaikolar, also known as Saami katti Kaikolars, are characterized by a lingam tied to their arm, a custom now defunct. Women of this section worn small size of the Thali or Mangala sutra, due to which they are called so. This section allow widows to wear colored saris as other women. They are mainly found in the Eeruurunaadu( Erode, Salem and Namakkal districts ).

Perun Thaali Kaikolar or Kongu Kaikolar
Perun thaali Kaikolar (பெருதாலிகட்டி கைகோளர் முதலியார்கள்), also known as Kongu Kaikolar and 'Vellai seelai kaikkolar'. Women of this section wore big size of the Thali. Widows belonging this section wore white or saris like other Kongu castes hence the name 'Vellai seelai Kaikolar'. They are mainly found vastly in Coimbatore District and the Bhavani River Belt of Erode district. Being the aboriginal weavers of the Kongu region unlike later immigrants, they are properly called 'Kongu Kaikkolvar'

Rattukaara Kaikolar
Rattukaarar, also known as Rendukaarar because they weave with warps composed
of double threads and they are traditional carpet makers. Other reason is said to be their sacrifice of first born's heads for weaving a skirt for their caste poet Ottakoothar. They are mainly found in West region of Tamil Nadu.

Thalaikooda Mudaliyar
They are called Thalaikooda Mudaliyar( meaning "head refusers"), because it is said that in 12th century they refused to sacrifice the heads of their first sons to the caste poet, Ottakoothar to compose poem so they were outcast in that time. Talaikooda Mudaliar are originally from Koorainaadu, in Tanjore district of Chola country. Now they are found in Pondicherry region. Also called 'Thattaya Nattar' from their sub-region of the Kongu region.

Maduraiyar 
Kaikolars of the Pandya country who wear the Meenakshi Sundareswarar thali like other Pandya country native castes.