[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Trans-Caspian Gas Pipeline

4
An EU proposal generally named the Southern Gas Corridor project kindled interest in the Trans+Caspian pipeline as an alternative supply route to Gasprom monopoly to European Union markets. Turkmen gas would be carried along with Azeri gas from the Shah Deniz Gas Field by this pipeline.

2015-2016

One part of the Southern Gas Corridor was laid between Greece and Italy via Albania (TAP Pipeline) starting in 2016. This pipeline was ultimately connected to the TANAP Pipeline across Turkey, construction of which began in 2015, and was designed to connect to the South Caucasus Pipeline at the Georgian border with Turkey. In addition, the East-West gas pipeline in Turkmenistan, connecting gas fields in the east of the country to the Caspian coast, was completed in December 2015.

2020

In December 2020 the Southern Gas Corridor began operating, creating an opportunity for offtake of gas from a putative Transcaspian gas pipeline.

2021

In June 2021 the Turkmenistan government official media outlet Golden Age statedExternal conditions for construction of Trans-Caspian gas pipeline of the total length of 300 km between Turkmen and Azeri coasts of Caspian Sea have become more favorable in the last years. Signing of the Convention on Legal Status of the Caspian Sea by five Caspian states on August 12, 2018 was very important. Another obstacle was covered on January 21 this year when the Memorandum of Understanding on joint exploration and development of hydrocarbon resources of Dostluk offshore field has been signed between the governments of Turkmenistan and Azerbaijan. The document has been already ratified by the Parliament of Turkmenistan.

Description

The projected capacity of the pipeline is  of natural gas per year at an estimated cost of US$5 billion. In Baku, it would link to the South Caucasus Pipeline (Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum pipeline), and through this with the planned Trans-Anatolian gas pipeline.  A feasibility study for the project funded by the United States Trade and Development Agency is carried out by Granherne, a subsidiary of KBR.

Critics
The project is heavily criticized by Russia and Iran, previously significant transit countries for Turkmen gas and current competitors. Alexander Golovin, special envoy on Caspian issues, has stated that a major gas pipeline would pose a serious, dangerous risk to the prosperity of the entire region. According to the Russian Natural Resources Ministry, any gas or oil pipelines across the floor of the Caspian Sea would be environmentally unacceptable. Russia has also taken the legal position that a potential pipeline project, regardless of the route it takes on the seabed, would require the consent of all five Caspian littoral states in order to proceed. Iran has pointed out that treaties signed by Iran and the Soviet Union in 1921 and 1940 are still in force and that any action taken without the consent of all the littoral states would be illegal.  In regard of the decision taken by the EU on 12 September 2011, Russia expressed its "disappointment" as it "seems to have been adopted without taking into account the internationally accepted legal and geopolitical situation in the Caspian basin," and as Caspian Sea littoral state, Russia could veto any international agreement allowing for the pipeline to be built.

In reaction to the 1999 plans for a Trans-Caspian gas pipeline Russia and Iran collaborated in calling for a Central Asian gas cartel in 2001 and 2002. There was also a concern in the West that closer collaboration between Georgia and Azerbaijan would isolate Armenia and tempt it to strengthen ties with Russia and Iran.

In 2022 proponents of a rival pipeline between offshore installations said that the Trans-Caspian was not financially viable as the EU would not agree to a decades long contract as they are doing an energy transition.

See also

Framework Convention for the Protection of the Marine Environment of the Caspian Sea
South Caucasus Pipeline
Nabucco Pipeline
Shah Deniz gas field
Trans-Afghanistan Pipeline
Trans-Caspian Oil Pipeline
Energy policy of Russia
Russia-Belarus energy dispute
Uzbekneftegaz
SOCAR

References

External links
 The Geopolitics of Oil Pipelines in Central Asia, Article on the Trans-Caspian Gas Pipeline featured in Vestnik, the Journal of Russian and Asian Studies Winter 2007
Caspian Pipeline Controversy from the Dean Peter Krogh Foreign Affairs Digital Archives

Natural gas pipelines in Azerbaijan
Natural gas pipelines in Turkmenistan
Caspian Sea
Energy in Central Asia
Proposed pipelines in Asia
Azerbaijan–Turkmenistan relations
Submarine pipelines