[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Henry John Boulton

n Newfoundland, and recommended his dismissal.  The Colonial Secretary had already personally decided that Boulton should be removed, and in early 1838, Boulton was dismissed from office.

Reform supporter 

Boulton returned to private practice in Toronto and was appointed a Queen's Counsel in 1842.

In 1841 he stood for election to the 1st Parliament of the Province of Canada in his old constituency of Niagara.  In spite of his previous support for the Tories, he ran as a Reformer.  After a close-fought election, the returning officer declared that his Tory opponent, Edward Campbell, had been elected.  Boulton's supporters challenged the election by means of an election petition to the Legislative Assembly.  In 1842, over a year after the election, the Assembly ruled that Boulton had been elected, not Edwards.  Boulton was installed as a member of the Assembly.

Once in Parliament, Boulton aligned himself with the ultra-Reformers led by Robert Baldwin.  He declared in favour of responsible government, commenting that his "considerable experience of Colonial Office Government" had persuaded him that the Canadian people should have complete management over local affairs. His support of the Reformers resulted in his defeat in the general election of 1844, but in the general election of 1847, he was elected in Norfolk County.

One of Boulton's major acts of support as a friend of the ministry was in relation to the Rebellion Losses Bill.  The Lafontaine-Baldwin ministry had proposed the bill, to compensate individuals who had their property damaged or lost during the Rebellion of 1837–38.  The bill had strong support amongst the French-speaking inhabitants of Lower Canada (Canada East).  However, it aroused strong opposition among many English-speaking residents of both Canada East and Upper Canada (Canada West), because there had been substantial popular support in Lower Canada for the rebellion.  Many English-speaking Canadians saw the bill as compensating those who had supported the Rebellion.

Boulton proposed an amendment to the bill which provided that no-one who had been convicted of treason, or had pled guilty and had been transported to Bermuda, would be eligible for benefits under the bill.  This provision received strong support from the French-Canadian members, although opposed by Louis-Joseph Papineau, for apparently affirming the validity of the special courts that had been set up to try individuals accused of assisting in the Rebellion.  The amendment helped convince moderate Reformers in Canada West to vote for the bill, which passed with majorities from both the English-speaking and the French-speaking members of the Assembly.

Towards the end of the Lafontaine-Baldwin ministry, Boulton began to drift away from them, proclaiming himself an independent member.  He moved towards the nascent "Clear Grit" movement, of more radical Reformers, increasingly voting against the government.  He argued that the Legislative Council should be elected, not appointed, and effectively proposed "rep by pop" (representation by population), in accordance with the growing population of Canada West.

Later life
Boulton did not stand for election in the general election of 1851.  He retired from politics but continued to practise law until about 1860.  In 1855, he was the manager of the Canadian section at the Paris Exposition.

He died at Toronto, Ontario in 1870.

Publications 
Boulton, Henry John, A short sketch of the province of Upper Canada, for the information of the labouring poor throughout England, to Which Is Prefixed Thoughts on Colonization, Addressed to the Labouring Poor, the Clergy, Select Vestries, and Overseers of the Poor, and Other Persons, Interested in the Administration of Parish Relief in the Different Parishes in England (London:  J. Murray, 1826).

References

External links 
Henry John Boulton fonds, Archives of Ontario

1790 births
1870 deaths
English emigrants to pre-Confederation Ontario
Members of the Legislative Assembly of Upper Canada
Members of the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada from Canada West
Lawyers in Ontario
Canadian King's Counsel
People from Kensington
Treasurers of the Law Society of Upper Canada
Judges in Newfoundland and Labrador
Attorneys-General of Upper Canada
Immigrants to Upper Canada
19th-century English lawyers