[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Piestewa Peak

s are abundant in the early spring and include Mexican gold poppies (deep yellow), brittlebush (yellow), lupine (purples), desert globemallow (orange) and scorpionweed (purple). Fiddleneck and bladderpod also are blooming in some areas. These are in addition to the many varieties of flowering cacti.

Many species of reptiles thrive in the preserve, including gila monster, horned lizard, chuckwalla, and western diamondback rattlesnake. The mammal population includes coyote, bobcat, jackrabbit, cottontail rabbit, ground squirrel and kit fox. There are several species of birds that inhabit the preserve, including turkey vultures, mockingbirds, cactus wrens, Gambel's quail and several species of owls and hawks.

Hiking 

The Piestewa Peak Summit Trail (elevation gain =  in ) is climbed thousands of times per week by locals and visitors seeking a cardio-vascular workout, great views, or a family outing. However, quite a few hikers do not actually reach the top due to the fact that this trail is more difficult than it looks, especially in the summer when temperatures are well over . No water is available on the trail and dehydration is a common and serious problem with hikers who come unprepared. Water is only available at the trailhead, and at several ramadas along squaw peak road, uphill from the summit trail parking lot. Views from the summit include, in clear weather, Pinnacle Peak, the McDowell Mountains, Four Peaks, the Superstition Mountains, Tabletop Mountain, the Sierra Estrella, Woolsey Peak, the White Tank Mountains, the Harquahala Mountains, the Papago Mountains, the Hieroglyphic Mountains, and the Bradshaw Mountains.

The hike itself takes anywhere from 25 to 60 minutes in fair weather,  depending on each hiker's capabilities (higher temperatures and sunny conditions may force the hiker to take up to twice as long). A beginning hiker should allow 60 minutes for a leisurely ascent and 40 for descent.  The path is mostly well marked. There are 4 spots that are confusing and hikers who are not familiar with the path will be forced to look around for the designated route. There are a few sections that are technically difficult as they are steep and there are no guard rails.

There are approximately fifteen miles of interconnecting trails in the Preserve, ranging from easy to difficult. There are several differences in regulation between the Piestewa Peak summit trail and the rest of the interconnected Phoenix mountain preserve trail system. The greater trail system allows horseback riding, biking, and foot traffic, including dogs. Piestewa peak summit trail allows foot traffic only: no bicycles, dogs, or horses. The greater trail system is generally open to the public from sunrise to sunset. Piestewa peak (summit trail only) is open from sunrise until 11:00 PM. This unique late availability combined with proximity to city lights, and a light-colored rock translates to a popular location for night hikes.

See also

 Squaw Peak Inn – historic inn near the mountain

References

External links 
 Phoenix Mountains Preserve, satellite images
 Piestewa Peak pictures and hiking information

Mountains of Arizona
Parks in Phoenix, Arizona
Phoenix Points of Pride
Mountains of Maricopa County, Arizona