[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Timeline of the 2008 United States presidential election

the race for the Republican nomination due to a poor showing in the Ames Straw Poll.
August 16 – Mitt Romney wins the Illinois State Fair's Republican straw poll, with 40.5 percent of the vote. 922 votes are cast.
August 19 – A Democratic debate is hosted by ABC in Des Moines, Iowa.

September 2007

September 1 – The Texas Republican straw poll is won by Representative Duncan Hunter of California, with 41 percent of the vote.
September 5 – A New Hampshire Republican debate is sponsored by Fox News.
September 6 – Senator Fred Thompson of Tennessee officially announces his candidacy for the Republican nomination.
September 9 – Univision broadcasts a Democratic debate held at the BankUnited Center at the University of Miami in Coral Gables, Florida.
September 12 – Yahoo! and The Huffington Post host a Democratic "mashup" debate, allowing viewers to choose which candidates they want to hear from on specific issues.
September 15 – Activist and diplomat Alan Keyes announces his candidacy for the Republican nomination in a radio interview with Janet Parshall.
September 17 – A Republican debate is held at the Broward Center for the Performing Arts in Fort Lauderdale, Florida.
September 21 – The Mackinac Republican Leadership Conference is held at the Grand Hotel in Mackinac Island, Michigan, featuring the traditional straw poll, which is won by Mitt Romney with 39 percent of the vote.
September 26 – New England Cable News, NBC News, Dartmouth College and New Hampshire Public Radio host a Democratic debate at Dartmouth College in Hanover, New Hampshire.
September 27 – The Public Broadcasting Service hosts a Republican debate at Morgan State University in Baltimore, Maryland.
September 28 – Former Speaker of the House of Representatives Newt Gingrich tells supporters that if they raise $30 million in a month, he will run for president.
September 29 – Newt Gingrich announces that he definitely will not run.

October 2007

October 9 – A Republican debate is held in Dearborn, Michigan. Fred Thompson makes his first debate appearance. The deadline for Michigan presidential primaries passes. Barack Obama, John Edwards, Joe Biden, Bill Richardson and Dennis Kucinich file papers to get their names on the Democratic primary ballot. All 'major' Republicans but Alan Keyes, who begins a petition drive, are on the Republican primary ballot.
October 12 – Former Republican candidate Tommy Thompson of Wisconsin endorses Rudy Giuliani for president.
October 16 – Comedian Stephen Colbert announces he is running for president as a favorite son in the South Carolina Democratic and Republican primaries. The Republican Jewish Coalition hosts a Republican debate.
October 19 – Senator Sam Brownback of Kansas announces that he is dropping out of the race for the Republican nomination.
October 20 – Orlando, Florida hosts the Values Voter Summit, sponsored by the Family Research Council. A straw poll is held and won by Mitt Romney, with 27.6 percent of the vote. 5,775 votes are cast.
October 21 – The Florida Republican Party and Fox News Channel co-host a Republican debate in Orlando, Florida.
October 25 – AARP and Iowa Public Television host a Republican debate in Sioux City, Iowa.
October 30 – A Democratic debate is hosted by NBC News and MSNBC in Philadelphia.

November 2007
November 5 – Ron Paul raises the most money on a single day of any Republican candidate to date with US$4.3 million. Paul also raises the most money online in a single day.
November 8 – The Republican National Committee announces that five states will lose half their delegates to Republican National Convention for breaking party rules against holding primaries before February 5.
November 15 – CNN and the Nevada Democratic Party hold the Nevada Democratic presidential debate at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
November 21 – Democratic candidate Barack Obama announces that television presenter and media mogul Oprah Winfrey, who previously endorsed Obama, will appear with him on the campaign trail.
November 28 – YouTube and CNN host a Republican debate.
November 30 – A man takes hostages in Hillary Clinton's New Hampshire campaign office. He is later arrested.

December 2007