[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Vampire Earth

es a one-man war against Quislings agreeing only to train new Wolves, but not accepting any other specific assignments.

Eveready's name comes from the battery company by the same name. He uses the batteries as a calling card for the Kurians so that they know which kills are his.

Narcisse aka Sissy

Narcisse is a woman Valentine encounters in the Caribbean and is disfigured: two fleshy stumps are all she has left of her legs, and one arm ends in a knob at her wrist. She got these injuries from trying to run away. She helps Valentine escape and he takes her with him piggyback style.

Narcisse claims to practice voodoo, but it's more like hoodoo, with her herbs doing "magic".

William Post

Post is a former Quisling officer who Valentine converts to the side of Free Territories. Valentine encounters Post while acting as the first officer on the Thunderbolt, a Quisling ship. Post follows Valentine acting as his lieutenant until he becomes injured in a manner that leaves him unable to fight. Post carries guilt of leaving his former wife, Gail, and sends Valentine to look for her once he is injured.

Arsie or RC

Arsie or RC, supposedly named after the old Royal Crown Cola truck she was found in as a baby, is a Blue Dome girl. The character Arsie or RC is notable because she was named for Merile (aka RC) of the Vampire Earth forum. She won a contest to have a character named for her.

Blake

Blake is Gail's Reaper son being raised secretly by Narcisse in Valentine's absence. He is having trouble fighting his natural urges to feed and is aging much faster physically than he is mentally. He is shown to possess the entire gamut of human emotions, including love and attachment, which he clearly feels for Valentine. Valentine has taken to calling Blake his son, and Blake returning the attachment calling him Poppa. Although Narcisse is the one who raises him, Blake only acknowledges Valentine as a parent.

Blake is Valentine's only motivation to rejoin "the cause" and sets out to find Lifeweavers in order to buy Blake's freedom, otherwise Blake will be sought out, captured and studied.

Books 
There are eleven books in the Vampire Earth series. Summaries are presented in chronological order.

Way of the Wolf 

This book begins with Valentine's childhood and his introduction to the Kurians and the Reapers, and continues through his experience in the Southern Command Ozark Free Territory labor battalion. This experience comes to a brutal climax as Harpies (flying creatures controlled by the Kurians) attack his posting and kill several people, including a close friend. Valentine tracks the Harpies to their lair in an old boat and destroys it. This earns him promotion to the Wolves.

Working as a messenger, Valentine finds himself trapped behind enemy lines after investigating a new Kurian installation. Disguising himself and an injured comrade, he takes shelter with the Carlsons, a family of Quislings, and falls in love with their daughter, Molly. A Kurian operative selects Molly for his own. Molly subsequently kills the man and is captured and taken to The Zoo, a center for Kurian operations in the heart of Chicago. The Zoo is a horrific place where many women labeled as criminals meet their end. Valentine tracks down then rescues Molly. The book ends as Valentine and Molly finally reach the Ozarks again.

Choice of the Cat 

Valentine, now a lieutenant in the Wolves, is left in charge of men in an ambush by Grog cavalry. A Cat named Alessa Duvalier helps Valentine and his men retreat. Valentine is subsequently faced with a court martial, as his commanding officer attempts to obfuscate his own incompetence by sacrificing Valentine's career. Valentine is offered an alternative to the court martial: he can resign his officer's commission. While initially determined to face the court, Valentine changes his mind when Duvalier offers to take him in as a Cat. Valentine resigns and follows Duvalier to Ryu's hall, where he is again enhanced, and receives the training necessary to survive as a spy-saboteur behind enemy lines.