[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# T. Christian Miller

e College of Charleston. He spent a year at Stanford University as a Knight Fellow, studying transparency and new models of journalism.  Miller has served as treasurer and board member of Investigative Reporters and Editors, or the IRE, the nation's largest organization of investigative journalists.

Honors and awards
Miller has won numerous local, national and international awards. In 1999, he won the John B. Oakes Award for Environmental Journalism for his coverage of runaway growth in the Santa Monica Mountains. In 2004, he was awarded the Livingston Award for international reporting, one of the most competitive and prestigious reporting prizes in American journalism, for his coverage of children and war. In 2005, he won an Overseas Press Club award. In 2009, he won an Investigative Reporters and Editors award. In 2010, he won a George Polk award with Daniel Zwerdling of National Public radio for his work covering traumatic brain injuries in the U.S. military. In that same year, he was also given the Selden Ring Award for investigative reporting on private contracting in Iraq and Afghanistan.  In 2015, Miller, Marcela Gaviria, and colleagues from ProPublica and Frontline were awarded two News & Documentary Emmy Awards, the Robert F. Kennedy Center For Justice and Human Rights award for their work documenting the support given by the Firestone Company to Charles Taylor, Liberia's former president and a convicted war criminal, during that country's civil war. In 2016, Miller, along with Ken Armstrong of The Marshall Project, won the Pulitzer Prize in Explanatory Reporting for an article on the Washington and Colorado serial rape cases. In 2020, he and several other ProPublica reporters shared the Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting with members of The Seattle Times. With Megan Rose and Robert Faturechi, Miller had received the award for their report on United States Seventh Fleet accidents.

Selected works
 (with Ken Armstrong)

References

Living people
Los Angeles Times people
American reporters and correspondents
1970 births
University of California, Berkeley alumni
American investigative journalists
Pulitzer Prize for Explanatory Journalism winners
Livingston Award winners for International Reporting
Pulitzer Prize for National Reporting winners
University of California, Berkeley Graduate School of Journalism faculty