[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Keith Fahey

the rest of the season (keeping loan signings Scott Sinclair and Hamer Bouazza out of the starting eleven), and was a key player for Birmingham in their successful bid for promotion to the Premier League, scoring a goal and making a goal in a vital 2–1 win at Reading on the last day of the campaign.

Fahey made his Premier League debut in the opening game of the 2009–10 season at Old Trafford, in the 1–0 defeat against Manchester United. He made 34 appearances in his first Premier League season (18 of which he started), but failed to score all season, as Birmingham finished in ninth place, their highest ever position in the Premier League. In July 2010, Fahey's contract was extended to 2013, in recognition of his having "proved to [McLeish] that he's a Premier League player". He was part of the starting eleven as Birmingham won the 2011 League Cup, defeating favourites Arsenal 2–1 at Wembley Stadium. The league season proved less successful for both player and club. Fahey made only 24 appearances, although he did score his first (and only) Premier League goal, and Birmingham finished 18th and were relegated on the last day of the season following a 2–1 defeat to Tottenham Hotspur.
 
Following relegation, Barry Ferguson and Lee Bowyer left the club, giving Fahey the chance to establish himself in his preferred central position. After recovering from hernia surgery early in the 2011–12 season, he partnered Jonathan Spector in a solid midfield supporting two attacking wide players. Later in the season, he played a defensive support role alongside the more attacking Jordon Mutch, and manager Chris Hughton suggested he was "enjoying playing in that central role and he's enjoying the development he's had there all season". When he suffered a groin problem that caused him to miss the last few weeks of the season, Hughton called it "a real blow for us ... because he's a player that has been in really good form". He scored four goals during the season, including "a venomous left-foot drive from 20 yards" at Barnsley and a goal he "couldn't have hit ... any sweeter first time, or with any more power" at home to Crystal Palace that earned him the club's Goal of the Season award.

Fahey returned to the team in mid-September, and made seven appearances, four of which were starts. In November, he returned home to Ireland on indefinite compassionate leave for personal and family reasons. After two months away, Fahey took part in pre-season training with Shamrock Rovers, ahead of a full fitness assessment which preceded his return to training with Birmingham in mid-February. However, Fahey was ruled out for the rest of the season in April with a recurrence of a hip problem, having played just twice since his return from compassionate leave. At the end of the season, Fahey announced he was leaving Birmingham as the club had decided not to take up their option to extend his contract.

Return to St. Patrick's Athletic
After a few months out of the game, Fahey trained with Sheffield United in October 2013. Following this, he returned to Ireland, where he rejoined his old club St Patrick's Athletic on 23 December 2013. Commenting on his move back to Richmond Park, he said "Both the fans and the club have always been great to me, and the stability of the club behind the scenes really made me want to come back and play my football in Inchicore again." He made his third debut for the club in a 2–1 victory over Dundalk on 17 February 2014 in a Leinster Senior Cup match, scoring a free kick. On 2 March 2014, Fahey scored the only goal as St Patrick's Athletic became the first team to win the FAI President's Cup, defeating Sligo Rovers in the process. His goal drew praise from Republic of Ireland manager Martin O'Neill and from Sligo Rovers' Alan Keane, who stated "A wonder goal won it, it was a great strike. No keeper in the world could have saved that."

Fahey started the first day of the season in the 1–1 away draw against Cork City. In the 1–1 draw away to Legia Warsaw in the second qualifying round of the UEFA Champions League, his through ball found Ian Bermingham who crossed for Christy Fagan's goal that gave Pats the lead. He started the return leg in Tallaght in which Pats lost 5–0. Fahey scored his first goal of the season against UCD in a 3–2 win. Overall Fahey made 26 league appearances scoring two goals throughout the season.

Shamrock Rovers
On 11 November 2014, Fahey switched to Shamrock Rovers. He announced his retirement in August 2015 having failed to recover from knee surgery. His last ever game of professional football was the 2–1 FAI Cup loss to his old club St Patrick's Athletic at Richmond Park as he was substituted off with his knee injury.