[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Co-operative economics

rmation is intentionally funneled through power channels)
 "Cooperation among Cooperatives" (in contrast to competition amongst firms)
 "Concern for Community" (in contrast to purely product or profit-oriented concerns)

An earlier summary of cooperative principles is called the Rochdale Principles.

Governments may define cooperative enterprises with a simplified version of the above principles. For example, the Australian government defines a cooperative enterprise as follows:"They serve their members by providing goods and services that may be unavailable or too costly to access as individuals. They share costs and carry on their enterprise under principles of:
 non-discrimination
 democracy
 independence
 education and care for communities."Cooperative economics is also distinct enough from capitalist economics in the public square that it has established and maintains its own domain (.coop).

Cooperatives, sustainable development, and climate change 
Jeffrey Sachs, an economist who works with the United Nations, has emphasized the centrality of cooperative models of economics for the future survival of our species; though he pays little attention to actual cooperative enterprises and their development as more sustainable and humane models of production, he nevertheless contends more broadly that humans must “forge a new era of cooperation on a global scale" in order to survive.

Elinor Ostrom, the first woman to receive the Nobel Prize in economics, demonstrated the ability of cooperative enterprises and organizations to effectively manage environmental goods more than strictly political or market means.

Forestry and electricity cooperatives are some of the largest in the world, which puts them in a unique position to address the negative effects of climate change. E. G. Nadeau provides some examples of what this means in his popular introduction to cooperative economics, The Cooperative Solution:    "Dairyland Power Cooperative, based in Wisconsin, has been a national leader in promoting the use of methane gas derived from cow manure as an energy resource. Kauai Island Utility Cooperative, the youngest generation and transmission cooperative in the United States, "is aggressively pursuing diversification of its energy portfolio to include a growing percentage of hydropower, photovoltaic, bio-fuel, and biomass"

Cooperative economics as an alternative to market societies 

Jessica Gordon Nembhard in her monograph Collective Courage concludes that:…cooperatives…use a sense of solidarity and concern for community to promote economic alternatives that create economic growth and sustainability. At the same time, their solidarity and collective action increase productivity and help stabilize their economic circumstances. Moreover, cooperative economics is often viewed as a tool or strategy of a larger movement toward the elimination of economic exploitation and the transition to a new social order.

Relevant organizations

National and international cooperative associations 
 International Cooperative Alliance
 United States Federation of Worker Cooperatives
 Canadian Worker Coop Federation
 Cooperatives UK
 Co-Op Federation (Australia)
 National Cooperative Business Association
 National Association of Housing Cooperatives
 National Cooperative Grocers Association

Cooperative organizations 
 Democracy at Work
 Cooperation Jackson
 Grassroots Economic Organizing
 Jobs With Justice
 Platform Cooperativism Consortium
 Purpose
 The Institute for Christian Socialism
 The Southeast Center for Cooperative Development
 The Working World
 The New Economy Coalition
 Zebras Unite

Cooperative funding and finance 
 Community Wealth
 National Consumer Cooperative Bank
 Association of Corporate Credit Unions
 Cooperative Finance Corporation
 Federal Home Loan Bank System
 Community Purchasing Alliance
 Capital Impact
 Cooperative Development Foundation
 Seed Commons
 Shared Capital Cooperative
 Transform Finance

Major figures 
Notable theoreticians and activists who have contributed to the field include Robert Owen, Pierre-Joseph Proudhon, Charles Gide, Beatrice and Sydney Webb, J.T.W. Mitchell, Peter Kropotkin, Paul Lambert, Race Mathews, David Griffiths, and G.D.H. Cole.  Additional theorists include John Stuart Mill, Laurence Gronlund, Leland Stanford, and modern theoretical work by Elinor Ostrom, Benjamin Ward, Jaroslav Vanek, David Ellerman, and Anna Milford and Roger McCain.  Additional modern thinkers include Nathan Schneider, John Restakis, Joyce Rothschild, Joerg Rieger, Rosemarie Henkel-Rieger, Jessica Gordon Nembhard, Corey Rosen et al., William Foote Whyte, Gar Alperovitz, Seymour Melman, Mario Bunge, Richard D. Wolff and David Schweickart. In Europe, important contributions came from England and Italy, especially from Will Bartlett, Virginie Perotin, Bruno Jossa, Stefano Zamagni, Carlo Borzaga, Jacques Defourny and Tom Winters.