[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Blaž Kraljević

Blaž Nikola Kraljević (19 September 1947 – 9 August 1992) was a Bosnian Croat paramilitary leader who commanded the Croatian Defence Forces (HOS) during the Bosnian War. An immigrant to Australia, Kraljević joined the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood (HRB) upon his arrival there in 1967. During his return to Yugoslavia in January 1992 he was appointed by Dobroslav Paraga, leader of the Croatian Party of Rights (HSP), as leader of the HOS in Bosnia and Herzegovina.

During the Bosnian War he advocated a Croat–Bosniak alliance, a view that ran counter to those of the Croatian government led by Croatian president Franjo Tuđman and his Croatian Democratic Union (HDZ) party. He denounced attempts by Mate Boban, president of the self-proclaimed Croatian Republic of Herzeg-Bosnia, and Radovan Karadžić, president of the self-proclaimed Republika Srpska, to divide Bosnia and Herzegovina and was appointed by Bosnian president Alija Izetbegović as a member of Staff of the Army of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina (ARBiH), shortly before his assassination by Croatian Defence Council (HVO) soldiers under the command of Mladen Naletilić. Just two months after his death, relations between the Croats and Bosniak would deteriorate completely, leading to the Croat-Bosniak War.

Early life
Blaž Kraljević was born on 19 September 1947 in the village of Lisice in the municipality of Ljubuški, in the People's Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Australia
In 1967, at the age of 19, he migrated to Australia where he was recruited by Srećko Rover into the Croatian Revolutionary Brotherhood (HRB), a pro-Ustaše group established in Australia in 1961.

Kraljević was assigned to a select squad of HRB members who were training in Australia for an armed covert incursion into northern Yugoslavia in 1972. This squad, known as the Bugojno group, entered Yugoslavia but failed in its mission, with 18 of the 19 men involved being either killed or executed by Yugoslav forces. Kraljević, however, was arrested and detained in Melbourne for liquor offences before the Bugojno group left Australia and therefore avoided this fate.

Kraljević resided in Kambah, an outer suburb of Canberra and worked as a bricklayer, but continued to be an active proponent of Croatian nationalism. He became a leading spokesman for the Australian branch of the Croatian National Council, an organisation lobbying for the destruction of Yugoslavia through whatever means necessary. In this role, he co-wrote articles defending the aims of the Council and the ideals of the Ustaša. He was also active in public protests against Yugoslavia, being arrested in 1978 for throwing bottles of red paint at the Yugoslav embassy in Canberra.

Breakup of Yugoslavia
Kraljević remained in Australia until 1990 when he returned to Yugoslavia to help fight for Croatian independence. In 1990 and 1991, Serb militias in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina, armed by and acting in concert with the well-equipped Yugoslav People's Army (JNA), seized large territories. The Croatian government began arming Croats in the Herzegovina region in 1991 and in the start of 1992, expecting that the Serbs would spread the war into Bosnia and Herzegovina.

In June 1991, the Croatian Defence Forces (HOS) was formed in Croatia by the Croatian Party of Rights (HSP). From July 1991 to January 1992, the JNA and Serb paramilitaries used Bosnian territory to wage attacks on Croatia. In November 1991, the autonomous Croatian Community of Herzeg-Bosnia (HZ-HB) was established, it claimed that it did not aim to secede and that it would serve a "legal basis for local self-administration" within the framework of Bosnia and Herzegovina, but not Yugoslavia. In December, Tuđman, in a conversation with Bosnian Croat leaders, said that "from the perspective of sovereignty, Bosnia-Herzegovina has no prospects" and recommended that Croatian policy "support for the sovereignty [of Bosnia and Herzegovina] until such time as it no longer suits Croatia." That same month HOS was disbanded by the Croatian government.

On 3 January 1992, Dobroslav Paraga, leader of the HSP, appointed Kraljević as leader of the HOS in Bosnia and Herzegovina and established its main headquarters in Ljubuški. It "supported Bosnian territorial integrity much more consistently and sincerely than the HVO" which supported a partition of Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was more accepting of Bosniaks in its ranks than the HVO and consisted of 5,000 volunteers that included Bosnian Croats, Bosniaks, and foreign volunteers.