[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christianity in Jordan

n.

King Abdullah II is an ardent supporter of Arab Christians:

Demographics
In 2022 Muslims made up about 97.2% of the country's population, while Christians made up 2.1% of the country's population. Half of the Christians, or 1.06% of the country's population, were Catholics (115,000 people).    

A 2015 study estimated 6,500 Christian believers, from a Muslim background, were in the country (mainly Protestant). 
Jordanian Christians number around 250,000, most of whom are ethnically Arab, according to a 2014 estimate by the Eastern Orthodox Church. The study excluded minority Christian groups and the thousands of Iraqi and Syrian Christians residing in Jordan.

Under sharia law converts from Islam are still considered Muslims; however, there are cases in which a Muslim will adopt the Christian faith, secretly declaring their faith. In effect, they are practising Christians, but legally Muslims; thus, the statistics of Jordanian Christians does not include Muslim converts to Christianity. A 2015 study estimates some 6,500 Christians from a Muslim background in Jordan.

Denominations
Among the recognized denominations the Greek Orthodox, Roman Catholic (Latin), Melkite Greek Catholic, Armenian Orthodox, Maronite Catholic, Anglican, and Syriac Orthodox Church make up the majority of Jordan's Christian population. Also the Lutheran, Coptic Orthodox, Seventh-day Adventist, United Pentecostal, Latter-day Saints, and Presbyterian churches are recognized denominations while they make up a much smaller proportion of the Christian population.

In addition to the recognized denominations there are religious societies that are allowed to meet freely, but are not recognized as churches by the government. The recognized religious societies are the Evangelical Free Church, the Church of the Nazarene, the Assembly of God, the Baptist Church, and the Christian and Missionary Alliance.

Christian denominations in Jordan belong to four major denominational groups:

 Protestantism:
 Evangelical
 Anglican Bishop in Jerusalem
 Lutheran
 Seventh-day Adventist
 United Pentecostal
 Presbyterian
 Eastern Orthodox
 Greek Orthodox Patriarchate of Jerusalem
 Oriental Orthodox:
 Armenian Patriarchate of Jerusalem
 Syriac Orthodox Church
 Coptic Orthodox Church
 Catholic:
 Latin Patriarchate of Jerusalem
 Melkite Catholic Archeparchy of Petra
 Syriac Catholic Patriarchal Exarchate of Jerusalem
 Armenian Catholic Church

Religious freedom

In 2023, the country was scored 2 out of 4 for religious freedom.

In the same year, the country was ranked as the 49th most difficult place in the world to be a Christian.

Sites

Biblical sites
Jordan is part of the Holy Land and has several biblical attractions that attract pilgrimage and tourist activities.
Biblical sites include; Al-Maghtas where Jesus was baptized by John the Baptist, Mount Nebo where Moses looked on to the Promised Land, Umm ar-Rasas a fortified Roman garrison that contains 16 Byzantine churches, Madaba that holds the Madaba Map which is the oldest mosaic map of the Holy Land, Machaerus which is a fortified hilltop overlooking the Dead Sea where John the Baptist was imprisoned and executed and Umm Qais (Gadara) where Jesus is thought to have expelled demons out of a man near the shores of the Sea of Galilee. In northern Jordan, there is a small creek where an angel met and wrestled with the patriarch Jacob.
The rock struck by Moses to bring forth water and the patriarch Aaron's tomb are both in southern Jordan. The ruins of the fortress of the Ammonites are on a mountain overlooking downtown Amman. This is the site where King David had Bathsheba's husband Uriah the Hittite killed.

Other sites
There are many Arab and Frankish castles from the period of the Crusades in Jordan. The most famous of which is Ajlun castle located in the Ajloun district in northern Jordan. Other castles include Montreal (Crusader castle) and Kerak.

Fuheis and Al Husn are two predominantly Christian towns of Jordan.

The world's oldest built church exists in the city of Aqaba, southern Jordan.

Christian institutions

Schools

There are many Christian schools in Jordan that educate students from both Christian and Muslim families. Some members of the royal family have attended a Christian school for a portion of their education.

The Rosary Sister's School is run by the Catholic Church.

The Franciscan Sisters School is run by the Franciscans.

The National Orthodox School is run by the Eastern Orthodox Church and has received The Cambridge Queen Rania Award multiple times.

The Ahliyyah School for Girls, the Bishop's School for Boys, and the Schneller School are run by the Anglican Church in Amman. There are also a school for the blind, a school for the deaf, and a school for physically handicapped students run by the Anglican church.