[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Francis Xavier Pierz

ners, and marched to Crow Wing.

The other Ojibwe chiefs, however, did not agree with the idea of going to war against the United States Federal Government and, with many Ojibwe warriors, moved into Fort Ripley to help defend the fort against a possible attack from forces incited by Hole in the Day.

When the news of the attempted uprising reached him, Fr. Pierz was visiting St. Cloud, Minnesota and staying with Mother Benedicta Riepp and the Benedictine Sisters. St. Cloud and the surrounding countryside panicked and many young men volunteered for military service, only to be immediately withdrawn for military operations against the Dakota, which left St. Cloud defenseless. Meanwhile, Fr. Pierz also left St. Cloud immediately, but ran towards the potential war zone rather than away from it. Upon reaching the war zone, Fr. Pierz approached Chief Hole in the Day's camp at great personal risk. After a considerable time arguing that he must see the Chief with the Ojibwe guards, who were under strict orders to shoot anyone, whether Ojibwe or White, who tried to cross the inner line and enter Hole in the Day's war camp, an older warrior, who was a Catholic convert, approached and said, "We have orders to allow no man to go beyond this line; now the black-robe says he must see the chiefs. There is no way of evading orders; we must carry the black-robe into the council. He thus does not go, but is carried, and that has not been forbidden."

When all other peace-making efforts had failed, Fr. Pierz convinced Chief Hole in the Day to call off the uprising, journey with him to Crow Wing, and sign a peace agreement with the United States Federal Government.

In 1863, Father Pierz sailed for Europe to recruit additional priests for the Minnesota missions. Among those who returned with him were Fathers Joseph Francis Buh (for whom Buh Township, in Morrison County, Minnesota is named), Ignaz Tomazin, and James Trobec (the future Bishop of Saint Cloud).

Following the death of his former mentor, Bishop Frederic Baraga, on January 19, 1868, Fr. Pierz eulogized him in a work of Slovenian poetry, which he titled Pesem od misijonarja Baraga.

After the June 27, 1868 contract killing of Chief Hole in the Day in the Gull Lake road by twelve hired gunmen from the Pillager Band, his son Ignatius Hole in the Day, a convert to Roman Catholicism and graduate of St. John's University in Collegeville, requested that his father receive a Catholic burial. As the Chief had been seriously considering converting to Catholicism but had never actually been baptized, Hole in the Day was buried by Fr. Pierz, without a Requiem Mass, in the unconsecrated section of the Roman Catholic cemetery at Old Crow Wing. In an interview during the 1920s, an elderly Catholic Ojibwe recalled that mobbed up Crow Wing political boss Clement Hudon Beaulieu and the other mixed race merchants with whom he had secretly hired the Pillager Band assassins, pretended at the time to be very scandalized by Fr. Pierz's burial of the Chief.

According to Ojibwe author and historian Anton Treuer, the oral tradition passed down among Hole in the Day's extended family is that the Chief's non-Catholic relatives objected for different reasons to Ignatius Hole in the Day's choice of burial. This is why they secretly dug up the Chief's body, and reburied him with traditional Ojibwe ritual at a secret location near the town of White Earth.

Last years and death

In 1871, Father Pierz reluctantly accepted the limitations of age and retired to the predominantly German parish of Rich Prairie, Morrison County. It was renamed Pierz in his honor. His health, however, continued to decline.

In a letter written on January 20, 1872, Father Pierz declared, "During the past year, my eyesight has failed me so that I am unable to read newspapers anymore. In the eighty-seventh year of my life my health is perceptively declining. Two years ago, I was still able to take care of twelve missions, Indian, German, English-speaking. This year my Right Rev. Bishop urged me to retire and live with him or at least take charge of some small German mission. Two attacks of apoplexy endangered my life; but my homeopathic medicines soon restored my health. At the present I hear a continued buzzing sound in my ears, reminding me strongly that the time has come to prepare for my last mission journey."

On September 6, 1873, Father Pierz sailed for Slovenia to live out his last years. After spending the winter at the Franciscan monastery in his native Kamnik, he moved to Ljubljana, where he lived for several years as a permanent guest in the Archdiocesan Chancery.  The Austro-Hungarian Crown awarded him a full pension.