[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Behold a Pale Horse (film)

as Carlos, a friend of Artiguez, also his traitor
 Paolo Stoppa as Pedro
 Mildred Dunnock as Pilar Artiquez, the dying mother of Artiguez
 Christian Marquand as Zaganar
 Carlo Angeletti ("Marietto") as Paco
 Daniela Rocca as Rosanna
 Rosalie Crutchley as Teresa Viñolas
 Michael Lonsdale as Reporter

Production
Behold a Pale Horse was coproduced by Columbia Pictures along with Zinnemann (Highland Productions) and Peck (Brentwood Productions). The Spanish government, in opposition to the film's subject matter, refused to permit location filming within Spain. Exterior shots were filmed in France at Biarritz on la Côte Basque and in locations in Béarn such as Pau, Oloron, Gotein-Libarrenx, La Brèche de Roland, the basilica at Lourdes and at St. Maurice Studios in Vincennes. The film's sets were designed by the art directors Auguste Capelier and Alexandre Trauner.

Anthony Quinn had initially requested the role of Artiguez, but Zinnemann, wishing to avoid typecasting, instead awarded Quinn the opposing role of the villain Viñolas. Several Spanish refugees were used to play the parts of Franco's Guardia Civil officers. The American leftist political activist Allard K. Lowenstein assisted by making contact between the filmmakers and anti-Francoist Spanish exiles in France. Zinnemann wanted Gregory Peck to meet actual political refugees living in France.

Filming began on June 13, 1963, and continued for more than 100 days, running nearly a month over schedule. After Columbia previewed the film for American audiences, the studio added an introductory sequence to provide background relating to the Spanish Civil War; clips from the documentary To Die in Madrid were interspersed with dialogue explaining the conflict.

Music

The score for Behold a Pale Horse was composed and conducted by Maurice Jarre. The instrumentation consists mainly of Spanish-style guitar, woodwind instruments, harpsichord and harp.

The score was originally released by Colpix Records as an LP in the United States and as a two-track EP in France. In April 2007, Film Score Monthly rereleased the score on CD (including the two unique tracks from the EP) accompanied by the score to Damn the Defiant.

The score's main theme was also featured on the 1992 CD Maurice Jarre at Abbey Road, with Jarre conducting the Royal Philharmonic Orchestra.

Release
Despite Peck's promotional tours in the U.S. and those of Zinnemann in London and Paris, the film did not enjoy box-office success, and receipts could not recoup production costs. According to Zinnemann, this was because the Spanish Civil War had slipped from the memories of its audience.

Because of scenes showing Viñolas with a mistress and taking bribes, the Spanish government not only disallowed filming within Spain, but prohibited Columbia Pictures from distributing any of its films in Spain. As a result, Columbia was compelled to sell its Spanish distribution arm and remained inactive in the country until it agreed to release several Spanish films outside of Spain years later. Months prior to the release of the film, Columbia vice president M. J. Frankovich estimated that the studio had lost millions of dollars for having proceeded with production against the wishes of the Spanish government.

The film was scheduled to be broadcast nationally in the United States by ABC in December 1966, but Columbia delayed the airing to prevent the continuation of the Spanish boycott of Columbia's films. It finally aired on ABC on January 26, 1967.

Reception 
In a contemporary review for The New York Times, critic Bosley Crowther wrote:It is a shame that a film made as beautifully as 'Behold a Pale Horse' and that has as much atmosphere in it as this one unquestionably has should be short on dramatic substance and emotional urgency. But that is what is missing in this picture ... The antagonists, whose hates and terrors are never made to come forth with heat, are curiously kept in different cities until the last blazing scene in the film. Their passions are academic, their determinations vague and abstract. The tension—what there is of it—is acted mainly by casual go-betweens. Indeed, it is difficult to determine just what is going on as characters move about loosely from San Martin to Pau to Lourdes—and then back to the Spanish city for the denouement. But by that time you'll likely feel indifferent about what happens ... The drama is too diffuse for excitement. As we said, it's a shame.

Responding to criticism that Behold a Pale Horse bore similarities to the previous year's Lawrence of Arabia, which featured two of the same lead actors, director Fred Zinnemann said: "I don't feel any obligation to be successful, success can be dangerous—you feel you know it all. I've learned a great deal from my failures."

Omar Sharif called Behold a Pale Horse a "bad film" by a "good director."

See also

 1964 in film
 Assassinations in fiction
 List of American films of 1964
 List of war films and TV specials