[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edward Harley (Parliamentarian)

rince Rupert taking many Royalist troops north for the Marston Moor campaign, Parliamentarian forces were able to capture Monmouth in September. Harley was appointed Governor, before dissension among the garrison and hostility from the locals allowed the Royalists to retake the town in November.

  

When the New Model Army was formed in April 1645, Harley was given command of one of its twelve authorised infantry regiments; the previous colonel, Harry Barclay, and his deputy John Innes, were Scottish professional soldiers who resigned under orders from the Covenanter government. His appointment appears to have been a political decision, since many officers proposed by Oliver Cromwell and Sir Thomas Fairfax were religious Independents or political radicals. Their commissions had to be approved by Parliament, whose moderate Presbyterian majority viewed them with considerable unease. 

Parliament presumably hoped Harley would counterbalance some of his radical officers, which included Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Pride, leader of Pride's Purge in December 1648, and future regicide Captain William Goffe. In reality, command was generally exercised by Pride, since Harley spent very little time with the regiment. He missed Naseby after being wounded in another skirmish outside Ledbury in April 1645, and was appointed Governor of Canon Frome in August, which meant he did not participate in the New Model's Western Campaign. Regional forces like Massey's Western Association continued to exist independently of the New Model, and in January 1646 Harley was appointed Commander of Horse for Herefordshire and Radnorshire. He was also one of the delegates who negotiated the surrender of Oxford, the Royalist war-time capital whose capitulation in June 1646 effectively ended the war.  

However, victory resulted in increasingly bitter disputes over the post-war political settlement between radicals within the New Model like Oliver Cromwell, and Parliamentary moderates, the most prominent being Denzil Holles. At the same time, Parliament's desperate economic position made reducing the number of men under arms a matter of urgency. Seeking to ensure his own troops were retained and to re-assert his position in local politics, Harley became involved in a power struggle with the other prominent Parliamentarian in the region, Colonel John Birch, Governor of Hereford.       

In September 1646, Harley supported a proposal to dissolve those forces commanded by Birch, whom he then defeated in a By-election for Herefordshire. Although the Self-denying Ordinance required MPs to resign their military positions, Harley retained his commission in the New Model. However, once in Parliament he sided with those who feared and resented the growing political influence of the military, and became one of its most significant opponents. Along with Holles, Waller and Massey, in June 1647 he was among the Eleven Members the army demanded be removed from Parliament. The MPs complied, allegedly "to avoid bloodshed".

Pride's Purge and the Interregnum  

Harley took no part in the Second English Civil War, and formally resigned his commission in August 1648, before resuming his seat in Parliament. Along with his father and younger brother Robert, he opposed the Trial of Charles I and was one of the MPs excluded by Pride's Purge in December 1648. During the Interregnum that followed the Execution of Charles I in January 1649, he was arrested several times, although he avoided involvement in Royalist agitation, unlike Robert.  

The continuing influence of the Harley family in local politics was demonstrated in September 1656 when Edward was returned as MP for Herefordshire in the Second Protectorate Parliament, despite a concerted effort by The Protectorate authorities to prevent it. However, he was promptly barred from Parliament by Cromwell for challenging his appointment as Lord Protector. His father died in December and Harley inherited his estates; these had been badly damaged by the war, and he spent the new few years restoring them.

The Restoration and after
Harley returned to the Commons when the Long Parliament was re-installed in February 1660, and in April was re-elected for Herefordshire in the Convention Parliament. After the Stuart Restoration in May, Charles II made him Deputy lieutenant of Herefordshire, Custos Rotulorum of Radnorshire, and Governor of Dunkirk. Occupied by England since 1658, Harley was committed to the town's retention, but was removed as Governor in 1661, shortly before Charles sold it to France in October 1662.