[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# O'Higgins F.C.

feated 2–1. In the fifth match the club traveled to Colombia to face Deportivo Cali at Estadio Olímpico Pascual Guerrero, where Yerson Opazo scored one of the best goals in the tournament from about 30 meters, but Deportivo Cali's Néstor Camacho tied the game at 1–1, and it finished with that score.

In the last group stage match against Lanus, O'Higgins returned to Estadio El Teniente after its renovation for the 2015 Copa América. O'Higgins had the chance to make the next round, but Calandria's penalty was saved by Agustín Marchesín, and the game ended 0–0, which meant the celestes were eliminated from the cup. O'Higgins finished with 7 points and in third place of its group.

In the Clausura 2014, O'Higgins ended in third place with 30 points, and in the Accumulated Table as second with 69 points, (surpassing Colo-Colo, Clausura champions) which qualified it to play the Supercopa de Chile to see who would be the Superchampion. The game was played at the Estadio San Carlos de Apoquindo against 2013–14 Copa Chile champion Deportes Iquique. Iquique started winning the match with a goal from Rodrigo Ezequiel Díaz, and O'Higgins leveled the score five minutes before the end of the first half with a goal from Luis Pedro Figueroa. The match ended 1–1 after 120 minutes and went into penalties. O'Higgins won 3–2 after Rodrigo Brito of Deportes Iquique missed his penalty, unleashing the joy of over 6,000 celeste fans who came to the Santiago Metropolitan Region, and becoming the second Superchampion of Chilean football.

Sava and Sánchez: After Berizzo era

Shortly after winning the Supercopa, Berizzo leaves O'Higgins and signs a contract with Spanish club Celta de Vigo. Berizzo also signed Pablo Hernández and took him to Celta, while Facundo Sava, a friend of Berizzo, became the new coach in June 2014, but he was fired because of irregular results in January 2015. After that, another Argentine took charge of the club, this time Pablo Sánchez.

Facilities

Stadium 

The club's home ground is Estadio El Teniente, built in September 1945 and located in Rancagua, being named Braden Copper Company Stadium, because that company was the stadium's owner. The first professional game was during the 1955 Primera División tournament, in a match that O'Higgins won 3–2 to Ferrobádminton.

In 1960, after the 9.5 earthquake of Valdivia that destroyed the original venues of the 1962 FIFA World Cup, the Chilean delegation designed the city of Rancagua as a venue, after the refusal of Valparaíso and Antofagasta. The first international match was between Argentina and Bulgaria, where with a goal of Héctor Facundo, the South Americans defeated the Europeans on 30 May. El Teniente was the home stadium of all Group D matches, and one quarter-final game between West Germany and Yugoslavia.

The Government of Chile acquired the 51% of shares to United States' Braden Copper Company in 1967, as part of the copper nationalization, that culminated four years later, becoming property of Codelco Chile, being re–named with the current name of Parque El Teniente, in reference to mine ubicated in locality of Machalí.

A new stadium with capacity for 14,087 persons was confirmed by the club's owner Ricardo Abumohor in 2013, and the old stadium was demolished in 2014.

The new stadium was inaugurated on 8 April 2014. In the inaugural match, O'Higgins played against Lanús for the week 6 of the 2014 Copa Libertadores. The final result was 0–0, marking the elimination of the club from the competition, because it needed a victory to advance to the next round. In 2015, it hosted two group stage matches of the 2015 Copa América.

Monasterio Celeste

The training facilities of the club are called the Monasterio Celeste, located on the outskirts of Rancagua, exactly in Requínoa. It replaces the old complex La Gamboína, which until 2014 was the training ground of the club.

The complex consists of seven pitches of natural grass, a mini-stadium of artificial grass, and a hotel with the facilities for the team.

The complex was finished in 2014, but O'Higgins trained there for the first time on 4 January 2013. It was a national team host complex for the 2015 Copa América.

Players

Since the club's establishment in April 1955, more than one thousand of the players on the team have been Chilean. Aníbal González is the historic top−scorer of the club with 117 goals in all competitions. Mario Desiderio is considered the best player in the club's history.

1. Only includes Campeonato Nacional, Copa Chile and international competitions. Bold indicates player is still active.

Foreign players like Federico Vairo have also been important players in the history of club. During the mid–1960s, Vairo was a former River Plate player, earning three consecutive Primera División titles, alongside players like the keeper Amadeo Carrizo, the midfielder Omar Sívori, among others.