[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Ben Nevis

statue of the DC Thomson character Oor Wullie to the top of the mountain. The statue, which had been painted by Roulston with a 360 degree scene of the view from the summit was later sold at the Oor Wullie Big Bucket Trail charity auction to raise money for a number of Scottish children's charities.

Environmental issues and Nevis Landscape Partnership 
Ben Nevis's popularity and high-profile have led to concerns in recent decades over the impact of humans on the fragile mountain environment within the Ben Nevis and Glen Coe National Scenic Area. These concerns contributed to the creation of The Nevis Landscape Partnership, a five-year programme which aimed to protect, enhance and future-proof Ben Nevis by delivering nineteen ambitious environmental projects between 2014 and 2019. The Nevis Landscape Partnership is supported by five partner organisations (John Muir Trust, Forestry Commission Scotland, The Highland Council, Scottish Natural Heritage and The Nevis Partnership) and was made possible by Heritage Lottery Funding.

With the 5-year programme now finished, there have been significant positive changes implemented by Nevis Landscape Partnership and their projects, most significantly the upgrades to the Ben Nevis Mountain Track. Work to upgrade the mountain track started in November 2015 after two contracts were awarded to McGowan Ltd. and Cairngorm Wilderness Contracts. Between 2015 and 2019, 3.5 km of path has been repaired through eight separate contracts and 3,323 hours of volunteer time.

Volunteers help to maintain the mountain track. Nevis Landscape Partnership and National Trust for Scotland have run Thistle Camp Working Holidays which have focused on maintenance on the first section of the Ben Nevis footpath.

Ben Nevis Distillery 
The Ben Nevis Distillery is a single malt whisky distillery at the foot of the mountain, near Victoria Bridge to the north of Fort William. Founded in 1825 by John McDonald (known as "Long John"), it is one of the oldest licensed distilleries in Scotland, and is a popular visitor attraction in Fort William. The water used to make the whisky comes from the , the stream that flows from Ben Nevis's northern corrie. "Ben Nevis" 80/‒ organic ale is, by contrast, brewed in Bridge of Allan near Stirling.

Other uses 
Ben Nevis was the name of a White Star Line packet ship which in 1854 carried the group of immigrants who were to become the Wends of Texas. At least another eight vessels have carried the name since then.

A mountain in Svalbard is also named Ben Nevis, after the Scottish peak. It is 922 metres high, and is south of the head of Raudfjorden, Albert I Land, in the northwestern part of the island of Spitsbergen.

A comic strip character, Wee Ben Nevis, about a Scottish Highlands boarding school student with superhuman strength and his antics were featured in the British comic The Beano from 1974 to 1977, named after the mountain.

Hung Fa Chai, a 489-metre hill in Northeast New Territories of Hong Kong was marked as Ben Nevis on historical colonial maps.

See also 

 Mountains and hills of Scotland
 National Three Peaks Challenge
 Northwest Spitsbergen National Park Norway - includes a mountain called Ben Nevis. Its height is 918 metres and it is located at Northwest Spitsbergen National Park
 The Remarkables, New Zealand – mountain range containing a peak also called Ben Nevis
 Scottish Highlands
 Scafell Pike
 Snowdon

Footnotes

References 
Notes

Bibliography

External links 

 Ben Nevis Photo Tour – 57 images from the Car Park to the Summit and Back via the Tourist Trail
 Nevis Partnership – Environmental and visitor management in the Nevis area
 Computer generated digital panoramas from Ben Nevis: North South index
 Ben Nevis Webcam
360munros.co.uk - Ben Nevis 360° Virtual Tours
 Ben Nevis. Munros Table. Scottish Mountaineering Club.

 
Climbing areas of Scotland
Death in the United Kingdom
Devonian volcanism
Highest points of countries
Highest points of historic Scottish counties
Lochaber
Munros
Marilyns of Scotland
Mountains and hills of Highland (council area)
Mountaineering deaths
Mountaineering disasters
Mountains and hills of the Central Highlands
National scenic areas of Scotland
One-thousanders of Scotland
Sites of Special Scientific Interest in North Lochaber
Special Areas of Conservation in Scotland
Volcanism of Scotland