[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 183]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ul. "I doubt it," she said.

"Yet you have brilliantly done what you meant to do."

"My own experience does not overshadow my judgment entirely, I hope,"
said Algitha. "I have seen too much of a certain tragic side of life to
be able to lay down a law of that sort. I can't believe, for instance,
that among all those millions in the East End, not _one_ man or woman,
for all these ages, was born with great capacities, which better
conditions might have allowed to come to fruition. I think you were
right, after all. It is a matter of relation."

The autumn was unusually fine, and the colours sumptuous beyond
description. The vast old trees that grew so tall and strong, in the
genial English soil, burnt away their summer life in a grand
conflagration.

Hubert had successfully carried the day with regard to the important
case which had taken him abroad, and had now returned to Craddock Dene.
Henriette came to stay at the Red House.

She followed her brother, one day, into the smoking-room, and there,
with much tact and circumlocution, gave him to understand that she
thought Hadria was becoming more sensible; that she was growing more
like other people, less opinionated, wiser, and better in every way.

"Hadria was always very sweet, of course," said Henriette, "but she had
the faults of her qualities, as we all have. You have had your trials,
dear Hubert, but I rejoice to believe that Hadria will give you little
further cause for pain or regret." Hubert made no reply. He placed the
tips of his fingers together and looked into the fire.

"I think that the companionship of Lady Engleton has been of great
service to Hadria," he observed, after a long pause.

"Unquestionably," assented Henriette. "She has had an enormous influence
upon her. She has taught Hadria to see that one may hold one's own ideas
quietly, without flying in everybody's face. Lady Engleton is a
pronounced agnostic, yet she never misses a Sunday at Craddock Church,
and I am glad to see that Hadria is following her example. It must be a
great satisfaction to you, Hubert. People used to talk unpleasantly
about Hadria's extremely irregular attendance. It is such a mistake to
offend people's ideas, in a small place like this."

"That is what I told Hadria," said Hubert, "and her mother has been
speaking seriously to her on the subject. Hadria made no opposition,
rather to my surprise. She said that she would go as regularly as our
dining-room clock, if it gave us all so much satisfaction."

"How charming!" cried Henriette benevolently, "and how characteristic!"

As Hadria sank in faith and hope, she rose in the opinion of her
neighbours. She was never nearer to universal unbelief than now, when
the orthodox began to smile upon her.

Life presented itself to her as a mere welter of confused forces. If
goodness, or aspiration, or any godlike thing arose, for a moment--like
some shipwrecked soul with hands out-stretched above the waves--swiftly
it sank again submerged, leaving only a faint ripple on the surface,
soon overswept and obliterated.

She could detect no light on the face of the troubled waters. Looking
around her at other lives, she saw the story written in different
characters, but always the same; hope, struggle, failure. The pathos of
old age wrung her heart; the sorrows of the poor, the lonely, the
illusions of the seeker after wealth, the utter vanity of the objects of
men's pursuit, and the end of it all!

"I wonder what is the secret of success, Hadria?"

"Speaking generally, I should say to have a petty aim."

"Then if one succeeds after a long struggle," said Algitha pensively.

"One finds it, I doubt not, the dismalest of failures."

A great cloud of darkness seemed to have descended over the earth.
Hadria felt cut off even from Nature. The splendours of the autumn
appeared at a vast distance from her. They belonged to another world.
She could not get near them. Mother earth had deserted her child.

A superficial apathy was creeping over her, below which burnt a slow
fire of pain. But the greater the apathy, which expressed itself
outwardly in a sort of cheerful readiness to take things as they came,
the more delighted everybody appeared to be with the repentant sinner.
Her associates seemed to desire earnestly that she should go to church,
as they did, in her best bonnet----and why not? She would get a best
bonnet, as ridiculous as they pleased, and let Mr. Walker do his worst.
What did it matter? Who was the better or the worse for what she thought
or how she acted? What mattered it, whether she were consistent or not?
What mattered it if she seemed, by her actions, to proclaim her belief
in dogmas that meant nothing to her, except as interesting products of
the human mind? She had not enough faith to make it worth while to stand
alone.

Lord Engleton said he thought it right to go to church regularly, for
the sake of setting an example