[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Australian Fair Pay and Conditions Standard

ion Scales (APCSs), and casual loadings. The default minimum casual loading for employees not covered by an industrial instrument was set to 20 percent. The commission also had the power to set minimum rates of pay for juniors, trainees and apprentices, employees with disabilities and piece workers.

The Fair Pay Commission had the power to decide the timing, scope and frequency of wage reviews, the manner in which they were conducted and when wage decisions would come into effect. Employees who were not covered by an APCS (other than juniors, trainees and apprentices, employees with disabilities and piece workers) had to be paid at least the FMW, which had initially been $12.75 per hour. The first decision of the AFPC raised the minimum wage to $13.47 per hour as of 1 December 2006 . It was subsequently raised to $13.74 in July 2007  and $14.31 in July 2008 . The AFPC decided not to increase the FMW in 2009 .

Criticism 
Opponents of the WorkChoices reforms, such as the Australian Council of Trade Unions, had a range of criticisms of the changes. In terms of the Standard, the main criticisms were that it would not protect minimum wages and that it would undermine many conditions and entitlements workers previously enjoyed. The option of cashing out annual leave, although only possible under specific conditions, was also cited as something which would undermine previous entitlements.

Minimum wages 
The standard was criticised by the ACTU on the grounds that the Australian Fair Pay Commission was not as independent as the Australian Industrial Relations Commission. According to the ACTU, the Howard government wanted to reduce the minimum wage and it claimed that it would appoint people to the Fair Pay Commission who would carry out its agenda. This argument was based partially on the Howard government's previous opposition to minimum wage increases.

Replacing the award safety net 
The ACTU claimed the five minimum conditions was not sufficiently comprehensive. They argued employees could lose entitlements they previously had, including wage rates based on skill levels, standard hours of work, work-related allowances, annual leave loading, redundancy pay, overtime pay, and weekend and shift work rates of pay. Employees who previously had these entitlements under an industrial instrument would retain them. However, because they were not covered by the Standard, they could be subject to negotiation between employers and employees in an Australian Workplace Agreement.

During a Senate Estimates hearing on 29 May 2006, Peter McIlwain, Head of the Office of the Employment Advocate detailed that from a sample of 4 per cent, or 250, of the total 6,263 AWAs lodged during April 2006 after WorkChoices was introduced:
 100% of AWAs removed at least one protected award condition
 64% of AWAs removed annual leave loadings
 63% of AWAs removed penalty rates
 52% of AWAs cut out shift loadings
 40% of AWAs dropped gazetted public holidays
 16% of AWAs removed all award conditions and only met the five minimum conditions of the Standard.

Abolition under the Fair Work Act 
As part of its industrial relations changes, the Rudd government proposed to augment the Standard by creating 10 National Employment Standards. It released a discussion paper calling for public feedback on 14 February 2008. In addition to the existing matters dealt with under the Standard, the National Employment Standards also covered matters relating to requests for flexible working arrangements, community service leave, long service leave, public holidays, notice of termination and redundancy pay, and requirements for an information statement to be provided to employees. When the Fair Work Act 2009 was passed by the Rudd government and came into effect on 1 January 2010, the Standard ceased to exist.

References 

Australian labour law
Standards of Australia
Employment compensation
Minimum wage law
Leave of absence
2006 in Australian law
Employment in Australia