[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lazarus Joseph

ildren with a matron in charge. In 1934 he proposed two anti-Nazi propaganda bills which were passed by the New York State Senate without discussion. In 1945 he proposed the establishment of two New York State-financed medical colleges, as a way to  overcome the quota system against Jewish students.

He was elected New York City Comptroller in 1945, becoming the city's first Orthodox Jewish Comptroller, and served until 1954.   He campaigned saying he would work to get the city its fair share of New York State taxes, to clear out slums, to construct new schools, to ease traffic congestion, to make the transportation system more modern, and to increase city-operated health and hospital services. The New York Times praised Joseph after his election on the Democratic-American Labor Party ticket, stating that "In the eleven years that he served as a member of the State Senate, Lazarus Joseph earned a reputation as an expert in budgetary and financial matters and as an authority on real estate law and finance." The November 7, 1945, article goes on to note that he also earned "a wide reputation on budget matters in State Senate sponsored mortgage legislation."  This opinion was echoed by former New York State Governor Herbert H. Lehman, to whom he was a close financial advisor, who called Joseph "an industrious, conscientious and far-sighted public servant. During his terms as Comptroller, Joseph tackled budgetary issues facing the city, facing many years in which the city prospered, and others in which the city did not fare as well. New York City had a series of bond issues during the latter years of Joseph's tenure, and he traveled to Albany to request the governor's assistance in funding the city's budgetary deficits. Some of the issues affecting Joseph that were widely reported included his support for keeping New York City transit fares limited to 10 cents (fares rose to 15 cents in 1953 ($ in current dollar terms)), and the attempted closing of WNYC to curtail budget constraints upon the city. He prodded the city to keep expenditures down, was against borrowing to meet expenses. In September 1947 he led a parade of 15,000 Zionists and Zionist sympathizers as Grand Marshal, before 100,000 Bronxites.

As New York City Comptroller, Joseph participated in the 1948 groundbreaking of the United Nations headquarters in New York City.

During the 1950 mayoral election, Joseph declared that Acting Mayor Vincent Impellitteri – who was running for the mayoral post – "had neither the experience nor ability to be Mayor of New York City," and lacked "sufficient experience" with only two months in the post, and called Impellitteri's Estimate Board record "blank."  Nonetheless, Impellitteri went on to be re-elected.

Joseph was Chairman of the New York Olympic Committee in 1952.

Although Joseph usually sided in the New York City Board of Estimate with Mayor Impellitteri during the latter's term in office, Joseph supported Manhattan Borough President Robert F. Wagner Jr. for the Democratic nomination for mayor in the 1953 primary election. Correct in his prediction, Joseph called Wagner a "sure winner."

Considered a kingpin in the New York political arena, Joseph was lobbied for support of major projects affecting the City of New York.  Eleanor Roosevelt mentions meeting with Joseph to advocate for the preservation of social welfare projects.

Upon the close of his eight years in office as Comptroller, Joseph left the city with cautionary advice; "that it is easy to borrow, but the reckoning always must be met in the expense budget, and by the taxpayer." His warning was not heeded, as debt load led the city into bankruptcy some 20 years later, when President Gerald Ford refused to assist New York with its deficit.

After serving as Comptroller, he returned to the practice of law, focusing on real estate matters and trusts.

Philanthropy 
Joseph was noted as a philanthropist prior to being elected to public office. He was active in and raised funds for many charities, including the 92nd Street Y, United Jewish Appeal, and the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York. He was Chairman of the Bronx Division of the Federation for the Support of Jewish Philanthropic Societies, and in 1951 was co-Chairman of the Greater New York Israel Independence Bond Drive. He was also a board member of the Hebrew Home for Chronic Invalids, later known as Maimonides Medical Center.

Joseph lent his name to assist charities with which he identified, as he was a guest of honor in December 1934 at a fundraiser for the Hebrew Home. He also played an active role as a board member in the Rabbi Jacob Joseph School, a yeshiva co-founded by his father in 1900, named after his grandfather, New York City's first and only chief rabbi.