[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Japanese Chinese cuisine

thentic Chinese cuisine. They also cater to Japanese tastes. Currently, most towns in Japan have at least one Chinese eatery, as the cuisine is very popular. There are also many packaged sauces available to easily cook favorite Chinese-Japanese dishes right at home. Some of these typical dishes are:

Dishes derived from Sichuan cuisine:
Mābō-dōfu (麻婆豆腐) are stir fried dishes of ground pork mixture with tofu cubes (mābō-dōfu) in a slightly spicy sauce.
Mābō-nasu (麻婆茄子) are stir fried dishes of ground pork with eggplant (mābō-chezu) in a slightly spicy sauce. The dish was popularized in Japan by Chen Kenmin in 1952.
Ebi no Chili Sauce (えびのチリソース) is a spicy, thick-sauced shrimp dish. As the name suggests, chili sauce is used.
Hoi Kō Rō (回鍋肉) is a stir-fry of thinly sliced pork and cabbage in a miso-based sauce and pinch of chilli . 
Banbanji (棒棒鶏) is a cold dish of steamed chicken which is shredded and covered in a sesame sauce. It is often accompanied by cold vegetables such as carrot and cucumber as a salad or appetizer.
Dishes derived from Fujian cuisine:
Chin-jao Rōsu (青椒肉絲; also called pepper steak) is a stir-fry of thinly sliced beef strips with Japanese green peppers and often bean sprouts in an oyster sauce.
Champon (ちゃんぽん) is a ramen-like dish, topped with fried pork, seafood, and vegetables
Dishes derived from Cantonese cuisine:
Subuta (酢豚) is the Japanese take on sweet and sour pork. It usually has a thicker, amber-colored sauce, unlike the striking orange or red of the Americanized version. Also unlike the American version, it does not typically contain pineapple. Another common dish substitutes the fried pork in this dish with small fried meat-balls, called "niku-dango".  Chicken is sometimes used as a substitute to pork for this dish .
Chāshū (チャーシュー) is derived from char siu (叉燒 barbecued pork tenderloin ). However, while the original Cantonese version is roasted after marinating in a sweet sauce that gives it a red colour, the Japanese version is instead stewed in honey and soy sauce and is in light brown colour .
Shumai (焼売 or シュウマイ) is a type of traditional Chinese dumpling made with pork or glutinous rice . 
Chūkadon (中華丼) is a Cantonese-style stir fry of vegetables and meat on top of rice.
Dishes derived from Northeast Chinese cuisine:
Gyōza (餃子 or ギョーザ), as mentioned before, are a very popular dish in Japan. Most often, they are seen in their pan-fried form, but they can be served boiled as dumplings or even deep fried, as well.  They are also commonly found in Ramen shops as well as general Chuka restaurants.
Kani-tama (かに玉 or 蟹玉) is very similar to the Americanized Egg foo young, but exclusively using crabmeat as the filling. It is served with a thick, brownish sauce, like its American counterpart.

Dishes derived from Jiangsu cuisine:

Chāhan (炒飯 or チャーハン) is sometimes called "yakimeshi", literally meaning fried rice. It is very different from fried rice found in American Chinese or authentic Chinese restaurants, as it uses Japanese short-grain rice, which generally has a stickier consistency than that used in other countries. Additionally, though there are many different recipes using such diverse ingredients as Welsh onion, ground pork, crab, bamboo shoots, the classic Japanese fried rice does not use soy sauce, remaining white when served. It typically uses egg, green peas, and thinly sliced ham.
Shoronpo is the Japanese pronunciation of Xiao Long Bao (小籠包), a steamed juicy pork dumpling (also called a "soup dumpling"), popularized in Shanghai.

Dishes derived from Zhejiang cuisine:

Buta no Kakuni (豚の角煮) is thick slices of pork bellies stewed in a soy sauce based mixture, often served with Shanghai bok choi and Chinese mustard.

Other dishes:
Kara-age (唐揚, lit. Chinese Fry) are bite-sized pieces of chicken thigh, dipped in a thick batter and fried. Usually, it is served without sauce. Some restaurants serve this with a salt and pepper mixture on the side for dipping, and some recipes call for a mixture of soy sauce, vinegar and scallions similar to that used on dumplings.
Yūrinchi (油淋鶏, lit. "oil-drenched chicken") is deep-fried chicken or karaage topped with a vinegar and soy sauce-based sweet-and-sour sauce and chopped scallions, often served on a bed of shredded lettuce.
Harumaki (春巻き, lit. "Spring Rolls") are very similar to those found in Americanized Chinese restaurants, with a thin wrapper and vegetables inside.
Nikuman (肉まん) or Chukaman (中華まん, lit. Chinese-style steamed bun) is the Japanese name for Chinese baozi, steamed buns filled with cooked ground pork, beef, and/or other ingredients.
Tenshindon (天津丼), also known as Tenshinhan (天津飯), is a dish of crab meat omelette (Kani-tama) over rice. The dish name derived from the port city of Tianjin in China.

See also

 Chinese cuisine
 Japanese cuisine
 Korean Chinese cuisine
 Chinese people in Japan

References

External links