[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Homero Aridjis

rried Betty Ferber. They have two daughters, Eva Aridjis, a filmmaker in New York City (Niños de la calle, La Santa Muerte, The Favor, The Blue Eyes, "Chuy, el hombre lobo") and writer Chloe Aridjis, in London (Asunder, Book of Clouds, Sea Monsters. Topografía de lo insólito).

Critical appreciation

Octavio Paz: "In the poetry of Homero Aridjis there is the gaze, the pulse of the poet, the discontinuous time of practical and rational life and the continuity of desire and death: there is the poet's primal truth."
Kenneth Rexroth: "He is a visionary poet of lyrical bliss, crystalline concentrations and infinite spaces... I can think of no poet of Aridjis' generation in the Western Hemisphere who is as much at ease in the blue spaces of illumination – the illumination of transcending love. These are words for a new Magic Flute." (Introduction to "Blue Spaces")
Juan Rulfo: "The poetry of Homero Aridjis is a symbol of love. His work is very beautiful, above all, his style is very original, very novel."
Guillermo Sucre: "All his poetry – ever since "Antes del reino" (1963)-- is a continual conquest of splendor."
Seamus Heaney: "Homero Aridjis' poems open a door into light."
Mirándola dormir:
Joaquín Marco: "Mirándola dormir" is one of the most beautiful, profound and invigorating love poems in our language."
José Miguel Oviedo: "Mirándola dormir" is a work of exceptional intensity and beauty. An admirable poetic prose has been the ideal channel for this erotic crossing. Handled with perfect control of its rhythms, its internal breathing and the precise integrity of its sounds, it has shown the voice of the Mexican poet in all its deep singularity."
Persephone:
André Pieyre de Mandiargues: "This vast poem in prose which is narrative but never stops being poetic, which is realistic but always fantastical, is a unique book in contemporary literature. The power of this poem, or of this scandalous and fascinating illumination, is incomparable."
Harvard Bookshelf: "A dazzling work of literature in any tradition, or language, by any standards."
Le Nouvel Observateur: "Aridjis reinvents the multiplicity of language with rare mastery. This poetical form gives the story a new and splendid dimension."
1492: The Life and Times of Juan Cabezón of Castile:
The New York Times Book Review: "Succeeds in magisterially recreating that woeful and bizarre period of Spanish history that prefigured the discovery and conquest of America. The overall effect is one of splendidly rendered originality and authenticity... Swarms of minor characters cannot fail to remind us of classics like Cervantes' Don Quixote or of certain canvases by Velázquez or El Greco."
The Times Literary Supplement: "An extraordinary account of religious persecution in the fifteenth century. The sense of menace and threat that Aridjis conjures up is extraordinary."
La Quinzaine Litteraire: "This superb book reads like the wind, like an epic chronicle. Homero Aridjis retrieves, through the miracle of his magical prose, the very essence of the twilight of Spain."
Le Soir (Brussels): "With 1492, Homero Aridjis has achieved a novel of exceptional grandeur."
The Guardian (England): "A book of remarkable imaginative power, a looming shadow of a book, a pit and a pendulum all in one, measuring and burying, remorselessly bizarre. It is impossible not to respect the eloquence which Aridjis brings to lives facing the threat of sudden death at every point and the subtlety with which he insists that the death of the spirit is more terrible than anything that may befall the body."
Espaces Latino-Américains (Michel Schneider): "1492 - Les Aventures de Juan Cabezón de Castille and 1492" – "Mémoires du Nouveau Monde": "Le diptyque sur et autour de 1492 constitue une fresque romanesque monumentale et exceptionnelle, qui place Homero Aridjis au premier plan de la littérature hispanique et latino-américaine d'aujourd'hui ».
The Lord of the Last Days: Visions of the Year 1000:
The Washington Post (James Reston): "The test is 'whether the past is convincingly imagined and vividly evoked'. That is what Homero Aridjis accomplishes so brilliantly in this phantasmagoric, luminous novel, The Lord of the Last Days: Visions of the Year 1000."
Giuseppe Bellini: "Through the two currents of his fiction, with historical background and futuristic themes, Aridjis has brought and is bringing a contribution to Hispano-American narrative which places him among the greatest authors of the 20th Century."
Moctezuma:
Luis Buñuel: "It's perfect. It's a very profound and strange play. I think the author is completely surrealist, which for me is great praise."
El último Adán (The Last Adam)":
Luis Buñuel: "That the apocalypse will be the work of man and not of God is, for me, an absolute certainty. Therein lies the difference between the apocalyptic delirium of The Last Adam and Saint John's mediocre apocalyptic descriptions. Obviously, man's imagination has been enriched over the centuries."
Los invisibles