[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eletrobras

Eletrobras (, full name: Centrais Elétricas Brasileiras S.A.) is a major Brazilian electric utilities company. The company's headquarters are located in Rio de Janeiro.

It is Latin America's biggest power utility company, tenth largest in the world, and is also the fourth largest clean energy company in the world. Eletrobras holds stakes in a number of Brazilian electric companies, so that it generates about 40% and transmits 69% of Brazil's electric supply. The company's generating capacity is about 51,000 MW, mostly in hydroelectric plants. The Brazilian federal government owned 52% stake in Eletrobras until June 2022, the rest of the shares traded on B3. The stock is part of the Ibovespa index. It is also traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market and on the Madrid Stock Exchange.

History
Eletrobras was established in 1962 during João Goulart's presidency.

Operations

Eletrobras is an electric power holding company. It is the largest generation and transmission company in Brazil. Through its subsidiaries it owns about 40% of Brazil's generation capacities and controls 69% of the National Interconnected System.

Eletrobras stands as the biggest company of the electric power sector in Latin America.

Subsidiaries
Among Eletrobras' subsidiaries, there are generation and transmission companies.

Eletronorte (Centrais Elétricas do Norte do Brasil S.A.) is responsible for the power generation, transmission and distribution in the states of Amazonas, Pará, Acre, Rondônia, Roraima, Amapá, Tocantins and Mato Grosso.

Eletrobras Eletropar  acts in participations of other energy companies.
 Eletronet - 49.27%
 CESP - 4.77%
 EMAE - Empresa Metropolitana de Águas e Energia - 1.42% 
 AES Eletropaulo - 2.03%
 CPFL Energia - 1.15%
 CTEEP - 0.66%
 Energias de Portugal - 3.09%
 Itaipu Binacional - 50.00%

CHESF (Companhia Hidro-Elétrica do São Francisco; São Francisco's Hydroelectric Company) generates and transmits electric power from hydroelectric plants to all of the cities in northeast of Brazil. It owns 14 hydroelectric energy plants and 1 thermoelectric energy plant. Sinval Zaidan Gama was made CEO in January 2017.

The main source of energy is the São Francisco River.

Eletrobras CGTEE was a Brazilian power company created on 11 July 1997. It is active in the state of Rio Grande do Sul.

Eletrobras Cepel

Eletrobras Eletronuclear

Eletrobras Eletrosul

Eletrobras Furnas

Itaipu Binacional

International activities

Eletrobras was authorized by Act 11.651, sanctioned on 7 April 2008, to operate abroad as an investor in the power sector, by means of consortiums and/or specific purposes companies; it may also have control on enterprises. In order to coordinate this operation, it was created the Superintendence of Operations Abroad, which will operate following the guidelines of its board of directors.

For this first period, the Superintendence of Operations Abroad has set forth the priorities as follows:

 Interconnect new sources of energy in Latin America with the Brazilian power system;
 Promote the energetic integration between Brazil and the countries of Latin America; and
 Prospect opportunities for investment in power energy in other countries to benefit the Brazilian economy by generating new markets for the goods and services suppliers segment.

The Superintendence of Operations Abroad has been developing negotiations with several countries in Latin America and Africa:

 Angola and Namibia – Feasibility Studies of the AHE from Baynes, located in the Cunene River, in the border between the two countries;
 Argentina – AHE Binacional de Garabi;
 Costa Rica – Technical Cooperation Agreement under analysis;
 Nicaragua – Appraisal of AHEs from Boboke and Tumarim;
 Peru – Analysis of feasibility for use of 15 AHEs, totalizing 20,000 MW;
 Uruguay - New transmission lines expanding the already existing electric interconnection between the southern part of Brazil and Uruguay;
 Venezuela – Studies for interconnection with the purpose of having an electric interchange between the two countries.

With Bolivia, Colombia, China, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guinea Bissau, Guyana, Morocco and Nigeria the contacts are in their initial phase.

List of current and former CEOs