[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Environmental dumping

eriodically to make sure that all regulations are being followed and physically check containers to verify that the containers hold only what is authorized. Finally, if the country that is taking the waste is unable to accept or dispose of the waste then the sender must pay to take their waste back.

Ship dismantling
Ship dismantling is another form of trans frontier waste that is shipped from country to country.  Many ships are broken down into parts that can be recycled.  Many parts of the ships are hazardous and can potentially pollute the areas that they are broken down in.  The ship parts can contain asbestos, PCB's, and oil sludge.  All of these components can be a potential health risk and harm the environment.  Most ship scrapping industries are in developing countries where the laws (environmentally as well as occupationally) are not as strict as in developed countries.  International Maritime Organization states that India is the leader in ship dismantling, followed by China, Bangladesh, and Pakistan.

The aircraft carrier Clemenceau was denied access to Indian waters because it contained asbestos.  The French aircraft was carried from France to Britain to be recycled on February 8, 2009, despite the abundance of asbestos.

The EU Commission proposed improvements to be made to improve the ship dismantling as well as the ocean dumping process on November 19, 2008. Public consultations were held in 2009, and stakeholder workshops were organized between 2009 and 2011. On March 26, 2009, the EU Parliament adopted a resolution on the Communication that was adopted by the Commission on October 21, 2009.

The European Council's Conclusions endorse the Hong Kong Convention on environmentally responsible ship recycling, adopted in May 2009. According to the International Maritime Organization, he Hong Kong Convention “intends to address all the issues around ship recycling, including the fact that ships sold for scrapping may contain environmentally hazardous substances such as asbestos, heavy metals, hydrocarbons, ozone-depleting substances and others. It also addresses concerns raised about the working and environmental conditions at many of the world's ship recycling locations.”
recycling is very important when it comes to recycling devices

The Montreal Protocol strategy to stop harmful product dumping 
In the context of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment, increasingly necessary in a warming world, environmental dumping includes: “1) export of technology that cannot legally be sold in the country of export as a consequence of failure to meet environmental, safety, energy efficiency, or other product standards; and 2) export of technology that is unusable in the country of export because refrigerants are no longer available because of national regulation or phaseout and phasedown control schedules under the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer”.

Transboundary toxic waste regimes are directed at managing and controlling transboundary shipments (including dumping in less-developed countries) of end-of-life equipment. In contrast, the Montreal Protocol is designed to top-down phaseout the production and consumption of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) – such as chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs, halons, hydrofluorocarbons (HCFCs), and methyl bromide; and phasedown  the production and consumption of ozone-safe hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs).

Environmental dumping especially hinders attempts under the Montreal Protocol to control ozone-depleting and climate-forcing chemical substances and/or products requiring unnecessarily high energy consumption. While developing country Parties to the Montreal Protocol are allowed to delay their phasedown of climate-forcing and ozone-depleting hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) during a multi-year grace period consistent with the principal of common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities, there are advantages to earlier implementation when superior alternatives are already available at reasonable costs, as is the case for many uses of HFCs today.