[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hezbollah foreign relations

the Sunni Palestinian militant group Palestinian Islamic Jihad Movement. The Islamic Jihad Movement has sent "its gratitude to the brothers in Hezbollah, the Islamic resistance in South Lebanon. Particularly Hassan Nasrallah, for their stance and support, be it financial, military or moral support".

Other non-state allies
 Liwa Abu al-Fadhal al-Abbas
 Liwa al-Quds
Kata'ib Sayyid al-Shuhada
 Kata'ib Hezbollah
 Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq
 Harakat Hezbollah al-Nujaba
 Liwa Fatemiyoun
Liwq Zulfiqar
 Baqir Brigade
 Polisario Front (Alleged) (Denied by Hezbollah)
 Plurinational Association of Reservists of the Tahuantinsuyo

Europe

European Union
In July 2013, the European Union designated the armed wing of Hezbollah as a terrorist organization. The foreign ministers of all 28 EU countries agreed to the decision which was based on concerns over Hezbollah's role in the 2012 Burgas bus bombing and the organizations involvement in Syrian civil war supporting the Ba'ath government.

A few of the EU member states have imposed partial or complete prohibitions on Hezbollah. The Netherlands proscribed the organisation fully, while the United Kingdom has proscribed Hezbollah's paramilitary External Security Organization, but not the organisation's political wing. On 25 February 2019 the UK parliament announced that it would introduce new rules to classify Hezbollah in its entirety as a terrorist organisation as "UK authorities say they are no longer able to distinguish between the group's military and political wings." A 2018 research  initiative found strong links between Hezbollah and illegal activity in Germany and this garnered a substantial response from the German public, asking to condemn Hezbollah's political wing as well. Germany banned Hezbollah entirely 30 April 2020.

Switzerland
Citing Swiss neutrality, Switzerland does not regard Hezbollah as a terrorist organization. Its government only uses the Sanctions List provided by the United Nations.

Attitude of Israel to Hezbollah
Dan Gillerman, the Israeli representative at UN, referred to Hezbollah as a "cancerous growth" that must be removed.

The Israeli Government considers the use of military force in Lebanon as a legitimate means of isolating Hizb'Allah.

Relationship with other countries and organizations

Hezbollah has been accused of training Iraqi insurgents to attack U.S. troops during the Iraq War.

The British government has claimed that the Provisional Irish Republican Army had relations with Hezbollah and that the IRA provided the group with technology that was used against British forces in Iraq.

Morocco cut ties with Iran for supporting and giving aid to the Polisario Front through Hezbollah, via the Iranian embassy in Algeria.

Brazilian president Jair Bolsonaro considered designating Hezbollah as a terrorist organization, following Argentina and Paraguay as part of the Triple Frontier.

The United States has accused members of the Venezuelan government of providing financial aid to Hezbollah.

United States
The United States believes Hezbollah is an organization with ties to terrorism. The United States officially support the peaceful restructuring of Israel, and reconciliation with the Palestinian territories, (i.e. West Bank and the Gaza Strip). Due to their terrorist activities, neither Hezbollah or Hamas have been invited to be a part of any peace process led by the United States.

The Rewards for Justice Program has offered up to $10 million for information leading to disrupt the financial mechanisms of Hezbollah, including certain individuals: Adham Husayn Tabaja, Mohammad Ibrahim Bazzi, and Ali Youssef Charara. However, the Rewards for Justice Program also includes: Ali Atwa, Mohammed Ali Hammadi, Talal Hamiyah, Khalil Yusif Harb, Fuad Shukr and Haytham 'Ali Tabataba'i.

In December 2019, the United States Department of the Treasury sanctioned financiers like Nazem Said Ahmad, Saleh Assi and Tony Saab.

In May 2022, The US Treasury Department announced new Hezbollah-related penalties, naming Ahmad Jalal Reda Abdallah, a Lebanese businessman and the Iranian-backed group's financial facilitator, as well as his companies.

Arab League

On 11 March 2016, the Arab League designated Hezbollah a terrorist organization during a meeting of Arab League foreign ministers at the organization's headquarters in Egypt's capital Cairo. Nearly all 22 Arab League members supported the decision, except Lebanon, Syria, Algeria and Iraq which expressed "reservations" about the decision.

Designation as a terrorist organization

The following entities have listed the entire organization Hezbollah as a terror group: 

The following entities have listed only certain parts of Hezbollah as a terror group: 

The following countries do not consider Hezbollah a terrorist organization:

See also
 Ideology of Hezbollah
 Hezbollah political activities
 Hezbollah military activities

References

External links

 Syria, Iran, and the Mideast Conflict

F