[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Democratic Party (United States)

untry [were] largely represented by Democrats". Upper class voters are more likely to be in favor of culturally liberal policies. Working class Democrats are more likely to have socially conservative views, be more religious, and belong to an ethnic minority.

College graduates and professionals 

 

Professionals, those who have a college education and those whose work revolves around the conception of ideas, have tended to support the Democratic Party since 2000. While the professional class was once a stronghold of the Republican Party, it has become increasingly in favor of the Democratic Party. Support for Democratic candidates among professionals may be traced to the prevalence of liberal cultural values among this group:

The highly educated constitute an important part of the Democratic voter base. The party has strong support among scientists, with 55% identifying as Democrats, 32% as independents, and 6% as Republicans in a 2009 study. In exit polls for the 2018 elections, 65% of those with a graduate degree said they voted Democratic, and Democrats won college graduates overall by a 20-point margin. Those with a college education have become increasingly Democratic as seen in the 2000, 2004, and 2008 elections.

Organized labor

Since the 1930s, a critical component of the Democratic Party coalition has been organized labor. Labor unions supply a great deal of the money, grass roots political organization, and voters for the party. Democrats are far more likely to be represented by unions, although union membership has declined in general during the last few decades. This trend is depicted in the following graph from the book Democrats and Republicans—Rhetoric and Reality. It is based on surveys conducted by the National Election Studies (NES).

The three most significant labor groupings in the Democratic coalition today are the AFL–CIO and Change to Win labor federations as well as the National Education Association, a large, unaffiliated teachers' union. Important issues for labor unions include supporting industrial policy that sustains unionized manufacturing jobs, raising the minimum wage, and promoting broad social programs such as Social Security and Medicare.

In the 2020 presidential election, 57% of union households voted for Joe Biden.

Younger Americans 

Younger Americans, including millennials and Generation Z, tend to vote mostly for Democratic candidates in recent years.

The young have voted in favor of the Democratic presidential candidate in every election since Bill Clinton in 1992 and are more likely to identify as liberals than the general population. In the 2004 presidential election, Democratic presidential candidate John Kerry received 54% of the vote from voters of the age group 18–29 while Republican George W. Bush received 45%. In the 2006 midterm elections, the Democrats received 60% of the vote from the same age group.

Polls suggested that younger Americans have more liberal views than the general public on issues such as same-sex marriage and universal health care, helping Barack Obama carry 66% of their votes in 2008. In the 2018 midterm elections and 2020 presidential election, 67% and 60% of those in the 18–29 age range voted for Democratic candidates, respectively.

Women 

Although the gender gap has varied over the years, women of all ages as a whole are more likely than men to identify as Democrats.
Since the 1990s, a majority of women have consistently voted for Democratic Party presidential tickets. According to a  2009 Gallup poll, 41% of women identify as Democrats, 25% as Republicans, and 26% as independents, whereas 32% of men identify as Democrats, 28% as Republicans and 34% as independents. Among ethnic minorities, women are also more likely than men to identify as Democrats.

However, according to a December 2019 study, "White women are the only group of female voters who support Republican Party candidates for president. They have done so by a majority in all but 2 of the last 18 elections".

The National Federation of Democratic Women is an affiliated organization meant to advocate for women's issues. National women's organizations that support Democratic candidates include EMILY's List, which aims to help elect pro-choice female Democratic candidates to office.

Of the 124 women in the United States House of Representatives and 25 women in the United States Senate at the start of the 118th Congress, 91 were Democrats in the House of Representatives and 16 were members of the Senate Democratic Caucus.

Marital status and parenthood 
Americans that identify as single, living with a domestic partner, divorced, separated, or widowed are more likely to vote Democratic in contrast to married Americans who split about equally between Democrats and Republicans.