[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Cambridge University Lawn Tennis Club

Cambridge University Lawn Tennis Club was founded in 1881, seven years before the Lawn Tennis Association of Great Britain was founded. Although it is called a 'club', it is actually the lawn tennis association of the whole of the University of Cambridge, representing the university as a whole, the thirty-one Colleges, and other institutions which are part of the university.

CULTC is directly affiliated to the Lawn Tennis Association of Great Britain and has a representative on the council and on the Board of the Association. The President and former Chairman of the club, Sir Geoffrey Cass, was president of the Lawn Tennis Association and Chairman of the L.T.A. Council 1997–1999. He is currently president of the British Tennis Foundation.

The university and Colleges give considerable support to British tennis by making available their administrative and playing facilities. CULTC regularly arranges for County Week groups to be held on College grounds.

The university's annual fixture list is one of the strongest in Britain. It usually includes matches against many different countries, as well as several of Britain's leading lawn tennis clubs; also half-a-dozen universities, and a dozen other clubs and teams. Most of the club's annual fixtures are home matches, which means that in a typical year nearly 30 tennis teams from all over Britain are entertained for a day in Cambridge at Fenner's.

Famous past and current members 
Until the Second World War, after which lawn tennis became less of an amateur pursuit, Cambridge Blues won no less than 28 Wimbledon Championships in singles and doubles.

Blues

Honorary 
 Sir Geoffrey Cass, Clare Hall —
 Stephen Bourne, Cambridge University Press — Honorary Vice-president
 Professor Sir Roy Calne, Trinity Hall — Honorary Vice-president

Varsity match

Overall statistics

Results 
Cambridge University versus Oxford University Varsity Match results:

The Doherty Cup 
The original Cambridge University Tournament was founded as the Cambridge University LTC Tournament in 1881. The winners of gentleman's singles event from 1920 was also known as The Doherty Cup.

See also
 List of social activities at the University of Cambridge

References

External links 
 Cambridge University Lawn Tennis Club

Sports clubs and teams established in 1881
Lawn Tennis Club
Tennis venues in England
1881 establishments in England
Tennis clubs