[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jim Talent

, leading some Democratic opponents to accuse the lobbying firm of using his appointment as an illegal conduit to donate toward his upcoming Senate race. Arent Fox said the idea that Talent was not paid for genuine work was "absurd", but that "Talent's Republican ties did play a role in his hiring."

U.S. Senate

2002 election

In the November 2000 elections, Mel Carnahan, who had died in a plane crash three weeks before, remained on the ballot for election to the Senate. Missouri election law would not allow for Carnahan's name to be removed from the November ballot.  Carnahan received more votes than his Republican opponent, incumbent senator (and later United States Attorney General) John Ashcroft. Lieutenant Governor Roger Wilson, as he had promised before the election, appointed Carnahan's widow, Jean, in her husband's place.

The Seventeenth Amendment requires that appointments to the Senate last only until a special election is held. Talent, who received the Republican nomination, narrowly defeated Jean Carnahan in the November 2002 election, 50% to 49%. He was sworn in later that month to fill out the balance of Mel Carnahan's term.

Jack Abramoff contributed $2,000 to Talent's 2002 senatorial campaign and Preston Gates & Ellis, a former Abramoff employer, had also contributed $1,000 to Talent's campaign. Talent later returned both contributions.

Talent was criticized for not returning the money received from Americans for a Republican Majority (ARMPAC), a PAC formed by Tom DeLay. DeLay was facing charges of money laundering and violation of campaign finance laws. A spokesman for Talent has stated that Talent had not yet made a decision about whether or not to return the ARMPAC contribution, stating "Senator Talent is not ready to presume guilt or innocence and wants to give the judicial process a chance to move forward."

During his tenure, Talent served on the Senate Armed Services Committee, Special Committee on Aging, Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee, and Energy and Natural Resources Committee.

2006 election

Talent sought re-election in the 2006 Senate election. His Democratic opponent was state Auditor Claire McCaskill. Talent held a fundraising advantage, in part because of support from the Bush administration; on October 11, 2005, Vice President Dick Cheney held a fundraiser for Talent. Talent accepted $5,000 from the lobbyist Jack Abramoff. Talent subsequently refunded all $5,000.

Talent received a number of endorsements for his re-election, including from the Missouri Farm Bureau, the St. Louis Police Officers' Association, the Missouri Pork Association, the National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors, the Missouri Corn Growers Association, and Veterans of Foreign Wars.

In 2006, the Washington DC newspaper Roll Call reported that DC lobbying interests had pledged to raise $1 million for Talent's re-election. Talent stated that he does not give favors in exchange for donations, and that he "wouldn't take five dollars from someone who expects something for it."

McCaskill and Talent debated each other on Meet the Press on October 8, 2006. McCaskill narrowly defeated Talent on November 7, 2006, with a 50% to 47% margin of victory.

Having lost his reelection bid, Talent was considered a possible candidate for Governor of Missouri in 2008 after incumbent and fellow Republican Matt Blunt decided to not seek re-election. Talent did not enter the race, which was won by Democrat Jay Nixon.

Committee assignments 

 Senate Committee on Armed Services
 Subcommittee on Seapower (Chairman)
 Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry
 Subcommittee on Marketing, Inspection, and Product Promotion (Chairman)
 Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources
 Senate Special Committee on Aging

Political views

Talent is widely regarded by political analysts as a reliable conservative, receiving a life score of 93 out of 100 from the American Conservative Union. The National Right to Life Committee gave Talent a 100% rating. In 2005, Talent was tied for the third-highest rating among all senators and representatives as determined by the Republican Liberty Caucus, which promotes "liberty-minded, limited-government individuals to office."

Energy
Talent supported the new Renewable Fuel Standard, which would add  of renewable fuels to the national supply by 2012, including a measure to include tax credits for businesses offering soybean-based fuels. In addition to renewable fuels, Talent supported drilling in the Arctic as a step in the direction of energy independence, which he sees as critical to national security.

Health care
Talent supported the Medicare prescription drug benefit called Medicare Part D, the purpose of which is to reduce the amount seniors pay for their prescription drugs. Talent called for waiving a one percent penalty for senior citizens who missed the deadline to sign up for the program.