[Source: PubMed]

100. Health Millions. 1993 Jun;1(3):8-10.

Improving and expanding NGO programmes.

Mukhopadhyay A.

PIP: India has massive problems and is in need of improving and expanding non 
governmental organization (NGO) programs by broadening the scope of NGO 
activities, identifying successful NGO activities, and by moving closer to the 
community to participate in their activities. The problems and experience in the 
last few decades indicate that with expansion bureaucratization takes place. The 
institution begins to depend on donors and follows donor-driven agendas. As more 
money is given by the government, many more so called GONGO or Government-NGO 
projects materialize. Another problem is that the government almost always 
approaches the NGOs for the implementation of a project, and there is complete 
lack of cooperation at the planning stage. The government is considering a loan 
from the World Bank and UNICEF to launch a mother and child health program, but 
there has not been any discussion with the dozens of people who have worked on 
issues concerning mother and child health issues for many years. There is a need 
to be more demanding of the government about the various programs that are 
implemented for the government. Very few NGO health and family welfare projects 
are run by ordinary nurses or ordinary Ayurvedic doctors under ordinary 
conditions. Since successful NGO work has to be extended to other parts of the 
country, they will have to be run by ordinary people with very ordinary 
resources. Over the years, the NGO community has become preoccupied with its own 
agenda. Today, despite very sophisticated equipment and infrastructure, they are 
not able to reach the 60,000-70,000 workers and employees. Some of the ideas 
with respect to the strengthens and weaknesses of community participation have 
to be shared. NGOs should include all the existing non governmental 
organizations throughout the country, and have a dialogue with other 
nongovernmental bodies such as trade unions. The challenge is to adjust the 
current agenda, prevailing style, and present way of operating and move closer 
to the people.

PMID: 12318299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]