[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neutron Dance

lm and TV series, as the cinema operator; the setting was a cinema where Beverly Hills Cop was screening, allowing for the promotion of the movie via many clips from it being displayed in the video. 
Pinchot himself plays a minor role in the film as "Serge", a salesman in Jenny Summers' art gallery.

In March 1985 "Neutron Dance" became the fourth Top Ten single issued from the Break Out album rising as high as #6. It was the career zenith of the Pointer Sisters who prior to the success of "Jump (For My Love)" subsequent to that of "Automatic" – the second and third singles from Break Out – had never had back-to-back Top 20 singles. "Neutron Dance" proved to be the group's final Top Ten hit: after a sixth single release from Break Out: "Baby Come & Get It", fell short of the Top 40, "Dare Me", the lead single from the follow-up album to Break Out.

Contact, stalled at #11 and the group's sole further Top 40 charting: "Goldmine" (1986), rose no higher than #33. The Pointer Sisters just missed the Top 40 with "Be There", a track in the vein of "Neutron Dance" – co-written by Allee Willis with Franne Golde and featuring Ruth Pointer on lead – for the soundtrack of Beverly Hills Cop II, "Be There"'s peak being #42.

Popular culture references
The song was featured in The Golden Girls season four episode, "You Gotta Have Hope".  The song is performed by The Del Rubio Triplets as they auditioned for a charity benefit talent show. In Malcolm & Eddie, Nicolette (Karen Malina White) singing while in an excerise mill in their apartment in "Paint Misbehavin'", which aired in January 1999.

Personnel 
 Ruth Pointer – lead vocals
 Anita Pointer – backing vocals
 June Pointer – backing vocals

Musicians
 Stephen Mitchell – synthesizer programming
 Howie Rice – acoustic piano, synthesizers, organ, guitars, drum machine programming, percussion
 Paul Fox – E-mu Emulator
 Reek Havoc – electronic drum programming
 Bob Mithoff – drum machine programming
 Paulinho da Costa – tambourine

Track listings
7" single
 Neutron Dance	  	3:53	
 Telegraph Your Love	4:02

Chart performance

Weekly charts

Year-end charts

References 

2. Referenced in P.M. Dawn's 1991 single Set Adrift On Memory Bliss

1984 songs
The Pointer Sisters songs
Songs written by Allee Willis
1984 singles
1985 singles
Songs written by Danny Sembello
Song recordings produced by Richard Perry
Planet Records singles
RCA Records singles
Songs about dancing
Novelty and fad dances