[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# White City (Tel Aviv)

Engel House designed by Zeev Rechter. These allow the wind to blow under and cool the apartments, as well as providing a play area for children. In 1935, at the office building Beit Hadar, steel frame structure was introduced, a technique which facilitates opening the first floor for such purposes.

The style of architecture and construction methods used in the hundreds of new buildings came to define the character of the modern city. Most of the buildings were of concrete (reinforced concrete was often applied from 1912 on) and in the summer were unbearably hot despite their innovative design features. Tel Aviv’s residents took to the streets in the evenings, frequenting the numerous small parks between the buildings and the growing number of coffee shops, where they could enjoy the evening air. This tradition continues in the café society, and nightlife of the city today.

The apartment blocks provided a variety of services such as childcare, postal services, store, and laundry within the buildings themselves. Additionally, having a connection to the land was viewed as extremely important, so residents were encouraged to grow their own vegetables on an allotment of land set aside next to or behind the building. This created a sense of community for the residents, who were in the main, displaced people from differing cultures and origins.

Preservation plans

Many of the buildings from this period, some architectural classics, had been neglected to the point of ruin, and before legislation was passed, some were demolished. However, out of the original 4,000 Bauhaus buildings built, some have been refurbished and at least 1,500 more are slated for preservation and restoration. The municipal government of Tel Aviv passed legislation in 2009 that was supposed to cover some 1,000 structures. In 2015 the German government and the city of Tel Aviv entered into an agreement under which Germany would contribute 2.8 million euros ($3.2 million) towards the preservation project over a ten-year period; some of the money would be used for the establishment of a preservation center in Tel Aviv's Max-Liebling House to foster collaboration among architects, craftsmen and artists.

Documentation and exhibitions
An architectural survey of the White City by Nitza Metzger Szmuk was later published as a book and formed the basis of an exhibition called "Dwelling on the Dunes". The exhibition opened at the Tel Aviv Museum of Art in 2004 and traveled to Canada, Switzerland, Belgium and Germany.

On the centennial of the founding of Tel Aviv, Docomomo International published Docomomo Journal 40 in March 2009, with most of the coverage in the journal on "Tel Aviv 100 Years: A Century of Modern Buildings."

In 2019, "Form and Light" an exhibit of Yigal Gawze's photographs of Tel Aviv's White City architecture in the 1930s opened at the Museum of Art, Architecture and Technology in Lisbon.

Bauhaus Center Tel Aviv
Established in 2000, Bauhaus Center Tel Aviv is an organization dedicated to the ongoing documentation of the architectural heritage. In 2003, it hosted an exhibition on preservation of the architecture that showcased 25 buildings. The Center is also an independent publishing house on the topics of Bauhaus and International Style architecture and the city of Tel Aviv. As of 2017, it has published more than 15 titles on these subjects.

Bauhaus Museum
A small Bauhaus Museum was opened in Bialik Street, near the old City Hall in 2008.

Architects
 Genia Averbuch
 Samuel Barkai
 Jacob Ben-Sira
 Joseph Berlin
 Aryeh Elhanani
Elsa Gidoni
 Pinhas Huett
 Dov Karmi
 Richard Kauffmann
 Yehuda Magidovitch
 Josef Neufeld
 Zeev Rechter
 Mordechai Rosengarten
 Carl Rubin
 Arieh Sharon
 Ben-Ami Shulman
 Munio Weinraub

See also

Geddes Plan for Tel Aviv
Architecture of Israel
Israeli culture
Södra Ängby,  modernist urban villa area in Stockholm, Sweden

References

Bibliography
 Stefan Boness, "Tel Aviv - The White City", Jovis-Verlag, Berlin 2012,

External links

UNESCO, Nomination file, World Heritage Centre 
Artlog: Bauhaus in Tel Aviv
Site by Tel Aviv Municipality
White Villa Hotel
Bibliographies in Hebrew prepared by the Beit Ariela library: עיריית תל-אביב-יפו - בית אריאלה - ביבליוגרפיות - העיר הלבנה - מאמרים articles, עיריית תל-אביב-יפו - בית אריאלה - ביבליוגרפיות - העיר הלבנה - ספרים books
Visit the White City of Tel Aviv in 360° Photosphere
 Buildings for preservation in the White City from The ultimate street signs and house numbers site

 
 01
Modernist heritage districts
Neighborhoods of Tel Aviv
History of Tel Aviv
Landmarks in Tel Aviv
World Heritage Sites in Israel
Bauhaus
International Style (architecture)
1930s in Mandatory Palestine