[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# County Palatine of Durham

The County Palatine of Durham was a jurisdiction in the North of England, within which the bishop of Durham had rights usually exclusive to the monarch. It developed from the Liberty of Durham, which emerged in the Anglo-Saxon period. The gradual acquisition of powers by the bishops led to Durham being recognised as a palatinate by the late thirteenth century. Durham was one of several counties palatine in England during the Middle Ages, but was noted for having an exceptionally wide range of powers and independence from the monarch.
The county palatine had its own government and institutions, which broadly mirrored those of the monarch and included several judicial courts. From the sixteenth century the palatine rights of the bishops were gradually reduced, and were finally abolished in 1836. The last palatine institution to survive was the court of chancery, which was abolished in 1972.

The palatine included most of contemporary County Durham, the parts of Tyne and Wear south of the Tyne, and had exclaves in Northumberland and North Yorkshire around the island of Lindisfarne and the settlements of Bedlington, Norham, and Crayke.

History

Early history 
The territory of the palatinate began to form in 684, when King Ecgfrith of Northumbria granted a substantial territory to St Cuthbert after the latter was elected bishop of Lindisfarne in 684. In about 883 the diocese moved to Chester-le-Street and Guthred, King of Northumbria granted it the area between the Tyne and the Wear. In 995 the diocese was moved again, to Durham, and received additional grants of land. Throughout this period the earl of Northumbria was the secular ruler of the region.

Establishment and consolidation 
In 1075, shortly after the Norman conquest, William the Conqueror allowed Bishop Walcher to purchase the earldom of Northumbria after its previous holder, Waltheof, rebelled against the king; this marked the beginning of the bishops' temporal authority. Disputes with the officials of Northumberland were not resolved until 1293, when Bishop Antony Bek and his steward failed to attend a summons by the justices of Northumberland, and the case eventually reached Parliament. There, Bek argued that "from time immemorial it had been widely known that the sheriff of Northumberland was not sheriff of Durham nor entered within that liberty as sheriff", and that Durham was independent of any other county. These arguments appear to have been accepted, as by the 14th century Durham was considered a liberty which received royal mandates direct. The jusisdiction of the bishops was also expanded during this period when the wapentake of Sadberge, another liberty within Northumberland, was purchased by bishop Hugh de Puiset in 1189. It was gradually incorporated into Durham, but retained separate assizes until 1586.

Decline and abolition 

The later history of the palatinate is characterised by the Crown and parliament slowly diminishing the powers of the bishops and incorporating the county into the regular system of local government in England. This process began in 1536, when the Act of Resumption deprived the bishop of the power to pardon offences or to appoint judicial officers and mandated that the county's legal system would in future be run in the name of the king, rather than the bishop. In March 1553 the diocese was briefly abolished; the bishop, Cuthbert Tunstall, had been removed from office and imprisoned in 1552 because he did not support the religious policies of Edward VI's de facto regent, John Dudley. Mary I had restored both the diocese and Tunstall to office by April 1554, and in practice the abolition seems to have been ignored. In 1596, under Elizabeth I, restrictions were placed on the palatinate's court of chancery.

In 1646 the parliament of the Commonwealth of England again abolished the palatinate, but after the Stuart Restoration it was once again revived. In 1654 the palatinate sent its first members to the Parliament of England, two each for the city of Durham and the wider county; the bishops had previously put up strong opposition to a 1614 bill which would have given the city of Durham and Barnard Castle representation. By 1831 the county covered an area of  and had a population of 253,910. These boundaries were used for parliamentary purposes until 1832, and for judicial and local government purposes until the coming into force of the Counties (Detached Parts) Act 1844, which merged most remaining exclaves with their surrounding county.