[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Canada-Israel Committee

by its board of directors, but by the dawn of the new century, a new era of restructuring was emerging. By the early 2000s, notable Jewish individuals, among them Brent Belzberg, Steven Cummings, and Larry Tanenbaum, had begun consolidating power into the Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs (CIJA).

2011-present 
In 2011, Canadian Jewry witnessed a complete overhaul in the makeup of Jewish advocacy groups. The CIC, Canadian Jewish Congress, Quebec-Israel Committee, National Jewish Campus Life, and the University Outreach Committee were all assimilated into the CIJA. Taking place over a period of 18 months, this move was made to amalgamate Jewish voices together for uniformity of voice and for financial purposes. Nine people were fired during the realignment. CJIA leaders contended that differences between various organizations, including the issues they responded to and lobbied for, became almost non-existent, giving credence for the merging.

Criticism 
Critics posit that the disassembling of former advocacy groups was implemented undemocratically. The CJIA was not voted into existence, and its leadership is appointed to head the organization. Some have also expressed fears that certain ideas and ideologies are being crowded out by the CJIA. Perhaps due to the CJIA's size or unwillingness to consider alternative priorities, these people felt better serviced by the prior arrangement of Jewish organizations.

External links

Canada-Israel Committee

Further reading
David Howard Goldberg, Foreign policy and ethnic interest groups: American and Canadian Jews lobby for Israel, (1990), Chapter 3, The Canada-Israel Committee: History, Mandate, and Organizational Structure

References

Tulchinsky, Gerald. Taking Root: The Origins of the Canadian Jewish Community. Toronto: Lester Pub., 1992. 
Abella, Irving. A Coat of Many Colours: Two Centuries of Jewish Life in Canada. Toronto: Lester Pub., 1990.

Canada–Israel relations
Jewish lobbying
Jewish organizations based in Canada
Jewish political organizations
Non-profit organizations based in Ontario
Zionist organizations in Canada
Defunct Jewish organizations
2011 disestablishments in Canada
Organizations disestablished in 2011
Year of establishment missing