[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Olga Blinder

Olga Blinder (1921 in Asunción, Paraguay – 19 July 2008) was a Paraguayan painter, engraver and sculptor. Blinder was born in Asunción into a Jewish family. She lived through the Chaco War, World War II, the 1947 Paraguayan Civil War, in addition to Paraguay's coup d'états in 1954 and 1989. Blinder was also a licensed professor who taught arts and creative education for over 30 years.  Her works include numerous published books and articles on education and art. She is the former director of the Escolinha de Arte of Paraguay in the Brazilian Cultural Mission and of the Instituto de Arte (ISA) of the National University of Asunción. She was also an advisor to the Ministry of Education for the development of textbooks. In addition, she has been recognized by the League of Women's Rights, by the Brazilian government, and received the Integración Latinoamericana award from the Ministry of Culture and Education of Argentina. Blinder is considered one of the key promoters of change within the 1950s Paraguayan art scene.

Personal life 
Olga Blinder was born into a Jewish family in Asunción, Paraguay. As a child, her father was supportive of her art passion allowing her to draw and enrolling her in art classes. She lived during a time of political strife and upheaval that heavily influenced her view of the world and of society. At university she studied engineering and pedagogy at the Paraguay Atheneum. In 1943, Blinder married Dr. Isaac Schvartzman. The couple had three children named Silvia Susana, Carlos Eduardo, and Jorge Bernardo.

Education 
She studied engineering at the Paraguay Atheneum from 1939 to 1943 and graduated in pedagogy. She attended a painting course at the Paraguayan University in 1948.  In addition to her artwork, she also became a licensed professor that focused on creative education and art for the thirty years that she taught.

Career 
Olga Blinder studied painting with João Rossi and Ofelia Echagüe Vera, having her first exhibition in 1950 at El Ateneo Paraguayo, followed by an exhibition in 1952 at the Paraguayan-American Cultural Center. Some of her most notable work comes from the group she formed in 1954 called Grupo Arte Nuevo (New Art Group), alongside Josefina Plá, Lilí del Mónico, José Laterza Parodi, Edith Jiménez, Ruth Fisher and others. This group was unique because they broke away from the naturalism that had dominated art during the 19th century, instead turning towards expressionism. Central themes they emphasized include humanity and society. The group's aesthetic lacked unity but its art related to constructivist abstraction, stylizations of figuration, and social realism.

Working with Brazilian-born artist Livio Abramo, Blinder honed in on her technique of woodcut prints, an artistic medium that she was talented at. She was known as a fundamental promoter of change among the Paraguayan art circles. Blinder was particularly influential in the introduction of modernism to Paraguayan art during the 1950s and 1960s, turning to social realism as the foundation of her work. Her style was known for being expressive and containing hard, rigorous depictions of roughness, generally involving people as the central theme. A key component throughout Blinder's work was the depiction of women, usually rural and indigenous, partaking in everyday tasks of working and nurturing.

The 35-year dictatorship of General Alfredo Stroessner from 1954 to 1989 was also a central motivation for her artwork in which she sought out to denounce human rights abuses and depict the hardships everyday people were facing.

Throughout the 1960s Blinder utilized striking and simplified body forms in woodcut images as a central component of her artwork. By the 1970s Blinder became very involved in print media and made numerous engravings that were filled with intensity. In the 1980s she went back to expressionism as the central aspect of her paintings and her work became more introspective, still embodying themes of human nature and hardship.

During her lifetime she participated in a variety of international exhibitions in places such as Holland, Venezuela, Argentina, Spain, Chile, Lisbon, Colombia, Uruguay, and the United States. Blinder used portraits as a way of depicting the faces and bodies of those that were tortured. Her work as a whole was directed towards oppressive political regimes and her artwork became a form of political resistance against the ways in which the government instilled fear among its people. In addition, her pieces recorded traumatic events that weren't documented by official records.

Artwork