[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jim Jontz

est, and worked to foster collaborations between organized labor and environmentalists.

1994 U.S. Senate election

Jontz attempted to return to Washington in 1994 by challenging three-term Senator Dick Lugar. He lost to Lugar by more than 600,000 votes, and even lost his old congressional district.

Post-congressional career
Following his 1994 defeat, Jontz subsequently moved to Portland, Oregon, in 1999, where he began working as Executive Director for the Western Ancient Forest Campaign.  In 1999, Jontz helped organize the Alliance for Sustainable Jobs and the Environment (ASJE). While with WAFC, Jontz built a grassroots organizing campaign which pushed aggressively to protect forests, remove federal subsidies that financed clearcutting, and preserve millions of acres of previously unprotected roadless areas in National Forests. During his tenure with WAFC, he travelled extensively around the country forming relationships with state and local forest protection groups. As a result, Jontz was revered by forest activists throughout North America. In the spirit of Martin Luther King, Jr., Jontz participated in acts of civil disobedience — including blocking a logging road in the Siskiyou National Forest in Oregon — to raise awareness about the plight of ancient forests. These acts were hailed by forest advocates as further proof that Jontz was one of the greatest leaders of the modern environmental movement. In 1998, Jontz was elected president of Americans for Democratic Action (ADA). He was most recently the ADA president emeritus and served as a project coordinator for ADA's Working Families Win project.

Death 
Jontz died on April 14, 2007, in Portland, following a lengthy battle with colon cancer.

References

Further reading
 Boomhower, Ray E. The People's Choice: Congressman Jim Jontz of Indiana (Indianapolis: Indiana Historical Society, 2012), 259 pp.

External links

Obituary from the Indianapolis Star
Profile from the Northwest Labor Press
 

1951 births
2007 deaths
Deaths from colorectal cancer
Politicians from Indianapolis
Lawyers from Portland, Oregon
Indiana University alumni
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Indiana
20th-century American politicians
Valparaiso University School of Law alumni
20th-century American lawyers
American environmentalists
Deaths from cancer in Oregon
Activists from Indiana