[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Yank Levy

ways of fighting that enable a democratic force invading Hitler's Europe to mobilize and use the enormous power of the "hundred million allies" who can be ours.

That the handbook was available for 1725¢ per copy was a factor in its being widely circulated.  Over a half million copies were printed.

United States 
Despite having been deported from the United States in 1933, his proficiency caused the United States to take him back so he could train soldiers at the request of Secretary of State Cordell Hull.   Under the direction of General Sherman Miles, who was commanding the First Corps, Levy taught 30 Regular Army and 76 National Guard soldiers, training them to act as partisans in Concord, Massachusetts. The location, "by the rude bridge that arched the flood", was not accidental but was intended to be a call to arms and to invoke the mystique of the Minutemen.  He was the first instructor at the school.   The mantra was that an indigenous civilian population could rise up and skillfully harass, destroy, debilitate, resist and kill an occupying enemy  this was counter to the conventional wisdom, as guerrilla warfare was deemed unclean and harsh at the time.  There would be no adherence to the Marquess of Queensberry Rules.  He was trying to impart the methods he taught to the Home Guard, while preaching the scorched earth policies ordered by Josef Stalin to thwart the Nazis invading the Soviet Union.  Homeland defense was to be an opportunistic counterpunch.  The Soviets had demonstrated that partisans could attack enemy logistics and lines of communication, thereby disrupting the onslaught of mechanized warfare.  As he later told spectators at Harvard University: "Invisibility is better than protection and intimate knowledge of terrain is most important. Utilizing this knowledge of the countryside and employing guerilla tactics, Home Guard units have defeated the Regular Army troops in war games in Britain. With such units in every town and hamlet, the English people form a widespread web to trap an invader from any direction."

Canada 
Throughout World War II, he continued to proselytize the need for a home guard in America, Canada and Great Britain, and to teach that guerrilla warfare was a key ingredient of an effective defense.  He taught the Pacific Coast Militia Rangers in Canada, as it was felt that they needed more than home grown expertise.

He was a trainer of forces at Nanaimo, Vancouver Island that were going to invade the Aleutian Islands in Operation Cottage.

World War II: later years 
In 1943 Levy designed a combat knife, which he unsuccessfully tried to patent and market through the cutlers W. R. Case & Sons.

Subsequently, he returned to lecture in America as an advance party when Wintringham was invited to start an Osterley style school in San Bernardino.  The school was abandoned when the two local Home Guard commanders shot each other during an argument.  Levy gave a successful US lecture tour and had his face pictured on the cover of Life Magazine proclaiming him to be an: Ace Guerrilla, and having a multipage story titled How to be a Guerrilla. Later, he returned to the UK to form part of Wintringham's occasional 'flying squads'  mobile training units which toured provincial Home Guard units in temporary, often unofficial, training camps.

After appearing at Harvard University, where he was billed as an "Instructor in "cad warfare" for the British Commandos, Bert "Yank" Levy, veteran of every war or revolution since 1911, spoke on his work to a mixed gathering of the Naval Supply Corps, Harvard ROTC, and students on Monday in the Stadium." He particularly emphasized the need for individual civilian warfare. He lectured on the Home Guard and the tactics of insurgency.  The Harvard Crimson noted: ""Yank" expects to leave this country within a few days to return to Britain, where Goebbels has promised that he will be among the first to be shot when the Germans capture England."

The United States Infantry Journal called him the greatest instructor on defensive fighting. His life story was illustrated in a comic book entitled Jewish War Heroes, published by the Canadian Jewish Congress in January 1944.

His approach to asymmetrical warfare was seen by some as an unfortunate portent of post-World War II conflicts.

Postwar career and legacy 
In 1946, he sought to go to Palestine, and filed a passport request with the U.S. federal government.  His request was denied ostensibly because of potential diplomatic problems associated with his championing guerrilla warfare and "dirty tricks" that he taught to the Home Guard.