[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Liam Trotter

Liam Antony Trotter (born 24 August 1988) is an English former professional footballer who played as a midfielder for Ipswich Town, Grimsby Town, Scunthorpe United, Millwall, Bolton Wanderers, Nottingham Forest, AFC Wimbledon, Orange County SC, Bromley and Chelmsford City.

Club career

Ipswich Town
Trotter started out in the Felixstowe and District youth league, where he played for numerous clubs (including Witnesham Wasps, Ransomes Sports, Achilles, Bury Town F.C. and Woodbridge) before being scouted for Ipswich Town and signed for the side at sixteen years old. Trotter was one of the players to appear in the FA Youth Cup victory in 2005, where they beat Southampton 3–2 over two legs. His progress in the club's academy earned a first team call-up on two occasions throughout the 2005–06 season.

He made his league debut in Joe Royle's last game in charge against Plymouth Argyle, at Home Park on 30 April 2006, coming on for Ian Westlake with ten minutes to go. He signed his first professional contract with Ipswich Town on 30 August 2006. Since returning from the loan at Millwall, Trotter made his first appearance of the 2006–07 season, coming on as a substitute in the 80th minute for Jaime Peters in the 1–0 FA Cup Fifth Round defeat at Watford, on 17 February 2007. Following this, Trotter spent the rest of the 2006–07 season, playing for the reserve side.

In the 2007–08 season, Trotter was expected to be loaned out to gain first team experience. But he stayed at Ipswich Town instead throughout the summer. He made his second league appearance against Colchester at Portman Road on 24 October 2007, coming on for Billy Clarke, with the score at 1–1. He then went on to score, as Ipswich Town won 3–1. After the match, he said: "It was a dream home debut for me. I was hoping before the game that I could come on and score and it was amazing." However, in his first start of the season against Sheffield United on 6 November 2007, Trotter gave away a penalty, which saw the side lost 3–1. Following this, Trotter found himself out of the first team and continued to play for the club's reserve side throughout the 2007–08 season. He also faced with his own injury concern. Despite this, Trotter was featured in the FA Cup match against Portsmouth but was sent–off for a professional foul on Pedro Mendes, in a 1–0 loss. As a result, he served a three match suspension for the side. On 26 February 2008, Trotter then signed a one–year contract extension with the club, keeping him until 2009. At the end of the 2007–08 season, he went on to make seven appearances and scoring once for the side.

Trotter scored his second goal for Ipswich against Burnley in the second league game of the 2008–09 season-the first in a 3–0 win. For his performance, he was named Championship Team of the Week. However, Trotter soon lost his first team place to Alan Quinn. He then made four more appearances for the side by the time he was loaned out, which three of them were starts.

In the 2009–10 season, Trotter was back in the first team under the new manager of Roy Keane and expected to fight for his first team place in the club's midfield competition. After impressing in the pre–season, Trotter was given a first team return and started the whole game, in a 2–1 loss against Coventry City in the opening game of the season. Since returning to the first team, he then established himself in the starting eleven for the side, playing in the midfield position. However, following Ipswich Town's winning form at the start of November, Trotter was dropped from the first team by Manager Keane. It came after when his performance was subjected of criticism by local newspaper, Ipswich Star, in a number of matches. By the time he was loaned out, Trotter made twelve appearances for the side in the 2009–10 season. At the end of the season, he was offered a new contract by the club.

Grimsby Town (loan)
Trotter signed on loan for Grimsby Town on 18 September 2008, with Grimsby caretaker manager Stuart Watkiss bringing Trotter to the club for an initial month, which was extended to a three-month stay as the loan progressed. He made his debut on 19 September 2008 against Morecambe, starting the match before being substituted in the 63rd minute, as they drew 1–1. Trotter then scored his first goal for the club on 24 October 2008, in a 3–1 loss against Bradford City. After holding down a place in the first team, Trotter helped Grimsby by scoring in the club's 2–0 win over Bury, which was Grimsby's first league win of the 2008–09 campaign. He settled down as well under new Grimsby boss Mike Newell and was regularly played in the centre of midfield along with Jean-Paul Kamudimba Kalala. He returned to Ipswich on 22 December after playing his final game for the Mariners against Aldershot Town two days previously.