[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 89]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ed
out with Leonidas at their head. They soon broke into the Persian camp,
and put all to flight that dared to oppose them. It is impossible to
describe the terror and confusion which ensued among so many thousands
thus unexpectedly surprised. Still the Grecians marched on in close
impenetrable order, overturning the tents, destroying all that dared to
resist, and driving that vast and mighty army like frightened sheep
before them. At length they came even to the imperial tent of Xerxes;
and had he not quitted it at the first alarm, he would there have ended
at once his life and expedition. The Grecians in an instant put all the
guards to flight, and rushing upon the imperial pavilion, violently
overturned it, and trampled under their feet all the costly furniture
and vessels of gold which were used by the monarchs of Persia.

"But now the morning began to appear, and the Persians, who had
discovered the small number of their assailants, surrounded them on
every side, and without daring to come to a close engagement, poured in
their darts and other missive weapons. The Grecians were wearied even
with the toils of conquest, and their body was already considerably
diminished; nevertheless, Leonidas, who was yet alive, led on the
intrepid few that yet remained to a fresh attack; again he rushed upon
the Persians, and pierced their thickest battalions as often as he could
reach them. But valour itself was vain against such inequality of
numbers; at every charge the Grecian ranks grew thinner and thinner,
till at length they were all destroyed, without a single man having
quitted his post or turned his back upon the enemy."

"Really," said Tommy, when the history was finished, "Leonidas was a
brave man indeed. But what became of Xerxes and his army after the death
of this valiant Spartan? was he able to overcome the Grecians, or did
they repulse him?" "You are now able to read for yourself," replied Mr
Barlow, "and therefore, by examining the histories of those countries,
you may be informed of everything you desire."




CHAPTER VI.

     The Constellations--Distance from the Earth--The Magnet and its
     Powers--The Compass--The Greenlanders and their Customs--The
     Telescope--The Magic Lantern--Story of the African Prince and the
     Telescope--Mr Barlow's Poor Parishioners--His Annual Dinner--Tommy
     attempts Sledge Driving--His mishap in the Pond--His Anger.


And now the frost had continued for several weeks, and Tommy had taken
advantage of the evenings, which generally proved clear and star-light,
to improve his knowledge of the heavens. He had already ornamented his
paper globe with several of the most remarkable constellations. Around
the Pole-star he had discovered Perseus and Andromeda, and Cepheus and
Cassiopeia's Chair. Between these and the bright Orion, which rose every
night and glittered in the south, he discovered seven small stars that
were set in a cluster, and called the Pleiades. Then, underneath Orion,
he discovered another glittering star, called Sirius, or the Dog-star.
All these, he continually observed, journeyed every night from east to
west, and then appeared the evening after in their former places. "How
strange it is," observed Tommy, one day to Mr Barlow, "that all these
stars should be continually turning about the earth!"

"How do you know," replied Mr Barlow, "that they turn at all?"

_Tommy._--Because I see them move every night.

_Mr Barlow._--But how are you sure that it is the stars which move every
night, and not the earth itself?

Tommy considered, and said, "But then I should see the earth move, and
the stars stand still."

_Mr Barlow._--What, did you never ride in a coach?

_Tommy._--Yes, sir, very often.

_Mr Barlow._--And did you then see that the coach moved, as you sat
still, and went along a level road?

_Tommy._--No, sir; I protest I have often thought that the houses and
trees, and all the country, glided swiftly along by the windows of the
coach.

_Mr Barlow._--And did you never sail in a boat?

_Tommy._--Yes, I have; and I protest I have observed the same thing; for
I remember I have often thought the shore was running away from the
boat, instead of the boat from the shore.

_Mr Barlow._--If that is the case, it is possible, even though the earth
should move, instead of the stars, that you might only see what you do
at present, and imagine that the earth you are upon was at rest.

_Tommy._--But is it not more likely that such little things as the stars
and the sun should move, than such a large thing as the earth?

_Mr Barlow._--And how do you know that the stars and sun are so small?

_Tommy._--I see them to be so, sir. The stars are so small, that they
are hardly to be seen at all; and the sun itself, which is much bigger,
does not seem bigger than a small round table.

The day after this conversation, as the weather was bright and clear, Mr
Barlow we