[Source: Gutenberg#2814 | Part 47]
# Utopia — Thomas More

” said Mr Lyons, “is we have our ideals. Why, now, would
we welcome a man like that? Do you think now after what he did Parnell
was a fit man to lead us? And why, then, would we do it for Edward the
Seventh?”

“This is Parnell’s anniversary,” said Mr O’Connor, “and don’t let us
stir up any bad blood. We all respect him now that he’s dead and
gone—even the Conservatives,” he added, turning to Mr Crofton.

Pok! The tardy cork flew out of Mr Crofton’s bottle. Mr Crofton got up
from his box and went to the fire. As he returned with his capture he
said in a deep voice:

“Our side of the house respects him, because he was a gentleman.”

“Right you are, Crofton!” said Mr Henchy fiercely. “He was the only man
that could keep that bag of cats in order. ‘Down, ye dogs! Lie down, ye
curs!’ That’s the way he treated them. Come in, Joe! Come in!” he
called out, catching sight of Mr Hynes in the doorway.

Mr Hynes came in slowly.

“Open another bottle of stout, Jack,” said Mr Henchy. “O, I forgot
there’s no corkscrew! Here, show me one here and I’ll put it at the
fire.”

The old man handed him another bottle and he placed it on the hob.

“Sit down, Joe,” said Mr O’Connor, “we’re just talking about the
Chief.”

“Ay, ay!” said Mr Henchy.

Mr Hynes sat on the side of the table near Mr Lyons but said nothing.

“There’s one of them, anyhow,” said Mr Henchy, “that didn’t renege him.
By God, I’ll say for you, Joe! No, by God, you stuck to him like a
man!”

“O, Joe,” said Mr O’Connor suddenly. “Give us that thing you wrote—do
you remember? Have you got it on you?”

“O, ay!” said Mr Henchy. “Give us that. Did you ever hear that,
Crofton? Listen to this now: splendid thing.”

“Go on,” said Mr O’Connor. “Fire away, Joe.”

Mr Hynes did not seem to remember at once the piece to which they were
alluding but, after reflecting a while, he said:

“O, that thing is it.... Sure, that’s old now.”

“Out with it, man!” said Mr O’Connor.

“’Sh, ’sh,” said Mr Henchy. “Now, Joe!”

Mr Hynes hesitated a little longer. Then amid the silence he took off
his hat, laid it on the table and stood up. He seemed to be rehearsing
the piece in his mind. After a rather long pause he announced:

     THE DEATH OF PARNELL
     6_th October_ 1891


He cleared his throat once or twice and then began to recite:

     He is dead. Our Uncrowned King is dead.
         O, Erin, mourn with grief and woe
     For he lies dead whom the fell gang
         Of modern hypocrites laid low.

     He lies slain by the coward hounds
         He raised to glory from the mire;
     And Erin’s hopes and Erin’s dreams
         Perish upon her monarch’s pyre.

     In palace, cabin or in cot
         The Irish heart where’er it be
     Is bowed with woe—for he is gone
         Who would have wrought her destiny.

     He would have had his Erin famed,
         The green flag gloriously unfurled,
     Her statesmen, bards and warriors raised
         Before the nations of the World.

     He dreamed (alas, ’twas but a dream!)
         Of Liberty: but as he strove
     To clutch that idol, treachery
         Sundered him from the thing he loved.

     Shame on the coward, caitiff hands
         That smote their Lord or with a kiss
     Betrayed him to the rabble-rout
         Of fawning priests—no friends of his.

     May everlasting shame consume
         The memory of those who tried
     To befoul and smear the exalted name
         Of one who spurned them in his pride.

     He fell as fall the mighty ones,
         Nobly undaunted to the last,
     And death has now united him
         With Erin’s heroes of the past.

     No sound of strife disturb his sleep!
         Calmly he rests: no human pain
     Or high ambition spurs him now
         The peaks of glory to attain.

     They had their way: they laid him low.
         But Erin, list, his spirit may
     Rise, like the Phœnix from the flames,
         When breaks the dawning of the day,

     The day that brings us Freedom’s reign.
         And on that day may Erin well
     Pledge in the cup she lifts to Joy
         One grief—the memory of Parnell.


Mr Hynes sat down again on the table. When he had finished his
recitation there was a silence and then a burst of clapping: even Mr
Lyons clapped. The applause continued for a little time. When it had
ceased all the auditors drank from their bottles in silence.

Pok! The cork flew out of Mr Hynes’ bottle, but Mr Hynes remained
sitting flushed and bareheaded on the table. He did not seem to have
heard the invitation.

“Good man, Joe!” said Mr O’Connor, taking out his cigarette papers and
pouch the better to hide his emotion.

“What do you think of that, Crofton?” cried Mr Henchy. “Isn’t that
fine? What?”

Mr Crofton said that it was a very fine piece of writing.




A MOTHER


Mr Holohan, assistant secretary of the _Eire Abu_ Societ