[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Delta Phi Epsilon (professional)

wn Historic District and became a National Historic Landmark listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1967. For decades, the Alpha Chapter of Delta Phi Epsilon was the only fraternal organization at Georgetown University with its own house. It was used for keg parties and social events.

During the February 2020 annual meeting of Delta Phi Epsilon, its members voted to sell 3401 Prospect Street for as much money as possible. Alpha Chapter's historic house purportedly had to be sold because it was believed that Georgetown University implemented a rule requiring undergraduates to live on campus for four years. A new house might be purchased by the foundation, not the fraternity or the Delta Phi Epsilon corporation. It would be based on a clubhouse model and would be owned by the foundation. It would not be a boarding house and would not be owned by the Delta Phi Epsilon corporation, which had owned 3401 Prospect Street.

Organizational structure 
Several distinct and separate corporations use the name Delta Phi Epsilon.

Delta Phi Epsilon, Incorporated is a professional foreign service fraternity that is a 501(c)(7) nonprofit corporation. This corporation is a member-based nonprofit corporation. This organization is rare, and perhaps unique, among American fraternal organizations in that its membership as a whole does not elect the members of its board of directors. The board is self-appointed. Sitting board members select replacements to fill board seats as seats become vacant.

The Delta Phi Epsilon Foundation for Foreign Service Education is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization established in 1960. Its purpose is to give scholarships to students. In September 2021, The Washington Post reported that the foundation stopped issuing scholarships in 1984, including withholding $52,000 in bequests that were designated for scholarships.

Chapters 
Active chapters are listed in bold. Inactive chapters are listed in italic.

Notes

Notable members 
The fraternity initiates Line Brothers, those who pledge when they are students, and National Brothers, mostly those already out of school who only go through the required final initiation ritualistic ceremonies.

References

External links
Alpha chapter sorority
Gamma chapter
Delta chapter
Epsilon chapter
Eta chapter fraternity
Eta chapter sorority
Mu chapter sorority
Chi chapter

Student organizations established in 1920
Professional fraternities and sororities in the United States
Georgetown University student organizations
New York University
George Washington University
University of the Pacific (United States)
University of California, Berkeley
American University
1920 establishments in Washington, D.C.