[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Suncorp Group

m general insurance in annual premiums.

The company carried out another rebranding exercise in 2002, adopting the Suncorp name for all of its Queensland operations, and for non-insurance operations outside of the state. The company's insurance operations, excluding Queensland, took on the GIO name.

Suncorp continued to build up its insurance portfolio into the middle of the decade. The company acquired 50 percent of the Queensland-based RACQ Insurance, a joint venture originally formed between AMP and RACQ. Suncorp bought out AMP's share of the joint venture in 2002. Also in 2002, Suncorp purchased half of RAA Insurance from the RAA. In 2004, the company purchased Tasmania's RACT Insurance from the RACT.

Promina acquisition: 2007
Suncorp then began preparations for a still larger takeover of insurance giant Promina Group Limited. By early 2007, the two companies had agreed the terms of a merger deal valued at AUD 7.9 billion ($5.9 billion), which represented one of the largest acquisition deals completed in Australia's financial sector since the beginning of the new century.

Promina was formerly part of the UK-based insurance giant Royal and Sun Alliance until it spun off the business in Australia as a separate public company in 2003. The merger transformed Suncorp into a true giant in Australia, doubling its assets to nearly AUD 85 billion ($65 billion).

Recent events
During a retail banking review in 2007, Suncorp determined its credit card portfolio was a non-core asset and entered into talks to sell its 100,000 card/$230 million credit-card portfolio to Citibank. Citibank now handles the operational aspects of credit whilst the Suncorp brand remains on the cards and Suncorp continues to provide customer interaction.

As of 2007, Suncorp had assets of over A$95 billion, over 9 million customers, and over 16,000 staff. Suncorp operated 232 retail and business banking outlets, predominantly in Queensland. GIO operated 34 agencies in NSW and Victoria. An additional 157 retail branches and services centres were added with the Promina acquisition.

In June 2013, Goldman Sachs's Special Situations Group, the proprietary investment unit of the investment bank, purchased some of Suncorp Group Ltd.'s loans for about US$863 million. In the summer of 2013 as European lenders were divesting their loans portfolios, in Australia, hedge funds and investment banks were buying them. In 2013, distressed-debt investors, seeking investment opportunities in Asia, particularly in Australia, acquired discounted bonds or bank loans of companies facing distressed debt, with the potential of profitable returns if the companies' performance or their debt-linked assets improves. In 2013 Australia was one of the biggest markets for distressed-debt investors in Asia.

Suncorp has been granted a MySuper authority, enabling it to continue to receive default superannuation contribution from 1 Jan 2014.

Suncorp Business Services appointed its new CEO, Matt Pancino, on 13 June 2014. Pancino formerly worked as the Chief Information Officer for the group.

Suncorp was inducted into the Queensland Business Leaders Hall of Fame in 2016.

In 2020, Suncorp admitted to wage theft dating back to 2014. In June 2023, it was announced that remediation of the theft amounted a total $32 million in wages, misappropriated from 15,800 staff.

Business interests 
Suncorp covers nearly all areas in wealth and banking, including life insurance, general insurance, commercial insurance, Compulsory Third Party (CTP), banking, finance, superannuation agricultural banking and business banking, the notable exception being health insurance. It is the largest banking and insurance corporation headquartered in Brisbane.

Suncorp is the parent company of insurance company GIO, which is mainly used as a general insurance company representing Suncorp outside Queensland, offering similar products to the Suncorp branded insurance product in Queensland.

Suncorp trades under a number of brands, including AAMI, Apia, Shannons, InsureMyRide, Vero, Terri Scheer, Bingle, CIL and Tyndall insurance brands in Australia, and Vero, Asteron, Guardian Trust, Tyndall, Vero Liability, AA Insurance, SIS, CMV/AXIOM and Autosure brands in New Zealand. These assets were acquired with the Promina Group in 2007. Tal Australia purchased Asteron Australia from Suncorp in December 2018.

Suncorp Bank 

On 19 April 2009, Suncorp announced a re-branding of the banking arm of the company to Suncorp Bank. The reason behind the re-branding is to give the company a view that Suncorp is a bank with an insurance arm, not an insurance company with a banking division. In July 2022, Suncorp Group agreed terms to sell Suncorp Bank to the Australia & New Zealand Banking Group for . In August 2023 the Australian Competition & Consumer Commission blocked the deal.