[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Breckinridge Castleman

ile alive. The leaders said "General Castleman, the Father of our Park System, refused to allow any kind of racial segregation in the parks of the city, and this policy has been followed until the present board issued it's segregation orders a few days ago. This has been true in theory and in fact. 

Castleman and his wife were also early supporters of the suffragette movement. His wife Alice Barbee Castleman was the first vice president of the Kentucky Equal Rights Association in 1910, and 1911. Castleman supported his wife both financially and emotionally in her battle to secure voting rights for all women at a time when it was unpopular, even dangerous, to do so. According to National American Woman Suffrage Association records, Alice Barbee Castleman was a delegate for the Kentucky Equal Rights Association when they were lobbying for the passage of what became known as the "Susan B. Anthony Amendment" during the 65th and 66th sessions of Congress.

Business career
He graduated from the University of Louisville School of Law in 1868, married, and founded an insurance company, Barbee and Castleman, with his father-in-law. The company represented Royal Insurance Company of Liverpool in the Southern United States.

In 1870, Castleman bought a  tract of land called Schwartz's Wood in what was then the outskirts of Louisville. He intended to build a country estate there, but as Louisville expanded around it quickly, the land became much more valuable as a subdivision. It became the western half of Louisville's Tyler Park neighborhood.

Political career
Castleman never ran for office, but his military and business reputation gave him considerable influence. As a Delegate to the 1892 Democratic National Convention, he successfully lobbied for the nomination of Grover Cleveland. After Governor William Goebel was shot in 1900, Castleman was again appointed adjutant general of Kentucky and was instrumental in averting civil war in Kentucky in the fallout of the assassination.

In Louisville, he had great influence as Commissioner of the Board of Parks for over 25 years, during which time he helped establish Louisville's Olmsted Park system, which spurred development in various parts of Louisville and became one of the city's prized possessions over the next century.

Castleman, while Commissioner of the Board of Parks, fought hard to keep the parks integrated as is evidenced by a 1924 letter signed by 19 prominent African American faith leaders published six years after his death. They wrote in response to the 1924 segregation orders “. . . Gen. Castleman . . .steadfastly refused to allow any kind of racial segregation in the parks of the city . . . African Americans have used all parks of the city . . . without . .  hindrance through all these years and with little or no trouble of any kind.” 

However, the extent of Castleman's contribution to the establishment of Louisville's Olmsted Park system has been called into question, and it is claimed that Castleman took credit due to (the Northerner, "carpetbagger") Andrew Cowan. Cowan had originally proposed the park system in a 1887 newspaper essay. An Op-ed in the Courier-Journal claimed that "It was Cowan who successfully lobbied for the state legislation to create a Louisville Park Commission. It was Cowan who first invited Olmsted, the renowned landscape architect, to Louisville and who secretly coached the firm on how to price their work in order to win the bid.... If Castleman had his way, Olmsted never would have been hired."

In 1905, he was a key figure supporting Louisville's Fusionist Party, an anti-corruption party. Although the Fusionists never won many elections, they eventually caused reform in Louisville's election system to come about.

Death and legacy
Castleman died May 23, 1918, He and his wife, Alice Barbee Castleman, had two daughters, Alice and Elsie. He was buried in Cave Hill Cemetery.

His statue at a traffic circle in the Cherokee Triangle neighborhood, the John B. Castleman Monument, became a well-known local landmark. It depicts Castleman in civilian clothes riding his beloved mare, Carolina. The statue attracted controversy due to Castleman's service with the Confederate Army, notwithstanding his later service with the U.S. Army and his enlightened racial attitudes in later life. The statue was removed by the city on June 8, 2020, after initial plans to remove it in 2018 were stalled due to a court appeal by area residents that, on June 5, 2020, was decided in favor of Louisville Metro's right to remove it. The decision was overruled in April 2023 by the Kentucky Supreme Court due to a conflict of interest. The statue is to be moved to Castleman's burial site following cleaning at a storage facility.

His autobiography Active Service was published by Courier-Journal Job Printing Co., 1917.

References

Sources

External links