[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Colorado Mesa University

ent a $5.1 million renovation and expansion, is home to the 600-seat William S. Robinson Theatre, a 300-seat recital hall, the Walter Walker Reception Area, the Mesa Experimental Theatre, a design studio, numerous music practice rooms, smart technology classrooms, faculty offices and a dance studio.

Moss is the home to the Theatre and Music Departments which offer a variety of entertainment for the campus and local community throughout the year.

Tomlinson Library
By 1984 the library's collection had outgrown Lowell Heiny Library and plans were made to build the collection a new home. The new library was dedicated in 1986. Recognized as an architectural gem in American School and University magazine, the library was named for outgoing college president John U. Tomlinson in 1988 to honor his commitment to improved library services at the college. Tomlinson Library contains over 190,000 volumes, including a large government documents collection, and a geology library. It also houses the Ethridge Pottery Collection of prehistoric southwestern ceramics.

Forensic Investigation Research Station 

Known by the acronym "FIRS", this facility consisting of a laboratory building and a fenced-in body farm is located just outside Grand Junction. As of January 2018, the decomposition of 11 bodies was under investigation with a focus on identification of microbial clocks, collections of microorganisms that appear and change in a predictable manner during the course of human body decomposition.

Athletics

CMU's athletic teams are known as the Mavericks; their mascot is symbolized by a rearing bull's head with flaring nostrils. Official colors are maroon, white, and gold. Student body fans are known as The Herd.

The Colorado Mesa Mavericks have 28 varsity teams that compete in NCAA Division II athletics, as part of the Rocky Mountain Athletic Conference. CMU fields teams in men's football, men's baseball, men's and women's basketball, women's volleyball, men's and women's cross country, men's and women's indoor and outdoor track and field, men's and women's golf, men's and women's soccer, men's and women's lacrosse, women's softball, men's and women's swimming, men's and women's tennis, and men's and women's wrestling.

Student media
KMSA 91.3 FM 
The Criterion, student newspaper
CMU-TV, student-run television station
Horizon, student-run magazine

Notable alumni
 Tony Martin, former NFL wide receiver
 Ben Steele, former NFL tight end, current tight ends coach for the Arizona Cardinals

References

External links

Colorado Mesa University Athletics website

 
Public universities and colleges in Colorado
Schools in Mesa County, Colorado
Grand Junction, Colorado
Montrose, Colorado
Education in Mesa County, Colorado
Education in Montrose County, Colorado
Universities and colleges established in 1925
Colorado Western Slope
1925 establishments in Colorado
Tourist attractions in Mesa County, Colorado