[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blasters (comics)

em, he is captured by some Khunds, who cut off his hands. He is rescued by operatives of L.E.G.I.O.N., but knew nothing about the fates of his fellow Blasters. Vril Dox gives Snapper new hands, but he had now lost the ability to teleport. Snapper is then returned to Earth, as seen in Hourman #20-21.

Membership
 Snapper Carr - the former Justice League mascot, now with the power to teleport whenever he snapped his fingers.
 Churljenkins – a catlike green furred alien and space pilot, who became Snapper Carr's girlfriend.
 Jolt - Carlotta Rivera, a fashion model from Madrid, Spain. She could generate a gravimagnetic field that repelled anything near her skin, even water and oxygen.
 Looking Glass - Dexter Fairfax, a British writer of children's books, from the town of Tunbridge Wells, England. He could transform his torso into a flat plane of living reflective and super-refractive glass.
 Dust Devil - Moshe Levy, a young student from Tel Aviv, Israel. He could generate a funnel of fast moving air, a miniature tornado.
 Frag - Fritz Klein, a ski instructor based in Innsbruck, Austria. He could become living metal and fire explosive blasts.
 Crackpot - Amos Monroe, a self-professed African-American con artist from New Orleans, United States.  If he remained calm, he could cause people to believe nearly anything.

Supporting characters
 Gunther - a renegade Dominator scientist.
 Ms. Levy - Dust Devil's overprotective mother.

Bibliography
 Invasion #1-3 (1989)
 Blasters Special #1
 Valor #5-8
 Hourman #20-21

Notes
 The Blasters were supposedly a pet project of Robert Loring Fleming. Fleming brought the Blasters in as guests when he took over the Valor series. He was later forced to leave them in limbo, as the Zero Hour plans for the Legion soon overshadowed the book.

References

External links
 Cosmic Teams: Blasters
 DCU Guide: Blasters
 DCU Guide: Snapper Carr
 DCU Guide: Invasion #1

DC Comics titles
DC Comics metahumans
Comics characters introduced in 1989