[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Julius Bahnsen

stian missionary would claim that one should just "do the right thing and be rewarded", yet there is not one "right" thing. Each moral choice has consequences and all of them have both advantages and disadvantages. In the face of such a dire existence, Bahnsen views humour as almost sacred. It alone gives us the ability to "laugh off" the tragedy of being and to avoid the clutches of depression.

Transcendental realism 

During the end of his life, Bahnsen completed his philosophical project. Despite constant editions and slight changes in details, three principle premises remained throughout Bahnsen's philosophy:

1) Contradiction exists in the heart of reality, and is not a mere attribute of our thoughts about reality

2) Contradiction does not get resolved in synthesis

3) The source of contradiction is the will

Other than rejecting Hegel's progressivism and reinterpreting Schopenhauer's singular will, Bahnsen also denied all forms of idealism. For him, the ideas of idealism are inherently solipsistic and do not take into consideration the unique reality of the individual wills of other people. For this reason and for other more technical purposes, Bahnsen agreed with his fellow pessimists Julius Frauenstädt, Philipp Mainländer and Karl Robert Eduard von Hartmann that transcendental realism is superior to transcendental idealism.

Bahnsen's interpretation of pessimism 

At the end of his life, Bahnsen wrote an article on pessimism, attempting to distinguish his own pessimism from that of his contemporaries. According to this article, Bahnsen found his position to be opposed to idealistic optimism and deprecating cynicism. He stated that the pessimist preserves his "idealist heart" but utilizes the "cold calculation of the head" to strike a middle ground. Thus, the pessimist realizes that alleviating the suffering of all (even of one) is next to impossible, yet the grief caused by this impossibility strengthens the pessimist's tireless pursuit of this goal, instead of demoralizing him/her. Because he feels the "weltschmerz" of being, he is fueled even further by empathy and compassion.

Bahnsen was critical of "hedonistic" pessimism - the position that the pains of the world outnumber its pleasures in quality and quantity. Once more, the philosopher reasserted his convictions regarding individualism and claimed that such a calculus was impossible to make, as it would measure each individual differently. There are other reasons to be pessimistic about the world, he claimed: To realize that all moral aims and ideals are futile, yet to pursue them nonetheless, knowing full well that there is no exit or salvation — that is true pessimism.

References

Julius Bahnsen, Winfried H. Müller-Seyfarth (Ed.): Das Tragische als Weltgesetz und der Humor als ästhetische Gestalt des Metaphysischen. ("The Tragical as World Law and Humour as Aesthetic Shape of the Metaphysical.") VanBremen VerlagsBuchhandlung, Berlin 1995
Julius Bahnsen, Anselm Ruest (Ed.): Wie ich wurde, was ich ward, nebst anderen Stücken aus dem Nachlaß des Philosophen. Leipzig 1931

Further reading

External links
 
 

1830 births
1881 deaths
19th-century German male writers
19th-century German writers
19th-century German philosophers
Continental philosophers
Epistemologists
German male non-fiction writers
Metaphilosophers
People from the Duchy of Schleswig
Ontologists
People from Tønder Municipality
Philosophers of art
Philosophers of education
Philosophers of history
Philosophers of mind
Philosophers of pessimism
Philosophers of psychology
University of Kiel alumni
University of Tübingen alumni