[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Court of Audit (Greece)

llenic Court of Auditors also participates in shaping a common design and planning cooperation with the European Court of Auditors and the audit institutions of the other Member States.

Remits 
The Court's jurisdictional, auditing and advisory competences are grounded on the Constitution of Greece.

Synedrio carries out audits of the expenditure and accounts of the State, local agencies and legal entities as provided for by law. It may also audit private entities if they are in receipt of public money.

Synedrio is required to submit to the Parliament the State's Budget Execution Report and Financial Statements (the Statement of Assurance) as well as an Annual Activity Report.

Organisation
The Head of the Court of Audit is the President.

The Plenum of the Court is the governing body and is composed of the President, eight actively-serving vice-presidents and 33 Judge Counsellors. It conducts its proceedings in a Μajor and three Μinor formations.

Seven jurisdictional chambers
The First Chamber hears legal cases regarding imputation disputes related to the State, legal entities of private law that belong to the State, as well as the disputes from grants and any kind of financing of the State to private legal entities or individuals.

The Second Chamber hears legal cases regarding imputation disputes related to local governments, other legal entities under public law, private legal entities that belong to them, as well as disputes from grants and any kind of financing of the above to private legal entities or individuals.

The Third and the Fourth Chamber hear legal remedies related to pensions of civil servants and public officers.
The Fifth and the Sixth Chamber hear legal remedies related to pensions of military officers and personnel.

The Seventh Chamber, which holds the presumption of jurisdiction, hears, in particular, resources against acts of the Court's Sections regarding pre-contractual audit, as well as legal remedies on imputation differences arising from financial corrections regarding EU funds & recoveries at the expense of public accounting officers.

The Audit Chamber: Chaired by the President himself, it is responsible for determining the Court's audit strategy, planning and monitoring of the annual and multiannual audit program, issuing all types of audit reports, planning and monitoring targeted audits, as well as elaborating the State's Budget Execution Report and Financial Statements (the Statement of Assurance) as well as the Annual Report.

Six jurisdictional sections
Three are responsible for pre-contractual audits, two deal with cases related to auditing and imputation, whilst the last one mainly deals with the Court's international relations.

The Advocate General Office

Inextricably embedded in the Court's organisational structure is the layer of the Advocate General, comprising the Advocate General, the Deputy Advocate General, and three Sub-Deputy Advocate Generals. These are all judges of the Court.

Organisational Structure – Audit Directorate

Three General Coordinators’ Services:

(a) General Coordinator's Service “Administration”, which is responsible for the secretarial support of the Court's formations and for the preparation and processing of the Court's personnel administrative affairs as well as for welfare and safety issues.

(b) General Coordinator's Service “Audit I”, which is responsible for Audit Planning and Support, Quality Control for the Court's regional units as well as for Documentation and Methodology.

(c) General Coordinator's Service “Audit II”, which is responsible for Audit Planning and Support and Quality Control with respect to the Court's units in Athens and Thessaloniki as well as Information Technology Audit and the Audit of the State's Budget Execution Report and Financial Statements.
55 Central Units
56 Regional Units.

The people of the Hellenic Court of Audit

The President
9 actively-serving Vice-presidents
33 Judge-Counsellors
46 Appeal Judges
40 Junior Judges
The Advocate General
The Deputy Advocate General
3 Sub-Deputy Advocate Generals
3 General Directors
90 Directors
106 Chiefs of Division
359 Auditors
173 Secretaries
25 Bailiffs

Products

SΥNEDRIO as the Hellenic Supreme Financial Court and Audit Institution produces:

As the Supreme Audit Institution

Audit reports

Annual report on the Court's audit activities, including the results of its activities, observations stemming from its work, suggestions on reforms and improvements (including relevant laws).

Statement of Assurance on the State's Budget Execution Report and Financial Statements (the Statement of Assurance).

Synedrio conducts financial, compliance, internal control and performance audits and publishes the relevant audit reports according to its Annual Work Programme; It also produces reports as part of its cooperation with peer SAIs.

It reports on issues of general interest such as those arising from systemic weaknesses of public administration.

Administrative acts