[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Opposition to the War of 1812 in the United States

ocate their changes, they were greeted with news of a peace treaty with the United Kingdom, the Treaty of Ghent, which essentially restored the pre-war status quo.  This undercut their position, leaving them with little support.  They returned home, and the decline of the Federalist Party continued.

Popular opposition 
At the outbreak of war, there was widespread resistance by many Americans, with many militias refusing to go to war, and bankers even refusing to back a Federal currency and relieve the government of its debt. A Massachusetts paper, the Salem Gazette, reprinted Madison's Federalist No. 46, in which Madison made the argument for defending states' rights against a national government, in response to the national government trying to press the state militia into national service. While a sense of patriotism offered support for the war, outside Federalist strongholds, as the war dragged on and the U.S. suffered frequent reversals on land, opposition to the war extended beyond Federalist leaders. As a result, the pool of army volunteers dried. For example, after the British captured Fort Niagara, General George McClure tried to call up the local militia to drive them back but found that most would not respond, tired of repeated drafts and his earlier failures.  Even those who did appear, McClure wrote, were more interested "in taking care of their families and property by carrying them into the interior, than helping us to fight." There were many examples of other militias refusing to enter Canada, and either disobeying or simply refusing orders to move into Canadian territory. Political opinions even interfered with communication between officers at the beginning of the war. This was shown in national recruitment efforts as well.  While Congress authorized the War Department to recruit 50,000 one-year volunteers, only 10,000 could be found, and the Army never reached half of its authorized strength.  A national conscription plan was proposed in Congress, but defeated with the aid of Daniel Webster, though several states passed conscription policies.  Even Kentucky, the home state of the best-known war hawk Henry Clay, was the source of only 400 recruits in 1812. It was not until the war was concluded that its retrospective popularity shot up again.

Backlash 
Many members of the Democratic-Republican Party viewed opposition as treasonous or near-treasonous once the war was declared.  The Washington National Intelligencer wrote that, "WAR IS DECLARED, and every patriot heart must unite in its support... or die without due cause."  The Augusta Chronicle wrote that "he who is not for us is against us." This sentiment was especially strong in Baltimore, at the time a boomtown with a large population of recent French, Irish, and German immigrants who were eager to prove their patriotism. In early 1812, several riots took place, centering on the anti-war Federalist newspaper the Federal Republican.  Its offices were destroyed by a mob.  Local and city officials, all war hawks, expressed disapproval of the violence but did little to stop it.  When the editors of Federal Republican tried to return, they were removed from protective custody in jail by a mob, on the night of July 27, and tortured; one Revolutionary War veteran, James Lingan, died of his injuries.  Opponents of the war then largely ceased to openly express their opposition in Baltimore. However, Federalists did take advantage of the incident to publicize Lingan's funeral in stories that were widely printed about around the country. The Baltimore riots were the height of violent backlash during the war, whose popularity dropped through 1813 and 1814.  However, after the war, when the Hartford Convention's proceedings became public just after a peace treaty was signed with Britain, there was a longer-term backlash against the Federalist Party, which became associated with secession and treason.  The party never regained national predominance, fielding its last Presidential candidate in 1816 and fading away entirely by the end of the 1820s.