[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Malaysian Cub Prix

The Malaysian Cub Prix Championship is a national-level underbone or moped racing series for motorcycles with displacements from 100 to 150cc. The tournament is a grassroots developer with the main objective of discovering and developing Malaysian motorcycle racing talents.

The title sponsor of the championship is Petronas and it is supported by motorcycle manufacturers Yamaha, Honda, and Suzuki.

History
The name Cub Prix itself is derived from the moniker Cub 仔. Pronounced ‘cub chai’ or ‘kapcai’, the phrase literally means Little Cub in Cantonese and refers to the original Honda Cub (Honda 50 that was introduced by Soichiro Honda in 1958). Today, the name has become synonymous with underbone motorcycles in Malaysia.

Begun in 1994, the concept was to create a motorsports championship that was accessible to people from all walks of life. That is why, to this day, Cub Prix races predominantly on the streets with a maximum of two rounds per year held at permanent circuits. To date, Cub Prix is still the only mobile motorsports event that brings the excitement of motorcycle racing to its fans throughout the country. Through Cub Prix's mobility, the championship has visited every major town and city in Malaysia. A typical season for Cub Prix consists of 10 rounds beginning in late March and ending in December with a two-month break in between for the Ramadan and Shawwal celebrations.

Underbone
The underbone motorcycle was born in Asia in 1958 when Soichiro Honda rolled out the first Honda 50.

An underbone motorcycle is a small motorcycle built around a single tube frame called the underbone. This ‘underbone’ supports the whole vehicle and runs low all across the length of the motorcycle. There is a similarity in appearance to the scooter, largely due to the fuel tank position, the open-frame design which the fuel tank position allows and the splash guards. However, the entire power train, namely the engine position, power transmission and wheels are based on the design of conventional motorcycles.

The position of the fuel tank, in fact, located below the seat, is the main aspect that truly differentiates the underbone with other conventional motorcycles. This allows for a design that improves ease of mounting and dismounting, making the underbone popular with consumers of both genders.

The engine size of a typical underbone motorcycle can range between 80cc to 150cc. In the early years, two-stroke engines were the norm, but come the turn of the millennium, the four-stroke evolution picked up speed.

The technical sophistication of larger motorcycles such as fuel injection systems, capacitor discharge ignition and electric starters, were gradually fused into the underbone. With each addition, the underbone became zippier, sportier and trendier.

Objectives
Since its inception, Cub Prix's main objective is, and always has been, to build a strong base of grassroots talents from which promising and talented Malaysian riders can be filtered through to the higher levels of racing. Grassroots development forms a very important part in the growth of any sport. Without a strong foundation, even the most glittering pinnacle at the top of the pyramid would crumble and fall

Race Categories
The actual format of the race classes and their technical regulations differ from season to season, evolving either in response to, or to trigger changes in the industries.

In 2017, the race categories are as follows:

Open-Make Categories

 CP150 – A new class opened for Malaysian Cub Prix 24 for the year 2017, with introduction of new cub bikes with larger engine capacity for the year 2016. Due to this had increased demand for this class to be opened, requested by public, manufacturers to enhance more marketing and interest as cub class motorcycles continues to grow in the country. It replaces the former CP130 by increasing the engine capacity of category and due to this implementation, most team are able to utilize fuel injection systems in their bikes to qualify for Euro inspection races as required by FIM. For this class, it will be the first time fuel injection systems being used in Cub Prix history. Formerly known as the Expert class, this is the premiere class of the Malaysian Cub Prix.
 CP125 – Intermediary category for riders who have had some racing experience but are not yet ready to race in the hyper-competitive CP150 class.
 Wira – This is an age-restricted class only for riders aged between 13 years to 17 years old.

Semi-Amateur Category 
 Privateer – This is strictly for privateer riders who race without factory backing.