[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Senedd building

er the September 11 attacks in the United States.

After the project was stopped in 2001, the contract for the construction of the second phase of the building used a fixed-price design and build contract, which meant a much tighter control of costs than in the first phase.

Ongoing cost of repairs 

In 2008, two years after the Senedd building had opened, the cost of repairs to the building had reached £97,709. Repairs have been for windows, doors, plumbing and electrics. A spokesman for the National Assembly said, "The repair figures are not excessive for a public building that has hundreds of thousands of visitors each year. The costs are within estimated levels and covered by existing budgets." In 2011, the official figures show that more than £157,000 had been spent on repairing the building since it had opened, with £29,000 having been spent on electrical repairs, £25,000 on fixing doors and almost £19,000 on plumbing. In addition, other repairs were also paid for by Vinci Construction under the terms of the contract. In was reported that rain water had leaked into a steel and glass staircase reserved for members and staff and in September 2008, a committee meeting was halted after water started dripping through the ceiling.

Senedd estate in Cardiff Bay 

The Senedd building is part of the Senedd estate in Cardiff Bay, along with Tŷ Hywel (Howell House) and the Grade 1 listed Pierhead Building. Tŷ Hywel houses staff of the Senedd Commission, AMs, the First Minister and other ministers. Tŷ Hywel is named after Hywel Dda (Howell the Good), King of Deheubarth in South West Wales. On 26 June 2008, the Prince of Wales officially opened Siambr Hywel, the then National Assembly's youth debating chamber and education centre. It is based in the debating chamber that was used by the National Assembly between 1999 and 2006, while the Senedd building was being constructed. Two covered link bridges connect the Senedd building to Tŷ Hywel. Construction of the link bridges began in September 2004 and they were completed by December 2005.

The Pierhead Building was opened in 1897 and designed by William Frame. It was originally the headquarters of the Bute Dock Company and by 1947 it was the administrative office for the Port of Cardiff. The building was reopened in May 2001 as 'The Assembly at the Pierhead', which was a visitor and education centre for the National Assembly. The exhibition provided visitors with information on the National Assembly. On 1 March 2010, the building was again reopened to the public as a Welsh history museum and exhibition.
In 2008, Elis-Thomas announced that the Pierhead Building would display the history of the Black community in Butetown, Cardiff Docks and Welsh devolution.

In popular culture 
The Senedd building was involved in what is called the "Sex and the Senedd" controversy. An episode of Caerdydd, the S4C Welsh language television programme set in Cardiff, which started when the broadcast of the episode shot a sex scene was filmed in a toilet room of the Senedd, and not in a television studio. The National Assembly for Wales Commission, who approved filming in the Neuadd area, the corridors of the Senedd building and for one scene in the baby-changing room, were not made aware of the nature of the scene.

The Doctor Who episode "The Lazarus Experiment" was filmed in the Senedd building, along with the ending of "The Almost People" as was the Doctor Who spin-off programme Torchwood, which used the Senedd building in the episode "Meat", where Gwen Cooper and Rhys Williams sit on the steps of the Senedd building.

In March 2015 it emerged that the makers of Spectre, the 24th James Bond film, had requested use of the Senedd building's debating chamber for the filming of some scenes, but that this had been declined by Senedd officials, who said the debating chamber was "not a drama studio". Several Welsh politicians, including First Minister Carwyn Jones and Welsh Conservatives leader Andrew RT Davies, cited the decision as a missed opportunity that would have boosted tourism for Wales.

Nominations and awards