[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kekko Kamen

heir family is. When their secret is discovered, the twins are accused of being Kekko Kamen, and tortured, but are again cleared of suspicion when Kekko Kamen arrives to save them and Mayumi.

In the last chapter, however, it is revealed that the twins really were Kekko Kamen, alongside four others.

A tough, popular Physical Education teacher, and an expert at various styles of fighting techniques, sports, and with many types of weapons—this caused the principal to suspect that she was actually Kekko Kamen, so he began to humiliate her. This ceased when Kekko Kamen jumped in to rescue her. She would come under suspicion of being Kekko Kamen more than once, and was accused of hiding Kekko Kamen's identity when her sister came under suspicion of being the heroine.

In the last chapter, it is revealed that she indeed was Kekko Kamen, alongside Chigusa, Yuka and three others.

A supposedly first year male student, who is in the same class as Mayumi. However, another student uncovered that "he" was actually a female in disguise. This prompted the Principal to believe that she was Kekko Kamen. When her true gender was unveiled, Keiko suddenly rushed in to save her, and confessed that she was Koichi's older sister. Both sisters were then tortured until Kekko Kamen came to their rescue. After this revelation, Koichi continued to be a valuable friend and ally of Mayumi. She, her sister, and Chigusa would come under suspicion again, but were proven innocent each time.

In the last chapter, she reveals herself to be Kekko Kamen, alongside her sister, the twins Chigusa and Yuka, and two others.

A young student who is positively infatuated with Kekko Kamen, and is inspired to become a heroine of justice herself. So, armed with a rapier, she becomes the mostly nude, caped, swashbuckling hero with a ribbon covering her crotch known as . However, on her first attempt to combat the evil of the school, Ai finds herself in danger. Fortunately, Kekko Kamen comes to her rescue. After this incident, Ai continued to appear sporadically throughout the manga as a supporting character.

The very attractive school nurse. After Kekko Kamen's thigh is injured in a battle, the villain traces her to the infirmary, and confronts Kaori, ripping off her clothing in an attempt to find the scar, only to discover that it isn't there. Kekko Kamen appears, a bandage on her thigh, rescuing her, and eliminating her as a suspect.

In the last chapter, however, she is revealed to be Kekko Kamen, alongside Chigusa, Yuka, Keiko and Koichi.

A red-haired, chain smoking, tough-as-nails third-year student—she is a gang leader who makes sure everyone knows their place when dealing with her, and she hardly comes to class. When seeing Kei walk away from her, Mayumi is immediately reminded of someone else, but she quickly dismisses the thought.

Shortly afterwards, Mayumi is accosted by Toenail of Satan, and Kekko Kamen jumps in to save her, only to find herself in the midst of a trap. By the end of it, she is captured and unmasked—she is revealed to be Kei. She is then saved by Koichi, who reveals herself as Kekko Kamen—Chigusa, Yuka, Keiko and Kaori reveal themselves to be Kekko Kamen as well, and unite to defeat the Toenail of Satan and the faculty.

Production
Kekko Kamen is a female superhero whose costume consists solely of red boots, gloves, scarf and a mask with long bunny-like ears. Her fighting style is graceful, and her finishing move involves driving the opponent to the ground with a flying headscissors takedown which presses her groin into the victim's face.

Kekko Kamen is a parody of Gekko Kamen. It was originally a joke that Nagai sent to his editor expecting him to reject it. His editor, however, loved the idea and that started Kekko Kamen. Even the name of the main antagonist is a parody: in Gekko Kamen it is  while in Kekko Kamen it is . The theme song for the Kekko Kamen character uses the same lyrics for the theme song to Moonlight Mask, but with changes.

Media

Manga
Kekko Kamen was originally serialized in Shueisha's magazine Monthly Shōnen Jump, from  to .

The series has been compiled several times by Shueisha and other publishers. It is also available in ebook format, published by ebookjapan. The manga was published in two volumes in Italy by d/visual, on December 22, 2006 and July 30, 2010.

Shueisha (Jump Comics, 1976–1978)

Shueisha (Jump Comics Deluxe, 1990)

Kadokawa Shoten (Kadokawa Bunko, 1996)

Kodansha (Kodansha Comics Deluxe, 2003)

Leed Publishing (SP Comics, 2004)