[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Oscar Handlin

ration of historians, even though many of them would dispute his immigrant archetype of a peasant guided primarily by religious conviction, having no familiarity with wage work or urban settings, and having experienced migration first and foremost as alienation from family, community, and tradition.

Handlin was one of the most prolific and influential American historians of the 20th century.  As an American historian and educator he was noted for his in depth examination of American immigration history, ethnic history, and social history.  His dissertation (1941) was published as his first book Boston's Immigrants, 1790–1865: A Study in Acculturation (1941).  The book was highly regarded for its innovative research on sociological concepts and census data.  In 1941 it won the prestigious John H. Dunning Prize from the American Historical Association as outstanding historical work published by a young scholar.  The American Journal of Sociology described it as "the first historical case study of the impact of immigrants upon a particular society and the adjustment of the immigrants to that society.  The writer has opened a new field for historical research and has also made a significant contribution to the literature of race and culture contacts."

In 1947, he and his first wife Mary Flug Handlin published Commonwealth: A Study of the Role of Government in the American Economy: Massachusetts, 1774-1861, which revealed for the first time the importance of political action in the development of the US free enterprise system.
 
By the late 1950s, Oscar Handlin was publishing a book nearly every year, covering the fields of civil rights, liberty, ethnicity, urban history, the history of education, foreign affairs, migration, biography, adolescence, even a book of poetry.  Sometimes he wrote collaboratively with his first wife Mary Flug Handlin and, after her 1976 death, with his second wife Lilian Bombach, whom he married in 1977.

In the 1960s, Handlin published 11 books, wrote a monthly column for The Atlantic Monthly, directed the Center for the Study of Liberty in America, helped manage a commercial television station in Boston, chaired a board that oversaw Fulbright Scholarship awards, all in addition to his teaching duties at Harvard.  From 1979 to 1983 he was director of the Harvard University Library.  He also edited a 42-volume collection of books on subjects relating to immigration and ethnicity, The American Immigration Collection (1969).  During the next three decades, Handlin published 12 more books, many on the subject of liberty, and edited at least 20 biographies.  He continued his work with immigrants with From the Outer World (1997), which collected the travel accounts of visitors to the United States from non-European countries.

American slavery
Oscar Handlin argued that racism was a by-product of slavery, and that the main focus was on the fact that slaves, like indentured servants, were regarded as inferior because of their status, not necessarily because of their race.

Civil Rights Movement
In 1964, Handlin published Fire Bell in the Night: The Crisis in Civil Rights, which criticized white supremacists and suburban liberals, but also criticized leftists for their Communist-inspired solutions such as quotas, school busing, and affirmative action, writing: "Preferential treatment demands a departure from the ideal which judges individuals by their own merits rather than by their affiliations."

Left and Right
In March 1961, Handlin signed an ACLU-organized petition of scholars demanding that the House Committee on Un-American Activities (HUAC) cease operations.

In 1961, Handlin published The Distortion of America, his critique of the attractions of Communism. The 1996 second edition covers Yugoslavia, China, and Arthur Koestler.  "The study of the human past persuades me that, despite the frequent risks of failure, man has the capacity to make order and find purpose in the world in which he lives when he uses the power of his reason to do so."

His long-time colleague Bernard Bailyn noted Handlin's commitment to providing a historical perspective on policy issues:

In 1979, Handlin published Truth in History, which criticized New Left historians and the corruption of American universities with faddishness, hiring quotas, overspecialization and fragmentation in history studies, and deficiencies in graduate training.

The Vietnam War
In December 1967, Handlin was one of 14 anti-Communist American scholars who co-wrote a report for the Freedom House Public Affairs Institute, which argued that disaster would strike if the US withdrew from Vietnam. In 1988, Handlin, John Silber, et al. founded the conservative National Association of Scholars.