[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Italian fascism

no Lanzillo
 Curzio Malaparte
 Filippo Tommaso Marinetti
 Robert Michels
 Angelo Oliviero Olivetti
 Sergio Panunzio
 Giovanni Papini
 Giuseppe Prezzolini
 Alfredo Rocco
 Edmondo Rossoni
 Margherita Sarfatti
 Ardengo Soffici
 Ugo Spirito
 Giuseppe Ungaretti
 Gioacchino Volpe

Italian fascist slogans 

 Me ne frego ("I don't give a damn!"), the Italian fascist motto.
 Libro e moschetto, fascista perfetto ("Book and musket, perfect fascist").
 Tutto nello Stato, niente al di fuori dello Stato, nulla contro lo Stato ("Everything in the State, nothing outside the State, nothing against the State").
 Credere, obbedire, combattere ("Believe, Obey, Fight").
  Chi si ferma è perduto ("He who hesitates is lost").
 Se avanzo, seguitemi; se indietreggio, uccidetemi; se muoio, vendicatemi ("If I advance, follow me. If I retreat, kill me. If I die, avenge me"). Borrowed from French Royalist General Henri de la Rochejaquelein.
 Viva il Duce ("Long live the Leader").
 La guerra è per l'uomo come la maternità è per la donna ("War is to man as motherhood is to woman").
 Boia chi molla ("Who gives up is a rogue"); the first meaning of "boia" is "executioner, hangman", but in this context it means "scoundrel, rogue, villain, blackguard, knave, lowlife" and it can also be used as an exclamation of strong irritation or disappointment or as a pejoratively superlative adjective (e.g. tempo boia, "awful weather").
 Molti nemici, molto onore ("Many enemies, much Honor").
 È l'aratro che traccia il solco, ma è la spada che lo difende ("The plough cuts the furrow, but the sword defends it").
 Dux mea lux ("The Leader is my light"), Latin phrase.
 Duce, a noi ("Duce, to us").
 Mussolini ha sempre ragione ("Mussolini is always right").
 Vincere, e vinceremo ("To win, and we shall win!").

See also 

Definitions of fascism
Economy of Italy under fascism
Fascism
Fascist architecture
Fascist syndicalism
 Italian fascist states
Kingdom of Italy (1922–1943; as a fascist state)
Italian Social Republic (1943–1945)
Model of masculinity under fascist Italy
National Fascist Party
Propaganda in Fascist Italy
Italian fascism and racism
Italian racial laws
Neo-fascism
Nazism
Antisemitism in 21st-century Italy
Racism in Italy
Sicilian mafia during the Fascist regime
Squadrismo
Shōwa Statism
Totalitarianism

References

Sources 
 "Labor Charter" (1927–1934).
 Mussolini, Benito. Doctrine of Fascism, which was published as part of the entry for fascismo in the Enciclopedia Italiana, 1932.
 Sorel, Georges. Reflections on Violence.

Further reading

General 
 Acemoglu, Daron; De Feo, Giuseppe; De Luca, Giacomo; Russo, Gianluca. 2022. "War, Socialism, and the Rise of Fascism: An Empirical Exploration". The Quarterly Journal of Economics
 De Felice, Renzo. 1977. Interpretations of Fascism, translated by Brenda Huff Everett, Cambridge; London: Harvard University Press .
 Eatwell, Roger. 1996. Fascism: A History. New York: Allen Lane.
 Hughes, H. Stuart. 1953. The United States and Italy. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.
 
 Paxton, Robert O. 2004. The Anatomy of Fascism. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, .
 Payne, Stanley G. 1995. A History of Fascism, 1914–45. Madison, Wisc.: University of Wisconsin Press .
 Reich, Wilhelm. 1970. The Mass Psychology of Fascism. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
 Seldes, George. 1935. Sawdust Caesar: The Untold History of Mussolini and Fascism. New York and London: Harper and Brothers.
 Smith, Denis Mack. "Mussolini, Artist in Propaganda: The Downfall of Fascism". History Today (Apr 1959) 9#4 pp. 223–232.
 Alfred Sohn-Rethel. Economy and Class Structure of German Fascism, London, CSE Bks, 1978 .
 Adler, Frank, and Danilo Breschi, eds. Special Issue on Italian Fascism, Telos 133 (Winter 2005).

Fascist ideology 
 De Felice, Renzo. 1976. Fascism: An Informal Introduction to Its Theory and Practice: An Interview with Michael Ledeen, New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Books .
 Fritzsche, Peter. 1990. Rehearsals for Fascism: Populism and Political Mobilization in Weimar Germany. New York: Oxford University Press. .
 Gregor, A. James "Mussolini's Intellectuals: Fascist Social and Political Thought". Princeton, N. J.: Princeton University Press, 2005. .
 Griffin, Roger. 2000. "Revolution from the Right: Fascism", chapter in David Parker (ed.) Revolutions and the Revolutionary Tradition in the West 1560–1991, Routledge, London.
 Laqueur, Walter. 1966. Fascism: Past, Present, Future, New York: Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1997.
 Schapiro, J. Salwyn. 1949. Liberalism and The Challenge of Fascism, Social Forces in England and France (1815–1870). New York: McGraw-Hill.
 Laclau, Ernesto. 1977. Politics and Ideology in Marxist Theory: Capitalism, Fascism, Populism. London: NLB/Atlantic Highlands Humanities Press.
 Sternhell, Zeev with Mario Sznajder and Maia Asheri. [1989] 1994. The Birth of Fascist Ideology, From Cultural Rebellion to Political Revolution. Trans. David Maisei. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press.