[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Stephen Kernahan

Stephen Scott Kernahan (born 1 September 1963) is a former Australian rules footballer who played for the Carlton Football Club in the Australian Football League (AFL) and for the Glenelg Football Club in the South Australian National Football League (SANFL). He also played 16 State of Origin games for South Australia and gained selection as an All-Australian five times (1983, 1986, 1988, 1992 and 1994). He later served for six years as president of the Carlton Football Club.

Nicknamed Sticks, Kernahan was the captain of Carlton's Team of the Century and holds the club goalkicking record of 738 and, until eclipsed by Joel Selwood in 2022, held the AFL record for the most games as a club captain.

Early life
Stephen Kernahan is the son of South Australian football legend and Glenelg club champion and administrator Harry Kernahan, and the older brother of former Glenelg and Carlton player David Kernahan. Kernahan attended Paringa Park Primary School in North Brighton and Brighton High School. At a junior level, he represented South Australia in cricket and surf life-saving in addition to football. He became a licensed stockbroker and worked at the stock exchanges in Adelaide and then Melbourne throughout his football career.

His affiliation with Glenelg began very young; he developed a lifelong friendship with Chris McDermott when they played together in the under-10s team.

Playing career

Glenelg
He began his senior career with Glenelg in the South Australian National Football League (SANFL) at age 17 in 1981, and played 116 games, kicking 266 goals (also playing 20 games and kicking 24 goals in night series/pre-season competition), and also won three straight best and fairest awards.

Under the coaching of 1961 Magarey Medallist John Halbert, Kernahan was a member of Glenelg's losing Grand Final teams to Port Adelaide in 1981 and Norwood in 1982.

In 1983, he topped the voting in the Magarey Medal with a then-record 44 votes, made all the more remarkable as Glenelg only won 9 of 22 games for the season (after losing their first 8 games), half the number won by premiers West Adelaide. Unfortunately, he was ineligible due to being reported for an incident with Norwood's Garry McIntosh in Round 4 and was suspended for Round 5. Due to the rules of the SANFL, any player who receives a suspension during a season is ineligible to win the Medal and the award was won by North Adelaide's Tony Antrobus who polled 35 votes. Kernahan was also twice leading goal kicker for The Bays, in 1983 and 1984 and in 1985 he was awarded the Jack Oatey Medal as best on the ground in the club's premiership win over North Adelaide.

In his days with Glenelg, Kernahan was mostly used as a ruckman/forward due to his 6'5" (196 cm) height and his strong marking and leading ability. He played mostly at full-forward and was the Tigers' second ruckman behind Bays legend Peter Carey. This would lead him to be Glenelg's leading goalkicker in both 1983 and 1984. His height and his slight build led to the nickname "Sticks".

Kernahan was signed by Carlton in the Victorian Football League (VFL) in 1981, but he didn't move to the club until 1986 due to his ambition to play in a premiership with his best mates at Glenelg. The anticipation of Kernahan's arrival was heightened when he played State of Origin games for South Australia and his outstanding play, usually at full-forward, saw those in Victoria take notice. In 1983, Kernahan was a member of the South Australian side which defeated Victoria in Adelaide for the first time in 18 years. He kicked 10 goals in a losing side against Victoria at Football Park in Adelaide in 1984, winning the Fos Williams Medal as South Australia's player of the match. He was a mainstay of the South Australian state of origin teams throughout his careers at Glenelg and Carlton, playing a total of sixteen games for the Croweaters, winning a second Fos Williams Medal in 1988, and captaining the team in 1996.

Carlton
After winning the 1985 premiership with Glenelg, Kernahan finally moved to Melbourne to join Carlton in 1986, the same year as two other quality South Australian players, Craig Bradley from Port Adelaide and Peter Motley from Sturt, joined the Blues, and the three were immediately influential for the Blues. Playing primarily at centre half-forward—and sometimes at full-forward—throughout his career, Kernahan kicked 62 goals in his first season at Carlton, to be the club's leading goalkicker for the first of a club record eleven consecutive occasions.