[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Luke Howell

reford United, which kept him out for a long time. In March 2012, Howell made his return from injury in a 1–0 loss against Northampton Town and revealed his spend 12 weeks in leg brace. During his time spent on the sidelines, the club started a losing, which placed the club into the relegation zone.

The next season, his season changed, having improved dramatically, when he scored nine goals, including a brace against Rotherham United. In January 2013, Howell signed a new contract with the club, which will keep him until 2015.

Boreham Wood
After leaving Dagenham & Redbridge it was confirmed by ex-manager Wayne Burnett that Howell had started training with League Two rivals Leyton Orient. The trial spell ended with one pre-season appearance for the O's against Braintree Town in early July.

On 15 July, Howell was announced as a Boreham Wood player. He is part of a trio of signings announced by the club including highly rated former Chelsea youngster Billy Clifford and vastly experienced Football League striker Charlie Macdonald.

Return to Dagenham
In May 2016, he re-signed for Dagenham & Redbridge after their relegation to the National League along with Scott Doe on a free transfer, re-uniting with former manager John Still. On 25 May 2018 it was announced that he would leave the club at the end of the season due to the expiration of his contract.

Aldershot Town
On 2 July 2018, Howell agreed to join fellow National League side Aldershot Town, following his release from Dagenham.

Hemel Hempstead Town 
Howell agreed to signed for National League South side Hemel Hempstead Town F.C. on 12 June 2019.

St Ives Town
Howell signed for Southern League Premier Division Central side St Ives Town on 15 October 2020.

Career statistics

References

External links

Luke Howell permanent signing at redimps.co.uk

1987 births
Living people
People from Heathfield, East Sussex
English men's footballers
Gillingham F.C. players
Milton Keynes Dons F.C. players
Folkestone Invicta F.C. players
Lincoln City F.C. players
Welling United F.C. players
Dagenham & Redbridge F.C. players
Boreham Wood F.C. players
Aldershot Town F.C. players
Hemel Hempstead Town F.C. players
St Ives Town F.C. players
Isthmian League players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
People educated at Tunbridge Wells Grammar School for Boys
Men's association football midfielders
Men's association football defenders