[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# LIP (company)

prise, withdrew its orders, and the Ministry of Industry refused promised funding. In contradiction to the Dôle agreement of January 1974, the commercial court (tribunal de commerce) requested that LIP honor a debt of 6 million Francs owed by the former firm to providers.

1976: the second movement 

Shareholders forced Claude Neuschwander to resign on 8 February 1976 and the Compagnie européenne d'horlogerie started liquidation proceedings in April. Problems between workers and management began again. On 5 May 1976 LIP workers again occupied the factory, restarting the production of watches. Libération newspaper, founded three years before by Jean-Paul Sartre, printed the headline, "Lip, c'est reparti!" (Lip, it's starting again!). No one offered to take over LIP this time. The firm was definitively liquidated on 12 September 1977. After long internal debates, on 28 November 1977 the workers created a cooperative, named "Les Industries de Palente" (Palente's Industries)Palente was the neighborhood of Besançon where the factory was located. The LIP acronym remained.

Charles Piaget testified in 1977, in the Quotidien de Paris, about the self-management experiment:

A few more than 500 workers are effectively in battle, gathering every day, and this, nineteen months after having been fired. It is living proof of democracy. It is impossible to have such a collective force without the sustained practice of democracy, without sharing responsibilities, and without participation of all sorts. It must be pointed out that at LIP, the workers are in charge of approximately thirty jobs, from the restaurant, which serves 300 meals a day for 4 francs, to a hairdresser for the unemployed, to a judicial commission for these same unemployed, to various artisanal activities, one being the game Chômageopoly ("Chômage" means unemployment in French), which has already sold more than 6,000 games, and finally industrial production.

The second struggle did not end until 1980, when six cooperatives, employing 250 workers out of a total of 850, were created. Most of the other workers who had joined the struggle (around 400) were either hired by the city, or signed agreements granting them early retirement. The cooperatives lasted between 3 and 12 years. Three of them, which have since become incorporated, still exist today, employing a hundred workers each. For instance, some former LIP workers returned to work in Palente with the SCOP (Société coopérative de production) cooperative Lip Précision Industrie, which employs about twenty persons. SCOP focuses on precision mechanics. According to Charles Piaget, the difficulties of the second conflict, compared to the large victory obtained in 1974, could be explained by the May 1974 election of Valéry Giscard d'Estaing, whose government decided not to help companies in a difficult situation, and by the 1973 oil crisis.

LIP in the 1980s and the 1990s 

The LIP cooperative was bought back by Kiplé in 1984, during François Mitterrand's presidency. However, the new firm was liquidated six years later. Jean-Claude Sensemat then bought the brand in 1990, and relaunched the production with modern marketing methods. The sales increased to a million watches a year. The LIP reissued Charles de Gaulle's watch, which Jean-Claude Sensemat offered to U.S. President Bill Clinton.

In 2002, Sensemat signed a LIP world license contract with Jean-Luc Bernerd, who created La Manufacture Générale Horlogère in Lectoure Gers for the occasion.

Charles Piaget is today a member of AC! (Agir ensemble contre le chômage), a union of unemployed people, while the Dominican Jean Raguenès lives in Brazil, where he supports the Landless Workers' Movement (MST).

Famous models 

 T10 (La Croix du Sud): created for Jean Mermoz's plane.
 T18: conceived by André Donat,and produced from 1933 to 1949a T18 was offered in 1948 to Winston Churchill.
 l'Electronic: 1952the first models were worn by Charles de Gaulle and U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
 Mach 2000: Conceived by Roger Tallon, the designer of the TGV high-speed train.

See also 

History of clockmaking in Besançon
List of watch manufacturers
Electric watch
May 68
Workers' self-management
Fifth Republic (France) and France in the twentieth century

References

Sources
 Chez Lip: On fabrique; on vend; on se paye! , article in Le Monde libertaire by Maurice Joyeux 
 "Lip, une mémoire ouvrière", Les Echos, 22 March 2007
 History of the brand 
 Documentaire Lip, le rêve et l'histoire (Lip, the dream and the story)

Bibliography and films 

 Maurice Clavel, Les paroissiens de Palente, Grasset, 1974 (novel)
 Christian Rouaud, Les Lip, l'imagination au pouvoir (Lip, Imagination to Powerfilm documentary, 2007)
 Ch. Piaget, Lip, Postscript by Michel Rocard, Lutter Stock, 1973.
 Collective, Lip: affaire non classée, Postscript by Michel Rocard, Syros, 1975.
 Jean-Claude Sensemat, Comment j'ai sauvé Lip  (How I saved Lip) (1990–2005).