[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 9th West Virginia Infantry Regiment

The 9th West Virginia Infantry Regiment was an infantry regiment that served in the Union Army during the American Civil War.

Service

Organization

The 9th West Virginia Infantry Regiment was organized at Guyandotte, in western Virginia between November 28, 1861, and April 30, 1862. Its major was congressman Kellian Whaley.

In April 1862, two periods of recruitments were made with the earlier at Cottageville. About two weeks later, Company K was recruited from those who worked the riverboats and repair out of Kanawha Harbor and the other landings. These were often detailed on board to protect the packet boats and river crossings. They were recruited by Col. Kellian Whaley and Lt. Col. William C. Starr. Starr was the General Manager of the Hartford Salt Works and was familiar with the river logistics workers. Kellian Whaley, of the timber business, was also familiar with the riverboat repairmen in supplying material and wood fuel to the steamboat business. Elements of the 9th WVIR and 8th WVIR were stationed at Point Pleasant, W. Va., District of the Kanawha, W. Va., Dept. of the Ohio, October, 1862 to March, 1863. Theodore Lang writes, "The regiment was composed largely of refugees, who, having been driven from home, were fighting with a desperation that was not excelled by any troops in any army." Joe Geiger (Vol 54 1995:28-41) writes of 1861, "July 13, however, the Second Kentucky moved into the Kanawha Valley and civil chaos in the county resumed unchecked."

This organizing Union infantry was recruited from the counties along the Ohio, Kanawha and Little Kanawha rivers and their tributaries. During this recruiting phase, it was first attached to the District of the Kanawha, West Virginia, to May, 1862. It was transferred to the 4th Brigade, Kanawha Division, West Virginia, to September, 1862. Next, it was reassigned to the District of the Kanawha, West Virginia, Dept. of the Ohio, to January, 1863. The 9th was assigned to Milroy's Command, Winchester, Va., 8th Army Corps, Middle Department, to February, 1863. Its following command was under the 2nd Brigade, 2nd Division, 8th Army Corps, to June, 1863. After this, the 9th was assigned to its home region to the 1st Brigade, Scammon's Division, West Virginia, to August, 1863. Change in command structure led the 9th Infantry to its home area command of the 2nd Brigade, Scammon's Division, West Virginia, to December, 1863. As West Virginia was now recognized as a state, the 9th was assigned to the 2nd Brigade, 3rd Division, West Virginia, to April, 1864. The 9th Infantry's last command assignment was the 2nd Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division, West Virginia, to November, 1864.

Initial service: 1861-62

From November to July, 1861, the recruits were assigned to garrison duty in the Kanawha Valley with detachments at Fayette, Gauley Bridge, Summersville, Point Pleasant, Coalsmouth and Calhoun until July, 1862. Some companies scouted in Roane and Clay Counties from May 8 to the 21st. Companies "A" and "F" saw action at Summersville on July 25. They moved over to Flat Top Mountain on July 28 and then to the battles at Summersville and Gauley August 14. The Union had ordered 5,000 troops away from the Kanawha region to Virginia which left the region undermanned and led to the Confederate Kanawha Valley Campaign of 1862. As a first step in the campaign, Albert G. Jenkins and his 550 Confederate Cavalry circled through western Virginia and moved behind the small Union force in the Kanawha Valley. Jenkins took control of the towns from Monroe County to Jackson County and raided from there into Ohio during the month of August, 1862. A feint toward the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad may have been a diversion tactic, but Jenkins accomplished his goal of moving into position to prevent a Union retreat.

Meanwhile, General William W. Loring pushed back Joseph A. J. Lightburn at Fayetteville to Charleston on September 11. Lightburn and the staff decided a retreat was necessary. Elements fought at Cotton Hill and Gauley Ferry on September 11 and again at Charleston on September 13, slowing Loring's advance. This allowed time for an armada of packets and barges to assist evacuations during the Battle of Charleston. The flotilla of barges and civilian packets evacuated the salt miners, residents and civilian government during the "Confederate Overrun of Charleston, West Virginia". The local privateer packets had small cannons. They were alongside of the 9th at the mouth of Elk River and the 5th Infantry on the Kanawha, firing into the main Confederate columns coming down the Kanawha River until all the civil boats and barges were well underway to Point Pleasant. Then Lightburn's cavalry fought their way back to the road to Ravenswood drawing away some of Loring's cavalry while privateers blasted into the Confederate Infantry, but was followed by Confederate field artillery.