[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kayode Fayemi

John Olukayode Fayemi  (; born 9 February 1965) is a Nigerian politician who served as governor of Ekiti State from 2018 to 2022. He previously served in office between 2010 and 2014 before losing re-election to Ayodele Fayose. He was also the Minister of Solid Minerals Development in President Muhammadu Buhari's cabinet from 11 November 2015 to 30 May 2018, when he resigned to contest for a second term as Governor of Ekiti State. He is the pioneer president of the Forum of Regions of Africa (FORAF) since 9 September 2022.

Early life 
John Olukayode Folorunso Fayemi was born in Ibadan on 9 February 1965 to an Ekiti parentage from Isan-Ekiti in Oye Local Government of Ekiti State.

Education 
Fayemi had his primary education at ICC Primary School, Agodi, Ibadan, Oyo State between 1970 and 1975 and attended Christ's School Ado Ekiti from 1975 to 1980. He later went on to receive degrees in history, politics and international relations from the University of Lagos and University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University). From 1989 to 1992, he earned a doctorate in war studies from King's College London, specializing in civil-military relations.

Career 
After his first degree in 1984, he proceeded on the mandatory one-year National Youth Service Corps from 1985 to 1986, during which he was a lecturer at the Nigeria-Police Training College in Sokoto. After his service year, he served as a research officer at Development & Management Consultants in Ikeja between 1987 and 1989. When he moved to the United Kingdom to pursue his doctoral studies between 1991 and 1993, he worked as a research officer at the African Research and Information Bureau in London. In 1992, he was a tutorial fellow at the War Studies Department at Kings College, London, during his doctoral studies. Later between 1993 and 1995, he was the Strategy Development Adviser of Deptford City Challenge in London and later served as the Secretary General of the Media Empowerment for Africa (The Radio Foundation) in London between 1995 and 1997. He was also a journalist with The Guardian and City Tempo; and the editor of Nigeria-Now, a defunct political monthly magazine. In 1997, Fayemi returned to Nigeria, where he established the Centre for Democracy and Development Centre for Democracy & Development, a research and training institution dedicated to the study and promotion of democratic development, peace-building and human security in Africa, where he served as Director from 1997 to 2006.☃☃

Kayode Fayemi has taught in Africa, Europe, the Americas and Asia. He has also served as an adviser on transitional justice, regional integration, constitutionalism, security sector reform and civil-military relations issues to various governments, inter-governmental institutions and development agencies. He was the main technical adviser to Nigeria's The Human Rights Violations Investigation Commission (Oputa Panel), which investigated past abuses and served on the Presidential Implementation Committees on Security Sector Reform, NEPAD and the Millennium Development Goals. He was technical expert to the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) on small arms and light weapons and United Nations Economic Commission for Africa on governance issues. At other times he has served as a consultant to the OECD on Security Sector Reform and chaired the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative's Committee of Experts on developing guiding principles and mechanisms of constitution making in Commonwealth Africa.

On September 9, 2022, Fayemi emerged as the first elected president of the Forum of Regions of Africa (FORAF), a forum which is organised by United Cities and Local Governments of Africa, UCLG Africa in collaboration with the Association of Moroccan Regions (ARM), the Council of the Oriental Region (CRO) and the Directorate General of Territorial Collectivities (DGCT) of the Ministry of the Interior of the Kingdom of Morocco. This Forum brought together for the first time the Presidents of regions, counties and federal states of more than 20 African countries that have a second level of decentralised territorial government, including Nigeria, South Africa, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Côte d'Ivoire, Kenya, Madagascar, Mali, Niger, etc.

Elections 
In 2006, Fayemi made his entry into partisan politics ahead of the 2007 election during which he contested for Governor of Ekiti State under the defunct Action Congress. After three and a half years fighting through the legal system, on 15 October 2010 the appeal court sitting in Kwara state declared Fayemi the duly elected Governor of Ekiti State, and marked the end of Olusegun Oni's administration as the then Governor of the state Daily Trust, a national daily, captured the electoral journey in its editorial, published on Friday, 22 October 2010 under the title, Closure to Ekiti 2007 Governorship Saga.