[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kravany nad Dunajom

of a prince (according to Helischer) built on this site after 1710. Later the castle was built by his son Ferenc Gyulay II. At the end of the 18th century, József Kondé Benedek had a one-storey classicist mansion built on the site of the demolished castle. He acquired the estate here through his marriage to Franciska Ujlaky. The wife's mother was Ilona Nedeczky, who married Ferenc Ujlaky. According to Helischer, the building provides a comfortable apartment for its owner in all respects. The area of the mansion was bounded by a fence. Next to the building was a smaller ornamental park, which Kondé was constantly enriched with new exotic, special plants. After his death in 1831, the mansion became the property of the Nedeczky family, who donated it to Károly Palkovics. The building was also shown on a military map of Kravany nad Dunajom from 1782. In 1893 the mansion became the property of the Bakay family together with the estate, in 1904 it was sold to Labud Kosztics, who was part of an anti-imperial conspiracy and therefore fled from Yugoslavia to Hungary. The new owner extended the building with a side wing, which thus became U-shaped. In 1935, the estate and mansion were purchased by Michal Hroššo from Kuzmicz. In 1949, both the estate and the mansion were confiscated and given to the local state estate. In 1990, the Hroššo family recovered their property through compensation proceedings, but since the new state-owned office building was built, the mansion building has been vacant.

Actively 

 The stone statue of St. John Nepomuk - On the Danube embankment, opposite the castle of the Kuzmik family, stands a stone statue of St. John Nepomuk, made in 1843 and renovated in 1902. The statue stands on a marble pedestal.
 Promenade of Kravany nad Dunajom - Kravany without exaggeration is an active tourist center of the area. However, for settlements along the bicycle route EUROVELO6, it is not only for those who arrive by bicycle to visit. The most outstanding event of the settlement is Bicycle Marathon between Kravany - Lábatlan and the International Meeting of recumbent bicycle.
 Lockout Tower of Kravany nad Dunajom - The Kravany Danube promenade has a magnificent 16-meter-high look-out tower to admire the Danube and the surrounding area, next to it, is a charming park they have been built for bikers to relax. When its warm, a great program is the beach, the place is excellent for bathing, and the many shells prove the excellent water quality. During the summer, there is a small boat transporting between Kravany and Lábatlan on Danube.
 Educational trail in Kravany nad Dunajom - In Kravany nad Dunajom there is also an educational trail, which presents attractions on the Danube coast in a section of 1.5 km, together on 10 boards.
 The Natur Park in Kravany nad Dunajom - The nature park next to the castle of the family Láng was established at the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries.
 Sightseeing tour by boat in Kravany nad Dunajom - During the summer, there is a small boat transporting between Kravany and Lábatlan on Danube.

Ethnicity
The village is about 81% Hungarian, 18% Slovak and 1% Czech.

Facilities
The village has a public library, a gym and a  football pitch.

References

External links
https://web.archive.org/web/20100202015957/http://www.statistics.sk/mosmis/eng/run.html
https://www.visitdanube.eu/en/sights-2

Villages and municipalities in the Komárno District
Municipalities in Slovakia where Hungarian is an official language
Populated places on the Danube