[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wilson Palacios

edical, but that the transfer could only be completed once he received a work permit. He made his Tottenham debut in a 3–2 defeat to Bolton Wanderers on 31 January, and assisted with the second goal after Bolton goalkeeper Jussi Jääskeläinen parried Palacios' shot and Darren Bent put in the rebound.

His battling performance in his second match, against local rivals Arsenal, earned him the man of the match award, since when he had some excellent performances in the Spurs midfield. He was cup-tied for the 2009 Football League Cup Final. Palacios scored his first goal in English football against Hull City on 19 August 2009 after a through ball by Robbie Keane. After scoring, Palacios pointed towards the sky in honour of his murdered brother Edwin, whose body had been found earlier in the year. Manager Harry Redknapp appreciated Palacios' ability to make Tottenham difficult to play against, comparing his style and effectiveness to that of Graham Roberts some 25 years earlier. During the 2009–10 season, he played 43 matches for Tottenham and helped the club reach the UEFA Champions League for the first time. The following season, Palacios was restricted to 16 starts in the Premier League, though he did play a key role in Tottenham's run to the quarter-final of the Champions League.

Stoke City
Palacios joined Stoke City on 31 August 2011, signing a four-year contract for an undisclosed fee, reported as £6 million; his Spurs team-mate Peter Crouch also joined Stoke on the same day. Both made their debuts in a 1–0 win against Liverpool on 10 September. The start to his Stoke career, however, was restricted by a knee injury and tonsillitis, and he eventually made his first league start on 21 December away at Manchester City. Palacios was never a regular that season, although he did start the majority of the team's European fixtures. Manager Tony Pulis revealed that his fitness level and a long-standing knee injury had been the problem and that the fans would not see the best of him before he had undergone a full pre-season training schedule. However, in 2012–13, he was unable to get into the starting line-up; he made just four league appearances, all as a substitute.

Palacios was named by Mark Hughes to start the first match of the 2013–14 season, away at Liverpool, but he pulled out after feeling ill in the warm-up and was taken to hospital where he underwent what was described as a minor surgical procedure. Palacios enjoyed more playing time under Hughes in 2013–14, playing 21 times as Stoke finished ninth in the Premier League. Stoke tried to sell Palacios in the summer of 2014 to Middle Eastern club Qatar SC, but that club reported that he failed a medical. Hughes selected Palacios just five times for the matchday squad in the 2014–15 season; on each occasion, he was an unused substitute. He was released at the end of the season, having made 53 appearances in four years. Stoke chairman Peter Coates defended his signing: "He was such a good player at Wigan and Spurs, where he only lost his place to [Luka] Modrić. We certainly thought at the time we were getting a very good player, but for whatever reason it hasn't worked out. I know he has had personal problems in the past – his brother was kidnapped and killed in 2009 – but sometimes you just don't know the reason why things don't work out. It's a great shame because it has cost us a huge amount of money, but it's also a shame for the player because his career hasn't developed either. We all lost. He did, we did."

Later career
Following his release from Stoke, Palacios went on trial at Hull City, though he did not sign with the club. On 10 December 2015, Palacios joined newly formed North American Soccer League club Miami FC. He made 18 appearances during the 2016 season before being released in November 2016.

He returned to Honduras where he played for his former club, Olimpia, and for Real Sociedad. In December 2019, he announced his retirement from playing with the intention of becoming a players' agent.

International career
Palacios wore the number 8 jersey with the Honduras national team. He made his debut for the senior squad in an April 2003 friendly against Paraguay and went on to play 97 matches with Honduras, scoring four goals, in an international career lasting from 2003 to 2014. Together with David Suazo, Palacios is one of the best known Honduran international players.

In the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa, Honduras achieved a historical distinction by including Jerry, Johnny and Wilson Palacios in their squad. They became the first trio of brothers to represent a single nation in the World Cup.

Palacios was sent off in the first half of their opening game of the 2014 World Cup against France for two bookable offences; Honduras went on to lose 3–0.