[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Nancy Brinker

Nancy Goodman Brinker (born December 6, 1946) is the founder of The Promise Fund and Susan G. Komen for the Cure. Brinker was also United States Ambassador to Hungary from 2001 to 2003 and Chief of Protocol of the United States from 2007 to the end of the George W. Bush administration. In 2011, she was appointed a Goodwill Ambassador for Cancer Control by the World Health Organization. For her work on breast cancer research, Time magazine named Brinker to its 2008 list of the 100 most influential people in the world. Brinker was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom by Barack Obama on August 12, 2009.

Early life
Brinker (née Goodman) was born in Peoria, Illinois to the Jewish family of Marvin L. and Eleanor (née Newman) Goodman. Her father was a commercial real-estate developer, and her mother was a housewife. In 1968, she received a bachelor's degree from the University of Illinois. After graduating, she moved to Dallas, Texas and worked at Neiman Marcus as an assistant couture buyer. In the following years, she took various positions at other public relations firms before marrying businessman Norman Brinker.

Career

Susan G. Komen 
Brinker served as founding chairman of Susan G. Komen for the Cure, supervising all aspects of initial growth. The organization was named for Brinker's sister, who died of breast cancer. On December 2, 2009, Brinker was appointed CEO, a position in which she served in until June 17, 2013, when Judith A. Salerno succeeded her.

World Health Organization Goodwill Ambassador
Brinker is currently serving as the World Health Organization's Goodwill Ambassador for Cancer Control. She was appointed by WHO Director-General Margaret Chan on May 26, 2009. She advocated for strengthening global action for cancer prevention and control in the context of the Global Strategy for the Prevention and Control of Noncommunicable Diseases endorsed by the World Health Assembly in May 2008. Her message emphasized the need for low and middle-income countries to strengthen comprehensive and evidence-based cancer control policies and programs.

Chief of Protocol

On October 7, 2008, Brinker hosted a symposium on "Breast Cancer Global Awareness" at the Blair House. First Lady Laura Bush joined the participants and the White House was illuminated in pink for the occasion.

As Chief of Protocol, Brinker expanded the role of the office through outreach programs intended to foster better relationships with the Diplomatic Corps. The effort, known as Diplomatic Partnerships involved over 60 events, including "Experience America", where the Diplomatic Corps traveled throughout the United States to meet with business and civic leaders.

Ambassador to Hungary
Brinker served as United States Ambassador to Hungary from September 2001 to 2003. For the first time, she held a conference on the trafficking and exploitation of workers that health ministers from the neighboring Balkan States attended. She also raised awareness about breast cancer among Hungarian women by leading a march over the Chain Bridge in Budapest. The bridge was illuminated in pink for the occasion.

Hungarian President Ferenc Mádl decorated Brinker with the Order of Merit, Medium Class, Cross Adorned with Star, for her work in advancing bilateral relations and in recognition of her charity activities.

The Promise Fund
The Promise Fund of Florida was created by Ambassador Nancy G. Brinker, Julie Fisher Cummings and Laurie Silvers in 2018. It was set up to address a lack of preventative diagnosis of breast cancer among women in South Florida.

Other government service
In 1986, President Ronald Reagan appointed her to the National Cancer Advisory Board and in 1990, President George H.W. Bush appointed her to chair the President's Cancer Panel and monitor the progress of the National Cancer Program. In 1992, Vice President Dan Quayle invited her to chair a subcommittee monitoring research, progress and development in the fight against breast cancer.

Brinker was a bundler for George W. Bush when he was running for office, helping to organize and collect campaign contributions from other donors. In 2000, she became a Pioneer, a member of his $100,000 Club. And on December 24, 2008, President Bush appointed her to the board of trustees of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts for a six-year term.

She testified before the United States Democratic Policy Committee's Congressional Breast Cancer Forum and participated in the International Women's Forum.