[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# David O'Hanlon

ting it was simply an informal visit, in which she was visiting, and so being received by, Pope John Paul, not a formal state visit surrounded by all the ritual associated; visits to Peter's tomb, a large formal delegation, formal dress (black or otherwise), swapping of honours, state banquets, etc.

Bishops disown comments
O'Hanlon's comments were quickly disowned by leaders of the Catholic Church. The Vatican rejected his claim that a breach of protocol had occurred, expressing puzzlement at the allegations and saying that the visit had been a complete success. Bishop Willie Walsh of Killaloe wrote
dismay, embarrassment, outrage are the reactions. We are simply appalled that a fellow priest would refer to our president – or indeed to any person – as being 'cheap'.

O'Hanlon's bishop, Michael Smith, disassociated himself, his diocese and its priests from the comments. O'Hanlon's uncle, a Catholic priest, wrote the Irish newspapers to disown his nephew's comments.

Bishop John Kirby expressed "shock" and ten priests along with Kirby from the Irish charity Trócaire wrote to the Irish Times to disassociate themselves from O'Hanlon's comments. The Catholic Press Office in Dublin stated that the President's dress had been of "no concern" while press spokesman Jim Cantwell dismissed claims that the Pope was offended as "a bit ridiculous". The President's chaplain, Maynooth College lecturer Father Enda McDonagh, categorised the attack as "partly begrudgery and partly mistaken piety."

O'Hanlon replied in the Irish Times with a series of attacks on his critics. He wrote
Sadly, I am not acquainted with any of the [individuals who signed the letter]. . . . Old priests tell me they were once the up-and-coming generation. Does it threaten them that somebody like myself, a neophyte of 28, now rejects their complacent, characterless, and crumbling compromise between Church and modern Ireland? . . . We call a person cheap not because they look cheap but because their actions are cheap. I call the President of Ireland cheap because her behaviour in Rome towards her host, the Bishop of Rome, was a cheap travesty of respect and a cheap personal propaganda stunt from start to finish.

He explained his belief as to why the President of Ireland would supposedly have wanted to have been thrown out of a papal audience:

This ... might then be represented to the Irish people as the ultimate bang of a crosier for all that post-Catholic Ireland has become, and the last gasp of a desperate, discredited, rigid, reactionary, and patriarchal regime. . . . Mary wanted John Paul to give her a black eye; his Holiness serenely turned her a blind (albeit 'twinkling') one. She wanted to cut a provocative, modern, dashing figure. He left her looking like a crank. . . . What President Robinson represented in reality at the Vatican was nothing other than her own personal animosity towards Catholicism as interpreted by Pope John Paul II – a clear case of very cross dressing!

Fr. Austin Flannery, a senior Irish priest and theologian who had been a compiler of documents in Vatican II (and who had been dismissed by O'Hanlon as a "has been"), criticised O'Hanlon's remarks as "ill-informed and very offensive".

Newspaper columnist Medb Ruane, referring to comments by O'Hanlon about women, suggested that the motivation for his attacks on Mary Robinson and the reasons for her supposed offence were clear:

The real question is not so much whether she did or did not deliberately flout convention, but rather that she is. She is." She believed his comments "hint at an attitude to women that may inform his feelings about the president."

O'Hanlon's comments dominated both the print and broadcast media for up to one month. He refused pressure from the Catholic Church to withdraw his allegations and to apologise.

Funding of anti-abortion campaign
O'Hanlon was revealed to be one of those who funded the political campaigns Family Values and anti-abortion campaigner Dana Rosemary Scallon, with a number of donations of €1000. during one of Ireland's abortion referendums. Her campaign ensured sufficient conservatives voted against an altering of the abortion law, which prevented the introduction of embryonic stem cell research. O'Hanlon was one of a group of Catholic priests to publicly support Dana's stance.