[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# España 2000

España 2000 (E-2000) is a far-right political party in Spain which has never obtained national or regional parliamentary representation. The last time it ran for General elections was in 2011, where it obtained 9266 votes out of a total of 24,590,557 valid votes.

The French Front National assisted and supported the party at its national congress.

Ideology
España 2000 defines itself as socially and democratically populist. It advocates a mixture of social democracy and conservatism centering on the defense of the traditional family.

Key features of the party's platform include:  
 tighter control of Spanish borders to prevent illegal immigration,   
 the immediate expulsion of illegal immigrants,   
 giving native Spaniards priority access to jobs,  
 more social spending, including investment in public education and protected housing, 
 better salaries and labor conditions for the working class,
 more investment in the police and military,
 a public banking system,  
 abolition of the D'Hondt method, and  
 establishment of a more democratic voting system.

España 2000 opposes economic and real estate speculation. It shares some social conservative values set forth by the Traditionalist Catholic Church with most of the conservative parties in Latin Europe, like Partido Popular in Spain or Popolo della Libertà in Italy.

Political parties with similar ideology in Spain include Falange Española de las JONS, FE-La Falange, Fuerza Nueva, Arbil, Democracia Nacional and the more moderate national Catholic Partido Demócrata Español.

Leaders and prominent members

Its leader is José Luis Roberto, lawyer and general secretary of the Asociación Nacional de Empresarios de Locales de Alterne.

Roberto, who is also a self-described "entrepreneur", owns the security firm Levantina de Seguridad (the "de facto" security syndicate in Valencia) and the law firm Roberto & Salazar, having representation in Madrid, Barcelona, and Valencia with at least 30 lawyers in office. He also owns several gyms in Valencia, Andalusia and Catalonia, among them Valencian Gym Levantina, which was investigated for some time in relation to illegal valetudo "championships", and military surplus stores held responsible for furnishing a large part of the Madrid local police uniforms. One of Roberto's gyms, Chute Boxe, held valetudo courses for the police, funded with public money and organized by the Sindicato Independiente de Policía. José Luis Roberto was arrested, although never formally indicted, during the Spanish Transition, in connection to two terrorist actions against independentist meetings held in Valencia. He has been consistently accused, albeit without proofs, of founding and partially funding marginal far-right groups such as Acción Radical Frente Antisistema. Permanently based in Valencia, he has published articles in local newspapers such as Las Provincias, Diario de Valencia and Levante, among them the infamous Yo también tengo libros nazis ("I also own Nazi books"). He has been constantly sued and criticized by anti-racist and anti-fascist organizations for engaging in hate speech and  allowing open signs of bigotry from members and supporters in his party's meetings.

Two quotes by Roberto, perhaps indicative of his and the party's ideology, are the following:
 ¿Tu admitirías que tu mujer diese a luz si la hubiese violado un moro? Yo no. (...) Por eso España 2000 esta a favor de que se legisle el aborto en casos extraordinarios al igual que la Eutanasia. ("would you consent to your wife having her baby had she been raped by a Moor? I wouldn't. (...) That's why España 2000 is pro-choice under extraordinary circumstances, as it is in favour of euthanasia).
La religión del Islam es un cáncer para la sociedad europea. ("Islam is a cancer to European society").