[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Fidonisy-class destroyer

The Fidonisy class, also known as the Kerch class, were a group of eight destroyers built for the Black Sea Fleet of the Imperial Russian Navy during World War I. They participated in World War I, the Russian Civil War, and World War II.

Design and description
In early 1914, several months before the beginning of World War I, the construction of a third series of eight destroyers based on Novik for the Black Sea Fleet was proposed by the Naval Ministry in response to a perceived strengthening of the Ottoman Navy. This was approved by Nicholas II on 24 June after the destroyers had received names in honor of the victories of Admiral Fyodor Ushakov on 16 June. The Fidonisy-class ships were ultimately built as an improved version of the  with an additional  gun. Naval historian Siegfried Breyer considered the class to be the least successful of Noviks successors.

The ships had an overall length of , had a beam of , and a draught of  at deep load. They normally displaced  and  at full load. Their crew consisted of 136 officers and ratings.

They were powered by two Parsons direct-drive steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by five Thornycroft boilers that operated at a pressure of  and a temperature of . The turbines, rated at , were intended to give a maximum speed of , although they reportedly averaged about  in service. The destroyers carried a maximum of  of fuel oil although the ships varied widely in their endurance, ranging from  at  () to  at  ().

Armament
The Fidonisy class were armed with four 60-calibre 102 mm Pattern 1911 Obukhov guns, one on the forecastle and three aft; one of these latter guns was superfiring over the other two. The guns had a rate of fire of 12–15 rounds per minute. They fired a  shell out to a range of  at an elevation of +30°. Each ship stowed 150 rounds per gun.

Anti-aircraft armament varied between ships. The first four were completed either with a pair of 39-calibre  "pom-pom" guns or 58-calibre  Hotchkiss guns. The second batch of four were fitted with a single 30-calibre  Lender gun. The "pom-pom" fired its  shells at a rate of 300 rounds per minute, out to  at an elevation of +45°. The  muzzle velocity of the Hotchkiss gun gave its  shells a range of  at an elevation of +21°. The Lender gun's muzzle velocity of  gave it a range of  with its  shell. It had a practical rate of fire of 10–12 rounds per minute.

The ships were also armed with a dozen  torpedo tubes in four triple mounts amidships. They probably most often used the M1912 torpedo which had a  warhead. It had three speed/range settings:  at ;  at  and  at . The ships could also carry 80 mines.

Ships
The ships were ordered on 17 March 1915 and all eight were built in the Russud Shipyard in Nikolaev.

Service
Only Fidonisy was completed in time to participate in combat, helping to sink some Turkish sailing ships in October 1917, before the navy ceased offensive operations against the Central Powers in response to the Bolshevik Decree on Peace in early November before a formal Armistice was signed the next month.

References

Bibliography

Further reading
 

Destroyer classes
Destroyers of the Imperial Russian Navy
Wrangel's fleet
Destroyers of the Soviet Navy