[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shamanistic remnants in Hungarian folklore

ion, this temporal absence of the shaman's free soul is tracked by a substitute: the shaman's body is guarded by one of his/her helping spirits during the spirit journey, also a legend contains this motif while describing a spirit journey undertaken by the shaman's free soul and his helping spirits.

As mentioned, it was also observed among Hungarians. The body soul, lélek was related to breathing (shown by etymology). The shadow soul called íz was related to the roaming soul of the dead. Its feared nature can be seen, as it features also in curse expressions: “Vigyen el az íz!” (= “the shadow soul take you!”). This curse is unknown for most people nowadays, and word "íz" (in this meaning) is also unknown, or felt as an archaism with forgotten meaning.

See also 
 Táltos
 Hungarian mythology

Notes

References 
  The tale title means: "The land of the dead in the sky"; the book title means: Eskimo tales; the series means: “Tales of World Literature”.
  The title means: Uralic peoples. Culture and traditions of our linguistic relatives; the chapter means “The Hungarians at the time of entering the Carpathian Basin, and their ancient beliefs”.
  The title means: Remnants of Shamanistic Beliefs in Hungarian Folklore.

  Hungarian translation of the original: Vie et coutumes des Esquimaux Caribous, Libraire Payot Lausanne, 1944. It describes the life of Caribou Eskimo and Padlermiut groups.
  The title means: Uralic Peoples. Culture and traditions of our linguistic relatives; the chapter means “Linguistic background of the relationship”.
  The title means: “Uralic peoples. Culture and traditions of our linguistic relatives”; the chapter means “The belief system of Uralic peoples and the shamanism”.
  Title means: “Shamans, souls and symbols”.
  The title means “Shamans in Eurasia”, the book is written in Hungarian, but it is published also in German, Estonian and Finnish. Site of publisher with short description on the book (in Hungarian)
 
  Translation of the chapter: "Our ancient homes and wanderings", translation of the title: Finno-Ugric guide.
 
 
  The title means: “The belief systems of our linguistic relatives in Siberia”.

Further reading 
 Ildikó Boldizsár. "Shamanic Elements in Hungarian Folk Tales – An Excerpt from Fairy Tale Therapy". In: Hungarian Review IV/2013, n. 06, pp. 92–101.
 Fazekas, Jenö (1967). “Hungarian Shamanism, Material and History of Research”. In: Scripta Instituti Donneriani Aboensis 1 (August): 97-119. https://doi.org/10.30674/scripta.67026.
 Hoppál, Mihály. “Shamanism and the Belief System of the Ancient Hungarians”. In: Ethnographica et folkloristica carpathica 11 (1999): 58-68.

External links 
  See also homepage of author with other publications.
Terebess Ázsia E-Tár:
 Bartha Júlia: A Kunság népi kultúrájának keleti elemei
 Lux Éva: Sámándobok és húsvéti tojások
Magyar Néprajz:
 Magyar Néprajz, chapter “Természetfeletti képességű emberek – tudósok és közetítők” (people of supernatural abilities – cunning people and mediators)
 Magyar Néprajz, chapter “Világkép” (world view)
 Magyar Néprajz, list of figures
:
 
 

European shamanism
Hungarian mythology
Hungarian prehistory