[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Banksia media

nalyses suggest a phylogeny that is rather different from previous taxonomic arrangements. With respect to B. media, however, Mast's results accord closely with the arrangement of Thiele and Ladiges, placing it in a polytomous clade corresponding exactly with Thiele and Ladiges' B. ser. Cyrtostylis.

Early in 2007 Mast and Thiele initiated a rearrangement by transferring Dryandra to Banksia, and publishing B. subg. Spathulatae for the species having spoon-shaped cotyledons; in this way they also redefined the autonym B. subg. Banksia. They foreshadowed publishing a full arrangement once DNA sampling of Dryandra was complete; in the meantime, if Mast and Thiele's nomenclatural changes are taken as an interim arrangement, then B. media is placed in B. subg. Banksia.

Distribution and habitat
Banksia media is widely distributed across southern Western Australia, from the eastern border of Stirling Range National Park across to Israelite Bay and extending northwards to Pingrup, Frank Hann National Park, 15 km east northeast of Dowak and 35 km northwest of Mt Buraminya. A disjunct population occurs further east along the coast at Point Culver and Toolinna. Often locally abundant, it grows in a variety of soil types, most commonly white sand or a sandy loam, but also red clay, loam over limestone, shale or granitic soil. The habitat is heathland, shrubland or open woodland.

Ecology
Banksia media is killed by bushfire and regenerates from seed. Plants in the Fitzgerald River National Park take around ten years to flower and set seed after germination, where fires are generally 30 to 60 years apart.

The prominent and colourful flower spikes indicate they are attractive to vertebrate pollinators, and they are visited by a variety of species, including honey possums and a number of honeyeaters, including the New Holland honeyeater, white-cheeked honeyeater, red wattlebird and western spinebill. Insects include the meat ant and European honeybee. A field study excluding pollinators showed that the spikes can set fruit without pollinators, indicating they have a degree of self-compatibility.

Cultivation
Banksia media has been shown to have a relatively low susceptibility to dieback from the soil-borne water mould Phytophthora cinnamomi, unlike many Western Australian banksias.
Seeds do not require any treatment, and take 20 to 46 days to germinate.

References

External links
 

media
Eudicots of Western Australia
Endemic flora of Western Australia
Taxa named by Robert Brown (botanist, born 1773)
Plants described in 1830