[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Muhamed Sacirbey

based" crimes and eliminate the death penalty (with an accomplished team of young jurists incorporated into his delegation), was a subsequent signatory on the Rome Treaty. Sacirbey had been an advocate and active in the establishment of the ICC and became Vice-Chair of the Prep Committee on the ICC.

Controversy
After the war, Sacirbey continued to serve as ambassador to the UN until late 2000. Upon leaving this position, rumors of financial irregularities in the Bosnian UN mission began to circulate. In 2001, the Bosnian government began to investigate Sacirbey on suspicion "of abuse of office" for purportedly expending funds for purposes not authorized including Bosnia's "genocide case" against Serbia/Montenegro before the International Court of Justice.

Sacirbey denied allegations of any improper use of funds and said the entire affair was fabricated by political opponents in Bosnia and the United States. He also stated he spent up to $800,000 of his own money to cover Bosnia's diplomatic expenses. Although there was no indictment, formal charges or even formal investigation, on 29 January 2002, the Bosnian government formally asked the US to extradite Sacirbey. Sacirbey had offered to deliver himself should such be requested. However, he was arrested on 25 March 25 2003 at his home in Staten Island. Sacirbey spent the next sixteen months at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in New York. He was released on 27 July 2004 with a six-million-dollar bail, and the recommendation of the Bosnian Chairman of the Council of Ministers (i.e. the Prime Minister) who referred to Sacirbey as "an honorable person", whether or not allegations of abuse of office may have been accurate.

Sacirbey from the outset contended that the U.S. Government was dictating the extradition request upon obedient Bosnian authorities, including misrepresenting the status of any "investigation" in Bosnia or alleged abuse of office. On 19 January 2005, he was certified by a federal magistrate in New York as extraditable. Sacirbey appealed his certification by filing a habeas corpus petition on 21 March 2005 before a federal district judge. In September 2006, the district judge denied his petition for habeas corpus relief and ruled that he was extraditable. Sacirbey appealed the decision to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

On 9 December 2009, the appeals court ruled that Sacirbey could not be extradited. Further, the Court cited Sacirbey's exemplary service and questionable political circumstances of the case. Finally, the Court concluded that the US Government had no obligation to extradite Sacirbey, should not have pursued the matter in the first place and on the basis of evidence/case presented not to repeat the mistake.

Works
A Convenient Genocide in a Fishbowl, by Mohammed Sacerbey

Further reading
Sacirbey Out on Bail
US Court Rules Former Bosnian Foreign Minister Eligible for Extradition
Legal document from the US District Court
 Sacirbey testimony to the International War Crimes Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia 15 June 2009.
 Sacirbey testimony to the International War Crimes Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia 16 June 2009.
 Sacirbey testimony to the International War Crimes Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia 17 June 2009.
 Sacirbey testimony to the International War Crimes Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia 18 June 2009.
Sacirbey testimony to the International War Crimes Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia 19 June 2009.

References

External links

1956 births
Living people
Bosniaks of Bosnia and Herzegovina
Bosnia and Herzegovina Muslims
American people of Bosniak descent
Politicians of the Bosnian War
Diplomats from Sarajevo
People from Staten Island
Tulane University alumni
Yugoslav emigrants to the United States
Columbia Business School alumni
Permanent Representatives of Bosnia and Herzegovina to the United Nations
Foreign ministers of Bosnia and Herzegovina
People from Parma, Ohio
American Muslims