[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma

or-α protein (mutations in the IL7R gene are commonly found in acute lymphoblastic leukemia) and 6) expression of a fusion gene (i.e. a hybrid gene formed from two previously independent genes as a result of a mutation) that merges TRIO with other genes and is often found in other sarcoma subtypes.)

Diagnosis
The diagnosis of UPS depends on finding non-specific, undifferentiated tumor cells that have features suggestive of UPS and not features of other tumor types that also consist of pleomorphic, undifferentiated cells. The features primarily involve the expression of certain proteins by the tumor cells. The identifying proteins for UPS tumor cells are given in the preceding section. Identification proteins for tumors that have been confused with UPS inlclude:
 Pleomorphic leimyosarcoma: Desmin and h-caldesmon (i.e. high molecular form of caldesmon.) proteins
 Pleomorphic rhabdomyosarcoma: Desmin and myogenin proteins.
 Defifferentiated liposarcoma: MDM2 and CDK4 proteins.
 Poorly differentiated carcinoma (i.e. grade 3 or 4 carcinoma): MUC1 (also termed EMA), TP63 (also termed p63; which is detected with the p40 antibody), and various members of the keratin family of proteins.
 Melanoma: MLANA (i.e. melanoma antigen recognized by T cells 1 protein), S100, and PMEL (a product of the PMEL gene which is detected using an antibody termed HMB-45.) proteins

Two other tumors that may be confused with UPS have microscopic histopathological and/or other features that help make this distinction. These tumors and features are:
 Pleomorphic liposarcoma: At least some tumor cells have features of pleomorphic lipoblasts, i.e. variable shaped immature fat cells. 
 Malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumor: Typically occurs in young children, often develops in a preexisting inoperable plexiform neurofibroma, and often associated with neural tissue. These tumors typically show undifferentiated, pleomorphic cells that are arranged in whorls, parallel bundles, or rosettes (i.e. circular arrangement resembling leaves in a flowering plant) and often contain large areas of necrosis (i.e. dead or dying cells).

Treatment and prognosis
The most often used treatment for localized (i.e. no metastases) UPS tumors is complete surgical removal with the object of leaving no tumor cells behind as evidenced by microscopic examinations. Adjuvant therapy combining radiotherapy or/and chemotherapy with surgical resection is employed to reduce the risk of developing recurrent and metastatic disease in cases with high-risk disease (e.g. large tumors, tumors deemed highly aggressive based on their pathology and/or local invasiveness, inoperable tumors, and resections that did not remove all tumor cells). A standard chemotherapy two-drug regimen (epirubicin plus ifosfamide) may be used in these cases. In place or combined with surgery and/or radiotherapy, severe and/or metastatic cases of UPS are commonly treated with epirubicin plus ifosfamide; doxorubicin alone or combined with ifosfamide, olaratumab, trabectedin, gemcitabine, or docetaxel;  cyclophosphamide, vincristine, doxorubicin, plus dacarbazine or cisplatin; cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, plus dacarbazine; high dose methotrexate; or etoposide, ifosfamide, and cisplatin. These treatment regimens have been reported to lower local recurrence rates, prolong disease-free survival rates (i.e. time after treatment when no disease is detected), and increase overall survival rates (i.e. time after treatment to death from any cause). However, other studies report that the addition of radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy to surgical resection does not improve recurrence or overall survival rates; addition of radiotherapy to surgery improves local control of UPS tumors but not disease-free survival rates (i.e. time from treatment to recurrence of disease); and adjuvant chemotherapy and radiotherapy have no significant effects on local recurrence-free survival rates, metastasis-free survival times, and overall survival rates. Further studies are needed to define the best treatments for UPS tumors.