[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# El Cartel: The Big Boss

On May 15, 2007, the album was released for pre-order along with the remix of Impacto with Fergie. Also, the dates of the US leg were released and available for presale. Those who pre-ordered the album got a special code to buy the tickets on June 9, 2007 while the general sales were set on June 15.

On the day the album was released, an especial edition was released to Walmart that included an exclusive MTV Tr3s-branded package. It includes a DVD with a Daddy Yankee interview, five performances from his MTV $2 Bill concert.Following the album release, Daddy Yankee embarked in a series of press conferences and television appearances to promote the album including El Show de Cristina, Don Francisco Presenta and So You Think You Can Dance. However, on June 8, 2007, he was hospitalized due dehydration and exhaustion. For this reason, many public appearances were cancelled for rest of the week.

On August 3, 2007, Yankee performed "Impacto" on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno, one of the few Latin acts to do so at the time. On October 2, 2007, he made a guest appearance on the second episode "The Work of a Business Man" of the TV series Cane where also he performed the track "Who's Your Daddy?". The episode was premiered with a viewership of 9.24 million. On November 8, 2007, he performed "Ella Me Levanto" at the 2007 Latin Grammy Awards ceremony. During the promotion of the album, Daddy Yankee performed at Madison Square Garden. The album was supported by The Big Boss Tour, which started its US leg at the Chicago Allstate Arena on August 31 through October 17, 2007, at the Toyota Center in Houston. Following that, the tour continued in Latin America.

Reception

Commercial reception
In the United States, the first-week prediction were between 110k-115k. However, The album debuted at number seven on the U.S. Billboard 200 and at number one on the Billboard Top Latin Albums chart, selling 82,000 copies in its first week, making it the highest reggaeton album to sell in its first week. By the end of 2007, the album became the top-selling Latin album in the United States with 248,000 copies sold. On March 26, 2009, the album received a Latin album triple platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipping 300,000 copies.

In Mexico, the album debut at number five and later received platinum certification for moving 50,000 copies. Also, the album was certified Gold. In Venezuela, the album debut at number 4 on the charts. In Dominican Republic, El Cartel: The Big Boss was named best reggaeton album that year. In Argentina and Ecuador, the album debut at number 4. n Venezuela, it debut and peaked at number 5 at the retail album charts according to Recordland. In Peru, it peaked at number 10 at the retail best selling albums charts. The album also charted in Swerzerland and Spain. In Japan, it debut at number 41 with 4,184 copies sold. As of November 2007, The album sold 800,000 copies worldwide. It hit 900,000 copies in it first 12 months of been released.

Critical reception

El Cartel: The Big Boss received generally favorable reviews. Most of the critics praised the album's production and Yankee's input, while others criticized some creative decisions and the repetitive formula. Allmusic gave the album a positive review and said the album consists of "potential hits". Rhapsody said, "he once again proves himself the reigning king of reggaeton" and proclaimed that "he's also doing more with hip-hop in the mainland idiom than a lot of artists." While, Jon Pareles from The New York Times praised Yankee's charisma, consistensy and hability and stated "Daddy Yankee has grown more earnest. He raps about his street connections, his success, his gratitude to God, his artistic pride and his annoyance with the press". Leisla Cobo form Billboard staff praised the production and mainstream appeal and stated "Above all, this is simply a better-crafted album, at both a songwriting and a production level, than prior efforts".

In a more detailed review, Agustin Gurza from the Los Angeles Times gave the album 3 out 4 stars and wrote a positive review titled "Daddy Yankee knows this best; The rapper, once expected to be a crossover star, mostly stays true to his reggaeton roots". In the review he stated "leaves no doubt that he still has the skill and style that made him stand out from reggaeton's crowded rank-and-file" and about the artist's charisma and talent wrote "leaves no doubt that he still has the skill and style that made him stand out from reggaeton's crowded rank-and-file".