[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sharpe's Sword (TV programme)

merson advances on him with sword drawn, Father Curtis, an ex-soldier, unexpectedly draws his own and teaches him a very painful lesson.

Differences from the novel

The plot of this episode diverges from the novel in a number of substantial ways, particularly concerning some of the main characters.

 The Marchesa was written out of the episode and instead used, albeit in a completely different role, in Sharpe's Honour. She is Colonel Leroux's sister in the book. Her part in betraying the British is played by Sir Henry Simmerson, who doesn't appear in the novel.
 The character of Jack Spears was made much more sympathetic in the film. In the book, he is a gambler who lost all of his fortune at the table and is corrupted by Leroux, while in the TV movie he succumbs to the French colonel's tortures. He dies as a hero in both the novel and the film, but in the former he is not urged to do so by Sharpe, who discovers the nobleman's betrayal only while he is already dying.
 Some characters, notably "Lass" and Major Munro, were created for the TV movie and do not appear in the novel at all.
 Although Sergeant Harper's love for a Spanish girl is mentioned in the novel, the girl is called Isabella (not Ramona, who is a TV character only) and they do not marry. Harper is wounded both in the movie and in the novel, but in the latter his wound is much worse. Both Sharpe and Harper are wounded while trying to stop Leroux from escaping, as opposed to during the assault to the fort (which is only one in the movie, while there were three forts in the novel).
 In the novel the Battle of Salamanca is the climax of the story.  Richard Sharpe takes part in the famous charge of the KGL cavalry at Garcia Hernandez and breaks French infantry squares.  None of this is shown in the TV film, which ends with the attack on the Salamanca forts.  It is to be assumed the TV film did not show the full battle due to the numbers required and the difficulty of portraying a full cavalry charge on this scale.

Cast
 Sean Bean – Major Richard Sharpe
 Daragh O'Malley – Sergeant Patrick Harper
 John Tams – Rifleman Daniel Hagman
 Jason Salkey – Rifleman Harris
 Emily Mortimer – Lass
 Patrick Fierry – Leroux
 James Purefoy – Spears
 Stephen Moore – Berkeley
 Hugh Ross – Mungo Munro
 Michael Cochrane – Sir Henry Simmerson
 John Kavanagh – Father Curtis
 Vernon Dobtcheff – Don Felipe
 Diana Perez – Ramona
 Pat Laffan – Connelly
 Walter McMonagle – Father O'Sullivan
 Matthew Pannell – Ensign McDonald

External links
 
 Sharpe's Sword at SharpeFilm.com

1995 British television episodes
1990s historical films
1990s war films
Films based on British novels
Films based on historical novels
Films based on military novels
Napoleonic Wars films
Sword
War television films
Fiction set in 1813
Films directed by Tom Clegg (director)