[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paris Street; Rainy Day

in (right), which runs from the foreground and into the background. The square is crossed by the , suggested by the line of the buildings to the left and a break in the buildings to the right. The point of view of the roads and the buildings portrayed allows Caillebotte to use two-point perspective.

The ground floor of the building between the Rue de Moscou and the Rue Clapeyron, showing a 'pharmacie' sign in the painting, still houses a pharmacy today.

Reception and provenance

Émile Zola, often a critic of Caillebotte,  praised this work in an article "Notes parisiennes: Une exposition: les peintres impressionnistes" published in Le Sémaphore de Marseille in 1877.

As with many of Caillebotte's paintings, it remained with the family until the mid twentieth century. It was acquired by Walter P. Chrysler Jr. in 1955, who in turn sold it to the Art Institute of Chicago in 1964.

The painting was featured in the 1980 BBC television series 100 Great Paintings, and Paris Street; Rainy Day plays a prominent role in the 1986 film Ferris Bueller's Day Off.

The painting is featured in the photograph Art Institute of Chicago II, Chicago (1990), by German photographer Thomas Struth, which depicts the room where it was exhibited at the time, with some onlookers.

Gallery

See also
 List of paintings by Gustave Caillebotte

References

Sources

 Broude, Norma. Gustave Caillebotte and the Fashioning of Identity in Impressionist Paris. Rutgers University Press, 2002. 
 Hagen, Rose-Marie. Masterpieces in Detail. London: Taschen, 2010. 
 Weinberg, Helene Barbara. American Impressionism and Realism: The Painting of Modern Life, 1885–1915. New York: Metropolitan Museum Of Art, 1994.

External links

Paris Street; Rainy Day, 1877, one of the Art Institute of Chicago's digital scholarly catalogues 
 Caillebotte Paris Street; Rainy Day Returns, Art Institute of Chicago
 Gustave Caillebotte's Paris Street; Rainy Day, (4:44) Smarthistory
 Video Postcard: Paris Street; Rainy Day (1877), (1:47) Art Institute of Chicago

1877 paintings
Paintings in the Art Institute of Chicago
Paintings by Gustave Caillebotte
Paintings of Paris
Streets in art
Rain in art