[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sun Dianying

evelopment and control a territory of his own there.  In mid-June, when Chiang ordered Sun's army to leave the railroad garrison and open up wasteland in Qinghai, he was willing to go. Chiang's troops replaced his in July, cutting off the Anti-Japanese Army from communication with the rest of China.

Chiang intended the allied northwest Ma clique to have the strength to cope with Sun Dianying and to weaken themselves while competing with him. As the Ma warlords saw through this plot, and strongly protested against Sun moving into their territories, Chiang was forced to give in. He ordered Sun to halt his advance through Suiyuan province in November 1933. However, Sun's forces became short of food and restive from their inactivity.

In January 1934 with his forces threatened with starvation and talk of mutiny, Sun Dianying was forced to march his 60,000-man army west from Suiyuan province into Ningxia, governed by Ma Hongkui. Supported by his fellow Ma warlords Ma Hongbin, Ma Bufang, and Ma Buqing, Hongkui resisted, starting a war for Ningxia. Both sides battled for three months, with heavy losses. In March, Sun's army was defeated by the Ma forces, while his route of retreat was cut off by Yan Xishan and troops loyal to Chiang Kai-Shek. He consequently surrendered in April, and went to Taiyuan to live in seclusion, while the remnants of his defeated troops were incorporated into Yan Xishan's provincial forces. Just one month later, however, Sun was appointed "high military advisor" for the Military Affairs Commission's Beiping branch by the central government.

Second Sino-Japanese War 
In 1937, when the Second Sino-Japanese War erupted, Sun resurfaced once again, commanding troops against the Japanese, taking command of the Hebei-Chahar Guerillas in 1938. He was eventually appointed as general of the NRA's 5th Army, but alongside his superior Pang Bingxun defected to the Japanese in 1943. Joining Wang Jingwei's Reorganized National Government of the Republic of China, he was given command of the Collaborationist Chinese Army's 6th Group Army District which guarded the southern Beijing–Hankou railway, and was made a member of its National Military Council. In August 1943 his troops were defeated by PLA forces in the Linnan Campaign.

When the Second Sino-Japanese War was over, Sun participated in the Chinese Civil War on the side of the Nationalists. He was eventually defeated by People's Liberation Army forces and taken prisoner. In 1946 or 1947, he died in the POW camp of Wu'an.

See also 
 Warlord era

References

Bibliography

Sources 
 民国军阀派系谈 (The Republic of China warlord cliques)
 中国抗日战争正面战场作战记 (China's Anti-Japanese War Combat Operations)
 Author : Guo Rugui, editor-in-chief Huang Yuzhang
 Jiangsu People's Publishing House
 Date published: 2005-7-1
 
 China and Eurasia Forum Quarterly, Volume 5, No. 1; Nationalists, Muslim Warlords, and the “Great Northwestern Development” in Pre-Communist China by Hsiao-ting Lin, p. 121-142 (2007)
 ©Central Asia-Caucasus Institute& Silk Road Studies Program

External links

1880s births
1948 deaths
Chinese collaborators with Imperial Japan
Kuomintang collaborators with Imperial Japan
National Revolutionary Army generals from Henan
Republic of China warlords from Henan
Politicians from Shangqiu