[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 24]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

y'.
18 February – Up to 1,000 Free-State troops drawn from Cahir, Cashel, Clonmel and Tipperary town encircle the area around the Glen of Aherlow and move in from all sides simultaneously in pursuit of Republican leader Dinny Lacey and his IRA column, which is billetted in the Glen. Lacey and one of his men are killed and many of his column are captured, having been surprised in two different safe-houses. Three of the Free-State troops are mortally wounded during the attack on the house. Lacey was the head of the IRA's 2nd Southern Division and his death crippled the Republican's cause in the County Tipperary/Waterford area.
19 February – Anti-Treaty officer Thomas O'Sullivan, head of the local IRA battalion, is shot dead by Free State troops near Dingle.
21 February – Anti-Treaty IRA attacks income tax offices in Dublin. Attempts are also made to burn Jury's Hotel, but without success. There are also abortive attacks on Merrion Square, Dawson Street, and Lower O'Connell Street. However tax offices are destroyed at Nassau st, Gardiner st and Beresford Place. A total of 75 Republicans are involved in the action, of whom five are captured.
22 February – Nicholas Williams, a member of the Free State militia the Citizens Defence Force, is found shot dead in field on Hollybank Road, Dublin.
23 February – National Army troops ambushed by Anti-Treaty fighters at Shramore, County Mayo. The troops were returning to Westport with eight prisoners. After a seven-hour gun balttle, one National Army soldier and a medical orderly are killed.
An Anti-Treaty column is surprised by National Army troops near Cluid, County Galway. One Republican is killed and eighteen are captured and sentenced to death. Five of the prisoners are later executed.
24 February – There are a number of ambushes and sniping attacks in Dublin. One Free State soldiers is killed in an exchange of fire at Cornmarket, another is shot in the thigh on Thomas Street and wounded.
A Civilian John Conway is shot dead at the work.
24 February – In County Mayo, the National Army capture six Irregulars in Moygownagh, Crossmolina. The Irregulars were digging a trench in the road. The National Army also arrested a 13-year-old boy who was acting as a scout,
25 February – Irregulars attack a party of National Troops as they escort eight Irregular prisoners through Mayo. The attack occurred near Claremorris as they were returning to Westport. One National Army Soldier was killed (Corporal Collins) and three were wounded. National Army reinforcements leave from Ballina, but they encounter Irregulars near the Nephin Mountains.  One Irregular is wounded and two are captured. Following the engagement, 12 Irregulars are arrested in the Westport Area.
26 February – Meeting of Anti-Treaty IRA officers assembles at Ballinageary in County Tipperary. Officers from the First Southern Division report that, "in a short time we would not have a man left owing to the great number of arrests and casualties". Tom Crofts reports that the Cork Brigades have suffered 29 killed and an unknown number captured in recent actions, "if five men are arrested in each area, we are finished". Nevertheless, Liam Lynch takes the opportunity to issue a statement rejecting the possibility of a truce.
A National Army soldier is executed in Portlaoise for treachery, having defected to and handed over weapons to the Anti-Treaty IRA.
27 February – National Army troops surprise an Anti-Treaty column in their dug out at Arigna, County Leitrim. Two Anti-Treaty fighters,James Cull and Patrick Tynan, are killed when their dugout is blown up.
28 February – 
Free State General Denis Galvin dies after the accidental explosion of grenade during a training exercise.
Six irregulars from Corballa, near Ballina are arrested. In addition, the National Army arrest a female school teacher called Miss May.
February – Republicans attack Kenmare, County Kerry, but are driven off.
February – Free State troops based in Carrick-on-Shannon, including armoured cars and an 18-pounder gun, sweep County Leitrim, searching for a Republican column under Ned Bofin, at least 18 arrests are made.

March 1923