[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Catholic Church in Israel

Jerusalem and Palestine. Since 1994, the same person serves in both offices, and also serves as Nuncio to Cyprus. Since 3 June 2021, Adolfo Tito Yllana has served in both offices.

In June 1762, a diplomatic relationship was established in Ottoman Syria, which also included the region of Palestine.

In March 1929, the diplomatic brief for British Palestine was attached to the Delegate to Cairo.

On 11 February 1948, with the Papal brief Supreme Pastoris, Pope Pius XII erected the Apostolic Delegation in Jerusalem and Palestine, Transjordan and Cyprus.

On 30 December 1993, the Holy See and the State of Israel signed the Fundamental Agreement Between the Holy See and the State of Israel, the first agreement between the two States, and they formally established diplomatic relations in March 1994. The Holy See established the Apostolic Nuncio to Israel.

Supra-diocesan structures

Episcopal conferences
The Assembly of the Catholic Ordinaries of the Holy Land was established in 1992 at the initiative of the Apostolic Delegate in Jerusalem to foster unity within the Catholic Churches of the Holy Land.

The regional episcopal conference for the Latin bishops is the Conference of the Latin Bishops of the Arab Regions (CELRA), established in 1967.

Ecumenical participation
The Middle East Council of Churches represents 14 million Christians in the Middle East, covering 14 countries and including representatives from 27 churches or jurisdictions (3 Oriental Orthodox, 4 Eastern Orthodox, 7 Catholic, and 13 Protestant/Evangelical).

The Heads of Churches in Jerusalem is a gathering of the patriarchs and other ordinaries of 13 of the local Christian churches in Jerusalem, including Eastern Orthodox, Oriental Orthodox, Eastern Catholic, Latin Catholic, Anglican, and Lutheran churches.

Religious institutes

In 2020, there were 1,310 members of religious orders and institutes of consecrated life in Israel and the Palestinian territories.

The oldest of these is the Franciscan Custody of the Holy Land, established as a province in 1217.

They are represented by the Committee of the Religious Men of the Holy Land and the Union of Religious Superiors of Women in the Holy Land.

Male religious
There are 440 male religious, representing the following congregations:
 Assumptionists
 Basilians
 Benedictines Dormition Abbey
 Benedictines Olivetan
 Clerical Society of the Most Holy Trinity at Mirinae
 De La Salle Brothers
 Discalced Carmelites
 Families of the Visitation
 Hospitaller Order of St. John of God
 Institute of the Incarnate Word
 Jesuits
 Lazarists
 Legionaries of Christ
 Little Brothers of Jesus
 Little Brothers of Jesus Caritas
 Little Family of the Annunciation
 Missionaries of Charity Contemplative
 Monks of Bethlehem
 Order of Friars Minor Capuchin
 Order of Preachers
 Order of the Servants of Mary
 Passionists
 Religious of Our Lady of Sion
 Sacred Heart Fathers of Betharram
 Salesians of Don Bosco
 Servants of Charity
 Sons of Divine Providence
 Trappists
 White Fathers

Female religious
There are 870 female religious, from the following congregations:

Other Institutes of Consecrated Life

There are 145 members of other institutes of consecrated life:
 Association Fraternelle Internationale
 Bose Monastic Community
 Chemin Neuf Community
 Comunione e Liberazione
 Community Cancao Nova
 Community Obra de Maria
 Community of Sant'Egidio
 Community of the Beatitudes
 Emmanuel Community
 Focolare
 Koinonia John the Baptist Community
 Neocatechumenal Way
 Regnum Christi
 Sermig Brotherhood of Hope
 Shalom Catholic Community

Lay organizations and institutes

Catholic scouting and youth ministry

 2,500 members in 16 troops of the Catholic Scout Association in Israel
 2,500 members in 12 troops of the Palestinian Catholic Scouts of Saint John the Baptist
 Young Catholic Students (Jeunesse Étudiante Catholique)

Lay ecclesial movements

 135 members of the Neocatechumenal Way
 16 members of Comunione e Liberazione
  members of the personal prelature of Opus Dei

Medical and social services
There are:
 9 charitable and humanitarian organizations
 7 hospitals
 7 centers for the disabled
 6 orphanages
 5 homes for the elderly

Military and hospitaller orders
 Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre of Jerusalem
 Sovereign Military Order of Malta