[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons

The International Campaign to Abolish Nuclear Weapons (abbreviated to ICAN, pronounced  ) is a global civil society coalition working to promote adherence to and full implementation of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons. The campaign helped bring about this treaty. ICAN was launched in 2007. In 2022, it counted 661 partner organizations in 110 countries.  

The campaign received the 2017 Nobel Peace Prize "for its work to draw attention to the catastrophic humanitarian consequences of any use of nuclear weapons and for its ground-breaking efforts to achieve a treaty-based prohibition of such weapons."

Mission 
ICAN aims to reframe the disarmament discussion to center on the humanitarian threat that nuclear weapons pose by highlighting their extraordinary capacity for destruction, their disastrous health and environmental effects, their indiscriminate targeting, the crippling effects of a nuclear detonation on medical facilities and relief efforts, and the long-lasting radiation effects on the surrounding area.

The success of the International Campaign to Ban Landmines, which was essential in triggering the negotiation of the anti-personnel mine ban treaty in 1997, served as inspiration for ICAN's founders. They aimed to create a comparable campaign model.

Formation

In September 2006, the International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, itself awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985, adopted a proposal at its biennial congress in Helsinki, Finland, to launch ICAN globally. ICAN was launched publicly at two events, the first on 23 April 2007 in Melbourne, Australia, where funds had been raised to establish the campaign, and the second on 30 April 2007 in Vienna at a meeting of State parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. National campaigns have been organized in dozens of countries in every region of the world.

Membership and support 

As of 2022, ICAN is made up of 661 partner organizations in 110 countries. The campaign's staff team is located in Geneva, Switzerland, from where it provides ongoing coordination and management of the campaign. Daniel Hӧgsta is the current Interim Director following Director Beatrice Fihn's retirement.

An International Steering Group oversees the campaign, with current members the Acronym Institute for Disarmament Diplomacy, Article 36, African Council of Religious Leaders – Religions for Peace, International Physicians for the Prevention of Nuclear War, Norwegian People's Aid, Pacific Network on Globalisation (PANG), PAX, Peace Boat, Latin America Human Security Network (SEHLAC), Swedish Physicians against Nuclear Weapons, and the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom.

Akira Kawasaki (President), Clara Levin (Treasurer) and Rebecca Johnson (Secretary) are responsible for the Swiss-registered non-profit association of ICAN as of 2021.

Milestones