[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Religion in Seychelles

Christianity is the largest religion in Seychelles, with Roman Catholicism being its largest denomination.

The country is officially secular and its constitution guarantees freedom of conscience and religious practice.

Demographics

According to the most recent census of 2010, the majority of the population were Roman Catholic (76%); Anglican Christians made up 6%, Hindus made up 2.4% and Muslims were 1.6% of the country.  Other Christian groups included Baptists, Seventh-day Adventists, Assemblies of God, the Pentecostal Church, Nazarites, Greek Orthodox, and Jehovah’s Witnesses; there were also a small number of Rastafarians, Baha’is and Brahma Kumaris.

Background

The initial settlers in Seychelles were Roman Catholics, and the country has remained so, despite ineffective British efforts to establish Protestantism in the islands during the nineteenth century. The nation has been a bishopric since 1890, and mission schools had a virtual monopoly on education until the government took over such schools in 1944. Sunday masses are well attended, and religious holidays are celebrated throughout the nation both as opportunities for the devout to practice their faith and as social events. Practicing Catholicism, like speaking French, historically conferred a certain status by associating its adherents with the settlers from France. 

Most Anglicans are descendants of families converted by missionaries in the late 19th and early 20th century. Evangelical Protestant churches are active and growing, among them Pentecostals and Seventh-day Adventists.  A Hindu temple and  mosque exist on Mahé. Some tax exemptions are granted to groups which are registered with the Finance Ministry. 

Although the clergy and the civil authorities disapprove, many Seychellois see little inconsistency between their orthodox religious observance and belief in magic, witchcraft, and sorcery. It is not uncommon to consult a local seer - known as a bonom di bwa - for fortune-telling or to obtain protective amulets or charms, called gri-gri, to bring harm to enemies.

Freedom of religion
In 2023, the country was scored 4 out of 4 for religious freedom.

See also
 Hinduism in Seychelles
 Islam in Seychelles
 Roman Catholicism in Seychelles

References