[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

e will not bring about the destruction of Israel…and inevitably the result of the violence will be the deaths primarily of innocent people.Harper and his former Foreign Affairs Minister, Peter MacKay, reiterated their support for Israel's position, while urging restraint and calling for a ceasefire.

On 6 August 2006, Bloc Québécois leader Gilles Duceppe was accused of supporting Hezbollah by Israel's ambassador to Canada, Alan Baker, after Duceppe participated in a march in Montreal protesting the war in Lebanon.

Public opinion 

Opinions on the conflict are mixed in Canada, as is reflected by the editorial content of the nation's media. Some outlets, such as the Toronto Star, have criticized Israel's response to Hezbollah's actions as disproportionate, while other publications such as the National Post, have come out in support of the scope of Israel's military action and the position the Canadian government has taken, and have criticized those who have called the evacuation of Canadians in the region too slow.  Commentators in other outlets (e.g., The Globe and Mail and the CBC) have represented a variety of views.

Canada has a large Lebanese community. About 30,000 Canadians, mainly of Lebanese descent, were in Lebanon at the time hostilities broke out, and the Canadian government has been making efforts to evacuate those who wish to leave in an operation that has been criticized for being slow and inefficient. On 17 July, a group of protesters, primarily expatriate Lebanese, gathered in front of the Israeli consulate in Montreal and protested the continued bombing in Lebanon. Further protests took place on 22 July in localities across Canada.

A poll of Canadians published in the 25 July edition of the National Post shows that support among Canadians (bar Quebec) was greatly on the side of Israel, with 64% stating that "Israel's action was either somewhat or completely justified." In all provinces except Quebec, support was greater than 50%, with British Columbia, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Alberta, and Ontario having the highest support for Israel (in that order). When asked which side of the conflict should make a major compromise in order to have a ceasefire, 63% of Canadians said it was "those who kidnapped the Israeli soldiers."

United States 

Following the Zar'it-Shtula incident, the United States government condemned what it called Hezbollah's "unprovoked act of terrorism," and called for the "immediate and unconditional release" of the soldiers.

The United States government has blamed Hezbollah and Syria for the crisis. Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern Affairs David Welch condemned what he called a "dangerous escalation" and calls for the release of the Israeli soldiers. Senate Majority Leader Bill Frist said, "We must hold the governments of Syria and Iran accountable for their continued support to Hezbollah. So long as these governments are failing to live up to their responsibilities, no one should question the right of the government of Israel to act in self-defense against terrorists operating from Lebanon." Frist also said that the Lebanese government should uphold its responsibility under a United Nations resolution to make sure its territory isn’t being used for Hezbollah or other groups. President George W. Bush said "I want the world to address the root cause of the problem, and the root cause of the problem is Hezbollah."

Bush remarked on 13 July that Israel has the right to defend itself. He also said that the "democracy of Lebanon is an important part of laying a foundation of peace in that region," and that the "concern is that any activities by Israel to protect herself will weaken the (Siniora) government."

The Bush administration openly rejected what it considered to be meaningless calls for a ceasefire in escalating Mideast violence, as White House spokesman Tony Snow argued that President Bush "is not going to make military decisions for Israel." On 18 July 2006, according to the New York Times, US and Israeli officials agreed for the bombings to continue for another week. "Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice rejected an immediate ceasefire and said one could only occur once certain conditions are met." John Bolton, the U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, rejected the call for a ceasefire, stating that it is simplistic to think that one can "just declare a ceasefire and act as if that is going to solve the problem." On 15 July 2006, according to U.S. unilateral opposition in the UN Security Council, "the United Nations Security Council again rejected pleas from Lebanon that it call for an immediate cease-fire between Israel and Lebanon. The Israeli newspaper Haaretz reported the U.S. was the sole member of the 15-nation UN body to oppose any council action at all at this time.