[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Refugees in New Zealand

Refugees in New Zealand have two main pathways for gaining protection in the country. Asylum seekers may seek protection after arrival in New Zealand (either as refugees or protected persons). Refugees may also be resettled from offshore through New Zealand's Refugee Quota Programme. In 2017/18 a community sponsorship pathway was trialled, extended from 2021.Refugees who have been resettled can apply to sponsor relatives to join them, though those being sponsored need not be refugees themselves 

A refugee who is resettled into New Zealand is granted permanent residency and may apply for citizenship. Much of the discussion in recent years has focussed on whether the annual United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) resettlement quota is adequate, focussed on the most vulnerable and on the outcomes for refugees coming through this system. New Zealand is one of the few countries in the world that receive more quota refugees than asylum applications. The resettlement process is primarily managed by Immigration New Zealand, who contract out settlement services to numerous community organisations including New Zealand Red Cross.

History of refugees in New Zealand
Even before the 1951 United Nations Convention was being adopted by member states, New Zealand accepted refugees.

Those granted refugee status prior to the UNHCR Convention were

 1100 German Jewish refugees, during the 1930s
 837 Polish refugees, mostly children, who arrived in 1944
 4,500 refugees from Europe, between 1949 and 1952

New Zealand acceded to the UNHCR Convention in 1960, and refugee policy is based on the obligations that flow from that, namely to offer protection to refugees. The text is currently set out in the Sixth Schedule of the Immigration Act 1987. The Immigration Act is not a description of policy, but rather a framework for assessing and determining claims made by people in New Zealand seeking refugee status. The 1987 Act formalised an annual resettlement quota of 800 places, which was decreased to 750 places in 1997.

Those granted refugee status post the signing of the UNHCR Convention were:

Hungarian refugees following 1956 Hungarian revolution
Czechoslovaks from the 1968 Prague uprising
Asians fleeing Uganda in the 1970s
Chileans fleeing General Pinochet in the 1970s
Jews and East Europeans fleeing Soviet Union in the 1970s
Those fleeing wars in Vietnam, Cambodia and Laos in the 1970s and 1980s
Iran, Iraq, and Afghanistan arrive in the 1990s
Burma, Somalia, Ethiopia, Sri Lanka, Sudan and the former Yugoslavia in the 1990s
Since 2000, Burundi, Eritrea, Djibouti and Bhutan
Colombian refugees since 2008.
Syrian refugees from 2014.

In 2009, the incoming National government moved to a focus on refugees in the Asia-Pacific region which substantially decreased the number of refugees coming from both the Middle East and Africa. New Zealand now restricts quota refugees from both the Middle East and African unless (a) they already have family in New Zealand, (b) they are part of an emergency quota outside of the annual intake or (c) refugees from this region are able to register with the UNHCR outside of the Middle East and Africa. These restrictions have led to prominent advocates comparing New Zealand's policies to the "Muslim Ban" of Donald Trump.

After the Mosque attacks in Christchurch in 2019, attention turned to the coalition government's continued restrictions on African and Middle Eastern refugees. Immigration Minister Iain Lees-Galloway described the policy as "the very definition of discrimination" and indicated the policy would be reviewed. Both the Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern and the Foreign Minister Winston Peters questioned whether the policy was racist, but also indicated the policy - as well as the broader make-up of the quota - was under review.

In the decade 2007-2016 the top three refugee resettlement countries of origin have been Myanmar, Bhutan, and Colombia. In 2019, Myanmar, Colombia and then Syria were the top countries where refugees originated.

In early October 2019, the Immigration Minister Iain Lees-Galloway announced that the Labour-led coalition government would be scrapping the discriminatory requirement that African and Middle Eastern refugee applicants already have relatives who were residing in New Zealand. While the African and Middle Eastern regions had their refugee allocation quota increased from 14% to 15%, the Government would still continues its focus on the Asia-Pacific region, which is allocated 50% on the annual refugee quota. This change followed criticism of the Government's refugee resettlement policy by refugee advocates Guled Mire and Murdoch Stephens, petition from World Vision, and comments from Race Relations Commissioner Meng Foon.