[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Marcus Einfeld

of Appeal to withdraw Einfeld's commission as Queen's Counsel, on the basis that his conduct had brought shame upon the legal profession as well as on himself. On 26 November, Einfeld's commission as a Queen's Counsel was revoked. His membership of the Order of Australia was rescinded in April 2009.

NSW Law Society president Joe Catanzariti said that the three-year sentence for the former judge demonstrated that "the legal profession did not protect its own", but that it was tragic to see Einfeld's reputation ruined because "the sad thing in all of this is you do have a great man who has done great works, and ... the substantive thing that started it is so trivial." Reacting to a call to strip Einfeld of his pension, Chief Justice of New South Wales Jim Spigelman wrote in an April 2009 letter to NSW Attorney General John Hatzistergos that pensions should be safe when judges were already retired, they were a deferred part of their salary, criminal law was sufficient punishment, and that it would be even more unusual if the offence "bears no relationship" to the judge's former duties. Spigelman continued that then-federal Attorney General Robert McClelland and state attorneys-general should "impose a cooling off period on themselves" for reacting to vehement short-term ad hoc media campaigns."

Sydney barrister and author Charles Waterstreet observed: "at the time ... Einfeld wrote a false name for the driver ... at the heart of the sorry case ... the maximum, I repeat, the maximum fine for making a false declaration of that nature was $1,000." Former Australian Minister for Home Affairs, the Environment, and Arts Barry Cohen noted that: "many journalists ... feel it is beholden upon them to mention that a person is Jewish, particularly if they have been naughty... He received three years in custody... By comparison ... a young lady living in Canberra got four years for killing her boyfriend. Shortly after Marcus Einfeld was sentenced, Stephen Linnell, one of the top advisers to Victoria police commissioner Christine Nixon, pleaded guilty to three counts of perjury and disclosing confidential information of the Office of Police Integrity. He received an eight-month suspended sentence and a $5,000 fine. The glaring difference between these crimes and the punishments incurred is extraordinary."

Removal from the roll
On 23 July 2009, the New South Wales Court of Appeal ordered that Einfeld's name be struck out from the roll of lawyers. On 28 August 2009, the Court of Appeal delivered its reasons for making those declarations and orders, finding proven allegations that, in addition to the 2006 statutory declaration in respect of which he had been convicted, Einfeld had also sworn a series of statutory declarations in 1999, 2003, and 2004 falsely nominating other persons as the drivers of his car who he knew had not been driving the car so as to avoid traffic infringements. Einfeld agreed not to apply for re-admission. The court also considered the circumstances in which Einfeld had produced the 20-page statement describing the fictitious Teresa Brennan, and found that:

This statement reflects a studied, careful and premeditated attempt through a series of direct lies to influence the outcome of the administration of justice. It involves not a passing mistake, not an unfortunate and apparently uncharacteristic lapse but a studied and deliberate attempt to avoid the consequences of his actions and to deflect and pervert the course of justice. It may well be that the course of justice was in relation to a minor matter, standing alone. That, however, is not the point... All these facts ... when taken as a whole reflect deeply on the character of the defendant. Some of his falsehoods were committed at a time when he held high judicial office in the administration of justice in this country. Some were committed when he held the position as a practitioner...  These matters, having taken place over a period of some seven years ... reveal a clear unfitness to remain on the Roll of Local Lawyers.

Later life
In 2011, Einfeld was devoting his time to community works, including working on Australian prison reform.

Honours
Queen's Counsel (QC): Letters Patent granted 1977. Revoked 26 November 2008.
Officer of the Order of Australia (AO): June 1998, "for service to international affairs and to the promotion and protection of human rights". Terminated by the Governor-General on 24 April 2009.
Australian Sports Medal: November 2000, as "Chairman of Fundraising Committee for 1988 Paralympic Team; President of APC 1990–1992". Subsequently terminated.
Centenary Medal: January 2001, "for service to the Centenary of Federation celebrations".

Literature

Marcus Einfeld, A Bill of Rights for the Australian People, Debrett's (2001)
Marcus Einfeld, Evidence Illegally and Improperly Obtained: Has the Pendulum Swung Too Far?, Seventh National Conference of Labor Lawyers (1985).

References