[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Chilean Army

t Military Parade of Chile) on 19 September. The early armed forces adopted many Prussian military traditions, and it was during this period that the Chilean military had many of its most famous victories. As a result, the drill features many 19th and early 20th century Prussian and German patterns.

Participating soldiers wear German-style stahlhelm, and pickelhaube spiked helmets, and march in unaltered goose step. Marching music consists of Central European marches, alongside several local compositions. Each Parada Militar on 19 September ends with a playing of Preussischer Präsentiermarsch (first played in 2018) and Los viejos estandartes by a mounted band playing in the German tradition.

Pickelhaubes have long been worn by the Military School, and later by the 1st Cavalry Regiment and the 1st Artillery Regiment. The stahlhelm is worn only by the NCO School.

This is also the case for parades held on 18 September, Independence Day, in the local level, whenever Army units take part.

Several Army units wear on parade historical dress uniforms from the time of 19th-century battles, but do not march in the German manner:

 1st Infantry Regiment "Buin" - Grenadier uniform of the 1st Infantry Battalion "Chilean Grenadiers"
 6th Reinforced Regiment "Chacabuco" - War of the Pacific French-styled uniform worn by the 4th Company, in recognition of its heroic final stand in the Battle of La Concepción
 4th Motorized Infantry Brigade "Rancagua" - War of the Pacific French-styled uniform worn by the Historical Company, similar to those worn by the regiment during the 1880 Battle of Arica
 3rd Cavalry Regiment "Hussars" - black dress uniform with shako worn only by the Demonstration Troop "Cuadro Negro", similar to those worn by its predecessors during the Chilean War of Independence

Military bands 

The Army Band Service is the military band department of the army, operating through the Welfare Command. The massed bands of the capital are known as the Gran Banda de la Guarnición de Santiago (Grand Band of the Santiago Garrison), which is involved every 19 September with the Great Military Parade of Chile. When it was formed it had up to 550 musicians; since 1980 it has been reduced to about 295 musicians, with an attached corps of drums. The main military band in the army is the Concert Band of the Chilean Army. It was founded in 1963, and is the most senior army band, but is more of a concert band, some of its musicians being seconded to the Military Academy. It reports to the Chief of the Bands Service. In 2000, it appeared in Rome on the occasion of the Military Music Jubilee. In 2004 and 2012, it participated in the Quebec City International Festival of Military Bands in Canada. It has also visited Germany, Scotland, Uruguay, France and the United States.

The Chilean Army has two mounted bands:

 Mounted Band and Bugles of the 1st Cavalry Regiment "Grenadiers"  - It is the most senior band of the cavalry and armoured regiments of the army
 Band and Bugles of the 3rd Cavalry Regiment "Hussars"

Other bands include the band of the Army NCO School and the Bernardo O'Higgins Military Academy. Military bands in Chile have a Corps of Drums and the Turkish crescent percussion instrument, similarly to German military bands. Departing from the German tradition is the presence of an added Bugle section behind the Corps of Drums, a tradition inherited from France and in the buglers of Imperial Germany, with the band's conductor being assisted by a bugle major who is placed either in front of the bugle section or if in a massed corps of drums behind the buglers.

Commanders-in-chief

See also
 Chilean Navy
 Chilean Air Force
 Lautaro Special Operations Brigade

Notes

References

Bibliography

External links

Official Chilean Army site 

Latin American Light Weapons National Inventories