[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1946 in the United Kingdom

David Niven.
 9 November – Shooting of Margaret Cook in Carnaby Street, London.
 10 November – Peter Scott opens the Slimbridge Wetland Reserve in Gloucestershire.
 11 November – Stevenage, a village in Hertfordshire, is designated by the Attlee government as Britain's first new town to relieve overcrowding and replace bombed homes in London. The new town is set to have around 60,000 residents once it is completed and the first homes are expected to be ready by 1952 and the town fully developed by the early 1960s. The town's centerpiece will be a revolutionary pedestrianised central shopping area.
 17 November – Eight British Army servicemen are killed in Jerusalem by Jewish terrorists.
 22 November – Tony Benn is elected as Treasurer of the Oxford Union.
 29 November
 Premiere of educational documentary film The Instruments of the Orchestra containing Benjamin Britten's composition The Young Person's Guide to the Orchestra (concert premiere 15 October conducted by Malcolm Sargent with the Royal Liverpool Philharmonic in the Philharmonic Hall, Liverpool).
 BBC Television begins airing Pinwright's Progress, the world's first regular half-hour situation comedy.
 26 December – David Lean's film of Great Expectations, based on the Charles Dickens novel, and featuring John Mills, Valerie Hobson, Martita Hunt, Alec Guinness, Francis L. Sullivan, Jean Simmons, and Finlay Currie, is released to great acclaim.

Undated
 Cinemagoing reaches an all-time peak, with 1,635 million admissions during the year.
 Lifting of prohibition on married women working in the Civil Service.
 Fred Pontin opens the first Pontins holiday camp, at Brean Sands, Burnham-on-Sea, Somerset.
 The University of Bristol establishes the first university drama department in the UK.
 Bush DAC90 bakelite radio introduced: it becomes the best-selling model for some years.

Publications
 January – launch of Penguin Classics under the editorship of E. V. Rieu, whose translation of the Odyssey is the first published in the series and will be the country's best-selling book over the next decade.
 W. V. Awdry's children's book Thomas the Tank Engine, first in The Railway Series.
 Enid Blyton's girl school story First Term at Malory Towers, first in the Malory Towers series.
 Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot novel The Hollow.
 R. G. Collingwood's collected philosophical lectures The Idea of History (posthumous).
 John Stewart Collis' memoir While Following the Plough.
 Stella Gibbons' novel Westwood.
 Philip Larkin's novel Jill.
 George Mikes' book How to be an Alien.
 Mervyn Peake's novel Titus Groan, first in the Gormenghast series.
 Thomas Sharp's book The Anatomy of the Village.
 Joint Committee of the Building Research Board and the Fire Offices' Committee's first report on fire safety General Principles and Structural Precautions.

Births

January – February
 3 January – John Paul Jones, English bassist (Led Zeppelin)
 6 January – Syd Barrett, English guitarist and singer (Pink Floyd) (died 2006)
 7 January – Mike Wilds, English racing driver and pilot
 14 January – Harold Shipman, serial killer (died 2004)
 19 January – Julian Barnes, novelist
 25 January – Pete Price, Merseyside radio disc jockey
 28 January – David Duckham, rugby union player (died 2023)
 1 February – Elisabeth Sladen, television actress (died 2011)
 7 February
 Brian Patten, Liverpool poet
 Pete Postlethwaite, actor (died 2011)
 9 February – Seán Neeson, Alliance Party of Northern Ireland politician
 11 February – Malcolm Walker, English businessman
 13 February – Colin Matthews, composer
 15 February – Clare Short, politician
 16 February – Ian Lavender, actor
 20 February – Brenda Blethyn, English actress
 21 February – Alan Rickman, English actor (died 2016)
 26 February – Colin Bell, footballer (died 2021)
 28 February – Robin Cook, Labour politician (died 2005)

March – April
 1 March – Tony Ashton, rock pianist and music producer (died 2001)
 6 March – David Gilmour, English musician (Pink Floyd)
 21 March – Timothy Dalton, actor
 22 March – Richard Faulkner, Baron Faulkner of Worcester, journalist and politician
 25 March – Cliff Balsam, English footballer
 27 March – Patrick Richardson, travel writer and author
 2 April – Sue Townsend, English comic novelist and playwright (died 2014)
 4 April – Dave Hill, English guitarist (Slade)
 9 April 
Les Gray, English vocalist (Mud) (died 2004)
Mike Hancock, politician
Alan Knott, English cricketer
Sara Parkin, Scottish activist and politician
 11 April – Bob Harris, music presenter
 12 April – George Robertson, Scottish politician
 15 April – Hugh Laddie, judge (died 2008)
 19 April – Tim Curry, actor, voice artist, singer and composer
 21 April – Alan Rickman, actor (died 2016)
 24 April – Piers Gough, architect
 25 April – John Fox, statistician
 27 April – Nicholas Serota, art curator
 28 April – Linda Knowles, high jumper
 29 April – Humphrey Carpenter, children's writer and broadcaster (died 2005)