[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# EU–US Open Skies Agreement

rways, Aer Lingus and Iberia, account for 54% of slots).

Fares 
There is little consensus about whether increased transatlantic competition will have any effect on fares. Some believe the market is already highly competitive. Other sources have been predicting radical changes, such as €10 flights. 

There have been a number of new entrants that have come into the market in recent years, who have adapted the model of the short-haul low-cost airlines to the transatlantic route. Initially in 2007, Ryanair announced that it was planning to start a new airline (RyanAtlantic) that would operate long-haul flights between Europe and the United States but that project was cancelled. However, in 2014 Norwegian Air Shuttle announced it would start low-cost flights to the US from the Republic of Ireland and later the UK, in part made possible by new wide-body and narrow-body aircraft with increased fuel efficiency and range. Its Irish and then its new UK subsidiaries applied for US permission to operate these routes, which was met with resistance in the US. Eventually, after the European Commission said it would initiate arbitration procedures under the Agreement, the US granted the Norwegian subsidiaries rights to fly to the US. Other long-haul low-cost airlines, such as LEVEL, Primera Air and Wow Air, have since entered the market, however the latter two have since ceased operation.

Consequences of the UK leaving the EU 
There was some debate as to what consequences the UK leaving the EU (Brexit) in 2020 would have on UK and United States airlines flying between the UK and United States. Both the EU and the Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union, David Davis, have since confirmed it was likely the UK would leave the EU-US Open Skies Agreement. It has subsequently emerged that the UK has initiated negotiations with the US on a future US-UK Air Transport Agreement.

In November 2018, the UK concluded an individual open sky agreement with the US that will supersede the EU agreement post-Brexit.

References 

Aviation agreements
Treaties of the United States
European Union law
Open Skies Agreement
Treaties concluded in 2007
Treaties entered into force in 2008
2007 in aviation
2008 in aviation
2010 in aviation
2007 in the European Union
2007 in the United States
Transport and the European Union
Aviation in the United States
Aviation in Europe
Treaties concluded in 2010