[Source: PubMed]

80. BMJ Open. 2024 Jun 11;14(6):e076475. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-076475.

Interview study exploring how global health partnership principles are enacted 
and recommendations for practice.

Turner RR(1), Hart J(1), Carr N(1), Bull E(1), Fraser J(1)(2), Byrne-Davis L(3).

Author information:
(1)Health Workforce Group, Division of Medical Education, The University of 
Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(2)Tropical Health and Education Trust (THET), London, UK.
(3)Health Workforce Group, Division of Medical Education, The University of 
Manchester, Manchester, UK lucie.byrne-davis@manchester.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Effective global health partnerships can strengthen and improve 
health and healthcare systems across the world; however, establishing and 
maintaining effective partnerships can be challenging. Principles of 
Partnerships have been developed to improve the quality and effectiveness of 
health partnerships. It is unclear how principles are enacted in practice, and 
current research has not always included the voices of low-income and 
middle-income country partners. This study aimed to explore how The Tropical 
Health and Education Trust's nine Principles of Partnership are enacted in 
practice, from the points of view of partners from low-income, middle-income and 
high-income countries, to help improve partnerships' quality and sustainability.
METHODS: People who had been a part of previous and/or ongoing health 
partnerships were interviewed virtually. Participants were purposefully sampled 
and interviews were conducted using an appreciative inquiry approach. Audio 
recordings were transcribed and deductive framework analysis was conducted.
RESULTS: 13 participants from 8 partnerships were interviewed. Six participants 
were based in the low-income or middle-income countries and seven in the UK. Key 
findings identified strategies that enacted 'successful' and 'effective' 
partnerships within the Principles of Partnerships. These included practical 
techniques such as hiring a project manager, managing expectations and openly 
sharing information about the team's expertise and aspirations. Other strategies 
included the importance of consulting behavioural science to ensure the 
partnerships consider longevity and sustainability of the partnership.
DISCUSSION: Core principles to effective partnerships do not work in isolation 
of each other; they are intertwined and are complimentary to support equitable 
partnerships. Good communication and relationships built on trust which allow 
all partners to contribute equally throughout the project are core foundations 
for sustainable partnerships. Recommendations for established and future 
partnerships include embedding behavioural scientists/psychologists to support 
change to improve the quality and sustainability of health partnerships.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2024. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2023-076475
PMCID: PMC11168132
PMID: 38862224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: JF works for the Tropical 
Health and Education Trust. LB-D, JH and EB have received funding from THET to 
conduct this research and other studies. No other conflicts of interest to 
declare.