[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Complex interdependence

Complex interdependence in international relations and international political economy is a concept put forth by Robert Keohane and Joseph Nye in the 1970s to describe the emerging nature of the global political economy. The concept entails that relations between states are becoming increasingly deep and complex. These increasingly complex webs of economic interdependence undermine state power and elevate the influence of transnational non-state actors. These complex relationships can be explored through both the liberal and realism lenses and can later explain the debate of power from complex interdependence.

History of the term
The term "complex interdependence" was claimed by Raymond Leslie Buell in 1925 to describe the new ordering among economies, cultures, and races. The very concept was popularized through the work of Richard N. Cooper (1968). With the analytical construct of complex interdependence in their critique of political realism, Robert Keohane and Joseph Nye explore how international politics forever changed due to the emerging complex interactions and interdependence among states. The theorists recognized that the various and complex transnational connections and interdependencies between states and societies increased, while Military force and power balancing are decreasing but remain essential. In coining the interdependence concept, Keohane and Nye also notably differentiated between interdependence and dependence in analyzing the role of power in politics and the relations between international actors.

From the analysis, complex interdependence is characterized by three characteristics, involving

 The use of multiple channels of action between societies in interstate, transgovernmental, and transnational relations,
 The absence of a hierarchy of issues with changing agendas and linkages between issues prioritized, and
 The objective of bringing about a decline in military force and coercive power in international relations.

Thus, Keohane and Nye argue that the decline of military force as a policy tool and the increase in economic and other forms of interdependence should increase the probability of cooperation among states. The theorists' work surfaced in the 1970s to become a significant challenge to political realist theory in international politics. It became foundational to current theorists that it be categorized as liberalism (international relations), neoliberalism, and liberal institutionalism. Traditional critiques of liberalism often define alongside critiques of political realism. They both ignore the social nature of relations between states and the social fabric of international society. With the rise of neoliberal economics, debates, and the need to clarify international relations theory, Keohane has most recently described himself as merely an institutionalist. This theory's purpose is to develop sociological perspectives in contemporary International relations theory. Liberal, neoliberal, and liberal institutional theories continue to influence international politics and have become closely intertwined with political realism.

Multiple channels 
Multiple channels that are present in complex interdependence are "connect societies, including informal ties between governmental elites as well as formal foreign office arrangements." The second type is "informal ties among nongovernmental elites where contact usually happens either face-to-face or through telecommunication. The last type is "Transnational organization," including organizations such as multinational banks or corporations. A more straightforward way of thinking of these concepts is by condensing them by calling them interstate, transgovernmental and transnational relations. Therefore, these channels can be a way of communication for states and are a considerable part of complex interdependence.   
a. Interstate relations are thought to be "normal channels" by realists. It is also known as "horizontal dimensions of federalism."
b. Transgovernmental relations "applies when we relax the realist assumption that states act coherently as units." Crane Liberals believe that states can work together in order to enhance interdependence.
c. Transnational relations "applies when we relax the assumption that states are the only units." This take is more of the liberal perspective evident throughout international relations because of institutions' beliefs.