[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lagerpeton

de within Dinosauromorpha and the sister taxon to Dinosauriformes.

Cladogram simplified after Kammerer, Nesbitt & Shubin (2012):

More recently described fossil material for the group instead suggests that lagerpetids are early pterosauromorphs, more closely related to pterosaurs than to dinosaurs.

Palaeogeography 
The oldest fossils of L. chanarensis were found in the Chañares Formation and originate from the Upper Middle Triassic (Ladinian) of Gondwana, southern Pangaea. All Lagerpeton specimens share this geographic location, including other fossils from the Lower Late Triassic (Carnian). Radiometric dating of volcanic material in the formation has narrowed the formation and entire fossil assemblage found there to between 236 and 234 million years old.

Locomotion 
It has been suggested that the extant analogues most similar to L. chanarensis are small bipedal mammals, which are often saltators. Three morphological characteristics in L. chanarensis fossils have been putatively cited as evidence of saltation in this taxon.

Neural spines 
The neural spines of the posterior dorsal vertebrae are inclined anteriorly, a character not observed in any other archosaur, but common in saltatory mammals. This feature is suggested to allow for greater vertebral flexibility, correlated with leaping and bounding locomotor styles.

Pelvic girdle 
Relative to the hindlimb length, the pelvic girdle is remarkably small. The distance from the pelvic girdle to the femur is therefore also small, more so than most other archosaurs apart from closely related taxa. This reduction in distance may increase the force production during hip extension in extant small mammals.

Didactyl foot
The narrow and functionally didactyl pes are a further similarity to modern saltators. By condensing into a single unit, the metatarsus gains strength without the drawback of increased weight. It also appears likely that, consequently to the reduction of digit II, digit IV may have elongated to balance the pes.

The hypothesis of saltatorial locomotion is debated, however. Vertebral adaptations of extant organisms exceed those seen in Lagerpeton; the sacral vertebrae of modern saltators are fused and the neural spines reduced. Furthermore, the size of the pelvic girdle and lateral digital reduction may be equally used as evidence for cursorial locomotion.

References 

Lagerpetidae
Triassic archosaurs
Middle Triassic reptiles of South America
Triassic Argentina
Fossils of Argentina
Chañares Formation
Fossil taxa described in 1971
Taxa named by Alfred Romer