[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Don O'Riordan

xt to bottom of the table lasted only about a week but he managed to end the team's four-game losing streak when they drew 1–1 away to the then Super League leaders. The club appointed Wang Baoshan as the new Head Coach on 4 May and O'Riordan returned to his usual role of Technical Director/ Coach..

China women's national team
O'Riordan found himself involved in the 2008 Beijing Olympics when he was asked to help with the preparation of the China women's national team. After spending a week working with the team in a coaching role and also as an analyst the Women's team Head Coach Shang Ruihua asked the Chengdu Blades club for O'Riordan to be allowed to work with him for the duration of the team's involvement in the Olympic football tournament. His influence was seen during the buildup games just prior to the start of the tournament when China crushed Australia 5–0 and drew 0–0 with the eventual Olympic Champions the United States. China won their group by beating a very good Sweden team followed by a tough game versus a robust Canada team before beating Argentina in their final game. Having done so well in the group stage the Chinese lost to Japan in the quarter final and so ended their dream of gold on home soil. O'Riordan's input was publicly appreciated by the Women's Head Coach Shang when he spoke to the press after the tournament had finished.

South Africa women's national team
As a result of his involvement with the China women's team O'Riordan was invited in January 2010 to work with the South Africa women's under-20 team in the buildup to their World Cup Qualifier v Zambia. He spent the week working with the team helping the Head Coach August Makalakalane and South Africa won the first leg 6–0 in Johannesburg.

FC New York
In March 2010 he was appointed as Head Coach/Technical Director of FC New York a new professional club that entered the USL Division 1 in 2011. O'Riordan oversaw the club's under 15s, under 16s and under 20s who competed in the Super Y and Super 20 Leagues in the 2010 season. He resigned from FCNY in July 2010

China

Beijing Baxi FC Women's Team
In January 2011 O'Riordan was appointed as Advisor to the Beijing Baxi FC professional women's team and helped them to finish 5th and reached the FA Cup Final losing to League Champions Shanghai. In January 2012 he was appointed Head Coach and became the first foreigner to be offered such a role.

Galway WFC
On 16 June 2014, it was announced that O'Riordan would take up the position of manager of Women's National League (WNL) club Galway WFC. He left in December 2016, to be replaced by Billy Clery his former charge at Galway United.

Treaty United
O'Riordan made a return to the WNL when he was announced as Treaty United manager in December 2021.

Personal life
His younger brother Brendan O'Riordan played for Bohemians and Shamrock Rovers and his older brother Dermot is the Chairman of Cherry Orchard.

References

External links 
Newcastle Fans profile
NASL stats

1957 births
Living people
Carlisle United F.C. players
Derby County F.C. players
Doncaster Rovers F.C. players
Galway United F.C. (1937–2011) players
Gloucester City A.F.C. players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
League of Ireland players
League of Ireland managers
Mansfield Town F.C. players
Middlesbrough F.C. players
North American Soccer League (1968–1984) players
Notts County F.C. players
Preston North End F.C. players
Republic of Ireland men's association footballers
Republic of Ireland men's youth international footballers
Scarborough F.C. players
Sligo Rovers F.C. managers
Galway United F.C. managers
Torquay United F.C. players
Torquay United F.C. managers
Grimsby Town F.C. non-playing staff
Tulsa Roughnecks (1978–1984) players
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Republic of Ireland expatriate association football managers
Republic of Ireland association football managers
Irish expatriate sportspeople in England
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
Irish expatriate sportspeople in the United States
Irish expatriate sportspeople in South Africa
Women's National League (Ireland) managers
Men's association football midfielders
Irish expatriate sportspeople in China
Association footballers from County Dublin