[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jubilee (novel)

Confederate credit.
 August 7, 1864: End of the naval battle on Mobile Bay, a Union victory
 January 1, 1865: Emancipation Proclamation repeated in Georgia (Vyry and family are free)
 1868: The Ku Klux Klan rode for three days and nights during the national elections, resulting in terrible violence.

Events in Vyry's life (chronological order)
Sis Hetta dies from childbirth
Vyry becomes a slave at a toddler age
Granny Ticey and Mammy Sukey die 
Miss Salina hangs Vyry by her thumbs in the closet for breaking one of her china dishes 
Brother Zeke baptizes Vyry as she now enters womanhood
Grandpa Tom is killed by Grimes for not giving Grimes a fine horse (Grandpa Tom is following Marse John's Orders)
Aunt Sally is sold as Miss Salina does not like her; Salina and John Dutton go through cooks trying to find a cook who can cook as well as Aunt Sally. John Dutton considers selling Aunt Sally a mistake until Vyry is discovered as a cook whose food is identical to that of Aunt Sally's. Vyry is put into the Big House and works as a cook. 
Vyry meets Randall Ware as she is supposed to give him food. He immediately takes interest in Vyry; whereas Vyry only develops love for him after he promises her freedom
Lucy badtalks Miss Salina during a party, gets beaten, runs away, is caught, and gets branded 
Fourth of July celebration- priests rant about slaves listening to their masters 
Lucy runs away a second time and manages to escape from the Dutton Plantation
Vyry asks John Dutton if she can marry Randall Ware. Knowing how precious of a cook Vyry is, John Dutton decides that the two may get married only after his death (however it doesn't happen) 
John Dutton dies 
John Dutton Jr. dies 
Kevin dies 
Salina dies 
Vyry and kids are free after a man comes to emancipate the slaves
Vyry meets Innis Brown as he tries to protect her and Miss Lillian from a robber  
Vyry and Innis move to Alabama as they get married
Vyry and Innis get flooded out of their house by the Chattahoochee River and lose most of their belongings
Vyry and Innis sign the contract for another house, stating that they must pay off the house with crops made on the land, however the land has bad soil. Vyry and Innis cannot pay off the house or make a living  
Vyry and Innis leave to Troy, Pike County
Vyry and Innis' house is burned down by KKK 
Vyry and Innis travel to Luvenere 
Vyry and Innis get land in Butler County near Greenville 
Vyry visits Ms. Lucy and Ms. Lillian in Georgia 
Vyry and Innis move into their permanent house
Vyry earns a living by selling goods in a nearby town 
Vyry helps a woman give birth as Vyry hears the woman's screams while selling her goods in the town. The woman does not take Vyry as a black woman, for Vyry's skin is fair. Vyry helps to settle racial confusion or stereotypes the woman and her husband have. The woman and her husband take note that Vyry is kind and gentle and feel comfortable around Vyry. 
Woman and family help Vyry build her house 
Innis Brown beats Jim
Randall Ware visits and takes Jim to school in the city
Vyry expects a baby with Innis Brown

Court case
In 1978, Margaret Walker sued Alex Haley, claiming that his 1976 novel Roots: The Saga of an American Family had violated Jubilee's copyright by borrowing from her novel. The case was dismissed.

Adaptation
Jubilee was adapted into a three-act opera by Ulysses Kay, to a libretto by Donald Dorr; it was commissioned by Opera/South and premiered in 1976.

References

1966 American novels
American historical novels
Novels set during the American Civil War
Novels about American slavery
Novels set in Georgia (U.S. state)
Novels set in Alabama
Houghton Mifflin books
Novels adapted into operas