[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Voord

ary noting that the Voord's fetishistic apparel and receiver aerials are similar to those of the Remote, another media-dependent culture. It speculates that Marinus is an early experiment by the Remote's creators, Faction Paradox, and that the Voord might be considered the Remote's direct ancestors.

In September 2014 the Voord appeared in a Big Finish Productions story entitled Domain of the Voord.  The cast includes William Russell and Carole Ann Ford, as the Doctor's companions Ian Chesterton and Susan Foreman respectively, reprising the roles they played in The Keys of Marinus.  The script is by Andrew Smith, who previously wrote the Fourth Doctor story Full Circle in 1980.

The Voord appear in the Titan Comics multi-Doctor event "Four Doctors", opposite the Twelfth, Eleventh and Tenth Doctors. It is revealed that they evolved during the Time War and fought alongside the War Doctor against the Daleks. After the war they attempted to retain their new advanced capabilities, which include a hive consciousness and the ability to absorb anyone into the Voord collective, they removed themselves and Marinus into a pocket dimension, erasing all memory of Marinus from the universe (including the Doctor). Allying with an alternate reality version of the Twelfth Doctor, who became villainous after being betrayed by Clara Oswald (in "Dark Water"), the Voord were eventually defeated by the earlier Twelfth Doctor, along with the Tenth and Eleventh Doctors.

Impact
The Voord were the first Doctor Who alien race to be marketed as the successor to Terry Nation's previous alien creation, the Daleks.  Despite attempts to merchandise the Voord, they never achieved the popularity of the Daleks.  Author Peter Haining notes that they did achieve "some fame and recognition through merchandising spin-offs. Amicus Productions, which made two Dalek movies, acquired the movie rights to The Keys of Marinus but the movie was never made.  Doctor Who author Dave Thompson, however, regards them as "one of the show's most sadly underused alien menaces."  He also describes them as "one of the show's least loved (but actually most enjoyable) alien menaces."  in 1979 Stephen Poole wrote that limiting the Voord to just the first and last episodes of The Keys of Marinus was "a great waste of potential."  Voord actor Peter Stenson later wrote about his experience portraying a Voord for a leather fetish magazine.

See also
 List of Doctor Who universe creatures and aliens

References

External links
 Voord at Tardis Data Core

Doctor Who races
Fictional amphibians
Television characters introduced in 1964
Fictional cyborgs
Fictional warrior races