[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Maisie Williams

kills. The NME described the action drama as also genuinely funny. The UK series, written by Gaby Hull and produced by Kudos for Sky UK, debuted on 2 September 2020, and premiered in the U.S. on HBO Max on 5 November. The six part first series also starred Sean Knopp, Mawaan Rizwan and Taheen Modak.

Also in September, Williams starred in the 1990s-set psychological thriller The Owners, in which she played Mary, a young woman who reluctantly agrees to participate in a botched robbery with her boyfriend and two other young low level criminals (Ian Kenny, Jake Curran and Andrew Ellis) of an old couple's home (Sylvester McCoy and Rita Tushingham). The Hollywood Reporter, while praising McCoy and Tushingham more, felt that Williams 'used her innate appeal to make her character sympathetic'. Dread Central felt that she gave better performance than she did in New Mutants and commented "it's undeniably cool to see the young, now forever iconic actress kick ass in a real world setting". The film was released by RLJE Films at select theatres, and digital on demand on 4 September. The film was directed by French director Julius Berg and adapted from the graphic novel Une Nuit De Pleine Lune by Belgian artist Hermann and writer Yves H. Her veteran co-actor Sylvester McCoy predicted success for Williams beyond acting "she's full of energy – a little bubbly ball of fire and creativity... she's grown up in the business and she knows it inside out... She's a rising star as an actress, but I wouldn't be at all surprised if she became a director and a producer... She's got all those abilities and that intelligence and the knowledge of the business from years of doing it ... from a young age."

2022: Pistol
In the six-episode biopic limited series Pistol for FX, about the Sex Pistols, Williams plays the part of the real life punk rock icon Jordan (Pamela Rooke). The series is based on guitarist Steve Jones, 2018 memoir Lonely Boy: Tales from a Sex Pistol; and was executively produced and directed by Danny Boyle. Jordan was the archetypal subversive model whose 'distinctive Vivienne Westwood-designed outfits' and 'outrageous make-up' made her the original face of punk, and was co-credited with creating the punk fashion style. Williams' is underutilized but brings her "formidable screen presence" as the "untouchably cool" Jordan complete "with a vertical sheet of peroxide blonde hair." Rooke acted as an advisor on the show informing Williams that in portraying her, she would be playing a very strong female, "a woman set apart, really. I decided that I wanted to be me ... a walking work of art ... I was totally and utterly unshakable." Williams "sparkles" in the second episode's cold opening, when she recreates Jordan's cycling through her seaside home town and then commuting by train wearing a fully revealing transparent PVC top, to the consternation and heckling of the people around her, that straightforwardly presents punk movement's effect on society: a scene both The Guardian and Vogue judged to be one of the strongest in the series. Williams continued to embrace the punk-rock style for her Pistol press tour, thinking of her own public image the actress said that she was inspired by how Jordan used both her clothing and her physicality as a defiant presence, as a political statement that turned the male gaze in on itself and took control of the situation.

Forthcoming roles
In May 2022, it was reported that Williams has been cast in Sinners vs Saints, an adaptation of Anthony Delano's "Joyce McKinney and the Case of the Manacled Mormon" an 'over the top' true story about an eccentric American who was accused of abducting and raping the subject of her sexual obsession, a Mormon missionary called Kirk Anderson, in England in the 1970s. The same month it was announced that Williams had been cast in the upcoming Apple drama series The New Look. Set under the backdrop of World War II occupied Paris, she portrays Catherine Dior (Legion of Honour recipient for her actions in the French resistance) the younger sister of the fashion designer Christian Dior whose style was at the time eclipsing that of Coco Chanel.

Commercial promotional work
In 2015, Williams delivered what The Daily Telegraph described as a feminist speech in New York at the launch of Always' "Like a girl" campaign. The speech was aimed at the Generation Z demographic of which Williams is a member. On 2 February 2020, Williams sang "Let It Go", from the film Frozen, in an Audi commercial that aired during the broadcast of Super Bowl LIV. In July 2020, she featured in the Apple MacBook's "Made in the UK" campaign ad celebrating UK-based creators alongside others including screenwriter and actor Michaela Coel, artist Grayson Perry, film maker Jenn Nkiru, animation studio Aardman, printmaker Gabriella Marcella, rapper Dave and singer Labrinth. In summer 2020, she was also appointed as an ambassador for Cartier's new Pasha de Cartier watch.