[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Deacon McGuire

record and folded after the 1884 season.

Detroit Wolverines
McGuire began the 1885 season playing for the Indianapolis Hoosiers of the newly formed Western League.  McGuire appeared in 16 games for the Hoosiers, who were the dominant team in the Western League, compiling an .880 winning percentage.

In mid June 1885, the Western League disbanded, and a mad rush developed to sign the players on the Indianapolis roster, a line-up that included McGuire, Sam Thompson, Sam Crane, Chub Collins, Jim Donnelly, Mox McQuery, Gene Moriarty, and Dan Casey.  Sam Thompson later told the colorful story of the Detroit Wolverines' acquisition of the Indianapolis players.  Detroit sent two representatives (Marsh and Maloney) to Indianapolis, principally to sign the Hoosiers' battery of Larry McKeon and Jim Keenan.  The Wolverines were outbid by the Cincinnati Reds for McKeon and Keenan but wound up with the Hoosiers' manager (Bill Watkins) and the rest of the team's starting lineup.  The only catch was that a 10-day waiting period would allow other teams to outbid Detroit. Marsh and Maloney promptly sent the players to Detroit and quartered them in a hotel there.  The next morning, the players were told that the team had arranged a fishing trip for them.  The players boarded the steamship Annette and enjoyed the first day and night of successful fishing. After three days, the players became suspicious, but the ship captain laughed when asked when they would return to Detroit.  As the players became mutinous on the sixth day, the captain admitted he had been ordered to keep them "out at sea" for 10 days.  In another account, Thompson described his 10 days aboard the Annette as follows: We were prisoners, but well cared-for prisoners. Anything in the line of creature comforts you could find packed away on ice.  We lived on the best in the market, and spent the rest of the time in fishing and playing poker, chips having very thoughtfully been provided. On the night of the tenth day, at midnight, we were all taken ashore where Watkins met us and signed us to our contracts.
The players were only later presented with their accumulated mail which included scores of offers from other clubs.  A writer in the Detroit Free Press later noted: "Detroit magnates showed some inside baseball brains and great finessing in sending the players away from all tempters for that period when they belonged to no club."

Once at Detroit, McGuire hit .190 in 121 at bats and served as the backup for catcher Charlie Bennett; Bennett caught 62 games and McGuire 31.   While with the Wolverines, McGuire was reunited with Lady Baldwin, the "snakeball" pitcher who he had caught in Hastings.  Despite the infusion of talent from Indianapolis, the Wolverines finished in sixth place with a 41–67 record.

Philadelphia Quakers

In November 1885, the Wolverines returned McGuire to league control, and he was then acquired by the Philadelphia Quakers in January 1886.  McGuire played with the Quakers for two full seasons.

In 1886, McGuire caught 49 games for the Quakers, two more than the team's other principal catcher Jack Clements. The 1886 season was McGuire's first in the major leagues with a winning ball club, as the Quakers finished in fourth place in the National League with a 71–43 record.

In 1887, McGuire and Clements again split the catching duties for the Quakers, with 41 and 59 games, respectively.  McGuire improved dramatically as a batter in 1887.  After compiling a .198 batting average in 1886, McGuire hit .307 in 150 at bats.  The team also improved to second place with a 75–48 record.

McGuire began the 1888 season with the Quakers.  However, on June 30, 1888, he was released by the Quakers after batting .333 in 12 games and 51 at bats.

Cleveland, Toronto and Rochester
On July 2, 1888, McGuire signed as a free agent with the Detroit Wolverines. He appeared in only three games for Detroit, had no hits in 13 at bats, and was released on August 1, 1888.  In late August 1888, McGuire met and signed with Tom Loftus, the manager of the Cleveland Blues of the National League.  The Cleveland Plain Dealer reported at the time: "He will strengthen the team a good deal, especially in batting.  Jim was a little careless as to his condition early in the season and Harry Wright released him because he had three other cheaper catchers. . . . At this time he is in perfect condition and has given a fine sample of his work in the three games against Kansas City."  McGuire appeared in 26 games for Cleveland at the end of the 1888 season, batting .255 in 94 at bats.

In early February 1889, McGuire was released by Cleveland and signed by the Toronto Canucks of the International League.   McGuire appeared in 93 games for Toronto and hit .282 with 72 runs scored, 42 extra base hits and 29 stolen bases. (An account published at the end of the 1889 season stated that McGuire hit .300 at Toronto and caught 92 games).