[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# Human rights in Egypt

170 million to "certain functions, such as counterterrorism, border security and non-proliferation". The move has been described as staking out "a middle path" between  a harder stance against human rights violations and support for Sisi's "committed, albeit ruthless" opposition to "militant Islam".

On 21 November 2021, the Disclose exposed the complicity of France in crimes committed by the dictatorship of Abdel Fattah al-Sisi in Egypt. This secret military cooperation exercise between the two countries was called ‘Operation Sirli’, which was launched in 2016 in the name of the fight against terrorism. However, the original mission was diverted and information from the mission was used by al-Sisi's regime to commit arbitrary executions and to conduct aerial strikes against civilians, killing several hundred. A Luxembourg-based company, CAE Aviation provided the French military intelligence services, DRM, with a plane equipped with surveillance cameras and phone communications interception equipment, called ALSR aircraft. Along with the aircraft, France had disposed a team of men in Egypt.

Historical situation
The following chart shows Egypt's ratings since 1972 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is "free"; 7, "not free".

International treaties
Egypt's stances on international human rights treaties are as follows:

Travel Bans
As stated by Amnesty International, the Egyptian authorities are pursuing serious assaults on Egypt's embattled human rights movement. Instead of responding to calls to close the decade long Case 173 and lift arbitrary travel bans imposed on innocent people, the country's courts are repeatedly rejecting appeals by human right defenders against the restrictive measures against them.

According to the Human Rights Watch, arbitrary and open-ended travel bans enable the Egyptian authorities to repress human rights defenders or the key members of civil society who oppose the government. There's no clear way to challenge these bans in court. Travel bans applied as punishments for peaceful work of human rights lawyers, journalists, feminists, and researchers are repressive and a human rights abuse. The bans impose a life-altering system of punishment to the critics of the Egyptian government, while separating families, damaging careers, and harming the mental health of those subjected to them.

See also

 Religion in Egypt
 Persecution of Copts
 Human trafficking in Egypt
Human rights in Islamic countries

Notes 
1.Note that the "Year" signifies the "Year covered". Therefore, the information for the year marked 2008 is from the report published in 2009, and so on.
2.As of January 1.
3.The 1982 report covers the year 1981 and the first half of 1982, and the following 1984 report covers the second half of 1982 and the whole of 1983. In the interest of simplicity, these two aberrant "year and a half" reports have been split into three year-long reports through interpolation.

References

Further reading

External links
Personal accounts from Egyptian women
Censorship in Egypt - IFEX
A tale of two women A reflection on the status of women in Egypt
Interview with Elijah Zarwan on human rights and the internet in Egypt and the Middle East
 2012 Annual Report, by Amnesty International
 Freedom in the World 2012 Report, by Freedom House
 World Report 2012, by Human Rights Watch

 
Politics of Egypt