[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Galvanized Yankees

federate Battalion
Recruited at Florence, South Carolina, the unit organized December 26, 1864, as the "2nd Foreign Battalion," later known as "2nd Foreign Legion", and was re-designated February 13, 1865, as 8th Confederate Battalion.

State volunteer regiments in Confederate service
10th Tennessee

In October 1864, John G. O'Neill, colonel of the 10th Tennessee Regiment (Irish Volunteers), was authorized to recruit Union prisoners at Andersonville and Millen, Georgia, to replenish the depleted ranks of the regiment. O'Neill, recovering from wounds received at the Battle of Resaca, appears to have delegated part of the task to a newly appointed lieutenant colonel, Michael Burke. In October and November 1864 O'Neill and Burke enlisted more than 250 soldiers of a number of Union regiments. Efforts were made at first to recruit Irish immigrants in compliance with Seddon's original instructions, but when few complied, native-born Union soldiers were enlisted. The recruits were required to take an oath of allegiance to the Confederacy, and were not issued arms or ammunition until the night before their first engagement.

Held under strict camp guard, they were sent to Mobile, Alabama while the 10th Tennessee itself advanced to the Battle of Franklin. Organized as Burke's Battalion, 10th Tennessee, they were made part of an ad hoc defense force assembled by Lt. Col. William W. Wier and sent by train towards Tupelo, Mississippi, to repel a raid along the Mobile and Ohio Railroad by two brigades of Union cavalry under the command of Brig. Gen. Benjamin Grierson.  The Union cavalry force had already captured a substantial number of Brig. Gen. Nathan Bedford Forrest's dismounted cavalry encamped at Verona on Christmas Day. Burke's Battalion and the 17th Arkansas were sent with a battery of artillery aboard the first train to block the tracks at Egypt Station, a mile west of Aberdeen, Mississippi.

On the evening of December 27, 1864, six members of Burke's Battalion deserted and made their way into the Union lines, where they reported the presence of the former prisoners and the likelihood that they would not resist any Union attack. The next morning Grierson's 1st Brigade advanced and came under fire from Confederate skirmishers, including Burke's Battalion, which was ensconced in a stockade east of the rail line.  After suffering a number of casualties, the 2nd New Jersey Cavalry responded with a charge in which it took severe casualties, including 22 dead, and lost 80 horses but captured more than 500 prisoners, among whom were Burke and 254 former Union soldiers from Burke's Battalion of the 10th Tennessee.

Grierson's prisoners were shipped by steamer to the Union prison camp at Alton, Illinois, where the claims of the "galvanized Yankees" that they desired restoration to their original units were investigated.  Major General Dodge recommended on March 5, 1865, that all the former Union soldiers as well as a number of Confederate troops be enlisted in the U.S. Volunteers for service in the West. The recommendation for clemency was resisted by the Judge Advocate General's Office in Washington, D.C., which advocated that the former Union soldiers be tried for desertion, citing testimony from Union officers at Egypt Station that they resisted at the battle until their ammunition was exhausted. Dodge's recommendation was accepted, however, and the prisoners were permitted to enlist in the 5th and 6th U.S. Volunteers.

O'Neill returned to Andersonville and recruited 150 more prisoners for the 10th Tennessee in January 1865, and approximately 165 more in March.

See also
Scalawag
List of United States Volunteer Civil War units
In cinema:
 Major Dundee
 Two Flags West

Notes
Footnotes

Citations

References

Dyer, Frederick H. (1908, reprinted 1979), A Compendium of the War of the Rebellion., Vol. 2. Morningside Press. On-line version by Tufts University

Simon, John Y., ed., The Papers of Ulysses S. Grant, Southern Illinois University Press (1967- ) Multivolume complete edition of letters to and from Grant 

 
The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies  ("O.R.")

External links
1st United States Volunteer Infantry
 Brooks' Battalion of Foreigners: A story of desperation, mutiny, and bravery
When Yankees Fought Yankees, Brian Chastain (2015), an account of the Battle of Egypt Station and Burke's battalion

Military units and formations of the Union Army
Social history of the American Civil War