[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# List of retronyms

veloped general relativity.
 standard AUX input (standard auxiliary input) : The common name for AUX audio inputs that doesn't employ an iPod dock connector, USB, optical/coaxial S/PDIF digital audio or proprietary mechanical standards that employ multiple standards alongside proprietary audio signaling standards.  It usually refers to 1/8th inch TRS connectors, but sometimes it can refer to a set of red and white RCA stereo jacks.
 Star Trek: The Original Series: The series' actual title Star Trek is now often used to refer collectively to the original series and its multitude of spin-offs.Star Wars: Episode IV – A New Hope : Originally released in 1977 under the title Star Wars. The new title was applied to a 1979 publication of the script and (following the 1980 release of Star Wars: Episode V – The Empire Strikes Back) to a 1981 amended re-release of the original film.
 Static electricity : see triboelectricity, below.
 Steam train : In the 19th century, before the advent of electric and diesel-powered trains, steam trains were just "trains".
 Strike-anywhere match : After the development of the safety match, that could only be lit by striking a custom surface containing phosphorus, the older non-safety matches were still in demand.
 Studio recording, studio album : Before live albums, music for distribution on records was only recorded in a studio.
 Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels: In 1986, the first sequel to the hit NES game Super Mario Bros. was released in Japan as Super Mario Bros. 2. Because of its extreme difficulty and similarity to its predecessor, Nintendo of America opted not to release the game in North America. Instead, Nintendo released a remake of Yume Kōjō: Doki Doki Panic as the North American Super Mario Bros. 2 in 1988. The original sequel was eventually rereleased worldwide as part of the Super Mario All-Stars compilation, but under the moniker Super Mario Bros.: The Lost Levels. Outside of Japan, this name persists.
 Super Mario USA: When the American Super Mario Bros. 2 was released in Japan, it was retitled Super Mario USA.Surface mail : Traditional mail, delivered by road, rail, and ship, retrospectively named following the development of airmail. Compare snail mail, above.Survivor: Borneo : Broadcast as just Survivor. When the show subsequently used other locales, the location of the first season was added to the title to distinguish it.
 Terrestrial radio: As opposed to satellite radio.
 Terrestrial television: As opposed to satellite television and cable television.
 Textile top convertible : Before retractable hardtops became popular, convertibles mostly had textile tops which folded when stowed away for a top-down ride.
 Text-only dialogue: Before voice acting became commonplace in video games, text was used to convey dialogue between characters (especially in genres such as RPGs and adventure games). Some games, such as the Yakuza series, still uses text-only dialogue in addition to voice acting, depending on the importance of a cutscene. 
 Tie-on pocket : Early pockets were pouches, similar to a purse, tied around the waist and worn underneath the wearer's outer garments.  Once pockets began to be sewn directly into clothing, these pouch-like pockets needed to be differentiated from those that had been integrated into the garment.
 Transformers: Generation 1 : referring to the original Transformers toyline which ran from 1984 to 1992, and the assorted tie-in media. Then known only as "The Transformers", when the sequel series, Transformers: Generation 2 launched by Hasbro in 1993, all previous subject matter was dubbed "Generation 1" – many individuals did this independently, as it is a logical progression, and when the online fandom began growing in the 1990s, the term became the definitive one for that era. The term subsequently made it into official use through toy reissues and comic books, most notably on Japanese toy packaging.
 Triboelectricity : Electricity was so named from the Greek word for amber, because of the discovery that if it was rubbed (generating what is now called triboelectricity) it would attract objects (due to a charge of static electricity). Electric currents and other forms of generation were discovered later.Tube amplifier : Tube amplifiers for musical instruments were largely replaced by "transistor" (or solid state) amplifiers during the 1960s and 1970s.Tube TV or CRT TV : Originally, all televisions used a cathode ray tube (CRT) to produce a TV image. But with the recent popularity of newer television technologies such as LCD, plasma, or DLP, some stores now describe the sets that still use a picture tube as tube TVs or CRT TVs.
 Two-door coupe: Before four-door cars started to have coupe-like styling in recent years, coupes mostly referred to 2-door cars. Examples of 4-door cars that have used coupe as a marketing term are the BMW X6 SUV and the Dodge Charger sedan which reuses the name of a 1970s 2-door car.
 Ultimate Doom: Before Doom I