[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Human rights in Indonesia

criminatory laws were revoked during the Reformation Era under President Abdurrahman Wahid. After the era, Chinese-Indonesian politicians have emerged, such as Basuki Tjahaja Purnama (former Governor of Jakarta) and Hary Tanoesoedibjo (businessman and leader of Perindo Party).

Freedom of expression

There have been concerns of declining freedom of expression during the first term of the Joko Widodo administration, evidenced by the arrest, detainment, and imprisonment of many people for their social media activity being interpreted as an "insult" to the president.

On 10 June 2020, Human Rights Watch urged the Indonesian authorities to drop all charges against seven Papuan activists and students, who are on trial for their involvement in anti-racism protests last year in August. On 2 December 2019, four students along with the other 50 students, peacefully protested against the human rights abuses in Papua and West Papua, asking the Indonesian government to release the Papuan political prisoners. A civil lawsuit was filed against 4 student activists following their expulsion from their university.  On 13 July 2020, the police charged one of the four students with "treason" and "public provocation." Human Rights Watch urged the Indonesia's Khairun University to reinstate the four students who were expelled and support academic freedom and free expression.

The ministry is often criticized for its censorship, as it blocks websites "to protect its citizen from hoax". In 2020, the Director General Ministry Semuel Abrijani Pangerapan and Johnny G. Plate introduced a law that requires foreign companies to register under the Electronic System Operator list which could give the government access to the citizen's personal info and threaten the company to block access from the country if the company did not register. The law was revised and passed in 2021.  In July 2022, a ban was implemented for several notable websites such as PayPal, Epic Games, Steam, Origin, and Yahoo, and games such as Counter-Strike: Global Offensive and Dota 2 as they did not register under the ministry's new law.

See also

 Censorship in Indonesia
 Accusations of ExxonMobil human rights violations in Indonesia
 Freedom of religion in Indonesia
 Human trafficking in Indonesia
 Indonesian mass killings of 1965–66
 East Timor genocide
 LGBT rights in Indonesia
 May 1998 riots of Indonesia

References

Sources
  - Essential Background: Overview of Human Rights Issues in Indonesia Human Rights Watch, 2007
  - Amnesty International Report 2007: Indonesia Amnesty International, 2007
  - Indonesia - Country Reports on Human Rights Practices US State Department, 2007

Further reading

External links
 Indonesian Ministry of Law and Human Rights website
 National Commission on Human Rights (Komnas HAM) website
 Freedom of expression in Indonesia - IFEX
 The US Indonesia Society
 AHRC Urgent Appeals translated into Indonesian as well as legislations regarding human right issues in Indonesia
 Tapol - a UK based NGO focusing on human rights issues in Indonesia

 
Society of Indonesia
Politics of Indonesia