[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Knights of God

London as dissident Knights flock to join him. Gervase and Julia travel to Canterbury, an enclave where the Anglican Church is allowed to survive. Mordrin issues orders for them to be intercepted, but they are "captured" and taken into the city by Brigadier Clarke and his men, disguised as Knights.

It is revealed that Gervase himself is the King, and it is only his love for Julia that prevents him from obeying Mordrin's command by killing himself. Hugo's faction attacks Mordrin's headquarters, and the resistance – bolstered by the defecting Coldstream Guards – prepares to finish off whoever is left. Owen slips away, having previously vowed to kill Mordrin for what he did to Gervase, but is shot and injured in the battle between the Knights. Hugo corners Mordrin, but is killed himself, and the Prior escapes with his crown into surrounding forest. As he prepared to place the crown on his own head, Mordrin is shot by the mortally injured Owen, who then himself dies. When the battle is over, Arthur takes the crown from Mordrin's dead hand and presents it to Gervase, telling him to rule wisely.

Novelisation
Richard Cooper's novel based on the same storyline was published around the time of the UK television screenings. The narrative generally follows that of the TV serial, the major exception being that Nell is not shot during the firefight at the cottage. Instead Arthur leads her, Gervase and Julia to the Resistance HQ in the Wasteland. Since Gervase and Julia are not then tracked by Colley and his men, culminating in the death of Fenn in the ambush, Gervase is put on trial solely for having joined the Order and denounced Owen. At the climax of the story, Mordrin is shot by the mortally wounded Owen inside the Knights' chapel at the headquarters, rather than in the surrounding forest. These differences and other details – such as that the Knights wear black but otherwise conventional battledress – suggest that the book was written before production and that the television script was therefore expanded to fit the desired length.

The novel also contains much additional detail about the world of 2020 and the Civil War, such as Ireland as a whole having become an American state, and the source of much of the rebels' supplies, despite an official arms embargo.
The civil war was caused by the breakdown of law and order resulting from high unemployment of ten million. The Knights launched a coup, but the Royal Family fled to the North, which rose in revolt against the coup, with the final battle of the war taking place in York. The infant Gervase was smuggled out of the burning city, while all other members of the family were killed. 
It is mentioned that whilst Hugo uses his position to secure personal luxuries, and especially alcohol, Mordrin is a teetotal vegetarian, with hints that he suffers from obsessive compulsive disorder. It is also clarified that a reaction to the religious trappings of the Order has been a unification of all Christian faiths, with many believing that Mordrin himself is the Antichrist. Gervase is explicitly identified as King Edward IX, a name he finds acceptable for its similarity to his assumed surname of Edwards.

Production

The TV Times reported Don Henderson's appearance in the serial in its edition of 14–20 September 1985, accompanied by a photograph of the actor as his character in the programme, stating: "Filmed in Hampshire and North Wales, this vision of a bleak future is set in the year 2020 after Britain has been devastated by civil war." There were two directors credited to the serial, Andrew Morgan (episodes 1, 4, 5, 8, 9, 12 and 13) and Michael Kerrigan (episodes 2, 3, 6, 7, 10 and 11), and the executive producer was Anna Home. Music for the series was composed by Christopher Gunning.

Broadcast history and home video releases
The serial received its only UK transmission in the autumn of 1987, two years after it was made, by which time both Troughton and Nigel Stock – who plays an old ally of Mordrin's – had died. Troughton subsequently worked on other television productions, but they had all been broadcast by the time Knights of God was transmitted (i.e. it was his last transmitted role, not his last filmed or recorded role, which was an episode of Super Gran filmed a week before he died in March 1987).

The serial was shown in France by Canal Plus from 7 October to 30 December 1987, under the title Les Épées de feu ("The Swords of Fire"), and subsequently repeated on La Cinq and FR3.