[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Humanitarian principles

F, on the other hand, never adopted the policy of absolute confidentiality, and considers "'bearing witness to the plight of victims as an additional measure of protection". While they uphold the principle of neutrality, they state that, "impartiality and neutrality are not synonymous with silence".

This issue is still widely contested in the humanitarian field. In a 2020 opinion piece, Hugo Slim argues that legally, operationally, and morally, it is acceptable for humanitarians to take sides. He states, "Neutral humanitarianism is not necessarily ethically desirable when we see people as enemies for good reasons. Is it reasonable to expect a Syrian aid worker to be neutral while her community is being bombed? Is it moral for humanitarians to stay neutral in the face of injustice or genocide?" 

Others argue, "neutrality is very important in the provision of humanitarian assistance as it provides humanitarian actors, such as the ICRC, with the humanitarian space needed to provide relief to as many victims of crisis as possible without discrimination, whilst also allowing aid workers to carry out their duties safely and to the best of their abilities."

As the field of humanitarian aid continues to professionalize, so do the definitions and implementations of its principles.

Independence 

Humanitarian agencies must formulate and implement their own policies independently of government policies or actions. Humanitarian agencies, although there are auxiliaries in the humanitarian services and subject to the laws of their countries, must maintain their autonomy from political, economic, military or any other others and to be able at all times to act in accordance with the humanitarian principles.

Problems may arise because most NGHAs rely in varying degrees on government donors.  Thus for some organizations it is difficult to maintain independence from their donors and not be confused in the field with governments who may be involved in the hostilities.  The ICRC, has set the example for maintaining its independence (and neutrality) by raising its funds from governments  through the use of separate annual appeals for headquarters costs and field operations.

Additional humanitarian principles
In addition to the core principles, there are other principles that govern humanitarian response for specific types of humanitarian agencies such as UN agencies, the Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement, and NGOs.

Proselytism
The provision of aid must not exploit the vulnerability of victims and be used to further political or religious creeds.  All of the major non-governmental humanitarian agencies (NGHAs) by signing up to the RC/NGO Code of Conduct have committed themselves not to use humanitarian response to further political or religious creeds.

Universality 
Equal status and share of responsibilities and duties in helping each other.  Solidarity with regard to decision-making regardless of their size or wealth.

Origin of Humanitarian principles 

The humanitarian principles originated from the work of the International Committee of Red Cross and the National Red Cross/Red Crescent Societies.  The core principles guided the work of these organizations before it was adopted by the United Nations.  In 1991, the first three principles (humanity, neutrality and impartiality) were adopted and endorsed in the General Assembly resolution 46/182. The General Assemble resolution of 1991 also led to the establishment of the role of the Emergency Relief Coordinator (ERC).  In 2004, the General Assembly resolution 58/114 added independence as the fourth core principle essential to humanitarian action.  The fourth principle was as result of co-opting of humanitarian assistance in highly politicized context to address challenges faced in preserving independence for local partners and in relation to targeting of beneficiaries and the delivery of need based services in affected areas. These principles have been adopted by many international humanitarian organizations  working with affected populations in disaster crisis.

The Inter-Agency Standing Committee has the responsibility of upholding humanitarian principles globally.  This is the body responsible for bringing together UN agencies, Red Cross Movement and NGOs working in humanitarian action.

Principles based on field experience in emergencies
All of the above principles are important requirements for effective field operations.  They are based on the widespread field experience of agencies engaged in humanitarian response.  In conflict situations, their breach may drastically affect the ability of agencies to respond to the needs of the victims.