[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Horace Capron

Horace Capron (August 31, 1804 – February 22, 1885) was an American businessman and agriculturalist, a founder of Laurel, Maryland, a Union officer in the American Civil War, the United States secretary of agriculture under U.S. presidents Andrew Johnson and Ulysses S. Grant, and an advisor to Japan's Hokkaidō Development Commission. His collection of Japanese art and artifacts was sold to the Smithsonian Institution after his death.

Early life
Horace Capron was born in Attleboro, Massachusetts, the son of Seth Capron and his wife Eunice Mann Capron. His sister was Louisa Thiers (1814–1926), who in 1925 became the first verified person to reach age 111. His father, a doctor of medicine, opened woollen mills in New York State including Whitesboro, and from this experience Horace went on to supervise several cotton mills including Savage Mill in Savage, Maryland. He was also an officer in the Maryland Militia in the 1830s. In November 1834, Capron and others gathered suspects and potential witnesses of two recent Laurel railroad murders and brought them to Merrill's tavern. Some 300 railroad workers were questioned at the Baltimore county jail.

In 1834, Horace married Louisa Victoria Snowden, whose late father Nicholas had owned Montpelier Mansion. This marriage brought lands and property. They had six children before Louisa died in 1849: Nicholas Snowden Capron, who died in infancy; Adeline Capron, who died at age 17 in Illinois; Horace Capron, Jr., who received the Medal of Honor after being killed in the Civil War; Albert Snowden Capron; Elizabeth Capron Mayo; and Osmond Tiffany Capron.

Capron was involved in the mechanization of cotton mills beginning in 1835, having worked in mills from boyhood in Massachusetts and New York. In 1836 he was a major force in forming the Patuxent Manufacturing Company, which operated the Laurel Mill, a cotton mill on the Patuxent River, and with this effort he and associates started what became the town of Laurel Factory, later Laurel, Maryland. In 1851 the mill failed, and Capron declared bankruptcy. Soon after, he obtained an appointment from the President to assist in removal and resettlement of Native Americans from Texas following the Mexican–American War. He spent several months in Texas, and then moved to a farm near Hebron, Illinois where his mother Eunice and sister Louisa Thiers had settled and were taking care of his children. Here, he built an imposing mansion.  In Illinois, he was remarried to Margaret Baker and took up farming in earnest, experimenting with farming improvements, writing articles, participating in events and receiving awards for his work.

Military service
In the American Civil War, Capron was called upon to establish and later lead the 14th Illinois Cavalry regiment.  He was the oldest cavalry officer in the Union Army.  Seeing action in a number of skirmishes and battles, ranging from Kentucky to Georgia, and losing his eldest son in battle, he left the army with an injury in 1864 and was later given the rank of Brevet Brigadier General dated to February 13, 1865.

Capron was appointed lieutenant colonel of the 14th Illinois Cavalry on December 3, 1862, and promoted to colonel of the regiment on February 6, 1863. Later, Capron commanded the 2nd Brigade, 2nd Division, XXIII Corps; 1st Brigade (then 3rd Brigade), Cavalry, XXIII Corps; Dismounted Brigade, Cavalry Division, XXIII Corps; Cavalry Division, XXIII Corps; 3rd Brigade, Cavalry, XXIII Corps; 5th Division, XXIII Corps; and 1st Brigade, 6th Division, Cavalry Corps, Military Division of the Mississippi. 

Capron served in the Knoxville campaign from August–December 1863. He led his regiment at the Battle of Walker's Ford on December 2. While Colonel Felix W. Graham's cavalry brigade confronted two Confederate cavalry brigades at Walker's Ford, Capron's unit was sent to the next ford to block a third Confederate brigade under William E. "Grumble" Jones. Armed with the Henry repeating rifle, Capron's 324 soldiers were able to slow and finally halt Jones' brigade before it reached the ford. Capron led a brigade in the Battle of Bean's Station on December 14. His brigade was driven off a hill on the left flank by Confederate infantry under James Longstreet. Capron's brigade consisted of the 14th Illinois, 5th Indiana, and 9th Ohio Cavalry Regiments and the 65th Indiana Mounted Infantry.