[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Abahlali baseMjondolo

ovement [Abahlali baseMjondolo] in South Africa's most populous province, KwaZulu-Natal, is being met with increasing hostility by the ruling African National Congress (ANC) government" and in April 2013 the movement successfully sued the Minister of Police for violence against three of its members.

On 26 June 2013, Nkululeko Gwala, an AbM leader in Cato Crest, was the first member of the movement to be assassinated. 
 Hours before the murder, a senior ANC politician had said he was a trouble-maker. In the same year Nqobile Nzuza was shot dead by police at the Durban Marikana land occupation in September 2013, at the age of 17. The following year Thuli Ndlovu, the chairperson of the movement's branch in KwaNdengezi, was assassinated in her home on 29 September 2014.
 AbM accused the councillor of having a hand in the assassination. On 27 February 2015, the local councillor, Mduduzi Ngcobo, was arrested on suspicion of being behind the murder. Ngcobo and Velile Lutsheko (another ANC councillor) were sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder. Mlungisi Ndlovu, the gunman they had hired, was handed a sentence of 12 years in jail. Following these three killings numerous murders of AbM members were reported.eKhenana bloodbath – state has a duty to protect human rights defenders , Nomfundo Xolo, 24 November 2022

After a call was made for eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede to step down to face charges of racketeering and fraud, the Durban offices of AbM were burgled in May 2019. No money was taken but two computer hard drives were stolen. When Zikode said he was concerned by the timing of the burglary, the mayor's representative replied: "This is an old, repeated, fabricated allegation by Abahlali ... they must approach relevant security agencies if they have evidence instead of the media".

In 2022 three leaders of the movement in the eKhenana Commune - Ayanda Ngila, Nokuthula Mabaso and Lindokuhle Mnguni - were assassinated,The Abahlali baseMjondolo experience exposes South Africa’s shrinking democratic space,Thato Masiangoako, Daily Maverick, 18 October 2022 and as of that year the movement claimed that 24 of its members had been killed. According to Nomzamo Zondi, director of a pro-bono law firm, "From the 24 Abahlali activists who have been killed; 14 of them were assassinated by izinkabi (hired assassins), six of them were killed by security forces and one child who was two weeks old was killed while sleeping from teargas fumes during a violent eviction in Foreman Road." On July 24 2022 Khaya Ngubane, a member of the local ANY Youth League was convicted for the assassination of Lindokuhle Mnguni and sentenced to fifteen years in prison.

The assassination of Abahlali baseMjondolo activists was discussed at the 51st sessions of the United Nations Human Rights Council in 2022.

Church support

Abahlali baseMjondolo has received strong support from some key church leaders such as Bishop of Natal, Rubin Phillip. In a speech at the AbM UnFreedom Day event on 27 April 2008 Phillip said:

The Italian theologian Brother Filippo Mondini has attempted to develop a theology based on the political thought and practices developed in Abahlali baseMjondolo.

The Poor People's Alliance

In September 2008, Abahlali baseMjondolo, the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign, the Landless People's Movement and the Rural Network (Abahlali baseplasini) formed The Poor People's Alliance. The Anti-Eviction Campaign's chairperson said "We are calling it the Poor People's Alliance so our people can identify with it".'Participatory Society: Urban Space & Freedom' , by Chris Spannos, Z-Net, 29 May 2009 The coalition has repeatedly clashed with the ANC. The Poor People's Alliance refuses electoral politics under the slogan "No Land! No House! No Vote!".ANC Attacks Shack Dwellers Movements . Cozop.com. Retrieved on 4 December 2011. Abahlali baseMjondolo has also organised in solidarity with the Unemployed Peoples' Movement. Following the collapse of each of the other three organisations that made up the Poor People's Alliance the alliance itself become defunct.

International solidarity
Worldwide, Abahlali baseMjondolo has solidarity links with many other groups, such as Sendika in Istanbul and the Combined Harare Residents' Association in Harare. In the US, it is connected to Domestic Workers United, The Poverty Initiative, Picture the Homeless and the Movement for Justice in el Barrio in New York.An Evening with the Shackdwellers Movement of South Africa (20 August 2009) . Povertyinitiative.org (20 August 2009). Retrieved on 4 December 2011.Zapatista-Inspired Rally Held in New York City; Aims to Fight Gentrification  by Paola Reyes, Latin Dispatch, 3 March 2010 It is also supported by the Movement Alliance Project in Philadelphia and Take Back the Land in Miami.