[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of retronyms

e commonplace to refer to a vinyl, CD or cassette single, which would previously have been referred to simply as a "single".
 Pickup truck : Before SUVs (often referred to as "trucks") were introduced, pickup trucks were those on a sturdy frame with high ground clearance. The term SUV was not coined in the 1990s; prior to then, SUVs were referred to as "trucks" and sometimes "cars".
 Pipe organ : Before smaller reed-based organs and harmoniums were invented, every organ used large pipes.
 PlayStation 1 or PS1: to distinguish from the PlayStation 2 and its subsequent successors (PS3 and PS4). A smaller version of the original PlayStation was named the PS one, released shortly after the PS2.
 PowerPC G1 : Originally called the PowerPC 601, the processor was nicknamed the G1 after Apple used the G3, G4, and the G5 names to refer to the PowerPC 7xx, PowerPC 74xx, and PowerPC 970 respectively.
 PowerPC G2 : Originally called the PowerPC 603, the processor was nicknamed the G2 after Apple used the G3, G4, and the G5 names to refer to the PowerPC 7xx, PowerPC 74xx, and PowerPC 970 respectively.
 Primordial element and Transient element : Elements that are found in nature, as opposed to those that have to be created in the lab using a collider.
 Post sedan or post coupe : In the United States this indicates a car with a full-height B-pillar, as opposed to a pillarless (half-height B-pillar) hardtop. Generally used only in referring to classic cars from the 1950 to 1980 period because fashion and safety regulations dictate nearly all modern cars are post models.
 Pragmaticism : In 1905, in order to differentiate his original version from more recent forms of Pragmatism, Charles Sanders Peirce renamed his version to Pragmaticism, a term "ugly enough to be safe from kidnappers".
 Pre-dreadnought battleship : The revolution in battleship design brought about by the construction of HMS Dreadnought resulted in almost all the battleships built before her completion becoming known as "pre-Dreadnought battleships", whereas before they had simply been "battleships".
 Premoji/pre-emoji or Premoticon/pre-emoticon : The use of specifically ordered sets of ASCII characters in typographic approximation that conveyed imagery and eventually lead to emoji being included in Unicode. Examples include ;) or ;-) =😉    :) or :-) =🙂    8) or 8-) =😎    :D or :-D =😃 and <3 =❤️. In many applications, premoji sequences will trigger a text-predict image of the emoji character.  
 Primary cell: Also, less formally non-rechargeable battery; Before the introduction of rechargeable batteries, all cells were primary, then when rechargeable batteries came along (lead-acid battery being the first), rechargeable batteries would formally be called "secondary cells".
 Prime lens: A camera lens with a fixed focal length (e.g. 28 mm), as opposed to a zoom lens, which can cover a range of focal lengths (e.g. 28–105 mm).  Before the invention of zoom lenses, all camera lenses had a fixed focal length, so they were just called "lenses".
 Procedural programming: Before object-oriented programming was invented in the 1980s, there was just programming.
 Program Files (x86): Before x86-64 versions of Microsoft Windows were released, all Windows applications since Windows 95 were installed in the directory back when it was simply just C:\Program Files.
 Prop airplane : As jet aircraft became the primary people movers of the airways, the older propeller-based technology received this occasional shorthand nickname to distinguish it.
 Pulse dialing : After touch tone dialing on telephones became common, the older dialing standard became known as pulse dialing.

R–Z
 Raw milk : also called fresh milk, refers to milk that has not been pasteurized, a process which did not become standard until the 1800s
 Real numbers : coined after the development of the imaginary numbers.
 Real mode : before protected mode had been introduced in the 80286 processor, the term "real mode" was not in use for MS-DOS memory management.
 Real tennis : was once known simply as tennis, but came into use at the end of the 19th century to distinguish it from the game of lawn tennis patented in 1874.  The term "real tennis" has become more vague now since video game tennis has come along.  Therefore, real tennis is now court tennis.
 Red Book audio CD : At first, all audio CDs complied with the Red Book standard.  Then came other implementations of the audio CD, such as Super Audio CD, MP3 CDs, and DVD-Audio, and the original is now referred to as Red Book audio to differentiate between different standards.
 Red panda or lesser panda Were known as pandas in the English language, prior to the discovery and naming of the Giant Panda on the year 1869.