[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John W. Phelps

what to do with so many Negroes, Butler at first returned the runaway slaves to their masters. But still the contrabands came. Some of them were employed as cooks, nurses, washwomen, and laborers. . . . [Finally] Butler ordered . . . the exclusion of all unemployed Negroes and whites from his lines.

For his organization of and attempt to arm escaped slaves, Confederate President Jefferson Davis issued an order on August 21, 1862, declaring Phelps an outlaw, for having "organized and armed negro slaves for military service against their masters, citizens of the Confederacy." Black Federal soldiers were condemned by the Confederacy as robbers and criminals, punishable by death. Many were warned by their officers before going into battle that they would be executed if captured.

Presidential candidate
Leaving military service, Phelps returned to Brattleboro, Vermont, where he became President of the Vermont Teacher's Association from 1865 to 1885. He lived in Brattleboro until 1883, when he married Anna Bardwell Davis. They moved back to his birthplace, Guilford, Vermont. He traveled across Europe and the United States, developing a reputation as a scholar and linguist. He authored Phelps Elementary Reader for Public Schools Good Behavior (1876), and translated from the French three books: the Lucien de la Hodde's The Cradle of Rebellions: A History of the Secret Societies of France, The Island of Madagascar: A Sketch, Descriptive and Historical (1885), and The Fables of Florian (1888). He became very active in the Vermont Historical Society.

Phelps was the candidate for the Anti-Masonic Party for president in 1880.  His running mate was Samuel C. Pomeroy of Kansas who four years later in 1884 would seek the White House as the presidential candidate of the American Prohibition National Party. In the 1880 race, the Phelps/Pomeroy ticket garnered only 1,045 votes nationwide. They ran on an eleven-point platform calling for such things as the prohibition of alcoholic beverages, the prohibition of all secret lodges, justice for Indians, demanding the Bible be a required text in all educational institutions; and the abolition of the electoral college.

He was vice president of the Vermont Historical Society from 1863 to 1885, and reported on the discovery of mammoth remains in Brattleboro and Richmond.

Phelps died in Guilford on April 2, 1885.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)

Notes

References

External links
 Boatner, Mark M., The Civil War Dictionary. New York: David McKay Co., 1959.
 Brattleboro Historical Society, "Vermont presidential candidate was ahead of U.S. political winds," Brattleboro Reformer, 2019. 
 Miller, Lillian B., "If Elected...Unsuccessful Candidates for the Presidency, 1796-1968." Smithsonian Institution Press, 1972.
 Peck, Theodore S., compiler. Revised Roster of Vermont Volunteers and lists of Vermonters who served in the Army and Navy of the United States During The War of the Rebellion, 1861-66. Montpelier, Vt: Press of the Watchman Publishing Co., 1892.
 Platform Of The American Party (1880).
 Sifakis, Stewart, Who Was Who in the Union. New York: Facts on File, Inc., 1988.
 Waite, Major Otis F. R., Vermont in the Great Rebellion: Containing Historical and biographical Sketches, Etc. 1869. pp. 258–261.
 Warner, Ezra, Generals In Blue. Louisiana State University Press, 1964.

External links
 

1813 births
1885 deaths
People from Guilford, Vermont
Union Army generals
People of Vermont in the American Civil War
Candidates in the 1880 United States presidential election
United States Military Academy alumni
People of the Utah War
People from Brattleboro, Vermont
Anti-Masonry
American abolitionists