[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# McRaven House

r sister Annie sold the house after moving to a nursing home. At this point, the house was in such disrepair that neighbors and nearby residents had no idea it existed. The upper story was completely overgrown with vines and the sisters had resorted to chopping up the antique furniture for firewood.

In 1960, McRaven was purchased by O.E. Bradway and with cosmetic restoration it was opened to the public for touring in 1961. The house was placed on the National Register of Historical Places on January 8, 1979.  Later that year, Bradway sold McRaven and some of the furnishings to Charles and Sandra Harvey for $75,000.  After the spring pilgrimage, the Harvey's closed the house and took on a yearlong restoration at a cost near $100,000.  The restoration included such things as woodwork, rewiring, plumbing and plastering.  A master at plaster restorations, Mr. Little of Jackson took on the extraordinary task of plastering all the walls and ceilings and restoring the Greek Revival cornices and ceiling medallions.    Having samples of the original carpet from the John Bobb era, Mrs. Harvey found a company in Georgia to reproduce the carpet for the parlor, front entry, stairwell and upstairs front bedroom.  She also did extensive research on each period of the house to have authentic paint, wallpaper, fabrics and furnishings for the public.  The front and rear porch were in disrepair and had been roped off by Bradway.  Lincoln Brown with the Waterways Experimental Station rebuilt both front and rear porches.  While in the attic, Mr. Harvey discovered many rafters had been damaged from the Union's shelling and needed repair. The 1840 privy which was purchased by Bradway from the Vick House was also repaired. Once again ready for touring, the Vicksburg Sunday Post featured McRaven's spring pilgrimage open house in their April 6, 1980, issue. McRaven had been returned to her authentic glory.  Though the Harveys and their two children never lived in the house, they spent many nights in the Howard's bedroom protecting the home from vandals.  In 1984, The Harveys moved to Natchez and sold McRaven to Leyland French for $275,000. 
    
In 1984, Leyland French purchased McRaven and did further restoration, French was the first owner since the Murrays to reside in the house. Aside from a modern kitchen and bathroom in its basement, McRaven has remained largely unchanged since the 19th century. For this reason, McRaven was featured in the July 1963 issue of National Geographic Magazine which called it the "Time Capsule of the South."

Notable tour guests
Among the thousands of visitors to McRaven since it opened for tours in 1961, are Max Baer, Jr. and Irene Ryan of the sitcom The Beverly Hillbillies, who toured the house in the mid-1960s—an autographed photo of them at the house hangs in the foyer of McRaven.

In the media

Television
The McRaven House was featured on an episode of Ghost Adventures entitled "Ghosts of Vicksburg: McRaven Mansion" that aired as a special in 2018 on the Travel Channel. The team of paranormal investigators explored the home and its grounds which was used as a Confederate campsite during the Civil War. They investigated reports of the aggressive ghost of Andrew Glass, a highwayman who was murdered by his jealous wife long ago.

References

External links
 Official Website of the McRaven Tour Home
 CBS News - Ghosts for Guests?
Mississippi Department of Archives and History

Vicksburg campaign
Reportedly haunted locations in Mississippi
Historic house museums in Mississippi
Museums in Warren County, Mississippi
Natchez Trace
Houses on the National Register of Historic Places in Mississippi
Houses completed in 1836
Buildings and structures in Vicksburg, Mississippi
Houses in Warren County, Mississippi
National Register of Historic Places in Warren County, Mississippi