[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# EFG Hermes

EFG Hermes Holding S.A.E. (Egyptian Financial Group Hermes Holding Company) is an Egyptian financial services company present in the Middle East, North Africa, Sub-Saharan Africa, and South Asia regions and specializes in securities brokerage, asset management, investment banking, private equity and research in addition to finance lease, factoring, microfinance, Financial technology, mortgage, and insurance.  EFG Hermes serves a range of clients including sovereign wealth funds, endowments, corporations, financial institutions, high-net-worth clients and individual customers. EFG Hermes is listed on the Egyptian Exchange (EGX) and London (LSE) stock exchanges.  EFG Hermes has offices in Egypt, the United Arab Emirates (UAE), the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (KSA), Pakistan, Oman, Kuwait, Jordan , Kenya, Nigeria, UK, United States and Bangladesh with over 4,500 people from 25 nationalities. They serve clients from the Middle East, North Africa, Europe and the United States. Currently, EFG Holding is listed as number 13 in Forbes' Top 50 Listed Companies in Egypt 2023.

History
EFG, also known as the Egyptian Financial Group, became the first investment banking firm in Egypt when it was established by Dr Mohamed Taymour in 1984. Hermes was founded in 1993 under the newly promulgated Capital Markets Law 95. EFG created and analyzed privatization plans for the Egyptian government for several years. In 1993, The Egyptian Financial Group and Hermes independently made a move into securities brokerage. The two companies competed and both companies brought many investment strategies that were common to the west to Egypt as several of the two firm's founders had Wall Street experience in corporate finance, sales & trading and asset management;, for example Hermes established the first equity index in all of Egypt.

In 1994, both Egyptian Financial Group and Hermes entered into asset management. Fueled by organic growth; the two firms also accounted for lead managing a majority of the privatization capital markets IPO's during 1995 and 1996.  The two companies soon reached the point that further growth was not possible without a wider network of local and international clients on one hand, as well as the rising competitive threat of international investment banks in the progressively more active Egyptian market in terms of investment banking privatization transactions as well as higher trading volumes . These factors led to a merger in 1996 between EFG and Hermes.

Financial Performance 
For the year 2021, EFG Hermes Holding has posted profit after tax (PAT) of  along with group’s top line surpassing the .

Structure
EFG Hermes has five Divisions and six subsidiaries under its finance platform

Securities Brokerage
EFG Hermes Securities Brokerage is the leading brokerage house in the Arab world. With the region's largest brokerage team, the division caters to an extended spectrum of investors including foreign, local and Gulf institutions as well as individual, VIP, high-net-worth individuals and family offices. The division's products and services range from trading services including phone trading, online trading, SWAP/P-Note products trading and margin lending for Egyptian retail investors.

Asset Management
EFG Hermes Asset Management serves a client base that includes sovereign wealth funds, endowments, foundations, multinational corporations and family offices. The division employs professionals in portfolio management, trading, research, compliance and risk across its 3 locations in Egypt, UAE (Dubai) and Saudi Arabia. The division has consistently delivered superior returns across its broad and diverse product spectrum.

Private Equity
EFG Hermes Private Equity is a private equity house, with a presence in Cairo and Dubai. The division is focused on attractive investment opportunities that capitalise on different opportunities in and outside the MENA region. EFG Hermes Private Equity advised InfraMed, the largest investment vehicle dedicated to infrastructure investments in the Southern and Eastern Mediterranean. The firm was also one of five global and regional founding sponsors that together contributed EUR 385 million to establish InfraMed. In late 2014, EFG Hermes launched Vortex - its renewable energy vehicle - to invest in solar and wind energy projects across Europe and Asia.

Investment Banking
EFG Hermes Investment Banking is an advisor for major M&A, debt and equity transactions. The division's investment professionals have advised on cross-border transactions in the region through a distribution network that encompasses more than 100 investors across North America, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. The Investment Banking team has completed some US$53.3 billion in M&A transactions since 1985 while raising more than US$19 million through initial public offerings, rights issues, secondary offerings and private placements in the same period.