[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1981–82 in English football

Rangers, managed by former Tottenham player Terry Venables, in the final before winning the replay 1–0. Venables would however eventually win the trophy himself with Tottenham in 1991.

League Cup

Liverpool won the League Cup with a 3–1 victory over Tottenham Hotspur in the final.

Football League

First Division
The First Division title race brought many different challengers. But in the end, however, Liverpool overcame a dismal first half of the season which saw them climb from mid-table at Christmas to clinching the title on the final day of the season, having lifted the Football League Cup weeks earlier for the second successive season. Ipswich (runners-up), Manchester United (third), Swansea (sixth) and Southampton (seventh) all managed good finishes in the league despite being unable to win the title, but Manchester City finished a disappointing 10th after briefly taking the lead of the First Division just after Christmas. Liverpool's season of triumph was overshadowed, however, by the death of former manager Bill Shankly in late September following a heart attack.

Tottenham retained the FA Cup to match Aston Villa's record of seven wins in the competition.

By contrast, Villa had a disappointing defence of the league title and could only finish 11th, with manager Ron Saunders stepping down in February and being replaced by his assistant Tony Barton, who enjoyed instant success in his first managerial job by guiding Villa to glory in the European Cup, while Saunders made a quick return to management at local rivals Birmingham City, achieving First Division survival by a comfortable margin.

Middlesbrough finished bottom of the First Division and went down after eight years among the elite. Wolves, faced with huge debts and the possibility of bankruptcy, went down too. Leeds United, who had rarely challenged for honours since Don Revie left for the England job in 1974, ended their 18-year stay in the First Division with relegation.

Second Division
Luton Town clinched the Second Division title and a place in the top flight in their fourth season under the management of David Pleat, while their local rivals Watford reached the First Division for the first time in their history by finishing runners-up. The final promotion place went to Norwich City, who went from mid table to third place in the final quarter of the season with a storming run of form. Sheffield Wednesday missed out on promotion by a single point, while FA Cup finalists QPR were just two points short of promotion. Barnsley's success under Norman Hunter continued when they finished sixth, the closest they had come in decades to winning the First Division place that had eluded them since their formation in 1896. Emlyn Hughes, the former England captain, enjoyed a promising start to his managerial career as his Rotherham United side emerged as unlikely contenders for a First Division place, before they finished seventh.

Orient, Wrexham and Cardiff City were relegated to the Third Division.

Third Division
Burnley clinched the Third Division title on goal difference ahead of Carlisle United in a tight promotion race, with the final promotion place going to Fulham. Lincoln City missed out on a Second Division place by a single point, while Oxford United's turnaround under new owner Robert Maxwell and new manager Jim Smith was not quite enough for promotion as they had to settle for fifth place in the final table.

Bristol City, faced with closure as a result of huge debts, became the first English league club to suffer three successive relegations. Chester's seven-year stay in the Third Division came to an end as they finished bottom of the table and 21 points adrift of safety. Also relegated were Swindon Town and Wimbledon.

Fourth Division
Sheffield United's ambitious revival under new manager Ian Porterfield began with the Fourth Division title. They went up with Bradford City, Wigan Athletic and AFC Bournemouth.

There was no movement between the Football League and the Alliance Premier League this season.

Top goalscorers

First Division
Kevin Keegan (Southampton) – 26 goals

Second Division
Ronnie Moore (Rotherham United) – 22 goals

Third Division
Gordon Davies (Fulham) – 24 goals

Fourth Division
Keith Edwards (Hull City and Sheffield United) – 36 goals

Non-league football
The divisional champions of the major non-League competitions were:

Awards
Southampton striker Kevin Keegan marked his return to English football by scoring more goals than any other player in the Football League and being voted PFA Players' Player of the Year.
Tottenham's Steve Perryman added to his FA Cup winners medal with the FWA Footballer of the Year award.
Southampton's Steve Moran was elected as PFA Young Player of the Year.