[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Human rights in Asia

apons and forced to carry out executions on enemies of the Khmer Rouge. An estimated 20,000 mass graves have been discovered since the fall of the Khmer Rouge in 1979. In 2014, Khmer Rouge leaders Nuon Chea and Khieu Samphan received life sentences for crimes against humanity.

The Daoxian Massacre 

The Daoxian Massacre occurred during China's cultural revolution and lasted for 66 days between the 13th of August and the 17th of October in 1967. Those who were massacred were suspected to be enemies of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP). Typically, local CCP cadres and revolutionary enthusiasts carried out unofficial arrests; those arrested and later executed by aforementioned local CCP cadres or militias received a brief, unjust trial where those judging were the same individuals who had ordered the arrests themselves. Victims were killed in a number of ways, including shooting, beatings, and decapitation. The groups responsible for the killings were rewarded with higher wages and improved living conditions. While the CCP did not officially condone them, it did not take any measures to stop the executions until numerous complaints from those who survived the Daoxian Massacre reached the top level of government. The killings ceased following the deployment of the 47th Field Army force but those who partook in the executions were never punished.

Genocidal rape in Bangladesh 

The 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War saw members of the Pakistani military and their supporting militias rape between 200,000 and 400,000 women and girls in an attempt of ethnic extinguisher. The Pakistani military leaders had declared Bengali freedom fighters as "Hindus" and that their women were simply spoils of war for the military to use as they saw fit. Women were held in special camps where they were repeatedly raped by rotating Pakistani army groups; these women could only escape the camps by hanging themselves with their hair – an action that led to the military shaving the heads of all the camp's inmates. Those who were not subjected to these rape camps would typically be raped, killed, and bayoneted in the genitalia. While the Pakistani military attempted to keep these systematic rapes out of international media, numerous human rights agencies and media outlets published reports or stories regarding this genocidal rape; Pakistan subsequently came under immense international criticism, reprimanding them for their actions.  While the Pakistani military argues there were no more than a few hundred cases of rape, which were simply the actions of deviant soldiers, it is much more likely that the military had adopted a policy that could extinguish the Bengali people.

See also 
 Andijan Civil Unrest 2005
 Asian Values
 Human Rights in Central Asia
 Human Rights in East Asia

References

External links 

 Human Rights in ASEAN | Human Rights in ASEAN Online Platform
 Towards a region where everyone enjoys human rights | Asia Pacific Forum
 Pro-Democracy Groups Are Harassed in Central Asia
 Human rights violations endemic in South Asia
 Bhutan’s Human Rights Record Defies ‘Happiness’ Claim

 
Asia