[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 170]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

nd transfix it with an unerring aim. I saw many who vaulted upon their
horses, and placed themselves between two naked swords, which would have
given them certain death, had they swerved ever so little from the just
direction. In another part of the camp I observed the children, who
imitated all the actions of their fathers, bended little bows adapted to
their strength, or guided horses of an inferior stature along the plain.
Their women were indeed inferior to the Syrians in beauty and elegance,
but seemed to be of a more robust constitution, and more adapted to
produce and educate warriors. I saw no gold, no jewels, no vain and
costly apparel; but all seemed busy in domestic cares, preparing the
food of their families, or tending upon their infants.

"'At length I reached the royal tent, which scarcely differed from the
rest in its structure or simplicity; and was immediately introduced to
the great Arsaces. He received me with a courtesy which had nothing of
the barbarian in it; seated me familiarly by his side, and entered into
a long conversation with me upon the laws, and manners, and customs of
the different nations I had seen. I was surprised at the vigour and
penetration which I discovered in this untutored warrior's mind.
Unbiassed by the mass of prejudices which we acquire in cities, even
from our earliest childhood, unencumbered by forms and ceremonies which
contract the understanding while they pretend to improve the manners, he
seemed to possess a certain energy of soul which never missed the mark;
nature in him had produced the same effects that study and philosophy do
in others. But, what amazed me more than all, was to find this Scythian
chief as well acquainted with the state and consequence of _our_
manners, as if he had passed his life in Greece or Syria, instead of the
plains and forests of his own domain. He entertained a rooted contempt
for all the arts which softened the body and mind, under the pretence of
adding to the elegancies of life; these, he said, were more efficacious
agents to reduce men to slavery, than the swords and arrows of their
enemies.

"'One day I remember that some of our principal men, judging of the mind
of their conqueror by their own, brought to him a celebrated dancer;
who, at that time, engaged the whole attention of our city, and seemed
to interest it much more than the loss of liberty. This man, who did not
doubt that he should enchant the soul of a Scythian barbarian, by the
same arts which had enraptured his refined audiences at home, exerted
himself with an agility that extorted the loudest applause from all the
spectators but Arsaces. At length one of our countrymen took the liberty
of asking the monarch what he thought of this extraordinary performance?
'I think,' replied he, coldly, 'that it would gain him great credit
among a nation of monkeys.' Another time he was present at the
exhibitions of a celebrated musician, who was reputed to possess
unrivalled skill in playing soft and melting tunes upon the lyre. All
the audience seemed to feel the influence of his art, by their
inarticulate murmurs of admiration, and the languishing postures of
their bodies. When the exhibition was finished, the musician advanced,
amid the united plaudits of the audience, as if to receive the just
tribute of approbation from Arsaces; but he, with a stern look, said to
him, 'Friend, I permit thee to play every night before the Syrians; but
if thy lyre is ever heard to sound in the presence of my Scythians, I
denounce certain death for the offence.' Another time an officious
glutton of our city introduced to him, with great solemnity, two men,
whose talents he assured him were unequalled in their different
professions. The one, he said, adjusted hair with such dexterity, that
he could give an artificial beauty to every countenance; and the other
possessed such unrivalled skill in cooking a repast, that even the
soberest guest was tempted to commit intemperance. 'My soldiers,'
replied Arsaces, 'are accustomed to adjust their locks with the point of
their arrows, nor does our nation consider a bloated paunch and an
unwieldy shape as any accomplishment in warriors; all therefore, that I
can do for these gentlemen is, to depute one of them to comb my horse's
tail, and the other to feed the hogs of the army.'

"'After I had conversed some time with this barbarian chief, who heard
me with the greatest attention, the hour of refreshment for the army
approached, and I was preparing to retire; but the general stopped me
with a smile, and told me, I had already entertained him with the
greatest hospitality, and that therefore it was just that I should stay
and taste the Scythian food. A bit of dried flesh, which I afterwards
found was that of a horse, some sour coagulated milk, with an infusion
of certain herbs, thickened with a coarse kind of flour, were then
brought in and placed upon the ground. I had lea