[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Gerald McCarthy (hurler)

the team to the 1980-81 National League title after a defeat of Offaly in the final. His second season at the helm saw Cork win the Munster Championship after a record 31-point defeat of Waterford, before losing the 1982 All-Ireland final to Kilkenny. McCarthy stepped down as coach in November 1982.

St Finbarr's return
McCarthy continued coaching at juvenile and underage levels with St Finbarr's even while he was coach of the Cork senior team. He also took over as chairman of the club's hurling section, a position which allowed him become a selector with the senior team once again. McCarthy's first season back on the sideline saw St Finbarr's lose the 1983 Cork SHC final to Midleton. The selection team remained in place after this defeat and went on to guide the team to a sixth successive final appearance in 1984. The 1–15 to 2–04 win over Ballyhea gave McCarthy a third championship win in management. He remained as a selector until 1986.

Cork return
McCarthy returned to the inter-county scene when he was named trainer of the Cork senior hurling team in October 1989. His first season back with the team saw Cork win the Munster Championship title after a surprise victory over reigning All-Ireland champions Tipperary. Cork were also underdogs for the 1990 All-Ireland final against Galway, however, a second-half comeback saw McCarthy's side take the title after a 5–15 to 2–21 victory.

After losing their provincial and All-Ireland titles in 1991, McCarthy's side reclaimed the Munster Championship after a 1–22 to 3–11 over Limerick in the 1992 Munster final. Cork faced Kilkenny in the subsequent All-Ireland final but suffered a 3–10 to 1–12 defeat. McCarthy's side began the 1992–93 season by claiming the National League title after a three-game saga with Wexford in the final, however, their 1993 Munster Championship campaign ended at an early stage. With that defeat the Cork management team resigned, however, it was widely expected in the media that McCarthy would be appointed to the position of manager. He failed to secure the nomination of his club to the new management team, was therefore disallowed from taking the post with Johnny Clifford becoming manager instead.

Adare
After ending his involvement with the Cork senior team in June 1993, McCarthy immediately returned to club management as coach of the Adare team in Limerick. He once again brought an immediate level of success to his new position, steering the team to the 1993 Limerick SHC final where they lost to Patrickswell by ten points.

Managing Waterford
McCarthy remained out of inter-county coaching for several years before returning as manager of the Waterford senior hurling team on 16 November 1996. In his first year in charge he introduced a new training regime and cut a number of players from the panel. Waterford later lost at home to Dublin and failed to win promotion from Division Two of the National League. In their opening game of the championship a Limerick team in decline beat them by six points and Waterford's campaign ended unceremoniously.

In his second year in charge McCarthy's side made significant progress in the National League and even reached the final. A 2–14 to 0–13 defeat by Cork was their lot in that game. The provincial championship saw McCarthy's side defeat Tipperary for the first time in fifteen years and reach the Munster final for the first time in almost a decade. That game between Clare and Waterford unexpectedly ended in a draw; however, a last-gasp Paul Flynn free which could have won the game went wide. Clare remained favourites to win on the second occasion; however, the replay was a tense affair. The match was played in exceedingly bad spirit as Clare's Brian Lohan and Waterford's Michael White were both shown red cards after a melee. A dirty game drew to its natural conclusion as Clare were the eventual winners. Waterford, however, still had a second chance for the All-Ireland title due to the "back-door" system.  A ten-point defeat of Galway in the All-Ireland quarter-final set up an All-Ireland semi-final meeting with Kilkenny. Waterford, however, followed a great performance with a mediocre one and, in a game which was there for the taking, allowed the Cat' to win by just a single point on a score line of 1–11 to 1–10.
 
McCarthy remained on as manager of the team until 2001; however, he failed to build on the moderate success of the 1998 season.

Managing Cork
McCarthy was appointed manager of the Cork senior hurling team on 8 November 2006. His appointment was seen as controversial from the start as Ger Cunningham, a selector under previous manager John Allen and the favourite for the job, was not even approached about the vacant post.