[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# 2007 New Year Honours

Carl Robert Eddy, Administrative Assistant, H.M. Revenue and Customs.
Ms Diana Edmonds, Head, Haringey Libraries, Archives and Museum Service. For services to Local Government in North London.
George Tait Edwards, lately Senior Regional Property Adviser, Learning and Skills Council. For services to Further Education.
Colonel Samuel Mervyn Elder, T.D., J.P., D.L. For services to the Reserve Forces and Cadets' Association in Northern Ireland.
Alan Thomas Elliott, Founder and Director, Forest Fitness Centre. For services to Sport and voluntary community work in the Forest of Dean.
William Elliott, Chair, Mitford Parish Council. For services to the community in Northumberland.
Gordon Ellis, Area Business Manager, Scottish Executive.
John Anthony Ellis, Head, Technology Exploitation Division, Space Department, Rutherford Appleton Laboratory. For services to Science.
Stella, Lady Empey. For services to the community in Northern Ireland.
Jerome Roy Evans, Manager, H.M. Young Offenders' Institution Thorn Cross, Warrington, Cheshire.
Judith Marion, Mrs. Evans, Leader, St. Ives District Rangers, Cambridgeshire. For services to Young People.
Olive Gwendoline, Mrs. Evans. For services to Education and to the community in Monmouthshire.
Sue Prudence Anne, Mrs. Evans, District Nurse. For services to Healthcare and to the community in Burwell, Cambridgeshire.
Susan, Mrs. Bowes-Evans, Chief Commandant, South Wales Police. For services to the Special Constabulary. 
John Wallace Kerr Ewart, General Manager, Blackburn Local Employment Scheme. For services to Young People and to the community in West Lothian. 
Hilary Joan, Mrs. Farley, lately Headteacher, Gladstone Primary School, Barry. For services to Education in Wales.
Glynis Mary, Mrs. Farrell, Specialist Music Teacher, Holwell Primary School, Hertfordshire. For services to Education.
Anne Mary, Mrs. Faulconer, J.P. For services to The Children's Society.
Angela Nancy, Mrs. Faulding, Specialist Health Visitor, North East Lincolnshire Primary Care Trust. For services to Healthcare.
Elaine, Mrs. Ferguson, Founder, Spark-Space and Right to Write Ltd. For services to People with Dyslexia.
Olive Marion, Mrs. Ferguson. For services to Oxfam in Morningside, Edinburgh. 
Florence Arlene, Mrs. Ferry. For public service.
Ms Linda Jean Finnamore, Prison Officer, H.M. Prison and Young Offenders' Institution New Hall, Wakefield, West Yorkshire.
Councillor Barry Fippard, Councillor, Lincolnshire County Council. For services to Local Government in Lincolnshire.
Paul Roland Firman. For services to the community in Martlesham Heath, Suffolk.
Archie Macdonald Fisher, Singer and Songwriter. For services to Traditional Scottish Music.
Leigh, Mrs. Flaherty, Higher Executive Officer, Human Resources Operations, Home Office.
Miss Minerva Millicent Fletcher, Personal Secretary, Government Office for the West Midlands, Department of Trade and Industry.
Paul John Fletcher. For services to Sport and to Charity.
Brian Douglas Flood, Q.P.M. For services to the Police. 
Dr. Michael Wilfred Flowers. For charitable services in Yorkshire and Bangladesh.
Elizabeth Marlene, Mrs. Forbes, Captain, 1st Northern Ireland Company, Girls' Brigade. For services to Young People.
Dr. Fiona Mary Ford, General Medical Practitioner and Senior Lecturer, East Lancashire Teaching Primary Care Trust. For services to Healthcare.
Sue Joan Frances, Mrs. Grayson Ford, Director, Campaign for Drawing. For services to Art.
Peter Bernard Forsdick, Manager, Distribution Services Management, London Underground. For services to Public Transport.
Helen, Mrs. Foster, Founder, Saturday Club for Deaf Children, Isle of Wight. For services to disabled children.
Marian, Mrs. Fraser, Executive Officer, Jobcentre Plus, Department for Work and Pensions.
Patricia, Mrs. Fry, Head of Education, Training and Careers, Particle Physics and Astronomy Research Council. For services to Science.
Graham Richard John Fryer, Chairman, Driving Instructors' Association. For services to Road Safety. 
Robert John Fyffe. For services to the community in Northern Ireland.
Anne, Mrs. Gait. For services to disabled children  in Leeds.
Richard Galliford. For services to the Youth of Barnsley and Overseas.
Anne, Mrs. Gandy. For services to the community in Walton, Liverpool.
John Edward Gardner, Events Planning Manager, London Buses. For services to Public Transport. 
Georgina Mary, Mrs. Gaskin. For services to the community in Northamptonshire.
Martin John Gebbett, Executive Officer, Environmental Policy Officer, Government Office for Yorkshire and the Humber, Department for Communities and Local Government.
Daphne, Mrs. Geer, President, Southern Counties Amateur Swimming Association. For services to Sport. 
Michael Geer, Swimming Coach and President, Royal Tunbridge Wells Monson Swimming Club. For services to Sport.
Stephen Paul Gelder, Managing Director, Gelder Ltd., Gainsborough. For services to Business and to the community in Lincolnshire.
Steven George Gerrard