[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hollow Man 2

from radiation. Ludlow has also been tracking Griffin, and reveals the true story to his supposed "death" and the program itself: Operation Silent Knight was never about national security, and neither was Griffin given the Buffer, since the Department used him to assassinate their political enemies.

Meanwhile, Griffin infiltrates Bishop's office and both get into a fight. The latter attempts to reason with him and then, getting desperate, stabs him, but does not kill him, with a pen. Griffin impales Bishop with the same pen, and uses his computer to locate Ludlow. Arriving at the hideout, Griffin attacks Turner, but Ludlow intervenes, sacrificing himself to allow Turner and Maggie to escape. Griffin decides to make them return by capturing Maggie's sister. When they meet at the train station where he is hiding, Griffin silently catches Maggie and tries to turn her invisible so he can take her unnoticed, but Turner intervenes. After a short fight, Griffin escapes with Maggie, leaving Turner with the arriving Reisner and his guards. A short time later, Reisner pursues an invisible man, but is soon captured and held by him. Believing him to be Griffin, he offers to send for the Buffer. The figure, however, is Turner, who used Griffin's discarded syringe to become invisible as well. Reisner, backing away, is hit and killed by a speeding car.

Griffin takes Maggie to her old college laboratory to create the Buffer for him. Griffin forces her to inject herself with it first, then injects himself with another dose. With his survival seemingly assured, Griffin tries to kill Maggie, but Turner (now invisible) intervenes and knocks him out of the laboratory window. Turner runs outside, where Griffin renders him unconscious. As Griffin slowly turns visible, Maggie reveals that Griffin has actually been poisoned; as the vial contained rat poison. Maggie ends up losing consciousness. Enraged, Griffin takes a shovel and attempts to kill her; but Turner, having recovered, stops him and impales him with the shovel. He then carries Maggie away for medical attention, leaving Griffin's now completely visible body outside in the rain.

A few days later, Maggie is recovering in hospital and is poised to be released. Heather tells her that Turner has not been found. Maggie insists that he will come back to her, as she knows that he needs her. Outside, they are being watched by a hooded invisible man, presumably Turner, who then walks away.

Cast

Release
The film was released direct-to-video on May 23, 2006. Along with the film, the DVD also included the "Inside Hollow Man 2" featurette, a visual effects featurette and storyboards.
In 2013 Mill Creek Entertainment released the film for the first time on Blu-ray in a 2 pack set along with the original Hollow Man; all extras were dropped for the Blu-ray release.

Reception
Hollow Man 2, as a direct-to-video release, had lower expectations than its preceding film.

References

External links

2006 direct-to-video films
2006 films
American science fiction horror films
2000s science fiction horror films
Direct-to-video sequel films
Films shot in Vancouver
Films about invisibility
Films directed by Claudio Fäh
Films with screenplays by Joel Soisson
Destination Films films
Sony Pictures direct-to-video films
2000s English-language films
2000s monster movies
2000s American films
English-language science fiction horror films