[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 166]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

so interprets the Scripture, as that
after the day of Judgment, the wicked are all Eternally to be punished
in the Valley of Hinnon; or that they shall so rise again, as to be ever
after under ground, or under water; or that after the Resurrection, they
shall no more see one another; nor stir from one place to another; it
followeth, me thinks, very necessarily, that that which is thus said
concerning Hell Fire, is spoken metaphorically; and that therefore there
is a proper sense to bee enquired after, (for of all Metaphors there is
some reall ground, that may be expressed in proper words) both of the
Place of Hell, and the nature of Hellish Torment, and Tormenters.




Satan, Devill, Not Proper Names, But Appellatives

And first for the Tormenters, wee have their nature, and properties,
exactly and properly delivered by the names of, The Enemy, or Satan;
The Accuser, or Diabolus; The Destroyer, or Abbadon. Which significant
names, Satan, Devill, Abbadon, set not forth to us any Individuall
person, as proper names use to doe; but onely an office, or quality;
and are therefore Appellatives; which ought not to have been left
untranslated, as they are, in the Latine, and Modern Bibles; because
thereby they seem to be the proper names of Daemons; and men are the
more easily seduced to beleeve the doctrine of Devills; which at that
time was the Religion of the Gentiles, and contrary to that of Moses,
and of Christ.

And because by the Enemy, the Accuser, and Destroyer, is meant, the
Enemy of them that shall be in the Kingdome of God; therefore if the
Kingdome of God after the Resurrection, bee upon the Earth, (as in the
former Chapter I have shewn by Scripture it seems to be,) The Enemy,
and his Kingdome must be on Earth also. For so also was it, in the time
before the Jews had deposed God. For Gods Kingdome was in Palestine;
and the Nations round about, were the Kingdomes of the Enemy; and
consequently by Satan, is meant any Earthly Enemy of the Church.




Torments Of Hell

The Torments of Hell, are expressed sometimes, by "weeping, and gnashing
of teeth," as Mat. 8.12. Sometimes, by "the worm of Conscience;" as
Isa.66.24. and Mark 9.44, 46, 48; sometimes, by Fire, as in the place
now quoted, "where the worm dyeth not, and the fire is not quenched,"
and many places beside: sometimes by "Shame, and contempt," as Dan.
12.2. "And many of them that sleep in the dust of the Earth, shall
awake; some to Everlasting life; and some to shame, and everlasting
contempt." All which places design metaphorically a grief, and
discontent of mind, from the sight of that Eternall felicity in others,
which they themselves through their own incredulity, and disobedience
have lost. And because such felicity in others, is not sensible but by
comparison with their own actuall miseries; it followeth that they are
to suffer such bodily paines, and calamities, as are incident to those,
who not onely live under evill and cruell Governours, but have also for
Enemy, the Eternall King of the Saints, God Almighty. And amongst these
bodily paines, is to be reckoned also to every one of the wicked a
second Death. For though the Scripture bee clear for an universall
Resurrection; yet wee do not read, that to any of the Reprobate is
promised an Eternall life. For whereas St. Paul (1 Cor. 15.42, 43.) to
the question concerning what bodies men shall rise with again, saith,
that "the body is sown in corruption, and is raised in incorruption; It
is sown in dishonour, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weaknesse, it
is raised in power;" Glory and Power cannot be applyed to the bodies of
the wicked: Nor can the name of Second Death, bee applyed to those
that can never die but once: And although in Metaphoricall speech, a
Calamitous life Everlasting, may bee called an Everlasting Death yet it
cannot well be understood of a Second Death. The fire prepared for the
wicked, is an Everlasting Fire: that is to say, the estate wherein
no man can be without torture, both of body and mind, after the
Resurrection, shall endure for ever; and in that sense the Fire shall
be unquenchable, and the torments Everlasting: but it cannot thence be
inferred, that hee who shall be cast into that fire, or be tormented
with those torments, shall endure, and resist them so, as to be
eternally burnt, and tortured, and yet never be destroyed, nor die. And
though there be many places that affirm Everlasting Fire, and Torments
(into which men may be cast successively one after another for ever;)
yet I find none that affirm there shall bee an Eternall Life therein of
any individuall person; but on the contrary, an Everlasting Death, which
is the Second Death: (Apoc. 20. 13,14.) "For after Death, and the Grave
shall have delivered up the dead which were in them, and every man be
judged according to his works; Death and the Grave shall also be cast
into the Lake of Fire. This is the Second Death." W