[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sedition Act 1661

fences
Besides treason, the 1661 Act created other offences designed to protect the national security. These offences required the evidence of two witnesses or a confession, and had to be prosecuted within six months of the offence being committed. The king had to personally authorise a prosecution.

Anyone who in speech or writing called the King a heretic or papist, or who incited "hatred or dislike of the Person of His Majestie or the established Government" was to be disqualified from holding any public, military or ecclesiastical office (but could keep his peerage). This measure was expressed only to last during the King's lifetime.

A permanent offence (until it was repealed) was committed by any person who claimed (in writing or in speech) that the Long Parliament had not been dissolved, or that anyone had a duty to obey an oath to change the government, or that Parliament could legislate without the king's assent.

Other provisions
The Act declared that the Solemn League and Covenant was null and void. It also preserved Parliament's privilege of free speech, and the right of a peer to be tried in the House of Lords.

A peer who was convicted of any offence under the Act was to be disqualified from sitting in the House of Lords, unless pardoned (although he would keep his title).

Repeal

Sections 1 and 2 were repealed on 28 January 1863 by section 1 of, and the Schedule to, the Statute Law Revision Act 1863.

There were some other repeals over the years, and then the whole Act, so far as unrepealed, was repealed by the Criminal Law Act 1967.

See also
Tumultuous Petitioning Act 1661
High treason in the United Kingdom
Treason Act
Sedition Act (disambiguation)

References

External links
The Sedition Act 1661 (as enacted), John Raithby, The Statutes of the Realm, vol. 5, pp 304 – 306 (from British History Online)
The Treason Act 1795 (at the time of its repeal in 1998), from the UK Statute Law Database

Acts of the Parliament of England
1661 in law
Treason in England
1661 in England
English criminal law