[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Equality Colony

as the Seattle Union Record, arrived with his family at age 14 in April 1898 and began to learn journalism and printing by working on Industrial Freedom. He eventually became its editor, until the publication folded in December 1902. He also started Young Socialist in 1899 for the colony's children.

In 1900 and 1901 some colonists left Equality to found a new community on Whidbey Island called the Free Land Association, or Freeland. This colony should not be confused with Equality in its later stages which was sometimes referred to as Freeland Colony.

Freeland 
In autumn 1904 the colony was visited by Alexander Horr, a proponent of Theodor Hertzka’s "Freeland" concept. He returned next year with more of his followers and soon the colony's population grew by 30%. By the summer of 1905 Horr was able to change the BCCs constitution drastically to adhere to the Freeland concept. A new "local union" was established in New York, and five others in the near vicinity. The changes were not appreciated by the colony's older residents who started to resist the conversion of the colony to the new scheme in late 1905 and the colony became bitterly divided between the two factions, sometimes resulting in violence.

The final factor in the demise of the colony occurred on February 6, 1906, when an unknown person or group of people set fire to several buildings at night. The worst loss was the barn, which burned completely to the ground, killing most of the colony's cattle. The perpetrator was never identified, but each faction blamed the other for the arson. A suit was filed in Skagit County to dissolve the colony and the BCC went into receivership; its history ended when its land was sold for $12,500 to John J. Peth on June 1, 1907. A few families stayed in the area on plots of land that they owned individually.

See also
 The Cooperative Brotherhood

References

Sources
 LeWarne, Charles P., "Equality Colony: The Plan to Socialize Washington," Pacific Northwest Quarterly, vol. 59, no. 3 (July 1968), pp. 137-146. In JSTOR

 Pelton, G.E. "Equality's Struggle for Existence," Industrial Freedom, whole no. 55 (May 27, 1899), pg. 2.

Smith, Frederick E., and Lowe, Florence M. Equality Colony. [F.M. Lowe?], 1988.

External links 

 A page describing the collection that links to the University of Washington Libraries, Special Collections.
 

Bellamyism
History of Skagit County, Washington
Politically motivated migrations
Populated places established in 1897
Utopian communities in the United States
1897 establishments in Washington (state)