[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Conflict resolution research

h in business and management have also studied conflict resolution through interviews, secondary data – such as legal files about buyer-supplier disputes – or case studies.

Negotiation research findings

Here are some of the more prominent findings from these studies (see Pruitt & Carnevale, 1993):

 Problem solving behavior, such as giving or requesting information about a party's priorities among the issues, encourages high joint benefit. 
 Contentious behavior, such as making threats or standing firm on one's proposals, encourages failure to reach an agreement or, if an agreement is reached, low joint benefit.
 Conceding makes agreement more likely but favors the other party's interests. 
 Prosocial motivation (resulting, for example, from a positive mood or the expectation of future interaction with the other party) encourages problem-solving and high joint benefit and discourages contentious behavior, but only when resistance to yielding is high (De Dreu, Weingart, & Kwon, 2000). 
 The party who makes the first offer tends to achieve greater benefit than the other party. 
 Three states of mind discourage concession making: viewing concessions as producing loss rather than an as foregoing gain; focusing attention on one's goal rather than one's limit (i.e., the alternative that is minimally tolerable); and adopting a fixed-pie perspective, in which one views the other's gain as one's loss, rather than an expandable pie perspective. 
 Adopting any of the states of mind above diminishes the likelihood of agreement; but if an agreement is reached, it increases the likelihood of winning, especially if the other party adopts the opposite state of mind (Thompson, Neale, & Sinaceur, 2004).
The type of conflict resolution method that is adopted will be influenced by the structure of the agreements. In particular, the level of detail of the contracts affects the choice on conflict resolution approach. This effect depends on the degree of coordination required in the relationship. The contractual structure also affects the influence of cooperative relational experience on negotiation strategy.

Cultural differences shown in research findings

Recent experiments have found cultural differences in negotiation behavior (Gelfand & Brett, 2004):

 Negotiators from individualistic cultures tend to take a more contentious approach, while those from collectivistic cultures are more concerned about maintaining positive relationships and hence more likely to cooperate (concede or engage in problem solving). 
 Accountability to constituents encourages contentious behavior for individualists, it encourages cooperative behavior for collectivists. 
 Research tells us that people with a high need for closure (for rapid decision making) tend to think and act in accustomed ways. It follows that high need for closure should accentuate contentious behavior in individualistic societies and cooperative behavior in collectivistic societies, an hypothesis that has received support.

Research into third party involvement

Third parties often become involved in conflict resolution, either being called in by the disputants or acting on their own because the conflict annoys them or the community they serve. Two common forms of third-party intervention are arbitration and mediation. In arbitration, the third party listens to both sides and then renders a decision, which can be either binding or advisory. Most mediation consists of third-party assistance with negotiation. When conflict is severe and the disputants have difficulty talking calmly with each other, mediators can put them into contact and help them develop a cease-fire or settlement. If the disputants cannot or will not meet each other, mediators commonly become intermediaries and shuttle between them. Sometimes a chain of two intermediaries is necessary because there is no single individual who can communicate effectively with both sides.

Mediation research findings

Mediation has been studied in both the laboratory and the field. Research (see Kressel & Pruitt, 1989) suggests that: