[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sport in Israel

argest league in 2007 was men's contact who competed in the annual Holyland Bowl championship. Some 1000 players are involved in weekly football activities.

In 2015 the Israel national American football team had their first international game, in the qualifier for the European Championship.

Boxing

In Israel, boxing is not just a sport but an educational vehicle for helping young people overcome prejudices. The Israel Boxing Association (IBA) operates certified gyms in cities throughout the country, with 1,800 active members from Arab villages and Ethiopian and Russian immigrant population centers. Boxers as young as 11 train and participate in matches organized by the association. Israeli Yuri Foreman is a former World Boxing Association super welterweight champion. Roman Greenberg is currently International Boxing Organization's (IBO's) Intercontinental heavyweight champion. Hagar Finer is the WIBF champion bantamweight.

Adi Rotem of Tel Aviv is the current world champion in Thai boxing in the under-52 kilogram class. Ilya Grad is considered one of the eight best amateur Thai boxers in the world. In February 2012, Grad won the WCK international title in China and was permitted to enter Malaysia, which has no diplomatic relations with Israel, on an Israeli passport. Ido Pariente is an Israel lightweight Pankration World Champion.

Canoeing
Michael Kolganov, a Soviet (Uzbek)-born Israeli sprint canoer, has been a world champion and won an Olympic bronze in the K-1 500-meter.

Cricket
Israel became an associate member of the ICC in 1974. Israel competed in the 1979 ICC Trophy, the inaugural edition of what is now the Cricket World Cup Qualifier, but failed to get past the first round. They also failed to progress beyond the first round in the 1982 and 1986 tournaments.
They reached the plate competition of the ICC Trophy in 1990 and 1994 and in 1996 competed in their first European Championship in Denmark, finishing eighth in the eight team tournament.

In the 1997 ICC Trophy in Malaysia, they faced political demonstrations throughout the tournament from the Islamic Party of Malaysia. They were the first Israeli sports team to play in the country and finished in 21st place.

In 1998, they finished ninth in the European Championship ahead of only Gibraltar and the following year travelled to Gibraltar to take part in a quadrangular tournament also involving France and Italy.

Israel have been playing in Division Two of the European Championships since 2000, finishing fifth in 2000, fourth in 2002, sixth in 2004 and seventh in 2006.

In November 2007, Israel were defeated in a relegation match against Croatia, in the first international cricket game played in Israel. The loss meant that they were relegated from Europe Division Two to Europe Division Three. In 2009 they were re-promoted to second division with a win over Croatia.

At the 2016 ICC Europe Division Two tournament Israel finished fourth, behind Germany, Sweden, and Spain

There is a night cricket league playing a modified form of indoor cricket.

Curling

Israel national men's curling team has been competing as part of the European playdowns since 2014.  Israel has sent teams to the world mixed, world mixed doubles and world men's seniors competitions as well.

Equestrian

Notable Israeli equestrians include:

 Daniel Bluman (born 1990), Colombian-born Israeli Olympic show jumping rider

Fencing

Notable Israeli fencers have included:

Boaz Ellis (foil), five-time Israeli champion
Delila Hatuel (foil), Olympian, ranked ninth in the world
Lydia Hatuel-Czuckermann (foil), 20x Israeli champion
 Noam Mills (épée), female Olympic fencer, junior world champion
Ayelet Ohayon (foil), European champion
 Yuval Freilich (épée), European champion (2019)
 Andre Spitzer, killed by terrorists

Figure skating

Israel has one regulation ice rink, located in Metulla, a city on the Lebanese border. Israel has been sending teams to the Winter Olympics since 1994. In 2002, Galit Chait (world championship bronze medalist) and Sergei Sakhnovski (world championship bronze medalist) finished sixth in ice dancing. Alexandra Zaretski, Belarusian-born Israeli, ice dancer, Olympian, and Roman Zaretski, Belarusian-born Israeli, ice dancer, Olympian a brother and sister ice-dancing pair, came in ninth in the 2008 world championships and first in the 2009 World University Games.

Other notable Israeli skaters include:

  Alexei Beletski, Ukrainian-born Israeli, ice dancer, Olympian
Natalia Gudina, Ukrainian-born Israeli, figure skater, Olympian
Tamar Katz, US-born Israeli, figure skater
Lionel Rumi, Israel, ice dancer
Michael Shmerkin, Soviet-born Israeli, figure skater

Golf