[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Human rights in Israel

estinian men of responsibility for domestic violence and places the blame on Israel instead and that it illegitimately characterises legal acts of Israeli self-defence as war-crimes. Dershowitz has joined NGO Monitor's calls for an independent evaluation of anti-Israeli bias within the organisation.

In 2004, NGO Monitor, a pro-Israel organization, released a study comparing Amnesty International's response to the twenty years of ethnic, religious and racial violence in Sudan – in which (at that time) 2,000,000 people were killed and 4,000,000 people displaced – to their treatment of Israel. When NGO Monitor focused on 2001, they found that Amnesty International issued seven reports on Sudan, as opposed to 39 reports on Israel. Between 2000 and 2003, they claimed the imbalance in issued reports to be 52 reports on Sudan and 192 reports on Israel, which they call "lack of balance and objectivity and apparent political bias [which] is entirely inconsistent with AI's official stated mission." They further called attention to the difference in both scale and intensity: "While ignoring the large-scale and systematic bombing and destruction of Sudanese villages, AI issued numerous condemnations of the razing of Palestinian houses, most of which were used as sniper nests or belonged to terrorists. Although failing to decry the slaughter of thousands of civilians by Sudanese government and allied troops, AI managed to criticize Israel's 'assassinations' of active terrorist leaders."

Government attitude toward NGOs and activists 

According to the US State Department's 2015 Country Report on Human Rights Practices, Israeli officials were generally cooperative with the United Nations and human rights groups and invited the testimony of human rights NGOs at Knesset hearings. These groups can directly petition the Israeli Supreme Court on government policies and individual cases.

Israeli and Palestinian NGOs critical of the government's human rights policies claim the government sought to pressure them for receiving foreign funding. These investigations into funding have been labeled by critics as "McCarthyist". In July 2015, in a series of private meetings, Deputy Foreign Minister Tzipi Hotovely accused European governments of funding Israeli and Palestinian NGOs which sought to "delegitimize Israel under the guise of human rights", naming B'Tselem, Breaking the Silence, and the Adalah Legal Center. Hotovely threatened that her government would restrict or tax foreign funding of Israeli NGOs if this continued.

The participation of ACRI and B'Tselem in the national service volunteer program was terminated by the civil service in 2015, following government allegations that they engaged in defamation and incitement against Israeli soldiers.

The Ministry of the Interior has refused to renew work permits as well as blocking entry to Israel by foreigners suspected of supporting the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign against Israel, a policy which applies also to activists.

The government continues a partial suspension of its coordination with UNESCO (the UN Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization), in effect since 2013. In 2015, Israel blocked the UNHRC's special rapporteur (investigator) from gaining access to the West Bank.

On 19 October 2021, Israel designated six Palestinian human rights organizations—Addameer, Al-Haq, Bisan Center for Research and Development, Defense for Children International-Palestine, the Union of Agricultural Work Committees, and the Union of Palestinian Women's Committees—as terrorist organizations.

See also 
 Association for Civil Rights in Israel
Human Rights Organization of Judea and Samaria
Human rights in the Palestinian territories
Human rights in Egypt
Human rights in Syria
Human rights in Lebanon
Human rights in Jordan
Human rights in Iran

External links 
 The Association for Civil Rights in Israel (ACRI) – State of Human Rights Report 2009
 Amnesty International Report 2009 – Israel and the Occupied Palestinian Territories
 B'Tselem – Israeli Human Rights Group focused on areas under military administration
 Human Rights Watch – Israel and the Occupied Territories
 US State Department – 2009 Human Rights Report: Israel and the occupied territories
 A rough guide to Hebron: The world's strangest guided tour highlights the abuse of Palestinians – The Independent, 26 January 2008
 MATTI FRIEDMAN, 2014, What the Media Gets Wrong About Israel, The Atlantic.

References

Citations

Sources
 

 
Human rights in the West Bank
Human rights in the Gaza Strip
Israeli–Palestinian conflict
Israel
Political prisoners in Israel