[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Yiddish Policemen's Union

before the events of the novel, as did his sister Naomi, an avid pilot who died in a small plane crash. Sitka is due to be "reverted" to United States territory instead of a self-governed state, causing a lot of local tension. Berko has made plans for his family to stay legally but Landsman has not.

After consulting with Hertz and visiting several local chess clubs, who knew the victim as "Frank", Landsman and Berko discover that the victim was Mendel Shpilman, the son of the Verbover rebbe, Sitka’s most powerful organized crime boss. Many Jews believed Mendel to be the Tzadik ha-Dor, the potential messiah, born once in every generation. Mendel was addicted to heroin and both of his parents abandoned him; despite this, the family decides to throw a public funeral with the help of the Verbover lawyer, Aryeh Baronshteyn.

As Meyer continues to investigate Mendel's murder, he discovers that the supposed "chosen one" had taken a flight with Naomi. He follows Naomi's trail to a mysterious set of buildings with an unknown purpose, set up in Tlingit territory by Jews. Landsman flies there to investigate; he is knocked out and thrown in a cell, whose walls have graffiti in Naomi's handwriting. Landsman is soon woken up by Baronshteyn and a doctor who claims that they are in a legitimate rehabilitation center. Landsman attacks his captor and is able to escape.

The naked and injured Landsman is soon rescued by a local Tlingit police chief, Willie Dick, who reunites him with Berko. The duo visit Hertz, where Hertz and Berko have a confrontation over Hertz's role in a race riot that led to the death of Berko's mother. Hertz attempts suicide by shooting himself in the head and is rushed to the hospital. Back in Sitka, they learn that the mysterious complex is operated by a paramilitary group who wants to build a new Temple in Jerusalem after destroying the Dome of the Rock, hoping to speed the birth of the Messiah. An evangelical Christian Zionist American government supports the group.

As Landsman and Berko investigate, the News reports the Dome being bombed. American agents apprehend the detectives and offer them permission to stay in Sitka, if they agree to keep quiet about the plot they have uncovered. Landsman says that he will and is released. Landsman reunites with Bina, frustrated by his failure with the Shpilman case. Remembering the chess board, he suddenly realizes that it's not an unfinished game, but a chess problem: he had seen the same problem from the perspective of the other player in Hertz's house. Landsman and Bina visit a recovering Hertz at Berko's home, and he confesses to killing Mendel at Mendel's own request hoping to ruin the government's plans to bring upon the Messiah. Landsman contacts American journalist Brennan stating that he "has a story for him". It is left ambiguous to the reader if Landsman is planning to expose Hertz's involvement in Shpilman's murder or the complex messianic conspiracy.

Origins and writing
Chabon began working on the novel in February 2002, inspired by an essay he had published in Harper's in October 1997. Entitled "Guidebook to a Land of Ghosts", the essay discussed a travel book Chabon had found, Say It in Yiddish, and the dearth of Yiddish-speaking countries in which the book would be useful. While researching hypothetical Yiddish-speaking countries, Chabon learned of "this proposal once that Jewish refugees be allowed to settle in Alaska during World War II... I made a passing reference to it in the essay, but the idea stuck."  Vitriolic public response to the essay, which was seen as controversial for "prematurely announcing [Yiddish's] demise," also spurred Chabon to develop the idea.

In late 2003, Chabon mentioned the novel on his web site, saying that it was titled Hotzeplotz in a reference to the "Yiddish expression 'from here to Hotzeplotz,' meaning more or less the back of nowhere, Podunk, Iowa, the ends of the earth." In 2004, Chabon said the (retitled) book would be published in fall 2005, but then the writer decided to trash his
most recent draft and start over. His publisher HarperCollins pushed the publication date back to April 11, 2006. Chabon's rejected 600-page draft featured the same characters as the novel he eventually published but "a completely different story," and was also written in the first person.