[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Zechariah Chafee

nviction of an activist who encouraged draft resistance, and convinced him that free speech needed greater consideration. Shortly thereafter, Holmes joined Brandeis in a dissent in another World War I dissent case; this dissent is recognized as the foundation of modern First Amendment jurisprudence.

Some of Chafee's more important work occurred through his membership on the American Bar Association's Bill of Rights Committee to 1938 to 1947. In this capacity he submitted briefs amicus curiae several Supreme Court of the United States cases. In (West Virginia State Board of Education v. Barnette,  Chafee submitted a amicus curiae brief to the Supreme Court hoping to persuade the Court to reverse an earlier decision upholding a state law requiring a salute to the flag  by children of Jehovah's Witnesses based in the principles of freedom of speech and freedom of religion.

Chafee was, from 1943 from 1947, vice-chairman of the Commission on the Freedom of the Press (Hutchins Commission). The Commission was established in 1943 by Henry Luce to determine if freedom of the press was in danger in the United States and was chaired by Robert Maynard Hutchins.

Chafee became an advocate for international human rights through his work as a representative on the United Nations Subcommission on Freedom of Information and the Press in 1947 through 1951. He was a United States delegate to the 1948 United Nations Conference on Freedom of Information and the Press.

Family and personal life
Chafee married Bess Frank Searle in 1912 and had four children: Zechariah Chafee III, Robert S. Chafee, Anne Chafee Brien, and Ellen Chafee Tillinghast. He and his wife both suffered nervous breakdowns and his son, Robert, committed suicide.

He was the scion of a notable Rhode Island family that traced its Rhode Island lineage back to Roger Williams. His father, Zechariah Chafee (Sr.), was long affiliated with Brown University. Chafee's nephew was United States Senator John Chafee, who was also a former Governor of Rhode Island and U.S. Secretary of the Navy, and his grandnephew Lincoln Chafee is a former Governor of Rhode Island and former U.S. Senator.

Death
Chafee died in Boston, Massachusetts, on February 8, 1957, after suffering a heart attack a few days earlier.

See also
Imminent lawless action
Ernst Freund

References

Further reading

 Zechariah Chafee Jr., and Erika S. Chadbourn. The Zecharia Chafee Jr. Papers (Jan. 1987) (American Legal Manuscripts from the Harvard Law School Library; microform)

 Collins, Ronald K.L. Collins, The Fundamental Holmes: A Free Speech Chronicle and Reader (Cambridge, 2010).

External links
University of Arkansas's Free Speech Philosophers — Zechariah Chafee

 
 

1885 births
1957 deaths
Brown University alumni
American legal scholars
First Amendment scholars
Free speech activists
20th-century American lawyers
Philosophers of law
Harvard Law School alumni
Harvard Law School faculty
Lawyers from Providence, Rhode Island
Equity (law)
Chafee family