[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anomaly detection

of reasons. Statistics such as the mean and standard deviation are more accurate after the removal of anomalies, and the visualisation of data can also be improved. In supervised learning, removing the anomalous data from the dataset often results in a statistically significant increase in accuracy.

Popular techniques 
Many anomaly detection techniques have been proposed in literature. The performance of methods usually depend on the data sets. For example, some may be suited to detecting local outliers, while others global, and methods have little systematic advantages over another when compared across many data sets. Almost all algorithms also require the setting of non-intuitive parameters critical for performance, and usually unknown before application. Some of the popular techniques are mentioned below and are broken down into categories:

Statistical

Parameter-free

Parametric-based 
 Z-score, 
 Tukey's range test
 Grubbs's test

Density 
 Density-based techniques (k-nearest neighbor, local outlier factor, isolation forests, and many more variations of this concept)
 Subspace-, correlation-based and tensor-based  outlier detection for high-dimensional data
 One-class support vector machines

Neural networks 
 Replicator neural networks, autoencoders, variational autoencoders, long short-term memory neural networks
 Bayesian networks
 Hidden Markov models (HMMs)
 Minimum Covariance Determinant

Cluster based 
 Clustering: Cluster analysis-based outlier detection
 Deviations from association rules and frequent itemsets
 Fuzzy logic-based outlier detection

Ensembles 
 Ensemble techniques, using feature bagging, score normalization and different sources of diversity

Others

Explainable Anomaly Detection 
Many of the methods discussed above only yield an anomaly score prediction, which often can be explained to users as the point being in a region of low data density (or relatively low density compared to the neighbor's densities). In explainable artificial intelligence, the users demand methods with higher explainability. Some methods allow for more detailed explanations:

 The Subspace Outlier Degree (SOD) identifies attributes where a sample is normal, and attributes in which the sample deviates from the expected.
 Correlation Outlier Probabilities (COP) compute an error vector how a sample point deviates from an expected location, which can be interpreted as a counterfactual explanation: the sample would be normal if it were moved to that location.

Software 
ELKI is an open-source Java data mining toolkit that contains several anomaly detection algorithms, as well as index acceleration for them.
PyOD is an open-source Python library developed specifically for anomaly detection.
scikit-learn is an open-source Python library that contains some algorithms for unsupervised anomaly detection.
 Wolfram Mathematica provides functionality for unsupervised anomaly detection across multiple data types

Datasets 
 Anomaly detection benchmark data repository with carefully chosen data sets of the Ludwig-Maximilians-Universität München; Mirror  at University of São Paulo.
 ODDS – ODDS: A large collection of publicly available outlier detection datasets with ground truth in different domains.
 Unsupervised Anomaly Detection Benchmark at Harvard Dataverse: Datasets for Unsupervised Anomaly Detection with ground truth.
 KMASH Data Repository  at Research Data Australia having more than 12,000 anomaly detection datasets with ground truth.

See also 
 Change detection
 Statistical process control
 Novelty detection
 Hierarchical temporal memory

References 

Data mining
Machine learning
Data security
Statistical outliers