[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Scouts BSA

edness Award, Outdoor Ethics Award and World Conservation Award — are available to Scouts who show proficiency in special areas. BSA's National Court of Honor is responsible for lifesaving and meritorious awards. All Courts of Honor for Eagle Scout rank are convened as National Courts of Honor also.

Leadership in the troop
Every troop has two separate leadership structures: one consisting of Scouts and another consisting of adults. The adult leadership manages the logistics of troop activities, administers rank advancement and awards, maintains troop records and finance, and recruits new Scouts and adult leaders. The youth leadership keeps order and coordinates labor at activities. Scouts and adults cooperate to plan agendas for troop meetings, as well as the troop's schedule of outings.

Adult leadership
The troop committee is made up of responsible adults who are approved by the local council and the chartered organization. The committee chair leads the committee and appoints its members to specific tasks such as treasurer, secretary, advancement, activities, equipment, and membership. The committee and the chartered organization representative are responsible for the selection of the Scoutmaster and assistant Scoutmasters. The Scoutmaster must be at least twenty-one and is directly responsible for training and guiding the youth leaders, working with other adults to bring Scouting to youth, and for using the methods of Scouting to achieve the aims of Scouting. A troop may have a chaplain who helps to provide a spiritual element in the unit program, provides spiritual counseling as needed, and encourage Scouts to participate in the religious emblems program.

Youth leadership

The youth leader of the troop is the senior patrol leader (SPL), elected by the Scouts in the troop. The SPL is responsible for the overall performance of the troop, runs troop meetings and ensures that the program for troop meetings and other activities is carried out and is advised by the Scoutmaster. There may also be one or more assistant senior patrol leaders. Each patrol elects a patrol leader who then appoints an assistant patrol leader and other positions within the patrol. Together, the senior patrol leader, assistant senior patrol leader, and patrol leaders make up the patrol leaders council (PLC), the group of Scouts that is responsible for developing the troop's program with the advice of the Scoutmaster.

There are other youth positions of responsibility in a troop; the use of these positions is dependent on the size of the troop and the program. The junior assistant Scoutmaster (JASM) is a 16- or 17-year-old Scout who performs the same duties as an assistant Scoutmaster; the scribe takes minutes at patrol leaders council meetings and troop meetings and is often responsible for taking attendance and collecting money or dues; the quartermaster maintains the troop's equipment; the librarian maintains the troop library; the chaplain aide works with the troop chaplain and promotes the religious program in the troop; the troop historian maintains photos and records of troop functions, meetings and outings; a den chief works with a den of Cub Scouts, assisting the den leaders and helps retain Cub Scouts when they cross over into Scouts BSA; the troop guide is a senior Scout who provides guidance to new Scout patrols; the Leave No Trace Coordinator ensures the Scouts are trained in and follow Leave No Trace Guidelines; the Order of the Arrow representative provides a line of communication between the Order of the Arrow and the troop; the bugler provides music as needed; the instructor teaches Scout skills. These troop positions are appointed by the senior patrol leader with the advice and counsel of the Scoutmaster, except for the Junior Assistant Scoutmaster, who is appointed by the Scoutmaster. Some positions may also be determined by election.

Development

The Scouts BSA has a defined Youth Leadership Training Continuum to provide a growth path for youth leaders. The Scoutmaster provides Introduction to Leadership Skills for Troops (ILST) at the troop level. Youth leaders are encouraged to attend National Youth Leadership Training (NYLT) at the council level and a select few may progress to National Advanced Youth Leadership Experience (NAYLE) at the national level. Those interested in staffing these courses may complete the Youth Staff Development Course (YSDC) at the regional level.