[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Texas (locomotive)

yard. In 1910, Atlanta artist and historian, Wilbur G. Kurtz, began writing articles in the Atlanta Constitution advocating preservation of the Texas. The following year, the engine was moved to Grant Park, though it remained exposed to the elements and funds for its restoration were still lacking.

In 1927, the Texas was placed in the basement of the newly constructed Cyclorama, but remained unrestored or altered from its retirement appearance in 1907. As stated, during its service life, the Texas underwent numerous rebuilds and modifications. Most notably, the engine's smokestack was replaced with a diamond design suited for coal-burning, and its cowcatcher had been replaced with a wooden step for use in yard service.  The locomotive's current tender originally belonged to the United States Military Railroad's Dalton locomotive, built in 1864 by the Mason Machine Works of Taunton, Massachusetts.  The Dalton was sold to the Western & Atlantic after the war, renamed William MacRae, and operated on the W&A until retired in 1890, with its tender salvaged for the Texas when the latter was briefly returned to service in 1900.

In 1936, the locomotive, under the guidance of Kurtz, was cosmetically restored to resemble what he believed to be its wartime appearance. The engine's smokestack was replaced with one resembling the balloon design of the Civil War era, its horizontal strap-iron slat cowcatcher was restored, as were the nameplates on the sides of the boiler. The basement in which the engine was placed, while adequate to protect the engine, had been criticized for its small size which made viewing the engine difficult.  As with the General, several proposals had been made as to where the Texas should be displayed, including placing it on display in the Atlanta Union Station, at the site of present-day Underground Atlanta, at Stone Mountain Park, among others - none of which materialized.

By the late 1960s and early 1970s, there was growing concern about the condition of the panoramic painting of the Battle of Atlanta (the Atlanta Cyclorama), which had suffered from storm damage as well as long periods of neglect.  In 1972, the City of Atlanta developed plans to renovate the Cyclorama building, including a complete restoration of the painting as well as an enlarged display area for the Texas. However, the renovation did not begin until 1979, and was completed in 1982.

Contemporary

After the 2008 restoration of the Gettysburg Cyclorama, focus shifted once more to the Atlanta Cyclorama and its deteriorated condition, prompting the City of Atlanta to explore another restoration and potential relocation of the painting.  Ultimately, a decision was made to relocate and restore the painting, with a transfer ultimately including the Texas locomotive and other artifacts at the Atlanta Cyclorama and Civil War Museum as well.

Around this time, the cities of Marietta, Kennesaw, as well as the Southeastern Railway Museum in Duluth, Georgia expressed interest in acquiring the locomotive.  However, city officials in Atlanta determined the engine should remain preserved in tandem with the painting.

In July 2014, the city of Atlanta announced that the Cyclorama collection, including the painting, locomotive, and other artifacts were to be relocated to the Atlanta History Center in Buckhead. The Texas was removed from the Cyclorama building in December 2015, marking the first time the Texas has been removed from the building since its 1981 remodeling.  The engine received a cosmetic restoration performed at the North Carolina Transportation Museum by a private contractor, Steam Operations Corporation, who had previously restored the Norfolk and Western Railway no. 611 to operation at that facility, before being placed in the expanded history center.