[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Paula Hyman

as to conserve the reflections of the founding members of the caucus. Additionally, Hyman was commemorated by the creation of the Paula E. Hyman Mentoring Program, which selects every year young women scholars of Jewish women's and genders studies and pairs them with older mentors in the same field.

Activism 
In 1971, Hyman helped found Ezrat Nashim, a Jewish activist group whose goal was the ordination of women as Conservative rabbis and cantors, a foreshadowing of her later position as a champion of gender equality in religious Jewish life. While at Columbia, Hyman and other Jewish feminists wrote a manifesto to call for the ordination of women rabbis and cantors in Conservative Judaism, which they then delivered to hundreds of conservative rabbis at a Rabbinical Assembly. The title of this manifesto was “Jewish Women Call for Change.”

In both her personal and professional life, Hyman championed feminist ideology and sought to end political and historical sexism. Additionally, when she became the first woman to join organizations in the United States, Israel, and Europe, she would be certain to attain the participation of other women, helping further her activist identity.

Research interests and reception 
Hyman's research interests included topics in modern European and American Jewish history, with a special emphasis on the history of women and gender. Her work can be summed up as the interaction of Judaism and feminism in various countries. Some of her particular interests are the way in which French Jewry changed from the Dreyfus Affair to the present, and how Eastern European Jewish women immigrants interacted with work outside the home. On the latter topic, Hyman is known for her works on Jewish women in New York as activists in events such as the kosher meat boycott of 1902 and the New York rent strike of 1907. Her interest in such activism finds its base in her growing up in the 1960s, an era known for its social changes including a widely-fought feminist movement.

Hyman was recognized as one of the founders of Jewish women's studies and was seen as a role model for her colleagues and students for her dedication to this field. This field finds one of its starts in Hyman's The Jewish Woman in America. In addition, she was seen as a changing force in how the modern Jewish experience is understood by scholars and laymen alike. This shift included a newfound focus on the daily ins and outs of American and European Jewish life as well as exposing the lives of often overlooked populations, such as women, through a use of popular and archival sources. After Hyman's death, Nashim: A Journal of Jewish Women's Studies and Gender Issues dedicated issue twenty-two of their journal to Hyman.

Selected works