[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nuclear power in Indonesia

lear reactor in every province due to ample materials and geological support. As a tin-mining area, monazite exists throughout Bangka and Belitung island. Nearly 183 tons of monazite sediment was found in Mount Muntai, sufficient for nuclear power plants which will be built in West and South Bangka.

BATAN continues searching for uranium sources and suitable sites for nuclear power plants. Bangka Belitung is geologically stable and near the country's greatest electricity-consuming regions: Java and Sumatra. Local residents are more receptive to hosting a nuclear power plant, compared with other locations. Although local residents were opposed, BATAN was still considering the previously studied locations of Mount Muria, Jepara, Central Java and Serang, Banten.

In July 2011, the Bangka Belitung governor requested the government to continue its plans for nuclear power plants in the Muntok and Permis areas between 2025 and 2030. The two plants will produce two gigawatts of electricity at a cost of Rp 70 trillion ($8.2 billion), producing 40 percent of electricity needs in Sumatra, Java and Bali.

Several locations have been proposed for nuclear reactors to generate electricity:
Cape Muria, Kudus (Central Java)
Gorontalo, in northern Sulawesi
Bangka Belitung province (two plants with a total capacity of 18 GW)
Kalimantan

Concerning the Fukushima accident, an Indonesian geodesics lecturer stated that while most of Japan was earthquake-prone, Indonesia has many quake-free areas in Kalimantan, Bangka-Belitung, northern Java (a populous area) and Irian.

Proposals
A physics lecturer from Airlangga University has stated that the need for electricity continues to increase, while fossil-fuel reserves are being depleted; Indonesia is ready and able to develop a nuclear-power plant. Nuclear experts have conducted nuclear research since the 1970s. The Indonesian Nuclear Energy Regulation Agency BAPETEN has confirmed that seven nuclear supervisors were on IAEA missions in several countries (including one in Tokyo, Japan), and Indonesia is ready to operate nuclear power plants as soon as those facilities are built.

Despite the Fukushima nuclear disaster, Indonesia is unlikely to halt its plan to build its first nuclear-power plant due to an electricity crisis. A nuclear-energy development head at Indonesia's National Nuclear Energy Agency said that concerns about a disaster such as Japan's were misplaced; plants in Indonesia would use more advanced technology than the four-decade-old reactors at the Fukushima plant in Japan. Modern plants are designed to operate in the circumstances of total power failure like that experienced at Fukushima, relying on passive safety systems that do not require electricity to function.

P3Tek, an agency within the department of energy, has recommended the TMSR-500 molten salt reactor described in ThorCon nuclear reactor. The TMSR-500 is fueled by a mix of uranium and thorium. Indonesia nuclear regulator BAPETEN and ThorCon began pre-licensing consultation in March 2023.  In July 2023 Indonesia regulator BAPETEN led a public discussion of the planned ThorCon fission power plant at Gelasa Island.

Natural resources
Indonesia has at least two uranium mines: the Remaja-Hitam and Rirang-Tanah Merah mines, located in western Kalimantan (Borneo). If these prove insufficient, the country may import uranium.

The latest 2022 ORTN estimate predicted that Indonesia has 90,000 tonnes of uranium reserves (from hypothetic category to definite category) and 150,000 tonnes thorium reserves (all in hypothetic category). Mostly Uranium found in West Kalimantan and the rest in Papua, Bangka Belitung and West Sulawesi, while Thorium found mostly in Bangka Belitung and the rest in West Kalimantan. In Mamuju Regency, West Sulawesi, Uranium is detected about 100–1.500 ppm (part per million) and Thorium about 400–1.800 ppm. Singkep district, Mamuju Regency has the highest Gamma Radiation in Indonesia.

To commercialize the uranium and other radioactive materials, first parliament should amend the Law No. 10/1997 on Nuclear Energy which does not allow domestic or foreign investors to exploit radioactive resources for commercial purposes (just for research purposes). However, for 25 years after the law passed, not much significant development on exploration and exploitation of nuclear mineral resources in Indonesia by Indonesian companies. On end of 2022, Joko Widodo signed two key documents, Government Regulation No. 42/2022 on 1 November 2022 and Government Regulation No. 52/2022 on 8 December 2022, enabling exploration and exploitation of nuclear minerals by Indonesian companies and foreign companies. Russia reported to be interested to invest in this industry after the issuance of the regulations.