[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of Transmetropolitan characters

. In the final issue, it's revealed that he has been denied presidential pardon by his successor, and despite a few hard-core supporters is quickly running out of the money and resources that will allow him to forestall the legal process, implying that he will probably be convicted and incarcerated.

Other antagonists
Fred Christ: The Leader of "Transient" genetic movement, and later the Church of Christ religious movement. Fred began as a manager for several small-time rock bands, but later became a figurehead among "Transients", inter-species body modification fetishists who were in the process of transforming their own DNA into that of an alien species from a colony called Old Vilnius. Taking up residence in the Transient-heavy slum of Angels 8, Fred turned the Transient movement into a cult of personality centered around himself, and announced the intention of Angels 8 to secede from the City to Old Vilnius. However, Fred made a deal with 'The Smiler" to start a riot that would leave many Transients killed or wounded by the police, in order to damage the Mayor's reputation. Fred himself was arrested after the riots, when he's caught having sex with a thirteen-year-old Transient. After the riots ended, Fred set up the Church of Christ, continuing his cult with the Smiler's backing, in exchange for certain favours for Callahan and members of his administration. Fred, who already had a reputation for being extremely lecherous, prostituted the female converts of his Church (known as "Brides of Christ") to Callahan and his staff, while paying for a "massive wetware upgrade" for Josh Freeh, the Smiler's straw man running mate, who was in fact grown in a cloning tank to specification so that Callahan's vice-presidential nominee would have a clean record. He's repeatedly interviewed by Spider, under escalating violence. During the rioting following the Smiler's declaration of martial law, Fred and some of the other Transients were shot and killed by National Guardsmen.
Stomponato: A vicious, sapient, talking bulldog who is also a police officer. Stomponato swears vengeance against Spider when, after catching Stomponato trying to brutalize and extort a stripper, he knocks him unconscious and pays a shady veterinarian to emasculate the dog. Thereafter, whenever Spider's name is uttered he is prone to going into rabid fits. After pursuing Spider following a disturbance at his second apartment, Stomponato is hit repeatedly by moving vehicles, attacked by (similarly sapient) alley cats, and blinded with holy water by priests in quick succession, before plunging off a wharf into a canal, presumably dying from the fall.
Indira Ataturk, a former assistant of Spider's whose life and reputation were ruined while working for him. During the investigation of a strip bar which was reputed to be using technology to transform the patrons into sex-crazed maniacs, Indira fell under its effects and accidentally became a famous amateur porn actress when someone captured video footage of her engaged in orgiastic group sex. She later, whilst working as assistant to his boss Mitchell Royce, attempted to get revenge on Spider by tipping off assassins and cutting off his insurance, utilities, and other privileges while he was being hunted down.
The Wife: A woman to whom Spider was briefly married. Little is known about her except that she was violent, alcoholic, promiscuous, unfaithful, and utterly hated Spider (a feeling that Spider returned with equal hatred). Spider's wife hated him so much that she had herself put in cryogenic stasis (like Mary and the other Revivals) with orders to revive her only once Spider was confirmed to be dead. Before doing so, she offended an anti-"exoteric" religious sect in order to motivate them to kill Spider so that she could be revived soon. In order to placate the sect, Spider threw his Wife's frozen head over the side of a building into the canal below, stating " Since when does water go crunch?" (that was actually Stomponato after he jumped off the wharf unnoticed a moment before). Then he hears a satisfactory plop and says, "More like a sloosh than a splash".
Alan Schact: The Smiler's political consultant. Schact and Vita constantly bicker about how the Smiler's campaign should be managed, often trying to make one another look bad in front of the press. Unlike Vita, who believes that Callahan can embody a "third way" between conservatism and liberalism, Schact believes that the "third way" means finding a balance between honesty and outright deception. Spider believes and later proves that Schact is the prime architect of Vita Severn's assassination, and eventually exposes him as a predatory pedophile. Schact later commits suicide after being exposed and incinerates his home to minimise any damaging evidence it might yield. Spider eventually makes his survival known to the City by defecating on Schact's grave.
Bob Heller, a virulently, openly conservative (bordering on fascist) and racist candid