[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Robb (author)

Robb began the blog Global Guerrillas to cover developments in terrorism and guerrilla warfare. In April 2007, he published his book Brave New War, introducing the concept of open-source warfare and superempowered terrorism.  The book was featured in The New York Times by the columnist David Brooks.

His thesis contributed to the overall understanding of the "Global War on Terror" and specifically the Iraq War. Numerous other contemporary military theorists have noted the significance of Robb's work, including Thomas P.M. Barnett, William Lind and Chet Richards.

Noah Shachtman, the editor of Wired's military column, "Danger Room", wrote, "For years, now, no one has had a better read on the enemies that America has been fighting — from Afghanistan to Iraq to Indonesia to here at home — than John Robb."

David Brooks in The New York Times wrote, "Over the past few years, John Robb has been dissecting the behavior of these groups on his blog, Global Guerrillas. Robb is a graduate of the Air Force Academy and Yale University, and he has worked both as a special ops counterterrorism officer and as a successful software executive.  In other words, he’s had personal experience both with modern warfare and the sort of information management that is the key to winning it. He's collected his thoughts in a fast, thought-sparking book, 'Brave New War'."

Resilient communities
In 2006, Robb turned his attention from the international war on terror to the domestic concept of "resilient communities".  The concept was formally introduced in his article "Power to the People" published in Fast Company in March 2006, and expanded in Brave New War (John Wiley & Sons, 2007).

Robb defines resilient communities as a social and economic development in response to a broken bureaucracy. Resilient communities are self-dependent, producing all critical goods (food, water, energy, security, etc.) locally rather than relying on a central supply system. Such communities do not separate themselves from society, but are prepared for any breakdown in society that might arise.

References

External links
 Global Guerrillas
 WaldenLabs
 "The Open-Source War", New York Times  October 15, 2005
 "Power to the People", Fast Company March 2006
 "Best and Brightest", Esquire 2007
 "The Coming Urban Terror", City Journal, Summer 2007
  "Senate Testimony on how to reform social networking", Senate Archive, September 2021

American military writers
United States Air Force Academy alumni
Living people
1962 births
Yale School of Management alumni