[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Thomas Lee (Virginia colonist)

ence. Married Rebecca Tayloe, daughter of John Tayloe II of Mount Airy. Tayloe built Menokin for his daughter and her new husband.
 Alice Lee (June 4, 1736 – March 25, 1817)
 William Lee (August 31, 1737 – June 27, 1795)
 James Lee (b. and d. 1739)
 Arthur Lee (December 21, 1740 – December 12, 1792)

1728 was a tragic year for Lee and his family. On January 29, thieves broke into the house, stealing the Lee family plate, jewelry, and other articles of value, and upon leaving, set fire to the plantation house at Machodoc. The fire destroyed the entire plantation, including Thomas' office, the barns, and the outhouses. Almost all of the Lees' possessions were destroyed, as well as up to 10,000 pounds in cash (equal to £ today). The house quickly burned, and Hannah Lee, pregnant with her fourth child, had to be thrown from her chamber window on the second floor. This resulted in Hannah's miscarriage of a son (they named him John). Also injured in the fire was a young enslaved girl who died of her wounds. Virginia Governor William Gooch blamed transported convicts for the crime.  It is said that Col. Lee's loss was not less than 50,000 pounds (equal to £ today). British officials later gave Lee 300 pounds (equal to £ today) as compensation, and Queen Caroline also gave him money from her private purse to help finance the rebuilding. The convicts and an accomplice were later found guilty. Their punishment is unknown because the trial records were destroyed. When construction began on the new Lee mansion, the family stayed with Thomas's brother Henry at Lee Hall. Lee sold the "Machodoc" estate to Richard Lee III's son, George Lee, who built "Mount Pleasant".

Lee's political career required trips to Williamsburg, causing him to be away from his family for extended periods. Lee managed to make the 80-mile (130-km) journey to his family and to be with his wife at the births of each of their children. Several of the sons became high-ranking political figures and were active in the American Revolutionary War and post-war politics. Richard Henry was a senator from Virginia to the United States Senate, and Francis Lightfoot was in the Virginia Senate. Lee's youngest sons William Lee and Arthur Lee served as diplomats to various European nations.  William, along with Jan de Neufville, drafted an unofficial treaty between the United States and the Dutch Republic which Great Britain used as a casus belli for the Fourth Anglo-Dutch War.

Ohio Company
Lee was appointed commissioner, along with William Beverley, to negotiate with the Six Nations of the Iroquois at the Treaty of Lancaster in 1744. At the treaty, an agreement was made with the Six Nations for 400 pounds (equal to £ today) in return for the right for Virginians to travel through and settle in the Shenandoah Valley.

In 1747, Lee co-founded the Ohio Company of Virginia along with Lawrence Washington, Augustine Washington Jr., the Duke of Bedford, and John Hanbury. The Ohio Company was a land speculation venture which helped colonize the Ohio Country. Lee's influence as a member of the Governor's Council helped lead to the success of the Ohio Company, and within seven years, the company had 100 families living in Ohio. He was also the company's first president and, after Lee died, was succeeded by Lawrence Washington.

Stratford Hall

With Lee's higher rank in society and wealth, he decided he needed to build a mansion to secure his position as one of the Virginia gentry. he chose the "Clifts," which he had owned since the mid-1710s. Lee decided on this site because it was located in Westmoreland County, where he was born, and because it was located on the Potomac River. The land was sufficient for many construction laborers to live there. Hannah had an influential say in designing and planning the house's interior. Philip, the couple's eldest son, had said, "See what it is to be ruled by a woman. I should have been now living in a house like this ... had not my father been persuaded by his wife to put up this very inferior dwelling, now over my head." The exact construction date of the house is unknown, but it is estimated that construction began around 1725–30, as all of Lee's sons were born at Stratford. Workers on the plantation were from all the working class: free people and indentured servants (mostly from Europe), and enslaved people.

Between 1719 and 1746, Lee acquired vast holdings in what are now Fairfax, Fauquier, Prince William, and Loudoun counties. The town of Leesburg, was named in his honor as recommended by his two sons, the founders and trustees.