[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Philip Bonsal

of the new government. Bonsal admitted that "animosity was inevitable" but that he was hopeful that "at some point we can get down to a reasoned dialogue." Castro was critical of the arrival of Bonsal in the Cuban press and compared him to a colonial viceroy, and dialogue was not easily forthcoming.

When Bonsal testified before a closed session of the House Committee on Foreign Relations in May 1959, he explained why the revolution had such widespread popular support: "the corruption and the sadism of many Batista henchmen united most Cubans against the regime." He described how Batista's security forces had killed many while "many, many more were arrested on no charges and kept in jail for indefinite periods."

In August, he protested to Secretary of State Herter that Cuban-American relations were being poisoned by the fact that the US was allowing several hundred Batista allies to live in the country, which appeared to the Cubans as harboring counter-revolutionaries. He urged them to be forced to "move on to some other country."

On September 3, 1959, Bonsal met with Castro and express concern that American businesses, which had complied fully with the Land Reform Law, were concerned that government agents were acting arbitrarily and without legal sanction. He complained of anti-American comments by Guevara, who was then on a world tour. Castro advised patience and forbearance with "the exuberances of young and inexperienced revolutionaries."

In October 1959, Castro called the US "accomplices" of Batista loyalists forces who had launched air attacks on Cuba. Bonsal lodged a formal protest with Cuban President Osvaldo Dorticós on October 27 and blamed Castro for the deterioration of relations.

In mid-1960, the Cuban government reached an agreement to sell 700,000 tons of sugar to the Soviet Union, leading to a series of escalating actions by the US and Cuba. The US suspended sugar imports, Cuba nationalized American-owned businesses, and on October 19, the US imposed an embargo on US exports to Cuba except for food and medicine. Bonsal thought the Eisenhower administration was over-reacting and forcing Castro into an alliance with the Soviets.

After Castro called for a reduction in the staff of the US embassy in Havana, Bonsal was recalled to Washington in October 1960.

Formal diplomatic relations between the two countries were severed shortly afterward, and US diplomatic representation in Cuba was handled by the United States Interests Section in Havana, part of the embassy of Switzerland. That arrangement lasted until July 20, 2015, with the culmination of the Cuban Thaw.

Some leading members of the US Congress felt his attempt at a conciliatory approach to the Castro regime represented an appeasement of communism.

Morocco
Bonsal was United States Ambassador to Morocco from 1961 to 1962. He retired from government service in 1965.

Later years
As of 1971, he called for "disengagement from a bankrupt Vietnam policy" by noting that China and Russia had invested comparatively modest resources in the conflict, compared to the American loss of 40,000 lives. He hoped that all the major powers would nevertheless recognize that "big-power confrontation by proxy is so repulsively destructive of the welfare of the proxies as to render its repetition elsewhere inconceivable".

He also described the Pentagon Papers as "stolen property" and objected to those who ignored the violation of government secrecy standards because the revelations supported their political judgment.

Bonsal published a memoir, "Cuba, Castro and the United States," in 1971.

Bonsal died of pneumonia on June 28, 1995, at the age of 92. He was survived by his wife.

His papers are held by the Library of Congress.

See also

 Cuba-United States relations
 History of Cuba

Notes

References

External links
U.S. Dept. of State, Office of the Historian: Philip Wilson Bonsal (1903-1995)

1903 births
1995 deaths
Morris family (Morrisania and New Jersey)
Diplomats from New York City
Yale University alumni
20th-century American diplomats
Ambassadors of the United States to Bolivia
Ambassadors of the United States to Colombia
Ambassadors of the United States to Cuba
Ambassadors of the United States to Morocco
United States Foreign Service personnel
American people of Powhatan descent