[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zirve Publishing House murders

The Zirve Publishing House murders, called the missionary massacres by Turkish media, took place on April 18, 2007, in Zirve Publishing House, Malatya,  Turkey. Three employees of the Bible publishing house were attacked, tortured, and murdered by five Muslim assailants.

The attack 
Gökhan Talas, the chief witness and a Protestant, came with his wife to the office. The door was locked from inside which was quite unusual. Suspecting that something had happened, he called Uğur Yüksel not knowing that he was inside tied to a chair. Yüksel replied and said that they were in a hotel for a meeting. Talas heard someone crying in the background during his talk with Yüksel, and decided to call the police, who arrived soon thereafter. According to Talas, the attackers killed Yüksel and Aydın after the police arrived.

The victims 
Two of the victims, Necati Aydın, 36, and Uğur Yüksel, 32, were Turkish converts from Islam. The third man, Tilmann Geske, 45, was a German citizen. Necati Aydın was an actor who played the role of Jesus Christ in a theater production that the TURK-7 network aired over the Easter holidays.

Aydın is survived by his wife, Şemse, and a son and daughter, both preschool age. Geske is survived by his wife Susanne and three children aged 8 to 13. Yüksel was engaged.

Necati Aydın was a graduate of the Martin Bucer Seminary whose president Thomas Schirrmacher said he simply cried when he learned of the deaths.

Responses 
 "We are upset that such an atrocity took place in our country." said Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, the Turkish Prime Minister.
 "[I condemn the attacks] in the strongest terms. [We will] do everything to clear up this crime completely and bring those responsible to justice." said Frank-Walter Steinmeier, the German Foreign Minister.
 "Missionary work is even more dangerous than terrorism and unfortunately is not considered a crime in Turkey," said Niyazi Güney, Justice Ministry Statutes Directorate General Manager.
The massacre was protested by Malatyaspor supporters in a soccer competition between Malatyaspor and Gençlerbirliği.

Following this incident, along with other high-profile hate crimes like the murder of Hrant Dink, hate crimes in Turkey began to receive more attention from activists.

Court hearings 
Eleven suspects were apprehended after the attack. The chief suspect, Yunus Emre Günaydın, was treated for serious wounds after he attempted to jump out of a window to escape police. All of the alleged killers were between 19 and 20 years old. 
Günaydın was born in 1988 in Malatya and had no previous convictions. One suspect confessed that "The leader of the group was Emre. It was he who devised the plan to kill them. We went to the publishing house together. When we entered the place, we tied them to their chairs and Emre slit their throats". According to another suspect, the victims knew Günaydın, as he regularly visited the publishing house. Another suspect added that they all knew each other. When apprehended, the suspects were carrying a note that said in part "We did it for our country. They are trying to take our country away, take our religion away."

The Malatya Peace Court (Nöbetçi Sulh Ceza Mahkemesi) ordered pre-trial detention for Hamit Çeker, Salih Güler, Abuzer Yıldırım, and Cuma Özdemir for the crimes of establishing a terrorist organization, being a member of a terrorist organization, homicide, and depriving people of their liberties. Turna Işıklı, Emre Günaydın's girlfriend, was also arrested for aiding a terrorist organization. The car which the attackers were planning to use during their escape was rented by Salih Güler. According to eyewitnesses, Günaydın and his four accomplices practiced shooting two days before the event.

After being released from hospital in May 2007, Günaydın admitted to his guilt in his first interrogation.

Malatya Heavy Penal Court No. 3 started to hear the case in 2008. On the tenth day of the hearing, Günaydın said that a journalist, Varol Bülent Aral, had told him that the missionary work was connected to the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK). Günaydın stated, "He told me that Christianity and the missionary work done in its name had the goal of destroying the motherland. I asked him if someone should not stop this? He told me to then get up and stop this. I asked him how it could be done. He said they would provide us with the state support." The prosecutors then demanded a copy of the Ergenekon indictment concerning an alleged high-level cabal, and the judge agreed to request this from the Heavy Penal Court in Istanbul. Asked about a document that he was alleged to have written, Günaydın denied any connection with retired Major General Levent Ersöz, who was arrested with reference to the Ergenekon case, or the Istanbul president of an ultra-nationalist association, Levent Temiz.