[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Board of directors

d work. Surveys have indicated that about 20% of nonprofit foundations pay their board members, and 2% of American nonprofit organizations do. 80% of nonprofit organizations require board members to personally contribute to the organization. As of 2007, this percentage had increased in recent years.

Criticism
According to John Gillespie, a former investment banker and co-author of a book critical of boards, "Far too much of their time has been for check-the-box and cover-your-behind activities rather than real monitoring of executives and providing strategic advice on behalf of shareholders". At the same time, scholars have found that individual directors have a large effect on major corporate initiatives such as mergers and acquisitions and cross-border investments.

The issue of gender representation on corporate boards of directors has been the subject of much criticism in recent years. Governments and corporations have responded with measures such as legislation mandating gender quotas and comply or explain systems to address the disproportionality of gender representation on corporate boards. A study of the French corporate elite has found that certain social classes are also disproportionately represented on boards, with those from the upper and, especially, upper-middle classes tending to dominate.

See also

Alternate director
Celebrity board director
Governing boards of colleges and universities in the United States
Parliamentary procedure in the corporate world
Vorstand, German for 'management board'
 Worker representation on corporate boards of directors

Notes

References

Citations

Sources 
 P. Blumberg, 'Reflections on Proposals for Corporate Reform Through Change in the Composition of the Board of Directors: "Special Interest" or "Public" Directors' (1973) 53 Boston University Law Review 547
 
 KJ Hopt, 'The German Two-Tier Board: Experience, Theories, Reforms' in KJ Hopt and others. (eds), Comparative Corporate Governance: The State of the Art and Emerging Research (Clarendon 1998)
 KJ Hopt and PC Leyens, 'Board Models in Europe – Recent Developments of Internal Corporate Governance Structures in Germany, the United Kingdom, France, and Italy' (2004) EGCI Working Paper
 
 Acre Resources LTD (2018), The Case for a Social Board, London, UK

External links

NEDonBoard — UK professional body for non-executive directors and board members
Website of the board of a large U.S. university, illustrating a typical board's composition, duties, concerns, etc.
National Association of Corporate Directors
Institute of Directors UK
GBAC Global Board Advisors Corp

 
 
Business law
Business terms
Corporate law
Committees