[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Global strategic petroleum reserves

uzu International Airport.

South Africa
South Africa has an SPR managed by PetroSA. The main facility is the Saldanha Bay oil storage facility, which is a major transit point for oil shipping. Saldanha Bay's six in-ground concrete storage tanks give the facility a storage capacity of .

Asia

China

In 2007, China announced the expansion of its crude reserves into a two-part system. China's reserves would consist of a government-controlled strategic reserve complemented by mandated commercial reserves. The government-controlled reserves are being completed in three stages. Phase one consisted of a  reserve, mostly completed by the end of 2008.  The second phase of the government-controlled reserves with an additional  was to be completed by 2011. Recently, Zhang Guobao, head of the National Energy Administration, stated that there will be a third phase that will expand reserves by  with the goal of increasing China's SPR to 90 days of supply by 2020.

The planned state reserves of  together with the planned enterprise reserves of  will provide around 90 days of consumption or a total of .

India

In 2003, India started development on a strategic crude oil reserve sized at , enough to provide two weeks of consumption. Petroleum stocks have been transferred from the Indian Oil Corporation (IndianOil) to the Oil Industry Development Board (OIDB). The OIDB then created the Indian Strategic Petroleum Reserves Ltd (ISPRL) to serve as the controlling government agency for the strategic reserve.

The facilities are located at:
Mangalore, State of Karnataka. Capacity of 10.515 million barrels.
Padur village, Udupi in the state of Karnataka. Capacity of 17.525 million barrels.
Visakhapatnam, State of Andhra Pradesh. Capacity of 9.33 million barrels.

On 21 December 2011, a senior oil ministry official announced that India was planning to augment its crude reserve capacity to 132 million barrels by 2020.

Japan 

As of 2010, Japan has an SPR composed of the following three types of stockpiles:
 State-controlled reserves of petroleum at 11 different locations totaling . 
Tomakomai Eastern Oil Reserve Storage Base – 55 storage tanks, total capacity .
Mutsu-Ogawara Storage Base – 53 storage tanks, total capacity .
Kuji Storage Base – three storage tanks, total capacity .
Akita Storage Base – 15 storage tanks, total capacity .
Fukui Storage Base – 27 storage tanks, total capacity .
Kikuma Underground Petroleum Storage Facility – eight storage tanks, total capacity .
Shirashima Storage Facility – eight tankers ( each), total capacity .
Kamigotou Storage Base – seven storage tanks, total capacity .
Kushikino Storage Base – three storage tanks, total capacity .
Shibushi Storage Base – 40 storage tanks, total capacity .
Kagoshima – . A forward commercial storage facility with Abu Dhabi.
 Private reserves of petroleum held in accordance with the Petroleum Stockpiling Law of .
 Other private reserves of petroleum products for an additional 

The state-controlled reserves and the privately held stockpiles total about . enough to provide 224 days of consumption. The Japanese SPR is run by the Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation.

Singapore 
Singapore has sophisticated oil refineries and storage terminals, and is one of the world's three major oil refining centers and exports refined oil to the world. The country has a crude refining capacity of just under 1.4 million bbl/d, according to Oil & Gas Journal. This capacity is spread across three refineries and is significantly greater than the country's domestic petroleum products consumption. Refiners focus on export markets rather than domestic consumption. Storage capacity was around 55 million barrels as of year-end 2012. The country's largest oil storage facility is located on Jurong Island and can store about 17 million barrels.  As of 2013, the Singapore government maintains strategic petroleum reserves of about 32 million barrels of crude oil and 65 million barrels of refined petroleum products.

South Korea 
In South Korea, refineries, specified distributors, and importers, are obliged to hold from 40 to 60 days of their daily import, sale, or refined production, based on the previous 12 months. At the end of 2010, South Korea possessed a total storage capacity of 286 million barrels (45.5 million cubic meters), composed of 146 mb of South Korea National Oil Corporation's facilities used for government stocks and international joint oil stockpiling, and 140 mb used for industry operation and mandatory industry stocks. South Korea's oil stocks in terms of days of net imports have consistently been above 160 days since January 2009, hitting the country's historical record of 240 days (124 days of government stocks and 117 days of industry stocks) in March 2014.

Others
The Philippines had plans for a National Petroleum Strategic Reserve by 2010 with an approximate size of .