[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Denis Fahey

l, referring frequently to the work of Edward Cahill. Fahey regularly corresponded with anti-Semitic theorists outside Ireland, such as the British conspiracy theorist Nesta Webster, an important influence. His works appeared in the French language in Canada, having been translated by Adrien Arcand.

He felt that there was a Judeo-Masonic conspiracy against the programme of Christ, and among other statements asserted that Jews had a hand in the propagation of communism. As a result, Fahey opposed the Irish Republican Army, which he believed was a communist organisation.

Monetary reform
In his 1944 book Money, Manipulation and Social Order, Fahey turned towards the subject of economic reform. In this book he attacked gold standard economies, which he felt were debt-driven. Drawing on the ideas of Frederick Soddy, with whom he was in regular correspondence, Fahey wanted banks to be forced to balance all loans with holdings of currency. Although he was not directly linked to such contemporary movements as Social Credit or Guild socialism, Fahey certainly shared elements of their economic ideas. He had previously written in support of the views of An Ríoghacht – which advocated an Irish monetary system completely independent of the United Kingdom – in an article for the journal Hibernia in 1938.

Maria Duce
Fahey had been closely involved with Edward Cahill's An Ríoghacht study group, although following Cahill's death in 1941 this organisation became more mainstream and less concerned with conspiracy theories. As a result, Fahey began to organise his own group, Maria Duce, the following year to continue this work. With a membership drawn from various facets of society and with a programme largely the same as Fahey's, Maria Duce came to prominence in 1949 by launching a campaign to amend Article 44 of the Constitution of Ireland. This article had recognised the "special position" of the Catholic Church in Ireland although it also recognised various Protestant creeds, as well as Judaism. Ireland became the first country to recognise the rights of minority faiths such as Judaism as equal with the majority faith in its constitution.
Fahey argued that this was insufficient and that the Constitution should recognise the Catholic Church as being divinely ordained and separate from 'man-made' religions. Fahey called into question the loyalty of Irish Jews to the Irish State. The campaign succeeded in securing a resolution of support from Westmeath county council in 1950, but no further progress towards the goal of a constitutional amendment was made.

Archbishop McQuaid
Fahey's writings have been a source of controversy, both in his lifetime and since. Writing to Joseph MacRory in 1942, Archbishop John Charles McQuaid of Dublin stated that
Dr Fahey will certainly not err in doctrine, but he is capable of making statements and suggestions that are not capable of proof by any evidence available to the censors... I have been obliged to watch carefully his remarks upon the Jews. [He] will frequently err in good judgement, and this error will take the shape of excerpts from newspapers as proof of serious statements, unwise generalisations and, where Jews are concerned, remarks capable of rousing the ignorant or malevolent. In his own Congregation, Fr Fahey is not regarded as a man of balanced judgement. He is a wretched Professor, obscure and laborious.
Although Fahey's Maria Duce organisation was initially left to its own devices, Archbishop McQuaid grew less sympathetic to it in the latter half of the 1950s. He condemned the group for their heavy-handed reaction to requests for an interview from the anti-Catholic American writer Paul Blanshard (whom Bishop McQuaid felt should have been treated courteously despite disagreeing strongly with him). McQuaid went as far as to write to Fahey in 1954 stating that he opposed the latter's association of the name of the Blessed Virgin Mary with his organisation. Fahey died before any response could be made, and the group was disbanded the following year; McQuaid took on the group afterward.

Legacy
Fahey left behind a large written body of work that he did not protect by copyright, instead leaving it in the public domain. Some of his publications remain in print in the United States, where he continues to have a following. Antisemitic activist L. Fry also promoted much of Fahey's work on the decay of Christianity. People in Irish political circles also tried to set up movements adopting some of Fahey's strong beliefs on Catholicism, coupled with a more extreme form of nationalism; such figures included Gearóid Ó Cuinneagáin, founder of far-right organisation Ailtirí na hAiséirghe and Gerry McGeough, who founded the magazine The Hibernian.

Fahey's surviving papers are housed at the Irish Spiritan Archives at Kimmage Manor, Dublin.