[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# World Refugee Day

has to have a role to play in order to bring about change within the community. Everyone ultimately can make a difference. This aims to create the efforts to create a more just, inclusive, and equal world.
 2019: Take A Step on World Refugee Day
This theme highlights the idea and focuses on the notion that we all need to take a step weather big or small to step in solidarity with refugees from around the globe. This day provides an opportunity to show globally that we all are with refugees every step of the way. 
 2018: Now More Than Ever, We Need to Stand with Refugees
The year aims to highlight, as the United Nations of high commissioner stated that it's time to recognise the humanity of refugees in action, it is to challenge ourselves, and others, to join them, in the aims to receive and supporting refugees in our schools, neighbourhoods, and workplaces no matter where we are.
 2017: Embracing Refugees to celebrate our Common Humanity
The year supports refugees all over the world, the day aims to show people that they must stand with them in their plight, and honour the courage, strength and determination of women, men and children who are forced to flee their homeland though threat of persecution, conflict and violence, without having the promise of a better life.
 2016: We stand together with refugees
With the petition of #WithRefugees petition, aims to send a message to different governments that they must work together and do their fair share for refugees and ensure that they are treated fairly and are given the same opportunities for the aims of rebuilding their lives.
 2015: With courage let us all combine
The year aimed to show public support for refugees' courage from individuals, government officials, host communities, companies, celebrities, school children and the general public, among others. 
 2014: Migrants and Refugees: Towards a Better World
The year highlighted that although humanitarians can help as a palliative, but political solutions are needed. Without this push for change, conflict and the mass suffering of refugees will continue. 
 2013: Take 1 minute to support a family forced to flee
The year aims to concur three things, learn to listen to the stories that families have been thought, take action by attending World Refugee Day events, and Spread the word by following events on social media and share with everyone on how individuals celebrate World Refugee Day.
 2012: 1 family torn apart by war is too many
The year urged industrialised countries not to close their doors to asylum seekers or try to lessen their obligations to refugees. The UN High Commissioner for Refugees argued "In any case, no wall will be high enough to prevent people from coming".
 2010: 1 refugee forced to flee is too many
There are many reasons to which one must flee their country but with so many people having do leave means that everyone in their host country must give them the respect for their strength to push through. 
 2009: Real People, Real Needs
Individuals are able to show their support by participating in actives such as educating people about refugees and creating awareness of how different people's experiences are around the world.
 2008: Protection
The nation aims to appreciate the struggle represents a humanitarian emergency, many individuals face discrimination and exclusion from the community they are in therefore by creating this day is enables people to learn the struggles of refugees and understand their perseverance in life.
 2007: Perseverance
The international community seeks to draw attention to the plight of refugees and celebrate their courage and resilience in leaving their everyday to start a new life sometimes in a country where they are unfamiliar with the language.
 2006: Hope
The day will shine a light on the rights, needs and dreams of refugees, helping to mobilise political will and the resources that are available so that the refugees can not only survive but also thrive in the growing community that they are in.
2005: Courage
All refugees have different stories of their anguish from how they have been able to leave their country and leave everything behind, they all share a common thread of uncommon courage, it is the courage not only to survive, but to persevere and rebuild their shattered lives.
2004: A place to call Home 
This gives refugees the opportunity to feel like they belong they are faced with an uncertain future in a strange land, the sense of loss and alienation will be overwhelming. To lose one's home can be to lose one's very identity. The country aims to make these individuals feel less alienated.
 2003: Refugee Youth: Building the Future
Education will aim to help people forced to flee build better futures, children should be given the opportunity to learn and be in a safe learning environment so that they are able to be given the future that they deserve.
 2002: Tolerance
The day is a focus on three so-called durable solutions – repatriation to their hom