[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Teva Pharmaceuticals

eric drug in all strengths except 80 mg. Teva presently competes with the maker of brand-name Zocor, Merck & Co.; Ranbaxy Laboratories, which has 180-day exclusivity for the 80 mg strength; and Dr. Reddy's Laboratories, whose authorized generic version (licensed by Merck) is exempt from exclusivity.

In June 2010, the company announced it would discontinue its production of propofol, a major sedative estimated to be used in 75% of all US anesthetic procedures.

In March 2015, Teva sold four anti-cancer compounds to Ignyta Inc. for $41.6 million. As part of the deal Teva sold the following compounds which were then renamed:
CEP-32496 (renamed RXDX-105) a small molecule inhibitor of BRAF, EGFR and RET, now in Phase I/II trials
CEP-40783 (renamed RXDX-106) a small molecule inhibitor of AXL and c-Met in preclinical development
CEP-40125 (renamed RXDX-107) a nanoformulation of a modified bendamustine with potential activity in solid tumours. Bendamustine Rapid Infusion as therapy for CLL and NHL is part of Teva's specialty drugs pipeline. 
TEV-44229 (renamed RXDX-108) a potent inhibitor of the kinase PKCiota

In July 2019, the company stopped production of Vincristine, a critical drug used to treat the most common forms of childhood cancer, and was criticized by media for creating a worldwide shortage of the drug. On 28 January 2020, the company announced that the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) had approved an autoinjector device for Ajovy (fremanezumab-vfrm) injection.

Legal issues
On June 25, 2010, Bayer sued Teva for falsely claiming that Teva's Gianvi was stabilized by betadex as a clathrate, and could consequently be advertised as a generic of Yaz The settlement resulted in Teva changing its product marketing to remove the claim that it used the same ingredients as Yaz. Bayer's method specifically prevents oxidative degradation of the estrogen, while Teva's does not.

In January 2015, the Supreme Court of the United States decided on the Copaxone patent in Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. v. Sandoz, Inc.

In December 2016, the attorneys general of 20 states filed a civil complaint accusing Teva of a coordinated scheme to artificially maintain high prices for a generic antibiotic and diabetes drug. The complaint alleged price collusion schemes between six pharmaceutical firms including informal gatherings, telephone calls, and text messages.

In January 2019, the Supreme Court of the United States decided for Teva in Helsinn Healthcare S.A. v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc.

On May 11, 2019, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA was one of 19 drug companies sued for price fixing in the United States by 44 states for inflating its prices, sometimes up to 1000%, in an illegal agreement among it and its competitors. In June 2021, Teva agreed to pay $925M to settle allegations it had engaged in price fixing in Mississippi. In January 2022, Teva agreed to pay $425M to settle allegations that it had concealed price fixing practices from shareholders.

In May 2019, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA agreed to pay $85 million to the U.S. state of Oklahoma to settle allegations that it had been overprescribing opioids, marketing them as safe, and downplaying their addictive qualities.

In July 2019, Teva paid $69 million to settle pay-for-delay claims.

In 2021, New York Attorney General Letitia James filed a lawsuit against Teva and several other opioid manufacturers for their alleged contribution to the opioid epidemic in New York.

In February 2022, Teva agreed to a $225 million settlement with the state of Texas to end claims that it fueled an opioid epidemic in the state by improperly marketing pain medicine.

In August 2023, Teva admitted to price-fixing charges related to the generic cholesterol drug Pravastatin, and agreed to pay a $225 million fine, after a criminal investigation by the US Department of Justice.  The US Deptartment of Justice stated that the settlement was "the largest to date for a domestic antitrust cartel."

Pharmaceutical products

A full list of products destined for the US market is available from tevagenerics.com. Teva also manufactures generic medications for use outside of the US; Cyproterone acetate and Moclobemide being two examples.