[Source: PubMed]

9. J Occup Med Toxicol. 2024 Jan 5;19(1):1. doi: 10.1186/s12995-023-00398-y.

The environmental health impacts of Russia's war on Ukraine.

Hryhorczuk D(1), Levy BS(2), Prodanchuk M(3), Kravchuk O(3), Bubalo N(3), 
Hryhorczuk A(4), Erickson TB(5).

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences and Epidemiology, 
University of Illinois School of Public Health, Chicago, USA. dhryhorc@uic.edu.
(2)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Tufts University School 
of Medicine, Boston, USA.
(3)L.I.Medved's Research Center of Preventive Toxicology, Food and Chemical 
Safety, Ministry of Health, Kiev, Ukraine.
(4)Third Horizon Strategies, Chicago, USA.
(5)Department of Emergency Medicine, Division of Medical Toxicology, Mass 
General Brigham, Harvard Medical School, Harvard Humanitarian Initiative, 
Boston, USA.

BACKGROUND: Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 ignited the largest 
armed conflict in Europe since World War II. Ukrainian government agencies, 
civil society organizations, and international agencies have gathered an 
unprecedented amount of data about the impact of war on the environment, which 
is often the silent victim of war. We review these data and highlight the 
limitations of international governance for protection of the environment during 
time of war.
METHODS: We performed an integrative review of academic, institutional, and 
media information resources using the search terms "Ukraine", "Russia", "war", 
"environment", "health", "human rights", "international humanitarian 
law", "international human rights law", "ecocide", and "war crimes".
MAIN TEXT: Nearly 500,000 military personnel have been killed or wounded during 
the war, and more than 30,000 civilians have been killed or injured. Indirect 
health effects of the war have likely accounted for an even greater amount of 
civilian morbidity and mortality. The war has displaced more than 11 million 
people. Russia's military forces have caused extensive damage to civilian 
infrastructure. The war has devastated Ukraine's economy and reduced food and 
energy security in many countries. The war has caused more than $56.4 billion in 
damage to the environment. There has been widespread chemical contamination of 
air, water, and soil, and 30% of Ukraine has been contaminated with landmines 
and unexploded ordnance. Landscape destruction, shelling, wildfires, 
deforestation, and pollution have adversely affected 30% of Ukraine's protected 
areas. Russia's seizure of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant and destruction 
of the Nova Kakhovka Dam have posed risks of long-term environmental 
catastrophe. Most of these environmental impacts threaten human health.
CONCLUSION: In addition to enormous human costs, Russia's war on Ukraine has had 
devastating impacts on the natural environment and the built environment. 
International law mandates that methods of warfare must be implemented with due 
regard to the protection and preservation of the natural environment. A just and 
lasting peace necessitates, among other requirements, rebuilding and restoration 
of Ukraine's natural environment and built environment. The environmental 
consequences of all wars need to be investigated and more effective measures 
need to be implemented to protect the environment during war.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12995-023-00398-y
PMCID: PMC10768292
PMID: 38183124

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.