[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gabi Ashkenazi

advantage over Ashkenazi" given his personal ties with Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon. As a result of the decision, Ashkenazi officially retired from the IDF in May 2005, leaving in "enormous pain and disappointment." He then became a partner in a security consultancy company based in Tel Aviv.

Director-General of the Defense Ministry (2006)
One year later, Defense Minister Amir Peretz brought Ashkenazi back to the military to serve as the Ministry of Defense's Director-General. In this position, Ashkenazi became the relatively inexperienced Minister's "right hand man" during the 2006 Israel-Lebanon conflict and, according to Ynetnews, proved to be "much more proficient" than his boss. Ynetnews attributes Peretz's decision to promote Ashkenazi to Chief of Staff to the two men's successful working relationship during the Lebanon war.

Chief of the General Staff (2007–2011) 

Ashkenazi became the Chief of the General Staff of the Israel Defense Forces on February 14, 2007.

As a Rav Aluf, Ashkenazi had to deal with the events of the Second Lebanon War and to draw conclusions for improvements. Under his command, the IDF went through a process of fixing its faults and weaknesses which manifested in the Second Lebanon War. Ashkenazi emphasized many intensive military trainings and military exercises, ranging from reinserting basic skills forgotten, up to large multi-corps exercise (which sometimes included full brigades).

In December 2007 Ashkenazi met with Admiral Michael Mullen, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff of the United States – this was the first time in ten years that an Israeli chief of staff met with his U.S. counterpart. While on visit in the United States in July 2008 Mullen gave Ashkenazi the Legion of Merit military decoration with the Commander rank.

At the end of February 2008, Ashkenazi commanded Operation Hot Winter during which the IDF fought terrorist organizations in Gaza for two days. The fighting ended in a truce agreement between Israel and Hamas. At the end of 2008 and in early 2009 Ashkenazi commanded also Operation Cast Lead during which the IDF fought against Hamas and other Palestinian forces in Gaza.

In February 2011, Ashkenazi retired from the army, and was succeeded by Benny Gantz.

Ashkenazi reportedly pushed back against an Israeli military strike on Iran in 2010. Israeli Channel 10 reported that at a pivotal meeting where Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu tried to persuade his cabinet and military to order a strike, Ashkenazi and other security chiefs steadfastly opposed the move. As a result, Netanyahu did not receive the support from his cabinet to order the strike.

In April 2013, he gave his first on-camera interview outside of Israel, and urged the West to provide "lethal assistance" for the opposition forces in the Syrian civil war after it was reported that President Bashar al-Assad's regime has used chemical weapons. ″Maybe a year and a half ago, when we had 10,000 deaths and less foreigners coming from Chechnya or Iraq or whatever and more extremists affiliated with al Qaeda, like Jabhat al-Nusra and others.″ Ashkenazi lamented that more action was not taken in the past as it would, perhaps, have saved lives in the long run of a civil war that has so far cost over 70,000 lives and generated over a million refugees.

Public positions
In November 2011, Ashkenazi was appointed chairman of Shemen Oil and Gas Explorations Ltd., an Israeli company engaged in hydrocarbon exploration.

Ashkenazi served as Chairman of the Rashi Foundation from February 2012 to 2021

Political career

In February 2019, the Israel Resilience Party, Telem and the Yesh Atid party announced that Ashkenazi would be joining their joint list for the 2019 Knesset election named Blue and White. Ashkenazi is number four on the new list of candidates, as another representative of the Israel Resilience Party. In 2020, Ashkenazi was appointed Minister of Foreign Affairs as a part of the Thirty-fifth government of Israel. He officially took his oath of office on 17 May 2020. He served in the position until 13 June 2021, when he was replaced by Yair Lapid.

Personal life
He lives in Kfar Saba with his wife Ronit and their two children, Gali and Itai. Itai played quarterback in the Israeli Football League.

Awards and recognition
In March 2012, the city of Or Yehuda named a street after him.

References

External links