[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Channelling (physics)

ch become bigger than interplanar distances. The particle's diffraction is dominating here. At high energies the quantum effects and diffraction are less effective and the channelling effect is present.

Applications
There are several particularly interesting applications of the channelling effects.

Channelling effects can be used as tools to investigate the properties of the crystal lattice and of its perturbations (like doping) in the bulk region that is not accessible to X-rays.
The channelling method may be utilized to detect the geometrical location of interstitials. This is an important variation of the Rutherford backscattering ion beam analysis technique, commonly called Rutherford backscattering/channelling (RBS-C).

The channelling may even be used for superfocusing of ion beam, to be employed for sub-atomic microscopy.

At higher energies (tens of GeV), the applications include the channelling radiation for enhanced production of high energy gamma rays, and the use of bent crystals for extraction of particles from the halo of the circulating beam in a particle accelerator.

Classical channelling theory 
The classical treatment of channelling phenomenon supposes that the ion - nucleus interactions are not correlated phenomena. The first analytic classical treatise is due to Jens Lindhard in 1965, who proposed a treatment that still remains the reference one. He proposed a model that is based on the effects of a continuous repulsive potential generated by atomic nuclei lines or planes, arranged neatly in a crystal. The continuous potential is the average in a row or on an atomic plane of the single Coulomb potentials of the charged nuclei  and shielded from the electronic cloud.

The proposed potential (named Lindhard potential) is:

r represents the distance from the nucleus,  is a constant equal to 3 and a is the screen radius of Thomas-Fermi:

 is equal to the Bohr radius (=0.53Å the radius of the smallest orbit of the Bohr atom). The typical values for the screen radius is in between 0.1-0.2 Å.

Considering the case of axial channelling, if d is the distance between two successive atoms of an atomic row, the mean of the potential along this row is equal to:

 equal to the distance between atomic lines. The obtained potential is a continuous potential generated by a string of atoms with an atomic number  and a mean distance d between nuclei.

The energy of the channeled ions, having an atomic number  can be written as:

where   e are respectively the parallel and perpendicular components of the momentum of the projectile with respect to the considered direction of the string of atoms. The potential   is the minimum potential of the channel, taking into account the superposition of the potentials generated by the various atomic lines inside the crystal.

It therefore follows that the components of the momentum are:

where  is the angle between the direction of motion of an ion and the considered crystallographic axial direction.

Neglecting the energy loss processes, the quantity  is conserved during the channeled ion motion and the energy conservation can be formulated as follows:

The equation is also known as the expression of the conservation of transverse energy. The approximation of  is feasible, since we consider a good alignment between ion and crystallographic axis.

The channelling condition can now be considered the condition for which an ion is channeled if its transverse energy is not sufficient to overcome the height of the potential barrier created by the strings of ordered nuclei. It is therefore useful to define the "critical energy"  as that transverse energy under which an ion is channeled, while if it exceeds it, an ion will be de-channeled.

Typical  values are a few tens of eV, since the critical distance  is similar to the screen radius, i.e. 0.1-0.2 Å. Therefore, all ions with transverse energy lower than  will be channeled.

In the case of  (perfect ion-axis alignment) all ions with impact parameter  will be de-channeled.

where  is the occupied area by each row of atoms having an average distance d in a material, with a density N (expressed as atoms / cm ^ 3). Therefore,  is an estimation of the smallest fraction of de-channeled ions that can be obtained from a material perfectly aligned to the ion beam. By considering a single crystal of silicon, oriented along the <110>, a  can be calculated, in good agreement with the experimental values.

Further considerations can be made by considering the thermal vibration motion of the nuclei: for this discussion, see the reference.

The critical angle  can be defined as the angle such that if the ion enters with an angle smaller than the critical angle it will be channeled vice versa its transverse energy will allow it to escape to the periodic potential.

Using the Lindhard potential and assuming the amplitude of thermal vibration  as the minimum approach distance.