[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mason Brayman

d, however, when the 9th legislative session began in December 1876 and Brayman promoted a number of administrative improvements and economic reforms.  At the same time, Brayman observed during the legislative session that there were political factions within the territory opposed to the Boise Ring.

Brayman's first confrontation with the Boise Ring came two days before the inauguration of Rutherford B. Hayes as President of the United States.  An investigation had convinced the governor that Secretary E. J. Curtis, who Brayman considered to be a leader of the Boise Ring, was guilty of wrongdoing.  The governor confronted the secretary and convinced him that he was to be replaced by the new administration and could avoid prosecution by submitting his resignation.  The situation changed two months later when Curtis rescinded his resignation, claiming he had been tricked into giving it, and demanding reinstatement.  Curtis was restored to his position and cleared of any wrongdoing.

The outbreak of the Nez Perce War led to additional problems for the governor.  Lacking legal basis for creation of a militia, Brayman was forced to rely upon General Oliver O. Howard's response to the hostilities.  This caused anger among residents of the northern counties who lacked the means to defend themselves against the hostile tribe.  Additional problems came for the governor following a visit to Rocky Bar courthouse in Alturas County.  The court faced a large backlog of cases involving mining disputes, and the delays thus caused were affecting the local economy.  Brayman suggested involved parties come to out of court settlements as a means of speeding resolution.  Chief Justice Madison Hollister, presiding justice and member of the Boise Ring, took this suggestion as a personal affront.  The Ring in turn used the incident as an excuse to seek Brayman's disbarment.  Brayman prevailed during the disbarment hearing but was publicly humiliated in the process.

The governor's troubles continued to mount as result of a racially charged murder trial.  A dispute arose on June 10, 1877, between a group of Chinese workers and hot-tempered Irish miner John McGuinness.  The dispute escalated to violence and McGuinness killed two of the Chinese and wounded a third before the remaining workers stabbed the miner to death.  The workers were convicted of second degree murder by an all white jury.  Brayman, believing the Chinese had acted in self-defense, choose to pardon the convicted workers.  The morally courageous proved politically disastrous and the white population reacted angrily to the pardons.

Additional pressure came upon Brayman as result of the May 30, 1878, outbreak of the Bannock War.  The 130 carbines held by the territory were insufficient to arm the citizens seeking protection.  Demands from the territory's residents for weapons to defend themselves eventually led the governor to seek permission to issue arms from the federal stockpile at Fort Boise.  Complicating the governor's position was the revelation that Brayman had authorized Bannock leader Buffalo Horn, a former army scout with a history of aiding the U.S. government, to purchase US$2 worth of ammunition (roughly 100 bullets and a pound of black powder) 13 days before outbreak of hostilities.

Replacement
On June 9, 1878, word arrived in Idaho that John Philo Hoyt had been appointed the territory's new governor.  Hoyt, who at the time was Governor of Arizona Territory and as unaware of the action as Brayman, was being removed by President Hayes to make way for John C. Frémont who had used his political connections to secure an influential appointment.  Hoyt was unsure about the situation and was denied Senate confirmation after failing to respond to questions in a timely manner.  Hayes then renominated Hoyt for the position, but Hoyt turned down the nomination after investigating the situation in Idaho.

The effect of this was that Brayman, while technically suspended, was still the de facto governor.  His political opponents, eager to see him gone, lobbied Hayes to appoint another replacement.  Brayman, however still maintained considerable influence outside of the territory and used his connections to petition for reinstatement.  Within the territory there were four petitions circulated expressing support for the embattled governor, one by Mormon residents, one in the northern counties, and two by anti-Ring groups.  With the conflicting opinions about Brayman, the Hayes administration decided to leave the governor in office till the expiration of his term on July 24, 1880.