[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel Boulud

as awarded three Michelin stars in the 2010 Michelin, the book's highest rating. As of August 28, 2012, he had 4 Michelin Stars in total and in January 2013, Daniel NYC was inducted into Culinary Hall of Fame. The restaurant, however, lost its third Michelin star in 2015 for "a lack of consistency".

Boulud himself has been named Chef of the Year by Bon Appétit, and received the James Beard Award for Best Chef of New York City in 1992 while Executive Chef at Le Cirque. The James Beard Foundation also recognized him as "Outstanding Chef of the Year" in 1994 and "Outstanding Restaurateur" in 2006 for restaurant Daniel. In April 2007, he received the Culinary Humanitarian Award at the United Nations from the Adopt-a-Mine Field Foundation. The President of France made Boulud a Chevalier de la Légion d'honneur in March 2006 in recognition of his contribution to the advancement of French culture. Boulud also won the International Outstanding Achievement Award at the 2015 The Catey Awards.

Television

Boulud previously hosted After Hours with Daniel Boulud, a behind-closed-doors look at the late-night dinners by chefs and for chefs. The series revealed where chefs go to unwind after service and uncovered the foods they enjoy and cook for each other. The first season was filmed in New York City restaurants, and the second, on the West Coast, in Los Angeles restaurants. The third season of the show featured restaurants in the New Orleans and Miami culinary scene.

Boulud has also been a featured chef on Great Chefs television, and appeared in the second-season finale of the Canadian television program Anna & Kristina's Grocery Bag, where his cookbook Chef Daniel Boulud: Cooking in New York City was being tested. Boulud appeared as the guest judge along with chefs from his restaurants located in Vancouver: Stephane Istel, executive chef at DB Bistro Moderne, and Dale MacKay, executive chef at Lumière. Boulud's cookbook received the "A & K Stamp of Approval" at the end of the episode.

Boulud appeared as a guest judge in Seasons 1 and 3 of Top Chef Canada.

Boulud appeared as himself in the television drama series Billions, episode "Flaw in the Death Star," season 3.

Community involvement

Boulud works to support several charities, focusing his efforts on hunger relief and culinary education. He has been the board Co-President of Citymeals-on-Wheels since 2003 and hosts an annual gala for the charity each spring. This non-profit organization provides home-delivered, nutritious meals to frail, homebound elderly in New York City. On 13 April 2008, Boulud hosted an intimate Sunday supper to mark the 10th anniversary of Savoring Citymeals, an annual gourmet event he has hosted since 1998.

The Daniel Boulud Scholarship Endowment Fund was established by the chef's business partner, Joel Smilow, in 2005. The fund provides education enabling promising young American cooks to pursue professional culinary studies in France.

In 2008, Paul Bocuse asked Boulud to establish a structure for the selection of the Bocuse d'Or Team USA, who, along with Thomas Keller and Jérôme Bocuse form the Board of Directors of the Bocuse d'Or USA Foundation. The first Bocuse d'Or USA competition was held in September 2008.

Legal issues
	
According to a 2007 article in the Dining Section of The New York Times, Boulud was sued by current and former workers for discriminatory labor practices at his namesake restaurant in Manhattan. The workers alleged that Boulud denied them promotions at his restaurant Daniel because of their race and ethnicity and retaliated against some who complained about it. The federal Equal Employment Opportunity Commission filed suit, and there was an investigation by the Civil Rights Bureau of the New York state Attorney General’s office. Boulud settled with the workers, seven current and former employees of Latin American and Bangladeshi descent, for $80,000 and agreed to set up standards and procedures for promotions to be overseen by the EEOC and the state attorney general's office.

Books
 Cooking with Daniel Boulud (1993)
 Daniel Boulud’s Café Boulud Cookbook (1999)
 In 2001, Boulud allowed author Leslie Brenner near unlimited access to Daniel the result was the 2002 book The Fourth Star: Dispatches from Inside Daniel Boulud's Celebrated New York Restaurant which gives some insight into the workings of the chef and how he operates.
 Daniel Boulud Cooking in New York City (2002)
 Daniel’s Dish, Entertaining at Home with a Four Star Chef (2003)
 Letters to a Young Chef (2003)
 Braise: A Journey Through International Cuisine (2006)
 Daniel – My French Cuisine by Daniel Boulud (Author), Sylvie Bigar (Author), Thomas Schauer (Photographer), Bill Buford (Contributor) (2013)

References

Further reading
 Feast & Fetes covered in New York Parties - Private Views by Jamee Gregory - Nov 2010