[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Hostettler

nts in the country; Chris Cillizza,  political analyst for The Washington Post, ranked Hostettler as the most vulnerable House incumbent in the nation; and Robert D. Novak, a syndicated columnist and editor of the Evans-Novak Political Report, also rated Hostettler's seat a likely win for Ellsworth.

In mid-October, an opinion poll commissioned by the Evansville Courier & Press showed Ellsworth leading Hostettler, 55% to 32%.

Hostettler debated Ellsworth on October 23, 2006. The debate was at public television station WVUT at Vincennes University, and involved the League of Women Voters.

In the November election, Hostettler was soundly defeated, taking 39 percent of the vote to Ellsworth's 61 percent. He was the first House incumbent to lose reelection in 2006.  The 22-point margin was the largest margin of defeat for an incumbent in the 2006 cycle, and the second-biggest margin of a defeat in a Republican-held district. Hostettler was the only incumbent in either party who did not receive 40% of the vote, although a few senators such as Rick Santorum and Mike DeWine came close. The 8th district vote tally for Ellsworth was only 1% shy of the same district's tally for President Bush in 2004.

Post-congressional career

Book
In 2007, Hostettler decided to begin a book publishing company called Publius House. Nothing for the Nation – Who Got What Out of Iraq examines the true motives of American political leaders behind the invasion of Iraq in March 2003.

Hostettler said of the book that it "... reveals why political leaders and their subordinates sought to remove Saddam Hussein from power" and that there was an underlying and unapparent "motivation of those who sold America on the idea of ousting the Butcher of Baghdad."

Presidential election
Hostettler endorsed Chuck Baldwin, nominee of the Constitution Party in the 2008 presidential election. He spoke at the Constitution Party's national committee meeting in Orlando, Florida, on December 12–13, 2008. Prior to his announcement on December 3, 2009, Hostettler was highly mentioned as a possible candidate to run against Evan Bayh.

2010 U.S. Senate election

Hostettler officially announced in a video posted by the campaign on December 3, 2009, that he would seek the office held by retiring United States Senator Evan Bayh in the 2010 election, following much speculation.

Hostettler had been widely reported to be the leading Republican in the race even after former Senator and Lobbyist Dan Coats announced in February that he would relocate to Indiana and attempt to challenge Hostettler for the open seat, but ultimately placed third in the primary.

Texas Public Policy Foundation
In February 2019, Hostettler joined the Texas Public Policy Foundation as the head of the organization's state-based policy efforts. The Texas Public Policy Foundation States Trust initiative is pushing for a reduction of federal involvement in the education system as well as for guest worker programs to allow states to fill employment needs.

Political positions
Hostettler was one of the "true believers" in the Republican freshman class of 1995. He believed the U.S. Constitution should be strictly interpreted and was very critical of government actions—especially those of judges—that he felt overstepped their constitutional limits. Even those who disagreed with Hostettler felt that they knew where he stood and would likely give him the benefit of the doubt that he regularly voted in principle and not for political ends.

He is anti-abortion and opposes gun control. He favors the dissolution of the Department of Education, and voted against the No Child Left Behind Act because he felt education was a state matter.  He also voted against most federal health care bills with the view that health care is a private or state matter. He maintains that many federal environmental laws and regulations infringed on individuals' property rights.

Hostettler was very active on issues of religious freedom and expression. For example, during his last term, he was the chief sponsor of the Veterans' Memorials, Boy Scouts, Public Seals, and Other Public Expressions of Religion Protection Act of 2006, which would have prevented attorneys who successfully challenge violations of the Establishment Clause from collecting attorneys' fees.

On economic issues, he supported repeal of the estate tax, the capital gains tax and the "marriage tax penalty."

Hostettler was a hawk by inclination (he strongly supported the Strategic Defense Initiative). However, he was one of the leading Republican opponents of the Iraq War. He felt that preemptive military strikes were improper, and also felt that the military should not go into action unless there was an "imminent threat" to national security.

Hostettler was a hardliner on immigration issues: