[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Chinese people in India

uences on Bengali cuisine are pronounced.

Communities

Long term
Today they are located in ethnic neighbourhoods in Kolkata and Mumbai. In Mumbai, the population of Chinese origin stood at 4,000 in 2015. In 2013, there were 2,000 Chinese-origin people at Kolkata while 200 Chinese of Indian ancestry

The most visible Chinese community in India is found in Kolkata where there are two Chinatowns. One exists in Tangra and an earlier Chinatown was established at Tiretta Bazaar, sometimes referred to as the old Chinatown. The Chinese presence at Tiretti Bazaar and Tangra has dwindled. The older generation of this community works as tannery-owners, sauce manufacturers, shoeshop owners, restaurateurs and beauty parlours owners. The new generation have gone in large numbers to dentistry. Many of the shoe shops lining Bentick Street, near Dharmatolla, are owned and operated by Chinese. The restaurants have given rise to fusions of Chinese and Indian culinary traditions in the widely available form of Indian Chinese cuisine. There is one Chinese newspaper published in Kolkata, The Overseas Chinese Commerce in India or Seong Pow 商报, but figures from 2005 show that sales have dwindled from 500 to 300 copies sold. At one time, 90% of the students of the Grace Ling Liang English School were ethnic Chinese. But in 2003 they comprised only about 15% of the 1500 students. Many of the Chinese of Kolkata are Christians due to the influence of missionary schools they studied in. Architecturally, a feature of the Chinese imprint on Kolkata are the Chinese temples. The Chinese New Year / Lunar New Year 农历新年 remains widely observed as well as Zhong Yuan Festival 中元节 and Mid-Autumn Festival 中秋节. The Chinese of Kolkata celebrate Chinese New Year with lion dance 舞狮 and dragon dance 舞龙. It is celebrated either in the end of January or early February each year in accordance to the rotating lunar calendar (农历) of the particular year.

An exhaustive study of the Kolkata Chinese by Zhang Xing has recently been published.

Expatriates
Expatriate Chinese workers in India are concentrated in the cities of Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai and Bangalore. The Mumbai neighbourhood of Powai is described by the Economic Times as an "upcoming hub" for Chinese expats, who according to the newspaper "form close communities within themselves." Better integration of Chinese expats in their host communities is hampered by short time frames of stays, often durations only last for 2–3 years as part of a work contract. Also many in order to comply with visa regulations must routinely exit and leave India.

Notable people
Notable Chinese origin persons include Chindian people who are of mixed Indian and Chinese ancestry.

 Jwala Gutta, Badminton player; Gutta's mother is of Chinese mixed Indian ancestry and father is Indian
 Lawrence Liang, legal researcher and lawyer
 Meiyang Chang, actor and singer
 Nelson Wang, restaurateur
 Anand Yang, historian
 Yan Law, football manager
 Jason Tham, dancer, choreographer and actor

See also
 China–India relations
 Xuanzang & Great Tang Records on the Western Regions
 Chindian
 Chinas
 Chindians
 Indians in China
 Chinese temples in Kolkata
 Internment of Chinese-Indians (1962)
 Sino-Indian War (1962)
 Tibetan diaspora
 Tibetan people in India
 Ladakhi people
 Sikkimese people
 Ahom people - Ethnic group in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh who originated from present day Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture in China
 Bhutia

Notes

External links

Kolkata Chinese Community Blog
'Legend of Fat Mama', a 23 minute documentary on Chinatown by Rafeeq Illiyas 
Interview with the Principal of Grace Ling Liang English School

Social groups of West Bengal
 
Diasporas in India