[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Immigration to Canada

he largest source of permanent resident admissions in Canada. In 2019, 196,658 individuals were admitted to Canada under the Economic Class, making up approximately 58% of all admissions that year, and a 5.5% increase from 2018. This represents a record-high number of admissions under this category.

IRCC uses several sub-categories of economic immigrants, including skilled workers, under the following classes:

The basic immigration programs that offer permanent admission to Canada to those who are skilled include:

 Quebec skilled worker; 
 Federal skilled trades
 Federal skilled worker

The immigration programs that offer permanent admission to onshore, temporary residents (or who once were) include:

 Canadian experience class: the process is applicable to only those who have a Canadian Experience, they are eligible to apply to any immigration programs through submitting an online profile to the Express Entry pool. The highest ranked candidates are then invited to apply for permanent residence
 Provincial Nominee Program/class (PNP)
 Rural and Northern Immigration Program (RNIP)
 Regional Immigration Pilot Program (RIPP)
 Municipal Nominee Immigration Program (MNIP)
 Atlantic Immigration Pilot Program (AIPP)
 Yukon Community Pilot

The refugee immigration programs that offer permanent admission to Canada include:

 Economic Mobility Pathways Pilot (EMPP): for displaced persons

The business immigration programs that offer permanent admission to Canada include:

 Quebec Immigrant Investor Program (QIIP)
 Quebec Entrepreneur Program
 Quebec Self-Employed
 Federal Start-Up Visa program

Federal Start-Up Visa program 
This program grants Canadian permanent residence to qualified entrepreneurs wishing to establish their start-up business in Canada. Successful candidates must get the support of one or more of the designated organizations: Venture capital funds, Angel investor groups, Business incubators.

Applicants must also supply proof of sufficient settlement funds to apply for the program.
Individuals with a certain net worth can also apply for permanent residence via certain programs. For business owners and investor immigrants who do not fit into the Start-Up business class or Quebec Provincial programs, there is a Federal Owner Operator LMIA pathway that if executed correctly can lead to permanent admission to Canada.

The high-profile Skilled worker principal applicants group comprised 19.8% of all immigration in 2005. Canada has also created a VIP Business Immigration Program which allows immigrants with sufficient business experience or management experience to receive the Permanent Residency in a shorter period than other types of immigration.

As of May 1, 2014, the Federal Skilled Worker Class opened once again accepting 25,000 applicants with intake caps at 1,000 per category. A New Economic Action Plan 2015 took effect in January 2015 in which the skilled worker program will be more of an employer based program. The current list of accepted occupations for 2014 includes many occupations such as senior managers, accountants, physicians and medical professionals, professionals in marketing and advertising, real estate professionals and many more.

A candidate's eligibility for Federal Skilled Worker category is assessed based on six selection factor points and scored on a scale of 100. The current pass mark is 67 points.
Six Selection Factor Points:

 Language skills points
 Education points
 Work experience points
 Age points
 Arranged employment in Canada points
 Adaptability points

The changes in 2015 moved permanent residency in Canada away from the "first come, first served" model, and towards a new structure that took on permanent residents based on Canada's economic need. The system is called "Express Entry". Alberta's Immigrant Nominee Program (AINP), in particular, allows skilled workers, along with their families, to make application for permanent residency, and several large Alberta employers with operations in rural areas actively recruit employees from abroad and support them and their families in seeking permanent residency.

Canada announced a new immigration quota of 1.2 million for 2021-2023, with targets of 401,000 new permanent residents in year 2021, 411,000 in 2022 and 421,000 in 2023.

In an effort to meet the 2021 target, on April 14, 2021 Canada created a new immigration pathway to permanent residency for essential workers and international graduates already in Canada. Temporary workers with at least one year of Canadian work experience in a health-care profession or another pre-approved essential occupation, and  international students who graduated from a Canadian institution in 2017 or later are eligible. The maximum numbers of immigrants under this program are 20,000 temporary workers in health care, 
30,000 temporary workers in other selected essential occupations, and 40,000 international students.