[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of Acts of the Parliament of England, 1603–1641

. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1950
 (Taxation) c. 36
 Irish Rebels Act 1640 c. 37 An Act for the further reducing of the rebels in Ireland to their obedience to the King and crown of England. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Attainder of Earl of Strafford) c. 38

Private Acts

 Earl of Strafford's attainder. c. 1
 Marquis of Winchester's estate: enabling grant of leases of three lives or 21 years of lands in Hampshire. c. 2
 Naturalization of Dorothy Spencer. c. 3
 Earl of Winchelsea's estate: sale and leasing of lands for payment of debts. c. 4
 Estate of Elizabeth, Dowager Countess of Exeter: vesting in her the site of St. Leonard's Hospital, Newark-upon-Trent (Nottinghamshire) and vesting other property in the hospital in lieu. c. 5
 Hoole Chapel (Lancashire): making it a parish church. c. 6 An Act for the making of the Chapel of Hoole, in the County of Lancaster, a Parish Church, and no Part of the Parish of Croston. (7 August 1641)
 John Eggar's Free School, Alton (Hampshire). c. 7 An Act for John Eggar's Free-school, within the Parish of Alton, in the County of Southampton. (7 August 1641)
 Settling property on Katherine, Dowager Countess of Bedford, William, Earl of Bedford, John Russell and Edward Russell. c. 8 An Act for the settling of certain Manors, Lands, Tenements, and Hereditaments, on Katherine Countess Dowager of Bedford, William now Earl of Bedford, John Russell and Edward Russell, Esquires, Sons of Francis Earl of Bedford, deceased. (7 August 1641)
 Confirmation of letters patent to Plymouth, division of the parish and erection of a new church. c. 9 An Act for the Confirmation of His Majesty's Letters Patents to the Town of Plymouth, and for dividing the Parish and building of a new Church there. (7 August 1641)
 Bishop of London's estate: alteration of the tenure of lands held of the manor of Fulham. c. 10 An Act for the Alteration of the Estate and Tenure of some Lands, within the Parish of Fulham, in the County of Middlesex, held of the Lord Bishop of London, as of the Manor of Fulham. (7 August 1641)
 Settlement of manor of Belgrave and other lands (Leicestershire) on William Byerly towards payment of debts of William Davenport deceased. c. 11 An Act to settle the Manor of Belgrave, and other Lands, in the County of Leycester, to and upon William Byerly, Esquire, his Heirs and Assigns, for (fn. 5) and towards Payment of the Debts of William Davenport, Esquire, deceased. (7 August 1641)
 Sir Alexander Denton's estate: power to sell manor of Barford St Michael (Oxfordshire) for payment of debts and preferment of children. c. 12 An Act to enable Sir Alexander Denton, Knight, to sell the Manor of Great Barvard, alias Barford Saint Michaell, and other Lands in this present Act mentioned, for the Payment of his Debts, and Preferment of his younger Children. (7 August 1641)
 Bishop of Durham's estate: assurance of Durham House, St Martin in-the-Fields to Philip, Earl of Pembroke, and a yearly rent of £200 to the Bishop of Durham and his successors in lieu. c. 13

See also
List of Acts of the Parliament of England

References

 
 

 
1603
17th century in English law