[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Northern (genre)

hysical abilities; such a Mountie "upholds the law by moral rather than physical force".  A common story outline for Northerns involving Mounties is a pursuit, confrontation and capture: the Mountie's pursuit of a fugitive takes place across the Canadian wilderness and may be resolved non-violently.

According to Pierre Berton "the French-Canadian was to the northerns what the Mexican was to the Westerns — an exotic primitive, adaptable as a chameleon to play a hero or a heavy." French-Canadians were a ubiquitous element of the genre.  As characters, French-Canadians are typically depicted as rustic and uneducated. These characters were usually divided into two broad types: the heroic, happy-go-lucky bon-vivant and the villainous, lecherous killer.  Some later examples merged the two stereotypes into a charming, roguish anti-villain.  Common visual elements were a tuque, a sash and a pipe.  All were present in the first appearance in film, in A Woman's Way (1908).  Female French-Canadian characters also followed the "tempestuous" stereotype of female Mexican characters.  Mexican actress Lupe Vélez, in line with her identity as "The Mexican Spitfire", played the title character in Tiger Rose (1929) in this mode; as did Renée Adorée in The Eternal Struggle (1923) and Nikki Duval in Quebec (1951).

A common anachronism in Northerns was the tyranny and absolute power of the Hudson's Bay Company and its officers, even into the modern period.  This was repeated not just in fiction but by reviewers and critics too.  The concept of La Longue Traverse, or the Journey of Death, comes from The Call of the North (1914) and was popular in later films.  In this, the Hudson's Bay Company executes convicts by forcing them into the wilderness without equipment or supplies.  In 1921, the Hudson's Bay Company successfully sued the Famous Players–Lasky Corporation for the villainous portrayal of their Company in the latter's remake The Call of the North.

Alaska Natives or Métis are featured in some depictions.

Besides being set in Canadian Prairies, the stories often contrast the American frontier with the Canadian frontier in several ways.  In films such as Pony Soldier and Saskatchewan the North-West Mounted Police display reason, compassion and a sense of fair play in their dealings with Aboriginal people (First Nations) as opposed to hotheaded American visitors (often criminals), lawmen or the American Army who seem to prefer extermination with violence.

History
David Skene-Melvin classes the "second period" of Canadian crime literature (1880–1920), as "the heyday of the 'Northern' and the literary exploration of Canada's remote and romantic frontiers."  He refers to Joseph Edmund Collins as an important figure in this period because, despite his work being of low quality, he was the first Canadian author to address some aspects of the 'Matter of Canada' in his novels, such as The Story of Louis Riel: The Rebel Chief (1885) and Annette, the Métis Spy (1886).  Northerns continued to be written after 1920 but Canadian authors largely moved to other genres after World War I as they moved away from a frontier and colonial ethos.

The Klondike Gold Rush during the 1890s in Canada and Alaska brought a lot of wider, international attention to the far north of North America.  Adventure novels from veterans of the gold rush—such as Jack London's The Call of the Wild (1903), Rex Beach's The Spoilers (1906) and Robert W. Service's The Trail of Ninety-Eight (1909)—became best sellers.  These inspired more adventure fiction which grew in popularity throughout the first half of the twentieth century.  The genre was extremely popular in the inter-war years, with a "Mountie craze" hitting its peak during the mid-1920s.

A large amount of Northern fiction is the work of non-Canadians.  Nevertheless, Skene-Melvin writes "Just as the Western is widely regarded as emblematic of American culture, it can be argued that the Northern is the only truly indigenous Canadian art form, even if most of its exponents have been foreigners."

One of the earliest international examples of the genre is the British play The Klondyke Nugget, which was first performed in 1898.  Its author, Samuel Franklin Cody initially wrote it as a Western but changed the location to capitalize on the contemporary gold rush.

Charlie Chaplin's 1925 film The Gold Rush is a comedy that parodies some of the cliches of the Northern genre. The Looney Tunes character Blacque Jacque Shellacque, who first appeared in the 1959 short Bonanza Bunny, is another parody.

While the Hollywood Western began to change in the post-World War II era and the Western myth eventually lost popularity, Hollywood Northerns remained mostly unchanged until their production waned in the late 1950s, the underlying mythology never being challenged.

Examples of Northerns