[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Lima Site 85

a Special Forces unit. The task of capturing the US facility was entrusted to a platoon from the PAVN 41st Special Forces Battalion, led by First Lieutenant Truong Muc. The platoon numbered 33 soldiers, and they were reinforced by a nine-man sapper squad and a communications and cryptography squad.

Prior to the mission, Muc's soldiers had undergone nine months of special training, mainly focused on mountain fighting techniques and jungle operations. They also conducted physical conditioning, to improve their physical fitness and stamina to undertake operations in the most extreme conditions in Laotian territory. On 18 December 1967, following their intensive training, soldiers of the PAVN 41st Special Forces Battalion launched the first phase of their operation by conducting terrain reconnaissance and watching activities on Lima Site 85 to learn their opponent's routines. As part of the second phase, commenced on 22 January 1968, six PAVN sappers were sent out to climb Phou Pha Thi, to pinpoint opposing positions in and around Lima Site 85, as well as routes of withdrawal. On 28 February 1968, the PAVN Special Forces completed their preparations, and they began marching towards their assembly point on 1 March.

To maintain secrecy and surprise, Muc was ordered to avoid contact with local civilians and opposing military forces. In the event they were engaged by opposing forces, the PAVN would deploy a small force to deal with the situation while the main formation would continue moving to their objective on Phou Pha Thi. Once the PAVN formation had arrived at their assembly area, they were to be divided into two assault groups. The first assault group, under Muc's direct command, was divided into five "cells" to attack key targets at Lima Site 85. Cells 1 and 2 were given the mission of capturing the communications center, with the latter given the secondary role of supporting Cell 3, which was given the main mission of seizing the TACAN site and eliminating all US personnel. Cell 4 was to capture the airstrip, and Cell 5 was placed in reserve. Second Lieutenant Nguyen Viet Hung was given responsibility to lead the second assault group with the mission of neutralizing the Thai positions. The attack would commence during the early hours of 9 or 10 March.

To capture Lima Site 85, the PAVN Special Forces were equipped with three Chinese-made K-54 pistols, 23 AK-47 assault rifles, four 7.62mm carbines and three RPG-7 rocket propelled grenade launchers. They carried 200 rounds of ammunition for each AK-47, six rounds for each RPG,  of explosives, and six hand grenades. The weapons load, in addition to 15 days of rations and other personal items, required each soldier to pack between  to . Shortly after the PAVN Special Forces arrived at the assembly point, they moved off to an undisclosed location for two days to test-fire all their weapons, and to ensure their explosives were in working order. Then, in an attempt to fool Hmong and US intelligence, the North Vietnamese made diversionary movements against Muong Son to cover their main assault. On 9 March, elements of the PAVN 41st Special Forces Battalion arrived in the vicinity of Phou Pha Thi, where they made final preparations for their assault.

Fall of Lima Site 85
By 9 March 1968, the US facility atop Phou Pha Thi was surrounded by PAVN and Pathet Lao units. The PAVN 766th Regiment and one Pathet Lao battalion totalled more than 3,000 men. Despite the gravity of the situation, Sullivan did not issue an order for the evacuation of US personnel from Phou Pha Thi. At around 18:00 on 10 March, Lima Site 85 was subjected to a series of artillery barrages. Under the cover of the artillery bombardment, the PAVN Special Forces sent a small team up the mountain to defuse mines and quick-fuse grenades, and to establish their routes of infiltration. Inside the facility, US technicians grabbed their weapons and ran into trenches and bunkers, abandoning the equipment which could enable them to call for air support. At 19:45 the barrage stopped, and the US technicians returned to their positions.

The TSQ-81 antenna received minor damage during the attack, and the US suffered no casualties. The only 105 mm howitzer, which was operated by the Hmongs, received a direct hit, and was rendered ineffective. At around 20:20, Sullivan gave the US commander at Lima Site 85 the authority to direct air strikes against targets on the lower slopes of the mountain, on the basis that the situation had become critical. About 20 minutes later, the 33-man PAVN platoon began climbing towards the US facility at Lima Site 85. At 21:15 Sullivan considered evacuating all US personnel from the facility at first light. However, officers of the Seventh Air Force contacted the US Embassy in Laos and indicated that evacuation should only occur as the last resort, when the situation on top of Phou Pha Thi was no longer under their control.