[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Breakthrough (human rights)

at a pivotal moment in American history and drove palpable — and continued — demand for change. Immigration overhaul became a top priority for leaders and lawmakers, and newly energized supporters now demand that immigrant women and their rights remain a priority, too.

ICED - I Can End Deportation 

ICED - I Can End Deportation is a first-of-its-kind, free, downloadable 3D video game that puts players in the shoes of immigrants struggling to live, study, and work in the U.S. With hundreds of thousands of downloads and extensive press coverage worldwide, it has changed the way people think about the human rights of immigrants and the importance of due process and fairness for all.

America 2049 

America 2049 is the first transmedia Facebook game to use the platform to explore assumptions about racial justice, human rights, migration and democracy. Players assume fictional character roles to engage in a plot that highlights major human rights themes (i.e. migration, voting and constitutional rights, trafficking, LGBT rights, labor rights, racial profiling, and more). Players engage with videos, graphics, microsites and social media platforms to find clues and solve puzzles to advance in the game. American 2049 also features prominent celebrities such as Harold Perrineau, Victor Garber, Cherry Jones, Anthony Rapp, and Margaret Cho.

Restore Fairness 

Launched in 2009, the Restore Fairness campaign is a video documentary series and blog calling on the U.S. government to uphold fair immigration and racial justice. The campaign's documentary shorts feature stories about life in the United States for immigrants and communities of color after September 11, 2001. The Restore Fairness campaign uses compelling video documentaries along with a timely blog to draw attention to the ways in which immigration policy and laws in the United States affect the everyday lives of people, often denying them basic American values of fairness and due process. The documentaries, produced in partnership with civil society and human rights groups, tell the stories of men and women whose human rights have been violated - who have been humiliated as a result of their racial or ethnic background, inhumanely detained, suffered pain and abuse, and separated from their families and loved ones.

I Am This Land 

A nationwide three-month video contest launched in 2010, I Am This Land called on young Americans to use their vivid imaginative capacity to illuminate and celebrate the power of diversity, pluralism, identity, gender and sexuality, immigration, and racial justice. The contest was publicized with a coordinated, partner-drive campaign of animated mini-videos, celebrity PSAs, and social media, ultimately bringing the message of the contest to tens of thousands of people. Visitors to iamthisland.org voted to select the top ten videos; in early 2011, a distinguished panel of judges representing the music industry, youth, and feminist advocacy chose the video they believed most enthusiastically and effectively brought to life the value of diversity.

What Kind of Man Are You? 

Developed in pro bono partnership with McCann Erickson, What Kind of Man Are You? is a multimedia campaign asking men to wear condoms to prevent the transmission of HIV/AIDS to their wives. The campaign encouraged an open, national dialogue about a woman's right to negotiate safe sex within marriage.

Is This Justice? 

Developed in pro bono partnership with advertising agency Ogilvy & Mather, Is This Justice? was a multimedia awareness campaign launched in 2007 about the stigma and discrimination faced by women, particularly widows, living with HIV/AIDS. Many women living with HIV/AIDS have been infected by their husbands or male partners, and suffer discrimination because of the disease. In India, 92% of women widowed by AIDS are forced by family members to leave home after their husband's death. This campaign sought to put a face to the issue through public service announcements, and by inviting HIV-positive women to share their stories. Ogilvy & Mather produced this campaign pro bono in four languages: Hindi, English, Kannada and Marathi. The "Is This Justice" PSAs received the 2007 Radio and TV Advertising Practitioner's Association of India award for "Best Film with a Social Message" and the 2008 Bronze Abby Award in the Public Service category.

Mann ke Manjeeré 

A music album promoting women's rights. The title track and video for Mann ke Manjeeré is based on the true story of Shameem Pathan, who left an abusive marriage and became a truck driver to support herself and her child away from her violent husband. The album features five songs by Shubha Mudgal, composed by Shantanu Moitra, with lyrics by Prasoon Joshi. The record was released through Virgin records.