[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Aydın

and troops ran amok. The Greeks evacuated the town in the night of 29 June and early hours of 30 June after having committed numerous attacks and other crimes. A large number of Greek civilians hoping to escape by accompanying the troops as they retreated were prevented from doing so by the Command.

A subsequent fire in the Greek quarter was started by Turkish gangs under their leader Yöruk Ali, once they took control of the city. The gangs entered the quarter in the morning of 30 June and burnt it down after having looted the houses, killing the occupants. Irrespective of age or sex, a number of Greek inhabitants encountered by the gangs as they roamed through the town were ruthlessly killed. Around 2000 or 3000 inhabitants were robbed but not killed. They had managed to take refuge in the French convent before the gangs arrived, after which they sought the protection of Colonel Şefik Bey, Commander of the small Ottoman Division present in the city.

Reoccupation, 4 July
The Greek troops, with the help of reinforcements sent by General Konstantinos Nider, headed by lieutenant Colonel Stavrianopoulos recaptured Aydın on 4 July. The reoccupation of Aydın was ordered by the Greek High Command in spite of the express orders of the representative of the Entente. The Greek authorities acted on orders received from Venizelos in Paris on 2 July. These orders prevented the representative of the Entente from intervening in the matter. Once in Aydın, they set fire to the Turkish quarter situated in the western part of the town, where there were also some Greek factories.

According to the Inter-Allied Inquiry Commission report, all the fires that were started between 29 June and 4 July most probably had destroyed two thirds of the city of Aydın, which had a population of 20,000, including some 8000 Greeks.

Most of the villages situated along the railway track between Balacık and Aydın were also destroyed by fires started in the course of the military operations that took place in the region. The occupation of the vilayet of Aydın by the Greek forces had caused significant material losses to crops and property, some attributable to looting, theft and the destruction of livestock. Considerable losses were also suffered due to the burning of houses, villages and the town of Aydın.

Aftermath

Before the Greek army returned to Aydın, most of the Turkish population had already left the town and surrounding area, with the Turkish soldiers, in order to take refuge in the Italian zone or in the Nazilli-Denizli region, where they remained till the end of the war.

On the other hand, the Greek population of the town was either massacred by the Turks (the dead bodies founded by the Greek army after the retake of the town), or taken to captivity in the interior of Anatolia.

Colonel Georgios Kondylis with his regiment took orders to hunt the Turkish and did so by passing the Meander river and entering the Italian zone.

End of hostilities
The city of Aydın remained in ruins until it was re-captured by the Turkish army on 7 September 1922, at the end of the Greco-Turkish War (1919-1922).

Casualties
It has not been possible for the Inter-Allied Inquiry Commission to ascertain the total number of Greek or Turkish victims. The representative of the Greek Government, who gave evidence before the Commission on 7 September, estimated the number of Greek victims to be in the region of 2000. Some 900 bodies had already been recovered by that time. An English witness put this number at about 400. A French officer conducting an on-the-spot investigation several days after the events took place put the number of victims at 1500 to 2000 Greeks and 1200 to 1500 Turks, however acknowledging that estimating the number of Turkish victims was a very difficult task.

Results
Inter-Allied Inquiry Commission valued the losses resulting from the burning of Aydın at approximately eight million Pounds sterling (1919 currency terms). When the Turkish inhabitants abandoned their houses and fled from the districts occupied by the Greeks, they also abandoned their crops, leaving them unharvested. The indirect losses were estimated to be at one million two hundred thousand Pounds by the Commission. The total losses (direct and indirect) in 2005 values using the UK Retail Prices Index  were in the order of 283,160,000 Pounds sterling (about five hundred million United States dollars roughly).

See also
 Turkish War of Independence
 Greco-Turkish War (1919-1922)
 Chronology of the Turkish War of Independence
 Occupation of Smyrna
 Menemen massacre
 The Greek genocide

King–Crane Commission
Alexandros Mazarakis-Ainian

References

Conflicts in 1919
Battles of the Greco-Turkish War (1919–1922)
Battle of Aydin
Aidin Vilayet
1919 in Greece
1919 in the Ottoman Empire
June 1919 events
July 1919 events
Mass murder in 1919
Battles in 1919