[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Loyalsock Creek

pressure of colonial expansion. Madame Montour remained loyal to the British despite several attempts by the French to bring her over to their side. This was remarkable because the British colonial government sometimes went as long as a year without paying her for her services.

Rail transportation

Although lumbering was an important industry in the Loyalsock Creek watershed, railroads took little advantage of the creek valley below Forksville. One exception was the Susquehanna and Eagles Mere Railroad, which built down into Hillsgrove and along the creek as far as Ogdonia in 1902, before turning up Kettle Creek. It was removed in 1922. Above Forksville, the Williamsport and North Branch Railroad followed Mill Creek to reach the Loyalsock and followed it to a crossing at Ringdale. The line was built in 1893 and removed in 1938. About six miles (10 km) to the east, the town of Lopez is the largest settlement on the upper creek. Jennings Brothers Lumber Co. built a narrow-gauge logging line in the area in 1890, and another in 1891 up the creek into Wyoming County, to supply their sawmill at Lopez. In 1892, the Loyalsock Railroad crossed the creek here, building south to bring coal from the Bernice area southward to Harvey's Lake. It was promptly leased to the Lehigh Valley Railroad and became part of the Bowmans Creek Branch. At the same time, the Loyalsock Railroad also built a branch along the Loyalsock downstream from Lopez to Ellis Creek, where it turned south to reach a tannery at Thorndale. This branch was removed in 1898. However, Jennings Bros. continued to operate, standard-gauging their rail line about 1900 and building up the Loyalsock as far as Shumans Lake, where their line headed up Cold Run towards High Cobble and the Dutch Mountain area. The logging railroad was finally removed in 1905 when Jennings Bros. relocated to Maryland, but was partly resurrected in 1911. Stony Brook Lumber Co. used the old grade as far as Santee Run, then turned north towards Crane Swamp. This line was removed in 1916. Traffic gradually dwindled on the Lehigh Valley; their line south of Lopez was abandoned in 1939, and it was cut back to Bernice in 1944. Abandonment of the line to Lopez marked the end of rail traffic on the Loyalsock, except for the Reading Railroad crossing near its mouth at Montoursville. The bridge there is now owned by the Lycoming Valley Railroad. The original Reading bridge was destroyed by flooding from Tropical Storm Lee in 2011 and removed. Its replacement was opened for service on August 13, 2014.

See also

List of rivers of Pennsylvania

References

External links
U.S. Geological Survey: PA stream gaging stations
The Columbia Gazetteer of North America, 2000 entry for Loyalsock Creek
Chesapeake Bay Watershed Page on the Loyalsock Creek watershed from the source to Little Loyalsock Creek
Chesapeake Bay Watershed Page on the Loyalsock Creek watershed from Little Loyalsock Creek to the mouth
Chesapeake Bay Watershed Page on the Little Loyalsock Creek watershed
Official Lycoming County Map showing all townships, villages, boroughs, cities, county roads, rivers, creeks, and some streams
History of Lycoming County Pennsylvania edited by John F. Meginness, ©1892 (copyright expired)

Tributaries of the West Branch Susquehanna River
Rivers of Pennsylvania
Rivers of Lycoming County, Pennsylvania
Rivers of Sullivan County, Pennsylvania