[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Klang War

dicated to Tengku Kudin of his willingness to be on his side against Raja Mahdi, which Tengku Kudin gladly accepted. Tahir also informed Tengku Kudin (and Sultan Abdul Samad) that he was able, through his contacts in Singapore, to supply them weapons and ammunition in their fight against Raja Mahdi.

In March 1870, Raja Ismail with help from Tengku Kudin laid siege to Klang and drove out Raja Mahdi, who retreated to Kuala Selangor, which he captured from Raja Musa with help from Raja Hitam. Syed Mashhor, who served under Tengku Kudin, was sent to Kuala Selangor to help Raja Musa but switched sides after learning that his brother had been killed by a son of the Sultan.  Raja Mahdi allied with the Chinese in Kanching who were enemies of Yap, then attacked Kuala Lumpur in 1870 with the Malay forces led by Syed Mashhor, and again in 1871, but both attacks were unsuccessful.

Meanwhile, the conflict brought disruption to the economy and trade in the British Straits Settlements, as well as raising concerns over security, especially the occurrences of piracy. The British became increasingly involved in the affairs of Selangor.  In July 1871, an attack by pirates on ships was traced to Raja Mahdi's stronghold in Kuala Selangor. The British attacked and captured Kuala Selangor as a result, driving out Mahdi's men out and handed the town to Tengku Kudin. Kudin however refused to yield control of revenue from the province to Raja Musa who had previously ruled Kuala Selangor, which prompted Raja Musa to join Mahdi's side. The Sultan of Selangor, who had bestowed the governorship of the Langat province upon Tengku Kudin to help him fund his war, also began to be concerned about the rising influence of Tengku Kudin.

End of war

In 1872, Raja Mahdi gained the support of a number of Malay chiefs, some of them members of Selangor Royal family. Raja Asal and Sutan Puasa, the leaders of Mandailing diaspora in Selangor, also switched their support to Raja Mahdi's side.  Raja Mahdi's forces attacked Kuala Lumpur, and Raja Asal laid siege to Bukit Nanas, where Tengku Kudin's forces of 500 soldiers and European mercenaries were stationed. Some of Tengku Kudin's men attempted a breakthrough, but they were captured in Petaling and killed. Yap Ah Loy managed to escape to Klang, while Kuala Lumpur was razed to the ground and Kuala Selangor was recaptured by Raja Mahdi's forces.

Yap, however, was determined to regain Kuala Lumpur, and assembled a force of around 1,000 men.  Tengku Kudin requested the Sultan of Pahang for assistance in 1872, and the Bendahara Wan Ahmad of Pahang sent him 1,000 men and other reserves in response. He also gained the support of the British colonial administrator Sir Andrew Clarke.  In March 1873, Kudin's men, supported by Pahang fighters, defeated Syed Mashhor in Kuala Lumpur, and Mashhor fled to Perak. The fighting went on for a few more months, but on 8 November 1873 the Pahang forces captured Kuala Selangor and the war largely ended.  In 1874 Raja Mahdi went into exile in Johore and then Singapore, where he died in 1882.

Aftermath

Despite winning the war, Tengku Kudin was viewed with suspicion by the royal family of Selangor. His Pahang allies also refused to return to Pahang because they wanted to collect tax as payment for their service, and their refusal to leave made the situation worse for Tengku Kudin. The leader of the Pahang forces was authorised to collect revenue in the provinces of Kuala Selangor and Klang, while J. G. Davidson and others who helped funded Tengku Kudin were given favourable concessions on mining land for ten years in Selangor.  While the British through the new Governor Andrew Clarke was on Tengku Kudin's side, the post-war situation had weakened his position. Kudin remained the Viceroy of Selangor until 1878, but he had already left for Kedah by 1876, and later went on to live in Penang.

The war was significant enough that British subjects asked for compensation for their loss of capital invested in Klang. Also, traders from Malacca petitioned the British colonial authorities for their losses subjected from the war.