[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Whiteshell Provincial Park

s formed by a meteorite, and is a popular spot for scuba diving and ice diving.

West Hawk Museum
Located at West Hawk Lake, the West Hawk Museum features exhibits about the area's geology, area gold mining, and the formation of the lake from the impact of meteorite that formed the West Hawk crater.

Whiteshell Fish Hatchery Interpretive Centre
The Whiteshell Fish Hatchery Interpretive Centre allows visitors to learn about the hatchery's activities in raising lake sturgeon, trout and walleye. The hatchery is located along the Whiteshell River just north of West Hawk Lake. The fish in the hatchery are used to help stock lakes throughout Manitoba. It is open during the summer months.

Ecology

Fauna 
Whiteshell Provincial Park is home to a variety of large mammals including black bear, moose, white-tailed deer, timber wolf and lynx. Smaller mammals such as river otter, marten, fisher, red fox, mink, hare, beaver, bats, skunk, raccoon, muskrat and red squirrels also inhabit the park. The birds in the park include owls, bald eagles, ruby throated hummingbirds, chickadees, blue jays, grosbeaks, turkey vultures, redpolls, woodpeckers, osprey, loons, ruffed grouse, ducks and Canada geese. Snakes, turtles and a wide variety of insects are found in the park. The lakes and rivers contain perch, walleye, jackfish, lake sturgeon, black crappie, burbot, whitefish, trout, white bass, smallmouth bass and mooneye.  Smoked mooneye meat is highly valued and sold as "Winnipeg goldeye".

Gallery

See also
List of protected areas of Manitoba
List of provincial parks in Manitoba
Park ship

References

External links

Whiteshell Provincial Park - official site
Alfred Hole Goose Sanctuary and Interpretive Centre
West Hawk Museum
Whiteshell Fish Hatchery Interpretive Centre
Travel Manitoba: Whiteshell Provincial Park
 iNaturalist.org:Observations in Whiteshell Provincial Park
 eBird hotspots in the park
Whiteshell PP
Whiteshell PP--Big Whiteshell Lake
Whiteshell PP--White Lake
Whiteshell PP--Jessica Lake
Whiteshell PP--Alfred Hole Goose Sanctuary
Whiteshell PP--Caddy Lake
Whiteshell PP--West Hawk Lake
Whiteshell PP--Falcon Lake
 Whiteshell Cottagers Association a non-profit organization advocating for those who lease or own land in the park

 
Parks in Eastman Region, Manitoba
Provincial parks of Manitoba
Museums in Manitoba
Natural history museums in Manitoba
Protected areas established in 1961
1961 establishments in Manitoba
Protected areas of Manitoba