[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Korea Forest Service

The Korea Forest Service is a central administrative agency under the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs (MAFR), responsible for protecting and nurturing forests, increasing forest resources, developing forest products, conducting research on forest management and improvement, and is located in Daejeon Government Complex. In the past, during the national forestation campaign from 1973 to 1986, it was temporarily under the Ministry of Home Affairs (now the Ministry of the Interior and Safety), but returned to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in 1987. However, as the agency's work was focused solely on maintaining and managing successful national forestation policies, questions were raised about its necessity for a period of time. Currently, the agency has transformed its identity into one that strives to generate continuous income through forest resources.

It is one of the government agencies that is highly likely to expand in the event of future North-South unification. In North Korea, there are many mountains, and it is expected that regional forest offices will be expanded to promote afforestation projects centering around Mount Mindungsan.

The Korea National Park Service, which is under the Ministry of Environment, had a long-standing conflict with the Korea Forest Service. Both agencies are in charge of forest-related work, but there were frequent conflicts due to differences in specific business objectives. While the Korea Forest Service also invests in forest development to promote forestry, the Korea National Park Service's primary objective is forest protection. Therefore, in 2012, an article was published between the two organization called "Let's Get Along."

Furthermore, it has a cooperative relationship with the Cultural Heritage Administration. High-quality lumber is essential for restoring, maintaining, and repairing traditional cultural properties, and in particular, Korean pine, also known as the "Geumgang Pine," is still a rare species. Therefore, the Korea Forest Service and the Cultural Heritage Administration are working together to create and manage Geumgang Pine plantations.

The current head of the organization is Nam Sung-hyun, who began his term in May 2022.

Overview 
The Korea Forest Service has the overall responsibility for establishment and implementation of forest policies and laws. The KFS consists of 5 bureaus, 22 divisions, 5 Regional Forest Services, and 27 National Forest Stations. There are KFS-affiliated agencies such as the Forest Aviation Headquarters, the Korea Forest Research Institute, the National Arboretum, and the National Natural Recreation Forest Office. The province and metropolitan cities have their local forestry administrative organizations.

The Korea Forest Service is actively involved in the United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification, United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, and Convention on Biological Diversity to contribute to global environmental issues. Not to mention, initiative actions were taken to implement actual projects based on rehabilitation technologies in collaboration between the government and the private sector. In order to take the leading role in both bilateral and regional cooperation for mitigating desertification and drought, the Korea Forest Service is promoting closer cooperation through bilateral forestry cooperation arrangements and establishment of the Northeast Asia Forest Network.

The Korea Forest Service hosted UNCCD-COP10 as an opportunity to raise awareness of the Korean people as well as the rest of the world on desertification issues, and contribute to implementing more projects to combat desertification and establishing an effective cooperative mechanism.

The Korea Forest Service, in close coordination with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (South Korea), has taken the key role for the establishment of Asian Forest Cooperation Organization (AFoCO).

Korea's forest 
The Korean peninsula is located between 33°7′ and 43°1′ in northern latitude, and 124°11′ and 131°53′ in eastern longitude at the heart of the North Western Pacific, sharing a border with China and Russia to the north and lying near the Japanese archipelago to the south. It extends about 960 km southward and its width is about 170 km from east to west, surrounded by three oceans and near 70% of the terrain is mostly mountainous so its terrestrial and marine ecosystems have a variety of species with high biodiversity.