[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 145]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

red, but a Voice. By which it is manifest,
that Angel signifieth there, nothing but God himself, that caused Agar
supernaturally to apprehend a voice supernaturall, testifying Gods
speciall presence there. Why therefore may not the Angels that appeared
to Lot, and are called Gen. 19.13. Men; and to whom, though they were
but two, Lot speaketh (ver. 18.) as but one, and that one, as God, (for
the words are, "Lot said unto them, Oh not so my Lord") be understood of
images of men, supernaturally formed in the Fancy; as well as before by
Angel was understood a fancyed Voice? When the Angel called to Abraham
out of heaven, to stay his hand (Gen. 22.11.) from slaying Isaac, there
was no Apparition, but a Voice; which neverthelesse was called properly
enough a Messenger, or Angel of God, because it declared Gods will
supernaturally, and saves the labour of supposing any permanent Ghosts.
The Angels which Jacob saw on the Ladder of Heaven (Gen. 28.12.) were
a Vision of his sleep; therefore onely Fancy, and a Dream; yet being
supernaturall, and signs of Gods Speciall presence, those apparitions
are not improperly called Angels. The same is to be understood
(Gen.31.11.) where Jacob saith thus, "The Angel of the Lord appeared to
mee in my sleep." For an apparition made to a man in his sleep, is
that which all men call a Dreame, whether such Dreame be naturall, or
supernaturall: and that which there Jacob calleth an Angel, was God
himselfe; for the same Angel saith (verse 13.) "I am the God of Bethel."

Also (Exod.14.9.) the Angel that went before the Army of Israel to the
Red Sea, and then came behind it, is (verse 19.) the Lord himself; and
he appeared not in the form of a beautifull man, but in form (by day)
of a Pillar Of Cloud and (by night) in form of a Pillar Of Fire; and yet
this Pillar was all the apparition, and Angel promised to Moses (Exod.
14.9.) for the Armies guide: For this cloudy pillar, is said, to have
descended, and stood at the dore of the Tabernacle, and to have talked
with Moses.

There you see Motion, and Speech, which are commonly attributed to
Angels, attributed to a Cloud, because the Cloud served as a sign of
Gods presence; and was no lesse an Angel, then if it had had the form of
a Man, or Child of never so great beauty; or Wings, as usually they are
painted, for the false instruction of common people. For it is not the
shape; but their use, that makes them Angels. But their use is to be
significations of Gods presence in supernaturall operations; As when
Moses (Exod. 33.14.) had desired God to goe along with the Campe, (as
he had done alwaies before the making of the Golden Calfe,) God did not
answer, "I will goe," nor "I will send an Angel in my stead;" but thus,
"my presence shall goe with thee."

To mention all the places of the Old Testament where the name of Angel
is found, would be too long. Therefore to comprehend them all at once,
I say, there is no text in that part of the Old Testament, which the
Church of England holdeth for Canonicall, from which we can conclude,
there is, or hath been created, any permanent thing (understood by the
name of Spirit or Angel,) that hath not quantity; and that may not be,
by the understanding divided; that is to say, considered by parts; so
as one part may bee in one place, and the next part in the next place
to it; and, in summe, which is not (taking Body for that, which is some
what, or some where) Corporeall; but in every place, the sense will bear
the interpretation of Angel, for Messenger; as John Baptist is called
an Angel, and Christ the Angel of the Covenant; and as (according to the
same Analogy) the Dove, and the Fiery Tongues, in that they were signes
of Gods speciall presence, might also be called Angels. Though we find
in Daniel two names of Angels, Gabriel, and Michael; yet is cleer out of
the text it selfe, (Dan. 12.1) that by Michael is meant Christ, not as
an Angel, but as a Prince: and that Gabriel (as the like apparitions
made to other holy men in their sleep) was nothing but a supernaturall
phantasme, by which it seemed to Daniel, in his dream, that two Saints
being in talke, one of them said to the other, "Gabriel, let us make
this man understand his Vision:" For God needeth not, to distinguish
his Celestiall servants by names, which are usefull onely to the short
memories of Mortalls. Nor in the New Testament is there any place, out
of which it can be proved, that Angels (except when they are put for
such men, as God hath made the Messengers, and Ministers of his word,
or works) are things permanent, and withall incorporeall. That they
are permanent, may bee gathered from the words of our Saviour himselfe,
(Mat. 25.41.) where he saith, it shall be said to the wicked in the last
day, "Go ye cursed into everlasting fire prepared for the Devil and his
Angels:" which place is manifest for the permanence of Evill Angels,
(unlesse wee might think the name of