[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Samuel Conway

ularly invited to tell his stories at other fan conventions, including I-CON, Eurofurence, ConClave, and Camp Feral!. Gross sales from recordings of his Story Hours were over US$2600 in 2004; no profit was realized, as the intention was to increase membership and awareness of Anthrocon.

Auctioneer 

Conway's first auction was at Albany Anthrocon 1997. Since then, he has presided over auctions which have raised over US$66,000 for a variety of local wildlife charities at Anthrocon alone. He has performed similar services at other fan conventions, including Midwest FurFest. Conway says his techniques are influenced by Phil Foglio and Joe Mayhew; they include humor and appeals to pity, novelty and scarcity.

Author 

While known within the fandom for his spoken storytelling, Conway is also the author of several short stories published in various works by Sofawolf Press.

In May 1998, Conway was invited to write a story based on his interest in birds of prey, particularly the red-tailed hawk. The result was "Tweaked in the Head", published December 1999 in Flights of Fantasy. He next contributed to the first issue of HistoriMorphs, a fanzine mixing historical fiction with interaction between humans and anthropomorphic animals. "The Secret of Wollknäul" took place in Nazi Germany at the end of World War II, and was published in June 2001. He went on to write "The Good Bird of Nanking" and "It Takes A Fox" for subsequent issues of the series.

For Anthrolations #5—a magazine of dramatic fiction—Conway submitted "Six", a previously-written work "based on a true story" involving wildlife rehabilitation from his days as a Red Cross volunteer. The story, illustrated by Synnabar, was nominated for "Best Anthropomorphic Short Story" in the 2002 Ursa Major Awards. Also nominated that year was Breaking the Ice: Stories from New Tibet, a collection set in and around a subarctic mining colony; Conway's contribution, "Dead End", features a bartending vulture who provides an introduction to the harsh, dystopic world.

Charity work 
In 2012, Conway learned that Fernando's, a local restaurant, was going to be closing down due to financial trouble. Fernando's had welcomed Anthrocon guests and furries since Anthrocon moved to Pittsburgh. After putting word out on Twitter and YouTube, over $21,000 was raised in donations to keep the restaurant in business.

Other activities 

While in college, Conway was a member of the Ursinius Meistersingers vocal music group, and the performing arts honor society Pi Nu Epsilon. He became a volunteer for the American Red Cross Disaster Service in 1989, but quit in 1998 due to his perception of high-level corruption in the organization. He was an Emergency Management Coordinator while residing in Malvern, Pennsylvania.

In March 1990, Conway became an experimental bone marrow donor for Mark Stevenson, a 4-year-old with Hunter syndrome. The operation was the first of its kind involving an unrelated donor, and was successful; Mark lived to 24. Conway became an active volunteer for the National Marrow Donor Program, claiming to have helped add over 500 entries to their donor registry.

Since May 1996, Conway has participated in the MadSci Network, a free questions-and-answers resource organized by the medical school of Washington University in St. Louis. While most active in the period 1997–2000, he remains a member as of 2009.

References

External links 

 Furrydom's Storyteller: Uncle Kage – personal website
 Samuel Conway's Journal – journal
 
 Uncle Kage at WikiFur
 Articles at WikiFur: Uncle Kage's Story Hour, ConClave, Sofawolf Press, Anthrolations, HistoriMorphs, Synnabar

Organic chemists
1965 births
Furry fandom people
Living people
Ursinus College alumni
Dartmouth College alumni