[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Baptists

hierarchical authority and each Baptist church is autonomous, there is no official set of Baptist theological beliefs. These differences exist both among associations, and even among churches within the associations.

Some doctrinal issues on which there is widespread difference among Baptists are:

 Eschatology
 Arminianism versus Calvinism (General Baptists uphold Arminian theology while Particular Baptists teach Calvinist theology).    Independent Baptists generally will say they are neither.
 The doctrine of separation from "the world" and whether to associate with those who are "of the world"
 Belief in a second work of grace, i.e. entire sanctification (held by General Baptists in the Holiness tradition)
 Speaking-in-tongues and the operation of other charismatic gifts of the Holy Spirit in the charismatic churches
 How the Bible should be interpreted (hermeneutics)
 The extent to which missionary boards should be used to support missionaries
 The extent to which non-members may participate in the Lord's Supper services
 Which translation of Scripture to use (see King-James-Only movement in the English-speaking world)
 Dispensationalism versus Covenant theology
 The role of women in marriage.
 The ordination of women as deacons or pastors.
 Attitudes to and involvement in the ecumenical movement.

Excommunication is used as a last resort by denominations and churches for members who do not want to repent of beliefs or behavior at odds with the confession of faith of the community.

Worship
In Baptist churches, worship service is part of the life of the Church and includes praise (Christian music), worship, of prayers to God, a sermon based on the Bible, offering, and periodically the Lord's Supper. In many churches, there are services adapted for children, even teenagers. Prayer meetings are also held during the week.

Places of worship

The architecture is sober and the Latin cross is one of the only spiritual symbols that can usually be seen on the building of a Baptist church and that identifies the place where it belongs.

Education 

Baptist churches established elementary and secondary schools, Bible colleges, colleges and universities as early as the 1680s in England, before continuing in various countries. In 2006, the International Association of Baptist Colleges and Universities was founded in the United States. In 2022, it had 46 member universities.

Sexuality 

In matters of sexuality, Baptist congregations are theologically diverse, ranging from LGBT affirming to only marriage between a man and a woman, as well as in promotion of virginity pledges to young Baptist Christians, who are invited to engage in a public ceremony at sexual abstinence until Christian marriage. This pact is often symbolized by a purity ring. Programs like True Love Waits, founded in 1993 by the Southern Baptist Convention have been developed to support the commitments.

In many Baptist churches, same-sex marriage and same-gender love is affirmed and celebrated as is true in the Alliance of Baptists Denomination and for many churches in the Cooperative Baptist Fellowship and the American Baptist Churches USA. Many Baptist congregations have also been at the forefront of the conversations on ending same-sex marriage bans. In 2014, the Alliance joined a lawsuit challenging North Carolina's ban on same-sex marriage, which is America's first faith-based challenge to same-sex marriage bans.

Controversies that have shaped Baptists
Baptists have faced many controversies in their 400-year history, controversies of the level of crises. Baptist historian Walter Shurden says the word crisis comes from the Greek word meaning 'to decide.' Shurden writes that contrary to the presumed negative view of crises, some controversies that reach a crisis level may actually be "positive and highly productive." He claims that even schism, though never ideal, has often produced positive results. In his opinion crises among Baptists each have become decision-moments that shaped their future. Some controversies that have shaped Baptists include the "missions crisis", the "slavery crisis", the "landmark crisis", and the "modernist crisis".

Missions crisis
Early in the 19th century, the rise of the modern missions movement, and the backlash against it, led to widespread and bitter controversy among the American Baptists. During this era, the American Baptists were split between missionary and anti-missionary. A substantial secession of Baptists went into the movement led by Alexander Campbell to return to a more fundamental church.

Slavery crisis

United States