[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Mass in the Catholic Church

d preparatory rite is that of fraction and commingling. The priest breaks the host and places a piece in the main chalice; this is important as it symbolizes that the Body and Blood of Christ are both present within one another. Meanwhile, the "Lamb of God" ("Agnus Dei" in Latin) is sung or recited.

The priest then presents the Eucharistic Bread to the congregation, saying: "Behold the Lamb of God, behold him who takes away the sins of the world. Blessed are those who are called to the supper of the Lamb." Then all repeat: "Lord, I am not worthy that you should enter under my roof, but only say the word and my soul shall be healed," which is a reference in the Gospel of Matthew to where a Roman centurion manifests exemplary faith in Jesus to heal his servant, saying that Jesus' word alone was sufficient. The priest then receives Communion. Following this, if extraordinary ministers of Holy Communion are required, they may come forward at this time, and approach the priest, presenting themselves for Communion.   With the help of the deacon and concelebrants and, if necessary, extraordinary ministers of Holy Communion, the priest then distributes Communion to the faithful.

According to the Catholic Church doctrine receiving the Holy Communion in a state of mortal sin is  sinful and only those who are in a state of grace, that is, without any mortal sin, can receive it. Based on  it affirms the following: "Anyone who is aware of having committed a mortal sin must not receive Holy Communion, even if he experiences deep contrition, without having first received sacramental absolution, unless he has a grave reason for receiving Communion and there is no possibility of going to confession."

The faithful receive Communion kneeling or standing, as decided by the Episcopal Conference. For instance, the United States Episcopal Conference has decreed that "Holy Communion is to be received standing, though individual members of the faithful may choose to receive Communion while kneeling", while that for England and Wales says: "In the dioceses of England and Wales Holy Communion is to be received standing, though individual members of the faithful may choose to receive Communion while kneeling. However, when they communicate standing, it is recommended that the faithful bow in reverence before receiving the Sacrament.

The distributing minister says "The Body of Christ" or "The Blood of Christ", or "The Body and Blood of Christ" if both are distributed together (by intinction). The communicant responds: "Amen." In most countries the communicant may receive the consecrated Host either on the tongue or in the hand, at the communicant's own discretion. If in the hand they should step aside and reverently consume the Host immediately.

While Communion is distributed, singing of an appropriate approved chant or hymn is recommended, to emphasize the essentially "communitarian" nature of the body of Christ. If there is no singing, a short antiphon may be recited either by the congregation or by some of them or by a lector. Otherwise, the priest himself recites it just before distributing Communion.
 
"The sacred vessels are purified by the priest, the deacon, or an instituted acolyte after Communion or after Mass, insofar as possible at the credence table." Then the priest concludes the Liturgy of the Eucharist with the Prayer after Communion, for which the faithful are invited to stand.

Concluding rite

After the Prayer after Communion, announcements may be made. The Missal says these should be brief. The priest then gives the usual liturgical greeting and imparts his blessing. The liturgy concludes with a dialogue between the priest and the assembly. The deacon, or in his absence, the priest himself then dismisses the faithful. The 2011 edition of the Missal adds new versions of the dismissal.

The faithful respond: "Thanks be to God." The priest and other ministers then venerate the altar with a kiss, form a procession, and exit the sanctuary, preferably to a recessional hymn or chant from the Graduale, sung by all.

The Mass being over, the faithful may depart or stay a while, pray, light votive candles at shrines in the church, converse with one another, etc. In some countries, including the United States, the priest customarily stands outside the church door to greet the faithful individually as they exit.

Time of celebration of Mass

Except during the Paschal Triduum no limits are laid down for the time of celebrating Mass. The traditional rule included in the 1917 Code of Canon Law, forbidding (except to a limited extent on Christmas Night) celebration earlier than one hour before dawn or later than one hour after midday, was relaxed in the liturgical reforms of Pope Pius XII and completely abolished in those of the Second Vatican Council.