[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Institute for Defense Analyses

nts of existing DoD cyberspace organizational constructs, developed alternative technology strategies, and advised leaders on the most effective options to enhance cyberspace operations. Analysts also assist DoD and other governmental agencies in addressing problems related to real-world operations.

Intelligence Analyses Division (IAD) provides the United States Department of Defense, the Intelligence Community, and other cabinet departments research and analyses across a wide array of intelligence issues and disciplines. Specific examples of support to our national security include research in the following vital areas:
    Countering terrorism, including how terrorist organizations are financed; examining issues unique to Asian counterterrorism; and following developments in improvised explosive devices worldwide
    New technology, such as the use of tagging, tracking, and locating (TTL) systems, including the ability to defeat such systems, and measurement and signals intelligence (MASINT) applications, which deal with metric, angle, spatial, wavelength, time dependence, modulation, plasma, and hydromagnetic data
    Surprise technology – unanticipated technologies that might be employed against the U.S. by adversaries as the result of either scientific breakthroughs or novel applications of existing technologies.
    Cyberspace operations – tracking, analyzing, and countering digital security threats and identifying and tracking those developing, selling, and using cyber weapons on a global basis.

Joint Advanced Warfighting Division (JAWD) focuses on the needs of the joint force commander and, in particular, the future joint force commander. Provides analytic support to post-war programmatic decisions. As DoD reviews capabilities, JAWD provides an independent analytic review of the capabilities built during the war and which ones to maintain to support the joint concept. Specifically, the division is engaged in the following:
    Linking new concepts and new technologies to a military context
    Moving from concept to reality in the military environment
    Exploring military options through structured analysis.

Operational Evaluation Division (OED) provides technical analytical support to the DoD’s Director, Operational Test and Evaluation (DOT&E) and its mission to conduct independent assessments of the military services’ test and evaluation of new weapons systems. OED’s analytical support functions focus on:
    Conducting good tests of military systems in a realistic operational environment
    Evaluating those systems from an objective, disinterested, factually based perspective in terms of effectiveness and suitability
  OED also supports the Department of Homeland Security efforts to assess and validate new anti-terrorism systems as mandated by the Support Anti-Terrorism by Fostering Effective Technologies Act. Similar to the support to DoD, analysts provide the technical evaluation that proposed technologies are safe and effective.

Science and Technology Division (STD) provides analyses of science and technology issues related to national security. STD’s core strengths, which include:
    Electromagnetics
    Energy analysis
    Chemical, nuclear, biological detection
    Advanced optics
    Countering IEDs and mines
    Vehicle blast enhancements
    Materials and armor
    Training and human factors
    Robotic systems
  STD also manages DoD’s Defense Science Studies Group to strengthen connections between the federal government and relevant science and technology communities in academia. The DSSG introduces leading, recently tenured faculty to security challenges and related technology problems.

Strategy, Forces and Resources Division (SFRD) conducts comprehensive integrated, interdisciplinary studies of broad defense policy and long-range planning related to national strategy, organization, and management process issues. SFRD researchers and analysts conduct studies in several key areas:
    Analyzing Chemical, Biological, Radiological, and Nuclear (CBRN) defenses
    Conducting organizational effectiveness and human capital management studies
    Improving defense resource management
    Investigating international arms markets
    Researching international collaboration scenarios
    Evaluating force structure and capabilities as well as strategy and risk.

System Evaluation Division (SED) provides independent system evaluations, analyses of alternatives, assessments of technology integration, and special system studies for DoD, typically assisting our sponsors in the following tasks:
    Formulating and investigating new operational concepts and system architectures
    Examining force- and mission-level effectiveness
    Assessing the risks, costs, and benefits of new technology insertion
    Improving the developmental test and evaluation of major military systems

Science and Technology Policy Institute