[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Momčilo Đujić

ns, adding that he himself was unable to openly do so "because of public opinion." By the end of December, Đujić began to develop links with Ljotić's Yugoslav National Movement in German-occupied Serbia. Đujić also began to actively circumvent Mihailović's influence by sending him false information.

Retreat and surrender
In February 1944, Đujić ordered his commanders to infiltrate the Partisans with the aim of engaging in sabotage and assassination. Đujić said of the Dinara Division that it was:

On 25 November 1944, the Yugoslav Partisans attacked the town of Knin, which was defended by 14,000 German troops, 4,500 of Đujić's Chetniks, and around 1,500 Ustaše. On 1 December, Đujić was wounded and sent an emissary to General Gustav Fehn of the German 264th Infantry Division in Knin with the following message: 

On 3 December 1944, Đujić's force of between 6,000 and 7,000 withdrew to Bihać with help from the Wehrmacht 373rd Infantry Division. The Chetniks received ammunition and food from the Germans and began a joint German-Chetnik offensive against the Partisans. Fehn organised the transportation of Đujić's wounded Chetniks through Zagreb to the Third Reich. Đujić requested a written guarantee from Ante Pavelić, leader of the NDH, to afford him and his forces refuge in German-occupied Slovenia. Ljotić and Nedić also petitioned to Nazi party official Hermann Neubacher in Vienna that Đujić's forces should be allowed passage, as did Slovene collaborationist General Leon Rupnik.

On 21 December 1944, Pavelić ordered the military forces of the NDH to give Đujić and his forces "orderly and unimpeded passage". Đujić and his 6,000-odd typhus-ridden Chetniks took an alternate route towards the Istrian peninsula, as the routes offered by Pavelić were not secure from Partisan attacks. Along the way, hundreds were lost to Ustaše attacks. When Đujić and his troops reached Slovenia in late December, his forces joined Jevđević's Chetniks, Ljotić's Serbian Volunteer Corps, and Nedić's Serbian Shock Corps, forming a single unit that was under the command of Odilo Globocnik, the Higher SS and Police Leader in the Adriatic Littoral. In January Đujić's men were disarmed by the Germans. Together, the collaborationist forces tried to contact the western Allies in Italy in an attempt to secure foreign aid for a proposed anti-Communist offensive to restore royalist Yugoslavia. Mihailović did not oppose this plan openly and even sent warm letters to Đujić during this period. In May 1945, Đujić surrendered his troops to Allied forces and they were then taken to southern Italy, from there to displaced persons camps in Germany and then dispersed.

Life in exile

In 1947, Đujić was tried and convicted of war crimes in absentia by Yugoslavia's communist government. He was found guilty of mass murder, torture, rape, robbery, and forcible confinement, as well as collaborating with the German and Italians. He was accused of being responsible for the deaths of 1,500 people over the course of the war. Between 1947 and 1949, Đujić lived in Paris, before emigrating to the United States. Many of his former Chetniks followed him. Following his arrival in the United States, Đujić and his fighters played a role in the foundation of the Ravna Gora Movement of Serbian Chetniks. He was very active among the Serbian diaspora and the Serbian Orthodox Church in North America. In the 1960s, he enraged some in the diaspora by supporting German, the Tito-approved Serbian patriarch, against the anti-communist American bishop Dionisije Milivojević. Nevertheless, he remained strongly opposed to Yugoslavia's communist government. Đujić retired to San Marcos, California. In 1988, the Yugoslav authorities unsuccessfully sought Đujić's extradition from the United States. By this time, Đujić was the oldest surviving leader of the wartime Chetniks.