[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Iran–Italy relations

age, musical, artistic, theatrical, cinematographic and scientific heritage. The Treaty was signed by Amintore Fanfani, President of the Council and Minister of Foreign Affairs, and His Majesty The Sciahinsciah of Iran. The Treaty was at the basis of the following treaties between the two countries.

Following the Treaty of 1958 between 1978 and 1979 a Cultural exchange program was developed between the Italian republic government and the imperial government of Iran. A cultural exchange program for the years 1996-1997-1998-1999 also made it possible to further develop exchanges in the field of culture and education and thus contribute to the friendship between the two countries.

Important is the Memorandum of Understanding between the two countries signed by the Minister of Industry, Trade and Crafts with the task of Tourism Pierluigi Bersani and the Minister of Culture and Islamic Orientation Ataollah Mahajerani on 10 November 1999.

In 2000, a further Executive program of cultural collaboration was signed for the years 2000–2004 on the basis of which the two countries committed to cooperate in the university field and language teaching (thanks to the stipulation of agreements and conventions between the individual universities and the exchange of educational and scientific activities), in the cultural and art field (music, theater, cinema, festivals, cultural events), cultural heritage, scientific cooperation, in the radio and television and information field, sport and tourism.

The movie "Soraya", directed by Lodovico Gasparini, was released in 2003, depicting the story of Soraya Esfandiary Bakhtiari. Anna Valle played the leading role of the Persian Princess who was forced to divorce from the Shah of Iran after failing to give him an heir to the Sun Throne. The film was released in Italy on Rai Uno.

In 2004, Italian experts were working on plans to expand the National Museum of Iran beyond its current capacity, from 2,200 to 6,000.

On the occasion of the 11th Week of the Italian Language in the World, the Italian School of Tehran organized a series of events, created with the collaboration of Iranian universities that offer Italian language courses. The Week was inaugurated on Sunday 16 October 2011 with a study day dedicated to Eugenio Montale. Subsequently, some Italian films were also proposed (Il Postino, Pane e Tulipani, Benvenuti al Sud).

A further program, Executive Collaboration Program in the fields of culture, education, higher education and research, was signed in 2015 between the Ambassador of the Islamic Republic of Iran in Italy, Jahanbakhsh Mozaffari, and the Director General for the Promotion of the Country System of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and Ambassador Andrea Meloni.

In November 2019, the exhibition entitled "Italy and Iran, 60 years of collaboration on cultural heritage" was inaugurated at the National Museum of Iran. The exhibition tells the 60 years of the Italian archaeological presence in Iran and the bilateral collaboration in the field of preservation and enhancement of the Iranian cultural heritage.

In December of the same year, the first phase of the "Italy-Iran cooperation project for the development of cultural heritage, tourism and handicrafts" began. The project involves the promotion and exchange of Italian and Iranian knowledge and skills in the field of management and development of the historical, artistic and cultural heritage.

Resident diplomatic missions
 Iran has an embassy in Rome and a consulate-general in Milan.
 Italy has an embassy in Tehran.

See also
 Roman-Persian relations
 Foreign relations of Iran
 Foreign relations of Italy
 Iran–European Union relations

References

External links
Vanderbilt Television News Archive: Iran-Italy relations during president Khatami's presidency

 
Italy
Bilateral relations of Italy