[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cerro Grande Fire

ing trails and planting trees.  Local school children made many thousands of "seed balls", which they broadcast in the burned areas to accelerate regrowth of the vegetation.  To control erosion mechanically, Los Alamos County work crews laid thousands of trees across slopes, and chipped other trees.

Damage to buildings
The presence of Los Alamos National Laboratory in and downstream of the burned area posed several unusual problems in remediation, beyond the ones resulting directly from destruction of some of the institution's buildings by fire.

Other problems arose from fire-generated soot that seeped into buildings, shorting out electrical equipment and clogging HEPA filters necessary to the operation of clean rooms at some of the laboratories.  Resolving these problems took several years in some cases.

Meanwhile, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) mobilized to provide relief to the residents of Los Alamos who had been burned out of their homes.  A compound of portable buildings ("trailers"), known locally as FEMAville, was constructed on undeveloped land near the county rodeo grounds on North Mesa, providing housing for hundreds of displaced residents.  Some residents complained about the timeliness and thoroughness of the FEMA response.  The trailers became available only in late June 2000, after municipal utilities were completed and the trailers were delivered and hooked up to the utilities.  By 2006, all the trailers were removed and most of the displaced residents were settled into new homes, although reconstruction of houses in the burned area continues .  In 2007, the former FEMAville site was proposed as a full-service RV park. This proposal was soundly rejected by residents and the FEMAville acreage remains open space.

Adjacent communities
Santa Clara Canyon, home to Puye Cliff Dwellings, was devastated by Cerro Grande.  The people of Santa Clara Pueblo, who formerly earned income through tourism, now operate the Santa Claran Casino in Española, New Mexico. On June 20, 2000, residents of Isleta and Sandia Pueblos hired four environmental engineers to permanently work with the Cerro Grande Wild Fire aftermath. A 40-member forestry crew with members from the Eight Northern Pueblos has built 3,000 small dams (to minimize siltation of Santa Clara Creek), and planted one million trees on 3,500 acres (14 km2).

On June 21, 2000, the laboratory acknowledged measurements were 10 to 20 times above background levels but that analysis by it and other agencies still indicated all of the contamination came from natural radiation sources in vegetation that burned, principally from the decay of natural radon.

Future
In August of 2000, a review of the events leading up to the prescribed fire and how it was managed resulted in lessons learned and recommendations for fuel reduction from the US General Accounting Office. The far larger Rodeo-Chediski Fire in Arizona, as well as several other fires in the Western United States in 2002, completed the process of bringing forest fires into political focus, leading to the establishment of the Healthy Forests Initiative in 2003.  This initiative remains controversial, and its applicability to the relatively sparse forests of the Jemez Mountains that were consumed in the Cerro Grande Fire is unclear.  Clearly, though, significant thinning of the coniferous forest of the Jemez has occurred in the years following Cerro Grande.

The new national plan encourages parks to reinstate a program of planned, controlled burning. The goal is to reduce the build up of dead wood and brush on the ground, called fuels, to minimize the risk of destructive wildfires spreading to surrounding communities.The local community has also taken many steps to prevent and protect against future wildfires, including removing vegetation around buildings to increase defensible space,  replacing roof and sheathing materials (e.g. cedar shakes) with less flammable materials, and continued thinning and reduction of fuels in unburned wooded areas in and around town, particularly in the canyons below populated mesas.

Inferno by Committee, a detailed history of the fire and what went wrong, was published by firefighter Tom Ribe in 2010.

Image gallery

References 

 Cerro Grande fire (NPS)
 Analysis of Exposure and Risks to the Public from Radionuclides and Chemicals Released by the Cerro Grande Fire at Los Alamos
 The Cerro Grande Fire, Los Alamos, New Mexico (broken link)
 After the Fire
 T-RCED-00-257 Fire Management: Lessons Learned From the Cerro Grande Fire
 FEMA report on the Cerro Grande Fire (broken link)
 Santa Fe New Mexican - Santa Clara Canyon - Signs of Life after 2000 Blaze
 Jemez Mountains fire history

History of Los Alamos County, New Mexico
Wildfires in New Mexico
2000 fires in the United States
2000 wildfires in the United States
2000 in New Mexico
Bandelier National Monument