[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dominators (DC Comics)

a bomb that seemingly destroyed them. In fact, it imprisoned their entire planet in the Phantom Zone.

Alternative versions
In the Western Justice Riders Elseworld one-shot by Chuck Dixon and J. H. Williams III, a captured Dominator is the source of Maxwell Lord's advanced weaponry.

In other media

Television
 The Dominion appear in the second season of Legion of Super Heroes as allies of Imperiex.
 The Dominators appear in media set in the Arrowverse:
 They first appear in the crossover "Invasion!", portrayed via "cutting-edge prosthetics and computer effects", which executive producer Marc Guggenheim states was done "to achieve a feature film-quality look which is faithful to Invasion! artist Todd McFarlane's interpretation of the characters". Following a previous trip to Earth in the 1950s, they invade Earth in the present in response to the Flash altering history when he created and undid the Flashpoint timeline. They abduct and kill the President of the United States before brainwashing most of Earth's heroes and trapping them in a simulation to interrogate them for the Flash's location so they can ensure he cannot change history again. However, the heroes refuse to sacrifice their friend and join forces to defeat the Dominators, who are eventually forced to retreat.
 The Dominators make minor appearances in Supergirl and the crossover "Crisis on Earth-X".
 A Dominator child appears in the Legends of Tomorrow episode "Phone Home", voiced by Marc Graue. Having wound up stranded in Ivy Town, they encounter and befriend a young Ray Palmer, who nicknames the alien "Gumball". Upon learning of what happened, the Legends reunite Gumball with their mother, a Dominator queen (voiced by Cissy Jones).

Film
The Dominators make a cameo appearance in Green Lantern: Emerald Knights as one of the first races in the universe who indirectly created the Green Lantern Corps.

Miscellaneous
 Three Dominators appear in Justice League Adventures #21.
 The Dominators appear in Smallville Season 11.

References

DC Comics alien species
Legion of Super-Heroes
Superman characters