[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Maxi Rodríguez

Maximiliano "Maxi" Rubén Rodríguez (; born 2 January 1981) is an Argentine former professional footballer. Nicknamed La Fiera (The Beast in English), he was commonly used as a winger on both flanks but could also operate as an attacking midfielder.

Rodríguez arrived in Spain aged 21, and went on to spend the bulk of his professional career there, playing for Espanyol and Atlético Madrid and amassing La Liga totals of 232 matches and 58 goals over eight seasons. He also spent two years with Liverpool in England, and began and ended his career at Newell's Old Boys.

An Argentina international for 11 years, Rodríguez represented the country in three World Cups, finishing second in 2014 and earning 57 caps.

Club career

Newell's and Espanyol
Born in Rosario, Santa Fe, Rodríguez came through the youth set-up at Newell's Old Boys in the Primera División. He played with the club for three seasons, before moving to Spain.

In March 2002, Rodríguez agreed to a four-year deal with the option of a fifth at RCD Espanyol in La Liga. The transfer was frozen in May – after the player's presentation – by a court in Argentina who alleged irregularities in the actions of Newell's president Eduardo López; on 26 June the deal was concluded, for a €5 million fee in three instalments and with a buyout clause of €24 million. He made his debut on 2 September by featuring the full 90 minutes in a 2–0 loss away to Real Madrid, and scored his first goal on 27 October to decide a 4–3 comeback at Málaga CF in his team's first away victory for over a year.

Rodríguez played 37 matches in every campaign with the Catalans, scoring 15 goals during his last to finish joint seventh for the Pichichi Trophy.  He opened his account for that season with a hat-trick in the second game, a 4–1 away win over Real Betis on 12 September, and followed it six days later with the only goal of a defeat of Real Madrid at the Estadi Olímpic Lluís Companys. He also scored both goals of a win away to Real Sociedad on 7 November, while in the next fixture his penalty kick won the game against Racing de Santander and briefly put his side on top of the league ahead of city rivals FC Barcelona, though he was also sent off.

Atlético Madrid
At the start of the 2005–06 season, Rodríguez moved to Atlético Madrid for a transfer fee of €5 million, where he continued to post consistent numbers. In his second year he suffered, alongside teammate (and winger) Martin Petrov, a serious knee injury (anterior cruciate ligament), which limited him to only ten appearances.

On 10 November 2009, Rodríguez put four goals past UD Marbella in the Copa del Rey round-of-32 second leg, in an eventual 6–0 home win (8–0 aggregate). After the 2007 departure of Fernando Torres to Liverpool, he was selected as the new club captain; he took no part in the Colchoneros 2009–10 UEFA Europa League campaign, which ended in conquest.

Liverpool

On 13 January 2010, Rodríguez completed a free transfer to Liverpool, signing a three-and-a-half-year deal; after securing his signature, Rafael Benítez described him as "comfortable on the ball, can pass and keep possession. He is good at getting into the box and scoring goals and a good finisher", and the player was given the number 17 shirt, making his debut for the club as a second-half substitute in a Premier League match against Stoke City on the 16th. His first full start came a week and a half later, in a 0–0 away draw to Wolverhampton Wanderers.

Rodríguez picked up two league assists in his first games, both of which were for former Atlético teammate Torres. He scored his first competitive goal in a 4–0 win over Burnley at Turf Moor on 25 April 2010, playing the full 90 minutes.

2010–11 was a good individual season for Rodríguez, who netted ten league goals for the team, including hat-tricks against Birmingham City (5–0 home victory) and Fulham (5–2 at Craven Cottage). In the latter match, he scored twice in the opening seven minutes – the first being just after 32 seconds – and completed his exhibition with a 25-yard strike.

On 8 July 2011, Rodríguez switched his jersey number to 11, and he scored two goals in a pre-season friendly with Malaysia shortly after, which finished with a 6–3 win. On 24 August, he was given his first start of the season in a League Cup tie against Exeter City, and netted the second in an eventual 3–1 away victory.

On 20 November 2011, Rodríguez scored against Chelsea following a build-up with teammate Craig Bellamy, with Liverpool winning it 2–1 at Stamford Bridge. Nine days later, against the same opponent, in the same venue and again with the decisive pass being made by the Welshman, he found the net in a 2–0 League Cup win, and his team went on to win the latter competition.

On 26 December 2011, Rodríguez scored just his second league goal of the season in a 1–1 draw at Anfield against Blackburn Rovers. He netted his last two on 10 April 2012, for a 3–2 away defeat of the same adversary.