[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Deb Fischer

Fischer rejects conclusions by the international scientific community that human emissions of greenhouse gases are the primary cause of global warming in recent decades. In May 2015, a legislative aide said, "the senator acknowledges the climate is changing but believes it is due to natural cycles."

Gun access
After the 2016 Orlando nightclub shooting, Fischer said any legislative proposals to restrict people on the terrorist watchlist from buying guns would not stop mass shootings. She said that preventing self-radicalization was more important than restricting gun access.

Border control
Fischer supports sending more troops to patrol the United States-Mexico border and opposes college benefits for undocumented immigrants.

LGBTQ rights
In June 2020, Fischer expressed support for the Supreme Court decision in Bostock v. Clayton County that "extended Civil Rights Act protections to gay, lesbian and transgender workers", saying, "It's important that we recognize that all Americans have equal rights under our Constitution. I'm fine with it."

2020 presidential election
Before the January 6, 2021, United States Electoral College vote count, Fischer announced that she would vote to certify the election results. Fischer was on Capitol Hill to participate in the count when Trump supporters stormed the U.S. Capitol. During the attack, Fischer tweeted that "These rioters have no constitutional right to harm law enforcement and storm our Capitol. We are a nation of laws, not some banana republic. This must end now."

On May 28, 2021, Fischer voted against creating an independent commission to investigate the 2021 United States Capitol attack.

Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023
Fischer was among the 31 Senate Republicans who voted against final passage of the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023.

Personal life
Fischer and her husband Bruce operate a family ranch, Sunny Slope Ranch, near Valentine, Nebraska. Their adult sons Adam, Morgan, and Luke own the majority of the stock in the family corporation, while the elder Fischers retain a minority share. In 2020, Fischer and her husband moved to Lincoln, Nebraska.

Electoral history

See also
 Women in the United States Senate

References

Further reading
 "Sen. Deb Fischer – District 43 – Biography". Nebraska Legislature. Retrieved 2012-03-16. Archived from original 2012-06-05.
 "Outstanding LEAD Alum". Nebraska LEAD Alumni Association. Retrieved 2012-05-19.

External links

Senator Deb Fischer official U.S. Senate website
Campaign website

 

|-

|-

|-

1951 births
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
American Presbyterians
Female United States senators
Living people
Republican Party Nebraska state senators
People from Valentine, Nebraska
Politicians from Lincoln, Nebraska
Protestants from Nebraska
Ranchers from Nebraska
Republican Party United States senators from Nebraska
University of Nebraska–Lincoln alumni
Women state legislators in Nebraska