[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yitzhak Frenkel

his early encounter of Safed in 1920. In 1934, he made Safed his home, becoming the first artist to settle in the ancient holy city, 14 years before the "Artists' Colony" was formally established. There he painted the ancient synagogues, narrow lanes, local inhabitants and surrounding countryside. 

He first encountered Safed after his Aliya to Israel in 1919, the ancienty city left a deep impression on the young artist. Frenkel was entranced and mystified by the city's colours, its shades of blue, the chants of prayer and the alleyways. Frenkel romanticized the city and its landscapes. This is evident in his portrayal of Safed, mystic and spiritual, things unseen and hidden from the naked eye which the artist attempts to reveal.  Frenkel, found in Safed a spirituality and inspiration that was harder to find elsewhere. Frenkel painted the ancient synagogues, narrow lanes, rabbis and their students,  scenes of Jewish life, local residents and the  landscape of Mount Meron.

Late 1930s 

During this period, Frenkel frequently moved between Safed, Jerusalem and most frequently Tel Aviv, his family moving to Tel Aviv in 1936. During that period he mostly abandoned the abstract style. He and Moshe Halevy designed the Adloyada in which he specifically designed the floats for the "Adloyada" carnival in Tel Aviv. In 1936 he began designing sets and costumes for the "HaOhel" theater and "HaBima" theater, and painted portraits of famous actors such as Hanna Rovina who worked there.

In 1937, he embarked on a journey, painting Israel from point to point, North to South. He painted Safed, Jerusalem, Tel Aviv, the Negev desert as well as the Galilee. He made 13 exhibitions on the motif of Safed up-to 1950. Several of his landscapes showed the influence of Corot. In 1937, in his eyes, Jerusalem and its soil was brown and hot... Prompting the artist to paint Jerusalem and its hills (as well as Rosh Pina in which he saw a familiar brown) in a Rembrandtesque light.

Government work 
In 1948, Frenkel painted the first meeting of the Knesset as well as the first meeting of the military committee of the IDF. He also made portraits of the first 120 MKs (Members of the Knesset).

In 1949, he would become one of the founders of the "Artists Colony of Safed". He distanced himself from most of the artists of the colony, leading to the colony's resentment of him. 
He was the first painter chosen by the State of Israel to represent the Jewish State at the Venice Bienniale. In 1950 he exhibited his work in the 25th and 26th Bienniale of Venice, representing Israel. In 1952 he exhibited again in Paris.

He opened a short lived Academy for Art in his Safed home in 1950. However due to financial difficulties, he was soon forced to leave and seek his fortune elsewhere (in South Africa, Portugal and France).

Between France and Israel

France 1954-1960 

In 1954 he returned to France. There he studied glasswork and he created stained glass windows for  the Baroness Alix de Rothshild for a chapel in Normandy in the north of France. During the six-year period between 1954 and 1960 he started to sign his works as "Frenel"... This along with his windows for a Christian chapel led to rumors that he had abandoned Judaism, which were untrue.

1960s and 1970s 
He showed his work in one-man shows in museums and galleries in Europe, the Americas, South Africa and Asia, returning periodically to Israel. However, being outcast due to false rumours and the antagonism the traditional artistic establishment held toward him, he would be almost unable to exhibit his works in Israel. He returned to Paris for most of the year using  Tzfat/Safed as his summer home.Rolly Schaffer was one of his students in Safed. In 1973, his house reopened as a museum, the Frenkel Frenel Museum, showcasing his work. In July 1979, Frenkel had a one-man show at the Orangerie in Paris.

His Expressionist works pinpoint the expression of inner experience rather than solely realistic portrayal, seeking to depict not objective reality but the subjective emotions and responses that objects and events arouse in them. His colours reveal his hidden emotions and express passion and drama. When he paints his wife Ilana, the colours express an erotic explosion.

In 1979 he had a solo show at the famous "Orangerie" of Paris, in celebration of his 80th birthday; inaugurated by the President of the French Senate, Alain Poher.

He died in 1981 in Tel Aviv and was buried in Safed.