[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Artificial intelligence

people, a problem called "sample size disparity". Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling anything as a  "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon.

COMPAS is a commercial program widely used by U.S. courts to assess the likelihood of a defendant becoming a recidivist.
In 2016, Julia Angwin at ProPublica discovered that COMPAS exhibited racial bias, despite the fact that the program was not told the races of the defendants. Although the error rate for both whites and blacks was calibrated equal at exactly 61%, the errors for each race were different -- the system consistently overestimated the chance that a black person would re-offend and would underestimate the chance that a white person would not re-offend. In 2017, several researchers showed that it was mathematically impossible for COMPAS to accommodate all possible measures of fairness when the base rates of re-offense were different for whites and blacks in the data.

A program can make biased decisions even if the data does not explicitly mention a problematic feature (such as "race" or "gender"). The feature will correlate with other features (like "address", "shopping history" or "first name"), and the program will make the same decisions based on these features as it would on "race" or "gender".
Moritz Hardt said “the most robust fact in this research area is that fairness through blindness doesn't work.”

Criticism of COMPAS highlighted a deeper problem with the misuse of AI. Machine learning models are designed to make "predictions" that are only valid if we assume that the future will resemble the past. If they are trained on data that includes the results of racist decisions in the past, machine learning models must predict that racist decisions will be made in the future. Unfortunately, if an applications then uses these predictions as recommendations, some of these "recommendations" will likely be racist. Thus, machine learning is not well suited to help make decisions in areas where there is hope that the future will be better than the past. It is necessarily descriptive and not proscriptive.

Bias and unfairness may go undetected because the developers are overwhelmingly white and male: among AI engineers, about 4% are black and 20% are women.

At its 2022 Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (ACM FAccT 2022) the Association for Computing Machinery, in Seoul, South Korea, presented and published findings recommending that until AI and robotics systems are demonstrated to be free of bias mistakes, they are unsafe and the use of self-learning neural networks trained on vast, unregulated sources of flawed internet data should be curtailed.

Lack of transparency 

Most modern AI applications can not explain how they have reached a decision. The large amount of relationships between inputs and outputs in deep neural networks and resulting complexity makes it difficult for even an expert to explain how they produced their outputs, making them a black box.

There have been many cases where a machine learning program passed rigorous tests, but nevertheless learned something different than what the programmers intended. For example,  Justin Ko and Roberto Novoa developed a system that could identify skin diseases better than medical professionals, however it classified any image with a ruler as "cancerous", because pictures of malignancies typically include a ruler to show the scale. A more dangerous example was discovered by Rich Caruana in 2015: a machine learning system that accurately predicted risk of death classified a patient that was over 65, asthma and difficulty breathing as "low risk". Further research showed that in high-risk cases like this, the hospital would allocate more resources and save the patient's life, decreasing the risk measured by the program. Mistakes like these become obvious when we know how the program has reached a decision. Without an explanation, these problems may not not be discovered until after they have caused harm.

A second issue is that people who have been harmed by an algorithm's decision have a right to an explanation. Doctors, for example, are required to clearly and completely explain the reasoning behind any decision they make. Early drafts of the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation in 2016 included an explicit statement that this right exists. Industry experts noted that this is an unsolved problem with no solution in sight. Regulators argued that nevertheless the harm is real: if the problem has no solution, the tools should not be used.

DARPA established the XAI ("Explainable Artificial Intelligence") program in 2014 to try and solve these problems.