[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1986 in organized crime

the Maxi Trial in Palermo
June 13 – The entire leadership of the Colombo crime family, boss Carmine "Junior" Persico, underboss Gennaro "Jerry Lang" Langella, former acting boss/capo Anthony "Scappy" Scarpati, capos Alphonse "Little Allie Boy" Persico, Andrew "Andy Mush" Russo, Dominic "Little Dom" Cataldo, John "Jackie" DeRoss, soldier Frank "The Beast" Falanga and associate Hugh "Apples" McIntosh are convicted under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) of conspiracy, extortion, and bribery in the "Colombo Case". The U.S. Attorney's Office filed a civil RICO complaint against family members soon after the trial, marking the first civil RICO complaint filed against a crime family as an enterprise, including labor unions under their control.
June 14 – Anthony "Tony," "The Ant" Spilotro and his brother Michael Spilotro are beaten to death and buried in a cornfield in Morocco, Indiana, their bodies being found on June 23. Spilotro had been sent to Las Vegas by the Chicago Outfit as its "Representato," or, "Outside Man," to protect its casino skimming operations and, "Inside Man." But, after gaining much too media attention and being blacklisted by the casinos, as well as allegedly having an affair with the wife of Outfit associate and "Inside Man" Frank "Lefty" Rosenthal, it was decided that Anthony was a liability, and is murdered on the orders of the new Chicago Outfit boss, Joseph "Joe Negal" Ferriola.
June 23 – After being largely controlled by the Genovese crime family for almost three decades under Anthony "Tony Pro" Provenzano, U.S. District Court Judge Harold A. Ackerman is named as a trustee to oversee Teamsters Local 560.
July 24 – Genovese crime family soldier Joseph "Joe Glitz" Galizia and Russian mobsters Igor Roizman, Igor Porotsky, and Sheldon Levine are indicted after a six-month investigation by the Federal Organized Crime Strike Force for the Eastern District of New York.  The men were charged with operating a scam that evaded over $5 million in Federal gasoline excise taxes.
September – The Commission Case goes to trial in Manhattan. The heads of the five New York Families called the Commission are all charged and brought to trial for the first time. There were 11 defendants indicted, but only eight make it to trial. The defendants are Genovese crime family boss (front boss) Anthony "Fat Tony" Salerno, Lucchese crime family boss Antonio "Tony Ducks" Corallo, Lucchese underboss Salvatore "Tom Mix" Santoro, Lucchese consigliere Christopher "Christie Tick" Furnari, Colombo crime family boss Carmine "Junior" Persico, Colombo acting boss/underboss Gennaro "Jerry Lang" Langella, Colombo soldier Ralph Scopo and Bonanno crime family soldier Anthony "Bruno" Indelicato. Defendant Philip "Rusty" Rastelli, Bonanno crime family boss was severed from the trial, as he was subsequently indicted in another RICO case along with his underboss Joseph "Big Joey" Massino. Gambino crime family underboss Aniello "Mr. Neil" Dellacroce died of brain cancer Dec 2, 1985. Gambino crime Family boss Paul "Big Pauly" Castellano and his new underboss Tommy Bilotti were assassinated in front of Sparks Steak House in Manhattan Dec. 16, 1985.
September 25 – Gambino crime family leader John "Johnny Boy" Gotti is brought to trial for the first time and charged with crimes over an 18-year period including illegal gambling, loan-sharking, armed robbery, and murder.
October 24 – Members of the Colombo crime family including Colombo Family boss Carmine "Junior" Persico, two former leaders, four capos, four other members and two associates are charged with involvement in widespread racketeering and other criminal activities.
October 31 – Philadelphia mobster Nicodemo Scarfo is indicted with several others by a New Jersey grand jury for racketeering, loansharking, illegal gambling, and extortion.
November 5 – Harry Davidoff, Vice President of the Lucchese crime family-controlled IBT Local 851, is convicted under the RICO Act for conspiracy (as well as being charged with conspiracy and extortion under the Hobbs Act) at a jury trial in the Eastern District of New York (EDNY). This would be the first in a series of trials, in which a federal investigation focused on the control of the air freight industry at JFK International Airport by New York's Five Families, using its influence within the Teamsters Union.
October 10 – During the Davidoff trial, Lucchese capo Paul Vario, with soldiers Frank Manzo and Pasquale Raucci plead guilty of conspiracy and convicted under the RICO Act.
November 18 – Among various members and associates of the Colombo Crime family, Colombo boss Carmine "Junior" Persico is sentenced to 39 years' imprisonment for racketeering along with underboss Gennaro "Jerry Lang" Langella who receives a 65-year prison sentence.
November 19 – All 8 defendants are found guilty on all RICO counts-151 of them. They will be sentenced soon.
November 24 – Genovese crime family "front boss" Anthony "Fat Tony"