[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Education in Syria

r income households in rural areas do not have access to post-secondary education opportunities.

The secondary gross enrollment rate in 2007 stood at 72 percent, higher than the preceding years and one percentage point higher than the 2007 MENA regional gross enrollment rate at the secondary level.

Technical and vocational education and training (TVET)
At the secondary level, the education system also includes three years of general or vocational education. Syria has a relatively large proportion of secondary school students in vocational schools; about 36 percent of total secondary school students in 2004 are in vocational schools. According to UIS the total enrollment in technical and vocational education (both private and public) in 2007 decreased to 103 from 113,994 students in 2006. Out of the total number, 41898 were female students enrolled in TVET.

In 1990s, the government aimed to increase TVET enrollment and at one time decided to allocate 70 percent of the lower secondary graduates to vocational schools, which meant doubling the share of TVET in total enrollment from 20 percent in 1990 to 40 percent in 2000. However, this later proved unsustainable. Then in 2000 a new policy stipulated 50:50 distributions of secondary students between general and vocational secondary education, and this was later decreased to 40 percent. Students enrolled in four main specializations:commercial,industrial, agricultural and handicrafts. The TVET system in Syria is very rigid with no options of reentering the formal school system.

University education

The earliest colleges founded in Syria were the School of Medicine (established 1903) and the Institute of Law (established 1913). The university education was founded in 1919 on a free of charge basis.

The Ministry of Higher Education was established in 1966 to supervise the scientific and educational institutions, such as universities, academic councils, the Arabic Language Academy and educational hospitals. Most post-secondary education is state-provided, but legislation passed in 2001 allows the establishment of some private universities and colleges. Resources for education have risen in absolute terms over the past decade, but it is difficult to match the rate of population growth. Colleges charge modest fees ($10–20 a year) if the student achieves the sufficient marks in their Baccalaureate exams. If not, the student may opt to pay higher fees ($1500–3000) to enroll. There are some private schools and colleges but their fees are much higher.

Domestic policies emphasize engineering and medicine in Syria’s universities, with less emphasis on the arts, law, and business. Most universities in Syria follow the French model of the high education, the university stages and the academic degrees are:

First stage: the License awarded after four to six years depending on the field.

Second stage: the DEA or DESS one to two years postgraduate degree equivalent to the master's degree in the American-English systems.

Third stage: the doctorate three to five years after the DEA or an equivalent degree.

20 private universities have been given licenses, 14 of which have actually opened and 6 to be opened soon.
Private universities will have an independent academic and management structure representing the owner and will be headed by the president of the university. There will also be a university board consisting of either: chancellor, faculty or division.

Private Universities

 Syrian Private University
 Al Rasheed International Private University for Science & Technology - Damascus
 International University for Sciences and Technology (IUST) - Damascus
 University of Kalamoon - Deir Atiyah
 The Arab European University - Sahnaya
 Al-Jazeera University - Deir ez Zor
 Al-Manara University - Latakia
 Al-Andalus University - Qadmous
 Al-Sham Private University - Damascus
 Arab International University (AIU) - Damascus
 International University for Science and Technology - Damascus
 Wadi International University
 Arab Academy for E-Business - Damascus

Public Universities

 Damascus University in Damascus
 Aleppo University in Aleppo
 Al-Baath University in Homs
 Hama University in Hama
 Al-Furat University in Deir ez Zor
 Tishreen University in Lattakia
 University of Tartus in Tartus
 Syrian Virtual University in Damascus
Rojava University in Qamishli
The Centre for Measurement and Evaluation in Higher Education (CME), which was established in 2012, assesses the performance of students, programs, and educational institutions. The centre was founded to set clear criteria for cross-border certificates based on the methodology, techniques and institutional standard measurement tools. its aim is to measure knowledge, skills and attitudes in a scientific way, to ensure the quality of higher education outputs to meet developmental needs.