[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anatolius of Laodicea

dded to the festal letters of Athanasius during the late 4th century; it was used by Annianus in his 532-year tables during the early 5th century, was fully enumerated in the subsequent 532-year Ethiopic tables, and was adopted by bishop Cyril of Alexandria (without any mention of a 532-year table).

However, the Metonic 19-year lunar cycle which was added to Athanasius’ Festal Letters was a one which had 6 April instead of 5 April. Furthermore, Otto Neugebauer (1899-1990), according to himself, was in the dark about the date of compilation of the whole 7980-year framework (based on the classical Alexandrian 19-year lunar cycle) created by Alexandrian computists. Considering that only around AD 400 Annianus obtained his classical Alexandrian version of the Metonic 19-year lunar cycle by adapting Theophilus’ 19-year lunar cycle by moving its saltus 1 year forward by replacing its date 6 April by 5 April, the Catholic Encyclopedia concludes that the compilation in question dates from the fifth century. Of course, this does not exclude that the (in principle tentative) version constructed in the first quarter of the fourth century could be, by chance, equal to Annianus’ ultimately definitive one. In any case, this possible equality cannot be assured in the way Neugebauer tried to prove it, because the particular Metonic 19-year lunar cycle of the not-dated manuscript concerning AD 311-369 he staged, could have been obtained afterwards by simply extrapolating from the fifth century 7980-year framework. Moreover, Neugebauer not only ignored the difference between the classical Alexandrian and the Festal Index 19-year lunar cycle, but also kept us guessing about, at least refrained from showing, the (crucial) position of the saltus in the particular Metonic 19-year lunar cycle in question.

Anatolius describes the vernal equinox as a section of the first zodiacal sign from March 22 to 25. Although he defines March 22 as the Sun's entry into the first sign, he never defines it as his equinox, but as Ptolemy's equinox. This does not exclude that in reality he used Ptolemy's equinox as the theoretical lower limit date for all of his dates of Paschal full moon. As a matter of fact, the corresponding de facto lower limit date (necessarily being either 22 or 23 March) is not 22 but 23 March, which easily can be derived from Anatolius’ Paschal table. In contrast, he used not only Ptolemy's but also the Roman equinox, March 25, in his Paschal table.

Notes

References

Sources
Acta Sanctorum I (5th century) July
Georges Declercq (2000) Anno Domini (the Origins of the Christian Era):  Turnhout ()
Michaud Frères (1811–1855) Biographie universelle: Paris

Lives of the Saints, Omer Englebert, New York: Barnes & Noble, 1994, pp 532,  (casebound)
Daniel P. Mc Carthy & Aidan Breen (2003), The ante-Nicene Christian Pasch De ratione paschali (The Paschal tract of Anatolius, bishop of Laodicea): Dublin ()
Alden A. Mosshammer (2008), The Easter Computus and the Origins of the Christian Era: Oxford ()
. The numbers on the pages of this edition are six less than the numbers of the corresponding pages of the original edition (1979), so six must be subtracted from page references in this edition's index and text. 
Philip Schaff (1892) Athanasius (Select Works and Letters): New York 

 The following concerns only the part "Life" of this article:

Further reading

External links

Paschal Canon
The Paschal Canon of Anatolius of Laodicea
Catholic Encyclopedia: St. Anatolius
Complete Dictionary of Scientific Biography: Anatolius of Alexandria
Anatolius d'Alexandrie: Sur les Dix Premiers Nombres, Sur la Décade et Les Nombres Qu'elle Comprend
 Five Metonic 19-year lunar cycles

 Syrian Christian saints

3rd-century writers
283 deaths
3rd-century Romans
People from Latakia
3rd-century Syrian bishops
Year of birth unknown
Saints from Roman Syria