[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Strawberry Statement (film)

strikers choking, the police and guardsmen pull haul the demonstrators from the building, beating them with batons.

With Linda being carried away kicking and screaming, Simon takes on a group of police all by himself and segments of his happier times in college flash before the viewers' eyes.

Cast

Production
Clay Felker, editor of New York magazine, showed producer Irwin Winkler a column James Kunen had written and told him it was going to be a book (it would be published in 1969). He read it and bought the film rights with partner Bob Chartoff. "We thought it could create understanding – the schism was so great between the generations then", said Winkler. "It was an important subject. These youths who are looked upon as anarchists are really just American kids reacting to problems in our society. Here was a story about an ordinary guy becoming an anarchist."

Winkler had seen The Indian Wants the Bronx and It's the Called the Sugar Plum by Israel Horovitz and asked if he had an idea how to adapt the book. Horovitz pitched the movie to MGM saying it should be shot at Columbia (University). "At the time, there was a student group that had shot a lot of black and white documentary footage of the strikes at Columbia", he said. "I wanted to intercut this documentary footage with the fiction that I planned to write. "

The pitch was successful as MGM announced they would make it in May 1969. MGM's president at the time was "Bo" Polk and the head of production was Herb Solow.

Israel Horovitz was signed to do the screenplay. He said he wrote ten drafts over two years.

François Truffaut was offered the film to direct but turned it down. The job eventually went to Stuart Hagmann who had worked in television and advertising.

Horovitz says he struggled to write the film after MGM wanted to shift it to the west coast. He talked to Kunen for a few days then asked himself, "Who is this movie for really?  What's the point of this? If it's to preach to the learned already--then it will have no worth"."

Horovitz says "I took the approach that Michael Moore must take with his documentaries.  Moore doesn't talk to the people who are already in the know--he's talking to those who don't know.  So I started to head in that direction with the re-write of the script."

Irwin Winkler later wrote in his memoirs that Hagman's directorial style, which involved "a great deal of camera movement" meant "the actors sometimes suffered from the crew's allocation of production time versus acting time. But they were game and young, though they required a lot of on-set communication."

"The scenario was cut by the director", said Horovitz, "but not by MGM. It was diluted by cutting – it should have been much stronger than it is. But then it would have lost most of its audience straight away."

Some of the film was shot in Stockton, California, other parts in San Francisco (Gorilla Records and Caffe Trieste on Grant Avenue, Alamo Square, High School of Commerce: San Francisco Unified School District Central Offices), and University of California, Berkeley and as indicated in the opening credits.

Kim Darby says the director "was very kind. He was lenient. He was a lot of fun too. He had done many commercials before, and there was the air of freedom around us."

Music
Thunderclap Newman's "Something in the Air" is featured on the soundtrack, along with 
"The Circle Game" (written by Joni Mitchell.) performed by Buffy Sainte-Marie.  "Give Peace A Chance", performed by the cast; Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young contributed "Helpless", "Our House", "The Loner" and "Down By The River".  Crosby, Stills and Nash perform "Suite: Judy Blue Eyes".

Reception
The film was a commercial and critical flop. "The critics attacked the style instead of the substance", said Winkler. "Most disappointing was the dismissal by audiences."