[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 29]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

eaks out in which the two Quinns are wounded, Sean mortally and subsequently captured. In the confusion, Aiken manages to slip away.
24 April – Free State troops take a republican prisoner, Daniel Murphy, to Knocknagoshel, where 5 National Army troops had been killed on 6 March and shoot him dead.
25 April – 
Three Anti-Treaty prisoners are executed in Tralee.
A National Army officer, Peter McNicholas, is killed in an ambush near Kiltimagh, County Mayo.
A Free State Lieutenant, Beehan, is shot dead in an ambush near Castleisland, County Kerry, while escorting two Civic Guards. 
26 April – One Anti-Treaty fighter is executed in Ennis.
30 April – Frank Aiken calls an end to IRA military operations.

May 1923
Early May – 12,000 Republicans have been interned by Free State up to this point.
First week of May – A major Free State sweep in County Cork takes the last rural areas held by the republicans in the county at Ballyvourney and Ballymakeera. Historian Peter Hart puts the casualties for the civil war in the county at 180 killed and 295 wounded. Of the dead, 70 are National Army, 51 are Anti-Treaty IRA, 28 are civilians and the status of 30 is undetermined.
2 May – Two Republican prisoners are executed in Ennis, County Clare.
5 May – A civilian Michael Reynolds is shot dead by anti-Treaty republicans in County Leitrim, who were looking for his son, an ex RIC officer.
Republicans blow up the Grand Central Cinema in Dublin.
6 May – A National Army sergeant is shot dead while on sentry duty.
14 May – Joint meeting of the Republican Government and IRA Army Executive instructs Aiken to end the war.
15 May – Anti-Treaty IRA column surrounded at Valleymount, County Wicklow. Its leader, Ned Plunkett, is killed and the rest surrender.
24 May – Frank Aiken orders a ceasefire. Anti-Treaty fighters are to "dump their arms" and return home. Éamon de Valera supports the order, issuing a statement to Anti-Treaty fighters: "Further sacrifice on your part would now be in vain and the continuance of the struggle in arms unwise in the national interest. Military victory must be allowed to rest for the moment with those who have destroyed the Republic". End of the war.

Aftermath
30 May – Two Republicans are executed in Tuam, County Galway.

June 1923
22 June – Michael Radford of the South Wexford Brigade I.R.A. (Anti-Treaty) is shot dead by Free State soldiers at Ballybuick, Tomhaggard, County Wexford.

July 1923
3 July – Noel Lemass, Anti-Treaty IRA officer in Dublin, brother of Seán Lemass is abducted by Free State plainclothesmen and killed. His body is later found in the Wicklow Mountains on 12 October.

August 1923
3 August – The body of Henry McEntee was found at Dubber Cross near Jamestown Road Finglas County Dublin. It was alleged that McEntee had received threats from the CID at Oriel House. 
A Civic Guard is shot dead by pro-Treaty troops at Belturbet County Cavan, when he failed to stop at an Army checkpoint.
15 August – Éamon de Valera arrested in Ennis, when he tried to make an election speech. He is imprisoned for over a year at Arbour Hill Prison in Dublin.
17 August – Voting in 1923 Irish general election takes place. Cumann na nGaedheal win 63 seats; Sinn Féin 44; Independents 16; Farmers 15; Labour 14; and Independent Labour 1. About 415,00 first preference votes were given to Pro-Treatyites and 286,000 to Anti-Treatyites. (64% of the electorate voted.) Some of the Anti-Treaty members elected are still imprisoned.
18 August – A Free State soldier is accidentally shot dead by his comrades, firing in the air to celebrate the election reulsts in Ballybay, County Monaghan.

October 1923
13 October – A mass hunger strike is launched by 424 Republican prisoners in Mountjoy Prison in Dublin in protest at their continued detention after the war's end. The strike is joined by up to 8,000 Republican prisoners in prisons and camps around the country.
29 October – The Oriel House CID is disbanded and its members transferred to the Dublin Metropolitan Police. In April 1925 the DMP was amalgamated with the Garda Síochána. CID was responsible for a number of killings of republicans during the war.

November 1923
20 November – Republican prisoner Denny Barry dies on hunger strike in Newbridge camp.
Two republican prisoners are executed, one each in Athlone and Tralee.
22 November – IRA prisoner Andrew Sullivan dies on hunger strike in Mountjoy prison in Dublin.
23 November – The republican hunger strike is called off. The women prisoners are released but most of the men are detained until the following year.

December 1923
3 December – Garda Síochána Garda Sergeant James Woods murdered in his Garda station after resisting an armed raid by insurgents, Scartaglen, County Kerry.
6 December – Scartaglen, County Kerry. Free State Lt. Jeremiah Gaffney shot dead republican Thomas Brosnan in a revenge attack. 
29 December – Two republicans are executed in Kilkenny.