[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of coups and coup attempts

Roosevelt. While historians have questioned whether or not a coup was actually close to execution, most agree that some sort of "wild scheme" was contemplated and discussed.
1933 Siamese coup d'état: Colonel Phraya Phahol Pholphayuhasena led a peaceful coup against Premier Phraya Manopakorn Nititada

1934
Estonia: Konstantin Päts carried out a self-coup on 12 March.
1934 Latvian coup d'état: Kārlis Ulmanis carried out a self-coup against the parliamentary system.
1934 Bulgarian coup d'état: The Zveno military organization and the Military Union, with the aid of the Bulgarian Army, overthrew the government of the wide Popular Bloc coalition and replaced it with one under Kimon Georgiev.
1934 Lithuanian coup d'état attempt: Supporters of the former Prime Minister Augustinas Voldemaras attempted to overthrow the government of President Antanas Smetona.
July Putsch in Austria: On 25–30 July, Austrian Nazis, attempted a coup against the Austrofascist regime. Although they succeeded in resulting in the assassinating chancellor Engelbert Dollfuss, Kurt Schuschnigg succeeded him and the Austrofascist regime remained in power.
: A coup on 15 January overthrew provisional president Ramón Grau. A second coup three days later overthrew his replacement, Carlos Hevia, and installed Carlos Mendieta as president.
Bolivia: Bolivian generals deposed President Daniel Salamanca in the midst of the Chaco War.

1935
Greek coup attempt of 1935: A Venizelist coup attempt, headed by Nikolaos Plastiras against the People's Party government of Panagis Tsaldaris, failed.
Mexico: In an internal coup, Lázaro Cárdenas deported and exiled President Plutarco Elías Calles, effectively ending Calles' control over the Mexican government.
Greece: General Georgios Kondylis deposed the sitting government and abolished the Republic, restoring the Greek monarchy.

1936

Xi'an Incident in China: General Chiang Kai-shek was kidnapped by his deputy Zhang Xueliang, who demanded that Chiang stop fighting the Chinese Communists and instead agree to a united resistance against the Japanese. His wife's and her brother's subsequent negotiation with Zhang ensured Chiang's release two weeks later.
 1936 Bolivian coup d'état: Germán Busch overthrew José Luis Tejada Sorzano and handed the presidency to David Toro.
 Spanish coup of July 1936: Nationalists seized control of parts of Spain, commencing the Spanish Civil War. Later, General Francisco Franco assumed control of the country as dictator.
February 26 Incident in Japan: A coup attempt by junior military officers failed in installing a militarist government.
Greece: A coup of Ioannis Metaxas on 4 August established the 4th of August Regime.
Kingdom of Iraq: A 30 October coup by Bakr Sidqi and Hikmat Sulayman deposed Prime Minister Yasin al-Hashimi.

1937
France: A Cagoulard plot to install a pro-Nazi government was foiled by French police.
Bolivia: Dissatisfied with the speed of new reforms, Germán Busch led a popular movement which secured the resignation of David Toro.
Brazil: President Getúlio Vargas, governing democratically since 1934, launched a self-coup and became the Dictator of the Brazilian Estado Novo ("New State").

1938
Romania: King Carol II of Romania launched a self-coup, which abolished parliamentary democracy in favor of a royal dictatorship.
Brazil: Vargas forces detected the attempted Integralist coup, leading to a shootout with insurgents at the Guanabara Palace.

1939
Casado's coup in Spain: A coup by military officers and members of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in the Republican zone of Spain resulted in the formation of the National Defence Council as a step towards a negotiated peace with the Nationalists. The negotiations eventually failed, but the coup signaled the end of the Spanish Civil War.

1940–1949

1940
Norway: The fascist politician Vidkun Quisling attempted to overthrow the Norwegian government in response to the German invasion of Denmark and Norway.
Occupation of the Baltic states in Estonia, Latvia, and Lithuania: Several Soviet-organised coups occurred during the Soviet takeover of the Baltic states.
Mexico: Juan Andreu Almazán attempted a coup to prevent the inauguration of president-elect Manuel Ávila Camacho.

1941
Legionnaires' Rebellion in Romania: Iron Guard paramilitaries (also known as Legionnaires) unsuccessfully attempted to overthrow Conducător Ion Antonescu.
1941 Iraqi coup d'état: Pro-German Rashid Ali Al-Gaylani and the Golden Square overthrew the regime of the Pro-British Regent 'Abd al-Ilah, leading to the Anglo-Iraqi War.
Yugoslav coup d'état: Pro-British King Peter II and his supporters staged a coup in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia to replace pro-German Regent Prince Paul, leading to the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia.

1942
Coup attempt in Algeria: French Resistance fighters staged a coup in Algiers in the night before Operation Torch.