[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Chen Guangcheng

an important impact. We must believe in the value of our own actions".

In August 2020, Chen spoke at the 2020 Republican National Convention. During his speech, Chen stated "We need to support, vote, and fight for President Trump."

In 2021 Chen naturalized as a US citizen.

Awards and recognition 

Chen began attracting international media attention for his civil rights activism in the early 2000s. In March 2002, Newsweek magazine ran a cover story on Chen and the "barefoot lawyer" movement in China, detailing his advocacy on behalf of villagers and disabled people. His profile rose further in 2005 when he filed a landmark class-action suit taking on abuses of the one-child policy. In 2006, Chen Guangcheng was named one of the Time 100, Time annual list of "100 men and women whose power, talent or moral example is transforming our world". The citation stated, "He may have lost his sight as a child, but Chen Guangcheng's legal vision has helped illuminate the plight of thousands of Chinese villagers."

In 2007, Chen won the Ramon Magsaysay Award while still in detention. The award, often called the "Asian Nobel Prize", was bestowed for "his irrepressible passion for justice in leading ordinary Chinese citizens to assert their legitimate rights under the law". According to AIDS activist Hu Jia, Chen's wife Yuan Weijing attempted to attend the Magsaysay Award ceremony on her husband's behalf, her passport was revoked and her mobile phone was confiscated by Chinese authorities at Beijing Capital International Airport.

The National Endowment for Democracy honored Chen with the 2008 Democracy Award. Chen was one of seven Chinese lawyers and civil rights activists to be named as recipients of the award.

In 2012, Chen was chosen as the recipient of the Human Rights Award from the New York-based NGO Human Rights First. In explaining the choice, the organization's president Elisa Massimino stated, "Mr. Chen's activism has reignited an international conversation about the need to protect human rights lawyers around the world who face great danger for their courageous work." In 2014 he received the Geneva Summit Courage Award.

References

External links 

 
 
 "How China Flouts Its Laws", op-ed by Chen Guangcheng in The New York Times, 29 May 2012
 'Pressure for Change is at the Grassroots': An Interview with Chen Guangcheng', the New York Review of Books, 20 June 2012.
 United States Congress, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, Chen Guangcheng: His Case, Cause, Family, and Those Who are Helping Him: Hearing before the Subcommittee on Africa, Global Health, and Human Rights, 112th Congress, Second Session, 15 May 2012.
 Chen Guangcheng  Freedom Collection interview
 

1971 births
Abortion in China
Amnesty International prisoners of conscience held by China
Blind activists
Chinese blind people
Chinese expatriates in the United States
Chinese human rights activists
Chinese democracy activists
20th-century Chinese lawyers
21st-century Chinese lawyers
Chinese prisoners and detainees
Chinese refugees
Chinese disability rights activists
Living people
People from Linyi
Weiquan movement
Ramon Magsaysay Award winners
Witherspoon Institute
Blind lawyers