[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alliance to Save Energy

The Alliance to Save Energy is a bipartisan, nonprofit coalition of business, government, environmental, and consumer groups based in Washington, D.C. The Alliance states that it advocates for "energy-efficiency policies that minimize costs to society and individual consumers, and that lessen greenhouse gas emissions and their impact on the global climate." The Alliance's chief activities include public relations, research, and lobbying to change U.S. energy policy.

The Alliance was established on March 18, 1977, with the support of then U.S. President Jimmy Carter. It was the initiative of Senators Charles Percy (R-Ill.) and Hubert Humphrey (D-Minn.).

Member organizations
The Alliance includes more than 100 organizations committed to energy efficiency as a primary way to achieve the nation's environmental, economic, energy security, and affordable housing goals. Members include a wide variety of companies, nonprofits, industry groups, and government organizations.

Federal policy
The Alliance’s primary activity is developing, vetting, and advocating for federal, bipartisan energy efficiency policies. Areas of policy work include tax incentives for energy efficiency, appropriations for federal energy efficiency programs at the Department of Energy’s Office of Energy Efficiency & Renewable Energy and the Environmental Protection Agency, clean transportation solutions, federal energy management, funding for research and development, and more.

Over its four decades of work, the Alliance has had a hand in shaping of number of significant pieces of energy legislation. In recent years, these have included the Energy Act of 2020, the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, the Energy and Tax Extenders Act of 2008, the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007, the Energy Policy Act of 2005, the Energy Policy Act of 1992, and the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act of 1987. The Alliance also applauded the enactment of the Paris Climate Agreement in 2015.

117th Congress 
The Alliance states that it supports a suite of energy efficiency policies designed to both reduce carbon emissions and fuel economic recovery in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. In August 2021, the Alliance supported the introduction of the Main Street Efficiency Act of 2021 in the House by Rep. Peter Welch (D-Vt.) and in the Senate by Sen. Catherine Cortez Masto (D-Nev.). The bill would, “require the Secretary of Energy to establish a grant program to incentivize small business participation in demand side management programs.”

The Alliance additionally supported the introduction of the Open Back Better Act of 2021 by Rep. Lisa Blunt Rochester (D-Del.) and Sen. Tina Smith (D-Minn.), which would “provide grants to federal and state agencies and tribal organizations to implement building projects that increase resiliency, energy efficiency, renewable energy, and grid integration.”

Additional legislation supported by the Alliance in the 117th Congress includes the HOPE for HOMES Act, NO EXHAUST Act, and the Blue Collar to Green Collar Jobs Development Act.

Alliance to Save Energy initiatives

50x50 
The Alliance convened the 50x50 Commission on U.S. Transportation Sector Efficiency from 2017-2019 with the stated goal to reduce energy use in the transportation sector 50% by 2050. The Commission released two reports, “50x50: Reinventing U.S. Mobility,” and “Building the Foundation for 50x50: A Policy Proposal for Infrastructure and Surface Transportation Authorization.” Following release of the latter, the 50x50 Transportation Action Network was formed to implement the recommendations from the reports. The recommendations include a number of federal policy actions intended to encourage electric vehicle adoption, invest in sustainable infrastructure, improve port and airport efficiency, strengthen public transit and rail systems, and accelerate research and development.

Active Efficiency 
In September 2019, the Alliance launched the Active Efficiency Collaborative, a group of industry leaders, NGOs, and public sector institutions that works to accelerate the adoption of Active Efficiency. Active Efficiency optimizes the use of energy by integrating the benefits of traditional energy efficiency measures with the opportunities presented by digital technologies. The Collaborative aims to take advantage of new advances in the energy sector, including digitalization, distributed energy resources, beneficial electrification, and smart devices to achieve deeper decarbonization and reduced energy burdens. According to the initiative’s website, its activities include “deepening collaboration among stakeholders, cultivating champions, and developing strategies and policies to scale up Active Efficiency.” In 2021, the Collaborative was chaired by Sarah Orban Salati of the New York Power Authority and Bert Van Hoof of Microsoft.