[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ralph Milne

e with a skilfully executed long-distance chipped shot; the match finished 2–1 to United. Milne achieved his peak goal tally in his career that season, scoring 21 goals in all competitions. Having turned 22 the day before the game, the goal against Dundee was to be the defining moment of his career.

Dundee United's league success saw them take part in the European Cup in 1983–84. Milne scored doubles against Hamrun Spartans and Standard Liège as United reached the semi-final, losing 3–2 on aggregate to Roma in an ill-tempered tie. Dundee United also failed to retain their league title, finishing in third place and 10 points behind champions Aberdeen. Milne's goal tally also dropped significantly from the previous year, down to five goals in the league and a total of 12 in all competitions.

Discipline problems and decline
Milne was with Dundee United for a further three seasons and still a regular player in the team, although he scored less frequently. Milne's increasingly fractious relationship with manager Jim McLean was also becoming common knowledge; in December 1983 McLean publicly criticised Milne, stating: "I have tried to get the message across to him that it is when he is not playing well that he needs to work hardest. It is plainly not sinking in." 

In August 1984, Milne scored both goals against Nottingham Forest in a pre-season testimonial match for McLean. However, after the game the pair again fell out because of a brief conversation Milne had with Brian Clough which led McLean to believe the player was trying to arrange a deal away from United; by this time Milne had grown increasingly frustrated over being frequently fined a week's wages for breaking minor club rules and generally offending McLean's strict sense of discipline. The financial strain this caused led to him to work as a casual labourer in order to meet his mortgage repayments. By this time his drinking had become more of a problem, resulting in a struggle to maintain fitness.

Milne featured in a further two Cup finals for United, losing 1–0 to Rangers in October 1984 in the Scottish League Cup Final and losing 2–1 to Celtic in May 1985 in the Scottish Cup Final. He aggravated a hamstring injury in the final against Rangers and was out of action for three months. In 1986–87, he played in the first three rounds of the UEFA Cup run (scoring once, against RC Lens in the first round) which eventually saw the team beat Barcelona and Borussia Mönchengladbach on their way to the final. However, Milne had left in January 1987 before these high-profile games took place, sold to Charlton Athletic, having lost his place in the side to the up-and-coming Kevin Gallacher. Milne made a total of 285 appearances for Dundee United in major competitions and is the club's all-time top scorer in Europe (UEFA Cup and European Cup) with a tally of 15 goals.

Charlton Athletic
He was sold to English First Division club Charlton Athletic in January 1987 for a fee of £125,000. He played at Wembley Stadium in the final of the Full Members Cup on 29 March, which ended in a 1–0 defeat to Blackburn Rovers. Charlton finished the 1986–87 season in the relegation play-off place, but retained their top-flight status after beating Leeds United 2–1 in a replay in the play-off final, following a 1–1 aggregate draw. Milne only played as a late substitute in the first leg at Selhurst Park, and ended the game with a broken jaw after being elbowed by Micky Adams. He dropped out of manager Lennie Lawrence's first team plans during the 1987–88 season, and was allowed to leave the club.

Bristol City
Milne dropped down two divisions to join Bristol City for a £50,000 fee in January 1988. City ended the 1987–88 campaign in the play-offs, but failed to gain promotion after losing 4–0 to Walsall in a replay of the play-off final.

After a full pre-season he started to play well and hit six goals in 30 Third Division games during his time at Ashton Gate. Milne's form attracted attention elsewhere with Aberdeen among those interested, a move Milne favoured to be near his son and other family in Scotland. On being called into a meeting with manager, Joe Jordan, Milne was told by Jordan that he had no intention of letting him nor any of his other best players leave, but that he would make an exception for Manchester United.

Manchester United
Milne's form at Bristol City was enough to convince Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson that he was still worth a contract with a top-flight club. In November 1988 he moved to Old Trafford in a £170,000 deal. Ferguson was looking to build a title-winning side two years after joining United, but had seen his side finish second in the league the previous season and now they were on a winless run in the league that saw them mid-table. Ferguson selected Milne on the left wing as Gordon Strachan was already established on the right wing.