[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Giuseppe Giannini

Giuseppe Giannini  (; born 20 August 1964) is an Italian former professional footballer who played as a midfielder.

He spent the majority of his 15-year playing career with A.S. Roma, and was regarded by supporters as a club symbol, before his successor in the number-10 shirt and offensive midfield playmaker role, Francesco Totti. He played 47 times for Italy and starred in the teams that reached the semi-finals of the 1988 UEFA European Championship, and subsequently the 1990 FIFA World Cup on home soil.

He was often referred to as "Il Principe" (The Prince) by Italian sports journalists during his playing career, a reference to his grace on the pitch.

Club career
Born in Rome, Giannini began his career as a youngster with local club Almas Roma. From a young age he attracted the attention of many of Italy's clubs, eventually signing with Roma ahead of rivals including S.S. Lazio and A.C. Milan. He made his Serie A debut on 31 January 1982 in a 1–0 defeat to A.C. Cesena and went on to make over 400 appearances for the club over the following fifteen years. During his time at Roma, whom he went on to captain, he won the Serie A title once, and the Coppa Italia three times; he also played in the UEFA Cup final during the 1990–91 season, although he did not take part in Roma's run to the 1984 European Cup final.

In 1996 Giannini left Roma to play in Austria for Sturm Graz, with whom he spent just half a season before returning to Italy due to homesickness. Before retiring in 1999 Giannini had brief spells with Napoli and Lecce.

International career
Under manager Azeglio Vicini, Giannini reached the final of the 1986 UEFA European Under-21 Championship with the Italy under-21 side, scoring a goal in first leg of the final against Spain, although Italy would eventually be defeated 3–0 on penalties in the second leg, with Giannini missing one of the spot-kicks in the decisive shoot-out, along with Stefano Desideri and Marco Baroni.

Giannini was capped 47 times for the Italian senior national team between 1986 and 1991, scoring 6 goals. He made his international debut against Malta, at the age of 22, in a European Championship qualifier in December 1986. He went on to represent Italy at both the 1988 European Championships and the 1990 World Cup on home soil under Vicini, reaching the semi-final of both tournaments. He won a 3rd place bronze medal in the 1990 World Cup, scoring a goal in Italy's second group match, which ended in a 1–0 victory over the United States at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome; he also set up Roberto Baggio's goal in Italy's final match of the group stage, a 2–0 win against Czechoslovakia, and Aldo Serena's goal in a 2–0 win against Uruguay in the round of 16. He was named part of the Team of the Tournament at Euro 1988. Giannini's final appearance for his country came on 12 October 1991 against the Soviet Union.

Style of play
Throughout his career, Giannini was often referred to as "Il Principe" (The Prince), and was described as a "fantasista," due to his creative ability, elegance, technique, vision, and passing range, which made him an effective playmaker. A central midfielder, he was often deployed as a regista or deep-lying playmaker in front of the defence throughout his career, due to his ability to dictate play in midfield and carry the ball with his head up, although he was also capable of playing in a more offensive role as a mezzala, attacking midfielder, or second striker, where his primary function was either to create chances for teammates or make late runs off the ball. Considered to be one of Italy's greatest midfielders of the 80s and 90s, in addition to his technical ability and creativity, he was also a mobile, versatile, and hard-working player, with notable stamina and tactial awareness, despite not being the quickest or most physically gifted player; he also possessed an accurate shot with either foot and an eye for goal from midfield. Moreover, he stood out for his leadership qualities, having served as Roma's captain.

Managerial career
Giannini has worked as a match analyst for RAI following his retirement; he also served as the manager of Serie C1 club Foggia from July 2003 to January 2005, when he was sacked. He started the season 2005–06 at the helm of Serie C1 side Sambenedettese, but was fired in February 2006. Later that year, Giannini then served as coach of Romanian side Argeş Piteşti, but was axed in October after nine consecutive defeats, and replaced by Dorinel Munteanu. In September 2007 he was unveiled as new manager of Massese, another Serie C1 club, being however sacked in February 2008 following disagreements with the board.