[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Utah State Legislature

n to the Executive Appropriations Committee, which is composed of party leadership from both chambers. All alterations to the budget, including all appropriations, are approved by this committee, which are then turned into the so-called "Bill of Bills" at the end of the session.

Standing committees

There are eleven Utah Senate standing committees and fifteen Utah House of Representatives standing committees. A standing committee can take the following actions on a bill after it is assigned to the committee: amend the bill, hold the bill, table the bill, return the bill to the Senate Rules Committee, substitute the bill, vote the bill out of committee with a favorable recommendation, or vote the bill out of committee with an unfavorable recommendation.

Interim committees

Interim committees fulfill essentially the same functions as standing committees and are differentiated from standing committees in that they meet during the interim between legislative sessions to discuss bills, to study issues, and to recommend bills for consideration. Interim committees may take the same actions on a bill as a standing committee.

Utah State Capitol

Over the years there have been many changes to the structure of the legislature, the number of Senators and Representatives, and the location of the Capitol, the Salt Lake Council Hall served as the meeting place for the Utah Territorial legislature, and in 1896 the Utah State Legislature designated Fillmore, Millard County, Utah, as the state capital.

The Fillmore Capitol was abandoned and the Utah Legislature met in Salt Lake City at various locations including The Council House (Main and South Temple streets), the Industrial Christian Home for Polygamous Wives, the Social Hall (Social Hall Avenue), the old Salt Lake County Courthouse (Second South and Second West streets), the Salt Lake City Hall (First South near State Street), and the present Salt Lake City and County Building (Fourth South and State streets).

After, being admitted to the Union as a State on January 4, 1896 by an act signed into law by President Grover Cleveland, the first official act of statehood was the swearing in of State officials at the Salt Lake Tabernacle on January 6, 1896, as Utah did not have an official State Capitol. Acting upon the recommendation of Governor John C. Cutler, the Utah Legislature finally approved a plan to build a State Capitol in 1909. Construction on the Capitol did not start until December 26, 1912, and it was not completed and dedicated until October 9, 1916.

The Utah Capitol Building was undergoing renovations and seismic upgrades beginning in 2002 and was finished in 2008. The State Legislature met in the West Administration Building at the Capitol Complex while the Governor's and Lt. Governor's Offices were located in the East Administration Building during the time of renovation.

See also
 List of Utah State Legislatures
 Utah Capitol
 Utah House of Representatives
 Utah Senate
 United States congressional delegations from Utah for federal legislators
 Utah Transfer of Public Lands Act

References

External links
 Utah Democratic Party
 Utah Legislature
 Utah Republican Party
 Utah Senate Majority Blog Project

 
Bicameral legislatures
Legislature