[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chapter Two of the Constitution of South Africa

itement to cause harm..”

Assembly, demonstration, picket and petition
Section 17 states "Everyone has the right, peacefully and unarmed, to assemble, to demonstrate, to picket and to present petitions".
..

Freedom of association
Section 18 states "Everyone has the right to freedom of association".

Political rights
Section 19 sets out a detailed set of political rights, stating "Every citizen is free to make political choices, which includes the right to form a political party; to participate in the activities of, or recruit members for, a political party; and to campaign for a political party or cause.“

The Section also safeguards public participation by the means of election by stating "Every citizen has the right to free, fair and regular elections for any legislative body established in terms of the Constitution. Every adult citizen has the right to vote in elections for any legislative body established in terms of the Constitution, and to do so in secret; and to stand for public office and, if elected, to hold office". These provisions contain the implied limitation that only citizens of South Africa have a right to vote and that they must be "adults".

Citizenship
Section 20 states that "No citizen may be deprived of citizenship".

Freedom of movement and residence
Section 21 provides that "Everyone has the right to freedom of movement. Everyone has the right to leave the Republic". Hence these provisions apply to all humans, while the following are limited to South African citizens. "Every citizen has the right to enter, to remain in, and to reside anywhere in, the Republic. Every citizen has the right to a passport".

Freedom of trade, occupation and profession
Section 22 enshrines freedom of trade occupation and profession. This set of rights is unique among human rights instruments.

The Section states "Every citizen has the right to choose their trade, occupation or profession freely. The practice of a trade, occupation or profession may be regulated by law". It is important to note that this right is not unqualified. It may be restricted by the law if it is in the interests of the public in an open, fair, and democratic environment.

Labour relations
Section 23 sets out several labour rights, including the right to collective bargaining, and to join a trade union. The Section also stipulates the rights of the employer, as well as the rights of a trade union or employers' organisation, in great detail, which is unique amongst human rights instruments.

The Section states "Everyone has the right to fair labour practices. Every worker has the right to form and join a trade union; to participate in the activities and programmes of a trade union; and to strike".

With regard to employers, the Section states "Every employer has the right  
to form and join an employers' organisation; and to participate in the activities and programmes of an employers' organisation".

The Section lists the following rights for trade unions and employer organisations "Every trade union and every employers' organisation has the right to determine its own administration, programmes, and activities; to organise; and to form and join a federation. Every trade union, employers' organisation, and employer has the right to engage in collective bargaining".

The section concludes with the following limitation "National legislation may be enacted to regulate collective bargaining. To the extent that the legislation may limit a right in this Chapter, the limitation must comply with section 36(1). National legislation may recognize union security arrangements contained in collective agreements. To the extent that the legislation may limit a right in this Chapter, the limitation must comply with section 36(1).”

Environment
Section 24 sets out a number of environmental rights, which is unique in terms of human rights instruments, although environmental rights are recognized in the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, although not in detail, and the Stockholm Declaration.

Article 24 specifically puts environmental rights into the context of human health, stating "Everyone has the right to an environment that is not harmful to their health or well-being;” As well as recognising the rights of future generations in the context of sustainable development by stating "and to have the environment protected, for the benefit of present and future generations, through reasonable legislative and other measures that prevent pollution and ecological degradation; promote conservation, and secure ecologically sustainable development and use of natural resources while promoting justifiable economic and social development".