[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# June Wayne

made the cartoons in full scale, glueing them on muslim sheet for durability. Even after all aspects had been decided upon she did not disappear, leaving the weavers on their own. Instead, she returned often to check on their work and make sure that everything was progressing as she envisioned it.” 

During her time collaborating with the French ateliers, Wayne created twelve tapestry images, all of which had fewer than four examples, and some destroyed as not to her liking. In the tapestry designs, Wayne continued to express her fascination with the connections between art, science, and politics, often creating designs based on images she had initially produced in other media. In using tapestries to convey contemporary themes, Wayne characteristically acted as the "fearless, multifaceted artist who accepted no limitations and who would venture toward anything that intrigued her, fascinated her, or caught her fancy.” (Christa C. Mayer Thurman, "June Wayne’s Narrative Tapestries: Tidal Waves, DNA, and the Cosmos”, The Art Institute of Chicago, 2010.) “June Wayne’s tapestries, magisterial in their conception and extraordinary in their refined beauty and execution, represent her decades of research into the intersection of art and science.” James Cuno, as President and Director of the Art Institute of Chicago. Curator Bernard Kester picked up on Wayne’s observations about time: “She chose tapestry because the element of time contained within the weaving process itself is cumulative, and remains implied in the result. The weaving of tapestry is intensive, rhythmical, and slow. In these characteristics, Wayne found a direct and appropriate way by which she could transmit to the viewer a sense of time passing that is internal to the process. She can lead the viewer beyond real time to read certain works at a quickened pace, or to perceive others in extended cosmic time.”

Painting and mixed media
In 1984, Wayne returned to painting, the medium with which she had begun her career in Chicago, and Mexico City as a young artist. “In the Cognitos Series (later referred to as the Djuna Set), she painted on canvases prepared years earlier by Douglass Howell, the accomplished papermaker, who built thick, highly textured surfaces from mixtures of gesso, gelatin, and paper; half of them painted over previously existing paintings.”  In a general way they alluded to planetary atmospheres and topographies, and were often monochromatic. As to her frequent use of the color black, Wayne explained, “To me black is the most noble color. Black allows anything to happen, and imaginatively. It doesn't partake of those earthly cliches about what color means: red is blood, blue is sky, green is earth. Such assumptions skew how we look at art.”

Wayne further innovated in the painting medium with her "Quake Series" created between 1992–95, exploring the seismic events so much a part of Southern California life. Wayne devised her own "highly textured surfaces from styrene modules used for packing shipping crates, the ubiquitous styrofoam “peanut”. Easily cut, shaped, glued, and painted, these modules allowed her to compose fields combining uniformity and variety. They also continued her tradition of using the most commonplace objects to achieve uncommon aesthetic effects.” Similar materials were used by Wayne in later canvases, including in “Propellar”, the monumental canvas she was working on until her death in 2011.

Feminist art movement and "Joan of Art" seminars
Wayne “was angered by the sexist situation in the art world: ‘When are women going to be just artists instead of women-artists?’”. This conviction motivated Wayne's involvement in the feminist art movement in California in the 1970s. Wayne conceived and taught a series of professionalization seminars entitled "Joan of Art" to young women artists beginning around 1971. Wayne's seminars covered various topics related to being a professional artist, such as pricing work and approaching galleries,  and involved role-playing and discussion sessions. They also encouraged giving back to the feminist community since graduates of Wayne's seminars were required to then teach the seminars to other women. Artist Faith Wilding wrote in 1977 that upon interviewing many of Wayne's former students, "all agreed that it had made a tremendous difference in their professional lives and careers, that in fact, it had been the turning point for some of them in making the step from amateur to professional."