[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Refugees of Iraq

Increasing tensions in the Middle East and the treatment of Iraqi refugees as temporary guests in the Arab states has led to increased travel distance for Iraqi asylum seekers.

Third country resettlement

In 2008, the UNHCR resettled 17,800 Iraqi refugees in third countries outside the Middle East.

United States
In early February 2007 the United States and the United Nations developed a plan to resettle several thousand refugees in the United States. In an initial step, refugees would apply for applicant status. The US aimed to settle at least 5,000 refugees in the US by the end of 2007. Kristele Younes of Refugees International supported these moves towards resettlement, but she said that "the numbers remain low compared to what the needs are." A July 22, 2007 article notes that in 2007 only 133 of the planned 7000 Iraqi refugees were allowed into the United States. Of the refugees' status, US Senator Edward M. Kennedy (Massachusetts) said, "We can’t solve the problem alone, but we obviously bear a heavy responsibility for the crisis."

Iraqi refugees looking to live in the United States must apply to the US Refugee Admission Program (USRAP). USRAP involves both governmental and non-governmental partners to resettle refugees in the United States. The US Department of State’s Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration (PRM) has overall management responsibility of USRAP. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) and the US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) interview refugee applicants and review applications for refugee status. The PRM coordinates with the UNHCR for Iraqi refugee referrals.

The USRAP, UNHCR, and DHS prioritize refugees who are affiliated with the US government and religious minorities. Iraqis can be referred by the UNHCR, a US embassy, some NGOs, the US government, a US contractor, a US media organization, eligible family members in the US, and the US military. USCIS officers interview Iraqi refugees in Jordan, Egypt, Turkey, Lebanon, and Iraq, and have not been able to work in Syria since March 2011. Applicants to the USRAP must fall under the US's legal definition of "refugee", having "suffered past persecution or [have] a well founded fear of future persecution on the basis of race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion in his or her home country". Iraqis in the US may apply for asylum with the USCIS if they cannot return to Iraq because they have been "persecuted or fear that they will be persecuted on account of their race, religion, nationality, membership in a particular social group, or political opinion". Since 2007, 203,321 Iraqi nationals have been referred, the USCIS interviewed 142,670 applicants, approved 119,202 for resettlement, and 84,902 have arrived in the US, a tiny fraction of those who wish to apply. Refugees in America are usually settled in small towns rather than big cities because they receive community support that helps them navigate their new life.

Other countries

The UN aims to register 135,000 to 200,000 to determine which people had fled persecution and would thus qualify for refugee status.

By 2007, Australia resettled almost 6,000 Iraqi refugees.

According to the List Project, led by Kirk W. Johnson, "Poland, which had approximately 2,500 troops at its peak, was scheduled to withdraw its forces from Iraq by October 2008. Building on the successful precedent set by Denmark and the eventual British airlift, the Polish government offered all of their Iraqi employees either full resettlement or a one-time payment of $40,000 if they remained in Iraq."

Minorities

Kurds

Among Iraqi refugees in Germany, about 50 percent are Kurds. In the UK, about 65-70% of people originating from Iraq are Kurdish, and 70% of those from Turkey and 15% of those from Iran are Kurds.

Christians

Perhaps as many as half a million Assyrians, Chaldeans, and Armenians are thought to have fled the sectarian fighting in Iraq, with Christians bearing the brunt of animosity toward a perceived "crusade" by the United States in Iraq. Most chose to go to Syria due to the cultural similarities between the two countries, Syria's open-door policy to Iraqis, and the large population of Assyrians and other Christians in the country which perhaps totals as high as 2 million. The large influx of Iraqis may tip the demographic scale in a country with a diverse population. Although Christians represent less than 5% of the total Iraqi population, they make up 40% of the refugees now living in nearby countries, according to U.N. High Commissioner for Refugees. Between October 2003 and March 2005 alone, 36% of 700,000 Iraqis who fled to Syria were Assyrians and other Christians, judging from a sample of those registering for asylum on political or religious grounds.