[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ben Bishop

e 4–2 to the Tampa Bay Lightning, his former team.

The Stars announced Bishop would be out five months following surgery to repair a torn meniscus in his right knee. On April 14, 2021, the Stars announced that Bishop would be ruled out for the rest of the COVID-19 pandemic shortened 2020–21 season.

Still hoping to continue his professional career, Bishop continued his rehabilitation into the  season. Starting the season on the injured reserve, Bishop later accepted a conditioning assignment to AHL affiliate, the Texas Stars. After letting in 8 goals in a 8–4 defeat to the Chicago Wolves, Bishop was returned to Dallas' long-term injury reserve list and effectively signalled his retirement from professional hockey, later confirmed by Stars general manager Jim Nill due to having a degenerative knee injury on December 11, 2021. On June 10, 2022, Bishop's contract along with a seventh-round draft pick in 2022 were traded to the Buffalo Sabres in exchange for future considerations.

International play

On March 2, 2016, Team USA named Bishop to its roster for the 2016 World Cup of Hockey. The tournament ran from September 17 to October 1, 2016, in Toronto.

Personal life
Bishop was born to Ben Bishop Jr. and Cindy Bishop. His grandfather, Ben Bishop Sr., was a professional tennis player who played in the US Open.

Bishop attended Chaminade High School, which retired his jersey number. Later he moved to Frisco, Texas, where he graduated from Frisco High School.

Bishop and his wife, Andrea, have two sons.

Career statistics

Regular season and playoffs

International

Awards and honors

References

External links
 
University of Maine biography

1986 births
American men's ice hockey goaltenders
Binghamton Senators players
Chaminade College Preparatory School (Missouri) alumni
Dallas Stars players
Ice hockey people from Denver
Living people
Los Angeles Kings players
Maine Black Bears men's ice hockey players
National Hockey League All-Stars
Ottawa Senators players
Peoria Rivermen (AHL) players
St. Louis Blues draft picks
St. Louis Blues players
Tampa Bay Lightning players
Texas Stars players
Texas Tornado players