[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Constructivism (international relations)

uild bridges with non-constructivist schools of thought.

A growing number of constructivists contend that current theories pay inadequate attention to the role of habitual and unreflective behavior in world politics, the centrality of relations and processes in constructing world politics, or both.

Advocates of the "practice turn" take inspiration from work in neuroscience, as well as that of social theorists such as Pierre Bourdieu, that stresses the significance of habit and practices in psychological and social life - essentially calling for greater attention and sensitivity towards the 'every day' and 'taken for granted' activities of international politics Some scholars have adopted the related sociological approach known as Actor-Network Theory (ANT), which extends the early focus of the Practice Turn on the work of Pierre Bourdieu towards that of Bruno Latour and others. Scholars have employed ANT in order to disrupt traditional world political binaries (civilised/barbarian, democratic/autocratic, etc.), consider the implications of a posthuman understanding of IR, explore the infrastructures of world politics, and consider the effects of technological agency.

Notable constructivists in international relations

Emanuel Adler
Michael Barnett
Thomas J. Biersteker
Mark Blyth
Jeffrey T. Checkel
Martha Finnemore
Ernst B. Haas
Peter M. Haas
Ian Hacking
Ted Hopf
Peter J. Katzenstein
Margaret Keck
Judith Kelley
Friedrich Kratochwil
Richard Ned Lebow
Daniel H. Nexon
Qin Yaqing
Nicholas Onuf
Erik Ringmar
Thomas Risse
John Ruggie
Chris Reus-Smit
Kathryn Sikkink
J. Ann Tickner
Ole Wæver
Alexander Wendt

See also
Constructivism (philosophy of science)
Constructivism (psychological school)
English school of international relations theory
International legal theories
Logic of appropriateness

References

External links
Read an Interview with Social Constructivist Alexander Wendt

Constructivism (international relations)
International relations theory