[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Teddy McCarthy

eturn to Ireland to find that he was to make his championship debut in the All-Ireland final against Galway. While Galway were favourites to take the title, Cork won on a scoreline of 4–13 to Galway's 2–15. This four-point win gave Cork the title and gave McCarthy his first senior All-Ireland medal.

In 1987, McCarthy was a firm fixture on both the Cork hurling and football teams. While the hurlers lost their provincial crown to Tipperary, Cork broke Kerry's stranglehold on provincial football with a 0–13 to 1–5 victory in the Munster football final. It was McCarthy's first Munster Senior Football Championship medal.  The subsequent All-Ireland final saw Cork play Meath for the first time in twenty years.  Cork went into an early lead, however, it was Meath who led by a point at half-time.  The second half saw Larry Tompkins kick six of his eight frees wide, resulting in a 1–14 to 0–11 defeat for Cork.

1988 saw McCarthy collect a second Munster football medal with a narrow 1–14 to 0–16 win over Kerry. Cork later qualified for their second consecutive All-Ireland final with Meath providing the opposition once again.  Cork went ahead after just three minutes when McCarthy scored the only goal of five consecutive All-Ireland final appearances for Cork.  Meath fought back and secured a 0–12 to 1–9 draw.  In the replay, Meath were reduced to fourteen men with the sending off of Gerry McEntee. Despite being outnumbered, Meath won the game by 0–13 to 0–12.

1989 began with McCarthy adding a third Munster medal to his collection following another win over Kerry. The subsequent All-Ireland final saw Mayo play Cork. Mayo failed to score for the last nineteen minutes, and Cork won the game by 0–17 to 1–11. It was McCarthy's first All-Ireland football medal, an honour which made him the fifteenth player to be a dual All-Ireland medal winner. More personal honours were to follow when he was presented with an All-Star award. McCarthy was also presented with the Texaco Footballer of the Year award in 1989.

During 1990, McCarthy was a member of the senior hurling team, but missed Cork's victory over Tipperary in the Munster final.  He also missed the Munster football tie as Cork beat Kerry by 2–23 to 1–11.  The All-Ireland final that year pitted Cork's hurlers against Galway for the second time in four years, with McCarthy lining out at midfield.  Galway were the bookies favourites and justified this tag by going seven points ahead.  Cork fought back with inputs from Tomás Mulcahy and went on to win a high-scoring game by 5–15 to 2–21. It was McCarthy's second All-Ireland hurling medal.  Two weeks after this victory, McCarthy was back in Croke Park playing in the All-Ireland football final.  Old rivals Meath were the opponents on this occasion as the two sides met for the third time in four years.  Once again the game was a close affair with Cork's Colm O'Neill being sent off. Despite being reduced to fourteen men, Cork won the game by 0–11 to 0–9. The Double was done and McCarthy "wrote himself into the storied pages of GAA history" by becoming the first (and, as of 2023, the only) player to win All-Ireland football and hurling medals in the same season.

In 1992, McCarthy had more success with the Cork hurlers.  Despite already having two All-Ireland medals in that code, he had yet to win a Munster medal.  That changed in 1992 when he came on as a substitute to help Cork defeat Limerick by 1–22 to 3–11.  Cork later qualified for the All-Ireland final where Kilkenny were the opposition. Kilkenny played against a strong wind in the first half and were only two points down at the interval thanks to a goal by D.J. Carey. Further goals by John Power and Michael Phelan gave Kilkenny a 3–10 to 1–12 victory.

In 1993, McCarthy added to his medal tally.  The start of the year saw him collect a National Hurling League title following a three-game series with Wexford. Cork's hurling championship hopes later ended on their first outing.  Despite this, McCarthy captured a fourth Munster football medal as Tipperary lost in the provincial final. Another All-Ireland final appearance beckoned as Derry provided the opposition. The game was yet another close encounter; however, a late goal won the day for Derry who secured a 1–14 to 2–8 victory.

The defeat in the All-Ireland final was avenged somewhat in 1994 as Cork defeated Tipperary in the provincial football final. McCarthy came on as a substitute in that 2–19 to 3–9 victory to collect a fifth Munster medal.  However, Cork were later defeated by eventual champions Down in the All-Ireland semi-final.

In 1995, Cork defeated Kerry by 0–15 to 1–9, with McCarthy coming on as a substitute once again to collect his sixth and final Munster medal.  The All-Ireland semi-final was a similar situation to the previous year as eventual champions Dublin defeated Cork by 1–12 to 0–12.