[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jack Dalrymple

ree counties in the state: Billings, McIntosh, and Sheridan.

Lieutenant Governor of North Dakota
Dalrymple was elected as Lieutenant Governor of North Dakota in 2000 on the Republican ticket with John Hoeven. He was re-elected as Lieutenant Governor in 2004 and 2008 along with then-Governor Hoeven.

Governor of North Dakota
Then-Lt. Governor Dalrymple became governor following the resignation of John Hoeven, who was elected to the U.S. Senate on November 2, 2010. The transition took place in accordance with the gubernatorial succession provisions of the Constitution of North Dakota. Two days later, on November 4, 2010, Dalrymple designated now-former U.S. attorney for North Dakota Drew Wrigley as his successor to become Lieutenant Governor, once his transition to the governor's office was completed.

On December 7, 2010, Hoeven officially tendered his resignation as governor to Alvin Jaeger, the North Dakota secretary of state. Later that day, in front of a joint session of the North Dakota Legislative Assembly and before a statewide television audience, Dalrymple was sworn in as governor, and then Wrigley was sworn in as lieutenant governor.

On November 1, 2011, Governor Dalrymple announced on a multi city tour of North Dakota that he would run for a full four-year term as governor, with Wrigley as his running mate. In 2012, Dalrymple handily defeated Democratic challenger Ryan Taylor in the general election to serve a full term as governor.

North Dakota does not have a term limit for governor or lieutenant governor, meaning that any individual could be elected to and serve an unlimited number of terms.

On August 24, 2015, Governor Dalrymple announced that he would not seek reelection in 2016.

Personal life
Dalrymple married the former Betsy Wood in 1971, and they have four daughters.

Electoral history

2016 Dakota Access Pipeline protests
In 2016, a series of protests was held against the Dakota Access Pipeline (DAPL), by groups including ReZpect Our Water and Native American tribes including the Standing Rock Sioux. Dalrymple called in the North Dakota National Guard's 191st Military Police to deal with protesters.

See also
 1992 United States Senate special election in North Dakota

References

External links
Governor Jack Dalrymple official North Dakota government website
Jack Dalrymple for Governor

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1948 births
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century American politicians
21st-century American politicians
American Presbyterians
Farmers from North Dakota
Republican Party governors of North Dakota
Lieutenant Governors of North Dakota
Living people
Republican Party members of the North Dakota House of Representatives
People from Cass County, North Dakota
Yale College alumni
Candidates in the 1988 United States elections
Candidates in the 1992 United States elections