[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Venezia Giulia Police Force

hat they all received an adequate salary, appropriate lodging, family allowances, and sickness benefits. However, when a regrettable incident occurred at a village outside Trieste, where a political demonstration had later developed into a riot, was taking place, and three demonstrators were shot dead, three Police Officers and an Inspector were charged with manslaughter, and had to appear before an Allied Military Court presided by British and American judges. As soon as he took up office, one of his first decision was to disband the Difesa Popolare, or Popular Defense, the uniformed People's Police Force the Communists had built up. He soon noticed that, they were keeping no-record of what they were doing as well as for the arrestees, and when asked about it, were not able to produce any record at all; that their prisons were full, and most of the times, the interviewed prisoners could not give an account regarding their arrest. In addition all the evidences he collected, suggested that the Difesa Popolare, was financing itself with a protection racket system and looting. The uniform they wore were done by a local clothing manufacturer who had been doing the same job for the Germans. They wore red stars, and red scarfs around the neck and their chest were trimmed with hand grenades. Col. Gerald Richardson also find out that, their courts had no professional judges and that at the best, the trials were presided by some zealous young Law student, which in most of the cases, had forgotten everything he had studied. All these facts were intolerable for him and for the Allied authorities, and therefore two weeks after he took office the Difesa Popolare was officially disbanded. When they asked for a Victory parade, to be held on Sunday morning, their request was granted. The Difesa Popolare marched thru the street of Trieste, for the last time, and reached the Rossetti barracks. When the last one of them had filed into the barracks, the heavy doors were dragged shut behind them. From the opening windows, and roof British troops covered them with rifles, and machine guns; they had to surrender their own arms. They were told that they could go everywhere they liked, women as well as men. Those who wanted to go to Yugoslavia had to form a line on the left, assuming that the others on the right would have stayed, and were escorted to the frontier. British Personnel quickly went to the Difesa Popolare Posts and seized their weapon. However some of them were also given the chance of joining the V.G.P.F., although Richardson's preference was for the former Royal Carabineers and Questura personnel whom he judged a better training material. His office was located at Foro Ulpiano, inside the Trieste Court House, and also included the Deputy Chief of Police, the Legal Advisor and Disciplinary Officer. In March 1955, Col. Richardson became the Commissaire, Chef de la Sureté, Police Générale, in the International zone of Tangier.On May 27 th,1949 the President of the United States, conferred to Col. (temp) Gerald Richardson O.B.E. (282757)The Medal of Freedom with Bronze Palm.

Jurisdiction 

The Morgan Line  ceased to exist on  September 15, 1947, when the Treaty of Peace with Italy came into effect. The Treaty established the border between Italy and Yugoslavia in the northern sections of the contended territory, as well as the border between Yugoslavia and the Free Territory of Trieste established as new independent, sovereign State under a provisional regime of Government and under the direct responsibility of the United Nations Security Council in its southern part. The Jurisdiction of the Free Territory of Trieste, after Gorizia and Pola zones had been returned to Italy and ceded Yugoslavia respectively, was divided into 5 Zones: City of Trieste, Duino, Opicina, Muggia and Port and Railway. Zones were divided into Districts open 24/7, and Border Posts. Every zone was patrolled on foot and with Emergency car. A system of public emergency calls was started, and the emergency number 223, was available, to request help or assistance by the local population.

Uniforms and weapons