[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 24th Iowa Infantry Regiment

the army reached Morganza on the 22d of May, the regiment joined in a reconnaissance to the Atchafalaya, during which Captain B.G. Paul was slain and a number of men wounded. Lieutenant-Colonel Wilds had rejoined the regiment at Alexandria, after a considerable absence in Iowa on recruiting service.

About the middle of June the command left Morganza, and having encamped at Greenville, near New Orleans, a few days, and at Kennerville a few days more, hastened to Thibodeaux in the latter part of the month to repel an enemy who turned out to be imaginary. Having stayed here a few days the regiment returned to Algiers, whence on the 22d of July, it commenced the voyage by river, gulf, and ocean to Alexandria, in Virginia, arriving on the evening of the 30th. Passed through Washington the next day, and moved right on by cars to Mopnocacy, Maryland. Soon afterwards, it moved to Harper's Ferry, and joined the forces under General Sheridan, to take part in that officer's campaign of the Shenandoah Valley.

The first great engagement of the campaign was the battle of Winchester. In this long and severe contest the Twenty-fourth, as we have seen in the history of the Twenty-second regiment, fought with prominent gallantry, and lost many of its officers and men. Captain Joseph R. Gould and Lieutenant Sylvester S. Dillman were slain while leading their men in the hottest of the fight; Adjutant Daniel W. Camp, Lieutenants W.W. Edgington, and Royal S. Williams were wounded. The entire loss of the regiment was seventy-four, killed, wounded, and captured, there being only three captured. Leaving the killed to be buried, and the wounded cared for by the proper details of men, the regiment pushed on up the valley with the army.

The Battle of Fisher’s Hill
Immediately after the battle of Winchester, Early withdrew to Fisher's Hill, a strong position just beyond Strasburg, and commanding the town. Here he made a stand, his right resting on the base of Massanutten Mountain, his left on the Little North Mountain, his line thus extending across the Strasburg Valley. Notwithstanding the strength of the rebel position, General Sheridan determined to deliver battle. His army was in position early on Thursday morning, the 22d, Crook's Eighth Corps, the Army of Western Virginia on the right, the Sixth Corps in the centre, the Nineteenth Corps on the left. There was considerable maneuvering until after noon. Emory demonstrated on the left, Ricketts’ Division of the Sixth Corps advanced directly in front, and Averill's Cavalry drove in the enemy's pickets. Under cover of these demonstrations Crook moved out to the extreme right, and by an arduous march gained the enemy's left and rear, and, charging with splendid impetuosity, drove him from his intrenchments in utter confusion. Wright and Emory at the same time moved against the enemy, who fled in disorder and rout before the dashing attacks of the whole Union army. It was a short fight, and a magnificent victory. Nearly twelve hundred prisoners of war, sixteen cannon, and immense spoils besides fell into our hands. The loss of the rebels was also great in killed and wounded, whilst that of the Unionists did not probably exceed five hundred, all told. The enemy's fire was wild. He was thrown into panic by the suddenness with which Sheridan dashed against him with his whole force. And hence the troops, looking at their small losses, not thinking that they won the battle by their legs and their enthusiasm, did not regard it as so great a victory as that of Winchester, which preceded, of that of Cedar Creek, which followed it. In sober truth, there were but few so great victories during the war, gained with such little cost of life and blood.

In this engagement, the Twenty-fourth took active part, but as it lost only five wounded, it was a matter of doubt for some time whether its operations should be reported! So apt are even the most skillful and gallant officers to associate great victories with great losses, instead of results.

The regiment moved from its position in the line to the extreme left, passing with almost miraculous safety, through a shower of shells. It went into position, in support of a Maine battery, and there remained under fire, but covered much by the nature of the ground, till Sheridan's signal ordered the charge along the whole line, When it dashed forward with yells that made the welkin ring.

The quick, decisive battle over, the regiment at once took up the pursuit, and marching the livelong night close to the enemy's rear, reached Woodstock early on the morning of the 23d. During this march Captain McKinley was severely, and several men were slightly, wounded by the enemy's fire.  Pursuing as far as Harrisburg the regiment went into camp.