[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dienst Speciale Interventies

loyments was the main reason for their departure. The government commission tasked with evaluating the effectiveness, however, found that the general consensus was that the service functioned in a good manner. The commission was enthusiastic about the cooperation among police and military personnel.

With the establishment of the National Police Corps in 2013 the regular Arrest Teams were placed under the command of the DSI.

Following the Charlie Hebdo terrorist attack in 2015, the need arose for a flexible and mobile teams of special forces in the Netherlands. Subsequently, the Rapid Response Teams (RRTs) were established. The RRTs consist of both police and military personnel. Additionally, the DSI received a considerable and structural budget increase. The DSI currently has an annual budget of approximately €70,3 million.

Selection and training 

The first courses for the Arrest Teams took place in 1978 under the command of the Rijkspolitie. In 1979, the ministers of Justice and the minister of the Interior, established four Arrest Teams under the command of the national police (Rijkspolitie), and six Arrest Teams under the command of the municipal police forces (Gemeentepolitie) of the six largest cities.

Since the re-organization of the Dutch police in 1994, all aspiring AT personnel attend the same basic training at the police academy. The training takes place in several locations throughout the country and takes a total of twenty weeks in which aspiring AT-operators are trained extensively in shooting, house clearing, de-escalation and an extensive specialized driving course. Marines of M-Squadron that are detached to Unit Intervention undergo the complete AT-training as well. Because of the strict psychological, social and physical selection of the operators, the intense course, frequent training, and high-quality equipment, DSI personnel are well equipped to deploy in highly challenging situations. The extensive training enables the operators to arrest suspects with as little violence as possible.

Additionally, all DSI operators develop a specialism. Individual AT operators are free to pass on their specialism of choice to their superiors. Personnel can choose the following specialisms:
 Diving: divers of the DSI are regularly deployed to search for and secure evidence (for example firearms) and to assist forensic experts.
 High altitude operations: high altitude operators are trained to operate on high altitudes for counter-terrorism, arrest and rescue operations.
 Medic: medics are trained and responsible for providing first aid and frontline trauma care during operations.
 Demolition expert: demolition expert are specialized in the use of explosives. Explosives are regularly used during operations for door breaching.
 Motorcyclist: motorcyclists within the DSI are trained to operate on and from unmarked police motorcycles. Motorcycles are used by the DSI to arrest suspects moving on foot and for interventions at locations that are otherwise difficult to access.
 Firearm instructor: firearm instructors provide firearm training and instructions for the several weapon systems in use within the DSI. 
 K-9 handler: the DSI has multiple police dogs at their disposal. These dogs are used for both arrests and reconnaissances. DSI dogs often stay with their respective handlers after their working life.

Organisation
The DSI consist of four departments:

Arrest Teams 

The Arrest and Support Teams Department (Dutch: Afdeling Arrestatie- en Ondersteuningteams, A-AOT) has six regional ATs residing under its command: AT North East (Noord-Oost), AT The Hague (Den Haag), AT South (Zuid), AT Amsterdam, AT Centre (Midden) and AT Rotterdam. While each team has their own area of responsibility, the teams are interchangeable and can be deployed outside of their respective regions throughout all of the Netherlands. In addition to the police ATs, the AT of the Brigade Speciale Beveiligingsopdrachten (BSB) of the Royal Marechaussee, is provided to the DSI and partakes in all operations as well due to the complete interoperability. An AT consists of one Team Commander, four Section Commanders, the team operators and administrative personnel.