[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marietta Blau

esponding member of the Academy was not successful.

Death 
Marietta Blau died in Vienna from cancer on 27 January 1970. Her illness was related to her unprotected handling of radioactive substances as well as her cigarette smoking over many years. No obituary appeared in any scientific publication.

Legacy 
In 1950, Cecil Powell received the Nobel Prize in Physics for the development of the photographic method for particle detection and the discovery of the pion by use of Blau's method.

See also 
 Timeline of women in science
 The Matilda effect

References

Literature
 Robert Rosner & Brigitte Strohmaier (eds.) (2003) Marietta Blau – Sterne der Zertrümmerung. Biographie einer Wegbereiterin der modernen Teilchenphysik. Böhlau, Vienna  (in German)
 Brigitte Strohmaier & Robert Rosner (2006) Marietta Blau – Stars of Disintegration. Biography of a pioneer of particle physics. Ariadne, Riverside, California 
 
 Leopold Halpern & Maurice Shapiro (2006) "Marietta Blau" in Out of the Shadows: Contributions of Twentieth-Century Women to Physics, Nina Byers and Gary Williams, ed., Cambridge University Press .

External links
 
 "Marietta Blau" in CWP at UCLA
Rentetzi, Maria "Marietta Blau", Jewish Women: A Comprehensive Historical Encyclopedia
 Sime, Ruth Lewin, "Marietta Blau: Pioneer of Photographic Nuclear Emulsions and Particle Physics", Physics in Perspective, 15 (2013) 3–32

20th-century Austrian physicists
Austrian nuclear physicists
1894 births
1970 deaths
Austrian women physicists
20th-century Austrian women scientists
Schrödinger Prize recipients
Jewish emigrants from Austria after the Anschluss to the United States
Scientists from Vienna
Deaths from cancer in Austria
University of Vienna alumni
Particle physicists
Brookhaven National Laboratory staff
Nuclear physicists
Women nuclear physicists
Academic staff of the Instituto Politécnico Nacional
Academic staff of Universidad Michoacana de San Nicolás de Hidalgo
People associated with CERN
American women academics