[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Military leadership in the American Civil War

up of the soldiers engaged, some Union military leaders derived from nations other than the United States.

Philippe, Comte de Paris
Michael Corcoran
Włodzimierz Krzyżanowski
Thomas Francis Meagher
Ely Parker
Albin F. Schoepf
Carl Schurz
Franz Sigel
Régis de Trobriand
Ivan Turchaninov
August Willich

Union naval leaders
The rapid rise of the United States Navy during the Civil War contributed enormously to the North's ability to effectively blockade ports and Confederate shipping from quite early in the conflict. Handicapped by an aging 90 ship fleet, and despite significant manpower losses to the Confederate Navy after secession, a massive ship construction campaign embracing technological innovations from civil engineer James Buchanan Eads and naval engineers like Benjamin F. Isherwood and John Ericsson, along with four years' daily experience with modern naval conflict put the U. S. Navy onto a path which has led to today's world naval dominance.

Commanding Officer, U.S.N.

John A. Dahlgren
Charles Henry Davis
Samuel Francis du Pont
David Farragut
Andrew Hull Foote
Samuel Phillips Lee
David Dixon Porter
John Ancrum Winslow
John Lorimer Worden

The Confederate States

Civilian military leaders
Jefferson Davis was named provisional president on February 9, 1861, and assumed similar commander-in-chief responsibilities as would Lincoln; on November 6, 1861, Davis was elected President of the Confederate States of America under the Confederate Constitution. Alexander H. Stephens was appointed as Vice President of the Confederate States of America on February 18, 1861, and later assumed identical vice presidential responsibilities as Hannibal Hamlin did. Several men served the Confederacy as Secretary of War, including Leroy Pope Walker, Judah P. Benjamin, George W. Randolph, James Seddon, and John C. Breckinridge. Stephen Mallory was Confederate Secretary of the Navy throughout the conflict.

Former Regular Army officers
In the wake of secession, many regular officers felt they could not betray loyalty to their home state, and as a result some 313 of those officers resigned their commission and in many cases took up arms for the Confederate Army. Himself a graduate of West Point and a former regular officer, Confederate President Jefferson Davis highly prized these valuable recruits to the cause and saw that former regular officers were given positions of authority and responsibility.

Richard H. Anderson
P.G.T. Beauregard
Milledge Luke Bonham
Braxton Bragg
Simon Bolivar Buckner, Sr.
George B. Crittenden
Samuel Cooper
Jubal Anderson Early
Richard S. Ewell
Franklin Gardner
Robert S. Garnett
Josiah Gorgas
William Joseph Hardee
Ambrose Powell Hill
Daniel Harvey Hill
John Bell Hood
Thomas J. "Stonewall" Jackson
Albert Sidney Johnston
Joseph E. Johnston
Robert E. Lee
Stephen D. Lee
Mansfield Lovell
James Longstreet
John B. Magruder
Humphrey Marshall
Dabney Herndon Maury
John Hunt Morgan
John C. Pemberton
George Pickett
Edmund Kirby Smith
Gustavus Woodson Smith
J.E.B. Stuart
William B. Taliaferro
Earl Van Dorn
Joseph Wheeler
Henry A. Wise

Militia and political leaders appointed to Confederate military leadership
The land of Davy Crockett and Andrew Jackson, the state military tradition was especially strong in southern states, some of which were until recently frontier areas. Several significant Confederate military leaders emerged from state unit commands.

John C. Breckinridge
Benjamin F. Cheatham
Nathan Bedford Forrest
Wade Hampton
James L. Kemper
Ben McCulloch
Leonidas Polk
Sterling Price
Alexander P. Stewart
Richard Taylor

Native American and international officers in Confederate army
While no foreign power sent troops or commanders directly to assist the Confederate States, some leaders derived from countries other than the United States.

Patrick Cleburne
Stand Watie
Camille Armand Jules Marie, Prince de Polignac
Raleigh E. Colston
Collett Leventhorpe
George St. Leger Grenfell

Confederate naval leaders
The Confederate Navy possessed no extensive shipbuilding facilities; instead, it relied on refitting captured ships or purchased warships from Great Britain. The South had abundant navigable inland waterways, but after the Union built a vast fleet of gunboats, they soon dominated the Mississippi, Tennessee, Cumberland, Red and other rivers, rendering those waterways almost useless to the Confederacy.  Confederates did seize several Union Navy vessels in harbor after secession and converted a few into ironclads, like the CSS Virginia. Blockade runners were built and operated by British naval interests, although by late in the war the C.S. Navy operated some. A few new vessels were built or purchased in Britain, notably the CSS Shenandoah and the CSS Alabama. These warships acted as raiders, wreaking havoc with commercial shipping. Aggrieved by these losses, in 1871 the U.S. government was awarded damages from Great Britain in the Alabama Claims.