[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Joseph Widney

king in the people must become a separation of civil laws as well".

In his book The Three Americas (1935), Widney suggested that the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, New Zealand, and South Africa form an Anglo-Saxon federation with freedom of migration and a common citizenship.

While Republican in general politics, he was "an earnest worker in the cause of temperance". In an 1886 Los Angeles Times op-ed piece Widney suggested that the liquor question – the restriction of its manufacture and sale – should not only become the subject of a Republican party platform plank but should be the issue around which the party rebuilt itself. He was interested in the progress of prohibition, and served as head of the city's nonpartisan anti-saloon league.

Widney is regarded as "the outstanding early educator of Los Angeles".

He was involved in the University of Southern California from its conception in 1879, and served as a member of the Board of Trustees of USC from 1880 to 1895.

He was heavily responsible for the creation of the USC College of Medicine in 1885 at the beginning of a three-year "boom" cycle in Los Angeles, and served as founding dean, a responsibility he accepted for the next eleven years until his resignation on September 22, 1896. According to Michael Carter, "the University Catalogue for the academic year 1884–85 declared that applicants to the medical school, as to the rest of USC, would not be denied admission because of 'race, color, religion or sex.'"

After the death of USC founding president Marion McKinley Bovard on December 30, 1891, the board of trustees elected Widney as the second president. After he "recognized a call of the Lord", he accepted the presidency at a difficult time in the history of the young institution, which had only twenty-five undergraduate students with a focus on providing secondary education.

The College of Liberal Arts was eighteen thousand dollars in debt. He first set up a separate governing board for the College of Liberal Arts, both to refinance the debt and of tying that branch of the institution more closely to California Methodism.  He raised $15,000, giving his own personal security to back up the loans, saving USC from bankruptcy. The Southern California Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church increased its support for USC in 1893. The Conference "enthusiastically adopted Widney's new financial program for the institution. Two of the church's most distinguished and trusted leaders, Widney and Phineas F. Bresee, were at the helm. By the time of the annual conference of 1894, the university had passed through its financial crisis, and Widney's principal work was done". In the spring of 1895, Widney resigned after "four years of intensive unremunerated service to the university as its president". He announced his intention to spend a year studying in the East. The board finally accepted the resignation, after their benefactor had turned aside repeated requests that he reconsider his decision.

In addition to his responsibilities at USC, Widney served several years as a member and president of the Los Angeles Board of Education.

In October 1894 at the dedication of the Peniel Hall, Widney announced his intention to organize a Training Institute, in which Bible and practical nursing were to be the principal studies.

Religious interests

Widney was raised in the  Greene Street Methodist Episcopal Church in Piqua, Ohio. His uncle, Robert Samuel Maclay, was the first Methodist missionary to China, and an early Methodist missionary to Japan and Korea.

In the  Los Angeles First Methodist Episcopal Church, the Widneys were members of the "District Aid Committee," an organization devoted to securing better support for underpaid pastors.

He  supported the Los Angeles City Mission (the Peniel Mission), founded in 1886 as the Los Angeles Mission and was non-denominational and nonsectarian.

Bresee and Widney wanted a church for the poor.  They announced a service for October 6, 1895, in Red Men's Hall near the Peniel Mission. On October 30, 1895, Bresee and Widney organised the Church of the Nazarene. Widney suggested the name of the new church.

Widney returned to the Methodist church as a pastor and was appointed to the church's City Mission of Los Angeles (formally organized in 1908), where he ministered to thousands over the next several years.

In 1899, he was the pastor of the Nazarene Methodist Episcopal Church.  Growth of the congregation led to the building of a 500-seat building.  He paid the full cost of construction and ministered without compensation. The new building was dedicated on June 3, 1900. In 1903 this church was renamed the Beth-El Methodist Episcopal Church. Widney resigned from the Methodist Episcopal church in 1911.