[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Propaganda in the Soviet Union

tional Organization of Journalists, Women's International Democratic Federation and World Federation of Scientific Workers. There were also numerous smaller organizations, affiliated with the above fronts.

Those organizations received in total more than 100 million dollars from the USSR every year.

Propaganda against the United States and the greater Western world included the following actions:
 Promotion of John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories, allegedly using writer Mark Lane.
 Discrediting the CIA, using historian Philip Agee (codenamed PONT).
 Spreading rumors that US Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) director J. Edgar Hoover was a homosexual.
 Promoting conspiracy theories about Adolf Hitler's death, including a Stalin-led narrative that he escaped Berlin in 1945 and disinformation about the forensic examination of his body.
 Attempts to discredit Martin Luther King Jr. by placing publications portraying him as an "Uncle Tom" who was secretly receiving government subsidies.
 Stirring up racial tensions in the United States by mailing bogus letters from the Ku Klux Klan, and spreading conspiracy theories that the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. had been planned by the US government.
 Fabrication of the story that AIDS virus was manufactured by US scientists at Fort Detrick; the story was spread by Russian-born biologist Jakob Segal.
 Soviet Weekly was published in Britain.
 Sputnik was a monthly edited in Soviet Union in many languages, including English.
 Discounting and downplaying the U.S. military aid given to the Soviets during WWII under the Lend-Lease Act, as well as the US's role in victory in general.

See also

 Censorship in the Soviet Union
 Communist propaganda
 Kukryniksy
 Propaganda in China
 Propaganda in Nazi Germany
 Propaganda in North Korea
 Propaganda in the Polish People's Republic
 Propaganda in Russia
 Propaganda in the United States
 Soviet propaganda music during the Cold War

References

Further reading
 Ellul, Jacques. Propaganda: The Formation of Men's Attitudes. Trans. Konrad Kellen & Jean Lerner. New York: Knopf, 1965. New York: Random House/ Vintage 1973

External links

 Soviet World War II Propaganda Posters
 Soviet and Russian Propaganda Posters
 A digital presentation of several issues of the propaganda journal USSR in Construction by the University of Saskatchewan.

Censorship in the Soviet Union
Soviet Union
Soviet Union
Soviet Union
Soviet Union
Soviet Union