[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dongshan Island Campaign

The Dongshan Island Campaign () was a battle fought on Dongshan Island, Fujian between the Nationalists and the Communists during the Chinese Civil War when the Nationalists unsuccessfully attempted to retake the island from the Communists.  The campaign was the last and largest battle between the two sides after the Nationalists retreated to Taiwan. After this defeat, the Nationalists realized that it would never be practical to launch a large scale counterattack against the mainland on a similar scale again. Instead, the Nationalist strikes against mainland China were reduced to limited infiltration and skirmishes.

Order of battle
Attackers: Republic of China Army (ROC Army)
Two army divisions
One paratroop division (with two brigades totaling 2,000 men)
13 naval vessels
30+ motorized junks
Defenders: People's Liberation Army (PLA)
The 80th Public Security Regiment and militia (1,200 men)
The 272nd Regiment of the 31st Army
A regiment of the 28th Army
A regiment of the 41st Army
The 91st Division of the 31st Army

Prelude
Shortly before dawn on 16 July 1953, the Nationalist commander Hu Lien (胡琏) sailed with his troops in 13 naval vessels and more than 30 motorized junks toward Dongshan Island, Fujian, attempting to retake the island from the Communists who took the island from the Nationalists three years earlier in the Battle of Dongshan Island.  In addition to two regular army divisions, an elite paratroop division totaling 2,000 personnel in two brigades was deployed for the mission. The total Nationalist force committed was just over 10,000.  The Nationalists had hoped to turn the island into a stronghold near the enemy and use it as a steppingstone to launch strikes against the mainland, but many capable Nationalist commanders (including the commander of the operation, Hu Lien) were highly doubtful this would ever succeed. After fierce debate, a compromise was reached: a much more moderate objective of striking the island to gain a political and morale boost and then a quick withdrawal before the enemy could reinforce the island.  Later, when the situation permitted, the original plan to turn the island into a stronghold would be implemented.

The Communist local defense, consisting of the 80th Public Security Regiment and militia totaling 1,200 men, was obviously outnumbered, so the Communist commander Ye Fei instructed the local garrison commander You Meiyao (游梅耀) to decide what was best, giving him the option of withdrawing if necessary and counterattacking later.

You Meiyao, a staff officer of Chen Yi during the Second Sino-Japanese War, refused to withdraw because that would allow the Nationalists to occupy the Communist fortifications on the island, making future attempts to dislodge the Nationalists very difficult. You Meiyao suggested that while reinforcements were organized as quickly as possible, the local garrison would use the terrain and fortifications on the island to slow the enemy down by inflicting as many casualties as possible. Once the attackers were exhausted, the defenders would counterattack with reinforcements.

First stage
The first shot of the campaign was fired at 5:00 AM on July 16, 1953, when a Nationalist division landed on the island.  After three hours of fierce fighting, the Communists' first line of defense was breached, and the Nationalists had succeeded in forcing them into their second line of defense.  By the end of the day, the Nationalists had successfully taken the largest port on the island and controlled most of the island.  However, the Communist resistance in the few remaining isolated pockets proved to be much stronger than anticipated.

Communist mortar fire badly damaged the port facilities including the pier and also scored direct hits on three large landing ships.  Although the mortar rounds themselves were not powerful enough to completely destroy the landing ships which carried heavy weaponry and ammunition, the secondary explosions triggered by the direct hits by the PLA heavy mortars were enough to sink all three landing ships. Since the motorized junks with shallow draft were not severely affected by the wreckage, the Nationalists were still able to transport personnel onto the island via these junks, but ships carrying heavy weaponry were effectively blocked due to greater draft.  The Nationalists, however, did not consider the problem to be serious because the defenders were mostly light infantry anyway, a mistake that they would later deeply regret.  In addition to failing to realize the problem caused, the Nationalists were not able to take the highest point of the island from the Communists and although most of the PLA heavy mortars were knocked out with air support, the surviving ones did not stop shelling the Nationalists until the last round of ammunition had been exhausted.