[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dubai Media Incorporated

Dubai Media Incorporated (DMI) is the official media organization of the government of Dubai. It was established in 2003 as a state-owned company comprising a number of print, radio and TV channels under its umbrella, including: Dubai TV, Al Bayan, Dubai One, Dubai Sports, Emirates 24/7, Tawseel and Masar Printing Press. The chairman of the board of directors of DMI, Maktoum bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, is also the deputy ruler of Dubai.

History 
Before DMI was established, the government-owned media outlets were a part of the Dubai Department of Media. These included a number of TV channels which were launched and closed over many years prior to the establishment of DMI. These included Dubai TV, Dubai 33, Dubai Business Channel, Al Bayan Newspaper, Dubai 92 and Dubai FM.

After the establishment of Arab Media Group (AMG) in 2005, which is a part of TECOM Investments, the technology and media holdings management arm of Dubai Holding, all of the radio stations and newspapers were transferred under AMG, leaving DMI with only four TV channels (Dubai TV, Sama Dubai, Dubai One and Dubai Sports) and began privatizing the media outlets of Dubai.

2003 channel structure
Soon after DMI was established, and with a renewed concentration on television, the organization began relaunching the TV channels as part of a new strategy to target wider audiences, to compete on a pan-Arab level like MBC Group and to complement the ongoing developments of Dubai as a global tourism and investment hub. This included relaunching Dubai TV as a general entertainment and news channel targeting the Arab world, the launch of Sama Dubai as local news and entertainment channel targeting Emirati and Gulf nationals. DMI also replaced the dated Channel 33 and relaunched it as Dubai One, with subtitled Western content targeting Arabs and expatriates living in Dubai and around the Arab world.

2004- The Launching of Dubai News Center
As a part of changes, Dubai TV launched and opens a new news center that will used for broadcasting news. Dubai News Center is the current news division of Dubai Media Inc. Developing news bulletins for DMI's Television Channels- Dubai TV, Sama Dubai TV, Noor Dubai TV, Dubai Sports, Dubai Racing, and Dubai One.

2009 AMG-DMI merger
As a direct impact of the Late-2000s financial crisis, after considerable layoffs of the workforce, Arab Media Group's newly established Noor Dubai TV (and Radio), along with the print media and publishing outlets were merged with Dubai Media Incorporated in late 2009. This expanded DMI's ownership into radio, print and online media which made it one of the largest media companies in the Middle East. The company also benefited from the newly transferred employees from AMG with their expertise in radio and for-profit media.

2010 expansion
With the platform of Noor Dubai radio, DMI launched Dubai FM in September 2011 to target Emirati youth with a variety of news programs and talk shows. There are also plans to launch a magazine called ARA Dubai.

On 23 April 2015, the Dubai Media Incorporated was rebranded as Dubai Channels Network.

On 22 May 2017, the Dubai Channels Network reverted its name back to Dubai Media Incorporated.

TV Channels 
DMI has a number of TV channels, some of which extend into multiple broadcasts (Like Dubai Sports 1, 2HD. 3HD, 4HD & 5HD). While most of the production is centralized at DMI's own studios, each channel has its own management, team, structure and strategy.

Dubai TV 
Dubai TV replaced Emirates Dubai Television in June 2004. Dubai TV broadcasts programmes predominantly in Arabic, with some additional subtitled Western movies and documentary series. The programming caters to family Arab audiences around the MENA region and is also available in Australia, Europe, North America and the rest of Asia. A majority of its programming is produced locally, either through DMI's own in-house productions or by commissioning various production houses throughout the Arab world, whereby DMI acts as the "executive producer". The channel has cosmopolitan shows along with conservative religious programming as well as international formats to cater to the various types of people in the Arab world.

Official Site : http://www.dubaitv.ae/

Sama Dubai 
Sama Dubai was launched on 20 June 2005 to cater to the Emirati and Gulf audience, with a deep concentration on traditions and culture, specifically targeting the youth of the region. The popularity of the channel is attributed to its view on Gulf culture, while maintaining authenticity in the old traditions, there is always a foreword thinking view through the empowerment of women and the modernization of old culture, specifically with the highly successful reality series Al Meydan, which took the traditional yowlah dancing (which was not widely known at the time) and created competition similar to the format American Idol whereby viewers can vote on the best dancers.

Official Site : http://www.samadubai.ae/