[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race

ty on High, but it was not ready in time. A remix to this remix leaked on FriendsorEnemies.com featuring Kanye West, Paul Wall, Skinhead Rob, Lupe Fiasco, Tyga, Travis McCoy, and Lil Wayne. This remix was performed at the 2007 MTV Video Music Awards, along with Brendon Urie (of Panic! at the Disco).

Music video
The video was directed by Alan Ferguson. Beginning with the end of the "Dance, Dance" video, it shows the band members leaving the video shoot among the supposed "fans", all but a few of which turn out to be cardboard cutouts. The video portrays the band in a series of "celebrity" situations such as dealing with paparazzi, as well as recording their song in a very out-of-character hip-hop studio (a reference to a song they recorded on Timbaland's album). Patrick starts singing and making strange movements with his hands, much like Joe Cocker. Guitarist Joe Trohman knocks a bottle of liquor out of a rapper's hand, and a tabloid headline reveals that the rappers proceeded to assault the band and throw them out of the studio. The next scene shows the band playing in a hotel room, making a huge mess partying.

It transfers to Pete, at a photo shoot. The photographer (Ellis Martin-actor/photographer) takes a cell phone from his coworker and takes pictures with it, and prompts Pete to show his penis, making it look like Pete took them (in reference to real cell phone photos leaked from Pete's cell phone after he took them to send to his girlfriend). Several teenage girls are outraged after they see the pictures and realize Pete has a small penis.

Following the incident, drummer Andy Hurley goes to a party at a parody of the Playboy Mansion with a crotch-stuffing. The scene goes back to the hotel room. While partying, a heavy set man jumps onto the other side of the bed that Pete is on, causing him to fall through a closed window to his death.

At his funeral, cameo appearances are made by several characters from their previous music videos, such as Pete's date in "Dance, Dance", the teenage girl from "Grand Theft Autumn/Where Is Your Boy"'s music video, their stunt man and close friend Dirty, the deer-boy from "Sugar, We're Goin Down" (Donald Cumming of The Virgins), William Beckett of The Academy Is... as the vampire from "A Little Less Sixteen Candles..." and Travie McCoy of Gym Class Heroes (who also danced in "Dance, Dance") and celebrities Seth Green and Michelle Trachtenberg, among others. Joe is performing a guitar solo on top of Pete's coffin as it rises out of the burial, before Pete bursts out. Joe claims this is a reference to guitarist Slash in the Guns N' Roses video for "November Rain" although some fans have likened it to Synyster Gates's solo in Avenged Sevenfold's video for "Seize the Day".

The ending of the video reveals that the entire video is nothing more than a dream of Pete's. Andy (who was sitting next to Pete) then realizes that they are late for a performance at a school and as they make their way on stage, they continue playing the rest of the song from the last chorus. The end of the video shows Pete attempting to stage dive.

Sequel
The music video for "Hold Me Like a Grudge", the third single off the band's eighth studio album, So Much (for) Stardust, acts as a sequel to the video for "This Ain't a Scene, It’s an Arms Race".

Commercial performance
The single was a commercial success worldwide. In the United States, the song debuted and peaked at No. 2 on the Billboard Hot 100 being the first song in five years to debut in the top ten without the artist being an American Idol Finalist. It also stayed at number two for two weeks, spending its first nine weeks in the top 10 out of a total of 20 chart weeks. In its Hot 100 opening week with digital availability, the song soared to No. 1 on the Pop 100 chart up from its previous week's position of No. 86. In its opening week, it sold 162,000 digital downloads, setting a new record for the highest bow for a band since radio only titles joined the chart in 1998. Fall Out Boy's multi-format sales for their "Infinity" On High" album opened at approximately 260,000 in the album's first three weeks. Many of these sales were in response to the leading single "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race." In addition, its download totals are the largest opening-week tally for a group since Nielsen SoundScan began tracking digital sales in 2003. It also set a record as the highest debut of 2007 and was, at the time, the eighth song to debut at the runner-up position in the history of the Hot 100. Prior to its digital release, "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race" spent several weeks doing well on Pop radio airplay. In its first week of digital availability, the single catapulted to the top of the digital downloads chart as well as the overall pop singles chart. It marked Fall Out Boy's first number one hit song and was certified Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) for shipments of one million units.