[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Culture of Philadelphia

the popular neighborhoods. Philadelphia has since added over 150 upscale establishments, famously including the several trendy restaurants of Stephen Starr as well as dozens of sidewalk cafes and trendy bars. Such a renaissance has led to an acclamation of Philadelphia as a world-class "food city".

Philadelphia's large Chinese, Vietnamese, and East African populations have made their marks on Philadelphia's dining scene.  Philly Chinatown is home to first-class Chinese, Vietnamese, Thai, and Malaysian foods.  South Philly has many Vietnamese and Chinese restaurants, and West Philly is home to multiple East African restaurants, including four Ethiopian restaurants.  Philadelphia also has numerous Indian and Middle-Eastern restaurants in Center City and West Philly.

Grassroots culture 

Not every Philadelphian eats out or goes to the theater, but most Philadelphians participate in local and community activities and organizations.  Block parties and yard sales abound on weekends. Philadelphia has vibrant local markets, such as the biweekly market in Clark Park at 43rd and Baltimore, where local farmers sell produce and artists and antique collectors show their wares. Philadelphia is also home to food cooperatives such as West Philly's Mariposa.

Philadelphia has a long history of graffiti culture. The Philadelphia Anti-Graffiti Network, which gave way to the Mural Arts Project, has reduced the incidence of graffiti, but South Street is full of graffiti, and writers still perform their craft, legally and illegally, on walls throughout the city.

Philadelphia has thriving non-profits in all areas of community service. Books Through Bars, which collects books to distribute at prisons, started in Philadelphia.  Philadelphia is home to one of the largest National Network for Abortion Funds (NNAF) and the Women's Medical Fund.  Philly Fellows, started in 2005, have been focusing efforts on "building capacity in the non-profit sector."  Philadelphia also has important faith-based organizations.

Annual fairs and events
Philadelphia holds many annual festivals and events. One of the most famous is the Mummers Parade. The first modern version of the parade was held in 1901 and is held every year on New Year's Day. The Saint Patrick's Day Parade, which is popular with the city's large Irish population, is the second oldest parade in the United States. There is also the annual Puerto Rican Day Parade, held in the city for over 50 years. 

Since 1993 every summer around the July 4th holiday, the multi-day Welcome America event celebrates Philadelphia as the birthplace of the United States. Three major annual shows in Philadelphia are the Philadelphia Flower Show in March, the Philadelphia Auto Show in February and antiques-focused The Philadelphia Show in April. Major events include the Greek Picnic, a reunion and celebration of African American college fraternities and sororities. Another event, the Wing Bowl is an eating contest started in 1993. Festivals include the Philadelphia Folk Festival and Unity Day an event celebrating unity between people and families. PrideFest events promote LGBT rights. In September, the 16-day Philadelphia Live Arts Festival and Philly Fringe highlights experimental art, performances and exhibits throughout the city.

Philadelphia in fiction
The city has been featured in literature, film and television. One of the first novels set in Philadelphia was 1845's The Quaker City, or The Monks of Monk Hall by George Lippard Based on real 1843 events and depicting seduction and violence, the novel sold 60,000 copies in less than a year. Other novels set entirely or partially in the city include John Edgar Wideman's Philadelphia Fire: A Novel, the Old Philadelphia Mystery book series, and Jonathan Franzen's The Corrections. The 2006 anthology Philly Fiction included 19 short stories set in Philadelphia by modern authors.

Among Philadelphia's iconic films is Rocky, filmed largely in the city. Others include Philadelphia, a film about AIDS discrimination; and two films set in the city's 1930s high society, The Philadelphia Story and Kitty Foyle. Filmmaker M. Night Shyamalan has set many of his films in or around Philadelphia, including The Sixth Sense and Unbreakable. Television shows that take place in Philadelphia include thirtysomething, Boy Meets World, Cold Case, Hack, The Class, and It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia, among others.

See also

Buildings and architecture of Philadelphia
List of people from Philadelphia
List of tourist attractions in Philadelphia
Media of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
Japan America Society of Greater Philadelphia
Religion in Philadelphia

References

External links

Phillyfiction's list of books by Philadelphia authors
Greater Philadelphia Film Office
Greater Philadelphia Cultural Alliance
Community gardens
Mural Arts Project
Japan America Society of Greater Philadelphia