[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Charleston (1862)

eigh, Fayette, and Kanawha counties. As early as August 31, Union leaders had received reports that Loring had a force of 10,000 troops. Loring's force actually consisted of about 5,000 men instead the rumored 10,000, but he expected to add to it by recruiting and organizing existing local militias.

Part of Loring's plan was sending a cavalry force through  of Union–controlled territory to cut off the most direct Union route of retreat downriver. The cavalry force was led by Brigadier General Albert G. Jenkins and consisted of about 550 men. On August 22, Jenkins started north from Salt Sulphur Springs. He captured a Union supply depot on August 30, and was able to resupply his poorly-armed men. News of Jenkins reached Union Colonel Lightburn, who was headquartered at Gauley Bridge. He sent orders to concentrate his forces, and the Union outpost at Raleigh Court House was abandoned on September 3. Union Colonel Edward Siber moved his brigade north from Raleigh Court House to Fayette Court House. By September 5, Jenkins was at the small town of Buffalo located on the Kanawha River between Charleston and the Ohio River. His mission was accomplished, and Union forces upriver were not where he would go next. On the next day, Loring's brigades began moving north from their camps near Red Sulphur Springs, Grey Sulphur Springs, and the Narrows of New River.

Fayetteville

Loring moved through Princeton, Flat Top Mountain, and on to Raleigh Court House. Arriving at the Union fortification at Raleigh Court House (today's Beckley) on September 9, he discovered that Union troops had evacuated. He attacked the Union front and right flank at Fayette Court House (a.k.a. Fayetteville) on September 10, and fierce fighting occurred all day. Between 1:00and2:00am on September 11, Union Colonel Edward Siber's brigade quietly abandoned the Union outpost at Fayette Court House and moved north.

Lightburn believed his entire force would need to retreat, and their probable destination was Point Pleasant on the Ohio River at the mouth of the Kanawha River. Union forces not located at Fayetteville, including at Summersville and Gauley Bridge, prepared to retreat. The Union commander at Fayetteville, Colonel Siber, led a fighting retreat, with the largest skirmishes occurring at Cotton Hill and Montgomery Ferry between Fayetteville and the Kanawha River. Elements of Lightburn's other brigade, commanded by Colonel Samuel Gilbert, provided artillery protection from the north side of the river. Union troops on both sides of the river (Siber on the south side, Gilbert on the north) continued retreating down the Kanawha River with the Confederates pursuing.

Charleston
On September 12, Lightburn waited at Union Camp Piatt. The camp is located on the Kanawha River about  upriver (east) from Charleston. Siber's brigade crossed the Kanawha River near the camp, and Lightburn's command was reunited. Lightburn believed that about 8,000 Confederates were in the valley. He knew he was being pursued by Loring, and thought Confederate cavalry was waiting downriver from Charleston to cut off the Union retreat.

Just after midnight (September 13 am), Lightburn's men began moving downriver to Charleston. The town's population for 1861 was about 1,500, and it was located on the Kanawha River and a major road known as the James River and Kanawha Turnpike. On the downriver (west) side of town, the Elk River empties into the Kanawha River, and travelers on the turnpike must cross the Elk River on a suspension bridge. Many of Lightburn's troops took a defensive position on the downriver side of the Elk River, while the remaining troops took forward positions on the east side. Lightburn urged locals to evacuate the town.

Battle

Lightburn's force east of the Elk River consisted of a portion of the 47th Ohio Infantry aided by three mountain howitzers, and a small detachment of the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry. This group was led by Colonel Lyman S. Elliott, and its first (eastmost) position was near a large home known as Rosedale. Elliott's pickets east of town began being driven back a few minutes before 9:30am. Loring's pursuing Confederate troops were led on the north side of the Kanawha River by Colonel John McCausland. He deployed the 23rd Virginia Infantry Battalion in front as skirmishers. McCausland's main battle line consisted of the 63rd Virginia Infantry Regiment on his right, the 50th Virginia Infantry Regiment in the center, and the 22nd Virginia Infantry Regiment on the left. The 36th Virginia Infantry Regiment, artillery, and some cavalry were originally kept in reserve. Loring's force on the south side of the Kanawha River was led by Brigadier General John S. Williams, and he mostly made use of his artillery, the 30th Battalion Virginia Sharpshooters, and the 45th Virginia Infantry. While McCausland was driving back Union pickets, Union infantry tried to cross the Kanawha River and attack Williams, but this was quickly repulsed.