[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Szmalcownik

stripping Jews of assets they needed to survive, harassing rescuers, raising the overall level of insecurity and forcing hidden Jews to seek safer accommodations, blackmailers added substantially to the danger that Jews and their Polish rescuers faced, and increased their risk of capture and death.

In some cases, szmalcownik gangs blackmailed each other, or even people working with Gestapo agents, which would lead to the arrest of one group. Approximately 200 such szmalcowniks were prosecuted by the German Special Court in Warsaw (Sondergericht Warschau) for bribing German soldiers, pretending to be Gestapo agents and forging identity papers. The penalties imposed usually ranged from a few months to a few years of imprisonment, although in some cases the Gestapo were known to carry out summary executions; for example, two szmalcowniks were executed for falsely accusing a German lawyer of being a Jew. In general, however, German authorities were not concerned with the activities of szmalcowniks, instead encouraging them.

Countermeasures
The Polish Underground State considered collaboration a treasonous act punishable by death, and attempted to counteract the activities of szmalcowniks and informers from the beginning of the German occupation. One way in which it tried to hinder such activities was by publishing public condemnations in posters, leaflets and the underground press, though these rarely addressed crimes against Jews specifically. The first announcement by the Directorate of Underground Resistance that crimes against Jews and Poles would be punishable by death was made on 17 September 1942. After the founding of Żegota (Council to Aid Jews with the Government Delegation for Poland) later that month, its representatives repeatedly appealed to the Underground State to act against blackmailers, but for the most part were told that "nothing could be done" because such acts would require a judicial process, which was said to be impossible to conduct during the occupation. Żegota's request for an explicit condemnation of anti-Jewish activities was answered seven months later, on 18 March 1943. The communist Polski Komitet Wyzwolenia Narodowego (Polish Committee of National Liberation) issued a similar decree more than a year later, on 31 August 1944.

Executions carried out by the Polish underground were approved by an underground court, which was meant to ensure that no innocents would be killed by accident. Except for gang leaders, identifying individual blackmailers was difficult, as they were often anonymous; however, they were identified and punished much more often than street muggers, who were even more difficult to identify. Some executions required considerable planning, since carrying arms carried significant risks. The first execution of a szmalcownik by the Home Army took place on 4 March 1943, and the next day the Jewish Fighting Organization (primarily active in the Warsaw Ghetto) announced that it had executed five Jewish collaborators. There is at least one documented incident in which communist resistance fighters of Gwardia Ludowa in Warsaw executed one or more szmalcowniks in 1943. In early 1944, after Żegota lobbied to speed up the process, the Directorate authorized executions at the discretion of local resistance authorities, and in 1943–1944 executions of szmalcowniks became more frequent. 

The extent and effectiveness of the countermeasures is subject to debate. Approximately 30% of the Underground courts' executions in Warsaw were of szmalcowniks, but the exact number is unknown; Dariusz Libionka estimated the number of szmalcowniks executed in Warsaw at under twenty.

According to Samuel Kassow, who analysed the Emanuel Ringelblum Archives, "even in the relatively simple matter of suppressing the blackmailers and informants who plagued Jews on the Aryan side, the underground state could not be bothered." Overall, Jan Grabowski concludes, "engaging in blackmailing did not entail a significant risk... [it] was not a priority [to the underground], and the few sentences handed down by the underground courts usually involved not only Jews, but also Poles." According to Joseph Kermish, the underground's proclamations were left mostly "on paper", and the number of executions remained low; Joanna Drzewieniecki notes that "new research seems to indicate that Underground trials and executions did not take place as often and nor were they as much of a deterrent as historians once thought". Michael Marrus notes, however, that some 150 executions of informers that took place by April 1943, although not in response to blackmailing, had a positive effect on the phenomenon. According to him, "more death sentences than reported were being carried out". Marrus argues that while the executions did not eliminate the problem of blackmailers, they "reduced it so much" that it was no longer an issue of "primary importance" to Żegota.