[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 58]
# The Republic — Plato

. Castruccio, whose plan of action was
fixed, and who well knew what to do, at once attacked the Florentines
with five thousand infantry and three thousand horsemen, not allowing
them to issue from the river before he charged them; he also sent one
thousand light infantry up the river bank, and the same number down the
Arno. The infantry of the Florentines were so much impeded by their
arms and the water that they were not able to mount the banks of the
river, whilst the cavalry had made the passage of the river more
difficult for the others, by reason of the few who had crossed having
broken up the bed of the river, and this being deep with mud, many of
the horses rolled over with their riders and many of them had stuck so
fast that they could not move. When the Florentine captains saw the
difficulties their men were meeting, they withdrew them and moved
higher up the river, hoping to find the river bed less treacherous and
the banks more adapted for landing. These men were met at the bank by
the forces which Castruccio had already sent forward, who, being light
armed with bucklers and javelins in their hands, let fly with
tremendous shouts into the faces and bodies of the cavalry. The horses,
alarmed by the noise and the wounds, would not move forward, and
trampled each other in great confusion. The fight between the men of
Castruccio and those of the enemy who succeeded in crossing was sharp
and terrible; both sides fought with the utmost desperation and neither
would yield. The soldiers of Castruccio fought to drive the others back
into the river, whilst the Florentines strove to get a footing on land
in order to make room for the others pressing forward, who if they
could but get out of the water would be able to fight, and in this
obstinate conflict they were urged on by their captains. Castruccio
shouted to his men that these were the same enemies whom they had
before conquered at Serravalle, whilst the Florentines reproached each
other that the many should be overcome by the few. At length
Castruccio, seeing how long the battle had lasted, and that both his
men and the enemy were utterly exhausted, and that both sides had many
killed and wounded, pushed forward another body of infantry to take up
a position at the rear of those who were fighting; he then commanded
these latter to open their ranks as if they intended to retreat, and
one part of them to turn to the right and another to the left. This
cleared a space of which the Florentines at once took advantage, and
thus gained possession of a portion of the battlefield. But when these
tired soldiers found themselves at close quarters with Castruccio’s
reserves they could not stand against them and at once fell back into
the river. The cavalry of either side had not as yet gained any
decisive advantage over the other, because Castruccio, knowing his
inferiority in this arm, had commanded his leaders only to stand on the
defensive against the attacks of their adversaries, as he hoped that
when he had overcome the infantry he would be able to make short work
of the cavalry. This fell out as he had hoped, for when he saw the
Florentine army driven back across the river he ordered the remainder
of his infantry to attack the cavalry of the enemy. This they did with
lance and javelin, and, joined by their own cavalry, fell upon the
enemy with the greatest fury and soon put him to flight. The Florentine
captains, having seen the difficulty their cavalry had met with in
crossing the river, had attempted to make their infantry cross lower
down the river, in order to attack the flanks of Castruccio’s army. But
here, also, the banks were steep and already lined by the men of
Castruccio, and this movement was quite useless. Thus the Florentines
were so completely defeated at all points that scarcely a third of them
escaped, and Castruccio was again covered with glory. Many captains
were taken prisoners, and Carlo, the son of King Ruberto, with
Michelagnolo Falconi and Taddeo degli Albizzi, the Florentine
commissioners, fled to Empoli. If the spoils were great, the slaughter
was infinitely greater, as might be expected in such a battle. Of the
Florentines there fell twenty thousand two hundred and thirty-one men,
whilst Castruccio lost one thousand five hundred and seventy men.

But Fortune growing envious of the glory of Castruccio took away his
life just at the time when she should have preserved it, and thus
ruined all those plans which for so long a time he had worked to carry
into effect, and in the successful prosecution of which nothing but
death could have stopped him. Castruccio was in the thick of the battle
the whole of the day; and when the end of it came, although fatigued
and overheated, he stood at the gate of Fucecchio to welcome his men on
their return from victory and personally thank them. He was also on the
watch for any attempt of the enemy to retrieve the fortunes of th