[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Northern Cement basketball team

a when the decision come out that the RP squad had used illegal players and therefore - all their games in which the naturalized players were fielded in were forfeited.

The Philippine contingent accepted the decision with bowed heads and finished the tournament in ninth place despite a clean slate.

PBA (1984–1985)
NCC competed as a guest team for four conferences during the 1984 and 1985 PBA seasons and they won the 1985 PBA Reinforced Conference championship. The team went on to represent the Philippines and captured the 1984 Asian Basketball Club Championship in Ipoh, Malaysia, as well as the 1985 William Jones Cup championship (playing as San Miguel Beer). Because of their win at the Asian Interclub Championship, the team represented the Asian region at the 1985 FIBA Club World Cup at Girona, Spain (playing as Northern Consolidated Cement).

The 1984 roster that first participated in the PBA:

In December 1984, UAAP stars Allan Caidic, Pido Jarencio, Benji Gutierrez, Jerry Codiñera, and Leo Austria joined the NCC team playing exhibition games against PBA clubs during the third conference. Northerns second team was coached by veteran coach Francisco Calilan. The first team that went to Malaysia for the Asian Interclub championship were composed of Moore, Engelland, Calma, Joseph Uichico, Franz Pumaren, Leoncio Tan, Elmer Reyes, Tonichi Yturri, Avelino "Samboy" Lim and Yves Dignadice.

Caidic, Jarencio and Codiñera became regular members of the national team in the following year while Leo Austria went on to join the first-ever PBA draft.

1985 FIBA Asia Championship
In 1985, the members of the NCC team played for the country's national basketball team. The NCC-powered national team won the 1985 Southeast Asian Games basketball tournament and the Asian Basketball Confederation Championship on January 5, 1986, at Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, tournament which the country had not won since 1973. In winning the ABC Championship, the team qualified for the 1986 World Basketball Championship in Madrid, Spain and the 1986 Goodwill Games. At this time, Jacobs mapped out a new plan to ensure continuity in the national team program. New local players such as Benjie Paras, Alvin Patrimonio, Jerry Codiñera were already being eyed to replace the aging Still and Moore. Engelland, on the other hand, was already honing the shooting skills of Allan Caidic, Naning Valenciano and Pido Jarencio. Amateur star Jojo Lastimosa was expected to fill Engelland's slot on the team in the future (Engelland eventually became the shooting coach of the San Antonio Spurs). However, the NCC program was scrapped in the aftermath of the 1986 People Power Revolution in the Philippines. The Philippines was forced to withdraw from the World Championship as a result.

Disbandment
After the fall of the Marcos government in 1986, the program was scrapped by the Basketball Association of the Philippines (BAP), which was the national basketball governing body of the country at that time. The players of NCC went on to play in the Philippine Basketball Association, with most of them ending up in Cojuangco's San Miguel Beer team. Some of the NCC players would again see action for the national team at the 1990 Asian Games in Beijing, China, which copped a silver medal.

In 1994, the San Miguel Beer PBA team won the 1994 PBA All-Filipino Cup championship and earned the right to represent the country in the upcoming Asian Games, held at Hiroshima, Japan. The national team was composed of the San Miguel players serving as the core of the team and other PBA players (notably Alvin Patrimonio from Purefoods and Johnny Abarrientos from Alaska) and amateur standouts (notably Marlou Aquino from the Philippine Basketball League). The team, led by NCC alumni Allan Caidic and Hector Calma, went on to finish fourth with Caidic finishing as the Asian Games basketball tournament top scorer.

List of players

Peter Aguilar
Teddy Alfarero
Alfie Almario
Joel Banal
Louie Brill
Ricardo Brown
Allan Caidic
Hector Calma
Jerry Codiñera
Bruce Collins
Edgardo Cordero
Rey Cuenco
Eddie Joe Chavez
Yves Dignadice
Arthur "Chip" Engelland
Angelito Esguerra
Benjie Gutierrez
Pido Jarencio
Federico Lauchengco
Frankie Lim
Avelino "Samboy" Lim
Steve Lingenfelter
Anthony Mendoza
Jeffrey Moore
William Pearson
Franz Pumaren
Elmer Reyes
Steve Schall
Alfonso Solis
Dennis Still
Leoncio "Jun" Tan, Jr.
Jong Uichico
Ludovico Valenciano
Manny Victorino
Robert Worthy
Jose Bernardo Yango
Antonio Yturri

PBA season-by-season records

See also 
 Philippines men's national basketball team
 San Miguel Beermen

References

External links 
 1981 RP training team
 Official website of the Northern Cement Corporation

Defunct basketball teams in the Philippines
Defunct Philippine Basketball Association teams
Basketball teams established in 1980
Sports clubs and teams disestablished in 1986
Philippines men's national basketball team
San Miguel Corporation