[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Qods Mohajer

Army and the IRGC and entered service in late 1997. It may have entered mass production in 1999. It was first documented in 2003. Sources differ slightly on how many have been built; one sources says that 40 have been built as of 2006, while another says that as of the mid-2000s, 34 had been built.

Design 
The Mohajer-4 features a squarish body and low-mounted trapezoidal wings with upward-canted wingtips to lessen drag. It is powered by a two-bladed Limbach L550E four-cylinder, two-stroke 50 hp engine in a pusher configuration. The Mohajer-4 is constructed of composite material. It is 3.64 m long and has a wingspan of 5.3 m. The Mohajer-4 has a modular design, and components such as the body, wings, and tailbooms can be detached and recombined.

It has three landing skids. The Mohajer-4 can land via landing gear or a parachute.

The Mohajer-4 has a Hyarat 3 guidance and control system, which includes GPS navigation. It normally follows a preprogrammed flight path, but its mission profile can also be updated in flight via radio uplink. The Mohajer-4 has a fixed forward-facing camera for navigation and either a downward-facing camera for aerial surveying or a gimbal-mounted video camera for surveillance. Sources disagree on whether the Mojajer-4 can carry an infrared camera. Like the Mohajer-2, it has an onboard digital processor and can downlink sensor imagery. The Mohajer-4 is also reportedly capable of being fitted for communications relay and has an 'impressive' electronic warfare capability.

Performance 

Operational range is increased to 150 km, altitude to 18000 feet and endurance to 7 hours. With a MTOW of 175 kg, the Mohajer-4 is almost double the weight of older versions.

The Mohajer-4 and 4B are operated by a crew of 5-7 men, including two operators. One operator controls the UAV's camera and the ground control station's directional antenna for real time video transfer. The other operator controls the UAV's flight using a software program called FliteMap, which is COTS American software.

In common with other Qods Aviation products, the Mohajer-4 can be ineffectively armed with unguided rockets, in this case a total of two Hydra 70 rockets under the wings.

Operational history 

On November 7, 2004, Hezbollah flew a UAV over northern Israel for about 5 minutes.  The UAV entered Israeli airspace at more than 100 knots and an altitude of about 1,000 feet, flew briefly over the seaside city of Nahariya, and fell into the sea. Some sources have identified the UAV as a Mohajer-4. There are reports that Iran sold eight Mohajer-4s to Hezbollah.

Mohajer-4s have been used in the civil wars in Iraq and Syria. On 16 May 2015, the Turkish Air Force shot down a Mohajer-4 that violated its airspace. Mohajer-4s have also crashed, or been shot down, over Islamic State-held territories. A Mohajer-4 in Iraqi markings was downed over Iraq, but it is not clear if the UAV was actually being operated by the Iraqi Armed Forces.

Mohajer-4s are located at Iran's Konorak Air Base and at Bandar Jask. There is a designation of the Mohajer-4 called  "Shahin", which may be a sub-variant with unknown differences, or a designation for the Mohajer-4 in Iranian Army Ground service. There is also another sub-variant with unknown differences called the "Hodhod A/100".

In addition, Mohajer-4s are used by Iran's border guard to interdict drug smuggling.

Mohajer-4B 
Also known as the Sadiq, the Mohajer-4B is a significant evolution of the Mohajer-4 platform with a square fuselage, twin tailbooms, a top-mounted horizontal stabilizer, uncanted wingtips, new landing skids, and straight wings mounted high and to the mid of the body. It was introduced in late 2014. All serial numbers begin "P062A–".

The Mohajer-4B was designed for reconnaissance and has a fixed, forward-facing camera for navigation. With an expanded payload bay, it can carry an IR/EO sensor mounted on a gimbal and a downward-facing surveying camera at the same time, unlike the Mohajer-2 and Mohajer-4, which could only carry one at a time. The Mohajer-4B has a flight ceiling of 15,000 feet, a (max) speed of 200 km/h, and an operational radius of 200 km. It weighs 242 kg and has an endurance of 6 hours. It may have a wingspan of approximately 7 meters.

An estimated 36 Mohajer-4Bs have been built as of 2015. Mohajer-4Bs have been used over Syria. A Mohajer-4B flew over, and was reportedly shot down by, the USS Boxer on 18 July 2019.

Sadegh-1 

The Sadegh-1 ("Honest-1"), also known as the QOM-1, is simply a Mohajer-4B with two MANPADS mounted on pylons. It was tested in late 2014 and was used to harass a US Navy jet fighter in 2017. The integration work is believed to be performed by Shahid Shah Abhady Industrial Complex. Independent assessments of the Sadgh-1 range from "it probably doesn’t work very well" to "fakery." Another source speculates it might be useful for air defense for Iranian-backed militia groups in Lebanon and Gaza.

Mohajer-6