[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Patagosaurus

oulnar ligaments would have attached. The ulna is complete, although sediment-filled breaks might have altered its original shape. The forelimb of Patagosaurus is much more gracile and different from the robust later sauropods like Camarasaurus and Apatosaurus, and instead resembles more Diplodocus.

Classification 
When originally described, Patagosaurus was identified as a relative of Cetiosaurus in the family Cetiosauridae. It can be distinguished from Cetiosaurus, a similar genus, by features of the ischium and vertebrae. Another genus also identified as a cetiosaurid by Bonaparte, Volkheimeria, was named in the same paper as Patagosaurus. Features uniting the genera were identified in the pelvic structure and vertebrae, specifically the caudal neural spines and the ilium and ischium. These characteristics show that the genera are more derived than Amygdalodon, yet more primitive than Haplocanthosaurus.

Later in 1995, Paul Upchurch published a paper on early sauropods, finding Patagosaurus as a cetiosaurid again. He found that although earlier works had distinguished two groups, the shunosaurines and cetiosaurines, in the family, but that Shunosaurus and relatives were actually closer to Euhelopus, and cetiosaurines (Cetiosaurus, Patagosaurus and Amygdalodon) were the only true cetiosaurids. Upchurch noted, however, that further work on the group might reveal different conclusions.

In a 2009 revision of Euhelopus, Jeffrey A. Wilson and Upchurch published a joint analysis on primitive eusauropodan relationships. They found that Patagosaurus was in fact not a sister taxon of Cetiosaurus, but instead more basal than the genus, effectively invalidating Cetiosauridae. Their results are shown below:

A 2021 study found Patagosaurus to be a member of the Cetiosauridae.

Paleoecology 

Patagosaurus was uncovered in the Jurassic Cañadón Asfalto Formation, originally tought to be Middle or Late Jurassic, but found recently to be Late Early Jurassic (Middle Toarcian) in age. This unit preserves a large variety of flora and fauna. In fact, Escapa et al. noted that "the fossil record of this formation represents the most completely known biota from the continental Middle to Late Jurassic (For the Time) of the Southern Hemisphere and one of the most complete of the entire world". The Cañadón Asfalto Formation, which was deposited about 179-178 million years ago, was a lush ecosystem, in which many organisms lived. In the Toarcian, the region would have been part of the great southern landmass of Gondwana. Most of the plants are conifers, although ferns and equisetales are also abundant. Directly below the formation is a layer of ash, indicating a nearby volcano.

The fauna is dominated by tetrapods, ranging from aquatic amphibians to terrestrial turtles, mammals and dinosaurs. The sole amphibian known is Notobatrachus; turtles are represented by a distinct form that was named Condorchelys; mammals are known from a few genera, including Argentoconodon, Asfaltomylos and Henosferus; multiple dinosaurs have been identified, including the sauropods Volkheimeria, Patagosaurus and a potential third genus that is yet unnamed, and theropods include the related Piatnitzkysaurus and Condorraptor.

References

External links 

Cetiosauridae
Dinosaur genera
Middle Jurassic dinosaurs of South America
Fossils of Argentina
Jurassic Argentina
Cañadón Asfalto Formation
Fossil taxa described in 1979
Taxa named by José Bonaparte