[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Ethnic groups of Argentina

state-led blanqueamiento policies and miscegenation with an increasignly white population and with indigenous people could be the real causes of this reduction in the Afro-Argentine population. Censuses were used as a way of making black populations invisible, for example by creating new categories.

Of the population of 40,117,096 in the 2010 national census, 149,493 (0.37%) self-identified as Afro-Argentine. According to genetic studies, Sub-Saharan African admixture in Argentines is around 4%. World Bank and Argentine government estimates have suggested the Argentine population with some African ancestry could number over 2 million. Since the 2000s, African immigrants, for example from Senegal, have been attracted by Argentina's flexible migration policies.

November 8 has been celebrated as the National Day of Afro-Argentines and African Culture. The date was chosen to commemorate the recorded date for the death of María Remedios del Valle.

Asians 

The first Asian-Argentines were of Japanese descent, arriving in the 1900s. For most of the 20th century they were the only Asians in Argentina. Japanese immigrants were primarily from the island of Okinawa; the majority of dry cleaning establishments in Buenos Aires were, by the mid-20th century, Japanese businesses. During the 1970s the main Asian influx was from South Korea, and during the 1990s from Taiwan and Laos. Unlike most immigrants who arrived earlier in the century, they tended to remain in close social circles and not mix with other local ethnicities. This excluded the Japanese who were the first to arrive and therefore the first to produce a native generation of mixed race Japanese-Argentines, thus integrating more so than the other Asian groups.

Japanese 

The Japanese-Argentine population assimilated well into Argentine society, and nearly 78% of the fourth generation of Japanese-Argentines (Yonsei) are of mixed European and Japanese descent, mostly intermixed with immigrants from Italy and Spain, and in lesser number from the United Kingdom, France (mainly Occitania), Germany and Switzerland. The use of Japanese language has declined in Argentina and the Japanese-Argentine citizens speak the nation's national language, Spanish, although a minority of them only speak Japanese when living with a Japanese-born relative at home, but when they are living with Argentine-born relatives they only speak Spanish.

Intermarriage in the Japanese-Argentine community. Proportion of mixed-race in each generation (%):

Issei (immigrants): 0%
Nisei (children): 9%
Sansei (grandchildren): 66%
Yonsei (great-grandchildren): 78%

Koreans 

Argentine Koreans are the second-largest Korean diaspora community in South America and the 16th largest in the world, according to the statistics of South Korea's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade. Their population declined by more than 50% between 1997 and 2003. Despite the small rebound in their numbers since then, they have been surpassed in size by the rapidly growing Chinese Argentine community (which since the 1990s has been increasing non-stop and is expected to become one of the biggest immigrant groups in Argentina, together with Paraguayan, Bolivian and Peruvian immigrants). In the 2010s decade, the Korean community in Argentina has fallen behind Korean communities in Australia, New Zealand, the United Kingdom, the United States, Brazil, Canada, Singapore, The United Arab Emirates and Southeast Asia.

Chinese 

Chinese Argentines are Argentine citizens of Chinese ancestry or Chinese-born immigrants. The Chinese Argentine community is one of the fastest-growing communities in Argentina. As of 2018, the community was made up of 200,000 people, the 0.45% of the Argentine population.

Indians 

Also there is a small community of Indians in Argentina who are mainly immigrants or descendant of immigrants from India and form the Caribbean with Indo-Caribbean influence (i.e. Guyana, Trinidad and Tobago and Suriname). Most of them live in the provinces of Salta, the city of Buenos Aires, the province of the same name, Córdoba, Catamarca and Tucumán. In recent years there has been an increase in immigration from India, but still in small numbers.

Laotian 

Argentina is also home to the largest Lao community in South America, with almost 2,000 people. This group emigrated due to the consequences of the Pathet Lao victory in the Lao Civil War. They arrived in Argentina thanks to the fact that after an International Conference in Geneva convened by the United Nations in mid-1979, the de facto President Jorge Rafael Videla decided to collaborate by "opening the country's doors", with the aim of improving the international image of his regime in terms of human rights. Approximately 300 families were received between 1979 and 1981.

Estimated Argentine ancestry