[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Theresa Sparks

mpanies announced that there were no immediate plans to lay off workers or change the company's management.

At a speech commemorating the Compton's Cafeteria riot, Sparks said her company was "one of the top U.S. employers of transgenders" and "proud to continue the fight for transgender equality."

Woman of the Year
In 2003, Theresa Sparks became the first transgender woman ever named "Woman of the Year" by the California State Assembly. Assemblyman Mark Leno, Sparks' friend and a fellow activist for transgender civil rights, said he selected Sparks for the award, not only to honor her advocacy on behalf of the LGBT community, but to humanize a transgender civil rights bill he introduced earlier that year. Assembly Bill 196, which was signed into law by Governor Gray Davis later that year, amended the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, making it illegal to discriminate in employment or housing decisions on the basis of transgender status or gender stereotypes.

Jay Leno angered the National Transgender Advocacy Coalition (NTAC) after making jokes about Sparks' award on a March 31, 2003, broadcast of his talk show, The Tonight Show. During his opening monologue, Leno quipped, "The California Assembly awarded a man who had a sex change as its Woman of the Year. When he accepted the award, he said there was a part of him that didn't want to accept it — but that's gone now."

The NTAC's executive director, Vanessa Edwards Foster, criticized Leno's comments as dehumanizing. "In a country where no positive accomplishments of transgender people are ever reported it's curious that belittling humor of these same people is openly welcomed," Forster said. "Leno's remarks took an historic recognition for a transgender community leader and summarily diminished it with insensitive humor." The NTAC also criticized Leno for using the male pronoun to refer to Sparks.

The LGBT Advisory Committee of the San Francisco Human Rights Commission reported at a meeting on April 15 that Jay Leno had apologized to Mark Leno for his comments. Minutes of the meeting also recorded that "national organizations have been responding to Mr. Leno without conferring with Commissioner Sparks first".

Awards and honors
Honor Roll of LGBT Elected and Appointed Officials, Horizons Foundation (2004)
Community Service Award, Alice B. Toklas LGBT Democratic Club (2001)
Honorary Grand Marshal, San Francisco Pride (2001)

See also
 LGBT culture in San Francisco

References

External links

 Official website
 San Francisco District 6 Supervisor Campaign website 
 Frequently Asked Questions 
 Long road to acceptance for man who became woman

1949 births
Living people
American businesspeople in retailing
American women chief executives
American civil rights activists
American consultants
Engineers from California
American law enforcement officials
American LGBT military personnel
American transgender people
California Democrats
Kansas State University alumni
American LGBT businesspeople
LGBT law enforcement workers
American LGBT rights activists
People from Kansas City, Kansas
Businesspeople from San Diego
Businesspeople from San Francisco
San Francisco Police Department
Transgender businesspeople
Transgender women politicians
Transgender military personnel
Waste managers
Women in California politics
LGBT people from California
LGBT people from Kansas
Women in law enforcement
Female United States Navy personnel
Activists from California