[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Nitzavim

principle is a pillar on which rests the Torah and the commandments, as Deuteronomy 30:15 says, "Behold, I have set before you today life and good, death and evil," and Deuteronomy 11:26 says, "Behold, I have set before you today the blessing and the curse," implying that the choice is in our hands.

Maimonides argued that the idea that God decrees that an individual is righteous or wicked (as imagined by astrology) is inconsistent with God's command through the prophets to "do this" or "not do this." For according to this mistaken conception, from the beginning of humanity's creation, their nature would draw them to a particular quality and they could not depart from it. Maimonides saw such a view as inconsistent with the entire Torah, with the justice of retribution for the wicked or reward for the righteous, and with the idea that the world's Judge acts justly.

Maimonides taught that even so, nothing happens in the world without God's permission and desire, as Psalm 135:6 says, "Whatever God wishes, He has done in the heavens and in the earth." Maimonides said that everything happens in accord with God's will, and, nevertheless, we are responsible for our deeds. Explaining how this apparent contradiction is resolved, Maimonides said that just as God desired that fire rises upward and water descends downward, so too, God desired that people have free choice and be responsible for their deeds, without being pulled or forced. Rather, people, on their own initiative, with the knowledge that God granted them, do anything that people can do. Therefore, people are judged according to their deeds. If they do good, they are treated with beneficence. If they do bad, they are treated harshly. This is implied by the prophets.

Maimonides acknowledged that one might ask: Since God knows everything that will occur before it comes to pass, does God not know whether a person will be righteous or wicked? And if God knows that a person will be righteous, it would appear impossible for that person not to be righteous. However, if one would say that despite God's knowledge that the person would be righteous it is possible for the person to be wicked, then God's knowledge would be incomplete. Maimonides taught that just as it is beyond human potential to comprehend God's essential nature, as Exodus 33:20 says, "No man will perceive Me and live," so, too, it is beyond human potential to comprehend God's knowledge. This was what Isaiah intended when Isaiah 55:8 says, "For My thoughts are not your thoughts, nor your ways, My ways." Accordingly, we do not have the potential to conceive how God knows all the creations and their deeds. But Maimonides said that it is without doubt that people's actions are in their own hands and God does not decree them. Consequently, the prophets taught that people are judged according to their deeds.

Speaking of duties that benefit or harm only oneself—like fasting, praying, dwelling in a sukkah, taking a lulav, wearing tzitzis, observing the Sabbath and the holidays, refraining from sins—and thus include all duties of the heart, Baḥya ibn Paquda taught that any human action that is either service of God or sin can take place only if three factors occur: (1) the choice in heart and mind, (2) the intent and resolve to do what one chose, and (3) the endeavoring to complete the act with one's physical limbs to bring it into actuality. Of these three factors, Baḥya taught that two are not beyond our control—(1) the choice of service or sin and (2) intent and resolve to carry out the choice. For these, Baḥya argued that trusting in God would be a mistake and foolish, because God left free choice in our hands whether to serve God or rebel against God, as Deuteronomy 30:19 says, "life and death I have set before you and you shall choose life."

Citing Deuteronomy 30:20, Baḥya ibn Paquda taught that love for God is a leading example of a duty of the heart.

In modern interpretation
The parashah is discussed in these modern sources:

Deuteronomy chapter 29
Robert Alter read the words of Deuteronomy 29:14, "but with him who is here standing with us this day . . . and with him who is not here with us this day," to state an idea paramount for Deuteronomy's theological-historical project—that the covenant was to be a timeless model to be reenacted by all future generations.

Noting numerous connotations of the word "Torah" () in the Pentateuch, Ephraim Speiser wrote that the word is based on a verbal stem signifying "to teach, guide," and the like. Speiser argued that in Deuteronomy 29:20, the derived noun refers to specified sanctions in a covenant, and in Deuteronomy 30:10, it refers to general instructions and provisions, and in context it cannot be mistaken for the title of the Pentateuch as a whole.