[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wolves and moose on Isle Royale

, in a continuing population "see-saw". Moose mostly die from the consequences of malnutrition: they become emaciated and slowed down by arthritis, until they are easy prey for a wolf pack. Also, calves suffer from malnutrition when they are born during a winter with snow too deep for easy foraging.

Moose make up nine-tenths of an Isle Royale wolf's diet (the remainder being snowshoe hare and beaver). Moose in their prime years commonly outrun wolves in a hunt, especially on soft snow: moose can cross snow two feet deep at . Even if wolves can catch up to a moose, they cannot always bring it down; researchers often find wolves with hunting bruises and scars. To improve their chances, wolves pick out moose which are calves, old, diseased, or injured. The typical moose killed is about 12 years old and suffers from arthritis, osteoporosis, and/or periodontitis. Eighty to ninety percent of moose are brought down by wolves rather than directly by disease, and each wolf kills an average of between 0.44 and 1.69 moose per month.

Wolf population dynamics

Wolves on the island have, historically, been separated into three or four packs, with each pack usually having between three and eight members, including two or three pups. The number of wolves in a pack depends mainly on the amount of snow that fell in the previous winter. In winters with light snow, pups tend to leave the pack to find mates, so packs run at four or five members; in heavily snowy winters, the pups stay with the pack, which can reach ten to twelve members. If many members of a pack die, the pack dissolves and a new one forms within a year. One pack will dissolve about once every thirty years.

In 2006, the wolf population, with the exception of 10 loners and separate pairs, formed three packs; the East pack, the Middle pack, and the Chippewa Harbor pack. Wolf packs on the island have been known to fight to try to extend their territory and, thus, supply of moose. In 2006, the East pack killed Chippewa Harbor pack's alpha male, as witnessed by John Vucetich, a professor at Michigan Technological University and one of the lead researchers on the island, who believed that the Chippewa Harbor pack may die off without their leader.

Old Gray Guy
In early 1997, a particularly virile male wolf that had not been born on Isle Royale was observed by researchers on the island. This was the first time that an adult wolf had entered the island's isolated population since the study began, and it is assumed to have crossed over the ice from mainland Ontario, 15 miles away. The wolf, designated M93 by Isle Royale researchers and later nicknamed "Old Gray Guy" because of its pale fur, was larger and more territorial than the other Isle Royale wolves. Old Gray Guy's pack grew to an unusually large 10 wolves, and drove one of the other four packs to extinction. Over the course of eight years of breeding, the wolf produced 34 pups, which in turn produced an additional 45 pups. It was determined that by 2009, 56% of the wolves on Isle Royale were descended from Old Gray Guy.

Scientists expected that the introduction of Old Gray Guy's genes to an inbred population would create a "genetic rescue" population boom, but the overall wolf population did not substantially increase over time. In an interview with the The New York Times in 2011, wolf researcher John A. Vucetich said that this should not be taken as evidence against the "genetic rescue" theory, suggesting that other factors may have kept the wolf population from growing further and that the Isle Royale population may have disappeared entirely if Old Gray Guy had never arrived. Furthermore, Old Gray Guy's offspring soon began breeding with one another, leading a new set of traits to become reinforced by heavy inbreeding. A 2023 study found that Old Gray Guy's impact on the gene pool had been partially reversed as its inbred descendants died without offspring.

Trends
Initially, it was thought that the wolf and moose populations would reach a stable balance. However, during the nearly sixty years of the study, the populations of both species have fluctuated up and down with the number of moose ranging from a high of nearly 2500 down to 500 and the number of wolves ranging from a high of 50 down to one in 2017/18.

During 2016, the wolf population was nearly extirpated with only two severely inbred wolves present. The moose population was about 2/3rd of its historical maximum with ample forage and growing rapidly. Absent a new infusion of migrant wolves, or human intervention, the original situation of a high moose population limited only by starvation is the prospect.

In December 2016, the National Park Service (NPS) put forward a plan in which they would add 20 to 30 wolves to the island in order to prevent the pack from disappearing completely.