[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Coco Martin

selected cinemas in Europe and the Middle East via The Filipino Channel. In the same year, he starred in his third Metro Manila Film Festival entry, The Super Parental Guardians, along with Vice Ganda and Awra Briguela under Star Cinema. It was the second-highest grossing Filipino film of all time.

In 2017, Martin launched his own production company, CCM Productions, and had his first directorial and producer debut in the film Ang Panday, a 2017 Metro Manila Film Festival entry. The role was first popularized by late actor Fernando Poe Jr., hence, making it the second time Martin portrayed one of his roles. In 2018, he produced another film Jack Em Popoy: The Puliscredibles, a 2018 Metro Manila Film Festival entry and starred alongside GMA Network artists Maine Mendoza and Vic Sotto. In 2019, he produced, wrote, directed and starred in the 2019 Metro Manila Film Festival entry 3pol Trobol: Huli Ka Balbon! with Jennylyn Mercado and Ai-Ai delas Alas.

In 2021, Martin starred in a romantic comedy film Love or Money with Angelica Panganiban under CCM Productions and Star Cinema. The movie was filmed on various locations in Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

2022–present: Batang Quiapo and other projects
In July 2022, Metropolitan Manila Development Authority announced the 4 initial entries for 2022 Metro Manila Film Festival, and Martin's film Labyu with an Accent together with Jodi Sta. Maria was included. Martin is set to appear again in the Brillante Mendoza film Apag alongside Lito Lapid, Gladys Reyes, Gina Pareño, Joseph Marco, Shaina Magdayao and Mercedes Cabral, an official entry for the 2023 Metro Manila Summer Film Festival. The role was initially pitched to Aljur Abrenica. He will also lead an indie horror film directed by Mendoza titled, Pola, together with Julia Montes. The film was shot in Pola, Oriental Mindoro, hence the title and is set to be released early 2023.

In February 2023, Martin together with actress Lovi Poe and an ensemble cast returns in the TV adaptation of the 1986 film Batang Quiapo. It was created by Pablo S. Gomez and starred the late Fernando Poe, Jr. Martin will also serve as the series' co-director, co-writer, and co-producer under his film production company.

Personal life
Martin has been in a romantic relationship with Julia Montes since 2011. The couple has kept their relationship private until Martin publicly confirmed it in May 2023.

Filmography

Television

Films

Directorial roles

Feature films

Other ventures

Production company

In 2017, Martin established his own film production company 'CCM Film Productions'. As of today, the company has produced three films since 2017: Ang Panday, Jack Em Popoy: The Puliscredibles, and 3pol Trobol: Huli Ka Balbon!, all of which are starred by Martin.

Feature films

Awards and nominations

References

External links 

1981 births
Living people
Filipino Roman Catholics
Filipino male models
Filipino stunt performers
Filipino film directors
Filipino expatriates in Canada
Star Magic
People from Santa Cruz, Manila
Male actors from Quezon City
People from Pampanga
Kapampangan people
21st-century Filipino male actors
ABS-CBN personalities
GMA Network personalities
TV5 (Philippine TV network) personalities
Filipino male film actors
Filipino male television actors
Male actors from Manila