[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kamalamai

cquire Bachelor of Science courses (BSc.) BBA, BBS and Diploma Courses of CTEVT and Pharmacy.

Colleges
Shree Janajagriti Mavi Bhidhalaye,Bhiman
 Gaumati Model Secondary School
Kamala Science Campus
Siddha Jyoti Shaya Campus
Sindhuli Multiple College
 Sindhuli Community Technical Institute, Sindhuli

Schools
Scholars' Academy Boarding School,Bhiman
Kamala Academic Boarding School,Bhiman
Shree Janajagriti Mavi Bhidhalaye,Bhiman
 Bhagawati English Secondary School, 2no. Bazaar
 Shining Moon Academy, Madhutar
 Sindhuli Vidhyashram English Boarding School, Dovantaar
 Sindhuli Pathshalaa, Dhungrebas
 Kamala Higher Secondary School, Dhungrebas
 Gaumati Model Secondary School, Majhitaar
 Shree Jana Jyoti Secondary School
 Barun Devi Secondary School
 Daurali Nimna Secondary School
 Shree Siddhabba Secondary School, Panityanki
 New English Secondary Boarding School, Milan Chowk
 Kalimati Nimna Secondary School
 Suryodaya English Secondary School, Ratmataa
 Siddhababa English Boarding High School
 New Siddhasthali English Boarding School
 Swiss Sindhuli Secondary English Medium School
 Shree Navajyoti Deaf Lower Secondary School

Transportation

Regional
The new section of B.P. Koirala Highway to Kamalamai from Kathmandu opened in 2011 and continues on to Bardibas, though most areas only allow one lane of traffic with hairpin turns. The rest of the route to Bardibas is even and therefore much less dangerous. An old road that connects Dharan through Inner Tarai is going to reopen for the easier movement through the Inner Tarai Valleys of Sindhuli and Udayapur of Western Region to Dharan of Eastern Nepal. Long-route buses run under the local authority in the headquarters which has bus routes to cities like Kathmandu, Janakpur, Biratnagar and Pokhara.

Local
Local transportation consists of minibuses and minivans while most of the parts of Kamalamai are accessible to vehicles. Nowadays common transportation is  auto rickshaws (electrical & Gas).

Media
To promote local culture Kamalamai Municipality has three FM radio stations - Sindhuligadhi FM - 92 MHz, Radio Siddhababa - 98.4 MHz and Radio Sahara - 104.2 MHz.

The KM Club holds various events in colleges of Sindhuli.

References

External links

Populated places in Sindhuli District
Nepal municipalities established in 1997