[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Meet the Applegates

en attempts to forge ahead with the mission but after the family realize they have grown to like living amongst the humans they decide they must prevent Bea from completing the mission. Dick intervenes and in the struggle he kills Bea, preventing the nuclear explosion. They save the town and humans.

At the end of the movie they return to their lives in Brazil and are visited by the townspeople that grew to love them. Although the plant did not blow up, enough radiation was released to remove the hair from much of the town's population.

A scene before the credits reveals that Aunt Bea survived and still intends to destroy the world.

Cast
Ed Begley Jr. as Richard Peter "Dick" Applegate
Stockard Channing as Jane Applegate
Dabney Coleman as Aunt Bea Cocorada/Ralph Carpenter
Robert Jayne as John Richard "Johnny" Applegate
Camille Cooper as Sally Applegate
Roger Aaron Brown as Sheriff Heidegger 
Adam Biesk as Vince Sampson
Susan Barnes as Opal Withers
Glenn Shadix as Greg Samson 
Lee Garlington as Nita Samson
Frank Welker as various Mantis Creatures

Release
Meet the Applegates was released in the Philippines by First Films as The Applegates on June 6, 1990, with "[f]ree cassette tapes to lucky patrons." Meet the Applegates was released in the United States by Triton Pictures on February 1, 1991.

Critical response
On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes the film has a score of 9% based on reviews from 11 critics, with an average rating of 4.2/10.

The film was met with mixed reception.

References

External links

1990 black comedy films
1990 comedy horror films
1990s science fiction comedy films
1990s science fiction horror films
1990 LGBT-related films
1990s pregnancy films
American black comedy films
American comedy horror films
1990s English-language films
Fictional families
Films about insects
Films about shapeshifting
Films directed by Michael Lehmann
Films produced by Denise Di Novi
Films scored by David Newman
Films set in Brazil
Films set in Ohio
Films shot in Wisconsin
New World Pictures films
American pregnancy films
1990s American films
Films about mutants
Films about families
Films about adultery in the United States
American films about cannabis
Lesbian-related films
Heavy metal films
Films about addiction