[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sweden v. Yamaguchi

d children in 1952.  Mary Ann was to accompany them, but due to an outbreak of whooping cough, she was to sail on the next ship.  However, Yamaguchi absconded with Mary Ann, and Yamaguchi destroyed the child's records, raising her under claim of an abandoned American orphan in the slums of Yokohama.

John Wilson continued to search for Mary Ann, and with the intervention of the AJCAJAO (American Joint Committee for Assisting Japanese-American Orphans), the Red Cross of Sweden and the International Red Cross, found and identified her in Yokohama in 1955.  The AJCAJAO identified her residency with Masakatsu Yamaguchi and wife in Yokohama.  The Consul of the Royal Swedish Legation attempted to negotiate a custody settlement with the Yamaguchi family, but was unsuccessful.  The Crown then brought suit on behalf of Wilson for custody.

According to Fumi Kaneko (reading from her interview in Asahi Shinbun and Shukan Shincho), the baby was entrusted to her by Vivian at her death bed.  There was no mention of a search for the baby; instead Fumi Kaneko said she was the one who approached the Swedish Embassy to recognize Mary Ann before she entered into grade school.

Public notoriety 
The case developed intense national publicity in Japan, with a great national sympathy towards the Yamaguchi family, to remain as custodian, with publication in the Kanagawa Shimbun, Asahi Shimbun and Shukan Shincho Japanese periodicals, especially in the shukanshi, confrontational weekly magazines.  The case attracted considerable attention from the Japanese Leftists, and became a focus of anti-American nationalism in Japan after World War II.  The United States government abjured involvement in the case, not offering to enter as participant or amicus in the hearing.

Subsequent history 
Mary Ann, now known as Marianne Wilson, remained in the custody of the Swedish Ambassador to Japan,  and attended the ASIJ, the American School in Japan in Chōfu, Tokyo ASIJ, graduating in the 1960s.  She continued to visit the Yamaguchi family throughout their lifetime.  She retained her Swedish citizenship, and relocated to Sweden, working for the Scandinavian Airlines System for a time, before returning to Japan to settle as a permanent resident Swedish citizen in Japan.  She is married with one son, and lives in Tokyo.  She remains in close contact with the John Wilson family of Sweden.

See also 
Japanese law

References 
Shukan Shincho Weekly, 2/25/56
Kanagawa Shimbun 3/08/56, 3/15/56
Asahi Shimbun 3/8/56, 3/13/56, 3/14/56,3/18/56, 3/21/56 & 3/31/56
Nikkan Sports 3/21/56
'A Public Betrayed': The Power of Japan's Scandal-Breaking Weeklies, Japan Media Review

History of the foreign relations of Japan
United States–European relations
Japan–United States relations
Japanese case law
International law
Family case law
Conflict of laws case law
1956 in case law
1958 in case law
1956 in international relations
1958 in international relations
Japan–Sweden relations
Sweden–United States relations