[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rodman M. Price

Rodman McCamley Price (May 5, 1816June 7, 1894) was an American naval officer, businessman, and Democratic Party politician who served as the 17th Governor of New Jersey from 1854 to 1857. He also worked to establish the American government in California and served on the first San Francisco City Council, where he became a real estate tycoon. He represented New Jersey in the United States House of Representatives for one term from 1851 to 1853.

Early life and career
Rodman McCamley Price was born in Frankford Township, New Jersey on May 5, 1816. His grandfather and great-uncle were quartermasters for the Continental Army and later merchants.

He attended the public schools of New York City and the Lawrenceville Academy. Price pursued classical studies at The College of New Jersey (today Princeton University) but did not graduate due to illness. He read law but never practiced, choosing instead to enter the commission business in New York.

Naval career, Mexican-American War, and California
Using family connections to the Martin Van Buren administration, Price secured an appointment as a purser in the United States Navy in 1840. His first assignments came during peacetime, and he sailed aboard the USS Fulton and USS Missouri. In July 1843, Price was aboard the Missouri on its voyage as one of the first steam warships to cross the Atlantic Ocean.

While off the coast of Gibraltar, the Missouri was wrecked in an accident, and Price spent some time as a guest of the British Consul in Gibraltar before touring the Iberian Peninsula. He met with the famous American author Washington Irving, serving as the United States Minister to Spain, and aided Irving's research on a biography of Christopher Columbus. He also visited Paris before returning to duty. Price rejoined the Navy on the sloop of war USS Cyane, part of John D. Sloat's Pacific Squadron. As purser, Price's duties were primarily to oversee payrolls; he occasionally made land at Monterey, Matamoros, or Lima to provision and bargain with local merchants.

On July 7, 1846, the Cyane entered the Mexican-American War by ferrying a detachment of United States Marines who seized Monterey, California. On the same day, Sloat, now Military Governor of California, named Price prefect and alcalde (magistrate) at Monterey, where he administered the military occupation for a month. As alcalde, Price's duties included recording land titles, and he exploited his position by acting as Sloat's investment agent and partner in the land rush that followed the American annexation.

San Francisco
In 1848, he returned to New York to secure himself an appointment as purser for the Pacific Squadron. He moved to a new headquarters in San Francisco, where he provisioned and payrolled ships between Monterey and Honolulu.

When the California gold rush hit and inflated commodity prices, the Navy expected Price to establish the hegemony of American credit and prevent the drain of gold bullion to London. Instead, he enriched himself as a real-estate tycoon and entered politics. He was elected to the first Common Council of San Francisco and became a booster of the city's Long Wharf project. In August 1849, he was "detached" from the Pacific Squadron for making unauthorized drafts on specie in the Customs House and neglecting to submit quarterly returns on expenses.

Despite his removal, Price's political career flourished. In September 1849, he was a delegate to the first of the California Constitutional Conventions and finished third in the November elections for the new state's inaugural United States Representatives. He served on the first Ayuntamiento de San Francisco from August 6, 1849, to January 10, 1850. He returned to Washington to render account, but on his return journey his steamer, the Orleans St. John, caught fire on the Alabama River. Price claimed his payroll vouchers were destroyed in the fire, muddling his case and leading to years of litigation over $88,000 in unaccounted Navy funds.

On December 28, 1849, he purchased Rancho San Geronimo from fellow naval officer Joseph Warren Revere for $7,500. The two would split the profits of timber exports from the property. On August 6. 1851, Price bought the remainder of Revere's property for $8,000. Price's move to New Jersey later inspired Revere to purchase farm land and construct The Willows, a custom mansion in Morristown, New Jersey.