[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Human rights in Ukraine

al policy, as well as securing the rights of national minorities." According to Human Rights Watch (HRW), "while civil society institutions operate mostly without government interference, police abuse and violations of the rights of vulnerable groups … continue to mar Ukraine's human rights record."

After the early 2010 election of President Viktor Yanukovych international organizations started to voice their concern. According to Freedom House, "Ukraine under President Yanukovych has become less democratic and, if current trends are left unchecked, may head down a path toward autocracy and kleptocracy." Among the recent negative developments, they mentioned "a more restrictive environment for the media, selective prosecution of opposition figures, worrisome intrusiveness by the Security Service of Ukraine, widely criticized local elections in October 2010 … and erosion of basic freedoms of assembly and speech." This led Freedom House to downgrade Ukraine from "Free" to "Partly Free" in Freedom in the World 2011. Also in 2011 Amnesty International spoke of "an increase in the number of allegations of torture and ill-treatment in police custody, restrictions on the freedom of speech and assembly, as well as mass manifestations of xenophobia".

In Reporters Without Borders Press Freedom Index 2010 Ukraine had fallen from 89th place to 131. Neighboring Russia's press freedom was ranked at position 140. The International Federation for Human Rights called Ukraine "one of the countries seeing the most serious violations against human rights activists" in December 2011.

As of late 2013 the situation continued to deteriorate and was one of the causes of the Euromaidan revolution, as joining or even working towards meeting the requirement to join the European union would dramatically improve human rights across Ukraine. Russia, which had already laid the ground work reacted to the Euromaidan protests and invaded Crimea and the wider Donbas regions.

International and European human rights treaties

Ukraine is a party to the following international treaties 

International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR)
(First) Optional Protocol to the ICCPR
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW)
Optional Protocol to CEDAW
Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC)
Optional Protocol to the CRC on the involvement of children in armed conflict
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment
Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture
Convention relating to the Status of Refugees (1951)
Protocol relating to the Status of Refugees (1967)
Ukraine signed but not yet ratified
Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court

Ukraine is a party to the following European treaties 
European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms (ECHR) (1950)
Protocol No. 6 to the ECHR concerning the abolition of the death penalty in times of peace (1983)
Protocol No. 12 to the ECHR concerning the general prohibition of discrimination (2000)
Protocol No. 13 to the ECHR concerning the abolition of the death penalty in all circumstances (2002)
Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities

Situation

As of 17 January 2013 Ukraine had lost all of its 211 cases at the European Court of Human Rights.

Mass graves found in areas liberated from Russian control

After Bucha, Lyman, Makariv, and Kherson were liberated from Russian occupation, Ukraine discovered mass graves containing bodies of civilians. Victims frequently bore evidence of torture.

Electoral rights
International observers, including Freedom House and the United States Department of State, generally consider Ukrainian election processes to be free and fair. However, there were credible allegations of vote-buying, and media coverage was at times biased. Nazi and Communist parties are banned.

The right to receive a fair trial

Amendments to the constitution, which came into force, were detrimental to the right to receive a fair trial because they re-introduced the so-called general supervision by the prosecutor's office. Other serious problems included lengthy periods for review of cases because the courts were overloaded; infringement of equality of arms; non-observance of the presumption of innocence; the failure to execute court rulings; and high level of corruption in courts. Independent lawyers and human rights activists have complained Ukrainian judges regularly come under pressure to hand down a certain verdict.

According to Freedom House, the judiciary has become more efficient and less corrupt since the Orange Revolution.