[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Democratic Movement (France)

or of the Union for French Democracy, MoDem obtained 9.93% of the national level vote in France.

Ensemble Citoyens 
Ahead of the 2022 legislative elections, MoDem formed a coalition with two other centrist parties – Horizons and La République En Marche! – to coordinate which candidates it presents.

Ideology
During the 2007 presidential election, Bayrou stressed three points: the public debt, the need for change and ouverture to the right/left political system, and the need of constitutional reforms in that direction.

International affiliations
In 2004, Bayrou launched the European Democratic Party (EDP) along with Francesco Rutelli's Democracy is Freedom – The Daisy. In 2005, the EDP created, along with the New Democrat Coalition of the United States Democratic Party, the Alliance of Democrats, a worldwide network of centrist and social liberal parties.

In the European Parliament, MoDem sits in the Renew Europe group with 5 MEPs.

In the European Committee of the Regions, MoDem sits in the Renew Europe CoR group with two full member for the 2020 to 2025 mandate. François Decoster is the President of the Group and Vincent Chauvet is Coordinator in the ENVE Commission.

Electoral results

Presidential elections 
This table includes the 2002 and 2007 elections in which the MoDem founder, François Bayrou, presented himself as a candidate of the Union for French Democracy (UDF).

Legislative elections

European Parliament elections
The 2014 elections involved an alliance with the forces of the Union of Democrats and Independents (UDI); this joint list, The Alternative (L'Alternative), saw four MoDem MEPs out of seven elected from the list.

See also
Democratic Movement and affiliated group
Centrist Union group

References

External links

2007 establishments in France
Political parties established in 2007
Political parties of the French Fifth Republic
European Democratic Party
Centrist parties in France
Centre-right parties in Europe
Christian democratic parties in Europe
Social liberal parties
Pro-European political parties in France
Democratic Movement (France)