[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Warlock in Spite of Himself

by Durer (Anselm's advisor), are building a large weapon to quickly decimate the Royal army. However the advisors are wielding energy swords and Big Tom, in an attempt to kill Durer, is killed. Rod, having witnessed Tom's death, rides with haste wielding a blaster from Fess's saddle and kills Durer.

After the battle, with Rod's intervention, Tuan and Catherine are married. Rod sent a message to SCENT stating that he was quitting to stay on Gramarye with Gwen, but quickly receives a message back requesting he stay on as the permanent SCENT agent of Gramarye. He immediately proposes to Gwen but she refuses to let him kiss her until he admits he is a warlock, and Rod then for the first time states that he IS a warlock.

Characters
Rod Gallowglass (Rodney d'Armand) is the main protagonist in the series. Born to a family of aristocrats, Rod left his home planet for adventure as a SCENT (Society for Conversion of Extraterrestrial Nascent Totalitarianisms) agent seeking out lost colonies with the help of the family robot.
Fess (FCC #651919) is Rod's faithful robot companion throughout the book. Fess is essentially a robotic brain capable of being transferred from computer to computer (as such he can be used as the sole computer of Rod's ship). Fess spends the majority of the series in a robotic horse suit disguise. Fess's most interesting quality is his form of epilepsy. This epilepsy is due to a weak capacitor which will become strained causing it to release all its stored energy in a single wave causing his "seizure". Fess was approximately two thousand years old when Rod was born.
Big Tom is an anarchist agent from VETO (Vigilant Exterminators of Telepathic Organisms) sent from the future to aid in the plan to pull Gramarye into a totalitarian model. Big Tom is befriended by Rod, eventually siding with Rod over his own agents and fought alongside the Queen's army in the final battle, inevitably being killed by Durer.

Sequels and spinoffs 
The success of the initial volume led to a not particularly successful 1971 sequel called King Kobold, the first of what would eventually become a complex series of sequels and related works. In 1982, Ace Books published The Warlock Unlocked, in which the Gallowglass family accidentally go through a portal to an alternate universe, where magic really works. The success of this novel led to the publication of the 1983 Escape Velocity a prequel to the original series, recounting the events leading to the colonisation of Gramarye by members of the Society for Creative Anachronism. In rapid succession, these were followed by King Kobold Revived (1984) (a rewrite of King Kobold); The Warlock Enraged (1985); The Warlock Wandering and The Warlock is Missing (both 1986); The Warlock Heretical (1987); The Warlock's Companion (1988); The Warlock Insane (1989); and The Warlock Rock (1990).

Warlock's Heirs 
The 1991 Warlock and Son, centered on Rod's eldest son Magnus, led to a spin-off series of sorts about the children of the Gallowglass family. These are put by the publisher into a separate Warlock's Heirs series, and include A Wizard in Absentia (1993); M'Lady Witch (1994); Quicksilver's Knight (1995); The Spell-Bound Scholar (1999); Here Be Monsters (2001); and The Warlock's Last Ride (2004)

Rogue Wizard books 
Stasheff's 1979 novel A Wizard in Bedlam, written before most of the Warlock series, is set in the same universe, but is set on the planet Melange and involves the character Gar Pike, alias Magnus d'Armand. This was followed in 1995, with the novels A Wizard in Mind, A Wizard in War, A Wizard in Peace, A Wizard in Chaos (1997), A Wizard in Midgard (1998), A Wizard and a Warlord (2000), A Wizard in the Way (2000), and A Wizard in a Feud (2001)

Interlacing 
Stasheff gradually began to interlace the two series, with the story of the Rogue Wizard being continued in 2004 in The Warlock's Last Ride of the 'Warlock's Heirs' series. During the same period was the 2003 Mind Out of Time, a collection of short stories, mostly set in the Warlock universe; and the 2005 episodic novel Saint Vidicon to the Rescue, recounting the fate of Saint Vidicon of Cathode after his martyrdom, and of a devout computer programmer who becomes his agent in the human world.

References

Additional sources
 
 
 
 Review of The Warlock in Spite of Himself by

External links
 Christopher Stasheff's Official Website

1969 American novels
Science fantasy novels
1969 fantasy novels
American fantasy novels
1969 science fiction novels
American science fiction novels
Novels set on fictional planets
Ace Books books
Novels by Christopher Stasheff