[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Second Chechen War crimes and terrorism

anniversary of the killing of scores of Chechen civilians by Russian soldiers who took control of the Chechen capital Grozny.
 August 27, 2004 - 123 people were killed by a female suicide bomber in the Russian aircraft bombings of August 2004. Basayev again claimed responsibility.

Terrorist raids 

During the Insurgency phase of Second Chechen War, numerous raids and terrorist attacks were carried out by the jihadists. These include the 2004 Nalchik raid, 2004 Avtury raid, 2004 Nazran raid, 2004 Grozny raid, and the 2005 Nalchik raid.  These attacks constitute as terrorism because they were attacks and armed incursions on infrastructure, civilian areas, civilians, government buildings, government officials, on law enforcement, and unarmed traffic patrol officers (ДПС), and also often included hostage taking and the usage of civilians as human shields.

Legal proceedings

Trial in Russia

Trials of Chechen separatists
Since the Russian authorities do not treat the war as an armed conflict and enemies as combatants, the Chechen separatists are invariably described by the Russian government as terrorists or bandits. Captured extremists are routinely tried for such articles of the Russian criminal code as illegal weapons possession, "forming and participating in illegal armed groups," and banditry. This strips detainees of key rights and protection under the Geneva Convention rules of war, including the right to be released at the end of the conflict and not to be held criminally liable for lawful combat. Participation in combat is treated as murder or attempted murder and terrorism, making little if any distinction with incidents of actual murders and terrorism.

 One of the earliest war crimes trials to be held was that of Salman Raduyev, a notorious ex-field commander for the rebel Chechen forces. Raduyev was convicted in December 2001 of terrorism and murder charges and sentenced to life imprisonment. He died in a Russian prison colony a year later.
 On February 21, 2001, a Chechen field commander Salautdin Temirbulatov was sentenced to life in prison for murdering four Russian contract soldiers whose execution in 1996 was filmed on video tape. When Russia invaded Chechnya for the second time in September 1999, the video became a powerful weapon in the Kremlin's propaganda war, as it was shown to soldiers preparing for active service in the war-torn republic. Temirbulatov was also accused of terrorism and abducting Russian special unit servicemen taken prisoner during their raid into Chechnya in 1997.
 On May 26, 2006, Nur-Pashi Kulayev was jailed for life for his part in the Beslan school siege.

Trials of Russian servicemen
The cases of a Russian servicemen being tried for war crimes are few and far between, no one has been charged with mistreatment or the murder of captured enemy fighters. Nevertheless, several servicemen have been accused and convicted of crimes against civilians.