[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Carrefour de l'Horloge

y inspired by social Darwinism, before gradually merging neoliberalism with racialism to create an "integral neo-Darwinism". The think tank promotes in the 2010s economic liberalism, nationalism and popular democracy. Political scientist Fiammetta Venner labelled the club "national radical" in 2006.

The adoption of a liberal-national economy theory by the think tank during the 1970s led to a doctrinal break with GRECE, which had been denouncing economic liberalism as a "[destroyer of] collective identities and ‘rooted’ cultures and [...] a generator of uniformity". The common of defence of identity, however, allowed the Club and GRECE to operate as different factions within the wider Nouvelle Droite movement. According to scholar Tamir-Baron, "the neo-liberal, hyper-capitalism espoused by the Club de l'Horloge is reminiscent of intellectuals Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman, as well as Anglo-American New Right (AANR) political forces such as Thatcherism and Reaganism. The AANR's neoliberalism has often been dubbed the European New Right's 'principal enemy' and is the source of vitriolic attacks against the United States, seen as the major representative of this materialistic worldview".

The club is a supporter of popular democracy and theorized the citizens' initiative referendum back in 1986. The following year, Yvan Blot introduced a bill in the lower house to permit popular-initiative referendums, but failed to gain enough support. The club praises "popular common sense" against what they call the "confiscation of democracy" by uprooted elites. Blot's ideas have been influential on the Front National, which portrayed itself as the "best defender of democracy".

Lysenko Prize
Since 1990, the Carrefour de l'Horloge awards each year the satirical "Lysenko Prize" to an author or person who "has contributed the most to scientific and historical misinformation, using ideological methods and arguments."

Notable members

See also 

 National liberalism
Remigration
Ghost skin

References

Bibliography

External links
 

1974 establishments in France
Think tanks established in 1974
Political and economic think tanks based in Europe
Far-right politics in France
Think tanks based in France
New Right (Europe)