[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Greenland and the European Union

ns, a "Joint Declaration on relations between the European Union, on the one hand, and the Government of Greenland and the Government of Denmark, on the other". By this document, the EU confirms its long lasting links with Greenland and reiterates the geostrategic importance of Greenland for the EU.

The Brexit debate has reignited talk about the EU in Greenland, and there have been calls for the island to rejoin the Union.

Outside the EU
Greenland originally joined the then-European Community with Denmark in 1973. At that time Greenland had no autonomy from Denmark, which it gained in 1979. Greenland achieved some special treatment such as restrictions on business for non-residents and fisheries. Greenland got the right to one European Parliament member in the parliament election 1979.

Greenland left in 1985, following a referendum in 1982  with 53% voting for withdrawal after a dispute over fishing rights. The Greenland Treaty formalised their exit.

There has been some speculation as to whether Greenland might consider rejoining the European Union, although this seems highly unlikely to occur any time soon. On 4 January 2007, the Danish daily Jyllands-Posten quoted the former Danish minister for Greenland, Tom Høyem, as saying "I would not be surprised if Greenland again becomes a member of the EU ... The EU needs the Arctic window and Greenland cannot alone manage the gigantic Arctic possibilities". The debate has been reignited in light of the 2008–2011 Icelandic financial crisis. The EU Common Fisheries Policy is an important reason why Greenland, Norway and Iceland stay outside the EU. There was hope that the Icelandic negotiations on EU membership 2011–2013 could create an exception to the policy but the negotiations never got that far. "Gigantic Arctic possibilities" refers to natural resources such as mining. There is a very large iron deposit, Isua Iron Mine. Greenland can not finance the large cost of developing it and does not have such experience, so it has contracted a foreign company, which did not start to develop it because of low iron prices.

See also

Denmark and the European Union
Foreign relations of Greenland
Overseas Countries and Territories Association (OCTA)
Greenland Representation to the European Union
European Union
Arctic policy of the European Union
Special member state territories and the European Union (OCT)
Enlargement of the European Union
Greenland (European Parliament constituency)
Withdrawal of Greenland from the European Communities
1982 Greenlandic European Economic Community membership referendum
Accession of Iceland to the European Union
Norway–European Union relations

Further reading

 Christian Rebhan. 2016. North Atlantic Euroscepticism: the rejection of EU membership in the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Faroe University Press.
 Ulrik Pram Gad. 2016. National Identity Politics and Postcolonial Sovereignty Games: Greenland, Denmark, and the European Union. Museum Tusculanum Press.

References

External links
 European Union and Greenland at Department of Foreign Affairs of Greenland
 Greenland entry at European Commission
 Protocol (No 34) on special arrangements for Greenland at Official Journal of the European Union
 EU cooperation with Greenland at European Parliamentary Research Service

 
Politics of Greenland
Foreign relations of Greenland
Politics of the European Union
Third-country relations of the European Union