[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rutu Modan

and by her own daughter, Michal. When Rutu said to Michal one evening, "How badly you eat! What would you do if the Queen invited you to dine at the palace?" Michal answered very seriously: "Well! It just so happens that the Queen is a VERY good friend of mine, and she told me that I eat perfectly."

The Property
A full-length graphic novel released in 2013 and based on Modan's own family experiences, The Property tells of an elderly Israeli lady, Regina Segal, taking her granddaughter Mica to Warsaw after the death of her son in the hope of reclaiming a family property lost during the Second World War. As they get to know modern Warsaw, meeting in civic landmarks such as the Powązki Cemetery and the Warsaw Fotoplastikon, Regina is forced to recall difficult things about her past whereas Mica begins to wonder if maybe their reasons for coming aren't a little different from what her grandmother led her to believe.

Minharot
Minharot (Tunnels), published in September 2020, is an adventure story about the daughter and grandson of a famous archaeologist who go on a hunt for the Ark of the Covenant in the West Bank.

Short stories
 "King of the Lillies" (1998) - collected in Jamilti and Other Stories (2008).
 "The Romanian Circus" - originally appeared in the collection Jetlag (1999), based on a short story by Etgar Keret.
 "The Panty Killer" - originally appeared in the collection The Actus Box: Five Graphic Novellas (2001); collected in Jamilti and Other Stories (2008).
 "Homecoming" - originally appeared in the collection Happy End (2002), based on a true story. An Israeli pilot, Gadi, goes M.I.A. over Lebanon, leaving everyone at his Kibbutz unsure whether he's alive or dead. One morning Gadi's father thinks he spots his son’s plane over the kibbutz, and calls everyone out to welcome him. Collected in Jamilti and Other Stories (2008).
 "Fan" - originally appeared in the collection How to Love (2007) as "Your Number One Fan". A musician named Shabtai is invited to perform at a cultural center in Sheffield, England, hoping it will be the big break he had been waiting for. Collected in Jamilti and Other Stories (2008).
 "Bygone" - originally appeared in the collection Flipper vol. 2. Collected in Jamilti and Other Stories (2008).
 "Energy Blockage" - originally appeared in the collection Dead Herring Comics (2004). Collected in Jamilti and Other Stories (2008).
 "Jamilti" - originally appeared in Drawn & Quarterly volume 5 (2003). Collected in Jamilti and Other Stories (2008).

Children's books
 Where Is?, Written by Tamar Bergman, Houghton Mifflin/Walter Lorraine Books 2002, 
 Dad Runs Away With The Circus, Written by Etgar Keret, Cambridge, MA, Candlewick Press, 2004, 
 Maya Makes a Mess, the first children's book Rutu Modan has written as well as drawn, Toon Books, 2012,

See also
Women in Israel
Israeli literature

References

External links

 Rutu Modan video interview on BBC Collective
 Rutu Modan: Family Fictions on Publishers Weekly
 Rutu Modan's web page, Israel Cultural Excellence Foundation
 Actus Tragicus - Official Site
 Heflinreps, Inc. - Modan's US agent
 Killington Arts - Modan's UK agent
 Editorial on Exit Wounds at Indian Comic Review
 Rutu Modan audio interview on Inkstuds (62 min.)

Living people
Israeli illustrators
Israeli women illustrators
Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design alumni
1966 births
Israeli comics artists
Israeli children's writers
Israeli children's book illustrators
Israeli women artists
Israeli female comics artists
Israeli women children's writers
Jewish women writers
Jewish artists
Jewish illustrators
Jewish women artists
People from Ramat Gan
Artists from Tel Aviv
Israeli women short story writers