[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Freienfeld

of argent equilateral triangle, with the sides curved inward, inscribed in a vert shield. The three vert sectors mean the three municipalities: Trens, Stilfes and Mauls, and the white part is the central Municipality of Freienfeld. The emblem was granted in 1968.

Main sight

Religious architecture

Sanctuary Maria Trens
Trens is also a place of pilgrimage, the church is dedicated to the miraculous image of “Our Lady of the Avalanche”, the ancient wooden statue of the “Madonna standing and the Child”, dating back to 1470.  According to a legend, a farmer found a wood-carved statue among the debris of a landslide and carried it to his house. The following day the statue was found in a chapel and the people began to venerate it. In a document dated 10 September 1345, it is mentioned for the first time of a church in Trens, in 1407 the family Trauston appointed a weekly Mass to be celebrated on Tuesday in the church. The present church was built in 1498 in Late Gothic with two main entrances; the priest of Stilves obtained a “littera indulgentiarum” from twelve cardinals in 1482 in order to ease the construction. The chaplain of the deanery of Trens received in 1648  the commission to say Mass every day in Trens and the pilgrimages to the church increased. The “Chapel of Our Lady” was inaugurated on 29 March 1728, and take place on the left side of the nave with the wall covered by the numerous votive offering. At the half of the 18th century, the church underwent a restoration in Baroque on a plan by Joseph Adam Ritter von Mölk. The miraculous image was crowned in 1928 and the church became a parish in 1939.

Stilfes Saint Peter Parish church
The ancient ecclesiastical centre is Stilfes that is still the main church of the village.
The church is dedicated to "St. Peter" and is mentioned for the first time in 827. The present imposing church has a single nave and two lateral altars beside the high altar. The interior is decorated in the late Baroque style and the frescos are by Christoph Brandstätter. The choir is placed over the front entrance and the slim bell tower was built in 1568.

Mauls Saint Oswald Parish church
The first church in Mauls was built in 1329. The present church is dedicated to Saint Oswald and is distinguished by an imposing stone bell tower with a roof spire. The interior frescos are painted by different artists of the 18th and 19th centuries.

Military architecture

Welfenstein Castle
Welfenstein is a private castle situated north of the village of Mauls. It was built in the thirteenth century near the Eisack river, in a good position to check the traffic. In 1918 it was destroyed by fire but was rebuilt.

Reifenstein Castle
Refeinstein castle is located south of Sterzing, in the municipality of Freienfeld, at the top of a rock opposite side the Sprechenstein Castle. It is one of the oldest castles in South Tyrol built around the 12th century.

Economy

Industry
On the territory of Freienfeld is the Wolf System, a European multinational industry in the field of building systems in the residential, industrial, commercial and agricultural sectors. The company won, after the 2009 earthquake, one of the contracts and has delivered 500 housing units in L’Aquila. Freienfeld plant employs 200 people.

Society

Linguistic distribution
According to the 2011 census, 95.85% of the population speak German, 3.79% Italian and 0.36% Ladin as first language.

Demographic evolution

References

External links
 Homepage of the municipality

Municipalities of South Tyrol