[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Persecution of Buddhists

ling of indigenous people. The Muslim settlers often join the armed forces in raid of indigenous villages and involved in killing indigenous people by firearms or crude sharp weapons. The settlers also take part in communal riots instigated by the Bangladesh Army and kill indigenous Buddhist people.

Detention and torture
Indigenous people are detained without warrant and often tortured in the custody of Bangladeshi armed forces. Bangladeshi armed forces detain and torture indigenous Buddhist people on mere suspicion of being members of the Shanti Bahini or helping the Shanti Bahini. There were numerous check posts on highways and ferries in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. Bangladeshi armed forces interrogate and detain indigenous travelers from these check posts. Bangladeshi armed forces raid indigenous Buddhist villages and torture indigenous people on suspicion of sheltering and feeding the Shanti Bahini.

Indigenous people who are detained in military camps and cantonments are subjected to severe beating, electrocution, water boarding, hanging upside down, shoving burning cigarettes on bodies etc. Prisoners are detained in pits and trenches. Bangladeshi soldiers sprinkle hot water on indigenous prisoners. Indigenous captives are then taken out for interrogation one at a time. Indigenous people are often tortured during interrogation.

Rape and abduction
Bangladesh Government tacitly encourages Bangladesh Army and Muslim settlers to rape indigenous girls and women as tool to expel them from their traditional land. As a result thousands of indigenous girls and women were raped by the armed forces and settlers since independence of Bangladesh in 1971.

Bangladeshi Army in league with the Muslim settlers raid indigenous villages, separate men from women and rape indigenous girls and women. Bangladesh Army and Muslim settlers often rape indigenous girls and women in front of their husbands and parents. Bangladesh Army and Muslim settlers also target indigenous girls and women when they go to markets, schools or go to fetch water or fire wood.

Land Grab
Since vast majority of the indigenous people are farmers and cultivators, land is very important and only means of survival. The government's sponsored settlement in the CHT dispossessed many indigenous people of their lands.

Often Bangladesh Army expels indigenous people from their villages by massacres, arsons and constant harassments. Bangladeshi Army then give emptied villages to the Muslim settlers. In many cases Bangladesh Army builds settlements near indigenous villages. The Muslim settlers then gradually encroach on the lands of indigenous Buddhist people.

Another way to grab indigenous land is to build military camps on indigenous land with little or no compensation and then constantly harass the indigenous people by intimidation, extortion, interrogation, rape which forces indigenous people to leave their villages.

During the 2012 Ramu violence a 25,000-strong mob set fire to at least five temples and dozens of homes throughout the town and surrounding villages after seeing a picture of an allegedly desecrated Quran, which they claimed had been posted on Facebook by Uttam Barua, a local Buddhist man.

India

The Ladakh Buddhist Association has said: "There is a deliberate and organised design to convert Kargil's Buddhists to Islam.  In the last four years, about 50 girls and married women with children were taken and converted from village Wakha alone.  If this continues unchecked, we fear that Buddhists will be wiped out from Kargil in the next two decades or so.  Anyone objecting to such allurement and conversions is harassed."

The Mahabodhi Temple, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, is one of the most sacred Buddhist temple in Bodh Gaya, marking the location where Gautama Buddha is said to have attained Enlightenment. On 7 July 2013, a series of ten bombs exploded in and around the Mahabodhi Temple complex. Five people, including two Buddhist monks, were injured by the blasts. Three other devices were defused by bomb-disposal squads at a number of locations in Gaya. On 4 November 2013, the National Investigation Agency announced that the Islamic terrorist group Indian Mujahideen was responsible for the bombings.

Maldives

The destruction of the Buddhist artifacts by Islamists took place on the day in which Mohamed Nasheed was toppled as president in a coup.

Buddhist antiquities were obliterated by Islamist radicals in the National Museum. The Museum was stormed by Islamists who destroyed the Buddhist artifacts.

The non Muslim artifacts of Buddhist provenance were specifically singled out by the attackers. The destruction was caught on camera.

Most of Maldive's Buddhist physical history was obliterated.

Hindu artifacts were also targeted for obliteration and the actions have been compared to the attacks on the Buddhas of Bamiyan by the Taliban.

7 February 2012 was the date of the anti-Buddhist attack by the Islamists.