[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Van Jones

Dream Corps 
Jones is President of The Dream Corps, a "social enterprise and incubator for powerful ideas and innovations designed to uplift and empower the most vulnerable in our society." The Dream Corps owns and operates several advocacy projects, including Green for All, #cut50, and #YesWeCode.

 #YesWeCode 
In early 2015, Jones launched #YesWeCode, an initiative aiming to "teach 100,000 low-income kids to write code". The musician Prince appeared at the Essence Festival to help support the launch. Jones credits his longtime friend Prince with the idea to form #YesWeCode. #YesWeCode has hosted several hackathons, including one in Detroit in partnership with MSNBC, and Oakland. In an interview on CNN on April 21, 2016, hours after the musician Prince's death, Jones revealed that Prince had secretly contributed to the funding of #YesWeCode. Jones also revealed that the musician had been a major philanthropist who preferred to give anonymously to a wide spectrum of charitable causes. Prince used Jones and others as surrogates to distribute his gifts. As a Jehovah's Witness, Prince did not want to receive public credit for his charitable work. Jones was among the 20 people who gathered for a private memorial service at Paisley Park after Prince's death.

 #cut50 
In 2015, Jones launched #cut50, an organization focused on bi-partisan solutions to criminal justice reform issues. In March 2015 #cut50 hosted a "bi-partisan summit" with Republican Newt Gingrich, former Speaker of the House, to promote bi-partisan solutions. Their goals are to reduce prison populations, as the US has the highest rate of incarceration in the world, and to end mandatory minimum sentencing and mandatory lengthy sentences for certain crimes.

In November 2015, #cut50 gained the support of singer Alicia Keys. In 2016, Keys made a video appeal to Congressman Paul Ryan asking him to "be her Valentine" and commit to giving legislation on criminal justice reform a vote. Ryan made this commitment days later. #cut50 received additional celebrity support from "100 A-List celebrities" including Amy Schumer, Steph Curry, Edward Norton, Jesse Williams, Chris Pine, Russell Simmons, Shonda Rhimes, Russell Brand, Jessica Chastain, and Piper Kerman.

In May 2018, Jones and other members of #cut50 met with Jared Kushner and President Donald Trump at the White House to discuss a criminal justice reform bill.

 The First Step Act 
Working with the Trump White House and Kim Kardashian, Jones and #cut50 were involved in helping to pass the First Step Act, a criminal justice reform bill The New York Times called "the most substantial changes in a generation" to national crime and sentencing laws.

 REFORM Alliance 
In 2019, Jones was announced as the CEO of REFORM Alliance, an initiative founded by Jay-Z, Meek Mill, New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft among others. The initiative aims to reform the criminal justice system, and has received funding from Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey.

 Magic Labs Media 
Magic Labs Media is a media company founded and owned by Jones. In 2016, it produced The Messy Truth miniseries, which won a Webby Award, and in 2020 it produced The Messy Truth VR experience, which won an Emmy Award. In 2021, the weekly podcast "Uncommon Ground with Van Jones" began.

 Criticism 
Glenn Beck criticized Jones for his support of Mumia Abu-Jamal, a death row inmate convicted of killing a police officer.

Jones was accused of having a conflict of interest for running a PR firm called Megaphone Strategies which openly lobbies electoral college electors not to cast their vote for Donald Trump.

Liberals criticized Jones for working with Jared Kushner on police reform and criminal justice reform. Jones covered the matter on CNN and failed to disclose this to his viewers.