[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# LGBT rights in Mexico

eferences. We will listen to everyone, we will attend to everyone. We will respect everyone, but we will give preference to the most humble and the forgotten, especially the indigenous peoples of Mexico", he said.
(26 August): The Civil Registry of Oaxaca began accepting applications for same-sex marriage licenses from throughout the state.
(13 September): Jalisco's civil union law was struck down on procedural grounds.
(17 October): The Supreme Court ruled in favor of the modification of a transgender person's birth certificate. In a ruling described as the first of its kind in Mexico, the court held that the person could change their name and gender marker on official documents through a simple administrative process, based solely on their own declaration of their gender identity.
(19 October): A Mexican federal court ruled that Mexico must recognize same-sex marriages performed in Mexican consulates and embassies abroad as long as one partner is a Mexican citizen.
(6 November): The Senate unanimously (110-0) passed a bill codifying certain court rulings pertaining to the legal rights of same-sex couples into law, namely social security benefits and the right to a widow or widower's pension.
(13 November): The state of Coahuila passed a gender identity bill, allowing transgender individuals easier access to birth certificates reflecting their new legal gender.
(16 November): The Supreme Court ordered the state of Tamaulipas to legalize same-sex marriage within 180 business days.
(28 November): The Chamber of Deputies approved the bill passed in the Senate earlier that month, in a unanimous 415-0 vote.
2019: (14 February): Zacatecas City, the capital city of the state of Zacatecas, began issuing same-sex marriage licenses.
(19 February): Same-sex marriage became legal in the state of Nuevo León.
(2 April): Aguascalientes legalized same-sex marriage.
(25 April): The Hidalgo Congress approved a gender identity law.
 (8 May): The Supreme Court of Mexico ruled that it is unconstitutional to deny a same-sex couple the right to register their children with the Civil Registry.
(11 May): The Mexican Supreme Court extended widow/widower's pensions to same-sex couples in concubinage. 
(17 May): President Andrés Manuel López Obrador declared 17 May as the "National Day of Fighting Against Homophobia, Lesbophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia" () and presented a series of actions that the Mexican Government will implement in support of the LGBT community, such as labor inclusion actions that guarantee opportunities regardless of sexual orientation and gender identity, joint work with teachers to eradicate discrimination and the implementation of protocol of action against hate crimes.
(17 May): The state of San Luis Potosí began authorizing legal gender changes for transgender people.
(21 May): Same-sex marriage became legal in San Luis Potosí, after the state Congress legalized such marriages in a 14-12 vote 5 days prior.
(11 June): Same-sex marriage became legal in Hidalgo, after the state Congress legalized such marriages in an 18-2 vote.
(29 June): Same-sex marriage became legal in the northern state of Baja California Sur.
(28 August): Same-sex marriage legislation passed the Congress of Oaxaca.

Recognition of same-sex relationships

The United Mexican States is a federation composed of thirty-one states and a federal district, also known as Mexico City. Although a Federal Civil Code exists, each state has its own code that regulates concubinage and marriage. Civil unions and same-sex marriages are not recognized at the federal level. Most states, however, have considered legislation on these issues.

In November 2013, Fernado Mayans, Senator for the state of Tabasco and representing the Party of the Democratic Revolution (PRD), presented a proposal of changes to the Federal Civil Code in which marriage would be defined as "the free union of two people". The proposal was turned over to the Justice, Legal Studies and Human Rights commissions in the Senate to be further studied.