[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of South African slang words

glish person. From the colour worn by British troops, as well as the traditional clothes worn by Boere (Afrikaans speaking white farmers).
 kêrels – police (original Afrikaans meaning: guys, chaps). "The kêrels are coming, watch out!" (dated). More commonly referring to boyfriend or literal translation: Guy or young man. Dutch – kerels.
 kerrie-en-rys – lit. "curry and rice", is a popular South African variant of a curry usually served with rice and blatjang
 kief, kif, kiff – (adjective) wicked, cool, neat, great, wonderful. The word derives from the Arabic word kif كيف, meaning pleasure or marijuana. This may also be related to the Afrikaans word for poison: gif. Coastal pot-smokers used the term to refer to Durban Poison: "Gifs" [locally-grown marijuana]. The word evolved into kiff, an adjective or exclamation meaning "cool", among English-speaking people on the east coast.
 kie-kie/kiekie/kiek-kie – pronounced "key-ki"; refers to a photograph
 Klaas Vakie – (pronounced "klaas faacky") refers to the mythical creature known as the Sandman, can also ironically refer to people who had just now woken up late.
 klankie – lit. "a sound", Can also mean unpleasant smell. Used in conjunction with "klank". Pronounced as in "clunk"
 klap – to smack. (from Afrikaans). "He got klapped in the bar". Like a "bitch-slap", but much worse. Another variation on this is the "kopklap" (getting slapped hard over the head), typically done by a parent of authority figure as a form of discipline.
 klikkie klik bek – lit. a tattle tale
 klippies, klippies n coke – Klipdrift, a brandy preferred by mostly Afrikaans men, usually leading to chinas getting bliksemed
 klipslag – lit. "stone-stroke". Used to jokingly refer to a person who can't swim even if their life depended on it and thus sinks like a stone in water, this is mostly a joking self-reference by pessimistic swimmers.
 klokke – lit. "bells". The plural of the word "klok" (derived from "clock"). It also refers to a man's testes.
 koebaai – an anglicism of "goodbye".
 koek – lit. "cake". Can be used to refer to a response to a sticky situation: "O Koek" (Oh Shit); clumped hair that is messy: Jou hare is gekoek (Your hair is very messy and difficult to brush); Can also refer to a vagina.
 Koeksister – A sweet pastry that's been fried and dipped in a honey syrup, and shaped in the form of a French-braid. It doesn't have anything to do with a sibling – "sister" is "suster" in Afrikaans. The "sis" refers to the sound it makes when fried in oil. Alternative spelling is koesister. It also can refer to lesbians, or female genitalia: "I can like to be teasing my koeksister while I are wearing a rokkie"
 koffie-moffie – a camp male waiter or male flight attendant. See "moffie".
 komme-sie komme-sa – lit. "either-or". An expression, of French origin, that states the user isn't sure about an answer and doesn't care either. Similar to the expression "tamato-tomato".
 kont – same as "cunt" in English (profanity)
 koppie – lit. "cup". Also refers to a relatively small hill, (with "koppie" being the diminutive form of "kop") in reference to it appearing like a small head (kop) poking out of the ground.
 kopraas – lit. "head noise". someone who talks endlessly
 kortgat – lit. "short arse". Cutesy nickname given to shorter-than average people, can be considered offensive unlike its antonym "langeraad".
 kotch – (from "kots") lit. "to vomit" (vulgar)
 krimpie – old person
 kraaines – lit. "crow's nest". While the original English meaning stays intact, it can also refer to a big mess. Whether it be messy hair, a messy bedroom or a loud and messy gathering, like a party.
 kreef – literally means "crayfish" but it refers to a promiscuous woman with the intent to attract men.
 kry 'n kramp! – lit. "get a cramp". A definitive expression of strong disagreement, usually used to end an argument regardless if the issue was resolved. Can also be used to refer to exaggerated negative feelings towards a stubborn person: Ek wens hy kry 'n kramp! (I wish he gets a cramp!). Used in conjunction with "gaan kak!".
 kwaai – cool, excellent (Afrikaans: "angry". Compare the US slang word phat.)
 kydaar – visitor from northern provinces, especially Gauteng, to Cape Town; from "kyk daar!" – "just look at that!". See also "soppiekoppie".
 kyk Noord en fok voort. - To continue without any clear plan in mind. To play it by ear. Directly translates to "Look North and fuck onward."
 kyk teen jou ooglede vas – lit. "looking through closed eyes". Contrary to "kyk aan die binnekant van jou ooglede" (which means to take a nap, or go to sleep), it refers to a person who is wide awake, yet cannot spot the item they're looking for that's right under their nose. Used in conjunction with "As dit 'n slang was, dan sou hy jou gepik het"
 laatlammetjie – lit. "late lamb", refers to the youngest child in a family, specifically if there is a significant age-gap between the child and their older sibling (or more specifically when ther