[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 135]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ehalf! Have you come all the way from
England for this?"

"You _won't_ understand. I mean that motherhood has duties. You can't
deny that."

"I can and I do."

Miss Temperley stared. "You will find no human being to agree with you,"
she said at length.

"That does not alter my opinion."

"Oh, Hadria, explain yourself! You utter paradoxes. I want to understand
your point of view."

"It is simple enough. I deny that motherhood has duties except when it
is absolutely free, absolutely uninfluenced by the pressure of opinion,
or by any of the innumerable tyrannies that most children have now to
thank for their existence."

Miss Temperley shook her head. "I don't see that any 'tyranny,' as you
call it, exonerates a mother from her duty to her child."

"There we differ. Motherhood, in our present social state, is the sign
and seal as well as the means and method of a woman's bondage. It forges
chains of her own flesh and blood; it weaves cords of her own love and
instinct. She agonizes, and the fruit of her agony is not even legally
hers. Name me a position more abject! A woman with a child in her arms
is, to me, the symbol of an abasement, an indignity, more complete, more
disfiguring and terrible, than any form of humiliation that the world
has ever seen."

"You must be mad!" exclaimed Miss Temperley. "That symbol has stood to
the world for all that is sweetest and holiest."

"I know it has! So profound has been our humiliation!"

"I don't know what to say to anyone so wrong-headed and so twisted in
sentiment."

Hadria smiled thoughtfully.

"While I am about it, I may as well finish this disclosure of feeling,
which, again I warn you, is _not_ peculiar to myself, however you may
lay that flattering unction to your soul. I have seen and heard of many
a saddening evidence of our sex's slavery since I came to this terrible
and wonderful city: the crude, obvious buying and selling that we all
shudder at; but hideous as it is, to me it is far less awful than this
other respectable form of degradation that everyone glows and smirks
over."

Miss Temperley clasped her hands in despair.

"I simply can't understand you. What you say is rank heresy against all
that is most beautiful in human nature."

"Surely the rank heresy is to be laid at the door of those who degrade
and enslave that which they assert to be most beautiful in human nature.
But I am not speaking to convince; merely to shew where you cannot count
upon me for a point of attack. Try something else."

"But it is so strange, so insane, as it seems to me. Do you mean to
throw contempt on motherhood _per se_?"

"I am not discussing motherhood _per se_; no woman has yet been in a
position to know what it is _per se_, strange as it may appear. No woman
has yet experienced it apart from the enormous pressure of law and
opinion that has, always, formed part of its inevitable conditions. The
illegal mother is hounded by her fellows in one direction; the legal
mother is urged and incited in another: free motherhood is unknown
amongst us. I speak of it as it is. To speak of it _per se_, for the
present, is to discuss the transcendental."

There was a moment's excited pause, and Hadria then went on more
rapidly. "You know well enough, Henriette, what thousands of women there
are to whom the birth of their children is an intolerable burden, and a
fierce misery from which many would gladly seek escape by death. And
indeed many _do_ seek escape by death. What is the use of this eternal
conspiracy of silence about that which every woman out of her teens
knows as well as she knows her own name?"

But Henriette preferred to ignore that side of her experience. She
murmured something about the maternal instinct, and its potency.

"I don't deny the potency of the instinct," said Hadria, "but I do say
that it is shamefully presumed upon. Strong it obviously must be, if
industrious cultivation and encouragements and threats and exhortations
can make it so! All the Past as well as all the weight of opinion and
training in the Present has been at work on it, thrusting and alluring
and coercing the woman to her man-allotted fate."

"_Nature_-allotted, if you please," said Henriette. "There is no need
for alluring or coercing."

"Why do it then? Now, be frank, Henriette, and try not to be offended.
Would _you_ feel no sense of indignity in performing a function of this
sort (however noble and so on you might think it _per se_), if you knew
that it would be demanded of you as a duty, if you did not welcome it as
a joy?"

"I should acknowledge it as a duty, if I did not welcome it as a joy."

"In other words, you would accept the position of a slave."

"How so?"

"By bartering your womanhood, by using these powers of body, in return
for food and shelter and social favour, or for the sake of so-called
'duty' irrespective of--perhaps in direct opposition to your feelings.
How the