[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Afro–Puerto Ricans

tify as black, as of 2020, were:

Loiza: 64.7%
Canóvanas: 33.4%
Maunabo: 32.7%
Rio Grande: 32%
Culebra: 27.7%
Carolina: 27.3%
Vieques: 26%
Arroyo: 25.8%
Luquillo: 25.7%
Patillas: 24.1%
Ceiba: 23.8%
Juncos: 22.9%
San Juan: 22.2%
Toa Baja: 22.1%
Salinas: 22.1%
Cataño: 21.8%

Notable Afro–Puerto Ricans

 Rafael Cordero (1790–1868), was born free in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Of African descent, he became known as "The Father of Public Education in Puerto Rico". Cordero was a self-educated Puerto Rican who provided free schooling to children regardless of their race. Among the distinguished alumni who attended Cordero's school were future abolitionists Román Baldorioty de Castro, Alejandro Tapia y Rivera, and José Julián Acosta. Cordero proved that racial and economic integration could be possible and accepted in Puerto Rico. In 2004, the Roman Catholic Church, upon the request of San Juan Archbishop Roberto González Nieves, began the process of Cordero's beatification. He was not the only one in his family to become an educator. In 1820, his older sister, Celestina Cordero, established the first school for girls in San Juan.
 José Campeche (1751–1809), born a free man, contributed to the island's culture. Campeche's father, Tomás Campeche, was a freed slave born in Puerto Rico, and his mother María Jordán Marqués came from the Canary Islands. Since she was considered European (or white), her children were born free. Of mixed-race, Campeche was classified as a mulatto, a common term during his time meaning of African-European descent. Campeche is considered to be the foremost Puerto Rican painter of religious themes of the era.
 Capt. Miguel Henriquez (c. 1680–17??), was a former pirate who became Puerto Rico's first black military hero by organizing an expeditionary force that defeated the British in the island of Vieques. Capt. Henriques was received as a national hero when he returned the island of Vieques back to the Spanish Empire and Puerto Rico. He was awarded "La Medalla de Oro de la Real Efigie"; and the Spanish Crown named him "Captain of the Seas," awarding him a letter of marque and reprisal which granted him the privileges of a privateer.
 Rafael Cepeda (1910–1996), also known as "The Patriarch of Bomba and Plena", was the patriarch of the Cepeda family. The family is one of the most famous exponents of Puerto Rican folk music, with generations of musicians working to preserve the African heritage in Puerto Rican music. The family is well known for their performances of the bomba and plena folkloric music and are considered by many to be the keepers of those traditional genres.
 Sylvia del Villard (1928–1990) was a member of the Afro-Boricua Ballet. She participated in the following Afro–Puerto Rican productions, Palesiana y Aquelarre and Palesianisima. In 1968, she founded the Afro-Boricua El Coqui Theater, which was recognized by the Panamerican Association of the New World Festival as the most important authority of Black Puerto Rican culture. The Theater group were given a contract which permitted them to present their act in other countries and in various universities in the United States. In 1981, del Villard became the first and only director of the Office of Afro–Puerto Rican Affairs of the Institute of Puerto Rican Culture. She was known as an outspoken activist who fought for the equal rights of the Black Puerto Rican artist.

In Fiction
 The popular United States Marvel superhero Spider-Man is of African American and Puerto Rican descent in the alternate Ultimate Marvel timeline. Miles Morales, who is the current Spider-Man, was born to an African American father and a Puerto Rican mother.

See also

 List of Puerto Ricans
 Immigration to Puerto Rico series:
 Cultural diversity in Puerto Rico
 Chinese immigration to Puerto Rico
 Corsican immigration to Puerto Rico
 French immigration to Puerto Rico
 German immigration to Puerto Rico
 Irish immigration to Puerto Rico
 Jewish immigration to Puerto Rico
 Spanish immigration to Puerto Rico
 Puerto Rican people
 Afro-Caribbean
 Afro-Latin Americans – North, Central and South America
 Afro-Spaniard
 Black Latino Americans – United States of America
 Bozal Spanish (language)
 List of topics related to Black and African people
 Racism in Puerto Rico

References

Further reading
 Figueroa, Luis A. Sugar, slavery and freedom in nineteenth century Puerto Rico
 Scarano, Francisco A. Sugar and Slavery in Puerto Rico: The Plantation Economy of Ponce, 1800–1850
 Balletto, Barbara. Insight Guide Puerto Rico
 Ortiz, Yvonne. A Taste of Puerto Rico: Traditional and New Dishes from the Puerto Rican Community
 de Wagenheim, Olga J. Puerto Rico: An Interpretive History from Precolumbia Times to 1900
 Schmidt-Nowara, Christopher. Empire and Antislavery: Spain, Cuba and Puerto Rico, 1833–1874 (1990). 
 Soler, Luis M. D. Historia de la esclavitud negra en Puerto Rico

External links
 Sugar and Slavery in Puerto Rico