[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James T. Morehead (Kentucky politician)

ement that did proceed was construction of the Lexington and Ohio Railroad, which was completed in 1835. Though education was not a high priority for Governor Morehead, the Kentucky Common School Society and the Kentucky Association of Professional Teachers were formed during his term.

Later career

Following his service as governor, Morehead resumed his legal practice in Frankfort, Kentucky. In March 1837, he was commissioned by Governor James Clark to act as an agent for the state, selling bonds to fund internal improvements. He returned to the state House from 1837 to 1838, representing Franklin County. He was president of the Kentucky Board of Internal Improvements from 1838 to 1841, and in 1839, he and John Speed Smith were chosen as commissioners to the state of Ohio to secure the return of Kentucky-owned slaves as property of their masters. They were successful in this endeavor.

Learned in Kentucky history, Morehead published An Address in Commemoration of the First Settlement of Kentucky, which contained original information regarding the early settlement of Boonesborough, Kentucky, in 1840. In 1846, he published another book, Practice in Civil Actions and Proceedings at Law.

In 1841, Morehead was elected to the U.S. Senate and served from March 4, 1841, to March 3, 1847. There he was chairman of the U.S. Senate Committee on Indian Affairs and the Committee on Retrenchment. During his service in the Senate, he defended a federal bank bill and opposed the annexation of Texas, though he supported the U.S.-Mexican War after it began. He was also a staunch supporter of fellow Kentuckian Henry Clay.

After his time in Congress, he continued the practice of law in Covington, Kentucky, until his death. He was interred in the State lot of Frankfort Cemetery, Frankfort, Kentucky. The city of Morehead, Kentucky, was named after him.

References

Bibliography

Further reading
 Dictionary of American Biography
 Jillson, W.R., ed. "Early Political Papers of Governor James T. Morehead." Register of the Kentucky State Historical Society 22 (September 1924): 272–300, 23 (January 1925): 36–61.

External links

James Turner Morehead at The Political Graveyard

1797 births
1854 deaths
People from Bullitt County, Kentucky
American people of Scottish descent
Baptists from Kentucky
Kentucky National Republicans
Kentucky Whigs
American proslavery activists
Whig Party United States senators from Kentucky
Governors of Kentucky
National Republican Party state governors of the United States
Whig Party state governors of the United States
Lieutenant Governors of Kentucky
Members of the Kentucky House of Representatives
Kentucky lawyers
Transylvania University alumni
Burials at Frankfort Cemetery
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century Baptists
19th-century American politicians