[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gurbachan Singh Salaria

, making it easier to take down the detachments one by one. On 4 December a block was established on the road between the city of Élisabethville and the nearby airport. UN troops reacted by initiating Operation Unokat to defend their positions and reestablish their freedom of movement in the region.

Operation Unokat
On 5 December 1961, the 3rd battalion, 1 Gorkha Rifles was tasked to clear the roadblock on the way to Élizabethville Airport at a strategic roundabout. The roadblock was held by 150 gendarmes with two armoured cars. The plan was for the first attack to be made by Charlie Company, led by Major Govind Sharma. Captain Salaria, with a platoon from Alpha Company close to the airport road, was to block the gendarmes' retreat, and to attack them if required. The rest of Alpha Company was kept in reserve. The plan was to be executed at midday.

Captain Salaria and his troops reached the specified location with their armoured personnel carriers. They were positioned around  from the Katangese roadblock. His rocket launcher team was soon able to get close enough to the gendarmes' armoured cars to destroy them. This unforeseen move left the Katangese confused and disorganised. Salaria felt that it was prudent to attack before the gendarmes reorganised.

Though his troops were heavily outnumbered by the gendarmes, he charged towards them, engaging in a hand-to-hand kukri assault whilst shouting the Gorkha war cry, "Ayo Gorkhali" (). Salaria and his men killed 40 gendarmes, but he was shot twice in the neck by automatic gunfire. He collapsed due to blood loss at the last line of trenches. His second-in-command was ordered to evacuate him in an armoured personnel carrier to the airport hospital as soon as possible. Regardless, Salaria succumbed to his injuries.

The close engagement with the Indian troops resulted in the gendarmerie losing about half their men; they fled in confusion, leaving their dead and the injured behind. This enabled the main battalion to easily overrun the Katangese force, clear the roadblock, and prevent the gendarmes from encircling the UN Headquarters in Élisabethville. For his duty and courage, and disregard for his own safety, Salaria was awarded the Param Vir Chakra.

Param Vir Chakra
For his actions on 5 December 1961, Salaria was awarded the Param Vir Chakra. The citation read:

Salaria was the first graduate of NDA to win a PVC, and, , also the only UN Peacekeeper to be awarded a PVC.

Other honours

In the 1980s, the Shipping Corporation of India (SCI), a Government of India enterprise under the aegis of the Ministry of Shipping, named fifteen of its crude oil tankers in honour of the PVC recipients. The tanker MT Capt. Gurbachan Singh Salaria, PVC was delivered to SCI on 26 October 1984, and served for 25 years before being phased out. During an October 2017 episode of the radio programme Mann Ki Baat about Indian contribution to international peacekeeping, Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi said,  In September 2019, India's  Chief of the Army Staff, Bipin Rawat, met members of Salaria's family to express his gratitude for his service on behalf of the army and the country.

Notes
Footnotes

Citations

References

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Indian Army officers
Recipients of the Param Vir Chakra
People from Narowal District
1935 births
1961 deaths
Punjabi people
Military personnel from Punjab, India
Indian military personnel killed in action
People of the Congo Crisis
Indian Military Academy alumni
National Defence Academy (India) alumni