[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of social nudity places in North America

ridge. Areas not in sight of the highway see frequent, unofficial nude sunbathing.
 Lucky Lovers in New Bern

North Dakota
Public nudity is illegal in North Dakota. Topless sunbathing is not illegal in North Dakota. However, cities across North Dakota may have their own set of laws on going topless.

Ohio
 Green Valley
 Paradise Gardens, Cincinnati was sold and closed as a naturist venue in 2017. It will not reopen.
 Cedar Trails in Peebles
 Dayton Warm Breezes Naturist club in Dayton
 Hillside Haven in Otway
 Northcoast Naturists in Cleveland
 Freedom Valley Camp in New London
 Great Lakes Sunseekers in Toledo
 Alpine Resort in Millersburg
 Cleveland natural resort building

Oklahoma
 Oaklake Trails in Depew is a clothing-optional family nudist resort with over  of land. 
 Oklahoma Naturists is an adults only nudist bed and breakfast and winery located in Stuart that is affiliated with AANR.

Oregon
Public nudity is generally legal in Oregon, unless it is part of a commercial venture or intended to induce sexual excitement. Some parts of Oregon (including Portland, Eugene, Ashland and Happy Valley) have local laws prohibiting public nudity. However, Oregon law defines nudity as displaying genitals, hence both men and women are allowed to be topfree in public throughout the state.
 The Willamettans – Nudist resort between Marcola and Springfield, near Eugene, The largest nudist resort in the Pacific Northwest.  Featuring camping, cabins and RV spots, year long heated outdoor swimming pool (covered with a dome in winter), hot tub, club house, game room, and restaurant and a bar.
 Rooster Rock State Park along the Columbia River
 Collins Beach on Sauvie Island near Portland.
 Bagby Hot Springs
 Umpqua Hot Springs
 Breitenbush Hot Springs has a clothing-optional policy for all hot springs pools and tubs.
 Glassbar Island Beach, near Eugene on the Willamette River.
 Serenity Mountain Retreat (formerly Squaw Mountain Ranch) - Family nudist resort, high up in the scenic hills of Estacada, Oregon.
 Terwilliger Hot Springs, also known as Cougar Hot Springs.
 Mountaindale Sun Resort (formerly Restful Haven Nudist Resort) in North Plains.
 McCredie Springs
 Alpenglow Ranch Clothing Optional B&B and Resort in Bend is part of Clothing Optional Home Network and is an AANR Participating Business.
 Common Ground Wellness Cooperative in Portland.

Pennsylvania
 The Woods Campground in Lehighton
 H.A.N.G. in Harrisburg
 PSHS Inc. in Mohnton
 Sunny Rest in Palmerton
 West Penn Naturist Links
 White Thorn Lodge in the Pittsburgh suburb of South Beaver Township
 Pen Mar Club in the western Pennsylvania town of Warfordsburg
 Beechwood in Lehighton
 Oneida Campground in New Milford
 Hillside Campground in New Milford

Rhode Island
 Block Island Beach 
 Dyer Woods Nudist Campground in Foster in the western part of the state is a family oriented nudist campground, rather than clothing optional.

South Carolina
 Cedar Creek Resort in Leesville, South Carolina fac
Cedar Creek lost their AANR affiliation due to the visitors are less than G-rated.

Tennessee
 Rock Haven Lodge Inc. in Murfreesboro
 Edun Hill Campground in Clinton

Texas
Texas has no laws forbidding female toplessness, although in most parts of the state topless women can still be arrested on the grounds of disorderly conduct. Austin, uniquely, tolerates female toplessness within its city limits. This includes public swimming pools like Barton Springs Pool.

 Hippie Hollow Park is a swimming beach on Lake Travis in Austin where nudity is officially permitted. It is the only legally recognized clothing-optional public park in the state of Texas.
 Bluebonnet Family Nudist Park, Alvord
 Emerald Lake Resort in Porter TX.  northeast of Houston 
 Wildwood Naturists Resort, Decatur
 Freedom RV in Pleasanton, TX
 Healthy Hides, nonlanded nudist group affiliated with AANR.
 Purple Peacock Resort, Palestine, TX

Utah
 Fifth Water Hot Springs, aka Diamond Fork Hot Springs, about 75 minutes southeast of Salt Lake City.