[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lou Jacobs

d a feel for the art, he could start writing his own material.  Jacobs had an inexhaustible supply of clown sketches for his students.  He wrote down every clown sketch he had seen, heard of, or thought of and kept them all in a little black book.  There were well over fifty years of material in it.

Retirement and later life
In 1988, after 64 years, Lou Jacobs finally retired from the Circus, but continued teaching at the Clown College.  On April 23, 1989, he was one of the first six clowns to be inducted into the recently formed Clown Hall of Fame in Delavan, Wisconsin.  His fellow inductees were: Felix Adler, Otto Griebling, Emmett Kelly, Mark Anthony, and Red Skelton.  On September 13, 1992, Lou Jacobs died at age 89.  He died peacefully in his sleep in Sarasota, Florida.  Funeral services were held four days later at Sarasota’a First United Methodist Church.  The church was packed with circus people from all over the country.  Everyone from riggers to ringmasters came to pay their respects to the Master Clown.

Of all the accomplishments Jacobs made during his circus career, his most significant accomplishment was his family.  He married Jean Rockwell, a fashion model and an aerialist in 1953.  They had two daughters who became accomplished circus stars in their own right.  Lou Ann and Dolly Jean performed as show girls with RB&B&B Circus and Billy Lee's Sarasota Sailor Circus.  Lou Ann trained elephants with Tommy Hanneford's Royal Hanneford Productions.  She is married to animal trainer George Barreda, and they have a daughter named Julia.  Dolly is an aerialist and the undisputed “queen” of the Roman Rings.  She was also her Dad's fishing partner.

P. T. Barnum referred to clowns as the pegs of the circus.  Irvin Feld said that clowns are as important to the life of a circus as bread is to the life of man.  There is no question that Jacobs was a very big peg.  In addition to being a peg, he could also be described as a bridge.  Jacobs was a part of the old circus when it was under the Big Top and has been billed in the same program with Emmett Kelly, Otto Griebling, and many other circus greats.  He played a vital role in helping the circus make its transition to the modern era.  He perfected the art of clowning and helped preserve it by teaching the next generation.  Lou Jacobs is one of many people who have made a significant contribution in the preservation of the Circus in the 20th century.  Because of that, the Circus will be around for children of all ages well into the 21st century.

References
1. Ballantine, Bill.  Clown Alley.  Boston/Toronto: Little, Brown and Company, 1982.
2. Bradna, Fred.  The Big Top.  N.Y.: Simon & Schuster, 1952.
3. Culhane, John.  The American Circus, An Illustrated History.  New York: Henry Holt and Company, 1990.
4. Foster, Jim.  Mater Clown Just Knew What Was Funny.  Potomac, MD: The White Top Nov/Dec 1992.
5. Hoh, LaVahn G. and Rough William H.  Step Right Up! The Adventure of Circus in America. White Hall, Virginia: Betterway Publications, Inc. 1990.
6. O’Dell, Kathryn.  Clown Hall of Fame Tour and Research Director.  October 21, 1992.
7. Snowberg, Richard.  Clowning Around, October, 1992.
8. Souvenir Program and Magazine.  Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey Combined Shows Inc. 1976 (105th edition), 1982 (111th edition), and 1984 (113th edition).
9. Swortzell, Lowell.  Here Come The Clowns.  New York: Viking Press, 1978.
10. Towsen, John H.  Clowns.  New York: Hawthorn Books, 1976.
11. Wood, R.F.  Memories of Lou.  Minneapolis, MN: The New Calliope, Nov/Dec 1992.

American clowns
German clowns
20th-century German Jews
1903 births
1992 deaths
Vaudeville performers
Contortionists
People from Bremerhaven
Emigrants from the Weimar Republic to the United States