[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sea Mills, Bristol

e estate. Its lasting legacy is a mini-museum situated in a K6 phone box  which was renovated by local volunteers as part of the project. The project also published a book called 'How Lucky I Was' written by people who grew up in the area between the 1930s - 1950s, including novelist Derek Robinson.

Sport and recreation 
Sea Mills has a football team Sea Mills Park FC, formed in 1925. The 1st team play in the Bristol Premier Combination. They historically played their games at the Rec, opposite Sea Mills Square, but play all home games at Kingsweston Sports & Social, Napier Miles. They were  Bristol & District Senior League Champions 2012/13.

October 2006 saw the opening of The Portway Rugby Development Centre. The facilities there are two outdoor 3G Crumb pitches, suitable for rugby and football, outdoor grass rugby pitches, and grass training grids. There are two meeting rooms. Local football clubs use this facility including Wanderers FC. Bristol's rugby clubs use the facilities also, from St Brendans RFC to Clifton RFC.

Transport
In 1865, the Bristol Port and Pier Railway opened from Hotwells to a deep water pier on the Severn Estuary at Avonmouth. Sea Mills railway station was one of the original stations on the line. The station still exists, although the line is now part of the National Rail network, and the line has been extended to run from Bristol Temple Meads to Severn Beach. In 2021 a mural created by Graft which features the flora and fauna of the area and was created at the station in consultation with local people. 

The A4 Portway trunk road passes along the south-west edge of Sea Mills and links central Bristol with its port at Avonmouth. Running parallel to the River Avon, the Portway was the most expensive road in Britain when it was opened in 1926. Both the Portway and the railway line have bridges over the harbour outfall into the Avon.

Ocean-going ships used to sail past Sea Mills, going to and from Bristol Docks. Nowadays most of the shipping is in the form of pleasure craft, Bristol's main docks now being at Avonmouth and Portbury.

There are frequent bus services to the city centre, Westbury and Cribbs Causeway.

Notable people 
Robin Cousins, former Olympic champion figure skater
Roger Hallett, artist
The Cougars, band
Derek Robinson, novelist
Simon King, broadcaster

References

External links 
 Sea Mills history
 
Sea Mills 100 heritage project
Higgins, David "The History of the Bristol Region in the Roman Period" (PDF) Bristol Branch of the Historical Association. Retrieved 30 Dec 2021

Areas of Bristol