[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Theodore Lidz

children in these families are more likely to have schizophrenic reactions.

In their book, Schizophrenia and the Family (1965), Lidz, Fleck and Alice Cornelison compiled findings of what remains perhaps the most detailed clinical study of a series of patients with schizophrenia and their families. 

On a 1970 trip to Fiji, the battlefields of Guadalcanal and New Guinea, Lidz studied patients from radically different cultural backgrounds and collected indigenous artifacts. Publications followed on the significance of paranoia when supported by beliefs in black magic and on personality development in the context of New Guinean culture. Some years later, the Lidzes donated their collection of New Guinean artifacts to the Peabody Museum of Natural History at Yale.

Although formally retired in 1978, Lidz continued to treat patients, lecture and publish into the mid-1990s. In his latter years, he expressed regret that he could not write one more book to argue that biology-based lines of research and training in current psychiatry are, as he said, "barking up the wrong tree." 

His textbook The Person has been widely used in courses on personality development at schools of medicine, nursing and social work, and in graduate programs in psychology. 

Theodore Lidz died in 2001 at the age of 90 in his home in Hamden, Connecticut.

Schizophrenogenic parents 

In the books Schizophrenia and the Family and The Origin and Treatment of Schizophrenic Disorders Lidz and his colleagues explain their belief that parental behaviour can result in mental illness in children:

Lidz’s general thesis examined how the socialization between parents affect the aetiology of schizophrenia in their children. Lidz explained his belief that a child’s inability to achieve independence and develop a sufficient ego identity and a child’s incapacity for intimacy were due to the defective interactions between the child’s parents.

In [such] families the parents were rarely in overt disagreement, and the family settings were reasonably calm.  But, as we studied these seemingly harmonious families, it became apparent that they provided a profoundly distorted and distorting milieu because one spouse passively acceded to the strange and even bizarre concepts of the more dominant spouse concerning child rearing and how a family should live together.  We termed the seemingly harmonious ones as “skewed”.

Lidz illustrates his point with the “skewed” N. family.  When he interviewed Mr. and Mrs. N., Mrs. N. dominated the interviews even when the questions were directed expressly to her husband.  Though very efficient in his profession, Mr. N. felt he did not know anything about how to raise the children and relegated all judgment on family affairs to his wife.  But his behavior transcended mere passivity.  Dr. Lidz observed that Mr. N. behaved as a spokesman of his wife; he paraphrased her demands and questions.  His wife “tended to treat him as a child”.  Lidz concludes:

Mrs. N. was clearly a very difficult and disturbed woman who despite her fluid self-boundaries […] seemed to retain a tenuous balance by imposing her view of the world upon the few persons significant to her, and by keeping her life and her family life confined within the narrow limits she could navigate.

Lidz noted that schizophrenogenic mothers manage to be impervious to the needs and wishes of other family members.  “As her psychotic or very strange concepts remain unchallenged by the husband, they create reality within the family”.  Dr. Lidz calls this phenomenon folie à deux (dual madness), a shared delusion between two parents.  And if the delusional ideas of the dominant parent are shared by all family members, the result is a folie en famille (family madness).

Lidz criticised a culture of blame against schizophrenogenic mothers, however, writing:I also find it very distressing that because the parents’ attitudes and interactions are important determinants of schizophrenic disorders, some therapists and family caseworkers treat parents as villains who have ruined the lives of their patients.  Ethics 

In his professional career, Theodore Lidz objected to the overuse and often misuse of shock treatment, chemotherapy and surgery in the treatment of schizophrenia, believing that such methods had no place except in an "extraordinary condition".

"...I think surgery has no place except maybe in some extraordinary condition, I don't think we know enough about lobotomy to say with perfect certainty. In the department as a whole, I don't think there have been any in the 20 years I have been here. Shock treatment may have some value in acute disturbances where the patient is apt to injure himself and nobody can make contact, but this is a rare occurrence." (Lidz, 1971)

Lidz’s most beneficial contribution to modern day psychiatric practice may be his application of psychotherapeutic skills in the social management of schizophrenia.