[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Denis Fahey

Denis Fahey, C.S.Sp. (3 July 1883 – 21 January 1954) was an Irish Catholic priest. Fahey promoted the Catholic social teaching of Christ the King, and was involved in Irish politics through his organisation Maria Duce. Fahey firmly believed that "the world must conform to Our Divine Lord, not He to it", defending the Mystical Body of Christ without compromise. This often saw Fahey in conflict with systems which he viewed as promoting "naturalism" against Catholic order – particularly communism, freemasonry and rabbinic Judaism. His writings were deeply anti-Semitic, Fahey stating that "we must combat Jewish efforts to permeate the world with naturalism. In that sense, as there is only one divine plan for order in the world, every sane thinker must be an anti-Semite".

Early life and studies
Born in Golden, County Tipperary he was educated at Rockwell College and at 17 entered the Holy Ghost Congregation to train to become one of the Holy Ghost Fathers. He was sent by the order to Orly in 1900 as a novice, not long after the government of René Waldeck-Rousseau had begun an anti-clerical drive in the aftermath of the Dreyfus Affair. Although illness prevented him from completing his time in France, the episode was to influence his later ideas on relations between Church and State. As a youth Fahey had excelled at rugby union and he had played on the same team as Éamon de Valera for a time, cementing a lifelong association between the two.

After working at St. Mary's College, Dublin, Fahey returned to studies at the Royal University of Ireland in 1904, achieving a first class honours degree, later studying at the Pontifical Gregorian University in Rome before finally being ordained a priest in 1910. Returning to Ireland, he was appointed to the senior scholasticate of the Irish Province of the Holy Ghost Fathers at Kimmage in 1912.

Early writings
Fahey began to turn his attention to writing in the early 1920s, submitting articles for a number of Catholic journals, including the Irish Ecclesiastical Record, most of which were philosophical in nature. Coming from a position of neo-Scholasticism, his early theological works included Kingship of Christ According to the Principles of St. Thomas Aquinas, with its foreword written by Father John Charles McQuaid, the head of Blackrock College. At this early stage Fahey had little involvement in political issues, beyond being a strong supporter of Catholic Action as a bulwark against secularisation. In this respect Fahey was one of a number of prominent clergymen, including McQuaid, Edward Cahill and Alfred O'Rahilly, who praised what they saw as the value of Catholic Action in this respect.

It was in his books, most notably The Kingship of Christ and Organised Naturalism (1943) and The Mystical Body of Christ and the Reorganisation of Society (1945), that Fahey began to turn his attention to more political matters. Much of Fahey's anti-Judaic stance influenced other members of the church, such as Father Charles Coughlin, a Canadian priest who regularly used references on his radio programs from Fahey's work. The Coughlinite National Union of Social Justice distributed 350,000 copies of Fahey's book The Rulers of Russia in the United States during the 1930s, serving to greatly amplify Fahey's ideas.

View of history
At the heart of much of Fahey's work was his belief in the divine programme which was proclaimed by Jesus but rejected by the Jews. In Fahey's doctrine, history was to be understood as the "account for the acceptance or rejection of Our Lord's programme for order". He argued that the medieval guild system had come closest to reaching the programme, and that since then society had gone into decay as it moved away from the ideal. The three main events in this process of decay had been the Protestant Reformation, the French Revolution and the October Revolution, the last being initiated by Satan. Fahey believed that the gradual Sovietization of the British Empire and the United States had begun through the founding of the Fabianism movement.

Fahey felt that the contemporary Catholic Church faced its greatest challenge from the forces of naturalism, be they invisible (Satan and other demons) or visible (Jews and Freemasons). Tapping into contemporary campaigns by parties such as Cumann na nGaedheal, Fahey wrote a series of articles for John J. O'Kelly's Catholic Bulletin attacking Freemasonry in particular and secret societies in general, referring frequently to the work of Edward Cahill. Fahey regularly corresponded with anti-Semitic theorists outside Ireland, such as the British conspiracy theorist Nesta Webster, an important influence. His works appeared in the French language in Canada, having been translated by Adrien Arcand.