[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1987 Atlantic hurricane season

The 1987 Atlantic hurricane season was a below-average hurricane season that was limited by an ongoing El Niño. The season officially began on June 1, 1987, and lasted until November 30, 1987, although activity began on May 24 when a tropical depression developed  east of the central Bahamas. The June through November dates conventionally delimit the period of each year when most tropical cyclones form in the Atlantic basin. The first cyclone to attain tropical storm status was an unnamed tropical storm which formed on August 9, nearly a month later than usual. The final storm of the year, Tropical Depression Fourteen, merged with a weak extratropical low on November 4. The season marked the first year tropical storm watches and warnings were issued; previously, gale watches and warnings were used for tropical storms, and this season was one of only a few seasons with no deaths in the United States; the last time this happened was in the 1981 season.

During this season, 14 tropical depressions formed of which seven attained tropical storm status. One tropical storm was operationally classified as a tropical depression but was reclassified in post-analysis. Three tropical cyclones reached hurricane status of which only one became a major hurricane, which is a Category 3 or greater on the Saffir–Simpson scale. Hurricane Emily was the costliest storm of the season, causing $80.3 million in damage (1987 USD) as it ravaged the Dominican Republic and Bermuda. Tropical Depression Fourteen was the deadliest storm of the season, causing six deaths as it passed across Jamaica. Of the seven cyclones that attained tropical storm status, three did not affect land.

Seasonal forecasts and activity 

Forecasts of hurricane activity are issued before each hurricane season by hurricane expert Dr. William M. Gray and his associates at Colorado State University. An average season, as defined by NOAA, has 6 to 14 named storms, with 4 to 8 of those reaching hurricane strength, and with 3 hurricanes becoming major hurricanes. The June 2, 1987, report suggested that eight tropical storms would form during the 1987 season, five of them becoming hurricanes.

The forecast anticipated more tropical activity than what ultimately occurred. During the season, 14 tropical depressions formed from May 25 to November 5. Seven of the depressions strengthened into tropical storms, six of them named. Tropical Depression Two was upgraded into a tropical storm in post-season analysis, and as a result has no name. Tropical storms Arlene, Emily and Floyd all reached hurricane status during their durations, of which only Emily reached major hurricane status.

The United States was affected by four tropical cyclones in 1987, of which three struck Florida. The unnamed tropical storm struck Texas and affected much of the Gulf Coast of the United States.

The season's activity was reflected with a cumulative accumulated cyclone energy (ACE) rating of 34, which is classified as "below normal". ACE is, broadly speaking, a measure of the power of the hurricane multiplied by the length of time it existed, so storms that last a long time, as well as particularly strong hurricanes, have high ACEs. ACE is only calculated for full advisories on tropical systems at or exceeding  or tropical storm strength. Subtropical cyclones are excluded from the total.

Systems

Tropical Depression One 

A low-pressure area developed into a tropical depression just east of the Turks and Caicos Islands on May 24. Operationally, the system was declared the first tropical depression of the season on May 25, following confirmation from a reconnaissance aircraft flight. Moving at about , the depression was located  from the east central Bahamas. It moved towards Florida and stalled off the coast, with a prediction to cause thundershowers across the state on May 28. The Bahamian government released a storm warning for its northern islands as the system grew stronger. The depression brought some heavy showers and thunderstorms to South Florida, before dissipating just south of Key West on June 1.

Tropical Storm Two 

The second tropical depression of the season formed in the northwestern Gulf of Mexico from a tropical wave on August 9. It quickly strengthened into a tropical storm, though the strengthening was not known until post-season analysis. Based on lack of significant organization or reports at the time, the storm remained unnamed. It traveled northwestward and neared the coast. The tropical storm made landfall near High Island, Texas, with winds of 45 mph (75 km/h) on August 10, and quickly weakened to a tropical depression as it moved northeastward. It turned to the southeast and re-emerged into the Gulf of Mexico on August 15, before striking near St. Marks, Florida, on the next day. The weakening system turned back to the northeast, continued weakening, and dissipated over Georgia on August 17.