[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chilean–Peruvian maritime dispute

nuary 27, 2014, in the final ruling of the Court, Peru gained some maritime territory. The maritime boundary extends only to 80 nautical miles off of the coast. From that point, the new border runs in a southwest direction to a point that is 200 miles equidistant from the coast of the two countries.

Under the ruling, Chile lost control over part of its formerly claimed maritime territory and gives additional maritime territory to Peru.

From the 27 January 2014 court press release: 
The Court concludes that the maritime boundary between the Parties starts at the intersection of the parallel of latitude passing through Boundary Marker No. 1 with the low-water line, and
extends for 80 nautical miles along that parallel of latitude to Point A. From this point, the maritime boundary runs along the equidistance line to Point B, and then along the
200-nautical-mile limit measured from the Chilean baselines to Point C.
In view of the circumstances of the case, the Court has defined the course of the maritime boundary between the Parties without determining the precise geographical co-ordinates.*

Significance

Physicist Frank Duarte has been a consistent and early critic of the Chilean Government's handling of this dispute.  In particular, he has sharply criticized President Sebastián Piñera's performance (deemed as favoring commercial interests over the interest of the Chilean people) and called for Chile's withdrawal from The Hague, early in 2012.   Following the ruling, several political figures in Chile, of various political parties, have also called for Chile's withdrawal from The Hague that would, in addition,  imply a withdrawal from the Pact of Bogota.  Senators and members of parliament advocating this position include Ivan Moreira, Jorge Tarud, Jaime Orpis, and Fulvio Rossi.  Former president Ricardo Lagos has added his voice to the criticism of the tribunal's ruling. Furthermore, the newly designated minister for foreign relations, Heraldo Muñoz, has declared that the topic of membership in the Pact of Bogota should be under "legitimate discussion". On February 11, 2014, President Sebastián Piñera, originally a strong advocate of The Hague, requested a report on the advantages and disadvantages of Chile's membership in the Pact of Bogota.

See also

 Arica y Parinacota controversy
 Atacama Desert border dispute
 Chilean–Peruvian territorial dispute
 Foreign policy of the Ollanta Humala administration
 List of International Court of Justice cases

References

External links
 Peru v. Chile Maritime Dispute on the docket of International Court of Justice and Peru Takes Chile to UN World Court of 16 January 2008 and BBC and Peru ICJ Team and Chile ICJ Team and GAR Listing Both ICJ Teams of 16 January 2008
 All court documents: https://web.archive.org/web/20140130064247/http://www.icj-cij.org/docket/index.php?p1=3&p2=2&case=137
 Press release

Territorial disputes of Chile
Territorial disputes of Peru
2008 in Chile
2007 in Chile
Chile–Peru relations
Chile–Peru border
International Court of Justice cases
Disputed waters
Controversies in Chile
Controversies in Peru