[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 120]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

A second time did Mash, after a
short but severe contest, close with his undaunted enemy, and, by dint
of superior strength, roughly hurled him to the ground.

The little troop of spectators, who had mistaken Harry's patient
fortitude for cowardice, began now to entertain the sincerest respect
for his courage, and gathered round the combatants in silence. A second
time did Harry rise and attack his stronger adversary with the cool
intrepidity of a veteran combatant. The battle now began to grow more
dreadful and more violent. Mash had superior strength and dexterity, and
greater habitude of fighting; his blows were aimed with equal skill and
force, and each appeared sufficient to crush an enemy so much inferior
in size, in strength, in years; but Harry possessed a body hardened to
support pain and hardship; a greater degree of activity; a cool,
unyielding courage, which nothing could disturb or daunt. Four times had
he been now thrown down by the irresistible strength of his foe; four
times had he risen stronger from his fall, covered with dirt and blood,
and panting with fatigue, but still unconquered. At length, from the
duration of the combat, and his own violent exertions, the strength of
Mash began to fail; enraged and disappointed at the obstinate resistance
he had met with, he began to lose all command of his temper, and strike
at random; his breath grew short, his efforts were more laborious, and
his knees seemed scarcely able to sustain his weight; but actuated by
rage and shame, he rushed with all his might upon Harry, as if
determined to crush him with one last effort. Harry prudently stepped
back, and contented himself with parrying the blows that were aimed at
him, till, seeing that his antagonist was almost exhausted by his own
impetuosity, he darted at him with all his force, and by one successful
blow levelled him with the ground.

An involuntary shout of triumph now burst from the little assembly of
spectators; for such is the temper of human beings, that they are more
inclined to consider superiority of force than justice; and the very
same boys, who just before were loading Harry with taunts and outrages,
were now ready to congratulate him upon his victory. He, however, when
he found his antagonist no longer capable of resistance, kindly assisted
him to rise, and told him "he was very sorry for what had happened;"
but Mash, oppressed at once with the pain of his bruises, and the
disgrace of his defeat, observed an obstinate silence.

Just at this moment their attention was engaged by a new and sudden
spectacle. A bull of the largest size and greatest beauty was led across
the plain, adorned with ribbons of various colours. The majestic animal
suffered himself to be led along, an unresisting prey, till he arrived
at the spot which was destined for the theatre of his persecutions. Here
he was fastened to an iron ring, which had been strongly let into the
ground, and whose force they imagined would be sufficient to restrain
him, even in the midst of his most violent exertions. An innumerable
crowd of men, of women, of children, then surrounded the place, waiting
with eager curiosity for the inhuman sport which they expected. The
little party which had accompanied Master Merton were now no longer to
be restrained; their friends, their parents, admonition, duty, promises,
were all forgotten in an instant, and, solely intent upon gratifying
their curiosity, they mingled with the surrounding multitude.

Harry, although reluctantly, followed them at a distance; neither the
ill-usage he had received, nor the pain of his wounds, could make him
unmindful of Master Merton or careless of his safety. He knew too well
the dreadful accidents which frequently attend these barbarous sports,
to be able to quit his friend till he had once more seen him in a place
of safety.

And now the noble animal, that was to be thus wantonly tormented, was
fastened to the ring by a strongly-twisted cord, which, though it
confined and cramped his exertions, did not entirely restrain them.
Although possessed of almost irresistible strength, he seemed unwilling
to exert it, and looked round upon the infinite multitude of his enemies
with a gentleness that ought to have disarmed their animosity.

Presently a dog of the largest size and most ferocious courage was let
loose, who, as soon as he beheld the bull, uttered a savage yell, and
rushed upon him with all the rage of inveterate animosity. The bull
suffered him to approach with the coolness of deliberate courage, but
just as the dog was springing up to seize him, he rushed forward to meet
his foe, and putting his head to the ground, canted him into the air
several yards; and had not the spectators run and caught him upon their
backs and hands, he would have been crushed to pieces in the fall. The
same fate attended another, and another dog, which were let loose
successively; the one was killed