[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Project Timberwind

ossible sites.  

The planned ground test facilities were estimated to cost $400M of additional funding to complete in 1992. Fewer than 50 sub-scale tests were planned over three to four years, followed by facility expansions to accommodate five to 25 1000 second full-scale tests of a 2000MW engine.

The program had technical achievements as well, such as developing high-strength fibers, and carbide coatings for Carbon-Carbon composites.  The hot-section design evolved to use all Carbon-Carbon to maximize turbine inlet temperature and minimize weight.  Carbon-Carbon has much lower nuclear heating than other candidate materials, so thermal stresses were minimized as well.  Prototype turbine components employing a 2-D polar reinforcement weave were fabricated for use in the corrosive, high-temperature hydrogen environment found in the proposed particle bed reactor (PBR)-powered engine. The particle bed reactor concept required significant radiation shielding, not only for the payload, electronics and structure of the vehicle, but also to prevent unacceptable boil-off of the cryogenic propellant.  A propellant-cooled, composite shield of Tungsten, which attenuates gamma rays and absorbs thermal neutrons, and Lithium Hydride, which has a large scattering cross section for fast and thermal neutrons was found to perform well with low mass compared to older Boron Aluminum Titanium Hydride (BATH) shields.  

Sandia National Labs was responsible for qualification of the coated particle fuel for use in the SNTP nuclear thermal propulsion concept.

References

External links
 Encyclopedia Astronautica link about the Timberwind 45
 Encyclopedia Astronautica link about the Timberwind 75
 Encyclopedia Astronautica link about the Timberwind 250
 Space Nuclear Thermal Propulsion Program Final Report 

Timberwind
United States government secrecy
1987 establishments in the United States
1994 disestablishments in the United States