[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Global Witness

2020: 227 environmental activists killed worldwide 
In 2019, Global Witness recorded the murders of 212 environmental activists, making it the worst year since this recording process began, in 2012. This was up from the number of 197 killed in 2018. 2020 saw a further rise in cases, with 227 killed.

Honors and awards
Global Witness and Partnership Africa Canada were jointly nominated by U.S. House of Representatives and Senate members for the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize for work on links between conflict and diamonds in several African countries.
 Winner of the Gleitsman Foundation prize for international activism (2005)
 Winner of the Center for Global Development/Foreign Policy Magazine Commitment to Development Ideas in Action Award (2007)
 Recipient of the Allard Prize for International Integrity (2013 Honourable Mention)
 Charmian Gooch, one of the three founding Directors of Global Witness, was awarded the Ted Prize in 2014. Her stated Wish was 'for us to know who owns and controls companies, so that they can no longer be used anonymously against the public good. Let's ignite world opinion, change the law, and together launch a new era of openness in business.'
 Winner of the Skoll Award for Social Entrepreneurship 2014
Co-winner of the Sheila McKechnie Foundation's 2021 David and Goliath Award, for the successful campaign to stop the UK Government's multi-billion financing for fossil fuels overseas. Global Witness campaigner Adam McGibbon coordinated the campaign.

Income
The majority of Global Witness funding comes from grants made by foundations, governments, and charities. One of their main benefactors is the Open Society Institute, which also funds Human Rights Watch. Global Witness also receives money from the Norwegian and British governments, the Adessium Foundation, and Oxfam Novib.

In the UK, Global Witness Trust is a registered charity supporting the work of Global Witness.

In an interview in The Guardian in 2007, Patrick Alley, one of the founding directors, rejected the claim that receiving money from governments could bias their campaigns: "Being campaign-led, rather than funding-led, means that our independence is never comprised," he argued. "The Department for Trade and Industry did once ask if we'd like to sign a confidentiality clause. We said we wouldn't take the funding under those conditions. No other government has ever tried to impose any restrictions."

From December 2008 to November 2009 Global Witness's income was £3,831,831. Of this, approximately 61 percent came in the form of grants from private trusts and foundations, 33 percent from governments, three percent from multi-lateral and non governmental organisations, and three percent from bank interest and other sources. Global Witness says it spends 75 percent of its funds on campaigns, seven percent on communication and fundraising, and 18 percent on support and governance. GW's annual report for 2021 showed the NGO's annual income falling from £11.4 to £10.1 million from 2020-2021.

See also
 Asset forfeiture
 Group of States Against Corruption
 International Anti-Corruption Academy
 International Anti-Corruption Day
 ISO 37001 Anti-bribery management systems
 OECD Anti-Bribery Convention
 Transparency International
 United Nations Convention against Corruption

References

External links

Anti-corruption non-governmental organizations
Blood diamonds
International environmental organizations
International human rights organizations
International organisations based in London
Resource extraction
Organizations established in 1993
1993 establishments in England