[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tufa Rutan

Tufa Rutan or Tufa Nutan (; 365–415), formally Prince Jing of (Southern) Liang) ((南)涼景王), was the last prince of the Xianbei-led Chinese Southern Liang dynasty. As he was the son that his father, the Xianbei chief Tufa Sifujian (禿髮思復犍), considered most talented, his older brothers, the founding prince Tufa Wugu (Prince Wu) and Tufa Lilugu (Prince Kang) both decided to pass the throne to a brother, intending that he receive the throne. However, Tufa Rutan, while obviously talented as a general, is viewed by historians as being overly aggressive in waging military campaigns, and he greatly drained the resources of the Southern Liang while doing so. Southern Liang's strength particularly waned after a major 407 defeat at the hand of the Hu Xia emperor Helian Bobo, and it drew attacks from its neighbors Northern Liang and Western Qin. Eventually, Tufa Rutan was forced to surrender to Western Qin in 414 after Western Qin captured his capital Ledu (樂都, in modern Haidong Prefecture, Qinghai), and he was poisoned to death a year later.

During the reigns of Tufa Wugu and Tufa Lilugu
After Tufa Wugu founded Southern Liang in 397 by breaking away from Later Liang, Tufa Rutan immediately began to play a major role in the military and governmental affairs of the state.  In 398, Tufa Wugu sent him to assist the Later Liang rebels Yang Gui (楊軌) and Guo Nen (郭黁).  In spring 399, after Tufa Wugu moved the capital from Lianchuan (廉川, in modern Haidong Prefecture, Qinghai) to Ledu (樂都, also in Haidong Prefecture) in a major realignment of his military strengths, Tufa Rutan was put in charge of the important city of Xiping (西平, in modern Xining, Qinghai), and by this time, he was referred to by the title of Duke of Guangwu, a title that Tufa Wugu himself had carried earlier.  In summer 399, Tufa Wugu recalled him to Ledu to head his government, while replacing him at Xiping with Tufa Lilugu.

Later in 399, Tufa Wugu suffered a serious injury while horseriding when drunk, and, because his last words were that the state should be entrusted to someone old, was succeeded by Tufa Lilugu.  Tufa Lilugu entrusted all important governmental matters to him and effectively designated him as the next prince.

In 400, when the Later Liang emperor Lü Zuan attacked Northern Liang, Tufa Rutan launched a raid at the Later Liang capital Guzang (姑臧, in modern Wuwei, Gansu), entering the city and, while not staying permanently in the city, held a feast in the city and forced 8,000 households to relocate back to Southern Liang with him.

Later in 400, when, in light of defeats by Later Qin, the Western Qin prince Qifu Qiangui surrendered to Tufa Lilugu, Tufa Lilugu sent Tufa Rutan to welcome him.  It might have been at this time that Tufa Rutan gave a daughter in marriage to Qifu Qiangui's son Qifu Chipan, but it is not completely clear. What is clear is that later in the year, Qifu Qiangui took flight again and surrendered to Later Qin, and when Qifu Chipan tried to join Qifu Qiangui but was detained, it was at Tufa Rutan's suggestion that killing Qifu Chipan for wanting to join his father would appear narrow-minded that Tufa Lilugu did not execute Qifu Chipan.

It was around this time when Later Liang's general Jiang Ji (姜紀) surrendered to Southern Liang.  Tufa Rutan, impressed by Jiang's talent, befriended him and spent much time with him, despite Tufa Lilugu's distrust of Jiang.  Jiang, however, soon turned against Southern Liang and fled to Later Qin, offering its emperor Yao Xing strategies on conquering Later Liang and resisting Southern Liang.

Around the new year 402, the Later Liang rebel Jiao Lang (焦朗) sought aid from Southern Liang, and Tufa Lilugu sent Tufa Rutan to aid him, but when Tufa Rutan arrived, Jiao would not receive him.  Tufa Rutan initially was angry and wanted to attack Jiao instead, but at the suggestion of his brother Tufa Juyan (禿髮俱延) reconciled with Jiao and jointly attacked Guzang and, while not capturing the city at the time, dealt the Later Liang general Lü Chao (呂超) a major defeat.  Later that year, however, when Later Liang was attacked by Northern Liang's prince Juqu Mengxun, Tufa Rutan came to Later Liang's aid.  He soon arrested Jiao and delivered him to Tufa Lilugu as well.

Later in 402, Tufa Lilugu died from illness, and he left instructions that the throne be passed to Tufa Rutan.  Tufa Rutan accepted, and moved the capital from Xiping (where Tufa Lilugu had moved it) back to Ledu.

Early reign
Tufa Rutan did not relent in his military pressure against Later Liang, and his attacks against Later Liang continued to have a destabilizing effect on Later Liang.  He nominally agreed to be a Later Qin vassal, and was created the Duke of Guangwu, although he continued to internally use the title Prince of Hexi, which Tufa Lilugu used.

In summer 402, Qifu Chipan escaped and joined his father Qifu Gangui.  Tufa Rutan delivered Qifu Chipan's wife (possibly Tufa Rutan's daughter) and children to him.