[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Castellgalí

int Anthony, Manresa and Saint Margaret street. The doorway has a pointed arch sculptural decoration on the tympanum and double archivolt, and above it is a porthole. On the ceiling of the lateral nave there is a medallion with the two patron saints, Saint Honest and Saint Repelion.

Local festivals

Aplec [Meeting] of Saint Margaret 
This festival on the third weekend of October was revived on 19 October 1992 by the Friends of the Museum. The festival, held before the Civil War, and occurred 
for the last time in July 1935. People used to walk up to the hermitage, stopping at the . A mass was held and the Gozos de Santa Margarita was sung; people brought their lunch and ate it around the hermitage. Since the recovery, improvements have been made to the surroundings: the rubble was removed and the interior of the chapel was cleared, and in 1993 the sculptor Bori gave it a new image of Santa Margarida. Steps have been made to facilitate access, the esplanade has been levelled, the presbytery has been paved, a new altar has been built and the door has been barred. Nowadays, the Aplec consists of a 30-minute walk from the old part of the village to the hermitage, a participative aperitif (participants bring something from home to share with everyone), a meal, a mass, an accordion or singing concert, various events for children (sack races, piñata...) and a snack.

Elders' Festival 
This festival is held on the third weekend in February. A morning mass is held and the traditional Castellgalí dwarfs are brought out to dance, considered the biggest dwarfs in Catalonia, called Margarida (the adult female figure), Quela (the smaller female figure) and the Repel-lió (the male figure). In the Plaça Cadevall, there is a popular juried cake competition, promoted by the Friends of the Museum. There are prizes and a raffle. Finally, all the elderly people of the village eat a meal.

Festival of the "Panellet" (Bread Roll) 
This festival has been held since 1968 on the first weekend in May, as after the closure of the  factory in 1963, it forced many villagers to look for work outside the village. It used to be celebrated on 8 May, which corresponds to the day of the apparition of Saint Michael the Archangel, a date that coincides with the start of the summer agricultural and livestock work, which, according to tradition, ends on September 29. The central traditional act of this festivity takes at Sunday mass: the blessing of the panellets. These are bread rolls, not to be confused with the panellets of the Castanyada, spherical sweets made of ground almonds, sugar and pine nuts. The panellets are distributed after mass. After this solemn service (and in others, such as the Festa Major), the Panellet dance was danced, a dance that has been recovered through the work of the Friends of the Museum. Tradition tells us that if you keep a blessed panellist at home until the next panellet festival, during that year, the bread will never be lacking in your home. Various activities have been integrated throughout the weekend, the "Ruta del Zorro", food market, various athletic competitions, demonstrations of old trades, gastronomic workshops, sculptors' meeting and sculpture exhibition, and children's games.

Festa Major [Main Festival] 
Currently, this festival is celebrated the first weekend of August, and the following Monday is a local holiday. It is worth mentioning the popular botifarrada (fresh grilled sausages) with a show, the events of the Fiesta Joven (Youth Festival) and the Fiesta Mayor dances. Children's entertainment is organised in the different population centres of the municipality. Originally, the festival was dedicated to the co-patron saints Sant Honest and Sant Repel·lió and was held on the first weekend in September. The peasants prayed to these saints to protect their crops.

Economy and demographics 
The average gross income in the municipality of Castellgalí stood at 28,864 euros in 2019, which places the municipality in 380th place in the ranking of declared gross income in Spain, according to the data made public by the Spanish Tax Agency, which only includes towns with more than 1,000 inhabitants. Compared to 2018, the average income of Castellgalí had grown by 1,188 euros (4.29%) in 2019.

The population (castellgalins or castellgalinenses) has fluctuated a lot over the years. After a significant decline throughout the second half of the 19th century, there was an increase that reached its peak in 1960, after which the population gradually declined until 1996, when it continued to grow until the present day: in 1986 the population was 705 and in 1991 it was 702. In 1996 there were 782 h in 2005, 1,282 h, in 2021, 2119 h. Today the number is close to 2.300 inhabitants.

Agriculture in the municipality is predominantly rain-fed. The main crops are barley, vegetables and olives.  Livestock farming is quite rich, specialising mainly in the breeding of pigs, chickens and cows.