[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of the Taku Forts (1900)

HMS Fame (the former commanded by Lieutenant Colin Mackenzie and the latter by Roger Keyes), each towing a whaleboat with 10 men aboard, darted alongside the Chinese ships and boarded them.  The Chinese only offered weak resistance before fleeing and leaving their ships in the hands of the British.

The artillery duel continued inconclusively until nearly dawn when the Allies stripped their ships of crew and mounted a ground assault on the Northwest Fort.  200 Russians and Austrians led the way followed by 380 British and Italians with 300 Japanese bringing up the rear.  In a bit of luck for the allies, the gunpowder magazine exploded just as the ground assault began and in the confusion afterwards the Japanese had the honor of storming the fort.  The British and Italians then led the way on the assault of the North Fort which was soon captured.

Two forts remained on the south side of the river.  The Allies turned all their guns, and the guns in the two Chinese forts they had captured, on these two forts. They blew up another powder magazine in one, and shortly afterwards the Chinese soldiers abandoned the forts.  The Allied ground force then crossed the river and captured the forts with almost no opposition.  The battle of the Taku Forts was over at 6:30 a.m.  The Allies had suffered 172 casualties among the 900 soldiers and sailors engaged.  The number of Chinese casualties is unknown but the forts were described as flowing in "rivers of blood". However, Robert B. Edgerton says that Chinese casualties were "probably not heavy".

Impact

The attack by the allied navies on the Taku Forts had a profound impact.  The first reports of the battle arriving in Beijing from Governor Lu Yu in Tianjin emphasized the positive – and failed to mention to the Empress Dowager Cixi that the allies had captured the forts.

The battle pushed the Qing government definitively to the side of the Boxers and the Chinese army was instructed to resist foreign military forces on Chinese soil.  The next day, June 18, Admiral Seymour and his two thousand men were attacked by the Chinese army along the railroad running from Tianjin and Beijing and Seymour decided to abandon his objective of reaching Beijing and instead retreated to Tianjin.  On June 19, an ultimatum was delivered to the diplomats in the Legation Quarter in Beijing informing them that they had 24 hours to depart the capital.  When the foreigners refused to leave, fearing for their safety, the Siege of the Legations began on June 20.  The Taku forts remained in foreign hands for the remainder of the Boxer Rebellion.

Allied officers praised the courage and skill the Chinese had demonstrated in defending the Taku Forts.

Notes

References

 Thompson, Larry Clinton (2009), William Scott Ament and the Boxer Rebellion: Heroism, Hubris, and the Ideal Missionary, Jefferson, NC: McFarland Publishing Company. 

1900 in China
Battles of the Boxer Rebellion
Naval battles involving China
June 1900 events