[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Terrorism in Egypt

t the most plausible scenarios is bomb smuggled on board at the airport.  Pictures are circulating on the internet showing internally caused ruptures.  Many countries race to upgrade airport security measures over fears that ISIL plans more such attacks.

Church of Saints Peter & Paul bombing (2016)

On 11 December 2016, an explosion occurred next to the Saint Mark's Coptic Orthodox Cathedral complex in Cairo, at the Church of Saints Peter & Paul. The cathedral is the seat of the Coptic Orthodox Pope, in Cairo's Abbasia district. The explosion killed as many as 29 people, mostly women and children, and injured many more. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claimed responsibility. President Abdel Fattah el-Sisi declared a national period of mourning for three days.

Red Sea resort attacks (2016–17)

On 8 January 2016, two suspected militants, armed with a melee weapon and a signal flare, allegedly arrived by sea and stormed the Bella Vista Hotel in the Red Sea city of Hurghada, stabbing two foreign tourists from Austria and one from Sweden. (Early reports incorrectly stated that the victims were one German and one Danish national.) One of the attackers, 21-year-old student Mohammed Hassan Mohammed Mahfouz, was killed by the security personnel. The other attacker was injured. The Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant claimed responsibility.

On 14 July 2017 Abdel-Rahman Shaaban, a former university student from the Nile Delta region, swam from a public beach to each of two resort hotel beaches at Hurghada on the Red Sea and stabbed five German and one Czech tourists, all women, killing two German women. One Czech tourist is in clinical death as of 26 July and died day later in a hospital in Cairo. The perpetrator shouted that the Egyptian hotel personnel who gave pursuit after that stabbings at the second beach should "Stay back, I am not after Egyptians." Nevertheless, hotel personnel pursued and captured the attacker.

Palm Sunday 2017 church bombings

On Palm Sunday 9 April 2017, explosions occurred in St. George's Church in Tanta and St. Mark's Cathedral in Alexandria. 30 people were killed at St. George's and 17 at St. Mark's.

Minya Coptic Christian bus attack (2017)

On 26 May 2017, masked gunmen opened fire on a convoy carrying Egyptian Coptic Christians in Minya, Egypt, killing at least 28 and injuring 26.

Arish attack 2017

On 24 November 2017, approximately 40 gunmen attacked the al-Rawda mosque near El-Arish Sinai during Friday prayers, killing 311 people and injured at least 122.  While no group claimed responsibility for the attack, the Islamic State's Wilayat Sinai branch was strongly suspected. On 25 November, the Egyptian public prosecutor's office, citing interviews with survivors, said the attackers brandished the Islamic State flag. In an interview in the Islamic State magazine Rumiyah (January 2017 issue five) an insurgent Islamic State commander condemned Sufi practices and identified the district where the attack occurred as one of three areas where Sufis live in Sinai that Islamic State intended to "eradicate."

Saint Menas church attack 2017

On 29 December 2017, in Helwan, Cairo, Egypt, a gunman opened fire at the Coptic Orthodox Church of Saint Menas and a nearby shop owned by a Coptic man, killing ten citizens and a police officer and injuring around ten people. He was wounded by police and arrested. Investigators said he had carried out several attacks in the last year.
According to Amaq News Agency, the perpetrator of the attack belonged to the Islamic State group.

Bombing in Giza region (2018)
On 28 December 2018, three Vietnamese tourists and an Egyptian tour guide were killed after a roadside bomb struck a tourist bus in the Giza region near Cairo. At least 11 people were wounded. On 29 December, 40 alleged terrorists were killed by the Egyptian security personnel during raids in the Giza and North Sinai regions.

Cairo bombing (2019)

On 4 August 2019, at least 20 people were killed and 47 injured after a car, heavily loaded with a bomb, collided with other vehicles, causing an explosion outside National Cancer Institute in Cairo. The interior ministry stated that the car was on its way to a location, where the explosives were to be used to carry out a terrorist operation.

Alexandria shooting (2023)
On 8 October 2023 an Egyptian policeman killed two Israeli tourists and one Egyptian civilian in Alexandria, a third Israeli was injured and the gunman was shortly apprehended and arrested by the Egyptian police.

See also
 List of terrorist attacks
 Muhammad abd-al-Salam Faraj
 Terrorism and tourism in Egypt
 Timeline of terrorism in Egypt (2013–present)

References

Bibliography
Kepel, Gilles, Muslim Extremism in Egypt by Gilles Kepel, English translation published by University of California Press, 1986,
 (paging in notes is from this edition)

 
Egypt
Egypt
Human rights abuses in Egypt