[Source: PubMed]

51. BMJ Open. 2022 Jan 17;12(1):e052395. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-052395.

Association of cultural origin and migration status with work-related mental 
health of migrants and refugees in Europe: a systematic review protocol.

Herold R(1), Wuchenauer F(2), Kandler A(2), Morawa E(2), Unverzagt S(3), Voss 
A(4), Erim Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, University Hospital 
of Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, 
Germany regina.herold@uk-erlangen.de.
(2)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, University Hospital 
of Erlangen, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, 
Germany.
(3)Center of Health Sciences, Institute of General Practice and Family Medicine, 
Martin-Luther University of Halle-Wittenberg, Halle, Germany.
(4)Institute and Outpatient Clinic of Occupational, Social, and Environmental 
Medicine, Friedrich-Alexander University Erlangen-Nürnberg (FAU), Erlangen, 
Germany.

IntroductionMigrants make up a significant proportion of the European working 
population. Previous studies have already shown that migrants and refugees often 
suffer from poor work-related conditions in the host country, which might have 
an impact on mental health. Thus, the main objective of this systematic review 
is to analyse and summarise existing research on work-related conditions of 
migrants and refugees in Europe and to investigate the relationship of these 
conditions with their mental health.
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: Three electronic databases (PubMed/MEDLINE, PsycINFO and 
CINAHL) will be systematically searched for eligible articles using quantitative 
study designs (randomised controlled trials, cohort, case-control and 
cross-sectional studies with and without control groups) written in English, 
German, French, Italian, Polish, Spanish or Turkish and published from 1st 
January 2016 onwards. The primary health outcomes will be diagnosed psychiatric 
and psychological disorders, suicide and suicide attempts, psychiatric and 
psychological symptoms, and perceived distress. The secondary health outcomes 
will be more general concepts of mental health such as well-being, life 
satisfaction and quality of life. Outcome measures must have been assessed by 
validated questionnaires. Screening of all articles, reference lists of included 
studies and relevant reviews as well as data extraction will be performed 
independently by two review authors. Methodological quality of primary studies 
will be assessed and discussed. The results of the primary studies will be 
summarised descriptively. Migrants and natives, migrants and refugees, migrants 
of different cultural backgrounds and migrants living in different host 
countries will be compared in terms of the association between their 
work-related conditions and their mental health.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This systematic review is excluded from ethical 
approval because it will use previously approved published data from primary 
studies. The results of this review will be submitted to a related peer-reviewed 
journal.
PROSPERO REGISTRATION NUMBER: CRD42021244840.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2021-052395
PMCID: PMC8765017
PMID: 35039288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.