[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Somali National Front

The Somali National Front (SNF) (Somali: Dhaqdhaqaaqa Jabhada Soomaliyeed) was a politico-military organization that operated in southern Somalia during the Somali Civil War and represented one of the major factions involved in the conflict.

After its creation following the collapse of President Siyaad Barre's government in 1991, the SNF was largely made up of remnants of the Somali National Army, along with splinter groups from the Somali Democratic Movement (SDM) and supporters of Barre.

The SNF would eventually merge into the internationally recognized Transitional National Government of Somalia in 2001.

History

Origins 
After the fall of President Mohamed Siad Barre's government in 1991, many members of his Marehan sub-clan faced collective punishment and war crimes at the hands of anti-Barre rebel groups, particularly the United Somali Congress (USC). As a result, large numbers of the clan were forced to flee central Somalia, including the capital city of Mogadishu, and seek refuge in Gedo region bordering Kenya.

Formation (1991) 
Soon after the exodus, the Somali National Front (SNF) was formed. Initially it was made up of loyalists to former Siad Barre and remnants of the Somali National Army. The intent behind its formation was to incorporate the major Darod clans into the faction, recapture Mogadishu and reinstate Barre's regime. The SNF appealed to clan unity as a reason to join the organizations struggle, and this appeal was further strengthened by the indiscriminate killings of Somalis belonging Darod sub-clans that were perceived as being associated with the regime of the former president. These killings led to a sense of solidarity among members of the Darod clan and consequently resulted in many rallying under the banner of the SNF.

The organization was primarily responsible for the severity of the 1992 famine. After President Siad Barre had been ejected from Mogadishu by Aidids forces in January 1991, the faction withdrew to the south of the city into Somalia's fertile breadbasket. Lacking supplies of their own, Barres forces ravaged the grain stores of inter-riverine agricultural belt around the Jubba and Shebelle rivers. This dire food supply situation was further exacerbated by fighting between Barre and rebels, the most powerful of which were led by General Mohamed Farah Aidid, who were attempting push Barre out of Somalia entirely.

In its first years the organization possessed approximately 9000 troops, seven T54/T55 tanks and eighteen 122 mm artillery pieces.

Defeat and Resurgence (1992 - 1993) 
In March to April 1991, heavy fighting broke out between the United Somali Congress (USC) and SNF forces. The SNF lost control of Kismayo, one of Somalia's largest and most strategic cities, and was consequently forced to withdraw to the city of Bardera and parts of the Gedo region. However, in November 1991 to March 1992, the SNF advanced back into the territory it had lost months earlier, taking advantage of infighting among its opponents. This action prompted the creation of the opposing Somali Liberation Army (SLA), a military coalition composed of numerous rebel groups led by General Mohamed Farah Aidid. The SLA would later become the precursor to the Somali National Alliance (SNA), another significant faction in the Somali Civil War that the SNF would come into direct conflict with. During this period the SNF suffered serious internal divisions. Two factions from within were in contention, one led by President Siad Barre and the other by Gen. Muhammad Hashi Gani. Tensions got to the point where both men openly denounced each other in front of television crews in March 1992.

In April 1992 the SNF was decisively defeated by Aidids SLA forces, and former President Siad Barre fled from Somalia via the Kenyan border on 27 April. Later in the year, following the recent formation of the SNA led by Aidid, his prime rival, Ali Mahdi Muhammad of the Somali Salvation Alliance (SSA) began supporting the SNF in an attempt to create his own pan-clan alliance.

In early 1993, the SNF began gaining a foothold in Somalia again. Around the same period fighting broke out in the Galkayo region between the Aidid's SNA and the Somali Salvation Democratic Front (SSDF) led by Abdulahi Yusuf Ahmed. In response, SNF forces under the command of Morgan entered the Galguduud region to support the SSDF. At around the same time fighting broke out between Morgan's forces at the strategic port city of Kismayo and the American and Belgian UN forces deployed there.