[Source: PubMed]

42. PLoS One. 2020 Apr 27;15(4):e0232077. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0232077. 
eCollection 2020.

The Profile of Non-Communicable Disease (NCD) research in the Middle East and 
North Africa (MENA) region: Analyzing the NCD burden, research outputs and 
international research collaboration.

Aggarwal A(1)(2), Patel P(3)(4), Lewison G(1), Ekzayez A(3)(4), Coutts A(5), 
Fouad FM(6), Shamieh O(7), Giacaman R(8), Kutluk T(9), Khalek RA(6), Lawler 
M(10), Boyle P(11), Sarfati D(12), Sullivan R(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cancer Policy, Cancer Epidemiology, Population & Global Health, 
School of Cancer Sciences, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Clinical Oncology, Guy's & St.Thomas' NHS Trust, London, United 
Kingdom.
(3)Department of War Studies, King's College London, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Conflict and Health Research Group, King's College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(5)Department of Sociology, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(6)Global Health Institute/Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, 
American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon.
(7)King Hussein Cancer Center, Amman, Jordan.
(8)Institute of Community and Public Health, Birzeit University, Birzeit, West 
Bank, occupied Palestinian territory.
(9)Department of Pediatric Oncology, Hacettepe University Faculty of Medicine, 
Ankara, Turkey.
(10)Queen's University Belfast, Centre for Cancer Research and Cell Biology, 
Belfast, United Kingdom.
(11)International Prevention Research Institute, Lyon, France.
(12)Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVES: Despite the rising risk factor exposure and non-communicable disease 
(NCD) mortality across the Middle East and the North African (MENA) region, 
public health policy responses have been slow and appear discordant with the 
social, economic and political circumstances in each country. Good health policy 
and outcomes are intimately linked to a research-active culture, particularly in 
NCD. In this study we present the results of a comprehensive analysis of NCD 
research with particular a focus on cancer, diabetes and cardiovascular disease 
in 10 key countries that represent a spectrum across MENA between 1991 and 2018.
METHODS: The study uses a well validated bibliometric approach to undertake a 
quantitative analysis of research output in the ten leading countries in 
biomedical research in the MENA region on the basis of articles and reviews in 
the Web of Science database. We used filters for each of the three NCDs and 
biomedical research to identify relevant papers in the WoS. The countries 
selected for the analyses were based on the volume of research outputs during 
the period of analysis and stability, included Egypt, Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, 
Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the United Arab Emirates.
RESULTS: A total of 495,108 biomedical papers were found in 12,341 journals for 
the ten MENA countries (here we consider Turkey in the context of MENA). For all 
three NCDs, Turkey's output is consistently the highest. Iran has had 
considerable growth in research output to occupy second place across all three 
NCDs. It appears that, relative to their wealth (measured by GDP), some MENA 
countries, particularly Oman, Qatar, Kuwait and the United Arab Emirates, are 
substantially under-investing in biomedical research. In terms of investment on 
particular NCDs, we note the relatively greater commitment on cancer research 
compared with diabetes or cardiovascular disease in most MENA countries, despite 
cardiovascular disease causing the greatest health-related burden. When 
considering the citation impact of research outputs, there have been marked 
rises in citation scores in Qatar, Lebanon, United Arab Emirates and Oman. 
However, Turkey, which has the largest biomedical research output in the Middle 
East has the lowest citation scores overall. The level of intra-regional 
collaboration in NCD research is highly variable. Saudi Arabia and Egypt are the 
dominant research collaborators across the MENA region. However, Turkey and 
Iran, which are amongst the leading research-active countries in the area, show 
little evidence of collaboration. With respect to international collaboration, 
the United States and United Kingdom are the dominant research partners across 
the region followed by Germany and France.
CONCLUSION: The increase in research activity in NCDs across the MENA region 
countries during the time period of analysis may signal both an increasing focus 
on NCDs which reflects general global trends, and greater investment in research 
in some countries. However, there are several risks to the sustainability of 
these improvements that have been identified in particular countries within the 
region. For example, a lack of suitably trained researchers, low political 
commitment and poor financial support, and minimal international collaboration 
which is essential for wider global impact.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0232077
PMCID: PMC7185716
PMID: 32339197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.