[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Neuromorphology

polar, or multipolar.  Unipolar and pseudounipolar cells have only one process extending from the cell body.  Bipolar cells have a two processes extending from the cell body and multipolar cells have three or more processes extending towards and away from the cell body.

Theoretical neuromorphology 

Theoretical neuromorphology is a branch of neuromorphology focused on the mathematical description of the shape, structure and connectivity of the nervous system.

Gravitational neuromorphology
Gravitational neuromorphology studies the effects of altered gravity on the architecture of the central, peripheral, and autonomic nervous systems. This subfield aims to expand the current understanding of the adaptive capabilities of nervous systems, and specifically examines how environmental effects can alter nervous system structure and function. In this case environmental manipulations generally include exposing neurons to either hypergravity or microgravity. It is a subset of gravitational biology.

Research methods and techniques 
A variety of techniques have been used to study neuromorphology, including confocal microscopy, design-based stereology, neuron tracing and neuron reconstruction.  Current innovations and future research include virtual microscopy, automated stereology, cortical mapping, map guided automated neuron tracing, microwave techniques, and network analysis. Of the currently used techniques for studying neuromorphology, design-based stereology and confocal microscopy are the two most preferred methods. A complete database of neuronal morphology called the NeuroMorpho Database also exists.

Design-based stereology 
Design-based stereology is one of the most prominent methods for mathematically extrapolating a 3-D form from a given 2-D form. It is currently the leading technique in biomedical research for analyzing 3-D structures. Design-based stereology is a newer stereology technique that examines morphology that has been predefined and designed. This technique contrasts with the older method, model-based stereology, which utilized previously determined models as a guide. The more current design-based stereology allows researchers to probe the morphology of neurons without having to make assumptions about their size, shape, orientation or distribution. Design-based stereology also gives researchers more freedom and flexibility as model-based stereology is only effective if the models are truly representative of the object being studied, while design-based stereology is not constrained in this way.

Confocal microscopy 

Confocal microscopy is the microscopic procedure of choice for examining neuron structures as it produces sharp images with improved resolution and decreased signal-to-noise ratio. The specific way this microscopy works allows one to look at one confocal plane at a time, which is optimal when viewing neuronal structures. Other more conventional  forms of microscopy simply do not allow one to visualize all neuronal structures, especially those that are subcellular. Recently, some researchers have actually been combining design-based stereology and confocal microscopy to further their investigations into the specific neuronal cellular structures.

Cortical mapping
Cortical mapping is defined as the process of characterizing specific regions in the brain based on either anatomical or functional features. Current brain atlases are not definitive or homogenous enough to portray specific structural details. Recent advances in functional brain imaging and statistical analysis may however prove to be sufficient in the future. A recent development in this field called the Gray Level Index (GLI) method allows for more objective identification of cortical regions via algorithms. The GLI is a standardized method that allows researchers to determine neuron density. It is specifically defined as the ratio of area covered by Nissl-stained elements to area covered by unstained elements. More sophisticated cortical mapping techniques are still in the process of being developed and this field will most likely see an exponential growth in mapping methods in the near future.

Clinical applications 
Neuromorphology has been used as a new method of exploring the underlying cause of many neurological disorders, and has been included in the clinical study of various neurodegenerative diseases, mental disorders, learning disabilities, and dysfunctions due to brain damage. Researchers have been using neuromorphological techniques to not only study the damage but also ways to regenerate the damage nerve through ways like axon growth stimulation.
Neuromophology has been used to study optical nerve damage, specifically looking at lesions and atrophies. Researchers have also examined and identified the neuromorphology of the human penis to better understand the role the sympathetic nervous system plays in achieving an erection.

Current and future research