[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rashidieh

The Rashidieh camp is the second most populous Palestinian refugee camp in Lebanon, located on the Mediterranean coast about five kilometres south of the city of Tyre (Sur).

Name 
The name has also been transliterated into Rashidiya, Rashidiyah, Rachidiye, Rashidiyyeh, Rashadiya, Rashidiyya, Reshîdîyeh, or Rusheidiyeh with or without a version of the article Al, El, Ar, or Er.

The London-based Palestine Exploration Fund (PEF) and other sources recorded that in the Mid-19th century the settlement was named after its then owner, the Ottoman top-diplomat and politician Mustafa Reşid Pasha, known best as the chief architect behind the regime's modernization reforms known as Tanzimat.

Territory 
There is an abundance of fresh water supplies in the area with the springs of Rashidieh itself and those of Ras al-Ain nearby.

To its northern side, Rashidieh borders the Tyre Coast Nature Reserve.

According to a 1998 fact-finding mission of the Danish Immigration Service, the camp covers an area of 248,426 square meters. Journalist Robert Fisk estimated the size to be four square miles.

A 2017 census found that there were 1,510 buildings with 2,417 households in Rashidieh.

History of the site

Prehistoric times 
According to Ali Badawi, the long-time chief-archaeologist for Southern Lebanon at the Directorate-General of Antiquities, it can be generally assumed that all villages around Tyre were established already during prehistoric times of the neolithic age (5.000 BCE), especially in the fertile area of Ras al-Ain, next to the Tell El-Rashdiyeh (the Hill of Rashidieh).

Ancient times

Phoenician times 
[[File:TellRashidieh CineraryUrn PhoenicianInscription 775-700BCE NationalMuseumOfBeirut RomanDeckert06102019.jpg|thumb|Cinerary urn from Rashidieh with Phoenician inscription <blockquote>BT LB (House of LB')</blockquote>]]
Many scholars assume that the area of what is now Rashidieh actually used to be the original Ushu (also transliterated Usu or Uzu), founded on the mainland around 2750 BCE as a walled place. It was later called Palaetyrus (also spelled Palaityros or Palaeotyre), meaning "Old Tyre" in Ancient Greek, and was the lifeline for Island Tyre as its continental twin sister: "To an overpopulated island, its mainland territory was a vital necessity, supplying it with agricultural products, drinking water, wood and murex. In isolation the island city was nothing."
One of the reasons to locate Ushu/Palaetyrus in the Rashidieh area is the delineation of its acropolis by Ancient-Greek geographer Strabo, who visited Tyre himself.

The springs of Ras al-Ain were described by later scholars as the "cisterns of Solomon" and said to have been commissioned by the legendary King of Israel, who was a close ally of Tyrian king Hiram I.

Very few archaeological excavations have been conducted in Rashidieh. However, the collections of the National Museum of Beirut hold a number of items which were found there. Amongst them is an amphora with Phoenician inscriptions dated to the Iron Age II and a cinerary urn dated 775-750 BCE. The latter was an import from Cyprus and gives evidence that Rashidieh was used as a necropolis as well.

However, Ushu/Palaetyrus apparently suffered great damages when the Neo-Assyrian king Shalmaneser V besieged the twin-city in the 720s BCE. Likewise during the attack by Neo-Babylonian king Nebuchadnezzar II, who started a siege of Tyre in 586 BCE that went on for thirteen years.

 Hellenistic times 

Reportedly, when Alexander the Great arrived at the gates of Tyre in 332 BCE and proposed to sacrifice to city deity Melqart in the temple on the island, the Tyrian government refused this and instead suggested that Alexander sacrifice at another temple on the mainland at Old Tyre. Angered by this rejection and the city's loyalty to Persian king Darius the Great, Alexander started his Siege of Tyre despite its reputation as being impregnable. However, the Macedonian conqueror succeeded after seven months by demolishing the old city on the mainland and using its stones to construct a causeway to the island. This isthmus increased greatly in width over the centuries because of extensive silt depositions on either side, making the former island a permanent peninsula - based on the ruins and rubble of Palaetyrus.

 Roman times (64BCE-395) 
During Roman times, large water reservoirs were built in Ras al-Ain as well as an aqueduct which channeled the water to Tyre. At the same time, the use of the area as a burial ground seems to have continued: a marble sarcophagus from the first or second century CE was discovered there in 1940. It is exhibited at the National Museum in Beirut.

 Byzantine period (395–640) 
According to the Syrian scholar Evagrius Scholasticus (536-596 CE), the hill of what is now Rashidieh was known as Sinde - "a place where a hermit called Zozyma used to dwell."