[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kalinga (Mahabharata)

Kalinga is a kingdom described in the legendary Indian text Mahabharata. They were a warrior clan who settled in and around the historical Kalinga region, present-day Odisha and northern parts of Andhra Pradesh. According to political scientist Sudama Misra, the Kalinga janapada originally comprised the area covered by the Puri and Ganjam districts.reference-Sudama Misra (1973). Janapada state in ancient India. Bhāratīya Vidyā Prakāśana. p. 78.

Kalinga clan warriors sided with Duryodhana in the Kurukshetra War due to matrimonial and harmony alliances between both kingdoms of Kalinga & Kuru existing even before the Great War of Mahabharata was to happen. Kalinga is the founders of five eastern kingdoms, which included: Angas (east, central Bihar), Vangas (southern West Bengal and Bangladesh), Udra (Odisha, East Madhya Pradesh and South Jharkhand), Pundras (western Bangladesh and West Bengal, India), Suhmas (north-western Bangladesh and West Bengal) shared common ancestry. Two capitals (Dantapura and Rajapura) of Kalinga were mentioned in Mahabharata. It is likely that there were many Kalinga kings, ruling different territories of Kalinga, with many migrated outside to form new kingdom.

References in Mahabharata 
Kalinga was a separate kingdom which is mentioned as an ancient Indian (Bharata Varsha) kingdom, along with the Vodhas and again along with the Kiratas residing in the east, at (6,9).

Birth of the five royal lines 
The five royal lines of Anga, Vanga, Udra, Pundra and Suhma were born from the adopted sons of king Bali. This Bali's kingdom Kalinga was either Magadha Kingdom or some kingdom close to it. There existed a kingdom to the south of Magadha as per many puranas. King Bali seems to be a king, like the famous king Mahabali, who was also known as Bali or Vali. The five royal sons were actually the sons of the sage Dīrghatamas. Dīghatamas was a sage born in the race of Gautama and Angiras. He was also known as Gautama. His eldest son also was known as Gautama.(1,104).

Though Dīrghatamas was a great sage he was blind. He was cast away by his sons and wife who threw him into river Ganges in a raft. King Bali saved him. Knowing who he was the childless king chose him to raise offspring upon the queen, according to the ordinances of those times. Thus was born the famous five kings. After their names five countries were formed. It is after their names that their dominions have come to be called Anga, Vanga, Udra, Pundra and Suhma (1,104)

Gautama's abode was in Girivraja, the capital of Magadha. With the Sudra woman Ausinari (the daughter of Usinara), Gautama begat the royal sage Kakshivat and the other five celebrated sons. These five monarchs used to visit Gautama in his abode. (2,21)

The eastern kings mentioned in the Swayamvara of Panchali 
Kalinga King attended the svayamvara of Draupadi, along with Chandrasena.

Sahadeva's conquests 
Sahadeva brought under his subjection and exacted tributes from the Paundrayas (or Pandya Kingdom) and the Dravidas along with the Udrakeralas and the Andhras and the Talavanas, the Kalingas, and the Ushtrakarnikas, and also the delightful city of Atavi and that of the Yavanas. (2,30)

Dantapura, now known as the city of Puri in Odisha, was mentioned as the capital of Kalinga in the Mahabharata (5:23). Sahadeva, the Pandava general had visited this city. Kalinga is mentioned to have another capital named Rajapura. Dantapura was conquered by Sahadeva (5,23).

Karna's conquests 
Karna conquered and brought under subjection all the kings inhabiting the Himavat, and made them pay dues. Then, descending from the mountain and rushing to the east, he reduced the Angas, and the Bangas, and the Udras, and the Mandikas, and the Magadhas. the Karkakhandas; and also included with them the Avasiras, Yodhyas, and the Ahikshatras. (3,252)

Other conquests of Kalinga 
 Vasudeva Krishna also is mentioned to have vanquished a Kalinga king, along with the Pandyas and the city of Varanasi in Kasi. (5,48), (16,6)
Bhima also is mentioned to have vanquished the Kalingas along with all the people of Kasi and Anga and Magadha (5,50)
Parashurama is mentioned to have conquered the Kalingas along with the Angas and Vangas (6,68)

Yudhishthira's entry into his new palace at Indraprastha 
Kalinga king Srutayus, attended the event of Yudhishthira entering his new palace at Indraprastha, along with Jayasena the king of Magadha.

King Bhagadatta seems to have sway over all the eastern kingdoms including Pundra, Suhma, Vanga and Kalinga. Anga kingdom was ruled by his friend Karna and Vrihadvala was the king of Kosala Kingdom, his another friend.