[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 92nd Illinois Infantry Regiment

ment, during its term of service, was in some forty battles and skirmishes. The regiment was mustered out at Concord, North Carolina, on June 21, 1865, and discharged at Chicago, on July 10, 1865. The regiment's recruits were transferred to the 65th Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment on that date.

Nursing care 
Addie M. Parsons served in the 92nd Illinois Infantry Regiment. She received permission from the captain of the regiment to travel with them and serve the unit. She went to Cairo, Illinois with the regiment and was set up in the hospital tent.  She mended clothing, wrote letters, and worked with physicians and hospital stewards to care for soldiers with typhoid fever, malaria, and other medical issues. She did not receive pay for her work, so the soldiers in the regiment each gave her money until no one soldier received more than she did. Once the regiment moved to the front, she went to Missouri and worked in a hospital in St. Louis and in Benton barracks until the regiment mustered out. Addie M. Parson's name appears with the soldiers on a monument to Company B of the 92nd Illinois Infantry in Byron's public square.

Total strength and casualties 
The regiment suffered casualties of 1 officer and 51 enlisted men who were killed in action or who died of their wounds, and 2 officers and 127 enlisted men who died of disease, for a total of 181 fatalities.

Commanders 
 Colonel Smith D. Atkins – Mustered out with the regiment.

See also 

 List of Illinois Civil War Units
 Illinois in the American Civil War
 Lucius Read House

Footnotes

Citations

References

External links 
 92nd Regiment, Illinois Infantry, NPS
 92nd Illinois Mounted Infantry Regiment
 92nd Illinois Infantry Main Page
 92nd Illinois Infantry Homepage

Units and formations of the Union Army from Illinois
1862 establishments in Illinois
Military units and formations established in 1862
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865