[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# List of Shaman King characters

later X-II when they attempt to assassinate him. X-I survives long enough to join Yoh's assault on the Plants. In the 2001 anime, most of the other X-Laws die during their final assault on Hao after Jeanne's failed attempt to trap him in the Gate of Babylon.

Team X-I
The top members of the X-Laws.

 
 
 The nominal leader of the X-Laws, a girl with an iron will who is near-constantly contained within an iron maiden in a state of near-death to raise her furyoku levels. She rarely leaves it unless she is desperately needed, believing her suffering will bring justice to the world. All the X-Laws are unquestionably faithful to her and revere her as a holy maiden.  In reality, she was an orphaned French girl that Luchist and Marco found in Mont Saint-Michel, raising to believe she was a holy person destined to destroy evil. Despite her young age and fragile appearance, Jeanne is a god-class shaman and widely regarded as a contender to become Shaman King due to her high furyoku levels. Though she is decisively ruthless, she is an innocent soul who possesses a strong sense of justice alongside a sincerely kind heart.
 While Jeanne initially considered Yoh as threat due to being Hao's twin, accepting his offer to drop out of he Shaman Fight if she revives Ren, she becomes an ally to Yoh and helps in his final assault on Hao and the Plants until she runs out of furyoku resurrecting the shamans one last time. Several years after the Shaman Fight, she reformed the X-Laws into a non-profit organization known as  and started a family with Ren.  She later sends her son Men to stay at the Funbari Hot Springs to understand others with Blocken Meyer, Han Zang-Ching and Bill Burton as his bodyguards. Jeanne is later murdered by Yosuke Kamogawa, turning her against her will into the spirit ally of Niaesu Bāji.
 In the 2001 anime, Jeanne leads the X-Laws in an attempt to open the Gate of Babylon to seal away Hao. When the attempt fails, she is left powerless when her spirit guardian, Shamash, is devoured by the Spirit of Fire. 

 
 
 A shaman from Sicily who is captain of the X-Laws and answers only to Jeanne, being extremely loyal and protective of her while resolute to achieve her ideals of a world free of corruption and evil. In the past, Marco founded the X-Laws with his mentor Luchist Lasso, also being an entrepreneur CEO of a highly successful supercar company. But Marco's life was ruined when Hao turned Luchist against him and destroyed the orphanage Marco grew up in, having since sought revenge.  After entrusting Yoh and his friends to defeat Hao, Marco and Luchist fight to the death as Marco declares that he sees that true justice is love. His glasses are passed on to Lyserg, who later uses them as a medium for his Over Soul. In the spin-off Shaman King: Marcos, Macroh convinces Hao to let him remain a spirit so he can transcend into an angel.
 In the 2001 anime, Marcoh is devastated when Jeanne's attempt to destroy Hao by opening the Gate of Babylon fails. While the other X-Laws go to challenge Hao and avenge Jeanne's defeat and die in the process, Marco becomes the only survivor and he accepts Jeanne's decision to support Yoh against Hao. 

 Lyserg Diethel – See above.

Team X-II
A trio composed of John Denbat, Porf Griffith, and Larch Dirac. After losing faith in Marco upon learning the truth behind the X-Laws, they decide to kill Hao by attacking his headquarters. When their attempt fails, their spirits are burned by Hao, which prevents them from ever entering Heaven or Hell. However, Denbat's decision to fire the XDI satellite alerts the world to the abandoned island of Tokyo where the Shaman Fight is taking place, forcing the Patch Tribe to conclude the Shaman Fight as soon as possible on the continent of Mu before ordinary humans discover the island.

  ("Dingbat" in the English manga)
 
 A former member of the SAS from England. In the manga series, being particularly bitter about Meene's death at Hao's hands, Denbat leads X-II's attempt to kill Hao after losing faith in Marco. Cursing Hao after realizing that Prof and Lucky are dead, Denbat is kept alive long enough for Hao to question why he would stand against Hao if he knew that his comrades would die in the process. Aware of the possible consequences, Denbat prepared a test satellite in space wired to his Archangel with a laser known as XDI and set himself as a target so that when it fired from orbit it would not miss Hao. When Denbat realizes he has survived the blast, Hao appears and praises Denbat's attack before incinerating his body. John is named after John Denver and Golden Bat cigarettes.

 
 
 A sniper from the United States' Delta Forces. He is assigned to snipe Hao during X-II's attempt to kill Hao but is distracted when he notices Hao's tears and is impaled by the Spirit of Fire as he is telling Denbat and Lucky over the radio to flee. Porf is named after Hope cigarettes and the TVR Griffith.