[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Caribbean Legion

The Caribbean Legion () was a group of progressive Latin American leaders, exiles, and revolutionaries in the 1940s, with the aim of overthrowing dictatorships across Central America and replacing them with democratic governments.

The members of the Legion came from most of the countries in Latin America, although the largest number were from the Dominican Republic. The stated targets of the Legion were the dictatorships of Rafael Trujillo in the Dominican Republic and Teodoro Picado in Costa Rica.

The Legion was responsible for two failed invasions of the Dominican Republic, in 1947 and 1949, as well as successfully toppling the Costa Rican government in the Costa Rican Civil War in 1948.

History 
The activities of the loosely knit group that would later be called the Caribbean Legion began in 1946 after the end of World War II. The emergence of democracy in Cuba, Venezuela and Guatemala during the previous few years resulted in pro-democracy activists in other countries becoming more ambitious. The dictatorships of Rafael Trujillo in the Dominican Republic and Anastasio Somoza García in Nicaragua were seen as particularly tyrannical, and so became targets of the legion. In November 1945 Eduardo Rodríguez Larreta, the foreign minister of Uruguay, proposed a resolution advocating "multilateral collective action" in support of democracy and human rights. The resolution was not supported by most American states, which emboldened the political rebels.

Cayo Confites affair 
In the summer of 1947, a group of approximately 1200 armed men was assembled in Cuba with the covert assistance of Cuban President Ramón Grau San Martin. The military leaders of the group (Rolando Masferrer and Eufemio Fernández) believed that with their own strength and the assistance of the Dominican underground, they would be able to overthrow the US backed dictator Rafael Trujillo. The preparations of the force were not kept very secret, and its intent was very public. In September 1947, the United States government pressured Ramón Grau into arresting the entire force, and the invasion never took place. The weapons of the forces were also confiscated. The exiles were set free within a few days. The incident was given the name "Cayo Confites affair," after the area in Cuba from where the invasion was supposed to be launched.

Pacto del Caribe 
After the collapse of the Dominican invasion attempt, the Guatemalan government of Juan José Arévalo became the legion's biggest supporter. Arévalo had previously procured weapons for the exiles by claiming that his purchases were for the Guatemalan military. He convinced Ramón Grau to release the exiles weapons to the Guatemalan government. The exiles began to congregate in Guatemala. In December 1947 Arévalo convinced them to sign the Pacto del Caribe (Caribbean Pact), a document which laid out a unified agenda for the exiles. The document explicitly called for the overthrow of the governments of Costa Rica, Nicaragua, and the Dominican Republic. In addition, it stated that 

The ultimate aim of the group was described as follows: 

From 1948 to 1949 the United States repeatedly asked Arévalo to withdraw his support to the Caribbean Legion, fearing that the Legion was supporting communist interests. However, although the Legion was stridently anti-dictatorial, and was opposed to anti-communist regimes, it was also opposed to communism. Historian Piero Gleijeses writes that the Legion would likely have supported the United States against the Soviet Union, and the Pacto del Caribe explicitly stated that the legion would ally itself with the United States "for the common defense."

Costa Rican revolution 

José Figueres Ferrer, a Costa Rican businessman, had been exiled from Costa Rica in 1942 due to his strident criticism of the government. He came into contact with the Caribbean Legion in 1947 following the Cayo Confites affair. Figueres offered Costa Rica as a base to the Legion against the government of Somoza if the Legion would help him overthrow Teodoro Picado. Although the government of Picado was engaged in limited social reform within the country, it did not wish to engage with anti-dictatorial efforts in Central America, and so many of the exiles were opposed to it. Costa Rica was also attractive as a base because it bordered Nicaragua, whereas Guatemala did not.

Arévalo agreed to Figueres' offer, and provided the exiles with the confiscated weapons he had received from Cuba. On 1 January 1948 the Costa Rican government annulled a presidential election that had been won by the opposition candidate. This provided the Legion with a pretext for an invasion, and the 300-strong Costa Rican army was quickly defeated by the invasion force composed mostly of Nicaraguan exiles, and Figueres was made President.