[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Klang War

ready left for Kedah by 1876, and later went on to live in Penang.

The war was significant enough that British subjects asked for compensation for their loss of capital invested in Klang. Also, traders from Malacca petitioned the British colonial authorities for their losses subjected from the war.

British Resident
A significant development in this period is the beginning of direct British involvement in the affairs of the Malay states.  The British were concerned about the disruption caused by the war to their trade and investments in the region, eventually siding with Tengku Kudin, in part because Mahdi and some of his followers had attacked shipping in the Straits of Malacca. Colonial Secretary James W. W. Birch voiced his support for Tengku Kudin and lent him a ship to blockade Kuala Selangor, and Governor Sir Harry Ord also encouraged Pahang to back Tengku Kudin with fighters. Previously the British had a policy of non-intervention even though they had at times become engaged in local disputes. This war and other conflicts such as the Larut War in Perak led to the official abandonment of this policy in September 1873 by the Earl of Kimberley, Secretary of State for the Colonies, and set into motion the beginning of British administration in the Malay States.

In October 1875, Sultan Abdul Samad sent a letter to Andrew Clarke requesting that Selangor become a British protectorate. James Guthrie Davidson, a lawyer from Singapore, was soon appointed as the first British Resident of Selangor.  This came after the signing of the 1874 Pangkor Agreement with the Sultan of Perak that marked the beginning of a period of indirect rule of the Malay states by the British Residents serving as advisers to the sultans.

See also
 British Malaya

References

Further reading
 Zainal Abidin bin Abdul Wahid; Khoo Kay Kim; Muhd Yusof bin Ibrahim; Singh, D.S. Ranjit (1994). Kurikulum Bersepadu Sekolah Menengah Sejarah Tingkatan 2. Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka. 
 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica. Malay States.
 Haji Buyong Adil; Sejarah Johor Dewan Bahasa dan Pustaka.

Conflicts in 1867
Conflicts in 1868
Conflicts in 1869
Conflicts in 1870
Conflicts in 1871
Conflicts in 1872
Conflicts in 1873
Conflicts in 1874
History of Selangor
History of Kuala Lumpur
Civil wars in Malaysia
Wars involving pre-independence Malaysia