[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# 2001 insurgency in Macedonia

Macedonia as a multiethnic state. Aristotle Tziampiris notes that the NLA was similar to the Kosovo Liberation Army, having a nationalist irredentist ideology far removed from Islamic theology or agendas. However, Tziampiris adds, around 150 Mujahedeen did fight in its ranks but played a minor role.

The conflict gave Russia an entry point in the region. Russia backed the most militant elements in the Macedonian government, and its claims that the Albanian side of the conflict was made up of Islamic fundamentalists and drug traffickers were supported by pro-Russia Macedonian politicians. Such claims were denied by Albanian politicians and guerrilla fighters, who were staunchly pro-American. Russia, as part of a disinformation campaign, blamed NATO for the conflict. This was mimicked by pro-Russia Macedonian politicians, including the Macedonian National Assembly speaker Stojan Andov who said that the West was using the Albanian rebels to weaken Russia's presence in the region. Although there were persistent reports about possible clandestine arms transfers from Russia during and after the insurgency, Russia reportedly was hesitant to provide specialized military equipment to Macedonia to not alienate the US and EU. On the other hand, Ukraine, which had close ties with Russia, provided Macedonia with arms and training.

Bibliography

Macedonian authors

Testimonies 2001 by General Pande Petrovski, Сведоштва 2001 од Генерал Панде Петровски (2006)
Unfinished Peace by Jadranka Kostova, Незавршен мир од Јадранка Костова (2003)
2001: War with two faces by Mančo Mitevski, 2001: Војна со две лица од Манчо Митевски (2008)
Not war nor peace by Ljupka Kočovska, Ниту војна ниту мир од Љупка Кочовска (2010)
In focus of civil war in Macedonia by Jordan Jordanov, Во фокусот на граѓанската војна во Македонија од Јордан Јорданов (2003)
Road of truth by Svetlan Antiḱ Jovčevska, Патот на вистината од Светлана Антиќ Јовчевска (2004)
My struggle for Macedonia by Ljube Boshkovski, Мојата борба за Македонија од Љубе Бошковски (2004)
First victim by Ljube Profiloski, Прва жртва од Љубе Профилоски
NLA terrorist paramilitary in Macedonia by Ivan Babanovski, ОНА терористичка паравојска во Македонија, Иван Бабановски, ВЕДА, Скопје, 2002 година
Intelligence in counterinsurgency by Aleksandar Iliev, Разузнавање во противбунтовништво, Александар Илиев, ЛУБ Благој Јанков Мучето, Струмица, 2014 година

Macedonian authors of Albanian descent

Testimonies of the general by Gëzim Ostreni, Сведоштва на Генералот од Гзим Острени

Foreign authors

Fires over Tetovo by Rišard Bilski, Пожари над Тетово од Ришард Билски (2003)
NLA-message and hope by Petrit Menaj, ОНА порака и надеж од Петрит Менај, Фондација институт отворено општество, Кома, Скопје, 2008

See also

2012 Republic of Macedonia inter-ethnic violence
Albanian nationalism in North Macedonia
Kumanovo shootings
Operation Essential Harvest
Operation Mountain Storm

Notes

References

Sources

External links
Casualties and displacement
. Video footage of the fighting activities.
"Macedonia: Step back from the abyss", BBC, 29 December 2001
"Macedonia: Understanding History, Preventing Future Conflict", United States Institute of Peace, Special Report No. 115, February 2004
"Macedonia's Civil War: 'Made in the USA'", Antiwar.com, 20 August 2001
Chronology of the war
 CTV
Battles −9/2001
Battles – 3/2001

Macedonia On War Footing Over Kosovo Border Provocations
November Battles, Start of War, January 2, 2001
2002 attacks
Boskovki interview
War in the Balkans, again?

Conflicts in 2001
21st-century rebellions
Wars involving North Macedonia
Wars involving the Balkans
Modern history of North Macedonia
2001 in the Republic of Macedonia
Insurgencies in Europe
 
Macedonia
Albanian separatism
Terrorism in North Macedonia