[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Leahy Law

alf-dozen" units of the Pakistani army.

A 2013 report by Freedom House described the Leahy Law as "an invaluable tool in preventing U.S. assistance to military or police units that commit human rights abuses" and added that "it is invoked sparingly and only in egregious cases of specific violence".

In 2014, Major General Paul Eaton(retired) spoke in support of the law, saying, "the value of the Leahy Law is that it serves as a moral guide to the application of U.S. military engagement. Some in the U.S. armed forces have argued that the law frustrates U.S. partnership at precisely the moment we need most to influence better behaviors. This dilemma has a solution embedded in the amendment itself, which provides that if human rights remediation has begun, U.S. assistance can be brought to bear."

Senator Leahy said of the law: "This is a law that works, if it is enforced ... We can help reform foreign security forces, but they need to show they are serious about accountability. If not, we are wasting American taxpayers' money and risk prolonging the abusive conduct that we seek to prevent."

Criticisms of the law and its implementation
In 2013, several U.S. military commanders cited the law as interfering with their ability to train foreign forces.  They claimed that the law was being applied too broadly.

Most criticism, however, has been that the law is too weak and is not enforced robustly enough. For instance, in 2011 Human Rights Watch reported that the U.S. "continued to aid and train Cambodia's armed forces including units with records of serious human rights violations such as Brigade 31, battalion 70 and Airborne Brigade 911 – in violation of the Leahy Law".

A number of observers have complained that the Leahy Act has not been enacted in response to what they have claimed are human rights abuses by the Israeli military. In 2011, Haaretz reported that Leahy (D-VT), after being approached by constituents in Vermont, was pushing clauses that would bar aid to three elite Israeli military units that have been accused of human rights violations in the occupation of the West Bank and Gaza. A spokesman for Leahy denied this. Leahy's Senate webpage repeats his views that while "he has supported Israel's right to self-defense", "he disagrees with restrictions on imports of goods into Gaza as it amounts to collective punishment, with Israel's use of excessive force in Gaza which has caused the deaths of hundreds of civilians, and with home demolitions and settlement construction in the West Bank." In February 2016, 11 members of Congress, including Leahy, sent a letter to the State Department demanding a review of the Leahy Act be conducted after reports of extrajudicial killings by Israeli and Egyptian military forces.

See also
 Child Soldiers Protection Act
 Human rights in the United States
 United States security assistance to the Palestinian Authority

Notes

External links
 by Andrew M. Leonard in Foreign Affairs
  by Sean McFate in Military Review, July–August 2007.  Also in  
Human Rights: Additional Guidance, Monitoring, and Training Could Improve Implementation of the Leahy Laws: Report to Congressional Requesters. Government Accountability Office

Military of Colombia
United States foreign relations legislation
1997 in American law
1997 in international relations