[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kent Bellows

lows to meet him and share his portfolio. Two weeks later, Bellows had signed with the Tatistcheff Gallery. This event marked the start of a very prolific period of two decades during which Bellows produced primarily figurative artwork using graphite, charcoal, pastel, egg tempera, acrylic, and oil.

Commenting on his meticulous approach, Bellows stated in 1986, “The image I create on the canvas is the difference between the reality of a photograph and what is actually happening. This makes for a finely tuned picture, enabling me to capture the subject’s soul.” Bellows was reluctant to talk about the meaning of specific works. In 1988, he said, “I try to depict the inner life of the subject, to give outward form to an inner state. I think my pictures have stories behind them, but I like to leave a feeling of openness. I hope that things keep going in the viewer’s mind. There’s nothing more boring than a story too quickly told. Once all the elements of a story are nailed down, the viewer is left with nothing but the artist’s technique.”

During the 1980s, Bellows’ works were included in exhibits at:
Tatistcheff Gallery, New York City
Museum of the Surreal and Fantastique, New York City
Arkansas Arts Center, Little Rock, Arkansas
Huntsville Museum of Art, Huntsville, Alabama
Hirschl and Adler, New York City
Harris, Samuel, and Company Gallery, Coconut Grove, Florida
National Academy of Design, New York City
Smith College Museum of Art, Northampton, Massachusetts
Butler Institute of American Art, Youngstown, Ohio
Sheldon Art Museum, Lincoln, Nebraska
Nelson-Atkins Museum of Art, Kansas City, Missouri
New Britain Museum of American Art, New Britain, Connecticut
Squibb Gallery, Princeton, New Jersey
Toledo Museum of Art, Toledo, Ohio

In 1989, Bellows purchased a large building in midtown Omaha that he christened the Mahler Building, after the composer Gustav Mahler. Once home to the Mermaid Lounge, Bellows renovated the building and used it as his studio, with space to build large sets to use as backdrops to his artwork. Regarding the design and creation of actual sets as backdrops to his work, he remarked, “It’s a real little bit of Hollywood, the way I work.”  In 1992, Bellows also described his art as “little movies that don’t move… I try to make art that is really part of me, that there is just no question about it. I get that from a Bergman film. I get that from Scorsese. I get that from David Lynch.”

The 1990s
Bellows and his second wife divorced in 1991. This had an enormous impact on Bellows and on his art, which became darker and more intense, often including religious themes. Bellows talked about the relationship between his art and his personal life in a 1992 Nebraska Educational Television documentary, “What is Art?” “Talk about saving the world. It does save my world. It’s the way I just kind of claw and finds my way through the darkness. I mean that’s it. I can’t imagine a life without making art. Joseph Campbell, in one of his lectures, said something that struck me—that artists are generally people who have come apart at the seams somewhere along the line, and their work is an attempt to put themselves back together again, or at least keep themselves together. That’s definitely what my work is about.”

Later, Bellows added, “These projects work for me. It’s clarified my thinking. The thing about an experience like divorce for me is it’s just the way that the meaning drains out of your life. This has been my way to try to put it back, just to make sense of the experience. And it’s working, it’s working. I feel a lot calmer about it. I think that’s one thing about our culture. Just a part of our culture where any bad thing, just push it down, avoid it… don’t feel it… I’m trying to actually just feel it… because that’s the thing about emotions, they have a purpose. I mean, I’m no psychologist, but for myself, to actually experience it in a complete way and survive it. They don’t go away, but you process that material and then you go on to the next thing. I think that’s what I’m doing.”

Shortly after his divorce, Bellows traveled to Europe for the second time, this time primarily studying artwork in Florence, Italy. Bellows often looked to the old masters for his inspiration. In 1992, he stated, “I feel like my real teachers were the older painters. They were the ones. I would go to Joslyn, and feel like I learned how to apply paint from what I saw down there.” He once said that he frequently did self-portraits because it is the tradition of artists, especially those he admired most—the artists of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. Bellows also spoke of the influence of nineteenth-century American painter, Thomas Eakins, on his work, and referred to him as his “great American hero.” He described Gregory Gillespie, a contemporary figurative artist, as another great inspiration.

In 1993, Bellows left Tatistcheff Gallery to join Forum Gallery in New York City.