[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hell Drivers (film)

sly, with Tom knocked unconscious. But the brakes on Red's truck, which Red finally realises is Tom's truck 13, fail and he and Cartley drive off the edge and are killed. Tom wakes up and escapes just before his own truck tumbles into the quarry. Lucy, who followed them in a jeep, runs to him.

Cast

 Stanley Baker as Tom Yately, driver, truck 13
 Herbert Lom as Gino Rossi, driver, truck 3
 Peggy Cummins as Lucy
 Patrick McGoohan as G. "Red" Redman, driver, truck 1
 William Hartnell as Cartley, the depot manager
 Wilfrid Lawson as Ed, Hawlett's mechanic 
 Sid James as Dusty, driver, truck 22
 Jill Ireland as Jill, 'Pull Inn' waitress 
 Alfie Bass as Tinker, driver, truck 11
 Gordon Jackson as Scottie, driver, truck 7
 David McCallum as Jimmy Yately, Tom's brother 
 Sean Connery as Johnny Kates, driver, truck 19
 Wensley Pithey as Pop, driver, truck 4
 George Murcell as Tub, driver, truck 2
 Marjorie Rhodes as Ma West, landlady 
 Vera Day as Blonde at dance
 Beatrice Varley as Mrs. Yately, Tom's mother
 Robin Bailey as Hawlett's assistant manager 
 John Miller
 Jerry Stovin as Chick Keithley 
 John Horsley as Doctor attending Gino 
 Marianne Stone as Nurse attending Gino 
 Ronald Clarke as Barber Joe, driver, truck 6
 Charles Lamb as Cafe owner (uncredited) 
 Hal Osmond as Station ticket clerk (uncredited)
 Ben Williams as Harry, Hawlett's gateman (uncredited)
 Ian Wilson as Gibson, Hawlett's paymaster (uncredited)

Actors
Hell Drivers is an early film for several actors who later developed high-profile careers. It provided early appearances for Jill Ireland and David McCallum, who met and married during the film's production. It featured Danger Man and The Prisoner actor Patrick McGoohan, and was the third film role for Sean Connery. William Hartnell was the first actor to play the role of the Doctor in the BBC's Doctor Who; Gordon Jackson appeared as George Cowley in The Professionals and the butler Hudson in ITV's Upstairs, Downstairs. Sid James was a regular supporting actor in British films at the time and appeared in most of the Carry On series. Herbert Lom starred in the ABC Weekend TV series The Human Jungle before playing the hapless Commissioner Dreyfus in The Pink Panther film franchise. Cy Endfield directed Stanley Baker in Zulu. Others including Robin Bailey, Charles Lamb, John Horsley and Wensley Pithey featured regularly in British films and television thereafter. Long-established actor Wilfrid Lawson also made an appearance. In 1966, he co-starred with Patrick McGoohan in the final black-and-white episode of Danger Man, "Not So Jolly Roger".

Production 
Filming started 31 December 1956.

The character of Yately comes from Blaenllechau in the Rhondda, near actor Stanley Baker's birthplace of Ferndale.

Footage of a Hawlett's lorry going over the edge of a quarry was reused in "The Heiress" episode of the Rank Organisation television series Interpol Calling.

The vehicles used in the film were the Dodge 100 "Kew" parrot-nosed truck, with tipper body. They were lent for filming by W W Drinkwater of Willesden, North London.

Promotional film 
Aqua/Rank produced a 14-minute promotional film Look in on Hell Drivers, directed by Bill Morton and introduced by Michael Ingrams, with professional lorry drivers vouching for the film's authenticity, clips from the film and interviews with Cy Endfield, co-writer John Kruse, Alfie Bass and Stanley Baker.

Critical reception
Variety said: "Hell Drivers is a slab of unabashed melodrama. [...] Endfield’s direction is straightforward and conventional, but some of the speed sequences provide some tingling thrills. Acting is adequate, but uninspired. Baker gives a forceful performance of restrained strength and Herbert Lom has some neat moments as his Italian buddy. Patrick McGoohan gives an exaggerated study as the villain." 

Time Out wrote: "Energetic and violent trucking thriller marked by the raw, angry edge of the best of blacklist victim Endfield's Hollywood work, and by his appreciation [...] of the markedly out-of-the-mainstream talent of Stanley Baker."

Leslie Halliwell opined: "Absurd, violent, hilarious and constantly surprising melodrama with the silliest of premises backed by a good cast and well-handled thrill sequences". 

In British Sound Films David Quinlan wrote that the film was "rough, tough stuff; basically unconvincing perhaps, but still a good thriller". 

Reviewing for Empire, Kim Newman said "Hell Drivers is a rare British crime film with the blazing excitement and working-class grit of the best American hardboiled thrillers. [...] Lom overdoes it somewhat as the sentimental Italian obviously doomed to become a plot sacrifice, but the rest of the hairy-knuckled blokes are spot on."  

In The New York Times Dave Kehr said the film "achieves an intensity of action and an existential resonance comparable to The Wages of Fear."