[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen Pleasonton

otherwise by the local superintendent, Pleasonton waited two months before acting.  In the event, he offered a $500 reward for the recovery of both anchor and chain, believing a salvage operation to be more cost-effective than replacing the lost parts (a $2000 cost).

Relationship with Winslow Lewis

Also typical of Pleasonton's bureaucratic dealings was the relationship with Winslow Lewis.  Lewis, a sometime engineer and inventor, had previously developed a new lighting system and won monopoly contracts for their use and the supply of spermaceti oil in American lighthouses along the east coast.  Pleasonton agreed to their continuing use, primarily because he viewed it as cost-effective.  The system had its detractors, however, including the brothers Blunt, publishers of the American Coast Pilot; they received many irate letters from various mariners, which they forwarded to Pleasonton.  Furthermore, although Augustin Fresnel had developed his revolutionary system of lenses in 1820, Pleasonton refused to sanction their use, viewing them as too expensive.  He preferred to remain with Lewis' system, claiming that it was adequate for lighting the American coast.

According to Robert Browning, chief historian of the United States Coast Guard, it is possible that Pleasonton continued to rely on Lewis's lamps instead of adopting Fresnel lenses at least partially due to the nature of the existing lighthouses. Evidence exists that with the Earth's curvature, the Fresnel lenses would have proved no better than Lewis's paraboloid lamps due to the low height of the lighthouse towers themselves and would not be able to be seen at much greater distances.

In the end, it was Pleasonton's refusal to consider Fresnel's system that proved his downfall.  This, coupled with his support for Lewis' outdated methods, led to further investigations by Congress; eventually, the United States Lighthouse Board was formed to remove Pleasonton's influence from the system altogether.

Death

Pleasonton was 78 years old when he died on January 31, 1855.  He is buried in Congressional Cemetery.

Legacy
Pleasonton's appointment marked a turning point for the Lighthouse Establishment; responsibility for lighthouses had previously shifted from department to department, with no semblance of continuity.  His administration lasted until 1852, at which point the United States Lighthouse Board was created; this was the longest period of stability the Lighthouse Establishment had seen up until that point.  Still, many historians have criticized Pleasonton's administration, holding that his frugal nature and willingness to cut costs wherever possible did great harm to the Lighthouse Establishment's credibility.

References

External links
 

1770s births
1855 deaths
Lighthouses in the United States
United States Department of the Treasury officials
Burials at the Congressional Cemetery