[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Business marketing

successfully match the product or service strengths with the needs of a definable target market;
 position and price to align the product or service with its market, often an intricate balance; and
 communicate and sell it in the fashion that demonstrates its value effectively to the target market.

These are the fundamental principles of the 4 Ps of marketing (the marketing mix) first documented by E. Jerome McCarthy in 1960.

While "other businesses" might seem like the simple answer, Dwyer and Tanner say business customers fall into four broad categories: companies that consume products or services, government agencies, institutions and resellers.

The first category includes original equipment manufacturers, such as large auto-makers who buy gauges to put in their cars and also small firms owned by 1–2 individuals who purchase products to run their business. The second category, government agencies, is the biggest. In fact, the U.S. government is the biggest single purchaser of products and services in the country, spending more than $300 billion annually. But this category also includes state and local governments. The third category, institutions, includes schools, hospitals and nursing homes, churches and charities. Finally, resellers consist of wholesalers, brokers and industrial distributors.

Strategies

Target market 

Often the target market for a business product or service is smaller and has more specialized needs reflective of a specific industry or niche. A B2B niche, a segment of the market, can be described in terms of firmographics which requires marketers to have good business intelligence in order to increase response rates. There may be multiple influencers on the purchase decision, which may also have to be marketed to, though they may not be members of the decision making unit.  In addition the research and decision making process a B2B buyer undertakes will be more extensive.  Finally the purchase information that buyers are researching changes as they go through the buying process.

Pricing 
The business market can be convinced to pay premium prices more often than the consumer market with appropriate pricing structure and payment terms. This pricing premium is particularly achievable if it is supported with a strong brand.

Size 

Hutt and Speh (2001) note that "business marketers serve the largest market of all; the dollar volume of transactions in the industrial or business market significantly exceeds that of the ultimate consumer market." For example, they note that companies such as GE, DuPont and IBM spend more than $60 million a day on purchases to support their operations.

Dwyer and Tanner (2006) say the purchases made by companies, government agencies and institutions "account for more than half of the economic activity in industrialized countries such as the United States, Canada and France."

A 2003 study sponsored by the Business Marketing Association estimated that business-to-business marketers in the United States spend about $85 billion a year to promote their goods and services. The BMA study breaks that spending out as follows (figures are in billions of dollars):

 Trade Shows/Events -- $17.3
 Internet/Electronic Media -- $12.5
 Promotion/Market Support -- $10.9
 Magazine Advertising -- $10.8
 Publicity/Public Relations -- $10.5
 Direct Mail -- $9.4
 Dealer/Distributor Materials -- $5.2
 Market Research -- $3.8
 Telemarketing -- $2.4
 Directories -- $1.4
 Other -- $5.1

Despite the stream of leads and undeniable impact of marketing in B2B organizations, a 2021 report by Statista states that majority of businesses only allocate 5% of their budget towards promotions. By contrast, B2C companies typically spend 5% to 12% of their total revenue towards marketing.

Growth 

According to Morris, Pitt and Honeycutt (2001), the growth of business marketing is largely due to three "revolutions".