[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Chronology of world oil market events

November 6: Iran's oil-producing region suffers a serious earthquake.
November 7: API reports 5 MMB U.S. crude inventory weekly increase.
November 8: Unconfirmed rumors that Bush would announce an airlift of supplies to U.S. embassy in Kuwait, which could ultimately trigger a military clash.
November 13: Saudis ask U.S. for rights to bid on SPR crude.
November 19: Report that Iraq will bolster its forces in Kuwait.
November 20: API reports crude inventory drop in U.S. of more than 4 MMB; Saddam Hussein announces plans to release German hostages; Soviet Union shows reluctance to endorse the use of force against Iraq.
November 21: French President François Mitterrand voices support of a proposed U.N. resolution that would authorize the use of force in the Persian Gulf.
November 26: U.S. proposes addition to U.N. resolution that would require Iraq's withdrawal from Kuwait by January 1.
November 29: U.N. Security Council approves U.S.-sponsored resolution authorizing the use of force in the Persian Gulf if Iraq does not withdrawal from Kuwait by Jan. 15, 1991.
November 30: U.S. President George H. W. Bush offers to send Secretary of State James Baker to Baghdad to meet with Hussein.
December 4: An Iraqi official reports that Iraq will withdraw if it can retain control of the Rumailah field and keep Bubiyan and Werbah islands; also says that demands that the Palestinian issue be treated separately would not be surmountable.
December 5: Iraq announces willingness to speak with U.S. about resolving the Persian Gulf crisis.
December 13: Secretary of State Baker questions Iraq's seriousness about Middle East peace.
December 18: Bush reiterates his "no concessions" stance against Iraq.

1991
January 4: Reports Iraq will accept U.S. offer for talks in Geneva.
January 7: Saddam Hussein prepares his troops for what he says will be a long violent war against the U.S.
January 9–14: At Geneva talks, Baker says that "regrettably" Iraqi Foreign Minister Aziz has indicated no softening in Iraq's position. Peace talks break down, but there is still talk of a peaceful solution to the crisis.
January 15: Report that Iraq has a new peace initiative.
January 16: U.S. begins air attack against Iraqi military targets. President Bush directs drawdown of Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR). U.S. Secretary of Energy James Watkins orders 33.75 MMB drawdown. Crude oil prices drop $9–10 per barrel in one day after having risen $3–5 per barrel during the first half of January.
January 17: Reports of early U.S. and allied success against Iraqi forces; DOE issues SPR sales notice.
January 18: Iraqi Scud missiles land in Israel.
January 22: Kuwaiti oil facilities are destroyed by Iraq and more Iraqi missile attacks on Saudi Arabia.
January 30:DOE selects 13 firms to purchase 17.3 MMB of SPR crude oil.
February: Surplus of unsold oil held by oil producers reaches 80–90 MMB.
February 5: First SPR oil delivered to commercial buyers.
February 15: Daily market volatility as Hussein mentions withdrawal, but Bush calls his offer a "cruel hoax."
February 26: Signs of Iran crude now an option for U.S. refiners, but no imports from Iran likely in near future.
February 28: War ends. U.N. troops move into Kuwait City. Saddam Hussein orders troops out of Kuwait. Iraqi soldiers ignite Kuwaiti oil fields during their retreat.
March 1: News that Kuwait will need to import crude in the short term.
March 12: OPEC announces production cut to .
March 13: API reports a 6 MMB weekly domestic crude inventory draw; Saudi Arabia and Iran say OPEC production cuts will take effect April 1.
March 19: Gorbachev says the Soviet Union will cut its oil exports by nearly half.
March 25: Nigerian crude becomes competitive in U.S. Gulf Coast as Nigeria cuts crude prices.
April 25: Iraq expects to resume crude and product exports by July.
June 3: Kuwait asks GCC members to produce  of oil on its behalf.
Aug: Unsuccessful coup attempt against Soviet President Gorbachev has minimal effect on oil markets.
Oct: Soviet Union suspends petroleum product exports as its fuel shortages grow. NYMEX futures price for WTI climbs nearly $2, ending at $24 per barrel.
November: Last of Kuwait oil well fires extinguished by well control teams.
November: U.S. Senate filibuster causes withdrawal of an Alaska National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) pro-leasing bill.
December: Soviet Union collapses as a series of events precipitated by Ukrainian vote for independence leads to formation of Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS).