[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jerome Frank

h quote attributed to Pound by Frank could be found in Pound's writing, and offering to pay Pound to hire someone to verify the citations. Pound would continue to attack Frank's legal philosophy throughout his life, although Frank later moderated his views on legal realism.

Later scholarly writing 

Frank's judicial service (1941–1957) did not stem his scholarly output. In 1942, he published If Men Were Angels, a defense of the ambitious New Deal programs, and governmental regulation in general, expressing views that he developed while serving in the SEC. In 1945, he published Fate and Freedom, which attacked the theoretical underpinnings of Marxism, denying that societies followed any strict progression and insisting that people were free to mold the development of their own society. Beginning in 1946, Frank also began teaching a regular course on legal fact-finding at Yale Law School which "emphasized the parts that human fallibility and partisanship play in the trial court processes". In 1949, he published his most significant work after Law and the Modern Mind, this being Courts on Trial, which stressed the uncertainties and fallibility of the judicial process. In 1951 he moved from New York City to New Haven, Connecticut, preferring to live closer to Yale. His last book, Not Guilty was written with his daughter, and published following his death. The book concerned specific cases of people who had been wrongfully convicted of crimes.

Executive branch service

During the New Deal administration of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, Frank sought the assistance of Felix Frankfurter to secure a position with the administration. Frank was initially offered the position of solicitor of the United States Department of Agriculture, but this appointment was blocked by Postmaster General James A. Farley, who favored another candidate for the job. Frank was then appointed as general counsel of the Agricultural Adjustment Administration in 1933, and soon became embroiled in an internal struggle with the agency's head, George Peek, who had tried to exercise complete control over the agency. Peek resigned in December 1933, and Frank continued to serve until February 1935, when he was purged along with young leftist lawyers in his office. (Some of these lawyers were members of the Ware Group spy ring run by Whittaker Chambers, namely: Alger Hiss, Lee Pressman, Nathan Witt, and John Abt). Roosevelt approved the purge, but made Frank a special counsel to the Reconstruction Finance Association in 1935.

Frank returned to private practice in New York from 1936 to 1938, with the firm of Greenbaum, Wolff and Ernst. In 1937, William O. Douglas recommended that Roosevelt appoint Frank to be a commissioner of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which Douglas then chaired. Roosevelt agreed, and Frank served as an SEC commissioner from December 1937 until 1941, and was elevated to Chairman from 1939 to 1941, when Douglas was appointed to the United States Supreme Court. While serving in the SEC, Frank also served on the Temporary National Economic Committee.

In 1938, Frank also published a book titled Save America First, which had been written during his return to private practice and advocating against American involvement in the stirring conflict in Europe. However, Frank recanted those views after the attack on Pearl Harbor, and Roosevelt forgave Frank's isolationism.

Federal judicial service

Frank was nominated by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on February 13, 1941, to a seat on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit vacated by Judge Robert P. Patterson. He was confirmed by the United States Senate on March 20, 1941, and received his commission on March 27, 1941. His service terminated on January 13, 1957, due to his death.

Judicial philosophy

Frank was considered a highly competent judge, often taking what was perceived as the more liberal position on civil liberties issues. In addition to his reputation for expertise on civil liberties matters, he was also considered to be "an outstanding judge in the fields of procedure, finance, [and] criminal law". For a time, he was sharply and vocally at odds with a colleague on the bench, Charles Edward Clark, "over a whole range of common law precepts". In a tribute when Frank died, Clark referred to these disagreements as "glorious battles" and called Frank "a gladiator of unusual power and adroitness," who "never seemed to harbor permanent spite of any form whatsoever."

Frank's scholarly tendency bled over into his judicial opinions, some of which were notoriously lengthy. One anecdote relayed about this aspect of Frank's work tells of a law clerk who had objected to the length of one of Frank's opinions. According to the story:

Julius and Ethel Rosenberg