[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Memorial Hall (Harvard University)

g and stenciled walls, a large stained glass window over each of two exterior doors, andcommemorating the 136 Harvard men who died fighting for the Uniontwenty-eight white tablets,

Confederate deaths are not represented.

Memorial Transept serves as a vestibule for Sanders Theatre.

Sanders Theatre

Sanders Theatre (substantially completed in 1875, but first used for Harvard's 1876 commencement) was inspired by Christopher Wren's Sheldonian Theatre.
Renowned for its acoustics, and one of Harvard's largest classrooms,
Sanders Theatre (capacity 1000) is in great demand for lectures, concerts, ceremonies and conferences.
Winston Churchill, Theodore Roosevelt, Martin Luther King Jr., and Mikhail Gorbachev have spoken there.

Sanders features John La Farge's stained-glass window Athena Tying a Mourning Fillet; statues of James Otis (by Thomas Crawford) and Josiah Quincy III (by William Wetmore Story) flank the stage.
The exterior gables display busts of great orators: Demosthenes, Cicero, John Chrysostom, Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet, William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham, Edmund Burke, and Daniel Webster.

Sanders Theatre contributed in an unusual way to the early work of Wallace Sabine, considered the founder of architectural acoustics. In 1895, tasked with improving the dismal acoustical performance of the Fogg Museum's lecture hall, Sabine carried out a series of nocturnal experiments there, using hundreds of seat cushions borrowed from nearby Sanders as sound-absorbent material; his work each night was limited by the requirement that the cushions be returned to Sanders in time for morning lectures there.
The scientific unit of sound absorption, the sabin, is very close to the absorption provided by one Sanders Theatre cushion.

Loker Commons

Beneath Annenberg Hall, Loker Commons offers a student pub, music practice spaces, and other facilities.

Fenestration
Twenty-two stained-glass windows, installed between 1879 and 1902, include several by John La Farge, Louis Comfort Tiffany Studios, Donald MacDonald, Sarah Wyman Whitman, and Charles Mills.

Tower and clock

by 1876, but criticism convinced Van Brunt and Ware to revise it in 1877. In 1897 was added what a 1905 guidebook described as "an enormous [four-faced clock which] detonates the hours in a manner which is by no means conducive to the sleep of the just and the rest of the weary",
and which Kenneth John Conant termed "railroad Gothic".

In 1932 the clock's driving works, and the associated 155-pound (70kg) bell-clapper, were somehow lowered 115 feet (35m) to the ground without attracting attention; visiting Yale students were suspected
but the clapper was never found. Three years later the disappearance of the replacement clapper, under similar circumstances, was rumored to be Yale's revenge for the theft of its mascot, Handsome Dan.

The 1897 tower was destroyed by fire in 1956 and rebuilt, to its 18771897 appearance, in 1996.

Original backdrop to John Harvard statue

The John Harvard statue was originally (1884) installed before Memorial Hall's west façade, but in 1924 it was moved to its current location on the west side of University Hall.

See also
 List of National Historic Landmarks in Massachusetts
 National Register of Historic Places listings in Cambridge, Massachusetts

Notes

References

External links

 Memorial Hall (Harvard University)
 High Victorian Gothic photographs
 Harvard: America's Great University Now Leads the World Life, vol. 10, no. 18 (May 5, 1941), cover, pp. 22, 89–99. Photo caption, p. 95: "In Memorial Hall, a huge Victorian Gothic barn dedicated to Harvard's Civil War dead, the college's Naval R.O.T.C. unit drills."

Harvard University buildings
School buildings completed in 1877
National Historic Landmarks in Cambridge, Massachusetts
Monuments and memorials in Massachusetts
American Civil War military monuments and memorials
University and college buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Massachusetts
Harvard Square
Theatres in Massachusetts
Concert halls in Massachusetts
Tourist attractions in Cambridge, Massachusetts
National Register of Historic Places in Cambridge, Massachusetts
1877 establishments in Massachusetts