[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Home Front Command

89th "Kedem"/"East" Search and Rescue Battalion
 498th "Shahar"/"Dawn" Search and Rescue Battalion
 894th "Tavor" Search and Rescue Battalion
 668th "Ram" Search and Rescue Battalion

It also has the search-and-recue training base, Bahad 16.

Notable operations

Albanian earthquake relief assistance

On 26 November 2019, an earthquake struck the Durrës region of Albania, killing 51 people, injuring 3,000 others, and damaging 11,000 buildings. Israel sent Home Front Command military engineer troops and a rescue and service team from the regional council of Mevo'ot HaHermon to Albania to search through the rubble for survivors and rescue them, assess whether buildings were structurally sound, and provide Albanians who had been evacuated from their homes with waterproof tents to shelter them. Israeli Foreign Minister Israel Katz wrote: "We stand with our Albanian friends during this difficult time, and will continue to assist them in any way we can." On 23 January 2020, Albanian President Ilir Meta met with IDF soldiers during an official visit in Israel, embraced them, and thanked them for their assistance in earthquake relief efforts and "further consolidating the friendly and historical relations between our two nations and our countries." At Ramla military base, Meta awarded the Albanian Golden Medal of the Eagle to the National Rescue Unit of the IDF.

Response to Surfside, Florida, condominium collapse

On 24 June 2021, Israeli Consul-General Maor Elbaz-Starinsky conveyed an official offer from the Israeli government to send the Home Front Command search and rescue team to Florida to assist in rescue efforts associated with the Surfside condominium collapse. Florida did not respond to the Israeli offer of aid until June 25, when Home Front Command joined the search for survivors. The members of the Home Front Command's National Rescue Unit who assisted with the rescue efforts ultimately recovered 81 of the 97 victims.

2023 Turkey–Syria earthquake humanitarian aid 

After the 2023 Turkey–Syria earthquake, on the 6 February 2023, the IDF declared the "Olive Branches" humanitarian aid delegation, a delegation of 150 active duty and reservist personnel of the Home Front command, as well as members of the Israel Fire and Rescue Services, IDF Medical Corps and more, led by Colonel (Aluf-Mishne) Golan Vach. As of 11 February 2023, the IDF delegation has rescued 19 living civilians, including a 9 years old child.

References

External links
Home Front Command - Official National Emergency Portal

 
Emergency management in Israel
Military units and formations established in 1992
Regional commands of Israel