[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Josh Thomson

Joshua Joseph Thomson (born September 21, 1978) is an American mixed martial arts podcaster, commentator, analyst and former mixed martial artist. A professional competitor since 2001, Thomson has competed in Bellator MMA, PRIDE, Strikeforce, UFC, the World Fighting Alliance, and appeared at Dynamite!! 2010. Thomson is a former Strikeforce World Lightweight Champion and former Strikeforce U.S. Lightweight Champion.

Background
Thomson was born and raised in San Jose, California, growing up in the east side of the city. Being half-European-American and half-Mexican, Thomson faced discrimination and got into fights often. In middle school, he was involved in a brawl in which the principal was punched while trying to break up the incident, resulting in Thomson being placed in a juvenile hall. Afterwards, Thomson went to live with his father in Idaho where he went to high school and competed in wrestling. Thomson continued wrestling at junior college powerhouse, North Idaho Community College, and also trained with the wrestling team at Stanford University before deciding school was not for him. His college wrestling record was 40–3. In 2000, Thomson was involved in an alcohol-fueled brawl while on a lake cruise in Idaho. In the melee Thomson choked one man so badly that he required CPR and as a result, Thomson was charged with felony aggravated assault, serving six months of a three-year sentence before being released for good behavior.

Mixed martial arts career
Thomson started out very strongly in his MMA career winning his first two professional bouts, before going to a no contest with Norifumi Yamamoto. Thomson would then go on to win his next three fights, including a win over former WEC Lightweight Champion Rob McCullough.

Ultimate Fighting Championship
Thomson made his debut in the UFC at UFC 44 defeating Gerald Strebendt by knockout in the first round. He would then pick up a decision victory over Hermes Franca in an incredible fight at UFC 46, before falling victim in his next fight to a highlight reel knockout finish at the hands of Yves Edwards.

Strikeforce
Thomson went 2-1 in the UFC before leaving and opting instead to go overseas to Japan and fight for PRIDE FC. He won his sole fight in PRIDE by submission in the first round. Thomson then signed with Strikeforce and made his debut against Clay Guida in a title fight for the vacant Strikeforce Lightweight Championship losing by unanimous decision. Thomson would go on to win his next six fights, including victories over Duane Ludwig and Nam Phan earning him another shot at the Strikeforce Lightweight Championship.

On June 27, 2008, he defeated Gilbert Melendez by unanimous decision at Strikeforce: Melendez vs. Thomson to become the new Strikeforce Lightweight Champion.

On November 21, 2008, Thomson was scheduled to make his first title defense in a rematch against Yves Edwards at Strikeforce: Destruction but had to pull out after tearing ligaments in his toe. Duane Ludwig was selected to take Thomson's place on the card. On April 11, 2009, Thomson was scheduled to make his first title defense in a rematch against Gilbert Melendez at Strikeforce's debut on the Showtime Network, but had to pull out after breaking his ankle while training on April 1, 2009. Rodrigo Damm was selected to take Thomson's place on the card.

On August 15, 2009, Thomson was scheduled to unify his title with the newly crowned Strikeforce Interim Lightweight Champion Gilbert Melendez at Strikeforce: Carano vs. Cyborg, but suffered a broken leg in training. Mitsuhiro Ishida was selected to take Thomson's place against Melendez.

On December 19, 2009, at Strikeforce: Evolution, Thomson fought Gilbert Melendez for the Lightweight Championship. Thomson would lose the fight by unanimous decision, but the fight would see both fighters put it all on the line in what would prove to be a very fast-paced and exciting fight.

Thomson fought Pat Healy at Strikeforce: Fedor vs. Werdum and won by rear naked choke late in the 3rd round. After this win, Dave Camarillo granted him his black belt in Guerrilla jiu-jitsu. Thomson broke two ribs during the fight on Healy's very first takedown and fought the rest of the fight very defensively.

Thomson fought Gesias Cavalcante on October 9, 2010, at Strikeforce: San Jose where he won a controversial unanimous decision (29–28, 29–28, and 30–27).

Thomson's next fight was against Tatsuya Kawajiri under the co-promoted DREAM, K-1 end of year event Dynamite!! 2010.  He lost the fight via unanimous decision.

Thomson was expected to face promotional newcomer Maximo Blanco at Strikeforce World Grand Prix: Barnett vs. Kharitonov but yet another foot injury forced him out of the bout.

Thomson returned in March 2012 to face K. J. Noons at Strikeforce: Tate vs. Rousey.  He won the fight via unanimous decision.