[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ishfaq Ahmad Khan

retical Physics (ICTP) at Trieste, Italy.

He also put Pakistan on the governing Council of the International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA), Austria, which conducts policy related research using mathematical modeling and simulation tools.

Global Change Impact Studies Centre (GCISC)

Ishfaq Ahmad's efforts led to the creation of the Global Change Impact Studies Centre (GCISC) in Islamabad where, for the first time, research on policy issues related to climate change is being undertaken in Pakistan. The centre, an autonomous organisation under the federal govt, works in collaboration with national institutions such as Pakistan Meteorological Department (PMD), National Agricultural Research Centre (NARC), WAPDA and PCRWR etc. The centre has also established collaborative relationship with international institutions, most importantly The Abdus Salam International Centre for Theoretical Physics (ICTP), Trieste, Italy.  GCISC, with Arshad M Khan as its executive director, also serves as the secretariat of the prime minister's Committee on Climate Change.

Centre for Earthquake Studies (CES)

After 8 October 2005, Kashmir earthquake, the Government has decided to establish a Centre for Earthquake studies in Islamabad, under the technical direction of Ishfaq Ahmad.
The centre under the directorship of Mr. Shahid Ashraf and Ahsan Mubarak started work in collaboration with world leading scientists such as Elchin Khalilov of Azerbaijan. The centre conducts research using a Gravitational Wave Recorder housed at the National Centre for Physics, Islamabad.

Advocacy for Nuclear power

Ishfaq Ahmad is internationally known for his long-standing public advocacy for the nuclear power plants for the industrial and socio-economic growth. On international forums, Ahmad deterred the international pressure mounted on Pakistan after conducting its tests, instead highlighted the achievements gained by Pakistan on its nuclear power infrastructure in the country as well as the need of Pakistan's usage of nuclear power for its economical growth. In 2012, Ahmad lobbied for the HMC-3 consortium to be listed as first commercial nuclear power corporation and helped the consortium to acquire its first license to manufacture nuclear materials for industrial power plants.

State honours, awards and recognition

In 1989, Ishfaq Ahmad was bestowed with first state honour, Sitara-e-Imtiaz by Benazir Bhutto; and Hilal-e-Imtiaz in 1995. In 1998, Ahmad received the highest state honour, Nishan-e-Imtiaz, given to any national of Pakistan, for his services to the country in a graceful state ceremony. The same year, he was awarded gold medallion by the Institute of Leadership and Management in Lahore.
 Nishan-i-Imitiaz (1998)
 Hilal-i-Imtiaz (1995)
 Sitara-i-Imtiaz (1989)
 Gold Medal, Pakistan Academy of Sciences (1998)
 Gold Medal, Institute of Leadership & Management (ILM) (1998)
 Gold Medal, Society of Engineering, Materials and Metallurgical Engineering (SEMME), Karachi, (1998)
 Gold Medal, Geological Society of Punjab, (1998)
 Doctorate of Science Honoris Causa, UET Lahore, 2000.
 Who's who in atom, American Institute of Physics (1969)

Fellowships
 Elected President of the Pakistan Academy of Sciences (2007)
 Board of Directors of the Abdus Salam Centre for Solid State Physics, Government College University, Lahore, 2006–present.
 Board of Governors of the Ghulam Ishaq Khan Institute of Engineering Sciences and Technology (GIKI) (2002)
 Chairman and Board of Governors, Riazuddin National Centre for Physics, Quaid-i-Azam University, Islamabad (2001)
 Fellow of the Islamic World Academy of Sciences (2000)
 Fellow of the Nuclear Society of Pakistan (1997)
 Elected fellow of the Pakistan Nuclear Society (1993)
 Honorary Fellow of the International Nuclear Energy Academy (INEA)
 Honorary Member of World Innovation Foundation (WIF), UK (2006)
 Board of Governors of the Government College University, Lahore (1989–1996)
 Fellow of the Pakistan Academy of Sciences (1983)
 Fellow at Niels Bohr Institute of Theoretical Physics, Copenhagen, Denmark (1961–1962)
 Member of the Board of Sponsors of The Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists.
 Member of the Board of Physics Olympiad of Pakistan.
 An honorary Council Member of International Institute for Applied Systems Analysis (IIASA).

Publications

Thesis
D.Sc. Thesis (UQAM): Structure and Identification of trajectories in fine grain ionographic emulsions, under the direction of Pierre Demers, Faculty of Science, University of Montreal, Canada, 1958.