[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Craig Waters

mmunications in informing the public about the role of courts and lawyers in our society.  He drew on his experiences with Bush v. Gore and examined how the communications challenges of that earlier constitutional crisis might have played out using the technology available in 2014.

Other activities

He is founding president of the Florida Court Public Information Officers, Inc., a federally recognized tax exempt organization.  He has been heavily involved in activities of The Florida Bar, including serving on the editorial board of the Florida Bar Journal and the Florida Bar News. He also serves on the Florida Bar Media & Communications Law Committee and has chaired and hosted many of its ongoing programs of outreach to media. These include the annual Florida Bar Reporters Workshop held each fall at the Florida Supreme Court Building, a program for training journalists in reporting on the courts and the law.  A native of Pensacola, Florida, he has been a member in good standing of the Florida Bar since May 1987.

Education
Waters attended Brown University in Providence, Rhode Island as an undergraduate, receiving his degree with honors in 1979. Previously, he took classes at Pensacola State College, then known as Pensacola Junior College. He received his Juris Doctor with honors from the University of Florida College of Law (now the Levin College of Law) in 1986.

Before law school, he worked for four years as a journalist with the Gannett newspapers in Pensacola and Tallahassee. Some of his time as a reporter was spent covering the court beat in Pensacola, where his interest in attending law school first developed. Before college, Waters attended public schools in Pensacola, graduating from J. M. Tate High School. At an early age, Waters was placed on an advanced educational track because of high test scores in the Escambia County, Florida, school system.  He remained on this track until graduation from high school.

References

1956 births
Living people
Brown University alumni
People from Tallahassee, Florida
People from Pensacola, Florida
Florida lawyers
Pensacola Junior College alumni
Fredric G. Levin College of Law alumni