[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 177]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

e,
for I have already forgotten everything but your former kindness and
affection." "And I," answered Tommy, "will never forget how ill, how
ungratefully I have used you, nor the goodness with which you now
receive me." Tommy then recollected his lamb, and presented it to his
friend, while Mr Barlow told him the story of its rescue, and the
heroism exerted in its defence. Harry seemed to receive equal pleasure
from the restoration of his favourite, and the affection Tommy had shown
in its preservation; and, taking him by the hand, he led him into a
small but neat and convenient house, where he was most cordially
welcomed by Harry's family.

In a corner of the chimney sat the honest Black, who had performed so
signal a service at the bull-baiting. "Alas!" said Tommy, "there is
another instance of my negligence and ingratitude; I now see that one
fault brings on another without end." Then advancing to the Black, he
took him kindly by the hand, and thanked him for the preservation of his
life. "Little master," replied he, "you are extremely welcome to all I
have done; I would at any time risk my own safety to preserve one of my
fellow-creatures; and if I have been of any use, I have been amply
repaid by the kindness of this little boy, your friend, and all his
worthy family." "That is not enough," said Tommy, "and you shall soon
find what it is to oblige a person like----(here a stroke of presumption
was just coming out of Tommy's mouth, but, recollecting himself, he
added) a person like my father." And now he addressed himself to Harry's
mother, a venerable, decent woman of middle age, and his two sisters,
plain, modest, healthy-looking girls, a little older than their brother.
All these he treated with so much cordiality and attention that all the
company were delighted with him; so easy is it for those who possess
rank and fortune to gain the goodwill of their fellow-creatures, and so
inexcusable is that surly pride which renders many of them deservedly
odious.

When dinner was ready he sat down with the rest; and as it was the
custom here for everybody to wait upon himself, Tommy insisted upon
their suffering him to conform to the established method. The food,
indeed, was not very delicate, but it was wholesome, clean, and served
up hot to table,--an advantage which is not always found in elegant
apartments. Tommy ate with a considerable appetite, and seemed to enjoy
his new situation as much as if he had never experienced any other.
After the dinner was removed, he thought he might with propriety
gratify the curiosity he felt to converse with the Black upon fighting
bulls, for nothing had more astonished him than the account he had heard
of his courage, and the ease with which he had subdued so terrible an
animal. "My friend," said he, "I suppose in your own country you have
been very much used to bull-baitings, otherwise you would never have
dared to encounter such a fierce creature. I must confess, though I can
tame most animals, I never was more frightened in my life than when I
saw him break loose; and without your assistance, I do not know what
would have become of me."

"Master," replied the Black, "it is not in my own country that I have
learned to manage these animals. There I have been accustomed to several
kinds of hunting much more dangerous than this; and considering how much
you white people despise us blacks, I own I was very much surprised to
see so many hundreds of you running away from such an insignificant
enemy as a poor tame bull."

Tommy blushed a little at the remembrance of the prejudices he had
formerly entertained concerning blacks and his own superiority; but not
choosing now to enter upon the subject, he asked the man where then he
had acquired so much dexterity in taming them?

"I will tell you, master," replied the Black. "When I lived a slave
among the Spaniards at Buenos Ayres, it used to be a common employment
of the people to go into the woods to hunt cattle down for their
subsistence. The hunter mounts his fleetest horse, and takes with him a
strong cord of a considerable length; when he sees one of the wild kind
which he destines for his prey, he pursues it at full speed, and never
fails to overtake it by the superior swiftness of his horse. While he is
thus employed, he holds the cord ready, at the end of which a sliding
noose is formed, and when he is at a convenient distance, throws it from
him with such a certain hand, that the beast is entangled by one of his
legs, after which it is impossible for him to escape.

"That you may form a more clear idea of what a man is capable of
executing with courage and address, I will relate a most extraordinary
incident to which I was witness during my residence in that part of the
world. A certain man, a native of the country, had committed some
offence, for which he was condemned to labour several years in the
galleys. He found means to speak to the