[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Acid Survivors Foundation

wallowed:
 Pour large amounts of water on the affected area for at least thirty minutes.
 Hold eyelids open and flush the area with water for at least thirty minutes if eyes are affected.
 Drink large amounts of water and vomit immediately if acid is swallowed.

International support

United Kingdom

Department of International Development
21 June 2011, British Minister of State for the Department of International Development Alan Duncan visits the ASF hospital and interacts with survivors. He also met with the Prime Minister to request the securing of a plot of land where the British Government would help ASF build an "ASF Burn Complex". The reduction in the number of acid related burn |British Parliamentary Undersecretary of State in the Department of International Development Stephen O'Brien plays a game with victims of acid attacks at the ASF Hospital in Dhaka, Bangladesh on 18 November 2011 cases has been in proportion to increasing reports of kerosene and gas attacks. Bangladesh has a single 100-bed facility for treating all these cases, which ASF and the Department of International Development both agree is not sufficient.

The Princess Anne, The Princess Royal
1 March 2011, Princess Anna visits ASF for the second time (the first being in 2000), where she witnessed the rehabilitation centre in action and interacted with some victims.

English Cricket Team
17 February 2011, the English Cricket Team visits ASF, where they interacted with victims.

France

Human Rights Prize of the French Republic

10 December 2011, ASF receives the prize from the French Human Rights Commission at a ceremony held at the Quai d'Orsay in Paris.

World's Children's Prize
28 April 2011, Dr. Monira Rahman, Murhabazi Namegabe, and Cecilia Flores-Oebanda are honoured as the Children's Rights Heroes for millions of children at the Gripsholm Castle in Mariefred, Sweden.

Statistics

Acid attacks from 1999 to 2018

References

External links
 Official website

Medical and health organisations based in Bangladesh
Human rights in Bangladesh
Women's rights in Bangladesh
Acid attack victims