[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gillian Triggs

ernment Ministers subsequently called for Triggs to step down from the presidency of the Australian Human Rights Commission. They alleged that the report was politically motivated and that Triggs' decision not to conduct a review during the term of the previous Labor government was evidence of this.

In October 2016, it was alleged by Liberal Senator Ian MacDonald and others that Triggs had misled the Senate by stating that a journalist had misquoted comments made by Triggs about several Australian politicians. Triggs had been reported in a profile piece by The Saturday Paper as saying: "I knew I could have responded and destroyed them", with reference to a Senate Committee. Triggs asserted that these comments had been added by a "subeditor", however Triggs subsequently said that, "upon further reflection" she accepted that the article was "an accurate excerpt from a longer interview" and that she had "no intention of questioning The Saturday Paper's journalistic integrity."

On 16 November 2016, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull said that the Government would not renew Triggs' commission when it expired in 2017. Her statutory term as President of the HRC expired in July 2017.

In March 2017, Triggs defended her engagement to speak at a fundraising event for the Bob Brown Foundation. Liberal Senator Eric Abetz criticised the appropriateness of Triggs speaking at a fundraiser for the former Greens leader, as the Foundation conducts overtly political activist campaigns. Triggs defended her appearance, stating that event tickets would be used to cover costs, with the surplus being donated to the Bob Brown Foundation. Her appearance resulted in other senior members of government, including Immigration Minister Peter Dutton, calling for her resignation.

Racial Discrimination Act controversy

Triggs received significant criticism for her handling of an action involving three Queensland University of Technology (QUT) students who were accused of racial vilification under Section 18C of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth). One of the students was alleged to have breached Section 18C because of a Facebook post which read: "Just got kicked out of the unsigned Indigenous computer room. QUT stopping segregation with segregation." In November 2016, the Federal Court threw out the lawsuit and Judge Michael Jarrett concluded the claim had no reasonable prospects of success.

After this case was dismissed, Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull called on the commission to "urgently review" the way it manages race hate cases. Turnbull said that "what the judge was saying to the Human Rights Commission is, 'you've been wasting the court's time. You've been wasting government money'." However, Triggs said she had urged the government to introduce a higher threshold before the commission was obliged to investigate hate speech complaints. She also said "the judge did not make any comment on the Human Rights Commission and made no such extreme, provocative statement." Triggs has also defended the commission's handling of the case and said the complaint had "a level of substance."

Senator Eric Abetz said that the three students have "had their reputation trashed courtesy of the Human Rights Commission." Tony Morris, the lawyer who represented the students, claimed that Triggs sat on the complaint for 14 months and was to blame for the case making it to court. The Human Rights Commission had never contacted the students about the complaint and instead left that task to QUT. Triggs said that 11 months of the delay were due to a request by the complainant and QUT not to notify the students. An article by media outlet The Conversation described the AHRC's conduct in this case as "disgraceful" and questioned why the AHRC did not initially reject the complaints. The article suggested that the decision not to reject the complaints may have given the complainant false hope that the case had merit.

In November 2016, Triggs supported a proposal to change Section 18C. At the time, it was unlawful to "offend, insult, humiliate or intimidate" on the basis of race. Triggs said removing "offend" and "insult" and inserting "vilify" would be a strengthening of the laws. However, in February 2017, Triggs told a Senate committee the AHRC did not see a case to change 18C but recommended reforms requiring that respondents be notified of complaints and allowing the president greater powers to reject complaints. Triggs said "it’s true, the students have suffered from this … but I cannot concede the Commission did anything wrong".

Personal life
Triggs resides in Sydney, and is married to former Australian diplomat Alan Brown . Triggs was previously married to Melbourne law professor Sandy Clark, with whom she had three children.