[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Haunted Bookshop

lin's wife.
 George Chapman: A client of Gilbert, friend of Mifflin, and father of Titania.
 Titania Chapman: A young lady apprenticed to Mr. Mifflin.
 Mr. Weintraub: A pharmacist neighbor to Mifflin.
 Mrs. J. F. Smith: Who abides in all lodging houses.
 Metzger: Assistant chef at the Octagon Hotel.

Major themes
This is primarily a novel of suspense, though throughout it Morley proclaims the value of books. Mifflin, the protagonist, is a self-described "practitioner of bibliotherapy" who thinks booksellers heal minds just like doctors heal bodies. Mifflin describes a "librocubicularist" as someone who is fond of readings in bed.

Allusions/references to other works
Books referenced by characters:
 Trivia by Logan Pearsall Smith
 The Story of My Heart: An Autobiography by Richard Jeffries
 Notebooks, by Samuel Butler
 The Man Who Was Thursday by G. K. Chesterton
 The Demi-Gods by James Stephens
 The Works of Francis Thompson
 The Social History of Smoking by G.L. Apperson 
 The Path to Rome by Hilaire Belloc 
 The Book of Tea by Okakura Kakuzo
 Happy Thoughts by F.C. Burnand
 Margaret Ogilvy by J.M. Barrie
 Confessions of a Thug by Philip Meadows Taylor
 General Catalogue of the Oxford University Press
 The Morning's War by C.E. Montague
 The Spirit of Man edited by Robert Bridges
 The Romany Rye by George Henry Borrow
 Poems by Emily Dickinson
 Poems by George Herbert
 The House of Cobwebs by George Gissing
 The Way of All Flesh and Erewhon by Samuel Butler
 Paradise Lost by Milton
 Parnassus on Wheels by Christopher Morley
 Letters and Speeches of Oliver Cromwell by Thomas Carlyle

Authors referenced by characters: Carlyle, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Henry Thoreau, George Bernard Shaw, Chesterton, Nietzsche, George Ade, Ralph Waldo Trine, J.M. Chapple, J.M. Barrie, Joseph Conrad, John Keats.

Allusions/references to actual history, geography and current science
The novel is set shortly after the end of World War I. Characters occasionally discuss the war. It is mentioned several times that Woodrow Wilson is to travel to peace conferences. Characters plot to assassinate Woodrow Wilson on his way to the peace conferences following the war.

In popular culture
Cornell & Diehl produces a pipe tobacco named after this novel.

References

External links
 
 
 

1919 American novels
Novels set during World War I
Novels set in New York City
J. B. Lippincott & Co. books
Fiction about assassinations
Cultural depictions of Woodrow Wilson
Novels set in bookstores