[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Addison Montgomery

hip. Addison's father is aware of her mother's affair, but they decided a long time ago that they would stay married to one another because Bizzy is not comfortable with others knowing about her sexuality. Although the relationship with her parents is strained from this, in the end, they make peace.

Addison and Sam start developing feelings for each other. It is revealed that, back in college, Sam wanted to ask Addison out but was too nervous, and he ended up with Naomi. They shared a kiss after a terrifying ordeal when they tried to save a married couple who got into a devastating car accident. They kiss again when Addison decides to sleep over at Sam's. Addison and Sam grow close, but she chooses to put a halt on their developing relationship, worried about the consequences in her friendship with Naomi. Addison revealed that she was in love with Sam and Pete, but she decided to begin a relationship with Pete instead, while Sam was with another doctor. Despite them being with other people, they still show they harbor feelings for each other, including jealousy when they see the other with their current significant others. After Sam becomes single again, he kisses Addison again. Although she was with Pete, she kisses Sam back and Pete catches them. Despite this, they stay together. Naomi ends her friendship with Addison after she finds about Sam and Addison. In the season finale, Addison has to operate on Maya Bennett, her godchild, who got in a car accident on her way to the hospital to give birth. She and Naomi then make up. Addison breaks up with Pete, and she and Sam finally become a couple. Although Addison wants to have children, Sam tells her he's not ready to have more children, as he wants to take time in their romance. Sam and Addison end their relationship and Addison goes on a date with a man named Jake (played by Benjamin Bratt). He invites her to Fiji, and although she initially agrees, in the end she chooses to get back together with Sam.

At the beginning of season 5, Sam and Addison are back together, although they break up again as he is still not ready to commit to marriage and a family with her. Jake is hired at the practice, which at first makes Addison uncomfortable. Jake is a very gifted doctor whose speciality is helping women with fertility issues become pregnant. He becomes Addison's doctor and helps her attempt to conceive using IVF. Throughout the season, Addison and Jake grow closer. It is revealed that Jake had a wife, Lily, who was a drug addict and died from an overdose. He adopted her daughter Angela, who is featured in the final two seasons of the show. She is often shown advising her father and encourages him to pursue a relationship with Addison, whom he clearly has feelings for. Although Addison still has feelings for Sam, she also has feelings for Jake, the latter of whom wants to get married and have kids. On more than one occasion, Addison and Jake kiss, and both admit to having feelings for the other. However, Jake realizes that Addison is not over Sam and does not want to be a rebound, but tells her he will wait for her. Although Addison decides to stop fertility treatments, her dream of having a child finally comes true, and she adopts a baby boy named Henry. Sam begins to regret his decision to leave Addison and makes excuses to spend time with Henry, but Addison decides to focus on her baby instead of pursuing a relationship with either Sam or Jake. In the season finale, Addison and Jake have sex after Amelia delivers a brainless baby whose organs she donates so that her pregnancy will still be meaningful. When Addison arrives home, Sam is there with Henry and he proposes to Addison. It is not revealed what she says, but we also see that Jake is on his way to her house with flowers and Chinese food.

In the beginning of season 6, we find that Addison rejected Sam and is now pursuing a relationship with Jake. Jake and Addison move in together later in the season after she admits to being in love with him. She then proposes marriage. Although initially, he does not give her an answer, over the course of the episode he gains closure with his wife and realizes that Addison is who he wants to spend his life with. When Addison gets home, Jake has lit candles and lined the living room with rose petals, leading to the deck where he is waiting for her in a suit and tie. He tells her to ask him again, and gives her a ring, after which point the two are engaged. In the final episode of Private Practice, Jake and Addison get married and are beginning the rest of their lives with Henry.

Development

Casting and creation