[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Atomic number

n 118 nuclear electrons, and its positive nuclear charge now was realized to come entirely from a content of 79 protons. Since Moseley had previously shown that the atomic number Z of an element equals this positive charge, it was now clear that Z is identical to the number of protons of its nuclei.

Chemical properties 
Each element has a specific set of chemical properties as a consequence of the number of electrons present in the neutral atom, which is Z (the atomic number). The configuration of these electrons follows from the principles of quantum mechanics. The number of electrons in each element's electron shells, particularly the outermost valence shell, is the primary factor in determining its chemical bonding behavior. Hence, it is the atomic number alone that determines the chemical properties of an element; and it is for this reason that an element can be defined as consisting of any mixture of atoms with a given atomic number.

New elements 
The quest for new elements is usually described using atomic numbers. As of , all elements with atomic numbers 1 to 118 have been observed. Synthesis of new elements is accomplished by bombarding target atoms of heavy elements with ions, such that the sum of the atomic numbers of the target and ion elements equals the atomic number of the element being created. In general, the half-life of a nuclide becomes shorter as atomic number increases, though undiscovered nuclides with certain "magic" numbers of protons and neutrons may have relatively longer half-lives and comprise an island of stability. 

A hypothetical element composed only of neutrons has also been proposed and would have atomic number 0.

See also 

 Atomic theory
 Chemical element
 Effective atomic number (disambiguation)
 Even and odd atomic nuclei
 History of the periodic table
 List of elements by atomic number
 Mass number
 Neutron number
 Neutron–proton ratio
 Prout's hypothesis

References

Chemical properties
Nuclear physics
Atoms
Dimensionless numbers of chemistry
Numbers