[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# CMLL World Heavyweight Championship

round saw another pair of battle royals with four men in each, ending when two wrestlers were left in the ring. This narrowed the tournament down to the final four wrestlers, who faced off in traditional semi-finals matches, before the final match to crown the inaugural champion.

Tournament results

1992
After Cien Caras left CMLL for AAA in 1992, CMLL decided to hold a traditional 16-man single-elimination tournament to crown a new World Heavyweight Champion. The tournament ran from October 30 to November 20, 1992. On the first night of the tournament, all 16 competitors competed in a battle royal where the order of elimination determined the pairings for the first round. The last two wrestlers were Vampiro and El Egipico, who faced off in the last of the first round matches. The first two matches of the first round were held on November 3 at CMLL's weekly "Martes de Coliseo" show where Rayo de Jalisco Jr. and Rick Patterson both won their respective matches, followed by Jalisco Jr. winning his quarterfinal match the same night. On November 6 at the weekly CMLL Super Viernes show, King Haku and Brazo de Plata advanced in the first round with King Haku qualifying for the semi-final match with another victory. On November 8, an additional tournament match was held with Pirata Morgan advancing to the second round. The November 10 show saw Black Magic and Kahoz advance to face each other, with Black Magic moving to the semi-finals. On November 11, CMLL held the final first round and quarterfinal match, which Vampiro won, and then held both the semi-finals on the same night. By the end of the night, Black Magic and Jalisco Jr. qualified for the final. The following week at the November 20 Super Viernes, Black Magic won the finals and became the third CMLL World Heavyweight Champion.

Tournament results

2011–2012

On December 18, 2011, CMLL announced that their World Heavyweight Champion Héctor Garza had decided to leave CMLL to work for Perros del Mal Producciones, vacating the championship. They also announced that the following week, there would be a tournament to determine a new champion. The main event of the December 25 Domigos Arena México show was a 10-man torneo cibernetico match designed to reduce the field of championship contenders from ten to two. The match ended when El Terrible pinned Marco Corleone to eliminate him, leaving El Terrible and Rush to face off the following week. On January 1, 2012, El Terrible defeated Rush in a two-out-of-three falls match to become the 17th overall champion.

Torneo cibernetico – December 25, 2011

2017
On May 22, 2017, reigning CMLL World Heavyweight Champion Máximo Sexy was fired by CMLL and the championship was declared vacant. The company announced that they were holding a 10-man torneo cibernetico on June 6, 2017, in Guadalajara, Jalisco to determine the next champion. The torneo ciberntico sides pitted Gran Guerrero, Euforia, El Terrible, Rush, and Pierroth against Marco Corleone, Dragón Rojo Jr., Kráneo, Mr. Niebla, and Rey Bucanero. The match came down to former champion El Terrible and Corleone, with Corleone gaining the deciding pinfall and the championship. With the victory, he became the 19th overall champion.

Torneo cibernetico order of elimination

Reigns

The current champion is Gran Guerrero, who is in his first reign. He defeated Hechicero on November 7, 2022. Universo 2000 holds the record for the most reigns at three. His second reign is the longest in the title's history at 1,225 days, and he also holds the record for the longest combined reign with 2,555 days. Konnan, who was the inaugural champion, holds the record for the shortest reign at 70 days. Three champions never had a successful title defense: both Garza and Steel left CMLL before they could defend the championship, and Konnan lost the championship in his first defense.

CMLL has been forced to declare the championship vacant five times. Each time, the reigning champion left CMLL without losing the title in a match. Under normal circumstances, wrestlers give notice, or their contract is not renewed, and the championship transitions to a different wrestler. In the case of Cien Caras, Steel, Héctor Garza, and Marco Corleone, their departures from the company were so sudden and unexpected that no plans were in place and CMLL had to organize a tournament to determine the next champion. In Máximo Sexy's case, he was fired from the company while still the champion, causing the championship to be vacated as a result.

Footnotes

References

External links
 Official CMLL Website

1991 establishments in Mexico
Sports organizations established in 1991
Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre championships
World heavyweight wrestling championships
World professional wrestling championships