[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# Wallachian uprising of 1821

d by the Decembrist movement, and had been ultimately defeated by "agents of the English bourgeoisie". During De-Stalinization, Oțetea received political approval to curb this trend, though his own conclusions were soon challenged by other exponents of Marxist historiography, including David Prodan.

Vladimirescu was still perceived as mainly a social revolutionary, but maintained a hero's status throughout the regime's latter nationalist phase. In 1966, Nicolae Ceaușescu established an Order of Tudor Vladimirescu, as Communist Romania's third most important distinction. During this interval, the revolt was reconstructed in film, with Tudor. Viewed at the time as a significant achievement in Romanian historical cinema, it was also the lifetime role for the lead, Emanoil Petruț. Despite Oțetea's stated objections, screenwriter Mihnea Gheorghiu downplayed all connections between Vladimirescu and the Eteria, and elevated his historical stature. The film provided a venue for criticism of Russia, but also depicted Vladimirescu as an early champion of nationalization. During the 1970s, following a revival of historical fiction, the revolt was a subject matter for Paul A. Georgescu, with a critically acclaimed novel, also named Tudor. Later film productions dealing with the events include the 1981 Ostern Iancu Jianu, haiducul, which also modifies the historical narrative to endorse the regime's theses.

By the 1980s, the scholarly bibliography on the revolt of 1821 had become "enormous". Following the anti-communist revolution of 1989, Vladimirescu was preserved as a political symbol by some of the nationalist groups, including the Greater Romania Party. Others perceived his revolt as the symbol of an Oltenian specificity. On March 21, 2017, marking the 196th anniversary of Bucharest's taking by the Pandurs, the Chamber of Deputies of Romania passed a law to celebrate the occasion annually, as Oltenia Day. It had been previously accepted by the Senate of Romania on November 1, 2016 and promulgated by the President of Romania Klaus Iohannis on April 13, 2017, making it official.

Notes

References

19th-century rebellions
Greek War of Independence
Conflicts in 1821
1821 in Romania
1821 in the Ottoman Empire
1820s in Wallachia
1820s in Bulgaria
19th century in Moldavia
Oltenia
Peasant revolts
Mutinies
Riots and civil disorder in Romania
Rebellions in Romania
Rebellions against the Ottoman Empire
Wars involving the Ottoman Empire
Wars involving the Habsburg monarchy
Phanariotes
Greeks in Romania
Albanians in Romania
Bulgaria–Romania relations
Romania–Serbia relations
Serbian Revolution
History of Transylvania (1683–1848)
Zaporozhian Host
Revolution-based civil wars
Romanian nationalism
Persecution of Greeks in the Ottoman Empire
Anti-immigration politics in Europe