[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Siege of Worcester

surrender, Colonel Bridges said they were terms for men if the King had his towns, castles, and armies, not for such as were the only city left, and were actually better terms than had been given to Oxford or any other place, and could the Worcester garrison, expect better terms for their obstinacy?

Sir Ralph Clare said sooner than surrender on dishonourable terms they would see the city and the garrison in ashes. Colonel Betsworth said it was better in ashes than received on such terms. Colonel Bridges said the Parliament forces would lay all their bones under the walls rather than agree to such terms.

July
On 2 July 1646 an attempt was made to capture Colonel Betsworth, who was quartered at Kempsey, but the party were  delayed as it was a dark, wet night. Betsworth got word and escaped, and all the result of the sortie was to capture five horses and men.

By 4 July things were going badly with the city. There was great difficulty in maintaining discipline, or keeping the troops at their posts. On that day some four troopers came up from Mrs. Andrews, at Barnshall, under the Diglis works, and drove away seven head of cattle, as no sentinel was on guard. In the afternoon 30 horse came within carbine shot of the sconce (on Castle Hill), but there was no guard. One man who was there picked up a musket and shot a gentleman of note, whose body the Parliament compounded for.

On 5 July the Roundheads again came up against the sconce, and a sharp skirmish took place, which ended in the besiegers drawing off.

On 6 July Captain Hodgkins ("Wicked Will") made a sally, behaved most gallantly, and brought in seven prisoners.

On 8 July Washington, gave public notice he must open the magazine, which was done. Whalley's connection with the siege ended, and  Colonel Thomas Rainsborough was appointed to take over the command.
 
On 9 July Rainsborough held a general review of the besieging force on Rainbow Hill or Wheeler's Hill. Thirty-one carriages, ten of which were ordnance, were drawn up at Barbourne House.

On 10 July the besiegers joined up their works from Perry Wood to Red Hill Cross. One of the shots hit Edgar Tower, a long mile from the works. The Roundhead besiegers made an effort to raise a new fort on Wall's furlong, but after some fighting with the Cavaliers they failed. Tents were set up at Barbourne House, which was Rainsborough's headquarters. Rainsborough opened a fresh negotiations and civil messages passed between Rainsborough and Washington. The Cavaliers strengthened their works on Castle Hill. They placed two brass field pieces on the top of the tower commanding Windmill Hill to answer the new works there, and at the Knowie, nearer Mrs. Andrews', where the Roundheads had been erecting further batteries. Within Worcester provisions were becoming scarce. Fresh meat — beef, mutton, and veal— sold at 8d. per lb. Sir John Knotsford gave 30s. for a piece of roasting beef.

On 11 July, the fire from Rogers Hill caused great annoyance. One ball hit the Town Hall and rolled to the Earl's post, a distance of  Another hit Mr. Street's (the Town Clerk's) house.

On 13 July the Royalist defenders strengthened the works on Castle Hill.

On 15 July a small brass gun was placed on the top of the cathedral, which Henry Townshend states was done to "gall" the besiegers. Rainsborough sent in a letter offering to negotiate. Washington consented to negotiate on honourable terms, and a cessation of hostilities was agreed upon.

On 16 July the negotiations went on. A private letter intimated they might have honourable terms, but the gentry and soldiers said they should hold out to the last, so that, as Worcester had been the first city to declare for the King, it should be the last to give up his cause. The negotiations went on, the besieged insisting that Whalley should not be appointed governor if there was a surrender.

On 18 July Rainsborough sent in his terms "Articles of agreement for the surrender of the garrison of Worcester", saying they were final. On this it was proposed to fight it out, but Washington told them if it came to a storm he had only powder to last an hour's fight, but he was quite willing to hazard his own person. The mayor called a common council of the citizens to discuss the terms, and they agreed to accept terms if they were the best to be got.

Goodwin urged that by the articles of Oxford all other garrisons were entitled to as good terms, but these were in some of the details worse, and expressly objected to the exception of Sir William Russell as something quite unheard of.

Rainsborough replied that Worcester had lost the benefit of the Oxford articles by continuing to fight and not surrendering. He refused to alter the articles, or to give more than two days for the surrender.