[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Game On (The West Wing)

ll tells Sam that Horton Wilde's widow, Kate Wilde, wants assurance that a Democrat will run for the seat should a special election occur, and after further discussion, Sam tells Will that he can tell Wilde that Sam grew up in Orange County, and would be willing to run for the seat should Wilde win.

Meanwhile, the Mastico, a ship in the Mediterranean Sea bound to the nation of Qumar, was stopped by the U.S. Navy on the suspicion that it was smuggling arms to a fictional terrorist group known as the Bahji. In an attempt to get the Qumar to turn the ship around, Leo McGarry summons the Qumari Ambassador to the United Nations, Ali Nassir, to the White House, along with Leo's lawyer, Jordon Kendall. The two argue over the death of Abdul Ibn Shareef, a Qumari cabinet minister secretly assassinated by the United States, because the Qumari government was spreading disinformation that Shareef was assassinated by the Israeli government. After Nassir attempts to de-escalate by telling Leo that he knows that Bartlet couldn't admit Israel's complicity during a close election, Leo laughs, responding that to win in a landslide, all Bartlet would have to do is "blow the Sultan's brains out in Times Square, then walk across the street to Nathan's and buy a hot dog". Leo tells the ambassador that he has to turn around the Mastico, and stop attempting to link Shareef's death to Israel.

Reaction

The debate 
The A.V. Club'''s Steve Heisler praised the debate in an article published in 2012, writing that the episode "finds not only incredible humor, but catharsis". Heisler praised Bartlet's strategy of attempting to persuade, rather than pander, contrasting it with Ritchie's "ten word" answers. He described the debate as between a "guy in desperate pursuit of simplicity vs. a guy who realizes the simplest thing to do is tell the truth." Heisler also praises Bartlet's dismissal of the debate format, choosing to articulate his ideas before the American people rather than engage with Ritchie's ten word answers. He also poked fun at the opening scene, musing that "Bartlet has decided to spend his precious minutes leading to the debate fucking with Toby."The Atlantic also focuses on the debate and the difference between persuasion and pandering, although it is more critical of the way Bartlet and Ritchie are portrayed. Writing in two articles published in 2016, Megan Garber summarized the difference between the two candidates in the "Beer Question"—is a candidate able to connect with the American public on a personal level, instead of appearing smug and aloof? Would one be able to have a beer with them? However, Garber criticizes the way Ritchie is portrayed as unintelligent as well as folksy, arguing The West Wing is portraying Ritchie as a "walking... straw man, standing in for a great many of the stereotypes within which progressives are fond of packaging conservatives... He seems confused. He seems unprepared—not just for the debate, but for leadership. It is simply not a fair fight." Garber also writes that The West Wing, "for better or for worse", treats the debate as a kind of sporting event. She wraps up her pieces by saying that The West Wing still "makes a pretty good argument for choosing leaders according to their skills and their knowledge, rather than their charm", and criticizes the practice of candidates making personas for themselves.

 Jed and Abbey Bartlet 
Ben Travers, writing for IndieWire, briefly touched on "Game On" as part of a list of "15(ish) Episodes of ‘The West Wing’ To Binge View In Celebration of America", released in commemoration of Independence Day. In his review, Travers focused on Bartlet's relationship with his wife Abbey, commenting that the two "make quite the pair, both fitting a perfect mold created by Sorkin of opinionated, loving, and sly individuals joining together to better each other in ways both expected and unexpected." Travers argues that the "glory" of Bartlet beating Ritchie in the debate really belongs to Abbey, after her last-minute help in preparing Jed for the debate.

Heisler also examined the Bartlets' exchange before the debate, describing a scene where Jed Bartlet has to scramble to put on Josh's tie seconds before the debate as "the most frantic, claustrophobic scene in West Wing'' history". Heisler proceeds to poke fun at their relationship, writing that "If love isn’t a crazy woman waving the tie she just slashed from your chest, then, well, I don’t know what it is."

Sam Seaborn and Will Bailey 
Heisler compares Will Bailey to a "young Jed Bartlet", full of unflinching idealism and a willingness to "stand up for the person who didn’t even realize he needed to be stood up for, but is awfully glad someone did." He further argues that Sam is at the bar with Will instead of celebrating with the White House senior staff, and volunteering to run in the special election, because he can recognize Bailey's merit as a campaign manager and person.

References