[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# History of the French Foreign Legion

er, in June 1884, hostilities between France and China resumed at Lạng Sơn after a French force attempted to dislodge a Chinese garrison which had not withdrawn from the Tonkin region. Following the Chinese renewal of hostilities, French Prime Minister Jules Ferry began preparations for an invasion.

In 1884 two battalions of the Foreign Legion were attached to the 4th Marching Regiment of the 2nd Brigade of the Tonkin Expeditionary Corps during the Bắc Ninh Campaign.
In November 1884, a column of 700 legionnaires under command of Lieutenant-colonel Jacques Duchesne, commanding officer of the 4th Marching Regiment, proceeded up the Lô River valley. The column assaulted a Chinese fortified position along a ridge south of Tuyên Quang. Then when the column reached Tuyên Quang and a garrison was established in the town; the garrison was composed primarily of Legion forces. The column departed Tuyên Quang on November 23, 1884 and the Tuyên Quang garrison was subsequently surrounded by Black Flag forces, marking the commencement of the Siege of Tuyên Quang.

French military operations elsewhere in Indochina had been restricted by order of the French Minister of War Jean-Baptiste Campenon to the confines of the Red River Delta, however on January 3, 1885 Jules Louis Lewal succeeded Campenon as Minister of War. This permitted General Louis Brière de l'Isle to organize the Lạng Sơn expeditionary column to clear resistance along the Mandarin Road, a route from Hanoi through Lạng Sơn up to the Chinese border. Elements of the Foreign Legion were part of the Lạng Sơn Expeditionary column, again as part of the 4th Marching Regiment. This relief column set north on campaign on February 3, 1884 and began encountering resistance by February 5. The French column assaulted Chinese defensive fortifications along the Mandarin Road, however this strategy proved imprudent as these fortifications proved costly to assault directly. During these assaults, one company of the Foreign Legion lost a third of its strength including its entire officer cadre and subsequent command of the company fell to its sergeant major. At the Battle of Đồng Đăng, a Foreign Legion battalion lead the vanguard of the French advance.

Siege of Tuyên Quang
The garrison at Tuyên Quang consisted of two Legion companies, a company of Tirailleurs Tonkinois, a detachment of engineers, and a detachment of artillery in the town totaling 619 men of which 390 were Foreign Legionnaires. The garrison at Tuyên Quang was commanded by Chef de Battalion Marc-Edmond Dominé of the Bataillon d'Afrique. The garrison at Tuyên Quang had been surrounded by Black Flag trench works by January 20. A failed Chinese night assault on the French position on January 26 led to the Chinese beginning of tunneling operations commencing on February 8 to mine the French positions. On February 8 the Chinese force was reinforced by an artillery battery.

First World War

In World War I the Foreign Legion fought in many critical battles of the war, including the Battle of Verdun. The Foreign Legion was highly decorated for its efforts in the war.  Many young Americans like Fred Zinn volunteered for the Legion when the war broke out in 1914.

Outbreak of the war
At the outbreak of World War I, the Foreign Legion consisted of the 1st Foreign Regiment and the 2nd Foreign Regiment which were headquartered in Algeria at Sidi-bel-Abbès and Saida respectively. Each regiment consisted of six battalions of a 1000 men each; each regiment also had one or two Mounted Companies which, though attached to a regiment, effectively operated independently. Two companies from these regiments were garrisoned in French Indochina at the time. Also at the beginning of the war much of the Foreign Legion's strength was in Morocco as part of the French military activities there.