[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Milorad Dodik

ident Borut Pahor also came to Sarajevo and met with Dodik, Džaferović and Komšić, and stated that Slovenia will also donate 4,800 AstraZeneca COVID-19 vaccines for the pandemic.

On 21 April 2021, he received his first dose of the Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine.

Renunciation of the High Representative

On 27 May 2021, Valentin Inzko resigned from his office of the High Representative for Bosnia and Herzegovina, with German politician Christian Schmidt set to become the new High Representative on 1 August 2021, after getting nominated by the German government. This was met with disapproval by Dodik, with him stating that "we [Republika Srpska] do not accept Schmidt, everything is a simple bluff of the international community." A few days later, Dodik said that "Schmidt will have no legitimacy for Republika Srpska unless he gets confirmed by the United Nations Security Council", adding that Republika Srpska will "receive Schmidt only as a tourist if he does not get confirmed by the Security Council."

On 29 June, Bosnian Foreign Minister Bisera Turković had a heated diplomatic exchange with Russian Ambassador to the United Nations Vasily Nebenzya at a United Nations Security Council meeting in New York City. The topic of the meeting was the political situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina, with focus being on the Office of the High Representative, regarding if it's time for its closure after being created in 1995 following the Bosnian War. Her address at the Security Council was heavily criticized by Dodik. Some days before, Dodik unsuccessfully tried to prevent Turković's Security Council address, even writing a letter to Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov asking him for help.

In the last ten days of his term as High Representative, on 23 July 2021, Valentin Inzko unexpectedly imposed changes to the law banning the denial of genocide in Bosnia and Herzegovina. This was met with outrage by Bosnian Serb politicians, especially by Dodik, stating "We [Republika Srpska] are forced to go into dissolution" and repeating many times that the "genocide did not happen." As a response to Inzko's imposed law, most Serb representatives in the national institutions, led by Dodik, decided to reject Inzko's law, as well as deciding not to participate in the work of Bosnian national institutions until further notice, sparking a new political crisis in the country.

Following a United Nations Security Council meeting on 4 November 2021, Dodik vowed to sue the new High Representative Christian Schmidt, and described the meeting as a "Victory for Republika Srpska" and proving that "Christian Schmidt is the High Representative only in his mind", even though all the UN Security Council members, except Russia, expressed their support for Schmidt and his powers as High Representative.

On 26 January 2022, following a meeting on constitutional reform in Sarajevo, Dodik said that he and his party would be "willing to participate in the work of the national institutions if a law, banning calling the country's entities genocidal, was passed in Parliament."

Military helicopters controversy
In August 2021, Komšić and Džaferović, without including Dodik, instructed the Ministry of Security to be available for putting out the wildfires in Herzegovina which had formed a few days before. This came after Dodik, as the third member of the Presidency, refused to give consent on the Bosnian Armed Forces to use its military helicopters to help in putting out the fires, because the consent of all three members of the Presidency is required for the military force's helicopters to be used. His actions were met with outrage by Bosnian politicians and media, with Damir Šabanović, the municipal mayor of Jablanica, a town in risk of the wildfires, filing criminal charges against Dodik for "failing or refusing to react and committing a criminal offense by exploiting his official position and failing to perform his official duty."

On 19 August, Dodik justified himself saying that the "Helicopters are 40–50 years old. The people flying them have courage. Of course, that is not the only reason why I did not participate in the Presidency sessions. That reason is well known and it will remain so." However, on 23 August, the Bosnian Defence Minister, Sifet Podžić, reacted to Dodik's statement, saying "The helicopters are perfectly fine, the only reason they didn't help in putting out the fires is Dodik."

Withdrawal of jurisdiction

Following a forestry law passed by the Republika Srpska government, the Constitutional Court of Bosnia and Herzegovina, on 23 September 2021, ruled that the law's provision that the forests are the property of Republika Srpska was unconstitutional. Dodik criticized this decision, stating "In RS [Republika Srpska], everything outside the Constitution and Dayton [Dayton Agreement] should be annulled."