[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Eva Kaili

co-defendants, Francesco Giorgi (Kaili's boyfriend), Antonio Panzeri (an Italian former MEP and former Chair of the European Parliament Human Rights Subcommittee), and Niccolò Figà-Talamanca (a lobbyist and NGO activist) are described as pleading guilty to charges of corruption and money-laundering.

Since her incarceration, Kaili is being monitored by Haren Prison's in-house psychologists. Kaili declined to exercise her right, under Belgian law, to meet with a psychologist; however, Haren Prison staff judged it necessary for her. The psychologists were also present during Kaili's meeting with her daughter. Kaili's lawyers claim that Belgian authorities themselves are to blame for any psychological harm done to Kaili, especially in her early interrogations which the lawyers contest as being legally problematic.

On 19 January 2023, a scheduled hearing of the Court of First Instance in Brussels rejected Kaili's application to be freed from pre-trial detention and be placed under alternative measures, such as an electronic bracelet. Michalis Dimitrakopoulos (Kaili's lawyer) said: "For 16 hours she was in a police cell, and not in the prison. ... She was refused a second blanket. They took her jacket. This is torture". "The light was on all the time. She couldn't sleep." André Risopoulos (Kaili's Brussels-based lawyer) said that Kaili had been held in solitary confinement from 11 to 13 January 2023. In response to these statements by Kaili's lawyers, a spokesperson of the Belgian Federal Prosecutor's Office said: "I haven't heard anything about this in the file or at any other time".

A subsequent hearing on 16 February 2023 again rejected Kaili's request to be freed or placed under alternative measures, and decided that she should remain in pre-trial detention. Kaili had changed her Belgian lawyer from André Risopoulo to Sven Mary some time before the hearing.

Kaili was released from pre-trial detention to house arrest with an electronic bracelet on 14 April 2023. One of the main reasons that led to her release was the fact that her fingerprints were not found on the cash confiscated during the raids, while those of Kaili's co-defendants Antonio Panzeri and Francesco Giorgi were found. Her Belgian lawyer, Sven Mary, said: "I will not comment further, other than the fact that this is a sensible decision that has been too long in coming.

On 25 May, Kaili's application to lift her house arrest and obligation to wear an electronic bracelet was accepted, the release is subject to the usual conditions in such cases, as announced by the Belgian Federal Prosecutor's Office.

Controversies inside PASOK
Even before her arrest, Kaili was a controversial figure inside the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK), since she had regularly distanced herself from PASOK and adopted positions similar to those of Greek conservative parties. Following her arrest, PASOK president Nikos Androulakis described her as "a Trojan horse of New Democracy", and announced that she would not be a candidate for PASOK again.

In 2021 she was rumoured to plan a bid for the presidency of PASOK.

Personal life
Kaili and her partner Francesco Giorgi, a 35-year-old former parliamentary assistant, have a daughter born in 2021.

Notes

References

External links
 
  
 
 Member profile on the website of the S&D parliamentary group

1978 births
Living people
Politicians from Thessaloniki
Mass media people from Thessaloniki
Greek television presenters
Greek television journalists
Greek women journalists
PASOK MEPs
Greek MPs 2007–2009
Greek MPs 2009–2012
MEPs for Greece 2014–2019
MEPs for Greece 2019–2024
MPs of Thessaloniki
Women television journalists
Greek women television presenters
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki alumni
20th-century Greek women
21st-century women MEPs for Greece