[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Todd Rokita

edical board. Rokita responded that the situation was one "that 'cancels' non-compliant citizens through intimidation as well as tactics that can weaponize our respected institutions", and also argued that the duty of confidentiality may only apply to his employees and not him, the attorney general.

COVID-19 pandemic
In May 2021 during the COVID-19 pandemic, Rokita issued an opinion stating that Indiana University's implementation of a mandate to show proof of immunization violated state law. He also cited that Purdue University found a procedural loophole by not requiring vaccination status, but to participate in testing. In November 2021, Rokita filed a law suit against the Biden administration opposing a federal mandate. In April 2022, Rokita issued a statement saying that Indiana schools could not be sued for COVID-related damages. In November 2022, Rokita asked the Indiana Supreme Court to decide if students can file class-action lawsuits against Indiana’s public universities to recover tuition and fees paid for services not rendered due to cancellation of in-person classes during the pandemic.

Social media 
In December 2022, Rokita filed a lawsuit against TikTok, claiming that the platform exposes minors to age-inappropriate content and puts users' data at risk.

Political positions

Abortion 
Rokita opposes abortion and has maintained a 100% anti-abortion voting record according to the National Right to Life Committee. He stated he believes that life begins from the moment of conception "without exception".

Affordable Care Act 
In 2013, Rokita stated the Affordable Care Act was "one of the most insidious laws ever created by man".

Agriculture 
Rokita opposes direct federal government regulation of agriculture. As a former representative of a heavy-farming district in Indiana, he supported deregulating agriculture.

Cannabis
Rokita has a "D" rating from NORML for his voting history on cannabis-related causes. He opposes recreational use of marijuana, citing concern that it is a "gateway drug" to more dangerous narcotics. He expressed willingness to support legalization of some medical uses for marijuana only if the THC is removed.

Rokita is a supporter of industrial hemp, having voted to allow its production. In December 2018, he told a group of local Republicans that legalizing industrial hemp "could help the farming community".

Economy 
In 2017, Rokita voted in favor of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017.

Education
Rokita supports charter schools, school choice, and reducing the role of the Department of Education in setting education policy. In 2015, Rokita and Senator Marco Rubio introduced the Education Opportunities Act, a bill to expand choice options through the use of tax credits.

As Chairman of the Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary, and Secondary Education, he had an active role in crafting the Every Student Succeeds Act, which reauthorized the 1965 Elementary and Secondary Education Act. In May, Rokita introduced bipartisan legislation with Alcee Hastings (D-FL) to help students and parents with student loan debt. His legislation would allow student loan borrowers to refinance loans and have access to lower market rate loans.

Environment
Rokita does not accept the scientific consensus that human activity is the driving factor of climate change, and at a 2013 town-hall event called the idea that climate change was caused by human activity "arrogant". Rokita has a 4% lifetime voting rating from the League of Conservation Voters, an environmentalist group.

Guns
Rokita has stated: "I'm proud of my "A" rating from the NRA" and has said that he will "protect our 2nd Amendment right to keep and bear arms."

Health care
Rokita opposes the Affordable Care Act and voted dozens of times to repeal it during his time in Congress. While running for Indiana Attorney General in 2020, Rokita pledged to support a lawsuit to have the Affordable Care Act deemed unconstitutional.

In December 2021, Rokita appeared on station WSBT and appeared to suggest he did not trust statistics indicating that COVID-19 had killed Hoosiers, stating, "I don't believe any numbers anymore." Days later, in a series of tweets explaining the WSBT interview response, Rokita, without evidence, cited healthcare workers with financial motivations as the source of the allegedly misleading statistics and for recording deaths from other causes as COVID-19 fatalities. In the same series of tweets, Rokita thanked healthcare workers, stating they were heroes.

Immigration
In 2017, Rokita introduced the Stopping Lawless Actions of Politicians (SLAP) Act. The legislation would introduce fines and jail time for state and local politicians who implemented sanctuary city policies. The SLAP Act did not receive a vote and thus was not enacted into law.

Rokita supported President Trump's 2017 executive order temporarily banning citizens of seven Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S.