[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Enrique Peñalosa

Enrique Peñalosa Londoño (born 30 September 1954) is a Colombian politician. He was mayor of Bogotá from 1998 until 2001 and elected again in 2015 for the 2016–2019 term. He was prominently featured in the Panama Papers for use of off-shore corporations, arguing the use of the tax haven is no different from incorporating in Colombia.

Early life and education
Peñalosa was born in Washington, DC, to Cecilia Londoño and  former Minister of Agriculture and permanent ambassador for Colombia to the UN. During his childhood, Peñalosa studied at Gimnasio Campestre and the Colegio Refous. His family moved to the United States when he was 15 years old for his father's work as the ambassador of Colombia to the UN. He attended Duke University through a partial football scholarship, where he earned a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and History.

He has also worked as a journalist and consultant on urban and transportation policy. In 2009, Peñalosa was elected president of the board of directors of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP), a non-profit organization headquartered in New York. Peñalosa resigned from the ITDP board in 2015 upon his election.

Entry into politics
Peñalosa began his political life by attending youth groups of followers of the liberal presidential candidate Luis Carlos Galan in Bogotá while working for the state-owned water supply company, Empresa de Acueducto de Bogotá (EAAB). He later supported Julio César Sánchez, a Cundinamarca local political chief, who in return helped him get elected as that department's deputy.

In 1986 he was chosen by president Virgilio Barco, a friend of his father, as an economic advisor. In 1990, he ran for the congress without the support of any politician and got elected with 22,000 votes. He only remained in that position for a year because the Colombian Congress was closed on the eve of the new Colombian Constitution. However, in those 12 months, he presented many initiatives and managed to pass a reform law, a notable accomplishment for a freshman congressman.

In 1991, he decided to run for mayor of Bogotá with the same tactics he had used to gain his seat in Congress, without the support of any politicians, just by face-to-face contact while touring the city walking, biking or riding on public transportation. He ran against Jaime Castro Castro, who ultimately won the election. In 1994, Peñalosa ran for a second time against Antanas Mockus, who defeated him by a large margin.

Mayor of Bogotá (1998-2000)
In 1997, he ran a third time, now facing Carlos Moreno de Caro, winning by a close margin of votes. Peñalosa received from Mayor Mockus a city in good fiscal condition and with a District Council that was mostly independent. Enrique's brother, Gil Peñalosa, served as Commissioner of Parks under Mayor Mockus.

Peñalosa included many of his political friends in his cabinet, including longtime friend Carlos Alberto Sandoval, who had worked with him in Barco's presidency, whom he appointed as Secretary of Economy, and Gilma Jiménez in the Family Welfare Institute.  

During his mayorship he developed five megaprojects: the bank of lands, the District's system of Parks (including the Bogotá's Bike Paths Network), the District's system of libraries, the Transmilenio mass transit system, and road construction and maintenance. The impact of Peñalosa and Antanas Mockus on the development of Bogotá is described in a documentary film released in October 2009 with the title Bogotá Change. It is promoted as being "the story of two charismatic mayors, Antanas Mockus and Enrique Peñalosa who, with unorthodox methods, in less than 10 years turned one of the world's most dangerous, violent and corrupt capitals into a model city. Mockus and Peñalosa along with  key members of their staff as first hand witnesses, the film uncovers the ideas, philosophies and strategies that underlie the changes in Bogotá and which are now being exported to cities worldwide". Throughout the first half of his time as mayor, Peñalosa underwent very low approval ratings, even surviving a recall election process mid-term. As public infrastructure projects started to progress, his popularity increased very significantly, such that by the end of his term his approval ratings were some of the highest of any Bogotá mayor in recorded history.

Controversy during his first term
According to most public analysts in Colombia, Peñalosa was the third in a series of three mayors who significantly improved the public conditions in the city of Bogotá in the late 1990s. Mayor Jaime Castro finished his term with low popularity, but was able to reform the city's financial structures. This led to a period of budgetary surpluses, which continued during Antanas Mockus' term. Mockus began an important change in Bogotá's civic culture with his Cultura Ciudadana (Citizen Culture) campaign, which encouraged civic behavior and strived to create a sense of belonging for the inhabitants of the city.