[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Belgian nobility

is the highest noble title in use in Belgium. They are ranked under the princes of royal blood and members of the royal family.

Most members of the families listed below have the right to be referred to in Belgian government documents as "Prince" or "Princess" in combination with their family name.

 Prince Swiatopelk-Czetwertyński, Prince Michel Czetwertynski, Prince Alexandre Czetwertynski, Prince Tinko Czetwertynski recognised in 2007
 , Archdukes Rudolf (1950) and Carl Christian of Austria (1954), and their legitimate male-line descendants, were incorporated into Belgium's nobility as  in 1978 and 1983, respectively
 Prince of Ligne, Imperial Count 1549, Imperial prince 1601, mediatized 1803, 1923 Belgian recognition of title  by male primogeniture
 Prince de Lobkowicz, mediatized family of Bohemia whose 1624 Imperial princely title was recognized in Belgium for a member of the family who became a Belgian subject
 , Imperial Count since 1622; Heads of the house bore the titles Marquis of Westerlo since 1626 and Prince of Rubempré and Everberg since the 18th century, title of Prince of Grimbergen inherited by primogeniture from  in 1842; each member is  since 1929. Famous is prince Emmanuel de Merode, director of the Virunga National Park.
 Riquet, Prince de Chimay in 1824 and  1856 by primogeniture; uniquely, since 1889 each male bears the title , while each female born in the family is a countess
Prince of Waterloo, since 8 July 1815, held by the head of the Wellesley family, the Duke of Wellington.

Dukes
The title of Duke/Duchess of Brabant (fr: Duc(hesse) de Brabant, nl: Hertog(in) van Brabant, de: Herzog(in) von Brabant) is reserved for the heir apparent to the Belgian monarchy (and in the absence of an heir apparent, the title reverts to the Crown). Current titleholder is Princess Elisabeth.

Members of the following houses bear the title of Duke (, ). The ducal title has never been granted outside the royal family in the Kingdom of Belgium. The origin of such titles for Belgian families thus pre-dates the current monarchy, having been conferred or recognised by sovereigns of other jurisdictions.

 Duke of Arenberg, princely Imperial count 1576, Imperial duke 1644, sovereign 1803–1811, mediatised; although all family members, male and female, are both duke and prince, Belgian recognition of "prince" for all members 1953, Belgian duke by primogeniture, 1994
 Duke of Beaufort-Spontin, 1746 Austrian Netherlands title of marquis with rank of prince by primogeniture, duke in 1782 and 1876, Imperial Count 1789; family members are Count/ess de Beaufort-Spontin, Head of the House is Duke
 Duke of Croÿ, Imperial prince 1486, 1594 and 1664, French duke 1598 and 1768; each member is prince/sse de Croÿ, while the head is also the Duke
 Duke of Looz-Corswarem et de Corswarem-Looz, 1734 Austrian Netherlands dukedom; mediatised, other members of this ducal branche are prince/sse; members of a second branch are count/ess of Looz-Corswarem; members of a third branche are écuyer de Corswarem
 Duke of Ursel, Imperial Count 1638. Only the head of this family is Duke; any other member is count/ess.

Marquesses
Members of twelve families bear today the title of marquess. These titles have origins prior to the French Revolution and used to be connected to physical marquisates. In most of these families, the title descends by male primogeniture.

Counts
The titles Count of Hainault and Count of Flanders, historically associated with major provinces of what is now Belgium, are used as dynastic titles for members of the Belgian royal family.

Count is the highest-ranked title still granted by the Belgian monarch. There are approximately 90 families in Belgium where at least one of the members bears the title of count or countess.

Viscounts
There are approximately 45 families in Belgium where at least one of the members bears the title of Viscount.

Barons
More than 300 individuals bear the title of Baron or Baroness. The title may descend either by masculine primogeniture or to all legitimate descendants in the male-line of the original title-holder.

Knights
In Belgium there are roughly 200 knights (, ). The title has no female equivalent.

Écuyer, Jonkheer/Jonkvrouw
,  (Dutch, originally meaning "young lord") is the lowest Belgian title recognised by law. Many cadet members of important houses are styled with this title, this happens when the head of the family is styled higher.

Foreign titles in Belgium
Foreign titles granted to Belgians are not recognised and have no value in Belgium. The port by a Belgian citizen of a foreign title is punishable under article 230 of the Penal Code.