[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hudson Hornet

s were built on a  shorter and slightly lighter Statesman/Wasp four-door sedan and two-door hardtop platform with Hornet trim.

The 1956 design failed to excite buyers and Hudson Hornet sales decreased to 8,152 units, of which 6,512 were four-door sedans and 1,640 Hollywood two-door hardtops.

1957 

In 1957, the historic Hudson name came only in a Hornet model in either "Super" and "Custom" trims available in a four-door sedan or a two-door "Hollywood" hardtop body styles. For the second year, the V-Line styling featured an enormous egg-crate grille, creases and chrome strips on the body sides, and was available in one of five tri-tone schemes for the Custom models. There was more ornamentation to the cars, including fender "finettes" atop the rounded rear quarter panels for 1957, along with unusual "twin-fin" trim on top of both front fenders.

The price was reduced and the power was increased by way of AMC's new  V8 that was rated at  with a four-barrel carburetor and dual exhausts.

Prompted by Automobile Manufacturer Association ban on factory-supported racing beginning in 1957, production of Hudson Hornet ended on 25 June 1957, at which time the Hudson brand name with its racing heritage was discontinued and all American Motors Corporation automobiles were then marketed as being made by "Rambler" Division. Total production of 1957 Hornets was 4,108, split between 3,359 sedans and 749 Hollywood Hardtops.

Foreign markets 
The Hudson Hornet was sold in foreign markets, either exported as complete cars or locally built from knock-down kits.

Australia

The Hornet was introduced to the Australian market in 1955.

Canada
Canadian assembly of Hudson vehicles commenced in 1932 by Hudson Motors of Canada in Tilbury, Ontario. World War II interrupted operations and production ceased in 1941. Post-war operations resumed in 1950, with Hudsons being assembled by CHATCO Steel Products in Tilbury, Ontario. Operations in Tilbury ceased permanently in 1954 following the formation of American Motors Corporation. As a result of the merger, Toronto-based Nash Motors of Canada Ltd. became American Motors (Canada) Ltd. and all subsequent Hudson, Nash, and Rambler assembly operations continued in Toronto.

New Zealand

Hudson vehicles were imported into New Zealand from 1912 and eventually locally assembled from knock-down kits from 1919. 

From 1935, Hudson and other marques were assembled by Christchurch company Motor Assemblies Limited. Production ended when Standard-Triumph International acquired the company in 1954. From 1954 the Hudson Hornet was built in New Zealand by Auckland company VW Motors as a secondary line to the Volkswagens they assembled. AMC's subsequent Rambler models were assembled thereafter at VW Motors' new plant in Otahuhu, Auckland from 1958 until 1962. AMC formed an agreement in 1963 with Campbell Motor Industries (CMI) of Thames to assemble Ramblers, production of which ran from 1964 until 1971.

South Africa

Hudson vehicles were assembled in South Africa beginning in the 1920s by Stanley Motors at their plant, National Motor Assemblers (NMA), in Natalspruit (Gauteng). The Hudson Hornet was assembled in right-hand-drive from knock-down kits sourced from Canada. After the Hudson and Nash merger, NMA continued to assemble AMC's new Ramblers until 1967, although the 1957 Rambler was instead marketed in South Africa as the "Hudson 108."

United Kingdom
Hudsons were introduced to the United Kingdom in 1911 and eventually, a factory was built where Hudson (and Essex) vehicles were locally assembled from 1927. The British company was renamed Hudson Motors Ltd. in 1932.

The Hudson Hornet was assembled in right-hand-drive for the U.K. market and other European countries. Following the demise of the Hudson marque, the British company was renamed Rambler Motors (A.M.C.) Limited in 1966 and continued to import AMC vehicles through the 1970s.

Legacy 

The 1951 Hudson Hornet was selected as the "Car of the Year" in a book profiling seventy-five years of noteworthy automobiles by automotive journalist Henry Bolles Lent.

The Disney/Pixar film Cars and several spin-off video games featured a Fabulous Hudson Hornet named Doc Hudson, a retired Piston Cup champion voiced by Paul Newman, who was an avid auto-racing enthusiast. The Piston Cup is the film franchise's version of the Winston Cup Series, which changed names several times since its inception.

The Hudson Hornet was well-known for being seen in games such as Driver: San Francisco, Forza Horizon 4, and Forza Motorsport 4 as a part of the July Car Pack.

Revivals of Hornet model name
For the 1970 model year, American Motors resurrected the Hornet name for their new compact car that replaced the Rambler American (see AMC Hornet).

In 2006, a small, front-wheel-drive concept car called Hornet was designed and developed by Dodge.