[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2002 BDO World Darts Championship

t. King made checkouts of 116 and 153 to lead 3–1 at the mid-session interval. A 121 checkout and two maximum scores from King increased his lead over Monk to 4–1. He then achieved another maximum score and hit the double four ring to win 5–1 and become the first player to earn a berth in the final.

The second semi-final was held between Adams and David. Adams took the opening set 3–0 and David commenced the second set by winning its first leg. Adams equalled the second set 2–2 by David hit the double ten leg on his second attempt to claim the set. David won the following three sets to go 4–1 ahead and put himself requiring another set to enter the final. Afterwards, Adams clinched three consecutive legs to win set six. He then compiled checkouts of 158 and 121 to equal the score at 4–4 and end the match with a ninth set. David led the final set 2–1 before Adams forced a final leg decider. David won two legs on a tie-break and struck the double 20 ring after Adams missed two opportunities to hit the double 16 ring to claim a 5–4 victory and progress to the final.

Final

The final played between David and King on 13 January was held to the best-of-11 sets. During the match, which took place before a crowd of 1,200 spectators, an 81 checkout and a 12-dart finish won David the first set 3–2 after King's dart did not strike the double 20 ring in leg four. King took the second set 3–1 when David missed three dart throws to the double 10 ring. David responded to claim the following four sets to put himself within a solitary set of claiming the championship. The next three sets were claimed by King with a checkout of 161 and respective finishes on the double four and double eight rings; David had missed three chances of finishing the match early after nine sets on the double 20 ring. During the tenth set both players equalled the scoreline before David successfully threw a dart on the double 18 ring to hold a 2–1 advantage. After King was unable to attain scoring opportunities David hit the single 20 section, and missed his first attempt to hit the double 10 ring when a dart landed outside the board. He hit the double 10 ring on the second attempt to win the match 6–4 and the tournament.

David became the first Australian to win the BDO world championship, and the first non-European player to do so since Canadian, John Part. He won £48,000 for his success, saying, "It was unbelievable. When I was younger I had a dream. I dreamt that I would win three competitions. The first was the Townsville Open, which I won a few days later. The second was the Australian Open in Geelong, which took me two or three years. And the last was the Embassy World Professional championship. And now I've done it." King said David deserved to win the tournament, "Believe me, this man is a very, very worthy champ", and added, "He just bashed me up."

The press reviewed the match positively and David was called "The People's Champion" in a similar fashion to Alex Higgins in snooker. Jon Wilde of The Independent and The Guardian's Ian Malin noted David had become "one of the game's most unlikely heroes" by winning the tournament due to his blood-clotting disorder that caused him to spend a majority of his early years hospitalised and doctors told his parents it was unlikely he would reach his teenage years. Bruce Wilson writing for the Herald Sun called David's victory "a true Cinderella story" because he was ranked 18th in the world and considered a 66–1 outsider. Bobby George, writing in his BBC Sport online column, agreed David deserved to win and criticised King's performance in the final.

Women's tournament

All four of the quarter-finals of the women's tournament took place on 5 January and ended in 2–0 whitewashes. In a rematch of the 2001 final, tournament favourite Gulliver played Solomons. Gulliver won all of the match's legs to become the first player through to the semi-finals. Pruim overcame a challenge from Robbins in the second quarter-final match. World number two Hoenselaar averaged 26.14 points per dart and accurately threw darts on the double rings en route to defeating Bromberg. The final quarter-final saw Greatbatch defeat 2001 semi-finalist Howat after overcoming a challenge from her opponent to equal the score at 2–2 in the second set.

In the semi-finals, held between 10 and 11 January, Gulliver defeated Pruim 2–1. Pruim won the match's first three legs to take a 1–0 lead. Gulliver then won the second set and equalled the final set decider 2–2 by throwing darts on the single 20 and double 20 rings before winning the match to enter the final. The other semi-final saw Hoenselaar overhaul Greatbatch 2–1. Hoenselaar was unchallenged early on and claimed the first set. Hoenselaar threw 35 darts to claim the victory as Greatbatch could not initiate a response.