[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Joël Epalle

Joël Dieudonné Martin Epalle Newaka (born 20 February 1978) is a Cameroonian football manager and former player who manages Val d'Europe FC.

He mainly played as a right midfielder, but throughout his career he also played as a second striker, more noticeably during his first spell at Iraklis. He was born in Matomb, Cameroon and played youth football in Cameroonian club Union Douala, the team for which he made his senior debut. After his spell in Cameroon, in 1998, he moved to Greece where he played football for several clubs including Ethnikos, Panachaiki, Aris, Panathinaikos and Iraklis in a time span of nine and a half years. Subsequently, in January 2007, he moved to Bundesliga outfit VfL Bochum where he played for three and a half years. After a brief stay at Azerbaijani club FK Baku, in January 2011 he returned to Greece to have a second spell at Iraklis. Epalle was Iraklis' top-scorer for the 2005–06 season. Started at the end of March 2012, he made his first appearance and play for Sarawak FA alongside his fellow Cameroon friend, Guy Bwele.

Epalle won 31 caps for Cameroon. He was a member of the Cameroon side that won the gold medal in the 2000 Summer Olympics football tournament. Epalle was also a member of the Cameroon squad that won the 2002 African Cup of Nations.

Club career

Early career
He began his career in his local team called Union Douala.

Ethnikos
Epalle signed for Greek club Ethnikos in December 1997. Until the end of the season Epalle played in 16 matches for the club of Piraeus. In his second season for the club, Epalle continued appearing regularly, totalling 23 matches, not managing to help his club avoid relegation. In the Beta Ethniki Epalle managed to score his first goal for Ethnikos, in a match against Apollon Kalamarias. He managed to score two more, before leaving the club during the winter transfer window for Panachaiki.

Panachaiki
During the winter transfer window of the 1999-00 season Epalle signed for Panachaiki. He signed a two-year contract on a free transfer, on 26 January 2000, after gaining his freedom from Ethnikos, due to the club's debt to him. Epalle debuted for Panachaiki on 29 January 2000, in a 0–2 home win against Olympiacos. In his first season in Patras Epalle featured in 15 league matches and scored two goals. Epalle played for Panachaiki for almost two years and totalled three goals out of 44 appearances.

Aris
Epalle left them for Aris Saloniki.

Panathinaikos
After being released from Aris, Epalle signed a four-year contract for Greek club Panathinaikos in July 2003, stating his ambition to win trophies for Panathinaikos. Epalle made his debut for Panathinaikos in the first round of the 2003–04 season, as he was in the starting lineup in Panathinaikos' 1–0 home win against Skoda Xanthi. He scored his first goal for Panathinaikos in a 6–3 home win against Panionios for the fifteenth round of the 2003–04 season. Until the end of the season Epalle appeared in 15 league matches scoring one goal. He also played his first match in a European competition as he came in at halftime of a 5–0 away defeat against Manchester United. In the next season Epalle did not get any chances in the league, and he only appeared in two Champions League matches. On 7 January 2005, Epalle was released by Panathinaikos, to empty a foreign player's spot, so the club would be able to sign Brazilian defensive midfielder Anderson de Lima Freitas.

Iraklis
Briefly after his release Iraklis decided to sign him.