[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Azar Gat

cess of modernization, and liberal democracy affect war? The book was chosen by the Times Literary Supplement (TLS) as one of the books of the year for 2006, and has been translated into Japanese, Korean and Chinese.

The Struggles of Democracies against Their Non-Democratic Rivals (Past and Future)

Gat’s 2010 book Victorious and Vulnerable: Why Democracy Won in the 20th Century and How it is still Imperiled? examines the reasons for the democracy’s ascendence in the world during the last two centuries, and the relevance of this process to the question of the future development of China and Russia in the 21st century. In addition, the book analyzes the dangers of unconventional terrorism. Victorious and Vulnerable won the book of the year award of the Israeli Political Science Association for 2010. The return of the authoritarian-capitalist great powers to the international arena was at the center of two articles published by Gat in the journal Foreign Affairs in 2007 and 2009, at a time when most researchers believed that the final victory of democracy had already been achieved.

The Phenomenon of Nationalism

Gat’s 2013 book Nations: The Long History and Deep Roots of Political Ethnicity and Nationalism (with Alexander Yakobson), refutes the claim that nationalism is a purely artificial, if not completely manipulative, modern phenomenon. The book shows that the close relationship between ethnicity and the state has existed since the appearance of states at the beginning of history. Modernity led to the tightening of national ties and their empowerment through the concepts of popular sovereignty and civil equality. However, the book argues that there is no basis for the claim that national ties - which in the past as in the present have always given rise to powerful manifestations of collective identity, sacrifice and devotion - are new or superficial. The book has been translated into Spanish, Turkish and Korean.

The Causes of War

Gat’s 2017 book The Causes of War and the Spread of Peace: But Will War Rebound? lays out the system of human motivations that lead to war, a subject that has hitherto been completely neglected in the literature of international relations. The book shows how the process of modernization in the last two centuries has resulted in a continuous decrease in the incidence of war since 1815 because it has changed the relative attractiveness between the three fundamental strategies of human social behavior: cooperation, peaceful competition, and violent conflict. The book also explains the major exception to this trend: the two world wars. Gat refutes the popular belief that war has become more expensive and more costly in the modern industrial age and shows instead that it is peace that has become more profitable.

Ideological Fixation

In his recent book Ideological Fixation: From the Stone Age to Today's Culture Wars (2022), Gat again combines knowledge from a variety of disciplines. The book attempts to resolve the paradox according to which everyone recognizes the phenomenon of ideological fixation and the bias in the factual interpretation of reality it involves, and yet, so often, fall victim to it.

Publications

Books

Journal articles

References

External links
The Return of Authoritarian Capitalists, op-ed in NY Times, June 14, 2007
Interview with Gat on "New Books in History"
Azar Gat's research while affiliated with Tel Aviv University and other places

1959 births
Living people
Theoretical historians
Israeli military historians
Academic staff of Tel Aviv University
University of Haifa alumni