[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Biblioteca Nacional de Portugal

responsible for the provision of a more varied range of services to both Portuguese culture and the public in general – among other ways, via the Online Catalogue of our collections and the Digital National Library – and the professionals in the publishing and information and documentation sectors.

To this end the BNP acts as the National Bibliographic Agency, which is responsible for the mandatory legal deposit of publications and the country's ISSN, ISMN and CIP (Cataloguing in Publication) services, the recording and dissemination of the Portuguese National Bibliography, and the coordination and management of PORBASE – the National Bibliographic Database. In this respect it has also undertaken a variety of actions that help to promote the professional development of libraries, in conjunction with its role as the body with responsibility for national standards concerning documentation and information in Portugal.

Protecting and enhancing the country's bibliographic heritage are another two fundamental aspects of the BNP's mission, in its dual role as the entity that is responsible for preserving and controlling that heritage and the keeper of Portugal's largest collection of bibliographic treasures. It is also charged with studying and publicising the latter in Portugal and abroad, which is accomplished by means of a range of projects involving inter-institutional cooperation, exhibitions, research activities and publications.

Collections 

The National Library of Portugal is the largest library in the country and a prestigious institution on the cultural scene. It collects, processes and preserves the nation's bibliographic heritage and makes it available to the intellectual and scientific community.

The National Library of Portugal has a wide variety of collections that encompass documentation from every era, of every type and on every subject. A combination of the legal deposit system, acquisitions and donations mean that the holdings are constantly evolving. A special emphasis is placed on Portuguese works.

General collection 
The General Collection is the BNP's largest, with more than 3 million items, most of which are Portuguese publications. It covers the period from the 16th to the 21st centuries.
Initially composed of the holdings of the Library of the Royal Board of Censorship and the libraries of convents that were abolished in 1834, the collection is divided into sections of monographs by major topic, a set of special collections that have been donated to us over the years, and a huge collection of 50,000 Portuguese periodical titles and around 240 foreign ones.
The General Collection systematically contains everything that has been published in Portugal and provided to the Library under the Legal Deposit system since 1931. It also includes the theses and other academic works produced at Portugal's universities, which have also been subject to mandatory legal deposit since 1986.

Rare Books and Manuscripts 
The various collections that we generically term "Rare books and manuscripts" encompass the most valuable and important heritage assets in the BNP's holdings. 
The collection of Manuscripts is currently actually made up of six collections, with library and archive documents of various genres and types and with a wide range of origins, from the 12th century to the present day. The overall collection contains a total of around 15,000 codices and 36,000 sundry manuscripts. 
The collection of rare Printed Books is made up of a selection of works whose rarity, age or publishing characteristics earn them a place in the BNP's "Valuable Reserve" of printed books, which numbers more than 30,000 items. There are two main sections, which are divided on the basis of age: up until 1500 (Incunabula); and printed since 1501 (Rare books). They also have a number of other collections, which are grouped on the basis of a number of different criteria, such as subject, printer, or special characteristics. 
The Historical Archive contains archive documents from a variety of sources, with an emphasis on personal and family archives. The oldest documents date from the 11th century. In total there are around 466 separate collections (or parts of collection). The BNP's own Historical Archive is included under this heading. 
The Archive of Contemporary Portuguese Culture (ACPC) is currently home to the collections of personal papers of 148 writers and other figures from the 19th and 20th centuries. Leading names include Fernando Pessoa, Eça de Queirós, Camilo Castelo Branco, Camilo Pessanha, Antero de Quental, Oliveira Martins, Jaime Cortesão, Raul Proença, Vitorino Nemésio, Vergílio Ferreira and José Saramago, among others.