[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Liu Hulan

he initiative to take care of him. Liu Hulan often went to cook and apply medicine for Wang Gengu. They had a lot of contacts and they fell in love. In those days, in the countryside where feudal ideology was more serious, this kind of behavior showed exactly an anti-feudal emancipation of the mind.

Because of the dangerous war environment and Liu Hulan's young age, her marriage with Wang Gengu has not yet been discussed. At that time, Commander Wang gave Liu Hulan's family only a blanket, a pen and a pair of glasses as a pledge. He gave Liu Hulan a small handkerchief as a souvenir when he returned to the army for combat. Liu Hulan handed the handkerchief to his stepmother, Hu Wenxiu, as the most precious item before he was sentenced to death. After Liu Hulan was murdered, Liu Guangqian, the elder uncle, managed to match ghost marriage according to local customs and sacrifices together.

Death 
On January 12, 1947, the Kuomintang army under Yan Xishan invaded her village in response to the assassination of Shi Peihuai, the village chief of Yunzhouxi, who was known to be loyal to the Kuomintang.  Upon entering the village, Kuomintang soldiers rounded up several reputed Communist Party members believed to be involved in the assassination, among them the teenager Liu Hulan.  The party members were decapitated in the town square.  Before killing Liu Hulan, the executioners paused, giving her one final chance to renounce her allegiance to the Communist Party.  She refused and was immediately beheaded.  She was 14 years old.

Significance 
On February 6, 1947, Jinsui Daily published a detailed report on Liu Hulan's heroic inauguration and issued a comment calling on all Communist Party members and the military and civilians of the Liberated Areas to learn from Liu Hulan. On the same day, the Yenan Liberation Daily also published an article entitled "As long as there is a breath of life, we must do it for the people to the end - female Communist Party member Liu Hulan generously righteous". The Jinsui Branch of the CPC Central Committee has endorsed Liu Hulan as a full member of the CPC.            On March 26, 1947, during Mao Zedong's transition to northern Shaanxi under the leadership of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, Ren Bishi, Secretary of the Central Secretariat, reported to him Liu Hulan's heroic deeds. Mao Zedong asked, "Is she a Party member?" Ren Bishi said, "He is an excellent Communist Party member, only 15 years old." Moved deeply, Mao Zedong wrote eight big words: "the greatness of life and the glory of death".
Comrade Deng Xiaoping inscribed: "Liu Hulan's noble qualities and her spiritual outlook will always be an example for Chinese youth and adolescents to learn from."
On February 2, 1994, General Secretary Jiang Zemin inscribed Liu Hulan during his inspection in Shanxi Province: "Carry forward the spirit of Hulan and devote oneself to the great cause of Four Modernizations." 
The life and death of Liu Hulan has become a symbol of the courage of the Chinese people, and is often cited as a homily of their loyalty to Communism. Her story is often told as an homage to the struggles endured, and the sacrifices made, for the cause of liberating China from centuries of rule by foreign powers.  In recent history, Chinese political leaders have praised her heroism as the reason why the Chinese Communist Party has risen to take a dominant place in the politics and culture of modern China. 
She is the subject of a 1949 opera, remade in 1954: Liu Hulan.