[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# List of social nudity places in North America

TX.  northeast of Houston 
 Wildwood Naturists Resort, Decatur
 Freedom RV in Pleasanton, TX
 Healthy Hides, nonlanded nudist group affiliated with AANR.
 Purple Peacock Resort, Palestine, TX

Utah
 Fifth Water Hot Springs, aka Diamond Fork Hot Springs, about 75 minutes southeast of Salt Lake City.

Vermont
Vermont state law prohibits disrobing in public but does not prohibit public nudity, so nudity is allowed anywhere that it has not been specifically prohibited by a city or town. The city of Burlington, for example, has prohibited nudity in public parks, but nudity is allowed anywhere else in the city. Specific locations at which individuals practice social nudity include:
 The Gargoyle House in Wells River, Vermont. A clothing-optional retreat for men open year-round.
 Abbotts Glen-Permanently Closed in Halifax
 Coventry Club and Resort Was a family-oriented nudist resort in Milton.It was closed at the end of the season in 2022.
 The Ledges, on the Harriman Reservoir in Wilmington
 The Rock River in Newfane off route 30 has a series of swimming holes.  After the first clothed family swimming hole the rest are nude for families, mixed men and women, and finally gay men.  River access is curated by Rock River Preservation Inc.
 Red Rocks Park in South Burlington
 Starr Farm Beach in Burlington
 Knight Island, an island in Lake Champlain just off St. Albans
 Maple Glen in Sheldon Springs closed as a family-oriented nudist camp in May 2010 due to water quality issues. In April 2010 the camp applied for an Act 250 permit to approve already existing buildings on the property. In August 2014, it was revealed that it would reopen as a non-nudist campground.
 Willoughby Lake in Westmore, south end, small crescent beach within Willoughby State Forest. Small parking lot or park along route 5A and follow the footpath to the beach.

Virginia
 White Tail Resort in Ivor

Washington

 Lake Bronson Club is a  family nudist-park nestled in the Cascade foothills,  northeast of Seattle.
 Tiger Mountain Family Nudist Park is a recreational park at Tiger Mountain,  east of Seattle.
 Arcadia Romantic Getaway is a private Greek themed Nudist Resort established in 1994 and located in Arcadia Washington  east of Shelton, Wa. The resort sometimes hosts Couples only weekends that are geared more towards a relaxed sensual environment.
 Triangle Recreation Camp, established in 1975, is a tent camping and RV park for gay, lesbian, and transgender people, at the foothills of the Cascades,  east of Granite Falls.
 Dogfish Beach near Bellingham on Chuckanut Drive is a well known nude beach.
 Denny Blaine Beach and Howell Park are very popular nude beaches in Seattle. They are nearby each other in the Denny-Blaine neighborhood and close to Kurt Cobain's old house.

West Virginia
 Avalon Resort is a more than  clothing-optional resort on a mountainside in the eastern panhandle of West Virginia in Paw Paw.

Wisconsin
 Toadally Natural Garden near Hartford
 Mazo Beach on the Wisconsin River was in regular use by nudists, but it was closed to the public by the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources in March 2016.
 Valley View Recreation Club near Cambridge
 Camp NCN in Black River Falls claims to be a "sexual freedom" campground, allowing not only nudity, but also public sexual activity on the grounds. The encouragement of public sexual activity is contrary to traditional naturism.

See also 

 Indecent exposure in the United States
 Female toplessness in Canada, United States
 List of social nudity places in South America

Notes

References

Sources

External links
 American Association for Nude Recreation
 ClothesFree International
 The Naturist Society Foundation
 Federation of Canadian Naturists
 Federacion Nudista de México AC

Naturism in the United States
North America
North America
Social nudity
Lists of places