[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richard M. Berman

over the criminal jury trial of Turkish citizen Mehmet Hakan Atilla. Atilla was convicted of 5 out of 6 counts in the Indictment, including conspiracies to evade U.S. sanctions against Iran and to defraud the United States, and bank fraud. Atilla was sentenced on May 16, 2018 to 32 months in prison.

NFL Management Council v. NFL Players Association ("Deflategate")
Berman presided over New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady's case involving a four-game suspension levied against him by the National Football League for Brady's alleged role in the 2015 "Deflategate" matter. After unsuccessful efforts to bring about a settlement, Berman overturned Brady's suspension in an opinion dated September 3, 2015, finding significant legal deficiencies attending Brady's suspension.  These included the NFL's disregard of the rules and penalties regarding handling of footballs once they have left the locker room; denial of the opportunity for Brady to examine one of the two lead NFL investigators; and denial of access to investigative files. On April 25, 2016, a panel of the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit reversed on the grounds that the Players Association had signed an arbitration agreement, and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell's authority to implement the suspension. In dissent, Chief Judge Robert Katzmann determined that it was improper for the NFL Commissioner to review in arbitration his own decision to suspend Brady.

United States v. Kurniawan
Berman has presided over two landmark wine cases. One involved Rudy Kurniawan, who was convicted of counterfeiting fine wines in December 2013 following a jury trial, and sentenced to a term of incarceration.

Swedenburg v. Kelly
The second wine case involved a challenge to New York State liquor laws which prohibited out of state wineries from selling directly to consumers within New York. In November 2002, Berman held that New York's direct ban on such out of state wine sales was unconstitutional, as "[t]he New York regime constitutes a cut and dry example of direct discrimination against interstate commerce."  The ruling was upheld by the Supreme Court of the United States in Granholm v. Heald.

United States v. Siddiqui
Berman presided over the case against Aafia Siddiqui, a Pakistani citizen and graduate of MIT and Brandeis University, who was convicted by a jury in 2010 of attempted murder of U.S. officials in Afghanistan, and sentenced to lengthy incarceration.

New York Taxi Workers Alliance v. New York City Taxi & Limousine Commission
In September 2007, Berman denied the NYC cab driver association's application to prevent the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission from requiring that all taxicabs must be installed with credit- and debit-card readers.

MacWade v. Kelly
In December 2005, following a bench trial, Berman ruled that random police searches of riders' backpacks and bags on the New York City subway system do not violate the U.S. Constitution.

Gershkovich v. Iocco 
Alex Gershkovich, a photographer involved in the Occupy Wall Street movement, sued two NYPD officers and the City of New York claiming that he was arrested without probable cause while photographing police activity in a public place. Berman, in a summary judgment decision dated July 17, 2017, determined that the right to record police activity in public areas was "clearly established" at the time of Gerskovich's arrest. The parties reached a settlement in November 2017.

Gordon v. Softech International, Inc. 
After having determined that the Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994 ("DPPA") is not a "strict liability" statute, Berman presided over the civil jury trial against defendants Arcanum Investigations, Inc. and its executive director.  On April 24, 2015, the jury found that defendants, who are resellers of DMV information were not liable.  They had used reasonable care in providing plaintiff's information to a third party.  By summary order, dated April 15, 2016, the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the judgment entered in connection with the jury's verdict.

United States v. D'Souza
Berman presided in the Dinesh D'Souza campaign finance case in May 2014. On the eve of trial, D'Souza pleaded guilty to campaign finance violations, (arranging straw donors), and was sentenced in September 2014 to five years of probation, $30,000 fine, and community service.

Ideal Steel Supply Corporation v. Anza
In June 2002, Berman dismissed a civil RICO suit against National Steel Supply, Inc., finding that plaintiff Ideal Steel failed to show that it had relied upon National Steel Supply's alleged misrepresentations to the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance.  The decision was affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 5, 2006.