[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lúcio Lara

nway at Luanda Airport when the delegation plane landed. Lara's delegation served to prepare the visit of Agostinho Neto to Luanda, the first visit of the party chief after the Carnation Revolution. Neto landed in the capital on 4 February 1975, being received by an even larger number of supporters.

On the date of Angola's independence, Lara was elected president of the Constituent Assembly. He enacted the Constitution of Angola on 10 November 1975. In addition, he conducted Angola's first formal presidential election (indirect), won by Agostinho Neto. On the same date, Neto was sworn in by Lara as the first President of Angola. Lara remained president of parliament until 1977.

In the purge of Fractionism between June 1977 and mid-1979, ordered by Agostinho Neto, "an undisclosed number of people, sometimes estimated to be in the tens of thousands, were executed". Though the work of arresting, jailing, torturing and killing dissidents, real or imagined, was ordered by Neto, and carried out by lower-level cadres, it is generally accepted that the operation was directed by Lara, Minister of Defence Iko Carreira, Head of DISA Ludy Kissassunda and Kissassunda's Deputy Henrique de Carvalho Santos (Onambwe).

On 10 December 1977, despite the tragic results of the purge, Lara was re-elected to the central committee of the MPLA, which made him the second most important member of the political bureau (after only Neto) and vice-president of the party, being responsible for the organization and the ideological sector.

Angola's presidency and end of political career 

On the date of Agostinho Neto's death, Lara was the highest member of the political bureau and vice-president of the MPLA. With this, he assumed, on an interim basis, the functions of president of the party, and, by extension, president of the People's Republic of Angola. He urgently convened the 2nd MPLA Congress on 11 September 1979, working hard for the election of José Eduardo dos Santos, which occurred on September 20 of that same year. He rejected all proposals made to him to effectively take over the leadership of the country.

In 1980 he was re-elected member of the MPLA's central committee, political bureau and secretary of organization. In addition, he was elected chairman of the intergovernmental council of the Pan-African News Agency (PanaPress), a position he held for 5 years. In the same year, he was elected deputy representing the province of Moxico. While in this term, he was responsible for the special parliamentary commission for coffee production and the permanent parliamentary health commission.

In 1985, Angolan President José Eduardo dos Santos removes him from the MPLA's political bureau, remaining only on the party's central committee, in what is called an Edwardian internal political purge against adversaries. In March 1986, he assumed the functions of 1st secretary of the National Assembly. He remained in this role until 1992, when he left public life.

Retirement and death 

After leaving a political career, Lara dedicated himself to organizing her historical and documental collection about the independence process and the formation of Angola, creating the Tchiweka Documentation Association (ATD). In 1996 he released the memoir "For a broad movement…", with a preface by his wife Ruth.

He died in the Angolan capital on 27 February 2016, aged 86.

Personal life 
His only wife was the German-Angolan teacher Ruth Manuela Pflüger Rosemberg Lara, with whom he had three children: Paulo, Wanda and Bruno. Ruth died of natural causes in 2000. With Ruth, in the 1960s, she adopted a Brazzaville-Congolese child Jean-Michel Mabeko Tali.

References

External links
 "A vida de Lúcio Lara".

1929 births
2016 deaths
Angolan people of Portuguese descent
Angolan revolutionaries
Presidents of Angola
Angolan communists
MPLA politicians
People from Huambo