[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 22]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

awoke to a
strange retrospective sense of solitude, feeling a new pity for the
eager little child of years ago, who had wandered up to the garret, late
at night, to watch the moonlight spread its white shroud over the hills.

With every moment spent in the society of Valeria Du Prel, new and
clearer light seemed to Hadria, to be thrown upon all the problems of
existence; not by any means only through what Miss Du Prel directly
said, but by what she implied, by what she took for granted, by what she
omitted to say.

"It seems like a home-coming from long exile," Hadria wrote to her
sister. "I have been looking through a sort of mist, or as one looks at
one's surroundings before quite waking. Now everything stands out sharp
and cut, as objects do in the clear air of the South. Ah me, the South!
Miss Du Prel has spent much of her life there, and my inborn smouldering
passion for it, is set flaming by her descriptions! You remember that
brief little fortnight that we spent with mother and father in Italy? I
seem now to be again under the spell of the languorous airs, the
cloudless blue, the white palaces, the grey olive groves, and the art,
the art! Oh, Algitha, I must go to the South soon, soon, or I shall die
of home sickness! Miss Du Prel says that this is only one side of me
breaking out: that I am northern at heart. I think it is true, but
meanwhile the thought of the South possesses me. I confess I think
mother had some cause to be alarmed when she saw Miss Du Prel, if she
wants to keep us in a chastened mood, at home. It seems as if all of me
were in high carnival. Life is raised to a higher power. I feel nearly
omnipotent. Epics and operas are child's play to me! It is true I have
produced comparatively few; but, oh, those that are to come! I feel fit
for anything, from pitch-and-toss to manslaughter. I think of the two, I
rather lean to the manslaughter. Oh, I don't mean it in the facetious
sense! that would be a terrible downfall from my present altitudes. To
such devices the usual wretched girl, who has never drawn rebellious
breath, or listened to the discourses of Valeria Du Prel, has to turn
for a living, or to keep _ennui_ at bay. But _I_, no, the inimical
sex may possess their souls in peace, as far as I am concerned. They might
retort that they never _had_ felt nervous, but a letter has the same
advantage as the pulpit: the adversary can never get up and contradict.

"That ridiculous adversary, Harold Wilkins, is staying again at
Drumgarren, and I hear from Mrs. Gordon that he thinks it very strange
that I should see so much of so extraordinary a person as Miss Du Prel!
Opinions differ of course; _I_ think it very strange that the Gordons
should see so much of so ordinary a person as Mr. Wilkins. Everybody
makes much of him here, and, alas! all the girls run after him, and even
fall in love with him; why, I can't conceive. For if driven by dire
compulsion of fate, to bend one's thoughts upon _some_ prosaic example
of that prosaic sex, why not choose one of the many far more attractive
candidates available--the Gordons, the McKenzies, and so forth? When I
go to tennis parties with mother--they are still playing upon the
asphalte courts--and see the little dramas that go on, the jealousies
and excitements, and general much-ado-about-nothing, I can scarcely
believe that Miss Du Prel really belongs to the same planet as ours. But
I don't feel so contemptuous as I did; it is so pitiful. Out of my great
wealth I can afford to be more generous.

"And when I see those wretched girls fluttering round Mr. Wilkins, I no
longer turn up my 'aughty nose' (as old Mrs. Brooks used to say). I only
think to myself, 'Heavens and earth! what an aching, empty life those
young women must lead, if they are actually reduced for interest and
amusement to the utterances of Mr. Wilkins!' They would have the pull of
one though, if the utterances of Mr. Wilkins were the only utterances to
be heard! Perish the thought of such beggary!"

The talks with Valeria Du Prel grew more intimate, and more deeply
interesting to Hadria, every day.

Miss Du Prel used often to look at her companion in amazement. "Where
_did_ you come from?" she exclaimed on one occasion. "One would suppose
you had lived several lives; you seem to _know_ things in such a subtle,
intimate fashion!"

She used to ponder over the problem, wondering what Professor Fortescue
would say to it. There appeared to be more here than mere heredity could
account for. But science had never solved this problem; originality
seemed always to enter upon its career, uncaused and unaccountable. It
was ever a miraculous phenomenon. The Professor had always said so.
Still the heritage was rich enough, in this case. Heredity might have
some discoverable part in the apparent marvel. Each member of the
Fullerton family had unusual ability of some kind. Their knowledge of
science, and their familiarity