[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 28]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

out him; for, as to himself,
he would rather perish upon that desert shore than embark with so
inhuman a brother.

"But Alonzo, instead of resenting these reproaches, embraced his brother
with the greatest tenderness, and spoke to him in the following
manner:--'Could you then believe, my dearest Pizarro, that I really
meant to deprive you of the fruits of all your labours, which you have
acquired with so much toil and danger? Rather may all the gold in the
universe perish than I should be capable of such behaviour to my dearest
brother! But I saw the rash, impetuous desire you had of riches, and
wished to correct this fault in you, and serve you at the same time. You
despised my prudence and industry, and imagined that nothing could be
wanting to him that had once acquired wealth; but you have now learned
that, without that foresight and industry, all the gold you have brought
with you would not have prevented you from perishing miserably. You are
now, I hope, wiser; and therefore take back your riches, which I hope
you have now learned to make a proper use of.' Pizarro was equally
filled with gratitude and astonishment at this generosity of his
brother, and he acknowledged, from experience, that industry was better
than gold. They then embarked for Spain, where they all safely arrived.
During the voyage Pizarro often solicited his brother to accept of half
his riches, which Alonzo constantly refused, telling him that he could
raise food enough to maintain himself, and was in no want of gold."

"Indeed," said Tommy, when Mr Barlow had finished the story, "I think
Alonzo was a very sensible man; and, if it had not been for him, his
brother and all his companions must have been starved; but then this was
only because they were in a desert uninhabited country. This could never
have happened in England; there they could always have had as much corn
or bread as they chose for their money." "But," said Mr Barlow, "is a
man sure to be always in England, or some place where he can purchase
bread?" _Tommy._--I believe so, sir. _Mr B._--Why, are there not
countries in the world where there are no inhabitants, and where no corn
is raised? _T._--Certainly, sir; this country, which the two brothers
went to, was such a place. _Mr B._--And there are many other such
countries in the world. _T._--But then a man need not go to them; he may
stay at home. _Mr B._--Then he must not pass the seas in a ship.
_T._--Why so, sir? _Mr B._--Because the ship may happen to be wrecked on
some such country, where there are no inhabitants; and then, although he
should escape the danger of the sea, what will he do for food? _T._--And
have such accidents sometimes happened? _Mr B._--Yes, several; there
was, in particular, one Selkirk, who was shipwrecked, and obliged to
live several years upon a desert island. _T._--That was very
extraordinary indeed; and how did he get victuals? _Mr B._--He sometimes
procured roots, sometimes fruits; he also at last became so active, that
he was able to pursue and catch wild goats, with which the island
abounded. _T._--And did not such a hard disagreeable way of life kill
him at last? _Mr B._--By no means; he never enjoyed better health in his
life; and you have heard that he became so active as to be able to
overtake the very wild beasts. But a still more extraordinary story is
that of some Russians, who were left on the coast of Spitzbergen, where
they were obliged to stay several years. _T._--Where is Spitzbergen,
sir? _Mr B._--It is a country very far to the north, which is constantly
covered with snow and ice, because the weather is unremittingly severe.
Scarcely any vegetables will grow upon the soil, and scarcely any
animals are found in the country. To add to this, a great part of the
year it is covered with perpetual darkness and is inaccessible to ships;
so that it is impossible to conceive a more dreary country, or where it
must be more difficult to support human life. Yet four men were capable
of struggling with all these difficulties during several years, and
three of them returned at last safe to their own country. _T._--This
must be a very curious story indeed; I would give anything to be able to
see it. _Mr B._--That you may very easily. When I read it, I copied off
several parts of it, I thought it so curious and interesting, which I
can easily find, and will show you. Here it is; but it is necessary
first to inform you, that those northern seas, from the intense cold of
the climate, are so full of ice as frequently to render it extremely
dangerous to ships, lest they should be crushed between two pieces of
immense size, or so completely surrounded as not to be able to extricate
themselves. Having given you this previous information, you will easily
understand the distressful situation of a Russian ship, which, as it was
sailing on those seas, was on a sudden so surrounded by ice as not to be
able to move. My extracts