[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sugar Creek Slavic Festival

Slavic Festival will be held June 9 and 10 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment include the Sugar Creek Kolo Kids, Ethnic Dance Troupe Tamburitzans, and village musicians. It also includes the annual sausage eating competition sponsored by Peter May's House of Kielbasa.

Past Festivals

2016 Festival
The Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 10 and 11 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included Grammy Award nominee Alex Meixner, the Sugar Creek Kolo Kids, the Hrvatski Obicaj Ethnic Dance Troupe Tamburitzans and village musicians. It also included the annual sausage eating competition sponsored by Peter May's House of Kielbasa.

2015 Festival
The Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 5 and 6 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included Grammy Award nominee Alex Meixner, the Sugar Creek Kolo Kids, Ethnic Dance Troupe Tamburitzans and village musicians. It also included the annual sausage eating competition sponsored by Peter May's House of Kielbasa.

2014 Festival
The Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 6 and 7 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included music royalty and two-time Grammy Award winner Brave Combo, as well as a sausage eating competition sponsored by Peter May's House of Kielbasa.

2013 Festival 
The Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 7 and 8 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included Grammy Award nominee Alex Meixner, The Ed Grisnik Orchestra, Sugar Creek Tamburitzans, Hrvatski Običaj, Kolo Kids and the Sugar Creek Ethnic Dance Troupe.

2012 Festival 
The Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 8 and 9 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included Grammy Award nominee Alex Meixner, The Ed Grisnik Orchestra, Sugar Creek Tamburitzans, Hrvatski Običaj, Kolo Kids and the Sugar Creek Ethnic Dance Troupe.

2011 Festival 
The Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 10 and 11 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included Grammy Award nominee Alex Meixner, The Ed Grisnik Orchestra, Sugar Creek Tamburitzans, Hrvatski Običaj, Kolo Kids and the Sugar Creek Ethnic Dance Troupe.

2010 Festival 
The Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 11 and 12 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included Grammy-winning artist, Brave Combo, The Ed Grisnik Orchestra, Sugar Creek Tamburitzans, Hrvatski Običaj, The Strawberry Hill Croatian Folk Ensemble, Kolo Kids and the Sugar Creek Ethnic Dance Troupe.

2009 Festival 
The Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 12 and 13 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included Grammy-winning artist, Brave Combo, The Ed Grisnik Orchestra, Sugar Creek Tamburitzans, The Strawberry Hill Croatian Folk Ensemble, Kolo Kids and the Sugar Creek Ethnic Dance Troupe.

2008 Festival 
Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 6 and 7 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included Grammy-nominated group LynnMarie & the Boxhounds, Polka Hall of Fame member Don Lipovac, Ed Grisnik Orchestra, Sugar Creek Tamburitzans, Strawberry Hill Croatian Folk Ensemble, Kolo Kids and the Sugar Creek Ethnic Dance Troupe.

2007 Festival 
The 2007 Sugar Creek Slavic Festival was held June 8 and 9 in Sugar Creek, Missouri. Scheduled entertainment included Grammy Award Winner Brave Combo, Polka Hall of Fame member Don Lipovac, Ed Grisnik Orchestra, Sugar Creek Tamburitzans, Kolo Kids and the Sugar Creek Ethnic Dance Troupe.

Croatian-American history
Czech-American culture in Missouri
Cultural festivals in the United States
Festivals in Missouri
Slovak-American history
Russian-American culture
Ukrainian-American culture