[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alice Nielsen

he SCOC's season at New Orleans' French Opera House. During their subsequent North American tour, the group was considered by critics as superior to the touring Met Company, which had preceded Nielsen in LA, Chicago and Boston. Their Chicago season was sponsored by the Bryn Mawr Alumnae Association.

At the end of the tour, in Boston's Park Theatre during March 1908, the SCOC presented a week of nightly grand opera performances featuring Nielsen and Constantino. The renditions of La Bohème and Faust at the Park Theatre created such a sensation that Boston's music patron Eben Jordan offered to build a new opera house for the SCOC's director Henry Russell and his company. The plan was quickly realized, and the newly formed Boston Opera Company under Russell's leadership gave their first performance for the opening of the Boston Opera House on November 8, 1909, with a performance of La Gioconda with Nordica in the title role. Nielsen and Nordica were the company's two leading sopranos during its six years of operation from 1909-1915.

She also debuted at The Metropolitan Opera and Opéra de Montréal. Her artist allies for the project included Loie Fuller, Josef Urban and Anna Pavlova. Within six years, however, Boston Opera folded amid the turmoil of World War I. The magnificent building, designed by the team which created Symphony Hall, was located across from New England Conservatory's Jordan Hall and has since been demolished.

Tour
After Boston, Nielsen began a series of popular Chautauqua tours. These outdoor concert took place under a big tent, moving from town-to-town by rail. The circuit ranged from Florida to Chicago. Nielsen was the highest-paid performer on the circuit. The week-long Redpath Chautauqua series closed in each town with "Alice Nielsen Day."

During the 1910s, Nielsen sang in joint concerts with John McCormack and other artists at Carnegie Hall and in national tours. Her concerts consisted of art songs and arias, followed by dozens of encores of popular Celtic and parlor songs. A typical program was,
"Two Japanese Songs" – Cadman
"Lullaby" – Cyril Scott
"Will o' the Wisp" – Charles Gilbert Spross
"Salvator Rosa" – Carlos Gomez
"Pouquoi" – Saint-Saëns
"Mandoline" – Debussy
"Tu Nous Souriais" – Andre Caplet
"A Toi" – Bamberg
"Down In The Forest" –  Landon Ronald
"But Lately In Dance" – Arensky
"Oh! Haunting Memory" – Carrie Jacobs-Bond
"Love Has Wings" – James Hotchkiss Rogers
"Botschaft" and "Vergehliches Standchen" – Brahms
"Solvejgs Leid" and  "Ein Traum" – Grieg
"La Tosca" – Puccini

Later years
Nielsen was a popular recording artist in sessions conducted by Arthur Pryor. She recorded seventy tracks between 1898–1928, most of the records issued by Victor and Columbia . Her big hit record was "Home, Sweet, Home", followed by "Un bel di", "Killarney" and "Last Rose of Summer." "I only sang the songs I wanted to sing", she stated in Colliers Magazine which published her autobiographic 1932 series Born To Sing.

After a brief return to Broadway in 1917's short-lived Belasco musical Kitty Darlin, with lyrics by P. G. Wodehouse, who was fired three weeks before the NY opening, Nielsen married surgeon Le Roy Stoddard and moved to Bedford, New York. By 1920, Nielsen's touring schedule was light. She last appeared with Boston Symphony in 1922. She sang with a reunited Alice Nielsen Company at the Victor Herbert memorial concert staged by ASCAP in 1925. In 1929 she divorced Stoddard. Nielsen continued singing occasional concerts until shortly before her death. In later years, she owned a house in Far Rockaway, Queens near her brother, who was the parish organist for St. Mary, Star of the Sea Church. Its cemetery is her final resting place.

Critical response
Eleonora Duse—"Her voice makes one dream and forget the realities of life."
San Francisco Chronicle—"She is chic and vivacious and filled with indefinable magnetism."
NY World—"At the present moment she has no rival in her field."
NY Evening World—"America's greatest lyrical soprano."
Chicago Post—"Miss Nielsen is thoroughly a great singer, and showed clearly that she has attained the high place she holds in the musical world through sheer merit."
Musical Courier—"It is difficult to imagine a more perfect Mimi than Miss Nielsen, who sings with a lovely lyric beauty of a voice that has not its counterpart anywhere."

References

Primary sources
Wilson, Dall  Alice Nielsen and the Gaiety Of Nations ( "Mu Phi Epsilon", January 1, 2006)
Wilson, Dall  Alice Nielsen and the Gayety Of Nations (dall wilson. 2008)
 McHenry, Robert, ed. Famous American Women  (Dover Publications New York. 1980)

Related reading
Gould, Neil Victor Herbert: A Theatrical Life (Fordham University Press.  2008)

External links

 Musical Notations of Soprano Alice Nielsen
Former home of Alice Nielsen
Kansas City Museum
 Alice Nielsen recordings available for download at archive.org