[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 56]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

in the garret? Do you remember
the sentiments that scared your sister so much?" she asked.

Temperley remembered.

"Well, I don't hold those sentiments merely for amusement and
recreation. I mean them. I should not hesitate a moment to act upon
them. If things grew intolerable, according to my view of things, I
should simply go away, though twenty marriage-services had been read
over my head. Neither Algitha nor I have any of the notions that
restrain women in these matters. We would brook no such bonds. The usual
claims and demands we would neither make nor submit to. You heard
Algitha speak very plainly on the matter. So you see, we are entirely
unsuitable as wives, except to the impossible men who might share our
rebellion. Please let us go back to the hall. They are just beginning to
dance another reel."

"I cannot let you go back. Oh, Hadria, you can't be so unjust as to
force me to break off in this state of uncertainty. Just give me a word
of hope, however slight, and I will be satisfied."

Hadria looked astonished. "Have you really taken in what I have just
said?"

"Every word of it."

"And you realise that I mean it, _mean_ it, with every fibre of me."

"I understand; and I repeat that I shall not be happy until you are my
wife. Have what ideas you please, only be my wife."

She gazed at him in puzzled scrutiny. "You don't think I am really in
earnest. Let us go."

"I know you are in earnest," he cried, eagerly following her, "and still
I----"

At that moment Harold Wilkins came up to claim Hadria for a promised
dance. Temperley gave a gesture of impatience. But Harold insisted, and
Hadria walked with her partner into the hall where Mrs. Gordon was now
playing a sentimental waltz, with considerable poetic license as to
time. As everyone said: Mrs. Gordon played with so much expression.

Temperley stood about in corners watching Hadria. She was flushed and
silent, dancing with a still gliding movement under the skilful guidance
of her partner.

Temperley tried to win a glance as she passed round, but her eyes were
resolutely fixed on the floor.

Algitha followed her sister's movements uneasily. She had noticed her
absence during the last reel, and observed that Temperley also was not
to be seen. She felt anxious. She knew Hadria's emotional
susceptibility. She knew Temperley's convincing faculty, and also
Hadria's uneasy feeling that she had done wrong in allowing the
practices to be resumed.

Henriette had not failed to notice the signs of the times, and she
annoyed Algitha beyond endurance by her obviously sisterly manner of
addressing the family. She had taken to calling the boys by their first
names.

Fred shared his sister's dislike to Henriette. "Tact!" he cried with a
snort, "why a Temperley rushes in where a bull in a china-shop would
fear to tread!"

Algitha saw that Hubert was again by Hadria's side before the evening
was out. The latter looked white, and she avoided her sister's glance.
This last symptom seemed to Algitha the worst.

"What's the matter with Hadria?" asked Fred, "she will scarcely speak to
me. I was just telling her the best joke I've heard this year, and, will
you believe me, she didn't see the point! Yes, you may well stare! I
tried again and she gave a nervous giggle; I am relating to you the
exact truth. Do any of the epidemics come on like that?"

"Yes, one of the worst," said Algitha gloomily. Fred glared enquiry.

"I am afraid she has been led into accepting Hubert Temperley."

Fred opened his mouth and breathed deep. "Stuff! Hadria would as soon
think of selling her soul to the devil."

"Oh, she is quite capable of that too," said Algitha, shaking her head.

"Well, I'm blowed," cried Fred.

Not long after this, the guests began to disperse. Mrs. Gordon and her
party were among the last to leave, having a shorter distance to go.

Hubert Temperley was quiet and self-possessed, but Algitha felt sure
that she detected a look of suppressed exultation in his demeanour, and
something odiously brotherly in his mode of bidding them all good-night.

When everyone had left, and the family were alone, they gathered round
the hall fire for a final chat, before dispersing for the night.

"What a delightful evening we have had, Mrs. Fullerton," said Miss
Temperley. "It was most picturesque and characteristic. I shall always
remember the charm and kindliness of Scottish hospitality."

"And I," said Ernest, _sotto voce_ to Algitha, "shall always remember
the calm and thoroughness of English cheek!"

"Why, we had almost forgotten that the New Year is just upon us,"
exclaimed Mr. Fullerton. The first stroke of twelve began to sound
almost as he spoke. He threw up the window and disclosed a night
brilliant with stars. ("And under us graves," said Hadria to herself.)

They all crowded up, keeping silence as the slow strokes of the clock
told the hour.

"A Happy New Year to a