[Source: PubMed]

19. Burns. 2019 Feb;45(1):199-204. doi: 10.1016/j.burns.2018.08.026. Epub 2018
Sep  22.

Comparison of military and civilian burn patients admitted to a single center 
during 12 years of war.

Rizzo JA(1), Pruskowski KA(2), Le T(3), Gurney J(3), Rowan MP(3), Chung KK(4), 
Cancio LC(3).

Author information:
(1)U.S. Army Institute of Surgical Research, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX, United 
States; Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD, 
United States.
(2)U.S. Army Institute of Surgical Research, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX, United 
States. Electronic address: kaitlin.a.pruskowski.civ@mail.mil.
(3)U.S. Army Institute of Surgical Research, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX, United 
States.
(4)Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, MD, United 
States; Brooke Army Medical Center, JBSA Fort Sam Houston, TX, United States.

OBJECTIVE: The current conflicts in Iraq and Afghanistan resulted in an 
increased incidence of burn injury in the military population. We sought to 
compare the characteristics and outcomes of this population to a civilian cohort 
cared for at the same burn center over the same time-period.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed to examine differences in the 
demographics, etiology, mortality, and functional status over a 12-year period. 
Descriptive analyses were performed. Logistic regression was used to calculate 
the likelihood of mortality.
RESULTS: A total of 3814 patients were included in this analysis; 1069 were 
military casualties. When compared to civilians, military patients were younger, 
had a higher incidence of flame-induced burn injury, mean total body surface 
area burned (% TBSA), rate of inhalation injury, and lower mortality. Civilian 
patients presented with a higher Baux score. Although most military patients had 
a full functional recovery, they had a greater incidence of severe disability. 
In a univariate model, likelihood of mortality was higher in civilians. No 
difference in mortality between the two cohorts was found after adjusting for 
age, inhalation injury, gender, % TBSA and percent full-thickness burn.
CONCLUSIONS: Military patients exhibited improved survival and functional 
recovery over their civilian counterparts. However, mortality did not differ 
between civilian and military patients after controlling for known covariates. 
Further studies are needed to improve functional outcomes in civilian patients, 
who may not have the inherent advantages of younger age and healthier physical 
status found in military patients.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.burns.2018.08.026
PMID: 30253961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]