[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 65]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

le longer.' 'As to exercise,' continued the doctor, 'I
fear you are not able to use a great deal.' 'Alas!' answered the sick
man, 'while I was able, I never failed to go out in my carriage once or
twice a-week, but in my present situation I can no longer bear the
gentlest motion; besides disordering my whole frame, it gives me such
intolerable twitches in my limbs, that you would imagine I was
absolutely falling to pieces.' 'Your case,' answered the physician, 'is
indeed bad, but not quite desperate, and if you could abridge the
quantity of your food and sleep, you would in a short time find yourself
much better.' 'Alas!' answered the sick man, 'I find you little know the
delicacy of my constitution, or you would not put me upon a method which
will infallibly destroy me. When I rise in the morning, I feel as if all
the powers of life were extinguished within me; my stomach is oppressed
with nausea, my head with aches and swimming, and above all, I feel such
an intolerable sinking in my spirits, that, without the assistance of
two or three cordials, and some restorative soup, I am confident I never
could get through the morning. Now, doctor, I have such confidence in
your skill, that there is no pill or potion you can order me which I
will not take with pleasure, but as to a change in my diet, that is
impossible.' 'That is,' answered the physician, 'you wish for health
without being at the trouble of acquiring it, and imagine that all the
consequences of an ill-spent life are to be washed away by a julep, or a
decoction of senna. But as I cannot cure you upon those terms, I will
not deceive you for an instant. Your case is out of the power of
medicine, and you can only be relieved by your own exertions.' 'How hard
is this,' answered the gentleman, 'to be thus abandoned to despair even
in the prime of life! Cruel and unfeeling doctor, will you not attempt
anything to procure me ease?' 'Sir,' answered the physician, 'I have
already told you everything I know upon the subject. I must, however,
acquaint you, that I have a brother physician who lives at Padua, a man
of the greatest learning and integrity, who is particularly famous for
curing the gout. If you think it worth your while to consult him, I will
give you a letter of recommendation, for he never stirs from home, even
to attend a prince.'

"Here the conversation ended; for the gentleman, who did not like the
trouble of the journey, took his leave of the physician, and returned
home very much dispirited. In a little while he either was, or fancied
himself, worse; and as the idea of the Paduan physician had never left
his head, he at last resolutely determined to set out upon the journey.
For this purpose he had a litter so contrived that he could lie
recumbent, or recline at his ease, and eat his meals. The distance was
not above one day's tolerable journey, but the gentleman wisely resolved
to make four of it, for fear of over-fatiguing himself. He had, besides,
a loaded waggon attending, filled with everything that constitutes good
eating; and two of his cooks went with him, that nothing might be
wanting to his accommodation on the road.

"After a wearisome journey he at length arrived within sight of Padua,
and eagerly inquiring after the house of Doctor Ramozini, was soon
directed to the spot; then, having been helped out of his carriage by
half-a-dozen of his servants, he was shown into a neat but plain
parlour, from which he had the prospect of twenty or thirty people at
dinner in a spacious hall. In the middle of them was the learned doctor
himself, who with much complaisance invited the company to eat heartily.
'My good friend,' said the doctor to a pale-looking man on his right
hand, 'you must eat three slices more of this roast-beef, or you will
never lose your ague.' 'My friend,' said he to another, 'drink off this
glass of porter; it is just arrived from England, and is a specific for
nervous fevers.' 'Do not stuff your child so with macaroni,' added he,
turning to a woman, 'if you wish to cure him of the scrofula.' 'Good
man,' said he to a fourth, 'how goes on the ulcer in your leg?' 'Much
better, indeed,' replied the man, 'since I have lived at your honour's
table.' 'Well,' replied the physician, 'in a fortnight you will be
perfectly cured, if you do but drink wine enough.'

"'Thank heaven!' said the gentleman, who had heard all this with
infinite pleasure, 'I have at last met with a reasonable physician; he
will not confine me to bread and water, nor starve me under pretence of
curing me, like that confounded quack from whose clutches I have so
luckily escaped.'

"At length the doctor dismissed his company, who retired loading him
with thanks and blessings. He then approached the gentleman, and
welcomed him with the greatest politeness, who presented him with his
letters of recommendation, which, after the physician had perused, he
thus accosted him:--'Sir, the let