[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pini Gershon

the Greek Basket League finals against Panathinaikos, and to the last 8 of the EuroLeague season, where the team was eliminated by TAU Cerámica. Accusations of racism were raised, mainly by Olympiacos fans, concerning the lack of playing time for team star and crowd favorite, Sofoklis Schortsanitis.

On November 24, 2008, he signed on as Maccabi Tel Aviv's head coach, after the dismissal of Effi Birnbaum from the position. In October 2009, he was ejected from an exhibition game against the New York Knicks. Gershon took close to 6 minutes to exit the court, as NBA rules (administered by replacement on-court officials) differ from international rules, regarding technical fouls, which cause coaches to be automatically ejected. In 2010, Gershon parted ways with Maccabi, after their loss to Hapoel Gilboa Galil, in the Israeli League national finals. In August 2014, he signed a one-season contract to be Guy Goodes' assistant coach with Maccabi Tel Aviv.

National team coaching career
Gershon worked as an assistant coach for the senior Israeli national basketball team. In September 2008, Gershon led the senior Bulgarian national basketball team to qualify for the EuroBasket 2009, in Poland, after a surprising finish ahead of the strongly favored Italian national basketball team in the preliminary round. In 2010, he parted ways with the Bulgarian national team, due to a dispute with the Bulgarian Basketball Federation.

Personal life
Gershon often eagerly voices his belief in the part that divine guidance has had in his career. He has close ties with the Chabad movement.

In the year 2001, Gershon was accused of racism, after reporters found a video showing Gershon lecturing before a group of IDF officers. In this lecture, Gershon made some controversial remarks about African American people,“The mocha-colored guys are smarter, but the dark colored ones are just guys off the street,” he said. “They’re dumb like slaves, they do whatever you tell them.” Gershon claimed that those remarks were only made as a joke, and that they were not reflective of his real opinions.

Gershon was once a major shareholder of EZTD Inc., a firm in the controversial binary options industry. EZTD Inc. owned the EZTrader.com and GlobalOption.com websites, and settled a 2016 US Securities and Exchange Commission finding, by paying $1.7 million in fines and compensation to victims. EZTD Inc. was accused of illegally soliciting and taking money from 4,000 US investors.

Club titles won as a head coach
European Club Championship: 3
EuroLeague: 2 (with Maccabi Tel-Aviv: 2004, 2005)
FIBA SuproLeague: 1 (with Maccabi Tel-Aviv: 2001)
Israeli Super League: 8 (7 with Maccabi Tel-Aviv, 1 with Hapoel Galil Elyon)
Israeli State Cup: 8 (7 with Maccabi Tel-Aviv, 1 with Hapoel Jerusalem)

See also
 List of EuroLeague-winning head coaches

References

External links
Euroleague.net Coach Profile
Pini Gershon, coach and showman

1951 births
Living people
EuroLeague-winning coaches
Hapoel Jerusalem B.C. coaches
Israeli basketball coaches
Israeli expatriates in Greece
Israeli Jews
Israeli men's basketball players
Israeli people of Moroccan-Jewish descent
Israeli people of Bulgarian-Jewish descent
Maccabi Tel Aviv B.C. coaches
Olympiacos B.C. coaches
Sportspeople from Tel Aviv