[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Timeline of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict in 2006

January

January summary: 13 Palestinians killed by Israeli security forces in the Occupied Territories
January 19: 20 injured in bombing at fast-food restaurant in Tel Aviv

February

February summary: 29 Palestinians killed by Israeli security forces in the Palestinian territories; 1 Israeli killed by a Palestinian man.
February 5: 1 killed, 5 injured in stabbing attack by Palestinian on Israeli taxi bus en route to Tel Aviv.

March

 March summary: 15 Palestinians killed by Israeli security forces in the Palestinian territories; 1 Palestinian kills himself in Palestinian territories; 5 Israelis killed by Palestinians in the Territories; 2 Israelis killed in Israel by Palestinian militants (rocket).
March 1: 1 killed in shooting attack at gas station near Migdalim, West Bank.
March 28: 2 killed (incl. 1 child) in explosion of Qassam rocket found in western Negev area.
March 30: 4 killed (incl. 1 child) by suicide bomber posing as Jewish hitchhiker, in Kedumim in Occupied Territories.

April

April summary: 31 Palestinians killed by Israeli security forces in the Occupied Territories; 1 Palestinian kills himself in Israel; 6 Israeli civilians killed by Palestinians in Israel; 10 others killed by a Palestinian in Israel.
April 17: 11 killed (including 2 Romanians, 1 French citizen, 1 US citizen and 1 dual Israeli-French citizen), over 60 injured by suicide bomber outside a fast-food restaurant in Tel Aviv after being prevented by a security guard from entering.

May

 May summary: 36 Palestinians killed by Israeli security forces in the Occupied Territories
 Gaza Zoo in Rafah reportedly damaged.

June

June summary: 41 Palestinians killed by Israeli security forces in the Palestinian territories; 2 Palestinians detained by Israelis in Palestinian territories and taken to Israel; 1 Israeli captured by Palestinians in Israel and taken to Gaza; 64 members of the Palestinian Legislative Council detained by Israeli forces and held in Israel as of October 24, 2006.
June 9: In the Gaza beach explosion, Israeli artillery shelling kills 8 Palestinians.
June 10: The militant Hamas group calls off its truce with Israel, after seven civilians are killed in the Gaza Strip. More than seventy Qassam rockets were launched at Israeli towns by Hamas militants since Friday morning, wounding Palestinian and Israeli civilians alike.
June 24, 03:30–04:30 local time, near Rafah: Ali Muamar is beaten by Israeli soldiers, his sons Osama and Mustafa Muamar are detained and taken to an undisclosed location in Israel, and Ali Muamar is treated in hospital.
June 25: Palestinian militants infiltrate Israel through a secret tunnel and start a gunbattle at a military checkpoint – 2 Israeli soldiers and 3 Hamas militants are killed and an Israeli soldier is reported as missing and is later found out to have been captured by the militants. Israeli PM vows a fierce military response to the attack once the soldier, Gilad Shalit, is returned. Two infantry brigades and supporting armoured regiments are deployed along the Gaza Strip border, in preparation for a major offensive.
June 28: Israel starts a military operation in the Gaza strip, deploying a large number of tanks, APCs and troops in order to rescue the soldier captured in the attack three days before that.
June 29: Israeli troops detain one third of the Palestinian government and altogether 64 members of the Palestinian Legislative Council, who are Hamas members.

July