[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of Grey's Anatomy characters

and Alex caught up, and he found out that he was the father of her twins. In Season 16, he leaves Grey Sloan and Jo and goes to Kansas to meet his kids and meet Izzie. He later wrote letters to Jo, Meredith, Richard, and Bailey, explaining what had happened and why he left.

Miranda Bailey's family

 Tucker Jones (Cress Williams): Miranda's ex-husband who divorces her because she spends more time working than at home with him and Tuck. Tucker is operated on by Derek when he is involved in a car accident on his way to the hospital for their son's birth.
 William George "Tuck" Bailey Jones: Miranda's son with her ex-husband Tucker.
 Ben Warren (Jason George): Miranda's current husband, whom she marries in Season 9.
 Joey Phillips (Noah Alexander Gerry): Miranda and Ben's adoptive son, who currently lives with them.
 Pruitt Arike Miller (Janai Kaylani): Dean Miller and JJ Lau's daughter, who was adopted by Miranda and Ben after the death of Dean.

Mark Sloan's family

 Unnamed grandson: Mark's grandson through Sloan, who gave him up for adoption.
 Sloan Riley (Leven Rambin): Mark's biological daughter. As an 18-year-old, she gives birth to Mark's grandson and puts him up for adoption.
 Sofia Robbins Sloan Torres: Mark's daughter with Callie Torres and Arizona Robbins. Conceived after Mark and Callie begin several trysts after Callie is left in the airport by Arizona, she is born prematurely on March 31, 2011, in "Song Beneath the Song."

Teddy Altman's family

 Henry Burton (Scott Foley): Husband of Dr. Teddy Altman. She meets and marries him in Season 7 to use her health insurance to cover the ongoing costs of his treatment for Von Hippel–Lindau disease. They eventually fall in love. He dies in season 8 while undergoing surgery.
 Owen Hunt (Kevin McKidd): Current husband of Dr. Teddy Altman. She was in the army with him, eventually got married after a long day of interruptions in Season 18.
 Allison Hunt: Daughter with Owen, born in season 15.
 Leo Hunt: Adopted kid with Owen.

Callie Torres's family

 Uncle Berto: Callie's uncle, whom she assumes might be gay, saying "he hasn't been single for 60 years for no reason."
 George O'Malley (T. R. Knight): Callie's ex-husband. They got married in Las Vegas in season 3 and later divorced in season 4 because George is in love with Izzie. George dies in season 5 after being diagnosed brain dead after getting hit by a bus to save a woman's life.
 Arizona Robbins (Jessica Capshaw): Callie's ex-wife. A pediatric surgery attending, Arizona comes from a military family.
 Aria Torres: Callie's sister, only mentioned on the show.
 Carlos Torres (Héctor Elizondo): Father to Dr. Callie Torres. He originally is against his daughter's bisexuality and relationship with Dr. Arizona Robbins.
 Lucia Torres (Gina Gallego): Mother to Dr. Callie Torres. She has problems with accepting her daughter's bisexuality and refuses to attend her wedding to Arizona.
 Sofia Robbin Sloan Torres: Callie's daughter, born prematurely on March 31, 2011, in "Song Beneath the Song." She is conceived after Mark and Callie begin several trysts when Callie is left in the airport by Arizona.

Arizona Robbins's family

 Barbara Robbins (Judith Ivey): Arizona's mother.
 Colonel Daniel Robbins, United States Marine Corps (Denis Arndt): Arizona's father.
 Timothy Robbins: Arizona's brother, who died in the Iraq war.
 Callie Torres (Sara Ramirez): Arizona's ex-wife and attending orthopedic surgeon at Grey Sloan Memorial Hospital. They reconcile after Robbins's departure. 
 Sofia Robbin Sloan Torres: Arizona's daughter, born prematurely on March 31, 2011, in the "Song Beneath the Song" episode. She is conceived after Mark and Callie begin several trysts when Callie is left in the airport by Arizona. Arizona now has sole custody of Sofia due to a family court ruling in season 12.

Jackson Avery's family