[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 194]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ad."

"I will, I will," Hadria murmured.

"Do not turn away from the light of rational hope, if any path should
open up that leads that way. And help her to do the same. When you think
of me, let it be happily and with comfort."

Hadria was silently weeping.

"And hold fast to your own colours. Don't take sides, above all, with
the powers that have oppressed you. They are terrible powers, and yet
people won't admit their strength, and so they are left unopposed. It is
worse than folly to underrate the forces of the enemy. It is always
worse than folly to deny facts in order to support a theory. Exhort
people to face and conquer them. You can help more than you dream, even
as things stand. I cannot tell you what you have done for me, dear
Hadria." (He held out his hand to her.) "And the helpless, human and
animal--how they wring one's heart! Do not forget them; be to them a
knight-errant. You have suffered enough yourself, to know well how to
bind their wounds." The speaker paused, for a moment, to battle with a
paroxysm of pain.

"There is so much anguish," he said presently, "so much intolerable
anguish, even when things seem smoothest. The human spirit craves for so
much, and generally it gets so little. The world is full of tragedy; and
sympathy, a little common sympathy, can do so much to soften the worst
of grief. It is for the lack of that, that people despair and go down. I
commend them to you."

       *       *       *       *       *

The figure lay motionless, as if asleep. The expression was one of utter
peace. It seemed as if all the love and tenderness, all the breadth and
beauty of the soul that had passed away, were shining out of the quieted
face, from which all trace of suffering had vanished. The look of
desolation that used, at times, to come into it, had entirely gone.

Hadria and Valeria stood together, by the bedside. At the foot of the
bed was a glass vase, holding a spray of wild cherry blossom; Hadria had
brought it, to the invalid's delight, the day before. There were other
offerings of fresh flowers; a mass of azaleas from Lady Engleton;
bunches of daffodils that Valeria had gathered in the meadows; and old
Dodge had sent a handful of brown and yellow wallflower, from his
garden. The blind had been raised a few inches, so as to let in the
sunlight and the sweet air. It was a glorious morning. The few last hot
days had brought everything out, with a rush. The boughs of the trees,
that the Professor had loved so to watch during his illness, were
swaying gently in the breeze, just as they had done when his eyes had
been open to see them. The wood-pigeons were cooing, the young rooks
cawing shrilly in the rookery. Valeria seemed to be stunned. She stood
gazing at the peaceful face, with a look of stony grief.

"I _can't_ understand it!" she exclaimed at last, with a wild gesture,
"I _can't_ believe he will never speak to me again! It's a horrible
dream--oh, but too horrible--ah, why can't I die as well as he?" She
threw herself on her knees, shaken with sobs, silent and passionate.
Hadria did not attempt to remonstrate or soothe her. She turned away, as
a flood of bitter grief swept over her, so that she felt as one
drowning.

Some minutes passed before Valeria rose from her knees, looking haggard
and desolate. Hadria went towards her hastily.

"What's that?" cried Valeria with a nervous start and a scared glance
towards the window.

"The robin!" said Hadria, and the tears started to her eyes.

The bird had hopped in at his usual hour, in a friendly fashion. He
picked up a few stray crumbs that had been left on the sill from
yesterday, and then, in little capricious flights from stage to stage,
finally arrived at the rail of the bed, and stood looking from side to
side, with black, bright eyes, at the motionless figure. Hitherto it had
been accustomed to a welcome. Why this strange silence? The robin hopped
round on the rail, polished his beak meditatively, fluffed out his
feathers, and then, raising his head, sang a tender requiem.




THE END.


       *       *       *       *       *


APPENDIX

"Does Marriage Hinder a Woman's Self-development?"

_In 1899,_ The Ladies' Realm _asked several well-known women to write on
the set topic, "Does Marriage Hinder a Woman's Self-development?" We
reprint Mona Caird's ingenious response._


Perhaps it might throw some light on the question whether marriage
interferes with a woman's self-development and career, if we were to ask
ourselves honestly how a man would fare in the position, say, of his own
wife.

We will take a mild case, so as to avoid all risk of exaggeration.

Our hero's wife is very kind to him. Many of his friends have far sadder
tales to tell. Mrs. Brown is fond of her home and family. She pats the
children on the head when they come down to dessert, and plies them with
chocolate creams, much to the detriment of their hea