[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Iraqi Americans

5,000 people, with large concentrations in California, New York, Connecticut, Florida, Massachusetts and New Jersey. Smaller known groups of Iraqi Jews, can also be found in Arizona, Colorado, Illinois, Indiana, Maryland, Nevada, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania and Texas, as well as other States.

The members of the community are driven by ambition to succeed in businesses and as professionals, and this urge has been taking precedence over most other aims in life apart from family cohesion and religious observance during the High Holidays. High education is greatly valued, and almost every school graduate enters College after high school where he or she tends to specialize in a profession. In the early 1990s, a magazine called The Periodical Publication of Congregation Bene Naharayim was published in New York and it reaffirmed the pride of the Iraqi Jews in their ancient heritage, by linking it directly to the glorious traditions of the Babylonian Jewry. Another newsletter for the local Babylonian Jewish community in Los Angeles called "Yosef Haim" began to be published in 1996. It reports on what is taking place in the local Iraqi Jewish community.

Notable people

Majid Khadduri – Academic, founder of the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies Middle East Studies program

Thomas L. Saaty –  Professor, inventor, architect, and theoretician

Donny George Youkhanna – Archaeologist, anthropologist and author
Justin Meram – Professional footballer
Jessica Meir –  NASA astronaut, marine biologist, and physiologist.

John Kassir, American voice actor

See also

 Iraq–United States relations
 Arab Americans
 Assyrian Americans
 Kurdish American
 Mandaean Americans
 Turkish American
 Death of Shaima Alawadi
 History of the Middle Eastern people in Metro Detroit

References

Further reading
 Sengstock, Mary C., and Sanaa Al Harahsheh. "Iraqi Americans." Gale Encyclopedia of Multicultural America, edited by Thomas Riggs, (3rd ed., vol. 2, Gale, 2014), pp. 445–458. Online
 Sengstock, Mary C. Chaldean-Americans: Changing Conceptions of Ethnic Identity (Staten Island: Center for Migration Studies, 1999).
 Sengstock, Mary C. Chaldeans in Michigan (Michigan State University Press, 2005).

External links
 Iraqi American National Network
 Iraqi American Chamber of Commerce and Industry (IACCI)
 Iraqi American Services Company
 American Iraqi Solutions Group
 The Iraqi American Endowment Center
 Iraqi Immigrants in the United States
 Mandaean Associations Union

Middle Eastern American