[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Harold Edward Elliott

was succeeded as Chief of the General Staff by Lieutenant General Sir Harry Chauvel in 1926, and he moved to rehabilitate Elliott, who was appointed to command the 15th Brigade again. In 1927, he was finally promoted to the rank of major general, and became the commander of the 3rd Division.

Death

Increasingly, Elliott suffered from diabetes, hypertension, and what was diagnosed by Dr J. F. Williams as a "definite form of nervous disorder", now most likely post traumatic stress disorder and major depressive disorder. He was admitted to the Alfred Hospital on 16 February 1931 after making an attempt to gas himself in the oven at his house. His older sister Nell died by suicide, as had a niece. Early on the morning of 23 March 1931, Elliott committed suicide by cutting himself with his shaving razor while an inpatient in a private hospital in Malvern.

Elliott's funeral took place on 25 March. Following a short service at his home, his casket was drawn, with full military honours including bands and an escort party, on a gun carriage pulled by horses resplendent with black plumes, to the Burwood Cemetery, a march of some four miles. Stanley Bruce, whose premiership came to an end in late 1929, marched as a common returned soldier. Reports in the newspapers of the time state that several thousand people followed the cortège and lined the parade route. The parade was led by Rear Admiral William Munro Kerr, with Brigadier Generals Charles Brand, Thomas Blamey and J. C. Stewart. His grave bears the epitaph (from Shakespeare's Julius Caesar) "This was a man".

His papers are held by the Australian War Memorial in Canberra.

In popular culture
Elliott was portrayed by Francis Bell in the 1985 Anzacs television miniseries.

Pompey Elliott was one of the six Australians whose war experiences were presented in The War That Changed Us, a four-part television documentary series about Australia's involvement in World War I.

A street in Ascot Vale, Victoria, was created in the Whiskey Hill subdivision around 6 km north of Melbourne in around 1930 and named after Elliott. The street is called Elliott Street and is a time capsule of early 1930s architecture.

Notes

References

External links

 
 
 

1878 births
1931 suicides
1931 deaths
Military personnel from Victoria (state)
Australian generals
Australian military personnel of the Second Boer War
Australian military personnel of World War I
Australian military personnel who committed suicide
Australian politicians who committed suicide
Australian recipients of the Distinguished Conduct Medal
Australian Companions of the Distinguished Service Order
Australian Companions of the Order of St Michael and St George
Australian Companions of the Order of the Bath
Federation University Australia alumni
Melbourne Law School alumni
Members of the Australian Senate for Victoria
Suicides by sharp instrument in Australia
Nationalist Party of Australia members of the Parliament of Australia
20th-century Australian politicians
Recipients of the Croix de Guerre 1914–1918 (France)
Recipients of the Order of St. Anna, 3rd class
Royal Berkshire Regiment officers
Burials in Victoria (state)