[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Non-intervention in the Spanish Civil War

s motions supporting non-intervention at the TUC Congress in September 1936, making non-intervention a TUC policy. Like Labour, between October 1936 and June 1937 and under pressure from the LSI and the International Federation of Trade Unions, Citrine, Bevin and the TUC repudiated non-intervention.

A report, Commission of Inquiry into Alleged Breaches of the Non-Intervention Agreement in Spain, was drawn up in London, sponsored by the Comintern and headed by respectable figures. Both the British and the French governments were aware of the second World War. France was reliant on British support in general. Léon Blum, the French prime minister, feared that openly supporting for the Republic would lead to civil war and a fascist takeover in France and ultimately to no change in Spain.

On 5 August 1936, the United States made it known that it would follow a policy of non-intervention but did not announce it officially. Its isolationism on the Spanish war would later be identified as disastrous by Under-Secretary of State Sumner Welles. Five days later, the Glenn L. Martin Company enquired whether the government would allow the sale of eight bombers to the Spanish Republican Air Force; the response was negative. The United States also confirmed it would not take part in several mediation attempts, including one by the Organization of American States. Mexico soon became the first state to support the Republicans openly. On 15 August, the United Kingdom banned exports of war material to Spain. Neurath also agreed to the pact and suggested for volunteers, many of whom would eventually form the International Brigades, to be included. Italy similarly agreed and signed on 21 August after a determined diplomatic offensive by Britain and France. The surprising reversal of views has been put down to the growing belief that countries could not abide by the agreement anyway. Admiral Erich Raeder urged the German government to back the Nationalists more completely and then bring Europe to the brink of war or to abandon the Nationalists. On the 24th, Germany signed.

The Soviet Union was keen not to be left out. On 23 August 1936, it agreed to the Non-Intervention Agreement, which was followed by a decree from Stalin banning exports of war material to Spain, thereby bringing the Soviets into line with the Western powers. Soviet foreign policy considered Collective security against German fascism a priority, and the Comintern had agreed a similar approach in 1934. It walked a thin line between pleasing France and not being seen to hinder the world revolution and communist ideals. It was also the time of the first significant trials of the Old Bolsheviks during the Great Purge. Soviet press and opposition groups were entirely against non-intervention, and Soviet actions could hardly have been further from the goal of spreading the revolution.

It was then that the Non-Intervention Committee was created to uphold the agreement, but the double-dealing of the Soviets and the Germans had already become apparent. The agreement also removed the need for a declaration of neutrality, which would have granted the Nationalists and Republicans control over neutrals in the areas they controlled, and had little legal standing. In the United Kingdom, part of the reasoning was based on an exaggerated belief in German and Italian preparedness for war.

Many historians argue that the British policy of non-intervention was a product of the Establishment's anticommunism. Scott Ramsay instead argues that Britain demonstrated a "benevolent neutrality" and was simply hedging its bets, avoiding favouring one side or the other. Its goal was that in a future European war, Britain would enjoy the 'benevolent neutrality' of whichever side won in Spain. The British government was also concerned about the far right and ultimately concluded that no desirable basis of government was possible in Spain because of the present situation.

Non-Intervention Committee

The ostensible purpose of the Non-Intervention Committee (1936–1939) was to prevent personnel and matériel reaching the warring parties of the Spanish Civil War, as with the Non-Intervention Agreement.