[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Chronicles of an Age of Darkness

eeshoth, who proceeded to remake the universe as Lemarl, imprisoning the rocks (still sentient) in their current existence. This is further expanded on in The Witchlord and the Weaponmaster, when it is explained that Ameeshoth was later attacked and destroyed by a group of Revisionary Gods. (pg 100)

History
The series originally seems to be set in a generic fantasy world, or perhaps post-apocalyptic Earth, but is later revealed to be one part of a multiverse. It is set on a planet once called Olo Malan (or, derisively Skrin), which was once part of an advanced civilisation called The Golden Gulag, which was itself part of a vast, interdimensional political entity called the Nexus. The technology of the Nexus was based upon probability manipulation.

However, 20,000 years prior to the events of the books, the Chasm Gates that linked the planet to the Nexus were accidentally destroyed. A devastating series of wars resulted (still known as The Days of Wrath), which caused untold environmental damage to the world, and reduced the population to feudal levels of technology (although some advanced machines still exist). The science of probability manipulation also devolved to the art of magic.

There was once a period of brief recovery, known as the Technic Renaissance, but this too collapsed following a war known as the Genetic Mutiny.

Geography

The novels take place across a number of continents, each with its own distinct history and ethnic groupings of humans.

Argan. 4,000 years before the novels are set, the Wizards formed an alliance with a race of warriors and set out to enslave a mysterious entity called The Skull of the Deep South, a being that served as the hive mind for an array of dangerous monsters known as the Swarms. However, this failed, and the Swarms proceeded to invade Argan. The Wizards defeated the Swarms and built a flame trench stretching across the narrowest point of the continent (Drangsturm) to keep them out. They then proceeded to form an oppressive Empire, which ruled Argan until they were overthrown and the Empire of Wizards reformed as the Confederation of Wizards (a commercial rather than political entity). Argan during this "Age of Darkness" consists of a patch-work of independent and competing kingdoms, with the trading language of Galish serving as the lingua franca. Argan can be seen as analogous to Western Europe.
Tameran. Lying north of Argan (separated by a channel), Tameran is largely united under the Collosnon Empire. Once ruled by a sophisticated civilisation called the Sharla, they were conquered by nomadic warriors called Yarglat. Tameran is somewhat similar to Central Asia.
Yestron. Far to the east of Argan and Tameran, across the Great Ocean of Moana, the continent of Yestron is dominated by the Izdimir Empire. The heart of this empire is the land of Ang, a highly civilised culture that nevertheless practices slavery, human sacrifice, and tyrannical absolute rule. Ang itself appears to be modelled upon Japan, although the northern subservient kingdom of Wen Endex bears a strong similarity to Norse-era Scandinavia.
Parengarenga. Lying midway between Argan and Yestron, Parengareanga is largely desert, vastly underpopulated and extremely poor. Of all the continents, it suffered most from the effects of war.

Reception
Interzone reviewed The Wizards and the Warriors negatively, calling it overlong, uninteresting, and with poor control of tone. However, Publishers Weekly reviewed The Wordsmiths and the Warguild favourably, saying that the picaresque adventure's tone shifts "keep the reader interested and off balance, never sure what's next or why." Library Journal called it "an entertaining fantasy" about an endearing hero bumbling from disaster to disaster.

Publishers Weekly reviewed The Warwolf and the Walrus negatively, saying that despite "flashes of imagination, the reader eventually loses interest". China Miéville wrote an introductory essay for the Paizo reissue calling it a fan favorite and an anti-Bildungsroman, noting that Cook's pirates avoided both romanticism and didacticism.

In his essay, Miéville described the series as "extraordinary", "underrated", and in need of rediscovery. Adrian Tchaikovsky called the series "enormously ahead of its time", and opined that while Cook wrote female characters well, there were not enough of them. He also compared the series's humour to The Dying Earth by Jack Vance. However, in The Encyclopedia of Fantasy, John Clute said that the series included "conceits of some considerable interest", such as the odex, but that it is "considerably more incoherent than most readers will accept."

References

External links
Hugh Cook's Chronicles of an Age of Darkness
Hugh Cook Fan Subreddit

Science fiction book series
Fantasy novel series