[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mixtec writing

intain the Mixtec culture.  Origin myths continued to be recorded as part of genealogical records.  The Church, knowing of the religious motifs and creation myths recorded in these codices, confiscated and destroyed them; it is believed many more codices were in existence before the Colonial period.

Calendar 
Like most other Mesoamerican cultures, the Mixtec people had a 260-day sacred calendar.  The days that made up this calendar were represented in Mixtec writing by the combination of a numeral, called the coefficient, and a certain sign or symbol. This numeral ranges between one and thirteen, while there are 20 signs which progress from crocodile to flower.
The calendar moves in such a way that the numbers and signs move in parallel, so they start on crocodile, and move onto two Wind and three House. However, after thirteen Reed, the number resets, giving the next sign (which is a Jaguar at this point) an assigned coefficient of one. However, when seven flower is reached, the signs reset, but the coefficient continues to rise, giving eight crocodile.
Years worked differently on the Mixtec calendar, and there were only four signs used to denote actual year-lengths. These were rabbit, reed, flint, and house. It was these signs and symbols that allowed Mixtec history to be traced to almost as far back as 940 CE, because the Mixtecs dated many important events with these signs and coefficients.

Present day
Today the codices are studied for their importance to the ethnohistory of the Mixtec and the region.  Ethnohistoric data gathered from these codices can be applied and compared with other codices, European writings and records of events, and with the archaeological data of the Post-Classic and Colonial periods.  In addition to these other materials, the study of Mixtec codices is supplemented by consulting the Mixtec who live in the areas featured in the writings.  Examining the oral traditions associated with the codices provides a more complete understanding of the information and stories they hold, as they were often used for recitations and readings.

During the twentieth century there was a resurgence in traditional writings across Mexico, coinciding with the Mexican Revolution and the emerging theme of national identity and unity.  Today, the number of Mixtec speakers is around half a million people, spread across Mexico and the United States.  Efforts by linguists, anthropologists, and Mixtecs are helping to preserve the language despite the influences of Spanish and English.  Maintenance of the codices and the traditions they represent help modern Mixtecs to preserve and reclaim their historical traditions, and legitimize their culture with a positive identity of indigenous culture.

See also 
Mixtec Group : Codex Vindobonensis Mexicanus I, Codex Selden, Codex Zouche-Nuttall, Codex Waecker-Gotter, Codex Colombino-Becker.
Mixtecan languages
Mesoamerican writing systems
Mesoamerican calendars
Mayan hieroglyphs

References

Further reading
 Restall, Matthew.  1997.  Heirs to the Hieroglyphs: Indigenous Writing in Colonial Mesoamerica  The Americas 54:239-267.
 Troike, Nancy P.  1978. Fundamental Changes in the Interpretations of the Mixtec Codices.  American Antiquity 43:553-568.
 Supplement to the Handbook of Middle American Indians, Vol. IV. Ethnohistory.  1986.  Ronald Spores, ed.  University of Texas Press.  Austin, Texas.

External links 
Learn how to read Mixtec glyphs
 INEGI 
 SIL Mexico 

 
Mesoamerican writing systems