[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ernest Titterton

s in the Canberra Times. In 1979, he wrote that "nuclear power is the cheapest, cleanest and safest method of power production yet devised by man", an argument he repeated in a second book, with Frank Robotham, titled Uranium, Energy Source of the Future?, in which he put the case for nuclear power.

Titterton was the Dean of the Research School of Physical Sciences from 1966 to 1968, and Director of the Research School of Physical Sciences from 1969 to 1973. He was also a member of the council of Macquarie University from 1978 to 1984. His goal was to build up the physics department at ANU into a world-class institution. When he heard that the 33 MeV electron synchrotron at the Telecommunications Research Establishment in Malvern, Worcestershire, was to be closed down, he wrote to Cockcroft, now the director of the AERE, and asked if he could have it for the ANU. Cockcroft agreed, on condition that the ANU pay for it to be dismantled and shipped all the way to Australia. Titterton arranged for this to be done. The electron synchrotron was installed in the basement of the Oliphant Building, where it became known as "Ernie's erection".

A third accelerator, a 600 keV Cockcroft-Walton accelerator, was acquired in 1954. With Tony Brinkley, a researcher that he recruited in England, he studied photonuclear reactions with the Cockcroft-Walton accelerators, and bremsstrahlung, the radiation produced by the deceleration of a charged particle, with the electron synchrotron. They were the first to observe ternary fission in Californium-252. A 5 MV terminal electrostatic nuclear (EN) tandem accelerator commenced operation in 1961. The electron synchrotron ceased operation that year, and was given to the University of Western Australia. He obtained $2.2 million in 1969 for new accelerators, with which he purchased a 26 MeV negative-ion cyclotron to inject into the EN tandem, which commenced operation in 1972, and a 14UD tandem accelerator that commenced operation in 1974. He became involved in some bruising bureaucratic battles. When the Australian and British governments jointly agreed to build the Anglo-Australian telescope in 1969, a dispute arose over whether it should be controlled by the ANU or its own management. Titterton supported the latter approach, which ultimately prevailed. But he lost a battle to prevent the  department of geophysics and geochemistry from becoming a new Research School of Earth Sciences.

In 1973, Titterton stepped down as Director of the Research School of Physical Sciences, and became an ordinary professor. Once again he spearheaded a proposal to upgrade the department's equipment, this time by using the tandem as an injector for a superconducting linear accelerator. Unable to secure funding in Australia, he managed to persuade the British Science Research Council to donate the required equipment to the ANU from facilities in England that were being closed down. It was installed and commissioned after his death. He was appointed a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George on 1 January 1957, and was created a knight bachelor on 1 January 1970.

British nuclear testing 

On 16 September 1950, the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, Clement Attlee sounded out his Australian counterpart, Robert Menzies about the prospect of conducting British nuclear weapons tests in Australia. Menzies was agreeable. In April 1952, the British government asked if Titterton could assist with the forthcoming test in the Montebello Islands of Western Australia, now codenamed Operation Hurricane, as he was one of the few people outside the United States who had experience in the planning and conduct of nuclear tests. On Oliphant's advice, the vice chancellor, Sir Douglas Copland, agreed to release Titterton. Two further nuclear tests were carried out in 1953 at Emu Field, South Australia, as part of Operation Totem. Titterton and other scientists from the ANU conducted neutron flux measurements with photographic emulsions and neuron-threshold detectors. In July 1955, in response to growing concerns about health hazards related to British nuclear tests, the government created the Atomic Weapons Tests Safety Committee (AWTSC), with the power to veto tests it felt were a danger to people, flora or fauna. Titterton was one of its members, along with Leslie H. Martin, W. A. S. Butement, C. E. Eddy, Philip Baxter and  L. J. Dwyer. In this capacity, Titterton witnessed British nuclear tests at Maralinga, starting with Operation Mosaic in May and June 1956.

Titterton was grilled by the McClelland Royal Commission, which held hearings between August 1984 and September 1985 to investigate the conduct of  British nuclear testing in Australia. He clashed repeatedly with its chairman, Jim McClelland, who accused Titterton of being "a British plant". His final report was scathing: