[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gary Brabin

er play-off final on 20 May, where they were beaten by York City. Ironically, just five days later Brabin was convicted of using threatening and behaviour, but cleared of assault, following an altercation with two stewards after he was sent to the stands during a match at York City on 19 April 2011.

Return to Southport
Brabin returned to Southport for the third time on 6 October 2014, replacing Martin Foyle. He took the club to an FA Cup Third Round tie with Derby County and up to 20th in the Conference. On 20 January 2015, Brabin left Southport to take up a post at Everton to be part of the coaching set up at the under-21 level. His successor at Haig Avenue, Paul Carden, led Southport to a 19th-place finish at the end of the 2014–15 season.

Tranmere Rovers
On 5 May 2015, Brabin was appointed as the manager of Tranmere Rovers following their relegation to the National League. He guided Rovers to a sixth-place finish at the end of the 2015–16 season, missing out on the play-offs by just two points. Two of his signings, Andy Cook and James Norwood, would go on to form a highly effective partnership for the club over the following two seasons. He was named as the National League Manager of the Month for August 2016. However his contract at Prenton Park was terminated on 18 September 2016, with the club in fifth-place but in poor form and his relationship with the club's supporters remaining consistently tense. He was succeeded by Micky Mellon, who led Tranmere to the 2017 National League play-off final, where they were beaten by Forest Green Rovers.

Return to coaching
Brabin was appointed as a coach at EFL League Two side Port Vale by newly appointed manager Neil Aspin in October 2017. In March 2018, he was named as second favourite to take the management position at Wrexham. In September 2018 he left Vale Park to take up the position as assistant manager to Terry McPhillips at EFL League One side Blackpool. He stepped down from the role for "personal reasons" in March 2019. In June 2019, he returned to Luton as one of Graeme Jones's two assistant managers. Brabin departed Luton in March 2020 following Jones's dismissal.

In April 2021, he was appointed as the Sporting Director at Cymru Premier team The New Saints.

Career statistics

Managerial statistics

Honours

As a player
Individual
Chester City Player of the Year: 2001–02

Runcorn 
FA Trophy runner-up: 1993 & 1994

As a manager
Individual
Conference Premier Manager of the Year: 2008–09
National League Manager of the Month: August 2016

References

1970 births
Living people
Footballers from Liverpool
English men's footballers
England men's semi-pro international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Men's association football defenders
Stockport County F.C. players
Gateshead F.C. players
Runcorn F.C. Halton players
Doncaster Rovers F.C. players
Bury F.C. players
Blackpool F.C. players
Lincoln City F.C. players
Hull City A.F.C. players
Boston United F.C. players
Torquay United F.C. players
Chester City F.C. players
The New Saints F.C. players
Halifax Town A.F.C. players
Southport F.C. players
Burscough F.C. players
English Football League players
Northern Premier League players
National League (English football) players
Cymru Premier players
English football managers
Southport F.C. managers
Cambridge United F.C. managers
Luton Town F.C. managers
Tranmere Rovers F.C. managers
National League (English football) managers
Association football coaches
Association football scouts
Luton Town F.C. non-playing staff
Everton F.C. non-playing staff
Port Vale F.C. non-playing staff
Blackpool F.C. non-playing staff
The New Saints F.C. non-playing staff