[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Grup Yorum

The world premiere took place in Europe's largest cinema, Grand Rex, with close to 2000 people on 16 May. It tells the true story of the struggle against gentrification and drug gangs in the neighbourhood of Küçük Armutlu in Istanbul and contains real footage of police raiding and banning the film.

Treatment by the state
On 18 January 2013, five members of the group were accused of DHKP-C membership and arrested. They were released three days later.

In October 2016 the Turkish police raided the İdil Cultural Center and destroyed music instruments belonging to the band. Later the band published a video in which they played a song on their broken instruments. In November 2016, eight members of Grup Yorum were arrested at a concert they gave. They were released the following spring.

In February 2018, Ali Aracı, İbrahim Gökçek, Selma Altın, İnan Altın, Emel Yeşilırma, and İhsan Cibelik were placed on the wanted list of the Turkish government. These members were put on the grey list, which meant a 300,000 Turkish lira bounty on their heads. Selma and İnan Altın left Turkey and applied for asylum in France in July 2018. İbrahim Gökçek was detained on 26 February 2019 and sent to Silivri Prison on 1 March 2019.

In just two years the İdil Cultural Center was raided 10 times and several members of the band were arrested. On 22 January 2019 Sultan Gökçek and Betül Varan were released, while the members Seher Adıgüzel, Ferhat Kıl, Helin Bölek, Dilan Ekin, Bahar Kurt, Özgür Gültekin, Meral Hır and Duygu Yasinoğlu stayed in custody. In February 2019, İbrahim Gökçek was again arrested and accused of being a member of DHKP-C.

In November 2019, Cologne police raided a venue and banned a Grup Yorum concert which was due to take place in solidarity with members in Turkey. The police statement said that the concert was forbidden, and that the venue where the concert would be held would be closed by the police.

On Wednesday 5 August, 6 Grup Yorum members were arrested during a concert rehearsal at Beykoz, and at the same time the Idil Cultural Centre was raided. The 6 Grup Yorum members were released a few hours later.

As of 20 November 2020, Grup Yorum has announced on its Twitter account that 3 Grup Yorum members and 5 choir members are jailed.

Hunger strike
In May 2019, several members of the Grup Yorum began a hunger strike in protest to the treatment the band received from the Turkish government. Their demands included that the Turkish government end forbidding its free concerts and release band members from prison. İbrahim Gökçek and Helin Bölek joined the hunger strike in June 2019. Bölek and Bahar Kurt were released in November 2019, but they kept on fasting. On 4 January Gökçek and Bölek turned their hunger strike into a death fast. Subsequently, Gökçek was released on 25 February 2020 but also kept on fasting. On 11 March 2020, Bölek and Gökçek's house was raided by the police and were taken to hospital to receive treatment, but as they announced opposition to the treatment, they were released again. In April 2020, Helin Bölek died after 288 days of hunger strike in a house in Istanbul's Küçükarmutlu where she had been staging the hunger strike with Gökçek against the treatment of the band by the Turkish government. On 5 May 2020, Gökçek ended his hunger-strike and was transferred to a hospital in Istanbul for treatment. He died on 7 May 2020. On the following day the funeral was stopped by the police in the Istanbul neighbourhood of Sultangazi. The police seized his coffin and brought his corpse to Kayseri, where he was buried.

İzmir mosque controversy
On 21 May 2020, instead of the adhan, Grup Yorum's version of the well-known resistance song "Bella Ciao" was aired from a number of minarets in İzmir. Turkish authorities arrested a woman that same day for the act, which they called an attack on mosques and religion.

Members

Current members 
 Vocals : Selma Altın, Eren Olcay, Sultan Gökçek, Umut Gültekin, Ayfer Rüzgar, Betül Varan, Fırat Kıl, Sena Erkoç
 Bağlama : İhsan Cibelik, Meral Hır, Emel Yeşilırmak
 Classic/acoustic guitar : Muharrem Cengiz, Dilan Ekin, Ekimcan Yıldırım
 Keyboard instruments : İnan Altın
 Wind instruments : Ali Aracı, Selma Altın, İhsan Cibelik, Bahar Kurt, Dilan Poyraz, Betül Varan, Sena Erkoç
 Bass guitar : Seher Adılgüzel
 Percussion instruments : İnan Altın, Bergün Varan, Barış Yüksel
 Choral vocals: Emel Yeşilırmak