[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Massimo Donati

signed a short-term contract with St Mirren in February 2018. He was released by St Mirren at the end of this contract.

Media career
In 2018, Donati was unveiled as a new color commentator and pundit for DAZN, a role he left in June 2021 following his appointment as Sambenedettese's new head coach.

He briefly resumed his role at DAZN between August and September 2021, leaving again after Sambenedettese was successfully readmitted into Serie D.

Coaching career
In June 2019, Donati joined the coaching staff at Kilmarnock under Angelo Alessio.

On 25 June 2021, he was appointed as the new head coach of Sambenedettese. The club, originally scheduled to play Serie C in the 2021–22 season, was successively demoted to Serie D due to financial irregularities; nevertheless, in September 2021 Donati was confirmed he would stay at Sambenedettese also in the lower tier. On 31 October 2021, Donati was dismissed from his role following a negative start in the club's Serie D campaign.

On 16 June 2022, Donati was appointed as the new manager of Legnago Salus, who had just been relegated to Serie D. After winning the Serie D Group B title and leading Legnago back to Serie C after one season, he was confirmed in charge of the club.

Career statistics

Honours

Club
Celtic

Scottish Premier League: 2007–08
Scottish League Cup: 2008–09

References

External links
 
 
 

1981 births
Living people
People from San Vito al Tagliamento
Italian men's footballers
Italy men's under-21 international footballers
Italy men's youth international footballers
Atalanta BC players
AC Milan players
ACR Messina players
Parma Calcio 1913 players
Torino FC players
UC Sampdoria players
Celtic F.C. players
SSC Bari players
Palermo FC players
Hellas Verona FC players
Hamilton Academical F.C. players
Serie A players
Serie B players
Scottish Premier League players
Scottish Professional Football League players
Men's association football midfielders
Italian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Scotland
Italian expatriate sportspeople in Scotland
Hamilton Academical F.C. non-playing staff
St Mirren F.C. players
Kilmarnock F.C. non-playing staff
Footballers from Friuli Venezia Giulia