[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Santi Cazorla

arly on in the season. The Spaniard picked up an ankle injury in September before the Sunderland game that kept him out of action for the rest of the month. On 30 November 2013, Cazorla made his 300th career top-flight league appearance, when he started for Arsenal in a 3–0 win against Cardiff City.

Cazorla produced a string of sparkling performances in January. He thumped home Arsenal's first against Tottenham before scoring a brace in the win at home to Fulham. The goals kept coming for the 29-year-old with further strikes against Coventry City and Southampton. Cazorla played every minute of Arsenal's seven fixtures in March and committed his long-term future to Arsenal by signing a new contract.

Cazorla tucked home the winning penalty in the shootout against Wigan to send Arsenal to the final of the FA Cup at Wembley Stadium. The Spaniard also added to his assist tally when his corner was headed home by Giroud against West Brom and scored Arsenal's first goal – a direct free-kick – as the team came from 2–0 down to defeat Hull City 3–2 in the 2014 FA Cup Final, winning his first piece of silverware with the club. He finished the campaign with 7 goals and 47 appearances in all competitions.

Cazorla began the 2014–15 campaign with another goal at Wembley, slotting home Arsenal's opener against Manchester City in the 2014 FA Community Shield. On 30 May 2015, Cazorla was selected to start in the 2015 FA Cup Final, playing the full 90 minutes and being voted man of the match in a 4–0 defeat of Aston Villa at Wembley. He finished the Premier League season with 11 assists, the second-highest in the League behind Chelsea's Cesc Fàbregas, and seven goals.

Cazorla began the 2015–16 season strongly, featuring in every match for Arsenal from the start of the campaign, with analysis showing him to be the league's busiest and most accurate passer. However, on 30 November 2015 he suffered a knee injury in a match against Norwich City and was ruled out for at least three months. In fact he did not return to the team until the last matchday on 15 May 2016, when he was named as player of the match in a 4–0 win over relegated Aston Villa which secured runners-up spot for the Gunners.

At the outset of 2016–17 Cazorla was once again an important player for Arsenal, making 11 appearances and scoring twice, before he injured his right Achilles tendon during a Champions League fixture against Ludogorets Razgrad on 19 October 2016, sustaining the injury from a challenge while providing an assist for a Mesut Özil goal in the 6–0 victory. Standard rehabilitation did not prove effective and in December it was confirmed that he would require surgery. He eventually endured eight operations on the problem (the ankle originally having been damaged playing for Spain in 2013), and contracted gangrene on the affected area with the infection 'eating' part of the tendon. It had been feared that he could be unable to walk again or could even lose the affected leg. The condition required antibiotic treatment and a skin graft, with the skin sourced from Cazorla's left forearm where a tattoo of his daughter's name had featured. He temporarily relocated to Salamanca to complete a further recovery programme, with the aim of returning to play football in 2018; after further operations, however, this was revised to 2019.

With his contract ending at the end of the 2017–18 season, it was announced that Cazorla would be leaving Arsenal. In 2020, he voiced his desire to return to Arsenal for a farewell match.

Second return to Villarreal
After his departure from Arsenal, Cazorla spent a brief period training with the youth team at Alavés. He then returned to former club Villarreal in order to train with them during the rest of the pre-season period and prove his fitness. He played his first game in 636 days when he appeared in a friendly against Hércules. He came on as a substitute in the 57th minute to a standing ovation. On 9 August 2018, his signing was officially announced by the club.

Cazorla scored his team's second goal in a 5–1 thrashing of Real Betis on 27 September 2019. With this goal, he became the highest-scoring midfielder in Villarreal's history with 46 goals, a record previously held by Juan Román Riquelme. He ended the season with 10 assists, the third-most in the league.

On 19 July 2020, Cazorla made his last appearance for Villarreal, in a 4–0 league win over Eibar. Before being substituted in the 82nd minute of the match, he assisted the opening goal, which was scored by André-Frank Zambo Anguissa. He ended the season with 11 goals (joint 10th most) and 9 assists (the third-most) in the league. Cazorla was given a guard of honour by teammates and opponents as he exited the pitch. Across his three spells at the club he made 334 appearances (251 in the league) and scored 57 goals (40 in the league).