[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Friedwardt Winterberg

uation is still imbedded on other pages of the proofs, in various forms, including Hilbert's variational principle with correct Lagrangian from which the Field Equation is immediately derived. Winterberg presented his findings at the American Physical Society meeting in Tampa, Florida in April 2005.

Corry, Renn, and Stachel authored a joint reply to Winterberg, which they claimed Zeitschrift für Naturforschung refused to publish without "unacceptable" modifications, and unable to find a publisher elsewhere, they made it available on the internet. The reply accused Winterberg of misrepresenting the reason why Science would not publish his paper (it had to do with the section of the journal it was scheduled to appear in), and also misrepresenting that the paper published in Zeitschrift für Naturforschung was the same paper he had submitted to Science, and had in fact been "substantially altered" after Winterberg had received their comments on an earlier draft. Actually, Winterberg in his Final Comment had clearly stated that the paper submitted to Science had been a previous version. They then argue that Winterberg's interpretation of the Hilbert paper was incorrect, that the lost part of the page was unlikely to have been consequential, and that much of Winterberg's reasoning about what could be in the missing piece was incorrect (down to noting Winterberg claims that 1/3 of the page was removed, when actually over half a page is missing total from the two cut off pages) and internally inconsistent. They further argued there was a likely "non-paranoid" explanation for the missing part of the page.

But as it was pointed out by Todorov and by Logunov, Mestvirishvili, and Petrov, even in his mutilated form, the page proofs of Hilbert contain the correct Lagrange density of the gravitational field, which in conjunction with Hilbert action results in the correct gravitational field equations. To derive the gravitational field equations from his action was not more than a minor exercise for Hilbert. Therefore, the game was over with Hilbert's action.

Later, the original reply to Winterberg was removed from their website and replaced with a much shorter statement saying only that Winterberg's conclusions were incorrect, specifically that he had focused on the missing page fragment, "a fact without any bearing on the matter at hand", while failing "to address the substantive difference between the theory expounded in the proofs" of Hilbert. The statement further said that Winterberg had apparently indicated that he was "personally offended" by the original response, the "Max Planck Institute for the History of Science has decided to replace the original, more detailed response to his paper with this abbreviated version". This was, apparently, because the original reply had contained two very derisive statements against Professor Winterberg; later, the Max Planck Society released a note distancing itself from those two statements, without commenting on the underlying scientific dispute.

References

Sources

External links 
Winterberg's faculty page at the University of Nevada, Reno.
A site dedicated to Prof. Friedwardt Winterberg. There are biography, list of published papers, links, photos, etc.

Living people
1929 births
20th-century German physicists
Scientists from Berlin
University of Nevada, Reno faculty
Goethe University Frankfurt alumni
Emigrants from West Germany to the United States