[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Courtney Pitt

Courtney Leon Pitt (born 17 December 1981) is an English retired footballer who played as a midfielder.

He previously played for Portsmouth, Luton Town, Coventry City, Oxford United, Boston United, Cambridge United, York City, Weymouth and AFC Telford United.

Career
Pitt began his career with Premier League club Chelsea, progressing through the youth ranks at Stamford Bridge. Pitt joined First Division side Portsmouth on a three-year contract on 16 June 2001 when his former Chelsea coach Graham Rix took over as manager at Fratton Park, turning down the offer of a new three-year contract at Chelsea. Pitt made the switch for a tribunal set fee of £200,000 plus add-ons, and he finished his first season with the club, 2001–02, with 41 appearances and three goals.

He made his debut for Pompey on the opening day of the season, in a 2–2 draw at Wolverhampton Wanderers and he went on to become a regular member of Portsmouth's squad, making a total of 39 League appearances during the course of the season (10 of those appearances coming as a substitute). He scored three goals during the campaign, all towards the end of the season, in a 3–0 home win over Millwall, a 1–1 draw at Birmingham City and a 3–1 loss at Manchester City.

However, Rix left the club, and Harry Redknapp took over as boss of Pompey. He then brought in a number of new players, including Luton's home grown starlet Matthew Taylor, and this pushed Pitt out of the first-team squad. He failed to make an appearance during the entire 2002–03 season under Redknapp as Portsmouth gained promotion to the Premier League as Division One champions. He came to Luton Town for a trial towards the end of the season, and he was snapped up on loan just two days after Mick Harford returned to Kenilworth Road as director of football and first-team coach – he had seemingly impressed Harford during his trial and was recommended to Mike Newell.

Pitt made his debut for Luton Town on the opening day of the 2003–04 season in a 3–1 home victory over Rushden & Diamonds and he went on to feature in a further five matches for the Hatters, netting his first – and only – goal for the club with a free-kick in a 4–1 home win over Yeovil Town in the League Cup first round.

He helped the side to a 2–1 win at Stockport County and a 3–2 home win over Hartlepool United, but, unfortunately, he sustained an Achilles tendon injury and it meant he would be forced to miss two weeks of action. Manager Mike Newell therefore decided it would be silly to extend his loan spell, and he returned to his club, Portsmouth.

However, on his return to Fratton Park, Pitt worked extremely hard to regain his fitness and he recovered from the Achilles tendon injury in a matter of a fortnight and satisfied that he was now fit to resume action, manager Mike Newell re-signed Pitt on loan for a second month. His second loan spell with the club wasn't quite as successful as his first – although he did help the Hatters to a couple of home wins.

He featured as a substitute in a 1–1 home draw with Queens Park Rangers and in a 4–4 draw after extra-time at Premiership Charlton Athletic in the League Cup second round that only saw the Hatters lose in a penalty shootout.

Returning to the starting line-up in the following match, a 3–0 loss at Oldham Athletic, Pitt remained in the team for the next five matches on the left-hand side of midfield as the side continued their good home form with 3–1 victories over both Tranmere Rovers and Wycombe Wanderers, but also saw their away form cost them with a 2–2 draw at Swindon Town and losses at Brentford (4–2) and AFC Bournemouth (6–3).

In late October, following the heavy loss at Bournemouth, manager Mike Newell decided to allow Pitt to return to Portsmouth. With the club under a transfer embargo, Newell could not sign any new players unless he allowed one of his two loan players – Pitt or Gary McSheffrey – to return to their respective clubs. Wanting to sign an experienced goalkeeper, Newell took the decision to allow Pitt to return to Portsmouth with his thanks for his efforts during his time at Kenilworth Road. Pitt then enjoyed a brief loan spell with Coventry City.

He linked up with his former manager Rix for a third time at Oxford United for an undisclosed fee on 25 March 2004. However, Pitt failed to make an impact at the Kassam Stadium, and after eight appearances for the U's, he was released at the end of the 2003–04 season and began the search for a new club. After a spell with Boston United, he signed for Conference National side Cambridge United prior to the start of the 2005–06 season.