[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 127]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

been for every contrary quality."

"Thus," added Mr Barlow, "you see how little reason there is to despair
of youth, even in the most disadvantageous circumstances. It has been
justly observed, that few know all they are capable of: the seeds of
different qualities frequently lie concealed in the character, and only
wait for an opportunity of exerting themselves; and it is the great
business of education to apply such motives to the imagination as may
stimulate it to laudable exertions. For thus the same activity of mind,
the same impetuosity of temper, which, by being improperly applied,
would only form a wild, ungovernable character, may produce the
steadiest virtues, and prove a blessing both to the individual and his
country."

"I am infinitely obliged to you for this story," said Mr Merton; "and as
my son will certainly find a _Xenocrates_ in you, I wish that you may
have reason to think him in some degree a _Polemo_. But since you are so
kind as to present me these agreeable hopes, do not leave the work
unfinished, but tell me what you think the best method of treating him
in his present critical situation." "That," said Mr Barlow, "must
depend, I think, upon the workings of his own mind. He has always
appeared to me generous and humane, and to have a fund of natural
goodness amid all the faults which spring up too luxuriantly in his
character. It is impossible that he should not be at present possessed
with the keenest shame for his own behaviour. It will be your first part
to take advantage of these sentiments, and instead of a fleeting and
transitory sensation, to change them into fixed and active principles.
Do not at present say much to him upon the subject. Let us both be
attentive to the silent workings of his mind, and regulate our behaviour
accordingly."

This conversation being finished, Mr Merton introduced Mr Barlow to the
company in the other room. Mrs Merton, who now began to be a little
staggered in some of the opinions she had been most fond of, received
him with uncommon civility, and all the rest of the company treated him
with the greatest respect. But Tommy, who had lately been the oracle and
admiration of all this brilliant circle, appeared to have lost all his
vivacity; he, indeed, advanced to meet Mr Barlow with a look of
tenderness and gratitude, and made the most respectful answers to all
his inquiries; but his eyes were involuntarily turned to the ground, and
silent melancholy and dejection were visible in his face.

Mr Barlow remarked, with the greatest pleasure, these signs of humility
and contrition, and pointed them out to Mr Merton the first time he had
an opportunity of speaking to him without being overheard; adding,
"that, unless he was much deceived, Tommy would soon give ample proofs
of the natural goodness of his character, and reconcile himself to all
his friends." Mr Merton heard this observation with the greatest
pleasure, and now began to entertain some hopes of seeing it
accomplished.

After the dinner was over most of the young gentlemen went away to their
respective homes. Tommy seemed to have lost much of the enthusiasm which
he had lately felt for his polite and accomplished friends; he even
appeared to feel a secret joy at their departure, and answered with a
visible coldness at professions of regard and repeated invitations. Even
Mrs Compton herself, and Miss Matilda, who were also departing, found
him as insensible as the rest; though they did not spare the most
extravagant praises and the warmest professions of regard.

And now, the ceremonies of taking leave being over, and most of the
visitors departed, a sudden solitude seemed to have taken possession of
the house, which was lately the seat of noise, and bustle, and
festivity. Mr and Mrs Merton and Mr Barlow were left alone with Miss
Simmons and Tommy, and one or two others of the smaller gentry who had
not yet returned to their friends.

As Mr Barlow was not fond of cards, Mr Merton proposed, after the
tea-table was removed, that Miss Simmons, who was famous for reading
well, should entertain the company with some little tale or history
adapted to the comprehension even of the youngest. Miss Simmons excused
herself with the greatest modesty; but on Mrs Merton's joining in the
request, she instantly complied, and fetching down a book, read the
following story of


"SOPHRON AND TIGRANES."

"Sophron and Tigranes were the children of two neighbouring shepherds
that fed their flocks in that part of Asia which borders upon Mount
Lebanon. They were accustomed to each other from earliest infancy; and
the continual habit of conversing at length produced a tender and
intimate friendship.

"Sophron was larger and more robust of the two; his look was firm but
modest, his countenance placid, and his eyes were such as inspired
confidence and attachment. He excelled most of the youth of the
neighbourhood in every species of vio