[Source: PubMed]

33. BMC Health Serv Res. 2024 Jan 25;24(1):138. doi: 10.1186/s12913-024-10602-2.

Macro level system mapping of the provision of mental health services to young 
people living in a conflict context in Colombia.

Fenton SJ(1), Gutiérrez JRR(2), Pinilla-Roncancio M(2), Casas G(2), Carranza 
F(1), Weber S(1), Jackson P(3), Romero JPA(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.
(2)Universidad de Los Andes, Bogota, Colombia.
(3)University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK. p.b.jackson@bham.ac.uk.

Colombia has one of the longest running internal armed conflicts, which has 
significantly impacted the mental health of the population. This article is the 
first to present a national level mapping of the provision of mental health 
services to young people living in Colombia, through detailed review of 
documentation, interviews with key stakeholders and quantitative analysis of 
existing data on mental health and suicide. It explores the existing public 
mental health provision in the country, focussing on where mental health 
resources are concentrated and how these are implemented. We use this mapping to 
understand how the current mental health system in Colombia fits with 
international approaches to youth mental health. We show that whilst mental 
health policy is variously framed (biomedical, biosocial, psychologically or 
through human rights), Colombian policy clearly focusses on a differential 
approach. This differential approach shapes service provision to target support 
at those in need, consequently neglecting whole population level mental health 
support. This means that not all stakeholders were clearly articulated or 
included in policy and that key institutional stakeholders, such as the 
education sector, were not linked to implementation plans or activity. Policy 
approaches were also over-centralised with little cross-institutional 
collaboration. Youth were specifically missing from services, as was explicit 
understanding of the intergenerational effects and impact of conflict. This was 
exacerbated by unequal distribution of mental health care services concentrated 
in populous, urban areas away from conflict-affected regions. Suicide is the 
second most prevalent cause of death with 10% of population who were recorded as 
dying by violence, dying from completed suicide. Triangulation implies a strong 
relationship between suicide and poorer access to professional support in 
conflict-affected areas and suggests that international frameworks and policy 
approaches to supporting youth mental health have been insufficiently adapted 
for conflict and post conflict contexts.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12913-024-10602-2
PMCID: PMC10811930
PMID: 38273272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.