[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Adin Steinsaltz

. This led to more liberal Jewish movements placing adverts in the press asking for the edition to be donated to their institutions instead. For his part, Steinsaltz countered that much of the criticism he faced was rooted in opposition to the Chabad-Lubavitch community with which he was affiliated.

Praise 
While certain members of the Haredi community may have opposition to Steinsaltz's works, other Jewish leaders, rabbis, and authors have spoken or written about their appreciation for Steinsaltz's unique educational approach. Rabbi John Rosove of Temple Israel of Hollywood featured "Opening The Tanya", "Learning the Tanya", and "Understanding the Tanya" on his list of the top ten recommended Jewish books. These volumes are written by Rabbi Shneur Zalman of Liadi, the founder of the Chabad Lubavitch movement, and include commentary by Steinsaltz. Through reading the Tanya, readers can explore all aspects of the central text of Chabad movement. Rabbi Elie Kaunfer, a rosh yeshiva and the CEO of Mechon Hadar Yeshiva, discussed his gratitude for Steinsaltz's Global Day of Jewish Learning and the opportunity created by this online platform for learning and creating a deeper connection to Torah, other Jewish text, and Jews worldwide. Rabbi Pinchas Allouche, who studied under Steinsaltz, notes that Steinsaltz "is a world scholar" who "revolutionized the Jewish landscape" through his commentary, other writings, and educational organizations. In 1988, secular Israeli historian Zeev Katz compared Steinsaltz's importance to that of Rashi and Maimonides, two Jewish scholars of medieval times. In addition, Ilana Kurshan, an American-Israeli author, wrote that Steinsaltz's ability to bring "the historical world of the Talmudic stages to life" created an enjoyable Jewish learning experience for her when she was intensely studying Talmud.

See also 

 List of Israel Prize recipients
 Modern attempts to revive the Sanhedrin

References

External links 

 The website of The Aleph Society and Steinsaltz
 Steinsaltz's lecture in winter 2005 at Florida International University
 Steinsaltz talks about the Torah to BBC (sound file)
 Some articles written by Steinsaltz
 Books by Steinsaltz
 Catalog of books published by Koren Publishers Jerusalem

1937 births
2020 deaths
Hasidic rabbis in Mandatory Palestine
Rabbis in Jerusalem
Hasidic rosh yeshivas
Israel Prize in Jewish studies recipients
Israel Prize Rabbi recipients
Talmud translators
Translators to French
Translators to Spanish
Talmudists
Chabad-Lubavitch rabbis
Hasidic rabbis in Israel
Baalei teshuva
Israeli translators
Israeli non-fiction writers
Israeli educators
Recipients of the Presidential Medal of Distinction of Israel
20th-century translators
21st-century translators
Jewish translators
Deaths from pneumonia in Israel