[Source: PubMed]

54. Front Public Health. 2024 Apr 26;12:1372334. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2024.1372334.
 eCollection 2024.

A conceptual framework on pre- and post-displacement stressors: the case of 
Syrian refugees.

Assaf SA(1), Nuwayhid I(2), Habib RR(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
American University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon.
(2)Department of Environmental Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, American 
University of Beirut, Beirut, Lebanon.

Researchers have documented multiple stressors and mental health problems along 
the journey of refugees as they are displaced to seek refuge in nearby and 
remote host countries. This article examines published research on Syrian 
refugees to propose a framework to conceptualize Syrian refugees' pre- and 
post-stressors and their collective impact on their mental health. The proposed 
framework provides a comprehensive understanding of the interconnected pathways 
between pre-displacement stressors, post-displacement stressors, and mental 
health outcomes for Syrian refugees. Pre-displacement stressors are best 
captured by the concept of trauma centrality and emotional suppression. 
Post-displacement stressors, categorized under financial, political, and social 
themes, have a direct impact on the mental health of the refugees, but could 
also play a partial mediating role on the impact of pre-displacement stressors 
on mental health. The framework suggests a direct pathway between the experience 
of war-related traumatic events and mental health and introduces the country of 
residence as a potential moderator of the severity of mental health. The latter 
is primarily influenced by local policies and the host communities' acceptance 
of refugees. We believe that the proposed framework can guide the work of 
researchers, policymakers, and practitioners concerned with the mental health 
and well-being of Syrian refugees. Additionally, although based on the 
experience of Syrian refugees, it presents a holistic perspective that could be 
adapted in other refugee settings.

Copyright © 2024 Assaf, Nuwayhid and Habib.

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2024.1372334
PMCID: PMC11082271
PMID: 38737863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.