[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jean-Louis Gergorin

matician turned computer expert named Imad Lahoud.

In 2007 Gergorin published a book named Rapacités (Greed) in which he publicly articulated his claim to have been a good faith whistleblower who was framed for his desire to understand the causes of the unexpected death of Lagardère.

Legal Rulings

January 28, 2010 Judgement of the Tribunal de Grande Instance (Higher District Court of First Instance) de Paris 
On October 20, 2009, the public prosecutor requested an 18-month prison sentence and a €45,000 fine against Jean-Louis Gergorin. 
On January 28, 2010, he was found guilty of slanderous denunciation, use of forgery, concealment of breach of trust and theft, and sentenced to three years in prison—of which 21 months was suspended—and fined €40,000 euros by the Paris criminal court. Some salient excerpts from the judgment are below:

 "He is the initiator and the principal author of the crimes of slanderous denunciations. He used for this purpose documents of which he knew the fraudulent source and which he knew altered. He acted to satisfy personal interests (... ) it was quickly inhabited by an intention to harm, partly under the pernicious and harmful influence of Imad Lahoud ".
 "Whereas JLG has particularly and repeatedly targeted victims who have become targets and otherwise adversaries in industrial rivalry; that his denunciations have considerably increased the devastating, even destructive, effect of the intention to harm him lived (...) and whose choice answered only one logic: that of giving credibility to its fight against a chimerical enemy by the use of data of which it knew the lying character ".
 "Whereas JLG has been able to instrumentalize the authorities; that it has staged its steps, giving them an appearance of credibility and legitimacy (..) that the use of emblematic or easily accessible authorities, while knowing that the general Rondot, as the investigating judge acted in secrecy and compartmentalization, enabled JLG, the only one to master the labyrinthine process of slander, to continue his harmful work (...)
 "Whereas Jean-Louis Gergorin must be considered as fully responsible for his actions, which reveal a particularly harmful and disturbing personality due to an exceptional duplicity (...) that the exceptional extent of the scheme did as equal as the relentless determination thanks to which JLG, with the collaboration of Imad Lahoud, built his trap and the deep contempt in which they both held the ministerial and judicial authorities (...) to a prison sentence therefore appears justified" "'

September 14, 2011 ruling by the Paris Court of Appeal 
The Paris Court of Appeals ruling was largely a confirmation of the first ruling, except regarding Mr. Gergorin. Relevant excerpts from the ruling include:

 The Court of Appeal did not follow the considerations of the first ruling which described him as the initiator and main author of the facts. 
 Jean-Louis Gergorin was relieved of the charges of forgery and concealment, but also of the charge of use of slanderous accusation and forgeries concerning the documents delivered to General Rondot. 
 The Court, however, confirmed the ruling concerning the charges of concealment of forgeries and slanderous accusation related to the documents sent to judge Renaud Van Ruymbeke after General Rondot failed to confirm the lists were genuine. 
 The September 14, 2011 ruling shortened Mr. Gergorin’s prison term—the 3-year term was confirmed, but the suspension portion of the sentence was increased to 30 months (from the original 21). The €40,000 fine was confirmed. 
Jean-Louis Gergorin attempted to bring the case to the Cour de Cassation or Supreme Court for a final appeal, but the request was dismissed on February 27, 2013 , making the September 14 ruling by the Paris Court of Appeal final

Awards and activities
Gergorin has been the recipient of various honors and awards; most notably sharing the 1989 Aviation Week Laureate Award with Jean-Luc Lagardère and Philippe Camus.  Gergorin was later inducted into the Aviation Week "Laureates Hall of Fame" at the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum.

Gergorin spoke at the 1998 Bilderberg Meeting and was a guest at the 1997, 2002, and 2003 Bilderberg meetings.

Gergorin has also been credited as the organizer of “high-level”  discussions concerning France's strained relationship with the United States after the reelection of George W. Bush to the Presidency of the United States.

The talks involved American diplomats including Henry Kissinger and Zbigniew Brzezinski as well as a “similarly illustrious” list of French officials.

Current
Jean-Louis Gergorin has lectured at the Institut d'Études Politiques de Paris.

He is a member of Institut Aspen.

References

1946 births
Living people
Harvard Kennedy School people
École Polytechnique alumni
École nationale d'administration alumni
Stanford Graduate School of Business alumni