[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Workplace violence

rities.
 On April 8, 2016, workplace violence erupted at Lackland Airforce Base in San Antonio, Texas.  At that time, the squadron's commanding officer was shot and killed by an airman who then killed himself.  Thereafter, the facility went into lockdown mode.  Soon after the shootings, it was reported that the incident was not a case involving terrorism but was workplace violence. The shooter was being escorted to a disciplinary hearing when he committed the murder-suicide.
 On May 4, 2016, a man who had been involuntarily terminated two weeks earlier from his position at Knight Transportation in Katy, Texas approximately 20 miles west of Houston returned to his former workplace armed with a shotgun and a pistol.  Marion Guy Williams, 65, was reported to have said words to the effect of "You all ruined my life." Williams then shot and killed a 34-year-old supervisor Michael Dawid, injured two other employees and then killed himself.

Aggression
Dr. Arnold H. Buss, of the University of Texas at Austin (1961), identified eight types of workplace aggression:
Verbal-passive-indirect (failure to deny false rumors about target, failure to provide information needed by target)
Verbal-passive-direct ("silent treatment", failure to return communication, i.e. phone calls, e-mails)
Verbal-active-indirect (spreading false rumors, belittling ideas or work)
Verbal-active-direct (insulting, acting condescendingly, yelling)
Physical-passive-indirect (causing others to create a delay for the target)
Physical-passive-direct (reducing target's ability to contribute, e.g. scheduling them to present at the end of the day where fewer people will be attending)
Physical-active-indirect (theft, destruction of property, unnecessary consumption of resources needed by the target)
Physical-active-direct (physical attack, nonverbal, vulgar gestures directed at the target)

In a study performed by Baron and Neuman, researchers found pay cuts and pay freezes, use of part-time employees, change in management, increased diversity, computer monitoring of employee performance, reengineering, and budget cuts were all significantly linked to increased workplace aggression.  The study also showed a substantial amount of evidence linking unpleasant physical conditions (high temperature, poor lighting) and high negative affect, which facilitates workplace aggression. Individuals who resort to mass shootings at work often threaten to kill before any actual violence takes place.

Risk assessments

In the United Kingdom there is a legal obligation to complete risk assessments for both physical and psychosocial workplace hazards. Other countries have similar occupational health and safety legislation in place relating to identifying and either eliminating or controlling for hazards in the workplace. Workplace violence is considered to be a significant hazard in its own right. Regulation 3 of the Management of Health and Safety at Work Regulations 1999 states that, "every employer shall make a suitable and sufficient assessment of:
 The risks to the health and safety of his (or her) employees to which they are exposed whilst they are at work; and
 The risks to the health and safety of persons not in his employment arising out of or in connection with the conduct of him or his undertaking".

Occupational groups at higher risk
The Canadian Centre for Occupational Health and Safety lists the following higher risk occupations.
 Healthcare workers
 Correctional officers
 Social Services workers
 Teachers
 Municipal housing inspectors
 Public Works Employees
 Retail Workers
 Police Officers

Health care workers are at high risk for experiencing violence in the workplace. Examples of violence include threats, physical assaults, and muggings. According to estimates of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the rate of nonfatal occupational injuries and illnesses involving days away from work was 15.1 per 10,000 full-time workers in 2012. This rate is much higher than the rate for total private industries, which is 4.0 per 10,000 full-time workers.