[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Orders, decorations, and medals of India

The Indian honours system is the system of awards given to individuals for a variety of services to the Republic of India. The categories of awards are as follows:

Civilian awards

Bharat Ratna
 Bharat Ratna, the highest civilian award of India, was instituted in the year 1954. Any person without distinction of race, occupation, position, gender or religion is eligible for this award. It is awarded in recognition of exceptional service or performance of the highest order in any field of human endeavor. On conferment of the award, the recipient receives a Sanad (certificate) signed by the President and a medallion.

Padma awards
Padma Awards were instituted in the year 1954. Except for brief interruptions during the years 1978 to 1979 and 1993 to 1997, these awards have been announced every year on Republic Day. The award is given in three categories: Padma Vibhushan, Padma Bhushan and Padma Shri, in decreasing order of precedence.

  Padma Vibhushan is awarded for "exceptional and distinguished service". Padma Vibhushan is the second (2nd)- highest civilian award in India. 

  Padma Bhushan is awarded for "distinguished service of a high order". Padma Bhushan is the third (3rd)- highest civilian award in India.

  Padma Shri is awarded for "distinguished service". Padma Shri is the fourth (4th)- highest civilian award in India.

Unlike national honours, the Padma awards do not include cash allowances, benefits, or special concessions in rail/air travel. Per a December 1995 judgment of the Supreme Court of India, no titles or honorifics are associated with the Bharat Ratna or any of the Padma awards; honourees cannot use them or their initials as suffixes, prefixes or pre- and post-nominals attached to the awardee's name. This includes any such use on letterheads, invitation cards, posters, books etc. In the case of any misuse, the awardee will forfeit the award, and he or she is cautioned against any such misuse upon receiving the honour.

 The decoration comprises a sanad (Certificate) issued under the hand and seal of the President and a medal.

 The recipients are also given a replica of the medal, which they can wear during any ceremonial/State functions etc., if they desire.

 A commemorative brochure giving out brief details in respect of each award winner is also released on the day of the investiture ceremony.

Selection process
These awards seek to recognize work of any distinction, and is given for distinguished and exceptional achievements/service in all fields of activities/disciplines, such as art, literature and education, sports, medicine, social work, science and engineering, public affairs, civil service, trade and industry, etc. All persons without distinction of race, occupation, position or sex are eligible for these awards.

In 2015, the government decided to end the practice of ministers recommending names for Padma awards and replaced it with any Indian citizen recommending a person for Padma awards online. The government said that this was done with the belief that every citizen has something to contribute to the nation and that contribution should be integrated with the country's growth. Accordingly, several hitherto unknown citizens were awarded Padma awards in 2017. The role of the state governments was also minimised.

Annulment of awards
While there are no specific criteria for withdrawing a Padma award, the President of India, per the awards' statutes, may cancel and annul any award in the case of any misconduct committed by the recipient. At least three awards of the Padma Shri have been so annulled, twice in 1958 for recipients residing in the state of Punjab and once in 1974 for a recipient residing in the state of Gujarat.

Military awards

Since 11 July 2019, the Indian Army allows close relatives of deceased military personnel to wear their medals on the right side of the chest while attending homage ceremonies at war memorials, cemeteries and funerals.

Wartime gallantry awards
Established on 26 January 1950 with retrospective effect from 15 August 1947.

 Param Vir Chakra — Highest-military award in India. Awarded for national bravery in the presence of the enemy. This is the equivalent of the Victoria Cross, which was last conferred on Indians in World War II.

 Maha Vir Chakra – Maha Vir Chakra is the second-highest military decoration in India and is awarded for acts of conspicuous gallantry in the presence of the enemy, whether on land, at sea or in the air. 

 Vir Chakra – Third in precedence in the awards for wartime gallantry.

Peacetime gallantry awards
   Ashoka Chakra 
  Kirti Chakra
  Shaurya Chakra

These awards were instituted on 4 January 1952. These awards were renamed on 27 January 1967 as Ashoka Chakra, Kirti Chakra and Shaurya Chakra from Ashoka Chakra (Class I), Ashoka Chakra (Class II) and Ashoka Chakra (Class III) respectively.

Wartime/peacetime service awards
  Sena Medal (Army)
  Nau Sena Medal (Navy) 
  Vayu Sena Medal (Air Force)