[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Blaming the Victims

soulsearching, Kidron passed both the Dunkelman story and the Rabin story to The New York Times. They published the story as "Israel bars Rabin from Relating ´48 Eviction of Arabs", on 23 October 1979.

Kidron's conclusion:

"Middle East Terrorism and the American Ideological System" (Noam Chomsky)

Chomsky's essay, denounced as "breathlessly deranged" by a Washington Post reviewer, is an indictment of Israeli and American military operations during the 1980s in the Middle East and Central America, respectively. It is a critique of the role of the Western media in covering these operations up and in painting a picture of the Arabs as inveterate terrorists. He describes Shimon Peres and Ronald Reagan as "two of the world's leading terrorist commanders," noting that Peres had just "sent his bombers to attack Tunis, where they killed twenty Tunisians and fifty-five Palestinians", with the civilian victims "crushed ... to dust" (quoting a Ha'aretz report) in alleged retaliation for the killing of Israeli civilians, noting further that "There can be no serious doubt of [Reagan administration] complicity in the Tunis attack". He proceeds to describe their "shared conception of 'peace' furthermore, [as excluding] entirely one of the two groups that claim the right of national self-determination." (Palestinian Arabs). He refers to "American discourse" on the subject as being framed in "racist terms". He bemoans that Israel denies the Palestinians the right to elect their own representatives to peace negotiations. He presents documentation of what he calls "atrocities" committed by Israelis (for example Peres' "Iron Fist" operations in Southern Lebanon, which he quotes a Western diplomat as characterizing as reaching new depths of "calculated brutality and arbitrary murder", taken from a The Guardian report. He refers to the Israeli-run prison camp at Ansar, Lebanon as a "concentration camp". He supports the thesis that the Israelis created and manipulated the conflict between Lebanese Christians and Muslims and other ethnic conflict in Lebanon, citing the New York Times, the Christian Science Monitor and other sources. Chomsky holds that, as a U.S. "client state", Israel "inherits from its master [the United States] the 'right' of terrorism, torture and aggression." Chomsky is particularly contemptuous of claims that criticism of Israeli tactics is a manifestation of anti-Semitism, saying such charges are false, and that the media "bends over backwards" to see things from the Israeli perspective.

See also

Edward Said bibliography
Victim blaming

References and footnotes

Further reading
 Journal of Palestine Studies, Vol 18 no. 1, (Aut. 88):pp 51-70. Erskine Childers, Walid Khalidi, and Jon Kimche 1961 Correspondence in The Spectator on “Why the Refugees Left” (Originally Appendix E of Khalidi, Walid, “Plan Dalet Revisited: Master Plan for the Conquest of Palestine”).

1988 non-fiction books
Books by Christopher Hitchens
Israeli–Palestinian conflict books
Books about Palestinians
Works by Edward Said