[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 161]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ut at the same time I imagined you had both good sense and
generosity in your character; I depended upon _first_ to make you see
your faults, and upon the _second_ to correct them.

_Tommy._--Dear sir, I am very much obliged to you; but you have always
been extremely kind and friendly to me.

_Mr Barlow._--And therefore I told your father yesterday, who is very
much hurt at your quarrel with Harry, that though a sudden passion might
have transported you too far, yet, when you came to consider the matter
coolly, you would perceive your faults and acknowledge them; were you
not to behave in this manner, I owned I could say nothing in your
favour. And I was very much confirmed in this opinion, when I saw the
courage you exerted in the rescue of Harry's lamb, and the compassion
you felt for the poor Highlander. "A boy," said I, "who has so many
excellent dispositions, can never persist in bad behaviour. He may do
wrong by accident, but he will be ashamed of his errors, and endeavour
to repair them by a frank and generous acknowledgment. This has always
been the conduct of really great and elevated minds, while mean and
grovelling ones alone imagine that it is necessary to persist in faults
they have once committed."

_Tommy._--Oh, sir! I will go directly and entreat Harry to forgive me; I
am convinced that all you say is right. But will you not go with me? Do
pray, sir, be so good.

_Mr Barlow._--Gently, gently, my young friend, you are always for doing
everything in an instant. I am very glad you have taken a resolution
which will do you so much credit, and give so much satisfaction to your
own mind; but, before you execute it, I think it will be necessary to
speak to your father and mother upon the subject; and, in the mean time,
I will go and pay a visit to farmer Sandford, and bring you an account
of Harry.

_Tommy._--Do, sir, be so good; and tell Harry, if you please, that there
is nothing I desire so much as to see him, and that nothing shall ever
make me behave ill again. I have heard too, sir, that there was a poor
Black came begging to us, who saved Harry from the bull; if I could but
find him out, I would be good to him as long as I live.

Mr Barlow commended Tommy very much for dispositions so full of
gratitude and goodness; and, taking leave of him, went to communicate
the conversation he had just had to Mr Merton. That gentleman felt the
sincerest pleasure at the account, and entreated Mr Barlow to go
directly to prepare Harry to receive his son. "That little boy,"
observed he, "has the noblest mind that ever adorned a human being; nor
shall I ever be happy till I see my son acknowledging all his faults,
and entreating forgiveness; for, with the virtues that I have discovered
in his soul, he appears to me a more eligible friend and companion than
noblemen or princes."

Mr Barlow therefore set out on foot, though Mr Merton would have sent
his carriage and servants to attend him, and soon arrived at Mr
Sandford's farm. It was a pleasant spot, situated upon the gentle
declivity of a hill, at the foot of which winded along a swift and clear
little stream. The house itself was small, but warm and convenient,
furnished with the greatest simplicity, but managed with perfect
neatness. As Mr Barlow approached, he saw the owner himself guiding a
plough through one of his own fields, and Harry, who had now resumed the
farmer, directed the horses. But when he saw Mr Barlow coming across the
field, he stopped his team, and, letting fall his whip, sprang forward
to meet him with all the unaffected eagerness of joy. As soon as Harry
had saluted Mr Barlow, and inquired after his health, he asked with the
greatest kindness after Tommy; "for I fancy, sir," said he, "by the way
which I see you come, you have been at Mr Merton's house." "Indeed I
have," replied Mr Barlow, "but I am very sorry to find that Tommy and
you are not upon as good terms as you formerly were."

_Harry._--Indeed, sir, I am very sorry for it myself. But I do not know
that I have given Master Merton any reason to change his sentiments
about me; and though I do not think he has treated me as well as he
ought to do, I have the greatest desire to hear that he is well.

_Mr Barlow._--That you might have known yourself had you not left Mr
Merton's house so suddenly, without taking leave of any one, even your
friend Mr Merton, who has always treated you with so much kindness.

_Harry._--Indeed, sir, I should be very unhappy if you think I have done
wrong; but be so good as to tell me how I could have acted otherwise. I
am very sorry to appear to accuse Master Merton, neither do I bear any
resentment against him for what he has done; but since you speak to me
upon the subject, I shall be obliged to tell the truth.

_Mr Barlow._--Well, Harry, let me hear it; you know I shall be the last
person to condemn you, if you do not deserve it.

_Harry._--I know your constant kin