[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Star Guard

ansu takes Kana and several other men to find the ship.  After several days of riding the Fronnian equivalent of camels, the men arrive at the ship just in time to see a squad of Mechs and their Llor helpers finish setting up a disturbing tableau around what turns out to be a Galactic Patrol vessel.

With the stolen ship emptied of its cargo of weapons, the Mechs lay out the bodies of half a dozen Patrolmen who had been shot with Arch rifles.  An alien among them takes pictures, clearly intending to blame Yorke's Horde for an atrocity against the most respected institution in the galaxy.  Once the Mechs and their Llor helpers leave, Hansu takes his men down into the scene and they give the Patrolmen a proper burial.  They find that the ship, appearing to have been looted, is still spaceworthy, so the four men strap themselves into the acceleration seats and the Horde's engineer lifts them into space, setting course for Terra.  The men need to get their message of betrayal to Deputy-Commander Matthias.

As they approach Terra the men must resort to using the ship's lifeboats, Hansu and Kana taking one and the other two men another.  Hansu and Kana land close enough to Prime that they can get there in a hopper stolen from an automated agricultural depot.  They infer, correctly, that they are being hunted by highly placed authorities and they take appropriate evasive actions, even entering Prime through one of the old subway tunnels from before the nuclear wars.  In spite of their caution, they are captured.

Interrogated under drugs, Kana tells his interrogators all what happened on Fronn.  Nonetheless, he is convicted of several serious charges and sentenced to life in a labor camp.  Later, seizing an opportunity, he escapes, but is soon recaptured.  This time, though, he is taken to an underground room on the outskirts of Prime, where he sees Hansu and Matthias waiting for him.  The sentencing had been a scam, worked for the benefit of the Galactic Agent who had been present.  Now Kana can go to the stars as a free man, to settle on one of the worlds that Terrans have been secretly colonizing for ten generations.

Reviews
In the 1 August 1955 issue of Kirkus Reviews the reviewer wrote:

References

1955 American novels
1955 science fiction novels
American science fiction novels
Military science fiction novels
Novels by Andre Norton
Anabasis (Xenophon)