[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Behold a Pale Horse (film)

Behold a Pale Horse is a 1964 American drama film directed by Fred Zinnemann and starring Gregory Peck, Omar Sharif and Anthony Quinn. The film is based on the 1961 novel Killing a Mouse on Sunday by Emeric Pressburger, which loosely details the life of the Spanish anarchist guerrilla Francesc Sabaté Llopart.

The film's title refers to a verse from the Book of Revelation 6:8: "And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him."

Plot
Footage depicts the events of the Spanish Civil War and a line of Spanish refugees crossing the border into France after defeat by the Francoists. Republican guerrilla fighter Manuel Artiguez turns away from the border and back toward Spain. His friends stop him, saying "Manuel, the war is over!"

Twenty years later, a young boy named Paco asks a man named Pedro why Artiguez, who is legendary for his fierce resistance to Franco even after the defeat of the Republicans, has stopped his guerrilla raids against the Francoists in Spain. Pedro sends Paco into France to find his uncle and Artiguez. Paco tells Artiguez that he wants him to kill Viñolas, a Guardia Civil officer, as revenge for killing his father, and that his father was killed because he refused tell the police where to find Artiguez, whom Viñolas must capture if he is to retain his rank in the Guard.

Viñolas has learned that Artiguez's mother is dying and sets a trap at the hospital in San Martín to capture Artiguez, presuming that he will go there. A typical Republican sympathizer, she is contemptuous and deeply suspicious of all Catholic clergy, some of whom collaborated with Francoist Spain both during and after the war. In return for information about the layout of the hospital and surrounding area, Paco tells Artiguez to "bump into Viñolas" for him.

Artiguez's mother asks a priest to warn her son to not visit her, as she knows that the Guard will be waiting for him. After Viñolas has laid his trap, Artiguez's mother dies, but Viñolas sends a spy to convince Artiguez that she is alive and that Artiguez should visit her. Artiguez is not at home when the priest arrives, so the priest tells Paco to pass the message that Artiguez's mother is already dead and that he should not to go to San Martín. The priest also gives Paco a letter to warn Artiguez that he had seen a collaborator at Guard headquarters.

Paco flushes the letter in the toilet and does not transmit the verbal message because he believes that priest must be lying. Paco later recognizes the man in Artiguez's house as Carlos, and tells Artiguez about the priest's message. Pedro believes the boy, but Artiguez cannot believe that his friend Carlos would betray him. Artiguez takes Paco and Carlos to Lourdes to find the priest. But the priest was delayed on the way, and as he is not there, they free Carlos. On the way back, they see the priest and forcibly take him to Artiguez's house. When Carlos returns to Artiguez's house for his rucksack, Artiguez asks the priest to emerge. Carlos, knowing that he is exposed, attacks Artiguez and escapes.

The priest tries to overcome Artiguez's antipathy for all clergy. Artiguez confesses that he has known all along that his mother was sick but did not visit her before her death because he is no longer as brave as he had been in his youth. Embarrassed by admitting his vulnerability, Artiguez allows the priest to go free and, after much internal debate, he decides to travel to San Martín anyway, presumably with the mission of killing Viñolas. Once in San Martín, Artiguez encounters a Francoist sniper on the roof of the hospital and kills him. Picking up the sniper's rifle he sees Carlos the informer (who is with the police in a nearby building) looking out a window to see what has caused the commotion. Artiguez pauses briefly and then shoots Carlos, killing him. Once inside the hospital, he kills several officers but is finally shot.

Soldiers and officers congratulate Viñolas on at last killing his enemy, but he asks one of his lieutenants, knowing that his mother was already dead and that a trap would be waiting for him, why Artiguez had returned. In the morgue, the body of Artiguez, his mother and those of those whom he had killed are arranged in a row.

Cast
 Gregory Peck as Manuel Artiguez, an aging Republican guerilla
 Anthony Quinn as Captain Viñolas, a Francoist Guardia Civil captain
 Omar Sharif as Francisco, a priest
 Raymond Pellegrin as Carlos, a friend of Artiguez, also his traitor
 Paolo Stoppa as Pedro
 Mildred Dunnock as Pilar Artiquez, the dying mother of Artiguez
 Christian Marquand as Zaganar
 Carlo Angeletti ("Marietto") as Paco
 Daniela Rocca as Rosanna
 Rosalie Crutchley as Teresa Viñolas
 Michael Lonsdale as Reporter