[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Terminator: Dawn of Fate

The Terminator: Dawn of Fate is a 2002 video game developed by Paradigm Entertainment and published by Infogrames for the PlayStation 2 and Xbox. It is based on the Terminator film series, serving as a prequel to the first two films.

The Terminator: Dawn of Fate received "mixed or average reviews" according to Metacritic. It was largely criticized for its preset camera angles and voice acting, although the music and sound effects were praised.

Gameplay
The Terminator: Dawn of Fate is a prequel to the first two films. It is set in the future during a post-apocalyptic war between humans and machines. John Connor leads the human resistance against the Terminator machines, which are led by Skynet. The game features three playable members of the resistance: Kyle Reese, Catherine Luna, and Justin Perry. The game ends with Kyle Reese being sent back in time to prevent a Terminator from killing John's mother, Sarah Connor, before he is born. The ending precedes the events depicted in the 1984 film The Terminator.

The Terminator: Dawn of Fate is a third-person shooter game. The camera angles are preset to fixed positions, and they change with each new area that the player enters. The player can also enter a first-person perspective for easier aiming, but cannot move while in this mode. The game features 10 levels, each one tasking the player with various mission objectives. The player can use a variety of weapons, including pistols, assault rifles, rocket launchers, canister bombs, C4 explosives, and a plasma baton. Gun turrets are also located throughout the game. The player can also engage in hand combat, and an adrenaline boost can be activated for increased effectiveness of such attacks.

Development and release
The Terminator: Dawn of Fate was developed by Paradigm Entertainment and was published by Infogrames for the PlayStation 2 (PS2) and Xbox. The game was announced in January 2002, and was already six or seven months into development. Infogrames devised the idea for a Terminator prequel game approximately one year prior to the game's announcement. The future war setting was featured briefly in scenes from the first two films.

The game supports various sound modes, including Dolby Pro Logic II. In March 2002, two songs were recorded for the game by industrial metal band Fear Factory. This would be the band's final work before temporarily breaking up that same month. Songs include "Full Metal Contact," "Terminate," and "Hi-Tech Hate" from the albums Obsolete and "Digimortal".

The game was originally scheduled for release in May 2002, although it was delayed to allow for more fine-tuning. Respectively, the PS2 and Xbox versions were later expected for release in June and August 2002. In the United States, the game was ultimately released in September 2002.

Reception

The Terminator: Dawn of Fate received "mixed or average reviews" according to Metacritic. Some critics believed that the game made a poor use of the Terminator license, while others believed the game would have appeal for Terminator fans. GamePro wrote, "Between the killer license and a story line that leads right up to the first film, it was hard not to have high hopes for The Terminator: Dawn of Fate, but unfortunately, this game pummels those expectations into rubble." Andrew Reiner of Game Informer stated that the game "wallows in mediocrity," calling it "another highly respected, licensed product that had the potential to thrive in the gaming world, but didn't receive the development treatment that it truly deserved." Sam Kennedy of Official U.S. PlayStation Magazine wrote that the game "gets gradually better as you go, and it turns out to be a somewhat solid adventure." Tom Ham of GameSpy opined that the game felt rushed. Reviewers for Game Informer gave differing opinions on the quality of the game's storyline. Ryan MacDonald of GameSpot opined that the story "isn't especially compelling even for die-hard Terminator fans". Some critics believed that the game adequately captured the atmosphere of the Terminator films.