[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of fascist movements

, resulting in some of the leadership, including Vorster, to be detained under emergency regulations. Towards the end of the war they were paroled on house arrest. 

When the National Party came to power in the 1948 election, former members of the Ossewabrandwag became members of the new government.

The election of 1948 saw the installation of Apartheid, which dramatically strengthened the racial hierarchy of the country. Policies such as the Group Areas Act and the Pass Laws were implemented with high degrees of state violence. Fundamental human rights were heavily curtailed or removed entirely. These included: free speech, freedom of movement, right of assembly, and right to privacy. Whilst elections were held on a regular basis, the system was marred by gerrymandering and restructured weighting of voting districts. Previously enshrined constitutional rights were slowly eroded over time, most significantly when they NP controlled Parliament installed a new, higher court of law (High Court of Parliament) to overturn decisions of the Supreme Court.

Interned alongside BJ Vorster in 1942 was another Ossewabrandwag member Hendrik Johan van den Bergh who eventually went on to found the Bureau of State Security (BOSS), an intelligence agency created by the government on 16 May 1969 to coordinate military and domestic intelligence. Van den Bergh was to become known as the “tall assassin” given his physical height. BOSS was later subsumed by the Civil Co-operation Bureau which oversaw the death squads of Vlakplaas and conducted other forms of state violence.

A later wave of fascism during the 1970s and 1980s created fringe right-wing groups such as the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging.

Yugoslavia (1935–1939) 
Yugoslav Radical Union was a Yugoslav fascist group run by Milan Stojadinović. Party members wore green shirt uniforms, addressed Stojadinović as Vodja and used the Roman salute. The party was dissolved following the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia.

Fascism in liberal democracies
Prior to World War II, fascist or quasi-fascist movements also appeared in democratic nations, often taking their inspiration from the regimes established by Mussolini and Hitler.

Australia (1931–1940s)
The New Guard was founded in Sydney in 1931 and was opposed to the rule of the then New South Wales premier Jack Lang. The organisation was pro-Monarchy and anti-Communist and was led by World War I veteran Eric Campbell. At its height, the New Guard had a membership of over 50,000 and was almost exclusively based in New South Wales. 
Following the dismissal of the Lang government in 1932, the New Guard lost much of its momentum and officially disbanded in 1935.

Another Fascist movement was the short-lived anti-semitic, anti-Communist and Nazi-inspired Australia First Movement founded by former communist Percy Stephensen. The organisation was founded in October 1941 and existed until March 1942 when it was suppressed by Australian security agencies who believed the movement was supportive of the Axis Powers. Its leaders (including Stephensen) and several members were also interned.

A small Nazi movement was founded among South Australia's ethnic German Australian community by Johannes Becker, a German migrant who arrived in Australia in 1927. Becker had joined the NSDAP in 1932 and was appointed State Leader (Landeskreisleiter) for the South Pacific the following year. Following the outbreak of World War II, Becker was interned and released in 1946, then deported to West Germany the following year.

Belgium (1930s–1945)

The Rexist movement and the Vlaamsch Nationaal Verbond party achieved some electoral success in the 1930s. The party could be labeled as clerical fascist with its roots in Catholic conservatism. The party gained rapid support for a brief period, focusing on the secularism, corruption, and ineffectiveness on parliamentary democracy in Belgium. Many of its members assisted the Nazi occupation during World War II. The Verdinaso movement, too, can be considered fascist. Its leader, Joris Van Severen, was killed before the Nazi occupation. Some of its adepts collaborated, but others joined the resistance. These collaborationist movements are generally classified as belonging to the National Socialist model or the German fascist model because of its brand of racial nationalism and the close relation with the occupational authorities.

Canada (1930s–1940)
In the 1930s, Canada had fascist fringe groups within it. One stronger group was the Parti national social chrétien  of Adrien Arcand which had significant support. Arcand believed in the anti-Semitic policies of Hitler and called himself the "Canadian Führer". In 1934, his Quebec-based party merged with the western-based fascist Nationalist Party of Canada. In 1938, the English Canadian and French Canadian fascist movements united into the National Unity Party. In 1940, all fascist parties were banned under Canada's War Measures Act.