[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Employment authorization document

not to be submitted unless requested by government officials, it is required that all employers have an I-9 form from each of their employees, which they must be retain for three years after day of hire or one year after employment is terminated.

I-9 qualifying citizenship or immigration statuses 

 A citizen of the United States
 A noncitizen national of the United States 
 A lawful permanent resident 
 An alien authorized to work
 As an "Alien Authorized to Work," the employee must provide an "A-Number"  present in the EAD card, along with the expiration day of the temporary employment authorization. Thus, as established by form I-9, the EAD card is a document which serves as both an identification and verification of employment eligibility.
Concurrently, the Immigration Act of 1990 “increased the limits on lawful immigration to the United States," [...] "established new nonimmigrant admission categories," and revised acceptable grounds for deportation. Most importantly, it brought to light the "authorized temporary protected status" for aliens of designated countries.

Through the revision and creation of new classes of nonimmigrants, qualified for admission and temporary working status, both IRCA and the Immigration Act of 1990 provided legislation for the regulation of employment of noncitizen.

The 9/11 attacks brought to the surface the weak aspect of the immigration system. After the September 11 attacks, the United States intensified its focus on interior reinforcement of immigration laws to reduce illegal immigration and to identify and remove criminal aliens.

Temporary worker: Alien Authorized to Work 
Undocumented Immigrants are individuals in the United States without lawful status. When these individuals qualify for some form of relief from deportation, individuals may qualify for some form of legal status. In this case, temporarily protected noncitizens are those who are granted "the right to remain in the country and work during a designated period". Thus, this is kind of an "in-between status" that provides individuals temporary employment and temporary relief from deportation, but it does not lead to permanent residency or citizenship status. Therefore, an Employment Authorization Document should not be confused with a legalization document and it is neither U.S. permanent resident status nor U.S. citizenship status. The Employment Authorization Document is given, as mentioned before, to eligible noncitizens as part of a reform or law that gives individuals temporary legal status

Examples of "Temporarily Protected" noncitizens (eligible for an Employment Authorization Document) 

 Temporary Protected Status
 Under Temporary Protected Status, individuals are given relief from deportation as temporary refugees in the United States. Under Temporary Protected Status, individuals are given protected status if found that "conditions in that country pose a danger to personal safety due to ongoing armed conflict or an environmental disaster". This status is granted typically for 6 to 18 month periods, eligible for renewal unless the individual's Temporary Protected Status is terminated by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services. If withdrawal of Temporary Protected Status occurs, the individual faces exclusion or deportation proceedings. 
 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals
 Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals was authorized by President Obama in 2012; it provided qualified undocumented youth "access to relief from deportation, renewable work permits, and temporary Social Security numbers". 
 Currently Blocked and Awaiting Implementation
 Deferred Action for Parents of Americans: If enacted, Deferred Action for Parents of Americans would provide parents of Americans and Lawful Permanent Residents, protection from deportation and make them eligible for an Employment Authorization Document.

See also 
 Work permit

References

External links
 I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
 8 CFR 274a.12 - Classes of aliens authorized to accept employment

Immigration to the United States
Legal documents