[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# 10th Cavalry Regiment (United States)

er, died aged 111 on 6 September 2005. He was buried at Arlington National Cemetery. Matthews joined the 10th Cavalry Regiment when he was only 15 years old, after having been recruited at a Lexington, Kentucky, racetrack and having documents forged so that he appeared to meet the minimum age of 17.

 Summary of Medal of Honor recipients of the 10th Cavalry;
 William McBryar, Louis H. Carpenter, Powhatan Henry Clarke; Indian Wars.
 The following four members of the 10th Cavalry Regiment received the Medal of Honor for "the rescue" of stranded soldiers on the beach at the conclusion of the Battle of Tayacoba. Dennis Bell, Fitz Lee, William H. Thompkins and George H. Wanton.
 Edward L. Baker Jr., Spanish–American War.
 John Bigelow Jr., Second Lieutenant, (later Lieutenant Colonel) Bigelow served with the 9th Cavalry Regiment from 1877 to 1885. He was then assigned to the 10th Cavalry and stayed with them in Cuba (D Troop) until 1899. He then served again with the 9th from 1903 to 1904.
 Thomas Carpenter Jr., Vietnam War
 Benjamin Grierson, the first commander of the 10th Cavalry Regiment. Served 1866 to 1888.
 Henry O. Flipper – the first African-American graduate of West Point in 1877.
 Gilbert W. Lindsay (1900–1990), Los Angeles City Council member, 1963–90
 Nicholas M. Nolan, a favorite officer of A Troop for more than a decade and who led during the Buffalo Soldier tragedy of 1877 also known as the "Staked Plains Horror."
 Jules Garesche Ord, First Lieutenant, second in command of D Troop, who was killed in action after starting and leading the spontaneous charge of the 10th U.S. Cavalry up to the top of San Juan Hill.
 John J. Pershing – from October 1895 until mid-1897, First Lieutenant (later General) Pershing commanded a troop of the 10th Cavalry Regiment from Fort Assinniboine in north central Montana. In 1898 in Cuba, Major Pershing served as a regimental officer who participated in the assault on Kettle Hill (part of the San Juan heights) and took over temporary command of D Troop after that battle on 1 July 1898. He was later known as "Nigger Jack" and "Black Jack" for comparing the high level of professionalism and discipline of the "Buffalo Soldiers" with other soldiers.
 Kenneth O. Preston is a former Sergeant Major of the Army in the United States. He served in that position from January 2004 through his retirement in March 2011.
 Augustus Walley served with the 9th Cavalry Regiment as a private and received the Medal of Honor. He later served with the 10th Cavalry as First Sergeant in Cuba and the Philippines.
 Charles Young, Major (later Colonel) commanded the 2nd Squadron of the 10th during the 1916 Punitive Expedition into Mexico. He led a cavalry pistol charge that saved the wounded General Beltran and his men of the 13th Cavalry squadron, who had been outflanked.

In media and fiction

Buffalo Soldier is a reggae song written by Bob Marley and Noel "King Sporty" Williams.
 Tom Clancy's The Sum Of All Fears, the 10th Cavalry Regiment is reformed to serve as the Army component of the American forces based in the Negev Desert defending Israel after a final settlement is reached ending the Arab–Israeli conflict. This reformed regiment continues to play prominently in Tom Clancy's Executive Orders where it is transferred to Kuwait to defend that nation from the United Islamic Republic (a fictional country formed after Iran annexed Ba'athist Iraq). Later a movie, loosely based on the book was made.
 The 1997 television movie Buffalo Soldiers, starring Danny Glover, drew attention to their role in the military history of the United States.
 Sergeant Rutledge (1960) deals with a "Buffalo Soldier", the sergeant of the title, who is accused of the rape and murder of a white woman. In the film the regiment was inaccurately described as the 9th, but in fact the 10th were serving in Arizona at that time. The song included—"Captain Buffalo"—refers to the little-known western legend of a black cavalry officer.
 Chris Bohjalian's The Buffalo Soldier, the 10th Cavalry Regiment is quoted in between chapters with George Rowe and his views on the Civil War. The author also wrote, "The Buffalo Soldier" in 2002.
 A reunion of former 10th cavalrymen at Camp Lockett was featured on the "California's Gold" television (TV) program primarily seen on public television stations.
 James A. Michener's historical novel Texas has a section depicting the 10th Cavalry's activities in Texas from 1869 to 1874.
 In John Jakes's third book of his North and South trilogy, Heaven and Hell, a fictional K-Company of the 10th Cavalry is commanded by one of the novel's protagonists, Charles Main.
 The plot of Valdez Is Coming, the 1970 novel by Elmore Leonard and 1971 film of the same name, concerns the wrongful killing of a recently discharged 10th Cavalry soldier and the attempt to compensate his Apache wife.