[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

African-Americans were previously restricted to living in.
Springfield: Martin Luther King Jr. Parkway is the northern extension of Pioneer Parkway from the roundabout intersection with Hayden Bridge Way going north to the intersection of Game Farm Road then turning into Beltline Road.

Pennsylvania

 Allentown: On August 1, 1992, Allentown City Council changed the name of Lawrence Street to Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive. The street, a scenic 2.6 mile bypass of center city, runs from West Union and South Fourth Streets, continues along Little Lehigh Creek and ends at South 24th Street and Oxford Drive.
 Bucks County: The portion of the U.S. Route 1 freeway between the Pennsylvania Turnpike (Interstate 276) in Bensalem and the New Jersey border at the Trenton-Morrisville Toll Bridge over the Delaware River in Morrisville is called the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Highway. The road was designated by an act of the Pennsylvania General Assembly on November 21, 1988.
 Coatesville: On August 27, 2018, the Coatesville City Council approved an ordinance renaming the section of Harmony Street between 1st Avenue and 4th Avenue to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard; the name change took effect on September 27, 2018.
 Philadelphia: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive on the west side of the Schuylkill River in Fairmount Park (formerly West River Drive). (The former East River Drive is named in honor of John B. Kelly Jr.)
 Pittsburgh: The Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway, a bus rapid transit line, travels  from Downtown Pittsburgh to Rankin via Shadyside, East Liberty, Homewood, Edgewood, and Wilkinsburg. It is used by an average of 25,000 people each weekday.

South Carolina
 Anderson: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard swings around the west side of Anderson.
 Cheraw: Martin Luther King Drive in Cheraw is a one-lane semi-paved residential street running off Howard Alley, on the southeast side of town.
 Chester: "MLK Memorial Drive" is a residential street on the northwest side of Chester, just west of the Chester County Fairgrounds.
 Dillon: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is a major north–south thoroughfare in Dillon.  Forming the north part of Third Avenue, it runs north to SC 57.
 Greenville: A portion of SC 291 and US 25 in Greenville is designated as the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Highway.
 Gresham: Martin Luther King Jr. Road in Gresham is a semi rural road running east from SC 908.
 Hartsville: Martin Luther King Drive runs north–south in the southwest part of Hartsville, from Washington Street to a point just south of Russell Road.
 Hopkins: Martin Luther King Boulevard is a two-lane rural road running north–south along the east side of Hopkins.
 Marion: Martin Luther King Drive is a semi-rural road running along the south side of Marion, from South Main Street to Mill Street.
 Pawleys Island: Martin Luther King Road runs east–west in Pawley's Island, from US 17 almost to King's River Road.
 Starr: Martin Luther King Road is a cul-de-sac running north off Charles Reed Road.
 Union: Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Highway runs from the intersection of Industrial Park Road and Highway 49 West to the intersection of Union Boulevard and Highway 49 East.

Tennessee
 Bristol: Martin Luther King Boulevard begins in Bristol, Tennessee, as a northern continuation of Edgemont Avenue.  It runs north and becomes part of US 421, crossing into Virginia, where the US 421 designation turns off.  At this point, it becomes Virginia State Route 113, and ends on Moore Street just south of US 11.  This is one of two streets named after King which crosses a line between two states (the other is in Texarkana, Texas/Arkansas).
 Chattanooga: Martin Luther King Boulevard is a main east–west thoroughfare in central Chattanooga, running from the Riverfront Parkway east to its continuation as Bailey Avenue. For a part of its length it is designated Tennessee State Route 2.
 Jackson: Dr. Martin Luther King Drive is an 8-block east–west street on the southeast side of Jackson.
 Knoxville: Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue travels northeast to southwest for a distance of  on the east side of Knoxville.
 Memphis: A portion of the Interstate 240/Interstate 40 loop from Interstate 55 to Sam Cooper Boulevard is named the Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Expressway. In addition, Linden Avenue between S Pauline St and Front Street is named Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 Morristown: On the west side of town, SR 66 is called Dr. Martin Luther King Boulevard.
 Nashville: On April 3, 2018, the city of Nashville renamed Charlotte Avenue from George L. Davis Boulevard east to Third Avenue to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 New Market: Martin Luther King Drive is a one-lane residential cul-de-sac, running north from Indian Cave Road, in the northwest corner of New Market.
Murfreesboro: On May 19, 2021, Mercury Boulevard was renamed to Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd.