[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tiruchengode

Tiruchengode is a city and selection grade municipality located in western part of southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu. It is famous for the ancient hilltop Ardhanareeswarar Temple, dedicated to the unique combined male-female form of Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvathi. This important place of pilgrimage is mentioned in the Tamil work Silapathikaram as 'Nedulkundru' and is celebrated in the hymns of Saivite saints. The equally famous Chenkottu Velavar Temple, dedicated to Lord Murugan, is situated on the same hill. As of 2011, the town had a population of 95,335. As per 2011 population, Tiruchengode is the largest city in Namakkal district. It is also famous for rig business.

History
This Tiruchengode was separated from Salem district several years before. 
In ancient days, Tiruchengode was known as Thirukodimaadachenkundrur – one of the historic places in Tamil Nadu.
Tiruchengode was formed on November 22  and that day is celebrated as tiruchengode day. It was also known as Thiruchengottankudi Nageswaram. It enshrines the Ardhanareeswarar (man-woman) manifestation of Shiva, representing the unity of Shiva and Parvati, is enshrined in this revered hill temple of great significance, accessible by a motorable road; this is an ancient temple mentioned in the Tamil work, Silappadikaram as Neduvelkunru. The red color of the hill is the reason that it was called Chengode. The image above shows the view of the surrounding area from the top of the Tiruchengode hill. This temple is regarded as the 4th of the 7 Tevara Stalams in the Kongu Region of Tamil Nadu.

 It is believed that Kannagi (Silappathikaram), after demolishing the city of Madurai by fire is called to Sorgam (Heaven) by her husband Kovalan and is in a wrath at the peak of the Tiruchengode hill.
 The modern history of Tiruchengode includes many memorable events. Eminent leaders like Rajaji, EVR Periar, T.S. Pattabiraman, T.M.Kaliyannan Gounder and EVK Sampath are bound to this town.
 Tiruchengode has the pride of having the country's first Gandhi Ashram a tribute to India's great leader Mahatma Gandhi and opened by country's then viceroy Rajaji (Rajagopalachari).

Location
Tiruchengode is in northwestern part of Tamil Nadu, approximately 20 km from the City of Erode, 46 km from Salem, and 120 km from Coimbatore.

Economy
Tiruchengode has a more industry-oriented occupation rather than agriculture. Agriculture is not done here on a large scale due to lack of abundant water supply as it is solely dependent on the Cauvery river that flows near Pallipalayam, Erode and also dependent on the occasional rains. The major industries here are Rig Spares, Power Looms and Textile Industries, Bus and Lorry Body Building, Lathe Industry, Rice Mills, Granite Factory, etc. Tiruchengode is well known for its Rig (Borewell) Lorries. Tiruchengode can be called "The Borewell Hub of India" as it manufactures the largest number of Borewell Vehicles operated in India. Nearly more than half of borewells operating across India are from Tiruchengode.

Demographics

According to 2011 census, Tiruchengode had a population of 95,335 with a sex-ratio of 994 females for every 1,000 males, much above the national average of 929. A total of 8,901 were under the age of six, constituting 4,495 males and 4,406 females. Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes accounted for 11.36% and .07% of the population respectively. The average literacy of the town was 75.87%, compared to the national average of 72.99%. The town had a total of 26508 households. There were a total of 42,405 workers, comprising 329 cultivators, 686 main agricultural labourers, 1,279 in house hold industries, 38,804 other workers, 1,307 marginal workers, 7 marginal cultivators, 46 marginal agricultural labourers, 80 marginal workers in household industries and 1,174 other marginal workers. As per the religious census of 2011, Tiruchengode had 95.88% Hindus, 2.95% Muslims, 1.05% Christians, 0.02% Sikhs, 0.0% Buddhists, 0.0% Jains, 0.1% following other religions and 0.0% following no religion or did not indicate any religious preference.

District profile