[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

on private jets.

A Xian MA-600 aircraft bearing a Benin Government livery was spotted at Kunming Changshui Airport in December 2022. It is unknown if this has been delivered to Benin as of 2023 or if it is being used for VIPs.

Any aircraft carrying the President flies under the callsign "BENIN01".

Botswana 
The Botswana Defence Force operated a Bombardier Global Express for use by the President in 2015 replacing a Gulfstream IV. A Pilatus PC-24 was also spotted in South Africa in 2018-2019 for training purposes.

The Bombardier Global Express flies under the callsign "F001".

Burkina Faso 
The government of Burkina Faso operated a Boeing 727 (registration XT-BFA) for medium range travel. As of 2023, this aircraft is reported to have been grounded. The government now utilises private jets for foreign travel. Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "BFA1".

Burundi 
The government of Burundi operated a Gulfstream IV in 2015. This was sold to a private operator and the government now uses commercial and private aircraft for travel.

Cabo Verde 
The government tends to travel either on commercial or private aircraft.

Cameroon 
The government of Cameroon operated a Gulfstream III in 2015. A Boeing 767 was also previously used for travel. Politicians tend to fly on private jets, notable examples being a Comlux 767 and a Aviation Link 777.

Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "CMR001".

Central African Republic
Government officials of the Central African Republic normally travel on chartered flights. For example, when President Faustin-Archange Touadéra travelled to Beijing for the Forum on China–Africa Cooperation summit, he flew on a commercial Air France Boeing 777.

Chad 

The government of Chad operated a McDonnell Douglas MD-87 in 2015. They also operated a Boeing Business Jet, ATR 72 and Dornier Do-328JET. For two years, they also travelled on a Comlux Malta Boeing 767-200, registration P4-CLA. Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "CHAD01".

Comoros 
The Comorian government utilises other countries' VIP aircraft for travel. For example, a delegation from Comoros travelled to a 2019 Africa Summit in Russia on a Nigeren 737BBJ.

Congo, Democratic Republic of the 
The government currently operates a Gainjet-owned Boeing 737-900 BBJ, registered T7-RDC. They also operate a Gulfstream which was impounded for several years in Spain due to debt disputes.

Previously operated aircraft include a Boeing 707 painted in a crude Boeing-style livery and a Boeing 727. Private aircraft are also occasionally used for travel.

Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "DRC001".

Congo, Republic of the 
The government have previously operated a Dassault Falcon 7X, however it was impounded at Paris Le Bourget Airport and has since been stored. They have nowadays resorted to hiring private jets. Previously operated aircraft have included a Boeing 707 in a JAR Aircraft Services livery and a McDonnell-Douglas DC 8-72.

Any aircraft carrying the president flies under the callsign "CONGO01".

Djibouti
The Djiboutian government owns a Dassault Falcon 7X for travel. A Boeing 727, Boeing 767, and Dassault Falcon 50 were previously used. They have also been known to use private planes for select trips. The Falcon 7X flies with its registration as a callsign without the hyphen.

Equatorial Guinea
The government of Equatorial Guinea previously used aircraft from Ceiba Intercontinental, a Malabo-based airline, for international travel. This has since been discontinued and a separate Boeing 777-200LR is used solely for government officials. A Boeing 737 and a Dassault Falcon 900 have also been known to been used previously. These planes use their registrations as callsigns.

Eritrea
The government of Eritrea uses private aircraft for travel.

Eswatini

The government of Eswatini operates two aircraft: a McDonnell Douglas MD-87 which was impounded in Ottawa for debt reasons, and an Airbus A340-300 which was sold from China Airlines. These aircraft use their registrations as callsigns.

Ethiopia
The government uses various aircraft from Ethiopian Airlines for travel.

Gabon
Before 2016, the Gabonese government operated one second-hand Boeing 777-200 for use by the President of Gabon. It was previously owned by British Airways, Khalifa Airways, leased from Air Algerie, then stored at Boeing after the lease. After it was bought, the aircraft was ferried to Charlotte Airport to be converted to VIP use, then ferried to Libreville. Due to the Gabonese government failing to pay US$8 million for cabin outfitting, it was impounded at Orly Airport in February 2015 before returning to service two months later. It is currently stored. Nowadays, the government travels on rented private jets. Any plane carrying the president flies under the callsign "GABON01".

Gambia