[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Louis de Clermont, seigneur de Bussy

Louis de Clermont, seigneur de Bussy d'Amboise (1549–1579) was a noble, military commander and governor during the French Wars of Religion. His great-uncle was Georges d'Amboise, who was the primary adviser to king Louis XII, as a result he inherited a range of lands from his father. Entering politics in 1568, he led a company of men-at-arms in the third civil war. In 1574 he fought in the fourth civil war in Normandy and was rewarded for his service with the office of maître de camp and three more companies.

Bussy travelled with Charles IX's brother to the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth in 1574, getting himself into trouble en route for his sexual indiscretions, something that would become a hallmark of his career. The following year he aligned himself with Henri III's brother the Duke of Alençon in his opposition to the crown. Acting as a 'brave' he challenged the favourites of the king to combat on behalf of his benefactor, meanwhile he became romantically attached to Marguerite de Valois wife of the king of Navarre earning the ire of both the king and Navarre. Having stayed loyal to Alençon through the fifth war of religion, he received the benefits of the disloyal prince's victory, the governorship of his appanage of Anjou. His governorship was loathed by Protestants and Catholics alike, neither of whom could stand his harsh taxation, or disorderly troops.

Returning to court with Alençon in 1578 his skirmishes with the favourites of the king reached a fever pitch, with almost daily insults and fights, several times avoiding attempts to assassinate him by various members of Henri's inner circle. In February he helped Alençon flee from court, and assisted him in his plans to become the king of the Netherlands as they matured in the following months. In service of this venture Alençon made him commander of his military forces for the planned border crossing, however Alençon was warned off the venture by the queen mother and it did not materialise. By now Alençon saw his only path to kingship in the Netherlands to be through collaboration with his brother, as such he began to mend bridges with the king, necessitating the disposal of his much hated favourite Bussy. Bussy had at this time became infatuated with another married woman, and Alençon informed the king of this, who in turn informed the woman's husband that he could kill Bussy without fear of consequence. On 19 August 1579 after being invited to their castle under the false pretence of a rendezvous, Bussy was murdered.

Early life and family
Louis de Clermont was born in Mognéville in 1549, the first son of Jacques de Clermont and Catherine de Beauvau. His father's uncle was the Cardinal of Amboise, principal minister of Louis XII. He left property to Jacques on condition his family adopt the name Amboise. The family owned seigneuries in Touraine, the Nivernais and Champagne.

Louis received a military education typical of a young gentleman of his standing.

Reign of Charles IX
Bussy entered politics when he was granted a company of men-at-arms in 1568 leading them in the early wars of religion.

Bussy took advantage of the Massacre of Saint Bartholomew to prosecute his personal vendettas. His Protestant cousin the Marquis de Renel had come to the capital to prosecute a lawsuit against him. The chaos afforded him the opportunity to murder him with a dagger.

In the wake of the massacre the Protestant nobility entered rebellion once more. Bussy took part in the northern campaign in Normandie that culminated with the capture and execution of one of the leading rebels Gabriel de Lorges, Count of Montgomery. He received further promotion at this time, becoming maître de camp and receiving command of four companies.

Poland-Lithuania
In 1574, the king's brother Anjou secured an election as the king of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. Bussy travelled with him as he crossed Germany to secure his new throne. On his way Anjou passed through Frankfurt, however Bussy was unable to secure accommodation in the city alongside the king. As a result he went out into the nearby villages, finding a hostess to provide him lodgings. However he soon seduced his hostess, and aroused the ire of the local population through his 'French manners.' The villagers descended on him, beating him up and if it were not for the intervention of a local count, he might have been killed. The count arranged for Bussy to be arrested under protective custody. Anjou secured his release so he could join up against with the main royal host.

Reign of Henri III