[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Man Who Fell to Earth

om Man from the East)
 "Wind Words" (from Freedom is Frightening)
 "One Way" (from Floating Music)
 "Memory of Hiroshima" (from the Soundtrack from Man from the East)

Performed by John Phillips:
 "Boys from the South"
 "Rhumba Boogie"
 "Bluegrass Breakdown"
 "Hello Mary-Lou" (featuring Mick Taylor)

Other music:
 "Blueberry Hill" – Louis Armstrong
 "Enfantillages Pittoresques" composed by Erik Satie, performed by Frank Glazer
 "A Fool Such As I" – Hank Snow
 "Make the World Go Away" – Jim Reeves
 "Try to Remember" – The Kingston Trio
 "Blue Bayou" – Roy Orbison
 "Silent Night" – Robert Farnon
 "True Love" – Bing Crosby
 "Love Is Coming Back" – Genevieve Waite
 "Stardust" – Artie Shaw
 "Planets Suite, Op. 32: Mars, Bringer of War & Venus, Bringer of Peace"composed by Gustav Holst and performed by the Bournemouth Symphony Orchestra

For the scenes in which Newton's thoughts drift back to his alien home, Phillips and Roeg enlisted Desmond Briscoe to craft simple electronic atmospheres that were then combined with whale songs, to eerie effect.

Release 
According to Michael Deeley, when Barry Diller of Paramount saw the finished film he refused to pay for it, claiming it was different from the film the studio wanted. British Lion sued Paramount and received a small settlement. The film obtained a small release in the United States through Cinema V in exchange for $850,000 and due to foreign sales the film's budget was just recouped.

The British Board of Film Censors passed the film uncut for adult UK audiences with an X rating.

It was announced in the summer of 2016 that the film was in the process of being digitally remastered to 4K quality for its 40th anniversary (which was reported to have begun before Bowie's death). This remastered version premiered at BFI Southbank before being released in cinemas across the UK on 9 September of that year. The film's 2011 and 2016 re-releases grossed $100,072 domestically and $73,148 internationally.

Reception

Critical response 

Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times awarded the film  stars of four; while he complimented parts of the film and the directing, he was dismissive of the plot, writing in his review that the film is "so preposterous and posturing, so filled with gaps of logic and continuity, that if it weren't so solemn there'd be the temptation to laugh aloud." Gene Siskel of the Chicago Tribune gave the film three stars out of four and wrote that it "may leave you punch drunk, knocked out by its visuals to the point of missing what a simple story it is." Richard Eder of The New York Times praised the film, writing, "There are quite a few science-fiction movies scheduled to come out in the next year or so. We shall be lucky if even one or two are as absorbing and as beautiful as The Man Who Fell to Earth."

Robert Hawkins, reviewing for Variety, praised Roeg's direction and felt the film was "stunning stuff throughout, and Bowie's choice as the ethereal visitor is inspired...Candy Clark, as his naive but loving mate, confirms the winning ways that won her an Oscar nomination in American Graffiti. Her intimate scenes with Bowie, especially the introductory ones, are among pic's highlights." Charles Champlin of the Los Angeles Times described Bowie as "perfect casting" but thought the film was "a muddle," and suspected it was because he reviewed a version trimmed by 20 minutes for its U.S. run: "That would do a lot to explain why the movie proceeds from the provocatively cryptic to the merely incomprehensible." In a retrospective review, Kim Newman of Empire gave the movie five stars out of five, describing the film as "consistently disorientating and beguilingly beautiful."

Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reports the film has an 80% approval rating based on 67 reviews with an average rating of 7.80/10. The critics' consensus states: "Filled with stunning imagery, The Man Who Fell to Earth is a calm, meditative film that profoundly explores our culture's values and desires." On Metacritic, the film has achieved a weighted average rating of 81 out of 100 from 9 critic reviews, citing "universal acclaim".