[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paris Barclay

cia Gay Harden, and Nyle DiMarco. The Americans for the Equality Act series is modeled after HRC's successful Americans for Marriage Equality campaign and was awarded at the 4th Annual Shorty Social Good awards, and helped lead to the passage of the act in the House of Representatives.

2021-Present

In May 2021, Barclay directed a virtual reading of Larry Kramer's The Normal Heart, with Sterling K. Brown, Laverne Cox, Jeremy Pope and Guillermo Diaz.

Also in 2021, after executive producing and directing 14 episodes of Station 19, Barclay directed two episodes each on the Ryan Murphy Netflix series Dahmer-Monster: The Jeffrey Dahmer Story (with Evan Peters, Richard Jenkins, and Niecy Nash). The series surpassed 1 billion hours viewed on Netflix, only the third title in Netflix history to cross the 1 billion hour viewing mark within 60 days.

Despite controversies surrounding Dahmer, Barclay’s work on Episode 6, “Silenced,” received wide praise. Daniel Fienberg of The Hollywood Reporter wrote, "Directed with more empathy than voyeurism by Paris Barclay, ‘Silenced' tells the story of Tony Hughes (excellent newcomer Rodney Burnford [sic]), presented here as perhaps the only victim with whom Jeffrey had traces of a real relationship. It’s easily the best episode of the series, an uncomfortably sweet and sad hour of TV that probably should have been the template for the entire show. Tony was deaf and, in placing a Black, deaf, gay character at the center of the narrative, the series is giving voice to somebody whose voice has too frequently been excluded from gawking serial killer portraits.”

Kayla Cobb said in her review of “Silenced" for The Decider, “It’s not just the strongest episode of the entire series; it’s one of the most heart-wrenching episodes of the year.” For this episode, Barclay received a 2023 Best Directing for a Limited or Anthology Series or TV Movie Emmy Nomination. Barclay’s work on the series finale, “God of Forgiveness, God of Vengeance,” was also nominated by the Hollywood Critics Association.

After Dahmer, Paris reteamed with Ryan Murphy to executive produce and direct 2 episodes of the Netflix series The Watcher, (with Naomi Watts, Bobby Cannavale, Margo Martindale and Mia Farrow). The series was a hit, ranking as the #1 most watched show on Netflix the week of its debut.

Currently, he is directing two episodes of a new Ryan Murphy series American Sports Story: Gladiator, set to air on FX/HULU . He’s also in post-production on a feature documentary about the life of iconic keyboard and recording artist Billy Preston, due in 2024.

Directors Guild of America 
In June 2013, Barclay was elected President of the Directors Guild of America, the first African-American and first openly gay President in the history of the Guild. After the vote, Barclay expressed gratitude for the honor and admiration for the Union's history, saying "I am profoundly honored to be elected President of the DGA.... The DGA has worked for more than three-quarters of a century to advance the creative and economic rights of directors and their teams and I look forward to continuing this strong tradition of service. As the son of a glass blower and a tile maker from Chicago, I am extremely humbled to have the honor to serve in the footsteps of the legendary leaders of the DGA like Frank Capra, Robert Wise and Gil Cates." Barclay was nominated for the Presidency by past-President Michael Apted, who said of him, "Paris' qualifications for DGA president are exceptional.... His understanding of the issues facing directors and their teams is outstanding and his ability to resolve problems and create solutions is beyond compare." His nomination was seconded by Steven Soderbergh, who said of Barclay, "This is a great moment for our Guild; Paris will be a phenomenal leader as we move into the future." Barclay was enthusiastically re-elected in June 2015.

Before being elected DGA President, Barclay served four terms as First Vice President of the DGA, where he was the first African-American Officer in the history of the guild. While serving as First Vice President, Barclay was also chair of the DGA's Political Action Committee, whose mission it is to promote the interests of DGA members to state and federal lawmakers. Their top issues include battling online copyright threats and promoting production tax incentives. He also served on the Western Directors Council and co-chaired the Diversity Task Force, whose mission is to encourage the hiring of women and minority directors to networks and studios. In addition, Barclay served as a board member of the DGA-affiliated Franco-American Cultural Fund, which promotes cultural exchange between French and American directors.

Barclay completed his second term as DGA president in June 2017. He was succeeded by Thomas Schlamme, whom he worked with on The West Wing and Manhattan, as well as on the DGA board.