[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Air Force Technical Applications Center

The Air Force Technical Applications Center (AFTAC), based at Florida's Patrick Space Force Base, is an Air Force surveillance organization assigned to the Sixteenth Air Force. Its mission is to monitor nuclear treaties of all applicable signatory countries. This is accomplished using seismic, hydroacoustic and satellite-detection systems alongside ground based and  airborne materials (radioactive debris) collection systems.

Mission
The Air Force Technical Applications Center (AFTAC) is the only American military unit responsible for providing national authorities with technical measurements to monitor nuclear-treaty compliance. It also develops proliferation-monitoring technologies.

AFTAC maintains a system containing more than 3,600 sensors worldwide and a global network of nuclear event-detection equipment called the U.S. Atomic Energy Detection Systems (USAEDS), the largest sensor network in the U.S. Air Force. When a disturbance is detected underground, underwater, in the atmosphere or in space, the event may be analyzed for nuclear identification, and the findings are reported to national command authorities.

AFTAC's nuclear event-detection mission is directly linked to its nuclear treaty-monitoring mission. AFTAC monitors signatory countries' compliance with the 1963 Limited Test Ban Treaty. This treaty prohibits nuclear testing above the earth's surface and prohibits the venting of nuclear debris or radiation from tests into the atmosphere outside the country's national borders. AFTAC also monitors the Threshold Test Ban Treaty of 1974 and the Peaceful Nuclear Explosion Treaty of 1976. The 1974 treaty limits the size of underground nuclear tests to 150 kilotons, while the 1976 treaty prohibits the testing of nuclear devices outside of agreed treaty sites.

AFTAC conducts technical research and evaluates verification technologies for current and future treaties involving weapons of mass destruction. In 2014, AFTAC supplemented its network of contracted laboratories by opening the Ciambrone Radiochemistry Lab to analyze and assess compliance with nuclear-weapons testing in support of USAEDS and AFTAC's Nuclear Debris Collection and Analysis Program. The  laboratory became necessary after the center's central laboratory at McClellan Air Force Base closed.

Component units 
Unless otherwise indicated, units are based at Patrick Space Force Base, Florida.

 Operating Location A (Ankara, Turkey)
 Operating Location EH (The Pentagon, Virginia)
 Operating Location PG
 Detachment 415 (Chiang Mai, Thailand)
 709th Special Surveillance and Analysis Group
 21st Surveillance Squadron
 Detachment 1 (Offutt AFB, Nebraska)
 22nd Surveillance Squadron
 Detachment 45 (Buckley SFB, Colorado)
 Detachment 46 (Cheyenne Mountain SFS, Colorado)
 23rd Analysis Squadron
 24th Analysis Squadron
 Air Force Radiochemistry Lab
 709th Support Group
 709th Cyberspace Squadron
 709th Support Squadron
 709th Technical Maintenance Squadron
 Detachment 421 (Alice Springs, Central Australia)
 Detachment 1
 Strategic Integration Directorate
 Strategic Development Directorate
 Plans & Programs Directorate

History

In 1947, General Dwight D. Eisenhower directed the Army Air Forces to develop technologies capable of detecting "atomic explosions anywhere in the world." In 1949, a particulate sampler aboard an Air Weather Service modified B-29 Superfortress flying between Alaska and Japan detected debris from the first Soviet atomic test.

As the Air Force activated AFTAC in 1959 to prepare to monitor compliance with the Limited Test Ban Treaty, AFTAC assumed some responsibilities for the USAEDS and the advancement of long-range detection capabilities. AFTAC's programs evolved into a resource system monitoring compliance with nuclear treaties, supporting the American space program and preparing citizens for nuclear emergencies.

Over the years, the Air Force tasked the nuclear treaty-monitoring center to conduct short-notice collection operations. In April 1986, AFTAC responded to the Ukrainian nuclear accident at the Chernobyl Nuclear Power Plant in the Soviet Union. AFTAC flew 55 sorties compiling 502 flying hours and AFTAC's McClellan Central Laboratory (TOD) processed 354 samples.

In October 2006, AFTAC detected an event associated with North Korea's claim of a nuclear test and later provided verification of the nuclear event to national authorities.

The center supported Operation Tomodachi, the U.S. government's response to the 9.0 earthquake and subsequent tsunami that hit Japan. The Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant experienced a nuclear meltdown in three of the plant's six reactors. AFTAC flew nine nuclear debris-collection sorties, processing 342 seismic events, and analyzed 660 samples from the peninsula.

In the summer of 2015, AFTAC removed ten radioactive thermoelectric generators from Alaska that were no longer required. This power source had been the Air Force's largest source of sensitive radioactive material.