[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Modern Literal Taiwanese

but with urgency), "Bob!"  Similarly, saying "No!" achieves the same quick, downward tone in English.)

Low-falling tone
The low-falling tone is always marked by appending an "x" to the rearmost vowel.  (Think of the low, almost guttural tone used in  muttering a flat "Huh." or "Hmph." in English.)

Rising tone
The rising tone is denoted according to the following rules:
 Simple vowel: simply repeat the vowel. (E.g., "guu".)
 Compound vowel: repeat the last vowel letter except when it contains an “a”, then just repeat the “a”. (E.g., "zoaa".) In the case of ø, use øo rather than øø.

(Just as an urgent, quick "No!" can provide an example of the "shouting" tone in English, a questioning "No?" may represent the rising tone.)

Short tone
The low stopping tones are indicated by switching the final stops with the high stopping tones' as follows: h->q, t->d, p->b, k->g.

Examples
Examples for the seven tones:
 1 (High): ty (豬, pig)
 2 (Shouting-out): bea (馬, horse)
 3 (Low-falling): pax (豹, leopard)
 4 (Low stop): aq (鴨, duck)
 5 (Rising): zoaa (蛇, snake)
 7 (Basic): chviu (象, elephant)
 8 (High stop): lok (鹿, deer)

Special Symbols
The apostrophe (', typewriter apostrophe) is used to demarcate syllables when there is ambiguity. A hyphen (-) is used to join two or more isolated words to make a new compound word with its own meaning. When a word contains a grave accent (`), all the syllables after this mark are accented in the low tone (low-falling for the long tones, and low-short for short tones).

Comparison chart

History of MLT
The Pe̍h-ōe-jī (POJ) system, introduced in the 19th century, provides a basis for phonetic transcription of the Taiwanese language using the Latin alphabet.  It initially developed a significant user base, but the number of users declined during the period of Japanese colonization of Taiwan, when the use of POJ was suppressed in preference to katakana, and also during the era of martial law, during which Mandarin Chinese was promoted.

Prof. Liim Keahioong, formerly of the National Cheng Kung University in Tainan, Taiwan, pioneered the Taiwanese Modern Spelling System (TMSS) in 1943, with the intent to avoid the diacritical markings of POJ as well as the cumbersome difficulty of inputting Chinese characters with the available technology.  TMSS served as the basis for Modern Literal Taiwanese (MLT), also known as Modern Taiwanese Language (MTL).
Other variants of MLT exist, such as Phofsit Daibuun and Simplified MLT (SMLT).

Notes and references

External links
 21st Century Taiwanese Language & Art Web - website run by Prof. Liim Keahioong, EDUTECH Foundation, Tainan, Taiwan
 LearnTaiwanese.org
 Hydonsingore ee Hunhoarloo - a blog written in MLT
SMLT Homepage(簡式台語現代文) 

Languages of Taiwan
Romanization of Hokkien
Writing systems introduced in the 20th century
20th-century establishments in Taiwan