[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# Democratic Party (United States)

ogressive causes, especially, those that affect people of color.

Within the 118th United States Congress, the Congressional Black Caucus, consisting of 56 Black Democrats, serves to represent the interests of African Americans and advocate on issues that affect them.

Hispanic and Latino Americans 

The Latino population, particularly the large Mexican American population in the Southwest and the large Puerto Rican and Dominican populations in the Northeast, have been strong supporters of the Democratic Party. In the 1996 presidential election, Democratic President Bill Clinton received 72% of the Latino vote. In following years, the Republican Party gained increasing support from the Latino community, especially among Latino Protestants and Pentecostals. With his much more liberal views on immigration, President Bush was the first Republican president to gain 40% of the Latino vote in the 2004 presidential election. But the Republican Party's support among Hispanics eroded in the 2006 midterm elections, dropping from 44% to 30%, with the Democrats gaining in the Latino vote from 55% in 2004 to 69% in 2006. Democrats increased their share of the Latino vote in the 2008 presidential election, with Barack Obama receiving 67%. According to exit polls by Edison Research, Obama increased his support again in 2012, winning 71% of Latino voters.

Cuban Americans tend to vote Republican, though there was a notable change during the 2008 elections. During the 2008 elections, Barack Obama received 47% of the Cuban American vote in Florida. According to Bendixen's exit polls, 84% of Miami-Dade Cuban American voters 65 or older backed McCain, while 55% of those 29 or younger backed Obama, showing that the younger Cuban American generation has become more liberal.

Unaffiliated Latino advocacy groups that often support progressive candidates and causes include the National Council of La Raza and the League of United Latin American Citizens. In the House of Representatives, the Democratic caucus of Latino Americans is the Congressional Hispanic Caucus.

In the 2018 elections, 69% of Hispanic and Latino Americans voted for Democratic House candidates. In the 2020 presidential election, Joe Biden received 65% of the Hispanic and Latino vote. However, in the 2022 elections, only 60% of Hispanic and Latino Americans voted for Democratic House candidates. Since the 2020s, the party's advantage among Hispanic voters has declined.

Asian Americans 

The Democratic Party has majority support from the Asian American population. Asian Americans had been a stronghold of the Republican Party up to and including the 1992 presidential election, in which George H. W. Bush won 55% of the Asian-American vote. Originally, the vast majority of Asian Americans were strongly anti-communist Vietnamese refugees, Chinese Americans, Taiwanese Americans, Korean Americans, and Filipino Americans, and the Republican Party's positions resonated with this demographic.

The Democratic Party made gains among Asian Americans starting in 1996 and in 2006 won 62% of the Asian American vote. Exit polls after the 2008 presidential election indicated that Democratic candidate, Barack Obama, won 62% of the Asian American vote. In the 2012 presidential election, 73% of the Asian American electorate voted for Obama's re-election. Barack Obama had the support of 85% of Indian Americans, 68% of Chinese Americans, and 57% of Filipino Americans. The Asian American community's increasing number of young voters has also helped to erode traditionally reliably Republican voting blocs such as Vietnamese and Filipino Americans, leading to an increase in support for Democrats.

Prominent past and present Asian American Democrats include Vice President Kamala Harris, U.S. Senators Tammy Duckworth, Daniel Inouye, Daniel Akaka, and Mazie Hirono, former Governor and Secretary of Commerce Gary Locke, and U.S. Representatives Mike Honda, Judy Chu, Doris Matsui, Ro Khanna, Pramila Jayapal, Norman Mineta, and Dalip Singh Saund. Saund was the first Asian American U.S. Representative.

In the 2018 midterm elections, 77% of Asian Americans voted for the Democratic candidates.  However, in the 2022 midterm elections, only 58% of Asian Americans voted for Democratic candidates. Since 2012, Democrats have lost support from Asian Americans, with Hillary Clinton and Joe Biden receiving 65% and 63% of the Asian American vote in 2016 and 2020, respectively.

Native Americans 

The Democratic Party also has strong support among the Native American population, particularly in Arizona, New Mexico, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Washington, Alaska, Idaho, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Oklahoma, and North Carolina. Although now a small percentage of the population (virtually non-existent in some regions), most Native American precincts tend to vote for Democratic candidates.