[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Shmuel Eliyahu

Eliyahu called for "state-sanctioned revenge" against Arabs. According to Haaretz, Eliyahu wrote an article for the newsletter Eretz Yisrael Shelanu ("Our Land of Israel"), wherein he proposed "hanging the children of the terrorist who carried out the attack in the Mercaz Harav yeshiva from a tree".

In 2009, Eliyahu was involved in publishing the conspiracy theory pamphlet On Either Side of the Border, in cooperation with the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America (OU). The OU later asserted that its connection with the pamphlet was unauthorized by senior management. The pamphlet, citing the personal account of a recent convert to Judaism who had previously been a member of the Lebanese organisation Hezbollah, asserts that the Pope and the Cardinals of the Roman Catholic Church allegedly help organize tours of Auschwitz for Hezbollah members, in order to teach them how to wipe out Jews. The pamphlet was distributed to IDF troops. , a Harvard-based Israeli historian, said that the pamphlet, supposedly written by a Lebanese, actually contains gross factual errors that no Arab could have made. In addition, there are also numerous other blatant geographical and cultural mistakes in the pamphlet, proving that the author is in reality a Haredi Jew from Israel who knows very little about the Arab world. Orbach's conclusion is that Eliyahu took part in a forgery, clearly in order to propagate hatred against Arabs and Muslims. Eliyahu failed to answer the accusations, but his spokesman vouched for the authenticity of the pamphlet in a conversation with Haaretz. Furthermore, Eliyahu had widely quoted from the pamphlet in a subsequent article.

In December 2010, Eliyahu spearheaded a letter, signed by 50 rabbis, which urged Jewish Israelis to refrain from renting housing to Arabs. Circulation of the letter led to calls for Eliyahu's suspension, and for his prosecution on grounds of racial incitement. In July 2012, Israel's Ministry of Justice closed the investigation into allegations of incitement, on the grounds of lack of evidence that the statements could be attributed to Eliyahu.

In the wake of the 2023 Turkey–Syria earthquake, Eliyahu wrote an article in the , in which he stated that the event, which he compared to the biblical story of the crossing of the Red Sea, was a divine punishment to Syria, which

and therefore deserved no pity. As for Turkey, which suffered significantly more casualties, he accused it of having defamed the State of Israel, and "everything that happens, happens in order to cleanse the world and make it better." World Jewish Congress head Ron Lauder said that he was "aghast and appalled" at Eliyahu's words.  and Yehuda Gilad declared that Eliyahu's statements were not consistent with the teachings of the Torah.

Jerusalem 

Following an address in December 2017 in which U.S. President Donald Trump recognized Jerusalem as the capital of Israel and announced plans to relocate the U.S. embassy there from its current location in Tel Aviv, Eliyahu organized a joint letter signed by 250 Israeli Orthodox rabbis praising Trump's historic proclamation, stating, "You will be remembered in the history of the Jewish people."

On Jerusalem Day in 2022, Eliyahu ordered a large turnout for an annual flag march, saying that anything less would embolden the Palestinians in the wake of a recent spate of attacks against Israelis. The following day, the US State Department in the Biden administration revoked Eliyahu's visa to enter the United States. While no explanation was given for this, Israeli officials surmised that it was due to Eliyahu's statements regarding Arabs. A spokesman for Eliyahu blamed the action on Reformist and anti-Zionist elements.

References 

1956 births
Rabbis in Safed
Israeli Orthodox Jews
Israeli Orthodox rabbis
Religious Zionist Orthodox rabbis
Mercaz HaRav alumni
Chief rabbis of cities in Israel
Israeli people of Iraqi-Jewish descent
Living people
Anti-Arabism in Israel