[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Islamic University of Gaza

epartments offer bachelor degrees in their respective specialties. The department of medical laboratory science also grants MCs degrees in medical laboratory sciences and in infection control. The molecular biology laboratory is one of very few local centers that offer genetic testing to the public.

Faculty of Finance and Administrative Sciences  
Founded in 1980, the faculty offers nine bachelor programs, including accounting, accounting (in English), business administration, business administration (in English), banking and finance, economics and applied statistics, and e-commerce. It awards Master of Arts degrees in two majors: accounting and finance, and business administration. The business administration program has the following concentrations: human resource management, marketing management, and financial management.

Faculty of Information Technology  
The Faculty of Information Technology (IT) was founded in the academic year 2004/2005. It consists of five departments: Computer Science, Information Technology, Software Development, Multimedia Technology and Web Development, and Mobile Computing and Smart Devices Applications. It awards Bachelor degrees in the five majors. It also awards Master of Science degrees in two majors: Data Science and Software Engineering.

Faculty of Medicine 
The faculty was inaugurated in 2006, and the first class graduated in 2012. Admission into the faculty is based on applicants' achievement scores in the high school national matriculation exam (Tawjihi). Study extends over six years, comprising three years of medical sciences and three in clinical training. Medical graduates are awarded a Doctor of Medicine (M.D.) degree. The faculty is listed in the World Directory of Medical Schools and the Foundation of International Medical Education Directory (FAIMER). It is also recognized by the UK General Medical Council (GMC). 

In addition to the M.D. program, the faculty grants post-graduate diplomas in Child Health and Nutrition for Physicians (DCHN), Anesthesia and Intensive Care, Emergency Medicine, Obstetrics and Reproductive Health, Vascular Surgery, in addition to a Masters of Science program in Disaster Management for Health Professionals which is a shared program with the Faculty of Health Sciences. 

The Faculty also is a recognized regional test center for the International Foundations of Medicine (IFOM) exams. In 2016, the Faculty of Medicine established The Hayat Center for Emergency and Crisis Management, which offers training courses in emergency medicine and crisis management to medical and health science students and healthcare staff from the different governmental and non-governmental institutions.

Rankings

Memberships and Affiliations 
IUG is a recognized member of twelve regional and international associations and networks of higher education: 

 Anna Lindh Euro-Mediterranean Foundation
 Association of Arab Universities (AAU)
 Community of Mediterranean Universities (CMU)
 Eurasian Universities Union (EURAS)
 Euro-Mediterranean Universities Consortium TETHYS
 Federation of the Universities of the Islamic World (FUIW)
 International Association of Universities (IAU)
 Mediterranean Universities Union (UNIMED)
 Peace Programme
 Réseau Méditerranéen des Ecoles d'Ingénieurs (RMEI)
 The Euro-Mediterranean University (EMUNI)
 Black Sea and Eastern Mediterranean Academic Network (BSEMAN)

The university has also developed partnerships with 142 higher education institutions around the world.

Donor institutions
The university has accepted donations from institutions such as the Arab Student Aid International, United Palestinian Appeal, Islamic Relief, the British Council, the World Bank, USAID, the Islamic Development Bank and Human Appeal International.

The university has accepted donations from the Middle East Children's Alliance for its rebuilding efforts.

February 2007 incident 
In February 2007, during the height of fighting between Hamas and Fatah, the dominating party in the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO), the Palestinian Authority (PA) Presidential Guards and Fatah militiamen stormed the Islamic University campus using mortars and rocket-propelled grenades, setting the library building and parts of the computer center and science building on fire.

Damage by Israeli air strikes
Just after midnight on 28/29 December 2008 local time, the university was bombed in six air strikes by the Israeli Air Force during the 2008 Gaza War. Palestinian academics claim that the attack destroyed 74 labs, including, Microbiology, Hematology, Genetics, Medical Technology and Medical Chemistry Labs, Physics Labs, Environmental and Earth Sciences Labs, Biology Labs, Biotechnology Labs, Optics Labs, Chemistry Labs, Engineering Labs, and Engineering and IT buildings.