[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Organization of Women's Freedom in Iraq

The Organization of Women's Freedom in Iraq (OWFI) is an organization which campaigns in favour of women's rights in Iraq, and against political Islam and against the US/UK occupation of Iraq. It was founded in 2003. Its director is Yanar Mohammed, who is also a co-founder of the organization. The OWFI works together with women and leftist political groups to protect and empower women in Iraq.

Background 
From the 1950s until the 1970s Iraqi women had the ability to exercise several rights such as the right to work, receive an education, initiate marriage and divorce, and dress freely. These rights were rescinded when Iraq introduced Sharia punishment for certain types of criminal offenses in 1995. Women were now required to follow an extremely modest and rigid dress code and most of their civil and social rights were taken away. Honor killings became more prevalent, as Iraq does not currently have any laws holding men accountable for these deaths, which leaves Iraqi women vulnerable and without much protection. Based on data gathered by the United Nations, violence towards women in Iraq has increased, making them vulnerable to murder, rape, and being kidnapped. Moreover, after to invasion of the US in 2003 the protection against these acts have decreased.

The Organization of Women's Freedom in Iraq was founded as a way to advocate for these issues and provide protection for vulnerable and at risk women. To aid women in jeopardy of honor killings, limited employment options, limited access to health or civil protections, and other acts of violence, the organization has developed shelters for these women to find sanctuary and safety. In addition, OWFI advocates for more representation of women in political power, in order to create a voice for women and initiate change. The first shelter to be established is located in Baghdad. Subsequently, four other shelters have been established as well.

Advocacy and recognition 
The Organization of Women's Freedom in Iraq has reported that they have saved the lives of thirty women who were targeted for honor killings in the first years after founding. By 2020, the number of women whom were saved and sheltered by OWFI reached to 890 women.

The organization has had great success with their newsletter Al Mousawat. They sell out of copies in a matter of two weeks and are very popular on their radio as well. Additionally, the Dutch Ministry of foreign affairs renewed their partnership to help with a multiyear project in order to execute the steps necessary in obtaining equal rights for women in Iraq. Norad, the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation, also aided OWFI with funding to help women and their families in areas like Mosul where they are facing much political tension. This organization also receives financial support from the European Commission and the Oak Foundation, which helps with maintaining the shelters, creating new ones, and carrying out expensive projects.

The OWFI's president Yanar Mohammed was awarded the Gruber Human Rights Award in 2007 and the Rafto Foundation Award in 2018 in Norway.

Relevancy 
The OWFI is important to Iraqi women because the organization fights for women's rights in Iraq. The OWFI is one of the most outspoken women's rights groups of Iraq, although other women's right groups chose to distance themselves because critics view the group as radical feminists and radical secularists.

In January 2020, the Council of Ministers filed a lawsuit against OWFI with the purpose of dissolving it due to its operation of women's shelters, and also due to its support of the uprising which started in October 2019.

They are part of a statewide women's rights movement where the groups do not rely on American or British intervention to liberate them or to fight for their rights. The OWFI has a non-imperialist agenda to fight for justice and help women who have been victims of violence. The OWFI has an established network in Iraq and also on a global scale for advocating gender inclusive governments. Some of their goals include ending segregation in schools on the premise of sex, giving women more liberty and freedom to their attire, creating a more inclusive political space for women, separating the mosque and state, and creating a constitution where men and women share equal rights. Essentially, they aim to create women friendly policies where the discrimination against women can be eliminated. The OWFI also provides humanitarian support to women who have been alienated by their families or who have been affected by the acts of the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). They do this by providing them with food, shelter, medicine, and clothing in their safe shelters. The OWFI provides these women and their families with supplies and tools that are essential for survival.