[Source: PubMed]

10. PLoS One. 2019 Jul 17;14(7):e0219385. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0219385. 
eCollection 2019.

Association of MAOA genetic variants and resilience with psychosocial stress: A 
longitudinal study of Syrian refugees.

Clukay CJ(1)(2), Dajani R(3), Hadfield K(4), Quinlan J(1)(2), Panter-Brick C(5), 
Mulligan CJ(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United 
States of America.
(2)Genetics Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, United States of 
America.
(3)Department of Biology and Biotechnology, Hashemite University, Zarqa, Jordan.
(4)School of Biological and Chemical Sciences, Queen Mary, University of London, 
London, England.
(5)Department of Anthropology, Yale University, New Haven, CT, United States of 
America.

Early childhood trauma can have profound and lifelong effects on adult mental 
health and psychosocial wellbeing. Nevertheless, responses to trauma are highly 
variable. Genetic variants may help explain variation in responses to trauma by 
identifying alleles that associate with changes in mental health measures. 
Protective factors, such as resilience, likely also play an important role in 
responses to trauma. The effects of genetic variants, in combination with 
protective factors, on psychosocial health are not well understood, particularly 
in non-Western contexts. In this study, we test the relative influence of 
genetic variants of monoamine oxidase A (MAOA, a gene proposed to influence the 
impact of childhood trauma on adult violence and antisocial behavior), levels of 
resilience, and exposure to traumatic events on psychosocial stress and mental 
health trajectories over time. We use data from a cohort of 12-18-year-old 
Syrian refugees who were forcibly displaced to neighboring Jordan (n = 399). DNA 
samples and survey data on trauma exposure, resilience (CYRM-12), and 
psychosocial stress were collected at three time points: baseline, ~13 weeks, 
and ~48 weeks. Using multilevel models, we identified an association of MAOA 
variant, in males only, with symptom scores of psychosocial stress on the 
Perceived Stress Scale (PSS) over time (p = 8.1 x 10-4). We also found that 
resilience is strongly associated with PSS (p = 7.9 x 10-9), underscoring the 
importance of protective factors in influencing levels of psychosocial stress. 
Furthermore, there was an additive effect wherein the sharpest reductions in 
perceived psychosocial stress are seen in low-activity MAOA males with low 
trauma exposure or high resilience levels. Our results highlight the value of 
studies that integrate genetic and psychosocial factors to better understand 
complex phenotypes, such as responses to trauma in contexts of high trauma 
exposure.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0219385
PMCID: PMC6636744
PMID: 31314763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.