[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of social nudity places in North America

med after Rear Admiral Samuel Francis Du Pont at the New Castle County

District of Columbia
 Potomac Rambling Bares is a non-landed club that has since its founding in 1984 provided a comfortable atmosphere for nudists in the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area, Maryland and Virginia areas.

Florida

Public beaches
 Apollo Beach inside the Canaveral National Seashore near New Smyrna Beach on the Atlantic Coast of Florida. The accepted clothing-optional sunbathing area is around the boardwalk by Parking Area 5. Unlike Playalinda Beach (see below), this part of the national seashore is in Volusia County, which does not have an anti-nudity ordinance. Scarce parking (29 spaces) usually limits visitors to fewer than a hundred at a time. (There is another Apollo Beach in Hillsborough County, Florida, that has a very small beach inside Tampa Bay and very close to the TECO electric plant. This is not a naturist beach and violators are fined.)
 Blind Creek Beach – located just south of Ft. Pierce at 5460 S Ocean Dr (State Road A1A) on Hutchinson Island.  This beach is  long and is part of a  beach and wetland preserve.  It belongs to Florida Power and Light, but is managed by St. Lucie County Parks Dept.  It is a "primitive" beach with limited improvements.  There is no fresh water, so visitors must bring what they need.  It is not an "official" nude beach, but has a long history of naturist use.  The nudist section is south of the access trail. There were now plans to recognize it as an official nude beach. The beach was formally recognized by the County Commission on June 2, 2020.
 Boca Chica Beach on Boca Chica Key near Key West. There are no legal nude beaches in Key West, but Boca Chica has been used by locals for clothing-optional use and kept it secret for years. The secluded area has some sandy beach areas but not wide. There are no facilities or anywhere to clean up so visitors have to remove anything they bring. The road to the beach is near mile marker 10 on the Overseas Highway on Big Coppitt Key. Turn south on SR 941 or Boca Chica Road, driving through Geiger Key and back to Boca Chica Key. The beach is located at the end of the road, approximately  from the highway. Beyond the concrete barricade, immediately south of the culvert, the nude area begins and stretches for .
 Haulover Beach, in Miami-Dade County between Bal Harbour and Sunny Isles Beach (), is one of the most popular nude beaches in North America. Haulover Nude Beach is part of the county's Haulover Beach Park situated between the Intracoastal Waterway and the Atlantic Ocean. This  stretch of white sand shore, open ocean surf, various shaded picnic facilities, beautifully landscaped sand dunes, and concession stands has attracted as many as 7,000 people on a single day. The northern nude area is officially recognized as clothing-optional with official signs and is only a part of the Haulover Beach Park but attracts 66% to 85% of park visitors.
  Rainbow Nude Beach in Titusville is part of Canaveral National Seashore and operated by the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge (US Fish & Wildlife Service). Nudity has long been allowed, and there is an gay unofficial clothing-optional beach located at Puckett Creek on Pump House Rd. While there is no federal law restricting nude sunbathing, Brevard County passed an ordinance against nudity, but the Sheriff is not enforcing it pending a challenge to the constitutionality of the ordinance.
 Playalinda Beach in Titusville is part of Canaveral National Seashore and operated by the Merritt Island National Wildlife Refuge (US Fish & Wildlife Service). Nudity has long been allowed, and there is an unofficial clothing-optional beach located at the north end of Parking Lot 13 and north of dune crossover 13B. While there is no federal law restricting nude sunbathing, Brevard County passed an ordinance against nudity, but the Sheriff is not enforcing it pending a challenge to the constitutionality of the ordinance.
 South Beach in Miami Beach permits topless sunbathing, partially due to the large number of foreign tourists and immigrants that frequent the beach. Additionally, a few hotel pools in Miami Beach also allow female toplessness.