[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Night of the Pencils

where they were brutally tortured.
At some point in late September, a large group of detainees which included the students was herded into two police vans. The convoy stopped at the Investigations Brigade of Bánfield headquarters, where a number of people were forced to get out. Díaz was among them.

Details of the Night of the Pencils were provided by the two of survivors from that 16–21 September period. Emilce Moler said: "They tortured us with profound sadism. I remember being naked. I was just a fragile small girl of about 1.5 m and weighed about 47 kg, and I was beaten senseless by what I judged was a huge man" and "after about a week at our first detention centre, we were all taken to another place in a truck. At some point we stopped and some of my friends were taken out. Those are the ones that disappeared." Moler said that she did not know why some UES members were allowed to live and others killed. Like most of the others, Emilce belonged to the students' union. The military regarded them as subversives.

Pablo Diaz testified: "In Arana, they gave me electric shocks in my mouth, my gums, and my genitals. They tore out one of my toenails. It was very usual to spend several days without food."

On 28 December 1976, an Army Major told Díaz he would become a legal prisoner and was transferred to the Pozo de Quilmes, where he joined Moler, Calotti and Miranda. Those who were still being held at Banfield are presumed to have been taken out and executed by firing squad on the first week of January 1977.

The kidnapped students were:

Aftermath

In September 2011 nearly two dozen junta officials were charged with crimes against humanity for their roles in the Night of the Pencils. Among them was Miguel Etchecolatz, already serving a life sentence for other crimes committed as an officer in the regime.

Today the victims of the Night of the Pencils are remembered, along with thousands of other victims of the dictatorship, on March 24, the Argentine Day of Remembrance for Truth and Justice. Night of the Pencils is also now seen as the opening salvo in Argentina's Dirty War.

In popular culture

 The saga of the students' ordeal was depicted in Hector Olivera's 1986 film Night of the Pencils. 
 The testimony of Pablo Díaz, the last survivor to be released, served as the basis for the song "Noche de los lápices" by Canarian singer .

See also
 National Commission on the Disappearance of Persons
 Ramón Camps
 Miguel Etchecolatz
 Christian von Wernich
 Montoneros
 National Reorganization Process
 Dirty War

References

Bibliography
 Seoane, María y Hector Ruiz Nuñez: La Noche de los Lápices. Buenos Aires: Sudamericana, 2003.   Registro en Cámara Argentina del Libro] 
 Comisión Nacional sobre la Desaparición de Personas (CONADEP): Nunca más. Buenos Aires: Eudeba, 1984.

External links
CASO Nº 33: FALCONE, MARÍA CLAUDIA 

Dirty War
Executed activists
1976 in Argentina
Political repression in Argentina
Enforced disappearance
Student political organizations
Extrajudicial killings in Argentina