[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Léo Moura

d his place as captain of the team after the club's captain, Bruno, was suspected of murder. Flamengo flirted with relegation throughout the year, staying dangerously close to the relegation zone in the league table, but it eventually reached the Copa Sudamericana qualifying zone by the final round.

Leo Moura's time for the Rio club seemed to be at an end in 2011, as he was hinted to join SC Internacional. The departure of his long-time partner at Flamengo's defense, Juan, reinforced the club's need for Moura to be on its team. Nonetheless, his time as the captain came to an end as the 2002 FIFA World Cup and 2005 Ballon d'Or winner and Brazilian international Ronaldinho joined the club, earning the club captaincy. Winning the 2011 state league title after winning both rounds of the competition, the Taça Guanabara and the Taça Rio, the Flamengo squad had great success at the first semester of the year, being a favorite to win the 2011 season of the Brazilian league. Flamengo mounted an impressive undefeated streak throughout the year, which was broken by Ceará SC in the Copa do Brasil quarter finals, and stayed unbeaten in the league season for 16 rounds, losing against Goiânia club Atlético Goianiense in the 17th round, on a match Moura played as a midfielder. However, Flamengo did not follow up in the second semester, barely earning a place at the next year's Libertadores by the end of the season.

Leonardo Moura's last game at Flamengo was on 4 March 2015, when he played a testimonial match against Nacional at the Maracanã, the right-back made one of the assists as Flamengo beat the Uruguayan side 2–0.

FC Goa 
In 2015, he signed for FC Goa, who at the time were under head coach Zico. He scored 2 goals and had 8 assists and was a crowd favourite. He helped his team to the finals of ISL and was one of the most valuable assets of the club. In the final, against Chennaiyin, he was injured and couldn't help his team win the 2015 Indian Super League.

Metropolitano
On February 2, 2016, Moura was announced by Metropolitano, from Santa Catarina, as their new player. He comes to club for playing League of Santa Catarina.

Santa Cruz, Grêmio and Botafogo of Paraíba
In second semester, Moura was appointed by Santa Cruz. In 2017, Moura was contracted by Grêmio. In both teams won many titles. In 2020, at 41 years old, he signed with Botafogo-PB.

International career
Leonardo debuted for the Brazil national team in a friendly match played in Dublin against Ireland on 6 February 2008, which they won by 1–0.

Career statistics

1South American competitions include the Copa Libertadores, Copa Sudamericana, and Recopa Sudamericana.

according to combined sources on the Flamengo official website, Flaestatística and Futpédia.

Honours
Flamengo
 Campeonato Brasileiro Série A: 2009
 Copa do Brasil: 2006, 2013
 Campeonato Carioca: 2007, 2008, 2009, 2011, 2014

Santa Cruz
 Copa do Nordeste: 2016
 Campeonato Pernambucano: 2016

Grêmio
 Copa Libertadores: 2017
 Recopa Sudamericana: 2018
 Campeonato Gaúcho: 2018, 2019

Individual
Campeonato Brasileiro Série A Team of the Year: 2007, 2008

References

External links

1978 births
Living people
Brazilian men's footballers
Men's association football defenders
Campeonato Brasileiro Série A players
Campeonato Brasileiro Série C players
Botafogo de Futebol e Regatas players
CR Vasco da Gama players
Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras players
São Paulo FC players
Fluminense FC players
CR Flamengo footballers
Clube Atlético Metropolitano players
Santa Cruz Futebol Clube players
Grêmio Foot-Ball Porto Alegrense players
Botafogo Futebol Clube (PB) players
Belgian Pro League players
Beerschot A.C. players
Eerste Divisie players
ADO Den Haag players
Primeira Liga players
S.C. Braga players
North American Soccer League (2011–2017) players
Fort Lauderdale Strikers players
Indian Super League players
FC Goa players
Copa Libertadores-winning players
Brazil men's international footballers
Brazilian expatriate men's footballers
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in the United States
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in Belgium
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in Portugal
Brazilian expatriate sportspeople in India
Expatriate men's soccer players in the United States
Expatriate men's footballers in the Netherlands
Expatriate men's footballers in Belgium
Expatriate men's footballers in Portugal
Expatriate men's footballers in India
Footballers from Niterói