[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kentucky State Police

dge Charger PPV.  The KSP Division of Commercial Vehicle Enforcement currently utilize the Chevy Tahoe Utility Police Interceptor as they retire their fleet of CVPI's and Chevrolet Caprice PPV's. The KSP Facilities Security Branch will replace their CVPI's with Ford Taurus-based Police Interceptors.

Sidearm
In 2017 troopers transitioned from the Glock Model 35 .40 S&W to the Glock Model 17 9mm as their primary sidearm.  Troopers also carry a Glock 43x 9mm as their backup sidearm. The Walther PPK/S as a backup sidearm as well. Prior to 2017 troopers carried a traditional 12 gauge shotgun as their long-range alternative to their sidearm and transitioned to a M&P15 patrol rifle (.223). Prior to the Glock Model 35 troopers carried the 10mm Smith & Wesson (Model 1076 was used).

Overview
The department's headquarters are located at 919 Versailles Road in Frankfort while its training academy is located in the former Frankfort Career Development Center at 380 Coffee Tree Road in Frankfort. Cadets training to become troopers undergo a 24-week, paramilitary-style training program. Potential cadets who hold their Kentucky Peace Officers Professional Standards (POPS) certification and have two years of experience as a local, county or state (including Kentucky State Park Rangers and Conservation Officers with the Kentucky Department of Fish & Wildlife Resources) law enforcement officer in Kentucky are eligible to apply to become troopers through the department's Law Enforcement Accelerated Program (LEAP). Those accepted as LEAP cadets must meet all of the other requirements for acceptance into the KSP Academy and undergo an accelerated  13-week academy training class. Sworn Commercial Vehicle Enforcement officers undergo an initial 18 weeks of basic law enforcement officer training at the Department of Criminal Justice Training Academy. This is followed by an eight-week training program at the KSP Academy that provides specialized training on commercial vehicle compliance and highway enforcement. After graduation, probationary troopers & CVE officers must complete field training under the supervision of a training trooper/officer at their assigned post (troopers) or region (CVE officers). The KSP Facilities Security Branch must meet the requirements for and receive a Special Law Enforcement Officer (SLEO) commission under KRS 61.900-930 as well as undergo specialized training, including firearms training. KSP telecommunicators must complete a six-week training program at the KSP Academy.

The KSP operates the state's system of regional crime labs. In addition, the KSP Facilities Security Branch, along with specially assigned state troopers, is responsible for protecting the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, members of the Kentucky General Assembly and state property, including the Kentucky State Capitol Complex.

On July 14, 2008, the Kentucky Vehicle Enforcement department, which is responsible for commercial vehicle enforcement, became an operational division of the KSP.
 
The department also operates Trooper Island Camp, a juvenile crime prevention program at Dale Hollow Lake State Park.

On February 15, 2017, then-Commissioner Rick Sanders announced the formation of the Critical Incident Response Team (CIRT).  Experienced KSP detectives from throughout the Commonwealth were chosen to investigate Officer Involved Shootings (OIS) as well as Critical Incidents that involved Police or Corrections agencies.

Rank structure

Structure
Commissioner of the State Police
Executive Security Branch
Legal Office
Administration Division
Programs
Drivers Testing Branch
Facilities Security Branch
Financial and Grant Management Branch
Highway Safety Branch
Inspections and Evaluation Section
Legislative Security Branch
Media Relations Branch
Strategic Planning Branch
Internal Operations
Academy Branch
Human Resources Branch
Internal Affairs Branch
Properties Management and Supply Branch
Recruitment Branch
Commercial Vehicle Enforcement Division
West Troop
Region 1
Region 2
Region 3
East Troop
Region 4
Region 5
Region 6
Operations Division
West Troop
Post 1
Post 2
Post 3
Post 4
Post 5
Post 12
Post 15
Post 16
East Troop
Post 6
Post 7
Post 8
Post 9
Post 10
Post 11
Post 13
Post 14
Special Enforcement Troop
Cannabis Suppression
West Drug Enforcement
East Drug Enforcement
Aircraft Support
Vehicle Investigations
Special Operations
Critical Incident Response Team (CIRT)
Technical Services Division
Forensic Division
Central Laboratory – (Frankfort)
Eastern Laboratory – (Ashland)
Jefferson Laboratory – (Louisville)
Northern Laboratory – (Cold Spring)
Southeast Laboratory – (London)
Western Laboratory – (Madisonville)
Office of the Chief Information Officer
Communications and Computer Technologies Branch
Criminal Identification and Records Branch
Headquarters Communications Branch
Intelligence Branch

Demographics

2006
Male: 69%
Female: 31%
White: 92%
African-American/Black: 4%
Asian: 4%

See also