[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Colonial Day

"Colonial Day" is the eleventh episode of the reimagined Battlestar Galactica television series.

In the episode, Tom Zarek seeks to become Vice President, but President Laura Roslin thwarts him by nominating the popular scientist Gaius Baltar, who ultimately wins. A possible presidential assassin is captured but cannot be linked to Zarek. On Caprica, Helo discovers that Caprica-Boomer is a Cylon.

Plot
President Roslin reconstitutes the Quorum of Twelve, a representative body within the Colonial government. Tom Zarek, who had called for Roslin's resignation, is nominated to fill the vacant role of Vice President. Worried that Zarek may try to assassinate her if he wins, Roslin initially drafts her friend and confidante Wallace Gray to run against Zarek. After Gray proves uncharismatic, she pushes him aside in favor of Gaius Baltar.

Apollo and Starbuck arrest a man named Valance who has smuggled a handgun aboard Cloud Nine, the ship where the Quorum meeting is being held. They suspect that he may have ties to Zarek but find him dead in his holding cell in an apparent suicide.

Baltar wins the election. Zarek warns Roslin he will be back during the presidential election in six months and claims he did not kill Valance.

On Caprica, Helo and Boomer prepare to hijack a Cylon ship to escape the planet when he sees another Number Eight copy that looks just like Boomer.  Realizing that she, too, is a humanoid Cylon, he flees.

Production
"Colonial Day" was originally conceived as the first season's "West Wing episode." Executive producer Ronald D. Moore characterized the Quorum of Twelve in the original Battlestar Galactica as a hybrid political-military body whose unwise decisions Commander Adama frequently overruled. The creators revived the Quorum in this episode as a political body similar to the United States Senate and the United Nations Security Council to exhibit a democratic, republican Colonial government in order to draw parallels with real-world governments, particularly that of the United States. Moore believed that a story about people making difficult political choices in an environment where their survival was threatened would be relevant for questions in contemporary American society about the War on Terror, perceived creeping authoritarianism in American government, and the tradeoff between liberty and security. The assassination subplot was added to give the episode, in Moore's words, "a certain tension and jeopardy" beyond what one might see in an episode of The West Wing. Moore was ultimately not fully satisfied with his own writing in this regard because the assassination fizzles, but he thought director Jonas Pate made the episode work nonetheless.

Moore wanted to show life in the fleet away from Galactica but was opposed to a "planet of the week" format. Cloud Nine was created as a location within the fleet that could provide a visual environment replicating that of Caprica and the other Twelve Colonies. The exterior shots on Cloud Nine were filmed at the University of British Columbia, in the Rose Garden and in front of the Chan Centre for the Performing Arts. The Quorum meeting was filmed in the Chan Centre's Chan Shun Concert Hall, and most indoor scenes set on Cloud Nine were filmed in the lobby of the Chan Centre.

The writers intended "Colonial Day" to expand upon the character of Roslin. Before the Cylon attack in the miniseries, she was a quiet person who preferred to avoid attention, but the crisis has brought out her leadership qualities. Moore characterized Roslin as a pragmatist, as shown by her recognition of Baltar's media savvy, her selection of Baltar despite lingering distrust following his actions in the episode "Six Degrees of Separation", and her willingness to push aside Gray despite his personal hurt. Moore contrasts her with Commander Adama, whom he sees as more of an idealist.

When Zarek arrives on Cloud Nine the press and Zarek himself are unsure whether she will shake his hand; she does. The tension over this was inspired by questions over whether Yitzhak Rabin would shake Yasser Arafat's hand at the signing of the Oslo Accords in 1993.

Moore conceded that there may have been a larger in-universe media presence in this episode and elsewhere in the series than would have been strictly realistic under the circumstances. He defended the choice as one that shows a setup similar to the White House press corps and thereby grounds the viewer in a familiar understanding of the influence of the Presidency.