[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bob Short

e Short an unpopular figure in Washington sports. During the final Senators game at RFK Stadium on Thursday, September 30, 1971, the fans let their feelings be known; they unfurled two giant "Short Stinks" banners, and then stormed the field near the end of the game, resulting in a Senators forfeit.

Short is also remembered in Texas for drafting high-school phenom David Clyde in 1973 and then acceding to Clyde's insistence that he pitch two games with the Rangers before being assigned to the minor leagues. After Clyde pitched well in those two starts and drew huge crowds, Short kept Clyde with the Rangers, in an effort to draw crowds for the cellar-dwelling Rangers. This impeded Clyde's development, and his career slowly fizzled. He injured his arm in 1974, spent some time in the minors, and retired in 1981.

The Rangers went into rebuilding mode under young manager Whitey Herzog, but when the Detroit Tigers fired Billy Martin, Short quickly replaced Herzog with Martin, who immediately turned the Rangers around, piloting them to second place in 1974. Short wasn't with the Rangers at season's end, having sold the franchise for $9.5 million on May 29 to an investment group led by Brad Corbett.

Short was Bob Lurie's original investment partner in an attempt to purchase the San Francisco Giants from Horace Stoneham in order to prevent the franchise's sale and move to Toronto. However, the deal foundered when both Lurie and the National League owners insisted that Lurie be recognized as the primary owner who would cast the Giants' vote at league meetings. Lurie believed that since he lived in San Francisco and Short lived in Minneapolis, he should be the senior member of the partnership. For their part, the other NL owners had misgivings about Short's tenure with the Senators/Rangers, and were not willing to approve the deal if Short were the principal owner. Short refused to agree to these terms and pulled out of the partnership. With hours to go before a league-imposed deadline, Lurie replaced Short with Phoenix, Arizona-based meat-packer Bud Herseth, and the $8 million deal was approved by the other league owners on March 2, 1976.

Political career

Short first ran unsuccessfully for U.S. Congress in 1946, and in 1966 he lost a run for lieutenant governor in Minnesota. He also served as treasurer of the Democratic National Committee during Hubert Humphrey's 1968 presidential campaign, remaining involved in the DNC for a number of years. His best-known campaign was for the United States Senate in 1978. Short was a close friend of Humphrey and ran for his seat after Humphrey's death. He narrowly upset Congressman (later Minneapolis mayor) Donald M. Fraser in the Democratic primary, but lost the general election to Republican David Durenberger with only 35% of the vote.

During the 1978 campaign, Short was hindered by his conservative positions on a few hot-button issues — abortion, motorboat usage in the Boundary Waters Canoe area, and government spending. Indeed, he was actually well to Durenburger's right on these matters. This caused many in the liberal wing of the Democratic Farmer–Labor Party to cross over and vote for Durenberger. Short went down to defeat along with almost the entire DFL ticket, including incumbent DFL Senator Wendell Anderson, who had maneuvered to get himself appointed to Walter Mondale's seat while serving as governor two years earlier, as well as Anderson's successor as governor, Rudy Perpich.

Death

Short died of cancer at age 65 in 1982. He was interred at Resurrection Cemetery in Mendota Heights, Minnesota.

References

External links

1917 births
1982 deaths
Major League Baseball general managers
Major League Baseball owners
Businesspeople from Minneapolis
Lawyers from Minneapolis
Politicians from Minneapolis
Sportspeople from Minneapolis
Texas Rangers owners
Washington Senators (1961–1971) executives
Washington Senators (1961–1971) owners
Los Angeles Lakers owners
National Basketball Association executives
Deaths from cancer in Minnesota
20th-century American businesspeople
Minneapolis Lakers personnel
Minnesota Democrats
Military personnel from Minneapolis
20th-century American lawyers
Democratic National Committee treasurers