[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hugh Rodham (born 1950)

ponent of Georgian President Eduard Shevardnadze, then a key U.S. ally in the region.  After initial resistance, Berger and the Clintons prevailed upon the Rodham brothers to drop the deal.  Hugh Rodham stated that he was only acting as a lawyer for the venture and did not have money invested in it.

Episodes such as these led Hillary Clinton's White House staff to refer to Hugh and Tony as "the Brothers Rodham", extending the American tradition of troublesome presidential siblings to the brother-in-law category; one senior White House official would be quoted as saying, "You never wanted to hear their name come up in any context other than playing golf."

As the Clinton administration came to a close in early 2001, it was discovered that Hugh Rodham received around $400,000 for legal services regarding gaining the Presidential pardon of businessman Glenn Braswell who had been convicted of fraud, and the sentence commutation of drug trafficker Carlos Vignali.  While legal experts said that Rodham may well not have done anything wrong, the appearance of possible impropriety certainly existed. Moreover, coming while the Bill Clinton pardons controversy was already in full force, this was a further embarrassment for the former administration and even got the attention of the Congressional House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.  Hillary Clinton, now a newly-sworn-in Senator, said, "He's my brother. I love my brother ... I'm just extremely disappointed in this terrible misjudgment that he made ... I knew nothing about my brother's involvement in these pardons. I knew nothing about his taking money for his involvement."  Both Clintons pressured Rodham to return the $400,000, which he promptly did.  During this time, Rodham additionally collected media criticism for being overweight and a poor dresser.  By 2001 he was working in the law firm of Rodham & Fine in downtown Fort Lauderdale.

Subsequently, Rodham stayed out of the public eye.  When his sister's 2008 presidential campaign came to the family summer home of Scranton, Pennsylvania, for the state primary, he hosted a reception for campaign workers.  By the mid-2010s, he was still working at Rodham & Fine.  During the Hillary Clinton presidential campaign, 2016, he and Tony appeared with her at a rally in Scranton in April 2016.  But generally he kept a low profile during the campaign and declined to speak to the press.

References

External links
 

1950 births
American people of Dutch descent
American people of English descent
American people of French-Canadian descent
American people of Scottish descent
American people of Welsh descent
Florida Democrats
Florida lawyers
Hillary Clinton
Living people
Penn State Nittany Lions football players
Pennsylvania State University College of Health and Human Development alumni
People from Coral Gables, Florida
People from Park Ridge, Illinois
Public defenders
Rodham family
University of Arkansas alumni