[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Henry Harnden

Henry Harnden (March 4, 1823March 17, 1900) was an American sailor, Republican politician, and Wisconsin pioneer.  He served as a Union Army officer during the American Civil War and led the Wisconsin cavalry regiment which was credited in the capture of Confederate president Jefferson Davis.  After the war, he was granted an honorary brevet to brigadier general.  He also went on to serve one term in the Wisconsin State Assembly, representing eastern Jefferson County.

Early life
Henry Harnden was born in March 1823 at Wilmington, Massachusetts.  He had a common school education there, but left school at age 18 to work as a deckhand on a merchant ship, inspired by his uncles' tales of their seafaring careers.  He traveled at sea for five years, visiting the west coast of Africa, navigating around Cape Horn, and traveling along the entire west coast of South America and Mexico.  In subsequent trips, he spent time in the Caribbean Sea and Gulf of Mexico, making trips between the south coast of the United States and the islands.

He was still working in the Gulf of Mexico at the outbreak of the Mexican–American War.  He witnessed General Zachary Taylor land his army at Brazos Santiago and assisted ferrying wounded American soldiers back to New Orleans after the Battle of Palo Alto.  He fell ill shortly after this trip and returned home to Massachusetts to recuperate.

He went to work as a clerk in a store at Lowell, Massachusetts, for several years.  In 1850, he left Massachusetts for California, traveling over land, to participate in the California Gold Rush.  His trip was difficult, and he ran into hostilities with Native American groups along the way.  His gold pursuits in California were also unsuccessful, and he quickly abandoned the idea.  To return home, he went to work as a sailor again on a voyage from California to Boston around the southern end of South America.

In 1852, he sought out farm land in the new state of Wisconsin.  He settled in the town of Sullivan, in Jefferson County, Wisconsin.  He soon gave up farming and engaged in lumbering instead, establishing and managing a steam-powered sawmill.

Civil War service
At the outbreak of the American Civil War, Harnden summoned his employees at the sawmill.  He informed the men that the mill would shut down, that he would personally enlist in the Union Army, and that he encouraged all of them to do so as well—which they all did.  Harnden joined as a private in the battalion of cavalry which was being organized at Ripon, Wisconsin, in the summer of 1861.  At the time, Wisconsin was only authorized to raise one battalion of cavalry .  That fall, however, additional recruitment was authorized and the battalion was expanded to a full regiment  and designated the 1st Wisconsin Cavalry Regiment.  The regiment was relocated to Kenosha, Wisconsin, where they completed their recruitment and formation.  Harnden was promoted to sergeant, and then captain of

Southeastern Missouri operations (Summer 1862Spring 1863)

The regiment mustered into federal service in March 1862, and proceeded to St. Louis for operations in the western theater of the war.  After receiving their equipment at Benton Barracks, they were sent down the Mississippi River to Cape Girardeau, Missouri, where their colonel, Edward Daniels, took command of the outpost.

Through the Spring and Summer of 1862, they were engaged in scouting and anti-guerilla activity in southeast Missouri. Colonel Daniels, however, was not content to sit in that defensive position, and organized a raid into Arkansas in the summer.  Harnden played an important role, leading an advance team of 100 men to Scatterville, Arkansas.  There, he surprised a force of about 125 rebels, killing eight and taking fourteen prisoners.  They also captured a large number of rifles, horses, and mules.  The regiment continued its march through northeast Arkansas, reaching Jonesboro without encountering further resistance.

From Jonesboro, Harnden was again sent out in advance to take control of Cache River Bridge, where he captured ten more rebel soldiers and a lieutenant colonel—the inspector general of rebel forces in that part of Arkansas.  The regiment then continued to Madison, Arkansas, where they captured a rebel steamship.  From Madison, they went to Memphis, Tennessee, where they received orders to return to their post in southeast Missouri.  The regiment was split into battalions on their return route, and suffered from ambushes during the march.

By the end of September, the regiment was racked with disease, leaving 400 men sick and unable to travel at Cape Girardeau, Missouri.  Captain Harnden was then acting as commander of the regiment, with only 2 other officers and 60 men fit for duty during much of that Fall.