[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mohamed Aboutrika

1 February 2012, Aboutrika decided to retire from professional football, along with Emad Motaeb and Mohamed Barakat, then he decided to get back to football. Around a week later, the Egyptian Premier League had been cancelled. Aboutrika had finished the uncompleted campaign with 4 goals in 14 games.

CAF Champions League
Aboutrika helped Al-Ahly won their seventh CAF Champions League title after scoring 6 goals. His most impressive match was on 14 May 2012. Ahly were down 1–0 at home to Stade Malien in a second leg CAF Champions League match and were down 2–0 on aggregate. Aboutrika was subbed on in the 42nd minute for Mohamed Shawky and in the second half, he scored his first ever CAF Champions League hat-trick, 2 of which were scored in the last 8 minutes of the match. He scored the first from a wonderfully curled free-kick from 28 yards out. He then scored the second from the penalty spot in the 82nd minute. Finally, he blasted the third from into the top right corner from 12 yards out to get the hat-trick, complete the comeback, and secure Al-Ahly a place in the 2012 CAF Champions League group stage. On 22 July 2012, he scored against Al-Zamalek to win 1–0 in the group stage match.

London 2012
Aboutrika was one of the three overage players participated with Egypt in London 2012, and was the team's captain. Aboutrika scored Egypt's first goal in the tournament against Brazil in a 3–2 loss. In the second game, Aboutrika's assist for Mohamed Salah picked a 1–1 draw against New Zealand. In the third game against Belarus, Aboutrika assisted a goal for Mohamed Salah and scored another to help Egypt win 3–1 and claim a quarter-final berth.

Club World Cup
Aboutrika scored the winner goal for Al Ahly in a 2–1 victory over Japanese side Sanfrecce Hiroshima. A goal secured his team a place in the quarter-finals. Al-Ahly came fourth in the tournament. Aboutrika became the joint all-time top scorer in the FIFA Club World Cup with 4 goals along with Lionel Messi and Denilson.

Africa Based Player of the Year
Aboutrika was crowned African player of the Year Based in Africa. The 34-year-old secured his third title after winning the same award in 2008 and 2006.

2013 
In the first half of the year, Aboutrika agreed to join Baniyas SC for loan. He helped the Emirati team to win Gulf Champions League, scoring in the semi-final and final matches. He scored also in his debut match with the team.

Aboutrika returned to Al-Ahly to help Al Ahly retain his continental title. In his first match after return, he scored against Zamalek SC in the 2013 CAF Champions League group stage. The game ended 1–1 and this was Aboutrika's 12th goal in Cairo Derby, a personal record. On 15 September, Aboutrika scored his 13th goal in Cairo Derby. With this goal, he became the top goalscorer in all Cairo Derby matches alongside Al Ahly Legend Mahmoud Mokhtar El-Tetsh. Al Ahly won 4–2 tooadvance to the semi-finals of 2013 CAF Champions League. In the semi-final first leg held on 6 October at Cameroon, Aboutrika grabbed the equaliser against Coton Sport FC de Garoua in the first leg, which ended 1–1. In the final match first leg in Orlando Stadium Aboutrika scored Al-Ahly's goal in a 1–1 draw against Orlando Pirates of South Africa on 2 November. In the second leg held in Cairo on 10 November, Aboutrika opened the scoring for Al-Ahly as they went on to win 2–0, retaining the title. That was Aboutrika's 32nd goal for Al-Ahly in African Competitions. He is the second all-time top scorer after Al-Ahly legend Mahmoud El Khatib who scored 37 goals. Aboutrika provided 21 assists in continental matches too in addition to his 32 goals.

Individually, Aboutrika was named in July by Goal.com in the Goal 50 list for (2012/2013) season. He took the 29th spot. He is the first Africa-based player to appear in the Goal 50 for a second time after being named in 45th spot in 2009.

On the international level, On 26 March, Aboutrika grabbed a last minute goal for Egypt national football team against Zimbabwe national football team in a World Cup Qualifier helping hosts to win 2–1. On 9 June, he started the score sheet in Harare and Egypt won 4–2, and made two assists for his teammate Mohamed Salah. On 10 September, Aboutrika played his 100th historic cap with Egypt national football team against Guinea national football team in a World Cup Qualifier. He scored a goal and assisted two goals for Mohamed Salah and Amr Zaki. Egypt won 4–2 and set to advance to a two-leg play-off during October and November against Ghana, with the winners qualifying for Brazil 2014. Aboutrika is the second joint top scorer of the CAF second round qualifiers with 5 goals in 6 qualifiers, and 9 assists. After scoring in the play-off against Ghana, he became the all-time top scorer of Egypt in the World Cup Qualifiers with 14 goals.