[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Energoatom

fulfills its obligations in all aspects of handling spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the requirements of the "Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management" (Joint Convention) ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on 20 April 2022.

In accordance with the Joint Convention, the State bears full responsibility for the safe handling of spent fuel and radioactive waste.

During the Soviet Union times, a technical scheme existed under which spent fuel from Ukrainian nuclear plants was taken to temporary storage facilities on the territory of the Russian federation for its further processing. After the collapse of the USSR, the Russian side began to charge a significant fee for the processing of Ukrainian spent fuel. As a result, the radioactive waste generated during processing had to be returned to Ukraine in accordance with the aforementioned Convention.

Dry spent nuclear fuel storage at Zaporizhzhia NPP 
Ukraine has obtained a positive experience in coping with spent nuclear fuel management issues. In the 1990s, due to yet another restriction imposed by the Russian federation regarding the repatriation of spent nuclear fuel, Zaporizhzhia NPP power units faced the peril of being stopped. This has prompted the plant to build and commission in 2001 a temporal dry storage of a container type for its spent fuel with Duke Engineering&Services and Sierra Nuclear Corporation design, which allows storing for a fifty-year period.

Centralized repository for spent nuclear fuel (CRSNF) 

In 2003 Energoatom announced an international tender to determine the company for construction of a centralized repository for spent nuclear fuel of dry type in Ukraine for previously mentioned NPPs. The US company Holtec International won the tender and at the end of 2005 signed an agreement on designing, licensing, construction and commissioning the repository designed for 100 years of storage.

According to Ukrainian legislation, the CRSNF site is located between the former villages of Stara Krasnytsia, Buriakivka, Chystogolivka, and Stechanka in the Kyiv region on the territory of the Exclusion Zone, which suffered from the Chornobyl nuclear catastrophe causing radioactive contamination.

Storage of spent fuel at the CRSNF is implemented with the "dry" technology introduced by Holtec International. This technology obtained a license from the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission and was tested in the US, Spain, and Great Britain, implemented in Switzerland, China, and considered for implementation in Sweden.

A dual-use character of the chosen technology for the CRSNF provides storage and transportation of spent fuel without additional equipment.

The SNF storage system implies the following three functions:

 safe and hermetic localization of radioactive material in a multi-purpose container (two structural barriers of a multi-purpose container (MPC), which prevent possible leakage of radionuclides from spent assemblies to the environment);
 safe long-term storage in a protective installation (HI-STORM container), which prevents direct effects of ionizing radiation generated from spent assemblies on the environment and personnel.
 protection of spent heat-releasing assemblies from extreme natural and man-made influences during their storage.

A double barrier of radioactive substances localization in a special container (MPC) provides safe spent fuel storage that at each stage of handling spent fuel resides in special protective containers meeting all national requirements ensuring radiation safety.

On 25 April 2022, the State Nuclear Regulatory Inspectorate of Ukraine issued a separate permit for commissioning the CRSNF. The permit was scheduled on 9 March, but was postponed due to Russian aggression and temporary occupation of the Chornobyl Exclusion Zone.

The operation of the CRSNF allows Ukraine to finally get rid of its dependence on Russian enterprises' monopoly on processing and storage of spent nuclear fuel, as well as to save about 200 million US dollars annually by abandoning the Russian services.

Company's investment projects 
Investment projects implemented by "Energoatom" intend to guarantee the safe and reliable operation of its NPPs, prolong the term of power units' operation and create the enabling environment for the energy independence of Ukraine. The main projects are: