[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 state of emergency in the Philippines

nst six.

After the crisis, most people in front of Fort Bonifacio left, and as a response Malacañang suspended classes on all levels the following day,. Col. Querubin was relieved from his position as commander of the 1st Marine Brigade, with Lt. Col. Luisito Marcelino as his temporary replacement.

Arrests
After the Makati rally, the Department of Justice sued former Senator Gregorio Honasan, who had previously led coups against the Aquino government in the 1980s, along with the other six leaders of the RAM (Rebolusyonaryong Alyansang Makabansâ, "Nationalist Revolutionary Alliance"), for the 2003 Oakwood mutiny. On February 25, ANAK-PAWIS Party-list Representative Crispin Beltran was served an arrest warrant and taken in for questioning under state of emergency laws for his alleged role in a 1985 coup against Ferdinand Marcos. This was considered a highly unusual and controversial move since the alleged crime was from twenty years prior. Beltrán responded, "They say this is just an invitation but I think this is an arrest. Warrantless arrest, I think there will be more to come." Beltrán underwent inquest by the police on February 27, and was charged with "inciting to rebellion" and "conspiracy to commit rebellion."

Police next unsuccessfully tried to arrest Bayan Muna Party-list Representative Satur Ocampo. The former chief of the Philippine Constabulary and former national security adviser to former President Fidel V. Ramos retired General Ramon Montaño, was also arrested by the police. He was charged with inciting sedition, while former Police General Rex Piad was also arrested, but it was later revealed that there was no evidence to support the act.

"Batasan 5"
On that same day, the PNP–CIDG filed cases against 51 alleged communists, including five party-list representatives (Beltrán, Ocampo, Teodoro Casiño, Joel Virador and Liza Maza), at the DOJ in violation of Article 134, in relation to Article 135 of the Revised Penal Code (rebellion/insurrection). A panel of prosecutors were assigned to the group, dubbed the "Batasan 5", but failed to find them guilty. Minority floor leader Rep. Francis Escudero of Sorsogon appealed to House Speaker Jose de Venecia to halt the arrests of congressmen during the state of emergency. De Venecia assured protection for the members of the House, and offered his office and conference room as lodging. For 70 days, the five took refuge in the House of Representatives. On May 11, the DOJ filed new charges against the Batasan 5 for plotting to instigate a rebellion on Labor Day.

Freedom of the press
During a state of emergency, the government could control public utilities, which includes media, according to the constitution. Gonzalez assured Filipinos that the government would not use these powers unnecessarily. However, there were reports that the Arroyo government suppressed the freedom of the press.

On February 25, the PNP–CIDG raided The Daily Tribune for alleged assistance to leftists and rebel military groups.

There were also reports that the military surrounded the ABS-CBN compound in Mother Ignacia, Diliman, Quezon City. However, they left the premises hours later.

Samahang Plaridel, National Union of Journalists of the Philippines, and Committee to Protect Journalists expressed disappointment with Proclamation No. 1017, calling it a suppression of press freedom.

Lifting of the proclamation
On March 1, Ash Wednesday, Arroyo has stated that she will lift the "state of emergency" soon, perhaps by the end of the first week of March. The President gives a 24- to 72-hour time frame to the Secretary of Justice, Secretary of National Defense, and to the Chief of Philippine National Police to give reports to her before lifting the state of emergency.

On March 3, by the virtue of Proclamation No. 1021, the Philippine President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo officially concluded state of emergency in the Philippines. The state of emergency (Proclamation No. 1017) lasted one week since February 24, 2006. According to her, the state of emergency protected major democratic institutions and even the media. This led to lowering of security alerts of the Philippine National Police and Armed Forces of the Philippines.

Reactions

Anti-Arroyo
A number of observers have drawn parallels between the actions of President Arroyo and those of Ferdinand Marcos. Benito Lim, Professor of Political Science at the University of the Philippines, stated, "This is suppression of all freedom. It is in violation of the constitution and the bill of rights. This is the beginning of using stronger measures to quell dissent against the government. Their justification is reminiscent of Marcos when he proclaimed martial law."