[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 335th Signal Command (Theater)

The 335th Signal Command (Theater) is an operational and functional U.S. Army Reserve command of more than 4,000 Active and Reserve Soldiers, providing Signal and Cyber units in direct support of 3rd Army/USARCENT in Southwest Asia, Army Reserve exercises, and Homeland Defense missions throughout the United States.

Embracing the motto, "Ready Lightning," The 335th Signal Command (Theater) is one of the Army's four theater signal commands. 
 
The 335th Signal Command (Theater) has Army Reserve Signal Soldiers assigned to units throughout United States and overseas supporting ongoing military operations.

In 2016, the 335th Signal Command (Theater) became the Army Reserve proponent for Defensive Cyber Operations/Forces for the Army Reserve as the Army Reserve Cyber Operations Group (ARCOG) transitioned from the 76th Operational Readiness Command (ORC) to the 335th Signal Command (Theater).  This transition brings Army Reserve Cyber Protection Teams to the 335th Signal Command (Theater).

Current leadership
 Commanding General: Major General Tina B. Boyd
 Command Sergeant Major: CSM Russell B. Price
 Command Chief Warrant Officer: Chief Warrant Officer Five Lawrence A. Makuakane
 Command Executive Officer: Mr. David A. Hagler
 Deputy Commanding General (Signal): Colonel Marlene K. Markotan
 Deputy Commanding General (Cyber): Brigadier General Royce P. Resoso 
 Chief of Staff: Colonel Andrew R. Howes
 Secretary of the General Staff: Major Gina K. Great

Updated 15SEP23 by SGT Tarako Braswell, 335th SC (T) Command Public Affairs Office NCO.

Current Structure 
As of 2020, the 335th Signal Command controls the following:

 335th Signal Command (Theater), in East Point, Georgia
 Headquarters and Headquarters Company
 Defense Information Systems Agency–Army Reserve Element, in Fort George G. Meade, Maryland
 Joint Communications Support Element, in Tampa, Florida
 Joint Enabling Capabilities Command–Army Reserve Element, in Norfolk, Virginia
 United States Army Reserve Cyber Protection Brigade, in Adelphi, Maryland
 United States Cyber Command–Army Reserve Element, in Fort George G. Meade, Maryland
 359th Tactical Theater Signal Brigade, at Fort Gordon, Georgia
 490th Signal Company (Tactical Installation/Networking), in Blacklick, Ohio
 982nd Combat Camera Company, in East Point, Georgia
 324th Expeditionary Signal Battalion, at Fort Gordon, Georgia
 392nd Expeditionary Signal Battalion, in Baltimore, Maryland
 505th Tactical Theater Signal Brigade, in Las Vegas, Nevada
 98th Expeditionary Signal Battalion, in Mesa, Arizona
 319th Expeditionary Signal Battalion, in Sacramento, California

Campaign participation credit
Republic of Vietnam
Operation Desert Shield
Operation Desert Storm
Operation Enduring Freedom
Operation Iraqi Freedom
Operation Atlantic Resolve
Operation Inherent Resolve

Provisional Command 
Shortly after the 9/11 attacks, the 335th Signal Command mobilized reserve soldiers and active Army personnel to Camp Doha, Kuwait.  The unit moved to Camp Arifjan, Kuwait in 2005, where it remains today as an enduring presence in the USCENTCOM/USARCENT AOR.  Currently, the 335th Signal Command (Theater) (Provisional) provides signal support to USARCENT for Resolute Support Mission (RSM), Operation Inherent Resolve (CJTF-OIR).

Shoulder sleeve insignia
Shoulder Sleeve Insignia. Description: A dark blue vertical rectangle arched at top and bottom with a  white border,  in width and  in height overall having in base the polar section of an orange globe with white grid lines and issuant therefrom two white-edged orange flashes with points converging at top center. Symbolism: Orange and white are the colors associated with the Signal Corps. Dark blue signifies the atmosphere and the flashes and globe are symbolic of the unit's worldwide communication capability. The shoulder sleeve insignia was approved on 30 October 1985 designed by Major Charles K Reber 20 February 1985.