[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ferrie Bodde

and had to be carried from the pitch following a seemingly innocuous challenge. He was immediately flown back to Netherlands for tests which revealed he had ruptured the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee and would require another operation that could leave him out for at least six months.

On 9 May, Swansea chairman Huw Jenkins said that Bodde's surgeon was still to decide whether the operation was needed and that the club would decide on his future at the end of the season. But on 1 June, it was reported that Bodde had been released by Swansea City and wasn't on the retained list provided by the club to the Premier League.

Post Swansea
After a spell in the Netherlands training with Den Haag, it was announced on 13 December 2012 that Bodde would be training with Wigan Athletic Football Club.

In July 2013 it was reported that Bodde had been set to join Dutch amateur club Haaglandia for the coming season, but was having to shelve these plans to undergo yet another knee operation. This prompted fears that Bodde may be forced to retire from the game for good.

In April 2014 Bodde was hospitalised with a serious lung infection and placed in a five-day artificial coma. Several days later Swansea paid tribute to their former player displaying Bodde's name on the club's electronic scoreboard during a match, with fans chanting his name. 
Watching from his hospital bed in the Netherlands, Bodde said he had "goose bumps" and would be "eternally grateful" for the gesture.

Managerial / coaching career

sv Wateringse Veld
In December 2013 it was announced on the website of sv Wateringse Veld that Bodde had been appointed their new head coach on an 18-month contract.

ADO Den Haag

In June 2015 it was reported that Bodde had been appointed to the coaching staff at ADO Den Haag, working with the club's academy.

International career
Bodde has been capped by the Netherlands at Under 23 level.

Top 50 Football League Players
In April 2009 Bodde was included in FourFourTwo's Top 50 Football League Players, and came in at a very respectable 11th place. He was described as a "box-to-box player, strong in the tackle with an uncanny knack for scoring important goals and excellent decision making skills."

Honours
Individual
PFA Team of the Year: 2007–08 Football League One

References

External links
Stats at OnsOranje

1982 births
Footballers from Delft
Living people
Men's association football midfielders
Dutch men's footballers
Dutch expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Wales
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Wales
ADO Den Haag players
Swansea City A.F.C. players
Eredivisie players
Eerste Divisie players
English Football League players