[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Malaysian passport

ecial immigration printout form (Document in Lieu of Internal Travel Document, IMM.114) at immigration counters for social/business visits up to 3 months, and keep the form until departure.

As of September 2023, Malaysian passports were ranked 11th in the Henley Passport Index.

Restricted passport

The restricted passport (pasport terhad) is issued to Malaysian citizens for travel to a specific country only. They have blue covers. 

Currently only a restricted passport for travel to Brunei is issued. Malaysian citizens residing in the East Malaysian areas of Sarawak, Sabah and Labuan are eligible to apply for the restricted passport. The passport is valid for five years and costs RM50.

Official passport
The official passport  (pasport rasmi) is issued exclusively to Malaysian government officials travelling on official business. It is issued by the Immigration Department of Malaysia upon request through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Wisma Putra).

Diplomatic passport
The diplomatic passport (pasport diplomatik) is issued to diplomatic officers.

Other travel documents 
Malaysia also issues a few travel documents that has similar but more limited purpose than those of passports, for internal or external usage related with the border control of the country.

Border passes 
Border passes are similar to restricted passports, in terms of limited applicable citizens, limited country access and also its appearance (a passport book with a blue cover) however compared to restricted passports or other passports, they can only be used for short visits and are not valid for other purposes. They also have a shorter validity period. 

Border Pass (Pas Sempadan) for Thailand is limited to citizens living in Perlis, Kedah, Kelantan, and the Hulu Perak District of Perak for land entry into Thailand and applicable only when travelling into its 5 southern provinces by sea or land: Songkhla, Satun, Narathiwat, Yala and Pattani for 30 days of each entry. It has a validity of 1 year and costs RM10 each time.

Border Crossing Pass (Pas Lintas Sempadan) is another border pass issued only for citizens in East Malaysian districts that has close proximity to Indonesian land borders: Kuching, Bau, Lundu Serian, Simanggang and Lubuk Antu in Sarawak and Pensiangan, Tawau, Tenom and Sipitang in Sabah and limited for short visits via land or sea entry in the Indonesian Kalimantan provinces (mainly the checkpoints in West and North Kalimantan). It also has a validity of 1 year and cost RM10 each.

Group travel document 
A group travel document is issued as a singular replacement for international passport for groups in 5 to 20 members for land travels to Thailand and Singapore. It is only valid for single entry up to 9 months prior to its issuance and costs RM200 for each copy.

Internal travel documents 
Due to unique circumstances of Sabah and Sarawak in terms of immigration control, internal documents has been issued for domestic travellers in Malaysia when going in or out these two states without using regular international passport.

Document in Lieu of Internal Travel Document, IMM.114 (Dokumen Gantian Perjalanan) is a printout document issued by the Immigration at Sabah and Sarawak entry checkpoints for citizens out of their respective states when the Malaysian identity card is used on entry. This document, allow visitors a 90-days social visit pass, and is valid for single entry. This printout need to be kept by its holders until their departure from each of those states, where it will be returned on clearance. 

For visitors who intended to stay for a longer period, or are working instead in these states, a document called Restricted Travel Document (Dokumen Perjalanan Terhad) is used instead. It is a passport book with a blue cover which records arrival and departure record of entering Sabah and/or Sarawak and stores any type of visa information given by the two states when applicable. It costs RM5 for each application and can be applied beforehand in selected issuing offices in Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and Sarawak, with validity is for multiple entries up to 5 years, extendable to another 5 years.

Sabah and Sarawak citizens who are entering their respective state are not required to use or keep these documents otherwise on checkpoint (identity card is sufficient), nor they are needed to apply for any if they are staying or working in Peninsular Malaysia.

Emergency Certificate 
An Emergency Certificate (Sijil Perakuan Cemas) is a type of travel document issued by selected embassies, high commissions or consulates of Malaysia in other countries in case of its citizens losing their passports outside of Malaysia, for them to be able to have a proper document while still staying in those countries and going back to Malaysia. 

It is only valid for a single journey to Malaysia, with valid countries follows the departing countries, transiting countries (if any), and Malaysia immigration only.