[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Raffi Hovannisian

itical of Ter-Petrosyan for his urgent desire for normalization of relations with Turkey without stressing the issue of the Armenian Genocide. The final straw occurred when Hovannisian chose to bring up the issue while in Istanbul in late 1992 on a state visit.

Heritage

2007 parliamentary election

The Heritage party was the only opposition party to pass the 5% threshold during the 2007 parliamentary election. According to official results, Hovannisian's party earned over 81,000 votes or 6% of the total vote guaranteeing 7 seats at the Armenian National Assembly. However, according to Azg daily's online poll, Heritage had the highest rating in the public with around 25% support. Two months after the election, in July 2007 the approval rating of Raffi Hovannisian was 82% in a US-funded poll. 

Hovannisian has spearheaded the campaign to get Armenia to recognize the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic. On 28 August 2007, he introduced to the National Assembly a bill on a formal recognition of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic.

2008 presidential election

Fast for Freedom
 
In 2011, Hovannisian encouraged a more assertive Armenian foreign policy, calling for the restitution of territories from both Azerbaijan and Turkey, and support for the rights of the Armenian minority in Georgia.

After regional unrest spurred Armenian merchants to demonstrate in Yerevan against a ban on street trading, Heritage and other political parties began to organize more ambitious rallies aimed at forcing broad governmental changes. On 15 March 2011, hoping to draw attention to his party's cause, Hovannisian began a public hunger strike in a small protest camp in Yerevan's Freedom Square. The unity of the opposition was strained when Levon Ter-Petrosyan, leader of the Armenian National Congress, led demonstrators into Freedom Square two nights later and allegedly ignored Hovannisian and his supporters. Hovannisian ended his hunger strike on 30 March, but has remained active in protests against President Serzh Sargsyan and his government.

2012 parliamentary election

Hovannisian's Heritage party won 5 seats to the National Assembly with 86,998 votes.

2017 parliamentary election

The Heritage party formed part of the ORO Alliance. Following the election, Heritage lost all political representation in the National Assembly, gaining just 2.07% of the popular vote.

2013 presidential election 

Hovannisian announced about his decision to run for president in early November 2012. By late December 2012, it was clear that Armenia's first president and main opposition figure Levon Ter-Petrosyan refused to run for president. Hovannisian was perceived to be the main challenger of incumbent president Serzh Sargsyan, however, many doubted Hovannisian's ability to bring about government change in Armenia.

The election campaign started on 21 January 2013 and ended on 16 February. 17 February was an election silence day. Hovannisian ran on a nationalist platform, with strong views on the Armenian genocide recognition and Nagorno-Karabakh conflict with Azerbaijan.

Protests

Personal life
Raffi Hovannisian married his wife Armenouhi in 1985. They have five children, 4 sons and 1 daughter. One of his sons is Garin K. Hovannisian, a journalist and filmmaker. Hovannisian is fluent in Armenian, English, Russian and French.

His wife Armenouhi K. Hovannisian is the executive director of Junior Achievement of Armenia, an affiliate of Junior Achievement Worldwide.

References 
Specific

General

Articles by Hovannisian

External links

Official biography 

1959 births
Armenian nationalists
Living people
Georgetown University Law Center alumni
The Fletcher School at Tufts University alumni
University of California, Berkeley alumni
University of California, Los Angeles alumni
Heritage (Armenia) politicians
Government ministers of Armenia
Foreign ministers of Armenia
American emigrants to the Soviet Union
Politicians from Fresno, California
American people of Armenian descent
American emigrants to Armenia
Former United States citizens