[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Stuart London

William Stoaks after they refused to swear at the Old Bailey in 1673.

Transportation was increasingly used throughout this period, generally to Virginia or Maryland in America. The ships which volunteered to transport prisoners could make money from contracting out their labour upon their arrival. 

Whipping and the pillory were common punishments for lesser offences. In 1690, a boy called Philip Clarke was sentenced to walk with his hands tied to the back of a cart from Newgate Prison to Aldgate, being whipped along the way. His crime was stealing a pair of gloves. Women and children were often sentenced to be whipped at Bridewell, which was seen as less publicly humiliating than being whipped through the streets. In 1698, a captain called Edward Rigby was sentenced to the pillory for buggery, after being caught in a sting operation at the George Tavern on Pall Mall set up by the Society for the Reformation of Manners. He was able to draw on his powerful connections and was allowed to stand next to the pillory rather than be locked in it, with a guard of constables to make sure the crowd didn't become violent. 

London had several places to imprison those convicted of crimes and those awaiting a hearing, including the Tower of London, Ludgate, Newgate, Ely Place (from 1642), Poultry Compter, Wood Street Compter, the Fleet, Bridewell, Clerkenwell Bridewell, the Gatehouse at Westminster, Tothill Fields Bridewell, the Clink, the Marshalsea, the Clink Compter, and the King's Bench. When prisons were overcrowded, it was easy for "gaol fever" (a form of typhus) to spread between inmates, with Newgate in particular having such poor sanitary conditions that shops in the local area closed in warm weather because of the smell. The Fleet Prison was known for its priests who could perform speedy or secret marriages. Debtors' prisons such as the Fleet existed to incarcerate people who could not pay off their debts. Until 1670, debtors had to pay for bed and board inside the gaol; after this date, any debtor who had less than £10 could have their creditors pay for their upkeep. In 1671, the publisher Moses Pitt wrote a condemnation of his time in the Fleet Prison called The Cry of the Oppressed.

There are also examples of Londoners carrying out extra-legal punishments in this period. For example, in 1696, a tailor breached the sanctuary of the Savoy in order to collect a debt he was owed. He was tarred and feathered and tied to the local maypole.

Trade and industry 

This period saw the establishment of many large and important banking institutions in London. Francis Child established Child's Bank; Richard Hoare established C. Hoare & Co.; John Freame and Thomas Gould established what would become Barclays Bank, and John Campbell founded Coutts Bank in 1692. The Bank of England was founded in 1694, and it soon began issuing its first banknotes. In 1659, the first cheque was paid out, by the bankers Clayton & Morris on Cornhill. In the 1690s, England's coinage was in crisis due to large amounts of coin clipping. The scientist Isaac Newton was put in charge of the Royal Mint in the Tower of London, and under his leadership it produced an entirely new coinage. 

Edward Lloyd's Coffee House opened in the 1680s and was particularly popular with ship captains and insurance underwriters. By 1692, Lloyd was producing a newsletter which went on to become Lloyd's List, and the coffee house still lends its name to Lloyd's of London, one of the largest insurance markets in the world. In 1698, John Castaing began to list stock prices for joint-stock companies in a newsletter called The Course of the Exchange (referring to the Royal Exchange), presaging the development of the stock market.

Certain streets were often known for a particular kind of shop or trade. For example, Thames Street was known for candlemakers, Cheapside for goldsmiths, Cannon Street for linen shops, and Little Britain for second-hand book stalls. There were four large Exchanges which acted as luxury shopping centres as well as meeting places for merchants; the Royal Exchange on Cornhill, and the New Exchange, the Middle Exchange, and the Exeter Exchange on the Strand. The two main general markets were on Cheapside and Gracechurch Street. There was a fruit and vegetable market on Aldersgate Street, a fish market on Billingsgate, a cloth market at Blackwell Hall, a meat market on Eastcheap, a fish market on Fish Street Hill, a meat and leather market at Leadenhall, a meal market on Newgate Street, a fish market on Old Fish Street, a meal and flour market at Queenhithe, a meat market at St. Nicholas Shambles, a fruit and vegetable market in St. Paul's Churchyard, a livestock market at Smithfield, and a meat and fish market at Stocks. From 1670, Covent Garden became an important fruit, vegetable and flower market for the newly-built West End.