[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Lowry War

sboro Patriot derisively suggested that Lowry should be "the next Radical candidate for Gov. of N.C." Republicans' comments in the press, though condemning the gang's activities, usually accused the Conservative papers of exaggerating the violence and significance of the conflict for political gain.

The Lowry War garnered national attention after The New York Times began reporting on it in October 1870. By the following year, the Associated Press wire was syndicating stories of the Lowry Gang around the country. The trial of Henderson Oxendine led the New York Herald to dispatch a reporter down to Robeson County to cover the proceedings, and two more were later sent to report on the Lowry Gang. In March 1872 Herald reporter A. Boyd Henderson arrived in Shoe Heel and established contact with some of the gang members. Hoping to portray themselves in a positive and sympathetic manner, they provided for his accommodation and he extensively interviewed them and their families. Henderson's stories were published by the Herald in a series, "The Swamp Angels". The Northern press coverage of the Lowry conflict, especially that of the New York Herald, generally fit into the local color genre, portraying Robeson County and the larger South as exotic and picturesque but also poor and backwards. One Herald reporter, George Alfred Townsend, compiled these reports into an 1872 dime novel, The Swamp Outlaws.

Aftermath 
Over the course of its activity, the Lowry Gang was implicated in the deaths of 22 people. As for the gang members, Henderson Oxendine had been executed; McLauchlin, Boss and Andrew Strong, and Steve and Tom Lowry had been killed; and Henry Berry Lowry went missing. John Dial was released from jail and lived quietly in Robeson County. George Applewhite was eventually captured by authorities in 1875. The following year the North Carolina Supreme Court ruled that he qualified for relief under the provisions of the Amnesty Act and he was released, returning to work as a bricklayer.

Following the end of the Lowry War and Reconstruction in North Carolina, the Lumbee Indians lacked state recognition as a unique group, and the Democrats now in control of the state created Jim Crow segregation laws. Republicans made up the majority of registered voters in Robeson County, but disagreements caused by the war prevented them from solidifying local control. The Lumbees resisted being treated the same as blacks under the new social order, and in 1885 the General Assembly voted to recognize them as Croatan Indians. The Lumbees refused to attend black schools and the General Assembly, partly hoping to avoid a reprisal of the Lowry War, created a state-supported normal school for them in 1887. The establishment of additional Lumbee institutions, such as churches and other schools led the state and local government to recognize a tripartite system of segregation in Robeson County.

Legacy

Political significance 
Evans wrote that the actions of the Lowry Gang "seemed aimed at the very foundations of the social order that the Conservatives were erecting to replace the Reconstruction experiment." He also asserted that despite being officially deemed "local bandits" by the government, the Lowry Gang was given "special treatment" by the authorities, namely in large bounties being placed on its members relative to other contemporary groups of outlaws in the United States. 

Reflecting on the conflict, historian Malinda Maynor Lowery wrote, "For Robeson County Indians, the end of the Lowry War was their Wounded Knee massacre. Their nation didn't die, but it did become subject to state, local, and federal authority in many ways. The Lowry War left Robeson County Indians a separate social identity, but they spent the next seventy years, through the 1950s, gaining acknowledgement of their political autonomy." Evans concluded, "The Lowrys clearly made an impact [...] With the triumph of a frankly racist party during Reconstruction, it appeared that nothing could stop the winners from putting the Lumbee River Indians into the same half-free 'place' in which they generally succeeded in putting the blacks. But this effort failed. It appears to have failed, furthermore, to a great extent because of the bold deeds of the Lowrys, which filled the Lumber River Indians with a new pride of race, and a new confidence that despite generations of defeat, revitalized their will to survive as a people."