[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William David Rudland

o the language. Soon he became fluent, enough so to leave the mission house on various assignments.

During the voyage William took notice of the Taylor's governess, Mary Bell.  William later told his children, "It was love at first sight."  Engaged in June 1867, the two married on 25 December 1867.

After his marriage to Mary, they moved to Zhenjiang where he set up the mission press. A few weeks later, Taylor asked him to visit the new mission house in Yangzhou. Yangzhou Riot. On the night they arrived, riots broke out. Taylor went to the Prefect to discuss the problem. While he was gone, rioters broke through the stone walls, looting and burning everything they could get their hands on. William, Mary, Maria Taylor, and Emily Blatchley became trapped on the third floor. William very carefully lowered eight-month pregnant Mary down from the balcony to the waiting arms of Henry Reid. Mary, her sister Annie, and the Taylor children made their way to the well room to hide. William did his best to hold off the rioters so the others could escape. A rioter struck him in the head and cut his arm. He lowered himself down from the third floor then rushed to the well room to help the others find a safe home until the soldiers arrived to break up the riots.  Almost a year later the Chinese government awarded him a permanent disability.

William and Mary returned to Zhenjiang where he continued to supervise the mission press. Marys' widowed older sister Annie (nee Bell) Bohannon became engaged to Edward Fishe on 18 September 1868. On 29 September 1868 Mary gave birth to a son, Ebenezer William. She gave birth to a daughter, Mary Annie, on 2 November 1869. Sadly, after a trip to visit Williams' sister and family in Australia, both children came down with whooping cough.  Mary Annie died on 7 June 1870. She was buried next to Grace Taylor in Hangzhou.  Due to public pressure, both girls were reburied in the British Cemetery in Zhenjiang.  In 2013 construction crews unearthed the graves of Hudson and Maria Taylor.  Despite cemetery records marking burial of the two girls next to Maria, their graves were not located.

Mission work in Taizhou

Hearing of an opening in Taizhou, William felt the time was right to supervise a mission station. He asked Taylor for the transfer, Taylor agreed. William, Mary, and E. William moved southeast to Taizhou, Zhejiang Province.  He left the press for someone else to manage.

Now station supervisor at Taizhou, William set out to talk to and help as many of the locals as possible. He traveled northeast across the mountains setting up a sub-station in K’yio (traditional name), west along the river from Taizhou Bay setting up sub-stations in Sienku and Tiantai, and southeast setting up sub-stations at Hangyan, Luqiao, and Wenling.  Mary held bible studies and teas for the women.  Edward and Annie Fishe started a school. William had many responsibilities which sometimes meant making about native helpers and other staff.  William's brother-in-law Edward was upset when Taylor appointed William station supervisor, over time the tension grew. At one point William offered his letter of resignation; Taylor declined to accept it.

    Reverend Rudland's congregation in Taizhou gave him the
    Chinese name LU, Hui Li. Phonetically LU was his surname;
      Hui Li was his first name.
    LU means road; Hui means favor; Li means logic/reason.

Mary gave birth to Mary Annie on 17 April 1871 and Grace Bell on 15 August 1872. Sadly on a visit to Paichon, Mary Annie died on 16 September 1872.  Mary gave birth to Charles Asher on 30 September 1873.  Soon after Charlie's birth Small Pox swept through the household. William became gravely ill. Mary nursed them through. Concerned that William might not make it, Taylor insisted that the family return to England.  They set sail on a French Mail ship bound for Marseilles, France, along with Hudson and Jennie Taylor, and four children from the McCarthy family. The voyage took six weeks. Near the end of the voyage Mary became ill. She died on 23 October 1874, in London from typhoid fever.

William still very ill, needed time to recover from the loss of Mary. He and the children stayed with his mother in Bristol.  During his furlough he completed course work to become an ordained minister, wrote articles for China's Millions, and lectured on the progress of mission work in China. Friends introduced him to Elizabeth Ellen Brealey, the daughter of George Brealey founder of the Blackdown Hills Mission in Somerset, England. William and Elizabeth married on 22 November 1875.