[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Vampire Earth

oke" Duvalier becomes a Cat and finally becomes a Bear after an ill-fated meeting with a Lifeweaver in Pacific Command.

Valentine also has a daughter with First Lieutenant Malia Carrasca in Jamaica and is raising the Reaper who was born from Gail Post as his son whom he calls Blake.

Malia Carrasca

Carrasca is the acting captain of the gunboat Thunderbolt. She lives in Jamaica and meet Valentine when he comes to the island on his way to Hispaniola, searching for an unknown weapon against Kur (later revealed as "Quickwood"). Valentine arrives on the Thunderbolt and convinces Carrasca's grandfather Commodore Jensen to let him use the powerful ship (one of the strongest still in existence) in his search. In exchange, the ship becomes the property of the Jamaican resistance, and Carrasca becomes the new commander of the Thunderbolt. Over the course of their adventure, Valentine and Carrasca fall in love. When Valentine gets back to the Ozarks, Ahn-Kha gives him a note from Carrasca, telling him he will be a father soon. Valentine looks forward to the day he can go to see his daughter. Valentine returns to North America being unable to find a home in Jamaica.

Ahn-Kha

Ahn-Kha is a Golden One who looks like a seven-foot cross between a short-haired bear and an ape with pointed, expressive ears. He is one of Valentine's most constant companions. Valentine and Ahn-Kha consider each other brothers and would die for each other.

Ahn-Kha was born on Earth, 41 years before the beginning of Choice of the Cat, one of the first of his clan to be brought to this world after his people had settled. The Golden One clans and the Gray Ones' tribes were brought to this world to do the dying while winning the victory for the Kur.

Although many people who encounter Ahn-Kha dismiss his intelligence due to his resemblance to the Gray Ones, his own species of Grog is generally as intelligent (if not more so) than humans. Ahn-Kha is a great source of wisdom, something Valentine relies on almost as much as he relies on Ahn-Kha's strength.

Valentine and Ahn-Kha are separated at the end of Valentine's Exile, Ahn-Kha drawing off pursuit to allow Valentine and the others in their group, which included Smoke and Gail Post, to escape. Valentine believes Ahn-Kha to be dead after several years without news. Valentine later hears rumours of a Golden One leading a rebellion in Appalachia and swears to investigate the rumours hoping to find his missing "brother".

Alessa Duvalier aka Smoke

At age 16, Duvalier ran away from the Great Plains Gulag after burning a police van and then killing two policemen, after one of them attempted to rape her. Taking all their possessions she could carry, she then escaped by crawling through a swamp and heading for the mountains. She is taken in by the Duvalier family. When a raid on Leavenworth is planned, she is recruited as a scout. She becomes friends with a Cat named Rourke and later becomes his disciple.

Eight years later, she meets Valentine at the battle of Little Timber Hill where she helps him and his men escape their besieged position. After David's decision to resign from the Wolves, Duvalier recruits him to be a Cat.

Duvalier is one of the most fervent believers in the Lifeweavers, believing them to be almost godlike. She is often shown to be in awe of them, and it would seem willing to do anything for them. Although in later works she is shown to have the overall cause as foremost in mind, Duvalier is a highly divided character who is led by both extreme passion and extreme pragmatism. She shows overt anti-social behaviour due to her traumatic childhood and has difficulty forming romantic bonds with men. Duvalier is among the zealots of the new order, who will do anything for the cause with special emphasis on the Lifeweavers.

Eveready

Valentine first meets Eveready in the Yazoo Mississippi, where Eveready was responsible for training Valentine and several other Wolves in how to mask their lifesigns and evade Reapers. He has killed at least 71 Reapers (at the time of Valentine's Exile), counted by the sets of teeth he wears as a necklace, but believes that those who actually go after Reapers without extreme advantage are fools.

He later appears in Valentine's Exile as a recluse, hunting Reapers and other Kurian operatives along a specific stretch of land he calls home. He gives Valentine and Duvalier the equipment necessary to help track down William Post's wife, Gail. Eveready is shown to have at one time been one of the most fervent believers of the cause, converting several Quislings and fomenting revolution. He lost his ardor after being betrayed by a trusted confederate and now operates a one-man war against Quislings agreeing only to train new Wolves, but not accepting any other specific assignments.

Eveready's name comes from the battery company by the same name. He uses the batteries as a calling card for the Kurians so that they know which kills are his.

Narcisse aka Sissy