[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# British U-class submarine

The British U-class submarines (officially "War Emergency 1940 and 1941 programmes, short hull") were a class of 49 small submarines built just before and during the Second World War. The class is sometimes known as the Undine class, after the first submarine built. A further development was the British V-class submarine of 1942.

Background
The Royal Navy was limited to no more than  of submarines by the London Naval Treaty of 1930. The tonnage limit led to proposals for smaller submarines which was also prompted by trials with larger submarines demonstrating that they were easier to find and lacked manoeuvrability. By coincidence the First World War-vintage H-class submarines used for training in anti-submarine warfare were reaching the end of their useful service. The Rear-Admiral Submarines, Noel Laurence, wanted a class of small, inexpensive boats for training, armed with torpedoes for short-range patrols.

In March 1934 he approved a specification for a "Small, Simple, Submarine, for Anti-Submarine Training etc". The three Unity-class boats, ,  and  were ordered on 5 November 1936 from Vickers-Armstrongs, to be built at their Naval Construction Yard in Barrow-in-Furness. According to the recommendation of the Hopwood Committee of 1926 the boats had names beginning with the same letter in the alphabet.  The new boats were the smallest built since the First World War.

Design and development 

The U-class boats had a hull of riveted steel, half-an-inch thick for dives to , with the fuel tanks and ballast tanks on the inside. The superstructure and conning tower were built with free-flooding holes and storage for cables, anchors and sundry items. The hull was divided by five bulkheads with access from the conning tower; hatches in the torpedo-stowage compartment and in the engine room had drop-down canvas trunks for emergencies. The boats had an  bifocal periscope with high/low magnification for searching and a  low magnification periscope for attack.

The periscopes could rise  but such a shallow periscope depth could allow the boat to be seen from the air. Hydrophones were fitted, one on each side near the bows facing outwards and one on the conning tower facing aft. Asdic Type 129 was installed forward of the keel from 1937 and two wireless aerials were carried, a jumping aerial on the conning tower for very low frequency signals at periscope depth and a WT mast which could be raised above the water spread the second aerial for conventional wireless signalling.

The boats had six ordinary ballast tanks and a quick-diving, Q tank, the ballast tanks, hydroplanes and the rudder being hydraulically operated; the forward hydroplanes were mounted high on the hull and folded upwards for docking. The submarines had two  Paxman diesel-electric engines generating  and electric motors of  giving a surface speed of  and a submerged speed of . The diesels were linked to the propellers by two generators which kept charged the battery of 112 cells under the control room and crew accommodation. Submarine propellers had been designed to perform best on the surface until the Unity-class which was the first submarine design with propellers giving their best performance submerged to reduce propeller noise but "singing propellers" were a constant problem for the class.

The boats had a fuel capacity of  giving a range of  at  on the surface and  at  submerged; battery recharging required the submarine to surface; in 1944 dummy snorkels were fitted to some boats for anti-submarine warfare training During construction the four internal bow torpedo tubes were supplemented by two external tubes in a bulged housing, four reloads being carried for the internal tubes. Ursula carried a  gun but had no hatch for the gun crew, who had to use the conning tower; to compensate for the weight of the gun only eight torpedoes were carried. Just before the war, a second group of twelve vessels were ordered, , ,  and  with the external tubes, the others without, because the bulge at the bow generated a large bow wave. Depth keeping was more difficult at periscope depth, a rather shallow  which was more of a disadvantage than the six-torpedo salvo justified. The sudden loss of weight in the bows when the torpedoes were loosed in salvo made the boat porpoise and break the surface.

Unity-class boats 

The three Unity-class boats entered service in the latter half of 1938. Designed as training vessels, they were effective enough to persuade the Admiralty to build more and to improve their offensive capacity. Ursula was launched on 16 February 1938, was loaned to the Soviet Navy from 1944 to 1949 as V 4 and sold in May 1950 and broken up. Unity was launched on 16 February 1938 and sunk on 29 April 1940 in a collision with SS Atle Jarl off the Tyne. Undine was launched on 5 October 1937 and sunk by German minesweepers on 7 January 1940 off Heligoland.

Group II boats