[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Sectarian violence in Pakistan

ctory manager who had allegedly torn a poster inscribed with Islamic verses. The mob believed this constituted blasphemy and tortured and bludgeoned to death Kumara before setting his remains on fire.  Members of the mob, proudly told media at the scene that it was a tribute to the Prophet Muhammad.

During the  Muharram of 2020, blaspheme accusations spread to Shia, particularly in Karachi. Section 295-A of the blasphemy law (in effect in the colonial era, before Pakistani independence), which punishes “[d]eliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs”, was sited to allege offences by Shia, including display of the seemingly benign "common Shia incantation", Ya Ali, (which calls on Ali but does not disparage any beloved by Sunnis) "on the front of a Shia family’s house".

See also

 Iran-Saudi Arabia proxy conflict
 Anti-Bihari sentiment
Blasphemy in Pakistan
International propagation of Salafism and Wahhabism
Islamic fundamentalism
Islamic fundamentalism in Iran
 Islamism
 Islam in Pakistan
 Minorities in Pakistan
 Pakistani demographics
 Persecution of Ahmadis
 Persecution of minority Muslim groups
 Persecution of Shia Muslims
 Persecution of Hindus
 Religion in Pakistan
 Freedom of religion in Pakistan
 Religious discrimination in Pakistan
 Sectarian violence among Muslims
 Shia–Sunni relations
 Sufi–Salafi relations
 Sunni Tehreek
 Tehrik-e-Jafria
 2003 Quetta mosque bombing
 September 2010 Quetta bombing
 Takfir
 Pakistani textbooks controversy

Notes

References

Bibliography 
  Text was copied from this source, which is © 2023 Crisis Group. Reuse and modification are allowed, provided the source is acknowledged.
 Khaled Ahmad, "Sectarian War",  Oxford University Press, (2015).
 
 Lieven, Anatol, Pakistan: A Hard Country,  Penguin Books, (2012).
 
 Rieck, A.,  The Shias of Pakistan,  Oxford University Press, (2015).
 Saif, Mashal. The 'Ulama in Contemporary Pakistan: Contesting and Cultivating an Islamic Republic. United Kingdom, Cambridge University Press, (2020).

History of Pakistan
Islam in Pakistan
Religiously motivated violence in Pakistan
Schisms in Islam
Shia Islam in Pakistan
Christianity in Pakistan
Hinduism in Pakistan
Sikhism in Pakistan
Conflicts in 2022
Persecution by Muslims
Pakistan