[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Uzhhorod National University

Uzhhorod National University () (full name - State University "Uzhhorod National University") is a Ukrainian state higher educational institution in the city of Uzhhorod in Ukraine.

General information 
It was founded on October 18, 1945. It is one of the classic universities of Ukraine, accredited at the IV (highest) level of accreditation (license of the Ministry of Education of Ukraine series AG No.582508).

The university has 20 faculties (biological, geographical, engineering, history and international relations, mathematical, medical, medical No.2, dental, economic, health and physical education, information technology, postgraduate education and pre-University training, social sciences, foreign philology, tourism and international communications, physical, philological, international economic relations, chemical, legal), 2 educational and scientific institutes, 115 departments, territorially separated structural subdivision ‘Branch of SHEI’ UzhNU ‘in Lviv, natural sciences and humanities college.

The university is included in the list of the best - in terms of educational, scientific, international, innovative and information activities - higher education institutions of Ukraine, occupying 20th positions in the consolidated ranking, 11th place in the Webometrics rating, 14th - in the SciVerse Scopus rating, 12th - in the U- rating. Multirank, 13th in the QS EECA University Rankings and 11th in the TOP-200 rankings of Ukrainian universities.

Uzhhorod National University has a full-time academic staff comprising 1285 scientific and pedagogical workers, including 158 doctors of sciences, professors, and 715 candidates of sciences and associate professors. 284 people work part-time, including 34 doctors of sciences, professors, 132 candidates of sciences, associate professors. The share of doctors of sciences, professors is 12.2%, candidates of sciences, associate professors - 54%. Among the higher education institutions in Ukraine in terms of the number of teachers with scientific degrees UzhNU - in 5th place.

The university has 2 corresponding members of the National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, 5 academicians of the Academy of Sciences of Ukraine, 13 honored workers of science and technology of Ukraine, 9 honored educators of Ukraine, 6 honored lawyers of Ukraine, 15 honored doctors of Ukraine, 5 honored inventors of Ukraine, honored journalist of Ukraine.

At the end of 2020, 14,946 students were studying at Uzhhorod National University, College of Natural Sciences and Humanities. 5,315 people receive higher education at the expense of the state budget, and 9,631 people at the expense of individuals and legal entities.
Form of study: full-time and part-time. Specialists are trained at the educational and qualification levels: bachelor, doctor of philosophy, master.

History and modernity 
Uzhhorod National University is the first higher educational institution in the history of Zakarpattia, which has passed a long and thorny path of its formation, and its prehistory dates back several centuries.

College of Jesuit Fathers (1613-1773)

The chronology of the origin of higher education in Zakarpattia can be traced back to 1613, when the county prefect of Ung and Zemplin count Georgy Druget on November 23, 1613, allowed to establish a monastery of the Jesuit order and a collegium (college / higher gymnasium) in Humenno (now Slovakia).  During the XVII century, the college provided five grades educational program.

Uzhhorod Royal Catholic Higher Gymnasium (1773-1920)

On March 1, 1775, Empress Maria Theresa transferred the buildings of the former Uzhhorod Jesuit College to the ownership of the Greek Catholic Diocese of Mukachevo. After a site was determined in 1778 for the construction of a new gymnasium near the former Jesuit college, a new building was built for the gymnasium on the site of the old barracks in 1783–1785 (now the Uzhhorod Commercial Technical School is located here).

Uzhhorod State Real Russian Gymnasium (1920-1945)

In 1920, the Drugetiv gymnasium was renamed the Uzhhorod State Real Russian Gymnasium. On October 27, 1938, the commission of the Ukrainian Academic Committee in Prague considered the project of organizing the Ukrainian University in Carpathian Ukraine. On March 9, 1939, the ‘Draft Law on the Establishment of the Ukrainian State University in Khust’ was developed. The university was supposed to start operating on October 1, 1939, but the Hungarian occupation of the region in March prevented this.

Uzhhorod State University