[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fort Phantom Hill

Fort Phantom Hill, also called the Camp on the Clear Fork, is a former United States Army installation located in Jones County, Texas. The fort was established in 1851 as part of a line of forts in Texas to protect migrants passing through the state on their way to California. The US Army abandoned the fort in 1854 and it was shortly thereafter mostly destroyed by fire. In 1858, it became a station of the Butterfield-Overland Mail route until it moved out of Texas with the beginning of the American Civil War in 1861. During the war, the fort was occupied by Confederate frontier troops until the Confederacy's defeat and surrender. Following the US Army's return to Texas after the Civil War, Fort Phantom Hill was used as a subpost of the larger, newer Fort Griffin until 1875.

After its final abandonment in 1875, a town was established at Fort Phantom Hill that flourished in the 1870s and ceased to exist by 1900. Following the fort's purchase by John Guitar in 1928, there was renewed public interest in the fort that led to its opening to the public in 1972. In 1997, Fort Phantom Hill was transferred to the Fort Phantom Hill Foundation. The ruins of the fort were added to the National Register of Historic Places on September 14, 1972.

Use as military outpost
Fort Phantom Hill was established during the American colonization of Texas, a process that began in the 1820s with the immigration of Anglo-Americans into Spanish, later Mexican, Texas. After existing as an independent republic for a decade, Texas was annexed by the United States of America in 1845, which led to the start of the Mexican-American War the next year. The United States defeated Mexico, and in the treaty that ended the war in 1848, Mexico ceded what is presently the Southwestern United States in exchange for $15 million (equivalent to $ million in ). The United States Army began to construct outposts and roads in Texas during the war to protect Anglo-American settlements in the state. In 1849, an unprecedented number of migrants began crossing Texas to reach California following the discovery of gold there.

Those migrants moved along routes such as the Marcy Trail, charted by Captain Randolph B. Marcy in 1849, through the territory of the indigenous peoples of the Great Plains. To protect those migrants, the US Army established a line of forts running for  from Fort Worth, in the northeast, to Fort Duncan, in the southwest, in 1848–49 and then another,  west, from 1850 to 1852. The forts of this line – Belknap, Chadbourne, Clark, Davis, Mason, McKavett, Phantom Hill, Stockton, and Terrett – were established in the early 1850s at places Marcy recommended. One of these locations was the Clear Fork of the Brazos River, which Marcy erroneously noted in 1849 as possessing abundant water and game.

Use as permanent garrison, 1851–1854
In 1851, General William G. Belknap, commander of the Seventh Military District—an area corresponding to the present states of Arkansas and Oklahoma—visited the Brazos River valley with Marcy to find locations for outposts. Belknap began construction of what became Fort Belknap, and identified a nearby tributary, Pecan Bayou, as ideal for a second post on the Brazos. On November 3, General Persifor Frazer Smith, commander of the Department of Texas, ordered that an outpost be created upon the "Phantom Hill" overlooking the Clear Fork,  from Pecan Bayou.

On November 14, 1851, five companies of the 5th Infantry Regiment, commanded by Lieutenant Colonel John Joseph Abercrombie, arrived on Phantom Hill and established the Camp on the Clear Fork of the Brazos, better known as Fort Phantom Hill. Construction of Fort Phantom Hill began immediately and lasted until June 1852, and it was followed by the creation of a crude road to Fort Chadbourne, to the southwest. Construction and basic life at the fort was complicated by a lack of usable wood, water, game, and fertile soil. The garrison had to rely on food shipments from Austin,  away, that were occasionally seized by indigenous peoples, and the garrison could not abate the water shortage even by digging an  well. Pestilences such as tuberculosis and rheumatism and the poor supply of food and water also plagued the garrison.