[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 36th Iowa Infantry Regiment

vepipe beneath the dirt floor and running it the length of the cabin from a small tin stove on one end to an exhaust pipe on the opposite end.  With 5 to 8 men occupying each cabin, the regiment passed the month of January 1863 in as comfortable a manner as could be expected under the circumstances.

The Yazoo Pass Expedition and the First Military Action at Shellmound, Mississippi 
In February 1863, the Thirty-sixth Iowa, 600 strong and part of 13th Division of the XIII Corps commanded by General Leonard Ross, embarked on troop transports for Mississippi to take part in the Yazoo Pass, or Fort Pemberton Expedition. This operation was conceived by General Grant and entailed blowing an opening through the east bank of the Mississippi River near Moon Lake below Helena to open a channel connecting with an inland water route that would enable Grant to encircle the Confederate stronghold at Vicksburg, Mississippi from the north. Veterans of the regiment recalled that during reconnaissance patrols the men had to wade through swamps waist deep. The regiment saw its first action at Shellmound, Mississippi where, after witnessing a fierce artillery duel between federal gunboats and rebel batteries, Captain Swiggett noted that the 36th Iowa had a "sharp exchange" with the rebels The regiment was holding a picket line some 2 miles above the enemy fort and was under frequent artillery fire for several days.  No men were killed by enemy action due to the cover afforded by woods on the west bank of the Tallahatchie River.   The regiment was engaged on this march for 43 days.  They found no unguarded route to Vicksburg and the expedition was abandoned.  The men suffered greatly because of almost continuous exposure to the elements on this campaign, including freezing rain and high winds that blew their tents down. In addition to colds, flu fevers and rheumatism, many men were struck down by typhoid and malaria.

The Battle of Helena 
Returning to Helena, the Thirty-sixth commenced a physically demanding daily regimen of drill and building fortifications in anticipation of a Confederate attack expected with the arrival of spring weather. The Thirty-sixth was assigned to build breast works and trenches in support of Battery A at Fort Curtis, on the northernmost end of the Union defenses.  The federal line ran in a semicircle around the town with the Mississippi River being their east flank.

On 4 July 1863, a Confederate force under General Holmes estimated at between 8,000 and 10,000 attacked Helena. With devastating artillery fire and additional fire support from the U.S. Navy gunboat Tyler anchored in the river offshore, the Union positions repulsed the assault in a savage, bloody slugfest lasting from dawn until 2 p.m. under a burning hot sun.  The Confederates nearly captured some of the federal redoubts where the fighting devolved into hand-to-hand combat. Confederate losses were estimated at 2,000–3,000 and more than 700 of these were taken prisoner. The federals remained on the field in their assigned positions for two more days until it was clear that Holmes' rebels were in full retreat to Little Rock. Much of that time was allowed to burying hundreds of Confederate dead in mass graves where they had fallen.

Vicksburg also surrendered to Grant on 4 July while elsewhere General George Meade repulsed Lee at Gettysburg. The two victories at Helena and Vicksburg on 4 July, and the surrender of the rebel strong-post of Port Hudson on 9 July, ended further serious Confederate threats to federal operations along the Mississippi River and severed communication between rebel forces on opposite sides of the Mississippi for the remainder of the war. With New Orleans, Port Hudson, Vicksburg, Helena, Memphis and Columbus Kentucky in federal hands, the Confederacy west of the river was isolated from secessionist allies in the east. However, rebel guerrilla bands continued to harass federal river traffic from both banks of the Mississippi until the end of the war.