[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Popular National Union

Later that same year, a nominee of the National Democrats, Maurycy Zamoyski, was defeated by Gabriel Narutowicz in a runoff fifth round of voting in parliament. Narutowicz would be assassinated a few days after his election by a fanatical ultra-nationalist painter, Eligiusz Niewiadomski.

1923-1928 

On 17 May 1923, the Lanckorona Pact saw representatives of the ZLN, the Christian-National Labour Party (Chrześcijańsko-Narodowe Stronnictwo Pracy), and PSL “Piast” (that is, some right-wing and centrist parties) agreeing to a broad set of philosophical and operational principals, including Polish social policy towards the Eastern (and therefore minority-heavy) borderlands, the assignment of governmental portfolios exclusively to Poles, and joint policies against the political left. The effect of this agreement was the so-called Chjeno-Piast government created on 28 May 1923. It was headed by Witos on the ZLN's behalf. This ministry also included Stanisław Głąbiński, Marian Seyda and Wojciech Korfanty.

Program 

ZLN foreign policy was pro-French and anti-German. In the East, ideas were presented for the full incorporation of Western Ukraine, Western Belarus, and the Wilno region into Poland. From the ZLN's point of view non-Poles in the Republic were considered second-class citizens up to the moment they underwent linguistic and cultural assimilation.

Support for the ZLN was comprised in the main by:
 city dwellers (mainly the urban middle and lower-middle class, and sections of the right-wing intelligentsia)
 workers from Łódź
 landed gentry

Geographic centers of National Democracy included:
 Pomerania (Pomorze)
 Western Poland (Wielkopolska)
 Warsaw
 Upper Silesia

Further activity 

On 26 October 1924, the fourth ZLN Congress proposed a program on the future development of the party, which led to a marked increase in the discipline within the party apparatus. A "Supreme Council" (Rada Naczelna) with Stanisław Głąbiński as president and a Board of Directors (Zarząd Główny) numbering 30 emerged from the reorganization. Workmen and country departments were created in order to increase membership. Communists were to be banned from holding elected office once the ZLN gained power.

From November 1923, Prime Minister Grabski tried to come to a political understanding with representatives of national minorities in Poland; this created conflicts within the government. On 13 November 1925, the Grabski government collapsed and was replaced by the administration of Aleksander Skrzyński with representatives of the ZLN, the Christian Democrats (Chrzreścijańska Demokracja), the National Workers Party (Narodowa Partia Robotnicza), the PSL “Piast”, and the Polish Socialist Party (Polska Partia Socjalistyczna). Jerzy Zdziechowski in Finance and Stanisław Grabski as the Minister of Religion and Education represented the ZLN in this government.

In 1925, the ZLN declared that only Poles who are Christians and who accept the party's program, statute, regulations, and resolutions can become members. On 10 May 1926, the third Witos government was created, in which Zdziechowski and Grabski again took part. This government would be overthrown by Józef Piłsudski's May Coup. From 1926, in response and in opposition to Piłsudski's political movement, a "Union of Polish Nationalists" was postulated. However, some within the movement were becoming more and more radical, influenced by the European fascist movement. On 4 December 1926, the Camp of Great Poland (Obóz Wielkiej Polski) appeared. Its founders’ intention was to take the place of the ZLN. On 7 October 1928, the ZLN dissolved itself in the wake of repressions from the Sanacja regime and was replaced by the National Party (Stronnictwo Narodowe).

Structure 

The regional structure of the party consisted of:

 regional administrations,
 district boards electing district administrations,
 rural (communal) and urban units with a president or a board headed by a president.

The most important party institution was the Supreme Council (Rada Naczelna). During the second meeting it was stated that it consists of all ZLN representatives, 100 members chosen by Congress, and one delegate from each district. Later, the membership was slightly changed: 60 members were chosen by Congress and 3 delegates from each district. The Supreme Council chose the Board of Directors, a governing board consisting of 5 members, which nominates the president.

Newspapers that presented similar values as the ZLN were Gazeta Warszawska (Warsaw Gazette), Przegląd Narodowy, Gazeta Poranna, Myśl Narodowa, and Słowo Polskie.

Electoral results

Sejm

References 

 Historical Dictionary of Poland, 966-1945 at Google Books

Further reading