[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Patient safety

rategies such as briefings allow the team to be set on their purpose and ensure that members not only share the goal but also the process they will follow to achieve it. Briefings reduce interruptions, prevent delays and build stronger relationships, resulting in a strong patient safety environment.

Debriefing is another useful strategy. Healthcare providers meet to discuss a situation, record what they learned and discuss how it might be better handled. Closed loop communication is another important technique used to ensure that the message that was sent is received and interpreted by the receiver. SBAR is a structured system designed to help team members communicate about the patient in the most convenient form possible. Communication between healthcare professionals not only helps achieve the best results for the patient but also prevents any unseen incidents.

Safety culture

As is the case in other industries, when there is a mistake or error made people look for someone to blame.  This may seem natural, but it creates a blame culture where who is more important than why or how.  A just culture, also sometimes known as no blame or no fault, seeks to understand the root causes of an incident rather than just who was involved.

In health care, there is a move towards a patient safety culture. This applies the lessons learned from other industries, such as aviation, marine, and industrial, to a health care setting.

When assessing and analyzing an incident, individuals involved are much more likely to be forthcoming with their own mistakes if they know that their job is not at risk. This allows a much more complete and clear picture to be formed of the facts of an event.  From there, root cause analysis can occur.  There are often multiple causative factors involved in an adverse or near miss event. It is only after all contributing factors have been identified that effective changes can be made that will prevent a similar incident from occurring.

Disclosure of an incident

After an adverse event occurs, each country has its own way of dealing with the incident. In Canada, a quality improvement review is primarily used. A quality improvement review is an evaluation that is completed after an adverse event occurs with the intention to both fix the problem, as well as preventing it from happening again. The individual provinces and territories have laws on whether it is required to disclose the quality improvement review to the patient. Healthcare providers have an obligation to disclose any adverse event to their patients because of ethical and professional guidelines.  If more providers participate in the quality improvement review, it can increase interdisciplinary collaboration and can sustain relationships between departments and staff. In the US, clinical peer review is used: uninvolved medical staff review the event and work toward preventing further incidents.

The disclosure of adverse events is important in maintaining trust in the relationship between healthcare provider and patient. It is also important in learning how to avoid these mistakes in the future by conducting quality improvement reviews, or clinical peer review. If the provider accurately handles the event, and disclose it to the patient and their family, he/she can avoid getting punished, which includes lawsuits, fines and suspension.

Causes of healthcare error

The simplest definition of a health care error is a preventable adverse effect of care, whether or not it is evident or harmful to the patient. Errors have been, in part, attributed to:

Human factors
Variations in healthcare provider training & experience, fatigue, depression and burnout.
Diverse patients, unfamiliar settings, time pressures.
Failure to acknowledge the prevalence and seriousness of medical errors.
 Increasing working hours of healthcare personnel
mislabeling specimen or forgetting to label specimen
states of anxiety and stress

Medical complexity
Complicated technologies, powerful drugs
Intensive care, prolonged hospital stay