[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ferrobaires

ht train in Rawson, a city in Chacabuco Partido, the Government of Buenos Aires Province led by María Eugenia Vidal ordered the suspension of all services (eight in total) operated by Ferrobaires. That decision was taken alleging "the need of preserving security of passengers and service operators".

Nevertheless, it was announced that the service from Constitución to Mar del Plata would remain active as it would be transferred to the National Government. Likewise, a report by "Auditoría General de la Nación" (General Auditing Office of Argentina) revealed that rolling stock, rail tracks and signal systems had severely deteriorated due to the lack of maintenance. As of June 2016, the operation of services by Ferrobaires was costing $1,200 million per year, with annual income of only $60 million.

In July 2016, it was announced that Ferrobaires would be shut down and all of its personnel and infrastructure transferred to the National Government, a process that had been unsuccessfully attempted in 2007. Passenger services formerly operated by the provincial administration (since 1993) would be run by the Operadora Ferroviaria Sociedad del Estado (SOFSE). In January 2018, Governor Vidal signed the decree to transfer Ferrobaires services and assets to the National State.

Services taken over by SOFSE included the following lines: Plaza Constitución to Bahía Blanca, Bariloche, Quequén and Bolívar; Olavarría to Bahía Blanca; Once to Toay, General Pico, General Villegas, Darregueira and Lincoln; Lincoln to Villegas and Pasteur; Retiro to Alberti and Junín; Federico Lacroze to Rojas. All those services were part of the original set of railway services transferred to the Buenos Aires province in 1992. The Mar del Plata – Miramar and General Guido – General Madariaga lines (not included in the original Decree N° 1168/92) had been re-established by the Provincial Government after the transfer of the services.

Services
At the time of its closure Ferrobaires operated the following services:

References

External links

 Official website (archived, 8 September 2013)

Railway companies of Argentina
Railway companies established in 1993
Railway companies disestablished in 2016
1993 establishments in Argentina
2016 disestablishments in Argentina
Rail transport in Buenos Aires Province
Government-owned railway companies
Government-owned companies of Argentina