[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Due South characters

Sir John Franklin.

Inspector Margaret Thatcher

Margaret Thatcher is a fictional character in the television series Due South. She is an inspector of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police who works in the American city of Chicago, Illinois.  The character is portrayed by Canadian actress Camilla Scott.

Thatcher shares her name with the former British Prime Minister, but seems to prefer "Meg" to her full name.  She transfers from Ottawa to the Canadian consulate in Chicago at the beginning of the second season.  Following protocol, she inspects all of Constable Benton Fraser's files, resulting in a rather negative initial opinion of him.  Throughout the season, Fraser is often called upon to retrieve her clothing from the dry cleaners, to drive her to various formal functions, and to perform other menial tasks better suited to an administrative assistant.  Her love of city living clashes with Fraser's love for the Canadian wilderness, a difference she manages to accept only after several years and an impending transfer away from Chicago. Regardless, her mastery of vintage skills of the Force are undiminished for her preferences, such when she effortlessly communicates with Fraser using hand semaphore when they are in a hostage situation.

Thatcher eventually falls in love with Fraser and often becomes flustered in his presence.  He reciprocates her feelings (usually expressed through the phrase, "Red suits you."), though he is never demonstrative until the events of "All the Queen's Horses".  The two share a passionate kiss on top of a moving train filled with explosives before engaging a group of domestic terrorists.  They kiss again in "Mountie on the Bounty, Part 2", though this is possibly a daydream.  They kiss one last time in the series finale, "Call of the Wild, Part 2".  However, the kiss was shown only in the original Canadian airing and has been cut out of subsequent airings and DVD releases. On one occasion, she asks him to help her adopt a child, though he misinterprets her request as one to father a child with her.  They part ways at the end of the series, with Thatcher taking a post in the Canadian Security Intelligence Service.  She is shown standing behind Saddam Hussein amongst other Iraqi military officers.  In voiceover, Fraser implies that she has a hand in destabilizing Hussein's regime.

Thatcher hints that more than one male superior has propositioned her in the past, offering professional gain in exchange.  She has always rejected these offers; she once bluntly rebuffed RCMP counsel Henri Cloutier, who called her his protégée ("We are the Eggmen").

Constable Renfield Turnbull

Renfield Turnbull is a fictional character in the television series Due South. He is a constable of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police who works in the Canadian Consulate in the American city of Chicago, Illinois. The character is portrayed by Dean McDermott.

Constable Turnbull acts as comic relief and is a caricature of Constable Benton Fraser, the series' main character.

Turnbull is not clever and has a tendency to speak his mind. He is frequently seen doing office tasks and answering the phone. He also does guard duty outside the consulate. Turnbull models himself on Fraser, but only ever accomplishes a superficial likeness.

Turnbull enjoys country music. He likes drawing, painting and cooking, and is a curling fan. Turnbull is a monarchist.  During the romance interlude in the episode "Mountie on the Bounty", Turnbull appears to proposition another male Mountie and they arm-wrestle while other characters kiss.

Fans have deduced from Turnbull's uniform that he is between 24 and 29 years old when he first appears in the programme.

It is revealed in the series finale that after leaving the RCMP, Turnbull ran for public office. Turnbull's campaign got off to a rocky start after he was run over by his campaign bus.

Detective Raymond Vecchio

Detective First Grade Raymond "Ray" Vecchio is a fictional character in the television series Due South. He is a detective with the Chicago Police Department, on the force for approximately 14 years by the end of the series, serving with the 27th Precinct. He lives at 2926 North Octavia Avenue, a Victorian-style house left to him by his father, in the Chicago suburb of Norwood Park. He frequently works with RCMP Constable Benton Fraser, deputy liaison officer of the Canadian consulate in Chicago, to get to the bottom of crimes; though aggravated by Fraser's unorthodox style (which contributes to the comic side of the show), he is usually satisfied with the results. Ray is portrayed by actor David Marciano.