[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Portuguese Marine Corps

anced training in naval artillery, constituting its squad or artillerymen. This military training meant that the seamen were able to assume the responsibility to perform also the role of naval infantry when needed, what made unnecessary the existence of the Naval Battalion, which was then dissolved.

From this date, whenever there was a need to perform an amphibious operation, landing detachments were constituted with seamen taken from the ships' crews. For the colonial campaigns of the late 19th and early 20th centuries and for the World War I, larger naval infantry forces and naval battalions were organized in the Corps of Seamen itself.

In 1924, a permanent unit of naval infantry was again created, this being the new Brigade of the Naval Guard (Brigada da Guarda Naval). However, it ceased to exist in 1934, with the role of naval infantry being again entirely assumed by the regular seamen when needed.

The Elite Naval Infantry only reappeared as permanent force in 1961, with the beginning of the Colonial War. Besides the Marines School (Escola de Fuzileiros), two types of operational marine units were created at that time, these being the detachments of special marines (DFE, destacamentos de fuzileiros especiais) and the companies of marines (CF, companhias de fuzileiros). While the DFE were designed to operate as amphibious assault units, the CF were focused in the naval patrolling and in the defense of naval ships and facilities. During this war, and up to 1975, more than 14,000 marines fought in Portuguese Guinea, Angola and Mozambique.

Until 1975, a unified Marine Corps Command did not exist, with the diverse DFE and CF being separate units, depending from the several naval and maritime defense commands of the areas where they operated. In this year, the Marine Corps (Corpo de Fuzileiros) was created, unifying all marine units under a single command and become Elite Commando Raid Force.

Organization

Since 2015, the Portuguese Marine Corps is organized into:

 Marines Corps Command (Comando do Corpo de Fuzileiros);
 Marines Corps support departments (Administrative and Financial, Operations, Resources Management and General Support);
 Marines School (Escola de Fuzileiros)- training unit
 1st Marine Battalion (Batalhão de Fuzileiros Nº1 (BF1)) - force protection unit. Includes:
 Naval Police Unit (Unidade de Polícia Naval (UPN)) - military police unit
 Landing Means Unit (Unidade de Meios de Desembarque (UMD)) - landing craft unit
 Boarding Platoon-VBSS (PelBoard) - naval boarding unit
 2nd Marine Battalion (Batalhão de Fuzileiros Nº2 (BF2)) - force projection unit. Includes three permanent Marine forces:
 1st Marine Task Unit (FFZ1) - landing task unit
 Combat Group Alfa (GC.A)
 Combat Group Bravo (GC.B)
 Combat Group Charlie (GC.C)
 2nd Marine Task Unit (FFZ2) - landing task unit
 3rd Marine Task Unit (FFZ3) - landing task unit
 Special Actions Detachment (Destacamento de Acções Especiais (DAE)) - tier one special forces unit. Constitutes a special operations maritime task unit (SOMTU).

The permanent task units of the BF2 are designed to conduct commando raids and other small scale amphibious operations. To conduct larger scale amphibious operations, the Marine Corps can organize a temporary battalion landing team (Batalhão Ligeiro de Desembarque), based on the BF2, reinforced with additional means from the other Marine units and from the General Support Department of the Marine Corps.

The Marine Corps elements are based at the Vale do Zebro facilities (Marines School) and the Alfeite facilities (former Marines Base).

Training

Initial training to become an enlisted Fuzileiro (marine) lasts about 42 weeks. The training is conducted at the Marines School (Escola de Fuzileiros) in Vale de Zebro. It is physically and mentally rigorous and demanding, with only 15% to 35% of the initial trainees passing and becoming Fuzileiros.

The recruits in training are constantly under stress and pressure from instructors leaving them no respite. All activities are timed and scored: marching several tens of kilometers with equipment and weapon, land and mud obstacle courses, navigation at night on the ground.
The training is punctuated by firearms training and special combat techniques, rappelling and climbing, boating, basic demolitions, communications and hand-to-hand combat.

The later stages of the course are mostly field based exercises mimicking real operations within land and amphibious theaters.
This last phase puts into test what was taught and practised in the initial stages like reconnaissance patrols, assault raids, ambushes, CQB/urban operations, SERE, NBC warfare etc.

The course culminates in a 60 km group march which must be completed in a set time.

After completing their training with success, the Fuzileiros receive the dark blue beret and the course badge on an official ceremony before being assigned to operational units.