[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Critical reaction to 24

Penny Johnson Jerald, Sarah Clarke, Xander Berkeley, Dennis Haysbert, Reiko Aylesworth and Carlos Bernard, and now they've decided to omit Shohreh Aghdashloo and Mary Lynn Rajskub among others." Shohreh Aghdashloo's performance is cited by many critics as a highlight of the fourth season.

Season 5

Season Five received overwhelming critical acclaim, and is frequently cited by fans and critics as the best and most consistent season of the series, with the possible exception of Season One. The series received its highest ratings during this year, and won Outstanding Drama Series at the 58th Primetime Emmy Awards, over Grey's Anatomy, House, The Sopranos and The West Wing. Kiefer Sutherland took home Outstanding Lead Actor in a Drama Series, while supporting cast members Gregory Itzin and Jean Smart also received nominations.

The New York Times reported that the fifth season "provides an irresistible blend of iPodish computer wizardry and "Perils of Pauline" cliffhanger suspense" and that it is one of the few shows "that are sophisticated and also have a childish appeal". USA Today called the four-hour premiere "extraordinary" and the fifth season as the series at its "fast, furious, exaggerated best, filled with well-drawn subsidiary characters and rapid-fire surprises, all held in place by Kiefer Sutherland's great, under-sung performance as Jack." The Hollywood Reporter reviewer Tim Goodman, usually a heavy critic of the series, said "Damn. Having seen the first four episodes, you need to be a part of this. You need to doff the skepticism and get on the ride." The Chicago Sun-Times said of Season Five that "TV shows don't elicit such high praise often enough. But the fifth season of this filmlike thriller is metaphorically knocking my socks off."

Gregory Itzin's portrayal of President Charles Logan was universally praised by critics, with many comparing his character to former U.S. President Richard Nixon. The New York Times called Logan's administration as "the government on TV, that is, which is in turn a projection of our very worst fears." The character of Martha Logan was equally acclaimed, with the character's opening scene (in which she, unsatisfied with her hairdo, dunks her head into a sink) called "the most memorable character debut in "24" history". One reviewer said, "only thing viewers might not have been able to anticipate was that this season's break-out character would be a high-strung, sharp-tongued and off-her-meds first lady of the United States". The writers have admitted that the character was based on Martha Beall Mitchell, wife of Nixon's attorney general.

Season 6

Season Six received mainly mixed reviews from both critics and fans, and is seen as an astounding fall in quality from Season Five. Though the premiere episodes were highly praised, backlash intensified in the second half of the season. BuddyTV voted it the "worst show of 2007", while also noting that the opening four hours were "downright exhilarating". Jack's torture of his own brother, Graem Bauer, drew attention to the show's extreme portrayal of violence, and criticism was aimed at the series' over-reliance on plot devices used in prior seasons, such as a nuclear threat, the attempted assassination of a president, the invocation of the 25th amendment, and Jack's attempt to save someone with whom he was romantically involved. The deaths of main cast members also came under scrutiny.

Critic Alan Sepinwall said early in the season that "several critics have started condemning this season as some kind of fiasco", while reporting that he didn't see "this season as being substantially worse than any other". Later in the season, Sepinwall said the show had devolved into "self-parody".

The storyline involving Jack's family was universally reviled. James Cromwell, who played Jack's father Phillip Bauer, did not enjoy his time on the series, complaining that "I had never seen 24. My agent said (the producers) asked me to do an arc on the show and that a lot of people watch it and it would be a good thing to do. But my character was bizarre. Not knowing the show, I went to the producers and said, 'Look, this guy kills his one son, attempts to kill his grandson for his...legacy? Are there any redeeming qualities to this character at all?' They looked me as though I was speaking Greek. Where's the human being in this guy?"  The Phillip Bauer character was originally written for Kiefer Sutherland's real father, Donald Sutherland, who turned it down as he did not want to play a villainous father to his real-life son, suggesting instead that Phillip and Jack have a situation similar to Indiana Jones and his father in Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.