[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# History of North Carolina State University

North Carolina State University was founded by the North Carolina General Assembly in 1887 as a land-grant college under the name North Carolina College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts.  As a land-grant college, NC State would provide a "liberal and practical education" while focusing on military tactics, agriculture and the mechanical arts without excluding classical studies.  Since its founding, the university has maintained these objectives while building on them.

After opening its doors in 1889, NC State saw its enrollment fluctuate and its mandate expand.  Due to the Great Depression, the North Carolina government administratively combined the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the Woman's College at Greensboro, and NC State.  This conglomeration later became the University of North Carolina system in 1971.  After World War II, the university has constantly grown and changed.

Founding: 1862–1889
Although established in 1887, the North Carolina State University story begins in 1862 when President Abraham Lincoln signed the federal Morrill Land-Grant Act.  This act created endowments that were to be used in the establishment of colleges that would provide a "liberal and practical education" while focusing on military tactics, agriculture and the mechanical arts without excluding classical studies.

During Reconstruction, North Carolina allocated its endowment to the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.  For two decades, that university received $7,500 annually from the endowment.  In the mid-1880s, both state farmers and business leaders claimed that Chapel Hill's "elitist" education did not meet the mandate set forth by the Morrill Land-Grant Act. On March 7, 1887, the North Carolina General Assembly authorized the establishment of the North Carolina College of Agriculture and Mechanic Arts. The state also budgeted money for the new college and transferred North Carolina's land-grant endowment to it as well.  R. Stanhope Pullen gave land towards the establishment of the new college in Raleigh.  The cornerstone of the main building (now called Holladay Hall)was laid in 1888 by the Grand Lodge of North Carolina. The college formally opened on October 3, 1889.  71 students enrolled the first year.

Early years: 1889–1945
Between 1889 and the end of World War I, the college experienced growth and expansion of purpose. Along with  United States Department of Agriculture, State College created the Boys' and Girls' Clubs in 1909 (which later became 4-H in 1926).  In 1914 the federal Smith-Lever Act enabled the university to establish state, county, and local extension programs.  These two new programs allowed the university's knowledge resources to directly benefit the people of North Carolina, not just those students who walked its halls.  By 1918 the college had an enrollment over 700 students and it had a new name—North Carolina State College of Agriculture and Engineering.

By the end of World War I, State College experienced many institutional changes and fluctuating enrollment.  In the 1920s, many of the college's educational units were organized into schools (e.g. School of Agriculture, Textile School...).  In 1920 enrollment reached 1,000 and by 1929 enrollment doubled to 2,000.  In 1927, the first women graduated from the college.

The Great Depression brought many challenges to State College when economic hardships caused enrollment to suffer.  To address issues institutional inefficiencies, the State of North Carolina established the Consolidated University of North Carolina in 1931.  This administratively combined the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, the Woman's College in Greensboro, and State College.  This move also brought another name – North Carolina State College of Agriculture and Engineering of the University of North Carolina.  The Consolidated University of North Carolina lasted until 1972 when it was remade into the University of North Carolina system.  By 1937 enrollment rebounded to over 2,000, but World War II caused enrollment to drop below 1,000. In 1937 Blake R. Van Leer joined as Dean and started the graduate program for engineering.

Expansion: 1945–present
After the end of World War II, State College experienced rapid growth due to the G.I. Bill.  By 1947 enrollment was over 5,000 and the college expanded to accommodate the new students.  The 1950s saw many building projects and national recognition of its academic programs.  The period also saw the first admission of African-Americans.