[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Friedrich Kellner

ow Kellner's impatience for the Allies to mount an effective invasion of the continent, and to bring the fight to the Germans on their own territory.  When the invasion of Normandy took place on 6 June 1944, Kellner inscribed in large letters in the entry of that date: "Endlich!," meaning "Finally!"

Kellner rarely wrote about his personal situation.  He wrote primarily about Nazi policies and propaganda, and about the war.  He noted the injustices in the court system, and recorded the inhumane deeds and genocidal intentions of the Nazis.  In all of this he considered the German people as accomplices before and after the fact: first voting Hitler into power, and then acquiescing in his abuse of that power.
 
  
One of the most important historical entries in the diary was written on 28 October 1941. Most Germans after the war would insist they knew nothing at all about the state-sponsored genocide of the Jews, yet very early in the war Kellner recorded this in his diary, showing that word of atrocities reached the average citizens even in the small towns:

A soldier on vacation here said he was an eyewitness to terrible atrocities in the occupied parts of Poland.  He watched as naked Jewish men and women were placed in front of a long deep trench and upon the order of the SS were shot by Ukrainians in the back of their heads and they fell into the ditch.  Then the ditch was filled with dirt even as he could hear screams coming from people still alive in the ditch.
These inhuman atrocities were so terrible that some of the Ukrainians, who were used as tools, suffered nervous breakdowns.  All the soldiers who had knowledge of these bestial actions of these Nazi sub-humans were of the opinion that the German people should be shaking in their shoes because of the coming retribution.
There is no punishment that would be hard enough to be applied to these Nazi beasts.  Of course, when the retribution comes, the innocent will have to suffer along with them.  But because ninety-nine percent of the German population is guilty, directly or indirectly, for the present situation, we can only say that those who travel together will hang together.

After the war

The war came to an end for Kellner on 29 March 1945, when the Americans marched into Laubach. Only a few days earlier, beginning on 23 March 1945, in a series of coordinated events between the British and American forces, the Allies had crossed the Rhine River in their invasion of the German homeland.  With the approval of the occupation forces, the new mayor of Laubach appointed Kellner deputy mayor.  Kellner aided in the denazification process, which primarily meant removing former Nazis from positions of power in the region.  Kellner helped to resurrect the Social Democratic Party in Laubach, and he became the  regional party chairman.

Kellner wrote only a few more entries in the diary. In one of the last entries, on 8 May 1945, the day Germany officially surrendered to the Allies, Kellner noted:  
"If now, after the collapse, should any of these lackeys of Adolf Hitler have the insolence to claim they were merely harmless onlookers, let them feel the scourge of avenging mankind .... Whoever cries about having lost the Nazi system or wants to resurrect National Socialism is to be treated as a lunatic."

Kellner served as chief justice inspector and administrator of the Laubach courthouse until 1948. He was appointed district auditor in the regional court in Giessen until his retirement in 1950.  For the next three years he was a legal advisor in Laubach.  In 1956 he returned to politics and was Laubach's leading councilor and deputy mayor until he retired in 1960 at age 75.

On 19 July 1966, Kellner received compensation from the Federal Republic of Germany because of the injustices committed against him during the time of National Socialism.  The compensation ruling included this statement: 
"Kellner's political opposition was recognized by the ruling powers and they took measures against him. In a memorandum dated 23 June 1937, they noted that Kellner had not been active enough for the National Socialist movement, and that he has caused disturbances with the local party. Further, the incidents in the year 1940 (the threatened incarceration in a concentration camp) had really an unfavorable effect.  It was Kellner's open opposition to National Socialism which prevented possible promotions and damaged him in his service."