[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hong Kong Metropolitan University

at Shun Tak Centre, Sheung Wan and purchased a new learning centre in Kwai Hing. In September 2013, the Kwai Hing Learning Centre opened. The Li Ka Shing Institute of Professional and Continuing Education (LiPACE) moved to the Kwai Hing Learning Centre at the Block 2 of the Kowloon Commerce Centre.

In February 2014, the Jubilee College at Jockey Club Campus of the OUHK officially opened.

In August 2014, the OUHK received the approval from the Town Planning Board, rezoning the vacant land of 11 years on Sheung Shing Street for the government and public purposes to facilitate the development of a new academic building。The Planning Department considered that the development would not bring any negative impacts to neighbouring areas. In the meantime, the Education Bureau also gave support to the extension project of the OUHK. Therefore, the application was finally approved.

In February 2017, the OUHK is going to build a Nursing and Healthcare Complex opposite to the Ho Man Tin Main Campus on Sheung Shing Street. The establishment of the new Complex will enable the University to cater to the future manpower requirements for nursing and other healthcare services, and will allow swift response to the new and unforeseen community needs that may arise as our society ages.

Campus locations

Ho Man Tin Campus 
The Ho Man Tin Campus consists of the Main Campus on Good Shepherd Street and the Jockey Club Campus.

The Main Campus is located at 30 Good Shepherd Street, adjacent to SKH Tsoi Kung Po Secondary School, the Hong Kong Football Association Limited and the Auxiliary Medical Service Headquarters. It consists of Block A, B and C.

Block A: The HKMU Campus Phase I High Block (Cheng Yu Tung Building), facing Fat Kwong Street
Block B: The HKMU Campus Phase I Low Block, facing Good Shepherd Street
Block C: The HKMU Campus Phase II (Kwok Tak Seng Building), facing Fat Kwong Street

The Main Campus is equipped with a library, lecture halls, tutorial rooms, self-study rooms, lobbies, a canteen, a café, a bank, an information centre, a mail room, pantries, a multi-function hall, changing rooms, language laboratories, multimedia laboratories, technology laboratories, environmental laboratories, clinical nursing laboratories, a sound recording studio, music rooms, band rooms, counselling rooms and a car park. Auxiliary facilities for people with disabilities are also available.

The Jockey Club Campus located at 81 Chung Hau Street, Ho Man Tin, adjacent to Dragon View and Hung Hom Division of the Hong Kong Police Force. The Jubilee College is of 12 floors and it consists of Block D and E. It takes a few minutes to walk from the Main Campus to the Jockey Club Campus.

Block D: The HKMU Jubilee College (facing Princess Road and Chung Hau Street)
Block E: The HKMU Jubilee College (facing Princess Road and Chung Hau Street)

Apart from the auditorium, classrooms, the library and PC laboratories, the College is equipped with learning commons, multi-function halls, cultural and creative studio, laboratories, testing and certification laboratories, microbiological laboratories and the clinical nursing centre.

HKMU Jockey Club Institute of Health Care (IOH) – Sheung Shing Street, Ho Man Tin

Block F: Jockey Club Institute of Health Care (IOH) (opposite to the HKMU Main Campus)

The establishment of the new campus will enable the University to cater to the future manpower requirements for nursing and other healthcare services and will allow swift response to the new and unforeseen community needs that may arise as our society ages. Meanwhile, new programmes such as Bachelor of Social Sciences with Honours in Mental Health and Psychology and Bachelor of Science with Honours in Nutrition and Dietetics are under planning to meet the growing demands for a wide array of healthcare professionals. Some brand-new facilities, including the psychology laboratory and the Special Educational Needs (SEN) service/training centre, will be built in the new Complex. They will become future assessment or resource centres for the public who have needs for specialised healthcare services.

Kwai Hing Campus (KHC) 
In August 2012, the HKMU purchased floors 8 – 12 of the Block 2 of the Kowloon Commerce Centre with $770 million. Each floor is about 25,000 sq. ft. The gross area is about 124,300 sq. ft.