[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The New Americans: Economic, Demographic, and Fiscal Effects of Immigration

l governments?
The National Academy of Sciences report by these 15+ researchers was issued after 3 years study and called "The New Americans: Economic, Demographic, and Fiscal Effects of Immigration" (1997) Edited by James P. Smith and Barry Edmonston, . The book is available on line at .

Criticism

Negative Population Growth, an organization that advocates a gradual reduction in U.S. and world population, has criticized the NPR/NSF panel for addressing only the economic effects of immigration mostly in terms of labor, prices and economic growth and should have included an environmental impact statement including a lot wider spectrum of specialists like environmentalists, fishery experts, biologists, educators, ethicists, labor experts etc. The report did find that the least skilled Americans have suffered the most from the competition with immigrants and that African Americans and legalized Hispanics with their lower average levels of education have been harmed the most, but it dismissed that as a serious problem because less than a majority  of U.S. citizens are directly affected. The NSF panel did find that immigration may lower some prices (~0.1% on average) but lower prices require the assumption of generally lower wages for some or of higher investment levels in industry which is precisely what cheap wage immigration discourages.  Many studies escape from this dilemma, if that is the word, by resorting to the familiar argument that immigrants fill "jobs American won't take." They ignored the fact that, nationwide, all the job categories: even farm workers, service industries, construction etc. are still filled largely by Americans.  The so-called shortage of labor to fill some of them and the reason that hourly U.S. real wages have been falling almost every year since 1975 is that desperate immigrants will work for wages that Americans don't want to work for. Even the NSF study seems to assume that increased GDP is a net good ignoring the fact that the lower wages and lower taxes collected from the typical illegal immigrant result in a lower GDP/capita. The reason that many like illegal immigrants is that they typically work cheaper than natives, have few legal rights, are pliant and much of their "real" costs can be spread out to anonymous taxpayers.  All these effects of most immigration is not most Americans idea of "...Beneficial to U.S.".

"As long as there is a virtually unlimited supply of potential immigrants, the nation must make choices on how many to admit and who they should be." National Research Council, National Academy of Sciences, 1997.

See also
An Essay on the Principle of Population
Economic impact of illegal immigrants in the United States
Economic impact of immigration to Canada
Economic results of migration
Illegal immigration to the United States
Immigration to the United States

References

Sociology books
Non-fiction books about immigration to the United States