[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Myocardial perfusion imaging

chondrial activity).  The relatively long half-life of Tl-201 (73 hours) forced doctors to use relatively small () doses of Tl-201, albeit with relatively large dose exposure and tissue effects (20 mSv).  The poor quality images resulted in the search for isotopes which would produce better results.

The introduction of technetium-99m isotopes
By the late 1980s, two different compounds containing technetium-99m were introduced: teboroxime  and sestamibi.  The utilization of Tc-99m would allow higher doses (up to ) due to the shorter physical (6 hours) half life of Tc-99m.  This would result in more decay, more scintillation and more information for the nuclear cameras to measure and turn into better pictures for the clinician to interpret.

Major indications
 Diagnosis of CAD and various cardiac abnormalities.
 Identifying location and degree of CAD in patients with a history of CAD.
 Prognosis of patients who are at risk of having a myocardial or coronary incident (i.e. myocardial infarction, myocardial ischemia, coronary aneurysm, wall motion abnormalities).
 Assessment of viable myocardium in particular coronary artery territory  following heart attacks to justify revascularization
 Post intervention revascularization (coronary artery bypass graft, angioplasty) evaluation of heart.
 Evaluation of shortness of breath of a possible cardiac origin.

Radiation dose
From 1993 to 2001, myocardial perfusion scans in the US increased >6%/y with "no justification". Myocardial perfusion imaging scans are "powerful predictors of future clinical events", and in theory may identify patients for whom aggressive therapies should improve outcome. But this is "only a hypothesis, not a proof". However, several trials have indicated the high sensitivity (90%) of the test, regardless of tracer, outweighing any potential detrimental effect of the ionising radiation. In the UK, NICE guidance recommends myocardial perfusion scans following myocardial infarction or reperfusion interventions. The power of prognosis from a myocardial perfusion scan is excellent and has been well tested, and this is "perhaps the area of nuclear cardiology where the evidence is most strong".

Many radionuclides used for myocardial perfusion imaging, including rubidium-82, technetium-99m and thallium-201 have similar typical effective doses (15-35 mSv). The Cardiac PET tracer nitrogen-13 ammonia, though less widely available, may offer significantly reduced doses (2 mSv). Stress-only protocols may also prove to be effective at reducing costs and patient exposure.

References

Cardiac imaging
3D nuclear medical imaging
Scintigraphy
Technetium-99m