[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battle of Droop Mountain

t. Upon arrival, he found Schoonmaker facing strong pressure. Schoonmaker had him dismount his two regiments and deploy them on the right (west) while Schoonmaker and his two regiments took the left (east) side. Ewing's battery, which had longer range than Jackson's howitzers, was placed in between.

Jackson was aware of the Union reinforcement, and also knew that his howitzers did not have the range of the Union guns. He chose to fall back to Droop Mountain, which was just south of Hillsboro and about  north of Lewisburg. Arnett led his men to the top of the mountain adjacent to the road, using a route that had forest and hills for cover. Lieutenant Colonel Thompson and 32 men from the cavalry covered the rear and defended against a Union cavalry assault. When Lurty's Battery, already positioned on the mountain, began shelling the pursuing Union cavalry, all fighting ended. Averell and his infantry arrived at Mill Point around the time Jackson was falling back to Droop Mountain. The Union soldiers went into camp around 2:00pm after fighting stopped. Averell, whose November 7 report said he "attacked Jenkins in front of Mill Point" (actually Jackson), said there was a "trifling loss on either side".

Confederates prepare

When Jackson and Arnett reached the summit of Droop Mountain on November 5, they deployed Arnett's 20th Virginia Cavalry in a defensive position at a high point next to the road. The crest of Droop Mountain is  high, and Jackson could see Union Army camps around Hillsboro. Jackson had about 750 men, since a squadron (Siple's) was cut off further north in Pocahontas County.

About  away, Imboden's Brigade had moved to Buffalo Gap in Virginia's Augusta County, but did not depart from there until November 6. He had about 600 mounted men and a section of artillery. At Lewisburg, Echols decided to bring more reinforcements to Jackson despite his worry that another Union force might attack from the west and cause the entire Confederate force to be surrounded. (Duffié was, in fact, approaching from the west.) Echols covered half the distance to Droop Mountain on November 5, and camped at Spring Creek near the Greenbrier River. That evening, Cochran and six companies from the 14th Virginia Cavalry arrived at Droop Mountain as the first group of  reinforcements for Jackson. At 2:00am on November 6, Echols resumed his march to Droop Mountain. After about , he realized that the road from Falling Springs to Hillsboro could be used by Union soldiers to attack Jackson's extreme right flank. Wary of a Union trap, he detached the 26th (Edgar's) Infantry Battalion, with one piece of artillery, to block the road.

Battle

Averell's plan

Averell was up early in the morning on November 6 planning his strategy, and began moving his troops from Mill Point to Hillsboro shortly after sunrise. Skirmishers went further south on diverse maneuvers for the purpose of confusing the Confederates. As the Confederate skirmishers fell back to the mountain, Averell inspected the terrain and enemy positions. He determined that a frontal assault would be a disaster, and made a plan for a three-sided dismounted attack. While a portion of his troops on his left would divert the attention of the Confederates, a large portion would flank the enemy from the right. In the final phase, more troops would attack from the front and right. Beginning the flanking maneuver, Colonel Augustus Moor departed shortly after 9:00am with 1,175 men. His force included the 10th West Virginia Infantry, the 28th Ohio Infantry, CompanyC of the 16th Illinois Cavalry Regiment, and a small group of signalman from the 68th New York Infantry led by Lieutenant Abraham C. Merritt. Colonel Thomas M. Harris led the 10th West Virginia Infantry, and Lieutenant Colonel Gottfried Becker led Moor's 28th Ohio Infantry when needed. Moor's force fell back about , then began an obscure circuitous route of  to  that would put them on the enemy's left flank. Schoonmaker and the 14th Pennsylvania Cavalry moved to the left (Confederate right) with the artillery, where they made sure they had the attention of Jackson's men at the top of the mountain. The Union battery was positioned on a hill that was  lower than the Confederate guns, making it difficult to achieve the same accuracy as the Confederate cannons.

Echols takes over