[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bill Arnsparger

success under Billy Donovan. The university's overall athletic program improved under Arnsparger; Florida won its first three SEC All-Sports Trophies during his tenure, beginning an ongoing period in which the Gator sports program has been named the conference's best for 28 out of the next 32 years.

During his time at Florida, Arnsparger was thought by some athletic department staff and boosters to be "domineering" and that, keeping with his background in coaching, he was "inflexible... sticking by his game plan at all costs.". In hindsight, observers gave him credit for setting up the university's athletic department for unprecedented success after his tenure. Jeremy Foley, Arnsparger's successor as athletic director, credited him with "helping to right the ship during a very difficult time at the University of Florida."

Return to the NFL
On January 13, 1992, Arnsparger resigned to become the defensive coordinator of the San Diego Chargers. During his three seasons with the Chargers, the team's defense showed marked improvement, culminating with a berth in Super Bowl XXIX. Just days after the team's Super Bowl appearance, Arnsparger announced his retirement, citing the prostate cancer surgery he had undergone the year before.

Later life and death
Arnsparger retired in 1995 and split time between homes in Kentucky and Alabama. Soon after, his son David became the football coach at West Limestone High School in northern Alabama, and the elder Arnsparger often visited practices as a volunteer assistant coach.

After several years of deteriorating health, Arnsparger died on July 17, 2015, at his home in Athens, Alabama, at the age of 88. He was survived by his wife, his son David, his daughter Mary Susan, and his grandchildren Stephen, Christian, Sarah, Elisabeth, and Callie. He is buried at Paris Cemetery, at Paris, Kentucky.

Head coaching record

NFL

College

See also
 Florida Gators
 List of Miami University people
 List of Sigma Chi members
 LSU Tigers
 University Athletic Association

References

External links
 

1926 births
2015 deaths
Baltimore Colts coaches
Florida Gators athletic directors
Kentucky Wildcats football coaches
LSU Tigers football coaches
Miami Dolphins coaches
Miami RedHawks football coaches
National Football League defensive coordinators
Miami RedHawks football players
New York Giants head coaches
San Diego Chargers coaches
Tulane Green Wave football coaches
United States Marine Corps personnel of World War II
United States Marines
People from Paris, Kentucky
Coaches of American football from Kentucky
Players of American football from Kentucky