[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cerro Grande Fire

spring) or human carelessness with fire. The same winds that militated against starting the controlled burn might then have driven the uncontrolled fire toward Los Alamos, with terrible consequences. In any case, the controlled burn was indeed initiated on May 4, and things rapidly got out of hand.

Timeline 
 4 May 2000: Prescribed burn was started in the late evening.
 5 May 2000: Control lines were burned through on east side during late morning. Wildland fire declared in early afternoon and a type-3 incident command was established for fire suppression.
 6 May 2000: A fire line was constructed using pre-existing control lines.
 7 May 2000: Fire behavior became increasingly erratic with spotting by noon.
 8 May 2000: A type-1 incident management team assumed command in the early morning. Los Alamos National Laboratory closed until further notice.
 10 May 2000: The town of Los Alamos was evacuated at noon. That evening, 235 homes in Los Alamos were destroyed.
 11 May 2000: The nearby community of White Rock was evacuated shortly after midnight, including many evacuees from Los Alamos.
 15 May 2000: The evacuation order was lifted.
 18 May 2000: Los Alamos residents were allowed to return.
 22 May 2000: Los Alamos National Laboratory began phased reopening.
 6 June 2000: The Cerro Grande fire was declared contained.
 20 July 2000: The Cerro Grande fire was declared extinguished.

Aftermath

Flash floods
A particular concern was the possibility of flooding in areas downstream from the burned zone.  The town of Los Alamos, the national laboratory, and the lower parts of the burned area are all situated on the Pajarito Plateau, an area of extensive canyons and mesas in which surface runoff tends to concentrate in the canyon bottoms.  This tendency was exacerbated in Cerro Grande's aftermath because the soil in the burned areas had become hydrophobic, raising the specter of drastically increased water flow in the streams in the canyons that the existing streambeds might not have been able to handle.  This concern, coupled with the prospect of monsoon rains that typically begin in about July in the area, made  dealing with the possibility of flooding urgent.

The highest priority for flood management involved the Los Alamos Critical Experiments Facility (LACEF), a remote site for conducting research in nuclear criticality safety that housed substantial quantities of special nuclear material.  The LACEF laboratories were in the bottom of Pajarito Canyon.  A month after the fire, a "short-duration (30-minute), relatively moderate-intensity thunderstorm" caused a brief, heavy flood in this canyon upstream of LACEF.  "The maximum estimated peak flow in Pajarito Canyon upstream of State Road (SR) 501 was 1020 cfs, an all-time record for watersheds gaged by LANL on the Pajarito Plateau ..."  To protect LACEF, a large, temporary "dry dam" was constructed in the canyon upstream of LACEF to temporarily contain flash floods that might result if an intense thunderstorm happened to rain heavily on the terrain drained by Pajarito Canyon.  Runoff was monitored at multiple stations in the headwater streams above Pajarito Canyon.

In the event, the monsoon of the summer of 2000 was not particularly intense, and damage from flooding was generally minimal.  No severe flooding occurred in Pajarito Canyon before vegetation upstream had recovered sufficiently, over several years, to retain runoff, and the dry dam eventually was removed.  Severe flooding did occur in upper Pueblo Canyon, significantly damaging Diamond Drive, one of the town's arterial roads.

Water quality was monitored by LANL for several years in the aftermath of the fire.

Erosion
Although flash floods were fortuitously minimal, erosion nonetheless was substantial, and many miles of the 57-mile network of trails maintained by Los Alamos County were severely damaged.  Canyon bottoms in particular were clogged with fallen trees and boulders washed down from above.  Erosion might have been far worse, had there not been timely intervention.

A Burned Area Emergency Response (BAER) team was assigned to assess the damage and to implement a rehabilitation plan to reduce further natural resource damage. During July 2000, about 7000 hydromulching and hydroseeding flights by air tractors were carried out on 1,600 acres (6.5 km2) of the burned area to reduce erosion and speed revegetation.  A local trail work organization, Volunteer Task Force, devoted many thousands of hours to rebuilding trails and planting trees.  Local school children made many thousands of "seed balls", which they broadcast in the burned areas to accelerate regrowth of the vegetation.  To control erosion mechanically, Los Alamos County work crews laid thousands of trees across slopes, and chipped other trees.