[Source: PubMed]

37. Vaccines (Basel). 2022 Dec 26;11(1):48. doi: 10.3390/vaccines11010048.

COVID-19 Vaccination Prioritization Strategies in Malaysia: A Retrospective 
Analysis of Early Evidence.

Hamdan NEA(1), Fahrni ML(1), Lazzarino AI(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, MARA University of Technology (UiTM), Selangor Branch, 
Puncak Alam Campus, Puncak Alam 42300, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
Imperial College London, London W2 1NY, UK.

The coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) that can cause extreme acute respiratory 
syndrome has posed a catastrophic threat to public health. The vaccines had 
indeed restored optimism and, after more than two years of battling the 
pandemic, there is renewed hope for the transition to endemicity. At the start 
of vaccination efforts, when supply shortages of vaccines were inevitable, every 
nation determined the high-risk population groups to be given priority for the 
COVID-19 vaccines. In this paper, the characteristics of the initial COVID-19 
vaccine recipients in Malaysia are described. In line with the policies of many 
other countries, Malaysia firstly inoculated frontline healthcare workers, and 
subsequently the list of front liners grew to include defense and security 
personnel and those involved in the provision of essential services. People with 
disabilities or those with special needs and several underlying medical 
conditions that increased their risk of developing severe COVID-related 
illnesses were included in the priority categories. These included patients with 
severe lung disease, chronic heart disease, chronic kidney disease, chronic 
liver disease, neurological disease, diabetes mellitus and obesity in adults, 
splenic dysfunction, and severe mental illness. With little information and 
under circumstances of great uncertainty, the Health Ministry of a middle-income 
country had developed a vaccination priority-list based on the disease's 
epidemiology and clinical data, vaccine type, operational considerations, and 
risk evaluation. Early evidence was presented and suggested that the full 
vaccination with any of the three predominant vaccines (AZD1222, BNT162b2, and 
CoronaVac) in the country had been highly effective in preventing COVID-19 
infections, COVID-19-related ICU admissions, and death. As many SARS-CoV-2 
variants of concern (VoC), such as the Omicron BA.2/4/5, are emerging, future 
vaccination strategies may necessitate the need to change the immunogen of the 
vaccine, as well as considerations for when to give high-risk groups booster 
injections. These considerations are valuable for future planning by 
policymakers and healthcare providers to make vaccination policy and decisions, 
especially for the inclusion of the COVID-19 vaccines into national immunization 
programs.

DOI: 10.3390/vaccines11010048
PMCID: PMC9861551
PMID: 36679893

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.