[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# War Brides Act

f the fraudulent use of the War Brides Act, upholding convictions of parties to a conspiracy to arrange for the immigration of three Polish refugees. It was claimed that the marriages celebrated in France were never consummated, and that the parties to the marriages never lived together.

Background

In response to World War II and the large number of servicemen that had wives and families abroad, the War Brides Act was passed in December 1945. The act was meant to facilitate the immigration of women and children from Europe for five years after World War II. The War Brides Act was passed for three main reasons: recognition of men's rights to have their wives and children with them, reward for military service, and the principle of family unification. It was a widely held belief that servicemen who served their country selflessly, and were viewed as heroes, should be able to bring their wives and families home to the United States with them.

Many Congress members also believed that the proposed War Brides legislation would not change immigration practices much. The only Asian spouses that could be brought were of Chinese descent and there were a small number of American citizens of Chinese descent. This also meant that there was an even smaller number of servicemen of Chinese descent, and they would most likely be the ones to bring Chinese brides back to the United States. Lawmakers shared this point of view that American servicemen bringing Chinese wives would be Chinese as well and they did not want to encourage racial mixing by the passage of the War Brides Act and any of its amendments. ). Later war brides of Japanese, Korean, Vietnamese, or Filipino descent came to represent the war bride in a different way because later war brides were mostly in interracial marriages, while Chinese war brides were mostly in intraracial marriages.

Concerns over marital fraud

The War Brides Act brought about increased concern over marital fraud. Some of this came from nativist concerns because of the increase of immigrants, but there were also real concerns about this act being abused. Marriage to a soldier was no guarantee of admission into the United States, and the women who did enter as war brides remained under scrutiny about the legitimacy of their marriage. The concerns of fraud came from wives who would migrate under this act and then not live with their husbands or obtain a divorce. In order to prove that they were married, women had to provide proof of their marriage or engagement to a US serviceman; a war bride's status was dependent on that of her husband and if her husband was found not to be a soldier or not to have been honorably discharged, she was inadmissible as well.

See also
 Nationality Act of 1940
 Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965
 History of Asian American immigration
 History of laws concerning immigration and naturalization in the United States
 List of United States Immigration Acts
 National Origins Formula
 Alien Fiancées and Fiancés Act of 1946

References

Further reading
Susan Zeiger, Entangling Alliances: Foreign War Brides and American Soldiers in the Twentieth Century (New York University Press, 2010)
Xiaojian Zhao, Remaking Chinese America: Immigration, Family, and Community, 1940-1965 (Rutgers University Press, 2002)
Roger Daniels, Guarding the Golden Door: American Immigration Policy and Immigrants since 1882 (Hill and Wang, 2004)

History of immigration to the United States
United States federal immigration and nationality legislation
1945 in American law
United States immigration law
1945 in international relations
Marriage law in the United States
World War II legislation
Emergency laws in the United States
79th United States Congress