[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Blockade of Wonsan

o use about eighty fishing sampans for transport. Ten days later on May 27, shore batteries at Wonsan fought against USS Cabildo and Ozbourn. In a typical duel the American ships bombarded the coast and were not damaged. The day after USS Ozbourn accepted the surrender of two North Koreans soldiers.

USS O'Bannon suppressed enemy batteries on May 29 after the North Koreans opened fire on friendly islands. USS Ozbourn, , and USS Heron also engaged on May 29 and May 30. Ozbourn received six rounds of 155-millimeter fire and, Radford, ten rounds of estimated 75-millimeter gunfire with the nearest one landing fifty yards from the ship. Heron was hit by machine gun fire that hit aft section of the vessel. There were no friendly casualties in any of the actions and in all cases the ships returned fire with naval guns.

On June 5, O'Bannon, Radford and  attacked and silenced a battery of 75-millimeter guns south of Ho-do Pan-do. The artillery opened fire on some American minesweepers but were quickly quieted by the escorts. North Koreans artillery in Wonsan bombarded Hwangto-do on June 7. No casualties were reported but twenty-one shot holes were found to have passed through the flag over the island.  was straddled by enemy fire on June 12, wounding one man and on June 19 the North Koreans staged another artillery bombardment against friendly held Hwangto-do.  caught 300 enemy troops repairing a railroad, south of Wonsan on the same day, and fired twenty-eight rounds. She reported inflicting seventy-four casualties and scoring hits on a railroad bridge and tracks. When it became dark, Parks also fired star shells at the location for bombing runs by allied aircraft.

The next exchange in the siege of Wonsan occurred a month later on August 10, 1952. Enemy gun positions on He-do Pan-do, fired upon  and  with approximately 250 75-millimeter to 155-millimeter guns. Barton suffered superficial damage, one man killed, and one wounded. Jarvis was not damaged and counter battery fire destroyed two gun emplacements.

Two days after,  was the target for about thirty rounds of 105-millimeter artillery. The ship was hit once below the waterline causing slight damage. USS Barton fired eighty-nine shots in response and scored three hits on two North Korean batteries.  was also attacked on May 12. While anchored off Yo-do Island, with a cargo of gasoline and ammunition for motor torpedo boats, ROKN FS-905 was taken under fire by enemy shore guns and received one hit in the starboard machine gun battery. The damage was light and there were no casualties. Hwangto-do was bombarded again on August 16 by the North Koreans with four 155-millimeter artillery pieces and large mortars from Kalmagak. The guns could not be located so none of the allied warships could respond.

Typhoon Karen 
Typhoon Karen swept through Korean waters over the next few days so also blockading activities were suspended. Several UN warships were damaged during the height of the storm. The communists used the chance to attack Hwangto-do again. After the typhoon passed  fired seven rounds of 5-inch shells at an enemy battery on Kalmagak, which was firing on friendly islands in the Wonsan area. The enemy artillery was silenced although they killed one person and wounded two others.

On September 11, 1952, batteries on Umi-do fired eighteen 105-millimeter rounds at USS Lewis, no damage or casualties. On September 13, aircraft from  attacked a 130-foot naval like vessel near Wonsan and sank it with rockets and 20-millimeter strafing. The enemy ship was one of the few sunk by UN forces during the war. Two days later, Barton hit a suspected of being a floating mine while sailing 100 miles due east of Wonsan Harbor. Five enlisted men were counted missing and later presumed dead, six other men were wounded. The fire room flooded and there was other less severe damage. Flooding was brought under control and she set a course for Sasebo under her own power.

USS Alfred A. Cunningham received five hits on September 19. Guns from Wonsan, estimated to be 105 to 155 millimeters, at a distance of 3,500 yards away, hit the ship with their first shot. Four more followed along with seven nearby air bursts. Eight Americans were wounded but none of them were fatal. The ship was moderately damaged but she was capable of unleashing 159 rounds of return fire.