[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# ITV Studios

sion was based in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates and the German division has offices in Berlin and Hamburg. When ITV started restructuring on 1 October 2019, Talpa's German division was absorbed into ITV Studios Germany and the Middle East division was renamed ITV Studios Middle East.

Distribution

In addition to its production labels, ITV Studios is the worldwide distributor of programming produced by ITV's production teams and independent producers. Known until 2020 as ITV Studios Global Entertainment, ITVS has distributed programmes and films like Brief Encounter, The Red Shoes, and the Carry On... films. Also, a part of this collection is the ITC Entertainment feature film library, including The Eagle Has Landed, The Return of the Pink Panther, and On Golden Pond. ITV also owns the rights to the film catalogues of The Rank Organisation (except for Ealing Studios productions) and Alexander Korda (pre-1945). These films are currently distributed theatrically by Janus Films and Park Circus, in conjunction with Westchester Films, whose parent company Shout! Factory signed a North American theatrical, television, and home video distribution deal with the ITV library in March 2018.  This deal covers over a hundred films and series.

The television library features programming by most of the major ITV network companies (except for Thames Television which is divided between Fremantle for general entertainment and Boat Rocker Media for children's programming; Television South (TVS) which currently belongs to Disney, and Southern Television which until recently belonged to Endemol Australia); including titles such as Prime Suspect, Doctor Zhivago (2002 miniseries), The Forsyte Saga (2002), and Agatha Christie's Poirot, plus children's shows, TV movies (e.g. 2005's Pope John Paul II), wildlife documentaries, and other factual programming. The library also includes hit series such as Bodyguard (produced by World Productions), which has been picked up by Netflix outside the UK.

Independent productions distributed by ITV include programming produced by Wall to Wall: (Ancient Egyptians, The Story Of Us), Darlow Smithson Productions: (Seconds From Disaster), Wark Clements: (A Mother's Journey), Aardman Animations: (Creature Comforts), Ragdoll Productions: (Rosie and Jim, Tots TV), Optimum Television: (Old Bear Stories), Honeycomb Animation: (Grizzly Tales for Gruesome Kids), Chorion: (Agatha Christie's Marple and Poirot), Carnival Films: (Rosemary & Thyme), and Red Productions: (Bob and Rose, Second Coming). ITV also handled non-Spanish, Portuguese and Italian distribution rights to Pocoyo from the show's premiere in 2005 until 2011, when ITV and Zinkia Entertainment ended their distribution agreement.

The company also incorporates ITV Studios Home Entertainment and a publishing and consumer licensing division, responsible for merchandising rights of ITV Productions and third-party programmes (including CBeebies' Numberjacks).

References

External links

ITVstudios.com

Mass media companies established in 1954
British companies established in 1954
ITV (TV network)
Television production companies of the United Kingdom
Mass media companies based in Greater Manchester
Peabody Award winners
Companies based in Stamford, Connecticut