[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rugby union in Samoa

s playing professionally abroad can work to Samoa's disadvantage when it comes to team training as it is difficult to get them all together as a squad. But Samoa still manage to remain competitive on the world-stage and are regarded as tough opponents.

Competitions

National Provincial Championship

This is the second highest level of domestic competition within Samoan rugby union and is a stepping stone for local players into international rugby. Teams play within their respective unions, and then the top teams from each union then contest the finals series held at Apia Park. The Apia West and Apia union teams usually dominate.

Pacific Rugby Cup

The IRB Pacific Rugby Cup started in 2006 and involves representative teams from the three Pacific rugby unions, Fiji, Tonga and Samoa. Samoa, along with Tonga and Fiji, have two sides in the tournament, Savaii Samoa and Upolu Samoa. The aim of the tournament is to improve the quality of rugby in the Pacific Islands.

Representative teams

National

The national team known as Manu Samoa have competed at every Rugby World Cup since 1991, and have made the quarter-finals in 1991, 1995 and 1999.

Samoa also play in the Pacific Nations Cup and the Pacific Tri-Nations. The sport is governed by Lakapi Samoa, were members of the Pacific Islands Rugby Alliance, and thus, also contributed to the international Pacific Islanders rugby union team.

Pacific Tri-Nations

The Pacific Tri-Nations is the series between Tonga, Fiji and Samoa. It has been played since 1982. It was replaced by the Pacific Nations Cup.

Pacific Nations Cup

The Pacific Nations Cup is a competition most often held between six Pacific rim sides; Fiji, Japan, Samoa, Tonga, Canada, and the United States. The inaugural competition in 2006, known as the IRB Pacific 5 Nations, featured New Zealand's "A" side, the Junior All Blacks. In 2007, Australia A joined the original IRB Pacific 5 Nations teams in the new IRB Pacific Nations Cup. The 2008 competition saw the Junior All Blacks replaced by the New Zealand Māori, a developmental side made up entirely of players from the country's indigenous Māori people. In 2009, Australia A did not play and the Junior All Blacks returned. The 2010 competition had no participation from Australia or New Zealand, and was won by Manu Samoa.

National (sevens)

The Samoa national rugby sevens team is one of the 15 "core teams" that compete in every event in the annual World Rugby Sevens Series. Long a solidly competitive side, Samoa Sevens burst into prominence in 2006–07, when they ran traditional favourites New Zealand and Fiji very close for the title. They cemented their status as one of the world's sevens powers by winning the 2009–10 season title.

Samoa rules
Samoa rules is a traditional sport derived from Australian rules football and rugby union that is occasionally played in Samoa. It generally uses rugby pitches, H posts and 15-a-side teams, but is played to Australian rules otherwise.

See also
 Sport in Samoa
 Culture of Samoa
 American Samoa national rugby union team
 Rugby union in American Samoa

References

External links
Official website of Manu Samoa
Samoan rugby union news from Planet Rugby
The information website for supporters of the Manu Samoa Rugby Team
Samoa Observer sports pages