[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Clyde Holding

rom state politics to go into federal politics in 1977 and both he and Holding would become ministers under Bob Hawke.

After the 1980 election, at which Hawke was elected to federal Parliament, Holding emerged as Hawke's key "numbers man" in his campaign to become leader of the federal Labor Party.

Minister
When Hawke was elected Prime Minister at the 1983 election, he insisted that Holding be included in the ministry, and gave him the difficult but symbolically important portfolio of Aboriginal Affairs. Holding was a strong supporter of land rights for Indigenous Australians, and his main ambition as minister was to bring in legislation for uniform national land rights, which the 1967 amendment to the Australian Constitution would have permitted. But the Labor Premier of Western Australia, Brian Burke, strongly objected to such a step, which would have upset the powerful mining and pastoral industries in his state. After heavy lobbying from Burke, Hawke pressured Holding to drop the proposal.

In 1987 Holding was shifted to the portfolio of Minister for Employment Services and Youth Affairs. In 1988 he became Minister for Transport and Communications Support. A few months later he was promoted to Cabinet and made Minister for Immigration, Local Government and Ethnic Affairs, but later in the year there was another reshuffle and he was demoted to the Arts and Territories portfolio, outside Cabinet. He held this post until the 1990 election, when he was dropped from the ministry.

Backbench
Melbourne Ports was significantly altered ahead of the 1990 election.  Long one of the safest Labor seats in the nation, it was pushed slightly to the east to take in some wealthier, Liberal-leaning suburbs.  This knocked Holding's majority from a reasonably safe 9.9 percent to a marginal 3.9 percent.  Nonetheless, Holding was re–elected with a small swing against him.  He remained in the House as a backbencher until his retirement in 1998.

References

 

 

 

1931 births
2011 deaths
People educated at Trinity Grammar School, Kew
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Australia
Members of the Cabinet of Australia
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Melbourne Ports
Members of the Australian House of Representatives
Melbourne Law School alumni
Members of the Victorian Legislative Assembly
Leaders of the Opposition in Victoria (state)
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Victoria
20th-century Australian politicians
Politicians from Melbourne