[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Henry Livermore Abbott

at the Battle of Salem Church. Brigadier General John Gibbon's division, including the 20th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment, which had been left to hold the line at Fredericksburg, had to retreat across the Rappahannock River to join Hooker and Sedgwick, who had recrossed the river further upstream.

Gettysburg, Pickett's Charge and Bristoe Station
On June 5, 1863, Hooker realized that Confederate General Robert E. Lee was moving his army north and began to follow them, keeping the Army of the Potomac between Washington, D.C. and Lee's forces. President Lincoln accepted Hooker's resignation as commanding general of the Army of the Potomac on June 27, 1863 and appointed Major General George Gordon Meade to replace him. The 20th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry Regiment, under its new colonel, Paul J. Revere, grandson of the hero of the American Revolution of the same name, arrived in its position on Cemetery Ridge at Gettysburg, Pennsylvania on July 2, 1863, the second day of the Battle of Gettysburg. Although not moved to the front line until later that night, the 20th Massachusetts Infantry came under shelling on the evening of July 2, 1863. Eleven officers or men of the regiment were killed or severely wounded, including Colonel Revere, who was mortally wounded. The 20th Massachusetts Infantry was moved into the center of the line, about 100 yards to the left of a copse of trees that constituted the Union center and was main objective pointed out by General Lee. The Confederate bombardment of Union positions on Cemetery Ridge at Gettysburg on the afternoon of July 3, 1863 was generally high and beyond the front line although the 20th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment did suffer a few casualties during the shelling. The bombardment was followed by Pickett's Charge which the 20th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry took a key part in repelling. Abbott was one of three unwounded officers in the regiment during Pickett's Charge and assumed command of the regiment when his superiors were wounded. The 20th Massachusetts Infantry waited until the Confederates were close to the Union line and then unleashed murderous volleys which broke the Confederate Army's advance at that point. Realizing that they had repulsed the Confederate advance at great loss to the attackers, the Massachusetts soldiers began to shout "Fredericksburg, Fredericksburg" as they believed they had avenged their defeat and loss in that terrible battle. Then, Abbott had his men turn to help beat off the Confederate attack on the Union line at the copse of trees, which was at the very heart of the battle (the high water mark of the Confederacy). Although the battle had been won, over half of the enlisted men and 10 of the 13 officers of the 20th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry had been killed or wounded.

After the battle, Abbott remained in command of the regiment and was promoted to major on October 10, 1863. Four days later, the 20th Massachusetts Infantry fought in the small but sharp action at Bristoe Station, Virginia. Union forces were surprised by the attack of Confederate Lieutenant General A. P. Hill's men. The 20th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry took few casualties, however, because they were able to fight from behind a steep railroad grade. After Major General Meade demonstrated against Confederate forces at the battle of Mine Run Creek, the Army of the Potomac went into winter quarters at Brandy Station, Virginia. In December 1863, Abbott received a 15-day leave to visit home, which was extended by 20 days due to his suffering from chronic diarrhea. In January 1864, Abbott left home to rejoin his regiment.

Death at the Wilderness
On May 4, 1864, newly appointed General-in-Chief of the Union Armies and Lieutenant General Ulysses S. Grant began his drive south into Virginia that became known as the Overland Campaign. Although two sources state that Abbott remained in command of the 20th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry until his death, another source says that Colonel George N. Macy returned to the regiment just before the Battle of the Wilderness on May 5–6, 1864, and that Abbott again assumed command of the regiment after Colonel Macy was wounded. At the Battle of the Wilderness, on May 6, 1864, Major Henry Abbott was shot in the abdomen while encouraging his command from an exposed, standing position, after he ordered his men to fight while lying down, as he had done at the Battle of Ball's Bluff. Mortally wounded, Henry Livermore Abbott died at a field hospital on the same day.

Brevet awards and posthumous praise
Henry Livermore Abbott's service and exploits had gained him some notoriety so news of his death was met with consternation and grief at the highest levels of command and back in Lowell, Massachusetts. Holmes later said that Abbott was a friend whose death "seemed to end a portion of our life also."