[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Foreign relations of Serbia

Diplomatic relations
Serbia maintains diplomatic relations with 188 UN member states, the Holy See, State of Palestine and the Sovereign Military Order of Malta:

Serbia has not established diplomatic relations with Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, and Samoa.

Multilateral

Africa
Ever since the times of Josip Broz Tito and the Non-Aligned Movement, Serbia has enjoyed excellent relations with African nations. Angola, Ethiopia, Nigeria, Zimbabwe and South Africa are Serbia's closest allies in Sub-Saharan Africa. South Africa and Serbia have had excellent relations since the signing of diplomatic relations in 1992 following the end of the Apartheid system. Many ANC and Umkhonto we Sizwe resistance fighters received training in Serbia during Apartheid. South Africa is also home to around 20,000 Serbs, mainly living in the Johannesburg area. South Africa is also voicing support for Serbia over the Kosovo issue. Nelson Mandela was also made an honorary citizen of Belgrade. Serbia is also actively involved in many investments in Angola with whom it has excellent political and economic relations.

Relations frozen

America
Serbia has strong but strained relations with the United States and a bit more relaxed relations with Canada, because of their hostile recognition of Kosovo's independence and NATO bombing from 1999, which aimed to help this secession. On 25 February 2008, Serbian Prime Minister Vojislav Koštunica demanded that the United States rescind its recognition of Kosovo, warning that "there will be no stability until the fake state" is annulled.

Serbia has very good relations with Latin America, except Colombia and Panama, which recognized Kosovo's independence.

Asia
Serbia has excellent relations with countries such as China, Indonesia, India, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Kazakhstan, Lebanon, South Korea, Vietnam, and the United Arab Emirates. These countries are important economic partners for Serbia in Asia.

Europe

Serbia has signed the Stabilisation and Association Agreement (SAA) with the European Union on 29 April 2008 and is in the process of the Republic of being admitted into the framework of the European Union as a full-fledged member state.
Serbia officially applied for European Union membership on 22 December 2009, and the European Commission recommended making it an official candidate on 12 October 2011.  After the vote of the 27 EU foreign ministers on 28 February 2012, where with 26 votes for and 1 vote against, a candidate status recommendation was issued, and Serbia received full candidate status on 1 March.  On 28 June 2013 the European Council endorsed the Council of Ministers conclusions and recommendations to open accession negotiations with Serbia. In December 2013 the Council of the European Union approved opening negotiations on Serbia's accession in January 2014, and the first Intergovernmental Conference was held on 21 January at the European Council in Brussels.

Former Yugoslavia

Other European countries

Oceania

See also

 Government of Serbia
 Ministry of Foreign Affairs
List of diplomatic missions in Serbia
List of diplomatic missions of Serbia
Visa requirements for Serbian citizens
Serbia in intergovernmental organizations
 Serbian Blue Book
 Foreign relations of Yugoslavia

References

Further reading
 Schevill, Ferdinand. History of the Balkans (1922) online
 Stavrianos, L. S.  The Balkans Since 1453 (1958), a comprehensive scholarly history
 Trivanovitch, Vaso. "Serbia, Russia, and Austria during the Rule of Milan Obrenovich, 1868-78" Journal of Modern History (1931) 3#3 pp. 414–440 online

External links

 Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Serbia

 
Politics of Serbia