[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Macy conferences

s. If Shannon's rat encountered itself in a path in which its 'memory' failed to fire correctly, that is to recall the paths which lead it to its goal, it would get stuck in an endless loop chasing its tail. Completely abandoning its goal-oriented design, Shannon's rat had seemingly become neurotic.

The Macy Conferences failed to reconcile the subjectivity of information (its meaning) and that of the human mind but succeeding in showing how concepts such as that of the observer, reflexivity, black box systems, and neural networks would have to be approached in conjunction and eventually overcome in order to form a complete working theory of the mind. The Macy Conferences were discontinued shortly after the ninth conference.

First Cybernetics Conference, 21–22 March 1946
Second Cybernetics Conference, 17–18 October 1946
Third Cybernetics Conference, 13–14 March 1947
Fourth Cybernetics Conference, 23–24 October 1947
Fifth Cybernetics Conference, 18–19 March 1948
Sixth Cybernetics Conference, 24–25 March 1949
Seventh Cybernetics Conference, 23–24 March 1950
Eighth Cybernetics Conference, 15–16 March 1951
Ninth Cybernetics Conference, 20–21 March 1952
Tenth Cybernetics Conference, 22–24 April 1953

Participants: (as members or guests) in at least one of the Cybernetics conferences:
Harold Alexander Abramson, Ackerman, Vahe E. Amassian, William Ross Ashby, Yehoshua Bar-Hillel, Gregory Bateson, Alex Bavelas, Julian H. Bigelow, Herbert G. Birch, John R. Bowman, Henry W. Brosin, Yuen Ren Chao (who memorably recited the Lion-Eating Poet in the Stone Den), Jan Droogleever-Fortuyn, M. Ericsson, Fitch, Lawrence K. Frank, Ralph Waldo Gerard, William Grey Walter, Molly Harrower, George Evelyn Hutchinson, Heinrich Klüver, Lawrence S. Kubie, Paul Lazarsfeld, Kurt Lewin, J. C. R. Licklider, Howard S. Liddell, Donald B. Lindsley, W. K. Livingston, David Lloyd, Rafael Lorente de Nó, R. Duncan Luce, Donald M. MacKay, Donald G. Marquis, Warren S. McCulloch, Turner McLardy, Margaret Mead, Frederick A. Mettier, Marcel Monnier, Oskar Morgenstern, F. S. C. Northrop, Walter Pitts, Henry Quastler, Antoine Remond, I. A. Richards, David McKenzie Rioch, Arturo Rosenblueth, Leonard J. Savage, T. C. Schneirla, Claude Shannon, John Stroud, Hans-Lukas Teuber, Mottram Torre, Gerhardt von Bonin, Heinz von Foerster, John von Neumann, Heinz Werner, Norbert Wiener, Jerome B. Wiesner, J. Z. Young

This is a sampling of the topics discussed each year.
1946, March (NYC)
 Self-regulating and teleological mechanisms
 Simulated neural networks emulating the calculus of propositional logic
 Anthropology and how computers might learn how to learn
 Object perception's feedback mechanisms
 Perceptual differences due to brain damage
 Deriving ethics from science
 Compulsive repetitive behavior

1946, October (NYC)
 Teleological mechanisms in society
 Concepts from Gestalt psychology
 Tactile and chemical communications among ant soldiers

1947, March (NYC)
 Child psychology

1947, October (NYC)
 The field perspective on psychology
 Analog vs. digital approaches to psychological models

1948, Spring (NYC)
 Formation of "I" in language
 Formal modeling applied to chicken pecking order formation

1949, March (NYC)
 Are the number of neurons and their connections sufficient to account for human capacities?
 Memory
 An appeal for collaboration between physics and psychology

1950, March (NYC)
 Analog vs. digital interpretations of the mind
 Language and Shannon's information theory
 Language, symbols and neurosis
 Intelligibility in speech communications
 A formal analysis of semantic redundancy in printed English

1951, March (NYC)
 Information as semantic
 Can automatons engage in deductive logic?
 Decision theory
 Feedforward
 Small group dynamics and group communications
 The applicability of game theory to psychic motivations
 The type of language needed to analyze language
 Mere behavior vs. true communication
 Is psychiatry scientific?
 Can a mental event that creates a memory ever be unconscious?

1952, March (NYC)
 The relation of neurophysiological details to broad issues in philosophy and epistemology
 The relation of cybernetics at the microlevel to biochemical and cellular processes
 The complexity of organisms as a function of information
 Humor, communication, and paradox
 Do chess playing automatons need randomness to defeat humans?
 Homeostasis and learning

1953, April (Princeton)
 Studies on the activity of the brain
 Semantic information and its measures
 Meaning in language and how its acquired
 How neural mechanisms can recognize shapes and musical chords
 What consensus, if any, the Macy Conferences have arrived at

Some of the researchers present at the cybernetics conferences later went on to do extensive government-funded research on the psychological effects of LSD, and its potential as a tool for interrogation and psychological manipulation in such projects as the CIA's MKULTRA program.