[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals

The Convention on the Conservation of Migratory Species of Wild Animals, also known as the Convention on Migratory Species (CMS) or the Bonn Convention, is an international agreement that aims to conserve migratory species throughout their ranges. The agreement was signed under the auspices of the United Nations Environment Programme and is concerned with conservation of wildlife and habitats on a global scale.

Signed in 1979 in Bonn, West Germany, the convention entered into force in 1983. As of September 2020, there are 131 Member States to the convention. The depositary is the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany.

The CMS is the only global, and United Nations-based, intergovernmental organization established exclusively for the conservation and management of terrestrial, aquatic and avian migratory species. The CMS, and its daughter agreements, determine policy and provide further guidance on specific issues through their strategic plans, action plans, resolutions, decisions and guidelines.

Fundamental principles
Fundamental Principles of the convention are set out in Article 2. The parties acknowledge the importance of migratory species being conserved and of range states agreeing to take action to this end "whenever possible and appropriate", "paying special attention to migratory species the conservation status of which is unfavourable and taking individually or in cooperation appropriate and necessary steps to conserve such species and their habitat." Further in Article 2(2) The parties "acknowledge" [but do not commit in stronger language, cf Art 2(3) "shall"] "the need to take action to avoid any migratory species becoming endangered".

Article 2(3) of the convention states that

the parties:

(a) Should promote, cooperate in and support research relating to migratory species;(b) Shall endeavour to provide immediate protection for migratory species included in Appendix I; and(c) Shall endeavour to conclude AGREEMENTS covering the conservation and management of migratory species included in Appendix II.

Parties to the convention

States parties 
The following are all parties to the convention, as of 1 January 2021:

Sovereign states

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Other states/entities
 
 

Signed, but not ratified

Participating non-parties 
The following, while not parties to the convention, are party to one or more of the agreements and/or have signed one or more of the MOUs:

Sovereign states

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Other states/entities

Species coverage
The CMS Family covers a great diversity of migratory species. The appendices of CMS include many mammals, including land mammals, marine mammals and bats; birds; fish; reptiles and one insect. Among the instruments, AEWA covers 254 species of birds that are ecologically dependent on wetlands for at least part of their annual cycle. EUROBATS covers 52 species of bat, the Memorandum of Understanding on the Conservation of Migratory Sharks seven species of shark, the IOSEA Marine Turtle MOU six species of marine turtle and the Raptors MoU 76 species of birds of prey.

Appendix I – Threatened migratory species
Migratory species threatened with extinction are listed on Appendix I of the convention, with relevant provisions outlined in Article III, paragraphs 4 and 5. Parties that are range states to Appendix I species are obliged to afford them strict protection. CMS parties strive towards strictly protecting these animals, conserving or restoring the places where they live, mitigating obstacles to migration and controlling other factors that might endanger them. Besides establishing obligations for each state joining the convention, CMS promotes concerted action among the range states of many of these species.

Appendix II – Migratory species requiring international cooperation
Migratory species that need or would significantly benefit from international co-operation are listed in Appendix II of the convention.  These species, either individually or by taxonomic group, are the basis for establishing instruments – regional or global – under CMS. For this reason, the convention encourages the range states to conclude global or regional agreements.

CMS instruments

Agreements 
The CMS acts as a framework convention and encourages its states parties to conclude global or regional agreements. Article V of the convention lays out what agreements agreed to under its auspices should include. These agreements are usually legally binding treaties that aim to "restore the migratory species concerned to a favorable conservation status or to maintain it in such a status." To date seven agreements have been signed, they are as follow: