[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Aga Khan Agency for Microfinance

ctivities are overwhelmingly concentrated in rural areas and on rural products. About 85 percent of loans in the region are disbursed from rural branches. The PAMF microfinance institutions offer credit for cereal commercialization, horticulture, animal fattening, and alternatives to cotton growing.

East Africa
In East Africa, AKAM's primary objective is to provide loans to microenterprises and small businesses for income-generating activities such as small-scale agriculture, fishing, and retail. AKAM’s East African institutions disbursed about 8,640 loans in 2009, with 45 percent of the beneficiaries being women. The value of outstanding loans exceeded US$1.8 million. Two new branches were opened in Chiure, Mozambique, and Zanzibar, Tanzania, which brought AKAM's presence in the region to 10 branches in three countries—the third being Kenya.

Madagascar
The Première Agence de MicroFinance in Madagascar (PAMF-Madagascar) was established in December 2006 as a credit institution, with the first four branches established in the region of Sofia, a rural area in the north of Madagascar. In late 2008, PAMF-Madagascar became a microfinance institution. It began taking deposits in July 2009. Today, PAMF-Madagascar has 11 branches in five regions of Madagascar (Sofia, Analamanga, Boeny, Diana, and Itasy), and it now operates in both rural and urban areas. At the end of 2009, over 9,500 outstanding loans were distributed by PAMF-Madagascar. These totaled over US$1.8 million and over 1,100 savers deposited with PAMF-Madagascar.

Programmes, initiatives and services

Housing loans
One of the key priorities for the agency was the development of a housing portfolio and methodology throughout six countries. Many of AKAM's institutions offer loans for the refurbishment and renovation of homes. By providing credit to poor families to restore and upgrade their homes, AKAM institutions are contributing to genuine improvements in the quality of life of their constituents.

In Afghanistan, the First MicroFinance Bank (FMFB-A) piloted a habitat improvement product in 2008. With the support of the IFC, a housing microfinance loan product was developed.

As of December 2010, FMFB-A had 5,003 outstanding housing improvement loans and an outstanding total housing loan portfolio of US$6,759,010. This product is available in 21 urban branches, and now FMFB-A is looking at adapting the product for rural areas by conducting a rural demand and repayment capacity survey to develop the most suitable product for these areas.

In collaboration with the Aga Khan Planning and Building Services, Pakistan, and the Aga Khan Foundation USA, along with a grant from the United States Agency for International Development, FMFB-A will be providing construction advisory services in 2011.

In 2010, the agencies took the first step and developed guidelines for the construction and retrofitting of non-engineered buildings. Based on those standards, FMFB-A will provide construction appraisal and advisory services and promote innovative housing upgrades.

Construction advisory services consider a number of factors. These include site and construction material selection and construction design with regards to disaster mitigation, particularly in earthquake-prone areas, and material selection and construction design with regards to sustainability, energy efficiency, sanitation, and other health aspects. If these factors are taken into consideration, the housing infrastructure that is insufficient in both quantity and quality can be improved.

Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) loans
Small and medium enterprises are often referred to as the "missing middle" in developing country economies. While individual microenterprises help to sustain and support the core livelihoods of families and households and are central to improving quality of life and alleviating poverty, SME activity is at the heart of growth, sustaining jobs and employment creation for all, including youth and disadvantaged individuals.

Additionally, the job creation element of SMEs can enable many poor people to feel more secure because SME loans provide a mechanism to smooth incomes so that SMEs can employ and pay monthly salaries. Through its SME lending, AKAM aims to stimulate sustainable employment to promote economic development and poverty alleviation. AKAM also supports investment in community services for broader improvements, such as improved access to health care and education and upgrades in the built environment.

In 2008, based on the success in Afghanistan, the first institution to offer SME loans, AKAM launched a pilot of a similar SME initiative in Egypt, which added an integrated in-house business development services component provided directly by AKAM's microfinance institution in Egypt.