[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 160]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ny with him any longer.

_Mr Barlow._--That was a pity, because I am convinced he really loves
you. However, it is of no great consequence, for he has employment
enough at home; and however ingenious you may be, I do not think that he
will learn how to manage his land, or raise food, from your
conversation. It will therefore be better for him to converse with
farmers, and leave you to the society of gentlemen. Indeed, this I know
has always been his taste; and had not your father pressed him very much
to accompany you home, he would have liked much better to have avoided
the visit. However, I will inform him that you have gained other
friends, and advise him for the future to avoid your company.

_Tommy._--Oh, sir! I did not think you could be so cruel. I love Harry
Sandford better than any other boy in the world; and I shall never be
happy till he forgives me all my bad behaviour, and converses with me
again as he used to do.

_Mr Barlow._--But then, perhaps, you may lose the acquaintance of all
those polite young gentlemen and ladies.

_Tommy._--I care very little about that, sir. But I fear I have behaved
so ill that he never will be able to forgive me, and love me as he did
formerly.

Tommy then went on, and repeated with great exactness the story of his
insolence and ingratitude, which had so great an effect upon him, that
he burst into tears, and cried a considerable time. He then concluded
with asking Mr Barlow if he thought Harry would be ever able to forgive
him?

_Mr Barlow._--I cannot conceal from you, my little friend, that you have
acted very ill indeed in this affair. However, if you are really ashamed
of all your past conduct, and determined to act better, I do not doubt
that so generous and good-natured a boy as Harry is, will forgive you
all.

_Tommy._--Oh, sir! I should be the happiest creature in the world. Will
you be so kind as to bring him here to day? and you shall see how I will
behave.

_Mr Barlow._--Softly, Tommy, softly. What is Harry to come here for?
Have you not insulted and abused him without reason; and at last
proceeded so far as to strike him, only because he was giving you the
best advice, and endeavouring to preserve you from danger? Can you
imagine that any human being will come to you in return for such
treatment, at least till you have convinced him that you are ashamed of
your passion and injustice, and that he may expect better usage for the
future?

_Tommy._--What, then, must I do, sir?

_Mr Barlow._--If you want any future connection with Harry Sandford, it
is your business to go to him and tell him so.

_Tommy._--What, sir! go to a farmer's, to expose myself before all his
family?

_Mr Barlow._--Just now you told me you were ready to do everything, and
yet you cannot take the trouble of visiting your friend at his own
house. You then imagine that a person does not expose himself by acting
wrong, but by acknowledging and amending his faults?

_Tommy._--But what would everybody say if a young gentleman like me was
to go and beg pardon of a farmer's son?

_Mr Barlow._--They would probably say that you have more sense and
gratitude than they expected. However, you are to act as you please.
With the sentiments you still seem to entertain, Harry will certainly be
a very unfit companion, and you will do much better to cultivate the new
acquaintance you have made.

Mr Barlow was then going away, but Tommy burst again into tears, and
begged him not to go; upon which Mr Barlow said, "I do not want to leave
you, Tommy, but our conversation is now at an end. You have asked my
advice, which I have given you freely. I have told you how you ought to
act, if you would preserve the esteem of any good or sensible friend, or
prevail upon Harry to excuse your past behaviour. But as you do not
approve of what I suggested, you must follow your own opinion."

"Pray sir, pray sir," said Tommy, sobbing, "do not go. I have used Harry
Sandford in the most barbarous manner; my father is angry with me, and,
if you desert me, I shall have no friend left in the world."

_Mr Barlow._--That will be your own fault, and therefore you will not
deserve to be pitied. Is it not in your own power to preserve all your
friends by an honest confession of your faults? Your father will be
pleased, Harry Sandford will heartily forgive you, and I shall retain
the same good opinion of your character which I have long had.

_Tommy._--And is it really possible, sir, that you should have a good
opinion of me after all I have told you about myself?

_Mr Barlow._--I have always thought you a little vain and careless, I
confess, but at the same time I imagined you had both good sense and
generosity in your character; I depended upon _first_ to make you see
your faults, and upon the _second_ to correct them.

_Tommy._--Dear sir, I am very much obliged to you; but you have always
been extremely kind and friendly to me.