[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ahmed Sofa

eated an existentialist character Ali Kenan in a backdrop of Mazar culture in Bangladesh. The political scenes, from Ayub Khan to Sheikh Mujib, are explored from the viewpoint of the people living on the fringe of the society. Salimullah Khan viewed Ali Kenan as a metaphor for Sheikh Mujibur Rahman.

Maranbilash (Death-Wish, 1989) portrays a minister at his deathbed. The minister opens up his mind and makes a confession of his misdeeds to his attendant Moula Box. The tragicomic confession of the minister brings out the dirty secrets of his past involving fratricide, adultery, communal conflicts, etc.

Alat Chakra (A Circle of Fire, 1993) a highly acclaimed novel, tells the love story of Daniel and Tayeba among the war refugees in Kolkata during the liberation war of Bangladesh. The story portrays the refugee intellectuals, and their self-seeking activities in a different light.

Gabhi Bittana (A Tale of a Cow, 1995) satirizes teachers' politics surrounding senate members' election and vice-chancellor selection at the University of Dhaka. Sofa placed the supreme institution of Bangladesh, Dhaka University, in a satirical milieu in Gabhi Bittano. People at Dhaka University were appalled by Sofa's portrayal of them in this novel.

Ardhek Nari Ardhek Ishvari (Half Woman and Half Goddess, 1996), a semi-autobiographical novel, pivots around the protagonists romantic relations with two women. Sofa planned the novel to be a monument of his love.

Pushpa Briksha ebang Bihanga Puran (Tales of Flowers, Trees and Birds, 1996) reflects Sofa's eco-consciousness and biophilia. In this autobiographical novel, Sofa "describes humanism in its most intimate form, an existential reality where we are inextricably connected with the environment that sustains us through our bonds with animals and plants." Upon publication, some critics were reluctant to categorize it as a novel.

Poetry and others
Written in "a distinctive poetic style", Sofa's Ekti Prabin Bater Kachhe Prarthana (Prayer to an Ancient Banyan Tree, 1977) envisions a Bangladesh free from poverty, exploitation and injustice.

Sofa's translation of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe's Faust was published in 1986. Jadyapi Amar Guru (He Is Still My Teacher, 1998) is his "outstanding memoir" of his friendship with his mentor Professor Abdur Razzaq.

List of Works

Poetry
1. Jollad Shomoy (1975) —'জল্লাদ সময়'(১৯৭৫)

2. Dukkher Diner Duha (1975) —'দুঃখের দিনের দোহা' (১৯৭৫)

3. Ekti Probin Boter kache Prarthona (1977)—'একটি প্রবীন বটের কাছে প্রার্থনা'(১৯৭৭)

4. Go-Hakim (1997) — 'গো-হাকিম' (১৯৯৭)

5. Lenin Ghumobe Ebar (1999) — 'লেনিন ঘুমোবে এবার' (১৯৯৯)

6. Ohitagni (2001) — 'অহিতাগ্নি' (২০০১)

Social and political activism
A good organiser, Sofa played an important role in mobilising writers along with Ahmed Sharif to established the Bangladesh Lekhak Shibir. In his early youth, Sofa was involved with the communist party for a short time. He also opened several free school for the children of slum-dwellers in Dhaka. He also organized Sampradayik Dangar Biruddhe Sampreeti Committee (1992–94), Taranga (1993–96), Nagarik Shakti (1995), etc.

Legacy and influence