[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 009-1

e transformation into any person, far beyond a simple disguise. She has a cute baby-face, but she is a cool agent who does not show sentiment or emotion during a mission.
Ludmilla Schindler

Schindler is the Director of Intelligence of Eastern Bloc's S Area, somewhere in Eastern Europe.
Ivan Gudonov

Gudonov is the Deputy Intelligence Director of Eastern Bloc's S Area. He is a ruthless man who would rather be at war than negotiate for peace.

Publication 
The manga was serialized in 6 volumes of the Futabasha publication Weekly Manga Action during the period between the 10 August 1967 issue to the 14 November 1974 issue.

Media

Anime 
A 12-episode anime series was produced by Ishimori Entertainment and XeNN Studios in partnership with Aniplex and first broadcast on TBS in Japan in late 2006. The anime was licensed for a North American release by A.D. Vision for $325,000. The first volume was released on June 19, 2007, although it was originally scheduled for release in March 2007. In 2008, the show, along with 30 other ADV titles were relicensed to Funimation. Most episodes are self-contained stories except for episodes 10-12 which combine to tell one story.

Episode 13 is an extra episode that was never aired on television and chronologically takes place between episodes 4 and 5. It was included with volume 5 of the Japanese DVD boxed set release.

Episode list

Reception 
Anime News Network's Theron Martin said the anime series "carries much of the style and flavor of Ishinomori's other iconic works like Kamen Rider and Kikaider" and noted "the series emphasizes Mylene's sex appeal by offering healthy and regular doses of fan service, although it leaves the most graphic parts to the imagination." He commented the character designs have "the same angular, caricatured look that all anime series based on Ishinomori's works have, with younger female "good guy" agents invariably being gorgeous sexpots and the bad guys (whether male or female) usually looking quite ugly." Martin also praised the musical score, saying it's "the other star of the series", aside from Mylene.
Writing for Mania Entertainment, Chris Beveridge said 009-1 has "a good sense of pacing and style to it, going over the top in some ways but also keeping itself rather grounded in others. This is a world that I would love to see revisited on a more regular basis and lament that we're already more than halfway past it with this release."

Bryan Morton from Mania Entertainment described it as "James Bond with women, Najica with no panties (no not in that sense), a cold-war Ghost in the Shell - sort of." Morton said "the stories themselves are fairly typical secret-agents tales - recover the scientist, prevent killings and so on - just with a slightly futuristic feel to them", but noted "all the stories hold together well and make sense". As the original manga is "so old", for him "it's amazing that the show still feels contemporary." The kind-heart from the protagonist that is far more you would expect from a spy, "makes it different enough from other secret agent stories to really grab the attention, while the individual stories are a good combination of action and emotion that keep you entertained" in Morton's opinion.

Derek Elley of Film Business Asia gave the film a 6 out of 10. It also received a 4.5/10 rating from iMDB.

Notes

General

Translations

References

Further reading

External links 
 Official Site (TBS) 
 
 Funimation's 009-1 Website
 

1967 manga
1974 comics endings
1969 Japanese television series debuts
1969 Japanese television series endings
2006 Japanese television series debuts
2006 Japanese television series endings
ADV Films
Animax original programming
Anime series based on manga
Aniplex
Cyborg comics
Espionage in anime and manga
Fuji TV original programming
Funimation
Futabasha manga
Girls with guns anime and manga
Japanese television dramas based on manga
Manga adapted into films
Manga adapted into television series
Science fiction anime and manga
Seinen manga
Shotaro Ishinomori
Toei tokusatsu
TBS Television (Japan) original programming
Japanese science fiction films