[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sauvignonasse

casionally been used as a synonym in central France, there is a different grape called Sauvignon Vert (or Gros Sauvignon) in the Gironde region that has no known relation to Sauvignonasse. Furthermore, the grape called Sauvignon vert in California is actually Muscadelle, adding additional confusion.

Confusion with Sauvignon blanc
Unlike Sauvignon gris, which is a clonal mutation of Sauvignon blanc also found in Chile, Sauvignonasse (which means “Sauvignon-like”) has no known genetic relationship with Sauvignon blanc. The vines were believed to be interspersed together in Bordeaux during the 19th century when the cuttings were brought to Chile labeled as just "Sauvignon blanc". The leaves and berry clusters of the Sauvignonasse and Sauvignon blanc are very similar which explains part of the confusion between the two vines. The two vines also have similar susceptibility to Botrytis. The wines made from the two grapes are noticeably different when compared together with Sauvignon blanc being much more aromatic with notes of ripe fruit like gooseberries and black currant that Sauvignonasse lacks in favor of softer, floral flavors. Sauvignon blanc also has more acidity than Sauvignonasse and retains much of its vibrancy and flavors longer.

Viticulture and wine
Sauvignonasse is a late budding vine with high sensitivity to downy mildew and oidium. The vine is prone to producing high yields which must be controlled in order to make premium quality wine. With Sauvignonasse, the quality of the wine depends greatly on the grapes being harvested at the right point. If picked too early the resulting wine will be dull and lack any varietal character. The grape also has the potential for very high levels of alcohol with 14.5% ABV not being uncommon.
 
The wine made from Sauvignonasse varies depending on the area in which it is produced. In the Friuli region, Friuilano and in Goriška Brda region, Jakot wine is typically full bodied with moderate acidity, floral aromas and delicate fruit flavors. In Chile, Sauvignon vert typically starts with aromas of green apples in its youth that fade as it ages and is more medium bodied.

Wine regions
The grape's most noted homes are in the Friuli-Venezia Giulia and Goriška Brda where it is one of the regions' most widely planted grape varieties. In the Friuli it is the main white grape of the Denominazione di origine controllata (DOC) zones of Colli Orientali del Friuli, Collio Goriziano, Friuli Grave and Friuli Isonzo where the grape accounts for more than 20% of those areas' total vineyard plantings. The grape is believed to be related to the Tocai Italico vine which is planted throughout the Veneto region. The only doubt involves the Tocai Italico plantings around the town of Breganze which ampelographers believe is a different vine altogether. Argentina, with its close ties to Italian viticulture, also has a small amount of Friulano vines planted.

Synonyms
Tocai Friulano, Friulano, Tokaj, Jakot, Sauvignon Vert, Sauvignon de la Corrèze, Sauvignon à Gros Grains

See also
Carménère – another Chilean wine grape with a similar story to Sauvignon vert

References

External links
Cal-Italia Tocai Friulano, varietal description

White wine grape varieties
Wine grapes of Italy