[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Callie Torres

Calliope Iphegenia Torres, M.D. is a fictional character from the medical drama television series Grey's Anatomy, which airs on the ABC in the United States. The character was created by series' producer Shonda Rhimes, and is portrayed by Sara Ramirez. She was introduced in season 2, as a senior orthopedic resident, as a love-interest for intern George O'Malley (T. R. Knight). Eventually becoming an attending orthopedic surgeon, the character was originally contracted to appear on a recurring basis, but received star-billing in season 3.

Torres was initially conceived as a love-interest, and eventual wife, for O'Malley, and was created to be disliked by her colleagues. Further storylines include relationships between her and plastic surgeon Mark Sloan (Eric Dane), cardiothoracic surgeon Erica Hahn (Brooke Smith), as well as a marriage to pediatric surgeon Arizona Robbins (Jessica Capshaw). The character's bisexual storyline with Hahn and Robbins, and her development later in the series has garnered high critical acclaim. She is one of the longest-running LGBT characters in television history, appearing in 11 seasons and 239 episodes.

Ramirez's portrayal of Torres has been widely praised by television critics and the character gained significant popularity as the series progressed. Ramirez was nominated for several awards for their portrayal of Torres, including the Image Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series, and the ALMA Award for Outstanding Actress in a Drama Television Series. The character was ranked at #7 by AfterEllen.com in the list of "Top 50 Favorite Female TV Characters." At the end of the show's twelfth season, Ramirez departed the show after 10 years, desiring to take a break.

Storylines
Callie Torres is introduced as an orthopedic surgery resident with a crush on intern George O'Malley (T. R. Knight). The two start a relationship and Torres moves into Meredith's house. Uneasy about the way their relationship is progressing, O'Malley confronts her, which results in her moving into a hotel. In the aftermath of the breakup, she meets and has a one-night stand with plastic surgeon Mark Sloan (Eric Dane), who becomes her friend. Torres and O'Malley subsequently reconcile, and the two marry in Las Vegas on the spur of the moment. Confused, O'Malley confides to fellow intern Izzie Stevens (Katherine Heigl), about his relationship woes over alcohol, leading to a drunken sexual encounter between the two. Torres remains unaware of his sexual encounter, but becomes increasingly suspicious, and announces her desire to conceive a child. Shortly thereafter, however, she discovers that O'Malley has been unfaithful, ending their marriage. Though her personal life is troubled, Torres thrives professionally when she is appointed as the hospital's Chief Resident. However, she soon begins struggling to cope in the role, and is demoted soon thereafter.

Torres forms a friendship with Erica Hahn (Brooke Smith), the hospital's new chief of cardiothoracic surgery. The two embark on a relationship when Hahn jokingly kisses Torres in an elevator to tease Sloan. Neither has been with another woman before, and Torres struggles with her bisexuality, and cheats on her with Sloan. She is initially forgiven, but after an argument about work, Hahn resigns from Seattle Grace, ending their relationship. New pediatric surgeon Arizona Robbins (Jessica Capshaw) kisses her, and they begin dating. Their relationship is tested when Torres comes out to her father, Carlos, who disowns her, cutting her off both financially and emotionally. When she is not granted a position as an attending, she publicly berates the chief, Richard Webber (James Pickens Jr.), and resigns from her post. She begins working at the neighboring Mercy West hospital, and when the two hospitals merge, she is promoted to an attending surgeon. Torres' father returns yet again, to condemn her, but ultimately accepts her sexuality. When Torres explains her desire to bear children, Robbins expresses disappointment, and their differing stances on the matter lead them to break up. Soon thereafter, a gunman commits mass murder at the hospital, and, relieved to have survived, Torres and Robbins reconcile, with Robbins agreeing that they should have children together.