[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 64]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

erve that
any of the poor had lost the use of their limbs by the same disease?

_Tommy._--I cannot say I have.

_Mr Barlow._--Then, perhaps, the being confined to a scanty diet, to
hardship, and to exercise, may not be so desperate as you imagine. This
way of life is even much less so than the intemperance in which too many
of the rich continually indulge themselves. I remember lately reading a
story on this subject, which, if you please, you shall hear. Mr Barlow
then read the following


"HISTORY OF A SURPRISING CURE OF THE GOUT."

"In one of the provinces of Italy there lived a wealthy gentleman, who,
having no taste either for improving his mind or exercising his body,
acquired a habit of eating almost all day long. The whole extent of his
thoughts was, what he should eat for dinner, and how he should procure
the greatest delicacies. Italy produces excellent wine, but these were
not enough for our epicure; he settled agents in different parts of
France and Spain, to buy up all the most generous and costly wines of
those countries. He had correspondence with all the maritime cities,
that he might be constantly supplied with every species of fish; every
poulterer and fishmonger in the town was under articles to let him have
his choice of rarities. He also employed a man on purpose to give
directions for his pastry and desserts. As soon as he had breakfasted in
the morning, it was his constant practice to retire to his library (for
he, too, had a library, although he never opened a book). When he was
there, he gravely seated himself in an easy chair, and, tucking a napkin
under his chin, ordered his head cook to be sent in to him. The head
cook instantly appeared attended by a couple of footmen, who carried
each a silver salver of prodigious size, on which were cups containing
sauces of every different flavour which could be devised. The gentleman,
with the greatest solemnity, used to dip a bit of bread in each, and
taste it, giving his orders upon the subject with as much earnestness
and precision as if he had been signing papers for the government of a
kingdom. When this important affair was thus concluded, he would throw
himself upon a couch, to repair the fatigues of such an exertion, and
refresh himself against dinner. When that delightful hour arrived, it is
impossible to describe either the variety of fish, flesh, and fowl which
was set before him, or the surprising greediness with which he ate of
all; stimulating his appetite with the highest sauces and richest wines,
till at length he was obliged to desist, not from being satisfied, but
from mere inability to contain more.

"This kind of life he had long pursued, but at last became so corpulent
that he could hardly move; his belly appeared prominent like a mountain,
his face was bloated, and his legs, though swelled to the size of
columns, seemed unable to support the prodigious weight of his body.
Added to this, he was troubled with continual indigestions and racking
pains in several of his limbs, which at length terminated in a violent
fit of the gout. The pains, indeed, at length abated, and this
unfortunate epicure returned to all his former habits of intemperance.
The interval of ease, however, was short, and the attacks of his disease
becoming more and more frequent, he was at length deprived of the use of
almost all his limbs.

"In this unhappy state he determined to consult a physician that lived
in the same town, and had the reputation of performing many surprising
cures. 'Doctor,' said the gentleman to the physician, when he arrived,
'you see the miserable state to which I am reduced.' 'I do, indeed,'
answered the physician, 'and I suppose you have contributed to it by
your intemperance.' 'As to intemperance,' replied the gentleman, 'I
believe few have less to answer for than myself; I indeed love a
moderate dinner and supper, but I never was intoxicated with liquor in
my life.' 'Probably, then, you sleep too much?' said the physician. 'As
to sleep,' said the gentleman, 'I am in bed nearly twelve hours every
night, because I find the sharpness of the morning air extremely
injurious to my constitution; but I am so troubled with a plaguy
flatulency and heartburn, that I am scarcely able to close my eyes all
night; or if I do, I find myself almost strangled with wind, and awake
in agonies.' 'That is a very alarming symptom, indeed,' replied the
doctor; 'I wonder so many restless nights do not entirely wear you out.'
'They would, indeed,' answered the gentleman, 'if I did not make shift
to procure a little sleep two or three times a-day, which enables me to
hold out a little longer.' 'As to exercise,' continued the doctor, 'I
fear you are not able to use a great deal.' 'Alas!' answered the sick
man, 'while I was able, I never failed to go out in my carriage once or
twice a-week, but in my present situation I can no longer bear the
gentlest motion; besides disorde