[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Marquand Manuel

Marquand Alexander Manuel (born July 11, 1979) is an American football coach and former safety who is the safeties coach for the New York Jets of the National Football League (NFL). He previously served as the defensive coordinator for the Atlanta Falcons and as an assistant coach for the Seattle Seahawks. After playing college football for the University of Florida, he was selected in the sixth round of the 2002 NFL Draft. He played for eight seasons in the NFL for the Seattle Seahawks, Green Bay Packers, Carolina Panthers, Denver Broncos, and Detroit Lions. He was the defensive coordinator for the Atlanta Falcons from 2017 to 2018.

Playing career

Early years

Manuel was born in Miami, Florida in 1979.  He attended Miami Senior High School, and he played high school football for the Miami High Stingarees.  As a senior safety in 1996, Manuel was a Florida Class 6A all-state selection who made ninety-six tackles, nine interceptions and eight blocked passes.  He received high school All-America recognition from National Recruiting Advisor, PrepStar and SuperPrep, and was rated among the top defensive back prospects in the country.  Manuel was also a four-year honor roll student, and ran the 100-meter dash in 10.6 seconds for the Miami Stingarees track team.

Manuel accepted an athletic scholarship to attend the University of Florida in Gainesville, Florida, where he played for coach Steve Spurrier's Florida Gators football team from 1998 to 2001.  The Gators coaching staff decided to red-shirt him as a true freshman in 1997, but he played in all eleven regular season games in 1998.  As a sophomore in 1999, he totaled 118 tackles, three interceptions, two sacks, one forced fumble and four passes defensed as a sophomore.  He started two games at outside linebacker, in addition to seeing significant action at safety, and led the team in tackles.

As a junior in 2000, Manuel served as a key leader on Florida's 10–2 Southeastern Conference (SEC) championship team that earned a berth in the Sugar Bowl.  As a senior team captain in 2001, he helped lead the Gators to a 10–2 record, a 56–23 victory over the Maryland Terrapins in the Orange Bowl, and a final No. 3 ranking in both major polls.  He played in forty-six games during his collegiate career, and totaled 308 tackles, eight quarterback sacks, nine tackles for a loss, six fumble recoveries, twenty-two passes defensed and six interceptions.

Manuel was a four-year SEC Academic Honor Roll honoree.  He earned a bachelor's degree in criminal justice from the University of Florida in December 2000, and finished his college football career as a graduate student working toward a master's degree in education counseling with a special emphasis on mental health.

National Football League

Cincinnati Bengals

The Cincinnati Bengals selected Manuel in the sixth round (181st pick overall) of the 2002 NFL Draft, and he played for the Bengals for two seasons in  and .  Manuel made his NFL debut against the Cleveland Browns on September 15, 2002, and started for the first time against the Indianapolis Colts and had two tackles.  During the 2003 season, Manuel totaled eight tackles (six solo) in thirteen games with one start for the Bengals, and he also added five tackles on special teams.  Manuel was waived by Cincinnati on September 5, 2004.

Seattle Seahawks

Manuel was claimed off waivers by the Seattle Seahawks on September 6, 2004.  In his first season with Seattle in , he played in fifteen games, finishing with ten tackles (seven solo) on defense and had nine stops on special teams.  In , Manuel was part of the Seahawks team that finished 13–3.  In the 2005 NFC Championship Game against the Carolina Panthers, he returned an interception thirty-two yards to set up a touchdown.  The Seahawks reached Super Bowl XL, but lost to the Pittsburgh Steelers 21–10.  Manuel started the Super Bowl at free safety, but injured his hip in the second quarter, and was replaced by Etric Pruitt.

Green Bay Packers
After Seattle's appearance in the Super Bowl, he was signed by the Green Bay Packers as an unrestricted free agent on March 13, 2006.  During his only season with the Packers in , Manuel started all sixteen games, totaling a career-high 103 tackles to rank fourth on the team.  Memorably, he intercepted a pass deflected by Ahmad Carroll and returned it twenty-nine yards for a touchdown against the Detroit Lions on September 24.

Carolina Panthers

The Green Bay Packers released Manuel on September 1, 2007 during the final preseason roster cuts, and he was signed by the Carolina Panthers on September 3.  He played for the Panthers for a single season during , playing in sixteen games and starting in two of them.

Denver Broncos