[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Screening (economics)

close such information on customers. This allowed insurance companies to create a range of risk classes in which their consumers were allocated. Moreover, this allowed insurance companies to create policy contracts for higher deductibles in exchange for lower premiums.

Screening techniques include:

 Background check – the party providing insurance obtains information about the customer such as their criminal history, credit rating and previous employment to reveal past behaviors
 Provision of demographic information – the party providing insurance obtains information about the customer such as their age, gender and ethnicity to reveal their type. For example, a young male has a higher risk of being in a car accident than a middle-aged woman 

Other information gathered by insurance parties during a screening process is usually specific to the type of insurance the customer is seeking. For example, car insurance will require provision of accident history, health insurance will require provision of health condition and previous illnesses, and so on.

Moral hazard:

Moral hazard take place when one party engages in actions that harm the other party. The chance of moral hazard can occur especially in insurance companies, in which one party takes part in risky behaviour as they have insurance coverage and therefore will benefit from being compensated by the insurance company. In this case, the insurance company is the uninformed party, however, through screening processes such as historic behaviour, therefore, insurance companies are able to identify those individuals in order to offer a different insurance plan.

Product market 
Businesses apply screening techniques when generating and adapting a new product idea. Once businesses have developed product ideas, screening processes are used in order to determine how well the product will do in the market. In this scenario, businesses are the uninformed party whilst consumers are the informed party, however, in order to understand what consumers are looking for in products, businesses deploy screening techniques to get a detailed idea.

Screening techniques include:

 Research and development - businesses take feedback from consumers based on prior products or products similar to one currently being developed to find what areas to improve on as well as how to create a point of difference to establish an innovative product that yields high return. Moreover, this allows businesses to identify consumer needs, the profitability of the idea and where the product fits in the market.
 Test marketing - the party providing the product obtains information from a group of individuals that represent the product market in order to understand how well the product will do in the market as well as how much individuals value the product. This screening process allows businesses to further understand how to market the product to appeal to individuals as well as gain information on the product market.
 Product launch - product launching is a screening process as it allows businesses to gain further information on how the product will do in the market as the product launch stage is the beginning of the product life cycle. Moreover, based on how the product does in the market as well as the feedback provided by consumers, businesses are able to gain further information on what areas of the product need to be improved.

Other techniques 
Second-degree price discrimination is also an example of screening, whereby a seller offers a menu of options and the buyer's choice reveals their private information. Specifically, such a strategy attempts to reveal more information about a buyer’s willingness to pay. For example, an airline offering economy, premium economy, business and first class tickets reveals information regarding the amount the customer is willing to spend on their airfare. With such information, firms can capture a greater portion of total market surplus.

Incorrect Screening 
One downfall of deploying screening techniques is the information gathered may be incorrect, this can therefore lead to inefficiency. For example, an unproductive employee may perform well in screening exams such as aptitude testing. However, as the employer is the uninformed party, they will not be able to notice these aspects until the individual has been employed, and therefore, the time and effort put into the employee causes inefficiency. Hence, it is important for industries to understand the biases involved when utilising screening techniques.