[Source: PubMed]

91. BMC Emerg Med. 2026 Feb 20;26(1):63. doi: 10.1186/s12873-026-01501-2.

Are you ready? A cross-sectional survey of education, training and learning 
activities for peacetime crisis and armed conflict preparedness in Swedish 
emergency departments.

Andersson H(1)(2)(3), Hult M(4)(5), Sterner A(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Caring Science, Work Life and Social Welfare, University of Borås, 
Borås, Sweden. henrik.andersson@hb.se.
(2)Centre for Disaster Medicine, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden. 
henrik.andersson@hb.se.
(3)PreHospen: Centre for Prehospital Research, University of Borås, Borås, 
Sweden. henrik.andersson@hb.se.
(4)Faculty of Caring Science, Work Life and Social Welfare, University of Borås, 
Borås, Sweden.
(5)PreHospen: Centre for Prehospital Research, University of Borås, Borås, 
Sweden.

The evolving security landscape in Europe underscores the crucial importance of 
disaster preparedness. Emergency Departments’ (EDs) personnel – comprising 
nurses, nurse assistants and physicians – play a vital role in managing crises 
during both peacetime and armed conflicts. However, readiness and educational 
preparation of Emergency Department (ED) personnel are inconsistent; 
consequently, Sweden’s National Board of Health and Welfare (NBHW) has 
introduced national recommendations concerning education and training for both 
peacetime crises and armed conflicts. This study aimed to investigate the extent 
to which education and training of ED personnel align with NBHW recommendations 
for peacetime crisis and armed conflict preparedness in Swedish EDs. A 
descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted among all 70 hospital-based EDs 
in Sweden. In August 2025, a questionnaire comprising 45 items was distributed, 
covering topics related to NBHW recommendations, as well as specific aspects of 
International Humanitarian Law. The findings revealed that EDs provide education 
and training on how emergency care is organised and managed during disaster 
situations, as well as how to strengthen their capability to deliver care under 
such conditions. However, education and training for emergency care during 
extreme weather events and armed conflicts remain incomplete. The survey also 
revealed that disaster preparedness education and training were more common 
among EDs that had a designated employee responsible for overseeing these 
activities. Finally, this descriptive and exploratory study indicates that EDs 
are taking steps to enhance ED personnel’s knowledge and skills in organising 
and managing emergency care during disaster situations, as well as their 
capacity to deliver care under such conditions. Nevertheless, education and 
training related to disaster preparedness and patient care during peacetime 
crises and armed conflicts remain incomplete. Consequently, ED personnel may 
have inadequate education and training necessary to respond effectively to 
all-hazard disasters.

DOI: 10.1186/s12873-026-01501-2
PMCID: PMC12930848
PMID: 41721267

Conflict of interest statement: Declarations. Ethical approval: The study was 
conducted in accordance with the ethical principles outlined in the Declaration 
of Helsinki. The study was designed, planned and conducted following Swedish law 
– namely, the Swedish Code of Statutes (Ethical Review of Research Involving 
Humans -SFS 2003:460), which states that ethical approval is not needed when 
people are invited to participate voluntarily. All participants received written 
information about the study, including a statement that participation was 
voluntary. They were assured of confidentiality and informed of their right to 
withdraw from the study at any time without providing a reason. Informed consent 
was considered obtained when a completed questionnaire was returned. This study 
collected data at the departmental level, and no sensitive personal information 
– such as gender, year of birth or similar identifiers – was gathered. Competing 
interests: The authors declare no competing interests.