[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of mobile network operators of the Americas

the Spectrum Management Authority.

Mexico
The country has 112 million subscribers in total, or a 91.6% penetration rate. (March 2017)

The country's current telecom regulator is IFETEL (IFT).

Montserrat

Nicaragua
The country has 6.8 million subscribers in total, or a 115% penetration rate. (2013)

Panama
The country has 4.96 Million subscribers in total, or 123 active mobile phones per 100 inhabitants according to ASEP. (December 2016)

Paraguay
The country has 7.34 Million subscribers in total, or a 109% penetration rate. The country's telecom regulator is CONATEL. (Nov 2015)

Peru
The country has 37.3 million subscribers in total for a population of 30.4 million, or a 123% penetration rate. (Mar. 2017)

The country's telecom regulator is OSIPTEL.

Puerto Rico and United States Virgin Islands
These U.S. territories have 3 million subscribers in total, or an 84% penetration rate. (June 2012).

The telecom regulator for Puerto Rico and the United States Virgin Islands at federal level is the United States' Federal Communications Commission (FCC).

The local telecom regulator for Puerto Rico is the Junta Reglamentadora de Telecomunicaciones de Puerto Rico (JRTPR) The local telecom regulator for USVI is the USVI Public Services Commission (USVIPSC)

 Currently unable to determine T-Mobile and TracFone subscriber numbers without the United States' subscribers.

Saint Kitts and Nevis
The country has approximately 25,000 subscribers in total.

Saint Lucia

Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

Suriname
The country has 0.81 million subscribers in total, or a 146% penetration rate. (2016). The regulator is the Telecommunicatie Authoriteit Suriname (TAS).

Trinidad and Tobago
At the end of 2021, the country has 2.00 million subscribers in total, or a 146% penetration rate. The regulator is Telecommunications Authority of Trinidad and Tobago (TATT)

Turks and Caicos Islands

United States

Mobile virtual network operators (MVNOs) in the United States lease wireless telephone and data service from major carriers such as AT&T Mobility, T-Mobile US, and Verizon Wireless, as well as regional carrier United States Cellular Corporation for resale. The largest operator of MVNOs is TracFone Wireless with over 25 million subscribers.

The country's telecom regulator is the United States Federal Communications Commission.

 T-Mobile and AT&T US numbers include Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands subscribers.
 T-Mobile and Sprint uses the GCI network in Alaska.

Uruguay
As of June 2020, Uruguay has 5.3 million mobile subscribers in total. The country's telecom regulator is URSEC.

Venezuela
The country has 20.7 million subscribers in December 2018, a 33% drop versus December 2013.

The country's telecom regulator is CONATEL.

See also
 List of mobile network operators of the Asia Pacific region
 List of mobile network operators of Europe
 List of mobile network operators of the Middle East and Africa
 List of mobile network operators worldwide
 List of telecommunications regulatory bodies
 Mobile Network Codes in ITU region 3xx (North America)
 Mobile Network Codes in ITU region 7xx (South America)

References

External links
 GSM Association (official site)
 Americas list of GSM, iDEN and CDMA operators

Americas-related lists
Americas
Telecommunications in North America
Telecommunications in South America
Telecommunications lists