[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Merritt-Chapman & Scott

ownership. Further research is needed to clarify this part of the history.

MC&S itself was to be taken over in 1951 by Louis E. Wolfson a renowned corporate raider of the time. The takeover was not without its problems, there were a number of stockholder suits, and eventually, further difficulties.

But Merritt-Chapman & Scott was involved in a large number of projects during this decade, including the following:
Washburn Tunnel, 1950,
Delaware Memorial Bridge 1951
John Greenleaf Whittier Bridge 1951
Auckland Harbour Board Freyberg and import wharf (joint venture with Fletcher Construction & Raymond Concrete Pile) 1951 Auckland
Tasman Mill  1953 New Zealand
Kingston-Rhinecliff Bridge 1957 Kingston, New York
Walt Whitman Bridge 1957

Mackinac Bridge
One of the most important projects of the decade was the foundation contract for David B. Steinman's Mackinac Bridge commenced 1954 and completed in 1957, across the Straits of Mackinac. This  bridge (including approaches) was the world's longest anchorage-to-anchorage single-suspended span at the time. and Merritt-Chapman & Scott Corporation's $25,735,600 (equivalent to $ in ) contract to build all the foundations led to the mobilization of the largest bridge construction fleet ever assembled to the time. The American Bridge Division of United States Steel Corporation had a $44,532,900  (equivalent  to $ in  ) contract to build this superstructure, with steel supplied by U.S. Steel's mills and delivered via their Pittsburgh Steamship Division's fleet.

The 1960s
Since the takeover, Wolfson had been stung with a dozen suits by angry investors, and in 1966 was indicted by a federal grand jury on charges of fraudulent dealings in Merritt-Chapman stock. Such stock manipulations, if they occurred, are only one of Merritt-Chapman's misfortunes under Wolfson. Another is that he tried to build up and broaden the company too fast. Acquisitions such as the unprofitable New York Shipbuilding Corp cut into profits and dividends; in 1966, there was a loss of $740,000 and no dividend at all. To halt the drain, Wolfson sold off a paint company, a small steel mill, the company's derrick division and a small shipyard, but the future was not assured. Along with its losses on operations, Merritt-Chapman also added a $3,233,000 "special charge" to the books in 1967 as a provision against losses if other properties had to be sold.

However, the company did carry out significant projects in this, the last full decade of its life. These included:
Throgs Neck Bridge 1961 New York City
Guri Dam 1963 Puerto Ordaz, Venezuela - as partner.
Glen Canyon Dam Arizona
Talmadge Bridge 1953–1954 Savannah, Georgia
Chesapeake Bay Bridge-Tunnel 1964 Hampton Roads
New Jersey Turnpike

The company also undertook smaller projects ranging from roads in Ethiopia to Air Force early-warning stations in Labrador.

Dissolution
The company ceased operation in the late 1960s or early 1970s (records are not clear but 1971 is likely<). After dissolution, some operations were apparently taken over by Murphy Pacific.

Since 1971, the New York Ship site has been owned by the South Jersey Port Corporation, a state agency, and operated as the Broadway Street Terminal. The Destroyer Yard was replaced in the 1960s by the Kitty Hawk drydock. That drydock is now the  principal berth for the Broadway Terminal, and is used for general cargo including petroleum coke, coal, dolomite, steel products, wood products, minerals, cocoa beans and perishables.

See also

Notes

References

External links
US Navy fighting ship site history of USS Gear a salvage ship operated by MS&C after purchase from the US Navy post World War II.
American Society of Civil Engineers  pdf history of the corporation, (not accessed, requires pay)
List of MS&C projects documented by the Historic American Engineering Record
Structurae.de entry
Bowling Green SU archive

Defunct companies based in New York (state)
Construction and civil engineering companies of the United States
Companies based in New York City