[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 South African municipal elections

was challenged by DA councillor Fred Nel for the seat.

Ekurhuleni
In the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality, the ANC retained its majority in the metropolitan government, with incumbent mayor Duma Moses Nkosi re-elected to a second term in office. He was challenged by DA councillor Eddie Taylor.

eThekwini
In the eThekwini Metropolitan Municipality, the ANC retained its majority in the metropolitan government, with Obed Mlaba being elected to a third term (his second six-year term) in office as mayor of the municipality. The ANC's mandate was increased by an estimated 115,000 votes, at the expense of the IFP, as was the case in several other parts of KwaZulu-Natal.

Cape Town
In the City of Cape Town, the Democratic Alliance was the largest single party in the City Council with 90 of the 210 seats on the council, ahead of the African National Congress's 81 seats, but with no party holding a majority. 
The African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) with 7 councillors, drew an unlikely array of five smaller political parties together to form a king-maker block of 16 Councillors that eventually agreed to work with the DA's 90 in a multi-party government (MPG) rather than the ANC /Independent Democrats alliance.  The MPG's 106 councillors agreed to elect the DA's Helen Zille as Executive Mayor, the ACDP as Executive Deputy Mayor, the Speaker post was held by the one elected councillor from the Freedom Front Plus, whilst the United Democratic Movement (1 councillor), the Universal Party (1 councillor) and the Africa Muslim Party (2 councillors) took up seats on the Mayoral Committee. This fragile MPG survived until January 2007 when the AMP was expelled from the MPG for conspiring with the ANC. The ID was drawn into the MPG when the ACDP offered up its Executive Deputy Mayors post.  This brought about a stable MPG

By district

Cacadu
In the Cacadu District Municipality, the African National Congress won Makana, Kouga, Ndlambe, Camdeboo, Sunday's River Valley, Blue Crane, Kou-Kamma, Ikwezi, and Aberdeen. The Democratic Alliance won Baviaans.

Sedibeng
In the Sedibeng District Municipality, the African National Congress won Emfuleni and Lesedi. The Democratic Alliance won Midvaal.

West Coast
In the West Coast District Municipality, the African National Congress won Matzikama, Cederberg, Bergrivier, and Saldanha Bay. The Democratic Alliance won Swartland.

Overberg
In the Overberg District Municipality, the African National Congress won Theewaterskloof, Cape Agulhas, and Swellendam. The Democratic Alliance won Overstrand.

Eden
In the Eden District Municipality, the African National Congress won Kannaland, Hessequa, Knysna, Oudtshoorn, and Bitou. The Democratic Alliance won Mossel Bay and George.

Central Karoo
In the Central Karoo District Municipality, the African National Congress won Beaufort West and Prince Albert. The Laingsburg Gemeenskaps Party won Laingsburg.

References

External links
Independent Electoral Commission
ANC
Democratic Alliance
Inkatha Freedom Party
Independent Democrats
Max du Preez on the plight of the poor in South Africa prior to the local elections

2006
2006 elections in South Africa
March 2006 events in South Africa