[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Said Tayeb Jawad

ted numerous visits of high-level ministers and President Karzai; appeared in newspaper, magazine, radio and television interviews; spoken before audiences at universities, think tanks, charitable organizations and community groups; and received awards and commendations for his work for Afghanistan.

Jawad has appeared numerous times in major American and international papers and television shows. He also regularly lectures and speaks at prominent universities and think tanks. According to the Washington Times Jawad has maintained a high profile for Afghanistan, even as most public attention since 2003 has been focused on the Iraq War.Washington Times: Afghan Progress

In late 2009 there were rumours that Jawad would be appointed foreign minister of AfghanistanMondiaal Nieuws Nieuwe regering, maar oude gewoonten in AfghanistanTolo TV: Afghan people want removal of present cabinet members but Karzai appointed Zalmai Rasul instead.

Jawad has participated in hundreds of conferences and forums related to Afghanistan and the region. Jawad is an avid polo player and a member of the Capitol Polo Club in Maryland. He played in the Green Cup and is a member of the United States Polo Association. Jawad has participated in many significant conferences and forums related to Afghanistan and the region in the past decade.

Ambassador to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
On January 2, 2017, Jawad was selected to serve as Afghanistan's Ambassador to the United Kingdom. On June 27, 2017, Jawad presented his Letter of Credentials to HM Queen Elizabeth II and officially took office as Ambassador of Afghanistan to the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Ambassador Jawad's focus since the beginning of his tenure has been to strengthen political ties between the two countries and convey a message of gratitude to the British Armed forces for their continuous support and sacrifices in Afghanistan.

Under Jawad's leadership, the Embassy of Afghanistan in London, hosted unprecedented First Afghanistan-UK Business Conference on 17th of September, 2018 in London, where more than 100 businessperson attended and discussed business opportunities in Afghanistan.  Further, the First Afghan British Business Forum a platform for Afghan-led businesses to connect, to expand and to strengthen their business networks in London was initiated under his leadership.  In 2019, The 2nd Afghanistan-UK Business Conference, where five cabinet Ministers participated, was initiated to build on the success of the conference. The aim of the conference was to enhance trade and commerce between the United Kingdom and Afghanistan, while promoting Afghanistan’s growing business environment. “At this conference, along with British businessmen who want to invest in Afghanistan, we have also invited Afghan government officials to answer the British businessmen's questions,” Jawad said.

Political views
Having lived in Europe and the USA for more than 25 years, Jawad is familiar with western views on society and politics. He has been supportive of the American War on Terror and of involvement of women in Afghan politics. Jawad has said that the biggest concern that Afghans have about the international presence is that it might be short-lived.

Jawad has been loyal to President Karzai. He publicly defended Karzai against allegations of corruption and said that he is the most hard-working president Afghanistan has ever had. Nevertheless, in October 2009 he was the first Karzai aide to suggest that a run-off between Karzai and his challenger Abdullah Abdullah was very likely after allegations of election fraud. He said that a power sharing agreement between Karzai and Abdullah would be a good political solution but said he doubted that it would bring more skillful people to the government and that a coalition government meant sacrificing merits.

Jawad and his wife have worked several times with former first lady Laura Bush in promoting awareness of rights for Afghan woman and children. However Jawad criticized the Bush administration sometimes on using so much aerial bombing, resulting in civilian casualties, Jawad has expressed his gratitude to the US and foreign military powers in Afghanistan on a large number of occasions. Towards President Obama, who was less supportive of Afghan President Karzai, Jawad was more critical: "When the new administration came in there were a lot of changes and sometimes there was an oversimplification of the issues. Now the Obama administration is realizing you cannot just get rid of a democratically elected president of a country because you don't really like him." he said to United Press International. Further Jawad has voiced opposition to President Obama's plan to begin withdrawing troops from Afghanistan starting summer 2011. Jawad stressed the importance of continued international presence to avoid a situation as in the early 90s.