[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Gaelic football, hurling and camogie positions

The following are the positions in the Gaelic sports of Gaelic football, hurling and camogie.

Each team consists of one goalkeeper (who wears a different colour jersey), six backs, two midfielders, and six forwards: 15 players in all. Some under-age games are played 13-a-side (in which case the full-back and full-forward positions are removed) or 11-a-side (in which case the full-back, centre back, centre forward and full-forward positions are removed).

The positions are listed below, with the jersey number usually worn by players in that position given.

Summary table

Goalkeeper
The role of a goalkeeper, who wears the number 1 jersey in Gaelic games, is similar to other codes: to prevent the ball from entering the goal. The goalkeeper in Gaelic football and hurling also usually has the role of kicking or pucking the ball out to the outfield players. A good goalkeeper most often has great agility and bravery as well as strength and height. In Gaelic football a keeper's shot stopping ability is of great importance alongside blocking. There is no limit to where on the field the goalkeeper can travel, although once they are outside the penalty area, they are subject to the same rules as all other players. A goalkeeper in men's football may touch the ball on the ground within his own small parallelogram, and is the only player permitted to do so.It is not permitted to physically challenge a goalkeeper while inside his own small parallelogram, but players may harass him into playing a bad pass, or block an attempted pass. The substitute goalkeeper usually wears the number 16 jersey and the third choice goalkeeper usually wears the number 31.

Full-backs

Right and left corner-back
The role of the right and left corner-back who, respectively, wear the number 2 and number 4 jerseys, is to defend against opposing attackers – in particular the left and right corner-forwards. They will play most around the 20-metre line. The positions require the players having decent speed over short bursts and good hand eye co-ordination, and agility is required.

Full-back
The role of full-back who wears the number 3 jersey is one of the most important in Gaelic football or hurling. As well as defending against attackers, the full-back is responsible for organising the defence and is the key defender in front of goals, and is usually one of the tallest and strongest players on the team. The full back plays most often around the 20-metre line. The position of the full-back requires that the player have decent speed over short bursts, strength, and good hand eye co-ordination. In playing either corner-back or full-back positions a well-developed aerobic system is required although, unlike the corner-backs, the full-back is needed to make short burst sprints both away from and into the goal area.

Half-backs

Right and left half-backs
The role of the half backs who wear the 5 (right) and 7 (left) jerseys is less defensive than that of the corner-backs. The half-backs operate most often in between the 45-metre line and the midfield. The half-backs are expected to defend against the opposition's half-forward line but also has a responsibility to make runs from the 45-metre line to advance the play to the half-forward and full-forward lines.

Sometimes referred to as right/left wing-back.

Centre half-back

The role of the centre half-back who wears the number 6 jersey, is less defensive than that of the full-back. The centre backs operates from the 45-metre line and forward to the midfield. The centre back will help win the breaking ball in the midfield and can be used as a third midfielder. The centre half-back generally marks the centre half-forward.
Sometimes referred to as centre back. The required agilities of a centre half-back are strength, height, speed and a good catching game.

Midfield
The role of the midfield who wears the number 8 or 9 jersey is to catch kick outs / puck outs from either team's goalkeeper, and to act as the main link between the defending and attacking sections of the team. Midfield is often described as the most important role on the pitch.
If the opposing goalkeeper is kicking the ball to the middle of the field, the midfielder has the responsibility to retrieve the ball and therefore prevent the opposing team from taking advantage and bringing the ball forward. This then gives a new responsibility to the midfielder to get the ball moving forward to the half forward and full forward lines.  The position requires the player to have strength, height, speed, good catching ability, a good kicking game and, most importantly, endurance.
It is important for the midfield to have a good understanding of their goalkeeper. They must anticipate where their goalkeeper will place the ball and therefore take advantage and bring the ball forward.
Note that there is rarely a "left midfielder" and "right midfielder" – both play 'off' each other as a combined unit.