[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sri Lankan Tamil militant groups

of Eelam Students (GUES) founded in London, UK whose members founded Eelam Revolutionary Organisation of Students which in turn split into  Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front that gave birth to current political party and sometime paramilitary organization Eelam People's Democratic Party.

Major groups
Prior to 1987 the major groups included the Indian trained and equipped Tamil Eelam Liberation Organization, eventually militarily beaten by the LTTE, but politically part of pro-LTTE Tamil National Alliance party, as well as a former rival and splinter group from LTTE, the People's Liberation Organisation of Tamil Eelam, currently a minor standalone political party with many of its cadres working as paramilitaries, although the PLOTE leadership denies this. Among the many leftists groups the major one was the pro-Indian and Marxist Eelam People's Revolutionary Liberation Front, militarily defeated by the LTTE but a faction of which is part of the TNA and others working with the Sri Lankan government as paramilitaries. The Eelam People's Democratic Party is a pro-government group and a political party accused of being a paramilitary. A faction of the Eelam Revolutionary Organisers (EROS) is part of LTTE. Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTe) is the only remaining armed Tamil nationalist group.

Other groups
There were over 30 other minor groups of which some are notable such as National Liberation Front of Tamil Eelam (NLFTE), which according to Taraki Sivaram, was a small but influential Maoist group  based largely in Jaffna, which  People's Liberation Army (PLA) in reality the military wing of EPRLF, Led by EPDP founder and leader Douglas Devananda. Important achievement of the PLA was the 1984 kidnapping of American couple Stanley and Mary Allen from Columbus, Ohio, in Jaffna.Another minor but notable group was Tamil Eelam Army (TEA) of Panagoda Maheswaran involved in the attack against an Air Lanka flight in Madras, India. Tamil Eelam Liberation Army (TELA) founded in 1982 by Oberoi Thevan; a splinter group of TELO. After the assassination of Thevan in 1983 by the LTTE, TELA was absorbed by PLOTE.

Militant fronts
There are also number of militia groups such as Upsurging People's Force, Ellalan Padai, and Ravanan Padai considered by some to be groups allied to the LTTE.

Tamil paramilitary groups
Due to the internecine conflicts as well as due to internal conflicts within militant organizations many members of Tamil militant groups cooperated with the Sri Lankan government and have worked as paramilitary groups. They played an important role in military operations against the LTTE as well as in counter insurgency operations. Tamil Makkal Viduthalai Pulikal a splinter group from the LTTE worked with the government. Its former leader Karuna Amman was incarcerated in London, UK. The current leader Sivanesathurai Chandrakanthan was elected chief minister of the east  in the eastern province elections held in 2008 by the government after the liberation of the east from the LTTE.

In 1990 the Eelam People's Democratic Party another major Tamil group joined as a paramilitary group and the Sri Lankan government agreed to fund the group.

According to the Sri Lankan nationalist Asian Tribune website, by 2009 end of the war the Paramilitaries were disarmed and most of them entered politics. However, civilians giving evidence to the Lessons Learnt and Reconciliation Commission (LLRC) claimed that the paramilitary groups were still engaged in violence, including abductions and murder. The LLRC found that the government had failed to disarm the paramilitary groups which were still recruiting children. One of the main recommendations of the LLRC was that the government disarm the paramilitary groups. In 2011 the US government has also called on the government to stop paramilitary activity in the north of the country.

See also
 List of Sri Lankan Tamil militant groups

Notes

References

External links
List of Tamil militant groups
 Association of Sri Lankan Muslims with militant groups
Other Tamil Eelam Groups

 
Tamil militant group
Militant group
Militant group
Militant group
Tamil militant group
Indian Peace Keeping Force