[Source: PubMed]

7. Psychophysiology. 2020 Jan;57(1):e13271. doi: 10.1111/psyp.13271. Epub 2018
Aug  13.

Victims of war-Psychoendocrine evidence for the impact of traumatic stress on 
psychological well-being of adolescents growing up during the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict.

Shaheen M(1), Schindler L(2), Saar-Ashkenazy R(3)(4), Bani Odeh K(1), Soreq 
H(5), Friedman A(3)(6), Kirschbaum C(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Public Health, Al-Quds University, Abu Dees, West Bank-Palestine.
(2)Department of Psychology, Technische Universität Dresden, Dresden, Germany.
(3)Department of Cognitive Neuroscience and Zlotowski Center for Neuroscience, 
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel.
(4)Department of Psychology and School of Social Work, Ashkelon Academic 
College, Ashkelon, Israel.
(5)The Edmond and Lily Safra Center of Brain Science and the Department of 
Biological Chemistry, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel.
(6)Department of Medical Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, Dalhousie 
University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.

Violent conflicts are severe traumatic stressors with detrimental effects on 
physical and mental health, with children and adolescents being particularly at 
risk. For the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, characteristic patterns 
of dysregulation in trauma-exposed individuals have been shown. This study set 
out to investigate self-reported mental well-being in Palestinian adolescents 
growing up during the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. Hair cortisol concentrations 
(HCC) as a psychoendocrine marker for long-term HPA axis aberrations along with 
the potential protective factor sense of coherence (SoC; i.e., the global 
mindset to interpret the world and emerging stressors as comprehensible, 
manageable, and meaningful) were examined. Between 2014 and 2016, posttraumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD), depression, anxiety, HCC, and SoC were examined in 233 
adolescents aged 11 to 16 from the West Bank. More than half of the participants 
reported trauma exposure, with 40% fulfilling the criteria of a preliminary PTSD 
diagnosis and a high prevalence of anxiety and depression. HCC was significantly 
elevated in the PTSD subgroup compared to the subgroup not exposed to any 
traumatic events (p = 0.046), with trauma-exposed individuals in between. HCC 
was further associated with typical sequelae of traumatic stress. Notably, SoC 
was inversely related to self-reported psychopathology, as well as to HCC in the 
trauma group. The results illustrate the situation of adolescents exposed to 
chronic traumatic stress and extend the literature on aberrant HPA axis 
functioning under such conditions. They also point out a central role of SoC, 
which may imply new strategies to aid individuals exposed to ongoing conflicts.

© 2018 Society for Psychophysiological Research.

DOI: 10.1111/psyp.13271
PMID: 30101980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]