[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# EuroBonus

EuroBonus is the frequent flyer program of Scandinavian Airlines and Widerøe. It was launched by SAS in 1992.

Airline partners

SAS Group
 Scandinavian Airlines

Star Alliance partner airlines
 Aegean Airlines
 Air Canada
 Air China
 Air India
 Air New Zealand
 All Nippon Airways 
 Asiana Airlines
 Austrian Airlines
 Avianca
 Brussels Airlines
 Copa Airlines
 Croatia Airlines
 EgyptAir 
 Ethiopian Airlines
 EVA Airways
 LOT Polish Airlines
 Lufthansa
 Shenzhen Airlines
 Singapore Airlines
 South African Airways
 SWISS
 TAP Portugal
 Thai Airways International
 Turkish Airlines
 United Airlines

Other airline partners
 Widerøe
 Air Greenland (partnership ended 1 January 2010) 
 airBaltic (partnership ended 25 March 2017) 
 Atlantic Airways (partnership ended 25 March 2017)

Hotel partners
 Artótel
 Best Western Hotels
 Elite Hotels
 First Hotels
 Hilton Worldwide
 Park Plaza and Park Inn
 Radisson Edwardian London Hotels
 Radisson Hotels
 Radisson Blu
 Rica Hotels
 Scandic Hotels
 Shangri-La Hotels & Resorts
 Sheraton Stockholm Hotel
 The Mayfair Hotel, London
 Thon Hotels

Other partners
 Avis
 American Express (Transfer Amex points plus combined card in Norway, Sweden)
 Bjurfors (Available in Sweden)
 Budget car rental (only accrual)
 Call Me (Denmark only) 
 Copenhagen Airport (In Denmark)
 COOP (In Sweden)
 Codan (In Denmark & Norway)
 Dagens Industri (In Sweden)
 Dagens Naeringsliv (In Norway)
 Dantaxi 4x48 (In Denmark)
 Diners Club
 DNB
 film2home (In Scandinavia/Finland)
 Fjordkraft (Available in Norway)
 Flybussen (Airport transfer in Oslo, Norway)
 Flygbussarna (Airport transfer in Sweden)
 Flygets Långtidsparkering (Airport parking in Stockholm)
 FLYGTAXI (Sweden + 23 other airports)
 Gothia Restaurants (Three restaurants at Gothia Towers in Gothenburg)
 Hertz
 International Herald Tribune
 MasterCard
 Nykredit (Available in Denmark)
 +Deal (Available in Denmark & Sweden)
 Preem (In Sweden)
 PresentkortTorget (Gift cards available in Denmark, Finland, Norway & Sweden)
 Sixt (Only accrual)
 Skandia (In Sweden)
 Stockholms Restauranger & Wärdshus (Nine restaurants)
 STS Alpresor (In Scandinavia/Finland)
 The Economist
 Trumf (In Norway)
 Trygg Hansa (In Sweden)

Membership levels
EuroBonus has five membership levels.

 The entry level is "Member". There are no requirements for this level, it is obtained at registration.
 The Next level is "Silver", which is attained by earning 20,000 Basic points or by flying 10 qualifying flights in a year. Benefits include business class check-in and extra baggage allowance on some flights and during some periods. 
 Following that is "Gold", which requires 45,000 Basic points or 45 qualifying flights. Benefits include, but are not limited to, access to SAS and StarAlliance lounges when traveling on a StarAlliance ticket, priority check in, additional check in luggage allowance on some tickets, 25% bonus point earnings on flights. This card is a Star Alliance Gold card.
 The final tier which can be obtained via flights or points is "Diamond", which requires 90 qualifying flights or 90,000 basic points. It offers benefits like free drinks on flights, higher standby priority, get to give away a gold card to a friend and a number of free upgrades per year, even if this is not formalized or publicly provided information. It is also a Star Alliance Gold card. 
 Above these levels is "Pandion" which is awarded personally to 1,500 selected customers by the CEO of SAS. Each Pandion membership is reevaluated yearly, and they have to "fly more than the pilots and crew of SAS" in order to be eligible. In practise membership is awarded according to revenue created for SAS by a single flyer rather than the number of EuroBonus points earned. Benefits include guaranteed seats on SAS flights, even on fully booked flights, and "exclusive" service.

All statuses are obtained for one year, plus for the remainder of the qualifying year in which the member qualifies for the specific level. Unlike many other programs, the EuroBonus qualification year is individual and not aligned with calendar years. A qualifying year is determined by the data a member joined Eurobonus, instead. So if someone joins in April, the qualifying year for that member will be from April to March the next year.

Before 2010, qualification for a next level was only possible with meeting point thresholds. Since 2010 it is also possible to achieve Silver and Gold status by taking a certain number of SAS and Widerøe flights: 10/45/90 individual flights for Silver/Gold/Diamond. Gold/Diamond benefits include all Silver benefits, plus priority security at certain airports, access to SAS and Star Alliance lounges and a 25% bonus on points on SAS Group flights.

Membership level changes in 2014