[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Privat Group

ether in the ferroalloy market, but soon they quarreled. In 2003, Pinchuk acquired a controlling stake in the NFP during the auction, to which no one else was allowed. After the change of power, in 2006, Pinchuk ceded control over the NFP and received in return 25% in the Privat ferroalloy business.

At the end of 2007, Kolomoisky sold to Evraz the controlling stakes of the six metallurgical enterprises. Privat received $1 billion and 9.72% of Evraz shares. However, two years later, Bogolyubov was removed from the board of directors of Evraz.

Assets

Metallurgy
Privat-Intertreyding is controlling the Pokrovsky, Marganetsky, Yuzhny (together with the Russian Smart Group) mining and processing plants. In metallurgy,  is controlling the Dnipropetrovsk Metallurgical Plant of Comintern, Dnipropetrovsk Metallurgical Plant of Petrovsky, Nikopol Ferroalloy Plant, Stakhanov Ferroalloy Plant, Zaporizhzhia Ferroalloy Plant and Russian Alapaevsk Metallurgical Plant.

At the end of 2007, Privat completed the sale of its metallurgical assets to the Russian Evraz group: the Sukhaya Balka mining and processing plant, the Dnipropetrovsk Metallurgical Plant of Petrovsky and three coke chemicals (Dneprodzerzhinsky Coke and Chemical Plant, Baglecox, Dneprokoks).

Fuel industry
Kolomoisky is a major shareholder of Ukrnafta (42% of shares in 2008). At the end of December 2007, Privat acquired 12.62% of the shares of the British oil and gas company JKX Oil & Gas, about 80% of oil and gas assets are located in Ukraine.

Structure

The businesses of Privat Group are not formally included in a corporation, and its top managers sometimes state that there is no such group at all. However, either PrivatBank or "Privat-Intertrading" company indirectly own all companies regarded as parts of the group. Typically, industrial companies are controlled through a complicated chain of offshore companies. Despite this, the Ukrainian public has a clear understanding of what exactly belongs to the group. To describe such relations, the media use the wording “company X is controlled by the Privat Group" or "the business of the X company is being organized by the PrivatBank". The group never denies such statements.

Steel industry
Various steel companies form the core of the Privat Group, presenting a full manufacturing chain of metallurgy. This oldest and most important part of the group is mostly located in and around Dnipro (location specified in parenthesises below).

Ore mining and processing companies
Marhanets Mining&Processing Kombinat and Ordzhonikidze Mining&Processing Kombinat extract and enrich ferroalloy ores, controlling the domestic market of this raw material (cities of Marhanets and Pokrov, respectively)
“Suha Balka” JSC extracts iron ore (Kryvyi Rih)

Ferroalloy mills
Apart from its ferroalloy-ore assets, Privat Group has stakes in all three of Ukraine's ferroalloy mills and controls two of them.

formerly Nikopol Ferroalloys Plant, the world's second ferroalloy manufacturer (co-owned and fiercely fought over with the Interpipe Group) (Nikopol), the privatisation was declared illegal in 2006.
Stakhanov Ferroalloy Plant (Kadiivka, Luhansk Oblast of Ukraine)
Zaporizhzhia Ferroalloy Plant (Zaporizhzhia)
Alapayevsk Metallurgy Plant (Alapayevsk, Russia)
Ferroalloys company in Romania (mentioned by the group co-owner but undisclosed as yet)
Highlanders Alloys LLC (New Haven, United States)

Steel mills
Dnipropetrovsk Metallurgy Kombinat named after Petrovskyi (Dnipro)

Oil industry
According to the media, Privat Group owns significant shares in Ukrnafta and Halychyna oil refinery, controlling their business. Ukrnafta is the half-state-owned national oil company, dealing with extraction of petroleum and gas condensate, as well as retailing gasoline through its large gas station network. Halychyna owns and operates Ukraine's oldest oil refinery in Drohobych, Lviv Oblast.

The group also recently acquired control over Chornomorsk Fuel Terminal Company, operating the oil & petrol terminal in the Black Sea port of Chornomorsk.

Chemical industry
The group owns Kamianske based chemical plant "DniproAzot" with 1000000 tons per year of ammonia capacity and 750000 tons per year of urea capacity.

Food industry
Privat Group owns the Dnipro-based “Biola” soft drinks company.

The group may also control sugar beet processing plants throughout Ukraine.

Energy industry
In 2005, Privat Group bought controlling shares in five companies that fully control electricity distribution in Ivano-Frankivsk, Poltava, Sumy, Chernihiv and Lviv Oblasts. The names of these companies are the name of the respective oblast with the -oblenergo ending, e.g. “Poltavaoblenergo”.

Banking
Privatbank, was the core of the group, as the largest commercial bank in Ukraine. On 18 December 2016, the bank was nationalized by the government of Ukraine, taking 100% ownership.