[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Anglo-Persian War

. Over the next few months, the force returned to India. In October, the British withdrew from Bushire. Most of the forces were soon inducted into operations in Central India to quell the Indian Mutiny in which both Havelock and Outram would distinguish themselves at the siege of Lucknow.

Diplomacy

Negotiations in Constantinople between Persian Ambassador Farrokh Khan and British Ambassador Stratford de Redcliffe ultimately broke down over British demands for the Persians replace their prime minister (Sadr-e Azam). News of the onset of fighting resulted in a formal rupture of talks, but discussions soon began again in Paris, and both sides signed a peace treaty on 4 March in which the Shah agreed to withdraw from Herat and to refrain from further interference in the affairs of Afghanistan. In the treaty, the Persians agreed to withdraw from Herat, to apologise to the British ambassador on his return, to sign a commercial treaty, and to co-operate in suppressing the slave trade in the Persian Gulf. The British agreed not to shelter opponents of the Shah in the embassy and abandoned the demand of replacing the prime minister and requiring territorial concessions to the Imam of Muscat, a British ally.

The Persians faithfully withdrew from Herat, which allowed the British to return their troops to India, where they were soon needed for combat in the Indian Mutiny. Herat returned to more direct Afghan control when it was retaken by Dost Mohammed Khan in 1863.

Gallantry awards
Three Victoria Crosses were awarded during the expedition to captain John Augustus Wood, captain John Grant Malcolmson and lieutenant Arthur Thomas Moore.

Battle honours
A total of four battle honours were awarded for this campaign, namely, 'Persia', 'Reshire', and 'Koosh-Ab' in 1858, and 'Bushire' in 1861.

Persia
The battle honour 'Persia' was awarded to all units that had participated in the campaign vide Gazette of the Governor General 1306 of 1858. The units were:
 3rd Bombay Cavalry – currently Poona Horse
 Poona Irregular Horse – currently Poona Horse
 1st Scinde Irregular Horse – currently Scinde Horse
 Madras Sappers & Miners – currently Madras Engineer Group
 Bombay Sappers & Miners – currently Bombay Engineer Group
 4th Bombay Infantry – Later 1st Battalion, the Rajputana Rifles, currently, the 3rd Battalion, Brigade of the Guards 1 RAJ RIF
 20th Bombay Infantry – currently 2nd Battalion, the Rajputana Rifles
 23rd Bombay Infantry – currently 4th Battalion, the Rajputana Rifles
 26th Bombay Infantry – later the 2nd Battalion, the 10th Baluch Regiment

Reshire
The honour was awarded to the units which participated in the attack on the old Dutch redoubt of Reshire on 7 December 1856. the Governor surrendered the fortifications on 8 December. The division then waited for the arrival of the C-in-C with the remainder of the army. The battle honour was awarded vide GOGG 1306 of 1858 to the following:
 3rd Bombay Cavalry
 Bombay Sappers & Miners
 4th Bombay Infantry
 20th Bombay Infantry
 26th Bombay Infantry

Bushire
The first division of the expedition disembarked in the neighbourhood of the city of Bushire on 5 December 1856. After a naval bombardment of the fortifications, Bushire was occupied unopposed. The honour was awarded by Bombay GO 191 of 1861, after India had passed under the Crown. Other honours for this campaign were awarded by the Company in 1858.
 Poona Horse
 Bombay Sappers & Miners
 4th Bombay Infantry
 20th Bombay Infantry
 26th Bombay Infantry
 3rd Regiment Local Contingent (disbanded)

Koosh-Ab
After the arrival of the C-in-C, the force advanced inland and defeated the Persian field army at Koosh-Ab on 8 February 1857. The Poona Horse carries a Standard surmounted by a silver hand and bearing a Persian inscription captured at Koosh-Ab, in commemoration of the brilliant charge of the 3rd Bombay Light Cavalry which broke into enemy infantry and decided the fate of the day. The honour was awarded vide GOGG 1306 of 1858 and spelling changed from Kooshab vide Gazette of India No 1079 of 1910.
 3rd Bombay Cavalry
 Poona Irregular Horse
 Bombay Sappers and Miners
 4th Bombay Infantry
 20th Bombay Infantry
 26th Bombay Infantry
 2nd Baluch Battalion – later the 4th Battalion, the 10th Baluch Regiment (Pakistan)

See also
 British Indian Army
 East India Company

References

Notes

Bibliography
 
  pp. 218–220
  pp 33–49
 Sandes, Lt Col E.W.C. The Indian Sappers and Miners (1948) The Institution of Royal Engineers, Chatham.

Further reading
 English, Barbara. 1971. John Company's Last War. London: Collins.
 
 Hunt, Capt. G. H. and George Townsend. 1858. Outram & Havelock's Persian Campaign. London: G. Routledge & Co.
 Outram, Lieut. General Sir James. 1860. Lieut.-General Sir James Outram's Persian Campaign in 1857. London: Smith, Elder and Co.
 Walpole, Sir Spencer. 1912. A History of England from the Conclusion of the Great War in 1815. London: Longmans, Green, and Co. (vol. VI, pp. 266–273)

External links