[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# List of Shaman King characters

owl named , with his medium being placed on his arms and legs to generate owl wings and owl claws. When the invaders reach his Plant, he faces off against Tao Ren and tried to use the volcanic gasses to attack unseen like an owl. He is eventually killed by a gigantic lightning strike created by Ren.

 
 
 The official and overseer of the Lake Plant who is selected to the moderator of the tournament; because of the intensity of the fights, he constantly wears sunglasses capable of resisting extremely bright glares to maintain his sight.  Unlike most of the other officials, he tries his best to remain neutral, but at times has openly agreed that he doesn't approve of Hao Asakura's shaman-only kingdom (going so far as to get Hao's furyoku rating during the fight with X-III). As a protector of the Shaman King, while he does not care about who becomes Shaman King, he is nevertheless a proud member of the Patch. His spirit is an Australian pelican named , with his medium being his microphone. His Over Soul looks like a laser blade with which he apparently puts all his mana, allowing him to crush almost any opponent's Over Soul with one strike. The blade can split in two, acting like a pair of scissors representing how a pelican opens his beak. Though he tends to be outrageous with his commentary during the Shaman Fights, his martial arts skills and powerful Over Soul are the reasons why he was chosen to be the tournament's moderator, given the danger associated with being in close proximity to the participants. He is strong enough to take on all Five Grand Elemental Spirits and Faust VIII and is killed only when Yoh uses his furyoku nullification technique on Radim.

  ("Lead" in the English manga)
 
 The overseer of the Desert Glaicer and official in charge of the three Gandhara teams, first appearing when Yoh's friends attempt to stop Hao's followers from killing Lady Sati. He apparently had some sort of discontent or rivalry with Ryu, though he also seems to respect him. He openly supports Hao, intimidating some of the remaining contestants in the tournament. Namari's spirit is a cobra named , with his medium (probably) having been snakeskin; the spirit's Over Soul forms a cobra head over Namari's hand and around his shoulders. Namari is able to move with great speed following the cobra head, which has poisonous fangs that can instantly kill opponents, while the tail can also strike at enemies. Red Rope also has a defensive "boa form" that wraps around Namari to soften the blows of his opponent. On their journey to get to the Star Sanctuary, Ryu fights with him first one-on-one in his area. After killing Ryu, he is in turn killed by Ren and Horohoro. Before he died, he smiles from knowing he'd won by having his boastful opponents use a part of their furyoku to defeat him. His name derives from the Japanese name for the element of lead.

 
 
 The Patch Official who oversees the Valley Plant and oversees Lyserg Diethel's progress in the Shaman Fight. When Silva tries to steal the remaining four Elemental Spirits and is captured, Goldva orders Renim and Bron to re-educate him in the ways of the Patch, something Kalim seems shocked to hear. Eventually Hao is crowned the Shaman King by forfeit of the remaining three teams and his own two teammates. When the remaining teams invade the Plants and face off against Silva, Bron shows up alongside Renim and orders Silva to return to his Plant. Both he and Renim introduce themselves to the invaders and show off their Over Souls, possibly to intimidate them. Upon arriving at Bron's "Plant of the Valley", he easily defeats them all, until Lyserg Diethel calms his mind and burns him to death. His spirit is a spider called  and his mediums are wrist and ankle cuffs made out of spider hair, forming a large spider Over Soul that appears fused to Bron's armor extending over his entire body to resemble a giant spider with Bron's head. His Over Soul allowed him to attach near-invisible spider threads throughout the cliffs of the valley, allowing him to create the illusion of flying while standing on the threads and detect the movements of opponents. The spider threads can also be used to create nets and used to pierce into opponents' bodies.

 
 
 The overseer of the Jungle Plant who helps Bron in re-educating those who stray from the way of the Patch. Goldva orders Renim and Bron to re-educate Silva after his failed attempt to steal the remaining four Elemental Spirits and was captured, which they do so by repeatedly singing the Song of the Patch. After Hao Asakura is crowned the Shaman King by forfeit of the remaining three teams and his own two teammates, Renim and Bron appear briefly to order Silva back to his Plant and reveal their Over Souls as they greet Yoh and the invaders. Renim's spirit is a chameleon named . His Over Soul specializes in stealth removing any of his scent sound and presences allowing him to hide perfectly even in plain sight.