[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Richard Shusterman

ing harmony of somaesthetic pleasure and whose mastery also has beneficial uses in real life off stage.” Shusterman has also drawn on non-western art like Nō theatre and the theories of Zeami Motokiyo. Zeanmi’s theories of dance encourages wide and deep somatic awareness through deliberate training.

Selected bibliography
The Object of Literary Criticism (Amsterdam: Rodopi, 1984).
T. S. Eliot and Philosophy of Criticism (London and New York: Duckworth and Columbia University Press, 1988).
Analytic Aesthetics (Oxford: Blackwell, 1989) – editor.
The Interpretive Turn: Philosophy, Science, Culture (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1991) - edited with D. Hiley and J. Bohman.
Pragmatist Aesthetics: Living beauty, Rethinking Art (Oxford: Blackwell, 1992) – published in English and translated into 14 languages: Chinese, German, Portuguese, Japanese, Korean, Finnish, Spanish, Romanian, Hungarian, Slovakian, French, Italian, Russian and Polish.
Practicing Philosophy: Pragmatism and the Philosophical Life (New York: Routledge,1997) – translated into German, French, Chinese and Polish.
Interpretation, Relativism, and the Metaphysics of Culture (New York: Humanity Books, 1999) –  edited with Michael Krausz.
Bourdieu: A Critical Reader (Oxford: Blackwell, 1999) – editor.
La fin de l'experience esthetique (Pau: Presse Universitaire de Pau, 1999).
Performing Live (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2000) - translated into German.
Pragmatist Aesthetics: Living Beauty, Rethinking Art, 2nd edition with a special introduction and a new chapter, (New York: Rowman and Littlefield, 2000).
Surface and Depth: Dialectics of Criticism and Culture (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 2002).
The Range of Pragmatism and the Limits of Philosophy (Oxford: Blackwell,2004) – editor.
Body Consciousness: A Philosophy of Mindfulness and Somaesthetics (New York: Cambridge University Press, 2008) - translated into French, Polish, Chinese, Portuguese, and Korean.
Thinking through the Body: Essays in Somaesthetics (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2012) - translated into Hungarian and Polish.
Adventures of the Man in Gold/Les Aventures de L'Homme en Or (Paris: Éditions Hermann, 2016) - Bilingual edition English/French with images by Yann Toma- translated into Chinese.
Aesthetic Experience and Somaesthetics. Leiden/Boston, Brill, 2018. (First volume of book series Studies in Somaesthetics)-editor.
Bodies in the Streets: The Somaesthetics of City Life (Leiden/Boston, Brill, 2019)-editor.
Les Aventures de l’homme en or: Passages entre l’art et la vie, Suivi de “Le philosophe sans la parole” et “Expérience esthétique et effrangement de frontières." Translated by Thomas Mondemé, Simon Gissinger, et Wilfried Laforge, Paris, Hermann, 2020.
Ars Erotica: Sex and Somaesthetics in the Classical Arts of Love (Cambridge University Press, 2021).
Philosophy and the Art of Writing (Routledge, 2022).

See also
 American philosophy
 List of American philosophers

Notes

References

Further reading on Shusterman

Books in English 

 Małecki, Wojciech. Embodying Pragmatism: Richard Shusterman's Philosophy and Literary Theory (Frankfurt: Peter Lang, 2010).
 Koczanowicz, Dorota, and Wojciech Małecki, eds. Shusterman's Pragmatism: Between Literature and Somaesthetics (Amsterdam, New York: Rodopi, 2012).
Abrams, Jerold J. Shusterman's Somaesthetics: From Hip Hop Philosophy to Politics and Performance Art. (Boston: Brill, 2022).

Books in Other Languages
Salaverría, Heidi. Spielräume des Selbst. Pragmatimus und kreatives Handeln [German] (Berlin: Akademie, 2007).
Three Faces of Pragmatism: On John Dewey, R. Rorty and R. Shusterman's Philosophy, Aesthetics and Cultural Politics [Chinese] (Social Sciences Academic Press, 2009).
A Study on Shusterman's New Pragmatist Aesthetics [Chinese] (Shandong University Press, 2012).
The Somatic Turn and the Transformation of Aesthetics: A Study of Shusterman's Somaesthetics [Chinese] (Beijing: Chinese Social Sciences Press, 2016).
Malecki, Wojciech. Embodying Pragmatism: Richard Shusterman's Philosophy and Literary Theory [Polish] (2019).
Wang Yaqin. Research on Richard Shusterman's Aesthetic Thought [Chinese] (Chinese Society of Literary Theory, 2020).