[Source: PubMed]

28. Soc Sci Med. 2014 Nov;120:421-9. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.04.025. Epub
2014  Apr 29.

The military physician and contested medical humanitarianism: a dueling 
identity?

Gordon S(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics and Political Science, Department of International 
Development, 6-8th Floors, Connaught House, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: s.gordon1@lse.ac.uk.

A critical issue in the study of humanitarianism is who counts as a medical 
humanitarian. Military physicians are often characterized as caught between the 
potentially incompatible roles of physician and military professional. Medical 
NGOs, such as Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF), have also vociferously rejected 
military medical humanitarianism: questioning the mandate, skills, and 
appropriateness of military involvement in humanitarian medicine as well as the 
potential impact on 'humanitarian space'. Yet many military doctors contest 
this. Consequently this study examines the ways in which primarily British 
military physicians identify and manage their identities as both medical 
humanitarians and soldiers. The research utilized a mixed method, grounded 
theory approach involving systematic document searches/expert identification of 
a core literature of 300 policy and peer reviewed documents, plus grey 
literature and 53 formal medical post operational reports from units serving in 
Iraq and Afghanistan between 2004 and 2012. Semi structured interviews involved 
purposive sampling (34 respondents) ranging from a former Surgeon General to 
more junior staff. Methods also included an analysis of the original data and 
literature from the 2003 Medical Services Delphi study (involving an additional 
40 experts and an extensive literature review) on military medical 
identity/future roles as well as direct observation of military doctors in Iraq 
and Afghanistan (two, 2 month research trips). The research concluded that 
military physicians conceived of themselves as autonomous medical humanitarians 
with an individual morality rooted in civilian medical ethics that facilitated 
resistance to the potentially hegemonic military identity. Nevertheless military 
physicians were part of a medical organization with fundamentally different 
priorities from those of civilian humanitarian physicians. Furthermore, the 
perceived emergence of multiple civilian 'humanitarianisms' has legitimated a 
space for the military physician alongside other variants of humanitarianism. 
This study contributes to the growing body of work on the self-identity of 
health professionals as humanitarians in conflict settings and demonstrates how 
the military medical identity fits into a fragmented civilian humanitarianism.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.04.025
PMID: 24928172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]