[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gary Waddock

ollowing season. On 22 September, Waddock was sacked as manager after a 1–0 defeat to AFC Wimbledon, their third successive defeat, left them 21st in League Two.

Milton Keynes Dons

In June 2013, Waddock was appointed as Head of Coaching at Milton Keynes Dons alongside Karl Robinson.

Oxford United

On 22 March 2014, Waddock was appointed as Head Coach of Oxford United, replacing caretaker manager Mickey Lewis. The club failed to reach the League Two play-offs under his managership, losing 7 of the 8 games played during his tenure, and his contract was terminated in July the same year after changes in the club's ownership.

Barnet
Waddock joined Barnet in a coaching role for the 2014–15 season on a casual basis. In November, he agreed a rolling month-to-month contract, but left for Portsmouth on 12 December.

Portsmouth 
On 12 December 2014, Waddock was announced as the new assistant manager of Portsmouth. On 13 April 2015, Waddock was named as temporary manager for the last four games of the 2014–15 season after Andy Awford left the position by mutual consent.

Return to Aldershot Town 
On 5 May 2016, Waddock was reappointed as first-team manager at his former club Aldershot Town of the National League.
On 2 May 2019, Waddock left the club after his contract was mutually terminated following their relegation from the National League.

Southend United 
On 5 July 2019, he joined Southend United as assistant manager to Kevin Bond. After Bond's resignation he took caretaker charge of the team until the appointment of Sol Campbell.

Cambridge United
On 10 July 2020, Waddock was appointed Assistant Head Coach of Cambridge United. Gary was part of the coaching staff that helped Cambridge United secure promotion to League 1 during the 20/21 campaign. He was released as assistant head coach at the end of the 22/23 season after the club narrowly avoided relegation

Walsall
On 28 June 2023, he was appointed assistant head coach at League Two club Walsall.

Managerial statistics

Honours

As a manager

Promotions
2007–08: Conference National Champion (promotion to League Two) – Aldershot Town
2010–11: League Two Third Place (promotion to League One) – Wycombe Wanderers

Cups
2007–08: Conference League Cup Winner – Aldershot Town

See also
 List of Republic of Ireland international footballers born outside the Republic of Ireland

References

External links
 
 
 

1962 births
Living people
People from Alperton
Footballers from the London Borough of Brent
Footballers from Kingsbury, London
English men's footballers
English expatriate men's footballers
Republic of Ireland men's association footballers
Republic of Ireland men's under-21 international footballers
Republic of Ireland men's under-23 international footballers
Republic of Ireland men's B international footballers
Republic of Ireland men's international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Queens Park Rangers F.C. players
R. Charleroi S.C. players
Millwall F.C. players
Swindon Town F.C. players
Bristol Rovers F.C. players
Luton Town F.C. players
English Football League players
Belgian Pro League players
Expatriate men's footballers in Belgium
English football managers
Republic of Ireland association football managers
Queens Park Rangers F.C. managers
Aldershot Town F.C. managers
Wycombe Wanderers F.C. managers
Portsmouth F.C. managers
English Football League managers
National League (English football) managers
Barnet F.C. non-playing staff
English expatriate sportspeople in Belgium
Oxford United F.C. managers
Southend United F.C. non-playing staff
Southend United F.C. managers
Cambridge United F.C. non-playing staff
Walsall F.C. non-playing staff