[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Songpa District

ne 2005, Sungnae-chun was also resuscitated as a beautiful river. It was previously a dried river due to the low volume of water flow during the 1970s and 1980s. But in 2009, it was selected as 'the most beautiful 100 rivers in Korea' by Land, Transport and Maritime Affairs.

Bicycle infrastructure 

Songpa has successfully initiating a handful of systems relating to bicycle infrastructure. There are four free bicycle rental houses on the 101.8 km long bicycle road. Anyone with an identification card can rent a bicycle free of charge. The system plays a role in saving transportation costs and promoting bicycle riding at the same time.

Songpa has a free bicycle rent system called "Songpa Public Use Bike" (SPB), the nation's first of its kind. With a SPB membership card, members of the system rent a bicycle free of charge for 24 hours from 300 self-rental sites located every 300 meters away from one another.

There is a "Home-visiting bicycle repair" in Songpa, a system designed to relieve repair expense. Under the system, mechanics visit Songpa-gu offices, schools, and apartments so that residents do not have to go too far to repair their bicycles.

Parks
A third of the total Songpa area is green zone (10.98k m2 or 32.4%), the highest rate among municipal districts in Seoul. The district has as many as 140 parks, also the largest number in Seoul. Each park has its own theme (like a flower or a plant) based on residents' opinion. The theme of Geon-neomal Park in Garak-dong is a rose, while Baekto Park is a wildflower park. The theme of Macheon Park is a royal azalea and Jamsil Park's main theme is aquatic plant. In these parks, diverse flower festivals and events—including Royal Azalea Festival, Rose Festival, Garden Balsam Dyeing Festival, Eco Culture Class, Wild Plants Operation and Aquatic Plant Exhibition—are held every year.

There are cherry blossom roads alongside of Seongnae stream and Jangjicheon stream. As the trees were donated by Songpa residents and are planted by them, each tree has a name tag of its donor who voluntarily cares for it.

Traffic
In response to the probable increase in traffic volume in near future due to city planning, Songpa District expanded its road system and optimized the traffic system through the construction of a distribution unit in the Southeastern Area Project and the Munjeong-dong Development Project.

An 8 km section and 3rd step of the new subway line number 9 is scheduled to be completed by 2015. Subway line number 3 is planned to be extended to Suseo, Garak Market, and Ogeum station in an effort for more balanced development.

Songpa plans to extend the Tan stream bank alongside Songpadaero as traffic volume on the street is expected to increase. Songpa will also ease traffic by constructing a road linking Wiryeseong gil to Seongnae stream, and by connecting the unconnected section under Olympic Bridge. A subway transfer center is to be constructed on Jamsil Intersection, the most congested area, which will ease an expected increase in road traffic.

Administrative divisions

Transportation

Railroad

Notable people
 Hyun Bin (Born: Kim Tae-pyung, Hangul: 김태평), South Korean actor
 Chan (Born: Jung Chan-woo, Hangul: 정찬우), singer, dancer, actor and K-pop idol, member of K-pop group iKon
 Ahn Seongmin (Hangul: 안성민), singer, dancer, and K-pop idol, member of K-pop group Cravity
Lee Soo-jin (Hangul: 이수진), singer, dancer, and K-pop idol, member and leader of K-pop group Weeekly

See also

Gangnam District
Geography of South Korea

References

External links
 Official homepage 

 
Districts of Seoul