[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 Nukuʻalofa riots

ations in the suburbs.

1 December
Peace was believed to be restored and foreign forces began leaving. The forbidden area in town was reduced. Police had made 571 arrests.

2007 
The first business to rebuild and reopen was the Fung Shin supermarket, which opened in new premises on 19 December 2007.

2008 
In November 2008, rebuilding began with an anticipated three years of work for the infrastructure to be complete.  Roads, footpaths, drainage and more were planned by Minister Paul Karalus.  Funding was provided by low-interest Chinese government loans amounting to $US55 million.

2018 
In July 2018, Tonga was expected to begin the repayments of loans from China for reconstruction that ended up being US$100 million+ to the Chinese government. The commitment to begin this process was made by  'Akilisi Pohiva.

Maintaining the state of emergency 
In late January 2008, the Tongan authorities renewed a Proclamation of Public Order for the sixteenth month running, a lingering aftermath of the riots. The statement reads: "It is hereby proclaimed that there continues to exist a state of danger" in central Nukuʻalofa. According to the Proclamation, the area will remain "controlled and maintained by the Tonga Police Force and Tonga Defence Services for the sole purpose of maintaining public order for all people of the country". Tongan information minister Afualo Matoto announced that the state of emergency would probably be maintained for another three months (i.e., until the end of April). This was criticised by Tongan pro-democracy advocate Akilisi Pohiva: "I don’t see any reason for government to continue to hold on to the emergency power."

The state of emergency was lifted in August 2008. Member of Parliament 'Akilisi Pohiva noted that the government had probably chosen to wait until after the coronation of King George Tupou V to put an end to it. It was, however, re-imposed in September, despite the objections of pro-democracy members of Parliament.

Operation Kaliloa
A joint investigation into the riots by the Tonga police, Australian Federal Police and New Zealand Police, codenamed Operation Kaliloa, began. 678 people were arrested, some under controversial circumstances, with former Police Minister Clive Edwards also being charged after claiming that soldiers had engaged in indiscriminate beatings. Democratic leader ʻAkilisi Pōhiva was arrested on charges of sedition, along with Edwards and a number of other pro-democracy MPs and activists. In total there were 320 prosecutions related to the riots. No-one was convicted of any political charge. Most non-sedition charges against MPs were withdrawn in September 2007, and all were ultimately acquitted in March 2009. Democracy campaigner Sione Halafuka Vea was acquitted in July 2007. Charges against businesswoman 'Ofa Simiki, who the government had claimed masterminded the riots, were withdrawn in April 2008. MP ʻIsileli Pulu was acquitted on charges of abetting murder and arson in July 2008. Sedition charges against broadcaster Sione Sangster Saulala were also dismissed that month. Charges against Edwards were dismissed in May 2010.

The state of emergency declared on 17 November 2006 was extended several times. It was finally ended in January 2011 once the new Prime Minister took office following the 2010 election.

References

External links

Rioting crowd leaves trail of wreckage in Nukuʻalofa
Six found dead after Tonga riots

See also 

 2021 Solomon Islands unrest

History of Tonga
Nukuʻalofa
Nuku'alofa riots
Nukualofa Riots, 2006
Riots and civil disorder in Oceania