[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Act of War: High Treason

he Consortium pursues its own agenda through a combination of terrorist attacks and conventional military action. Their force is a blend of powerful Soviet bloc equipment and extremely advanced technology on par with Task Force Talon, including secret projects from both Russia and the United States.

New multiplayer modes
Marine One Down: The objective of this game is to capture the President. Any player who gets a unit within a certain distance gains control of the President. The objective is to move the POTUS unit to a pre-defined evacuation base at the edge of the map, with each player needing to bring the President to a different location. There is no base building in this mode; instead, players capture bunkers scattered around the map to gain reinforcements.
Scud launcher: This mode is basically the same as a regular game, but with a twist: All players are unable to build Tactical Weapons and Anti-Tactical weapons, but in the middle of the map, there is a neutral Scud launcher with a circle around it. Anyone who gets within the circle gains control of the Scud, this allows that player to fire the Scud every 2 minutes. Should the launcher be destroyed, it will explode violently, causing tremendous damage to everything within a very large radius, which prevents players from keeping the launcher safe in their base.

Reception

The game received above-average reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.

References

External links
Act of War: High Treason Homepage
Eugen Systems more information. 

2006 video games
Atari games
Eugen Systems games
Multiplayer and single-player video games
Multiplayer online games
Real-time strategy video games
Video game expansion packs
Video games developed in France
Video games set in China
Video games set in Cuba
Video games set in Florida
Video games set in Mexico
Video games set in Washington, D.C.
Video games set in Wisconsin
Video games set in the Bahamas
Windows games
Windows-only games