[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Carolinas–Virginia Tube Reactor

Carolinas–Virginia Tube Reactor (CVTR), also known as Parr Nuclear Station, was an experimental pressurized tube heavy water nuclear power reactor at Parr, South Carolina in Fairfield County. It was built and operated by the Carolinas Virginia Nuclear Power Associates. CVTR was a small test reactor, capable of generating 17 megawatts of electricity. It was officially commissioned in December 1963 and left service in January 1967.

Reactors using heavy water as their moderator have a number of advantages due to their improved neutron economy. This allows them to run on fuels that do not work in conventional light water reactors. CVTR, for instance, used slight enrichment, between 1.5 and 2%, compared to 3 to 5% for conventional designs. This means fuel costs are lower, the tradeoff being higher capital costs due to the need to buy heavy water.

In conceptual terms, CVTR is very similar to the CANDU reactor design that was being pursued by Atomic Energy of Canada Limited around the same time. The two designs differ in some design details and that CANDU can run on natural uranium. CVTR is otherwise similar in most respects, and about the same size and power as the 22 MWe CANDU prototype which entered service in 1962.

Background

Light water designs
Conventional light water reactors resemble a coal fired power plant in overall design, in that a boiler is used to produce steam which then drives a steam turbine to produce electricity. The boiler is the only significant difference. In a coal plant, this normally consists of a system to burn the coal while water circulates through the boiler in a series of tubes. The water is held under pressure in order to increase its boiling point, which makes the turbines more efficient.

In the case of a nuclear plant, the boiler is replaced with the reactor, which is more complex than a coal boiler for a number of reasons. For one, the water not only acts as the cooling fluid, but also as the neutron moderator, which means its control is vital to the operation of the system as a whole. Additionally, the water tends to pick up radioactivity from the reactor's operation, which leads to safety concerns and maintenance overhead. Finally, steam and liquid water have different moderating qualities, so most (but not all) light water designs keep the water below the boiling point and use a steam generator to feed the turbines.

The major advantage to the light water design concept is that it is simple and similar to existing systems in many ways. It has one major disadvantage, however, which is that the water removes neutrons which lowers the reactor's overall neutron economy. This is enough of an effect that there are not enough neutrons of the right energy to maintain the chain reaction in natural uranium fuel. This requires such designs to use enriched uranium to offset this effect, which increases the price of fuel.

Heavy water concept
Using natural uranium in a reactor would offer the advantage of lowered fuel costs and better availability as the supply is not dependent on the enrichment cycle. This also offers some protection against nuclear proliferation. In order to do so, the reactor needs to use some other form of moderator that improves the neutron economy. Several such moderators have been suggested, including carbon dioxide as in the UK Advanced Gas-cooled Reactor, liquid metals including sodium or lead as in various breeder reactors, and heavy water.

Of these, heavy water has the major advantage that it is simple to work with. The downside is that it is expensive and a limited resource. This led to the pressurized tube reactor concept, where the pressurized section of the system contains only enough coolant to cool the reactor, the rest of the moderator is placed around it in an unpressurized vessel. In the case of a loss-of-coolant event, only the water in the pressurized system would be lost.

Design
Design of the CVTR began around 1955. CVTR had a thermal output of about 65 MWth and a gross electrical output of 19 MW. Westinghouse Atomic Power Division was responsible for the design of the nuclear systems while Stone and Webster Engineering designed the remainder of the plant.

The reactor consisted of 36 vertical U-tube fuel channels in a moderator tank which was 10 feet in diameter and 16 feet tall. Each leg of the U-tube contained one fuel assembly made up of 19 fuel rods. The reactor used enriched uranium; 12 of the tubes contained fuel enriched to 1.5% U-235 and 24 tubes contained fuel enriched to 2% U-235.