[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Aaraam Thampuran

Aaraam Thampuran () is a 1997 Indian Malayalam-language action drama film directed by Shaji Kailas, written by Ranjith and produced by Revathy Kalamandhir. It stars Mohanlal in the title role with Narendra Prasad, Manju Warrier, Sai Kumar, Oduvil Unnikrishnan, Cochin Haneefa and Srividya in supporting roles. The story follows Jagannadhan (Mohanlal), a former Mumbai-based enforcer who buys an old kovilakam (royal manor) named Kanimangalam and shifts the balance of power in that village, and he comes to be known as Aaram Thampuran (sixth lord). The film features original songs composed by Raveendran.

Plot 
Nandakumar is a business tycoon in Mumbai, who faces huge financial loss when his manager Abey Mathew decides to broker a deal with an Australian group and another rival Indian firm. Nandakumar calls up his  friend and enforcer Jagannadhan, to intervene. Jagan lands up at Abey's office and forces him to withdraw from brokering the deal with the Australian company, there by bringing massive profit to Nandan. In return, Nandan is profuse in his offer to Jagan, all of which he humbly disavows. Jagan finally demands Nandan a small favor. He wants Nandan to purchase a kovilakam at Kanimangalam, a village in Kerala, to which Nandan agrees.

Jagan also expresses his desire that the palace should be bought in the name of Nandan, and Jagan should be there as a benami of him. Jagannadhan reaches down at Kanimangalam  for the registration of the palace and the property surrounding it. Meanwhile, Kulappully Appan Thamburan, a feudal landlord with vested interests, opposes the purchase of the property. Appan lost his one eye after he got a slash with a sword between a fight at his younger age. Appan's sister was married to Dathan Thampuran of Kanimangalam palace, who deserted her one day. The extreme hatred towards Kanimangalam had made Appan to even stop the annual temple festival, which according to the villagers, has resulted in the anger of Goddess, the local deity.

With the arrival of Jagannathan, Appan is back again to create troubles, but Jagannathan tactfully overcomes it and gets the palace registered. Presently the palace is occupied by an old musician Krishna Varma and his foster daughter Unnimaya, but is disowned by the rest of his family members. Though, now in the hands of Jagan, he allows Varma and Unnimaya to stay in the palace. Though, initially, both Varma and Unnimaya felt uncomfortable in staying with Jagan, slowly, they develop an affection towards him. Within a short time, Jagan gets involved in the problems of the villagers, and they started considering him to the heir of the palace and their leader.

Jagannathan invites the ire of Appan Thamburan, with whom he clashes over the demolition of the palace, which he had earlier promised during the registration. Jagan, when he expresses his desire to stay at Kanimangalam, Appan sends his henchmen, who had to humiliatingly return from Jagan. Now, the villagers decide to hold up the annual festival at the temple, after a long gap of 16 years. Jagannathan takes up the leadership, and with the support of villagers, he starts the preparations. Within mean time, Unnimaya develops a closeness towards him. In the midst of this, Nayanthara, Jagan's close friend reaches Kanimangalam from Bangalore who expresses her desire to marry Jagan, which he declines, saying that he is now in love with Unnimaya.

Nayanthara accepts his decision and goes back, wishing him all the best for the future. According to the customs of the village, the festival puja should be done under a head priest from Keezhpayoor Mana. Still, when Appan Thamburan interferes, the members from Keezhpayoor refuses to conduct the puja, which makes Jagan to forcefully take the younger Namboothiri away from home on the way back. Suddenly Nandakumar lands down at Kanimangalam with his friends, who harass Unnimaya, and attempt to force Krishna Varma to drink alcohol against his will. This upsets Jagan, and, without Nandan's knowledge, he forcefully sends them back from Kanimangalam.

In the midst of this, the younger priest is taken away by Appan Thamburan's men. It is then revealed by Jagan that he is the son of the Kaloor Brahmadathan Namboothiripadu, the head priest of the temple, who died after being wrongly accused of stealing the divine ornaments of the Goddess. Jagan follows Ayinikad Namboothiri, the astrologer's instructions, and wears his Yagyopaveetham, the holy thread, and adopts back Brahmanyam. The day of the festival arrives. Nandan, who had gone in search of his friends, is now back in an inebriated condition and furiously demands Jagan to leave the palace.