[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Israel–South Africa relations

eign minister, Lindiwe Sisulu, announced that the ambassador would not be replaced when his term ended, and the Tel Aviv embassy would be downgraded to a liaison office. This downgrade had earlier been endorsed as the official policy of the ANC by delegates to its December 2017 elective conference. 

Since their unilateral downgrading by South Africa, diplomatic relations between the countries have remained strained. In 2021, South Africa's Department of Sports, Arts and Culture withdrew its support from the Miss South Africa pageant after the latter refused to boycott the Miss Universe event in Eilat, Israel. In 2021 and late 2022, South Africa, alongside Algeria, spearheaded an unsuccessful campaign to strip Israel of its observer status at the African Union. And the South African government continued publicly to criticise Israeli actions and express solidarity with Palestine in the Israel–Palestine conflict, frequently reiterating its support for a peaceful two-state solution. In June 2021, however, South African foreign minister Naledi Pandor told the South African Parliament that the government did not intend to sever relations entirely, and her department said in early 2022 that ongoing diplomatic contact "allowed South Africa to play a role with its international partners in the ongoing efforts to end the occupation of Palestine". Israel currently retains its embassy in Pretoria, and South African President Cyril Ramaphosa accepted the credentials of its current ambassador, Eliav Belotsercovsky, in January 2022. The South African Department of International Relations summarises the prevailing situation as follows:"There is currently limited political and diplomatic interaction between South Africa and Israel, mainly due to Israel’s antagonistic attitude towards the MEPP [Middle East peace process] and disregard for International Law regarding the rights of the Palestinians and their territories. South Africa’s baseline is that Israel must return to negotiations and create favorable conditions for peaceful negotiations."

Contemporary economic relations 
After the end of apartheid, trade between Israel and South Africa increased, from $387.8 million in 1992 and $474.7 million in 1994, to $706.4 million in 2000. It reached $1.03 billion in 2010, by which time Israel was South Africa's 40th largest source of imports and 24th largest destination for exports. South Africa was Israel's main trading partner in Africa between 2006 and 2016, with its imports from South Africa dominated by diamonds and coal. However, after peaking at $1.19 billion in 2012, bilateral trade began to decline. In 2019, bilateral trade amounted to only $407.7 million, with a trade imbalance of $19.5 million in South Africa's favour. 

Israel and South Africa signed a bilateral investment treaty in 2004, which included provisions for most favoured nation treatment, but it lapsed in 2014. In 2015, according to the South African Reserve Bank, the stock of Israeli foreign direct investment in South Africa was worth R2.93 billion, or 0.15% of all foreign investment in South Africa.

See also 
 History of the Jews in South Africa
 South African Jews in Israel
 Jewish resistance to apartheid
 Military history of South Africa
 Antisemitism in South Africa
 Muldergate

References

Bibliography

Books and articles

News

Official

Further reading

Articles

Books

External links 
 Embassy of Israel in South Africa
 South Africa Israel Chamber of Commerce
 Israel South Africa Chamber of Commerce
 Documents about nuclear collaboration, released by The Guardian
 Israel-South Africa relations 1961-1967, documents published by Israel State Archives
 South Africa and Israel: birds out of favor flock together
 Excerpt from The Unspoken Alliance

 
South Africa
Bilateral relations of South Africa