[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Saclepea

ery active Women’s Center whose mission is to increase awareness of and decrease instances of gender-based violence. Founded in 2008 by Saclepea native Theresa Monmia, the Saclepea Women’s Center works to encourage women’s economic independence and employs social workers to settle domestic disputes.

Education 
Saclepea had fourteen primary/secondary schools in 2010:  one government school (Johnny Voker Elementary/High School, grades K-12); one government school for Ivoirian refugee children (K-6); and twelve private, tuition-funded schools (five K-12, one K-11, one K-9,  five K-6). Government funds the lowest grades, even at some of the private schools.   To graduate 6th, 9th, and 12th grades, all students must pass exams administered by the West African Examinations Council (WAEC).  Due to the shortage of certified teachers, many classrooms are taught by “recruited” teachers – uncertified, unpaid men and women who are working on obtaining their certifications.

For Saclepean students, educational opportunities are expanding. In 2010, Saclepea hosted the first in a series of teacher training initiatives, funded by the U.S. non-profit West Africa Crossroads Corporation (WACC), and organized and administered by local Saclepean educators.

Multiple new private elementary schools opened between 2010 and 2014.

In January 2011, WACC helped locals open the Saclepea Community Computer Center (SCCC). SCCC offers computer and internet access to community members, and in 2012, SCCC began building its own building out of which to operate. As of February 2014, the SCCC building was yet uncompleted, and the computer center was preparing to reopen in a rented space after having been closed for several months due to some administrative difficulties.

Healthcare 
Saclepea has multiple clinics. It also has only one hospital, Saclepea Mission Hospital.  The one government clinic, the Saclepea Comprehensive Health Center, has both in-patient and out-patient facilities and charges no fees. Smaller clinics are run as private, fee-funded practices by local churches or Liberian individuals and are attended by Physician Assistants.  There are currently no x-ray machines in Saclepea, so patients with broken bones are sent to the nearest hospital, which is in Ganta, about 50 km away.

In response to war-torn families, low life expectancy, and high rates of death during childbirth, Saclepea has two relatively large orphanages. Both orphanages were founded by and are managed by Saclepean women. Both operate schools, generating some revenue from tuition. They also receive financial support from international sponsors and NGOs (e.g. Christian Aid).

Malaria is still a major health concern.  Although treated mosquito nets are widely available, they are very hot to sleep under and are not used consistently.  Malaria treatment is available at the larger clinics, but many children and elderly die because they are not taken to the clinic early enough.  Tuberculosis and Lassa fever are also common.

Religion 
Christianity is the dominant religion practiced among Saclepeans, but the city is also home to a significant Muslim community and to some native spirituality, such as witchcraft and animism. Many religious buildings and congregations, representing a plethora of Christian denominations, are located throughout Saclepea. Numerous churches and para-church organizations offer courses and certificates in theology, pastoral studies, and other Christian topics. Several Bible colleges and seminaries are in the general area. Churches are typically engaged in benevolent activities including education, care of orphans and widows, healthcare, and economic empowerment.

See also 
Liberia
Nimba County
Ganta

Notes

References 
 Trussell, M., & Moore, R. (2012). Local economic development in Africa: The case of Saclepea, Liberia.  Journal of Sustainable Development in Africa, 14(8), 15–33.

External links 
 West Africa Crossroads Corporation

Populated places in Liberia
Nimba County