[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force

The Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force or LTDF (, LVR; ) was a short-lived Lithuanian volunteer military unit created during the German occupation of Lithuania during World War II. 

The LTDF was disbanded for being insubordinate to the authorities of Nazi Germany. Its goal was to fight the approaching Red Army, the Soviet and Polish insurgents and thus ensure security in Generalbezirk Litauen within Reichskommissariat Ostland. LTDF had some autonomy, was staffed by Lithuanian officers, and their commander was Lithuanian General Povilas Plechavičius. The German Zivilverwaltung agreed not to transfer Lithuanian youth to forced labour in Germany while LTDF was active.

After brief engagements against Soviet and Polish partisans (Home Army, AK), the force self-disbanded, its leaders were arrested and sent to Nazi concentration camps, and many of its members were executed by the Nazis. Many others were either forced into Nazi service or successfully escaped Nazi persecution and started forming an armed anti-Soviet resistance, also known as Forest Brothers. 

The Union of Soldiers of the Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force (), a veterans' organization, was founded in 1997.

Background

Earlier failed mobilisation attempts 
After Nazi Germany lost the Battle of Stalingrad in early 1943 and the Eastern Front began moving westwards, the occupying German authorities became concerned with mobilizing the population of the occupied lands. The approaching Eastern Front and failed attempts to include Lithuanian youth in the Waffen-SS and Wehrmacht units forced the occupying Nazi regime to change its policy in Lithuania, to allow the Lithuanians themselves to mobilize their own military units. 

The mobilization to the Waffen-SS was boycotted by the Lithuanians in 1943 with less than 300 men reporting. The Nazis carried out reprisals against the population and deported 46 prominent figures and members of the intelligentsia to the Stutthof concentration camp. All Lithuanian higher education institutions were closed by the Nazis on March 18–19. The occupying German authorities intensified their hunts for Lithuanian youth for forced labour in Germany. 

At the end of January 1944, a compromise agreement was reached and the Lithuanian Territorial Defence Force was established. On January 31, the Reich SS and police leader (SSPF) signed an order on the organization of Lithuanian battalions to fight against banditry. On February 1, General Povilas Plechavičius was appointed as the commander of the LTDF.

Late 1943 
By late 1943, the German leadership was forced to negotiate with Lithuanian representatives on the formation of a Lithuanian unit, who refused the German demand to organize an SS legion. On November 23–24, 1943, the general councilors and members of the Nation's Council rejected the proposal to establish the Lithuanian armed forces as an SS legion. Instead, they advocated for the creation of a national Lithuanian army, following the principles outlined by Lithuanian General Stasys Raštikis. The principles were that the Lithuanian Army would consist of all types of units and weaponry, be commanded by a reliable Lithuanian officer and led by Lithuanian officers, as well as that all Lithuanians serving in other military units and police would be allowed to join it. The Lithuanian army would only operate in Lithuania, defending it from a Bolshevik invasion, and initially consist of a 60,000-strong corps. In addition, the mobilization to form the army will be initiated by the commander of the Lithuanian army.

January 1944 
Adrian von Renteln, the General Commissioner of Lithuania, who returned from Berlin during Christmas in 1943, met with the first councilor Petras Kubiliūnas, professor Mykolas Biržiška and general Antanas Rėklaitis and explained the German position to them. While agreeing to permit a Lithuanian division, the Germans nevertheless did not give into the Lithuanian aspiration of a national army. The Germans agreed to rescind their erstwhile demand for a Lithuanian SS, but demanded that a German would lead the Lithuanian division and that Lithuanians must petition the Germans for its creation. They also demanded that the name of the inspector general of the Lithuanian armed forces be used in place of the name of the commander of the Lithuanian army.