[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Black Nova Scotians

ucation or skills, young Black Nova Scotians in Toronto faced high poverty and unemployment rates.

In 1977, between 1,200 and 2,400 Black Nova Scotians lived in Montreal. Though dispersed throughout the city, many settled among African-Americans and English-speaking West Indians in Little Burgundy.

Dwayne Johnson, Arlene Duncan, Beverly Mascoll, Tommy Kane, and Wayne Simmonds are examples of prominent individuals who have at least one Black Nova Scotian parent that settled outside the province.

21st century

Organizations
Several organizations have been created by Black Nova Scotians to serve the community. Some of these include the Black Educators Association of Nova Scotia, African Nova Scotian Music Association, Health Association of African Canadians and the Black Business Initiative. Individuals involved in these and other organizations worked together with various officials to orchestrate the government apologies and pardons for past incidents of racial discrimination.

Africville Apology

The Africville Apology was delivered on February 24, 2010, by Halifax, Nova Scotia, for the eviction and eventual destruction of Africville, a Black Nova Scotian community.

Viola Desmond pardon
On April 14, 2010, the Lieutenant Governor of Nova Scotia, Mayann Francis, on the advice of her premier, invoked the Royal Prerogative and granted Viola Desmond a posthumous free pardon, the first such to be granted in Canada. The free pardon, an extraordinary remedy granted under the Royal Prerogative of Mercy only in the rarest of circumstances and the first one granted posthumously, differs from a simple pardon in that it is based on innocence and recognizes that a conviction was in error. The government of Nova Scotia also apologised. This initiative happened through Desmond's younger sister Wanda Robson, and a professor of Cape Breton University, Graham Reynolds, working with the Government of Nova Scotia to ensure that Desmond's name was cleared and the government admitted its error.

In honour of Desmond, the provincial government has named the first Nova Scotia Heritage Day after her.

Nova Scotia Home for Colored Children apology
Children in an orphanage that opened in 1921, the Nova Scotia Home for Colored Children, suffered physical, psychological and sexual abuse by staff over a 50-year period. Ray Wagner is the lead counsel for the former residents who successfully made a case against the orphanage. In 2014, the Premier of Nova Scotia Stephen McNeil wrote a letter of apology and about 300 claimants are to receive monetary compensation for their damages.

Immigration
Since the immigration reforms of the 1970s, a growing number of people of African descent have moved to Nova Scotia. Members of these groups are not considered a part of the distinct Black Nova Scotian community, although they are Black Canadian. The last group to be accepted as members of the Black Nova Scotian ethnic group are Bajans who came to Cape Breton in the early 1900s, referred to as the "later arrivals".

Top 5 immigrant ethnic origins for people of African descent in Nova Scotia:

Notable Black Nova Scotians

See also

Indigenous Black Canadians
Black Canadians in New Brunswick
Thomas Peters, Black Loyalist who settled Nova Scotia
The Book of Negroes (2007), novel based on the historic document of the same name
Poor Boy's Game
Speak It! From the Heart of Black Nova Scotia
Black Cop

Sources

External links
Nova Scotia Archives & Records Management – African Nova Scotians

Further reading

 History of the Maroons. 1803
 William Renwick Riddell. "Slavery in the Maritime Provinces". The Journal of Negro History, Vol. 5, No. 3 (July 1920), pp. 359–375
 Catherine Cottreau-Robins, "Timothy Ruggles – A Loyalist Plantation in Nova Scotia, 1784–1800". Doctorate Thesis. Dalhousie University, 2012
 
 Allen Robertson, "Bondage and Freedom: Apprentices, Servants and Slaves in Colonial Nova Scotia"; Collections of the Nova Scotia Historical Society. Vol. #44 (1996); pp. 13.
 Wilson Head. "Discrimination Against Blacks in Nova Scotia: The Criminal Justice System" (1989).
John Grant, "Black Immigration into Nova Scotia". Journal of Negro History, 1973
The African in Canada; The Maroons of Jamaica and Nova Scotia (1890)
Papers relative to the settling of the Maroons in His Majesty's province of Nova Scotia (1798)
A brief history of the coloured Baptists of Nova Scotia and their first organization as churches, A.D. 1832 (1895)
 African Nova Scotian Family Names by Region

 

African-American diaspora
Culture of Nova Scotia
History of Nova Scotia
Peoples of the African-American diaspora