[Source: PubMed]

63. J Forensic Leg Med. 2020 Apr;71:101921. doi: 10.1016/j.jflm.2020.101921. Epub
 2020 Feb 13.

Evaluation of medical examination of forensic medicine specialists during / 
after detention within the scope of Istanbul Protocol.

Keten A(1), Abacı R(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Forensic and Traffic Medicine, Heidelberg University, Voßstraße. 
2, D-69115, Heidelberg, Germany. Electronic address: dralperketen@gmail.com.
(2)Köln University, Center of Excellence for Social and Economic Behavior 
Department of Psychologies, Köln, Germany. Electronic address: rabaci@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: The Istanbul Protocol is a document prepared by many scientists 
from different countries and accepted by the United Nations thematising the 
medical reporting of torture. Normally, forensic specialists are responsible for 
medical examinations of torture victims, but this study looks at forensic 
specialists who were themselves subject to torture and mistreatment. It aims to 
analyze and evaluate, especially with regard to the Istanbul Protocol, the 
medical examinations performed on them while they were in detention.
MATERIAL/METHOD: This study includes experts in forensic science who were 
detained during and after the state of emergency that was declared in 2016 in 
Turkey. Participants were asked questions regarding the examination steps 
specified in the Istanbul protocol. The Google Forms system (Google Inc., 
CA/USA) was used for the surveys, sent to the participants via text message.
RESULTS: Twenty-two forensic scientists who were detained during and after the 
state of emergency in Turkey participated in this study. 45.5% of the 
participants were not asked for identification before their medical examination 
in detention. 36.4% of the participants stated that police were present in the 
examination room. Only 13.6% of participants found the privacy conditions during 
the examination appropriate. 90.9% stated that the time allocated for the 
examination was insufficient. The medical examinations lasted from 10 s to 
10 min. Most participants were examined in less than 5 min. When asked if they 
were abused, 22.7% stated that they were not tortured, and 77.3% stated that 
they were subjected to torture or mistreatment practices, such as beatings, 
inappropriate use of handcuffs, being forced to wait or being rushed 
unnecessarily, being abandoned in isolating or hostile environments. In 
addition, the questions required to assess the psychological indications of 
torture and maltreatment were never asked in 40.9% of the cases.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: Although torture is prohibited by international and 
humanitarian law, it has not completely disappeared. Medical personnel play an 
important role in torture assesment and prevention. The testimony of the 
forensic experts, who were fired and detained, revealed that the medical 
examinations during and after the State of Emergency in Turkey did not comply 
with the Istanbul Protocol and ethical rules. Medical examinations not carried 
out in accordance with the Istanbul Protocol lead to the denial of many rights 
and health problems. A worldwide awareness and sensitivity is needed to solve 
this problem.

Copyright © 2020 Elsevier Ltd and Faculty of Forensic and Legal Medicine. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jflm.2020.101921
PMID: 32094109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest No conflict of 
interest and financial disclosure were declared by the authors.