[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nikolay Tsiskaridze

98, 2000, 2003), Order of Honour of the Republic of Georgia (2003), Danza&Danza award as best dancer of the year 2003, Triumph prize (2004), Chevalier de l'Ordre des Arts et des Lettres de la République Française (2006), People's Artist of North Osetia — Alania Republic (2013) etc.

Assault Scandal 

In 2011, Tsiskaridze was a contender for directorship in Bolshoi, but Sergei Filin was chosen to the post. On 30 June 2013, Tsiskaridze left the Bolshoi when his contracts (as a premier dancer and as a ballet teacher) expired and the management decided not to extend them. His relationship with the directors of the theatre had become tense long ago. Tsiskaridze openly criticized the theatre's management for soiling the Bolshoi's repertoire of classics with contemporary works from abroad, for favoritism and bad taste. As a result of his criticism, Tsiskaridze and his students were denied roles, docked pay and prevented from advancing their careers. Tsiskaridze openly criticized the management for a six-year £800m-plus renovation of the theatre that turned out to be of a very low quality and raised serious concerns on theft, corruption and incompetence.

In January 2013, the acting artistic director of the Bolshoi Ballet Sergei Filin was assaulted, sulphuric acid was thrown into his face. Tsiskaridze was one of the suspects, but he had a strong alibi on the day of the assault. Though the former soloist of Bolshoi Pavel Dmitrichenko confessed to pay for the assault, many believed his confession was forced, and someone staged the whole attack to ruin Tsiskaridze's reputation and get him away from the theatre.

Public Positions 

In July 2011, Tsiskaridze was appointed a member of the President's Council for Culture and Arts.

In October 2013, Tsiskaridze was appointed a director of the prestigious Vaganova Academy of Russian Ballet in Saint Petersburg (est. in 1738) by order of the Culture Minister. In a year he was promoted to the full Rector of the institution.

In 2014, Tsiskaridze graduated as a Master of Law at Kutafin Moscow State Law University.

On 29 November, 2014, Tsiskaridze was formally confirmed as a Rector of the Vaganova Academy in unopposed election, winning 227 of the 244 possible votes which include professors, students and even school canteen workers. Even though his appointment a year earlier caused a scandal, Tsiskaridze  won the support of the staff with his hard work and significant results - improving the quality of education at the Academy, raising the funds for the school equipment and furnishing, negotiating various collaborations with other well-known schools and theatres, bringing the new repertoire broadening the range of opportunities for graduates.

In March 2014, he signed a letter in support of the position of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin on Russia's military intervention in Ukraine.

The trustees of Tokyo Ballet Academy have granted to Nikolay Tsiskaridze the status of professor emeritus. The artistic director of Tokyo Ballet Academy, Dr. Etsuro Satomi, signed the letter about it on February 11, 2015.

Repertoire 
Tsiskaridze danced in more than 70 ballets, including:

 Nutcracker Suite : Prince, Poupée Française
 La Belle au bois dormant : Prince Désiré, l'Oiseau Bleu, Fée Carabosse, Prince Fortune
 Romeo and Juliet : Mercutio, a troubadour
 La Sylphide : James
 Swan Lake : Prince Siegfried, Rothbart, the King
 La Bayadere : Solor, Bronze Idol
 The Legend of Love : Ferkhad
 Giselle : Albrecht
 The Spectre of the Rose : Le Spectre
 Raymonda : Jean de Brienne
 La Fille du pharaon : Taor
 La Dame de pique : Hermann
 Notre-Dame de Paris : Quasimodo
 Le Clair Ruisseau : Danseur classique
 A Midsummer Night's Dream : Theseus
 Le Corsaire : Conrad
La Rose Malade

References

External links 
Page on the Bolshoi Theater official website
Profile on Mariinsky Theatre website
Photographs with Ulanova, Grigorovich and Roland Petit
A propos de...  Tsiskaridze
Informal site
Photo Tsiskaridze's in "Photo gallery of masters of musical theatre"

Male ballet dancers from Georgia (country)
Ballet dancers from Georgia (country)
People's Artists of Russia
1973 births
Male dancers from Tbilisi
Living people
Prix Benois de la Danse winners
Chevaliers of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres
Bolshoi Ballet principal dancers
Russian people of Georgian descent