[Source: PubMed]

88. Public Health Res (Southampt). 2023 Dec;11(13):1-71. doi: 10.3310/TWWL4501.

Exploring the impact of housing insecurity on the health and well-being of 
children and young people: a systematic review.

Hock E(1), Blank L(1), Fairbrother H(2), Clowes M(1), Cuevas DC(1), Booth A(1), 
Goyder E(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK.
(2)Health Sciences School, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: Housing insecurity can be understood as experiencing or being at 
risk of multiple house moves that are (1) not through choice and (2) related to 
poverty. For example, due to short-term private rental tenancies, temporary or 
emergency housing, and homelessness. Housing insecurity has grown due to recent 
trends in the cost and availability of housing. The quality, affordability and 
stability of housing have all been shown to impact children's health and 
well-being. However, the pathways linking housing and child health and 
well-being are complex and poorly understood.
OBJECTIVES: To identify, appraise and synthesise research evidence that explores 
the relationship between housing insecurity and the health and well-being of 
children and young people.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE via Ovid (searched 8 April 2022), EMBASE via Ovid 
(searched 8 April 2022), PsycINFO via Ovid (searched 8 April 2022).
REVIEW METHODS: We undertook a systematic review synthesising qualitative data. 
We searched databases, reference lists and United Kingdom grey literature. We 
extracted and tabulated key data from the included papers, and appraised study 
quality. We synthesised the data qualitatively into an a priori conceptual 
framework using best-fit framework synthesis combined with thematic synthesis, 
and generated logic models to highlight links between specific exposures, 
impacts and outcomes.
RESULTS: We included 59 studies and identified four populations: those 
experiencing housing insecurity in general (40 papers); associated with domestic 
violence (nine papers); associated with migration status (13 papers) and those 
forced to relocate due to demolition (two papers). Most published studies had an 
overall assessment of moderate-high quality, and most grey literature originated 
from known and valued sources. Housing insecurity took many forms and resulted 
from several, often inter-related, situations, including being evicted or having 
a forced move, living in temporary accommodation, exposure to problematic 
behaviour, overcrowded/poor-condition/unsuitable property, and making multiple 
moves. The resultant housing insecurity had multiple impacts, including 
school-related, psychological, financial and family well-being impacts, 
long-distance travel to attend school and see friends, living in a 
poor-condition or unsuitable property, all of which could further exacerbate 
housing insecurity. These experiences impacted health and well-being, in terms 
of mental health problems (often manifesting physically/behaviourally) and 
physical health problems related to poor housing conditions. Some factors 
lessened the impact of housing insecurity, including friendship and support, 
staying at the same school, having hope for the future and protective parenting. 
The negative impacts of housing insecurity on health and well-being may be 
compounded by specific situations and life circumstances, such as escaping 
domestic violence, migration status, or a forced relocation due to housing 
demolition.
LIMITATIONS: Many accounts were from parents or other informants, and more data 
directly from children and young people may give a more nuanced picture. 
Likewise, there was little information relating to outcomes, and it is difficult 
to know whether the current evidence has captured all relevant outcomes, and the 
links from impacts to health and well-being outcomes are less well understood. 
The complexity and diversity of the data added additional challenges to the 
synthesis process.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that policies should focus on reducing housing 
insecurity among families, particularly in relation to reducing eviction, 
improving and reducing the need for temporary accommodation, minimum 
requirements for property condition, and support to reduce multiple moves and 
moves far from families' desired location. Those working with children and 
families experiencing housing insecurity should give them optimal choice and 
control over situations that affect them.
FUTURE WORK: Future qualitative research should focus explicitly on the health 
and well-being of children and young people experiencing housing insecurity, and 
how it links with the impacts identified in the current review, foregrounding 
the accounts of children and young people themselves, including specific groups 
of young people who are likely to be marginalised. Qualitative research focusing 
on the impact of interventions to address housing insecurity among families in 
the United Kingdom is also needed.
STUDY REGISTRATION: This study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42022327506.
FUNDING: This award was funded by the National Institute for Health and Care 
Research (NIHR) Public Health Research programme (Award ref: NIHR135455) and is 
published in full in Public Health Research; Vol. 11, No. 13. See the NIHR 
Funding and Awards website for further award information. The views expressed 
are those of the author(s) and not necessarily those of the NIHR or the 
Department of Health and Social Care.

Plain Language Summary: Housing insecurity is being at risk of moving house many 
times, due to poverty and having no choice, for example, due to a short-term 
rental house/flat, emergency housing and homelessness. Children’s health and 
well-being are known to be affected by how suitable, affordable and stable their 
housing is. However, the reasons for this are poorly understood. We looked for 
studies exploring how housing insecurity can affect the health and well-being of 
children and young people (aged 0–16) in the United Kingdom. We included the 
views of children, parents/close family members and professionals (e.g. 
teachers). We searched for studies published in academic journals, searched 
relevant websites and received suggestions from experts. We included 59 studies 
on the impact of housing insecurity on young people. We found that children are 
affected in many ways including their social life (e.g. being far from friends), 
schooling (e.g. joining a new school), health, financial and family well-being. 
This led to anxiety/stress, trouble eating and sleeping, wetting the bed and 
health problems, such as asthma, due to poor living conditions. Some things can 
help to protect children experiencing housing insecurity, including friendship 
and support, staying at the same school, and support from parents. The problems 
of housing insecurity may be made worse by life circumstances, including 
domestic violence, being a migrant/refugee/asylum seeker and a forced 
relocation. Most studies included parents/professionals, with few seeking the 
views of the children and young people themselves. Our review suggests that it 
is important to reduce housing insecurity among families. All those working with 
children and families experiencing housing insecurity should give them as much 
choice and control over situations that affect them as possible. Future studies 
should gather the views of children and young people themselves.

DOI: 10.3310/TWWL4501
PMID: 39789922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]