[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Herwig Schopper

he first collaboration with China.

From 1977 to 1979, Schopper was chairman of the Association of the German Large Research Centres (now Helmholtz Association) and member of various advisory bodies of the Federal Ministry of Research, the Deutsche Forschungs Gemeinschaft and the Max Planck Society.

After being member of the Scientific Policy Committee at CERN, Schopper was elected director general and served from 1981 to 1988. His first task was to unite the two CERN laboratories existing at that time under two Directors General. The Large Electron–Positron Collider (LEP) was also proposed and constructed under his leadership. This facility allowed the verification of the standard model of particle physics, namely that it is a renormalizable field theory, leading to the award of the Nobel Prize to the theoreticians Veltman and t'Hooft. Furthermore, it enabled the precise determination of fundamental parameters of the electroweak force, such as the
W± and Z masses, and proved the existence of three neutrino families. Thus, this particle accelerator transformed high energy physics into a field of precision measurements and provided estimates to the mass of the top quark, Higgs boson and other supersymmetric and hypothetical particles. 
LEP was approved under the condition of a reduced and constant budget with the consequence that some unique activities at CERN (e.g. ISR) had to be abandoned. Schopper was obliged to introduce a new way of international collaboration for the four LEP experiments since CERN could not provide funds for them. The experiments became rather independent activities organised in a rather democratic way bringing together hundreds of scientists from many universities and national organisations. The LEP experiments became a model for the later LHC experiments, shaping the way this organization works today.
He contributed to the globalisation of research at CERN and was also responsible for the return of Spain and Portugal in the CERN's member states.

Schopper is professor emeritus at the University of Hamburg since 1989. From 1992 to 1994 he was president of the German Physical Society and president of the European Physical Society in 1995–97. For many years he was member of the scientific council of the Joint Institute for Nuclear Research in Dubna and of the board of trustees of the Max Planck Institute for Plasma Physics in Garching.

At UNESCO, he served as member of the Physics Action Council and chairman of the Working Group on Large Facilities, president of the scientific council of the Regional Office for Science and Technology ROSTE of UNESCO in Venice (2001–2002) and in 2003–2009 he was the chairman of the international advisory committee for the International Basic Science Programs.

Schopper's vision of science without borders resulted in him becoming a founding father of SESAME, the laboratory for Synchrotron-Light for Experimental Science and Applications in the Middle East, which provides an extremely bright light source to investigate a broad range of domains from condensed matter to biology and archeology. In 1999–2008 he became president of the Preliminary International Council and later, after the formal foundation of SESAME, of the International Council. Without his dedication this international research facility would probably not have been built. SESAME was founded analogous to CERN, under the umbrella of UNESCO, with presently nine member states: Bahrain, Cyprus, Egypt, Iran, Israel, Jordan, Pakistan, the Palestinian Authority and Turkey. It provides an environment where countries with different political systems, traditions, religions and mentalities are able to work together peacefully.

Schopper is a founding member of The Cyprus Institute at Nicosia, Cyprus, and since 2000 Member of the board of trustees and was chairman of the Scientific Council and member of the executive committee of the board of trustees of the Cyprus Institute.

Currently, he works as an advisor and goodwill ambassador on science for peace. He writes articles about research policy, science and religion and also science and society.

Honours and awards

Honorary academic degrees
Schopper received honorary doctoral degrees from: University of Erlangen, Moscow State University, University of Geneva, University of London, Joint Institute for Nuclear Research (Dubna),  Institute for High Energy Physics (Protvino) and The Cyprus Institute (Nicosia).