[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michael Hahn

He is also claimed as the first ethnic Jewish governor in the United States; by then he was worshipping as an Episcopalian.

On March 4, 1864, Hahn was inaugurated as Governor of Union-held Louisiana in an elaborate ceremony paid for by General Banks. As governor, Hahn supported universal education.

In his term, Hahn tried to gain suffrage for freedmen and previously free people of color, but it was too early. He approved the state's ratification of the 15th Amendment.  Hahn's administration made serious attempts to ensure enfranchisement of black Louisianans, laid the foundation for a public school system for blacks, and began an aborted Reconstruction in Louisiana. Governor Hahn played a leading role in the state constitutional convention of 1864, but he was opposed by Major General Stephen A. Hurlbut, who replaced Banks as commander of the Department of the Gulf. General Hurlburt refused to recognize the state civil government of Hahn.

Hahn resigned as governor in March 1865, and was elected by the state legislature to the U.S. Senate in 1865. However, Radical Republicans did not seat him, as they believed the state had more work to do before being allowed to rejoin the Union.

Lieutenant Governor James Madison Wells succeeded Hahn as governor after his resignation.

Political editor and congressman
After President Lincoln was assassinated in April 1865, Congress refused to seat any Representatives or Senators from the South until a reconstruction plan could be carried out.  Senator-elect Hahn returned to New Orleans and allied with radical Republicans calling for a convention to revise Louisiana's Constitution of 1864 to include black suffrage. He was shot and severely wounded on July 30, 1866, in the New Orleans Riot.

In 1867 Hahn became editor and manager of the New Orleans Republican newspaper, his platform for opposing President Andrew Johnson's lenient Reconstruction program. In 1872 Hahn retired to a plantation in St. Charles Parish. There he established the village of Hahnville and published his third newspaper, the St. Charles Herald. On his plantation, he grew sugar cane, the common commodity crop in the "sugar parishes" of this region.

From 1871 to 1878 Hahn served in the Louisiana State Legislature. He was elected as Chairman of the Judiciary Committee and Speaker of the House. In 1878 he was appointed as Superintendent of the U.S. Mint in New Orleans, serving until January 1879. At that point, Hahn was appointed Judge of the 26th state judicial district, which included Saint John the Baptist, Saint Charles, and Jefferson parishes. During the 1880 elections, Hahn established and edited the New Orleans Ledger to promote Republican candidates.

Although Democrats had regained control of the state legislature, Hahn was personally admired for his integrity and consistency of position. In 1884 Hahn was elected to Congress as the Republican candidate from Louisiana's 2nd congressional district – a race which he won handily by 3,000 votes. Serving as the only Republican Congressman from Louisiana, Hahn died on March 15, 1886, in his room at the Willard Hotel in Washington, D.C. He suffered a ruptured blood vessel near his heart. His body was returned to New Orleans.

Hahn's funeral was conducted by an Episcopal priest, and he was buried in New Orleans' Metairie Cemetery. He had never married and died poor. He had spent much of his previous wealth in trying to maintain the Republican-oriented newspapers he published.

Notes

See also
List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899)
List of U.S. state governors born outside the United States

 New Orleans massacre of 1866

References
Congressional Biography
Baker, Vaughn B., and Amos E. Simpson. "Michael Hahn: Steady Patriot" Louisiana History 13 (summer 1972): pp. 229–52.

External links

Michael Hahn's Congressional biography
Cemetery Memorial by La-Cemeteries

1830 births
1886 deaths
American Jews from Louisiana
People from Südliche Weinstraße
Bavarian emigrants to the United States
Governors of Louisiana
Speakers of the Louisiana House of Representatives
Democratic Party members of the Louisiana House of Representatives
Tulane University alumni
Politicians from New Orleans
Businesspeople from New Orleans
People from Hahnville, Louisiana
Editors of Louisiana newspapers
Louisiana Unionists
People from the Palatinate (region)
Unionist Party members of the United States House of Representatives
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Louisiana
Republican Party governors of Louisiana
Unionist Party state governors of the United States
School board members in Louisiana
19th-century American politicians
American lawyers admitted to the practice of law by reading law
19th-century American businesspeople