[Source: PubMed]

22. Nurs Ethics. 2001 May;8(3):259-71. doi: 10.1177/096973300100800310.

Key points for developing an international declaration on nursing, human rights, 
human genetics and public health policy.

Anderson G(1), Rorty MV.

Author information:
(1)Medical Genetics Program, Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula, PO 
Box HH, Monterey, CA 93942, USA.

Human rights legislation pertaining to applications of human genetic science is 
still lacking at an international level. Three international human rights 
documents now serve as guidelines for countries wishing to develop such 
legislation. These were drafted and adopted by the United Nations Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Human Genome Organization, and the 
Council of Europe. It is critically important that the international nursing 
community makes known its philosophy and practice-based knowledge relating to 
ethics and human rights, and contributes to the globalization of genetics. 
Nurses have particular expertise because they serve in a unique role at grass 
roots level to mediate between genetic science and its application to public 
health policies and medical interventions. As a result, nurses worldwide need to 
focus a constant eye on human rights ideals and interpret these within social, 
cultural, economic and political contexts at national and local levels. The 
purpose of this article is to clarify and legitimate the need for an 
international declaration on nursing, human rights, human genetics and public 
health policy. Because nurses around the world are the professional workforce by 
which genetic health care services and genetic research protocols will be 
delivered in the twenty-first century, members of the discipline of nursing need 
to think globally while acting locally. Above all other disciplines involved in 
genetics, nursing is in a good position to articulate an expanded theory of 
ethics beyond the principled approach of biomedical ethics. Nursing is sensitive 
to cultural diversity and community values; it is sympathetic to and can 
introduce an ethic of caring and relational ethics that listen to and 
accommodate the needs of local people and their requirements for public health.

DOI: 10.1177/096973300100800310
PMID: 16010919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]