[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rodolfo Biazon

Rodolfo "Pong" Gaspar Biazon (, April 14, 1935 – June 12, 2023) was a Filipino politician and Philippine Marine Corps general. He was the Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) in early 1991 and then served as a Senator from 1992 to 1995 and from 1998 to 2010.

During his time in the military, he served as superintendent of the Philippine Military Academy (PMA), commandant of the Philippine Marine Corps, Vice Chief of Staff, and finally Chief of Staff of the AFP. After his stints in the senate, he served as the Representative of Muntinlupa from 2010 to 2016.

Early life and career
Biazon was born on April 14, 1935, in Batac, Ilocos Norte. His father Rufino Biazon, was a doughmaker then, while his mother Juliana Gaspar, was a clotheswasher. His father died and left him along with his mother and three younger sisters when he was seven years old. At a young age of eight, he and his sisters had already experienced hardship, especially during the Japanese regime. Living in a makeshift shanty in Cavite, they had to peddle food, collected bottles and newspapers, which were later sold in order to earn a living for the family. In spite of their condition, it did not stop him from obtaining his education.

Biazon enrolled as a Grade One student at the age of eleven in 1946. In order to support his education, and at the same time look for ways to earn money, so he went to school in the morning and worked in the afternoon. He would collect seashells in Manila Bay which were in turn sold at the market. He studied at Jose Rizal Elementary School in Pasay (then in Rizal) for his primary education where he graduated salutatorian. He continued working, washing clothes for other people in order to sustain his high school education at the Arellano University – Jose Abad Santos High School, also in Pasay, in 1955. He also graduated from this school with honors. He stopped doing laundry and instead worked as a laborer in the then Highway 54 (now EDSA), this time to sustain his college education in FEATI where he took mechanical engineering.

Biazon also attended other trainings or schooling which include the TOP Management Program at the Asian Institute of Management; Command and General Staff Course in Quantico, Virginia, United States; Crisis Program in California, United States; Allied Combat Intelligence Course in Okinawa, Japan; Senior Officer Maintenance Course in Kentucky, United States; Amphibious Warfare Course in Quantico, Virginia, United States and, Military Instructors in Norfolk, Virginia, United States.

Military career
Biazon entered the Philippine Military Academy in 1957, although he applied and passed for the US Navy. He was the class goat of PMA Class 1961 yet this did not prevent him from achieving his goal.

As a Philippine Marine, he attained the following posts: Superintendent of PMA in 1986–87, Commandant of the Philippine Marines (PMC) in 1987–1989, Commanding General of the NCR Defense Command in 1988–1990, Armed Forces of the Philippines (AFP) Vice Chief of Staff in 1990-91 and Armed Forces of the Philippines Chief of Staff in 1991.

Biazon was assigned in Davao in 1983 during the Marcos administration. It was the time when the trust and confidence of the civilians in the military were returned as he took the initiative to do so.

During his tenure both as the Commanding General of the AFP NCR Defense Command and Commandant of the Philippine Marine Corps, he quelled an attempted coup by the Reform the Armed Forces Movement (RAM), led by Col. Gringo Honasan. He led the Marines and the officers and men of the AFP NCR Defense Command in foiling the coup attempt.

In early 1990, Viva Films began to plan a film based on Gen. Biazon's life, with Eddie Garcia cast as Biazon and Manuel "Fyke" Cinco to direct, though it did not come to fruition.

Gen. Biazon was chosen to be the third Armed Forces Chief of Staff of the 5th Republic, after Fidel V. Ramos and Renato de Villa, and the first one to come from the ranks of the PMC in 1991. Prior to that, he served then also as the Vice Chief of Staff of the AFP under De Villa. He is the first and only AFP Chief of Staff from the Philippine Marine Corps.

Awards during his military service
 Philippine Republic Presidential Unit Citation
 Martial Law Unit Citation
 Distinguished Service Star
 Gold Cross Medal
 Outstanding Achievement Medal
 Bronze Cross Medal
 Military Merit Medals with one spearhead device and four bronze anahaws
 Military Commendation Medals
 Long Service Medal
 Anti-dissidence Campaign Medal
 Luzon Anti Dissidence Campaign Medal
 Visayas Anti-Dissidence Campaign Medal
 Mindanao Anti-dissidence Campaign Medal
 Jolo and Sulu Campaign Medal
 Disaster Relief & Rehabilitation Operation Ribbon
 Combat Commander's Badge
 AFP Parachutist Badge

Congressional career