[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 6]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ishments of his
rank, nothing would give me more pleasure than a certainty that he would
never in any respect fall below the son of farmer Sandford."

Whether Mrs Merton fully acceded to these observations of her husband, I
cannot decide; but, without waiting to hear her particular sentiments,
he thus went on:--"Should I appear more warm than usual upon this
subject, you must pardon me, my dear, and attribute it to the interest I
feel in the welfare of our little Tommy. I am too sensible that our
mutual fondness has hitherto treated him with rather too much
indulgence. While we have been over-solicitous to remove from him every
painful and disagreeable impression, we have made him too delicate and
fretful; our desire of constantly consulting his inclinations has made
us gratify even his caprices and humours; and, while we have been too
studious to preserve him from restraint and opposition, we have in
reality been ourselves the cause that he has not acquired even the
common attainments of his age and situation. All this I have long
observed in silence, but have hitherto concealed, both from my fondness
for our child, and my fear of offending you; but at length a
consideration of his real interests has prevailed over every other
motive, and has compelled me to embrace a resolution, which I hope will
not be disagreeable to you--that of sending him directly to Mr Barlow,
provided he would take the care of him; and I think this accidental
acquaintance with young Sandford may prove the luckiest thing in the
world, as he is so nearly the age and size of our Tommy. I shall
therefore propose to the farmer, that I will for some years pay for the
board and education of his little boy, that he may be a constant
companion to our son."

As Mr Merton said this with a certain degree of firmness, and the
proposal was in itself so reasonable and necessary, Mrs Merton did not
make any objection to it, but consented, although very reluctantly, to
part with her son. Mr Barlow was accordingly invited to dinner the next
Sunday, and Mr Merton took an opportunity of introducing the subject,
and making the proposal to him; assuring him at the same time, that,
though there was no return within the bounds of his fortune which he
would not willingly make, yet the education and improvement of his son
were objects of so much importance to him, that he should always
consider himself the obliged party.

To this, Mr Barlow, after thanking Mr Merton for the confidence and
liberality with which he treated him, answered him in the following
manner:--"I should be little worthy of the distinguished regard with
which you treat me, did I not with the greatest sincerity assure you,
that I feel myself totally unqualified for the task. I am, sir, a
minister of the Gospel, and I would not exchange that character, and the
severe duties it enjoins, for any other situation in life. But you must
be sensible that the retired manner of life which I have led for these
twenty years, in consequence of my profession, at a distance from the
gaities of the capital, and the refinements of polite life, is little
adapted to form such a tutor as the manners and opinions of the world
require for your son. Gentlemen in your situation of life are accustomed
to divide the world into two general classes; those who are persons of
fashion, and those who are not. The first class contains everything that
is valuable in life; and therefore their manners, their prejudices,
their very vices, must be inculcated upon the minds of children, from
the earliest period of infancy; the second comprehends the great body of
mankind, who, under the general name of the vulgar, are represented as
being only objects of contempt and disgust, and scarcely worthy to be
put on a footing with the very beasts that contribute to the pleasure
and convenience of their superiors."

Mr Merton could not help interrupting Mr Barlow here, to assure him
that, though there was too much truth in the observation, yet he must
not think that either he or Mrs Merton carried things to that
extravagant length; and that, although they wished their son to have the
manners of a man of fashion, they thought his morals and religion of
infinitely more consequence.

"If you think so, sir," said Mr Barlow, "it is more than a noble lord
did, whose written opinions are now considered as the oracles of polite
life, and more than, I believe, most of his admirers do at this time.
But if you allow what I have just mentioned to be the common
distinctions of genteel people, you must at one glance perceive how
little I must be qualified to educate a young gentleman intended to move
in that sphere; I, whose temper, reason, and religion, equally combine
to make me reject the principles upon which those distinctions are
founded. The Christian religion, though not exclusively, is,
emphatically speaking, the religion of the poor. Its first ministers
were tak