[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Principles of intelligent urbanism

t their own future, against the inequity of their past, or the special challenges they face.  According to proponents of this principle this is the most salient aspect of a free society; than even voting rights access to opportunity is the essence of self-liberation and human development (Sen:2000).

According to proponents of intelligent urbanism, there will be a variety of problems faced by urbanites and they need a variety of opportunity channels for resolution.  If there are ten problem areas where people are facing stresses, like economic engagement, health, shelter, food, education, recreation, transport, etc., there must be a variety of opportunities through which individuals and households can resolve each of these stresses.  There must be ten channels to resolve each of ten stresses! If this opportunity matrix is understood and responded to, the city is truly functioning as an opportunity matrix. For example, opportunities for shelter could be through the channels of lodges, rented rooms, studio apartments, bedroom apartments and houses.  It could be through the channels of ownership, through a variety of tendencies.  It could be through opportunities for self-help, or incremental housing.  It could be through the up-gradation of slums.  Intelligent urbanism promotes a wide range of solutions, where any stress is felt.  It therefore promotes a range of problem statements, options, and variable solutions to urban stresses.

Intelligent urbanism sees cities as processes.  Proponents argue that good urban plans facilitate those processes and do not place barriers before them.  For example, it does not judge a “slum" as a blight on society; it sees the possibility that such a settlement may be an opportunity channel for entry into the city.  Such a settlement may be the only affordable shelter, within easy access to employment and education, for a new immigrant household in the city.  According to intelligent urbanism, if the plan ignores, or destroys such settlements, it is creating a city of barriers and despair wherein a poor family, offering a good service to the city, is denied a modicum of basic needs for survival.  Alternatively, if the urban plan recognizes that the “slum" is a mechanism for self development, a spring-board from which children have access to education, a place which can be up-graded with potable water, basic sanitary facilities, street lights and paving...then it is a plan for opportunity.  Intelligent urbanism believes that there are slums of hope and slums of despair.  It promotes slums of hope, which contribute, not only to individual opportunities, but also to nation building.

The opportunity matrix must also respond to young professionals, to skilled, well-paid day laborers, to the upper middle class and to affluent entrepreneurs.   If a range of needs, of abilities to pay, of locational requirements, and of levels of development of shelter, is addressed, then opportunities are being created.

Intelligent urbanism believes that private enterprise is the logical provider of opportunities, but that alone it will not be just or effective.  The regime of land, left to market forces alone, will create an exclusive, dysfunctional society.  Intelligent urbanism believes that there is an essential role for the civil society to intervene in the opportunity matrix of the city.

Intelligent urbanism promotes opportunities through access to:

 Basic and primary education, skill development and knowledge about the  urban world;
 Basic health care, potable water, solid waste disposal and hygiene;
 Urban facilities like storm drainage, street lights, roads and footpaths;
 Recreation and entertainment;
 Transport, energy, communications;
 Public participation and debate;
 Finance and investment mechanisms;
 Land and/or built-up space where goods and services can be produced;
 Rudimentary economic infrastructure;
 Intelligent urbanism provides a wide range of zones, districts and precincts where activities and functions can occur without detracting from one another.

Intelligent urbanism proposes that enterprise can only flourish where a public framework provides opportunities for enterprise.  This system of opportunities operates through public investments in economic and social infrastructure; through incentives in the form of appropriate finance, tax inducements, subsidized skill development for workers, and: regulations which protect the environment, safety, hygiene and health. To ensure a stable playing field where one can make an investment with predictable returns, a modicum of regulation is necessary. Proponents argue that it is through government regulations that private investment can be protected from fraud. It is through government regulation that the under-pinning conditions for free enterprise can be protected.