[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Parliament of the Cook Islands

, but individual MPs can also promote their own bills, and one day a week is set aside for member's business.

Debate is severely limited, with no debate on the First or Third readings, and possibly none on the Second.  Voting is by voice vote or division, and there is no provision for proxy voting.

First Reading
The first stage of the process is the First Reading.  The bill is formally presented to Parliament, and the short title is read by the Clerk.  There is no debate, and no vote.

For the purposes of the First Reading a bill may consist only of its short title.

Second Reading
The Second Reading may take place at any time up to a month after the first. There is normally a debate on the general principles and merits of the bill, with speeches of up to 20 minutes long. If the bill is approved, then its long title is read, and it is either committed for the Committee of the whole House, or sent by motion to a Select Committee or to the House of Ariki.

If a bill is intended to be sent to Select Committee or the House of Arikis, the Second Reading is pro forma, and there is no debate.

Consideration by Select Committee or House of Ariki
Bills may be sent to a Select Committee or to the House of Ariki for consideration.  The committee or House of Ariki typically has three months to consider the bill, though this time may be extended. Parliament may give instructions extending or restricting the terms of the committee's or House or Ariki's consideration.

Following consideration, the House votes on whether to adopt the committee or House of Ariki's report.  If the motion passes, the bill goes straight to its Third Reading, without a Committee of the whole.  Alternatively, the bill may be recommitted for consideration by the Committee of the Whole.

Committee of the whole House
When a bill reaches the Committee of the whole House stage, Parliament resolves itself "into committee", forming a committee of all MPs present to consider it. Each Member may speak up to three times on each clause or proposed amendment, for up to 10 minutes at a time, but debate is restricted to the details of the bill rather than its principles. The Committee may amend the bill as it sees fit, provided the amendments are relevant to the subject matter of the bill and the particular clause, and not inconsistent with any clause already agreed to.  Amendments may be introduced during the debate, or in writing and placed on the Order Paper.

When all clauses have been debated and amendments agreed to or negatived, the bill is reported back, and there is a final vote on whether the report of the committee is adopted by the House.

Third Reading
The Third Reading may be taken on the same day as a bill is reported back by the Committee of the whole, the House of Ariki or Select Committee.  Minor amendments may be proposed for correcting errors or oversights, but no material amendments may be proposed.  There is no debate.  If the bill is passed, it is referred to the King's Representative for their assent.

Select committees

Legislation is scrutinised by select committees, which must consist of between five and seven members.  Committees have the power to send for witnesses and records to assist in their deliberations.  As in other Westminster Systems, the proceedings of select committees are protected by Parliamentary privilege.

The number and roles of subject committees is regulated by Standing Orders.  Currently the following subject committees exist:

In addition there are three standing select committees tasked with the regulation of parliament.  These are:

Terms of the Cook Islands Parliament

The Parliament is currently in its 15th term.

See also
House of Ariki

References

External links

 Parliament of the Cook Islands
 Standing Orders of the Cook Islands Parliament
 Constitution of the Cook Islands

Politics of the Cook Islands
Political organisations based in the Cook Islands
Cook Islands
Cook Islands
Government of the Cook Islands