[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 95]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

of our rich at home, who imagine that they have nothing to do
with their fortune but to throw it away upon their pleasures, while
there are so many thousands in want of the common necessaries of life.

_Tommy._--But, pray, sir, have you no more particulars to tell me about
these Greenlanders? for I think it is the most curious account I ever
heard in my life.

_Mr Barlow._--There is another very curious particular indeed to be
mentioned of these countries; in these seas is found the largest animal
in the world, an immense fish, which is called the whale.

_Tommy._--Oh dear! I have heard of that extraordinary animal. And pray,
sir, do the Greenlanders ever catch them?

_Mr Barlow._--The whale is of such a prodigious size, that he sometimes
reaches seventy or eighty, or even more than a hundred feet in length.
He is from ten to above twenty feet in height, and every way large in
proportion. When he swims along the seas, he appears rather like a large
vessel floating upon the waters than a fish. He has two holes in his
head, through which he blows out water to a great height in the air,
immense fins, and a tail with which he almost raises a tempest when he
lashes the sea with it. Would you not believe that such an animal was
the most dreadful of the whole brute creation?

_Tommy._--Indeed, sir, I should! I should think that such a fish would
overset whole ships, and devour the sailors.

_Mr Barlow._--Far from it; it is one of the most innocent in respect to
man that the ocean produces, nor does he ever do him the least hurt,
unless by accidentally overturning vessels with his enormous bulk. The
food he lives upon is chiefly small fish, and particularly herrings.
These fish are bred in such prodigious shoals amid the ice of those
northern climates, that the sea is absolutely covered with them for
miles together. Then it is that the hungry whale pursues them, and thins
their numbers, by swallowing thousands of them in their course.

_Harry._--What numbers indeed must such a prodigious fish devour of
these small animals!

_Mr Barlow._--The whale, in his turn, falls a prey to the cruelty and
avarice of man. Some indeed are caught by the Greenlanders, who have a
sufficient excuse for persecuting him with continual attacks, in their
total want of vegetables, and every species of food which the earth
affords. But the Europeans, who are too nice and squeamish to eat his
flesh, send out great numbers of ships, every year, to destroy the poor
whale, merely for the sake of the oil which his body contains, and the
elastic bones which are known by the name of whalebone, and applied to
several purposes. When those who go upon this dangerous expedition
discern a whale floating at a distance, they instantly send out a large
boat to pursue him. Some of the men row along as gently as possible,
while the person that is appointed to attack the fish stands upon the
forepart of the boat, holding in his hand a sharp harpoon, with which he
is prepared to wound his prey. This is fastened to a long cord which
lies ready coiled up in the boat, so that they may let it out in an
instant, when the fish is struck; for such is his prodigious force,
that, should the least impediment occur to stop the rope in its passage,
he would instantly draw the boat after him down to the bottom of the
sea. In order to prevent these dangerous accidents, a man stands
constantly ready to divide the rope with a hatchet, in case it should
happen to tangle; and another is continually pouring water over it for
fear the swiftness of the motion should make it take fire. The poor
whale, being thus wounded, darts away with inconceivable rapidity, and
generally plunges to the bottom of the sea. The men have a prodigious
quantity of cord ready to let out, and when their store is exhausted
there are generally other boats ready to supply more. Thus is the poor
animal overpowered and killed, in spite of his immense bulk and
irresistible strength; for, gradually wearied with his own efforts and
the loss of blood, he soon relaxes in his speed, and rises again to the
top of the water. Then it is that the fishers, who have pursued him all
the time with the hopes of such an opportunity, approach him anew, and
attack him with fresh harpoons, till in the end his strength is entirely
exhausted, the waves themselves are tinged with a bloody colour from his
innumerable wounds, and he writhes himself about in strong convulsions
and unutterable pain. Then the conflict is soon at an end; in a short
time he breathes his last, and turning upon his back, floats like some
large vessel upon the surface of the sea. The fishers then approach, and
cut off the fins and other valuable parts, which they stow on board
their ships; the fat, or blubber, as it is often called, is received
into large hogsheads, and when boiled, to purify it, composes the common
oil, which is applied to so many useful purposes. The remai