[Source: PubMed]

16. Health Policy. 2018 Nov;122(11):1212-1221. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2018.08.015.  Epub 2018 Sep 1.

An ethical appraisal of living-anonymous kidney donation using Adam Smith's 
Theory of Moral Sentiments.

Khetpal V(1), Mossialos E(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE, United Kingdom; Warren Alpert 
Medical School of Brown University, RI, 02912, United States.
(2)Department of Health Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE, United Kingdom; Institute of Global 
Health Innovation, Imperial College London, St Mary's Hospital London, W2 1NY, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: e.a.mossialos@lse.ac.uk.

Ethical debates continue to shape organ transplant policies, particularly for 
kidneys. Facing organ shortages, governments have created incentives targeting 
prospective living-anonymous donors - socially and biologically unrelated to the 
recipient. However, these policies may transform altruistic exchanges of tissues 
into trades of commodities. We use Adam Smith's concept of sympathy to outline a 
new approach to transplantation ethics. This is accomplished using a case study 
analysis of six countries with established living-anonymous kidney donation 
practices - Iran, Israel, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, and 
the United States. An ethical test was also developed from ethnographies of 
donors and Smith's Theory of Moral Sentiments. The case study analysis 
considered the role of religious and historic norms, media campaigns, adherence 
to the 2008 Declaration of Istanbul guidelines for each case, and how each 
factor related to Smith's sympathy, categorizing the countries into four tiers 
of altruism. Iran occupied the least altruistic tier, followed by the 
Netherlands, the UK and the US, and Saudi Arabia and Israel. The ethical test 
identified a similar ranking. Our findings suggest that a highly-selected cohort 
of states with established living-anonymous kidney donation programs may already 
utilize a Smithian approach for recruiting donors, and that socially-valued 
government incentives can preserve altruism. The ethical test could become a 
useful instrument to assess the altruism of emerging incentive policies.

Copyright © 2018 The Author(s). Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2018.08.015
PMID: 30190087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]