[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sotho phonology

nqane 'that other side'), a syllabic nasal followed by a tenuis click (, also written , as in  senqanqane 'frog'; this is not the same as the prenasalized radical click written  in the Nguni languages), and a syllabic nasal followed by an aspirated click ( written , as in  seqhenqha 'hunk').

Vowels

Sesotho has a large inventory of vowels compared with many other Bantu languages. However, the nine phonemic vowels are collapsed into only five letters in the Sesotho orthography. The two close vowels i and u (sometimes called "superclose" or "first-degree" by Bantuists) are very high (with advanced tongue root) and are better approximated by French vowels than English vowels. That is especially true for , which, in English, is often noticeably more front and can be transcribed as  or  in the IPA; that is absent from Sesotho (and French).

Consonants
The Sotho–Tswana languages are peculiar among the Bantu family in that most do not have any prenasalized consonants and have a rather-large number of heterorganic compounds. Sesotho, uniquely among the recognised and standardised Sotho–Tswana languages, also has click consonants, which were acquired from Khoisan and Nguni languages.

  is an allophone of , occurring only before the close vowels ( and ). Dialectical evidence shows that in the Sotho–Tswana languages  was originally pronounced as a retroflex flap  before the two close vowels.

Sesotho makes a three-way distinction between lightly ejective, aspirated and voiced stops in several places of articulation.

Sesotho possesses four simple nasal consonants. All of these can be syllabic and the syllabic velar nasal may also appear at the end of words.

The following approximants occur. All instances of  and  most probably come from original close , , , and  vowels or Proto-Bantu *u, *i, *û, and *î (under certain circumstances).

Note that when  appears as part of a syllable onset this actually indicates that the consonant is labialized.

The following fricatives occur. The glottal fricative is often voiced between vowels, making it barely noticeable. The alternative orthography used for the velar fricative is due to some loanwords from Afrikaans and ideophones which were historically pronounced with velar fricatives, distinct from the velar affricate. The voiced postalveolar affricative sometimes occurs as an alternative to the fricative.

There is one trill consonant. Originally, this was an alveolar rolled lingual, but today most individuals pronounce it at the back of the tongue, usually at the uvular position. The uvular pronunciation is largely attributed to the influence of French missionaries at Morija in Lesotho. Just like the French version, the position of this consonant is somewhat unstable and often varies even in individuals, but it generally differs from the "r"'s of most other South African language communities. The most stereotypical French-like pronunciations are found in certain rural areas of Lesotho, as well as some areas of Soweto (where this has affected the pronunciation of Tsotsitaal).

Sesotho has a relatively large number of affricates. The velar affricate, which was standard in Sesotho until the early 20th century, now only occurs in some communities as an alternative to the more common velar fricative.

The following click consonants occur. In common speech they are sometimes substituted with dental clicks. Even in standard Sesotho the nasal click is usually substituted with the tenuis click.  is also used to indicate a syllabic nasal followed by an ejective click (), while  is used for a syllabic nasal followed by a nasal click ().

The following heterorganic compounds occur. They are often substituted with other consonants, although there are a few instances when some of them are phonemic and not just allophonic. These are not considered consonant clusters.

In non-standard speech these may be pronounced in a variety of ways. bj may be pronounced  (followed by a palatal glide) and pj may be pronounced . pj may also sometimes be pronounced , which may alternatively be written ptj, though this is not to be considered standard.

Syllable structure

Sesotho syllables tend to be open, with syllabic nasals and the syllabic approximant l also allowed. Unlike almost all other Bantu languages, Sesotho does not have prenasalized consonants (NC).

The onset may be any consonant (C), a labialized consonant (Cw), an approximant (A), or a vowel (V).
The nucleus may be a vowel, a syllabic nasal (N), or the syllabic l (L).
No codas are allowed.

The possible syllables are:
V ho etsa ('to do') 
CV fi! ('ideophone of sudden darkness') 
CwV ho tswa ('to emerge') 
AV  wena ('you') 
N nna ('I') 
L lebollo ('circumcision rite') 
Note that heterorganic compounds count as single consonants, not consonant clusters.