[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Derick Brassard

who had played in 1,038 games without a hat-trick, had a longer drought. The Coyotes failed to qualify for the 2021 Stanley Cup playoffs, having been mathematically eliminated from postseason contention at the start of May, but Brassard finished the season with eight goals and 20 points in 53 games.

Philadelphia Flyers (2021–2022) 
On August 25, 2021, the Philadelphia Flyers signed Brassard to a one-year, $825,000 contract. Early in the season, he filled in for former Rangers teammate Kevin Hayes as a second-line center while Hayes recovered from abdominal surgery. The Flyers'  season was mired in injury, particularly among centers, and Brassard left a November 23 game against the Tampa Bay Lightning early with a lower body injury. He reappeared for one game against the New Jersey Devils on December 8, but was still bothered by the injury and returned to the bench the following game. Although interim head coach Mike Yeo said that Brassard was "very close" to returning to play on December 26, he was placed on COVID-19 protocols the following day. He returned on January 6, in part because the Flyers were missing nine players due to COVID-19 protocols and other injuries and needed an extra body on the ice. Brassard aggravated the injury once more during the January 6 game and was sidelined for another month afterwards, only returning to the line-up in full on February 9. When he returned, he centered a third line that also featured James van Riemsdyk and Gerry Mayhew and also saw time on the second power play unit. Brassard scored his 200th career NHL goal on March 14, the only goal for the Flyers in their 3–1 loss to the Carolina Hurricanes. In 31 games with the Flyers, Brassard scored six goals and 16 points.

Edmonton Oilers (2022) 
On March 21, 2022, the Flyers traded Brassard to the Edmonton Oilers in exchange for a fourth-round selection in the 2023 NHL Entry Draft. The Oilers were Brassard's 10th NHL team; in joining them, he became one of nine NHL players to appear for 10 or more teams.

Return to Ottawa (2022–present) 
After the 2021–22 season, Brassard was not re-signed by the Oilers. Brassard signed a professional try-out with the Ottawa Senators on September 15, 2022. After posting three points in four preseason games, Brassard was signed to a one-year contract with the Senators on October 10.

Brassard played in his 1,000th NHL game, recording two goals in a 5–3 victory against his former team, the New York Rangers. He became the seventh player in NHL history to score multiple goals in his 1,000th game. Brassard suffered a fractured tibia in the latter stages of the season requiring surgery.

International play 
 

Brassard has represented Team Canada at a number of international ice hockey tournaments, beginning with the 2004 World U-17 Hockey Challenge. Representing Quebec in the tournament, Brassard scored a preliminary-round goal against the United States team on a short-handed breakaway. That was the only point he recorded in six tournament games. Quebec ultimately faced the United States again in the bronze medal finals, defeating the team 3–2 to take a third-place tournament finish. The following April, he represented Canada at the 2005 IIHF World U18 Championships in the Czech Republic. Brassard and Canada took home the silver medal in the U18 tournament after losing 5–1 to the USA Hockey National Team Development Program team. Brassard recorded four points in the six-game contest, all assists.

Brassard had hoped to join the Canadian junior team for the 2006 World Junior Ice Hockey Championships in British Columbia, but despite a strong showing in training camp, he was one of the final players cut from the tournament team. Ten years after he was cut from the Canadian junior team, Brassard joined the Canada men's national ice hockey team for the 2016 IIHF World Championship in Russia. He led the Canadian team with five goals and 11 points in the tournament and won the gold medal.

Personal life 
Brassard's older sister Janie played college ice hockey for the Concordia Stingers before becoming a school teacher in Quebec. As a result of his Quebecois upbringing, Brassard is bilingual, speaking fluent French and English. In May 2020, Brassard became a minority owner of the Gatineau Olympiques QMJHL team.

Brassard maintains close friendships with fellow NHL players Cam Atkinson, Mats Zuccarello, Kevin Hayes, and Mark Stone, and he served as a groomsman at Atkinson's wedding. As of April 2022, Brassard is unmarried and does not have children, and he has told reporters that this allows him more flexibility in moving to different teams.

Career statistics

Regular season and playoffs

International

Awards and honours

References

External links

 
 Derick Brassard's Golf Tournament