[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Near East Side (Columbus, Ohio)

two middle schools, Champion Middle and United Schools Network charter school Columbus Collegiate Academy; and one high school, East High School.

Historic districts

Columbus Near East Side District
The Columbus Near East Side District was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978.

Bryden Road District
The Bryden Road District was established as a local historic district in 1990. It was initially met with apprehension, for fear of certain historical aspects being erased from the area. The Bryden Road District is subject to architectural review by the City of Columbus Historic Resources Commission. Bryden Road was renamed in order to thwart the expansion of the streetcar through the neighborhood; on one side it is Town Street and on the other side of Parsons Ave it is Bryden Road. The Bryden Road District runs east-west through both the Franklin Park and Olde Towne East neighborhoods. The area once was referred to as the "Silk Stocking District" because of the display of prosperity and opulence. More than 50 architectural styles can be found along Bryden Road, including French, German and Renaissance influence.

East Broad Street Historic District

The East Broad Street Historic District is a historic district that was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1987. It includes the section of East Broad Street from Ohio Avenue on the west to Monypenny Street on the east.

Neighborhoods

Beatty Park (Mt. Vernon Avenue District)

Mount Vernon lies within the historic Near East Side community. It borders interstates 71 and 670. Its main thoroughfares, Mount Vernon Avenue, East Long Street, Atcheson Street, and Champion Avenue define the community's limits. It is a part of the Bronzeville area and had a strong African American and Jewish community.

Eastgate and Nelson Park
Developed in 1916, the Eastgate neighborhood includes Nelson Park, Eastgate Elementary School, and the intersection of East Broad Street and Nelson Road. It is commonly referred to as both Eastgate and Nelson Park.

Eastwood Heights
Eastwood Heights is bordered by Taylor Ave on the east, East Broad Street on the South, Hawthorne Ave on the north and Hughes St. on the west.

Franklin Park

This neighborhood is bounded by East Broad Street to the north, East Main Street to the south, and Wilson Avenue to the west.

The Alum Creek tributary separates the Franklin Park neighborhood from the City of Bexley and the area originally known as the "Wolfe Addition to Franklin Park," which is known in modern times as the Wolfe Park neighborhood. The Holtzman Main business district along the west bank of Alum Creek within the Franklin Park neighborhood.

Franklin Park is surrounded on the north by the other Near East neighborhoods of Eastgate, Nelson Park, Woodland Park, Eastwood Heights, and Bronzeville/King-Lincoln.

To the south are Hanford Village, Driving Park, and Old Oaks, which are both considered to be Columbus' Near South.

Olde Towne East is another Near East neighborhood that is situated between the Discovery and Market Districts of downtown Columbus and the Franklin Park neighborhood.

Hamilton Park

This historic neighborhood is located along Hamilton Park Avenue, between East Broad and East Long streets. The area was one of four residential areas built around "park-like boulevards." Due to the construction of the interstate, only 3 remain. The area was predominantly African American and was attractive to certain groups because of the area's proximity to the railroad tracks, which provided transportation and work. The area features unique architectural elements such as conical turrets, ironic columns, frieze windows, projecting bays, contrasting stone trim and tall chimneys...

Hanford Village

Hanford Village has been placed on the National Register of Historic Places. Originally founded as a village in 1909 and annexed by Columbus in 1955, Hanford was marketed to African American veterans, but much of the neighborhood was wiped out in the 1960s when I-70 was constructed.

Holtzman-Main
The area is located between Nelson Road and the west bank of the Alum Creek tributary within the Franklin Park Neighborhood. It is an old industrial district, which has plain buildings, lacks landscaping, and has narrow streets and alleys. The area is mainly commercial with businesses that include day care centers, a social service agency, catalog distribution, automotive repair services, car washes, a fuel center, and fast food and grocery. The Northern boundary of the area is Clowsen Field, Capital University's baseball diamond. A revitalization plan exists with recommendations to make aesthetic improvements and utilize the area as a gateway into the Franklin Park neighborhood and Near East.

King-Lincoln Bronzeville