[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 111]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

s with the rest. The game, indeed, he found no difficulty in
learning; but he could not help remarking, with wonder, the extreme
solicitude which appeared in the face of all the players at every change
of fortune. Even the young ladies, all but Miss Simmons, seemed to be
equally sensible of the passion of gaining money with the rest; and some
of them behaved with a degree of asperity which quite astonished him.
After several changes of fortune, it happened that Miss Simmons and
Harry were the only remaining players; all the rest, by the laws of the
game, had forfeited all pretensions to the stake, the property of which
was clearly vested in these two, and one more deal was wanting to decide
it. But Harry, with great politeness, rose from the table, and told Miss
Simmons, that, as he only played upon her account, he was no longer
wanted, and that the whole undoubtedly belonged to her. Miss Simmons
refused to take it; and when she found that Harry was not to be induced
to play any more, she at last proposed to him to divide what was left.
This also Harry declined, alleging that he had not the least title to
any part. But Miss Simmons, who began to be uneasy at the remarks which
this extraordinary contest occasioned, told Harry that he would oblige
her by taking his share of the money, and laying it out in any manner
for her that he judged best. "On this condition," answered Harry, "I
will take it; and I think I know a method of laying it out, which you
will not entirely disapprove."

The next day, as soon as breakfast was over, Harry disappeared; nor was
he come back when the company were assembled at dinner. At length he
came in, with a glow of health and exercise upon his face, and that
disorder of dress which is produced by a long journey. The young ladies
eyed him with great contempt, which seemed a little to disconcert him;
but Mr Merton speaking to him with great good-humour, and making room
for him to sit down, Harry soon recovered from his confusion.

In the evening, after a long conversation among the young people, about
public diversions and plays, and actors, and dancers, they happened to
mention the name of a celebrated performer, who at this time engaged the
whole attention of the town. Master Compton, after expatiating with
great enthusiasm upon the subject, added, "that nothing was so
fashionable as to make great presents to this person, in order to show
the taste and elegance of the giver." He then proposed that, as so many
young gentlemen and ladies were here assembled, they should set an
example, which would do them infinite honour, and probably be followed
throughout the kingdom, of making a little collection among themselves
to buy a piece of plate, or a gold snuff-box, or some other trifle, to
be presented in their name. He added, "that though he could ill-spare
the money (having just laid out six guineas upon a new pair of buckles),
he would contribute a guinea to so excellent a purpose, and that Masters
Mash and Merton would do the same."

This proposal was universally approved of by all the company, and all
but Harry promised to contribute in proportion to their finances. This
Master Mash observing, said, "Well, farmer, and what will you
subscribe?" Harry answered, "that on this occasion he must beg to be
excused, for he had nothing to give." "Here is a pretty fellow!"
answered Mash; "last night we saw him pocket thirty shillings of our
money, which he cheated us out of at Commerce, and now the little stingy
wretch will not contribute half-a-crown, while we are giving away whole
guineas." Upon this Miss Matilda said, in an ironical manner, "that
Master Harry had always an excellent reason to give for his conduct;
and she did not doubt but he could prove to the satisfaction of them
all, that it was more liberal to keep his money in his pocket than to
give it away."

Harry, who was a little nettled at these reflections, answered, "that
though he was not bound to give any reason, he thought he had a very
good one to give; and that was, that he saw no generosity in thus
bestowing money. According to your own account," added he, "the person
you have been talking of gains more than fifty poor families in the
country have to maintain themselves; and therefore, if I had any money
to give away, I should certainly give it to those that want it most."

With these words Harry went out of the room, and the rest of the gentry,
after abusing him very liberally, sat down to cards. But Miss Simmons,
who imagined that there was more in Harry's conduct than he had
explained, excused herself from cards, and took an opportunity of
talking to him upon the subject. After speaking to him with great
good-nature, she asked him, whether it might not have been better to
have contributed something along with the rest, than to have offended
them by so free an exposition of his sentiments, even though he did not
approve of the scheme. "Inde