[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hong Kong Metropolitan University

rate with local hospitals for nurse degree education. The University partnered with Cathay Pacific Airways to organise the Professional Diploma in Inflight Service programme. In October 2005, the University partnered with the Hong Kong Police Force for recruit police constables' foundation training.

In September 2006, the OUHK officially started to participate in the Hong Kong's centralised joint university admission system (JUPAS), becoming the first higher education institution offering self-financing degree programmes. In the meantime, the OUHK partner with the Hong Kong Baptist Hospital. In June 2007, the OUHK established Centre for Putonghua Education and Testing. In August 2007, the OUHK signed the Memorandum of Understanding with the Union Hospital, partnering to launch full-time Bachelor of Nursing with honours (General Health) programmes. In the meantime, the OUHK freely opened its teaching materials, providing Hong Kong residents with self-studying opportunities. In September 2007, the University Council unanimously approved to name the School of Business and Administration after Dr Lee Shau-kee to acknowledge his donation of HK$50 million in supporting the establishment of the University Development Fund. In December 2007, the OUHK was included in the Government's Matching Grant Scheme for the first time and raised a total of HK$160 million as a result.

In May 2008, the OUHK firstly partnered with the Clothing Industry Training Authority (CITA) on fashion business top-up degree

In June 2008, full-time nursing programmes were accredited by the Nursing Council.

Research Centre 

Under the co-ordination of the Research Grants Council (RGC) in 2014, the OUHK was granted a subsidy of HK$18 million in the application of research grants for local self-financing institutions to set up the Institute for Research in Innovative Technology & Sustainability, the Research Institute for Digital Culture and Humanities and the Centre of Chinese Culture.

Programmes offered

Full-time programmes 
Full-time programmes have been the recent main focus of the HKMU. Similar to the full-time programmes of other universities, the programmes are conducted by lectures and tutorials. Some even include laboratory courses and practicums. Face-to-face programmes mainly consists of full-time and part-time modes. Some full-time face-to-face programmes have been included in the Hong Kong's centralised joint university admission system (JUPAS).

Part-time programmes 
Part-time programmes include distance learning programmes, the programmes have been the ongoing programmes of the HKMU since its establishment. The University provides students applied for distance learning programmes with self-study materials. Some programmes even include interactive CD-ROMs, videos and computer software. The University's tutors conduct regular tutorials on weekday evening or weekend. Distance learning programmes allow student to decide to attend tutorials. However, some tutorials require students to attend specific classes or laboratory courses. Besides, the University arranges tutors to provide students with guidance and assistance by phone, email or online at specific time. Tutors also provide feedback on all assignments to help guide students' learning.

Although most distance learning programmes are in open entry, with no entry requirements and time limits on finishing a qualification, students are required to complete specific assignments and to pass end-term exams during their study periods so as to attain the course credit. Besides, every distance learning programme, including diploma and degree programmes, is set with studying rules. Students are required to follow the rule to accumulate assigned course credits so as to apply for qualifications.

Governance and Organisation 
Hong Kong Metropolitan University Ordinance states that the Chief Executive (Hong Kong Governor before the return of Hong Kong to China) or a person designated by him shall be the Chancellor of the University.