[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Blair's Landing

mid-stream with the Osage aground right behind her. The transport Rob Roy was behind both, unable to pass. The transport Black Hawk was lashed alongside the Osage and the Lexington was near the east bank. All but five of the river transports had made it safely downstream.

Battle

Confederate plans 

After the Confederate setback at Pleasant Hill, Taylor met with his superior, General Edmund Kirby Smith who decided to take most of the infantry north to fight Steele's Federal force in Arkansas. Kirby Smith left Taylor with only 5,200 troops to face Banks. He feared that Steele might reach the Confederate supply base at Shreveport. Kirby Smith was convinced that if Taylor had more soldiers, he would not be able to feed them in the desolated country between Mansfield and Alexandria. Taylor tried to argue, but he was overruled. Nevertheless, Taylor still believed that he could destroy Banks' army.

On the morning of April 10, Brigadier General Hamilton P. Bee's cavalry rode to Pleasant Hill and found that Banks' army abandoned the battlefield and was in full retreat. Bee gave chase, but the Federals burned Double Bridge, stopping pursuit. At dawn on April 11, Taylor ordered Colonel Arthur P. Bagby Jr. to intercept Porter's expedition at Grand Bayou Landing. Bagby was delayed in crossing the  wide Bayou Pierre and only reached Grand Bayou Landing after Porter's vessels had passed. After being notified of the situation, Taylor ordered Green to intercept Porter. At 6:00 pm on April 11, Green set out with the regiments of Colonels William Henry Parsons, Nicholas C. Gould, and Peter C. Woods, (the 12th Texas, 23rd Texas, and 36th Texas Cavalry Regiments, respectively) and two artillery batteries. With difficulty, Green crossed Bayou Pierre at Jordon's Ferry, getting only three cannons across, and rushed his horsemen forward in an all-night march.

Action 

According to William Riley Brooksher, on April 12 in the afternoon, Green arrived at Blair's Plantation with about 1,000 soldiers and Captain John A. A. West's Grosse Tete (Louisiana) Flying Artillery. Arthur W. Bergeron Jr. stated that only the battery's 12-pounder howitzer section was present during the action. Mark M. Boatner III credited Green with 750 men and two batteries. Green assigned Parsons to take charge of the attacking force while Brigadier General James Patrick Major commanded a small reserve. Parsons led his dismounted cavalrymen to the trees on the bluff overlooking the riverbank. This movement was spotted by the pilot of the Black Hawk, who alerted the other vessels. 

Lieutenant Thomas Oliver Selfridge Jr., commanding the Osage, ordered the Lexington into action. In response, Lieutenant George M. Bache moved the Lexington toward the river's edge,  guns blazing, disabling one Confederate gun. At this, Green's cavalrymen opened a terrific blast of small arms fire at the Union vessels. The Union infantry aboard the transports fired back, while shielded by cotton bales and sacks of oats. A section of guns on the transport Emerald, a howitzer aboard the Black Hawk, and four heavy Parrott rifles on the Rob Roy added to the fire directed at Green's dismounted troopers. John D. Winters asserted that the guns and Union infantry were first landed on the east bank before they came into action. The Confederate battery fired on the Hastings, but its first shot fell short. As the Hastings quickly steamed away, more missed shots passed overhead. 

 
Despite the huge volume of small arms fire from both sides, casualties were relatively light. The Confederates were protected by the river's high bank while the Federals were helped by their improvised defenses. The fire finally became so intense that the crew and passengers of the Black Hawk took refuge aboard the Osage. Porter later remarked that, "there was not a place six inches square that was not perforated by a bullet", on the Black Hawk. The Osage worked itself free of the sandbar and moved toward the west bank, firing her  guns. Its gunners soon ran out of canister shot and grapeshot, so they substituted shrapnel shell with one second fuses. The Confederate artillery horses were killed, forcing the men to manhandle their guns into new positions when the Union gunboats found the range.