[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Kekko Kamen

is a Japanese manga series written and illustrated by Go Nagai. It was serialized in Monthly Shōnen Jump from September 1974 to February 1978, with the chapters collected into five tankōbon volumes by Shueisha.

It follows the misadventures of a student named Mayumi Takahashi who attends a boarding school called Sparta Academy that is run by sadistic psychopaths. The teachers are constantly looking for ways to torture or humiliate the students, and from this the teachers derive sexual satisfaction. Takahashi's only protection is from a mysterious nude female superhero—the titular Kekko Kamen. The manga has spawned an original video animation series and numerous live-action films. In North America, the OVAs were released by ADV Films, while several of the films were published by different distributors.

Plot
First-year student Mayumi Takahashi attends a junior high school called , where the penalty for any student (usually girls) making the slightest mistake is being sexually humiliated by the perverted, corrupt and misogynistic teachers running the school, the principal being a demonic, jester-like villain named "Toenail of Satan". However, before the teachers can take their sexual advances too far, Kekko Kamen steps in and delivers a sound beating to the teachers, and usually performs a finishing attack by jumping into the air and landing crotch-first onto her opponent's face.

Characters

A practically nude female superhero dressed only in a red, rabbit-eared mask, with matching gloves, scarf, and boots. She uses her body to distract the usually male enemy teachers that she fights in order to protect Sparta Academy's unfairly punished and harassed students, but, typically, she ends up coming to the defense of Mayumi Takahashi. She fights with a graceful and acrobatic martial arts style, as well as often using weapons to aid her, such as nunchuks and a bo staff. Her finishing move, the , involves her leaping into the air, spreading her legs, and landing groin-first on her typically male opponent's face, which knocks him out. The possibility of an outside intruder is ruled out, and the principal and faculty thus conclude that one of the students is the masked heroine.

In the last chapter, it is revealed that Kekko Kamen has six secret identities—the belief that she only had one allowed each of her secret identities to remain uncovered, whilst giving each other alibis. In the end, the six are victorious, and the school is shut down, thanks to their efforts.

Portrayed by: Chris Aoki

A first year student at the Sparta Academy. Mayumi is an innocent and good-natured girl, but her failure to meet the school's high academic standards often lands her in the school's torture chamber, where she is subjected to humiliating punishments. However, before the teachers are about to completely violate her, Kekko Kamen always bursts in and save the day. Her heroine's constant rescuing of her has filled Mayumi with a deep amount of affection for her, but she is often used by the principal and faculty as bait to lure Kekko Kamen into a trap.

Portrayed by: Yumi Goto (1991 Movie), Rie Nakano (1992 Movie), Juri Inahara (2004 Movie)

The main antagonist and wicked principal of Sparta Academy, who dresses in a fearsome white demon mask and jester hood. He is extremely perverted and obtains satisfaction from sexually humiliating the bodies of female students, especially that of Mayumi Takahashi. This brings him into conflict with Kekko Kamen, whose secret identity he wishes to uncover, so that he may destroy her. To accomplish this, he exhorts various punishment councillors into publicly humiliate Takahashi, using her as bait to bring the naked warrior of justice out in the open, but she always defeats him.

Portrayed by: Paul Maki, Hajime Tsukumo

A perverted, insane, abusive, sadistic, mad scientist teacher who works for Toenail of Satan. He always punishes Mayumi Takahashi for her substandard grades, but is then put in his place by Kekko Kamen.

A shy, introverted second year student. When Mayumi sees her bare body during an examination intended to unmask Kekko Kamen, her reaction shows that she believes the heroine is Chigusa, but Kekko Kamen suddenly appears and declares that they suspected the wrong person. However, Chigusa actually does have a secret—she is actually two people, the twins Chigusa and Yuka, enrolling as one student due how poor their family is. When their secret is discovered, the twins are accused of being Kekko Kamen, and tortured, but are again cleared of suspicion when Kekko Kamen arrives to save them and Mayumi.

In the last chapter, however, it is revealed that the twins really were Kekko Kamen, alongside four others.