[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Abdulhadi al-Khawaja

lease him, or he will die inside," he added.

The government refused access to independent activists to examine him, stating that al-Khawaja's condition was stable and medical care was being provided. It also said he was not on a real hunger strike, because he was taking glucose and "other liquids".

Beginning on 20 April, al-Khawaja refused all fluids, including water and intravenous saline. He asked to see his lawyer to write a will, but was denied access for the fourth week. So he begged his wife to pass on three things: that he was completely convinced as to the rightness of his action and, could he go back, would choose the same path again; his appeal that no one attempt a similar strike to the death; and finally, "If I die, in the next 24 hrs, I ask the people to continue on the path of peaceful resistance... I don't want anybody to be hurt in my name." On 25 April (his 77th day of hunger strike), his wife learned he had disappeared from his hospital bed. Both the Ministry of Interior and the Bahrain Defense Force hospital refused information as to his whereabouts or treatment. On 29 April, it emerged that he had been drugged, tied to a bed, and forcibly fed with a nasoenteric tube. al-Khawaja considered the force feeding and the solitary confinement to be torture; he gave the doctor's name as Dr Ebrahim Zuwayed, declared he will hold him, the hospital and the Ministry of Interior responsible, and that he was continuing with his hunger strike.

On 28 May, al-Khawaja announced through his lawyer that he would end his hunger strike that evening, on the strike's 110th day.

On 16 November 2021, Al-Khawaja, started a hunger strike due to long and ongoing harassment by the prison authorities.

On 18 November 2021, he called his family to say his blood sugar level had dropped to a dangerously low level of 2.4.

International response 

The trials and sentences have been criticized by governments and human rights organizations as unfair and politically motivated. The spokesperson for UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Navi Pillay said that there were serious concerns that the due process rights of the defendants, many of them well-known human rights defenders, had not been respected and the trials appeared to bear the marks of political persecution. The Office of the High Commissioner (OHCHR) called for an immediate cessation of trials of civilians in the Court of National Safety and the immediate release of all peaceful demonstrators arrested in the context of the February protest movement.  The OHCHR had received "worrying" reports about the way up to 1,000 people reportedly remaining in detention were being treated and called on the Government to conduct an urgent independent investigation into allegations that four individuals had died in detention due to injuries resulting from severe torture.

The UK Foreign Office, noting that Ibrahim Sharif was a prominent moderate opposition politician who had been a constructive participant in Bahraini politics, expressed concern at the trial of civilians under martial law by tribunals chaired by a military judge, as well as reports of abuse in detention, lack of access to legal counsel and coerced confessions.

Amnesty International's Middle East and North Africa program director, Malcolm Smart, described the trials as patently unfair, emphasizing inadequate investigation of claims of torture and the use of false confessions as evidence. Summing up the situation, he said: 

On 30 March 2012, the organization officially designated al-Khawaja a prisoner of conscience and demanded his immediate release.

Amid his hunger strike, the Danish foreign minister met with Bahrain's foreign minister in March 2012 and called for al-Khawaja's immediate release. Front Line Defenders launched a campaign demanding his immediate release. Sahrawi organizations including human rights defender Aminatou Haidar expressed their solidarity and support. More than 50human rights organization appealed to King of Bahrain to release al-Khawaja. On 9 April, UN Secretary General Ban Ki Moon called for Bahrain to consider transferring al-Khawaja to Denmark for medical treatment, but Bahrain's Supreme Judicial Council refused on the grounds that the transfer would be a violation of Bahraini law. On 10 April, al-Khawaja's lawyer Mohammed al-Jeshi expressed his fears that al-Khawaja had died, as authorities were no longer allowing his family or legal counsel to see him.

The United States expressed concern for al-Khawaja's well-being and called on the Bahraini government to "consider urgently all available options to resolve his case."

On 1 May 2012, al-Khawaja told BBC correspondent Frank Gardner that he would continue the hunger strike. He said that the medical treatment which he was undergoing was good except the Bahraini officials trying to force-feed him, an accusation the government instantly denied.