[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Terrorism in Uganda

uthorized officers" who have the "right to intercept the communication of a person."

When the National Assembly debated the act, Internal Affairs Minister Eriya Kategaya said the government needed "this power to move quickly and decisively against suspected terrorists before they cause more havoc."

2003 Terrorist Act
Colonel Leopold Kyanda, Head of the Ugandan government's Military Intelligence department, and General Aronda Nyakairima, Chief of Defence Forces, answered questions regarding Ugandan policy on terrorism in a press conference in February 2007. Colonel Kyanda acknowledged that "in the process of trying to arrest terrorists at times you find people who are innocent. As you all very well know, a terrorist does not have any boundary. So, operations against a terrorist are complicated. A terrorist does not wear uniform; a terrorist does not demarcate boundaries but is amongst everybody." General Nyakairima said the government does not have safe houses for holding terrorist suspects.

Kyanda said that innocent people who are arrested accidentally are often those who are with terrorists at the time of their arrest.

"Terrorism is more complicated than the ordinary crime where within the stipulated 48 hours you will not get [have got] what you want. So some of these individuals are held in transit, and we begin to get more information whether they are clean or not and then proceed with the cases. So that is what I can say about the innocent people we pick up [arrest] accidentally during terrorist operations."

Counter-terrorism conference
Defence Ministers Amama Mbabazi of Uganda, Kivutha Kibwana of Kenya and Philemon Sarungi of Tanzania met with other military officials in Kampala, Uganda from 21–23 November 2003 in a U.S.-sponsored counter-terrorism conference.

Ugandan Military Intelligence Chief Colonel Nobel Mayombo told reporters in Kampala that terrorism is "one of the items high on the agenda of the meeting and how East African resources could be put in place to create security. The meeting will assess the three countries' readiness to defense challenges and increase information-sharing including issue on training. As for Uganda... we also have targets that have to be protected" because some of the countries near Uganda are "incubators of terrorism."

Representatives from the governments signed an agreement on tracking terrorist suspects in East Africa.

United States citizens charged with terrorism

Peter Waldron
Ugandan police arrested Peter Waldron, an evangelist, along with six other suspects on charges of "terrorism" on 20 February 2006. Police say they found four AK-47s and 180 bullets under Waldron's bed contrary to section 7(2j) of the Anti-terrorism Act of Uganda 2002. Three of the other suspects are from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and three are from Uganda. Chief Magistrate Margaret Tebulya said Waldron had the arms "all without a valid license or reasonable excuse." The arrest came shortly before presidential elections, and the suspects had planned to found a Christian political party.

Christopher John Howdy
Ugandan police arrested Christopher John Howdy in Gulu on 20 November 2006, charging him with "terrorism" on 21 November. Police say Howdy had three unlicensed guns. Howdy was imprisoned in Kampala prison until the high court heard his case.

Cooperation with Malaysia
Ugandan police chief Major General Kale Kayihura, Honorary Consul Noraihan Haji Adnan, Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs James Mugume, and Malaysian police chief Tan Sri Musa Hassan met in Bukit Aman Police Headquarters, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on 15 February 2007. They agreed to provide information on counter-terrorism, drug trafficking, riot control and marines. The Malaysian government will train the Uganda Police Force for the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in November 2007.

References

Human rights abuses in Uganda
Uganda