[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yank Levy

gar Snow's Scorched Earth, respectively.

The book had significant impact and it received favorable press. Time magazine wrote:
Anyone who thinks his country will be invaded  which includes anyone now alive  would do well to read "Yank" Levi's Guerrilla Warfare for instruction on to harass invaders.

Time enthusiastically noted his unconventional approach:
Sinister Shadow. . . . The Methods of ambush are important. A wire cable strung across a road at an angle will slide a motorcycle off into the ditch, where the cyclist can be slugged and searched . . . Destruction is one aim. A guerrilla learns how to derail and wreck trains, blow up tanks, destroy planes on the ground, and dynamite bridges. In taking sentries, advises Mr. Levy, the back is the best approach. If that is impossible, the guerrilla covers the sentry with his revolver, steps on his foot, unbuttons his tunic, and jerks it down over his arms to lock them. "You may slap his ears with the revolver barrel to intimidate him. . . . You should also drop his trousers to lock his feet." . . . Invisible weapons might include: a  . . . lady's hatpin, or a wrist knife strapped to the wrist with the hilt downwards; a knife hung around the neck; a small revolver held up the sleeve by rubber bands; a stiletto with a nine-inch blade. . . . a hammer, cheese-cutters (wires with wooden handles, handy for garroting); a handkerchief with a fistful of sand in it. Besides blankets, extra socks, binoculars, rifles, burnt cork to blacken the face, etc., an important part of the equipment is 25 to 30 yards of fishline. . . .  [and] booby traps.

They believed well-trained irregulars could undermine tanks and the Blitzkrieg. As Wintringham noted:
The guerrilla, on the other hand, can exert against the communications of any enemy force, against his dumps as well as his lorries his headquarters as well as his stragglers, a continual pressure, a threat that wears out men and forces. And guerrilla warfare is a method of fighting  a useful method that will, I believe, in future campaigns become essential to success—that can be achieved and developed by democracies and by socialist societies, but cannot be developed by Fascism, particularly in the areas where Fascism rules by force against the will of the population.

Successful guerrilla fighting needs the self-confidence and initiative of millions of free men, the support at risk and at heavy sacrifice of almost all the population, and a feeling of close comradeship and solidarity between the guerrilla troops and any regular army and air force supporting them. The Nazis cannot get these qualities at their service, in any of the occupied countries of Europe, even in Italy. We can. And therefore we should not think of guerrilla warfare only in terms of the present heroism of the Soviet Union or a possible future resistance to invasion in this country. We should think of it also in terms of our invasion of the Continent. We should be looking for ways of fighting, and combinations between ways of fighting that enable a democratic force invading Hitler's Europe to mobilize and use the enormous power of the "hundred million allies" who can be ours.

That the handbook was available for 1725¢ per copy was a factor in its being widely circulated.  Over a half million copies were printed.