[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Benoît Pelletier

sought for commentary on Canadian constitutional matters. In June 2010, he called for Canadians to be more willing to discuss the constitution.

In October 2010, Pelletier published an extended essay titled, Une certaine idée du Québec. Parcours d'un fédéraliste. De la réflexion à l'action.

Awards

Pelletier's many accomplishments have been recognized throughout his career, with numerous titles, awards and other forms of recognition:

→ Médaille du Barreau de Paris, as the year's top student in graduate law studies at the University of Ottawa.

→ Award for Excellence in Teaching from the University of Ottawa.

→ Selected on merit by the Canadian Who's Who.

→ The Léger-Comeau Medal from the Société nationale de l'Acadie, in recognition of his outstanding contribution to Acadia and the people of Acadia, as well as his efforts to bring Acadians and Quebecers together.

→ The Medallion of the 400th Anniversary of the Foundation of Québec City, recognizing his work on behalf of that city.

→ Admission to the Ordre de Gatineau as Grand Citizen.

→ Commander of the Order of La Pléiade (an Order of francophonie and cultural dialogue).

→ Insignia of the Ordre des francophones d'Amérique from Quebec's Conseil supérieur de la langue française. in recognition of his efforts on behalf of the expansion of the French language in North America.

→ Commander of Belgium's Order of the Crown, in recognition of his contribution to strengthening the relationship between Belgium and Canada.

→ Gloire de l'Escolle Medal as a graduate of Laval University, a medal awarded to graduates who have brought particular honour to the university and to their profession through their professional activities and their contributions to society.

→ Advocatus Emeritus, a distinction awarded to him by the Quebec Bar in recognition of his outstanding contribution to the legal profession and its standing.

→ The Boreal Prize, presented to him by the Fédération des communautés francophones et acadienne for his major support of the development of these communities.

→ Commander of the l'Ordre des Palmes académiques de France.

→ Award of Merit from the Outaouais Bar Association.

→ Chevalier of the Ordre national du mérite de France.

→ Honoris causa doctorate in law, presented by the University of Moncton.

→ Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal.

→ The Gérard-Lesage Medal, presented by the Université du Québec en Outaouais for his outstanding contribution to the development of the region, the quality of life of his fellow citizens, and the institutional values of the university.

→ Officer in the Ordre national du Québec.

→ Election to the Royal Society of Canada, as a special member.

→ In December 2016, Pelletier was named a Member of the Order of Canada.

→ Winner of the Prix Acadie-Québec, awarded in recognition of considerable contribution to the creation and consolidation of Acadia-Quebec relations.

→ Recipient of the Senate of Canada Sesquicentennial Medal, presented in recognition of valuable service to the nation.

→ Recipient of the Medal of the Quebec Bar, which is the highest distinction awarded by this Bar.

Personal life
Benoît Pelletier lives in Gatineau, Quebec. He has been married to Danièle Goulet (daughter of Marcel Goulet and Agathe Villeneuve) since June 30, 1990. Together, they have four children: Florence, Françoise, Jean-Christophe and Mathilde.

Electoral record

References

External links
 
 Academic biography, University of Ottawa

1960 births
French Quebecers
Lawyers in Quebec
Living people
Politicians from Gatineau
Politicians from Quebec City
Quebec Liberal Party MNAs
University of Ottawa alumni
University of Paris alumni
Université Laval alumni
Members of the Order of Canada
Officers of the National Order of Quebec
Fellows of the Royal Society of Canada
21st-century Canadian politicians