[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Johan August Gripenstedt

network, which was financed by loans on the international market. Against the opposition, Gripenstedt insisted that national railroads should not be profitable as a business, but that they as an infrastructure should contribute to the profitability of other investments and to the country as a whole.

Gripenstedt opposed an activist foreign policy, which he saw as a threat to the economic stability of the country. As the Danish-German conflict over the Schleswig-Holstein Question grew more tense, Gripenstedt and then Prime Minister for Justice Louis De Geer (also a devoted liberal) stopped King Charles' plan for Swedish military support in the upcoming war.

Following his retirement as Minister for Finance on 4 July 1866, Gripenstedt served as a member of the lower house of the new bicameral parliament from 1867 to 1873. He died in Stockholm on 13 July 1874 (aged sixty), following a long period of illness. He is buried at Bälinge Church in Södermanland.

Family life 

Gripenstedt married Countess Eva Anckarswärd at Bysta, the oldest daughter of Colonel August Anckarswärd and Sofia Ulrika Anckarswärd (née Bonde), in 1842. Together with his wife he had five children.

Titles and honours 
Gripenstedt was elected a member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences () in 1858. He was ennobled by King Charles as a baron () on 4 May 1860.

Legacy 
Gripenstedt is widely seen as one of the most decisive and influential persons in Swedish political history. As a great speaker and with a good sense of political intrigues and tactics, Gripenstedt was successful in almost everything that he took on. He is not only credited as the one who initiated and guided Sweden's transition to a capitalist economy, but also as one of the main architects of the "liberal revolution" of the 1800s. His reforms changed Sweden definitely into a new direction of liberalized economy and free trade. These new policies ultimately paved the way for the Swedish industrialization. The period from 1870 to 1970 is commonly referred to in Swedish history as the "Hundred Years of Growth". During this period Sweden developed from one of the poorest countries in Europe to one of the richest and most prosperous countries in the world.

In the book Historiens 100 viktigaste svenskar ("100 Most Important Swedes in History"), written by Niklas Ekdal and Petter Karlsson, Gripenstedt was ranked as the twelfth most important Swede in history.

References 
Citations

Bibliography 

 Books

External links 
 Johan August Gripenstedt - den svenska frihandelns fader

1813 births
1874 deaths
Swedish nobility
Swedish military officers
Members of the Riksdag of the Estates
Swedish Ministers for Finance
Members of the Andra kammaren
Members of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences
19th-century Swedish politicians
19th-century Swedish businesspeople
Johan August
Barons of Sweden