[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Henry Kirby

honorary law degree from Lincoln Memorial University. Due to the Great Depression, his lumber company suffered financial strain and fell into the hands of the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway in 1933 due to bankruptcy. He remained president of the enterprise until his death on November 9, 1940.

Later Political and Anti-union Activities
Perceptions of Kirby's treatment of his employees were at times mixed. On one hand he was known to provide Christmas dinners, bibles, toys, other gifts, and funds for college educations for children and of mill towns. He was also one of the earliest in the region to reduce work hours from 10 to 8 in his mills. However, these actions have been criticized as being paternalistic. Additionally, unionization efforts were met with hostility. Following the organization of the Brotherhood of Timber Workers in 1910 Kirby stated that "In the view of the owners such efforts, if successful, will be absolutely destructive of the industry." The Southern Lumber Operators Association, spearheaded by Kirby who was sitting president of the organization, preemptively attempted to discredit the union in the public eye, decrying it as a socialist, anarchistic, and radical organization. Furthermore, he and other operators constructed yellow dog contracts, triggering several strikes and the closure of mills. On 27 July 1910, it was decided that Kirby would close 11 mills in the vicinity of DeRidder, Louisiana, locking out approximately 3,000 employees beginning 7 August. Kirby and 125 other operators agreed to close 300 mills across Texas, Arkansas, and Louisiana, and Mississippi. The American Lumber Company in Merryville, Louisiana was one of the few member companies of the SLOA that did not comply with the lockout, instead agreeing to a contract with the union. Kirby met this with hostility, stating ALC's J.M. West "betrayed us..." and "we forced him out and closed the door in his face." One of the principal issues Kirby and the SLOA took with the BTW was its integration of Black, Mexican, and, Italian workers as well as white. Kirby attempted to stoke racial tension, writing to a Black school teacher "The promoters of that Brotherhood have no concern about our colored citizenship except insofar as they can use the negroes for their personal advantage."

Tensions continued to escalate between the workers and operators into 1912, especially after the BTW elected to affiliate with the Industrial Workers of the World. In July of the same year, violent clashes would occur between union and company men at Graybow, Louisiana, resulting in three union men being killed and one company guard following a firefight. Three union men were arrested, but later acquitted. The American Lumber Company was directed by SLOA and Kirby moved to lockout 1,000 workers in July. On 11 November the only formally declared strike of the BTW began, instigated by Kirby's actions. It was called off by the union in the summer of 1913, after the IWW shifted its focus away from East Texas and Western Louisiana to the Pacific Northwest. By 1916 the remnants of the BTW had dissolved, and Kirby celebrated his victory over what he called a "Ishmaelitic organization".

Also in 1916, he and fellow Texas business executive and lobbyist Vance Muse, raised money to fight the Adamson Act of 1916 which provided business reforms, and an 8 hour workday for rail workers. Kirby and Muse, would go on to found the Southern Committee to Uphold the Constitution in 1934, of which Kirby was Chairman. Among this organization's principal goals were to prevent the reelection of Franklin D. Roosevelt by harnessing the Southern white vote through stoking anti-Black racism and attacking CIO unions. The group also openly supported Fascism. They received substantial funding from several members of the Du Pont family, as well as Continental Can Company and Standard Oil. Among some of the publications the Committee produced was one in 1936, which included a picture of Elanor Roosevelt alongside Black men at the White House and text that read "President Roosevelt has … permitted Negroes to come to the White House banquet table and sleep in the White House beds." Many of its drives, personally spearheaded by Kirby himself, spread anti-Semitic narratives. Gerald L. K. Smith, active member of the fascist Silver Legion of America, collaborated with these drives.

John H. Kirby State Forest
In 1929, Kirby donated part of what is today the 626-acre (2.5 km²) John Henry Kirby State Forest, which is located in Tyler County in southeastern Texas.

Biographies
John Henry Kirby: Prince of the Pines, by Mary Lasswell Smith (1967)

References

External links
 
 Kirby Corporation website with historical information