[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of former Muslims

enslaved and transported to the United States in 1807.
 Parveen Babi – Indian actress, converted to Christianity during her later life, but buried according to Muslim rites.
 Patrick Sookhdeo – British Anglican canon
 Paul Mulla – Turkish scholar and professor of Islamic Studies at the Pontifical Oriental Institute.
 Pinkan Mambo – (born Pinkan Ratnasari Mambo) Indonesian singer converted in 2010. Decision taken after admitting she studied various religions of the world and eventually dropped in awe of Jesus Christ.
 Qadry Ismail – former American football player.
 Qasim Khanate – some Muslim begs and Khans of the Qasim Khanate converted to Russian Orthodox Christianity.
 Raghib Ismail – former American football player.
 Rajah Humabon – first Filipino Sultan convert to Roman Catholicism in the name of Carlos.
 Rajah Matanda – sovereign of the Kingdom of Maynila
 Rashid Nurgaliyev – Russian politician and general convert to Russian Orthodoxy.

 Rianti Cartwright – Indonesian actress, model, presenter and VJ. Two weeks before departure to the United States to get married, Rianti left the Muslim faith to become a baptized Catholic with the name Sophia Rianti Rhiannon Cartwright.
 Rotimi Adebari – first Black mayor in Ireland.
 Roy Marten – (born Wicaksono Abdul Salam) Indonesian actor whose family was converted to Roman Catholicism during his childhood but who converted later to Indonesian Orthodoxy in 1997.
 Rudolf Carl von Slatin – Anglo-Austrian soldier and administrator in the Sudan.
 Ruffa Gutierrez – Filipina actress, model and former beauty queen (from Christianity to Islam back to Christianity)
 Sabatina James – Pakistani-Austrian former Muslim and now an Austrian Roman Catholic author.
 Saeed and Nagmeh Abedini
 Saint Alodia and Saint Nunilo – Christian martyrs and confessors who were put to death during the reign of Abd ar-Rahman II, Caliph of Córdoba for apostasy.
Sarah Balabagan – Filipina who was imprisoned in the United Arab Emirates from 1994 to 1996 for murder. She was initially sentenced to death, but was later returned to the Philippines. 
 Sayed Borhan khan – Khan of Qasim Khanate from 1627 to 1679.
 Saye Zerbo – President of the republic of Upper Volta (now Burkina Faso).
 Sheikh Deen Muhammad – (I.E. Sake Dean Mahomed) British Indian traveller, surgeon and entrepreneur who introduced shampooing and the Indian take-away curry house restaurant in Britain, and was the first Indian to have written a book in the English language.
 Shams Pahlavi – Iranian princess and the elder sister of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Shah of Iran.
Sharena Gunawan – Indonesian actress and model. Converted to Christianity after remarried with Indonesian actor Ryan Delon Situmeang.
 The Shihab family – prominent Lebanese noble family. The family originally belonged to Sunni Islam and converted to Maronite Catholicism at the end of the 18th century.
 The Sibirsky family – foremost of many Genghisid (Shaybanid) noble families formerly living in Russia.
 Sigi Wimala – Indonesian model and actress, converted to Catholicism after marriage.
 Simeon Bekbulatovich – Khan of Qasim Khanate.

 Skanderbeg – Albanian monarch and military leader. Skanderbeg converted to Islam from Christianity but reverted to Christianity later in life.
 Soraya Esfandiary-Bakhtiari – second wife and Queen Consort of Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, the late Shah of Iran who converted to Roman Catholicism.
 Ștefan Răzvan – Gypsy prince who ruled Moldavia for six months in 1595.
 Taysir Abu Saada – former member of the PLO and the founder of the christian ministry Hope For Ishmael after he converted to christianity. He was Yasir Arafat's personal driver.
 Thomas Yayi Boni – President of Benin
 Tunch Ilkin – (born Tunç Ali İlkin) Turkish American sports broadcaster and a former American football player
 Ubayd-Allah ibn Jahsh – brother of Zaynab bint Jahsh, the wife of Muhammad and one of the male Sahaba (companions of the Prophet).
 Udo Ulfkotte – German journalist who was born a Christian, became an atheist, then converted to Islam and finally converted back to Christianity.
 Umar ibn Hafsun – leader of anti-Ummayad dynasty forces in southern Iberia. Hafsun converted to Christianity with his sons and ruled over several mountain valleys for nearly forty years, having the castle Bobastro as his residence.
 Utameshgaray of Kazan – Khan of Kazan Khanate
 Walid Shoebat – American author and self-proclaimed former member of the PLO
 Wu'erkaixi – Uyghur dissident known for his leading role during the Tiananmen protests of 1989.
 Yadegar Moxammat of Kazan (Yadegar Mokhammad of Kazan) – last khan of Kazan Khanate
 Youcef Nadarkhani – Iranian Christian pastor who has been sentenced to death for apostasy.
 Zachariah Anani – former Sunni Muslim Lebanese militia fighter
 Zaida of Seville – refugee Andalusian Muslim princess who was a mistress and then perhaps queen of Alfonso VI of Castile

Converted to the Bábí and Baháʼí Faith