[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Four Loko

Four Loko is a line of alcoholic beverages sold by Phusion Projects of Chicago, Illinois, United States. Four Loko's recipe formerly included caffeine. Phusion operates as Drink Four Brewing Company. Four Loko, the company's most popular beverage, debuted in the United States market in 2005 and is available in 49 states, and in 21 countries including Ecuador, Guatemala, Paraguay, The Bahamas, Peru, Mexico, Colombia,  Bolivia, Honduras, El Salvador,  Nicaragua, Costa Rica, China, Canada and some countries in Europe. The name "Four" is derived from the original drink having four "key ingredients".

Four branded products have been the object of legal, ethical, and health concerns related to the company allegedly marketing them to underage drinkers and the danger of combining alcohol and caffeine. After the beverage was banned in several states, a product reintroduction in December 2010 removed caffeine, taurine, and guarana as ingredients, and the malt beverage is no longer marketed as an energy drink.

History
Phusion Projects was founded in 2005 by Chris Hunter, Jaisen Freeman and Jeff Wright after graduating from the Ohio State University. As students they were active members of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, and many of their original drink blends were created in the fraternity mansion's basement and party room. They had enjoyed caffeine mixed with alcohol, and recalled buying Thai energy drinks from a nearby Asian market to sell to other students at a markup, claiming that they were "importing the stuff from abroad". They would later describe themselves as "our own target market".

In 2005, the entrepreneurial team designed a prototype "energy beer" now known as Four Loko. Marketed as a "premium malt beverage" in cherry and berry flavors, the drink contained taurine, guarana, caffeine and wormwood—the supposed psychoactive ingredient of absinthe. After a year, the company was running low on investment and decided to drop the wormwood, focusing instead on improving the flavor and increasing the alcohol content.

By 2008 the product had become popular and a variety of flavors were introduced into the US market. At the start of 2009, the beverage was becoming successful and began to be marketed internationally. In October 2010 a new flavor called Lemon Lime was first produced. In 2022 a new flavor called Sour Cosmic Punch was introduced, as part of a collaboration with the Warheads brand of sour candy.

Products
Four Loko contains carbonated water, sugar, and natural and artificial flavoring including FD&C Red 40. The drink is sold at 6%, 7%, 8%, 10%,12%, 13.9% or 14% alcohol by volume (ABV), depending on state regulations, and is packaged in 23.5 oz (695 mL) cans.

Current flavors
Source:
 Electric Lemonade
 Blue Razz
 Cosmic Sour Punch (Warheads flavor)
 Sour Grape
 Red (Swedish Fish flavor)
 Black (Lime flavor)
 Fruit Punch
 Gold (Energy Drink flavor)
 Grape 
 Peach
 Sour Apple 
 Strawberry Lemonade
 Watermelon
 U.S.A. (Sour Black Cherry)

Discontinued flavors
 Uva Berry (Grape flavor)
 Blue Hurricane (Tropical flavor)
 Mango
 Orange
 Coco Loko (Coconut flavor)
 Lemonade 
 Lemon-Lime
 Margarita
 Pineapple
 Cranberry Lemonade
 Black Cherry 
 Hemp
 Blaze
 Frost

In early 2011, Phusion Projects introduced its Four Loko XXX Limited Edition line, which featured a new flavor of Four Loko every few months, including:

 Blueberry Lemonade
 Strawberry Lemonade
 Blue Raspberry
 Green Apple

In the summer of 2011, Phusion introduced 12 oz (350 mL) glass bottles of Four Loko, that came in packs of six and had 8% ABV as opposed to 12%. Flavors included:

 Lemonade
 Fruit Punch
 Watermelon 

Bottles came in packs of six and in September 2011, Phusion introduced 16 oz (475 mL) cans of their drink in hi-cone four packs known as Four Poco Loko, with 8% ABV and included flavors:

 Black cherry
 Mango
 Lemonade 
 Green apple

Original formulations of both beverages were a malt liquor based, caffeinated alcoholic energy drink with added guarana and taurine.

In 2008, Phusion Projects began selling their products in Canada and Europe. The European version of Four MaXed is sold in 8.3 oz (250 mL) glass bottles and aluminum cans and is spirit-based; the United States version has a malt liquor base.

In 2009, Four Loko ranked fourth in sales growth among alcoholic beverages at 7-Eleven stores in the United States.

On November 16, 2010, Phusion Projects issued a press release announcing that the company would be reformulating all Four brand beverages to remove caffeine, guarana, and taurine from the products. The new product was reintroduced in January 2011.

On October 25, 2013, Four Loko was distributed for the first time in Puerto Rico. Four Loko kept the standard 12% alcohol but in a reduced can size of 16 oz (475 mL), and with only three flavors: 

 Grape
 Fruit Punch
 Watermelon