[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# World Tree (role-playing game)

nscious effort to use.
Magic Resistance

Verbs cover the "action" parts of a spell, what the spell "does".  There are 7 Verbs:
Creoc - creation
Destroc - destruction
Healoc - healing and repairing
Kennoc - knowing (divination)
Mutoc - changing
Ruloc - controlling
Sustenoc - preserving and permanence

Nouns are the elements that are acted upon, that is, what the Verbs are done to.  There are 12 of them, and they are the building blocks of the World Tree.  Some Nouns cover the classical elements (Air, Earth, Fire, and Water).  Others cover concepts: Illusion/Senses, Location, Magic, Mind, Spirit, and Time.  The remaining two are more specific: Animal Matter, and Plant.  Most Nouns are what they sound like.
Airador - air
Aquador - liquid, water
Corpador - animal matter
Durudor - hard earth: metal and stone
Herbador - plant and soft earth
Illusidor - illusion and sensation
Locador - location/space
Magiador - magic
Mentador - mind
Pyrador - fire, heat and light
Spiridor - spirit
Tempador - time

Fighting covers:
Combat Options
Life Points
Martial Arts
Weapon Group skills: Archery, claws and teeth (natural weapons), crushing (clubs, flails, maces), edged weapons, fencing, knives and daggers, pole and staff, and thrown weapons (anything can be thrown as a weapon).

Magic 
There are several versions of magic in World Tree, which are all related:
Feather Casting is a technique to attempt to cast a spell without paying cley for it, and the tradeoff - if it works - is lower power.
Hammer Casting is a technique to cram more cley into a spell to increase its power.
Pattern Magic is the use of established spells that combine the Arts into a pattern to form a pattern spell.
Ritual Magic, also known as karcism, is alternately an elaborate way to cast a known spell, or a deal with the gods to cast a spell that wouldn't otherwise be possible.
Spellbinding is a way of casting a spell and capturing it in an object to use as a single-use enchanted item.  If the item the spell is bound to is not destroyed when the spell goes off, it may be reused.
Spellweaving is a method of casting very complex spells at very low power.
Spontaneous magic is making your spell up on the spot, and is the first form of magic that Prime children learn.  A spontaneous spell is often called a "spont." and the act of casting one is often called "sponting."

Combat 

World Tree separates combat into Basic, Combat Options, and Brawling with the rules increasing in complexity in that order.  Combat is always assumed to be a stress situation.  Initiative is handled either with playing cards or d12s.

Basic Combat uses a die roll comparison system, with ties being broken in the defender's favor.

Combat Options are specific combat moves or fighting styles, and have both a basic and an expert version.  Being an expert at a defensive move gets you a bonus to attack against it, and vice versa, in addition to expert tricks to that move.  Other than the restriction that a character cannot use Attack and Defense options at the same time, the number of Combat Options a character can use at once is only limited by what the Game Master thinks makes sense.

Brawling consists of a set of combat maneuvers used to represent a rudimentary World Tree Martial Art.  Each maneuver has both an attack and a defense equation, and most also have modifiers based on species or other factors.  Almost all of the equations include the Brawling skill.  This system is used mostly when you want to fight without killing.

See also
Ars Magica
Jadeclaw
Ryzom

References
Bloom, B. and Bloom, V.B. World Tree: a role playing game of species and civilization (Padwolf Publishing, 2000).
World Tree RPG home page (Domain Expired) (Internet Archive 2009-05-29)
Review at Bandwidth (archived 11 May 2008)
Review at RPGnet
Yahoo world-tree-rpg group and mailing list

Fantasy role-playing games
Furry role-playing games
Role-playing games introduced in 2000