[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Polish State Railroads in summer 1939

atowice (timetable route number 301),

– Fourth – South-East,  starting with the 491 km route Warsaw – Radom – Skarżysko – Rozwadów – Przemyśl – Lwów (timetable route number 401),

– Fifth – North-East, starting with the 571 km route Warsaw – Białystok – Wilno – Turmont (timetable route number 501).

The summer 1939 timetable
"Urzędowy Rozkład Jazdy i Lotów Lato 1939" ("Official Train and Flight Timetable Summer 1939") was published in May 1939 and was valid from May 15, 1939 to October 7, 1939. What adds to this document's importance is the time it was published: just a few months before the Polish Second Republic (Druga Rzeczpospolita) ceased to exist. In the document we can find the following:

The following timetable is valid until October 7. On midnight of October 8, a new Winter timetable will be introduced, valid until May 18, 1940. All suggestions for necessary changes in the Winter timetable should be presented to the Polish National Railways Regional Directions not later than August 1.

Apart from the train timetable, the document also included the flight timetable of LOT Polish Airlines.

Types of trains in 1939
The following types of trains were run in Poland at that time: express, fast, and ordinary. The most interesting and impressive were the diesel express trains, or "Pociagi Motorowe-Ekspresowe – MtE" (some of them operated with the famous Luxtorpeda). The MtE units achieved speeds up to 110 km/h and connected Warsaw with the most important cities, as well as major tourist areas. The 179 km journey from Warszawa Wschodnia (Warsaw East) to Białystok Centralny was covered in 1 hour 56 minutes.

MtE trains ran from Warsaw to Łódź (a distance of 133 km in 1 hour 28 minutes), Kraków, Katowice (through either Częstochowa or Kielce), and Suwałki. They also operated on lines from Kraków to Katowice and the mountain resorts of Zakopane and Krynica. In southeastern Poland, MtE trains ran from Lwów to Zaleszczyki, Boryslaw, Tarnopol, and Kolomyja. In August 1939 a new MtE connected Warsaw with Poznań (due to the war the service lasted only few days).

Warsaw lacked an MtE connection with Lwów (the third largest city in 1939 Poland). This problem was solved by taking the morning express to Kraków where it split at Skarzysko, with one part becoming an express to Przeworsk. There passengers could also change to an international fast train travelling between Berlin and Bucharest.

Fast trains served long-distance lines, but they were not quite as fast as the MtE trains. The most interesting fast trains in the summer 1939 were:

 Wilno – Lwów (a journey of 720 km.) It crossed practically the whole Polish Eastern Borderlands, stopping at Lida, Baranowicze, Luniniec, Rowne, and Zdolbunow.
 Lwów – Kraków – Katowice – Poznań – Bydgoszcz – Gdynia – Hel (a journey of almost 1000 km). It traveled non-stop through the territory of the Free City of Danzig.

The last train category in Poland were ordinary trains. They usually served short-distance lines, but in some cases covered impressive distances, especially in the Polish Eastern Borderlands.

International trains
In 1939, trains tended to run over longer distances than today. The Nord Express Warsaw – Berlin – Paris – Calais ran daily and it was the only train in Poland of the L (Luxurious) standard. This train consisted only of coaches owned by the Compagnie Internationale des Wagons-Lits. There also was another train to the English Channel coast: from Warsaw, Lwów, Kraków and Katowice to Ostend. Warsaw was also connected with the capital of France by a  Warsaw – Łódź – Paris train. Another train to France ran from Warsaw to Strasbourg, with cars to Geneva and Ventimiglia.

As for the south of Europe, trains ran from Warsaw to Rome, and in the summer also to three cities in Yugoslavia: Split, Sušak and Belgrade. A train from Berlin to Istanbul crossed the Polish territory. Warsaw, Cracow and Lwów had trains to Vienna.

Warsaw was connected with Prague, Bratislava and Žilina. Lwów and Gdynia  were also connected with Prague. Budapest had train connections with Warsaw, Cracow and Lwów (the train from Cracow to Budapest had a coach from Krynica to Budapest attached).

Romania was served twice daily by  Warsaw-Lwów-Bucharest trains (in the summer an additional train reached the Romanian seaport of Constanţa). Poland was also crossed by an international train Berlin – Breslau – Katowice – Kraków – Lwów – Sniatyn – Bucharest (with a direct car Katowice – Constanţa). Other transit trains ran between Berlin and  East Prussia, Danzig, Riga and Daugavpils.

Twice a day a train from Wilno reached Kaunas. One of them  had a direct Warsaw-Kaunas coach.

Passenger rail connections between the Soviet Union and Western Europe required a change of trains due to the difference in gauge. If one traveled towards Moscow, it was necessary to change at the Soviet border station Niegoreloje. Travelling from Moscow, the change took place at the Polish station Stolpce.