[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Sanctuary city

ut Fear" policy for residents that are undocumented or have an uncertain immigration status in April 2016. The policy does not apply to municipal services operated by individual boards, including services provided by the Vancouver Police Department, Vancouver Public Library, or Vancouver Park Board.

, the cities of Calgary, Ottawa, Regina, Saskatoon, and Winnipeg are considering motions to declare themselves sanctuary cities.

, Edmonton adopted "Access Without Fear" policy for undocumented and vulnerable residents.

United Kingdom
In the United Kingdom, sanctuary cities provide services – such as housing, education, and cultural integration – to asylum seekers (i.e. persons fleeing one country and seeking protection in another). The movement began in Sheffield in 2005. It was motivated by a national policy adopted in 1999 to disperse asylum seekers to different towns and cities in the UK.

Sheffield

In 2009, the city council of Sheffield drew up a manifesto outlining key areas of concern and 100 supporting organizations signed on.

A city's status as a place of sanctuary is not necessarily a formal governmental designation. The organization City of Sanctuary encourages local grassroots groups throughout the UK and Ireland to build a culture of hospitality towards asylum seekers.

Glasgow
Glasgow is a noted sanctuary city in Scotland. In 2000 the city council accepted their first asylum seekers relocated by the Home Office. The Home Office provided funding to support asylum seekers but would also forcibly deport them ("removal seizures") if it was determined they could not stay in the UK. As of 2010 Glasgow had accepted 22,000 asylum seekers from 75 different nations. In 2007, local residents upset by the human impact of removal seizures, organized watches to warn asylum seekers when Home Office vans were in the neighborhood. They also organized protests and vigils which led to the ending of the removal seizures.

Iran
National immigration organization has a program to build "guest" cities.

See also 

 Sanctuary campus
 Second Amendment sanctuary
 US specific articles
 Kentucky and Virginia Resolutions
 Rapid response team
 Safe-haven law
 Sanctuary movement
 Secure Communities
 Separation barrier
 Border barrier
 Closed city
 List of cities with defensive walls

References

Further reading
 
 American Immigration Council: “Sanctuary” Policies: An Overview

Illegal immigration to the United States
Immigration
Safe houses