[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# LGBT rights in the Bahamas

n sexual orientation.

Social conditions
Many Bahamians adhere to socially conservative Christian denominations, which generally promote the belief that homosexuality and cross dressing are signs of decadence and immorality. Politicians have been leery of publicly supporting LGBT-rights legislation.

While there are no exclusively gay bars or clubs in the Bahamas, there is an underground gay scene in Nassau, as well as many gay-friendly resorts, cafes, and bars throughout various parts of the country.

The Bahamas has a tourist-based economy and the government targets a variety of markets, but not the growing LGBT tourism market. Individual and small groups of homosexual tourists typically face no issues, but groups of LGBT visitors have been protested on various occasions. However, the Rainbow Alliance of The Bahamas held a counter-protest during the 2004 demonstrations, welcoming the LGBT visitors.

Today the Bahamas is noted as becoming increasingly gay-friendly. However, locals warn that homophobia is still a prominent social issue and recommend that tourists exercise discretion.

In December 2018, the Canadian Government has issued new travel advice warning gay couples about the risk of homophobia in The Bahamas. Bahamian LGBT activist Erin Greene told the Bahamas Tribune newspaper: "I think it is a sound, a reasonable advisory to LGBTQ Canadians. Alexus D’Marco told the newspaper: "We should acknowledge that LGBT people do exist in The Bahamas that they have been stigmatised and discriminated against". However, in February 2019, it was reported that more than half of the 5,400 men on board the exclusively gay "Allure Caribbean Cruise that disembarked" in Nassau with many of them saying that they felt "safe" and "comfortable" which activist Alexus D’Marco says is a good indication the capital is viewed as "safe" for the LGBT community.

There have even been several high-profile situations of discrimination directed at LGBT citizens as well as tourists in the Bahamas:

 In July 2004, church groups protested the arrival of Rosie O'Donnell's R Family Vacations cruise.
 In September 2005, an 18-year-old beauty queen had her crown stripped after confirming rumours that she was a lesbian.
 In March 2006, the Bahamas Plays and Films Control Board banned the American gay-themed movie, Brokeback Mountain.
 In September 2007, the Bahamas Christian Council formed an anti-gay committee to fight against a gay group after it asked the local cable company to offer Logo, a channel catering to the LGBT community.
 On 6 October 2007, police raided a gay party in downtown Nassau but could not arrest anyone, as no crime was committed. Guests of the party demanded an apology from local police. The Bahamas Ministry of Tourism issued an apology to the cruise company. This incident mirrors a public protest to a lesbian cruise which docked in Nassau on 14 April 1998.
 In a 2009 case, a jury acquitted a man charged with murdering a homosexual, HIV-positive male. The man used the so-called "gay panic defence", claiming that the gay male attempted to rape him. However, the prosecution denied this and said the gay man – who was a shop owner and son of a politician – was robbed before he was killed. The prosecution also questioned why the man went to the gay man's apartment around 11 pm, charging that it was with the intent to commit a robbery. But the defence attorney said his client was "protecting his manhood" and the killing of the gay man was justified. The story sparked international outrage.
 On 10 June 2010, in a similar gay panic defense case, a convicted killer received a very lenient sentence in the shooting death of a gay man. The convict claimed the gay man had made a "homosexual advance" towards him. Joan Sawyer, the President of the Court of Appeal, was quoted as saying, "One is entitled to use whatever force is necessary to prevent one's self-being the victim of a homosexual act."
 On 24 June 2011, The Bahamas Plays and Films Control Board attempted to block the showing of the Bahamian-produced, gay-themed movie Children of God in the public square in downtown Nassau. However, on this occasion, the government overruled the board and allowed the movie to be shown.

Anti-LGBT violence 
There have been numerous cases involving the murder of a homosexual man, and none of them have been solved.

The names of the victims, their professions, and dates of death are as follows:
 Kevin Williams, Policeman, 15 May 2001
 Thaddeus McDonald, Lecturer, 16 November 2007
 Harl Taylor, Designer, 18 November 2007
 Wellington Adderley, Activist, 26 May 2008
 Marvin Wilson, Waiter, 3 June 2008
 Paul Whylly, Dancer, 19 October 2008
 Shavado Simmons, Photographer, 17 July 2011
 Elkin Moss, Waiter, 20 July 2013
 Devince Smith, Banker, 25 December 2015

Accused in 2007 for the slaying of handbag designer Harl Taylor, Troyniko McNeil was found not guilty.