[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mehmed Reshid

CUP secretary general Mithat Şukru Bleda how he, as a doctor, had had the heart to send so many people to death their deaths he replied:

When asked by Bleda how history might remember him, Reshid simply responded, "Let other nations write about me whatever history they want, I couldn't care less."

Final years
Most of the jewellery and possessions Reshid had confiscated from the Armenians were, in theory, to be forwarded to the central government's treasury. Talat Pasha's concern for these valuables resulted in an investigation into Reshid for embezzlement, which found that he had amassed a personal fortune from the killings. A doctor, Hyacinth Fardjalian, attested, "I myself saw Rechid Bey arrive at Aleppo by a train bound for Constantinople with 43 boxes of jewellery and two cases of precious stones." He was transferred to Ankara province, where he assumed as the Vali between March 1916 and 1917. At this time he purchased a mansion on the Bosphorus with money stolen from murdered Armenians. When Talat found out about this, he had Reshid removed from his post. Süleyman Nazif commented, "Talat Pasha dismissed Resit as a thief, while he adored him as murderer".

He then returned to Istanbul and began a business importing perfumes. On 5 November 1918, less than a week after Ottoman capitulation to the Allies, Reshid was arrested and sent to Bekirağa prison in Constantinople. His role in the massacres was exposed in the Constantinople press, albeit he would deny his actions and of ever having committed a crime. Reshid managed to escape from the prison in January 1919, but when government authorities cornered him, he committed suicide by shooting himself in the head.

Legacy
Despite his role in the destruction of the Christian communities of Diyarbekir, Reshid was embraced by the authorities of the newly established Republic of Turkey. In Ankara, a boulevard was named after him in his honour. The Ministry of Economy saw to it that his wife Mazlûme Hanım was properly cared for and in 1928 provided shops formerly belonging to deported Armenians to help support her livelihood. Reshid's family was also given two houses and, in a 1930 decree signed by President Mustafa Kemal and other members of the cabinet, was allocated further Armenian properties.

Even though he is now known as the "Butcher of Diyarbakir", Reshid claimed, during a conversation with Rafael de Nogales, to bear no legal or moral responsibility for the systematic massacre of Christians in his province, as he only followed orders from the Minister of the Interior, Talat Pasha. According to De Nogales, "Talat had ordered the slaughter by a circular telegram, if my memory is correct, containing a scant three words: Yak - Vur - Oldur, meaning, 'Burn, demolish, kill'. The authenticity of that terrible phrase was confirmed by the press of Constantinople after the Armistice with the publication of a certain telegram which the Ottoman commission engaged in investigating the massacres and deportations had discovered among the papers of the Committee of Union and Progress."

Süleyman Nazif, the former Vali of Mosul, had a very different opinion and testified after the Armistice, "The catastrophic deportations and murders in Diyarbekir were Reshid's work. He alone is responsible. He recruited people from the outside in order to perpetrate the killings. He murdered the Kaimakams in order to scare all other opposed Muslim men and women; he displayed the corpses of the Kaimakams in public."

See also
Ignatius Maloyan

Notes

Bibliography
.
.

.
.
.
.

1873 births
1919 suicides
Armenian genocide perpetrators
Greek genocide perpetrators
Sayfo perpetrators
Turkish murderers of children
Political people from the Ottoman Empire
Ottoman people of World War I
People from the Ottoman Empire of Circassian descent
20th-century physicians from the Ottoman Empire
19th-century physicians from the Ottoman Empire
Committee of Union and Progress politicians
Prisoners and detainees of the Ottoman Empire
Suicides by firearm in Turkey
Suicides in the Ottoman Empire
Ottoman governors of Diyarbekir