[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University Degree Program

iversity.org (domain for Landford University)
www.parkwooduniversity.org (domain for Parkwood University)
www.thornewooduniversity.org (domain for Thornewood University)
www.universityofwexford.org (domain for the University of Wexford)
www.westbourneuniversity.org (domain for Westbourne University)

People with UDP degrees
Perry Beale, who was convicted of defrauding hospitals in Virginia by representing himself as a medical physicist, claimed to hold graduate degrees from the University of San Moritz 
Leonard Ingram (AKA "Bhagwan Ra Afrika"), a self-proclaimed anger management specialist, claims a PhD in philosophy from Glencullen University. Ingram has written several books and appeared on season five of Penn & Teller: Bullshit! in the episode entitled "Anger Management".
Kostas S. Margaritis (Κώστας Σ. Μαργαρίτης), Greek politician, member of New Democracy (Greece) lists a degree from Shelbourne University.
In 2005 a Pennsylvania children's mental health counselor, Leon Shal, was charged with several counts of fraud in connection with his use of a Shaftesbury University bachelor's degree to obtain employment. A state investigation reported that the institution was neither recognized nor accredited in the United Kingdom or the United States and that Shal's university diploma contained two misspellings. Shal avoided trial, but was placed in a pretrial diversion program.
George Weah, President of Liberia and a retired Liberian football player, lists a degree from Parkwood University.
Antoine Zahra, member of Lebanon's parliament affiliated with the Lebanese Forces and a candidate in the 2009 elections, claims a Diploma in Business Studies from the University of Harrington.
Jim Mann, appointed by Governor of Kansas Sam Brownback as the Chief Information Technology Officer of the State of Kansas on October 31, 2011, claims a degree in Business Administration from the University of Devonshire. Mann subsequently resigned the post on November 7, 2011, after questions about his credentials were published.

See also
 Accreditation mill
 Diploma mill
 Educational accreditation
 List of unaccredited institutions of higher learning
 List of unrecognized accreditation associations of higher learning
 Operation Dipscam

References

External links
University Degree Program – Official website
Gollin, George (September 2003). Unconventional University Diplomas from Online Vendors, a presentation on an investigation of UDP. PDF format.

Unaccredited institutions of higher learning in the United States
Unrecognized accreditation associations
Fraud in the United States
Counterfeiters