[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Amadu Bangura

Brigadier John Amadu Bangura, CBE (8 March 1930 – 29 March 1970) was a Sierra Leonean who served as Chief of the Defence Staff of the Sierra Leone Armed Forces from 1968 to 1970. Prior to this in 1967, he served as the Sierra Leonean Ambassador of to the United States. He was the acting Governor-General of Sierra Leone from 18 April 1968 until 22 April 1968. He led the Sergeants' Coup in 1968 that successfully re-instated civilian rule in Sierra Leone.

Early life 

Bangura was born on 8 March 1930 at Kalangba, Karene Chiefdom, Bombali District, British Sierra Leone. He was educated at Binkolo and Rogbaneh American Wesleyan Mission Schools, and Koyeima and Bo Government Secondary Schools.

He left school in 1949 and joined the army in 1950. While in the other ranks he served and attended courses in both Ghana and Nigeria. In one such course, the Platoon Commanders' course in Burma Camp, Teshie, Ghana, he graduated first in a group of sixteen warrant officers and senior non-commissioned officers.

The impressive qualities of leadership manifested in his keen sense of duty, intelligence, and fitness allowed him to face the Special Selection Board at which the late General Sir Lashmer Whistler, C.M.G., D.S.O., O.B.E., M.C., then colonel-in-chief of the Royal West African Frontier Force, was chairman.

His performance at Teshie Camp necessitated his transfer to Eaton Hall, Mons Officer Cadet School, Aldershot, in 1952. At Mons, he was recommended by the British Army for more rigorous training at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst. On graduation from Sandhurst in August 1954, he was commissioned as a second lieutenant.

After a successful Young Officers' Course at Hythe and Warminster, Bangura was posted on secondment to the British Army on the Rhine in West Germany. While on secondment, he was promoted to the rank of lieutenant.

Bangura returned to Sierra Leone in 1955 and was appointed commander of a Rifle Company's Platoon in the First Battalion, the Royal Sierra Leone Regiment. In 1958 he was promoted to the rank of captain. In 1962 he served with the First Sierra Leone Contingent on the Congo Operations of the United Nations Organization. On his return home that year he was promoted to the rank of major.

In 1964, Bangura became commanding officer of the First Battalion the Royal Sierra Leone Regiment, attaining the rank of lieutenant-colonel. These promotions were preceded or followed by several successful courses in various military training centers in the United Kingdom. One such course was the All Arms Division Course for substantive Majors in the British Army.

In 1966 Bangura was posted to attend the Joint Services Staff College (UK) (J.S.S.C.) in Latimer, Buckinghamshire, and became a fellow of the college. In the same year, he was promoted to the rank of full colonel.

After a period of successful military career, he was arrested and detained at Pademba Road Prisons prior to the March 1967 general elections by David Lansana under orders from Albert Margai. He was, however, released in March that year by Brigadier Andrew Juxon-Smith and appointed counsellor and head of the chancery at the Sierra Leone Embassy in Washington D.C.
While in the US, he was given orders by John Karefa-Smart to go to Guinea with Siaka Steven to train in guerrilla techniques. He mysteriously disappeared from his post to become chairman of the National Interim Council (NIC) which brought back civilian rule after a successful takeover of power from the military junta, the National Reformation Council (NRC) in 1968. He became commander of the First Battalion of the Royal Sierra Leone Regiment, and of the Royal Sierra Leone Military Forces after this operation. On 1 May 1969, he was promoted to the rank of brigadier and honored in the 1970 New Year Honours with the C.B.E. (Commander of the Order of the British Empire) (Military Division). Brigadier John Amadu Bangura's thorough military training and great experience made him what he was a rare soldier.

He was married and had eight children.

Sergeants' Coup 

Bangura played a pivotal role in the history of post-colonial Sierra Leone. A staunch supporter of democratic principles, he took issue when the government began to collapse after a series of coups that followed the hotly contested elections of March 1967.

Bangura formed the Anti-Corruption Revolutionary Movement (ACRM) with a group of non-commissioned officers. In April 1968, he led the Sergeants' Coup and overthrew Brigadier Andrew Juxon-Smith and his National Reformation Council (NRC). Bangura arrested every high-ranking officer in the army and police so that he could restore the constitution and democracy to Sierra Leone.