[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James McCarthy (footballer)

ed the rest of season due to a hamstring injury he had sustained whilst on international duty in March 2017; Everton manager Ronald Koeman expressed his displeasure at Republic of Ireland manager Martin O'Neill selecting a half-fit McCarthy repeatedly, which had aggravated existing hamstring issues.

On 20 January 2018, McCarthy suffered a broken leg (tibia and fibula) in an attempt to block a shot on goal by West Bromwich Albion's Salomón Rondón, resulting in the striker accidentally kicking McCarthy's lower leg causing it to fracture. Rondón was visibly upset by the incident and also became emotional when recalling it in an interview some months later. McCarthy was ruled out for the rest of the 2017–18 season, and only made one further senior appearance for Everton, coming off the bench for the last 15 minutes of a home league fixture against Manchester United in April 2019, at which point his team were already 4–0 ahead.

Crystal Palace
On 7 August 2019, Crystal Palace signed McCarthy from Everton for an undisclosed fee. He made his debut as a 70th-minute substitute for Andros Townsend in an away 1–0 defeat to Sheffield United on 18 August. He received a yellow card for retaliation four minutes later. The move allowed McCarthy to resume his midfield partnership with James McArthur for much of the next two seasons.

Celtic
On 3 August 2021, McCarthy joined Scottish Premiership club Celtic on a four-year contract.

International career

Early years
At the age of sixteen, McCarthy accepted an invitation to play for the Republic of Ireland. He was eligible because his grandfather, Paddy Coyle, was born in The Rosses, County Donegal. However, McCarthy also stated that he would have played for Scotland if they had offered him an international call-up first. Despite multiple attempts to persuade McCarthy to switch his allegiance to the country of his birth, he reaffirmed his decision to play for the Republic of Ireland.

McCarthy made his international debut for the Republic of Ireland Under-17s in January 2007 against Italy. He scored his first goal against Greece when winning his third cap in March of the same year. He was quickly promoted to the Under-18s and played his first game at that level versus Germany in November 2007. He scored twice in the return game that same month. McCarthy played one game for the Under-19s in September 2007 against Portugal. and was subsequently selected for a number of these squads in 2008. McCarthy came on as a half time substitute for the Republic of Ireland Under-21s in their European Championship qualifier on 31 March against Turkey. McCarthy made an instant impression, creating opportunities for the lone striker, as well as making many intelligent runs in behind the Turkish defence.

Senior team
McCarthy received his first call-up to the Republic of Ireland national squad in February 2010, for a friendly with Brazil played in London. He made his debut as a substitute, replacing Stoke City's Liam Lawrence after 70 minutes. McCarthy withdrew from the Ireland squad for their 2011 Nations Cup match against Wales. This led to media speculation that McCarthy may switch his allegiance to Scotland, as his appearance in the friendly against Brazil did not tie him to Ireland under the present rules. The speculation was fuelled by Wigan manager Roberto Martínez who insisted that McCarthy was still considering his international future, even after McCarthy and Giovanni Trapattoni had a face to face meeting in which McCarthy reportedly confirmed his commitment to Ireland.

The question of McCarthy's international allegiance was finally resolved in March 2011 after he accepted a call-up for Ireland's Euro 2012 qualification match against Macedonia, in which he came off the bench replacing Robbie Keane to earn his first competitive cap, rendering him ineligible to play for Scotland. On 4 May 2011, McCarthy was called into the Irish squad for the games against Northern Ireland and Scotland. He reportedly went "AWOL" after not showing up for training. Later Martínez, the Wigan manager, came out and said he will be out "for at least four weeks".

On 7 May 2012, Giovanni Trapattoni confirmed that McCarthy had asked to be withdrawn from consideration for the Irish UEFA Euro 2012 squad following his father's diagnosis with cancer.

McCarthy played in nine of the ten matches in Ireland's unsuccessful 2014 World Cup qualifying campaign picking up the man of the match awards against the Faroe Islands and Sweden.

He was selected for the Ireland squad for UEFA Euro 2016 and started all four of his nation's matches at the tournament.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours
Hamilton Academical
Scottish Football League First Division: 2007–08

Wigan Athletic
FA Cup: 2012–13

Celtic
Scottish Premiership: 2021–22
Scottish League Cup: 2021–22