[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dental education throughout the world

ental clinic.
Admission into the BDS program requires at a minimum, three (3) passes in CAPE or its equivalent in physics, chemistry, biology, or mathematics. Alternatively, students can be admitted into the program with at least one year of study in a science-based program with a minimum GPA of 3.0

After admission into the program, students are trained to provide the full range of comprehensive Dental Care, deliver quality care in all Clinical disciplines of General Dentistry, through the making of clinical judgments using evidence-based diagnoses and treatment planning.

Peru 

In Peru, dentists require five years of post secondary education in a university. There are several universities that provides dental education. The three first study years are similar education to the Human Medicine schools, then fourth and fifth years are dental studies and practices in the school clinic. In the last year, students have to complete evaluated and paid services in a public hospital and in a rural medical post (where there are no hospitals or doctors nearby, they will frequently have to deal with general medicine cases). The students obtain their degree in Dentistry ( Bachellor in Dentistry), if they want to practice in Peru the students have to prepare and defend a thesis to obtain the Cirujano Dentista (C.D.) degree (Dental Surgeon). Dentistry is overseen by the Colegio Odontológico del Perú (COP).

Peruvian dental schools

Lima
 Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos.
 Universidad Nacional Federico Villarreal.
 Universidad Peruana Cayetano Heredia.
 Universidad de San Martín de Porres.
 Universidad Alas Peruanas.
 Universidad Privada San Juan Bautista.
 Universidad Científica del Sur.
 Universidad Peruana de Ciencias Aplicadas.

Chimbote
 Universidad Los Ángeles de Chimbote – ULADECH.

Tacna
 Universidad Nacional Jorge Basadre Grohmann.

Trujillo
 Universidad Nacional de Trujillo.
 Universidad Privada Antenor Orrego.

Iquitos
 Universidad Nacional de la Amazonía Peruana – UNAP.

Puno
 Universidad Nacional del Altiplano.

United States 

In the United States dentistry is generally practiced by dentists who have completed a post-graduate course of professional education.  This has resulted in a high quality of care. Government-sponsored health care programs Medicare does not cover routine dental treatment . Medicaid does provide extensive dental coverage and benefits for beneficiaries under the age of 21 under the early periodic screening diagnosis and treatment (EPSDT) and a growing number of states also offer comprehensive dental services for adult Medicaid members as well.

Dental education in the United States 
In the United States, dentists earn either a D.D.S. (Doctor of Dental Surgery) or D.M.D. (Doctor of Dental Medicine) degree. There is no difference in the training for either degree. The degrees are equivalent, and recognized equally by all state boards of dentistry. There are 56 accredited dental schools in the United States requiring 4 years of post graduate study (except for one unique 3-year program at the University of the Pacific). Most applicants to dental school have attained at least a B.S. or B.A. degree, but a small percentage are admitted after only fulfilling specific prerequisite courses. So unlike many other countries (other than US, Canada, and Australia), it usually takes more than 8 years to become a dentist. The difference relates to the history involved in the division of medicine and surgery in medical practice.

There are limited opportunities for dental education in the United States with little growth in graduation rate from approximately 6700 ADA 2022 Number of Graduates , up from 5,750 in 1982. Due to the hands-on training required, dental education is expensive and is limited on subsidized funding towards dental education by the federal and most state governments.  According to the American Dental Education Association, "average educational debt for all indebted dental school graduates in the Class of 2019 was $292,169."

Licensure is organized on three levels in most areas. Many dentists must pass National Boards, Regional Boards, and then take a jurisprudence exam accepted by their state to fulfill their requirements to get a state license. Not all states require or even accept regional boards. Although a state license is only valid in the issuing state, because of the regional boards a dentist may be able to apply for licensure in any other state within the jurisdiction of their regional board. There are many cooperative agreements between states that allow recognition of another state's license so as to procure a license either via "licensure by credentials" or "licensure by reciprocity."  Although a national licensure exam has yet to be made, the American Dental Association (ADA) has worked with education and examining groups to form such an exam.