[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Israeli–Lebanese conflict

amin Netanyahu said no Israelis were wounded. Two IDF servicemen apparently wounded were sent to Haifa's Rambam Medical Center, but released without getting any medical treatment according to Israel.
 On 27 July 2020, there was an exchange of fire between Israeli soldiers and four Hezbollah members.

Lebanese rocket attacks on Israel 
 On 17 June 2007, an unknown militant group fired two rockets from Lebanon into northern Israel, an action which the UN condemned as a serious violation of the ceasefire. Hezbollah denied involvement in the incident, and Israel emphasized that it would restrain itself from responding by force. Saniora pledged that "The state ... will spare no effort in uncovering those who stand behind this incident." Citing its intelligence and military sources, Debkafile claimed that the shelling was carried out by an order of the Syrian military intelligence by an unknown extremist Palestinian organization called Ansar Allah, and that the launching point was determined by Hezbollah intelligence officers who maintain operational ties and provide weapons to the Ansar Allah fighters.
 On 11 September 2009, at approximately 15:45, there were explosions in the Nahariya area and the western Galilee without an alarm. Two rockets fell in open areas, and no injuries or damage were reported. The IDF responded by firing at the launching sites in southern Lebanon.
 On 29 November 2011, rockets were fired from Lebanon into Israeli territory and exploded in the western Galilee without causing casualties, but property was damaged. In response, the IDF responded by firing at the sources of the fire in Lebanon. Israeli firefighters took control of the fire that broke out in one of the centers. Israel estimated that the rockets were fired by a Palestinian organization.
 On 25 April 2022, a rocket is fired from Lebanon into Matzuva, Israel. Israel responds by firing at targets in Lebanon.
 Between 4–6 of August, Israeli military launched air strikes in South Lebanon following rocket attacks from Hezbollah. This was the first time the IDF used its warplanes on Lebanon since 2006.

Israeli airstrikes in Lebanon 
 On 24 February 2014, the official Lebanese news agency reported that Israeli warplanes carried out two attacks near the Syrian-Lebanese border in the Nabi Sheet area. The Voice of Lebanon radio reported that the target of the attack was Hezbollah convoys, which transferred very advanced rocket weapons from Syria to the organization's bunker in the northern Lebanon Valley. Al-Arabiya reported that the target of the attack was Hezbollah facilities inside Lebanon, near the border and that several Hezbollah members were killed in the attack.
 On 21 June 2015, Al Jazeera reported that Israeli jets attacked targets in the mountainous areas near the town of Saghbine. However, Hezbollah-affiliated Al-Manar reported that an Israeli drone crashed in the area, and that later an Israeli aircraft fired on it and destroyed the downed drone.
 On 10 May 2016, Israeli Air Force attacked a Hezbollah convoy which included six vehicles near the village of Anjar as it made its way from Syria to Lebanon in the Qalamoun Mountains on the border with Syria.
 On 25 March 2018, Arabic media outlets reported that Israeli jets struck a number of Hezbollah positions near the town of Baalbek along the Syrian border. Lebanese al-Jadeed news reported the loud sounds heard by residents of the area were not explosions, but Israeli planes breaking the sound barrier, causing sonic booms. Hezbollah-affiliated Al Manar denied the reports and said that neither Hezbollah or the Syrian army were attacked by Israeli forces.
 On 27 May 2019, Lebanese-based Al Mayadeen said that an Israeli drone struck a surveillance system in southern Lebanon. An additional report said the Lebanese army was at the scene investigating the device, which is said to be Israeli.
 On 25 August 2019, Lebanese and Hezbollah officials reported that, two Israeli drones crashed into the Dahieh district of Beirut, Lebanon. According to Lebanese officials Israeli drones attacked Beirut; one crashed into the roof of the Hezbollah Media Center, about 45 minutes before the second exploded in the air and damaged the building. Hezbollah denied exploding or targeting them. It was the first such incident between Israel and Lebanon since the 2006 Lebanon War.
 On 26 August 2019, Arabic media claimed Israeli aircraft had carried out an airstrike on a base belonging the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command (PFLP-GC), a Syria-based Palestinian militant group. The base is located in the Bekaa Valley in eastern Lebanon, near the border with Syria.