[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Afrin, Syria

ined from the Hatay Governorship, 17 thousand 236 people were examined and 2 thousand 288 people were vaccinated in the health units that started operations in early April and where 68 Turkish personnel were employed. 42 children were born in Afrin State Hospital, where 4 new dialysis devices serve.

Education
In August 2015, the University of Afrin started teaching, with initial programs in literature, engineering and economics, including institutes for medicine, topographic engineering, music and theater, business administration and the Kurdish language. In January 2018, the university closed due to Operation Olive Branch and did not open after the city was captured by Turkish-backed forces. In October 2019, Turkey announced that the University of Gaziantep will open a Faculty of Education in Afrin. In February 2019, it was reported that Turkey was assuming control over the educational matters in Afrin, providing training to teachers and turkifiying the curriculum taught in the schools. BBC also reported that Turkey enabled the establishment of a religious İmam Hatip school in Afrin.

Economy
The olive tree is the symbol of Afrin. Afrin is a production center for olives. Since the Turkish army captured Afrin, the olives have been confiscated by the Turkish backed forces and exported to Turkey. Olive oil pressing and textiles are some of the city's local industries. Since the Turkish capture of Afrin, only companies registered in Turkey are permitted to do business in the city. On 9 November 2018, Turkey's trade minister Ruhsar Pekcan announced the opening of a border gate with Afrin dubbed "Olive Branch" - after the operational name of the Turkish offensive that captured the city months before.

Infrastructure 
In late 2018 a delegation from the Turkish Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources inspected the situation in Afrin and instructed a renovation of the electricity infrastructure.  On 13 January 2019, body filling, water intake structure, reinforced concrete and mechanical cover systems were completed and repaired by the Turkish State Hydraulic Works (DSI), for Afrin Dam. In this way, the water requirement of the city is re-established.

Climate

Afrin has a hot-summer Mediterranean climate with hot dry summers and cool winters with moderate rain and occasional snow.
The average high temperature in January is 9 °C and the average high temperature in July is 34 °C. The snow falls usually in January, February or December. Afrin's yearly rainfall ranges between 500 and 600 mm and the average rate of humidity is 61%. Afrin is surrounded by olive trees.

Notable people
Ebdo Mihemed, singer
Xelîl Xemgîn, singer
Îlham Ehmed, politician
Hêvî Îbrahîm, politician
Arin Mirkan, combatant

See also 
 Yazidis in Syria
 Operation Olive Branch

References

External links

A photo of the Afrin stele

 
Cities in Syria
Populated places in Afrin District
Kurdish communities in Syria