[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 169]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ressed to
declare his sentiments, spoke to him thus:--'It is with the greatest
reluctance, O king, that I find myself compelled to explain these
presents of our enemies in a very different manner. That the Scythians,
who have hitherto shown no marks either of fear or submission, should,
on a sudden, feel so great a terror of the Persian arms, I cannot easily
believe, more especially when I consider that our army is very much
reduced by the distress it has suffered, and environed on every side by
the enemy, whose boldness visibly increases with our necessities. What,
therefore, I should infer from this extraordinary present is this: they
intimate that unless, like the mouse, you can dig your passage through
the earth, or skim the air like the bird, or glide through waters with
the fish, you shall certainly perish by the Scythian arrows.' Such was
the sentiment of Gobrias, and all the assembly was struck with the
evident truth of his interpretation, and the king himself began to
perceive and repent his rashness; instead, therefore, of advancing
farther into deserts which afforded no subsistence, he resolved to
attempt a retreat. This, however, he was not able to effect without the
loss of the greatest part of his troops, who perished by thirst and
famine, and the continued attacks of the enemy.

"'Nor was the expedition of Lysimachus, another powerful king, against
this people, less memorable or less unfortunate. His army was defeated,
and he himself taken prisoner; but, instead of meeting with that cruelty
which we are accustomed to expect from barbarians, he experienced the
greatest moderation and humanity from his conquerors. The general of the
Scythians invited his captive to a solemn festival, in which he took
care to assemble every circumstance of luxury and magnificence which
prevailed in polished nations. The most exquisite meats were served up
to table, and the most generous wines sparkled in golden bowls of the
exactest workmanship. Lysimachus was equally delighted with the elegance
of the repast and the politeness of the entertainer; but he was
extremely surprised that, instead of sharing in the feast or even
sitting down at table, the Scythian leader reposed in the corner of a
tent, upon the bare ground, and satisfied his hunger with the most
coarse and ordinary fare, prepared with all the simplicity of his
country's manners. When the entertainment was finished, he asked
Lysimachus which method of life appeared to him the most agreeable.
Lysimachus could not conceal his preference of the more refined and
luxurious dainties, or his dislike of the Scythian diet. 'If therefore,'
replied his generous host, 'you feel so great a contempt for what this
country produces, and so strong a preference for the productions of your
own, what but madness, O king, can have tempted you to come so far in
order to subdue men that live in a manner you despise? Is it not much
greater wisdom to be contented with those advantages which you prize so
highly, than to expose them to a certain hazard, for the chance of
acquiring what would afford no pleasure or satisfaction? But let this
lesson be sufficient to teach you moderation. A country which produces
nothing but iron, is not easily conquered; nor are men, who have been
from their infancy inured to every hardship, to be vanquished by curled
and perfumed soldiers, who cannot live without baths, and music, and
daily feasts. Be contented, therefore, for the future, to number the
Scythians among your friends; and rather pray that the gods may keep
them in ignorance of the superiority of your method of living, lest a
desire of tasting it should tempt them to desert their own country and
invade yours.' With this discourse he generously restored Lysimachus to
liberty, and suffered him to lead back the shattered remains of his
numerous army.

"'Such was the nation which had invaded Syria, and easily triumphed over
the efforts of an effeminate and unwarlike people. As I passed through
the camp, I was astonished at the order and regularity which prevailed
among these barbarians. Some were exercising their horses in the mimic
representation of a battle; part fled with incredible speed, while the
rest pursued, and darted blunted javelins at their antagonists. Yet even
those who fled would frequently turn upon their pursuers and make them
repent their rashness. Some, while their horses were running in full
speed, would vault from off their backs to others that accompanied them;
some would gallop by a mark erected for their arrows, and, when they had
passed it a considerable way, turn themselves round upon their horses
and transfix it with an unerring aim. I saw many who vaulted upon their
horses, and placed themselves between two naked swords, which would have
given them certain death, had they swerved ever so little from the just
direction. In another part of the camp I observed the children, who
imitated all