[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# CMLL World Women's Championship

The CMLL World Women's Championship (Campeonato Mundial Femenil de CMLL in Spanish) is the championship in women's professional wrestling  that is most highly promoted by the Mexican lucha libre promotion Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL). The championship has existed since 1992 and is one of two women's championships currently promoted by CMLL; the other is the Mexican National Women's Championship. As it is a professional wrestling championship, it is not won legitimately; it is instead won via a scripted ending to a match or awarded to a wrestler because of a storyline. All title matches take place under two out of three falls rules.

Bull Nakano became the first CMLL World Women's Champion after winning a 12-woman battle royal to receive the title on June 12, 1992. Princesa Sugehit is the current CMLL World Women's Champion, having defeated Marcela on October 23, 2020. This is Sugehit first reign with the title; she is the 20th overall champion. La Amapola holds the record for the longest reign with 1,442 days. Marcela has had the most reigns, with five. Marcela has had the shortest title reign, at 29 days. The CMLL World Women's Championship is the only Women's Championship and one of the only of two championships, the other being the IWGP Heavyweight Championship to be defended in the country of North Korea at the event Collision in Korea in a match between at the time CMLL World Women's Champion Akira Hokuto successfully defeated against Bull Nakano.

Title history
On June 12, 1992, Bull Nakano became the first champion in the title history by defeating Lola González in a 12-woman 12-woman torneo cibernetico elimination match. On November 4, 1996, CMLL stripped the fourth champion Reina Jubuki out of the title for wrestling on WCW Monday Nitro. On November 8, 1996, Lady Apache won the vacant championship by defeating Chaparita Asari in the finals of a four-woman tournament final. In February 1999, the championship was vacated due to inactivity of the CMLL's women's division. Apache won the vacant championship for the second time on May 15, 1999, however, the title was vacated once again with Apache leaving CMLL.

On 2001, La Diabólica, who previously was the number one contender for the title at the time, was awarded the vacant championship. In April 2003, the title was vacated again as Diabólica left the promotion. On September 16, 2005, at the CMLL 72nd Anniversary Show, Marcela defeated Dark Angel to win the vacant championship in the final of 12-woman tournament. On August 16, 2023, The championship was vacated once again after the previous titleholder Princesa Sugehit sustained an injury. On September 29, at CMLL Noche de Campeones, Stephanie Vaquer won the vacant championship by defeating La Catalina.

Reigns 

As of  , , there have been 21 reigns between 14 champions and four vacancies. Bull Nakano was the inaugural champion. Marcela holds the record for most reigns at five. La Amapola's first and only reign is the longest at 1,442 days, while Marcela's second reign is the shortest at 29 days. Marcela is the oldest champion at 47 years old, while Xóchitl Hamada is the youngest at 22 years old.

Stephanie Vaquer is the current champion in her first reign. She won the vacant title by defeating La Catalina at CMLL Noche de Campeones in Mexico City, D.F., on September 29, 2023.

Combined reigns

Championship tournaments

1992 Championship tournament
CMLL held a 15-woman torneo cibernetico elimination match on June 5, 1992, to determine the two women who would fight for the newly created CMLL World Women's champion the following week. La Diabólica was originally scheduled to work the match, but did not appear which led to the uneven sides in the elimination match. Several of the participants had recently joined CMLL, leaving the Universal Wrestling Association to join CMLL and its recently restarted women's division. Zuleyma was the reigning UWA World Women's Championship going into the match and CMLL allowed her to keep and defend the UWA championship in the years following Zuleyma's jump to CMLL. The finals came down to Lola Gonzales, a pioneer for women's wrestling in Mexico, and Bull Nakano, a Japanese wrestler that worked regularly for CMLL. The following week, on June 12, 1993, Bull Nakano became the first CMLL World Women's Champion by virtue of her victory over Lola Gonzales.