[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carrefour de l'Horloge

c distribution of blood groups." However, apart from the local influence of Yvan Blot, who served as an Inspector General at the Ministry of the Interior under Poniatowski and Christian Bonnet, the official policy of the government on immigration remained mostly of out reach of the Club's influence.

The book La Politique du vivant ("The Politics of living"), published in 1979 under the direction of De Lesquen, stemmed from GRECE theories on sociobiology, genetic determinism and social Darwinism. The same year, Henry de Lesquen was invited on the French TV literary talk show Apostrophes to debate the Nouvelle Droite. However, a media campaign against the Nouvelle Droite and the Club that denounced the "Vichyst sympathies" of the French authorities damaged their public reputation in France.

The ideological agenda of the Club during this period can be defined as a syncretism of neo-liberalism, right-wing nationalism, and eugenistic doctrines. Their advocacy of liberalism gradually clashed with the philosophy of GRECE, and with de Benoist in particular, who associated the idea with Americanism and materialism. Dismissing the long-term meta-political strategy of de Benoist and GRECE—whose Le Gallou and Blot were former members—the Club de l'Horloge aimed at more immediate results, and instead favoured a tactic of entryism inside the two French mainstream right-wing parties of the period, the Rally for the Republic (RPR) and the Union for French Democracy (UDF). Since the years 1979–80, the Club de l'Horloge has distanced itself from the neo-paganism and anti-capitalism of GRECE and the Nouvelle Droite, promoting instead a form of economic liberalism strongly tainted with ethnic nationalism.

Club de l'Horloge: 1980–2014 

The Club's strategy of entryism began to show some success in the 1980s: Le Gallou entered the UDF in the early 1980s while many other lead members, such as Mégret (from 1975 to 1982), De Lesquen (1977–85), or Blot (1979–88), were already part of the RPR. As Le Gallou grew in importance, he developed and promoted the concept of "national preference", and served as a link between the Club and the far-right party Front National (FN), which he joined in 1985.

The Club de l'Horloge created in 1990 the "Lysenko prize", in reference to Soviet pseudo-scientist Trofim Lysenko. The satirical award has since been attributed each year to a public figure who has, in their view, "contributed to spreading scientific or historical misinformation, with ideological methods and arguments". Bruno Mégret coined in 1997 the word "re-information" to designate nationalist news outlets that opposed the mainstream media, a term that has since been widely used by far-right online websites in France.

Renaming and revival: 2015–present 
In September 2015, the Club de l'Horloge was renamed "Carrefour de l'Horloge", and merged with the smaller associations Voix des Français, Renaissance 95, SOS Identité and the Mouvement associatif pour l'union de la droite.

The first meeting under the new name was organized on 16 January 2016 with Charles Beigbeder, Christian Vanneste, Blot, De Lesquen, and Le Gallou. The National Liberal Party (PNL) was founded in 2017 and publicly announced the following year to promote national liberal ideas, and restore traditional French values and liberal economics through ideological influence rather than elected office. During the 2017 presidential election, Philippe Baccou, one of the prominent members of the club, was among the most influential political advisers of FN candidate Marine Le Pen.

Carrefour de l'Horloge's president Henry de Lesquen runs a YouTube channel totaling several million views through which he participated in popularizing the concept of "remigration" in France, and racialist theories built on anthropologist Carleton S. Coon's works.

Views 
The Carrefour de l'Horloge recognizes what they call twelve "mentors":

 Philosophy: Edmund Burke, Hippolyte Taine, Julien Freund,
 Economics: Friedrich Hayek, Ludwig von Mises,
 Sociology: Gustave Le Bon, Arnold Gehlen, Vilfredo Pareto, Jules Monnerot,
 Laws: Carl Schmitt,
 Biology: Konrad Lorenz and Jacques Monod.

The ideology of the Carrefour de l'Horloge was originally inspired by social Darwinism, before gradually merging neoliberalism with racialism to create an "integral neo-Darwinism". The think tank promotes in the 2010s economic liberalism, nationalism and popular democracy. Political scientist Fiammetta Venner labelled the club "national radical" in 2006.