[Source: PubMed]

5. Women 2000. 1992 Jun;(5):9-11.

The impact of war on women and children: case study of Sudan.

El-nagar SE.

PIP: Civil war has raged in southern Sudan from 1955 to 1972 and again from 1983 
to the present. This situation has been compounded by regional conflicts in 
other parts of Sudan and wars in neighboring countries. The consequences of war 
are taking their toll on the entire region and are intensified by environmental 
hazards, desertification, drought, and famine. The socioeconomic and educational 
infrastructure has been destroyed in southern Sudan, taking the family support 
system with it. The atmosphere of continued fighting has made it all but 
impossible for relief agencies to provide services. The innocent victims of the 
war are civilians who are forced to choose between disastrous alternatives: if 
they flee, they lose their homes, their livelihoods, and their communities; if 
they stay, they watch these things being destroyed around them. Women and 
children are suffering the most. Hunger and disease are widespread, and 
immunization programs have been curtailed. Very few school-age children are 
receiving an education, and children are subject to kidnapping and abuse from 
soldiers. There may be as many as 3 million people displaced, with 1.5 million 
living in settled areas and 707,000 in camps in the Khartoum area. Relief aid in 
the camps is unreliable, and the displace women arrive with no assets or skills. 
They survive through domestic work, begging, petty trading, or beer-brewing and 
prostitution (the latter 2 are illegal). Children are left to fend for 
themselves all day or to find work in situations where they are exploited. In 
addition to depriving the children of their health, education, and economic 
stability, the war has resulted in cultural deprivation as ethnic groups lose 
their sense of identity. Psychological problems are the natural consequence of 
this situation, and aggressive behavior is seen in the displaced children, while 
trauma and anxiety plague the children in the war zones.

PMID: 12318292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]