[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Immigration to Greece

national agenda, especially since the 2008 debt crisis. Since this is not widely regarded as an important issue, reform will continue to be marginal at best and will not take the necessary steps to make real, lasting changes to migration policy.

Immigration detention

Public reaction to immigration

In 1989, Greeks were presented by the Eurobarometer as the people most tolerant of foreigners in all the EU. However, political instability and warfare in the Balkans in the early 1990s made the Greeks begin to worry about the conflict nearing their own borders. Additionally, in the 1990s Albanian nationalism still laid a claim to parts of Greek territory and the "Macedonian question" presumed claims by the North Macedonia to both Greek territory and national culture. These political developments revived many feelings of nationalism in Greece, and the influx of immigrants in the 1990s challenged the collective image of Greece as an ethnically homogeneous society. The Greek nation-state is strongly tied to an ethnically based identity that centers on common ancestry, language, and Orthodox religion. The rise of immigration in the 1990, then, was seen not just as a source of potential economic upheaval, but as a threat to the cultural and ethnic purity and authenticity of the Greek nation.

Since the influx of immigrants began in the early 1990s, the number of Greeks who felt that the number of immigrants living in Greece was "too high" skyrocketed, from 29% in 1991, to 45% in 1992, to 57% in 1993, and 69.2% in 1994. Approximately 85-90% also believe that immigrants are responsible for increased levels of crime and unemployment. Greece is presented in the Eurobarometer in 2015 to have somewhat more racist opinions than the EU average (e.g. 67% comfortable working with a Muslim vs 71% EU average), the same study displays the minorities in Greece to feel the least discriminated against in all of Europe. Also, the ratio of unemployment between foreigners in Greece and native born citizens is lower than the EU average (as reported by eurostat), indicating that Greece is less discriminating against foreigners in the labor market than EU as a whole.  According to a book by Gabriella Lazaridis, Greeks hold very low opinions and stereotypical ideas about many groups of immigrants, particularly Albanians, Muslims, and Turks, due to historical preconditions. The illegal activities of some foreigners, particularly some Albanians and the Albanian mafia has contributed to these notions. Lazaridis asserts that this has helped to perpetuate the "dangerous Albanian" stereotype, which contributes to exclusion of Albanian immigrants, legal or illegal, from economic, social, and spatial spheres of Greek life. Despite this, Albanians have had a long history of Hellenisation, assimilation and integration in Greece. Compared to other immigrants, Albanian nationals are more likely to naturalise as Greek citizens and are better integrated in mainstream Greek society.

Many Greeks hold mixed views on immigration to their country; they often complain about the phenomenon, whereas they sympathise with certain individuals who are acquaintances of theirs.  Still, even with a population made up of 7% immigrants— possibly even more when one includes estimate on the number of undocumented migrants— some Greeks still believe that their country is extremely homogeneous. Lazaridis comments that this can lead to the continued exploitation of migrants and foreigners who are seen as "others" and are not afforded the same rights as Greek citizens.

Nansen Refugee Award

In 1998, Greek volunteers were awarded the Nansen Refugee Award by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR). Volunteers of "The Hellenic Rescue Team" and Efi Latsoudi of "PIKPA village" were awarded for their tireless voluntary efforts to aid refugees arriving in Greece during the European refugee crisis.

See also
 Albanian immigrants in Greece
 Minorities in Greece
 Human trafficking in Greece
 2012 Paros (Greece) rape
 2015 Mediterranean migration crisis

General
 Immigration to Europe
 List of countries by immigrant population
 List of sovereign states and dependent territories by fertility rate

References

Sources
 
 

 
Articles containing video clips