[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Severo Fernández

heir favor, a Federal Board of Liberals and some authorities who switched sides (the Prefect and Commander General Serapio Reyes Ortiz and the Minister of Instruction Macario Pinilla) was formed. Pando's liberals allied themselves with Pablo Zárate Willka, cacique of the Altiplano.

Outbreak of war 

After these events, the deputies from La Paz withdrew to their department by order of the Federal Board. The people of La Paz received their representatives with exalted cheers and acclamations. The overthrow of Fernández had now become a main objective of the federalists. In juxtaposition to La Paz, in Sucre, there were public demonstrations in support of the government.

Fernández decided to march on La Paz with the three divisions stationed in Sucre (Bolívar, Junín and Hussars). In Challapata, he found out that the rebels had acquired more than two thousand weapons, so he called for the recruitment of volunteers in the capital. Two brigades were formed, the first was made up of the 25 de Mayo battalion and the Sucre squadron. These were made up of upper-class youths with their own horses and weapons, and included the Olañeta battalion and the Monteagudo squadron, made up of young men from popular classes. During their march to reinforce the president, the government forces plundered the indigenous populations in the countryside.

The government's first brigade encountered Pando and numerous warriors in Cosmini, being forced to take refuge in the parish of Ayo Ayo, where they were massacred on January 24, 1899. In Potosí, the population was openly against helping the government forces, meanwhile in Santa Cruz and Tarija there was a clearly neutral stance. Among the indigenous communities of Cochabamba, Oruro, La Paz and Potosí there are uprisings in favor of the Liberals.

The decisive confrontation of the civil war was the battle of the Segundo Crucero, on April 10, 1899, where the president and Pando met. After four hours of combat, Pando's troops were victorious. The defeated withdrew to Oruro and, shortly after, Fernández went into exile.

Aftermath, death, and legacy 
Fernández emigrated to Chile, where he remained for some years. He returned to Bolivia during the government of Eliodoro Villazón, who accredited him as plenipotentiary minister in Peru and Argentina. In 1914, he was elected Minister of the Supreme Court of Justice and, as such, President of the Judiciary. Finally, in 1922, he was elected Senator for Chuquisaca and became president of the National Congress. He died on August 12, 1925.

Legacy 
Fernández would be the last president of the Conservative rule which had dominated the country for over a decade. However, the growing importance and power of La Paz, a city dominated by the Liberals, and the dispute over the location of the capital would destroy the Conservative power base located in Sucre. To this day, La Paz remains the most important city in Bolivia.

The municipality of Puerto Fernández Alonso is named after him.

References

1849 births
1925 deaths
19th-century Bolivian politicians
20th-century Bolivian politicians
19th-century Bolivian judges
20th-century Bolivian lawyers
Ambassadors of Bolivia to Argentina
Ambassadors of Bolivia to Peru
Bolivian expatriates in Chile
Bolivian diplomats
Bolivian people of Spanish descent
Candidates in the 1896 Bolivian presidential election
Conservative Party (Bolivia) politicians
Defense ministers of Bolivia
Foreign ministers of Bolivia
Leaders ousted by a coup
Members of the Senate of Bolivia
People from Sucre
Presidents of Bolivia
Presidents of the Senate of Bolivia
Vice presidents of Bolivia