[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gaza Empire

al with Soshangane, but the army suffered great hardship because of hunger and malaria, and Soshangane had no difficulty in driving them off, towards the end of 1828. During the whole of this turbulent period, from 1830 onwards, groups of Tsonga speakers moved southwards and defeated smaller groups.

Despite their eviction from the highlands, the Portuguese gradually extended their control up the Zambezi Valley and north and south along the Mozambican coast. In 1727, they founded a trading post at Inhambane, on the southern coast, and in 1781 they permanently occupied Delagoa Bay. However, Soshangane's army overran these Portuguese settlements during the time of the Gaza Empire.

The empire under Soshangane has been criticized for involvement in the slave trade between the year 1830 and 1897, and human rights violations over the indigenous peoples of Mozambique and Zimbabwe. The Shangaan tribe has recently also been accused of enforcing tribalism over the Tsonga people of South Africa.

Decline 
After the death of Soshangane in 1856, his sons fought over being his successor. He had left the throne to Mzila, but Mawewe felt that he should be emperor instead. Mawewe attacked Mzila and his followers, causing them to leave Mozambique and flee to the Soutpansberg Mountains in the Transvaal. In 1884 and 1885 European powers carved Africa into spheres of influence at the Berlin West Africa Conference. As a result of this scramble for Africa by the European States, the territory of the Gaza Empire was designated as Portuguese territory. Gungunyana fiercely resisted the encroachment of the Portuguese but was eventually defeated. Gungunyana was exiled to the Azores where he died in 1906. The cause of the collapse of the Gaza Empire was its defeat by the Portuguese in 1895.

Present day 
The territories of the Gaza Empire are now ruled by Mozambique, South Africa and Zimbabwe. Mozambique is divided into eleven provinces, one of which is named Gaza.

The descendants of Gungunyana currently reside in South Africa, including de jure king Eric Mpisane Nxumalo whose application for recognition by the Nhlapo Commission was rejected in 2012. Claims of the kingdom's authority over the Tsonga people of South Africa have also been rejected by Tsonga traditional leaders in South Africa.

See also
Bantu languages

References 

 
States and territories established in 1824
States and territories disestablished in 1895
19th century in Africa
Monarchies of South Africa
1824 establishments in Africa
1895 disestablishments in Africa