[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Parliamentary Office of Science and Technology

ld.

Between November 2005 to 2009, POST, collaborating with four of its sister organisations - at the Danish, Dutch, Flemish and German Parliaments - provided technology assessment services to the Science and Technology Options Assessment unit of the European Parliament, in Brussels and Strasbourg.

POST Africa Programme
From 2001 POST received a growing number of requests for advice from parliamentarians in developing countries. It became clear that a real need existed to strengthen capacity in developing country parliaments. In 2005, POST held discussions on this issue with the Gatsby Foundation, which led to a special initiative to assist African Parliaments, and other organisations in their countries, in building parliamentary capacity to handle policy issues related to science and technology. At a time when there is growing awareness of the importance of science and technology in decision making, as demonstrated by, for example, the focus on science, technology and innovation at the African Union summit meeting in January 2007, this programme continues to contribute towards the overall objective of ensuring that parliaments have the capacity to scrutinise decision making processes and act as the national fora for discussion and debate on the broad implications of issues with a basis in science and technology. By sharing information and best practice with overseas parliaments and assemblies, the programme supports one of the primary objectives of the House: to promote public knowledge and understanding of the work and role of Parliament through the provision of information and access.

The POST Board
(Appointed 2010)

The POST Board oversees POST's objectives, outputs and future work programme. It meets quarterly. The Board comprises:
 14 parliamentarians drawn from the House of Commons (10) and the House of Lords (4), roughly reflecting the balance of parties in Parliament.
 Leading non-parliamentarians from the science and technology community.
 Representatives of the House of Lords and the Department of Information Services of the House of Commons.

Officers
Chairman: Adam Afriyie MP
Vice-Chairman: Professor the Lord Winston
Head: Dr Grant Hill-Cawthorne

House of Lords
Lord Oxburgh, KBE, PhD, FRS
Lord Haskel
Lord Patel, KT, FMedSci, FRSE

Externals 
Professor Elizabeth Fisher
Professor Sarah Whatmore, FBA
Paul Martynenko, FBCS
Professor Sir Bernard Silverman, FRS, FAcSS

Ex Officio Board Members
Penny Young, The House of Commons Librarian and Managing Director Research & Information, House of Commons
Nicolas Besly, Clerk of Select Committees, House of Lords
Edward Potton, Head of Science and Environment Section, House of Commons Library
Lynn Gardner, Principal Clerk, Committee Office, House of Commons
Dr Grant Hill-Cawthorne, Head of POST

Staff

Permanent staff
POST has eight science advisers, covering the fields of biology and health; physical sciences and ICT; environment and energy; and social sciences. Science advisers generally have a postgraduate qualification and science policy experience.

Fellows
POST runs formal fellowship schemes with scientific societies and research councils, whereby PhD students can spend three months working at POST through an extension of their maintenance grants. These include:

Arts and Humanities Research Council
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council
British Ecological Society
British Psychological Society 
Economic and Social Research Council
Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council 
The Institute of Food Science and Technology
Institute of Physics
Medical Research Council
Natural Environment Research Council 
Nuffield Foundation Flowers Fellowship
Royal Society of Chemistry
Science & Technology Facilities Council
Wellcome Trust Ethics and Society
Wellcome Trust Medical History and Humanities

The Following two organisations collaborate to offer an annual Fellowship in memory of the late Chemical Engineer and Parliamentarian Ashok Kumar MP.  This Fellowship enables an Engineering or Science PhD student to spend three months working at POST and get a better understanding of how parliament works. By 2017 the 6th Ashok Kumar Fellow had been appointed to work with POST she was a postgraduate engineering student, Erin Johnson, from Imperial College, London.

 Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE)
 Northeast of England Process Industry Cluster (NEPIC)

For more information on fellowship applications see the 'POST Fellowships' section of the POST website.

See also
 Ashok Kumar (British politician)
 Institution of Chemical Engineers (IChemE)
 Northeast of England Process Industry Cluster (NEPIC)
 Parliamentary and Scientific Committee

References

External links
 

Parliament of the United Kingdom
Scientific organisations based in the United Kingdom
Technology assessment organisations
1989 establishments in the United Kingdom