[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Theodemocracy

publican processes. As before, the Council of Fifty remained essentially a "government in exile" with little real power. In 1855, one LDS Apostle explained that a "nucleus" of God's political kingdom had been formed, but that in no way challenged their loyalty to the government of the United States.

Mormon belief in an imminent Second Coming continued throughout the 19th century, and the expectation of the violent self-destruction of governments seemed to be confirmed by such events as the American Civil War. Orson Pratt taught that "not withstanding that it has been sanctioned by the Lord... the day will come when the United States government, and all others, will be uprooted, and the kingdoms of this world will be united in one, and the kingdom of our God will govern the whole earth... If the Bible be true, and we know it to be true." Thus, the LDS sincerely proclaimed in loyalty to the United States throughout the period but also expected its unavoidable collapse, along with other worldly governments. That, in turn, would require the Latter-day Saints to bring order to the resultant chaos and to "save the Constitution" by implementation of a true theodemocracy.

By the turn of the 20th century, Mormon expectations of an imminent Apocalypse had largely dissipated, and Utah's admission to the Union in 1896 required the removal of the last vestiges of theodemocracy from the local government. The Council of Fifty had not met since the 1880s, and it was technically extinguished when its last surviving member, Heber J. Grant, died in 1945. Thus, theodemocracy within the LDS church has slowly receded in importance. Mormons still believe that the Kingdom of God maintains the bifurcated definition espoused by Brigham Young, with both church and millennial government, but its political implications are now rarely alluded to. Rather, the kingdom predicted by the Prophet Daniel is commonly identified simply with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Theodemocracy has become a principle that, when discussed at all, is relegated to an indefinite future on which secular governments have already fully collapsed in the turbulent times before the Second Coming. Until then, injunctions within the church to "build up the Kingdom of God" refer purely to spiritual matters such as missionary work, and Joseph Smith's political ideal bears little weight in contemporary LDS political theory or objectives.

See also

 Baháʼí administrative order
 Christian democracy, a political movement blending social democracy, social conservatism, Catholic social teaching and Neo-Calvinist principles 
 Christian Reconstructionism, a Neo-Calvinist theonomic movement
 Christian republic
 Christian state, an officially Christian country
 Deseret Nationalism, an associated concept within alt-right LDS groups online.
 Dominion Theology
 Islamic democracy, a similar concept used by some political Islamists
 Kingdom of God: Latter-day Saints
 Postmillennialism
 Velayat-e Faqih, a similar concept used by the Islamic Republic of Iran
 White Horse Prophecy

Notes

References

.

External links
 Theodemocracy, J. Stapley, 2006-03-16, By Common Consent

Theocracy
History of the Latter Day Saint movement
Latter Day Saint practices
Latter Day Saint terms
Separation of church and state in the United States
Types of democracy
Mormonism and politics
Jacksonian democracy
Joseph Smith