[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Niyi Osundare

on the international level, when you live in a world in which your continent is consigned to the margin, a world in which the colour of your skin is a constant disadvantage, everywhere you go – then there is no other way than to write about this, in an attempt to change the situation for the better.

Under the rule of the dictator General Sani Abacha (1993–98), Osundare regularly contributed poems to a Nigerian national newspaper (now part of the collection Songs of the Season) that criticised the regime and commented upon the lives of people in Nigeria. As a result, he was frequently visited by security agents and asked to explain his poems and to whom they referred:By that time I realized that the Nigerian security apparatus had become quite 'sophisticated', quite 'literate' indeed!  A couple of my students at the University of Ibadan had become informers; a few even came to my classes wired. And when I was reading abroad, someone trailed me from city to city. At home, my letters were frequently intercepted.In 1997, he accepted a teaching and research post at the University of New Orleans. In 2005 Osundare was caught in Hurricane Katrina, and he and his wife were stuck in their attic for 26 hours. Their neighbour, who at the time was driving by in his boat, heard their shouts for help. They were rescued and bounced around from rescue shelters until they ended up in Rindge, New Hampshire, where Osundare could get a teaching job as a professor at Franklin Pierce College and things settled down.

 Honors and recognition 
Osundare is a holder of numerous awards for his poetry, as well as the Fonlon/Nichols award for "excellence in literary creativity combined with significant contributions to Human Rights in Africa". He has also been the subject of several academic studies, including dissertations, conferences and panel discussions, and essays and books. Notable works on Osundare include Sule Egya's Niyi Osundare: A Literary Biography (2017), Gabriel Osoba's Niyi Osundare’s (Early) Poetry: An Interdisciplinary Perspective (2014), The Poetics and Poetry of Niyi Osundare (published proceedings of a conference on Osundare’s works at Abia State University, Nigeria, 2004), and Abdul-Rasheed Na'Allah's The People's Poet: Emerging Perspectives on Niyi Osundare (2003). In 2015, an annual festival titled Niyi Osundare International Poetry Festival (NOIPOFEST) was established in honor of the poet. Since inception, the festival has been hosted across different sites in Nigeria. 

His 60th birthday literary fete took place at venues in Ikere-Ekiti, Ibadan and Lagos state of Nigeria in March 2007.

His poem "Not My Business" is compulsory study in the AQA A syllabus for General Certificate of Secondary Education English Language.

In 2011, an Associate Professor of English at The University of Lagos, Christopher Anyokwu, wrote an article on Niyi Osundare's Poetry and the Yoruba World View, where he analysed the use of Indigenous Yoruba concepts found in Niyi Osundare's texts. The associate professor, went further to assume that Osundare unified in his work the concepts and traditions of Yoruba culture and Marxist ideology.

In December 2014, Osundare was awarded the Nigerian National Merit Award for academic excellence.

 Literary prizes and awards 
 First Prize, Western State of Nigeria Poetry Competition (1968)
 1981 Major Book Prize and Letter of Commendation, BBC Poetry Competition (1981)
 Honorable Mention, Noma Award for Publishing in Africa (1986)
 Honorable Mention, Noma Award for Publishing in Africa (1989)
Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA) Poetry Prize (1986)
 Joint-Winner, Overall Commonwealth Poetry Prize (1986)
 Kwanza Award (1991)
 Noma Award for Publishing in Africa (the first Anglophone African poet to receive the award) (1991)
 Cadbury/ANA Poetry Prize (Nigeria’s highest poetry prize). Also won the maiden edition in 1989 (1994)
 Fonlon/Nichols Prize for "Excellence in Literary Creativity Combined with Significant Contributions to Human Rights in Africa"; African Literature Association (ALA)’s most distinguished award) (1998)
 The Spectrum Books Award to The Eye of the Earth as “One of Nigeria’s Best 25 Books in the Last 25 Years” (2004)
 The Tchicaya U Tam'si Prize for African Poetry (regarded as Africa's highest poetry prize) (2008)
Nigerian National Order of Merit Award (Nigeria's highest award for academic excellence) (2014)