[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Melanie Morgan

the Lee Rodgers & Melanie Morgan Program have drawn criticism from media watchdogs and liberal bloggers. Morgan commented "We've got a bull's-eye painted on her big, wide laughing eyes." Morgan said the statement was a political metaphor that had been distorted by critics in order to appear violent.

In 2007, Morgan claimed during a broadcast on KSFO that Hungarian financier George Soros worked with the Nazis "in order to further his own career;" Soros was age 13 when the Nazis entered Hungary. During the broadcast, the station manager came on-air to deny the accuracy of the statements and to say KFSO "regrets that they were broadcast." This incident and others led to Morgan twice being named "Worst Radio Host in America" by MSNBC talk show host Keith Olbermann.

Morgan has also claimed that President Barack Obama attended a madrassa, an allegation that has been discredited.

The News Hour with Jim Lehrer
On May 9, 2007, Morgan appeared with VoteVets.org co-founder and chairman Jon Soltz on The News Hour with Jim Lehrer. Morgan accused the veteran of "political games" and undermining the U.S. troops serving in Iraq. Executive Producer Linda Winslow responded to complaints by saying,
Since neither guest was in the studio with Judy Woodruff, there wasn't much she could do to prevent them from interrupting one another, short of saying – as she did at least three times – 'please let him/her finish his/her point'. The NewsHour style is to ask pointed questions politely; we expect our guests to subscribe to the same rules. Since the program is produced live, we can't do much to eliminate rude guests from your television screen once the segment has begun; what we can do is guarantee you will never see Morgan on our program again.
Morgan subsequently blamed Media Matters for America for her persona non grata status, accusing the organization of "a bottom-line effort... [where] they call their people and ask them to call PBS."

References

External links

 Morgan's personal blog
 KSFO Morning Show
 

 

Living people
Radio personalities from Kansas City, Missouri
American political commentators
Lindenwood University alumni
American women journalists
People from Greenbrae, California
Radio personalities from San Francisco
Journalists from California
Year of birth missing (living people)