[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Community School, Tehran

Four program put a heavy strain on Community School because it brought many more American students. It also brought Iran closer to the US politically, and marked the beginning of a period of economic growth; many Iranians were stimulated to seek a western education for their children.

Growing pains

In 1967 there was some tension in the school; the school population was about half Iranian and mostly non-Christian. Although the school atmosphere was open and tolerant, the Presbyterian missionary board thought the school was straying from its charter. By this time Mr. Irvine and board member, Dr. Khodadad Farmanfarmaian had come to the view that the Community should be developed into an International school, and should take on the role of secular college preparatory school. They formed a committee to explore the possibility. The missionary board thought Mr. Irvine and Dr. Farmanfarmaian were leading the school away from its missionary charter, and emotions flared up.

The need for international schools in Iran was certainly strong and was a natural source of conflict and turmoil for the board. At that time, chapel was voluntary, but bible class was required. The missionaries were unhappy: The school had largely become a school for upper-class Iranian children. The missionary board reacted negatively to the committee promoting an International school. Over the summer of 1967, Community School headmaster Richard Irvine and Dr. Farman-Farmanian left to found the Iranzamin School, with Irvine its new headmaster. This parting of ways caused many hurt feelings, and many of the people involved bore strong grudges lasting years. Ms. Sahakian, a school icon, went to Iranzamin School; Ms. Amin, another school icon, stayed at Community School.

After the departure of Mr. Irvine, the missionary board hired Douglas Hill as the next headmaster. Given the problems of running a religious school in Iran, including government objections and interference, Mr. Hill also moved the school in the direction of a secular international school.

School spirit

Someone once called the Community School "a laboratory of democracy at work." Besides the Americans, there were students from prominent Iranian families and children from Europe, Asia, and the Middle East, whose families were living temporarily in Tehran. Their parents were diplomats, exiles, military, professionals, oil industry personnel, etc. CHS represented 28 nationalities and eight religions. Christians, Jews, Moslems, and Zoroastrians blended without a problem. Above the school entrance, in Persian calligraphy, were the words from the Book of John, 8:32, "You shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free." Some students learned the United Nations pledge of allegiance to the individual countries and flags and sang the United Nations hymn, the "Song of Peace," set to music by the Finnish composer, Jean Sibelius.

The school facilities on the new campus were a big improvement, but there was a downside. It was located at the end of a dead-end street in a dangerous part of the city where unrest and riots were particularly common during the late 1970s. The class of 1979 was the last and final class to hold a graduation ceremony on the main campus in June of that year, after which its doors were closed forever.

Notable alumni
 Asif Ahmad CMG - British High Commissioner to Jamaica and the Bahamas, formerly as British Ambassador to the Republic of the Philippines.
 Bob Barr (Class of 1966) - Member of the United States House of Representatives from Georgia from 1995-2003
 Ari Ben-Menashe - Diplomat for the United Kingdom
 Peter G. Levine - Medical researcher on strokes.
 Valentine Moghadam - Professor of Sociology and International Affairs, Northeastern University.
 Yasmine Pahlavi - Wife of Prince Reza Pahlavi
 Scott E. Parazynski - NASA astronaut
 Darius Rejali - Chair of Political Science Department at Reed College
 Norman Schwarzkopf, Jr. (1950–51) - U.S. retired General; was Allied Commander during the 1990-1991 Gulf War.  Schwarzkopf's father was brought in during the early years of the Truman Point-Four program to organize the Iranian Gendarmerie (police).

References

External links

Google Maps - satellite view of school location in Tehran
csreunion.com
Yearbook 1975
Yearbook 1976

American international schools in Iran
International schools in Tehran
Presbyterian schools in Asia
Defunct schools in Iran
Presbyterianism in Iran
High schools in Iran
1979 disestablishments in Iran
Educational institutions established in the 1830s
Educational institutions disestablished in 1979