[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# The Corps Series

mance in this role is superlative, though he would much rather be at sea in command of a ship, as he wistfully mentions from time to time.

 Lieutenant General (previously Major General) Thomas Holcomb: Commandant of the Marine Corps; later relieved by Lieutenant General Alexander Archer Vandegrift.

 Caroline Howell: Ed Banning's love interest after returning from the Philippines. A rich divorcee, she met Banning at the New York Public Library when he requested all the Shanghai newspapers and magazines from the date the Fourth Marines sailed for the Philippines until the city fell to the Japanese. Despite Banning's telling her at the beginning that he was married and searching for news of his wife, the two begin a friends with benefits relationship that develops into a love affair. Had Ludmilla not survived, it seems likely Caroline and Banning would have married. However, when Banning is transferred to USMMCHI in connection with Operation Gobi (with the possibility of learning the fate of his wife), Caroline angrily breaks up with him.

 Frank Knox: wartime Secretary of the Navy.

 Staff Sergeant Thomas McCoy, USMCR: Ken McCoy's ne'er-do-well younger brother. A Marine Raider, he was promoted to sergeant, possibly as a reward for shooting up a Kawanishi H8K seaplane with a Boys anti-tank rifle  so badly it crashed on takeoff during the Makin Island Raid. He was awarded the Medal of Honor for valor above and beyond the call of duty on Guadalcanal at the Battle of Bloody Ridge. After Guadalcanal, he was nicknamed "Machinegun McCoy" by the press and sent back to the United States for a war bond tour, with two tough Marine gunnery sergeants to keep him in line. (Thomas McCoy is possibly based on Staff Sergeant "Manila John" Basilone, the hero of the Battle for Henderson Field, whose actions in that battle were very similar to McCoy's on Bloody Ridge as described in the books.) There is no further information presented in any of the later books. It is not known if Sergeant McCoy survived World War II. If he was in fact based on Manila John Basilone, the chances are he did not.

 Carolyn McNamara: Girlfriend of Charles Galloway. An upperclass divorcee who dumped her banker husband after he was caught in flagrante delicto with his chippy of a secretary, she meets and immediately falls in love with Galloway in much the same way Ernie Sage fell for Ken McCoy. Although it is plain the two are in love, it is not clear when or if they will marry. As there is no mention of Galloway following the successful staging of Operation Gobi, the question remains open.

 Major General (previously Brigadier General) D.G. "Doc" McInerney, USMC: Director of Marine Corps Aviation. He and Fleming Pickering were two of Sergeant Jack Stecker's corporals in World War I, and were present when Stecker earned his Medal of Honor. Offered an appointment to Annapolis following the war, he accepted it and graduated (probably in the Class of 1922). He got into Marine Aviation early, and fought alongside then-Sergeant "Big Steve" Oblensky in Nicaragua during the Banana Wars. He kept in touch with both Stecker and Pickering over the years, eventually becoming Director of Marine Corps Aviation. In that role, he rescued Pick Pickering from the role Personnel had had in mind for him, which was as a mess and officer's club officer, arranging for him to become a pilot. After advising Fleming Pickering there was nowhere in the Corps his skills could be put to good work, he was pleased when Pickering became Secretary of the Navy Knox's eyes and ears. He worked with General Pickering on a number of occasions, most notably in connection with the Buka rescue operation and Operation Gobi. Following the events of In Danger's Path, nothing more is known of General McInerney's life and career.