[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Barbarosa

's horse, Eduardo makes it back to the hacienda and is greeted as a hero. A fiesta is planned in his honor.

Karl sits beside a campfire, defeated, nursing his headache. There is a rustle in the brush, and out comes Barbarosa's Appaloosa, with Barbarosa's saddle and enormous sombrero. Karl perks up.

The fiesta at the Zavala hacienda is the most funereal party imaginable. Don Braulio, Josefina and Jaunita look lost and bereft. The rest of the clan dances while contemplating directionless life without a Barbarosa to fight. Out of the night gallops a red-bearded man in an enormous sombrero on an Appaloosa, whooping and twirling and shooting up the sky. As Eduardo is about to be presented a black wreath of honor, Karl aims and shoots the wreath just before it is placed on his head. The Zavalas shout, "Barbarosa!  Barbarosa!  Barbarosaaaa!" and scramble for their guns and knives.

Cast
 Willie Nelson as Barbarosa
 Gary Busey as Karl Westover
 Gilbert Roland as Don Braulio Zavala
 Isela Vega as Josephina
 Danny De La Paz as Eduardo
 Alma Martinez as Juanita
 George Voskovec as Herman Pahmeyer
 Sharon Compton as Hilda
 Howland Chamberlain as Emile
 Harry Caesar as Sims
 Wolf Muser as Floyd
 Kai Wulff as Otto
 Roberto Contreras as Cantina Owner
 Luis Contreras as Angel Morales
 Itasco Wilson as Mattie
 Bruce Smith as Photographer
 Sonia de León as Old Prostitute
 Joanelle Romero as Young Prostitute 
 Michael S. O'Rourke as Brither (as Michael O'Rourke)
 Bentley H. Garrett as Bartender
 Allison Wittliff as Emily
 Juan José Martínez as 1st Boy (as Juan Jose Martinez)
 Rene Luna as 2nd Boy (as Rene Luna)
 Christoper García as 3rd Boy
 Philip Pena as 4th Boy (as Philip Peña
 Jake Busey as Cook Boy
 Reid Wittliff as Cook Boy
 Bill Couch as Stunt Double 
 Chuck Couch as Stunt Double

Reception
The film received critical acclaim. It currently has a 100% rating on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes based on five reviews, with an average rating of 7.9/10. In a contemporary review, Pauline Kael called it "spirited and satisfying", and offered particular praise for Willie Nelson's unexpectedly "great screen presence".

References

External links

 
 

1982 films
1980s English-language films
1982 Western (genre) films
American Western (genre) films
Films set in Texas
Films shot in Texas
Films directed by Fred Schepisi
Films scored by Bruce Smeaton
ITC Entertainment films
Universal Pictures films
1980s American films