[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Blackheath railway station, New South Wales

g hipped awning supported on turned timber posts. Fenestration includes narrow tall sash windows with segmental arch lintels.

Transport links
Blue Mountains Transit operates two bus routes via Blackheath station, under contract to Transport for NSW:
698: to Katoomba
698V: Katoomba to Mount Victoria

Heritage listing 
As at 22 February 2012, Blackheath Railway Station is of state significance as part of the early construction phase of railway line duplication on the upper Blue Mountains, demonstrating the technological and engineering achievements in railway construction at the end of the 19th century. The building is significant for its contribution to the scenic qualities of the Blue Mountains railway landscape, forming part of a cohesive group of intact stations along the line. The platform building at Blackheath station is an excellent representative example of a standard Federation era railway building and is one of only two timber railway buildings along the Blue Mountains line. Partial reconstruction of the building following a fire in 1985, together with the restoration of Mortuary station, marked the beginning of heritage management in the NSW railways. The place is also significant for its local setting within well landscaped gardens and adjacent to the historic town centre.

The Blackheath Railway Station Shops have historical significance as an important and distinctive component of the precinct around Blackheath Railway Station. The buildings have some aesthetic significance as small Federation-era buildings with similarities in scale, detail, and form and are important elements in the local townscape. The buildings are also of significance for their associations with the prominent and influential identity Tomas Rodriguez, former Station Master at Blackheath Railway Station.

Blackheath railway station was listed on the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the course, or pattern, of cultural or natural history in New South Wales.

Blackheath Railway Station is of historical significance as part of the early construction phase of railway line duplication on the upper Blue Mountains demonstrating the technological and engineering achievements in the railway construction at the end of the 19th century.

The place is important in demonstrating aesthetic characteristics and/or a high degree of creative or technical achievement in New South Wales.

Blackheath Railway Station is a good representative example of a Federation Free Classical style railway station. The building predates the issue of standard plans, but is similar to a standard design known as Type 11 (standard A8-A10) island platform buildings. It is one of only two timber railway stations in the Blue Mountains and adapts the standard elements found in other Blue Mountains island platforms such as the wide cantilevered awning supported on steel brackets to a timber construction.

The place is also significant for its local setting within well landscaped gardens and adjacent to the historic town centre.

The place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group in New South Wales for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.

The place has the potential to contribute to the local community's sense of place, and can provide a connection to the local community's past.

The place has potential to yield information that will contribute to an understanding of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

Blackheath Railway Station has limited research potential due to its partial reconstruction and being an example of well documented type of railway structures from this period.

The place possesses uncommon, rare or endangered aspects of the cultural or natural history of New South Wales.

Blackheath Station building is a rare timber "type 11" station building, and is one of two timber railway stations in the Blue Mountains, the other is Katoomba.

The place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a class of cultural or natural places/environments in New South Wales.

The Station is a representative example of a group of stations associated with the construction and duplication of the railway across the Blue Mountains. The footbridge is also a representative example of a standard steel beam structure with trestle supports dating from the early 1900s.

See also 

List of railway stations in New South Wales

References

Bibliography

Attribution

External links

Blackheath station details Transport for New South Wales

Blackheath, New South Wales
Main Western railway line, New South Wales
Railway stations in Australia opened in 1869
Regional railway stations in New South Wales
Transport in the Blue Mountains (New South Wales)