[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Domenico Morfeo

gainst Spain following a 1–1 draw, after coming on as a substitute for goalscorer Francesco Totti in the second half; that same year, he represented the youth side at the 1996 Olympics. In total, he managed 7 appearances with the under-21 side between 1995 and 1997, scoring 1 goal for the Azzurrini.

Style of play
Although Morfeo usually played as an attacking midfielder, he was often not deployed in his normal position at the beginning of his career, due to the prevalence of the 4–4–2 formation; he was therefore capable of playing in several midfield and attacking positions, and could also play as a left winger, as a second striker, or even as a deep-lying playmaker. A talented, diminutive, and creative player, with good feet, a slender physique, and an eye for goal, he was capable of both setting-up goals and scoring them himself with his excellent left foot, which initially earned him comparisons with his idol Roberto Baggio, as well as Gianni Rivera, and in particular Diego Maradona, leading him to be nicknamed Maradonino. Although he was not a particularly prolific player, he possessed an accurate and powerful shot from outside the area, and was also an accurate free-kick taker. Gifted with an intuitive capacity to interpret the game, Morfeo was known above all for his creativity, technical skills, vision, passing, and playmaking ability, as well as his adeptness at making attacking runs into the area, which made both him a dangerous attacking threat and an excellent assist provider. A quick and skilful dribbler, he was also known for his excellent technique, close control, and ability to dribble with his head up when in possession of the ball. In addition to his footballing skills, he was known for his confident and extroverted personality; however, he also had a difficult character, which led him to be involved in several conflicts with his managers. He was also notorious for his lack of notable pace or tactical discipline, and his arrogance and poor work-rate on the pitch, as well as his inconsistency and proneness to injury; as a result, he struggled to stand out in larger teams, in which he faced more competition for a starting spot, and which did not allow him to be deployed in his favoured role as a classic number 10. In his youth, he was considered by several pundits to be one of the most promising and precociously talented players ever to come out of Italy in recent years; however, despite his ability, he never realised his full potential.

After retirement
Morfeo currently runs a restaurant in Parma, where he resides with his family.

Personal life
Domenico's brother, Mario, was also a footballer.

Honours

Club
Milan
Serie A: 1998–99

International
Italy under-21
UEFA European Under-21 Championship: 1996

References

External links
Profile on La Gazzetta dello Sport's official website 
FIGC Profile 
AIC Profile 

1976 births
Living people
People from Pescina
Italian men's footballers
Men's association football forwards
Atalanta BC players
Cagliari Calcio players
ACF Fiorentina players
Inter Milan players
AC Milan players
Parma Calcio 1913 players
Hellas Verona FC players
US Cremonese players
Serie A players
Serie B players
Serie C players
Italy men's under-21 international footballers
Footballers at the 1996 Summer Olympics
Olympic footballers for Italy
Footballers from Abruzzo
Sportspeople from the Province of L'Aquila