[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2001 in Zimbabwe

Incumbents
 President: Robert Mugabe 
 First Vice President: Simon Muzenda
 Second Vice President: Joseph Msika

Events

January 
 The Anti-Personnel Mines (Prohibition) Act 2000" is incorporated into Zimbabwe's domestic law.
 One person is murdered in political violence in January 2001.
 1 January – Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) supporter Bernard Gara is murdered in Bikita West.
 13–14 January – By-elections held in Bikita West are won by ZANU–PF.
 16 January – Democratic Republic of Congo President Laurent Kabila is assassinated and given medical treatment in Harare.
 26 January – 133 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by government.
 28 January – Z$100 million printing presses of the Daily News are bombed.

February
 One person is murdered in political violence in February 2001.
 3 February – Riot police break up a peaceful demonstration by journalists in Harare protesting the bombing of the Daily News.
 9 February – Police have still made no arrests in connection with Daily News bombing
Government begins to pressure Supreme Court Chief Justice Gubbay to resign.
 14 February – Armed men in army uniform storm the house of MDC MP Job Sikhala and assault him and his pregnant wife.
 16 February – War veterans arrive en masse in Masvingo ahead of mayoral elections.
 22 February – Foreign journalist Mercedes Sayagues and BBC Correspondent Joseph Winter, both resident in Zimbabwe, are declared prohibited immigrants and ordered to leave the country
People suspected to be war veterans attempt to break into the home of journalist Joseph Winter
CIO agents attempt to break into the home of Loice Matanda-Moyo, an officer in the Attorney General's Office who had granted an order extending the departure date of journalist Joseph Winter.
 27 February – Senior Police Assistant Commissioner Solomon Ncube resigns from the force.

March
 Five people are murdered in political violence in March 2001.
 1 March – In an annual report, figures show that tourist arrivals have shrunk by 60 per cent and over 5000 people have been made redundant in the sector in the past year.
 2 March – Soldiers are unleashed in Chitungwiza and other high-density suburbs around Harare; numerous civilians are severely assaulted over a number of days
War veteran shareholders of ZEXCOM call for the arrest of Chenjerai Hunzvi over fraud allegations amounting to Z$50 million.
 4 March – Commercial farmer Gloria Olds, aged 72, is shot 15 times at her gate shortly after dawn, her dogs are killed and her car is used as a getaway vehicle.
 6 March – Inyathi farmer Denis Streak is abducted and held for a number of hours by war veterans.
 7 March – Armed men claiming to be war veterans shoot and seriously injure Trust Moyo and David Mota in Epworth outside Harare
Police have still made no arrests in connection with the bombing of the Daily News printing presses and have released no information on the matter.
 8 March – ZANU–PF-supporting judge, Godfrey Chidyausiku, is appointed Acting Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
ZANU–PF MP Eddison Zvobgo accuses ZANU–PF of introducing unconstitutional and irrational laws governing broadcasting in Zimbabwe
Armed war veterans invade an Harare estate agency and assault the managing director
High Court hears sworn testimony that Olivia Muchena (MP for Mutoko South) told people at a rally that anyone who supported the MDC would be killed.
 9 March – The Midlands Chamber of Zimbabwe Industries (CZI)reports that 1000 workers have been retrenched in the last two months in the Midlands.
 19 March – Zimbabwe Republic Police (ZRP) promote 300 war veterans to rank of Sergeant & Assistant Inspector.
 20 March – A delegation from the committee to Protect Journalists meets with Zimbabwe's ambassador to the US.
 22 March – Exiled Ethiopian dictator Mengistu Haile Mariam and his family are given permanent resident status in Zimbabwe
Inflation hits 57.7 per cent.
 23 March – War veterans storm the Harare Children's Home, shout, threaten and demand to see the supervisor; they also invade more than a dozen other Harare businesses under the guise of resolving labour disputes
95 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition.
 26 March – War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters close down Bulawayo textile company Dezign Inc.
 28 March – 500,000 people register for food aid in the Masvingo province
War veterans and ZANU–PF supporters invade companies in Kadoma.
 29 March – Masvingo Provincial Governor Josiah Hungwe threatens Masvingo residents with death if they do not vote for ZANU–PF in mayoral elections.
 31 March – Harare Hospital reports that it has run out of essential drugs; nine infant deaths are being recorded per week at the hospital; 80 per cent of children admitted are suffering from malnutrition.