[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Eduardo (footballer, born 1979)

Eduardo Adelino da Silva (born October 13, 1979), better known as simply Eduardo, is a former Brazilian footballer. He played as forward or as a attacking midfielder.

Career

Early career
Eduardo started out as a youngster at his home-town club Club de Regatas Vasco da Gama in 1999. He started out in the reserves originally but soon broke into the first team because of his goalscoring ability. He made his debut at the age of 20 and made an impact. He grew stronger with every game and by the end of the season he had a respectable goal tally. His goalscoring talent had got him noticed in Europe and in 2000 he signed for Belgian Jupiler League side R. Charleroi S.C. at the age of 21. He was a substitute for the first few games of the season but when he eventually did start in the black and white shirt he impressed both the management and the fans. He kept up his good performances and stayed in the first team not just that season but for the 2001/02 and the 2002/03 too.

Toulouse
After becoming a fans' favorite in Charleroi he was spotted and snapped up by French Ligue 1 club Toulouse FC. He seemed to have left his shooting boots in Belgium however, after failing to live up to his "goalmachine" reputation. His pace and accurate passing had impressed the coach in training, though. He and the coach agreed that trying a new position may help him and he turned out as a left-winger in the next match. He played well there and kept his place in the first team. The next season did not turn out as well as first. He lost his place after a few big-money signings came to the club.

Basel
On 26 July 2005, FC Basel announced that Eduardo had signed a one-year contract coming in on a free transfer. He joined Basel's first team during their 2005–06 season under head coach Christian Gross, who started his seventh season with the club in that position. After playing in two test games Eduardo played his domestic league debut for the club in the home game in the St. Jakob-Park on 20 August, coming on in the 81st minute as Basel won 7–2 against Aarau. He scored his first goal for his new club one week later, in the home game, on 27 August as Basel won 3–0 against Xamax. As Swiss champions, Basel entered the 2005–06 Champions League third qualifying round. However, they were drawn against German Bundesliga club Werder Bremen and they lost 4-2 on aggregate. Subsequently Basel dropped into the 2005–06 UEFA Cup, where against NK Široki Brijeg in the first round, they sealed a 6–0 aggregate win to qualify for the Group stage. Here Basel were then drawn into Group E, alongside Strasbourg, Roma, Red Star Belgrade and Tromsø. Basel qualified for the knock-out stage and in the round of 32 Basel were drawn against AS Monaco, this was won 2-1 on aggregate. In the round of 16 Basel were drawn against Strasbourgh winning the first leg 2–0. In the return leg in Stade de la Meinau on 15 March 2006 Eduardo scored both goals as Basel played a 2–2 draw to win 4–2 on aggregate. In the quarter-finals, drawn against Middlesbrough they won the first leg 2–0, but Middlesbrough fought back to win the return match 4–1 and the tie 4–3 on aggregate. Eduardo played in 11 of the 12 European games. Basel had started the season well and were joint leaders of the championship with Zürich right until the last day of the league campaign. On the final day of the league season FCB played at home against FCZ. A last-minute goal from Zürich's Iulian Filipescu meant the final score was 1–2 in favour of the away team and it gave FCZ their first national championship since 1980–81. The title for Basel was lost on goal difference. During the season Basel and Eduardo signed a new, over two-years extended contract.

FC Basel's European campaign started in the first qualifying stage of the 2006–07 UEFA Cup, here they beat Kazakhi side FC Tobol 3–1 on aggregate. In the second qualifying round they were drawn against FC Vaduz from Liechtenstein, narrowly progressing on the away goals rule after a 2–2 aggregate draw. In the first round Basel won 7–2 on aggregate against FK Rabotnički to qualified for the group stage. Here Basel played their first match at home against Feyenoord, this ended in a 1–1 draw. Their second was away and FCB lost 3–0 against Blackburn Rovers. At home against AS Nancy the match was drawn 2–2 and the final game ended with a 3–1 defeat against Wisła Kraków. Basel ended the group stage in last position in the table and were eliminated. Due to an injury that he had in Autumn, Eduardo played only in four of these ten matches, scoring twice. At the end of the 2006–07 Super League season Basel were runners-up, one point behind championship winners Zürich. In the Swiss Cup Basel advanced to the final, beating FC Liestal in the first round, Lugano, FC Baulmes, Aarau and Wil in the semi-final. In the final they played Luzern and won this 1–0 thanks to a penalty goal in the third minute of added time.