[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lamy

ndreas Haug. The pen comes in a variety of barrel materials and features a grip section that can be swapped for a customized appearance. The Accent's cap has a hinged clip and posts with clicking tabs. The Accent also appears in Lamy's ball-point, rollerball, and mechanical pencil platforms.

Studio

The Studio is a design by Hannes Wettstein. It is a cartridge/converter premium line model. The metal body and cap are offered in various coloured painted or metal surface finishes. Most versions have chromed round grip sections. The palladium plated version Studio version grip section has a deviating palladium plated grip section. The brushed stainless steel bodied and capped Studio version grip section has a deviating non-slip black grip section. The piano black and palladium Studio versions are more expensive as they feature nibs containing gold. In addition to the fountain pen the Studio line is also available in a ballpoint and rollerball pen configuration.

2000

Lamy's flagship fountain pen is the 2000. Designed by Gerd Alfred Müller and released in 1966, it remains in production today. The 2000 uses a special polycarbonate resin produced by Bayer, Makrolon that became commercially available in 1958, for the body of the pen. It is the only contemporary Lamy fountain pen that has a semi hooded nib and is a piston fill pen offering 1.35 ml ink capacity, so thus only takes bottled ink. In addition to normal production mechanical pencil, ballpoint and four-color ballpoint versions, a commemorative fountain pen version was produced for the new millennium called the Edition 2000, which features an inverse design of the original: a stainless steel body with Makrolon ring and polished clip.

Ballpoints

Pico 
The Pico is a pocket telescoping ballpoint pen designed by Franco Clivio. It comes in chrome, red, blue, orange (known as "Flame"), white, and black finishes. Like some other Lamy pens, the Pico features a small protrusion to stop the pen from rolling. Lamy also produces a leather carrying case for this pen. The pen has also won a red dot award for product design

Rollerballs
Other designs such as the Safari and Studio come in rollerball form too, though certain designs such as the Swift are uniquely rollerball pens. The distinguishing design feature of the Swift is the retractable clip. When the point is extended, the Swift's clip retracts to be flush with the body of the pen, which helps the pen sit in the hand more comfortably, and also serves as a preventative reminder not to reinsert the pen into one's pocket with the point extended, which may cause staining.

Multisystem pens
Lamy produces multisystem pens, which combine a ballpoint and another feature within the one pen, such as the Pickup, which integrates a ballpoint and a highlighter into one body. The highlighter is released from the body of the pen by depressing a button on the body of the pen, and can be reinserted into the body of the pen. The Pickup was also designed by Wolfgang Fabian, and has won the red dot award for product design.

Mechanical pencils
Lamy produces mechanical pencils. Some of the other Lamy designs exist in mechanical pencil form, such as the 2000 and the Safari. The Scribble, also designed by Hannes Wettstein, is a large-bodied pencil with triangular shapes on the body to help the grip.

Safari 
The LAMY Safari was launched on the market in the 1980s and fascinated people with its avant-garde design. Initially, these writing tools were supposed to be used by students, but they became appreciated by users of all ages. This line exhibits high-quality pencils made of durable ABS plastic. They have a slim silhouette, provide an ergonomic grip, and come in a variety of vibrant colors. This brand has an eraser under the cap. Underneath the cap, it contains a cleaning needle for graphite jams. Both the eraser and the pin are replaceable. The drawing instrument accepts leads of 0.5 mm and features a chrome spring clip.

2000 
The LAMY 2000 is identical in its form with this brand's fountain pen. It features the same elegant and classic design and has a black matte finish and a high-quality writing mechanism. The pencil is made of fiberglass and stainless steel, which makes it light and well balanced. The writing tool is developed with a conical and retractable tip and has a texturized grip made of Macrolon resin. Under the top of the push button, there is a replaceable eraser. The interior container holds a thin needle for cleaning graphite jams. The pencil has a rounded clip and comes in two lead sizes – 0.7 and 0.5 mm.