[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Monarchy in Quebec

lt local officials were abusing their power, rather than as an act of rebellion against the Crown itself), Lartigue was sent there and to Pointe Claire to preach, concluding his oration at the latter by asking the parishioners to repeat after him a declaration of their loyalty to their beloved King.

The Canadian Voltigeurs were raised to fight for the Crown; Captain Perrault attempted to recruit habitant men by telling them they had to fight for the great honour of
the King. It consisted of 1,530 British and Canadian regulars, volunteers, militia, and Mohawk warriors from Lower Canada, commanded by Charles de Salaberry, the protégé of Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn. The unit received the name voltigeurs, a French word meaning "vaulter" or "leaper", because almost all the soldiers and most of the officers were Francophone. The Duke of Kent made certain to recognize de Salaberry's leadership in the victory of the Voltigeurs over American attackers at the Battle of the Chateauguay, seeing that de Salaberry was appointed a Commander of the Order of the Bath after the war's end, with the Treaty of Ghent, in 1815.

Rebellion and responsible government

The SS Royal William, named for the new king, William IV, and built at Cap-Blanc, Lower Canada, was launched on 27 April 1831 by Louisa, the Lady Alymer, wife of the Governor General of British North America, the Lord Aylmer. It was the largest passenger ship in the world at the time and became the first to cross the Atlantic Ocean almost entirely by steam power. One of the co-owners of the Royal William was Samuel Cunard, from Nova Scotia, who would go on to found the Cunard Line, which would eventually launch the RMS Queen Mary (1936), RMS Queen Elizabeth (1940), RMS Queen Elizabeth 2 (1969), RMS Queen Mary 2 (2004), MS Queen Victoria (2007), MS Queen Elizabeth (2010), and MS Queen Anne (2024).

Through the 1820s and 1830s, British Prime Minister the Viscount Melbourne mooted ideas of introducing greater democracy to Lower Canada, by way of devolving powers to the Legislative Council. This greatly alarmed the King, by now William IV, who feared it would lead to the loss of the colony, and, at first, he bitterly opposed these proposals. The King exclaimed to the Earl of Gosford, Governor General-designate of the Canadas, "mind what you are about in Canada [...] Mind me, my Lord, the Cabinet is not my Cabinet; they had better take care or, by God, I will have them impeached." Nevertheless, William approved his ministers' recommendations for reform.

Still, Louis-Joseph Papineau began agitating for Lower Canada to become a republic modelled on the United States. This concept spread through the colony and Queen Victoria, who had acceded to the throne in 1837, became a target of the revolutionaries' hostility. Rebellion broke out that year and were put down in 1838. Of the conflicts, the Queen wrote in her diary, "the news are, I grieve to say, very bad from Canada; that is to say, rumours and reports by the papers; though, we have no official reports. But [Prime Minister] Lord Melbourne hopes it may not be so bad as it is rumoured. There certainly is open rebellion." As a sign of goodwill with which to begin her reign and to mark her coronation, the Queen used her royal prerogative to pardon many of the rebels and continued to do so through the 1840s.

The Queen's representative in British North America, the Earl of Durham, penned a report containing recommendations for change following the Lower and Upper Canada Rebellions. Based on that document, the Act of Union 1840 was passed by the parliament at Westminster and proclaimed in effect by Queen Victoria on 10 February 1841, thus renaming Lower and Upper Canada as Canada East (today Quebec) and Canada West (today Ontario), respectively, and merging them to form the Province of Canada, with a governor general to represent the monarch and housed at Monklands. Five years later, the Legislative Assembly of the Province of Canada, including elected representatives from both Canada East and Canada West, made Victoria's birthday, 24 May, a public holiday called Victoria Day.