[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hogle Zoo

Utah's Hogle Zoo is a  zoo located in Salt Lake City, Utah. It houses animals from diverse ecosystems. It is located at the mouth of Emigration Canyon. Hogle (pronounced "ho-gul") is an accredited member of the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA) and the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA).

History
The zoo has been at its present location at the mouth of Emigration Canyon since 1931 on land donated by Mr. and Mrs. James A. Hogle. Its original location was in Salt Lake City's Liberty Park. In 1916, the zoo purchased Princess Alice, an elephant, from a traveling circus. She gave birth to the first elephant born in Utah. His name was Prince Utah and he died at eleven months old. Current exhibits include various birds, mammals, and reptiles from around the world.

Affiliations
Hogle Zoo is accredited by the Association of Zoos and Aquariums (AZA). Only ten percent of the United States' zoos are accredited by the AZA. As part of the AZA, Hogle Zoo must abide by strict husbandry, education, and guest service requirements. The organization sets standards for exhibit designs that all new exhibits must adhere too. The association manages the majority of accredited zoo's collection through Taxon Advisory Groups. Animals are strictly only moved within other AZA locations or through programs with European accredited facilities. Every four years, members from the AZA visit Utah's Hogle Zoo to ensure their expectations are being met. Hogle Zoo is currently accredited through September 2025.

Most of the animals at Hogle Zoo have a Species Survival Plan (SSP), which is run under the AZA and ensures genetic diversity among captive populations. The SSP pairs animals together for breeding based on their hereditary and gene pool. Most Species Survival Plans focus on threatened species or those at risk of extinction. Other animals in the zoo's collections are rescues from the wild (see Rocky Shores).

Utah's Hogle Zoo is also accredited by the World Association of Zoos and Aquariums (WAZA). The organization serves a similar function as the AZA but on a global scale with a purpose of wildlife conservation and the best practices for animal welfare.

The zoo is a non-profit 501(c)(3) organization and is supported through Salt Lake County's Zoo Arts and Parks Tax and private donations raised by the Utah Zoological Society and the zoo's board of directors.

Exhibits

Small Animal Building
Completed in 1971, the Small Animal Building is the zoo's oldest exhibit. It is one of the few exhibits left in North American zoos that are dedicated to small mammals, reptiles, amphibians, and birds. Current examples include the National Zoo's Small Mammal House and San Diego Zoo's Reptile House. While many of these exhibits divide animals based on taxa, Hogle Zoo's exhibit follows the more modern 19th century idea of displaying animals based on the species' biomes. The Small Animal Building includes four zones, each dedicated to a specific habitat. These include the Tropics Zone, Temperate Zone, Desert Zone, and Rainforest Atrium. Surrounding the Small Animal Building are outdoor habitats for reptiles during Utah's warmer months and an exhibit for red foxes.

While the exhibit encompasses an innovative theme for exhibiting animals, the habitats themselves are dated. The Small Animal Building is the oldest building on the zoo's campus. Despite being functional and up to code, the zoo is looking to renovate the facility in the zoo's master plan.

Temperate Zone
Temperate zones are found across the globe in the Americas, Europe, Africa, Asia, and Australia. These areas have a wider range of temperatures and often experience distinct seasons as compared to tropical zones. Most humans live in temperate zones resulting in large urban developments of these areas. Biomes found in temperate zones include temperate deciduous forest, temperate coniferous forest, temperate broadleaf and mixed forest, temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands, flooded grasslands and savannas, montane grasslands and shrublands, Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub, and mangroves.

The Temperate Zone in the Small Animal Building features animals from habitats. Some of the reptiles found in the exhibit include Rhinoceros iguana, Puerto Rican boa, and flat-backed spider tortoise. The exhibit is also home to a pair of Siamese crocodiles. This critically endangered species is incredibly rare in captivity and can only be found at five other accredited facilities within the Association of Zoos and Aquariums.

Mammals in the Temperate Zone include rock hyraxes and black-footed cats.