[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fools Crow

it to the tribe, but he goes north to live alone.

The book ends with Fools Crow visiting the mythic Feather Woman, the wife of Morning Star and mother of Star Boy. Fools Crow watches a "yellow hide" and notices that images are forming within the hide. The yellow hide reveals five different visions.

The first is the spread of smallpox within his camp, with numerous dead bodies stacked on a platform.
The second is the destruction of Heavy Runner's camp by the seizers (white soldiers).
The third is lifeless land all around the region; not one animal can be seen.
The fourth is Indian children attending a boarding school with their hair cut off.

Feather Woman tells Fools Crow to prepare the Pikuni for what is to come and to pass on their traditions. She tells him that he can do much good for the Pikuni and that he will pass on the stories. Fools Crow returns to his tribe, but he is unable to prevent the disasters he has foreseen.

He meets Native Americans being forced to migrate north and accepts that the Napikwan are swarming over the land. His people must change their way of life, shifting from bison and game to fish. At the conclusion, Welch tells about the Pikuni through the animals, showing that although their practices changed, their culture lives on indefinitely.

Characters
Pikuni – A clan of the Blackfeet tribe.
Napikwan – refers to White people.
Three Bears – Chief of Lone Eaters. Well-respected. 
Rides-at-the-Door – Fools Crow's father. Becomes chief after Three Bears dies.
White Man's Dog/Fools Crow – Protagonist. Will eventually lead his tribe to victory. 
Double Strike Woman – Fools Crow's mother and Rides-at-the-Door's wife.
Striped Face – Second wife of Rides-at-the-Door.
Kills Close to the Lake- Third wife of Rides-at-the-Door. She is 17 years old.
Running Fisher – Fools Crow's brother.
Fast Horse – Fools Crow's friend, son of Boss Ribs. Turns away from tradition, but atones by returning Yellow Kidney's body.
Yellow Kidney – Leader of the horse raid, where he rapes a dying young woman and is captured. Father of Red Paint and father-in-law of Fools Crow. Eventually killed by the Napikwan.
Heavy Shield Woman – Wife of Yellow Kidney.
Red Paint – Daughter of Yellow Kidney, marries Fools Crow.
Mik-Api – Medicine man of the Blackfeet. Teaches Fools Crow the traditional songs and medicines.
Owl Child – A Pikuni rebel who plans on waging war on Napikwan. Provokes retaliation. 
Chief Mountain – Pikuni chief who aligns with armed struggle rather than compromise. (Not historically accurate. Mountain Chief was the final leader of the Blackfeet tribe, not Rides-at-the-door, a fictional character.)
Heavy Runner – Pikuni leader who, in contrast to Mountain Chief, cooperated with the US. (Heavy Runner's band was mistakenly killed by Army forces at the Marias Massacre.)
Boss Ribs – Father of Fast Horse. Well respected in the tribe

Reception
Fools Crow was well-received by critics. It was awarded the Los Angeles Times Book Prize, American Book Award, and the Pacific Northwest Booksellers Association Award.

References

Further reading
Whitson, Kathy J., Native American Literatures: An Encyclopedia of Works, Characters, Authors, and Themes ABC-CLIO Inc, Santa Barbara, 1999
Little Eagle, Lionel, Greengrass Pipe Dancers - Crazy Horse's Pipe Bag and a Search for Healing (Naturegraph Publishers, 2000, )
Lowie, Robert H.: "Ceremonialism in North America", American Anthropologist 16:4 (1914), 602-31. https://www.jstor.org/stable/660776, accessed 11/04/2008 17:34
Lupton, M.J.: James Welch: A Critical Companion. Westport CT: Greenwood, 2004.

Novels by James Welch
Native American novels
Novels set in Montana
Blackfoot culture
1986 American novels
American Book Award-winning works