[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kazakhstan–United States relations

ty of the nuclear facilities and materials. Within the framework of the NSS 2016, Kazakhstan and the U.S. adopted the joint statement on cooperation in the sphere of non-proliferation and nuclear security. The sides also reiterated overall commitment to continue practical cooperation in that sphere.

Common Initiatives
The United States and Kazakhstan have many common interests in the field of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. On August 29, 1991, when Nursultan Nazarbayev closed down the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, it has been a world leader in the movement for non-proliferation. In this capacity it has worked closely with Washington to advance non-proliferation further. In 2006 it joined with its Central Asian neighbors Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, and Uzbekistan to affirm that the entire region would forever be a nuclear weapons free zone. To be sure, the U.S. initially opposed this out of fear that it would exclude the transport of nuclear material across the region, but in the end this step, too, earned strong endorsements from Washington. Beyond this, Kazakhstan has educated a younger generation that is open to the world, clearly oriented towards free and legal markets, and eager to participate in the affairs of their government through normal democratic channels.
During his 2015 visit to Astana U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry stated that President Obama appreciated President Nazarbayev's leadership on issues of nuclear nonproliferation and countering violent extremism.

Nuclear Security Training Center
The United States is working with Kazakhstan to develop a Nuclear Security Training Center (NSTC) in order to improve indigenous security and safeguards training capabilities for all nuclear facilities in Kazakhstan. The NSTC aims to teach nuclear personnel how to strengthen their material protection, control, and accounting and counter nuclear and radioactive trafficking. U.S. Department of Energy National Nuclear Security Administration (DOE/NNSA) support includes constructing and equipping the NSTC as well as curriculum development for physical protection and material control and accounting specialists.  The current projected completion date is before the end of 2015.  The United States, led by the Department of State and in coordination with the Departments of Energy and Defense, is collaborating with Kazakhstan to develop a counter nuclear smuggling curriculum at the center and other related nuclear security training.

Highly Enriched Uranium Removals
The United States has been working with Kazakhstan to eliminate its excess Highly Enriched Uranium (HEU) since the completion of Project Sapphire in 1994, when the two countries cooperated to remove and ship to the United States approximately 600 kilograms of HEU from Kazakhstan. In recent years, the US Department of Energy / National Nuclear Security Administration (DOE/NNSA) Global Threat Reduction Initiative (GTRI) has returned almost 75 kilograms of HEU spent fuel to Russia and has downblended all remaining fresh HEU (33 kilograms) in-country.  Once the final three research reactors are converted to LEU, (DOE/NNSA) will work with Kazakhstan to return the remaining 85 kg of HEU at these facilities to the Russian Federation for disposition.  The next shipment will take place in late 2014 from the Institute of Nuclear Physics in Alatau.

On 7 January 2015 the United States Department of Energy's National Nuclear Security Administration (DOE/NNSA) announced the removal of 36 kilograms (approximately 80 pounds) of highly enriched uranium (HEU) spent fuel from the Institute of Nuclear Physics (INP) in Almaty.

Kazakhstan and the United States agreed to work jointly to safely dispose of highly enriched uranium. The agreement was signed by US Under Secretary for Nuclear Security of the Department of Energy Lisa Gordon-Hagerty and Kanat Bozumbayev, the energy minister of Kazakhstan, at the IAEA’s 63rd General Conference in September 2019.

HEU and Plutonium Security and Disposition
The United States has worked with Kazakhstan to complete the transportation of 10 metric tons of HEU and 3 metric tons of plutonium – enough material to make 775 nuclear weapons – from the Kazakhstan BN-350 facility in Aktau to a secure facility in the northeastern part of the country.  Currently, Kazakhstan is in the processing of performing a feasibility study to evaluate options for final disposition of this material.

Security cooperation
The United States and Kazakhstan affirmed their continued collaboration in support of stability in the region, including through our joint efforts on counterterrorism. Our commitment to security cooperation is demonstrated by activities such as U.S. support for Kazakhstan's peacekeeping brigade KAZBAT and the annual military exercise Steppe Eagle.