[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Royal Australian Engineers

se of its existence, the corps has held the following titles:
 July 1902 to September 1907 – "Corps of Engineers"
 September 1907 to January 1936 – "Australian Engineers"
 On 31 January 1936, the corps was given Royal Assent, and was subsequently renamed the "Royal Australian Engineers".

Traditions

Motto
The motto of the Royal Australian Engineers is Ubique (Everywhere), a motto shared with RAE's parent corps, the Royal Engineers. This motto was bestowed by King William IV in 1832 in recognition that both Sappers and Gunners were not entitled to carry Regimental Colours and typically served as small detachments instead of a whole unit.

The original motto of the RAE, adopted at Federation was Facimus et Frangimus (We make and we break) and appeared on the engineer hat badge up until 1947 when it was replaced by Honi soit qui mal y pense. It now only appears on the Corps Cipher.

The current engineer hat badge features a leather garter adorned with a crown and the motto Honi soit qui mal y pense (Evil be to him who evil thinks), mirroring the motto of the Order of the Garter. This honour was awarded to the RAE in 1947 for their efforts during World War II.

Sappers
The Royal Australian Engineers also adopted the Royal Engineers practice of calling their private soldiers "Sappers", in recognition of the fact that the very earliest engineers had been primarily concerned with driving saps (tunnels) both towards the enemy lines, and underneath fortifications.

Colours
Although the Corps does not carry official regimental colours such as those carried by infantry units, the basic Royal Australian Engineers colours are red (primary) and blue. Typically, however, unit colour patches, consist of a red feature on a purple field. The banner or flag depiction of the colours consists of a red field with two horizontal blue bands near the top and bottom of the field. This, in keeping with the Corps of Royal Engineers, represents two rivers shown in blue with the red background representing all the lives lost to achieve the crossing. If a unit title is shown it is shown in yellow.

Waterloo Dinner
The Waterloo Dinner is an annual dinner for commissioned officers held by units of the Royal Australian Engineers, although some smaller units may permit other ranks to attend. It is traditionally held on or about 18 June in commemoration of the first dinner, held by members of the corps at Gallipoli in 1915 to celebrate the completion of Watson's Pier at Anzac Cove. In recognition of the officer who led the construction of the pier, Lieutenant Stanley Watson, a signals officer within the Royal Australian Engineers, an officer of the Royal Australian Signals Corps attends each dinner as a guest. The name Waterloo was used because the first dinner was observed on the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Waterloo.

Current roles
The RAE provides combat engineering, construction, and other technical support to the Australian Defence Force. Its main roles are to provide mobility and counter mobility capabilities to the Australian Army and its allies. This means enhancing the ability of friendly forces to move while denying movement to enemy forces. In order to provide these capabilities, engineers are required to conduct many tasks, including penetrating minefields, locating and disarming booby traps, clearing unexploded ordnance, conducting explosive demolitions, purifying water, surveying, and building and maintaining roads, airfields, and bridges. The Corps also performs the majority of the Australian Army's demolition tasks and is trained to fight as infantry if needed.

Current structure

The corps has both Regular and Reserve units, which are situated across the country within the Army's three regular manoeuvre brigades – the 1st, 3rd and 7th Brigades – and within the Reserve 2nd Division.

The current Regular units are:
 1st Combat Engineer Regiment (Darwin)
 1st Field Squadron
 9th Field Squadron
 23rd Support Squadron
 Operational Support Squadron
 2nd Combat Engineer Regiment (Brisbane)
 2nd Combat Engineer Squadron
 7th Combat Engineer Squadron
 24th Support Squadron
 Operational Support Squadron
 3rd Combat Engineer Regiment (Townsville)
 16th Combat Engineer Squadron
 18th Combat Engineer Squadron
 25th Support Squadron
 Operational Support Squadron
 6th Engineer Support Regiment (Amberley)
17th Construction Squadron
 21st Construction Squadron
 20th Explosive Ordnance Disposal Squadron
 School of Military Engineering (Sydney, Holsworthy), Combined Arms Training Centre
 12th Chief Engineer Works (Brisbane)
 19th Chief Engineer Works (Sydney, Randwick)
Special Operations Engineer Regiment (SOER)