[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 27]
# American Civil Liberties Union

for Individual Rights and Expression (FIRE)
 Institute for Justice
 Liberty, a British equivalent
 List of court cases involving the American Civil Liberties Union
 National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee
 New York Civil Liberties Union
 Political freedom
 Southern Poverty Law Center

Citations

General and cited references 
 
 Bodenhamer, David, and Ely, James, Editors (2008). The Bill of Rights in Modern America, second edition. Indiana University Press. .
 Donohue, William (1985). The Politics of the American Civil Liberties Union. Transaction Books. .
 Kaminer, Wendy (2009). Worst Instincts: Cowardice, Conformity, and the ACLU. Beacon Press. . A dissident member of the ACLU criticizes its post-9/11 actions as betraying the core principles of its founders.
 
 Lamson, Peggy (1976). Roger Baldwin: Founder of the American Civil Liberties Union. Houghton Mifflin Company. .
 Walker, Samuel (1990). In Defense of American Liberties: A History of the ACLU. Oxford University Press. .

Further reading
 Klein Woody, and Baldwin, Roger Nash (2006). Liberties lost: the endangered legacy of the ACLU. Greenwood Publishing Group, 2006. A collection of essays by Baldwin, each accompanied by commentary from a modern analyst.
 Krannawitter, Thomas L. and Palm, Daniel C. (2005). A Nation Under God?: The ACLU and religion in American politics. Rowman & Littlefield.
 Sears, Alan, and Osten, Craig (2005). The ACLU vs America: Exposing the Agenda to Redefine Moral Values. B&H Publishing Group.
 Smith, Frank LaGard (1996). ACLU: The Devil's Advocate: The Seduction of Civil Liberties in America. Marcon Publishers.

Archives
 American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California records. 754 boxes. UCLA Library Special Collections.
 American Civil Liberties Union of Washington.  1917–2019. 188.31 cubic feet (including 13 microfilm reels and 1 videocassette) plus 62 cartons and 2 rolled posters. Labor Archives of Washington. University of Washington Special Collections.
 American Civil Liberties Union of Michigan: Detroit Branch Records 1952–1966. This collection documents the early years of the Detroit ACLU branch. The collection contains documents related to academic freedom; censorship; church and state; civil liberties; police brutality; HUAC; and legal assistance to prisoners. Walter P. Reuther Library, Detroit, Michigan.
 American Civil Liberties Union of Oakland County, Michigan 1970–1984. This collection illustrates that the branch was formed to address Oakland County jail conditions, lie detector use, senior housing rights, and attempts to reinstate the death penalty. Walter P. Reuther Library, Detroit, Michigan.

Selected works sponsored or published by the ACLU
 Annual Report – American Civil Liberties Union, American Civil Liberties Union, 1921.
 Black Justice, ACLU, 1931.
 How Americans Protest, American Civil Liberties Union, 1963.
 Secret detention by the Chicago police: a report, American Civil Liberties Union, 1959.
 Report on lawlessness in law enforcement, Wickersham Commission, Patterson Smith, 1931. This report was written by the ACLU but published under the auspices of the Wickersham Commission.
 Miller, Merle, (1952),  The Judges and the Judged, Doubleday.
  ACLU organization records, 1947–1995. Princeton University Library, Mudd Manuscript Library.
 The Dangers of Domestic Spying by Federal Law Enforcement, American Civil Liberties Union, 2002.
 Engines of Liberty: The Power of Citizen Activists to Make Constitutional Law, David D. Cole, 2016

External links

  
 American Civil Liberties Union Records, Princeton University. Document archive 1917–1950, including the history of the ACLU.
 Debs Pamphlet Collection, Indiana State University Library. An array of annual ACLU reports in PDF.
 List of 100 most important ACLU victories, New Hampshire Civil Liberties Union.
 De-classified FBI records on the ACLU

 
1920 establishments in the United States
501(c)(4) nonprofit organizations
Civil liberties advocacy groups in the United States
Drug policy reform
Government watchdog groups in the United States
Immigration political advocacy groups in the United States
Legal advocacy organizations in the United States
LGBT political advocacy groups in the United States
Non-profit organizations based in New York City
Nonpartisan organizations in the United States
Organizations established in 1920
Privacy in the United States
Privacy organizations