[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Saudi–Yemeni War (1934)

ontrol of Asir.  The Imam asked King Fuad of Egypt to intervene in the war.  The British sloop 'Penzance' evacuated the British and Indian residents of Hodeida, and 300 foreigners, to Karaman Island for safety. On May 6, three Italian warships were dispatched to Hodeida to protect Italian interests.

According to western newspaper reports: "Tehama is part of the principality of Asir, which maintained for a few years subsequent to the Great War a precarious independence between the territory of the Wahabi King Ibn Saud and that of the Imam of Yemen. In 1926, it accepted the suzerainty of Ibn Saud, and in 1930, under a new agreement, it was practically annexed by Ibn Saud.  A dispute then arose between Ibn Saud and the Imam of Yemen regarding the frontier between Asir and Yemen, and this was believed to have been settled by a treaty concluded in December 1931. In announcing his intention of taking action against Yemen, Ibn Saud's legation in London said: 'The Saudi Government has tried all pacific means through diplomatic channels to come to an agreement with the last just ruler and Imam of Yemen, but he obstinately persists in his aggressive policy by occupying our highlands in Tihamah, oppressing their inhabitants, and eradicating all who do not surrender to his rule.'"

Tihamah refers to the very hot land along the eastern shore of the Red Sea,  south of Jeddah, representing the coastal fringe of Hejaz, Asir, and Yemen on the Red Sea.

In May 1934, after capturing Luhayya (1 May) and Hodeida (4 May), Saudi forces advanced towards Sanaa, where a battle was expected.  The mountains were problematical for their armoured cars and tanks.  Neither the British nor Italian forces in the region were expected to intervene. Although the Saudis had better weapons, including tanks, the Yemenis had more experience with mountain warfare. Although the dispute had been brewing for some time, British onlookers predicted that the result would be indecisive. The King demanded the abdication of the Iman, five years control of the border region, and the expulsion from Yemen of the former rulers of Asir.

By 10 May 1934, reports from the war were contradictory.  Sanaa was reported to be in upheaval, although the Iman claimed to be in charge.  The Yemenis retreated from Hodeida, but claimed to be winning in Najran. The Imam announced a bold plan to advance on Riyadh with 200,000 men, although this attack never eventuated. According to Resort to War: A Data Guide to Inter-State, Extra-State, Intra-State, and Non-State Wars, 1816-2007, the Saudis had decisively won the war on 13 May 1934.

Treaty of Taif 
On 12 May 1934, peace negotiations had commenced. Saudi Arabia dropped the demand for Imam Yahya's abdication, but demanded a truce for at least 20 years. It was reported that the Crown Prince of Yemen supported the war, while his father the Imam was in favour of peace.  Ibn Saud claimed that he was not interested in taking over Yemen.

On May 26, it was reported that relations were tense and a re-outbreak of hostilities was likely. However, on 14 June 1934 it was reported that a Treaty had been signed between the King and the Imam guaranteeing 20 years of peace. The last Saudi troops left Yemen on 7 July.

The Saudis relinquished Hodeida and the Yemeni coast, but the other disputed areas were incorporated into Saudi Arabia. Jizan/Jizin, Asir, and Najran are part of modern Saudi Arabia.

See also 
Najran conflict, a preceding Saudi–Yemeni conflict
Al-Wadiah War, a subsequent Saudi–Yemeni conflict
North Yemen Civil War
List of modern conflicts in the Middle East
List of wars involving Saudi Arabia
Saudi–Rashidi War
Saudi–Yemen barrier
Saudi Arabia–Yemen border
Treaty of Jeddah (2000)

Notes

References

Further reading 

Conflicts in 1934
Wars involving Saudi Arabia
Wars involving Yemen
1934 in Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia–Yemen military relations
Kingdom of Yemen