[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Human rights in Sri Lanka

als. Vigilante attacks, vigilante executions, torture, forced anal examinations, and beatings are also tolerated.

Sri Lanka has not yet implemented anti-discrimination laws. It has not recognized transgender people, making it hard for them to get government cards and discrimination is also rampant.

Child marriage 
In Sri Lanka, the legal marriage age is 18. However, the Muslim Marriage and Divorce Act (MMDA) allows underage Muslims older than 12 to be married and does not require the bride's consent. The age can be reduced even further if a quazi allows it. The penal code also exempts Muslims from prosecution for statutory rape if the victim is married to the perpetrator and is 12 or older. Child marriage rates in Sri Lanka are at 2% by 15 and 12% by 18, lower than other South Asian nations however some marriages are unregistered and may be higher. Many Muslim girls have attempted suicide to avoid being forcefully married off and girls that oppose marriages are beaten by their families. Husbands can also get quick divorces without having to offer any explanation while the wife has to endure a long process that requires her to produce witnesses and attend hearings. The laws are administered through special sharia courts administered by quazis. Women are not allowed to be quazis and quazis routinely order women to keep quiet during proceedings, representation through lawyers are also not allowed.

Many incidents of domestic abuse, rape and murder of teenagers have been reported due to the MMDA. In one instance a girl was sent to her uncle's house by her parents due to falling in love with a boy while having an education and a visitor to the house asked the family to marry her. The girl refused and was beaten up by the family, and in desperation, she cut her arms and took several pills in a suicide attempt. After she was hospitalized her family bribed the doctors and took her to a private hospital and later married her off. Her husband regularly abused her and was paranoid of her having an affair with her former love interest. When she revealed her pregnancy he threw her to the floor taunting that he only needed her for one night. As a result, she suffered a miscarriage and the police didn't believe her story and the mosque reunited her with the husband despite her objections. Then her husband put her phone number on social media which resulted in various strangers asking her to have sex for money. As a result, her education was sabotaged and was unable to even travel outside. In 2017 another 4 month pregnant 18 year old died after her husband she married when she was 16, tied her to a chair, poured oil and set her on fire. Her husband threatened that he would hurt her other infant if she reported the abuse to the police. There have been instances of children as young as 12 being dragged from playgrounds, given wedding clothes and being forcibly married off while crying in the middle of the wedding ceremony and being forced into sex even before puberty.

Supporters of the MMDA such as the All Ceylon Jamiyyathul Ulama, a union of male Islamic scholars claim that child marriages are rare. However, 22% of marriages registered in 2015 in Kattankudy, a Muslim majority town in Eastern Province, the woman was 17 or younger up from 14% in 2014.

Many Muslim organizations such as the Women's Action Network (WAN) and Muslim Women's Research and Action Forum have been attempting to reform or abolish the MMDA and give equal rights to women and ban child marriage. However, members of the organizations face harassment and threats from extremist Muslim organizations. Activists have expressed fears to even engage in daily tasks such as travelling and sending children to school due to regular threats.

See also 

 Allegations of state terrorism in Sri Lanka
 List of attacks attributed to the LTTE
 Military use of children in Sri Lanka
 Sri Lankan Civil War
 List of attacks attributed to the Sri Lankan military
Gender inequality in Sri Lanka

References and further reading

External links
  Human Rights Organization of Sri Lanka
  Home for Human Rights
  Human Rights Watch
  Amnesty International - Sri Lanka Human Rights Reports
  Freedom of expression in Sr Lanka - IFEX
  Intellectuals for Human Rights
  Freedom from Torture
 information relating to human rights situation in Sri Lanka
 Peace and Conflict Timeline (PACT) - an interactive timeline of the Sri Lankan conflict
 List of Human Rights Violations in Sri Lanka
 Sri Lanka mission report
 Nine recommendations for improving media freedom in Sri Lanka – RSF
 Media in Sri Lanka
 Free Speech in Sri Lanka
 Mystery surrounds the brutal killing of a Tamil journalist, Asian Tribune

 
Human trafficking in Sri Lanka
Law of Sri Lanka