[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alfred E. Kahn

said "I can't tell one plane from the other. To me, they're all just marginal costs with wings."

Kahn was the father-in-law of Daniel Mark Fogel, president of the University of Vermont.

Professor Kahn died of cancer in Ithaca, New York at the age of 93, on December 27, 2010.

Work in deregulation

Kahn's strong advocacy of deregulation stemmed largely from his understanding as an economist of marginal-cost theory. In his time at the New York Public Service Commission he was instrumental in using marginal costs to help price electricity and telecommunications services; this was novel at the time but is routinely performed today.

While serving as Chairman of the Civil Aeronautics Board (CAB), which regulated commercial airline fares, in 1977–1978, Kahn (a self-described "good liberal Democrat") oversaw the deregulation of commercial air fares. As one analyst put it, Kahn "set to work with … other progressives" including Senator Edward Kennedy, future Supreme Court Justice Stephen Breyer, and consumer advocate Ralph Nader to "dismantle anti-consumer cartels that had been sustained by government regulation." At the same time the CAB was disbanded, as deregulation of commercial air fares made the agency no longer necessary. This is one of the very few examples of a regulatory agency deregulating itself out of existence.

He consistently argued that, where feasible, complete deregulation is preferable to partial deregulation. "The verdict of the great majority of economists would, I believe, be that deregulation has been a success — bearing in mind, as always, the central argument … that society's choices are always between or among imperfect systems, but that, wherever it seems likely to be effective, even very imperfect competition is preferable to regulation ….  Recent experience clearly suggests, instead, that the mixed system may be the worst of both possible worlds."

In an interview with USA Today, he said he wished he could have deregulated the telecommunications industry.

He served as an expert witness in many regulatory matters, particularly in issues regarding flat rate pricing for telecommunications, marginal costing in both telecommunications and electricity, and net neutrality.  After his death, The Economist wrote:
And though, being an economist, he could not help muttering about the imperfection of societies and systems and the absurdity of predictions — and though, being an inveterate puncturer of himself, he would demand a paternity test if anyone called him the father of the deregulated world — his adventures with airlines led on to the freeing of the trucking, telecoms and power industries, and heralded the Thatcherite and Reaganite revolutions.

Published works

Kahn was the author of numerous books, including The Economics of Regulation: Principles and Institutions, Lessons from Deregulation: Telecommunications and Airlines After the Crunch, Whom the Gods Would Destroy, or How Not to Deregulate, Letting Go: Deregulating the Process of Deregulation, and Great Britain in the World Economy. Kahn also authored many articles, and was for many years a commentator on PBS's The Nightly Business Report.

Besides his love for numbers, Kahn also loved words, and "hated to see them misused." Even after his death, he was acknowledged as "a champion of plain English...an economist who could do without 'herein' and 'therein'."

Awards
 L. Welch Pogue Award for Lifetime Achievement in Aviation, 1997

References

1917 births
2010 deaths
20th-century American economists
20th-century American male writers
20th-century American non-fiction writers
American male non-fiction writers
American people of Russian-Jewish descent
Cornell University faculty
Deaths from cancer in New York (state)
Economists from New Jersey
New York University alumni
Ripon College (Wisconsin) faculty
Writers from New York (state)
Writers from Paterson, New Jersey
Writers from Wisconsin
Yale University alumni