[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Nuclear power in Japan

onomics of nuclear fuel reprocessing.
In 2018 the Japanese Atomic Energy Commission updated plutonium guidelines to try to reduce plutonium stockpiles, stipulating that the Rokkasho Reprocessing Plant should only produce the amount of plutonium required for MOX fuel for Japan's nuclear power plants.

Nuclear regulatory bodies in Japan 
 Nuclear Regulation Authority – A nuclear safety agency under the environment ministry, created on 19 September 2012. It replaced the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency and the Nuclear Safety Commission.
 Japanese Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) 原子力委員会 – Now operating as a commission of inquiry to the Japanese cabinet, this organization coordinates the entire nation's plans in the area of nuclear energy.
 Nuclear Safety Commission 原子力安全委員会 – The former Japanese regulatory body for the nuclear industry.
 Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency (NISA) 原子力安全・保安院 – A former agency that performed regulatory activities and was formed on 6 January 2001, after a reorganization of governmental agencies.

Nuclear power companies

Electric utilities running nuclear plants 
Japan is divided into a number of regions that each get electric service from their respective regional provider, all utilities hold a monopoly and are strictly regulated by the Japanese government. For more background information, see Energy in Japan. All regional utilities in Japan currently operate nuclear plants with the exception of the Okinawa Electric Power Company. They are also all members of the Federation of Electric Power Companies (FEPCO) industry organization. The companies are listed below.
 Regional electric providers
Hokkaidō Electric Power Company (HEPCO) - 北海道電力
Tōhoku Electric Power Company (Tōhoku Electric) - 東北電力
Tokyo Electric Power Company (TEPCO) - 東京電力
Chūbu Electric Power Company (CHUDEN) - 中部電力
Hokuriku Electric Power Company (RIKUDEN) - 北陸電力
Kansai Electric Power Company (KEPCO) - 関西電力
Chūgoku Electric Power Company (Energia) - 中国電力
Shikoku Electric Power Company (YONDEN) - 四国電力
Kyūshū Electric Power Company (Kyūshū Electric) - 九州電力
 Other companies with a stake in nuclear power

Japan Atomic Energy Agency (JAEA) - 日本原子力研究開発機構
Japan Atomic Power Company (JPAC) - 日本原子力発電
JAPC, jointly owned by several Japan's major electric utilities, was created by special provisions from the Japanese government to be the first company in Japan to run a nuclear plant. Today it still operates two separate sites.
Electric Power Development Company (EDPC, J-POWER) - 電源開発
This company was created by a special law after the end of World War II, it operates a number of coal fired, hydroelectric, and wind power plants, the Ohma nuclear plant that is under construction will mark its entrance to the industry upon completion.