[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rolando Florián Féliz

ially not being equipped with a firearm per the prison's regulations, during the ensuing struggle the Captain produced a 9 mm Browning (registered to Pulinario Rodríguez) and fired several times at Florián. The post-mortem report revealed Florián had been shot eight times, one of them a fatal wound.

Despite his extensive injuries Florián managed to return to his cell, telephone his wife and move to a fellow inmate's cell to receive aid. He was later transported to a hospital and died approximately 13–15 hours after the shooting. The toxicology report revealed Florián Féliz had ingested alcohol in the hours prior to the shooting. There was no evidence of consumption of illegal drugs.

Legacy after death

At the time of his death Florián Félix was concluding a 51-chapter biography  detailing his life story, his rise and fall. Many speculate that the tell-all nature and contents of the book upset many within the narco-trafficking business and eventually led to his death. The chapters were titled

  El Umbral  de la prisión
  La Familia
  El Aislamiento  " La Solitaria "
  Los Traumas De la prisión
  Mis primeros días  En la prisión
  La Justicia Dominicana
  La Prensa " el 4to Poder "
  Los abusos
  LA igualad
 Mis Sueños
 La compasión Perpetua
 La conspiración
 Las manipulaciones
 Las repressiones y restricciones
 Acusaciones, expedientes
 Mito o realidad
 la victima
 Un apellido maldito
 Los temores
 Los amores
 mis hijos
  Mis Amigos
 Objetividad manipulada
 Sentimientos
 ¿ Vida o existencia?. "sobre vivencia en prisión "
 " La ultima Trama
 arrepentimiento
 Condiciones para mi libertad
 Mi fortaleza y mi resistencia
 mis experiencias con dios " Mi fe"
 Mis bienes (dinero, propiedades)
 Mi mayor necesidad
 ¿La resolución?
 Una prisión dominicana
 El desacato, ¿justicia o que?
 Deseos anhelados
 La juventud de la cárcel
 Acercamiento con dios; "mi fe"
 la depresión en la prisión
 Los vicios en la cárcel
 No caigas en las garras de las drogas
 Mis aspiraciones ya en libertad,
 Mis recuerdos
 Sistema penitenciario dominicano
 El sistema y el trato al recluso
 Mis confesiones
 Los que nunca me dieron la espalda.
 Los que creyeron en mi
 los que se aprovecharon y beneficiaron de mi prisión,
 Los jinetes de las drogas en republica  dominicana y
 los que hacen llover las drogas en republica dominicana

By the time of his death, Florián Féliz had earned approximately 47 certifications and diplomas ranging from plumbing, law, chemistry, physics and mathematics. Many of these degrees were earned during his tenure in prison and can be seen adorning the walls of his Najayo prison cell, in photos. While imprisoned Florián held audience with several prominent professors and scholars, who tutored him to assist him in earning these degrees. Rolando Florián Féliz left behind 15 children.

Notes and references

Dominican Republic drug traffickers
Dominican Republic people convicted of murder
People convicted of murder by the Dominican Republic
2009 deaths
Year of birth missing
1996 crimes in the Dominican Republic
1996 murders in North America
1990s murders in the Dominican Republic