[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

"I don't agree with the judge on where, based on her opinions, she draws the limits of judicial power, and I don't think she places as great an importance as I do on judicial restraint in a Madisonian system of checks and balances and separation of powers, and, for that reason, I will be voting no."

On July 27, 2022, Kennedy voted against the Chips and Science Act, a bill regarding semiconductor production. He called the bill "a subsidy to Big Tech", adding, "These are extraordinary American companies that Congress just helped, but they're very profitable, and the supply of chips is growing now. My concern is the amount of money. For that amount, we could have doubled the R&D tax credit for every company in America."

On August 7, 2022, Kennedy voted against the Inflation Reduction Act, calling it a "massive tax-and-spending bill". While the bill was being amended, Kennedy attempted to include an amendment he drafted with Senator Raphael Warnock to cap the price of insulin at $35 per month; the amendment did not receive the 60 votes needed to be included.

118th Congress (2023–present) 
By late 2022 there was again speculation that Kennedy might run for governor in the 2023 election, when Edwards would be term limited, but he ended the rumors on the second day of the 118th Congress by announcing he again would prefer to stay in the Senate.

On January 25, 2023, Kennedy quizzed Biden's judicial nominee Charnelle Bjelkengren on basic questions about the Constitution of the United States, whether she could state the functions of Articles V and II, and whether she could define purposivism and the independent state legislature theory. Bjelkengren failed to answer all four questions. After the hearing, Kennedy told a local reporter at NBC News, "Some of these nominees that have been forced in the last two years have no business being anywhere near a federal bench—they don't have any business being anywhere near a park bench." 

In May 2023, Kennedy sparked a diplomatic row with Mexico after he said, "Without the people of America, Mexico, figuratively speaking, would be eating cat food out of a can and living in a tent", while asking DEA Administrator Anne Milgram why the U.S. was not asking Mexico to partner more effectively with the U.S. to stop the flow of fentanyl over the border. Kennedy introduced a bill to classify drug cartels as terrorist organizations because they traffic fentanyl, a drug that killed more than 70,000 Americans in 2022. He also introduced a bill in 2023 to increase the prison sentences for fentanyl dealers, saying, "You have to have 400 grams. . . to face a mandatory 10-year sentence. Four hundred grams will kill 200,000 people dead as a doornail. Shreveport, Louisiana, is home to 184,000 people. So, a dealer could [have] 400 grams—an amount that could kill every man, woman, and child in Shreveport—in order to get a mandatory 10-year sentence." Senate Democrats blocked the bill, citing concerns over incarceration rates.
 
In 2023, Kennedy and Senator Kyrsten Sinema introduced a bill to install a special inspector general to track the money the U.S. sends Ukraine to fight its war with Russia, like the inspector general tasked with tracking money in Afghanistan. Kennedy and Sinema said of the bill, "One of the best ways we can avoid escalation (and bring this conflict to a close) is by ensuring that the investments America has already made pay off instead of being wasted, lost or diverted." A vote to add the bill to the National Defense Authorization Act failed.

Kennedy was among the 31 Senate Republicans who voted against final passage of the Fiscal Responsibility Act of 2023.

In September 2023, Kennedy read explicit passages from All Boys Aren't Blue and Gender Queer during a Senate judiciary hearing on book banning. When he asked whether the books should be available to children, Senator Dick Durbin replied, "No one is advocating for sexually explicit content to be available in an elementary school library or a children's section of a library."

Committee assignments
 Committee on Appropriations
 Subcommittee on Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
 Subcommittee on Commerce, Justice, Science, and Related Agencies
 Subcommittee on Energy and Water Development
 Subcommittee on Financial Services and General Government
 Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
 Subcommittee on Economic Policy
 Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection
 Subcommittee on Housing, Transportation, and Community Development
 Committee on the Budget
 Committee on the Judiciary
 Subcommittee on Border Security and Immigration
 Subcommittee on Crime and Terrorism
 Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the Law
 Subcommittee on Intellectual Property
 Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship

 Caucuses 
Senate Republican Conference

Political positions