[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ice Station Zebra

Admiral Garvey
 Alf Kjellin as Col. Ostrovsky
 Gerald S. O'Loughlin as Lt. Cdr. Bob Raeburn
 Ted Hartley as Lt. Jonathan Hansen
 Murray Rose as Lt. George Mills
 Ron Masak as Paul Zabrinczski
 Sherwood Price as Lt. Edgar Hackett
 Lee Stanley as Lt. Mitgang
 Joseph Bernard as Jack Benning

Production

Development
The film rights to the 1963 Alistair McLean novel were acquired the following year by producer Martin Ransohoff, who hoped to capitalize on the success of 1961's blockbuster adaptation of a 1957 McLean novel into The Guns of Navarone, Hollywood's #2 grossing picture that year.  He expected the film to cost around $5 million. Ransohoff's company, Filmways, had a deal with MGM to provide financing.

Paddy Chayefsky, who had just written The Americanization of Emily for Ransohoff, was hired to write the script.

Navarone stars Gregory Peck and David Niven were initially attached to the film, with Peck as the submarine commander and Niven as the British spy, plus Edmond O'Brien and George Segal in the other key roles. John Sturges was borrowed from The Mirisch Company to direct. Filming was set to begin in April 1965, but scheduling conflicts and United States Department of Defense objections over Paddy Chayefsky's screenplay because they felt it showed "an unfair distortion of military life" that would "damage the reputation of the Navy and its personnel" delayed the start. A new script was commissioned.

In January 1967 MGM announced the film would be one of 13 movies it would make during the next year.

Casting 
Due to scheduling conflicts, the original cast was no longer available when filming began in the spring of 1967. Rock Hudson had replaced Gregory Peck by February. After making four flop comedies in a row, Hudson had been keen to change his image; he had just made Seconds and Tobruk, and Ice Station Zebra was an attempt to continue this. According to his publicist, Hudson personally lobbied for the starring role in this film which “revitalized” his career. In June 1967, Laurence Harvey and Patrick McGoohan joined the cast as the Russian agent and British agent, respectively. In July, Ernest Borgnine replaced Harvey. Other key roles were played by Jim Brown and Tony Bill, who signed a five-picture contract with Ransohoff,.

There were no women in the cast. "It was the way Maclean wrote it," said Hudson.

Filming 
Filming began in June 1967. The film was budgeted at $8 million. Principal photography lasted 19 weeks, ending in October 1967. By the time it was finished the cost had risen to $10 million.

Ice Station Zebra was photographed in Super Panavision 70 by Daniel L. Fapp. The fictional nuclear-powered submarine Tigerfish (SSN-509) was portrayed in the movie by the diesel-electric Guppy IIA class sub  when seen on the surface. For submerging and surfacing scenes, the diesel-electric Guppy IA  (SS-322) was used, near Pearl Harbor. The underwater scenes used a model of a  nuclear submarine. George Davis, head of the art department at MGM, spent two years researching interior designs for the submarine.

Second unit cameraman John M. Stephens developed an innovative underwater camera system that successfully filmed the first continuous dive of a submarine, which became the subject of a documentary featurette, The Man Who Makes a Difference.

During filming, Patrick McGoohan had to be rescued from a flooded chamber by a diver who freed his trapped foot, saving his life. As he was also making his television series The Prisoner during principal photography on Ice Station Zebra, McGoohan had the episode "Do Not Forsake Me Oh My Darling" re-written to have the mind of his character transferred into the body of another character.

Release
Ice Station Zebra was not popular with audiences, losing substantial money. It premiered at the Cinerama Dome in Los Angeles on October 23, 1968 where Rock Hudson was heckled at the premiere.  The film opened to the general public the following day. The film earned theatrical rentals of $4.6 million domestically.

The escalating production costs of this film, along with the poorly-received The Shoes of the Fisherman at the same time, led to the transfer of MGM President Robert O'Brien to chairman of the board, though he resigned that position in early 1969, after both films were released and failed to recoup their costs.

Reception
Ice Station Zebra received mixed reviews from critics. Ice Station Zebra holds a 47% "rotten" rating on the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, based on 15 reviews with an average rating of 5.30/10.