[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Othman Wok

for joining the PAP. At the time, they were being courted by the Kuala Lumpur-based United Malays National Organisation (UMNO) to fight for Malay racial favouritism. As a result, Othman lost in the 1959 elections when he was contesting as a PAP candidate for the electoral ward of Kampong Kembangan.

He would go on to contest once more in the 1963 General Elections, when he would then succeed and become the elected representative of the Pasir Panjang constituency. Following his successful election, Othman would go on to leave his job at the Utusan Melayu to focus on developing his political career full-time.

On 7 August 1965, the Parliament of Malaysia successful voted for the expulsion of Singapore from Malaysia. On 9 August, Othman, along with 8 other Singapore ministers, signed the document of separation. On this day, Othman highlighted his concern regarding the communists to Lee Kuan Yew, and only upon assurance did he put pen to paper.

Othman was also known for his active involvement in the development of sports and recreation in Singapore. He was also once a famous tennis player, ranked number 28 in the world. Othman was responsible for setting up a Sports Department within the purview of the Ministry of Social Affairs in 1966, and officiated the groundbreaking ceremony of the first National Stadium.

Ambassador
Having served 14 years as Minister for Social Affairs, Othman was appointed to serve as Singapore’s ambassador to Indonesia in 1977. His term would last three and a half years. He served as Member of Legislative Assembly (1963-1965) and Member of Parliament (1963 to 1980) for the Pasir Panjang Constituency retiring on 5 December 1980 when parliament dissolved on the same day for the 23 December 1980 general election.

Post political career
Othman continued to be active and served in the Presidential Council of Minority Rights as a permanent member. He was also appointed as a member of several companies' board of directors.

Personal life
Othman grew up in a humble family. In the first four years of his life, Othman lived with his Uncle, together with his grandparents and parents, in a kampong area dominated by Malays. He recounted that as a boy, different races lived together harmoniously, and he would have Chinese and Indian playmates whom he conversed with in Malay.

In his mid-twenties, Othman went to London to receive further education in a polytechnic.

Othman was married with four children. His hobbies included reading and writing ghost stories, one of his books being Malayan Horror: Macabre Tales of Singapore and Malaysia in the 50s, a compilation of stories written by him. Othman has also penned a biography titled: " Never in my Wildest Dreams", as a memoir of his life experiences.

Othman was considered as one of the 'Old Guard' - the first generation of leaders of independent Singapore.

Othman completed military service (called National Service in Singapore) with the People's Defence Force in 1980, holding the rank of major. He also retired from politics in the same year. 

On 17 April 2017, he died at 12.22pm local time at the Singapore General Hospital due to poor health. He was buried at Choa Chu Kang Muslim Cemetery the next day.

References

External links
 Othman Wok on ourstory.asia1.com.sg

1924 births
2017 deaths
Members of the Cabinet of Singapore
People's Action Party politicians
Singaporean diplomats
Ambassadors of Singapore to Indonesia
Singaporean Muslims
Singaporean people of Malay descent
Members of the Dewan Rakyat
Members of the Legislative Assembly of Singapore
Recipients of the Darjah Utama Nila Utama
Members of the Parliament of Singapore