[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Michuki

nally broke silence endorsing the draft constitution saying he did not want to "act as a stumbling block to the passage of a new constitution which has eluded Kenyans for over twenty years".
He also cited his long friendship with President Mwai Kibaki, who was heading the pro-constitution campaigns.

Politics of the Kibaki Succession 
Amid the opposition from Rift Valley Province MPs, Michuki insisted that all occupants of the Mau Forest would be evicted and only some of the squatters would be compensated. He said it was within his duty as the Environment Minister to protect forests.
The Mau forest question is said to be the "most explosive political issue in the politics of the Kibaki succession in the run-up to the August 2010 constitutional referendum and the decisive 2012 elections".
Michuki has also received a fair share of condemnation after he endorsed Uhuru Kenyatta as the Kikuyu, Embu and Meru flag bearer ahead of the 2012 elections. His proposition was condemned as "Project Uhuru II" by among Martha Karua who was also a presidential hopeful for 2012 and also comes from the same tribe as Uhuru.
Karua was alluding to "Project Uhuru" in 2002 when President Moi threw his weight behind Uhuru Kenyatta for the Presidency when he was retiring.

Personal life 
Michuki was married to Josephine Watiri Michuki, and had six children (three sons and three daughters). He was the chairman and majority shareholder of Windsor Golf & Country Club in Nairobi, a club he built after losing the Mlolongo elections of 1988, and which he rightly praised as a great African achievement in recreation and environmental protection. Josephine died on 22 August 2012, almost exactly six months after her husband.

Michuki was also the managing director of Fairview Investments Ltd and Kangema Farmers Ltd, both involved in coffee farms, tea farms and real estate, among other things.

He was an uncle to Queen Jane, a famous musician.

Death 
Michuki died at the age of 79 on 21 February 2012, reportedly of a heart attack. Prior to his demise, Michuki had traveled to the United Kingdom for treatment in December 2011, returning to Kenya on 16 February. Two days after his return from London, he fell ill and was rushed to the intensive care unit of Aga Khan University Hospital's Heart and Cancer Centre in Nairobi, where he died. His death was announced by President Mwai Kibaki, who also described the late minister as "a true family friend and dependable ally."

Legacy
He is widely remembered due to the Michuki laws he brought while being the transport minister

See also
 Wanja Michuki

References

External links 
 https://web.archive.org/web/20070927182353/http://www.parliament.go.ke/MPs/members_michuki_n.php

Members of the National Assembly (Kenya)
Alumni of Worcester College, Oxford
1932 births
2012 deaths
Forum for the Restoration of Democracy – Asili politicians
Forum for the Restoration of Democracy – People politicians
National Rainbow Coalition politicians
Party of National Unity (Kenya) politicians
Government ministers of Kenya
Alumni of Mang'u High School
Alumni of Nyeri High School
Ministers of Finance of Kenya
People from Central Province (Kenya)
World Bank Group people
People from Nyeri County