[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Counterintelligence Corps

atty Hearst

See also
 Corps of Intelligence Police
 Klaus Barbie
 The History of the Counter Intelligence Corps
 United States Army Counterintelligence

Footnotes

Sources
CIC Records: A Valuable Tool for Researchers (scroll down)
Counter Intelligence Corps History and Mission in World War II (PDF)

Further reading
 Edwards, Duval A. Spy Catchers of the U.S. Army in the War with Japan (The Unfinished Story of the Counterintelligence Corps). Red Apple Publishing, 1994. 
 Gilbert, James L., John P. Finnegan and Ann Bray. In the Shadow of the Sphynx: A History of Army Counterintelligence, History Office, Office of Strategic Management and Information, US Army Intelligence and Security Command, Fort Belvoir, Virginia, Dec 2005.  (This file might take time to load.)
 Jensen, Joan M.  Army Surveillance in America: 1775–1980. Yale University Press. 1991. .
 Koudelka, Edward R. Counter Intelligence: The Conflict and the Conquest: Recollections of a World War II Agent in Europe. Ranger Associates, 1986. 
 Melchior, Ib. Case by Case: A U.S. Army Counterintelligence Agent in World War II. Presidio, 1993. 
  (Published as part 11 of Covert Warfare: Intelligence, Counterintelligence and Military Deception During the World War II Era)
 Milano, James V., and Patrick Brogan. Soldiers, Spies, and the Rat Line: America's Undeclared War Against the Soviets. Potomac Books (2000) 
 Myers, Larry, Hey Nazis, I'm Coming For You: Memories of Counter Intelligence Corps Activities in WWII. Gainsway Press (2004).  
 Sayer, Ian, and Douglas Botting. America's Secret Army: The Untold Story of the Counter Intelligence Corps. Grafton Books, 1989. 
 Schwartzwalder, John, We Caught Spies: Adventures of an American Counter Intelligence Agent in Europe, Duell, Sloan and Pearce (1946).
 Selby, Scott Andrew. The Axmann Conspiracy: The Nazi Plan for a Fourth Reich and How the U.S. Army Defeated It. Berkley (Penguin), Sept. 2012. 
 Vaughn, Bradley, Counterspy Mission in World War II: Recollections and Impressions of a United States Army Counter Intelligence Corps Special Agent, Professional Pr (September 1993).

External links
 441st Counterintelligence and Military Intelligence Official History
 National Counterintelligence Center – CIC in WWII

Branches of the United States Army
Defunct United States intelligence agencies
Counterintelligence agencies
Military intelligence agencies
White Shirts Society