[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Guatemalan Air Force

pply dual-use aircraft and covertly provided the air force with millions of dollars in overhauls and spare parts for previously purchased aircraft. From Switzerland, twelve Pilatus PC-7 were acquired in 1979–1980 as training aircraft, but they were  also used in combat during the counter-insurgency.

By the late 1970s the insurgency had been reborn as a mostly Maya peoples rebellion organized around four Maoist-oriented rebel groups, mostly the Guerrilla Army of the Poor. In early 1982 the various guerrilla forces were inflicting 250 casualties per month on the army, so the military again resorted to destroy villages suspected of providing support to the rebels. By the late 1980s an estimated one million Guatemalans had been displaced within their own country and another 250,000 had fled to Mexico and settled in refugee camps there. In the 1980s Guatemala continued to acquire helicopters and airplanes to support the army. In 1981 Guatemala purchased at least 8 Bell 206B civilian helicopters as well as three Aérospatiale Alouettes, which they armed for combat. Four Fokker 27s light transport airplanes were acquired in 1982. Between 1975 and the early 1980s Israel supplied eleven Arava IAI-201 twin engine transport aircraft, which are excellent for small runways and were easily modified as a gunships with the addition of rocket pods and side-mounted machine guns. In the late 1980s France also supplied three Fouga CM.170 Magister jet trainer aircraft, which were also armed and used in combat. Air strikes were launched by A-37 jets and PC-7 armed trainers. One A-37 was lost in combat in 1988 down by ground fire in a close support operation.
  The government also mobilized the nation's civil air fleet and commandeered several Cessna 182 and Cessna 206 with FN or M-60 machine guns fired from the side doors.

By 1986 the rebellion was considered to be generally under control and the military regime turned  over power to a civilian president by the mediation of Costa Rica's President Oscar Arias as well as Honduran and Salvadoran governments. The improvement of the political climate also meant the resumption of overt US military assistance. Although the role of the FAG has been much diminished since the Guatemala Peace Treaty was signed in 1996, they have served the country after natural disasters, most notably after Hurricane Mitch and Hurricane Stan. During those disasters, helicopters were used to rescue stranded people, and cargo planes were used to carry food, water and emergency medical equipment to villages and remote places that had been cut off.

Structure 
The Guatemalan Air Force was restructured in 2003, along with the rest of the Guatemalan Army. Now it is composed of three operational commands, along with 2 schools, a Hospital (Hospitalito de la Fuerza Aerea Guatemalteca), a Presidential Transport Squadron (Escuadron Presidencial), and a Headquarters Command (Comandancia de la Fuerza Aerea Guatemalteca). The three operational commands are: Comando Aereo Central (Central Air Command) located in La Aurora in Guatemala City and sharing space with the Comandancia de la Fuerza Aerea Guatemalteca, the Comando Aereo del Sur (Southern Air Command) located in Retalhuleu and the Comando Aereo del Norte (Northern Air Command) located in Mundo Maya. The two schools are the Escuela Militar de Aviacion (Military Aviation School, or EMA) which trains new pilots and standardizes pilots trained in other countries. The school is based in Retalhuleu, but does temporary detachments all over the country for training. The other school is the Escuela Tecnica Militar de Aviacion (Technical Military Aviation School, ETMA) which is a military high school that trains all of the FAG's new mechanics and is located at La Aurora. The Hospital and Presidential Transport Squadron are also located in La Aurora but are not located within the Comando Aereo Central.

Further, the Air Force personnel are separated into four main specialties: Fixed Wing, Rotary Wing, Maintenance, and Air Defence. These four specialties form Squadrons or Units which are represented in every Command and operating location.

Most FAG Aircraft are based at La Aurora, but perform detachments as necessary to other bases as operations require. The exception for this is the EMA aircraft, the Presidential aircraft, and a few aircraft permanently based at the two other Operational Commands.

The Cessna A-37 is the main jet aircraft, while the retired Pilatus PC-7s were used for training. In September 2011, Guatemala requested credit approval of $166 million to buy six EMB-314, radar and equipment.  On 3 July 2019, Guatemala ordered two IA-63 Pampa jet trainers from Argentina, but Guatemala cancelled the order 9 days after due to "lack of transparency surrounding the deal."

Aircraft

Current inventory