[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 34]
# List of Shaman King characters

ce becoming a shaman, he has hoped to find his mother's spirit again but his mind-set prevented him from realizing she was at his side the entire time. Asanoha is brought before Hao by Anna within the Great Spirit, convincing her son to let go of his hatred for humanity.

 Daikyoh Oboro
 

 Namaha
 

  (G.S.) (King of Spirits in the 2001 anime)
 The strongest and most ancient spirit that contains various afterlife realms with in, being an aggregate of souls from which all life is derived and returns to with the exception of earthbound spirits. Only shamans with a strong can directly gaze upon the Great Spirit, as those who are too weak either fall into an eternal sleep or are driven insane from visions of the planet's memories. Like the Five Grand Elemental Spirits, it has domain over its element – any aspect of the universe it retains. When it forms an Over Soul with the Shaman King, it can create a small star that emits an unbearable quantity of heat, making it very difficult to remain in close proximity for extended periods, as well as a black hole to pull everything into oblivion. Because the Great Spirit contains all the memories of the planet itself, those who become Shaman King gain absolute knowledge, allowing the reshaping of the world entirely according to the Shaman King's will.

G8
The , or , are a group of spirits who held the title of Shaman King in the past before Hao became their latest member. 

 
 The previous Shaman King before Hao who is an antagonist in Shaman King: Flowers, YVS is a pyramid-themed spirit who is responsible for creating the world's current capitalist society. He is the most vocal of the G8 in hating Hao and is determined to maintain the status quo he established on Earth during his tenure as Shaman King at any cost.

Archangels/Arch-Spirits
The Guardian ghosts of the X-Laws, which only Jeanne can present to their human partners. In the manga, it's revealed that they aren't actually angels, but spirits of cars made by Luchist using a fragment of angelic spirits and contained in the ammunition of a gun; Yoh describes them as being similar to tsukumogami spirits from Japanese legend. Many of the cars inspired by Marco's own knowledge of cars, being a former car salesman and developer. In the 2001 anime, they were all combined into Morphine, near the finale, when all the members of the X-Laws fell by Hao's hands.

 
 The Archangel Marco Lasso commands, the spirit of a 1992 Ferrari Testarossa treasured by Marco. The archangel is regarded as the closest to God and regarded as the king of angels, a brave archangel who leads the angels to war. Luchist summoned the ghost of the actual Michael to merge with the car to create Marco's guardian ghost; though it does not compare to a true angel, the spirit is powerful enough to be regarded as a god-class spirit.  Michael is contained in a fully automatic Beretta 93R pistol.

 
 The Archangel presented to Lyserg Diethel after he had proved his loyalty to the X-Laws, a nimble and swift spirit. In the 2001 anime series, Lyserg abandoned his original guardian ghost in favor of the more powerful Archangel; in the manga, he retains Morphine and Zeruel as guardian spirits.  After training in Hell, Lyserg is able to have Zeruel and Morphine combine to form his Armour Over soul, Mestema Dolkeem. Zeruel is the spirit of a blue Lotus Elise contained in a derringer.

 
 An archangel commanded by John, the spirit of an Aston Martin DB4 contained in the ammunition of a grenade launcher. During his final attempt on Hao, John uses his connections with the British government to gain access to a military defense satellite, which John uses as a medium for Raphael to fire upon Hao's location.

 
 An archangel commanded by Porf, the spirit of a Porsche 911 housed in a Remington 700.

 
 An archangel commanded by Larch, the spirit of a Ford GT40 kept in a bazooka.

 
 An archangel commanded by Meene, the spirit of a Giulietta SZ contained in a Luger P08 pistol, known as the angel seated on God's left. Though Gabriel possesses a high defense, it is better suited for shooting from a distance and best used in a supporting role rather than in face-to-face battles  Because Meene overestimates Gabriel's defense, the angel is instantly destroyed when she attempts to fire point-blank at Hao.

 
 An archangel commanded by Chris, the spirit of a Hummer H1 that Venstar drove during the Gulf War and is kept in a rocket artillery launcher. An archangel stronger than Michael, it wields a shield and morning star and possesses an incredible destructive power befitting its tough structure.