[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 133]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

here in the account of this young man so deeply interests and affects
you?" "Alas! mamma," said Tommy, "it reminds of poor Harry Sandford;
just such another good young man will he be when he is as old as
Sophron; and I--and I," added he, sobbing, "am just such another
worthless, ungrateful wretch as Tigranes." "But Tigranes," said Mrs
Merton, "you see, became a great and powerful man; while Sophron
remained only a poor and ignorant shepherd." "What does that signify,
mamma?" said Tommy: "for my part, I begin to find that it is not always
the greatest people that are the best or happiest; and as to ignorance,
I cannot think that Sophron, who understood his duty so well to his
parents and to God, and to all the world, could be called ignorant; and
very likely he could read and write better than Tigranes, in spite of
all his pomp and grandeur; for I am sure there is not one of the young
gentlemen that went home to-day can read as well as Harry Sandford, or
has half his understanding." Mr Merton could hardly help smiling at
Tommy's conjecture about Sophron's reading; but he felt the greatest
pleasure at seeing such a change in his sentiments; and, looking at him
with more cordiality than he had done before, he told him that he was
very happy to find him so sensible of his faults, and hoped he would be
equally ready to amend them.

Miss Simmons then continued her narrative.

"If Sophron ever permitted himself to shed the blood of living
creatures, it was those ferocious animals that wage continual war with
every other species. Amid the mountains which he inhabited, there were
rugged cliffs and inaccessible caverns, which afforded retreat to
wolves, and bears, and tigers. Sometimes, amid the storms and snows of
winter, they felt themselves pinched by hunger, and fell with
irresistible fury upon the nearest flocks and herds. Not only sheep and
oxen were slaughtered in these dreadful and unexpected attacks, but even
the shepherds themselves were frequently the victims of their rage. If
there was time to assemble for their defence, the boldest of the youth
would frequently seize their arms and give battle to the invaders. In
this warfare, which was equally just and honourable, Sophron was always
foremost; his unequalled strength and courage made all the youth adopt
him as their leader, and march with confidence under his command; and so
successful were his expeditions, that he always returned loaded with the
skins of vanquished enemies; and by his vigilance and intrepidity he at
length either killed or drove away most of the beasts from which any
danger was to be feared.

"It happened one day that Sophron had been chasing a wolf which had made
some depredations upon the flocks, and, in the ardour of his pursuits,
was separated from all his companions. He was too well acquainted with
the roughest parts of the neighbouring mountains, and too indifferent to
danger, to be disturbed at this circumstance; he therefore followed his
flying foe with so much impetuosity that he completely lost every track
and mark with which he was acquainted. As it is difficult, in a wild
and uncultivated district, to find the path again when once it is lost,
Sophron only wandered the farther from his home the more he endeavoured
to return. He found himself bewildered and entangled in a dreary
wilderness, where he was every instant stopped by torrents that tumbled
from the neighbouring cliffs, or in danger of slipping down the
precipices of an immense height. He was alone in the midst of a gloomy
forest, where human industry had never penetrated, nor the woodman's axe
been heard since the moment of its creation; to add to his distress, the
setting sun disappeared in the west, and the shades of night gathered
gradually round, accompanied with the roar of savage beasts. Sophron
found himself beset with terrors, but his soul was incapable of fear; he
poised his javelin in his hand, and forced his way through every
opposition, till at length, with infinite difficulty, he disengaged
himself from the forest just as the last glimmer of light was yet
visible in the skies. But it was in vain that he had thus escaped; he
cast his eyes around, but could discern nothing but an immense tract of
country, rough with rocks, and overhung with forests, but destitute of
every mark of cultivation or inhabitants; he, however, pursued his way
along the side of the mountain till he descended into a pleasant valley,
free from trees, and watered by a winding stream. Here he was going to
repose for the remainder of the night, under the crag of an impending
rock, when a rising gleam of light darted suddenly into the skies from a
considerable distance, and attracted his curiosity. Sophron looked
towards the quarter whence it came, and plainly discerned that it was a
fire kindled either by some benighted traveller like himself, or by some
less innocent wanderers of the dark. He determined to appro