[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lewis McGugan

, he was sent off for a rash tackle in a 1–1 draw at East Midlands rivals Derby County. He was voted the 16th best player outside the Premier League in January 2009. However two months later new manager Billy Davies dropped him from the starting eleven after feeling McGugan was unfit and overweight.

Despite being complimented by Davies for his much improved fitness, McGugan found himself on the bench in the first half of the 2009–10 season, with Paul McKenna, Guy Moussi and Radosław Majewski all being preferred ahead of him. He also missed six weeks after sustaining a fractured cheekbone in a defeat to Watford. He was limited to just six league starts over the campaign, and though Forest qualified for the play-offs, McGugan made only a cameo appearance in the semi-final defeat to Blackpool.

Again on the bench at the start of the 2010–11 season, his marked his first start with a brace in a 2–1 victory at Preston North End on 14 September. He claimed another brace 11 days later, in a 3–1 win over Swansea that was Forest's first home win of the campaign. After this he also went on to score in a 3–1 defeat away at Barnsley on 16 October and a 1–0 home win over Middlesbrough three days later. This left him as the club's top-scorer despite only starting seven matches; teammate Chris Cohen said that "Lewis has made himself more versatile this season and has been fantastic so far. If it wasn't for his goals at the moment we'd be in a lot of trouble". On 23 October, McGugan continued his fine goal-scoring form with a "superb long-range free-kick" against Ipswich Town; this would later be voted as the Championship Goal of the Season. Speaking on his good form he stated that "I've worked hard in the summer, made sure I had a good pre-season and waited for my chance. And I've taken it". His impressive form and spectacular long range efforts were seen again on 6 November when he scored from 25 yards to secure a 1–1 draw at Watford. On 20 November, McGugan added to his great start to the season with the opening goal and assist for the second in a 2–0 win at Cardiff City, who were the league leaders at the time. He continued to score goals and ended the season as the club's top scorer with a total of 13 goals in 45 appearances. Forest finished in sixth-place to secure a play-off berth, but were beaten 3–1 on aggregate by Swansea at the semi-final stage.

McGugan scored his first goal of the 2011–12 campaign in a League Cup match against Nottingham derby rivals Notts County on 9 August, in what was Steve McClaren's first win in his short reign as Forest manager. He scored from the penalty spot in a 2–2 home draw with East Midlands rivals Leicester City on 20 August. However he went on to suffer a loss of form; Birmingham City made an approach to sign McGugan on loan in February, but were rejected by Forest manager Steve Cotterill, who commented on the player's lack of form by saying "Lewis is one of our most creative, gifted players. But the fact is that creative players cannot be creative every five minutes".

New manager Sean O'Driscoll came into the club as a fan of McGugan, having previously tried to sign him on loan at Doncaster Rovers; he stated that "When I came in and told him about it, I said 'You keep falling out with managers' and he said: 'No, they fall out with me'". However he only scored two goals under O'Driscoll and no goals at all under his successor Alex McLeish, before rediscovering his form under returning manager Billy Davies. McGugan scored in six successive matches from 5 March to 6 April, earning seven points for the club's ultimately unsuccessful play-off push.

Watford
On 2 July 2013, McGugan signed a three-year deal (with the option of a further 12 months) with Watford on a free transfer; manager Gianfranco Zola said "I'm sure our supporters will be excited to see what he can do in a Watford shirt". He scored his first goal for the "Hornets" on his Vicarage Road debut, a 6–1 win over AFC Bournemouth on 10 August. Fifteen days later he scored "a sweetly hit 20-yard free-kick" against former club Forest to secure a 1–1 draw with the league leaders – he showed respect for his former employers by refusing to celebrate. On 17 September, he scored both Watford's goals in a 2–1 home victory over Doncaster Rovers, including the winning penalty with three minutes left to play. A key first-team player under Zola, he was dropped in the second half of the season after reportedly falling out with new manager Giuseppe Sannino. He nevertheless finished the 2013–14 season with 11 goals in 37 appearances.

He featured seven times at the start of the 2014–15 campaign, before he was allowed to leave the club on loan after telling manager Slaviša Jokanović of his desire for first-team football.