[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Treaty 1

ation of their livelihood. Unlike the Canadian government, the Anishinabe also saw the agreement as the beginning of a continuing relationship with the government in which both groups would provide benefits and maintain coexistence with each other.

Property Rights Under Differing Legal Frameworks  

Much of the confusion, disagreements, and misinterpretations of the treaty revolved around the different understandings of the parameters of the agreement. Mainly this involved the two groups’ different viewpoints on the use of land and property ownership.

In the negotiations, the government officials put forward two Anglo concepts of land ownership which were: the Anishinabe surrender of land to the government and the setting aside of land or reserves for the indigenous peoples. The Anishinabe viewed these proposals through their systems of inaakonigewin (law), in which they believed land to be not an exclusive and exclusionary possession of one person or party but a shared entity, such as other fundamental Earthly prerequisites of life including unpolluted air and water.

Based on the available evidence from the negotiations, it seems that, despite disagreements in the amounts of land to be provided within the tenets of the treaty, the Anishinabe agreed to the terms of land division as they understood it as a treaty of non-interference and equality between themselves and incoming settlers; in which they shared land desired for agriculture while also being able to utilize land for their traditional activities. Essentially, the Anishinabe did not view the agreements about giving the land to the government as the exclusionary surrender of their title to land, but the sharing of land and its resources.

The controversial and problematic nature of these land agreements result from British government officials not identifying or clarifying their historically-distinctive concept of the land as alienable, exclusionary property, and therefore that the Anishinabe giving over of land is in commercially-biased Common Law a total surrender of it, excluding Indigenous people (among other living stakeholders) from its use, enjoyment, and management. Not only did the imperial British Crown keep on what can only be called the down-low, the radical, bellicose senses of surrender and property it forwarded in the seemingly-diplomatic making of treaties. In addition, the land agreements within the treaty are controversial, as it was never recorded that the Anishinabe agreed to surrender their land to the Canadian government that the British Crown later was party to creating.

Kinship and the Great Mother 
Treaty 1 also remains controversial due to the differing understandings of kinship, the role of the "Great Mother" and her promises.

As with Governor Archibald’s opening statement on the "Great Mother", government officials utilized this term throughout the negotiations of the treaty simply as a way to connect with the Anishinabe kinship language, which helped enable them to enter into these agreements.

For the Anishinabe, the term held a much deeper significance as, based on their kinship relations and duties, the "Great Mother" or Queen acted as a symbolic figure who would treat their peoples with kindness, respect, and as equals, listening and aiding them with their needs. It was through this figure that the Anishinabe understood the treaty as one of mutual respect, shared resources, and support in their needs with the Canadian government.

However, due to the events of the memorandum of 1875 and the additional unfulfilled promises to the Anishinabe beyond the written treaty, the Canadian government did not find significance in the promises of the “Great Mother”.

List of Treaty 1 First Nations

 Brokenhead Ojibway Nation
 Fort Alexander (Sagkeeng First Nation)
 Long Plain First Nation
 Peguis First Nation
 Roseau River Anishinabe First Nation
 Sandy Bay First Nation
 Swan Lake First Nation

See also

 Numbered Treaties
 The Canadian Crown and Aboriginal peoples
 Treaty 2
 Treaty 3

References

External links
Treaty 1 including text
Manitoba Numbered Treaties Map on Internet Archive
Treaty Texts - Treaties No. 1 and No. 2 from the Government of Canada

1871 in Manitoba
1
Numbered Treaties
Swampy Cree