[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 6th Michigan Infantry Regiment

udson and suffered 118 casualties in the ill-fated frontal assault of May 27. Bacon returned to the regiment just in time for Banks's ill-advised second attack on June 14. This time, the Michiganders’ loss was limited to eight wounded, due only to Captain Corden's refusal to press a suicidal attack.

Clark's regiment spent the balance of the siege in trench warfare, sickening under poor living conditions and enduring constant sharpshooting. Bacon was arrested again, this time for openly speaking ill of the army's leadership and prospects at Port Hudson. The 6th Michigan Infantry's final engagement came in a night assault on June 29, in which 35 Michiganders were ordered to storm the Citadel, one of the strongest fortifications at Port Hudson. Nine men were killed and eight wounded. Assistant Surgeon Milton Chase called the assault—ordered by habitually drunk division commander William Dwight (and remembered as the “whiskey charge”)—“a wicked loss of life.” The 6th Michigan, ravaged by battle losses and disease, mustered just 160 men and officers present for duty as of July 4.

Port Hudson surrendered on July 9, and the 6th Michigan was converted into the 6th Michigan Heavy Artillery soon after. New recruits quickly outnumbered the few remaining veterans, and the character of the unit's service was transformed into inactive garrison duty.

Total strength and casualties
The regiment had 2 officers and 76 enlisted men killed in action or mortally wounded. 6 officers and 498 enlisted men died of disease, for a total of 582 fatalities. This exceeds the loss of any other regiment from the Great Lakes State in the Civil War.

Commanders
Frederick William Curtenius
Thomas Scott Clark
Edward Savage Bacon
Charles Edward Clarke
John Corden
Harrison Soule

See also
List of Michigan Civil War Units
Michigan in the American Civil War
Daniel de Marbelle

Notes

References
 Faust, Eric R. The 6th Michigan Volunteer Infantry in the Civil War: A History and Roster. Jefferson, NC: McFarland, 2020.
The Civil War Archive

Units and formations of the Union Army from Michigan
1861 establishments in Michigan
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1863