[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Worldwar: In the Balance

ar longer than the other major powers and has an economy specifically geared toward war. However, Americans are nauseated by the idea of fighting on the same side as Hitler, and the Soviets, having already been betrayed and attacked by the Germans, are at best reluctant to be working alongside them.

After the initial assault, the Race's troops come to a virtual standstill. It is not so much human resistance that keeps them from advancing as much as its tendency to deliberate their options before acting. Mankind takes advantage of the respite provided to wage localized counterattacks, nearly all of which are unsuccessful. In the process, it finds that the Race lacks tactical combat initiative and can be easily lured into traps, but their advanced tech makes exploiting these weaknesses almost impossible. The Race also discovers that its orbital atomic detonations had little or no effect on the human militaries. It had thought that the resulting electro-magnetic pulse would short out any advanced technology of humans, but it soon realizes that humans do not yet possess silicon computer chips. Most human electronics, such as radios, use vacuum tubes, which are less efficient but also more resistant to electro-magnetic interference.

Hitler takes advantage of the brief lull in the fighting in an artillery unit in Ukraine to attack an alien base using railroad guns. The German battery manages to destroy two of the Race's ships (the 67th Emperor Sohrheb and the 56th Emperor Jossano), including the one that carries the bulk of the Conquest Fleet's atomic stockpile. The resulting explosion sends chunks of plutonium flying across several acres. Soviet partisans take notice of the care with which the Race goes about collecting the strange metal.

Elsewhere in Ukraine, Major Heinrich Jäger manages to destroy one of the Race's landcruisers and a troop carrier, and another panzer unit and infantry destroy a second landcruiser but at the cost of his entire panzer company. Narrowly escaping from the battle, he is found by Lieutenant Ludmila Gorbunova, who flies him back to the airfield in which she is stationed. From there, Jäger is sent to Moscow where he spends several weeks as an ambiguous guest of the Soviet government, considered neither an official prisoner-of-war nor an ally. Finally, he is asked to take part in a joint German-Soviet operation in Ukraine that is aimed at recovering some of the plutonium.

The ad hoc band of Soviet partisans and displaced German soldiers that is charged with the assignment manages to hijack a shipment of plutonium. In accordance with negotiated arrangements, the load is divided into two, and they go their separate ways. Jäger is given a horse and is forced to ride across the Ukrainian steppe and enemy-occupied Poland to reach Germany with the precious metal. Somewhere between the towns of Chernobyl and Hrubieszów, Jäger is ambushed by Jewish partisans. Though they are nominally allies of the Race, the Jews recognize the threat that the aliens pose to mankind. They take half the plutonium in Jäger's possession and let him return to Germany with the other half. The Jewish partisans send their commandeered plutonium to England, where it is subsequently shipped to the United States.

Upon his arrival in Germany, Jäger is promoted to the rank of colonel and awarded the German Cross in Gold at a ceremony held in Berchtesgaden, Hitler's Bavarian resort. While Jäger enjoys a well-deserved furlough there, Vyacheslav Molotov arrives to consult with Hitler on the conduct of the war. The Soviet ambassador is flown to Bavaria by Lieutenant Gorbunova, to Jäger's surprise. Jäger and Gorbunova grow close during their short time together.

In an attempt to reduce human resistance, Atvar orders the use of atomic weapons on Washington, DC, and Berlin, hoping to persuade the Americans and the Germans to surrender. Berlin is hit first, primarily in retaliation for the destruction of the Race's ships in Ukraine. Atvar regrets the need to atomize human territory, mostly because Earth has much less land than sea, but he sees the display of power as necessary since Germany fields the strongest human army. The Race is less dismayed by the attack on Washington, DC, since it is an administrative and communications center, with few industrial and commercial resources. Furthermore, Atvar rationalizes that most of the radioactive fallout will drift harmlessly out into the Atlantic. Instead of breaking the human will to resist, the attacks inspire both nations to fight harder and to hasten production of their own atomic weapons.