[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Little Angels Children's Folk Ballet of Korea

The Little Angels Children’s Folk Ballet of Korea is a Korean traditional art and dance troupe made up of elementary and middle school children, founded in 1962 by Sun Myung Moon, the founder of the Unification Church, to project a positive image of South Korea to the world. In 1973 they performed at the United Nations Headquarters in New York City. The group’s dances are based on Korean legends and regional dances, and its costumes on traditional Korean styles. Choral singing by the troupe in many languages is also featured.

The Little Angels are supported financially by the Tongil Group, a South Korean business group associated with the Unification Church, through the Tongil Foundation. The Little Angels are part of the Sunhwa Arts School. School fees are sponsored by Sunhwa Educational Foundation so that any talented girl can apply.

History 
Little Angels were established as Daehan Children's Art Troupe on May 5, 1962. It was the time, when South Korea was ravaged by the Korean war. From the very beginning, the mission of the school was to be ambassadors of peace and goodwill, and use creativity to counter the image of Korea at that time, symbolized by famine, poverty, and abandonment, by spreading the 5000-year-old Korean cultural traditions.

In 1965 permission was granted to establish the Little Angels art school for 720 students and 12 classes.

In 1974, the Little Angels Art Education Center was completed. The newly opened school, called Little Angels School of Arts, accepted 240 pupils. The school was opened by Bo-hi Pak who became the first principal of the school.

In 1975, Sunhwa Academy was founded and Bo-hi Pak was named the first president.

In 1976, Sunhwa Arts High School was accredited and the following year the school was renamed from Little Angels Art School to Sunhwa Art School and Little Angels Troupe become a part of the school with a broader artistic focus. 

From 1965 to 1988 they performed over 2000 shows in 40 countries and until 2015 over 7000 shows and 70 foreign tours in 60 countries.

In May 1998, they performed as part of the cultural diplomacy of the founders in Pyongyang, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The North Korean leadership subsequently sent a Pyongyang school team to tour South Korea in May 2000.

In 1990, they performed in Moscow and the then First Lady Raisa Gorbacheva was also a guest.

In 2010, on the 60th anniversary of the Korean War, the Korean government with the Korean War 60th Anniversary Memorial Committee sponsored a Little Angels tour to all countries participating in the 1950 UN appeal for the defense of Korea. Little Angels started their tour in Norfolk, United States because of ties of the city to General McArthur, who according to officiators turned the momentum of the war. Later that year they traveled to the other 15 nations that had sent troops to support South Korea in the United Nations force.