[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Bossenden Wood

e: Stephen Baker (22), William Foster (33), William Rye (46), Edward Wraight (62), Phineas Harvey (27), William Burford (33), George Griggs (23), and George Branchett (49). Griggs and Branchett were buried in Boughton churchyard; all the rest, including Courtenay, were buried in Hernhill churchyard.

Over the following days about thirty of Courtenay’s followers were arrested and appeared either at the inquest or at the petty sessions in Faversham. Sixteen were committed for trial on a charge of murder. Ten men would eventually stand trial at Maidstone Assizes in early August, the rest having been discharged by the assize grand jury. Two (Thomas Mears and William Price) were charged with the murder of the brother of the constable and nine (Thomas Mears, Edward Curling, Alexander Foad, William Foad, Richard Foreman, Thomas Griggs, Charles Hills, Edward Wraight, and William Wills) with the murder of Lieutenant Bennett, with one, Thomas Mears, charged with both murders.

Thomas Mears and William Price stood trial first. The jury returned a guilty verdict, with a recommendation for mercy. The judge, Lord Denman, duly pronounced sentence of death but immediately told the men that the sentence would not be carried out. Seeing this result, the nine charged with the murder of Lieutenant Bennett pleaded guilty; they too were sentenced to death but immediately reprieved. Thomas Mears and William Wills were sentenced to be transported to Australia for life, William Price for ten years, and the rest were sentenced to a prison term of one year.

References

Bibliography
 B Reay 1990 The last rising of the agricultural labourers: rural life and protest in nineteenth-century England. Oxford: Clarendon Press  (1 October 1990),  (Breviary Stuff Publications, 31 July 2010).
 PG Rogers 1961 Battle in Bossenden Wood: the strange story of Sir William Courtenay. London: Oxford University Press

Further reading
 Vagabonds All by His Honour Judge Edward Abbott Parry, published by Charles Scribner%27s Sons in 1926, 264p. illust.  See "Ch.IX: John Nichols Tom, The Zealot", p. 184-207.
 The Life and Extraordinary Adventures of Sir William Courtenay by 'Canterburiensis' (pseud) Canterbury: published by James Hunt (1838)

External links 
 History of Dunkirk in Kent

1838 riots
1838 in England
Battles involving England
Riots and civil disorder in England
History of Kent
May 1838 events