[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 36]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

dded in a different
tone; "women don't. They always try to be good, always, _always_--the
more fools they! And the more they are good, the worse things get."

"Ah! I thought there was some heterodox sentiment lurking here at high
pressure!" exclaimed the Professor.

Hadria sighed. "I have just been receiving good advice from Mrs.
Gordon," she said, flushing at the remembrance, "and I think if you knew
the sort of counsel it was, that you would understand one's feeling a
little fierce and bitter. Oh, not with her, poor woman! She meant it in
kindness. But the most cutting thing of all is, that what she said is
_true!_"

"That _is_ exactly the worst thing," said the Professor, who seemed to
have divined the nature of Mrs. Gordon's advice.

Hadria coloured. It hurt as well as astonished her, that he should guess
what had been said.

"Ah! a woman ought to be born without pride, or not at all! I wish to
heaven that our fatal sex could be utterly stamped out!"

The Professor smiled, a little sadly, at her vehemence.

"We are accused of being at the bottom of every evil under heaven," she
added, "and I think it is true. _That_ is some consolation, at any
rate!"

In spite of her immense reverence for the Professor, she seemed to have
grown reckless as to his opinion.

The next few days went strangely, and not altogether comprehensibly.
There was a silent warfare between Professor Fortescue and Hubert
Temperley.

"I have never in my life before ventured to interfere in such matters,"
the Professor said to Miss Du Prel; "but if that fellow marries Hadria,
one or both will live to rue it."

"I think it's the best thing that could happen to her," Miss Du Prel
declared.

"But they are not suited to one another," said the Professor.

"Men and women seldom are!"

"Then why----?" the Professor began.

"He is about as near as she will get," Valeria interrupted. "I will
never stand in the way of a girl's marrying a good, honest man. There is
not one chance in ten thousand that Hadria will happen to meet exactly
the right person. I have made a mistake in my life. I shall do all in my
power to urge her to avoid following in my footsteps."

It was useless for the Professor to remonstrate.

"I pity Mr. Temperley, though I am so fond of Hadria," said Miss Du
Prel. "If he shatters _her_ illusions, she will certainly shatter
_his_."

The event that they had been expecting, took place. During one of the
afternoon practices, when, for a few minutes, Mrs. Fullerton had left
the room, Temperley startled Hadria by an extremely elegant proposal of
marriage. He did not seem surprised at her refusal, though he pleaded
his cause with no little eloquence. Hadria found it a painful ordeal.
She shrank from the ungracious necessity to disappoint what appeared to
be a very ardent hope. Happily, the interview was cut short by the
entrance of Mr. Fullerton. The old man was not remarkable for _finesse_.
He gave a dismayed "Oh!" He coughed, suppressed a smile, and murmuring
some lame enquiry as to the progress of the music, turned and marched
out of the room. The sound of laughter was presently heard from the
dining-room below.

"Father is really too absurd!" cried Hadria, "there is _no_ tragedy that
he is incapable of roaring at!"

"I fear his daughter takes after him," said Temperley with a tragi-comic
smile.

When Hadria next met her father, he asked, with perfect but suspicious
gravity, about the music that they had been practising that afternoon.
He could not speak too highly of music as a pastime. He regretted having
rushed in as he did--it must have been so disturbing to the music. Why
not have a notice put up outside the door on these occasions: "Engaged"?
Then the meanest intelligence would understand, and the meanest
intelligence was really a thing one had to count with, in this
blundering world!




CHAPTER X.


Hubert Temperley left Drumgarren suddenly. He said that he had business
to attend to in town.

"That foolish girl has refused him!" exclaimed Valeria, when she heard
of it.

"Thank heaven!" ejaculated Professor Fortescue.

Valeria's brow clouded. "Why are you so anxious about the matter?"

"Because I know that a marriage between those two would end in misery."

Valeria spoke very seriously to Hadria on the subject of marriage,
urging the importance of it, and the wretchedness of growing old in
solitude.

"Better even that, than to grow old in uncongenial company," said
Hadria.

Valeria shrugged her shoulders. "One could go away when it became
oppressive," she suggested, at which Hadria laughed.

"What an ideal existence!"

"Are you still dreaming of an ideal existence?"

"Why not?"

"Well, dream while you may," said Miss Du Prel. "My time of dreaming was
the happiest of all."

On one occasion, when Hadria and the Professor went to call at Craw
Gill, they found Miss Du Prel in the gloomiest of moods. Affect