[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tan Chee Khoon

rated interest in education, the government later appointed him to the Higher Education Advisory Council, which formulated policies for local universities.

Tan was a committed Christian, and attended Wesley Church in Kuala Lumpur, where he served as a member of its Official Board from 1953 onwards.

Retirement
Upon retiring, Tan devoted much of his time to his hobbies, which included reading (at the time of his death, he had accumulated 5,000 books), cricket, and the study of military history, with a special focus on the Middle East. He also wrote a column for The Star, which also published a column by the Tunku, until the government tightened its regulations on the press in 1988. Tan later alleged that he had wanted to write soon after his retirement, but was prevented from doing so because he was formerly in the opposition.

In 1980, Tan was given the title Tan Sri by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong (King). Tan also wrote his autobiography, Tan Chee Koon: From Village Boy To Mr Opposition. Tan later claimed that it was this title which made him acceptable to the establishment, thus permitting him to write for the newspapers.

In 1993, Tan suffered a stroke which paralysed him, preventing him from walking. Tan died on 14 October 1996, and his funeral was held at Wesley Church, next to Methodist Boys' School Kuala Lumpur.

Tan's son, Tan Kee Kwong, joined Gerakan in 1995, when he was elected as MP for Segambut. He has been elected to an additional two terms, since, and has been a Vice-President of Gerakan since 1999. Tan Kee Kwong quit Gerakan to join Parti Keadilan Rakyat (PKR) early September 2008, citing that race-based politics is on the decline. He contested 2013 election as its candidate and was elected one term Member of Parliament for Wangsa Maju.

Honours

Honours of Malaysia
  :
 Recipient of the Malaysia Commemorative Medal (Silver) (PPM) (1965)
 Commander of the Order of Loyalty to the Crown of Malaysia (PSM) – Tan Sri (1980)

References

1919 births
1996 deaths
Malaysian people of Teochew descent
Malaysian Methodists
Malaysian politicians of Chinese descent
20th-century Malaysian physicians
Malaysian socialists
Labour Party of Malaya politicians
Former Parti Gerakan Rakyat Malaysia politicians
Malaysian Social Justice Party politicians
Malaysian political party founders
Members of the Dewan Rakyat
Members of the Selangor State Legislative Assembly
Leaders of the Opposition (Malaysia)
Commanders of the Order of Loyalty to the Crown of Malaysia