[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Mogul Embassy

Mogul Embassy or simply the Embassy is a professional wrestling stable in All Elite Wrestling (AEW) and its sister promotion Ring of Honor (ROH), where they are former ROH World Six-Man Tag Team Champions.

History

Ring of Honor
The Embassy was formed in Ring of Honor in 2004 by Prince Nana, a real-life Ashanti prince, who has taken his real-life status as a prince of a nation as a part of his heel manager gimmick. In storylines, Nana used his wealth gained from the taxes of people of Ghana to hire wrestlers to wrestle the Embassy's opponents and rivals, although he did once use winnings from betting on Ghana in a match (against the United States) in the 2006 FIFA World Cup to hire one. Under Nana's management John Walters defended his ROH Pure Championship and Jimmy Rave, Alex Shelley and Abyss won the Trios Tournament in 2006.

On July 23, 2022, at Death Before Dishonor, Prince Nana announced he had purchased Tully Blanchard Enterprises and reformed The Embassy with Brian Cage, Kaun, Toa Liona and Jonathan Gresham. They would go on to defeat the team of Alex Zayne, Blake Christian and Tony Deppen during the preshow. Jonathan Gresham was removed from the group after losing the ROH World Championship and requesting his release.

On December 10, at Final Battle, The Embassy defeated Dalton Castle and The Boys to become the ROH World Six-Man Tag Team Champions.

All Elite Wrestling
On the October 14, 2022, episode of AEW Rampage, the Embassy made its All Elite Wrestling debut, losing to FTR and Shawn Spears.

On the November 1, 2022, episode of AEW Dark, the Embassy defeated the team of Fuego Del Sol along with Waves And Curls (Jaylen Brandyn and Traevon Jordan).

On the December 5, episode of AEW Dark: Elevation, the Embassy defeated Dan Adams, Facade and Star Rider.

On the April 7, 2023, episode of AEW Rampage, Swerve Strickland joined the faction after he announced he was merging his own faction "Mogul Affiliates" with them. The group was then renamed "Mogul Embassy".

On the July 26, 2023 episode of AEW Dynamite, AR Fox joined the faction after helping Strickland defeat Darby Allin but he was fired from the stable on August 23, 2023.

Members

Current

Former

Part-time

Sub-groups

Current

Timeline

Championships and accomplishments
Ring of Honor
ROH World Championship (1 time) – Jonathan Gresham
ROH Pure Championship (1 time) – John Walters
ROH World Six-Man Tag Team Championship (1 time) – Brian Cage, Kaun and Toa Liona
Trios Tournament winner (2006) – Jimmy Rave, Alex Shelley and Abyss

References

External links 
  

Independent promotions teams and stables
Ring of Honor teams and stables
All Elite Wrestling teams and stables