[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# International Junior Heavyweight Championship (Zero1)

The International Junior Heavyweight Championship is a professional wrestling championship in Japanese promotion Pro Wrestling Zero1 (Zero1, formerly Pro Wrestling Zero-One and Pro Wrestling Zero1-Max), contested exclusively among junior heavyweight (<) wrestlers. It was originally created on June 29, 2002, as the NWA/UPW/Zero-One International Junior Heavyweight Championship, symbolizing Pro Wrestling Zero-One (Zero-One)'s relationship with the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) and Ultimate Pro Wrestling (UPW); Leonardo Spanky defeated Smelly to become the first champion. When Zero-One left the NWA on October 31, 2004, the title was renamed to incorporate Steve Corino's Pro Wrestling World-1 (Word-1), becoming the Zero-One/UPW/World-1 International Junior Heavyweight Championship. The name was again altered when the newly renamed Pro Wrestling Zero1-Max (Zero1-Max) joined the AWA Superstars of Wrestling (AWA) alliance on February 28, 2005, with the title becoming known as the AWA/Zero1-Max/UPW/World-1 International Junior Heavyweight Championship. On August 26, 2006, after Minoru Fujita won the annual Tenkaichi Jr. tournament, Fujita renamed the championship to the AWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship. When Zero1-Max left the AWA on December 15, 2007, it was renamed again to the Zero1-Max International Junior Heavyweight Championship. Finally, when the company changed its name to Pro Wrestling Zero1 in 2008, the championship followed and became known as the Zero1 International Junior Heavyweight Championship.

There have been a total of 26 recognized champions, who have had a combined 36 official reigns. The current champion is Takumi Baba who is in his first reign.

Title history

Combined reigns

As of  , .

See also

List of National Wrestling Alliance championships
NWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship (Zero1)
NWA International Junior Heavyweight Championship
WAR International Junior Heavyweight Championship

Footnotes

References

External links
ZEROONEUSA title history
Wrestling-Titles.com title history (International Junior Heavyweight Championship)
Wrestling-Titles.com title history (AWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship)
TitleHistories.com title history (International Junior Heavyweight Championship)
TitleHistories.com title history (AWA World Junior Heavyweight Championship)

Pro Wrestling Zero1 championships
Junior heavyweight wrestling championships
International professional wrestling championships