[Source: PubMed]

32. Value Health Reg Issues. 2024 Jul;42:100981. doi: 10.1016/j.vhri.2024.01.003.
 Epub 2024 Apr 27.

Tiered Pricing and Alternative Mechanisms for Equitative Access to Vaccines in 
Latin America: A Narrative Review of the Literature.

Arango-Luque A(1), Yucumá D(2), Castañeda CE(3), Espin J(4), Becerra-Posada 
F(5).

Author information:
(1)Sense and Science, Bogotá, Cundinamarca, Colombia. Electronic address: 
aarango@senseandscience.co.
(2)École des hautes études en santé publique, Paris, France.
(3)Sense and Science, Bogotá, Cundinamarca, Colombia.
(4)Andalusian School of Public Health, University of Granada, Granada, Spain.
(5)Global Health Consortium, FIU, Miami, FL, USA.

OBJECTIVES: To review and describe alternative strategies for the supply of 
vaccines in Latin America.
METHODS: We conducted a narrative review to explore and describe alternatives 
for equitable vaccine access in Latin America. We searched and considered the 
main access strategies reported in the literature through PubMed, Science 
Direct, and Google Scholar. Additionally, we reviewed the web sites of key 
stakeholders. The search was conducted using the following keywords: ("access" 
or "availability" or "acquisition" or "affordability" or "tiered pricing") and 
("vaccine"). Subsequently, documents that met the inclusion criteria were 
selected. Finally, findings were grouped by means of a thematic analysis and an 
interpretative synthesis.
RESULTS: Twenty-four publications were included. We identified 5 main topics: 
current supply strategies, challenges for the acquisition of vaccines, vaccine 
prices equity, alternative supply strategies, and the advantages and impact of a 
tiered pricing strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Our review suggests that tiered pricing can be an tool for 
accelerating the process of introducing vaccines in low-income countries at 
affordable prices and for countries that do not adhere to the current 
procurement mechanisms or are not eligible for Vaccine Alliance because giving 
countries prices for vaccines that reflect their ability to pay can result in 
better programmatic and financial planning for the purchase of these vaccines, 
and in return, vaccine manufacturers can gain access to wider markets However, 
this model has not been z improve access to vaccines that are aimed only at 
developing countries, mainly because the market in these countries is not 
profitable for producers.

Copyright © 2024 International Society for Health Economics and Outcomes 
Research. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vhri.2024.01.003
PMID: 38677063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Disclosures Author disclosure forms can 
be accessed below in the Supplemental Material section.