[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Loudoun County in the American Civil War

, the Union army took possession of the mountain and enlarged its defenses, adding rifle pits, entrenchments and additional blockhouses. The fortifications were manned by Cole's Maryland Cavalry during the winter of 1863-1864 and were attacked by Mosby's Rangers during the Battle of Loudoun Heights.

Headquarters
 Harrison House:  The headquarters of Robert E. Lee during his brief stay in Leesburg in September, 1862.  In this house he met with his top generals, including Jackson and Stuart, to oversee the reorganization of the Army of Northern Virginia prior to the start of the Maryland Campaign.

The Restored Government of Virginia
On December 5, 1864 the Restored Government of Virginia convened for the first time since the formal separation of West Virginia from the commonwealth (Loudoun, in fact had been briefly considered for inclusion in the new state, but was ultimately rejected due to the strong Confederate sentiment in the county) in the city hall of Alexandria. Loudoun was one of the twelve counties and three cities represented (those under nominal Federal control).  James Madison Downey of Loudoun was elected to serve as speaker of the House of Delegates, and in that capacity brought legislation to the floor calling for a Constitutional Convention to be held that January. Downey would go on to serve as one of three representatives from Loudoun in that body, which among other things would approve the separation of West Virginia, thus circumventing the constitutional clause against forming a new state out of an existing one, and formally abolish slavery in Virginia.  When the legislature reconvened the following December, Downey was once again elected speaker of the House.  Although Loudoun was represented in the Restored Government, and elections for its offices were held in the county, the government's authority in the county extended only as far that of the Union army.

Civil War tourism
Civil War tourism sites:
 Ball's Bluff Battlefield and National Cemetery
 Harpers Ferry National Historical Park
 Loudoun Museum
 Confederate Statue, Courthouse Square
 Union Cemetery
 Civil War Trails

References
Ashown, Paul and Edward Caudill, The Mosby Myth: A Confederate Hero in Life and Legend.  SR Books, Wilmington, Del., 2002.
Crouch, Richard E., Rough-Riding Scout: The Story of John W. Mobberly, Loudoun's Own Civil War Guerrilla Hero.  Elden Additions:  Arlington, Va., 1994.
Divine, John. 35th Battalion Virginia Cavalry. H.E. Howard Inc.; Lynchburg, Va. 1985.
Goodheart, Briscoe. History of the Independent Loudoun Rangers: Scouts, U.S. Cavalry 1862-1865. 1896.
Head, James W. History and Comprehensive Description of Loudoun County, Virginia.  Hard Press, 2006.
Johnson, A.B., "The Skirmish at Mile Hill."  The Bulletin of the Historical Society of Loudoun County, Virginia, 1957-1976.  Goose Creek Productions, Leesburg, Va., 1997.
Leepsom, Marc.  Desperate Engagement: How a Little-Known Civil War Saved Washington, D.C., and Changed American History.  Thomas Dune Books; New York, 2007. pp. 86–87.
Meserve, Stevan F. The Civil War in Loudoun County, Virginia: A History of Hard Times. The History Press, 2008, ISBN 978-1-59629-378-6.
Morgan, James A III. A Little Short of Boats: The Fight at Ball's Bluff and Edwards Ferry, October 21–22, 1861.  Ironclad Publishing; Ft. Mitchell, Ky. 2004.
Nichols, Joseph, V. Legends of Loudoun Valley.  Willow Bend Books, 1996.
Poland, Charles P.  From Frontier to Suburbia. Heritage Books, 2005.
Scheel, Eugene M. Loudoun Discovered: Communities, Corners & Crossroads.  Vol. 1-5 . The Friends of the Thomas Bulch Library; Leesburg, Va. 2002
Turner, Fitzhugh (ed.), Loudoun County and the Civil War.  Loudoun County Civil War Centennial Commission, Leesburg, Va., 1961.
Wert, Jeffry D.  Mosby's Rangers.  Simon & Schuster Paperbacks; New York, Ny.  1990.
Williams, Harrison, Legends of Loudoun.  Garrett and Massie, Inc.,  Richmond, Va., 1938.

Notes

External links
Civil War Education Association
Virginia Civil War Trails
Loudoun History
Loudoun Museum

 
Virginia in the American Civil War