[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Inter-American Dialogue

led the Chinese diplomacy and also Chinese foreign policy "slightly more aggressive" than earlier. She said that "partnerships in the region between China and certain countries that would in some form have been thought to provoke the U.S. in the past [are] no longer seemingly a major consideration".

Programs 
The Inter-American Dialogue has five programs that convene events and host initiatives with policy makers, business leaders, journalists, advocates and analysts. The programs also produce analysis and reports about their respective issues in the Western hemisphere.

Education Program 
The Education Program researches and advocates to improve the quality of education across Latin America. It focuses on five key initiatives: early childhood development, teacher quality, technology and innovation in education, English language learning, and skills development.

The program hosts various conferences and forums, including a conference with the government of Colombia on drafting a “Regional Agenda on Early Childhood Development” in 2017 and the Working Group on Technology and Innovation in Education, that began meeting in 2019. The program also regularly issues reports and analysis across its initiatives, including a report co-published with the Organization of American States called “Strategies to Reduce Educational Inequality in 2019” and a report co-published with CAF – Development Bank of Latin America and the Caribbean on technical education and professional development.

Migration, Remittances, and Development Program 
The Migration, Remittances, and Development Program uses research, policy analysis, project implementation, and technical assistance of migration and transnational economic issues to understand current trends and leverage migration for development.

The program runs the Remittance Industry Observatory, a membership-based initiative to provide knowledge about the remittance market. Furthermore, the program performs analysis and field research, and has published reports like “Recent Trends in Central American Migration” and a yearly report on Remittances to Latin America. In Guatemala the program has been implementing a project with the support of the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) to combine financial education, access to credit, diaspora support, and after-school programs to promote development in communities of high emigration.

Asia & Latin America Program 
The Asia & Latin America program examines Asian, especially Chinese, firms’ and governments’ linkages with Latin America. It analyzes, reports, and promotes “responsible and growth-promoting relationships” between the two regions.

The program's China-Latin America Finance Database tracks billions of dollars in Chinese financing in Latin America, and the program hosts conferences around the world, including in Mexico, China, and Japan. The program also runs a China-Latin America Young Scholars Program that hosts high-level meetings and promotes collaborative research.

Peter D. Bell Rule of Law Program 
The Peter D. Bell Rule of Law Program promotes the rule of law by convening forums and policy debates and providing comprehensive analysis and reports to strengthen governance, inclusive economic growth, and democracy in Latin America.

The program organizes the Venezuela Working Group, that is chaired by former Costa Rican President Laura Chinchilla and US Ambassador Donna Hrinak, to promote policy responses with public reports and private diplomacy. Additionally, it hosts an anti-corruption symposia series with the Inter-American Development Bank and an annual conference with Fundamedios on media and democracy in the Americas. The program also publishes reports and analysis, including on private security companies and citizen security in the region.

The namesake of the program, Peter D. Bell, was a founder of the Inter-American Dialogue and the president of CARE USA.

Energy, Climate, & Extractive Industries Program 
The Energy, Climate, & Extractive Industries Program provides analysis and convenes policy makers, corporate leaders, and experts to frame policy debates on investment and sustainable development of natural resources.

The program hosts an energy and resources committee of corporations and regional organizations to discuss key issues in the energy sphere. Moreover, the program runs the Latin America Clean Transport Initiative to raise awareness about electric vehicles, provide collaboration opportunities between governments, corporations, and civil society, and develop lessons to share throughout Latin America to accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles. Analysis and reports on issues like deforestation in the Amazon rainforest, environmental regulation, and liquid natural gas in the Americas are also produced by the program.