[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Emblem of the Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic

The coat of arms of the Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic was adopted on March 23, 1937, by the government of the Kirghiz Soviet Socialist Republic. The coat of arms is based on the coat of arms of the Soviet Union. It shows symbols of agriculture (cotton and wheat) on a backdrop of the Ala-Too mountain ranges, surrounded by a frame of folk art of the Kyrgyz people. The red star was added in 1948. The rising sun stands for the future of the Kyrgyz nation, the star as well as the hammer and sickle for the victory of communism and the "worldwide socialist community of states".

The higher banner bears the Soviet Union state motto ("Workers of the world, unite!") in both Russian and Kyrgyz languages. In Kyrgyz, it is "Бардык өлкөлөрдүн пролетарлары, бириккиле!" (transliterated: "Bardıq ölkölördün proletarları, birikkile!").

The emblem was still used in 1992 until 1994 when they adopted the current emblem of Kyrgyzstan which retains some of the parts of the Soviet one. These includes the rising sun, wheat, cotton, the Ala-Too mountain ranges and the Kyrgyz people folk arts.

History

Kyrgyz Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic 
On March 7, 1927, the First All-Kyrgyz Constituent Assembly of Soviets adopted the Declaration on the Formation of the Kirghiz Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, the draft Constitution of which was adopted on April 30, 1929, at the 2nd All-Kyrgyz Congress of Soviets. In her article 95 the coat of arms was described:

Like the constitutions of all other ASSRs within the RSFSR, the draft Constitution of the Kirghiz ASSR was not approved by the All-Russian Central Executive Committee of the Soviets (VTsIK), as stipulated in the Constitution of the RSFSR, and did not enter into force.

First version 
On August 14, 1936, a competition was announced to create the arms of the future Kirghiz SSR. In the conditions of the competition it was established that the coat of arms should coincide in shape with the USSR coat of arms, have the image of a five-pointed star, sickle and hammer, the motto "Workers of all countries, unite!" and the name of the republic. The main geographical and economic features of the republic were to be reflected in the coat of arms: the geographical position was suggested to be depicted by images of mountains with snowy peaks in the rays of the rising sun, and economic - by symbols of animal husbandry, grain farming and cotton growing. The wreath in the coat of arms was proposed to be made from wheat ears and cotton branches with buds.

On September 8, 1936, the jury of the contest summed up its results, with 23 authors submitted 36 projects. 
The first prize, with 3.000 rubles was obtained by associate professor of the Moscow Polygraphic Institute Oksana Trofimovna Pavlenko (1895-1991). Even though her coat of arms wasn't used immediately, her design became the basis of the official version of the coat of arms. The change from her design was to remove the trident on the top of the sketcha and add the ram's head and the horse to the drawing.

The award for the artistic execution of projects was marked by the Dean of the Faculty of Painting of the All-Union Artistic and Technical Institute (VKHUTEIN), Honored Artist of the RSFSR, Hungarian-Internationalist Béla Uitz, but because of the complexity of the composition, his projects could not be used as a state emblem. The prizes were also awarded to Vasiliev, Kolokolnikov, Podkhapov (the head of a bull is depicted in the project at the bottom of the coat of arms) and Ryndin, as well as Laszlo Meszaros.

Second version 
According to the new Constitution of the USSR, adopted on December 5, 1936, by the Extraordinary VIII Congress of Soviets of the USSR, the Kirghiz ASSR was withdrawn from the RSFSR and transformed into the Union Kyrgyz Socialist Republic, the Constitution of which was adopted on March 23, 1937, Extraordinary V All-Kyrgyz Congress of Soviets. In its 115th article contained a description of the coat of arms:

The name of the republic in the Kyrgyz language: "Qьrƣьz S.S.R." (Kyrgyz S.S.R.), the motto: "BYTKYL DYJNӨ PROLETARLARЬ, BIRIKKILE!" (Workers of the whole world, unite!).

The motive of the ornament - in the form of plant shoots with leaves - is found especially often in appliqués on koshmas. The white edge of the ornamental stalk in the socket imitates the technique of Kyrgyz embroidery. Inside the arch there are lilac, sunlit peaks of Ala-Too mountain ranges. The coat of arms embody the republic's desire for progress.

Third version