[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Steve Lavin

its NCAA tournament appearance was the first since 2002.

Lavin inherited a team that finished in 13th place in the Big East Conference in 2009–10. The next year the same players finished at 12–6. A jump of similar magnitude had previously occurred only one other time in Big East Conference history.

The Red Storm finished the 2011 season ranked 18th in the Associated Press Top 25, marking the first time it qualified for the postseason as a ranked team since 2000–01. The Red Storm posted a 7–1 record at Madison Square Garden and saw its home attendance climb by 38.1 percent, marking the fourth-largest increase in NCAA Division I men's basketball.

Lavin underwent treatment for cancer on October 6, 2011, consequently only coaching four games in the 2011–12 season as his doctors modified his schedule during recovery. [

In 2012–13, Lavin's third year as head coach, St. John's finished with a 17–16 overall record. The Red Storm received an NIT bid, and earned a victory at the buzzer at Saint Joseph's before falling on the road to Virginia in the next game.

In the 2013–14 season, Lavin led the Red Storm to a 20–13 record finishing conference play in a three-way, third place tie that resulted in another invitation to the NIT, where they were upset by Robert Morris.

In 2014–15, Lavin led St. John's to a 21–12 record and a second NCAA tournament appearance.

Almost immediately after the season ended, on March 27, 2015, Lavin was fired. Thereafter, he returned to his role as a college basketball TV analyst in studio and in the booth for games.

University of San Diego
On April 6, 2022, Lavin made his return to coaching as he was hired to serve as the head coach of the San Diego Toreros.

Broadcasting career
Lavin began his broadcasting career in 2003, soon after being fired from UCLA, when he signed a multi-year deal with ABC and ESPN. For seven years he made regular appearances on ESPN College GameNight and provided color commentary alongside his partners Brent Musburger and Dave O'Brien at prime-time college games around the country. Lavin also contributed to ESPN coverage on the NBA draft.

After being fired by St. John's, Lavin joined the Fox Sports, CBS Sports and Pac-12 Network broadcasting teams as a college basketball and NBA analyst.

Awards and honors
 1997 – International Inspiration Award from the Hugh O'Brien Youth Foundation (HOBY)
 1998 – Chapman University Alumnus of the Year (also serves on Board of Governors at Chapman University)
 2001 – Pac-10 Coach of the Year
 2005 – Distinguished Alumni award from the Dodge College of Film and Media Arts from Chapman University
 2011 – District II Coach of the Year

Philanthropy
Lavin has participated in and been involved with numerous organizations and charities throughout Lavin's coaching career.  Such charities include the Jimmy V Foundation, Make-A-Wish Foundation, United Service Organization, Special Olympics, City of Hope, Coaches vs. Cancer, Pediatric Cancer Research Foundation, and Wounded Warriors.

In an October 2010 ceremony with Anthony Butler, executive director of St. John's Bread & Life, and Steve Starker of BTIG Brokerage, Lavin made a $35,000, multi-year pledge to aid New York City's homeless and hungry. Lavin was honored in 2011 with The Johnny's Angel Award, celebrating his contributions to the Bread and Life Soup Kitchen.

Lavin has been very active with The V Foundation for Cancer Research, where he has joined in numerous fundraising and awareness events. Lavin is part of The V Foundation President's Club, donating more than $50,000 to the organization. Other members of the leadership team are Duke's Mike Krzyzewski, Kentucky's John Calipari, and Michigan State's Tom Izzo. In addition, Lavin has been extremely involved with Coaches vs. Cancer, a foundation that Lavin has helped raise over $1.5 million for since 2010.

Head coaching record

References

1964 births
Living people
American men's basketball coaches
American men's basketball players
Basketball coaches from California
Basketball players from Marin County, California
Chapman Panthers men's basketball players
College basketball announcers in the United States
College men's basketball head coaches in the United States
Purdue Boilermakers men's basketball coaches
San Francisco State University alumni
St. John's Red Storm men's basketball coaches
UCLA Bruins men's basketball coaches
Archie Williams High School alumni