[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ideology of Hezbollah

The ideology of Hezbollah has been summarized as Shiite radicalism. Hezbollah was largely formed with the aid of the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's followers in the early 1980s in order to spread the Islamic Revolution and follows a distinct version of Islamic Shia ideology (Valiyat al-faqih or Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists) developed by Ayatollah Khomeini, leader of the "Islamic Revolution" in Iran.

Manifesto
Hezbollah declared its existence on 16 February 1985 in "The Hizballah Program". This document was read by spokesman Sheikh Ibrahim al-Amin at the al-Ouzai Mosque in west Beirut and simultaneously published in al-Safir as "The Hizballah Program, an open letter to all the Oppressed in Lebanon and the World", and a separate pamphlet that was first published in full in English in 1987.

According to "The Hizballah Program" the principles of its ideology are:
 To expel Americans, the French and their allies definitely from Lebanon, putting an end to any colonialist entity on our land.
 To submit the phalanges to a just power and bring them all to justice for the crimes they have perpetrated against Muslims and Christians.
 To permit all the sons of our people to determine their future and to choose in all the liberty the form of government their desire. We call upon all of them to pick the option of Islamic government which, alone, is capable of guaranteeing justice and liberty for all. Only an Islamic regime can stop any future tentative attempts of imperialistic infiltration onto our country.

It listed the Ayatollah Khomeini as the leader whose "orders we obey"; called on Christians to "open your hearts to our call" and "embrace Islam" and noted that "Allah has ... made it intolerable for Muslims to participate in ... a regime which is not predicated upon ... the Sharia"; explained that Israel is "the vanguard of the United States in our Islamic world".

More broadly, current leader Hassan Nasrallah has described Hezbollah's ideology as having "two main axis: firstly, a belief in the rule by the just jurisconsult and adherence to Khomeini's leadership; and secondly, the continued need to struggle against the Israeli enemy". In late 1980s, Nasrallah said:

In the early 1990s, Hezbollah underwent what a number of observers have called a process of "Lebanonization", which is reflected in acceptance of a multi-confessional Lebanon, rapprochement with a variety of non-Islamist forces, participation in electoral politics, and an emphasis on providing for the social welfare of its Shi'a Lebanese constituency. This tendency was expressed in religious as well as strategic terms:

Since then, Hizbullah published a new manifesto on 1 December 2009, which shifts its direction to better stay coherent with the current situation in their community. This new manifesto contains language that downplays the Islamic rhetoric and focuses more on integration into their community. Furthermore, the new manifesto calls for the elimination of the sectarian system in place right now in Lebanon and calls for replacement of this system by a secular modern system. However, the new manifesto states that the US and Israel are still Hizb'Allah's prime enemies. Moreover, it eliminates the possibility of open discussion on its right to bear arms.  It pursues this agenda with the assistance of various like-minded allies in the region.

Shi'a Islamism

Hezbollah's original 1985 manifesto reads:

Hezbollah was largely formed with the aid of the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini's followers in the early eighties in order to spread Islamic revolution and follows a distinct version of Islamic Shi'a ideology ("Willayat Al-Faqih") developed by Ayatollah Khomeini, leader of the Islamic Revolution in Iran. Although Hezbollah believes in one-person-one-vote system and disagree with the multi-confessional quotas under the Ta'if Accord, it does not intend to force a one-person-one-vote system onto the country's Christians.