[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Castellgalí

Castellgalí is a municipality in the south of the region of Bages, Catalonia, where the Cardener and Llobregat rivers meet, and contains the  (Cultural Asset of National Interest) Boades archaeological site and the Torre del Breny, one of the most outstanding ancient Greek sites in Catalonia.

History

Iberian period 
The first signs of population were found in Boades, which was initially an Iberian settlement between the 6th and 1st centuries BC. An Iberian settlement existed at Puig del Castel between the 4th and 1st centuries BC. The location of the settlement of Boades between the Llobregat and Cardener rivers allowed its inhabitants to farm successfully on the fertile land, which led to a surplus and export of cereals. There were also olive trees and vineyards. The terrain was also favorable for hunting. The settlement was located in the area of Cal Roc near a meander of the Llobregat.

Roman period 
With the arrival of the Romans, the Iberian settlement of Puig del Castell was progressively abandoned, while the settlement of Boades was reconfigured as a Roman village and acted as a strategic commercial centre since it was located on the trade routes coming from the Llobregat and Cardener rivers. Several important funerary monuments were also erected during this period, such as the Torre del Breny and the Roman tomb of Boades. The Breny tower was a monumental Roman sepulchre in the form of a temple, partly dismantled in 1870 to allow its stones to be used for a nearby dam. The Roman tomb at Boades, on the other hand, is located about 100 metres south of the Roman villa and was built during the 3rd century. It is considered a prototype of Roman funerary practices in Catalonia. Material extracted from archaeological excavations in the area is currently housed in the Manresa regional museum.

Middle Ages 

The beginnings of the village coincide with those of its castle. A document from 867 mentions the Castelo de Galindo (Galindo Castle), attesting to the origin of the place's name. Little is known about the history of this castle, now in ruins. The first lords of the castle and the area were the Galí family. In 1178, the castle was sold, along with its lordship, to King Alfonso II of Aragon by Sibila, who was most probably a descendant of the Galí lineage. After the purchase, King Alfonso I handed it over to feudatories. During the period in which Castellgalí was a royal property, it was governed by castlans, vassals of the king. They took the name Castellgalí as their surname, thus inaugurating a new dynasty. At the end of this period, the Black Death affected Castellgalí, leaving many farmhouses empty and causing the death of the last castlans: Berenguer de Castellgalí, and shortly afterwards his wife Guilleuma de Rocafort I Castellet. In 1350, Peter the Ceremonious sold it to Bernat Torres for 8,000 sous. The latter's son, Dalmau Torres, sold it in 1413 to Luis de Rajadell, the younger brother of the Lord of Rajadell. At the beginning of the Catalan Civil War, the lord of Castellgalí, Manel de Rajadell, left the village because he was a supporter of Juan II. Thus the lordship was temporarily ceded to the monastery of Montserrat. It is believed that the castle was destroyed during this war, between 1462 and 1472.

Modern times 
In the 18th century there was a great expansion of vine cultivation due to demographic expansion and the creation of the rabassa morta rental contract (until the death of the vineyards), which allowed Catellgalí to consolidate its nucleus. It was during this period that the old quarter acquired the urban configuration that still remains today, a fact that can be seen by looking at the years engraved on the lintels of the houses in the village, where in addition to the year of construction of the house, you can sometimes see the engravings that announced the services offered (a horseshoe, a loaf of bread and a knife...), as well as in the popular names given to the houses (such as Cal Ferrer, Casa del Herrero, the blacksmith's house). The old quarter was born around the royal road, the inn and the church. When the constitution of 1812 eliminated feudal duties, its last feudal lords were the Amigants, Marquises of Fonollar. The Despujol, Marquises of Palmerola, were the last noble family to buy the Amigant properties.