[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Vuk Jeremić

fective Foreign Minister. "When you’re young and when ... they see you for the first time," Jeremić remarked, "a lot of them are just kind of surprised. [...] That’s actually a good thing because it opens up their minds. [...] They want to hear what you have to say to them because you’re different."

Following Kosovo's unilateral declaration of independence in February 2008, Jeremić began campaigning against the self-proclaimed state's integration into the international community. In his five years in office, Jeremić boarded 1,000 flights and visited over 100 countries, remarking that he "pretty much knew 90% of the world's foreign ministers". In 2009 alone, he spent over 700 hours—roughly 29 days—in flight. The Economist described Serbian diplomacy under Jeremić as being "on steroids". "His indefatigable travelling," one reporter from the newspaper remarked, "has made most foreign ministers, especially from smaller countries like Serbia, look like sleepy laggards." Jeremić reiterated that his country would not use military force to retake Kosovo, and stressed that Serbia would resort to dialogue and diplomacy to "defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity". He argued that Kosovo has every right to wide-ranging autonomy, but that the Government of Serbia would never accept full-fledged independence. In an address before Israel's Lauder School of Government, Diplomacy and Strategy, he explained:We have no interest in ruling over the Kosovo Albanian community. We do not want to tax them, nor to police them, nor to have their judicial or ... educational systems reintegrated into ours. Our currency does not have to have a presence in Kosovo. Our military would not have to be there, either. And we would not interfere with their relationship with international financial organizations; with them having separate membership in international sporting federations; or with them having some sort of representation abroad. In 2009, Jeremić asked the International Court of Justice (ICJ) for a non-binding advisory opinion on the declaration. The court ruled that the declaration of independence was legal in July 2010. Jeremić responded by pushing for a draft resolution at the United Nations which discouraged unilateral secession as a way of resolving territorial disputes. In late July 2010, he met with Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon to discuss the draft resolution. In September 2010, the UN General Assembly adopted the resolution, calling for the dispute to be resolved bilaterally. Jeremić welcomed the General Assembly's decision, as did the European Union's High Commissioner, Catherine Ashton. Jeremić said that he hoped the resolution "would help create an atmosphere conducive to the creation of a comprehensive compact of peace between Serbs and Albanians achieved through good faith dialogue."

During Jeremić's time in office, relations between Serbia and most of its neighbours improved dramatically. Relations with the European Union and the United States also improved, despite the dispute over Kosovo. In December 2009, the EU lifted visa restrictions on Serbia. Jeremić became the first Serbian citizen to enter the EU without a visa when he crossed the Hungarian border on 19 December and had his passport stamped by Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Balázs. Jeremić's tenure saw Serbia fulfill its obligations towards the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY), which was established by the international community to try individuals suspected of committing war crimes during the Yugoslav Wars. In July 2008, Serbian authorities arrested former Bosnian Serb leader Radovan Karadžić, who was indicted for war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide by the ICTY and had been in hiding for eleven years. Karadžić was promptly extradited to the ICTY to face trial. Jeremić said the arrest demonstrated that Serbia was fully committed to becoming a member of the European Union. The arrests of Karadžić's military chief, Ratko Mladić, and Croatan Serb rebel leader Goran Hadžić, both of whom had been in hiding, followed three years later.

On 1 March 2012, Serbia was granted candidate status by the European Union, having applied for membership in 2009. The Democratic Party was voted out of office in the Serbian presidential election of May 2012, and Jeremić lost his ministerial role. His last day in office was 27 July 2012, and his final state visit in his capacity as Foreign Minister was to Moscow, where he spoke with Russia's Minister of Foreign Affairs, Sergey Lavrov.

United Nations General Assembly presidency