[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of African-American Medal of Honor recipients

s launched, and based on results of the investigation the award of the Medal of Honor was approved. Stowers' Medal of Honor was presented on April 24, 1991—seventy-three years after he was killed-in-action. Henry Johnson's Medal of Honor was presented on June 2, 2015-eighty five years after he died.

World War II
No African American was awarded a Medal of Honor either during World War II or immediately afterwards with respect to their actions during that conflict. This changed in 1992 when a study conducted by Shaw University and commissioned by the U.S. Dept. of Defense and the United States Army asserted that systematic racial discrimination had been present in the criteria for awarding medals during the war. After an exhaustive review of files the study recommended that several of the Distinguished Service Crosses awarded to African Americans be upgraded to the Medal of Honor. On January 13, 1997, more than fifty years after the end of the war, President Bill Clinton awarded the Medal to seven African-American World War II veterans. Vernon Baker was the only living recipient—the other six men had been killed in action or died in the intervening years.

Note: Notes in quotations are derived or are copied in their entirety from the actual Medal of Honor citation

Korean War
Two African Americans received the Medal of Honor for action in the Korean War; both were soldiers of the 24th Infantry Regiment. Despite a 1948 Executive Order commanding the integration of the military, segregated units persisted until 1954; the 24th Infantry was one of the last remaining all-black regiments, and these two men were the last African Americans to receive the Medal of Honor for actions while serving in a segregated unit.

Vietnam War
Twenty-two African Americans were awarded the Medal of Honor for actions in the Vietnam War, including James Anderson, Jr., the first African-American Marine to receive the Medal.

Note: Notes in quotations are derived or are copied in their entirety from the actual Medal of Honor citation

21st century

Iraq War 

Alwyn Crendall Cashe (July 13, 1970 – November 8, 2005) was a United States Army non-commissioned officer who was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for heroism in Iraq. On November 10, 2020, the United States Congress voted to upgrade Cashe's initially awarded Silver Star to the Medal of Honor. On December 16, 2021, more than 16 years after his death at age 35, Cashe's widow, Tamara, accepted the Medal of Honor from President Joe Biden at a ceremony commemorating the actions of Cashe and two fellow soldiers for their acts in separate battles.

Note: Notes in quotations are derived or are copied in their entirety from the actual Medal of Honor citation

Non-Combat
Before World War II, the Medal of Honor could be awarded for actions not involving direct combat with the enemy; eight African Americans earned the Medal in this way, all of them sailors. Robert Augustus Sweeney received two peacetime Medals of Honor, one of only 19 men, and the only African American, to be awarded the medal twice. Most of the non-combat medals, including both of Sweeney's, were awarded for rescuing or attempting to rescue someone from drowning.

Note: Notes in quotations are derived or are copied in their entirety from the actual Medal of Honor citation

References

General

External links

 371st Regiment Monument

Medal of Honor recipients
African American
African Americans in the American Civil War
Military history of African Americans in the American Civil War