[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Henry Livermore Abbott

him in the hospital. Abbott recovered by November 1862 and returned to the regiment camped at Falmouth, Virginia across the Rappahannock River from Fredericksburg, Virginia. He was accompanied on his return by Holmes, who was returning after recovery from a wound suffered at the battle of Antietam.

Abbott next courageously led his men at the Battle of Fredericksburg. Due to the absence of Colonel Lee, Captain George Macy was acting colonel and Abbott was acting major of the regiment. In preliminary street fighting on the eve of the battle, Abbott was one of the few officers in the 20th Massachusetts Infantry not to be killed or wounded, when he and his men engaged in fierce combat against the 21st Mississippi Infantry Regiment commanded by Abbott's Harvard classmate and friend, Lieutenant Lane Brandon. Abbott's men drove Confederate forces away from the river so Union Army engineers could complete pontoon bridges for a crossing in force. Thirty of the 60 men that Abbott had led into combat had been killed or wounded. Overall, 113 of the 335 men in the regiment became casualties that day. The next day, Abbott participated with his regiment in the disastrous Union Army assault on Marye's Heights where waves of Union attackers were cut down by Confederate artillery and infantry protected by a stone wall. Abbott survived unscathed, although a bullet did hit his scabbard. Sixty men and three officers were killed in a matter of minutes in the attack on Marye's Heights, bringing the losses of the 20th Massachusetts Infantry in the battle to 168 men and 8 officers of 335 men and officers engaged. Abbott in large part blamed Republican political leadership for the losses because they had removed Major General George McClellan, a fellow Democrat, from command of the Army of the Potomac.

After the infamous "Mud March" of January 1863, Major General Joseph Hooker replaced Major General Ambrose Burnside as commanding general of the Army of the Potomac. In late March, Henry's 9–year old brother, Arthur, died from "the croup." After two weeks in Boston following Arthur's death, Henry returned to his regiment. On May 3, 1863, Abbott fought with his regiment during the Second Battle of Fredericksburg, Virginia, which was part of the Chancellorsville Campaign. Major General John Sedgwick, commander of the "grand division" of which the 20th Massachusetts Infantry was a part, was ordered to take Fredericksburg and then come to the aid of the bulk of the Union Army which came under heavy attack from Confederate forces at Chancellorsville. The 20th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry Regiment was on the far right of the line and suffered only 2 dead and 13 wounded, one of whom was Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. who was wounded for the third time. In this battle, the Union troops overwhelmed the more lightly defended Marye's Heights. Sedgwick was stopped from joining Hooker at nearby Chancellorsville by Confederate forces at the Battle of Salem Church. Brigadier General John Gibbon's division, including the 20th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment, which had been left to hold the line at Fredericksburg, had to retreat across the Rappahannock River to join Hooker and Sedgwick, who had recrossed the river further upstream.