[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Masque of the Red Death (1964 film)

l, and an old man from a nearby village. The Red Death declares "Sic transit gloria mundi" (Latin for "Thus passes the glory of the world") and the cloaked figures walk into the night. Over the procession are Poe's words: "And darkness and decay and the Red Death held illimitable dominion over all".

Cast
 Vincent Price as Prince Prospero
Price also plays the Red Death during the unmasking scene
 Hazel Court as Juliana, his mistress
 Jane Asher as Francesca, a peasant girl
 David Weston as Gino, Francesca's lover
 Nigel Green as Ludovico, Francesca's father
 John Westbrook as The Red Death (in physical form and voice; uncredited)
 Patrick Magee as Alfredo
 Paul Whitsun-Jones as Scarlatti
 Robert Brown as Guard
 David Davies as Lead villager
 Sarah Brackett as Grandmother
 Skip Martin as Hop-Toad, a dwarf jester
 Verina Greenlaw as Esmeralda, Hop-Toad's dwarf lover

Production
Roger Corman later said he always felt "The Masque of the Red Death" and "The Fall of the House of Usher" were the two best Poe stories. After the success of House of Usher (1960), he strongly considered making Masque as the follow-up.

In 1961, Corman announced he would make Masque from a script by Charles Beaumont to be produced for his Filmgroup Company. However, he later said he was reluctant to move forward because it had several elements similar to The Seventh Seal (1957), and Corman was worried people would say he was stealing from Bergman. "I kept moving The Masque of the Red Death back, because of the similarities, but it was really an artificial reason in my mind", he later said. Eventually, he decided to go ahead and do it anyway.

Another factor in the delay was that Corman had a great deal of trouble coming up with a screenplay with which he was happy. Drafts were written by John Carter, Robert Towne and Barboura Morris, but Corman was not happy with any of them.

There were also a number of rival adaptations of Masque being considered around this time. The Woolner Brothers announced a film based on the story as did producer Alex Gordon, who said he had Price as star.
 
Corman was pleased with an early draft from Beaumont, which introduced the concept of Prince Prospero being a Satanist. Corman felt this draft still needed work, but Beaumont was too ill to come to England for rewriting. So he hired R. Wright Campbell, who had just made The Secret Invasion with Corman, to come with him. Corman says it was Campbell who introduced the subplot of the dwarf, from another Poe story, "Hop-Frog".

Casting
Corman cast Patrick Magee, with whom he had previously worked on The Young Racers (1963). "He could find these strange little quirks which he would bring out during his performance, making it a richer and more fully rounded characterization", recalls Corman.

Filming
AIP had a co-production deal with Anglo-Amalgamated in England, so Sam Arkoff and James H. Nicholson suggested to Corman that the film be made there. This meant the film could qualify for the Eady levy and increase the budget; normally, an AIP film was done in three weeks, but Masque was shot in five weeks. (Although Corman felt that five weeks in England was the equivalent to four weeks in the US because English crews worked slower.) Many of the extensive castle sets were left over from Becket, which had been shot earlier that year and had won a BAFTA award for its sets (as well as a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Art Direction). The film was one of the first films shot in color by cinematographer Nicolas Roeg.

Dan Haller was used as production designer but not credited to ensure the film qualified as British. Corman says this was why George Willoughby was credited as producer, although it was Corman who was the actual producer.

Corman later expressed dissatisfaction with the final "masque" sequence, which he described as "the greatest flaw" in the film, feeling he did not have enough time to shoot it. He filmed it in one day, which he said would have been enough time in Hollywood but that English crews were too slow.

Release
When the film came out, producer Alex Gordon sued AIP, claiming the film was based on a script he had written; however, he lost his case in court.

British censors removed part of a scene where Hazel Court's character asks the devil to send her a demon. The BBC wrongly claimed in a documentary the removed scene was one where she imagines a series of demonic figures attacking her while she lies on a slab.

This was proven when journalist Sandy Robertson, using a letter from producer Samuel Z. Arkoff, finally got the BBFC to release their files on the film. The scene where she's attacked by figures while on a slab was in every print seen in the UK, including one Robertson saw as early as the 1960s. British and UK censors required different cuts, which weren't restored until the 2018 restoration by Martin Scorsese's film foundation.

Corman recalled years later: