[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# César Aira

César Aira (Argentine Spanish: ; born 23 February 1949 in Coronel Pringles, Buenos Aires Province) is an Argentinian writer and translator, and an exponent of contemporary Argentinian literature. Aira has published over a hundred short books of stories, novels and essays. In fact, at least since 1993, a hallmark of his work is a truly frenetic level of writing and publication—two to five novella-length books each year. He has lectured at the University of Buenos Aires, on Copi and Arthur Rimbaud, and at the University of Rosario on Constructivism and Stéphane Mallarmé, and has translated and edited books from France, England, Italy, Brazil, Spain, Mexico, and Venezuela.

His work
Besides his fiction, and the translation work he does for a living, Aira also writes literary criticism, including monographic studies of Copi, the poet Alejandra Pizarnik, and the nineteenth-century British limerick and nonsense writer Edward Lear.  He wrote a short book, Las tres fechas (The Three Dates), arguing for the central importance, when approaching some minor eccentric writers, of examining the moment of their lives about which they are writing, the date of completion of the work, and the date of publication of the work.  Aira also was the literary executor of the complete works of his friend the poet and novelist Osvaldo Lamborghini (1940–1985).

Style
Aira has often spoken in interviews of elaborating an avant-garde aesthetic in which, rather than editing what he has written, he engages in a "flight forward" (fuga hacia adelante) to improvise a way out of the corners he writes himself into. Aira also seeks in his own work, and praises in the work of others (such as the Argentine-Parisian cartoonist and comic novelist Copi), the "continuum" (el continuo) of a constant momentum in the fictional narrative.  As a result, his fictions can jump radically from one genre to another, and often deploy narrative strategies from popular culture and "subliterary" genres like pulp science fiction and television soap operas. He frequently refuses to conform to generic expectations for how a novel ought to end, leaving many of his fictions quite open-ended.

While his subject matter ranges from Surrealist or Dadaist quasi-nonsense to fantastic tales set in his Buenos Aires neighborhood of Flores, Aira also returns frequently to Argentina's nineteenth century (two books translated into English, The Hare and An Episode in the Life of a Landscape Painter, are examples of this; so is the best-known novel of his early years, Ema la cautiva (Emma, the Captive)).  He also returns regularly to play with stereotypes of an exotic East, such as in Una novela china, (A Chinese Novel); El volante (The Flyer), and El pequeño monje budista (The Little Buddhist Monk).  Aira also enjoys mocking himself and his childhood home town, Coronel Pringles, in fictions such as Cómo me hice monja (How I Became a Nun), Cómo me reí (How I Laughed), El cerebro musical (The Musical Brain) and Las curas milagrosas del doctor Aira (The Miraculous Cures of Dr. Aira).  His novella La prueba (1992) served as the basis—or point of departure, as only the first half-hour follows the novella—of Diego Lerman's film Tan de repente (Suddenly) (2002).  His novel Cómo me hice monja (How I Became a Nun) was selected as one of the ten best publications in Spain in the year 1998.

Awards and honours 
 Konex Award – translation (1994)
 Konex Award – novel (2004)
 Prix Roger Caillois (2014)
 Neustadt International Prize for Literature – finalist (2014)
 Man Booker International Prize – finalist (2015)
 America Awards (2016)
 Manuel Rojas Ibero-American Narrative Award (2016)
 Prix Formentor (2021)

Bibliography
A partial bibliography:

Novels

Pamphlets and standalone short stories

 El infinito (1994). Vanagloria Ediciones 
 La pastilla de hormona (2002). Belleza y Felicidad 
 Mil gotas (2003). Eloísa Cartonera 
 El cerebro musical (2005). Eloísa Cartonera 
 El todo que surca la nada (2006). Eloísa Cartonera 
 Picasso (2007). Belleza y Felicidad 
 El perro (2010). Belleza y Felicidad 
 El criminal y el dibujante (2010). Spiral Jetty 
 El té de Dios (2010). Mata-Mata 
 La Revista Atenea (2011). Sazón Ediciones Latinoamericanas 
 El hornero (2011). Sazón Ediciones Latinoamericanas 
 En el café (2011). Belleza y Felicidad
 A brick wall (2012). Del Centro

Stories originally published in magazines

 "El sultán" (1991) in Paradoxa magazine, Vol. 6, No. 6, pp. 27–29. 
 "El hornero" (1994/1995) in Muela de Juicio magazine, Vol. 9, No. 5, pp. 2–4. 
 "Pobreza" (1996) in Muela de Juicio magazine, Vol. 11, No. 6, pp. 2–3. 
 "Los osos topiarios del Parque Arauco" in Paula magazine. 
 "El té de Dios" (2011) in the Mexican edition of Playboy magazine.

Short story collections

 La trompeta de mimbre (1998). Beatriz Viterbo
 Tres historias pringlenses (2013). Ediciones Biblioteca Nacional
 Relatos reunidos (2013). Mondadori
 El cerebro musical (2016). Literatura Random House