[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Health in Nigeria

o central sewage system, except for in Abuja and some areas of Lagos. A 2006 study estimated that only 1% of Lagos households were connected to general sewers. In 2016, mortality rate attributed to unsafe water, unsafe sanitation and lack of hygiene is 68.6 deaths per 100,000 populations.

HIV/AIDS 

The Nigeria HIV/AIDS indicator and impact survey 2018 revealed that the national HIV prevalence rate among adults ages 15–49 is 1.4 percent. The prevalence of HIV in Nigeria varies widely by region and states. Akwa Ibom State has the highest prevalence rate of HIV with 5.6 percent and disease burden of 200,051 percentage of deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and followed by Benue State (4.9%, 188,482 DALYs) and Rivers (3.8%, 196,225 DALYs). The States, Jigawa (12,804 DALYs) and Katsina (26,597 DALYs) both have the lowest prevalence of 0.3 percent. The epidemic is more concentrated and driven by high-risk behaviors, including having multiple sexual partners, low risk perceptions, inadequate access to quality health care services, as well as street/road hawking of goods by itinerant workers (hawkers) especially, around military and police checkpoints. Other risk factors that contribute to the spread of HIV, including prostitution, high prevalence of sexually transmitted infections, clandestine high-risk homosexual/heterosexual practices, and women trafficking. Youth and young adults in Nigeria are particularly vulnerable to HIV, with young women at higher risk than young men.

Malaria 
Malaria, a disease caused by mosquitoes has resulted in untold morbidity and mortality in Nigeria. Although, there has been slight decline in malarial transmission and deaths since 2007 it ranked the number one cause of deaths in the country, the disease still remain unflagging. As of 2012, the malaria prevalence rate was 11 percent. A part of this data is from the President's Malaria Initiative which identifies Nigeria as a high-burden country. Nigeria's branch dealing with this problem, the National Malaria Control Program recognized the problem and embraced the World Malaria Day theme of "End Malaria for Good".

In 2017, according to IHME ranking, malaria ranked the fourth on the causes of most deaths in Nigeria with U5MR and under-1 child mortality of 103.2 deaths and 62.6 deaths per 1,000 live births respectively. With pockets of high-level transmission persisting in states across Nigeria coupled with the never-ending struggle against drug and insecticide resistance as well as the socio-economic costs associated with a failure to eradicate the disease, malaria eradication by 2050 seems unachievable. However, the step to eradicate the disease is a bold attainable goal if concerted efforts are put in place. The challenge of ineffective management of malaria prevention and control programs and inadequate use of data to inform strategies should be addressed. The control of mosquitoes, high quality diagnosis, and treatment are very necessary if the problem is to be successfully eradicated. Strong and committed leadership at various levels of government in Nigeria, reinforced through transparency and independent accountability mechanisms are very important to ensure a complete eradication of malaria in the country.

Endemic diseases 
In 1985, an incidence of yellow fever devastated a town in Nigeria, leading to the death of 1000 people. In a span of 5 years, the epidemic grew, with a resulting rise in mortality. The yellow fever vaccine has been in existence since the 1930s. There are other endemic diseases in the country which include malaria, hepatitis A, hepatitis B, typhoid, meningitis. and lassa fever. Travelers are normally advised to get travel vaccines and medicines because of the risk of these diseases in the country.

Food
Nutrition, especially in the north of the country, is often poor. Since 2002, food staples are supposed to be fortified with nutrients such as vitamin A, folic acid, zinc, iodine and iron. Bill Gates, said there had been "pushback" by some in Nigerian industries as this reduced profit margins. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is donating $5 million over four years to implement a rigorous testing regime to make sure these standards are met.  These nutrients would reach poorer children who ate mainly a cereal and beans diet at very low cost and reduce the risk of stunting.  Vitamin A would reduce the risk of death from measles or diarrhoea. In some districts 7% of children die before they reach the age of five.  Nearly half of these are attributable to malnutrition. Aliko Dangote, whose companies supply salt, sugar and flour, said there would need to be a crack down on the import of low-quality foodstuff, often smuggled into local markets.

Pollution 
Traffic congestion in Lagos, environmental pollution:water pollution, and air pollution; and noise pollution are major health issues.

Water