[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

Senate Judiciary Committee, Kennedy asked Petersen about basic legal procedure, whether he knew what the Daubert standard was, and what a motion in limine was. Petersen struggled to answer. Kennedy also voted against the nomination of Gregory G. Katsas to the D.C. Circuit, but Katsas was confirmed.

On April 7, 2017, Kennedy voted to confirm Neil Gorsuch to the United States Supreme Court. Kennedy participated in Gorsuch's confirmation as a member of the Judiciary Committee. During the confirmation process, Kennedy said, “Neil Gorsuch is obviously very well-qualified based on his education and background, but I want to know what’s in his heart. I want to know what he thinks about past Supreme Court decisions and how the justices reached those decisions. I want to know whether he thinks personal preferences have a role in the judicial decision-making. I want to know if he knows the name of the person who cleans his office. Also, I'm rather fond of the U.S. Constitution, and I want to make sure he is, too."

On October 6, 2017, Kennedy voted to confirm Brett Kavanaugh to the Supreme Court. As a member of the Judiciary Committee, Kennedy participated in Kavanaugh's contentious nomination hearing after Christine Blasey Ford accused Kavanaugh of sexual assault. Kennedy criticized the hearing, saying, "No fair-minded American can believe that he's not qualified—he went to Yale Law School; he didn't get his law degree from Costco. He has a total command of Supreme Court precedent. I think he’s a legal rock star." Kennedy broke from Republicans during the hearing to call for the FBI's investigation into Ford's allegations to be made public. 

In March 2018, after a dog died in an overhead bin while flying United Airlines, Kennedy said he would file a bill to "prohibit airlines from putting animals in overhead bins" and added that officials "would face significant fines" if they did not comply. That month, he introduced the Welfare Of Our Furry Friends (WOOFF) Act, but the bill died in committee.

In July 2018, Kennedy and several other Republican members of Congress met with Russian government officials in Moscow. During the meetings, the two sides discussed election interference, upholding nuclear arms treaties, maintaining peace in Syria, and respecting Ukrainian sovereignty. The delegation was criticized for visiting the country during Fourth of July celebrations and for holding the talks just days after an incident in the United Kingdom in which a couple were poisoned by a suspected Russian nerve agent.

On October 12, 2018, the Senate voted to pass Kennedy's Rural Business Investment Program Advisers Relief Act of 2018. The bill removes compliance costs on a venture capital program aimed at stimulating business in rural America. It became law in 2019. 

On December 18, 2018, Kennedy voted against the First Step Act, a criminal justice reform bill that reduced the prison sentences of some federal inmates. He said, "I voted against this bill because the most important goal of the criminal justice system for American families is justice. This bill is backwards. It favors criminals over victims. It forgets that the ultimate goal is justice. We’ve seen what’s happened with so-called criminal justice reform in Louisiana. People are literally getting killed."

On October 5, 2018, Kennedy introduced a Small Business Administration Disaster Loan bill to stop the agency from dropping SBA loan limits from $25,000 to $14,000 to ensure businesses have funds to rebuild following natural disasters. The bill passed the Senate with unanimous consent. President Trump signed it into law on November 29, 2018.

On November 15, 2018, Kennedy introduced the National Flood Insurance Program Extension Act, a bill that amended the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 to reauthorize the National Flood Insurance Program until June 1, 2019, to avoid a lapse in the program. The bill passed the Senate with unanimous consent and passed the House with a vote of 315-48. Trump signed the bill into law on December 21, 2018.

In 2018, Kennedy worked with Senator Joe Manchin on the Justice Against Corruption on K Street (JACK) Act. The bill was named after Jack Abramoff, a lobbyist who was convicted of fraud, corruption, and conspiracy. Kennedy said, "This idea is simple: If you have been convicted of a felony like bribery, extortion, embezzlement or tax evasion, you should have to disclose that when registering to become a lobbyist. Political leaders and businesses need to know the backgrounds of those who are trying to influence public policy." The bill passed the Senate on December 20, 2018, and was signed into law in 2019. In February 2020, JACK Act disclosures revealed that lobbyists with criminal histories collected $3.1 million.