[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tufa Rutan

to Chang'an to request forgiveness.

In winter 408, Tufa Rutan again declared independence, and claimed the title of Prince of Liang, in light of Later Qin's defeats at his own hands and at the hands of Liu Bobo.  He created his wife Lady Zhejue princess, and his son Tufa Hutai (禿髮虎台) crown prince.

Late reign
The redeclaration of independence might have been intended to show strength, but by this point Southern Liang was in definite trouble, being in constant draining warfare with Northern Liang and (after Qifu Gangui also redeclared independence from Later Qin in 409) Qifu Gangui's Western Qin, and historians generally view Tufa Rutan as responsible for the continued deterioration of Southern Liang's strength by continuing to initiate wars as well despite the obvious fatigue his state was suffering.

In 410, one of Tufa Rutan's campaigns would hurt him greatly.  He attacked Northern Liang and forced 1,000 households to move to his state.  In retaliation, Juqu Mengxun pillaged a larger number of households from his state, and when Tufa Rutan's brother Tufa Juyan responded, Juqu Mengxun defeated him.  When Tufa Rutan himself followed with a larger force, Juqu Mengxun defeated him as well, and then advanced on Guzang and put it under siege.  The residents of Guzang, remembering the massacre that Tufa Rutan carried out during Wang Zhong's rebellion, panicked, and a large number surrendered to Juqu Mengxun.  With his general Zhequ Qizhen (折屈奇鎮) also rebelling to the south, Tufa Rutan became apprehensive, and moved the capital from Guzang back to Ledu.  The general Jiao Lang quickly rebelled and held Guzang, although Juqu Mengxun conquered it in 411, and then advanced on Ledu, sieging it for more than a month before Tufa Rutan submitted by sending his son Tufa Anzhou (禿髮安周) to Juqu Mengxun as a hostage.

However, Tufa Rutan soon again planned revenge, and later that year he launched another attack on Northern Liang, which was initially successful, but his army withdrew at an overly leisurely pace, and when the weather turned against him, Juqu Mengxun caught him and defeated him, again sieging Ledu, forcing him to then send his son Tufa Rangan (禿髮染干) as a hostage so that Juqu Mengxun would withdraw.

In 413, Tufa Rutan launched yet another campaign against Northern Liang, and was again defeated.  Juqu Mengxun again put Ledu under siege but could not capture it.  However, Tufa Rutan's general Tufa Wenzhi (禿髮文支) then rebelled, encouraging Juqu Mengxun to launch a new attack.  Tufa Rutan was forced to send his brother Juqu Juyan to Northern Liang as a hostage.

In 414, the Tuoqihan (唾契汗) and Yifu (乙弗) tribes rebelled, and despite the state of desperation Southern Liang was in, Tufa Rutan, leaving his crown prince Tufa Hutai in command at Ledu, launched an attack against Yifu—which was quite successful.  However, Qifu Chipan, who had by this point succeeded Qifu Gangui as Western Qin's prince, launched an attack on Ledu, sieging it.  Tufa Hutai panicked, and forced the Han in the city into the inner citadel because he distrusted them, greatly weakening his own defense force, and Ledu fell.  Tufa Hutai was captured.

Tufa Rutan's nephew Tufa Fani (禿髮樊尼, Tufa Wugu's son) escaped and informed Tufa Rutan what had happened.  Tufa Rutan informed his troops that his plans were then to attack the Tuoqihan tribe, and then use the proceeds from the pillaging to ransom the people of Ledu from Western Qin.  However, the troops, upon hearing the news, collapsed and deserted him.  Tufa Rutan was forced to surrender to Western Qin as well.

After end of Southern Liang
Qifu Chipan initially treated Tufa Rutan as an honored guest.  He created Tufa Rutan the Duke of Zuonan and Tufa Rutan's daughter (whom he might have married far earlier, but could have also married at this time) his princess.  However, in 415, he secretly had Tufa Rutan poisoned.  After he was poisoned, Tufa Rutan realized what was happening, and refused all treatment.  He died soon thereafter.  In 423, Tufa Hutai and Princess Tufa, who plotted to try to avenge him, were discovered and executed by Qifu Chipan as well.

Personal information
 Father
 Tufa Sifujian (禿髮思復犍), Xianbei tribal chief
 Wife
 Princess Zhejue (created 408)
 Children
 Tufa Hutai (禿髮虎台), the Crown Prince (killed by Qifu Chipan 423)
 Tufa Mingdegui (禿髮明德歸)
 Tufa Anzhou (禿髮安周)
 Tufa Rangan (禿髮染干)
 Tufa Baozhou (禿髮保周)
 Tufa He (禿髮賀), later changed name to Yuan He (源賀)
 A daughter, later Princess Tufa of Western Qin (killed by Qifu Chipan 423)
 A daughter, later Qifu Chipan's Left Consort

References

Southern Liang (Sixteen Kingdoms) princes
365 births
415 deaths
Later Qin generals
Western Qin people
People from Northwest China