[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance

does. Dark Alliance uses a technique similar to what a large number of Dreamcast games did to pull off their clean look: they simply render the scene at a much higher resolution, anti-alias it, then drop it down to a more acceptable resolution for TVs. The result is a beautifully anti-aliased game".

On September 27, Interplay announced an exclusive North American distribution deal with Vivendi Universal Games, with Dark Alliance being one of the first two titles released under the new agreement. On November 2, Interplay announced the game had been finalized and was ready for manufacture, with a release date set for November 12. The game entered the manufacturing stage on November 5. On November 8, IGN gave a full preview, again praising the graphics, and writing: "This game is running on a rock-solid 3D engine with completely rotatable dungeons, brilliant animation for nearly every interactive element (of which there are many), and first-rate lighting effects of all different kinds [...] In the beginning, simple refined touches are impressive, amid the generally sharp atmosphere of the game (while there is no visible aliasing, the graphics aren't heavily filtered, either). Even when all you have to fight are rats, and all you have to fight with is a dagger, you can admire how barrels come apart when you smash them, in realistically shaded pieces and a puff of dust, or all the different limbs you can bloodily excise from your foes". The game was shipped by Black Isle Studios on December 3.

Ports
With the success of the PlayStation version, the Xbox port, also developed by Snowblind, was announced by Interplay on May 17, 2002, with a demo released on May 31. The game was finalized on September 25. The GameCube version was officially announced on September 19, 2002, to be ported by High Voltage Software. The game was finalized on October 28. The Game Boy Advance port was announced by DSI Games on November 8, 2001. However, little more was heard of the title until January 15, 2004, when a rumor circulated that the game was finished, and was set to be published by Ubisoft. This proved inaccurate, with Destination Software ultimately publishing the title, which had been ported by Magic Pockets.

Believing the game could also be a success on the PC, Interplay's Feargus Urquhart and David Perry contacted Polish developers CD Projekt. As Poland was known for only developing PC games, Urquhart and Perry believed Projekt would be the perfect team to port Dark Alliance to PC. Sebastian Zieliński, developer of Mortyr 2093-1944, which Interplay had published, was placed in charge of the project, with Adam Badowski, a film storyboard artist, hired as designer. A PlayStation 2 development kit was smuggled from Interplay's offices in London to Poland, and work on the port began. But almost immediately, Interplay cancelled development.

A reissue of Dark Alliance for PlayStation 4, PlayStation 5, Xbox One, Xbox Series X and Series S was released on May 7, 2021, with a Nintendo Switch version followed on May 20, 2021, as well as future plans for a personal computer and mobile version later that year. The reissue supports some addition updates such as 4k resolution support on the newer consoles, but is otherwise not a remaster or remake of the original game.

Ports of the game for Microsoft Windows, macOS and Linux were eventually published on Steam and GOG.com on December 17, 2021.

Reception

Baldur's Gate: Dark Alliance was well received on all four platforms. Metacritic records all versions as receiving "generally favorable reviews", with the PlayStation 2 version holding an aggregate score of 87 out of 100, based on twenty-nine reviews; the Xbox version 83 out of 100, based on twenty-five reviews, the GameCube version 79 out of 100, based on ten reviews, and the Game Boy Advance version 76 out of 100, based on seventeen reviews.