[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 94]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

's head is a
safeguard, the unimpeachable virtue of a district is amply accounted
for."

Professor Theobald chuckled. He enquired if Lady Engleton knew Mrs.
Temperley's motive in adopting the child.

"Oh, partly real kindness; but I think, between ourselves, that Mrs.
Temperley likes to be a little eccentric. Most people have the instinct
to go with the crowd. Hadria Temperley has the opposite fault. She loves
to run counter to it, even when it is pursuing a harmless course."

Some weeks had now passed since the arrival of the two Professors. The
meetings in the Priory garden had been frequent. They had affected for
the better Professor Theobald's manner. Valeria's laws had curbed the
worst side of him, or prevented it from shewing itself so freely. He
felt the atmosphere of the little society, and acknowledged that it was
"taming the savage beast." As for his intellect it took to blazing, as
if, he said, without false modesty, a torch had been placed in pure
oxygen.

"My brain takes fire here and flames. I should make a very creditable
beacon if the burning of brains and the burning of faggots were only of
equal value."

The little feud between him and Mrs. Temperley had been patched up. She
felt that she had been rude to him, on one occasion at any rate, and
desired to make amends. He had become more cautious in his conduct
towards her.

During this period of the Renaissance, as Hadria afterwards called the
short-lived epoch, little Martha was visited frequently. Her protectress
had expected to have to do battle with hereditary weakness on account of
her mother's sufferings, but the child shewed no signs of this. Either
the common belief that mental trouble in the mother is reflected in the
child, was unfounded, or the evil could be overcome by the simple
beneficence of pure air, good food, and warm clothing.

Hadria had begun to feel a more personal interest in her charge. She had
taken it under her care of her own choice, without the pressure of any
social law or sentiment, and in these circumstances of freedom, its
helplessness appealed to her protective instincts. She felt the
relationship to be a true one, in contradistinction to the more usual
form of protectorate of woman to child.

"There is nothing in it that gives offence to one's dignity as a human
being," she asserted, "which is more than can be said of the ordinary
relation, especially if it be legal."

She was issuing from little Martha's cottage on one splendid morning,
when she saw Professor Theobald coming up the road from Craddock Dene.
He caught sight of Hadria, hesitated, coloured, glanced furtively up the
road, and then, seeing he was observed, came forward, raising his cap.

"You can't imagine what a charming picture you make; the English cottage
creeper-covered and smiling; the nurse and child at the threshold
equally smiling, yourself a very emblem of spring in your fresh gown,
and a domestic tabby to complete the scene."

"I wish I could come and see it," said Hadria. She was waving a twig of
lavender, and little Martha was making grabs at it, and laughing her
gurgling laugh of babyish glee. Professor Theobald stood in the road
facing up hill towards Craddock, whose church tower was visible from
here, just peeping through the spring foliage of the vicarage garden. He
only now and again looked round at the picture that he professed to
admire.

"Do you want to see a really pretty child, Professor Theobald? Because
if so, come here."

He hesitated, and a wave of dark colour flooded his face up to the roots
of his close-clipped hair.

He paused a moment, and then bent down to open the little gate. His
stalwart figure, in the diminutive enclosure, reduced it to the
appearance of a doll's garden.

"Step carefully or you will crush the young _ménage_," Hadria advised.
The rosy-cheeked nurse looked with proud expectancy at the face of the
strange gentleman, to note the admiration that he could not but feel.

His lips were set.

The Professor evidently knew his duty and proceeded to admire with due
energy. Little Martha shrank away a little from the bearded face, and
her lower lip worked threateningly, but the perilous moment was staved
over by means of the Professor's watch, hastily claimed by Hannah, who
dispensed with ceremony in the emergency.

Martha's eyes opened wide, and the little hands came out to grasp the
treasure. Hadria stood and laughed at the sight of the gigantic
Professor, helplessly tethered by his own chain to the imperious baby,
in whose fingers the watch was tightly clasped. The child was in high
delight at the loquacious new toy--so superior to foolish fluffy rabbits
that could not tick to save their skins. Martha had no notion of
relinquishing her hold, so they need not tug in that feeble way; if they
pulled too hard, she would yell!

She evidently meant business, said her captive. So long as they left her
the watch, t