[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 176]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

der _his_ guardianship and authority, and that my
jurisdiction ceases, he must take her at once. I will certainly not act
for _him_ in that matter. Since you are in his confidence, would you
kindly tell him that?"

Lady Engleton looked surprised. "Certainly; I suppose he and his sister
will look after the child."

"I shall send Martha up with Hannah."

"It will astonish him."

"Does he really think I am going to act as his deputy?"

"He thought you would be glad to have Martha as long as possible."

"As the child of Ellen Jervis, yes--not as his child."

"I don't see that it matters much, myself," said Lady Engleton,
"however, I will let him know."

"By telegram, please, because Martha will be sent to-morrow."

"What breathless haste!"

"Why delay? Hannah will be there--she knows everything about her charge;
and if she is only allowed to stay----"

"He told me he meant to keep her."

"I am thankful for that!"

By this time, the story had flown through the village; nothing else was
talked of. The excitement was intense. Gossip ran high in hall and
cottage. Professor Fortescue alone could not be drawn into the
discussion. Lady Engleton took him aside and asked what he really
thought about it. All he would say was that the whole affair was deeply
tragic. He had no knowledge of the circumstances and feelings involved,
and his judgment must therefore be useless. It seemed more practical to
try to help one's fellows to resist sin, than to shriek at convicted
sinners.

His departure had been fixed for the following morning.

"So you and poor little Martha will go up together by the afternoon
train, I suppose," said Lady Engleton.

Hadria spent the rest of the day at Martha's cottage. There were many
preparations to make. Hannah was bustling about, her eyes red with
weeping. She was heart-broken. She declared that she could never live
with "that bad man." But Hadria persuaded her, for Martha's sake, to
remain. And Hannah, with another burst of tears, gave an assurance which
amounted to a pledge, that she would take a situation with the Father of
Evil himself, rather than desert the blessed child.

"I wonder if Martha realizes at all what is going to happen," said
Hadria sadly, as she stood watching the little girl playing with her
toys. Martha was talking volubly to the blue man. He still clung to a
precarious existence (though he was seriously chipped and faded since
the Paris days), and had as determined a centre of gravity as ever.

"I don't think she understands, ma'am," said Hannah. "I kep' on tellin'
her, and once she cried and said she did not want to go, but she soon
forgot it."

Hadria remained till it was time to dress for dinner. Professor
Fortescue had promised to dine with her and Valeria on this last
evening. Little Martha had been put early to bed, in order that she
might have a long rest before the morrow's journey. The golden curls lay
like strands of silk on the pillow, the bright eyes were closed in
healthful slumber. The child lay, the very image of fresh and pure and
sweet human life, with no thought and no dread of the uncertain future
that loomed before her. Hannah had gone upstairs to pack her own
belongings. The little window was open, as usual, letting the caressing
air wander in, as sweet and fresh as the little body and soul to which
it had ministered from the beginning.

The busy, loud-ticking clock was working on with cheerful unconcern, as
if this were just like every other day whose passing moments it had
registered. The hands were pointing towards seven, and the dinner hour
was half-past seven. Hadria stood looking down at the sleeping child,
her hands resting on the low rail of the cot. There was a desolate look
in her eyes, and something more terrible still, almost beyond
definition. It was like the last white glow of some vast fire that has
been extinguished.

Suddenly--as something that gives way by the run, after a long
resistance--she dropped upon her knees beside the cot with a slight cry,
and broke into a silent storm of sobs, deep and suppressed. The
stillness of the room was unbroken, and one could hear the loud
tick-tack of the little clock telling off the seconds with business-like
exactness.




CHAPTER LVII.


The evening was sultry. Although the windows of the dining-room were
wide open, not a breath of air came in from the garden. A dull, muggy
atmosphere brooded sullenly among the masses of the evergreens, and in
the thick summer foliage of the old walnut tree on the lawn.

"How oppressive it is!" Valeria exclaimed.

She had been asked to allow a niece of Madame Bertaux, who was to join
some friends in Italy, to make the journey under her escort, and the
date of her departure was therefore fixed. She had decided to return to
town on the morrow, to make her preparations.

Valeria declared impulsively that she would stay at home, after all. She
could not bea