[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# S-class destroyer (1917)

flotillas (V/W-class destroyers), were in the Atlantic Fleet; The Home Fleet had two flotillas (4th and 5th) of R-class vessels; The 6th Flotilla, comprising S-class destroyers, was sent to the Mediterranean Fleet, while the 7th Flotilla, also of S-class destroyers, formed a ready reserve at Rosyth.

Organization, July 1919:
 6th Destroyer Flotilla (Mediterranean Fleet, all in full commission): Senator, Seraph, Shark, Sikh, Spear, Speedy, Sportive, Steadfast, Swallow, Tilbury, Tobago, Tomahawk, Torch, Tribune, Tryphon, Tumult.
 7th Destroyer Flotilla (Rosyth reserve): in full commission: Scout, Seabear, Seafire, Somme, Sparrowhawk; in reserve: Sabre, Scimitar, Scotsman, Scythe, Searcher, Sepoy, Serapis, Simoom, Sirdar, Splendid, Trinidad.
 Attached to other flotillas (all in full commission): Tactician, Trojan (both with 3rd DF, Atlantic Fleet); Sterling (temporarily with 4th D.F., Home Fleet).
 other duties: Seawolf (tender to , Devonport), Strenuous (tender to , Portsmouth), Truant (tender to , Portsmouth).
 In Reserve: at the Nore: Stalwart, Success, Tara, Tasmania, Tattoo, Tenedos, Tintagel; at Portsmouth: Saladin, Stronghold, Swordsman, Torbay, Toreador, Trusty, Turquoise, Tuscan; at Plymouth: Sardonyx, Serene, Sesame, Spindrift.
 building: Shamrock, Shikari, Stonehenge, Stormcloud, Sturdy, Thanet, Thracian, Tourmaline, Turbulent, Tyrian.

Russian Civil War
A destroyer division consisting of four of these ships, Seafire, Scotsman, Scout and Seabear (under Commander A. B. Cunningham in Seafire), was part of Admiral Walter Cowan's squadron March–May 1919 during the British campaign in the Baltic (1918–19). Among other duties, they were involved in the Latvian War of Independence, foiling an attempted coup by German troops in the port of Libau.

During 1919–20 the S-class destroyers in the Mediterranean participated in the British intervention in southern Russia, giving military aid to the White Russian forces under Generals Denikin and Wrangel. In particular, Tomahawk and Tribune helped defend the Perekop line in January 1920; Sportive look part in the evacuation of White Troops from Odessa in February 1920; Steadfast, Sikh and Seraph were involved in the evacuation of Novorossik in March 1920; and Seraph and Shamrock in the final evacuation from the Crimea in November 1920, while Tourmaline and Tobago patrolled off Novorossisk and Tuapse to intercept any Soviet attempts to interfere (Tobago hit a mine during these operations, and was consequently scrapped).

Irish Civil War
After the Irish Free State came into being on 6 December 1922, the Royal Navy retained the right to base ships at three Treaty Ports: Berehaven, Queenstown/Cobh and Lough Swilly.  In order to maintain a naval presence in these ports, Seawolf, Scythe and Sesame were commissioned at reduced complement as independent commands in Irish waters during the 1920s. Scythe had a minor involvement in the Irish Civil War when machine gun fire was directed at her while moored at Spike Island (Queenstown harbour) on 21 March 1924. The S class serving in Irish waters had all been replaced with more modern vessels by 1931.

Mediterranean, Atlantic Fleet and China
In 1921 British destroyer flotillas were re-organized into formations consisting of one leader plus eight destroyers. The S-class destroyers, which formed the Mediterranean Fleet's destroyer force at that time, became the 7th and 8th Flotillas.

Organization, January 1923:
 7th Destroyer Flotilla (Mediterranean Fleet): leader ; Shark, Sikh, Sepoy, Trinidad, Tribune, Spear, Sparrowhawk, Senator.
 8th Destroyer Flotilla (Mediterranean Fleet): leader ; Sidar, Sportive, Splendid, Tourmaline, Seraph, Serapis, Somme, Swallow.
 Queenstown Command: Seawolf, Tilbury.
 Royal Australian Navy: Tasmania, Stalwart; in reserve: Success, Swordsman, Tattoo.
 other duties: Tara (tender to , Devonport), Truant (tender to Victory, Portsmouth).
 In Reserve: at The Nore: Thracian, Shamrock, Steadfast, Sabre, Tenedos, Thanet, Turbulent, Tintagel; at Portsmouth: Saladin, Turquoise, Tyrian, Stronghold, Sturdy, Trojan, Trusty, Torbay, Toreador; at Plymouth: Sterling, Stormcloud, Strenuous, Scimitar, Scotsman, Scout, Simoom, Scythe, Seabear, Seafire, Searcher, Serene, Sesame, Spindrift, Sardonyx, Tactician; at Malta: Tomahawk, Torch, Tumult, Tuscan.
 building: Shikari.

The 7th Flotilla returned to Home Waters to become part of the Atlantic Fleet in July 1923; it was re-designed as the 9th Flotilla in 1925 before being reduced to reserve by February 1926. The 8th Flotilla followed in October 1923, remaining in commission (with 40% complements) as part of the Atlantic Fleet until 1927.  The flotilla was then deployed to the China Station during the period of tension precipitated by the threat to British concessions at Shanghai (see Shanghai Defence Force).