[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Louis F. Schade

rican slaves would visit the same horrors on their former masters if slavery were abolished in America.

After the election was over, Schade returned to Washington, D.C., in late 1860, where he took up the practice of law. He also lobbied Congress on behalf of the United States Brewers' Association.

The Wirz trial
In August 1865, Schade joined the legal team defending Confederate States Army Major Henry Wirz. Wirz was the former commandant of the Confederacy's Camp Sumter prisoner-of-war (POW) camp (commonly referred to as "Andersonville Prison", after a nearby town). Wirz was accused of conspiracy to injure the health of his prisoners, conspiracy to commit murder, torture, ordering guards to commit murder, allowing dogs to maul prisoners as a means of punishment, and personally committing murder on 13 separate occasions. Although the list of co-conspirators originally included former Confederate President Jefferson Davis and 12 others, by the time the trial started only Wirz was prosecuted. Wirz, a Swiss émigré of German background, was initially represented by James Hughes (former judge with the United States Court of Claims and former member of the United States House of Representatives), James W. Denver (former Territorial Governor of Kansas, former member of the House, and former Brigadier General of Volunteers in the Union Army), Charles F. Peck (an attorney from Illinois), and Schade, all of whom volunteered on or about August 20, 1865, to represent him. Hughes, Denver, and Peck withdrew from the trial on its first day, outraged at lack of fairness exhibited by the military tribunal and their lack of time to prepare the defense. Schade, however, remained as counsel. On the third day of the trial, local attorney Otis H. Baker joined him as co-counsel. After their pretrial motions and pleadings were denied by the court, Schade and Baker attempted to resign as legal counsel. Wirz pleaded with them to remain, and they agreed to do so.

The prosecution, whose presentation lasted until October 18, argued that the lack of shelter (Andersonville was  of bare ground, fenced with barbed wire), food, medical care, and clothing was Wirz's responsibility as commandant of the camp. The severe punishments meted out were also due to his orders. Schade's defense was that Wirz provided the best possible care for the POWs, given the huge influx of prisoners, the complete lack of food and supplies given to his troops, and the severe shortage of both physicians and guards. Schade and Baker faced extreme difficulties during the trial. Any attempt to impugn the character of prosecution witnesses was ruled slander by the court. The defense was forced to rely on the Union Army to serve subpoenas and force witnesses to testify, which it allegedly did only in some cases (only 32 of 100 subpoenaed defense witnesses testified). Union Army soldiers were denied the opportunity to testify on Wirz's behalf. The court prevented Schade and Baker from delivering a summation, and ordered a court reporter to do so in their stead.

Wirz was found guilty on almost all charges. Schade pleaded with President Andrew Johnson for clemency. Johnson granted him an audience, although it was not a private one, and accepted a letter from Schade outlining the grounds for clemency. Aside from complaints about the military tribunal's behavior and the enumeration of hundreds of legal errors, Schade argued that Wirz was dying and would not live more than a few months. Johnson denied clemency, and Wirz was hanged on November 10, 1865.

Schade won a national reputation for his defense of Wirz, even though the defense ended in failure. After Wirz's death, Schade said that unnamed men had approached Wirz, Schade, and Wirz's Catholic priest, Father Francis E. Boyle, on the night before Wirz's death. These men offered to have Wirz's sentence commuted to life in prison if Wirz would implicated Jefferson Davis in the Andersonville crimes. Wirz, Schade, said, declined. On April 4, 1867, Schade published an "open letter to the American people" in several major newspapers, in which he delineated the legal failings of the Wirz trial and declared his client innocent.

Wirz reburial
Schade also campaigned to have Wirz given a proper burial. After his death, Wirz was buried alongside the Lincoln assassination conspirators (John Wilkes Booth, Mary Surratt, Lewis Powell, George Atzerodt, and David Herold) along the south wall of the prison courtyard at the Washington Arsenal (now Fort Lesley J. McNair).  The War Department decided to tear down the portion of the arsenal where the bodies lay, and on October 1, 1867, the coffins were disinterred and reburied in the basement of Warehouse No. 1 at the Arsenal. Schade, the Surratt family, and the Booth family had long asked that the remains of their loved ones be turned over to them.