[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Godfrey Weitzel

ted Masons' Hall from burning and looting in the time period immediate after the Confederate's retreat from Richmond.  Weitzel, who was a Freemason, was requested by old Masons of the city to protect the Hall, and Weitzel granted their request and had sentinels posted so that no harm was done to it.

In New Orleans in 1863, Weitzel had said that he didn't believe in "colored troops" and didn't want to command them, but after they had taken Richmond in 1865, in 1866, after the war's end, he reflected on the service of African American soldiers in the Union Army, stating:

Postwar career
While other generals were feted at the end of the war, the German immigrant and his all-black Army corps were sent to Texas to evict the French who had occupied Mexico, which was considered one of the most difficult assignments. Weitzel remained in command of the District of Rio Grande until 1866, when he was mustered out of the volunteer service on March 1. He reverted to his regular Army rank, but was promoted to major of engineers later that year and to lieutenant colonel in 1882. In August 1866 he began designing an expanded canal around the Falls of the Ohio on the Indiana side.

In 1875, he established the temporary lighthouse on a pole in the lake at Alpena, Michigan.  In 1877 he built a crib for the second Alpena Light.  He also designed it as a timber building in the form of a brown wooden pyramidal tower, complete with a Sixth Order Fresnel lens.  In July 1888 it burned with much of the town.

In 1881 Weitzel completed the building of a  lock at the Soo Canal, at that time the largest canal lock in the world, and the next year the Stannard Rock Lighthouse on Lake Superior.  He also helped design and build the Spectacle Reef Light with Colonel Orlando M. Poe.  Transferred to Philadelphia, he was in charge of engineering projects in the region, and Chairman of the Commission Advisatory to the Board of Harbor Commissioners.

Death and legacy

Weitzel caught typhoid fever after being reassigned to Philadelphia. He lived near the University of Pennsylvania, but toured the city, and the fetid water of the Aramingo Canal about five miles away was blamed. Medical treatment was ineffective. He died from complication after about a month, on March 19, 1884.

His body was returned to Cincinnati for burial in Spring Grove Cemetery, in his in-laws' plot. Although Weitzel had wanted a private funeral, his hometown wanted to express gratitude for his service, and conducted its largest gathering in many years. Ohio's First National Guard and Jacob D. Cox, as well as members of Cincinnati's Society of Ex-Army and Navy Officers accompanied his remains to the English Lutheran Church (which was packed), and thousands lined the streets to the cemetery. He was survived by his elderly mother, his brother State Senator Lewis Weitzel, and his widow (who died on August 18, 1927) and daughter Irene (1876–1936).

The U.S. Army named one of the major streets in Arlington National Cemetery "Ord & Weitzel Drive" after the unassuming engineer, although the northern gate with that name was later removed upon the cemetery's expansion.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)
German Americans in the Civil War
Saginaw River Light
XXV Corps

Notes

References

Cincinnati CWRT article on Weitzel

Further reading
 Taylor, Paul (October 2009) Orlando M. Poe: Civil War General and Great Lakes Engineer (Kent State University Press) ; .
Weitzel, Godfrey Major, Report Upon the Construction of Stannard's Rock Light Station, Lake Superior, Michigan, Appendix to the 1882 Annual Report of the Lighthouse Board. Washington: GPO, 1882, pp. 85–102; 14 plates.
 Quatman, G. William (2015) "A Young General and the Fall of Richmond: The Life and Career of Godfrey Weitzel," (Ohio University Press) ;  (electronic); 368 pages; 29 illustrations; 11 maps.

External links

Biography at Ohio History Central

1835 births
1884 deaths
Bavarian emigrants to the United States
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
Union Army generals
United States Military Academy alumni
Mayors of New Orleans
Deaths from typhoid fever
People from Pirmasens
Military personnel from the Kingdom of Bavaria
Military personnel from Cincinnati
Burials at Spring Grove Cemetery
Infectious disease deaths in Pennsylvania
Engineers from Ohio
Lighthouse builders
19th-century American politicians