[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Amelia Jones

ety of the spectacle. She has also edited The Feminism and Visual Culture Reader, the seven part work of Provocations, Representation, Difference, Disciplines/Strategies, Mass culture/Media interventions, Body, and Technology.

The following is a selection of works written or edited by Amelia Jones:

 Postmodernism and the En-Gendering of Marcel Duchamp.  New York: Cambridge University Press, 1994.
 Sexual Politics: Judy Chicago's 'Dinner Party' in Feminist Art History.  Berkeley: University of California Press, 1996.
 Body Art/Performing the Subject. Minneapolis: Minnesota University Press, 1998.
 Warr, Tracey and Amelia Jones (eds.). The Artist's Body.  London: Phaidon, 2000.
 The Feminism and Visual Culture Reader. New York: Routledge, 2003.
 Irrational Modernism: A Neurasthenic History of New York Dada.  Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press, 2004.
 Self/Image: Technology, Representation, and the Contemporary Subject. New York: Routledge, 2006.
 “The Artist is Present”: Artistic Re-enactments and the Impossibility of Presence. TDR, Vol. 55, No. 1 (Spring 2011), p. 16-45. Posted Online February 16, 2011.
 Heathfield, Adrian and Amelia Jones (eds.). Perform, Repeat, Record: Live Art in History. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 2012.
 Seeing Differently: A History and Theory of Identification and the Visual Arts. New York: Routledge, 2012.
 "Sexuality" London: Whitechapel Gallery, 2014.
 Silver, Erin and Amelia Jones (eds.). Otherwise: Imagining queer feminist art histories. Manchester: Manchester University Press, 2015.
 In between subjects: a critical genealogy of queer performance. New York: Routledge, 2021.

Awards 
Throughout Amelia Jones' career she has been recognized for her valuable contributions to the art world. She has also been recognized for her progressive work with feminist ideas. She was award the Distinguished Feminist Award in 2015 which honors art, scholarship, or advocacy advancing the cause of equality for women in the arts. Previous winners of the award include The Guerrilla Girls, Lucy Lippard and Lorraine O’Grady. Jones received a few awards prior that acknowledge her success as an art historian and feminist activist.

Awards Amelia Jones received:

 Distinguished Feminist Award, 2015
 National Endowment for the Humanities, 2000–01 
 Guggenheim fellow, 2000.
 Fellow of American Council of Learned Societies, 1994–95

References

American art historians
American feminists
Living people
Harvard University alumni
University of Pennsylvania alumni
University of California, Los Angeles alumni
University of California, Riverside faculty
Women art historians
1961 births
American women historians
21st-century American women
American women curators
American curators
Washington University in St. Louis faculty
University of Colorado Boulder faculty
Texas Christian University faculty
Maine College of Art & Design faculty
Academic staff of McGill University