[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cypriot refugees

tting from the boom in tourism across the south of the island.

Turkish Cypriot relief came mainly in the form of economic aid from Turkey as well as the allocation of formerly Greek Cypriot owned houses and property. Both sides had the same housing programme, taking use of the abandoned properties.

In April 2003, the Turkish Cypriot President Rauf Denktaş opened the border crossing for the first time since the island was divided, allowing both Greek and Turkish Cypriots to view their property for the first time since the separation of the two communities. Crossing procedures have since been relaxed allowing Cypriots from both communities to move relatively freely across the island.

It was hoped that Cyprus's accession to the European Union would provide an impetus for reunification of the island and, in 2004, the UN-backed Annan plan was put to referendums on both sides of the island. The plan envisaged a bicommunal, bizonal, federal state, with territorial concessions by the Turkish Cypriot side but only a limited right of return for displaced Greek Cypriots. The plan was accepted by the Turkish Cypriots but rejected by Greek Cypriots. Cyprus later entered the EU as a divided island. A new round of talks was initiated in 2008 between the leaders of the two Cypriot communities, Dimitris Christofias and Mehmet Ali Talat.

Legal action

Toumazou et al. v. Republic of Turkey et al. 

In October 2009, a lawsuit was brought against the TRNC Representative Offices and HSBC in Washington for the sale of Greek-Cypriot properties in Northern Cyprus. On 30 September 2014, the court dismissed the case with prejudice for lack of jurisdiction.

Legal status of the displaced Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots
The displaced Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots fell under the UN definition of "internally displaced persons". The government of USA considers Greek Cypriots displaced as a result of the 1974 division of the island to be "refugees".

See also
 Loizidou v. Turkey a landmark refugee legal case
 Greco-Turkish relations
 United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Representation in Cyprus

References

External links
 Map of Cyprus populational "redistribution" between 1960 and 1974
  U.N., U.S. fault Turkey for Greek Cypriot deaths
 UN Press Briefing in response to the recent killings of two Greek Cypriot 
 Associated Press: Greek prime minister warns Turkish troops on Cyprus
  Associated Press: Greek leader to visit Cyprus amid tension over killings
 Police account of anti-occupation
 Demonstrations for missing persons
 The Loizidou case
 Women of Cyprus Demonstrations

 
Refugees