[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Kosher locust

ly accepted in the city of Tunis—the rabbinical court of which was considered to have the higher authority—Perez kept his decision to himself without making it public. After the prohibition against eating locusts was finally declared in Tunis, Perez encouraged banning the practice in Djerba as well.

A variety of reasons have been advanced in opposition to ibn Attar's thesis, arguing that this comment of Rashi's should not be the basis for modern halacha. Among them:
 None of the thousands of species of grasshopper or locust known to zoologists possess the body plan suggested by Rashi's comment. According to Natan Slifkin, while it was reasonable for ibn Attar to conclude in the 18th century that the Torah referred to a different unknown species of locust, with more comprehensive modern zoology such a conclusion is untenable.
 In this commentary, Rashi intended to explain the words of the Biblical verse rather than to decide halacha, and indeed it would be inappropriate for a rabbi such as Rashi to have attempted to decide halacha based on his reading of Biblical verses, as ibn Attar understands Rashi to have done
 Rashi's opinion is a lone opinion contradicted by many other authorities
 Rashi himself seems to contradict this comment elsewhere.
 The Biblical verse, which states that the locust's jumping legs are "above" its walking legs, seems to mean that the jumping legs are further from the ground than the walking legs while the locust rests on the ground (as opposed to Rashi's interpretation that the jumping legs are closer to the neck, i.e. further up when the locust is held with its head up)
 The reference to the neck in Rashi's commentary may not even have been written by Rashi, but rather, added to manuscripts of his commentary by a later writer, as shown by comparison to other texts which quote Rashi's commentary but are missing these words

While ibn Attar writes that a rabbi he knew had discovered a locust whose jumping legs were next to the neck, the insect in question was almost certainly a mantis, whose front legs are large but are used for hunting not jumping, and which is universally considered not kosher.

Additionally, in Morocco, locusts were eaten into the 1900s. Only those who had a "continuous tradition" of both eating them and knowing the identifying sign of the kosher locusts would eat them.

How and by whom kosher locusts were eaten
Locusts were not considered a delicacy rather they were food for the poor. It has been suggested that consuming locusts is permitted precisely because they destroy crops. Thus, if the locusts were to eat all one's crops, one could instead eat locusts and avoid starvation. 

A midrash describes the pickling of locusts before their consumption:

In the 21st century, eating locusts from wild swarms is not recommended as they may be contaminated by insecticides used to control their numbers.

Among Yemenite Jews
Several methods were used to prepare locusts, prior to eating them. One popular way was to take the locusts and throw them into a pot of boiling salt water. After cooking for a few minutes, they were placed in a heated oven to dry them, or else spread out in the sun to dry. Once dried, the heads, wings and legs were removed, leaving only the thorax and abdomen for consumption.

Another method was to stoke an earthenware stove and, when fully heated, to cast them alive into the cavity of the stove. Once roasted, they were taken out and a brine solution was sprinkled over them, before spreading them out in the sun to dry, usually upon one’s rooftop. Those with refined tastes saw it as a delicacy.

See also
Chapulines
Entomophagy
Nsenene

References

Sources

Further reading

External links
Laws of Judaism concerning insects From the Torah and Maimonides’ Code of Jewish Law
Kosher locust a summary of the topic by Rabbi Natan Slifkin

Insects as food
Locust
Jewish cuisine
Locusts
Insects in religion
Jews and Judaism in Yemen
Jews and Judaism in Tunisia