[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# European Commissioner for Trade

tment were met with dismay by trade justice campaigners, who claimed his "responses at his three-hour hearing revealed his corporate sympathies and gave little indication that the change of personnel at the European Trade Commission will lead to any change in the direction of European trade policy."

De Gucht criticised China for undervaluing the renminbi and the United States for protectionism and incoherence over the Doha round. This further came after EADS pulled out of a US defence contract bid – that it had previously won before it was reopened – claiming bias against them in the tender process.

De Gucht achieved important trade agreements during his commissionship, among others, with South Korea (2011), Colombia and Peru (2013) and Central America, Singapore, Georgia, Moldova and Ukraine (2014). The comprehensive trade agreement with Ukraine was a direct cause of the upheavals in Independence Square and the Revolution of Dignity. He concluded CETA, the first ever agreement with a G7 member, in October 2014. He also concluded landmark economic partnership agreements with ECOWAS, SADC and EAC, covering a total of 75% of the African economy. The EAC trade agreement was signed in Nairobi on 31 October 2014, his last day in office.

He left office while several trade negotiations were still ongoing. He oversaw the start of trade negotiations with Japan and Vietnam, resumed talks with Mercosur and began investment agreement negotiations with China. He also prepared and launched the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) in 2013.

He enjoyed a strong reputation within the Commission at the end of his mandate, because of his progression of the trade portfolio and his strong views on European policy questions. On the other hand, he had to deal with some criticism in the general public and the media because of the apparently intransparent European negotiation mandate in the ongoing TTIP trade negotiations with the US, which gave rise to a number of rumours. The concerns were partially relieved after the negotiation mandate was released to the public in October 2014.

Malmström (2014–2019)
Cecilia Malmström was appointed Commissioner on 1 November 2014. The mission letter for her new post mentioned the successful conclusion of TTIP as one of her key duties, but with a number of restrictions and confinements to the negotiation mandate in order to address European public concerns. The confinements were the result of the hearing in the European Parliament a few weeks previously, where she was faced with some tough questions over TTIP negotiations. She tried to revive the negotiations with the United States two weeks after entering office.

Hogan (2019–2020)
Phil Hogan was appointed Commissioner on 1 December 2019.

He said in his confirmation hearings that he intended to sign the EU-China Comprehensive Agreement on Investment in 2020, while Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said that she wanted a trade agreement with the United Kingdom before the end of 2020.

However, in light of his conduct surrounding the Oireachtas Golf Society scandal, Hogan resigned from his role on 26 August 2020.

Valdis Dombrovskis (since 2020)
After Phil Hogan's resignation, Commission President Ursula von der Leyen invited the Irish government to present "suitable candidates" for the vacant Commissioner position. On 27 August 2020, von der Leyen designated Valdis Dombrovskis as interim Commissioner for Trade, who at the time also served as Commissioner for Financial Stability, Financial Services and the Capital Markets Union. Dombrovskis was formally named Commissioner for Trade on 8 September 2020, leading to Ireland losing the trade portfolio on the commission, and gaining Dombrovskis' former Finance portfolio.

List

See also

 Commerce minister
 Directorate-General for Trade
 David O'Sullivan
 Foreign relations of the European Union
 Economy of the European Union

External links
 2010/2014 Commissioner's Official website 
 Commission External Trade site

References

Foreign relations of the European Union
Foreign trade of the European Union
Portfolios in the European Commission