[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The King and I (1999 film)

The King and I is a 1999 American animated musical film directed by Richard Rich. It is the only animated feature film produced by Morgan Creek Entertainment. Loosely based on Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein II's 1951 stage musical of the same name, it portrays a fictionalized account of English school teacher Anna Leonowens' historical encounter with king Mongkut of Siam and the royal court. The voice cast stars Miranda Richardson and Martin Vidnovic as Leonowens and Mongkut, respectively, with Ian Richardson, Darrell Hammond, and Adam Wylie. The score, songs, and some of the character names come from the stage musical. Screenwriters Peter Bakalian, Jacqueline Feather, and David Seidler took creative liberties with the history and with the source material from the musical in an attempt to make the film palatable to all audiences.

The King and I was released on March 19, 1999, eight months prior to Anna and the King, a live-action adaptation of the same story. The critical consensus on Rotten Tomatoes calls it "charmless and shoddily animated." The King and I earned $12 million at the box office, and its gross was seen as disappointing compared to that of other animated films released at the time. The film received five nominations, including the London Critics Circle Film Award for British Actress of the Year for Richardson and the Golden Reel Award for Best Sound Editing in an Animated Feature.

Aside from foreign films, TV shows, and direct-to-video films, The King and I was the final mainstream theatrical film to officially be released under the Warner Bros. Family Entertainment banner. Warner Bros. has since released theatrical family films under its standard Warner Bros. Pictures banner.

Plot

In 1862, a ship sails from London to Bangkok; on board are Anna Leonowens and her son Louis. Kralahome, the Prime Minister, uses his powers of illusion to make it appear as if a massive sea serpent is attacking the ship as it's battered in a storm. Anna, with the help of Captain Orton, manages to save Louis from drowning, and they all manage to fend off the sea serpent by whistling. As they approach Bangkok, the captain explains to Anna how the kingdom is politically structured.

In the Grand Palace of Siam, Anna witnesses King Mongkut receive a gift in the form of a slave—a young woman named Tuptim from Burma.  “A BARBARICAL custom — the king LOVES it!”Kralahome, secretly plotting to have Mongkut removed from the throne on grounds of barbarism, believes he can use Anna to achieve his goal, so he cultivates an attentive friendship with her while grossly and unfairly exaggerating every one of the King’s flaws. Despite being promised her own house outside the palace, Anna is denied it, which Kralahome warned her would happen. The King drags Anna to his workshop, where he tests new inventions such as hot air balloons and trains. Louis is taken on a tour of the armory by Kralahome's henchman, Master Little, who barely misses an injury and begins to lose his teeth one after the other. In the palace gardens, Prince Chulalongkorn meets Tuptim, and they fall in love, but Chulalongkorn keeps his true identity hidden. While the King's wives help her unpack, Anna sees Chulalongkorn and Tuptim in the courtyard and supports their relationship. Since she will not receive the house, she wants to leave, but she soon changes her mind after meeting the royal children, especially Chulalongkorn.

With Kralahome still plotting to overthrow the King, he writes a letter to officials from the British Empire, led by Sir Edward, that claims Anna is in danger. As for Anna, she begins to teach the royal children, especially given that they have never been outside the palace walls. To give them hands-on experience, she takes all of them around the city to see how other people live.  Kralahome hears it from Master Little, who tells him of the outing, and informs the king in the guise of praising him for his daring, which in turn angers the King, as he had no knowledge Anna would take his children without his permission, and is understandably fearful for their safety.  Mongkut confronts Anna when she and the children return, and it boils over into a fight, with Anna still complaining about the house that she was promised but has yet to receive.

Chulalongkorn meets with his father to discuss traditions. He wants to be with Tuptim, but he knows that his father would never allow it. Confused, Mongkut goes to pray to Buddha. Kralahome then uses his powers on the statues in the room to try and attack the King, whose pet black panther, Rama, manages to fight them off with a roar. While Chulalongkorn is kickboxing, Tuptim finally learns that he is the crown prince and that their love is forbidden. However, he tells her that he does not care about tradition and wants to be with her. Master Little learns of their relationship and tells Kralahome, who plans to use it to anger the King at the right time.