[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

Japanese troops would now close in on Tainan simultaneously, from the north, the northeast and the south.  Liu Yongfu could probably field a larger force, but the Chinese and Formosans were by now fighting merely to stave off defeat.  They had little hope of stemming the Japanese advance on Tainan.

Japanese capture of Yunlin and Chiayi 
The Imperial Guards Division commenced its march south from Changhua on 3 October. On 6 October the division's advance guard defeated a force of 3,000 insurgents at Talibu.  On 7 October the division fought an important action with the insurgents at Yunlin, driving them from a series of fortified positions.  On 9 October the division fought the second-largest battle of the campaign, the Battle of Chiayi, to storm the walled city of Chiayi, where the insurgents had decided to make a determined stand.  According to report, the Chinese and Formosans numbered 10,000 men and included both regular and volunteer units.  The true figure was probably around 3,000 men, but the insurgents were stiffened by a force of 600 Black Flags, who now fought the Japanese for the first time during the campaign, and also deployed cannon and machine guns on the city walls. After a preliminary bombardment with their mountain artillery the Japanese scaled the walls and broke into the city.  The insurgents were defeated, leaving over 200 dead on the field.  Total casualties in the Imperial Guards Division in the engagements fought between 3 and 9 October were 14 killed and 54 wounded. The division was ordered to halt at Chiayi and wait until Prince Fushimi's northern expedition went ashore at Budai before resuming its advance.

Liu Yongfu's conditional surrender offer 
On 10 October, discouraged by the news of the fall of Chiayi, Liu Yongfu made an offer of conditional surrender to the Japanese.  He asked that no Formosan should be punished for having taken up arms against the Japanese, and that all Chinese soldiers still in Taiwan should be treated hospitably and repatriated to Canton or Amoy.  The surrender offer was conveyed to the Japanese headquarters at Magong in the Penghu Islands by the British warship HMS Pique, and the Japanese replied that they would send a warship to Anping, the outport of Tainan, on 12 October to discuss Liu's proposals.  On 12 October the Japanese cruiser Yoshino arrived off Anping, but Liu Yongfu refused to go aboard, perhaps fearing treachery.  The Japanese subsequently informed him that they would accept only unconditional surrender.

Japanese victory at Shau-lan 

Meanwhile, the other two Japanese columns were making their presence felt.  Prince Fushimi's northern column, which included the 5th and 17th Infantry Regiments, landed at Budai on 10 October.  The division fought several brisk actions during its advance southwards.  These included an action at Kaw-wah-tau on 12 October, in which Japanese casualties were slight, and an engagement near Kiu-sui-kei on 16 October to disengage a company of the 17th Regiment which had been surrounded by the insurgents, in which the Japanese suffered casualties of 9 dead and 10 wounded and the enemy at least 60 dead.  On 18 October the 5th Infantry Regiment, supported by a battery of artillery and a troop of cavalry, routed the insurgents at Ongo-ya-toi.  Japanese casualties were 3 dead and 14 wounded, while the enemy left 80 dead on the battlefield.  On the same day the 17th Regiment met the Formosans at Tion-sha and inflicted a heavy defeat upon them. Formosan losses were computed at around 400 killed, while on the Japanese side only one officer was wounded. Meanwhile, the brigade's advance guard dislodged an insurgent force numbering around 4,000 men and armed with repeating rifles from the village of Mao-tau, to the south of the So-bung-go River, but suffered relatively high casualties in doing so.  On 19 October, in a battle to capture the fortified village of Shau-lan, the Japanese took a striking revenge.  The 17th Regiment trapped a force of 3,000 insurgents inside the village and inflicted very heavy casualties on them when they stormed it.  Nearly a thousand enemy bodies were counted after this massacre.  Japanese losses were only 30 men killed or wounded, including 3 officers.