[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Jeeves characters

ecomes romantically interested in the novelist Daphne Dolores Morehead.

Stilton is mentioned in Pearls, Girls and Monty Bodkin: "Strong language was no novelty to [Monty] – he had once been present when somebody had slammed a car door on the finger of D'Arcy ('Stilton') Cheesewright of the Drones".

In the television series Jeeves and Wooster, Daphne Dolores Morehead does not appear but is impersonated by Jeeves in drag. Stilton falls in love with this "Daphne Dolores Morehead", and is never made aware that this was actually Jeeves and not the real Morehead in the episode. Stilton goes to New York City at the end of the episode, having heard that Daphne Dolores Morehead lives there.

Lord Chuffnell 
Marmaduke, Lord Chuffnell, nicknamed Chuffy, is a fictional character in the Jeeves novel, Thank You, Jeeves. He went to private school, Eton and Oxford with Bertie Wooster. Chuffy is a Drones Club member. He becomes engaged to Pauline Stoker, and they have married by Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves.

Chuffy's aunt, Myrtle, Dowager Lady Chuffnell, appears in Thank You, Jeeves. She has a young son, Seabury, and is romantically involved with Sir Roderick Glossop. Her engagement to Glossop is threatened but saved in "Jeeves and the Greasy Bird".

In the television series Jeeves and Wooster, Myrtle is Chuffy's sister, Mrs Pongleton, and her son Seabury is therefore Chuffy's nephew.

Clementina
Clementina is a fictional character in the Jeeves short story, "Jeeves and the Kid Clementina". She is Bobbie Wickham's cousin.

Edwin Craye
The Hon. Edwin Craye is a fictional character in the Jeeves stories. The fourteen-year-old son of Lord Worplesdon and younger brother of Lady Florence Craye, he is a bothersome Boy Scout who seeks to perform "daily acts of kindness", though he is more concerned with performing daily acts than actually being helpful. He always causes trouble for others with his meddlesome actions, especially after he has fallen behind with his daily acts of kindness and is trying to catch up. He appears in "Jeeves Takes Charge" and Joy in the Morning.

A prototype of Edwin Craye appears in the Reggie Pepper story "Disentangling Old Percy". This early version of Edwin is a meek adult. He has the title Lord Weeting in the British edition of the story.

Florence Craye

Lady Florence Craye is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories, being the beautiful, intellectual and serious daughter of Percy Craye, Lord Worplesdon.

A novelist, in Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit (1954), she is engaged to Oxford-educated muscular ex-policeman G. D'Arcy Cheesewright.

Gussie Fink-Nottle

Augustus "Gussie" Fink-Nottle is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He is a teetotaller and studies newts.

Boko Fittleworth 
George Webster "Boko" Fittleworth is a fictional character in a Jeeves novel, being an author with a unique dress sense, a member of the Drones Club, and a good friend of Bertie Wooster. In Joy in the Morning, even the normally unflappable Jeeves was strongly affected at the sight of Boko, who dresses "like a tramp cyclist". According to Bertie, after Jeeves first saw him, Jeeves winced and tottered off to the kitchen, probably to pull himself together with cooking sherry. Boko is engaged to Zenobia "Nobby" Hopwood. He once shared a flat with Harold "Ginger" Winship and employed Magnolia Glendennon as his stenographer, as mentioned in Much Obliged, Jeeves.

Tuppy Glossop

Hildebrand "Tuppy" Glossop is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. The nephew of Sir Roderick Glossop, Tuppy is a Drones Club member and the fiancé of Bertie Wooster's cousin, Angela Travers.

Honoria Glossop

Honoria Glossop is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. She is the athletic and brainy daughter of Sir Roderick Glossop.

Lady Glossop
Lady Glossop is a fictional character in the Jeeves stories, being the wife of well known nerve specialist Sir Roderick Glossop, mother to Oswald and Honoria, and an acquaintance of Bertie's fearsome Aunt Agatha. She is mentioned but does not appear in the stories, and dies before the events of Thank You, Jeeves.

In the first and second seasons of the television series Jeeves and Wooster, Lady Glossop makes appearances, and entertains as much suspicion of Bertie's sanity as her husband. In the fourth season, Jeeves instead states to Bertie that Lady Glossop eloped with a bus conductor, and also says that Sir Roderick was anxious to remarry.

Roderick Glossop

Sir Roderick Glossop is a recurring fictional character in the comic novels of P. G. Wodehouse. He is the father of Oswald and Honoria, as well as the uncle of Tuppy Glossop. Sometimes referred to as "the noted nerve specialist" or "the loony doctor", he is a practitioner of psychiatry. He also appears in a Blandings Castle novel outside the Jeeves canon.