[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Israel–New Zealand relations

n occupied Palestinian territories. New Zealand's Foreign Minister Murray McCully defended his Government's actions as being in line with New Zealand's "established policy on the Palestinian question" and emphasised New Zealand's willingness to "engage constructively with all parties on this issue".

In December 2016 Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu instructed Israel's ambassador in New Zealand to return to Israel for consultations, in response to NZ's support for United Nations Security Council Resolution 2334. Immediately after the vote, Netanyahu ordered a series of diplomatic steps against countries that co-sponsored the resolution and with whom Israel has diplomatic relations. Israel–New Zealand relations had not been this fraught since 2004, when New Zealand imprisoned 'Mossad spies' for attempting to fraudulently obtain a New Zealand passport. In February 2017, Israel decided not to return its ambassador to New Zealand and downgraded its diplomatic relations with New Zealand to the level of chargés d'affaires, which is the lowest level of diplomatic relations. In addition, the New Zealand Ambassador (who is based in Ankara, Turkey) was barred from entering Israel.

On June 14, 2017, the NZ Foreign Minister Gerry Brownlee confirmed that full bilateral relations had been restored following discreet high-level contacts between the Israeli and New Zealand governments. These contacts involved a telephone conversation between Prime Minister Netanyahu and his New Zealand counterpart Prime Minister Bill English. English also penned a letter expressing regret at the fallout from UN Resolution 2334. Following the letter and phone conversation, the Israeli Foreign Ministry's director-general Yuval Rotem announced that the Israeli Ambassador Itzhak Gerbeg would be returning to Wellington to assume his duties. The New Zealand Labour Party leader Andrew Little and the Green Party's foreign affairs spokesperson Kennedy Graham criticised the government for backtracking on its previous support for the resolution and sending mixed messages.

2021 Israel-Palestine crisis
In response to the 2021 Israel-Palestine crisis that broke out in May 2021, Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta called on Israel to "cease demolitions and evictions" and for "both sides to halt steps which undermine prospects for a two state solution". Mahuta's statements were echoed by Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, who condemned "indiscriminate rocket fire" from Hamas and 
"what looks to be a response that has gone well beyond self-defence on both sides." She also stated that Israel had the "right to exist" but Palestinians also had a "right to a peaceful home, a secure home." In mid-May, Prime Minister Ardern also sought an assurance from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade that a shipment of firearms suppressors being sent to an Israeli firm for evaluation purposes was not being used in the current conflict between Israel and Hamas.

On 19 May, the Green Party MP Golriz Ghahraman sponsored a motion calling for Members of Parliament to recognise the right of Palestinians to self-determination and statehood. This motion failed to pass due to opposition from the centre-right National and ACT parties. The governing Labour Party also declined to support the motion while the Māori Party was the only other parliamentary party to support the Greens' motion. In response to criticism by ACT Party deputy leader Brooke Van Velden, Ghahraman also defended fellow Green MP Ricardo Menéndez March's tweet that said "From the river to the sea, Palestine will be free!." Ghahraman claimed that March was defending the rights of both Arabs and Jews to having equal rights in their homeland.

2023 Israel-Hamas conflict
On 8 October, Foreign Minister Nanaia Mahuta expressed deep concern in response to the 2023 Israel-Hamas conflict She called for an immediate halt to violence, the protection of all civilians, and the upholding of international humanitarian law. Prime Minister Chris Hipkins confirmed that New Zealand unequivocally condemned Hamas' terror attacks, stating that the target of civilians and hostage taking violated fundamental international humanitarian principles. Hipkins also stated Israel had the right to defend itself.
 
On 17 October, the Government contributed NZ$5 million to the International Committee of the Red Cross's (ICRC) and the United Nations' World Food Programme's humanitarian relief efforts. On 25 October Carolyn Schwalger, New Zealand's Permanent Representative to the United Nations, delivered a statement from Hipkins to the United Nations Security Council calling for a "humanitarian pause" to allow Gazan civilians to receive aid and for the creation of safe zones for civilians during the 2023 Israel-Hamas war. Hipkins authored the statement in consultation with incoming Prime Minister Christopher Luxon. On 28 October, New Zealand voted in favour of United Nations General Assembly Resolution ES-10/21.