[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kevin Moon

itness. He became a first team regular in the early part of the 2011–12 season and was given an extended contract by new manager Steve Lomas. The 2012–13 season was one of frustration for Moon, who found himself isolated by Lomas. He subsequently left St. Johnstone in January 2013 by mutual consent.

Forfar Athletic (loan)
Moon went on loan to Forfar on 31 August 2006, originally the deal was until 31 December 2006, however it was extended until 15 May 2007. Moon made 25 appearances for Forfar Athletic, 23 starts and 2 substitute appearances, netting twice. He was voted Players' Player of the Year and Fans' Player of the Year at the end of season awards, and despite being a great success, Moon couldn't prevent them from being relegated to the Scottish Third Division.

Alloa Athletic
Alloa Athletic manager Paul Hartley signed Moon in February 2013 after he was released by St Johnstone. Moon made it clear that Hartley was the main factor in his decision to join the club, with the manager promising to provide him with a platform to rediscover his fitness and gain a professional contract from a bigger club. He signed with 'The Wasps' until the end of the 2012–13 season.

Raith Rovers
Moon signed for Raith Rovers on 28 May 2013 on an initial one-year deal. He was part of the Raith Rovers side which beat Rangers in the final of the Scottish Challenge Cup in the 2013–14 season. Moon extended his contract with Raith for a further season and was named the club's Player of the Year in his first campaign at Stark's Park.

ECU Joondalup SC
Moon signed with Western Australian club ECU Joondalup SC in 2016.

Stirling Albion
On 16 January 2018, Moon returned to Scottish football, signing for Stirling Albion.

References

External links

1987 births
Alloa Athletic F.C. players
Men's association football midfielders
Scottish men's footballers
Living people
St Johnstone F.C. players
Forfar Athletic F.C. players
Raith Rovers F.C. players
Perth RedStar FC players
Stirling Albion F.C. players
Footballers from Perth, Scotland
Scottish Football League players
Scottish Premier League players
Scottish Professional Football League players
Scottish expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's soccer players in Australia
Scottish expatriate sportspeople in Australia