[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Battle of Lima Site 85

ng Pao insisted on recapturing Phou Pha Thi, which the US Embassy believed unnecessary. On 1 November 1968, Pao launched Operation Pigfat in attempt to retake Phou Pha Thi, but the operation quickly turned into a rout of the Royal Lao Army and the Hmong guerrillas and Phou Pha Thi was never retaken.

Although airpower was to be a major factor in the defense of Lima Site 85, it could not be applied without limitations and restrictions. The defense of Lima Site 85 was not the sole focus of limited air resources at the time. During this period, the 1968 Tet Offensive was underway in South Vietnam, the Marine outpost at Khe Sanh Combat Base was under siege, and there existed an unprecedented flow of enemy logistical traffic which had to be interdicted. Lima Site 85 had provided direction to about a quarter of the USAF missions over North Vietnam and Barrel Roll from November 1967 to 11 March 1968. No other facility existed to provide a similar coverage over these areas. While this loss was a serious blow to the USAF effort, it was not crippling.

Eleven of the twelve USAF personnel lost on the day of the battle were listed first as missing in action (MIA), then later as KIA/body not recovered. Between 1994 and 2004, 11 investigations were conducted by both Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command (JPAC) and unilaterally by Lao and Vietnamese investigators on both sides of the border. In 2002 two of the former PAVN soldiers who had taken part in the attack told investigators that they threw the bodies of the Americans off the mountain after the attack as they were unable to bury them on the rocky surface.

In March 2003, JPAC investigators threw dummies over the edge at those points indicated by the PAVN soldiers while a photographer in a helicopter videotaped their fall. That pointed the investigators to a ledge,  below. Several mountaineer-qualified JPAC specialists scaled down the cliffs to the ledge where they recovered leather boots in four different sizes, five survival vests, and other fragments of material that indicated the presence of at least four Americans.
The remains of two of the missing 11 servicemen were recovered and identified:
On 7 December 2005 the Defense Prisoner of War/Missing Personnel Office announced that the remains of Technical Sergeant Patrick L. Shannon had been identified and were being returned to his family.
In September 2012 the remains of Colonel Clarence Blanton were identified.
Likewise on 14 February 2007 the remains of Colonel Donald Westbrook, of the 602d Special Operations Squadron who had been shot down by small arms fire in his Douglas A-1E Skyraider aircraft (s/n 52-133888) on March 13, 1968, while searching for possible survivors of the battle, were positively identified from remains which had been returned on 3 September 1998.

On September 21, 2010, Chief Master Sergeant Richard Etchberger's Air Force Cross (awarded posthumously in 1968) was upgraded to the Medal of Honor by President Barack Obama at a White House ceremony for his actions during the Battle of Lima Site 85.

A memorial to the USAF airmen killed and missing at Lima Site 85 and other Combat SkySpot airmen is co-located on Andersen Air Force Base, Guam, with the memorial to Operation Arc Light airmen. Another Combat SkySpot memorial is located at the Gunter AFB Enlisted Heritage Memorial Park.

See also
Lima Site 85
Muang Phalan TACAN Site
People's Army of Vietnam
North Vietnamese invasion of Laos
Lao Veterans of America
Laos Memorial
Lao Veterans of America Institute
Ho Chi Minh Trail

Notes
Footnotes

Citations

References

External links

 Lao Veterans of America
 Defense Prisoner of War/Missing Personnel Office
Joint POW/MIA Accounting Command
 Lima Site 85
 Detailed Map of Lima Site 85

Battles and operations of the Vietnam War in 1968
Battles of the Vietnam War involving the United States
Battles of the Vietnam War involving Thailand
Battles involving Vietnam
1968 in Laos
1968 in Vietnam
Conflicts in 1968
Battles and operations of the Laotian Civil War
March 1968 events in Asia