[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Yatağan, Muğla

Yatağan is a municipality and district of Muğla Province, Turkey. Its area is 851 km2, and its population is 45,283 (2022). It is about  north of Muğla.

Sights of interest 
Situated in the heart of ancient Caria and, during the 13th - 14th centuries, of the territory of the Anatolian beylik of Menteşe, the district has several localities of interest rich in history. The region is also covered in large part by Mediterranean pine forests.

At a distance of  to the west of the district center, in the direction of Milas, is the ancient site of Stratonikeia, in the present-day village of Eskihisar, and at walking distance from the ancient city is its sanctuary Lagina, near the present-day township of Turgut. Turgut was called Leyne officially until recent date and is still called as such locally.

Another spot of interest is the village of Çaybükü on the road to Muğla. The village has an old and restored coffee house, Belen Kahvesi, mentioned in a nationally renowned song called "Ormancı", which has as theme a tragic event that took place there in 1946. The coffee house is a tourist attraction today both because of the curiosity aroused by the song and also due to its views of the surrounding plain. Once again, Çaybükü had a different official name, Gevenes, until the 1950s and that name is still used locally. An unsuccessful petition was even made by the inhabitants in 2006 for a return to the former name, but while the Ministry of Interior Affairs could accept Geven, it did accept Gevenes. The village is referred to by name in the song, under its former official name of Gevenes.

Composition
There are 50 neighbourhoods in Yatağan District:

 Akgedik
 Akyol
 Alaşar
 Atatürk
 Bağyaka
 Bahçeyaka
 Bencik
 Bozarmut
 Bozüyük
 Çakırlar
 Çamlıca
 Cazkırlar
 Çukuröz
 Cumhuriyet
 Dere
 Deştin
 Doğanköy
 Elmacık
 Esenköy
 Eskihisar
 Gökgedik
 Gökpınar
 Hacıbayramlar
 Hacıveliler
 Hisarardı
 Kadıköy
 Kafacakaplancık
 Kapubağ
 Katrancı
 Kavak
 Kırıkköy
 Köklük
 Konak
 Kozağaç
 Madenler
 Mesken
 Nebiköy
 Şahinler
 Şeref
 Turgut
 Turgutlar
 Yava
 Yayla
 Yeni
 Yenikarakuyu
 Yeniköy
 Yeşilbağcılar
 Yeşilköy
 Yukarıyayla
 Zeytinköy

Coal pollution 

Since the 1990s the town has attracted world attention due to ecological pollution by the nearby coal-fired power station, one of the oldest coal-fired power stations in the country. There have been campaigns to shut it down by Greenpeace since 1994, and several shutdown court orders have been issued, only to be overruled or ignored because of an energy shortage at that time.

References 

 
Populated places in Muğla Province
Districts of Muğla Province
Metropolitan district municipalities in Turkey