[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bob Carr

Further, the party organisation did not want Laurie Brereton as leader; he would go on to represent the federal seat of Kingsford Smith, which Carr viewed as his path to federal politics. Thus Carr reluctantly agreed to become Leader of the Opposition, as revealed in his diary entries from the time:

Despite his misgivings, Carr's performance as Opposition Leader gained approval in the party. Polling in the lead-up to the 1991 election predicted another heavy defeat.  However, Labor regained all but one of the seats lost at the previous election.  As a result, while the Coalition won 52 per cent of the two-party vote, Labor scored a 10-seat swing and came up only four seats short of Carr becoming Premier. Greiner was forced into a minority government with the support of independents.

In 1992 Greiner resigned following adverse findings against him from the Independent Commission Against Corruption. John Fahey replaced him as premier, but was hampered by his need to negotiate with independents. For the 1995 election, Carr focused the campaign on a select group of key seats. At that election, Labor took three seats off the Coalition, allowing Carr to become premier with a bare majority of one seat.

In 1992 federal Liberal leader John Hewson controversially attacked Carr for his lack of family life when compared to Fahey: "You've got to be suspicious of a guy that doesn't drive, doesn't like kids and things like that. When he's up against a full-blooded Australian like John Fahey, he hasn't got a hope", but was later forced to withdraw his remarks.

Bob and Helena Carr did not respond to Hewson's attack. Bob Carr however did expressed his frustration with the Hewson attack in his diary:

"What a business to be in where your private life gets blasted all over the media…In the middle of an assault like this one feels crushed; you want to crouch at home; you wonder why friends don’t ring".

For the entirety of his Opposition Leadership, Carr was his own Shadow Treasurer due to Greiner and Fahey being their own Treasurers.

Carr kept Treasury in 1993 when Fahey relinquish Treasury to Peter Collins but Carr instead assigned Finance spokesman Michael Egan to tackle Collins.

When Carr became Premier after the 1995 election he appointed Egan, not himself, as Treasurer

Premier of New South Wales (1995–2005)

Following the narrow 1995 victory, Labor was re-elected by a much bigger margin in the 1999 poll with 55 seats out of 93. He was re-elected with the same margin in the 2003 election. In the 1999 poll the defeated Liberal opposition leader was Kerry Chikarovski; in the 2003 poll it was John Brogden.

Carr's government was characterised by conservative financial management and to a certain extent the encouragement of market forces, along with a "tough on crime" policy. It was also seen as having a strong pro-environment character and being committed to curriculum rigour (especially history), testing and literacy initiatives in schools. Carr ventured periodically into national policy issues, particularly issues concerning the environment, population growth, embryonic stem cell research, federal–state relations and support for a minimalist model of an Australian Republic. Carr's government, under State Treasurers Michael Egan and Andrew Refshauge, delivered ten consecutive budget surpluses.

Carr became the first Premier who was not his own Treasurer for the entirety of his premiership since Barrie Unsworth.

Nature conservation
Nature conservation was a priority for the government and for Carr personally. Carr moved to ban canal estates because of their impact on river systems, and when in office he implemented a 1995 election pledge to prevent logging in parts of southeastern NSW by creating the South East Forests National Park along NSW's coastal range from Batemans Bay to the Victorian border.

Carr's election policies had also included commitments to protect  of old-growth forest and wilderness areas through a string of new national parks. The promise was exceeded with gazettal of  between 1995 and 2005. The initiative was supported by a A$6 million forestry restructuring package to build a modern mill and provide a 20-year guarantee of alternative timber.

Following the 1999 victory, Carr's government declared 100 new national parks between Nowra and the Bega Valley. Carr claimed in 2009 that: "rural towns did not 'die' as a result of these conservation measures. The old timber towns now boast communities with a strong economic base, world-class national parks on their doorstep and thriving nature-based tourism". In its first term, the government banned the removal of old-growth vegetation from farmlands and introduced pricing for rural water and an environmental allocation to the state's river systems. In June 2001 jet skis were banned from Sydney Harbour. Carr said: "You wouldn't allow motor bikes in the Botanic Gardens".