[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Perth East, Ontario

hectares. Council meetings were held in a room leased at a hotel until 1954 when a township hall was opened.  In 1959, a Fire Hall was opened housing a volunteer department of 17 men, two fire trucks and a pumper.  This department still exists and serves the communities in North and South Easthope.

Municipal Restructuring 
As part of provincial initiatives in the late 1990s, the Government of Ontario pursued a policy of municipal amalgamations to rationalize municipal levels of government services and  "reduc[e] government entanglement and bureaucracy with an eye to eliminating waste and duplication as well as unfair downloading by the province".  On June 26, 1997, an order from the Ontario Minister of Municipal Affairs for the amalgamation of the former Townships of Ellice, Mornington, North Easthope, South Easthope and the Village of Milverton into Perth East Township received Royal assent.  The amalgamation came into effect on January 1, 1998.

Geography

Communities 
The township comprises the communities of Amulree, Brocksden, Brunner, Burns, Carthage, Dorking, Fernbank, Gads Hill, Hesson, Kinkora, Kuhryville, Mennonite Corner, Millbank, Milverton, Moserville, Newton, Nithburg, Peffers, Poole, Ratzburg, Rostock, Sebastopol, Shakespeare, Topping, Tralee and Wartburg. It also includes a portion of the hamlet of Punkeydoodles Corners, which straddles the municipal boundaries of Perth East, East Zorra – Tavistock and Wilmot.

Milverton was mentioned in the Season 4 episode Old King Clancy of How I Met Your Mother.

Ellice Swamp 
Ellice Swamp is a large woodlot in Perth County, Ontario.  The swamp covers approximately 856 hectares (2,115 acres).  It is located between Stratford and Milverton in the northeastern portion of the Thames River  Watershed, between the North Branch of the Thames and the Nith River.  Historically, it was known as Ellice Huckleberry Swamp and was part of the Huron Tract administered by the Canada Company. It is primarily owned by the Upper Thames River Conservation Authority.

Demographics 

In the 2021 Census of Population conducted by Statistics Canada, Perth East had a population of  living in  of its  total private dwellings, a change of  from its 2016 population of . With a land area of , it had a population density of  in 2021.

In 2011, children aged 9 and under accounted for approximately 15.4% of the population, while the percentage at retirement age (65 and over) is approximately 12.8%. The median age was 36.1 years of age. 
The average income was $37,303 with an average after-tax income of $32,356.

In 2011, 6.2% of the population had immigrant status.  The most common countries immigrants come from are Mexico (28.5%), followed by the Netherlands (16.3%) and Germany (10.8%).

The majority of residents of Perth East are members of a Christian faith and account for 87.5% of the population.  Less than 1% of the population is Sikh or "Other religion" with the remaining population (11.8%) reporting no religious affiliation.  Of the Christian population, the largest religious affiliation is Roman Catholic (18.5%) followed by Lutheran (15.2%), United Church (11.8%), Presbyterian (1.6%), Anglican (2.4%), Pentecostal (1.4%), Baptist (1.3%) and other Christian (42%).

Economy 
The township indicates that economic categories include agriculture, farm-related businesses, millwrighting, metal fabrication, and tourism.

Industrial companies in this area include Iron Bridge Fabrication, Quality Fertilizers, Mornington Communications and Nuhn Industries. Nuhn Industries is a third generation, family owned business founded in 1902. In 2014, the company was planning a 30,000 square foot addition to their 66,000 square foot facility to better serve its customers throughout North America, Latin America, Japan and Africa.

According to the 2011 National Household Survey, the largest economic sectors by number of workers employed are manufacturing (910 workers); construction (710 workers); health care and social assistance (645 workers) and retail trade (600 workers).  Other industries in the region employing more than 200 workers are wholesale trade; transportation and warehousing; administrative and support, waste management and remediation services; accommodation and food services; and public administration.

Local government 

Perth East Township is governed by a Township Council composed of seven members including a Mayor, Deputy Mayor and five Councillors. Councillors represent the wards of Ellice, Milverton, Mornington, North Easthope and South Easthope.

Township operations are overseen by the Chief Administrator's Office and municipal departments include Building, Clerk's Office, Finance, Fire Services, Library Services, Planning, Public Works, and Recreation.

Township Council 2018-2022 
Source: