[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# List of coups and coup attempts

self-coup on 17 October.
1972 Dahomeyan coup d'état: Major Mathieu Kérékou led a coup that overthrew the Dahomeyan Presidential Council. 
Honduras: On 4 December, General Oswaldo López Arellano led the Armed Forces of Honduras to oust President Ramón Ernesto Cruz Uclés after only 18 months in power.

1973
El Tanquetazo in Chile: Lieutenant Colonel Roberto Souper launched a failed coup against President Salvador Allende.
1973 Afghan coup d'état: Former Prime Minister Mohammed Daoud Khan overthrew the King Mohammed Zahir Shah and established a Republic.
Pakistan: 59 military officers were arrested after allegedly plotting to overthrow the government of Zulfikar Ali Bhutto.
1973 Rwandan coup d'état: Army Chief of Staff Juvénal Habyarimana overthrew President Gregoire Kayibanda in a military coup.
1973 Chilean coup d'état: On 11 September, General Augusto Pinochet, with support from the CIA, led a group of military officers to seize power from democratically elected President Salvador Allende, and installed a junta headed by Pinochet.
1973 Uruguayan coup d'état: President Juan María Bordaberry, with the assistance of a junta of military generals, dissolved Parliament in a self-coup.
Greece: On 25 November, Army hardliners led by Brigadier Dimitrios Ioannidis overthrew the hitherto leader of the Greek junta, President Georgios Papadopoulos.
 1973 Laotian coup d'état attempt: Exiled General Thao Ma took over a Laotian airfield and led air strikes on the office and home of General Kouprasith Abhay in an attempt to stave off a communist coalition government in Laos. Royalist forces retook the airfield, and shot down and executed Thao Ma when he returned after the bombings, which had failed to kill Kouprasith.

1974
Carnation Revolution in Portugal: A coup organized by the Armed Forces Movement ended the dictatorship of Marcello Caetano.
1974 Cypriot coup d'état: Members of the Cypriot National Guard overthrew President Makarios III and triggered invasion by Turkey.
 Uganda: An attempted military coup against Idi Amin failed.
Ethiopia: The Derg, a communist junta led by General Aman Andom and Mengistu Haile Mariam, enacted a coup and overthrew Haile Selassie.

1975
Comoros: Mercenary Bob Denard, on orders from Jacques Foccart, overthrew President Ahmed Abdallah.
1975 Nigerian coup d'état: A faction of junior military officers overthrew Yakubu Gowon and appointed Brigadier Murtala Muhammed as head of state.
 24 February 1975 Pyjama coup was a failed conspiracy by far-right Greek military officers, to re-establish the Greek junta. The term "pyjamas coup" was coined by then-Defense Minister Evangelos Averoff.
15 August 1975 Bangladesh coup d'état: Army officers killed Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, and Khondaker Mostaq Ahmad announced the formation of a new government with himself as leader.
3 November 1975 Bangladesh coup d'état: General Khaled Mosharraf led a military coup to overthrown Khondaker Mostaq Ahmed, who had come to power in a coup months earlier.
7 November 1975 Bangladesh coup d'état: Left wing army personnel killed General Khaled Mosharraf and paved the way for Ziaur Rahman to take power. Rahman would go on to survive as many as 21 assassination and coup attempts until his 1981 assassination.
1975 Chadian coup d'état: Members of the military overthrew and killed President François Tombalbaye and replaced him with Noël Milarew Odingar.
1975 Australian constitutional crisis (also known as "the Dismissal"): A constitutional crisis occurred in Australia. It has been referred to by some, including author John Pilger, as a "soft coup" due to allegations of involvement by British and American intelligence agencies in the removal of then-Prime Minister Gough Whitlam.
1975 Sudanese coup attempt was on 5 September led by army officers linked to the Sudanese Communist Party. The coup was quickly crushed by Vice President Mohamed al-Baghir Ahmed. The coup leader, Brigadier Hassan Hussein Osman, court martialled and executed.

1976
Ecuador: A bloodless military coup removed Guillermo Rodríguez from power.
China: A bloodless coup overthrew the Gang of Four, which had been led by Chairman Mao Zedong's widow, Jiang Qing.
Coup in Thailand: A military coup on the evening of the 6 October 1976 massacre installed an ultra-right government with Thanin Kraivichien as prime minister.
1976 Nigerian coup d'état attempt: Military officers led by Lieutenant Colonel Buka Suka Dimka succeeded in assassinating General Murtala Muhammed, but failed to enact a coup.
1976 Argentine coup d'état: A military coup overthrew Isabel Perón and led to the National Reorganization Process.
1976 Sudanese coup attempt on 2 July, saw the fighting between one thousand insurgents of Sadiq al Mahdi followers, armed and trained by Libya, against President Gaafar al-Nimeiry government in  Khartoum, Sudan.