[Source: PubMed]

71. Global Health. 2024 Aug 21;20(1):65. doi: 10.1186/s12992-024-01066-4.

Financing pandemic prevention, preparedness and response: lessons learned and 
perspectives for future.

Ndembi N(1), Dereje N(2), Nonvignon J(1), Aragaw M(1), Raji T(1), Fallah MP(1), 
Abdulaziz M(1), Djoudalbaye B(1), Aluso A(3), Boum Ii Y(4), Mwaba G(5), Shisana 
O(6), Ngongo N(1), Kaseya J(1).

Author information:
(1)Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC), Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia.
(2)Africa Centres for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC), Addis Ababa, 
Ethiopia. NebiyuDA@africacdc.org.
(3)Pandemic Action Network, Resilience Action Network Africa, Nairobi, Kenya.
(4)Institut Pasteur de Bangui, Bangui, Central African Republic.
(5)African Export-Import (Afrexim) Bank, Cairo, Egypt.
(6)Deparment of Psychiatry and Mental Health, University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: The attainment of global health security goals and universal health 
coverage will remain a mirage unless African health systems are adequately 
funded to improve resilience to public health emergencies. The COVID-19 pandemic 
exposed the global inequity in accessing medical countermeasures, leaving 
African countries far behind. As we anticipate the next pandemic, improving 
investments in health systems to adequately finance pandemic prevention, 
preparedness, and response (PPPR) promptly, ensuring equity and access to 
medical countermeasures, is crucial. In this article, we analyze the African and 
global pandemic financing initiatives and put ways forward for policymakers and 
the global health community to consider.
METHODS: This article is based on a rapid literature review and desk review of 
various PPPR financing mechanisms in Africa and globally. Consultation of 
leaders and experts in the area and scrutinization of various related meeting 
reports and decisions have been carried out.
MAIN TEXT: The African Union (AU) has demonstrated various innovative financing 
mechanisms to mitigate the impacts of public health emergencies in the 
continent. To improve equal access to the COVID-19 medical countermeasures, the 
AU launched Africa Medical Supplies Platform (AMSP) and Africa Vaccine 
Acquisition Trust (AVAT). These financing initiatives were instrumental in 
mitigating the impacts of COVID-19 and their lessons can be capitalized as we 
make efforts for PPPR. The COVID-19 Response Fund, subsequently converted into 
the African Epidemics Fund (AEF), is another innovative financing mechanism to 
ensure sustainable and self-reliant PPPR efforts. The global initiatives for 
financing PPPR include the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF) and the 
Pandemic Fund. The PEF was criticized for its inadequacy in building resilient 
health systems, primarily because the fund ignored the prevention and 
preparedness items. The Pandemic Fund is also being criticized for its 
suboptimal emphasis on the response aspect of the pandemic and non-inclusive 
governance structure.
CONCLUSIONS: To ensure optimal financing for PPPR, we call upon the global 
health community and decision-makers to focus on the harmonization of financing 
efforts for PPPR, make regional financing mechanisms central to global PPPR 
financing efforts, and ensure the inclusivity of international finance 
governance systems.

© 2024. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12992-024-01066-4
PMCID: PMC11337782
PMID: 39169389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing interests.