[Source: PubMed]

14. Soc Sci Med. 2025 Sep;381:118239. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2025.118239. Epub 
2025 Jun 6.

Cultural context and pandemic preparedness: Reassessing the Global Health 
Security Index's predictive power during COVID-19.

Kim H(1), Kim T(2), Ten GK(3).

Author information:
(1)Chung-Ang Business School, Chung-Ang University, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: hkim3@cau.ac.kr.
(2)KDI School of Public Policy and Management, Republic of Korea. Electronic 
address: tjkim@kdischool.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Economics, Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University, China. 
Electronic address: gikhan.ten@xjtlu.edu.cn.

The Global Health Security Index (GHSI) is designed to measure countries' 
preparedness for infectious disease outbreaks, yet its ability to reflect 
COVID-19 outcomes remains contentious. This study reexamines the GHSI's 
relevance by investigating the association between GHSI scores and COVID-19 
mortality while accounting for differences in cultural traits and other 
socioeconomic factors across countries. Initial analyses confirm a positive 
association between raw COVID-19 deaths and GHSI scores, consistent with prior 
studies. However, when controlling for cultural tightness-looseness-a measure 
reflecting the rigidity of social norms-higher GHSI values appear to correlate 
with fewer excess deaths. When accounting for differences in economic 
development, health infrastructure, inequality, and governance across countries, 
we arrive at the same finding, while auxiliary sensitivity tests suggest that 
unobserved confounding is unlikely to negate the observed relationship. 
Additionally, countries with higher GHSI values show superior pandemic 
management through increased COVID-19 testing and vaccine administration. These 
findings challenge prevailing criticisms of the GHSI, offering a more nuanced 
perspective that recognizes its utility. By showing the interplay between global 
health security and societal factors, this study provides insights for refining 
pandemic preparedness frameworks and highlights the need for a multidimensional 
approach to assessing public health resilience.

Copyright © 2025 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2025.118239
PMID: 40499233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare no conflict of interest.