[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Lundin Energy

mark case because of the novelty and complexity of the legal issues that the Swedish court will have to decide. On 23 May 2019, the T.M.C. Asser Institute for International Law in The Hague organized a Towards criminal liability of corporations for human rights violations: The Lundin case in Sweden.

Thomas Alstrand from the Swedish Prosecution Authority in Gothenburg on 13 February 2019 announced that a second criminal investigation had been opened into threats and acts of violence against witnesses in the Lundin war crimes investigation. They have allegedly been pressured not to testify in court. Several witnesses have been granted asylum in safe countries through UNHCR supported emergency protection procedures. The company has confirmed that its CEO and chairman have been officially informed by the prosecutor about the allegation, noting that it believes that it is completely unfounded. Witness tampering is usually intended to prevent the truth from being exposed in court. The second investigation into obstruction of justice seems to contradict the company's assertions of its good faith cooperation with the war crimes investigation.

On 11 November 2021, top executives Ian Lundin and Alex Schneiter were indicted in Stockholm District Court for abetting grave war crimes in Sudan. They risk life sentences if convicted.

The Dutch peace organization PAX  and Swedish NGO Global Idé will provide daily English language coverage of proceedings, expert analyses and comments on the website Unpaid Debt.

References

External links

Bloomberg Businessweek.com: Company profile of Lundin Petroleum
Human Rights Watch.org:  "Sudan, Oil, and Human Rights" — (September 2003, )
EJIL: Talk! Blog of the European Journal of International Law "The Road Less Traveled: How Corporate Directors Could be Held Individually Liable in Sweden for Corporate Atrocity Crimes Abroad" – (13 November 2018)
Website by PAX dedicated to the case of Lundin Petroleum and its senior managers, OMV and Petronas
Website by Lundin Petroleum about the war crimes allegations
T.M.C. Asser Institute talk: Towards criminal liability of corporations for human rights violations: The Lundin case in Sweden

Oil companies of Sweden
Companies based in Stockholm
Energy companies established in 2001
Non-renewable resource companies established in 2001
2001 establishments in Sweden
Swedish brands
Companies listed on Nasdaq Stockholm
Human rights in South Sudan