[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Berkley Bedell

became angrier with the Reagan Administration as the decade wore on. He called his Central American policies "sheer lunacy," saying that the mining of harbors was an act of war. Bedell would retire from Congress before Reagan's actions in Central America would culminate with the Iran–Contra Affair.

Bedell was a sharp critic of Reagan's agricultural policies, calling for John Block to resign after calling his agricultural plan a failure that was "dead on arrival" in both the House and the Senate. Reagan's agricultural plan consisted primarily of a gradual reduction in farm subsidies. He also attacked the Department of Agriculture for "looking backward" when it dismissed the only expert on organic farming. Also, as chairman of the subcommittee on Department Operations, Research and Foreign Agriculture, which was in charge of regulating USDA operations, he opposed the proposals Reagan had for reforming the organization. The proposals generally involved shifting costs for meat inspections and other USDA duties from the federal government to the industry.

Alleged customs violations by Berkley and Co. 
In 1981, it was revealed in internal memos that Bedell may have known about potential customs violations that his company Berkley and Co. engaged in. It asserted that Bedell had gone to Taiwan in 1973 to discuss "prior violations of customs law" in regard to the sale of fishing rods from the company's Taiwan subsidiary. Bedell responded by denying any wrongdoing, saying that he has not been personally involved in the company in years. In the end, no charges were levied against him, and he was reelected after the story was published.

After politics 

Bedell decided not to seek reelection in 1986 after contracting Lyme disease from a tick bite. Afterward, he founded a center for alternative medicine and was a noted advocate of health freedom. Due largely to his friendship with Tom Harkin, he remained an important political figure in Iowa, with politicians such as Howard Dean meeting him in their trips to the state. Also, the Elinor Bedell State Park was established in 1998 on land donated by Berkley and Elinor Bedell. The park is named after the Congressman's wife.

As an opponent of the Vietnam War, Bedell signed a petition urging against United States military intervention in Iraq. This petition was signed with the names of 70 former Congressmen from the 1970s and was presented in a press conference on March 15, 2003. Bedell said that it was unbelievable for the United States to settle disputes with war, and he said that an Iraq war would be similar to the Vietnam War.

In the 2004 presidential election, Bedell attacked John Kerry for voting for Newt Gingrich's Freedom to Farm Act, which Bedell said wrecked the farm program. Bedell would later officially endorse Howard Dean's candidacy. For the 2008 election, Bedell met with Chris Dodd.

In the 2020 Democratic presidential primary, Bedell endorsed Senator Elizabeth Warren.

Bedell was a member of the ReFormers Caucus of Issue One.

Bedell died in Naples, Florida, on December 7, 2019, at age 98, from complications of a stroke he suffered three days earlier.

Peace Harbor
Built in 2004, Peace Harbor is Tom and Molly Bedell's former 25,000 square foot home on 1.26 acres with 178 feet of West Lake Okoboji shoreline near Spirit Lake, Iowa. It has a master wing, fifteen bathrooms, eight bedrooms all facing the lake, six garages, an indoor entertainment stage overlooking the water, a gathering room with a Brazilian blue marble floor and seating for over a hundred, a master retreat, master retreat bathroom, receiving room, conference room and private office with sweeping views of West Lake Okoboji, a commercial caterers kitchen, guest suite with its own bar, caretaker suite, caretaker suite kitchen, exercise room, upper level art studio, a movie theater with its own Lakeland Theatre Concession stand, and a large Irish Pub known as Kevin O'Sullivan's Pub. In June 2021, it listed for $9.9 million and was one of the most expensive homes in Iowa.

Notes

References

External links

1921 births
2019 deaths
20th-century American businesspeople
20th-century American politicians
American anti–Iraq War activists
United States Army personnel of World War II
Businesspeople from Iowa
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Iowa
Iowa State University alumni
Military personnel from Iowa
People from Spirit Lake, Iowa
School board members in Iowa
United States Army officers