[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Baylor Law School

Planning
 Commercial Law
 Criminal Practice
 Estate Planning
 Family Law Practice
 Fiduciary Litigation
 General Civil Litigation
 Healthcare Law
 Intellectual Property
 Intellectual Property Litigation
 Personal Injury Litigation
 Public Interest Law
 Real Estate and Natural Resources

Law review 

The  is the law school's official student-run law review. The journal was founded in 1948 and is published three times per year (Fall, Winter and Spring). Students may grade on to the Law Review at the end of their first year or later as upper-quarters, being selected through a write-on competition, or writing a note or comment for the journal that is selected for publication.

Legal clinics 
Students can gain experience by working Baylor Law's legal clinics. Baylor Law currently has five legal clinics: Estate Planning, Immigration, Intellectual Property and Entrepreneurship, Trial Advocacy, and the Veterans Clinic. Over the past few years, more than 1,500 central Texans have been served by Baylor Law students, faculty, and volunteer attorneys.

Baylor Law's Director of Clinical Programs, Josh Borderud, was selected in early 2020 to receive the prestigious Sandra Day O’Connor Award for Professional Service from the American Inns of Court. The Sandra Day O’Connor Award for Professional Service is awarded each year to honor an American Inn of Court member in practice for ten or fewer years for excellence in public interest or pro bono activities.

Employment 
According to Baylor's official 2019 ABA-required disclosures, 93.7% of the Class of 2019 obtained full-time, long-term, JD-required employment nine months after graduation. Baylor's Law School Transparency under-employment score is 3.9%, indicating the percentage of the Class of 2019 unemployed, pursuing an additional degree, or working in a non-professional, short-term, or part-time job nine months after graduation.

Costs
The total cost of attendance (indicating the cost of tuition, fees, and living expenses) at Baylor for the 2022-23 academic year is $87,284. The Law School Transparency estimated debt-financed cost of attendance for three years is $310,638.

Rankings 

 Baylor Law School ranked No. 58 in U.S. News & World Reports 2023 edition of "America's Best Law Schools."
 In its 2021 law specialties rankings, U.S. News & World Report ranked Baylor Law's Trial Advocacy program as the second best in the nation.
 Above the Law ranked Baylor Law School at No. 33 in 2016.
 Baylor Law is ranked #29 nationally in terms of bar passage rate among first-time test takers (92.1%), and it outperforms by +17.6% the state of Texas's overall bar passage rate of 74.5%.
 Baylor Law ranks #34 in terms of graduates employed ten months after graduation (85.4%) and #77 in terms of graduates employed at the time of graduation (51.5%).
 Baylor Law is tied for #53 in terms of the median starting salary among graduates working in private practice as law firm associates ($85,000).
 Baylor Law is tied for #24 in terms of median starting salary among graduates working in government jobs or judicial clerkships at the federal or state level ($61,105).

Notable alumni