[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 133]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

riette the elegant lady
must certainly be).

"I must return at once," she said. "I fear something must have gone
wrong at home." Jouffroy danced with fury.

"But I tell you, Madame, that she will drag you back to your fogs; she
will tell you some foolish story, she will address herself to your pity.
Your family has doubtless become ill. Families have that habit when they
desire to achieve something. Bah, it is easy to become ill when one is
angry, and so to make oneself pitied and obeyed. It is a common usage.
Madame, beware; it is for you the critical moment. One must choose."

"It is not always a matter of choice, M. Jouffroy."

"Always," he insisted. He endeavoured to induce her to linger, to make a
decision on the spot. But Hadria hastened on towards the river. Jouffroy
followed in despair. He ceased not to urge upon her the peril of the
moment and the need for resolute action. He promised to help her by
every means in his power, to watch over her career, to assist her in
bringing her gift to maturity. Never before had he felt a faith so
profound, or an interest so fervid in the genius of any woman. One had,
after all, regarded them ("les femmes") as accomplished animals.

"But of whom one demands the duties of human beings and the courage of
heroes," added Hadria.

"_Justement_," cried Jouffroy. But Madame had taught him a superb truth.
For her, he felt a sentiment of admiration and reverence the most
profound. She had been to him a revelation. He entreated her to bestow
upon him the privilege of watching over her career. Let her only make
the wise decision now, everything would arrange itself. It needed only
courage.

"This is the moment for decision. Remain now among us, and pursue your
studies with a calm mind, and I promise you--I, Jouffroy, who have the
right to speak on this matter--I promise you shall have a success beyond
the wildest dreams of your ambition. Madame, you do not guess your own
power. I know how your genius can be saved to the world; I know the
artist's nature. Have I not had the experience of twenty years? I know
what feeds and rouses it, and I know what kills it. And this I tell you,
Madame, that if you stay here, you have a stupendous future before you;
if you return to your fogs and your tea-parties--ah, then, Madame, your
genius will die and your heart will be broken."




CHAPTER XXXVI.


It was with great reluctance that Jouffroy acceded to Hadria's wish to
return home alone. She watched the river banks, and the boats coming and
passing, with a look of farewell in her eyes. She meant to hold out to
the utmost limits of the possible, but she knew that the possible _had_
limits, and she awaited judgment at the bar of destiny.

She hurried home on arriving at the quay, and found Henriette waiting
for her.

"What is it? Tell me at once, if anything is wrong."

"Then you knew I was here!" exclaimed Miss Temperley.

"Yes; M. Jouffroy told me. He found me at St. Cloud. Quick, Henriette,
don't keep me in suspense."

"There is nothing of immediate seriousness," Henriette replied, and her
sister-in-law drew a breath of relief. Tea was brought in by Hannah, and
a few questions were asked and answered. Miss Temperley having been
installed in an easy chair, and her cloak and hat removed, said that her
stay in Paris was uncertain as to length. It would depend on many
things. Hadria rang for the tray to be taken away, after tea was over,
and as Hannah closed the door, a sensation of sick apprehension overcame
her, for a moment. Henriette had obviously come to Paris in order to
recapture the fugitive, and meant to employ all her tact in the delicate
mission. She was devoted to Hubert and the children, heart and soul, and
would face anything on their behalf, including the present disagreeable
task. Hadria looked at her sister-in-law with admiration. She offered
homage to the prowess of the enemy.

Miss Temperley held a commanding position, fortified by ideas and
customs centuries old, and supported by allies on every side.

It ran through Hadria's mind that it was possible to refuse to allow the
subject to be broached, and thus escape the encounter altogether. It
would save many words on both sides. But Henriette had always been in
Hubert's confidence, and it occurred to Hadria that it might be well to
define her own position once more, since it was thus about to be
directly and frankly attacked. Moreover, Hadria began to be fired with
the spirit of battle. It was not merely for herself, but on behalf of
her sex, that she longed to repudiate the insult that seemed to her, to
be involved in Henriette's whole philosophy.

However, if the enemy shewed no signs of hostility, Hadria resolved that
she also would keep the truce.

Miss Temperley had already mentioned that Mrs. Fullerton was now staying
at the Red House, for change of air. She had been far from well, and of
course was worrying very muc