[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Tina Karol

ll as won in two nominations: "Best Movie Soundtrack" (together with Julia Sanina ) and "Best Duet/Collaboration".

On June 16, Tina Karol visited Almaty (Kazakhstan) as part of her promotional tour for the album "Krasivo". There the singer gave several interviews and visited various radio stations.

On June 29, according to Focus magazine Tina Karol was included in "Ukraine's 100 most influential women" list.

On July 1, there was the music video premiere for the song "Krasivo", which is the lead-single of Tina's new album "Krasivo"

On July 5 and 6, 2021, Tina Karol was the headliner of the Atlas Weekend 2021 music festival. She presented a cyber-show in support of her new album "Krasivo". The total number of people in the audience exceeded 250 thousand .

On July 30, the live album "Tina Karol - Cyber   Show Atlas Weekend 2021 Live" was released. Musicians both from the US and Ukraine worked on the music and arrangements in the album

On August 13, Tina Karol released the duet song "Zirochka" with the Ukrainian group KAZKA. This was the first track from her Ukrainian-language duet album "Moloda Krov", the release of which is dedicated to the 30th anniversary of the Independence Day of Ukraine.

On August 20, Tina released the album "Moloda Krov" featuring 7 duet songs.

On August 22, Tina Karol together with Natalia Mogilevskaya, Jamala, Sergey Babkin, Olga Polyakova and others performed at the award ceremony of the Presidential Prize "National Legend of Ukraine", established for the Independence Day of Ukraine. The ceremony took place in the Mariinskyi Palace.

On August 24, 2021, Tina Karol together with Andrea Bocelli performed the song "Con te partirò" at Constitution Square. On the same evening, a large-scale musical show "Independence is in our DNA" took place at the NSC Olympiyskiy stadium, where Tina performed a medley of her hits. Tina Karol also performed the song "Ukraina ce ty" at the ceremony dedicated to the 30th anniversary of the NOC.

On October 28, Tina Karol released a music video for the song "Dvoinoy Rai" on her YouTube channel. The single was included in the singer's new album that was released on October 29. On November 9, 2021, Tina Karol went to Kazakhstan to promote her new mini-album "Dvoinoy Rai". There she gave a number of interviews to central TV channels and radio stations. 

On November 16, Tina Karol performed her Ukrainian-language hit “Namaluu Tobiі” on "Dancing with the Stars" in Georgia.

On November 23, 2021, together with Kamila Zhusupova, she became the host of the first screenlife singing contest in Kazakhstan called "Double Dauys"

On December 31, 2021, Tina Karol was hiding under the mask of the Snow Queen  in a TV-show "New Year's Mask" on "Ukraina" channel. She performed the song "Snezhinka" from the movie "Charodei".

2022 
On January 14, in the final of the show "Dancing with the Stars" in Georgia, she sang in a duet with the Georgian performer Anri Jokhadze. The duo surprised with a new version of Tina's hit "Krasivo".

On January 17, 2022, Karol released the concert film “Krasivo. Begu na svet"  In February, she became the host of the Talent Games entertainment show along with Mikhailo Khoma and Julia Sanina. In February, she became a judge of the National Vidbir for Eurovision On February 16, together with Mikhailo Poplavsky, she became the host of the "Ukrainian Song of the Year " National music award. Tina received an award in the nomination "Legend of Ukrainian Song".

After the Russian military invasion of Ukraine, on February 24, Tina decided to leave the country and go to Poland, after the first explosions thundered at her house in the suburbs of Kyiv. Together with like-minded people, she created the International Center for Information Resistance, headquartered in Warsaw, to cover the events that are taking place in Ukraine, with a focus on the Russian-speaking audience from Russia, Belarus, Armenia and Kazakhstan

On March 30, a charity concert in support of Ukraine was held in Warsaw, where Tina Karol performed the Anthem of Ukraine. All collected money for tickets was donated to UNICEF for the needs of Ukrainian children. The event was held with the support of the Embassy of Ukraine in the Poland at the ROMA theater in Warsaw. On April 12, a charity match "Match For Peace" was held in Poland at the Legia stadium in support of Ukraine. Dynamo (Kyiv) and Legia (Warsaw) met at the stadium. During the break, Ukrainian singers Tina Karol, Nadya Dorofeeva, Kateryna Pavlenko (Go_A) and Julia Sanina (The Hardkiss) sang on the football field. Karol sang the song "Ukraina - Tse Ty", and also, the singers jointly performed the compositions "Vilna" and "Chervona Kalina" On April 22, Tina Karol performed at the opening of the exhibition "This is Ukraine: Defending Freedom", which is part of the official program of the Venice Biennale, where the singer sang the National Anthem of Ukraine.