[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Workplace violence

to estimates of the Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS), the rate of nonfatal occupational injuries and illnesses involving days away from work was 15.1 per 10,000 full-time workers in 2012. This rate is much higher than the rate for total private industries, which is 4.0 per 10,000 full-time workers.

There are many contributing factors that can lead to health-care workers, specifically nurses, experiencing workplace violence. These factors can be divided into environmental, organizational, and individual psychosocial. A few environmental factors may include the specific setting, long waiting times, frequent interruptions, uncertainty regarding the patients' treatment, and heavy workloads. Organizational factors may include inefficient teamwork, organizational injustice, lack of aggression management programs, and distrust between colleagues. This may also include inadequate security procedures. Individual psychosocial factors may include nurses being young and inexperienced, previous experiences with violence, and a lack of communication skills and/or awareness of how to interpret aggressive situations.  Misunderstandings may also occur due to the communication barrier between nurses and patients.  A few examples of this are a lack of privacy for the patient, background noise, and the patient's condition being affected by medication, pain, and/or anxiety.

See also
Abusive supervision
Going postal
Occupational health psychology
Occupational safety and health
Workplace aggression
Workplace bullying
Workplace conflict

References

External links
Workplace Violence News & Resources
Before the Storm: Workplace Safety Webinar
 
Safety and Health Topics from www.osha.gov
Violence on the Job, video from NIOSH
Half of Large Employers Had Workplace Violence Incident in Last Year
Workplace Violence Q&A - CCOHS
Work and Family Researchers Network
Workplace Violence, 1993-2009 Bureau of Justice Statistics
Workplace Violence Against Government Employees, 1994-2011 Bureau of Justice Statistics
Caring for Your Employees: Experts answer questions on preventing workplace violence

 
Violence
Occupational hazards
Workplace harassment and bullying
Occupational health psychology