[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of Acts of the Parliament of England, 1603–1641

ealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (Confirmation of decrees as to copyholds, etc.) c. 21 An act for confirmation of decrees hereafter to be made in the exchequer-chamber, and duchy-court, concerning copyhold lands and tenements. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1948
 (Taxation) c. 22 An Acte for Confirmacion of the Subsidie granted by the Clergie. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (Taxation) c. 23 An Acte for the Grant of one entire Subsidie and one Fiftenth and Tenth by the Temporalitie. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863
 (General pardon) c. 24 An Acte for the Kinges Most gracious generall and free Pardon. — repealed by Statute Law Revision Act 1863

Private Acts

Manor of Wakefield (Yorkshire): confirmation of decrees between King and copyholders. c. 1
Manor of Edmonton (Middlesex): confirmation of a decree between King and copyholders. c. 2
Manors or Lordships of Clitheroe, Derby, Accrington, Colne and Ightenhill (Lancashire): creation and confirmation of copyholds. c. 3
Assurance of the Isle of Man Act 1609 c. 4 An Acte for the Assuringe and Establishing of the Isle of Manne in the name and blood of William, Earl of Derby.
Earl of Derby's estate: explanation of the Act of 1606 [c. 3] [establishment and assurance of possessions and hereditaments]. c. 5
Assurance of lands to Bishop of Durham and Earl of Salisbury. c. 6
Naturalization of Sir Robert Karr. c. 7
Naturalization of Jane Drummond. c. 8
Earl of Oxenford's estate: sale of manor of Bretts and farm of Plaistow (Essex) towards repurchasing the castle, manor and parks of Henningham (Essex). c. 9
Assurance of farm and demesnes of Damerham (Wiltshire) according to the grants of the King and King Edward VI. c. 10
Foundation of hospital and grammar school, and maintenance of a teacher, in Thetford. c. 11
Naturalization of John Murray, Richard Murray, John Levingston and John Auchmothy. c. 12
Naturalization of Levinus Munk. c. 13
William and Edward Elringtons' orphans' provision: confirming and executing the Chancery decree against Edward Cage, executor of Rowland Elrington. c. 14
Naturalization of Robert Browne. c. 15
Confirmation of fines levied by John Arundell of Guarnack to John Arundell of Trerise, deceased, and settlement of the property comprised in the fines to John Arundell, son of John Arundell of Trerise. c. 16
Estates of Lord Abergavenny and Sir Henry Nevill: alienation of lands for payment of debts and advancement of children, and assurance of other lands lately purchased from the King. c. 17
Restitution in blood of George Brooke's children. c. 18
Disuniting the parsonages of Ashe and Deane (Hampshire). c. 19
Naturalization of Henry Gibb. c. 20
William Essex's estate: sale of lands for payment of debts, and settlement of residue. c. 21
Relief of John Holdich, disinherited by the extraordinary amending of the errors of a fine. c. 22
Naturalization of Sir George Ramsay, Walter Alexander and John Sandilandis. c. 23
Naturalization of Peter Vanloore. c. 24
Confirmation of the estate of the Company of Salters and Brewers of London. c. 25
Uniting parishes of Froome Whitfield (Dorset) and Holy Trinity, Dorchester. c. 26
Repair of river Exe weir near city of Exeter. c. 27
Establishment of Thomas Sutton's charities. c. 28
Establishing the inheritance of Sir Henry Crisp and rendering certain conveyances void. c. 29
Sir John Wentworth's estate: assurance of lands to provide portions, confirmation of life estates in other lands and enabling the sale of other lands for payment of debts. c. 30
Reginald Rous's estate: sale of lands in Badingham, Tymington and Little Glemham (Suffolk), to his nephew, Reginald Rous of the Inner Temple. c. 31
Naturalization of Edward and Henry Palmers and Michael Boyle. c. 32
Charles Waldegrave's estate: sale of lands for payment of debts and advancement of children. c. 33
Naturalization of Richard, John and Robert Bladwell, George and John Hasden, Elizabeth and Ann Cradock, Jane or Janekin Carstens and Elizabeth Van Buechton. c. 34
Confirmation of sales of property, late the estate of Henry Jarnegan, made by Sir Thomas Hirne, Christopher Hirne and Clement Hirne to Sir John and Dame Bridget Heveningham. c. 35
Naturalization of John Mounsy. c. 36
Naturalization of Joane Greensmith. c. 37
Revocation of Sir Robert Drury's conveyances. c. 38
Naturalization of Margaret Clark. c. 39
Sir John Biron's estate. c. 40
Naturalization of George Montgomery, Bishop of Derry, Sir Hugh Montgomery, Hugh and James Montgomery and Sir James Fullarton. c. 41
Naturalization of Martinus Schonerus, Dorothee and Engella Seelken, Katherine Benneken, John Wolfgang Rumbler and Anna de Lobell alias Wolfgang Rumbler. c. 42
Christopher and Millicent Smith: confirmation of deed of revocation. c. 43

1611–1620

1620 (18 & 19 Jas. 1)

The 3rd Parliament of King James I which met from 16 January 1621 until 19 December 1621.