[Source: Semantic Scholar | Fields: Economics | Year: 2022 | Citations: 2]

Title: Revisiting QUAD ambition in the Indo Pacific leveraging Space and Cyber Domain

Abstract:
In the backdrop of growing power transitions and rise of strategic high tide in the world, the Indo Pacific Region (IPR) has emanated as an area which is likely to witness increased development & enhanced security cooperation through militarization. With China trying to be at the seat of the Global leadership, US & its allies in the Indo pacific are aiming at working together, finding mutually beneficial areas of functional cooperation and redefining the canvas of security. This purpose of this paper is to analyze an informal alliance, Quadrilateral Security dialogue (QUAD) in its present form with the geostrategic landscape in Indo pacific and present recommendations to strengthen collaboration & response capability. To advance the main arguments, this paper project proceeds as follows. In Chapter 1, we furnish a big picture on the changing geopolitical and geoeconomics scenario due to Chinese expansionary attitude in Indo Pacific, which make the region significant and motivates for an inquiry into its future course of action & alignment. Chapter 2, collates the arguments about the existing geopolitical shift in the international relations which pave the way for formal and informal alliances by comparing their framework. Next, we examine the interests and motives of QUAD countries in Indo Pacific with reference to growing Chinese aggressive strides in the region. We probe Chinese strategy in Indo Pacific & its manifestation as a coercive power leveraging economic investment for projection in the maritime domain. In Chapter 3, through our literature survey, we show that the existing work does not highlight specific scope for collaboration by the QUAD countries especially in the Cyber and Space domain and there is a need to focus on distinct use cases in both domains. Against this back drop, Chapter 4, covers deliberation on the present work and provides specific policy recommendations for the alliance. Lastly, in Chapter 5, we conclude with our summary by visualizing the way forward for the QUAD alliance based on evolving geopolitical and security landscape.