[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Allan D'Arcangelo

h a new style. However, he did return to the city to continue teaching at Brooklyn College from 1973 to 1992 and the School of Visual Arts from 1982–1992, where he had also previously taught from 1963–1968. Finally, he died in 1998 in New York City due to complications with leukemia.

Artistic style

D'Arcangelo rejected Abstract Expressionism, though his early work has a painterly and somewhat expressive feel. He quickly turned to a style of art that seemed to border on Pop Art and Minimalism, Precisionism and Hard-Edge painting. Evidently, he didn't fit neatly in the category of Pop Art, though he shared subjects (women, signs, Superman) and techniques (stencil, assemblage) with these artists. To D'Arcangelo, his style was less important than the subject matter he depicted and he believed that a culture of protest and resistance was more meaningful than any aesthetic concerns. And the subject he chose to explore first and foremost was the American experience. At first he touched on specific motifs in the contemporary American consciousness, such as President Kennedy's tragic death in Place of Assassination (1965) and environmental concerns in Can Our National Bird Survive? (1962). However, he quickly turned to expansive, if detached scenes of the American highway. These paintings are reminiscent of Chirico-though perhaps not as interested in isolation-and Dali-though there is a stronger interest in the present and disinterest in the past. These paintings also have a sharp quality that is reminiscent of the precisionist style, or more specifically, Charles Sheeler. These paintings also show a deep interest in the contradictions of flatness and perspective as represented on a canvas-ideas that, likewise, artists of the Middle Ages and early Renaissance pondered often. Overall, D'Arcangelo makes an effort at distilling his subject matter into its most honest, intelligible, and synoptic descriptions; his paintings are interpretations of the American experience, not just his own memories.

1950s
Before D'Arcangelo returned to New York, his style was roughly figurative and reminiscent of folk art.

Early 1960s

During the early 1960s, Allan D'Arcangelo was linked with Pop Art. "Marilyn" (1962) depicts an illustrative head and shoulders on which the facial features are marked by lettered slits to be "fitted" with the eyebrows, eyes, nose and mouth which appear off to the right in the composition. In "Madonna and Child," (1963) the featureless faces of Jackie Kennedy and Caroline are ringed with haloes, enough to make their status as contemporary icons perfectly clear. Aside from film stars and icons from pop culture, D'Arcangelo also turned to political matters. His well known painting, Can Our National Bird Survive (1962) was painted the same year Rachel Carson published her seminal Silent Spring; its ambiguity also allows the viewer to interpret it as a statement about the Vietnam War.

Late 1960s

By the mid 1960s, D'Arcangelo had abandoned figurative elements and turned to the American landscape, or, more specifically, the highway. D'Arcangelo is better known for his pictures of highways and roadblocks, which pictured deep perspectival vistas in a simplified, flat plane, the view as seen from the driver's seat as one zooms along the seemingly never-ending American highway in most any state.  He was initially interested in painting these scenes in a series, like a film strip, as the view changes outside your car window. In these paintings, the artist treats every single object with the same quality-both the same flatness and lack of extreme detail. This reads as detached; D'Arcangelo sought to investigate our separation from the natural world, which become more of a symbol than a description in these paintings. He was actually critiqued for these paintings as much as he was celebrated; pop art was considered a flat style, lacking perspectival plays of space. However, he argued that despite the receiving lines of roads, the paintings ultimately were flat. In fact, these works are full of contrasts and contradictions: the flat surface has deep linear perspective; though there are recognizable motifs present, they are highly schematized; and, abstract designs are mixed with recognizable objects, such as trees.

1970s