[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Edward Spragge

f Schooneveld of 1673. In these last Schooneveld battles he sought out and fought Tromp, readmitted to the navy in 1673, with great fury, but without result.
Spragge publicly swore an oath in front of King Charles that the next time, he would either kill or capture his old enemy Tromp or die trying.

In the fourth Battle of Texel on 21 August 1673, Spragge and Tromp, commanding their respective rear divisions, again clashed repeatedly, each having their ships so damaged as to need to shift their flags to fresh ships twice. First the Prince Royal duelled the Gulden Leeuw; when the former ship was dismasted and half of her crew dead or wounded, Spragge shifted to HMS St George and Tromp to the Comeetstar. On the second occasion, whilst passing from the St George to the Royal Charles, Spragge's sloop was hit by cannon fire, a cannonball passing through the hull of the St George hitting the boat. The Admiral was injured but perhaps died by drowning as his vessel sank, just before reaching the ropes of the St George to which it had been rowed back as quickly as possible. The sloop remained partially floating and the body of Spragge was recovered with the head and shoulders still out of the water and his arms so cramped around the wood that much force had to be applied to free them. Contemporaneous Dutch naval historian Gerard Brandt wrote in his biography of Michiel de Ruyter: "This was the sad ending of Knight Edward Spragge, bravest of all English Admirals, who was praised by his friends and enemies for his courage and honesty and commiserated from compassion".

On 1 February 1673, Spragge had been elected as a Member of Parliament for Dover, after two ballots, but did not live to be able to sit. On 16 January 1674, it was resolved by Parliament that Spragge had failed to be elected because he had illegally influenced the election; he had in fact ordered an old and infirm pilot, who he knew intended to vote for his rival, aboard one of his ships, to prevent him from voting.
   
Spragge was buried in the North Choir Aisle of Westminster Abbey, but without any memorial visible today. His grave had this inscription:
Sir Edward Spragge, Kt., a brave and valiant Sea Captain, who lost his life in a sea fight against the Hollanders, 1673 
He had no issue by his wife, but was the father of two illegitimate sons and one daughter by a mistress, Dorothy Dennis.

Edward Spragge was the cousin of the later admiral George Legge.

Namesakes
The Royal Navy has named four ships after Spragge.  The first two,  of 1673 (renamed HMS Young Spragge in 1677) and  of 1677 were fireships. The third  was a destroyer leader cancelled in 1919. The fourth, , was a frigate in commission from 1944 to 1946 which saw service during World War II.

References

Notes

External links
Pepys' Diary
Westminster Abbey

1629 births
1673 deaths
Royal Navy admirals
Royal Navy personnel of the Anglo-Dutch Wars
English privateers
Burials at Westminster Abbey
English military personnel killed in action
English MPs 1661–1679
Military personnel from County Roscommon
Members of the Parliament of England for Dover
Irish officers in the Royal Navy