[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Digital diplomacy

foreign publics, compared to the one-way nature of traditional public diplomacy. While traditional diplomacy occurs offline in relative privacy, online diplomacy has allowed a multitude of actors to discuss foreign policy-making, increasing the impact of public opinion on the foreign policy agenda.

This method of diplomacy provides additional avenues for other actors to engage in co-creation with influential people and organizations on multilateral diplomatic campaigns. An example of this would be the 2012-2014 Campaign to End Sexual Violence in Conflict launched by then British foreign secretary William Hague, which used a multi-channel digital and offline approach to engage UN organizations as well as states. A video featuring co-created content by Angelina Jolie, a UN Special Envoy, supporting the campaign managed to attract 15,000 views, compared to the foreign secretary’s similar video, which only attracted 400 views.

This ability for states to listen to their audiences' perceptions of their foreign policy is considered another potential benefit of digital diplomacy. It can provide a new means for states who have severed formal diplomatic ties to collect information about each other’s foreign policy positions. For example, despite the states' strained diplomatic relationship, the U.S. State Department follows the Iranian president on Twitter.

Access to social media as a diplomatic channel has also changed the relative influence of diplomatic actors from states thought to possess little hard power – or power achieved through material resources strength – amongst other diplomatic actors. A study done by Ilan Manor and Elad Segev in 2020 measured the social media mobility of ministries of foreign affairs and UN missions to New York, finding that states with less hard power could use social media to become “supernodes” in online diplomatic networks. This is also referred to this as the “theory of networked diplomacy”.

Challenges in digital diplomacy 
Though states have managed to achieve diplomatic prominence online through their use of Twitter and other online channels, these new diplomatic channels do not come without risks. Messages and images shared on social media platforms, particularly Twitter, have already given rise to diplomatic crises.

In 2018, Global Affairs Canada tweeted a statement calling on Saudi Arabia to release imprisoned human rights activists. In response, Saudi Arabia cut diplomatic and trade ties with Canada, declaring the country’s ambassador persona non grata and recalling Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Canada.

The incident escalated when a pro-government Twitter account later tweeted an image of an Air Canada plane flying in the direction of Toronto’s CN Tower, with the text, “He who interferes with what doesn’t concern him finds what doesn’t please him.” The image incited criticism from many on social media due to perceived parallels between the image and the September 11, 2001 attacks in the United States.

Digital platforms have also enabled the spread of disinformation used to undermine states’ international and domestic stability, such as the interference of the Russian government in the 2016 U.S. presidential election.

See also
 Alliance Française
 British Council
 Cultural Diplomacy
 E-government
 Government by algorithm
 Office of eDiplomacy (US)
 Open government
 Public diplomacy
 Public Diplomacy Council of Catalonia
 Twitter diplomacy
 USC Center on Public Diplomacy

References

External links
 Digiplomacy definition
 Twiplomacy - Mutual Relations on Twitter
 Digiplomacy News
 U.S. immigrant builds bridges with the 'Facebook of Peace'
 Facebook Diplomacy (comic)
 Facebook Diplomacy (Newsweek)
 Facebook Diplomacy: State 'friends' the World 
 Ranking of Governments in Digital Diplomacy - MediaBadger

Diplomacy
Types of diplomacy
E-government