[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 111]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ve here and manage affairs--morals, manners, hygiene, and
everything?"

Henriette's needles stopped abruptly, and a wave of colour came into her
face, and a gleam of sudden joy to her eyes.

"My dear, what do you mean?"

"Hubert, of course, would be only too delighted to have you here, and I
want to go away."

"For heaven's sake----"

"Not exactly for heaven's sake. For my own sake, I suppose: frankly
selfish. It is, perhaps, the particular form that my selfishness
takes--an unfortunately conspicuous form. So many of us can have a nice
cosy pocket edition that doesn't show. However, that's not the point. I
know you would be happier doing this than anything else, and that you
would do it perfectly. You have the kind of talent, if I may say so,
that makes an admirable ruler. When it has a large political field we
call it 'administrative ability'; when it has a small domestic one, we
speak of it as 'good housekeeping.' It is a precious quality, wherever
it appears. You have no scope for it at present."

Henriette was bewildered, horrified, yet secretly thrilled with joy on
her own account. Was there a quarrel? Had any cloud come over the
happiness of the home? Hadria laughed and assured her to the contrary.
But where was she going, and for how long? What did she intend to do?
Did Hubert approve? And could she bear to be away from her children?
Hadria thought this was all beside the point, especially as the boys
were shortly going to school. The question was, whether Henriette would
take the charge.

Certainly, if Hadria came to any such mad decision, but that, Henriette
hoped, might be averted. What _would_ people say? Further discussion was
checked by a call from Mrs. Walker, whom Hadria had the audacity to
consult on questions of education and hygiene, leading her, by dexterous
generalship, almost over the same ground that she had traversed herself,
inducing the unconscious lady to repeat, with amazing accuracy, Hadria's
own reproduction of local views.

"Now _am_ I without authority in my ideas?" she asked, after Mrs. Walker
had departed. Henriette had to admit that she had at least one
supporter.

"But I believe," she added, "that your practice is better than your
preaching."

"It seems to be an ordinance of Nature," said Hadria, "that these things
shall never correspond."




CHAPTER XXXI.


Hadria said nothing more about her project, and when Henriette alluded
to it, answered that it was still unfurnished with detail. She merely
wished to know, for certain, Henriette's views. She admitted that there
had been some conversation on the subject between Hubert and herself,
but would give no particulars. Henriette had to draw her own conclusions
from Hadria's haggard looks, and the suppressed excitement of her
manner.

Henriette always made a point of being present when Professor Fortescue
called, as she did not approve of his frequent visits. She noticed that
he gave a slight start when Hadria entered. In a few days, she had grown
perceptibly thinner. Her manner was restless. A day or two of rain had
prevented the usual walks. When it cleared up again, the season had
taken a stride. Still more glorious was the array of tree and flower,
and their indescribable freshness suggested the idea that they were
bathed in the mysterious elixir of life, and that if one touched them,
eternal youth would be the reward. Professor Theobald gazed at Hadria
with startled and enquiring eyes, when they met again.

"You look tired," he said.

"I am, rather. The spring is always a little trying."

"Especially _this_ spring, I find."

The gardens of the Priory were now at the very perfection of their
beauty. The supreme moment had come of flowing wealth of foliage and
delicate splendour of blossom, yet the paleness of green and tenderness
of texture were still there.

Professor Theobald said suddenly, that Hadria looked as if she were
turning over some project very anxiously in her mind--a project on which
much depended.

"You are very penetrating," she replied, after a moment's hesitation,
"that is exactly what I _am_ doing. When I was a girl, my brothers and
sisters and I used to discuss the question of the sovereignty of the
will. Most of us believed in it devoutly. We regarded circumstance as an
annoying trifle, that no person who respected himself would allow to
stand in his way. I want to try that theory and see what comes of it."

"You alarm me, Mrs. Temperley."

"Yes, people always do seem to get alarmed when one attempts to put
their favourite theories in practice."

"But really--for a woman----"

"The sovereignty of the will is a dangerous doctrine?"

"Well, as things are; a young woman, a beautiful woman."

"You recall an interesting memory," she said.

"Ah, that is unkind."

Her smile checked him.

"When you fall into a mocking humour, you are quite impracticable."

"I merely smiled," she said, "sweetly,