[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# The Settlers II

device. Speaking of the logistics of the port, they stated:

Explaining why they had chosen the DS as the platform to which to port the game, they explained:

They also pointed out that aside from the use of the stylus and the two screens, the gameplay and graphics were unaltered from the original.

ReceptionThe Settlers II received positive reviews, with an aggregate score of 84% on GameRankings, based on four reviews. The Nintendo DS re-release received "generally unfavorable" reviews, with a score of 39 out of 100 on Metacritic, based on six reviews, and 38% on GameRankings, based on seven reviews.PC Games Petra Maueröder scored the game 91%, giving it a "PC Games Award", naming it Game of the Month, and calling it "world class". Her main criticisms concerned the notification system, which she felt wasn't entirely reliable when reporting on attacks, the "imposed arbitrariness" of where woodcutters work, and the absence of online multiplayer mode. However, she praised the graphics and gameplay, concluding that "this game will inspire you - regardless of whether you are among The Settlers veterans, or are usually rather sceptical about playing this particular genre".PC Gamers James Flynn scored it 89%, and was especially impressed with the balance between city-building and combat. He particularly praised the economic system on which the game is built, calling it "so sound that everything you do makes perfect sense". He also lauded the graphics and variety of animations. His main criticism was that he felt it was not overly different from the first title, writing "Blue Byte have not fundamentally altered the game in the same way that MicroProse did with Civilization II".PC Players Jörg Langer scored it 4 out of 5, giving it a "Gold Player" award. Although he was critical of the "indirect control" over combat, and felt that "diplomacy has not been implemented in the slightest", he praised the graphical improvements over the first game, the complexity of the economic system, and the story-driven single-player campaign, concluding "Settlers 2 is just as suitable for the patient casual player as for strategy experts - there is no more constructive, more relaxing strategy game".Computer Gaming Worlds Tim Carter scored it 4 out of 5, praising the game's character and the complexity of the economic system, especially lauding the focus on economics over combat; "winning or losing is rooted in economics, and it will be hard to compensate for economic weakness with superior military tactics". He concluded by calling the game "a fun and engrossing experience that challenges your brain without getting on your nerves".Arcanes Andy Butcher rated it 8 out of 10, writing that "as well as adding new buildings and resources, Settlers 2 also has improved graphics and supports multi-player games. Big fans of the original will find more than enough new stuff to keep them occupied, while the simplicity of the game's controls enable newcomers to easily get to grips with it. Settlers 2 is a great strategy game that's deceptively addictive and absorbing".GameSpots Trent Ward scored it 7.3 out of 10, writing that "there really isn't enough to do to make long-term world-building very satisfying". Whilst he praised the graphics and the economic system, especially the complex relationship between the different buildings, he was critical of combat, concluding: "Those who are looking for a more open-ended game may find that Settlers IIs low number of construction options and snore-inducing combat keep the game well within the bounds of strategy game mediocrity". Stephen Poole scored the Gold Edition 6.6 out of 10. He too praised the economic system, but, like Ward, he was critical of combat. He also lamented the absence of online multiplayer, concluding that "the game is definitely not for everyone, but for those who think they're up to the challenge of lording over a sprawling empire, the Gold Edition is an excellent deal".

Sales and awards
The game was a commercial success, considerably outselling the first Settlers title. In the German market alone, by November 1996, it had sold 150,000 units. By August 1997, it had sold over 500,000 units worldwide, and roughly 600,000 by May 1998. In August 1998, it was awarded the "Platinum Award" by the Verband der Unterhaltungssoftware Deutschland e.V. (VUD); an award given to titles costing DM55 or more, which sell over 200,000 units nationally within the first twelve months of their release.

The game was nominated for Computer Games Strategy Pluss 1996 "Real-Time Strategy Game of the Year" award, losing to Command & Conquer: Red Alert. In 1997, PC Gamer (UK) ranked it at #27 on their "PC Gamer Top 100" list, calling it "an outstanding cerebral challenge".