[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (New Zealand)

ellbeing and Poverty Reduction Group, Executive Director: Implementation Unit and Deputy Chief Executive, COVID-19 Group. The clerk of the executive reports to the governor-general and the chief executive reports to the prime minister. To see current members and their roles refer to the table above.

Role of the Chief Executive 
The Chief Executive of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet works for public service. The main point of contact between the Ministerial Department and the public service represented by the DPMC is the chief executive. The Chief Executive of the DPMC holds the core role of leading and managing the department. They hold many responsibilities including accountability for the departments' performance and the conduct of staff within the department including areas like understanding conflicts of interest that staff may hold. Furthermore, they are also responsible for allocating and tracking resources that government provides the DPMC. Additionally, they are the chair of the officials' committee for domestic and external security cooperation (ODESC). In conjunction with other team members of the leadership section in the department, they work to improve public service performance and work collaboratively amongst themselves and across multiple agencies. This department must lead and communicate crucial information to other agencies and departments within the government and the Chief Executive supports the prime minister of the day to enable this to happen well. The Chief Executive regularly holds meetings with the prime minister to discuss issues that are relevant to the DPMC. The Chief Executive also meets regularly with the Security of the Cabinet to establish the agenda for Cabinet meetings.

Heads of the DPMC (formerly Secretary, now the Chief Executive) are:

See also
 Officials Committee for Domestic and External Security Co-ordination
 Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet (Australia)

References

External links
 

New Zealand Public Service departments
New Zealand