[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paper Dolls (film)

loyee at Department of Foreign Affairs asked them if Sally was "the one who got bashed in the head". Heymann was informed of Sally's death during the Israeli Film Fest held in Manila, wherein the proceeds of the screening – as well as his own allowance – were given to Sally's family in Imus, Cavite.

Stage adaptation
A stage adaptation of the same name by Philip Himberg was workshopped as part of the Sundance Theatre Lab in 2011 under the direction of Mark Brokaw. The workshop cast including Telly Leung, Francis Jue, Erik Liberman, Matthew Wilkas, Joan Barber, Yusef Boulov, Ron Domingo, Ben Graney, Lauren Klein, Orville Mendoza, Jon Rua and Ariel Shafir. A full production with new music by Nigel Lilley and Ben and Max Ringham (as well as songs used by the original Paper Dolls in their act), played at the Tricycle Theatre in London from 28 February 2013 to 13 April 2013. The play was directed by the theatre's artistic director, Indhu Rubasingham, with choreography by Alistair David. The cast included New York-based actor Francis Jue as Sally. Himberg said that he adapted the documentary for the stage, responding "to the story about immigration, about crossing borders, both literal and metaphorical. ... Also the clashing of cultures. ... And the generational thing, that these younger Asian men were caring in a very beautiful way for these older men who had been, frankly, abandoned by their families." Himberg met Rubasingham at the Sundance Theatre Programme. Himberg changed the story told in the documentary by creating a character, Yossi, partly based on Tomer Heymann, a filmmaker who grows in his perspective as he becomes familiar with the Dolls. The Dolls "dream of hitting the big time, and are convinced that allowing [Yossi] to make a documentary of their lives is the route to fame and fortune." The relationship between the brothers Chiqui and Giorgio is made more antagonistic (Giorgio is depicted as a troublemaker). Another new character is Chaim's daughter Adina. Songs in the piece include numbers that the original Dolls chose for their lip-synching act, but the stage performers sing live.

The piece received mostly mixed or negative reviews, although the relationship between Jue's Sally and Harry Dickman's Chaim was praised by most reviewers. The Daily Telegraph thought that Himberg "tries to include everything, and in the process, loses focus and tension. ... The raucous performances of musical numbers ... occupy an uncomfortable hinterland between deliberately amateurish and slightly painful. Richard Kent’s designs are handsome. ... Jue gives a haunting performance as Sally ... but both play and direction are compromised by a cloying sentimentality." The London Evening Standard, observed: "It’s a curious confection: part surprising study of cultural contrasts, part affectionate portrait of the world of the drag queen, and part exploration of some knotty ideas about homeland and identity. ... [The]  production is both intimate and vigorous, with lashings of campness and a few genuinely moving moments. ... But along the way it seems a bit clunky, as if straining too hard for sincerity and interest." The Stage felt that, while the play has an "episodic, plodding sincerity", "it feels as though the inner lives have been drained from these characters". The Times, however, gave the piece four stars out of a possible five, writing: "As an illustration of the fragility of global immigrants, amplified by the no man’s land between genders and set in a land itself founded by a diaspora, it is hard to better. ... [It] is both achingly intimate and rich in universal themes: the courage of exile, the security of culture and religion, the moral beauty of tolerance.
At its heart is the relationship (which repeatedly made me cry) between Chaim (Harry Dickman) ... and the wonderful Francis Jue as Salvatore – 'Sally'."

See also 
 Homosexuality and Judaism
 Trembling Before G-d (2001)
 Keep Not Silent (2002), a documentary about lesbian Orthodox Jewish women in Jerusalem
 Say Amen (2005), a documentary about a gay man coming out to his Orthodox family
 And Thou Shalt Love (2008), an Israeli short film that examines the difficulties of being both an Orthodox Jew and gay

References

External links

Paper Dolls trailer
Film Forum Podcast:  Q&A with Tomer Heymann

 
 2013 BBC interview about the stage show

2006 films
Israeli documentary films
2000s English-language films
2000s Hebrew-language films
2000s Tagalog-language films
Documentary films about LGBT and Judaism
Israeli LGBT-related films
Philippine LGBT-related films
Transgender-related documentary films
2006 LGBT-related films
Films about trans women
Films about Orthodox and Hasidic Jews
Drag (entertainment)-related documentary films
Films about immigration
2006 multilingual films
Israeli multilingual films
American multilingual films
Swiss multilingual films
Films shot in Israel