[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hellgate Treaty

rritories also extend to the southwestern fork of the Bitterroot River and up to Salmon River and Snake River. The Flathead Indian Reservation was established by the treaty. Flathead Lake lies in the northeast corner of the reservation, with most of the reservation to the south and west of the lake.

After the treaty
Congress moved slowly, and the treaty was not ratified until March 8, 1859. The resulting delay in annuity payments led the tribes to believe that the government had broken its promise. When the government finally did begin paying annuities—in the form of supplies like blankets, flannel, rice, and coffee—graft and incompetence drained away much of the money. Furthermore, Stevens had made a verbal promise of military protection from the Blackfeet, but this promise was not included in the final treaty. From the perspective of the Salish, Kutenai, and Pend d'Oreille people, it seemed like another broken promise.

The Upper Pend d'Oreille and Lower Kutenai tribes moved to the Flathead Indian Reservation, but the Salish continued to live in the Bitterroot Valley, believing that the treaty had guaranteed their right to do so. In violation of the treaty, white settlement in the valley accelerated during the 1870s and 1880s, putting pressure on the tribe. No thorough survey was ever carried out in keeping with the terms of Article 11. Instead, Stevens sent Flathead Indian agent R. H. Lansdale to ride through the Bitterroot and Flathead valleys and evaluate them. Stevens instructed, "Weight must be given to the fact that a large majority of the Indians prefer the Flathead River reservation." Lansdale obeyed Stevens's orders, giving the verdict that the Flathead reservation would be preferable.

The Civil War distracted the government from deciding the question of the Bitterroot reservation until 1871, when President Ulysses S. Grant issued an executive order to remove the Salish to the Flathead reservation. The diplomacy of Chief Charlo allowed the tribe to remain in the Bitterroot until 1891, when economic pressure finally forced them to move to the Flathead.

See also
 Confederated Salish and Kootenai Tribes of the Flathead Nation
 Treaty of Fort Laramie (1851)

References

Citations

Bibliography

External links

 Treaty of Hellgate

1855 in American law
Hellgate
Pre-statehood history of Idaho
Pre-statehood history of Montana
1859 treaties
1855 treaties
1855 in Montana
1859 in Montana