[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 25]
# List of coups and coup attempts

government of Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif on 12 October. Musharraf declared a state of emergency and imposed martial law. Sharif was arrested and later exiled.
1999 Ivorian coup d'état: A group of soldiers led by Tuo Fozié rebelled on 23 December, overthrowing President Henri Konan Bédié.

2000–2009

2000
2000 Ecuadorean coup d'état: President Jamil Mahuad was deposed and replaced by Vice President Gustavo Noboa.
2000 Fijian coup d'état: A civilian coup by hardline i-Taukei nationalists against the elected government of Prime Minister Mahendra Chaudhry occurred on 19 May. President Kamisese Mara attempted to assert executive authority on 27 May, but gave his resignation, possibly forced, on 29 May. An interim government headed by Commodore Frank Bainimarama was set up, and handed power over to an interim administration headed by Ratu Josefa Iloilo, as president, on 13 July.
2000 Solomon Islands coup d'état: Rebel Malaita Eagle Forces led a coup against Prime Minister Bartholomew Ulufa'alu. Ulufa'alua was forced to resign, and was replaced by Manasseh Sogavare.

2001 

 2001 Burundian coup d'état attempt: A group of junior army officers attempted a coup against President Pierre Buyoya, who was out of the country. The conspirators briefly occupied a state-run radio station before being removed by forces loyal to the president.
 2001 Central African Republic coup d'état attempt: Commandos of the Central African Armed Forces attempted to overthrow President Ange-Félix Patassé. The coup failed, though violence continued in the capital for several days after.

2002
Ivory Coast (also known as Côte d'Ivoire): A coup may have been attempted on 19 September, the first night of the First Ivorian Civil War. Former president Robert Guéï was killed; state government claimed it had happened as he attempted to lead a coup, but it was widely claimed that Guéï and fifteen others had been murdered in his home and his body moved.
2002 Venezuelan coup d'état attempt: President Hugo Chávez was ousted from office for 47 hours before being restored to power with the help of popular support (mostly labor unions) and members of the military.

2003
2003 Central African Republic coup d'état: President Ange-Félix Patassé was overthrown while out of the country, when the forces of General François Bozizé took over the airport and presidential palace.
2003 Mauritanian coup d'état attempt: Former Major Saleh Ould Hanenna led a rebel section of the Army to attempt a coup against President Maaouya Ould Sid'Ahmed Taya. The soldiers were completely defeated by troops loyal to the President. 
2003 São Tomé and Príncipe coup d'état attempt: Major Fernando Pereira launched a coup against the government of President Fradique de Menezes. After a week with the Army in power, conspirators relinquished control following negotiations with the government.
Oakwood mutiny in the Philippines: A group of military defectors who came to be known as the Magdalo (mutineers) forcibly occupied the Oakwood Premier apartments and demanded the resignation of President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo and other officials. They relinquished the apartments about 20 hours later after negotiations.
2003 Guinea-Bissau coup d'état: General Veríssimo Correia Seabra led a bloodless military coup against President Kumba Ialá.
2003 Burkinabé coup d'état attempt: A plot to overthrow President Blaise Compaoré was discovered and thwarted.
Sledgehammer (coup plan) an alleged Turkish secularist military coup plan dating back to 2003, in response to the Justice and Development Party (AKP) gaining office.

2004
2004 Haitian coup d'état: President Jean-Bertrand Aristide was ousted during his second term, and an interim government led by Prime Minister Gérard Latortue and President Boniface Alexandre was installed.
2004 Chadian coup d'état attempt: A coup attempt against President Idriss Déby was suppressed after a brief exchange of fire.
2004 Equatorial Guinea coup d'état attempt (also known as the Wonga Coup): A plot was developed to replace President Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo with exiled opposition politician, Severo Moto Nsá. However, the mercenaries who had been hired by mostly British financiers were arrested in Zimbabwe before they could carry out the plot.
Sarıkız, Ayışığı, Yakamoz and Eldiven were the names of alleged Turkish military coup plans in 2004.
2004 Sudanese coup attempt was a coup d'état attempt in March 2004 against the president Omar al-Bashir and his cabinet, orchestrated by opposition leaders and Hassan Al-Turabi.