[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Canada-Israel Committee

. The national organization largely avoided political campaigns, leaving donations to private individuals. Instead, the CIC sought positive working relationships whichever party took power. To this end, the CIC invited all Canadian MPs to its annual dinner to nurture its bipartisan political appeal.

Bureaucracy 
The CIC made great strides to cultivate an image of reliability and expertise with the Department of External Affairs. On policy relating to the Arab-Israeli conflict, the CIC used its relations with the department to steer policy decisions. Former department officials attested to the CIC's ability to shape policy, especially when Israel faced external conflict. The CIC met several times per year with cabinet officials and occasionally with the prime minister. Lobbies were sent out most consistently to the Secretary of State for External Affairs, and depending on developments in the Middle East, would meet through more informal channels.

Community outreach and conciliation

Professional development 
Beyond lobbying, the CIC was active in the Jewish community with its circulation of research, policy memorandums, and handbooks. Every year, the CIC hosted a large conference highlighting their work. All Jews were invited, and they could connect with both politicians and organizational leadership to learn about CIC's mission and scope. Further, the CIC constructed a networking platform for Jewish industrial leaders, academia, and activists. Leadership workshops were sporadically made available for these individuals.

Striving for unification 
Canadian Jews were, and remain, very active political participants. The CIC channeled this activism into influence through its platform off speaking for Canadian Jewry writ large. Because the CIC's scope amalgamated the whole of Canadian Jewry into one, the diversity within the organization was immense, and consequently, the necessity to maintain a public face of unity was paramount. While disagreements were inevitable, they generally arose from differences of opinion on tactics, such as lobbying efforts, and not actual policy. CIC largely internalized these discrepancies and avoided commenting on topics that would divide the organization's cohesion, such as counseling or rebuking Israel. Conversely, when policy was the point of division within the Jewish community, the CIC attempted to soothe disagreements by charting a middle course between conflicting preferences. One such incident arose from the first Palestinian Intifada, beginning in 1987. The event deeply split the ideological ends of Canadian Jewry into polarized camps, consisting of the political right and left. Their respective passions for supporting Israel and maintaining peace overwhelmed conciliatory efforts by the CIC to bridge the divide through rhetoric. The CIC wanted to stake a compromise between both sides, but this led to each  roundly criticizing the CIC. The left and right both perceived their opposition to be receiving favoritism from the CIC, and simultaneously, mainstream Jewry resented the CIC's incapacity to forge consensus. Preserving intra-communal harmony was a consistent challenge the CIC faced throughout its existence.

Unifying donors 
Satisfying their sponsoring partners was difficult because beliefs about tactics or policy varied even within the CIC's donor base. Resolving these contradictions diverted time and effort from lobbying efforts. A notable example of this occurred in 1979. Canada's embassy in Israel was located in Tel Aviv, but there were calls to relocate it to Jerusalem. Joe Clark, a past leader of the Progressive Conservative party, was particularly in favor of the move. Intra-communal Jewish tensions swelled over this issue, forcing the CIC to respond tactically. While the embassy remained in Tel Aviv, the strains over potential relocation threatened to upend the CIC. Yet, the CIC persisted out of an innate obligation to unity, to both Canadian Jewry and the plight of Israel.

Employment opportunities 
The Canada-Israel Committee funded an annual Parliamentary Internship Program for recent University graduates and graduate students with Canadian citizenship. Those selected (approximately 5 per year), would be paired with a backbencher MP in Ottawa for nine months to assist with committee assignments, constituent services, and other duties. Depending on the backbencher, travel and research could be incorporated into the internship experience. This position offered compensation; as of 2006, total compensation was $12,000. The CIC billed the internship as an opportunity to gain valuable policymaking experience and position themselves to influence the public sector in the future.

Publications