[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vasily Shandybin

for Governor in 2004 but later endorsed Yury Lodkin). Nevertheless, Vasily Shandybin ran for Bryansk Oblast Duma in one of metropolitan Bryansk single-mandate constituencies but lost in an upset. Yury Lodkin also lost the governorship after being disqualified from the ballot by Bryansk Oblast Court.

Vassily Shandybin twice tried to reclaim his old seat in State Duma by running in both 2005 and 2006 by-elections after Nikolay Denin was elected as Governor of Bryansk Oblast. In 2005 Shandybin ran as Independent but he was disqualified by the Supreme Court for residency controversy. The results of the 2005 by-election, which was won by Vice-Governor Viktor Malashenko (United Russia), were annulled due to low turnout, so another by-election was scheduled for 12 March 2006. Vasily Shandybin for the second time ran as an Independent in 2006 by-election but 5 days before the by-election Shandybin and 2 other candidates withdrew from the race leaving Viktor Malashenko the sole candidate in an attempt to postpone the by-election for the second time. However, LDPR leader Vladimir Zhirinovsky personally visited Bryansk to convince party candidate Valery Khramchenkov return to the race which he did. Vasily Shandybin accused Zhirinovsky and local militsiya of severe beating of Khramchenkov to force him to cancel his withdrawal. Viktor Malashenko defeated Valery Khramchenkov on 12 March retaining the seat for United Russia.

Vasily Shandybin left CPRF in 2007. Shandybin took part in 2007 State Duma election as No.3 in Agrarian Party of Russia federal party list (he was placed behind party leader Vladimir Plotnikov and milkmaid Nina Brusnikova). APR took only 2.30% in the general election and failed to win any seats in State Duma.

In 2008 Vasily Shandybin unsuccessfully tried to take his old job as a locksmith. He also was planning to run for Head of Selizharovsky District (Tver Oblast) as A Just Russia candidate.

Death
On 18 December 2009 Vasily Shandybin was hospitalised at Central Clinical Hospital for stomach polyp removal.

12 days later, on 30 December 2009 at 2:30 am Vasily Shandybin died at the age of 68. The preliminary cause of death was thrombosis. Shandybin was buried in Mitinskoe Cemetery on 3 January 2010.

Incidents in State Duma
Vasily Shandybin is well known for his frank manners and impulsive behaviour. There were several incidents in State Duma when Shandybin physically or verbally abused fellow State Duma members.
31 March 1999. Independent liberal MP Sergey Yushenkov during his speech called Communist MP Vladimir Semago a "political prostitute". The latter MP got to the rostrum and tried to drag down Yushenkov. Vasily Shandybin rushed to help Semago. The fighting MPs had to be physically separated by Speaker Gennady Seleznyov.
31 March 2000. Vasily Shandybin verbally attacked Vice-Speaker Lyubov Sliska alleging her election to State Duma as a favour from Saratov Oblast Governor Dmitry Ayatskov for intimate relations between them. Shandybin was censured for a month.
28 January 2001. Vasily Shandybin proposed sending MPs who boycotted parliamentary sessions to remove snow from the streets.
7 February 2003. Independent MP Aleksandr Fedulov called CPRF leader Gennady Zyuganov a "political prostitute". Shandybin approached Fedulov and pushed him.

Personal life
Vasily Shandybin was married and had two children. He was into playing pool (some report he "maniacally" loved the game). Shandybin called himself "Doctor of Work Sciences".

Vasily Shandybin had a cameo in fantasy film Day Watch.

See also
Communist Party of the Russian Federation
Agrarian Party of Russia
History of post-Soviet Russia
Politics of post-Soviet Russia

References

External links

1941 births
2009 deaths
People from Trubchevsky District
Communist Party of the Soviet Union members
Former members of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation
Second convocation members of the State Duma (Russian Federation)
Third convocation members of the State Duma (Russian Federation)