[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Will Hodgman

ed with the prospect of a government being defeated at its first sitting, Underwood recommissioned Bartlett as premier and left it to the Assembly to determine whether Labor had enough support to govern. Hodgman accused Bartlett of going back on a promise not to topple a Liberal minority government.

2014 election 
Before the 2014 Tasmanian state election, with polls suggesting the Liberals were positioned to win government, Hodgman had promised that he would only govern in majority.  ABC News election analyst Antony Green suggested Hodgman's promise could have come back to haunt him if the Palmer United Party, which made a significant effort in the election, were to siphon off enough votes to deny the Liberals a majority.

On election night, Hodgman led the Liberal Party to victory with a swing of over 9% against the incumbent Labor Party. The Liberals picked up an additional seat in every electorate except Denison, assuring that Hodgman would have a secure majority. They ultimately went on to win 15 seats–a comprehensive victory under current Tasmanian electoral practice.

Hodgman himself topped the poll in Franklin, tallying 23,589 first preference votes on 35 percent of the first preference vote; the total number of electors in Franklin is 74,189. This result was achieved despite competing against both Giddings and Greens leader Nick McKim in this multi-member electorate. Hodgman was sworn in as the 45th Premier of Tasmania, alongside the members of his cabinet, on 31 March 2014, becoming only the fifth non-Labor premier in 80 years and only the third to govern in majority.

2018 election 
Hodgman dissolved the parliament and called the election for March 3. Repeating his vow of four years earlier, Hodgman categorically ruled out governing in coalition or minority, saying, "We will govern alone or not at all." However it was thought unlikely at the time that the Liberals would keep their majority due to the strong polling of the Greens and the Jacqui Lambie Network.

During the campaign, Hodgman and the Liberals promised to keep poker machines in pubs and clubs. He claimed 5000 jobs were at risk if machines were banned, although fact checkers called this claim overblown. It was later disclosed that the gambling industry funded his campaign with over $400,000, although the true amount was speculated to be far higher.

The day before the election it was revealed that the Liberals had privately indicated to farming stakeholders they might relax the state's gun laws. The move was criticised by some opponents.

Ultimately, the Liberals suffered a swing of two seats, leaving them at 13 seats, just enough for a majority. It was only the second time in 87 years that the non-Labor forces in Tasmania had been reelected with an outright majority.
Hodgman personally received 27,184 first preference votes, which is the highest number ever in a Tasmanian state election.

On 14 January 2020, Hodgman announced his resignation as premier, and confirmed he would also resign from state parliament. In his resignation speech, he cited the toll on his family; his 17 years in the legislature had been concurrent with the "entire lives" of his three children. On 20 January, Treasurer Peter Gutwein was elected unopposed as Liberal leader, and was sworn in as premier later that day.

Hodgman is one of the few Australian state politicians to have never spent a day on the backbench. He spent his entire tenure in the House of Assembly as deputy opposition leader (2002–2006), opposition leader (2006–2014) and premier (2014–2020).

Prior to his resignation there was speculation that Hodgman would stay on as premier to surpass Robin Gray as the state's longest serving Liberal Premier.

Career after politics 
On 15 April 2020, Hodgman was announced as the inaugural chair of the new Australian Business Growth Fund.

In November 2020, Hodgman was appointed the next Australian High Commissioner to Singapore. He officially took up the position on 9 February 2021 when he presented his credentials to the President of Singapore Halimah Yacob.

References

External links
Will Hodgman's maiden speech to parliament

1969 births
Living people
Premiers of Tasmania
Leaders of the Opposition in Tasmania
Members of the Tasmanian House of Assembly
Liberal Party of Australia members of the Parliament of Tasmania
University of Tasmania alumni
Politicians from Hobart
Australian people of English descent
21st-century Australian politicians
Attorneys-General of Tasmania
People educated at The Hutchins School