[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Transfer of sovereignty over Macau

ra do Amaral was taken down in 1992. The statue is now located at the Bairro da Encarnação, Lisbon, Portugal, where it was placed in December 1999.
 The floor on the ground level continues to be officially referred to by the Portuguese abbreviation R/C (rés-do-chão).

Changed after 20 December 1999 

 The Chief Executive of Macau became the head of government, elected by a selection committee with 300 members, who mainly are elected from among professional sectors and business leaders in Macau. The Governor was appointed by Portugal.
 The former Governor's Palace is now known as the Government Headquarters.
 The Court of Final Appeal became the highest court of appeal in Macau. This replaced the Superior Court of Justice, established in April 1993. Appeals to the Court of Appeal of the Judiciary District of Lisbon ceased in 1999.
 All public offices now fly the flags of the PRC and the Macau SAR. The Flag of Portugal now flies only outside the Portuguese Consulate-General and other Portuguese premises.
 The People's Liberation Army established a garrison in Macau, the first military presence there since the Portuguese military garrison had been withdrawn following the Carnation Revolution in 1974.
 The Central People's Government is now formally represented in Macau by a Liaison Office. This has been established in 1987 as a branch of Xinhua News Agency, when Macau was under Portuguese administration. Before 1987, it was informally represented by the Nanguang trading company.
 The Macau SAR Government is now formally represented in Beijing by the Office of the Government of the Macau Special Administrative Region.
 Elsewhere, the Macau SAR Government is now represented by Macau Economic and Trade Offices in Lisbon (Portugal), Brussels (European Union), Geneva (World Trade Organization) and Taipei (Taiwan).
 The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the People's Republic of China is represented in Macau by a Commissioner.
 The Municipalities of Macau and the Ilhas, which had been retained provisionally following the transfer of sovereignty, were abolished and replaced by the Civic and Municipal Affairs Bureau with effect from 1 January 2002.
 Portugal was now represented in Macau by the Portuguese Consulate-General, also accredited to Hong Kong. This had responsibility for matters relating to Portuguese nationals. However, residents of Macau born after 3 October 1981 were no longer entitled to Portuguese nationality.
 The Taipei Trade and Tourism Office, the de facto mission of Taiwan, was renamed the Taipei Trade and Cultural Office, and was allowed to issue visas in 2002. It was later renamed the Taipei Economic and Cultural Office in Macau in 2011.
 The words "República Portuguesa" no longer appear on postage stamps, which now display the words "Macau, China". The Portuguese coat of arms had already been removed from Macanese pataca banknotes and coins issued since 1988.
 The Macau Police badge now displays the Macau SAR emblem.
 The Portuguese honours system was replaced by a local system, with the Grand Medal of Lotus Flower as the highest award.
 Public holidays changed, with Macau SAR Establishment Day being introduced and Portuguese-inspired occasions, such as Republic Day and Freedom Day, being abolished. PRC National Day had been made a public holiday in 1981.
 Macau's aircraft registration prefix changed from Portugal's CS to B, as used by mainland China, Taiwan and Hong Kong.
 The Portuguese national anthem A Portuguesa, is no longer played after closedown on television stations. The Chinese national anthem, March of the Volunteers, is now played instead.
 A giant golden statue of a lotus, erected in a public space outside the Macau Forum named Lotus Square, was presented by the State Council of the People's Republic of China to commemorate the return of Macau to Chinese sovereignty.
 The University of Macau was relocated to a new campus on Hengqin Island in 2009. This was under the jurisdiction of the Macau SAR government, which had leased a plot of land for M$1.2 billion until 2049.

See also 
 Handover of Hong Kong
 One country, two systems
 Handover Gifts Museum of Macao
 Time Capsule (Macau)

References

Further reading 
 Lai, Pauline Pou San. "Civil service training in the Macau Government" (Chapter 7). In: Podger, Andrew and John Wanna (editors). Sharpening the Sword of State: Building Executive Capacities in the Public Services of Asia-Pacific . ANU Press, 2016.  (paperback), 9781760460730 (ebook). HTML version of the chapter.

External links 
 
 The Chinese garrison in Macau  

1999 in Macau
History of Macau
Portuguese Macau
1999 in China
1999 in Portugal
States and territories disestablished in 1999
Separatism in Portugal
China–Portugal relations
Macau–Portugal relations
Sovereignty
December 1999 events in Asia
Decolonization