[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marcus Perperna Veiento

ace, encouraged that jealousy for his own ends. They took to damaging Sertorius by oppressing the local Celtic tribes in his name. This stirred discontent and revolt in the tribes, which resulted in a cycle of oppression and revolt, with Sertorius none the wiser as to who was creating such mischief.

Perperna then proceeded to invite Sertorius to a feast to celebrate a supposed victory. While under most circumstances, any festivities to which Sertorius was invited were conducted with great propriety, this particular feast was vulgar, designed to offend the skillful general. Disgusted, Sertorius changed his posture on the couch, intent on ignoring them all. At this, Perperna gave the signal to his fellow conspirators, and they murdered the unsuspecting Sertorius on the spot.

Upon learning of the death of Sertorius, some of his Iberian allies sent ambassadors to Pompey or to Metellus and made peace, most simply went home. Now that Sertorius was dead, his virtues were remembered, and his recent atrocities forgotten.

People are generally less angry with those who died, and when they no longer see him right in front of them they tend to dwell tenderly on his virtues. So it was with Sertorius. Anger against him suddenly turned to affection and the soldiers clamorously rose up in protest against Perperna.

When Sertorius's will was read his people found out he had named Perperna his chief beneficiary. Perperna had already dishonoured himself in the eyes of many by slaying his commander, the man who had given him sanctuary, and now it was revealed he had killed his main benefactor as well.

Death
Perperna managed to retain control of some of the Roman renegades who had followed Sertorius, but he needed a quick victory to gain his people's trust. Unfortunately for Perperna and his men, Pompey had set a trap: he feigned a retreat and ambushed them.

Pompey lured Perperna's army into his ambush using 10 cohorts as bait. He allowed these to be attacked while scattered over a wide area, perhaps foraging, and as they fled they drew Perperna's army into the hidden lines of the main army. As these attacked from ambush the 10 cohorts turned and attacked their pursuers from the front. The ensuing massacre was decisive.

Pompey's successful ambush proved Plutarch's disparaging comment 'Perperna was as bad at command as he was at following orders'. Perperna attempted to plead for his life, offering to give Pompey all of Sertorius' correspondence, which would document contacts with the highest levels of Roman government and society. Pompey indicated he would accept the papers, and when they had all been gathered together, he burned them, averting the possibility of another civil war. He then executed Perperna and all of the men who had murdered Sertorius.

Ancient Sources
 Plutarch, Parallel Lives, Life of Sertorius.
 Plutarch, Parallel Lives, Life of Pompey. 
 Velleius Paterculus, Roman History in Two Volumes, chapter 30.

Modern Sources
 Philip Matyszak, Sertorius and the Struggle for Spain, 2013.
 John Leach, Pompey the Great, 1978 (chapter 2).

References

72 BC deaths
1st-century BC executions
1st-century BC Romans
Ancient Roman generals
Ancient Roman politicians
Executed ancient Roman people
People executed by the Roman Republic
Veiento, Marcus
Roman governors of Hispania
Year of birth unknown
People of Sulla's civil war
People of the Sertorian War
Ancient Roman assassins