[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Abdel-Wahed El-Wakil

signed a mansion for Thomas Kramer in Miami, Florida. Vincent Scully, in his book ‘Between the Two Towers’ gave it generous mention.

By the time the Suleiman mansion had been completed, El-Wakil's work had caught the attention of Sheikh Said Farsi, the mayor of Jeddah, who appointed him as advisor.

Mosques works 
In collaboration with the Ministry of Pilgrimage and Endowment, a program for Mosque Architecture was established for the reconstitution of traditional architecture, for the first time enabling the construction of compressive brick structures devoid of concrete.

With support from Mayor Said Farsi and Deputy Minister Hossam Khashoggi, El-Wakil now proceeded to achieve an opus of over fifteen mosques within a period of ten years. Designing single-handed, he managed to delve into the evolution of the finest detail, to develop innovative building techniques, and simultaneously to achieve minarets, and vaulted and domed structures, of great daring.

Four little mosques; the Island mosque, the Corniche mosque, the Ruwais mosque and the Abraj Mosque were commissioned as part of the beautification of New Jeddah.

Five other grand mosques were commissioned in Jeddah; the Suleiman mosque, the Harithy mosque, the Azizeyah mosque, the Jufalli mosque and the monumental King Saud Mosque. They were all in brick construction and provided an opportunity to develop traditional building crafts. The brick dome of the King Saud mosque with a diameter of 20 meters and a peak height of 40 meters challenged structural engineers who refused liability for its construction without concrete. El-Wakil signed an affidavit taking full responsibility for its structure. Being directly commissioned by King Fahd and promoted by the mayor of Jeddah, El-Wakil managed to circumvent all the bureaucratic regulations that would have prevented the mosque ever being built.

Four Pilgrimage mosques of great historic significance were commissioned in Medina:

The design and reconstruction of the Quba Mosque built on the site where the very first mosque in Islam was erected.
The design and reconstruction of the Qiblatain Mosque said to have been the mosque where the worshipers first changed the direction of their prayers from Jerusalem towards Mecca according to divine revelation.
The design and reconstruction of the Jama Masjid, the congregation mosque, said to have been the mosque where the first Friday prayers in Islam were performed.
The Miqat Dhu al-Hulayfah Complex designed for pilgrims to perform their purification rites and prayers before entering the Holy city of Madinah.

He later designed two mosques in Riyadh and one in Diraiyah on the outskirts of Riyadh. The Maydani Mosque in Riyadh was the only one built.

He designed another two mosques for the city of Makkah:

The Bilal Mosque, never built, was named after the muezzin who announced the call to prayer for Muhammad. The earlier mosque had been demolished with the new expansions of the Haram.
The Hafayer mosque near the Haram was completed for prayers in the month of Ramadan 2008.

Mosques outside Saudi Arabia 

He designed several mosques outside Saudi Arabia:

The Kerk Street mosque built in downtown Johannesburg, South Africa, replaced the 150-year-old mosque to accommodate a larger number of worshipers. The restricted site imposed five prayer levels and an unsparingly efficient utilisation of space.
The Yateem Mosque in Bahrain was designed on a challenging narrow plot. The minaret is unique as it incorporates a custom-designed clock.
The Houghton Mosque and community centre on the outskirts of Johannesburg, South Africa.
The Ash-Shaliheen Mosque is a mosque in Brunei designed to consider the traditional spatial character of Malay architecture.
A Muslim Community Centre in Miami: the design of which went no further than its conceptual stage.

Taken as a body of work, the mosques of El-Wakil can now be seen to show great leaps of the imagination, while invariably being rooted in tradition. Not only are the fine ornamental details remarkable, the vast variety of columns and stalactites, pendentives and multiple other elements all created without repetition. The structural forms, such as the triangular minaret at Miqat in Madinah, grow organically from functional and programmatic exigencies.

Other Buildings 

Apart from mosques and houses, El-Wakil has designed and built a variety of building types: