[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2006–2008 Juba talks

raction of the ICC indictments, but the Ugandan government only wants to ask the UN to do that after the rebels have demobilised. An accord on Disarmament, Demobilisation and Reintegration was signed late on 29 February 2008, leaving the signing of the peace treaty itself as the last missing action.

The truce was extended until 28 March 2008, and the final peace talks will continue on 12 March 2008. The ICC prosecutor-general Luis Moreno-Ocampo on 5 March 2008 rejected demands by the rebels for a meeting, stating that "arrest warrants issued by the court... remain in effect and have to be executed". it was reported that rebel leader Kony would nonetheless come out of the bush to sign the peace agreement on 28 March 2008, with the implicit agreement that he will not be apprehended and transferred to the ICC while out in the open; such an action was also thought to likely see a remobilisation of his rebel army. Furthermore, it was suggested that Uganda should lobby at the United Nations Security Council to suspend the ICC indictments for a year.

On 12 March 2008, as final talks were set to continue, the ICC inquired as to the precise definition of the powers of the proposed intra-Ugandan war crimes court section, in a move seen as softening the indictments on the LRA rebels. The final signing of the peace deal was delayed on 26 March 2008 from 28 March 2008 to 3 April 2008; while the ceasefire was not formally extended with this deadline, both parties were expected to continue adhering to it. The signing was then further delayed to 5 April 2008. It was later announced that Kony would sign the deal in the bush two days before that. However, this was postponed to 10 April 2008; reportedly, Kony was suffering from diarrhoea.

The ICC inquired as to the precise nature of the special courts in Uganda. Kony delayed the signing of the final treaty further on 10 April 2008, reportedly asking for more information about what kind of punishments he could face. He later clarified that he wanted to know further details about how mato-oput, the Acholi traditional justice, would be used, and how exactly the special division of the High Court would work; he then suspended the peace talks and appointed a new negotiating team, claiming to "have been misled".  Specifically, Kony fired chief LRA negotiator David Nyakorach Matsanga and replaced him with James Obita.  Kony subsequently failed to show up at Nabanga to sign the treaty.

Collapse
The government subsequently stated that they would return to Juba and Kampala, as the LRA had broken the agreement, and that the ceasefire agreement would not be extended. The next steps of both sides are unclear. Diplomats unsuccessfully tried to restart the talks on 26 April 2008. On 26 May 2008 the government set up a special war crimes court with the mandate to try the LRA in an attempt to convince the ICC to withdraw its indictments against LRA leaders.

Since April 2008, the LRA had begun rearming and abducting recruits, with the BBC stating that 1000 new abductees had been added to the 600 old LRA fighters by June.  Lord's Resistance Army negotiator James Obita stated that on 4 June 2008, the Southern Sudan army attacked an LRA encampment killing two, though this is unconfirmed.  On 5 June 2008, the LRA attacked the Sudan People's Liberation Army/Movement (SPLA) camp at Nabanga, killing 21, seven soldiers and 14 civilians, before killing a local chief in the nearby village of Yamba.  The LRA fighters burnt the SPLA camp before returning to Ri-Kwangba.  This occurred as Kony reappointed Matsanga as chief negotiator.  Matsanga claimed on 6 June to have contacted UN Envoy Joaquim Chissano to revive the talks; Chissano subsequently arrived in Kampala for talks with President Museveni on 7 June.  However, the Government of Southern Sudan announced on 8 June that they would no longer mediate, with Information Minister Gabriel Changson Cheng noting that there were multiple reasons for the decision, including the recent attack and the apparent lack of interest in the peace process on the part of the Ugandan government.  The governments of the nations in which the LRA is active met earlier in the week and all suggested military action.

In December 2008 the United Nations Security Council agreed with a Joaquim Chissano's recommendation that the peace efforts should continue will continuing to support the ICC arrest warrants.

References

External links
International Center for Transitional Justice, Uganda
 Beyond Juba: Building Sustainable Peace in Uganda website, a project of Makerere University, Uganda

Lord's Resistance Army
Peace processes
Political history of Uganda
Juba
2006 in Uganda
2007 in Uganda
2008 in Uganda