[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# An Khe (The West Wing)

al and cultural references

Very little is revealed about the title of the episode – An Khe. The only reference to the name is in the opening scene, when Leo, as a Vietnam War fighter pilot, tells ground control that he is approaching An Khê. An Khê was an actual base camp in Vietnam during the war.

The plot line about the defense contracting controversy is apparently based on a real-life incident. A 2003 lease agreement of 100 Boeing K-767 tankers by the US Air Force led to the imprisonment of a Pentagon staffer and the forced resignation of Boeing CEO Phil Condit. The main opponent of the deal was Senator John McCain – from Arizona like the fictional Senator Hunt; in addition, Hunt has been presented on the show as a maverick who is amenable to bipartisan projects, not unlike Senator McCain. McCain, when informed about the West Wing episode, was amused.

Bartlet's quote at the end: "Corruptio optimi pessima", which he then translates "Corruption of the best is the worst" is an old Latin maxim. It can be found in David Hume's "Of Superstition and Enthusiasm" (1741). Other cultural references include Josh calling Ryan "Eve Harrington" after his perceived betrayal. This is a reference to the self-serving protagonist of the 1950 movie All About Eve. At the end of the episode, Bartlet is playing a tape given to him by Crosby, Stills & Nash, visiting the White House to receive the National Medal for the Arts. The song "My Country, 'Tis of Thee" was in fact recorded by Crosby & Nash and can be heard on the album Crosby & Nash.

Leo's statement that the U.S. never signed an armistice with North Korea is actually incorrect. The United Nations Command, headed by the U.S., did sign the Korean Armistice Agreement, along with the North Korean People's Army and Chinese People's Liberation Army. However, no peace treaty between the warring parties was actually signed, which is what Leo might have meant.

References

External links
"An Khe" at NBC.com
"An Khe" at The West Wing Episode Guide
"An Khe" at The West Wing Continuity Guide

The West Wing (season 5) episodes
2004 American television episodes
Television episodes directed by Alex Graves