[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Francis M. Drake

y artillery shell that struck a large tree immediately in front of him and exploded. Despite efforts by Union gunboats to reduce Fort Pemberton, and with reinforcements sent by Grant, the Union forces abandoned the effort in April, and the 13th Division returned to Helena, arriving there on April 8.

On July 4, 1863 Drake was on the sick list with all of the other staff officers during the Battle of Helena Arkansas. Although the staff officers were too sick to take part, the regiment—led by Captain Martin Varner (CO. A) as well as company officers and non-commissioned officers—played a key role in repulsing three dismounted enemy cavalry brigades under overall command of Major General John S. Marmarmaduke, and consisting of Joseph (Jo) Shelby's "Iron Brigade," a second brigade under Colonel Colton Greene and a third brigade commanded by Brigadier General Lucius "Marsh" Walker. The rebel brigades attempted to seize Battery A--one of four huge reinforced redoubts armed with heavy siege guns along the crest of Crowley's Ridge, immediately west of the town of Helena.  The 36th won high praise from both their brigade commander, Brigadier General Samuel Rice and the overall Helena garrison commander, General Frederick Salomon, for their action which culminated with a final advance of 9 companies from Battery A northeastward to clear Shelby's and Greene's troops from hills beyond and re-establish the 36th Iowa's picket positions that were overrun at 3  a.m.  Union casualties at Helena were relatively light compared to those of General Theophilus Holmes' rebel command which suffered some 700 killed, an equal number wounded and nearly 1,000 taken prisoner. In the first half of April 1864 during the Camden Expedition to cooperated with the forces of Major General Nathaniel Banks on the Red River, in Louisiana, Drake was directed by 2nd Brigade / Third Division / VII Army Corps commander William McLean to establish a beachhead on the south bank of the Little Missouri River to enable the rest of the VII Army Corps to cross there and bypass heavy concentrations of the enemy guarding the Military Road river crossing at Antoine, 15 miles upriver in hopes of using this alternate route to outflank the rebel army under overall command of Sterling Price and advance onto Prairie D'Ane. On the morning of April 3, Drake took three companies of the 36th Iowa (A, D, G) three companies of the 43rd Indiana, 2 dismounted companies of the 1st Iowa Cavalry and a two-gun section of the 2nd Missouri Light Artillery—less than 500 troops in all—to established an advance picket post in very dense woods in the Little Missouri bottom, a mile south of the river. Drake's small command engaged enemy scouts observing the Federals in small skirmishes throughout the day as the rebel scouts bought time awaiting reinforcement from Marmaduke. At first light on April 4, an estimated 2,500 dismounted enemy cavalry belonging to Marmaduke's division attacked Drake's forward position in the Battle of Elkins' Ferry. In a battle that lasted 7 hours, Drake's small command was steadily driven back toward the Little Missouri but he managed to stop the enemy assault, enabling the remainder of General Frederick Steele's VII Army Corps to cross the river there and advance to a showdown with Major General Sterling Price at the subsequent Battle of Prairie D'Ane, April 10–12. There Steele routed the enemy, driving them southwest to the Confederate state capital-in-exile at Washington, Arkansas.