[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Legal outsourcing

hat discuss ethical legal outsourcing and how to achieve it. However, there is criticism that the use of legal outsourcing creates a breach of ABA Model Rule 5.4 which prohibits attorneys from sharing fees with non-attorneys and, also, the prohibition on the practice of law by foreign non-attorneys.

New frontiers
India is considered to be a major destination for legal outsourcing due to its availability of affordable English-speaking lawyers, some of whom are UK and/or US educated, and due to a legal system that is based on English common law. Recently, new frontiers for legal outsourcing have emerged in geographic areas closer to their target client markets. Other established LPO providers can be found in Argentina, Australia, China, France, the Philippines, Singapore, and South Korea, each offering unique advantages concomitant with their distinctive geographic location, language capabilities and regional expertise. "There is natural arbitrage between the excellent talented and low cost professionals in India, compared to the US and other developed jurisdictions, especially in the litigation management space", believes Zia Mody, managing partner AZB & Partners, one of the biggest law firms in India. Argentina, for example, is an increasingly desirable LPO centre for the U.S. client market due to its proximity in terms of its western hemisphere location, time zone similarity, and cultural ties to the United States. Sri Lanka, as an additional example, is an Indian competitor whose success has come from a familiarity with British law, a strong economic infrastructure, online freedom, and marketing by Indian policymakers. LPO providers in India and in these new frontiers are increasingly utilizing onshore and offshore US and UK-licensed attorneys as part of their outsourcing offering as a means to create greater quality controls, expand into more sophisticated offerings, and instill higher confidence in the ethical treatment of client sensitive data.

See also
Outsourcing
Knowledge process outsourcing
Recruitment

Notes

References

Legal professions
Outsourcing