[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1993–94 in English football

ers, who had just replaced Graham Turner as manager after nearly eight years with the former England manager Graham Taylor. Ninth placed Middlesbrough brought in Manchester United and former England captain Bryan Robson as their new player-manager at the end of the season to succeed Lennie Lawrence.

Oxford United's decline since losing their top flight status in 1988 continued as they slid into Division Two, along with Peterborough United (who had finished a strong 10th in the previous season, their first in the second tier) and Birmingham City. Newly promoted West Bromwich Albion narrowly avoided relegation at the expense of their local rivals, while Portsmouth's bottom half finish was a major disappointment after they had almost won promotion the previous season, although they did at least have the satisfaction of reaching the quarter-final of the League Cup and taking Manchester United to a replay. Luton Town endured a second successive struggle against relegation, eventually finishing a point above the drop zone, but enjoyed a run to the FA Cup semi-finals for the first time in nine years.

Leading goalscorer: John McGinlay (Bolton Wanderers) - 25

League Division Two

Mark McGhee won the Division Two championship for Reading after their first successful season in years. They were joined by John Rudge's Port Vale in second place. Burnley triumphed in the Division Two playoffs to secure their second promotion in three seasons, beating a Stockport County side who lost at Wembley for the fourth time in three seasons. Peter Shilton oversaw Plymouth's best season for nearly a decade but they finished three points short of automatic promotion and lost to Burnley in the playoffs.

Going down to Division Three were Fulham (who would be in the league's lowest tier for the first time in their history), Hartlepool United, Exeter City and Barnet. Blackpool narrowly avoided relegation, but chairman Owen Oyston decided it was time for a change after three-and-a-half seasons under the management of Billy Ayre, and appointed Sam Allardyce as the club's new manager.

Leading goalscorer: Jimmy Quinn (Reading) - 35

League Division Three

Shrewsbury Town, Chester City and Crewe Alexandra occupied the three promotion places in Division Three, while Martin O'Neill's Wycombe Wanderers won the playoffs in their first season of league football. The Chairboys beat Preston North End, whose manager John Beck was looking to repeat the same success he had enjoyed at Cambridge. Carlisle and Torquay were the losing semi-finalists, but it was a big step forward for two sides who had narrowly avoided relegation to the Conference a year earlier.

Northampton Town finished bottom of the league but were saved from demotion because Conference champions Kidderminster Harriers did not meet the league's stadium capacity requirements.

Wigan Athletic's first season at this level for over a decade brought their lowest ever finish of 19th place (89th out of the league's 92 clubs).

Leading goalscorer: Tony Ellis (Preston North End) - 26

Successful players
Eric Cantona received the PFA Players' Player of the Year award after his 25 goals in all competitions were the key force in Manchester United's double glory.

Alan Shearer was voted FWA Footballer of the Year after returning from injury to score 31 Premier League goals for runners-up Blackburn Rovers.

Andy Cole was voted PFA Young Player of the Year after finishing top scorer in the Premier League with 34 goals for newly promoted Newcastle United, who finished third and qualified for Europe for the first time since the 1970s.

Cole's veteran partner Peter Beardsley scored 24 goals in all competitions in his first season back on Tyneside.

Dean Saunders was again a consistent goalscorer for Aston Villa, who dipped to 10th in the league a year after finishing runners-up, but booked themselves another UEFA Cup campaign thanks to glory in the League Cup.

21-year-old striker Chris Sutton attracted huge attention from England's top clubs before his record-breaking transfer from Norwich City to Blackburn Rovers.

Stan Collymore established himself as one of the country's top marksmen as he powered Nottingham Forest back into the Premier League at the first attempt.

Veteran Reading striker Jimmy Quinn scored 35 league goals to lead his side to the Division Two title.

Successful managers
Crystal Palace and Nottingham Forest gained promotion to the Premiership in their first season under the respective management of Alan Smith and Frank Clark.

Brian Little helped Leicester City win promotion to the Premiership.

Jimmy Mullen inspired Burnley's second promotion in two seasons as they won the Division Two playoffs.

Martin O'Neill helped Wycombe Wanderers gain their second successive promotion and earn a place in Division Two.

Retirements

21 January 1994: Mel Sterland, 32-year-old Leeds United defender, retires after failing to overcome an achilles injury suffered more than a year ago.