[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Manfred Gerstenfeld

o minimize the extent of the problem in Norway and that the center would lose credibility. In response, Odd-Bjørn Fure, genocide authority and the director of the center, said that Gerstenfeld "is not worth arguing against. I prefer to deal with serious people. We do not take this person seriously."

After three Norwegian universities declined an offer by Alan Dershowitz (who agreed to waive his fees for the occasion) to deliver lectures on Israel, Gerstenfeld said that Norway's elite is permeated with Israel-haters. Kristina Fumes writing in Ynet, responded that the topic of Scandinavian anti-Semitism in Israel's English-language media was being hijacked by extremists and that studies show Norway ranks between England and Holland. While 11% of Norwegians displayed anti-Semitic attitudes, 92% thought children should be taught about the Shoah. According to Gerstenfeld, the study itself is flawed due to the lack of inclusion of Muslim respondents and that while the English conclusions stated that a "limited" degree of anti-Semitism similar to the UK exists, the study's own data states that 38% consider Israeli actions as similar to Nazi Germany, which he took to be an example of Holocaust inversion and, if so, would be anti-Semitic according to the Working Definition of Antisemitism.

By his own extrapolation Gerstenfeld said that Norway has approximately 1.5 million anti-Semites, whom he defined as "ideological criminals".

Criticism of Israel
In 2019, Gerstenfeld warned against growing "anti-Israel sentiment" in what he called "ideological" movements, including the human rights movement, feminism, the LGBTQ community, postcolonialism, intersectionality, "extreme veganism", the anti-nuclear movement, and the climate movement. Gerstenfeld recommended professionally discrediting academics who supported the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign against Israel, and denounced Jews who criticized Israel, such as U.S. Senator Bernie Sanders, as "masochists" and "useful idiots for Israel’s enemies".

Publications

Books
Revaluing Italy  with Lorenzo Necci (Italian) (1992) 
Environment and Confusion: An Introduction to a Messy Subject (1993) 
The State as a Business: Do-It-Yourself Political Forecasting (Italian) (1994) 
 Israel’s New Future Interviews (1994)]  
 
The Environment in the Jewish Tradition: A Sustainable World (Hebrew) (2002) 
 Europe’s Crumbling Myths: The Post-Holocaust Origins of Today’s Anti-Semitism] (Foreword by Emil L. Fackenheim) (2003) 
 The New Clothes of European Anti-Semitism  (French)(2004), co-edited  with Shmuel Trigano] 
American Jewry's Challenge: Conversations Confronting the Twenty-first Century (Foreword by Jonathan Sarna) (2004) 
 Israel and Europe: An Expanding Abyss? (2005)] 
 European-Israeli Relations: Between Confusion and Change? (2006)] 
Israel at the Polls 2006 with Shmuel Sandler and Jonathan Rynhold (2008) 
Academics against Israel and the Jews].  (Foreword by Natan Sharansky) (2007) 
 Behind the Humanitarian Mask: The Nordic Countries, Israel, and the Jews (Foreword by Gert Weisskirchen)(2008)] 
 The Abuse of Holocaust Memory: Distortions and Responses] (Foreword by Abraham H. Foxman) (2009) 
Anti-Semitism in Norway: Behind the Humanitarian Mask (Foreword by Finn Jarle Saele) (Norwegian) (2010) 
 American Jewry's Comfort Level: Present and Future with] Steven Bayme (Foreword by David A. Harris) (2010) 
Israel at the Polls 2009 with Shmuel Sandler and Hillel Frisch (2010) 
Het Verval. Joden in een stuurloos Nederland (The Decay. Jews in a Rudderless Netherlands) (Dutch) (2010) 
Judging the Netherlands:the Renewed Holocaust Restitution Process 1997-2000] (Foreword by Stuart E. Eizenstat) (2011) 
Demonizing Israel and the Jews. (Foreword by Rabbi Marvin Hier) (2013) 
 (with: Françoise S. Ouzan) (2014) 
The war of a million cuts] (foreword by Jose Maria Aznar) (2015) 
Israel at the Polls 2013: Continuity and Change in Israeli Political Culture.  (with Eithan Orkibi) (2015) 
Israel at the Polls 2015: A moment of transformative stability.  (with Eithan Orkibi) (2017) 
Anti-Israelism and Antisemitism. (Foreword by Edna Brocke) (German) (2018) 
Veerkracht [Resilience] with Wendy Cohen Wierda (Foreword by Chief Rabbi Binyomin Jacobs) (Dutch) (2019)

References

External links
Author: Dr. Manfred Gerstenfeld at the website of the Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs

1937 births
2021 deaths
Austrian Jews
Dutch emigrants to Israel
Israeli businesspeople
Israeli economists
Israeli non-fiction writers
Israeli Jews
Israeli people of Austrian-Jewish descent
Scientists from Amsterdam
Scholars of antisemitism
University of Amsterdam alumni
Multilingual writers
Jewish Dutch scientists