[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# October 1956

26, 1956 (Friday)
Hungarian Revolution: In the towns of Mosonmagyaróvár and Esztergom, ÁVH secret police forces massacre unarmed civilians.  As rebel strongholds in Budapest hold, fighting spreads throughout Hungary.
Died: Walter Gieseking, 60, French-born German pianist and composer (pancreatitis)

October 27, 1956 (Saturday)
Hungarian Revolution: Imre Nagy announces the formation of a new government, to include members of previously-banned non-Communist parties.
In Italy, a statement of the leftist syndicate CGIL supports the Hungarian insurgents and censures the Soviet intervention. The Communist secretary of CGIL, Giuseppe Di Vittorio, a week later retracts the declaration under his party's pressure.
The Scottish League Cup Final is played at Hampden Park, Glasgow, UK, between Celtic F.C. and Partick Thistle F.C. and ends in a goalless draw, necessitating a replay.

October 28, 1956 (Sunday)
 Hungarian Revolution: A de facto ceasefire comes into effect between armed revolutionaries and Soviet troops, who begin to withdraw from Budapest. Communist officials and facilities begin to come under attack from the revolutionaries. Imre Nagy's faction gains full control of the Hungarian government, as many Stalinist hardliners leave the country for the Soviet Union. 
 Twenty-one year old Elvis Presley is inoculated, before the world's press, and as originally suggested by the March of Dimes, with the third version of Dr Jonas Salk's anti-polio vaccine. Dr. Harold Fuerst, with assistance from the NY Health Commissioner Dr. Leona Baumgartner, are the physicians in charge, all of which leads to the exponential increase in the immunization level of all Americans from 0.6% to 80% in the next 6 months.
 Pope Pius XII, in the encyclical Luctuosissimi eventus, asks the bishops of the whole world for public prayers for the Hungarian people.

October 29, 1956 (Monday)
Hungarian Revolution: As Soviet troops continue to withdraw from Budapest, Imre Nagy moves his office from the Communist Party Headquarters to the Hungarian Parliament building. 
In Italy, 101 Communist intellectuals sign a manifest (Manifest of 101) redacted by Carlo Muscetta, that criticizes the Soviet interference on Hungary and the line of the PCI about the question; L’Unità, official organ of the PCI, refuses to publish the text. In front of the party's rigidity, some of the signers retract (Elio Petri, Paolo Spriano); others disown the communism (Renzo De Felice, Lucio Colletti, and Antonio Maccanico).
Israel invades Egypt, beginning the Suez War.
Born: Kazuyo Sejima, Japanese architect, in Mito, Ibaraki

October 30, 1956 (Tuesday)
Hungarian Revolution: The government recognizes the new workers' councils. Armed protesters attack the detachment of state security police guarding the Budapest Hungarian Working People's Party headquarters in Republic Square, believing that prisoners are held there. Over 20 security officers are killed, as is the head of the Budapest party committee, Imre Mező.
In Rome, in the course of a manifestation supporting the Hungarian people, some militants of the Social Movement, headed by Pino Romualdi, attack the PCI's seat and the redaction of the communist newspaper L’Unità.
Hurricane Greta begins to form near Jamaica.

October 31, 1956 (Wednesday)
Hungarian Revolution: A Revolutionary Headquarters is established in Hungary. Following Imre Nagy's announcement of October 30, banned non-Communist political parties are reformed, and the MDP is replaced by the MSZMP. József Mindszenty is released from prison. The Soviet Politburo makes the decision to crush the Revolution.
Suez Crisis: As agreed by the Protocol of Sèvres, the United Kingdom and France begin attacking Egyptian targets to force the reopening of the Suez Canal. The light cruiser  and escorting destroyer  sink the Egyptian frigate Domiat, with the loss of 38 of its crew. 
Operation Deep Freeze: A United States Navy team, led by Admiral George J. Dufek and travelling by air, becomes the third group of human beings to reach the South Pole, and commences construction of the first permanent Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station.
A successful test launch of the R-11 Zemlya tactical ballistic missile is carried out by the Soviet Union in the White Sea.
The Scottish League Cup Final is replayed at Hampden Park, Glasgow, UK, and is won by Celtic F.C.

References

1956
1956-10
1956-10