[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# December 1979

The following events occurred in December 1979:

December 1, 1979 (Saturday)
The Southern Illinois University Edwardsville (SIUE) Cougars won the NCAA Division I college soccer championship in the U.S., defeating the Clemson Tigers, 3 to 2, in Tampa. 
Danny Shouse, an American basketball player in the Icelandic professional basketball league scored 100 points for his Ármann team of Reykjavik in a game against Skallagrímur in the city of Borgarnes.

December 2, 1979 (Sunday)
The U.S. Embassy in Libya was stormed by a crowd of 2,000 demonstrators in Tripoli, who knocked down the doors and set fires that caused damage to lower floors, but the American personnel inside were able to escape safely.
Elections were held in Portugal for the 250 seats of the unicameral Assembly of the Republic.  Led by Francisco de Sá Carneiro, the Aliança Democrática, a coalition of three conservative parties, captured 115 seats and soon added more from other parties for a 128-seat majority.
Two days of voting began in Iran in a referendum on approval of the new Islamic constitution.
Two days of voting began in Iceland for the 40 seats of the lower house and the 20 seats of the upper house of Iceland's parliament, the Althing, with participation by about 127,000 voters.  The result was rejection of the minority government of Prime Minister Benedikt Gröndal and a new government would be formed by Gunnar Thoroddsen of the Progressive Party.
Born: Yvonne Catterfeld, German singer and actress; in Erfurt, East Germany

December 3, 1979 (Monday)
 Eleven people attending a rock concert were trampled to death during a crowd rush for unreserved seats before The Who rock concert at the Riverfront Coliseum in Cincinnati.  The concert took place as scheduled, 45 minutes later, after coliseum officials determined that the stampede— of people forced up against a locked door— had taken place outside of the arena seating area.  Those killed ranged in age from 15 to 24 years old.  Lead singer Roger Daltrey said in an interview afterward, "I don't think you can point any fingers.  They just tried to funnel 17,000 people into three doorways and that was mad." 
 The United States dollar exchange rate with the Deutsche Mark fell to 1.7079 DM, the all-time low so far; this record would not broken until November 5, 1987.
 The Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini became the first Supreme Leader of Iran.
Born: 
Robert "Robby" Mook, American political strategist and campaign manager for Hillary's Clinton's 2016 campaign; in Sharon, Vermont
Daniel Bedingfield, New Zealand born British singer; in Auckland
Tiffany Haddish, American comedian and Grammy Award winner; in Los Angeles
Died: Dhyan Chand, 74, Indian field hockey champion and Olympic gold medalist

December 4, 1979 (Tuesday)
U.S. President Jimmy Carter announced his intent to run for re-election in the 1980 U.S. presidential elections, and stated that Vice President Walter Mondale would again be his running mate.
The Hastie fire in Kingston upon Hull in  England, killed three boys and began the hunt for Bruce George Peter Lee, the UK's most prolific killer.

December 5, 1979 (Wednesday)
The government of Israel released Bassam Shakaa, the Palestinian mayor of the city of Nablus, 24 days after arresting him on November 11 and ordering his deportation.  In the wake of the arrest, the other mayors of Palestinian cities in the occupied West Bank and the Gaza Strip had resigned in protest and begun a campaign of civil disobedience against the Israeli government. "Never before in the 12 years of Israeli occupation have Palestinian leaders acted in such unison," a reporter for The New York Times wrote, "and never before have they been able to effect such a dramatic reversal by the Israeli military authorities.
A tentative agreement on the future of the white-ruled southern African nation of Rhodesia was reached between the British Government and representatives of the Patriotic Front, an alliance of anti-government rebel groups.
Jack Lynch announced his resignation as Prime Minister of the Republic of Ireland.
Died: Sonia Delaunay, 94, French design artist and co-founder of the Orphism movement