[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Catherine Filloux

ssed the problem of combining Chinese and Western styles with astonishing success here…Indeed [Filloux’s] portrayal of Chinese immigrants attempting to establish themselves in a strange land while unable to divest themselves of their own culture is in itself both compelling and totally convincing.” 

Flash Review Dispatch by Maura Nguyen Donohue - "Photographs From S-21, by French-American playwright Catherine Filloux subtly challenges the audience to question its own role as consumers, and curators, of tragedy." 

Curtain Up by Dolores Whiskeyman – “Mary and Myra” "She renders Mary Todd a creature of contradiction, at once petulant and impossible, demanding and clear-eyed, unable to contain the sharp tongue that so offends her thin-skinned eldest child.  Myra Bradwell is equally complex."  

VILLAGE VOICE – “Price of Madness is my kind of play.  Should be yours too if you ever ponder the nature of art vis-á-vis mediocrity, sanity vs. insanity, or how commercialism can kill inspiration...A lot goes on in this layered, lyrical piece...The dialogue crackles with ideas..."

Baltimore Sun – “All Dressed Up and Nowhere To Go” "Takes place roughly where 'Witness' meets 'La Cage aux Folles'...and instead of making us laugh at them, makes us respect the humanity they have in common." 

National Public Radio, WBFO - “Venus in the Birdbath” "Not to be missed.  It's sharp, intimate and extremely witty.  The characters are rich and fully developed...This is one of those rare comedies that will actually make you laugh."

Works

Plays (selected productions) 
"How to Eat an Orange" is a world premiere play by Filloux produced at La MaMa Theatre, New York City, Spring 2024 about Argentinian visual artist/activist Claudia Bernardi surviving under Argentina's military junta; her artwork excavating genocide; and fighting for international justice. With community outreach programming. (Commissioned by INTAR, for a virtual workshop.) 
'White Savior' her new play, is nominated for The Venturous Play List. 
Catherine’s new musical “Welcome to the Big Dipper” (composer Jimmy Roberts, “I Love You, You’re Perfect, Now Change”) premieres Off-Broadway in 2024 at the York Theatre in New York City; it is a National Alliance for Musical Theatre finalist and received a workshop at the Redhouse Arts Center in Syracuse, NY (Hunter Foster, AD).
turning your body into a compass
2019 A Live Stream Web Story, Culture Hub and Chaotic Sequence Productions; Directed by Daria Sommers; Produced by Daria Sommers and Arthur Vincie; Theatre Director DeMone Seraphin; Livestreaming and video production by CultureHub, New York, NY
whatdoesfreemean
2018 Premiere, Nora's Playhouse, (New York, NY)
2016 Readings at John Jay College of Criminal Justice, and College and Community Fellowship, (New York, NY)
Kidnap Road
2017 Premiere at La MaMa, 55th Season, (New York, NY)
2016 Presented by Anna Deavere Smith, NYU's Institute on the Arts and Civic Dialogue, (New York, NY)
2015 Presented by Joan B. Kroc Institute for Peace and Justice (IPJ) & School of Peace Studies, University of San Diego, The Art of Peace symposium
2015 Headline for Planet Connections Staged Reading Series, Paradise Factory, New York, NY
Selma '65
2014-2015 premiere at La Mama 53rd season, (commissioned by Marietta Hedges), New York, NY; US tour to venues around the US
Mock Court (Play Commission)
2014 Book Wings Iraq, a collaborative bilingual theatre initiative produced in partnership with The University of Iowa's International Writing Program and the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs at the U.S. Department of State.  Iowa City, Iowa, and Baghdad, Iraq.
Luz
2012 La MaMa, 51st Season, New York, New York
Dog and Wolf
2010 59E59 Theaters, New York, New York
(Developed at The Playwrights' Center, Minneapolis, Minnesota& New York Theatre Workshop, New York, New York)
2010 Dog and Wolf Community Outreach Project (Watson Arts): Bronx, Brooklyn, Manhattan and Queens, New York
Killing the Boss
2008 Cherry Lane Theatre, New York, New York
Lemkin's House
2007 Season, Rideau de Bruxelles, Brussels, Belgium
2006 McGinn-Cazale Theatre, New York, New York; Producers: Vital Theatre Co. & Body Politic Theater
2006 Season, 78th Street Theatre Lab, New York, New York
2005 Season, Kamerni Teatar 55, Sarajevo, Bosnia; & Roxy Art House, Edinburgh, Scotland
2005 U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum, Washington, DC, (Reading co-sponsored by Theater J)
The Breach (with Tarell McCraney and Joe Sutton)
2008 Season, Seattle Repertory Theatre, Seattle, Washington
2007 Season, Southern Rep, New Orleans, Louisiana (Premiere/Commission)
The Beauty Inside
2005 Season, New Georges, New York, New York (co-produced with InterAct Theatre Co., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania)
Eyes of the Heart
2004 Season, National Asian American Theatre Company (NAATCO), New York, New York
2002 25th Bay Area Playwrights Festival, San Francisco, California
Escuela del Mundo
2006/2005 Seasons, The Ohio State University Theatre Department, Columbus,