[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Karl-Heinz Greisert

Units would fly out, provide cover for a period of time, be replaced and fly back to the airfield, get refueled and fly back out in a continuous rotation. Greisert and his Gruppe were tasked with providing air cover in this fashion from daybreak till 1:00 pm, when they were to be relieved by JG 26.

The day of the operation was blustery and rainy, obscuring visibility. The German vessels slipped Brest at 9:00 pm in the dark of the evening of 11 February. Daybreak found them steaming towards the Strait of Dover. The ships were nearly through when they were finally spotted at 11:00 am. They had just cleared the straits with JG 2's period of responsibility coming to an end when the German warships came under air attack. 6 torpedo carrying Fairey Swordfish of 825 Squadron under the command of Eugene Esmonde approached at low level. The Swordfish had set off to the target alone, but by good fortune were spotted en route by 72 Squadron commanding officer Brian Kingcome, who attempted to cover them on their way in with his 10 Spitfires. Unfortunately the attack came in just as the Germans were handing off responsibilities from JG 2 to JG 26, and aircraft from both jagdgeschwader were present as Esmonde approached the force. Kingcome's escorting Spitfires were soon heavily engaged by German fighters, allowing the low cover aircraft of JG 2 to attack the Swordfish unimpeded. Greisert, flying in the low cover group, closed to attack as the force was some 10 kilometers north of Gravelines, and was credited with two Fairey Swordfish shot down.

The Augsburg raid
On 17 April 1942 Bomber Command chanced a daylight raid to Augsburg in southern Germany, where they were to bomb the MAN U-boat engine plant. As no British fighter had the range to accompany the bombers much past 200 miles, the plan was to run diversionary raids to the north and south of the entry point to pull the German fighters away. With German air units spread thinly along the coast, it was thought once the bombers got past these they would stand a good chance to reach Augsburg. They were to fly at low level all the way to the target to avoid detection by German radar. The force would use the newly arrived Lancaster bomber, 12 of which were tasked with this mission, 6 from 44 (Rhodesia) Squadron and 6 from No. 97 Squadron. 
On the day of the raid, Greisert and other elements of his Jagdschwader engaged Boston bombers and their escorts as they conducted a bombing raid over the harbor facilities at Cherbourg, shooting down one of their number. The German fighters were returning to base just as the Lancaster force was passing near their airfield.
As the German aviators approached their air base at Beaumont-le-Roger they caught sight of the British bombers flying at high speed and very low level a short distance away. Greisert snapped up his landing gear and veered off, leading his Gruppe in pursuit of the bombers. The aircraft turned out to be a group of Lancaster bombers, a type unfamiliar to the Germans.

Greisert was able to close and shoot down one of their number. It was the last aerial victory for Greisert in the west. Three other Lancasters of 44 Squadron were shot down before JG 2's attacks were broken off. Soon Greisert would be transferred to the east to take command of III Gruppe of JG 3. Greisert remained in charge of II Gruppe of JG 2 until 8 May 1942. He had accumulated 22 victories over French and British aircraft while serving in the Western Front.

Eastern theater
On 18 May 1942, Greisert was promoted to Major and appointed commanding officer of III Gruppe of JG 3, based on the Eastern Front. The Jagdschwarder was operating in the Donetz river valley in support of the German drive towards the Caucus oil fields and Stalingrad during Case Blue. Operating in the east the frequency of air combat was high, with most of the engagements fought at low altitude. In the first two weeks of July Greisert was credited with 8 aircraft shot down, including five Il-2 Sturmovik ground-attack aircraft. On 22 July 1942, Greisert became engaged in a low-level aerial combat with Russian I-16 fighters. His Bf 109 F-4 aircraft was damaged and he was forced to bail out. Greisert escaped from his aircraft but being at very low altitude his parachute failed to open fully before he struck the ground, and he was killed.

At the time of his death Greisert had been credited with 34 victories. His victory total included eleven Spitfires and six Il-2 Sturmoviks. He was a recipient of the Spanish Cross and the German Cross in Gold.

Awards
 German Cross in Gold on 5 June 1942 as Major in the II./Jagdgeschwader 2
 Iron Cross (1st and 2nd Class)
 Spanish Cross

References

Citations

Bibliography

Further reading