[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Radiographer

at minimum. 

Registered Radiologist Assistant (RRA), a new advanced practice radiographer career path in the United States for experienced technologists. RRAs do not interpret studies in the manner of the reporting radiographer. The role has been accepted by the American College of Radiology (ACR).

Risks 
 Epidemiological studies indicate that Radiographers employed before 1950 are at increased risk of leukemia and skin cancer, most likely due to the lack of use of radiation monitoring and shielding. The relationship between radiation and cancer was found to correlate with women who were in the menopausal stages of their lives. In today's workplace, radiation exposure is monitored very closely  and cancer cases in technologists has been found to have decreased tremendously due to the current prevention methods.
 Ionising radiation, used in a variety of imaging procedures, can damage cells. Lead shields are used on the patient and by the Radiographer to reduce exposure by shielding areas that do not need to be imaged from the radiation source. While lead is highly toxic, the shields used in medical imaging are coated to prevent lead exposure and are regularly tested for integrity.
 Radiographers who develop x-ray films are exposed to the various chemical hazards such as sulfur dioxide, glutaraldehyde, and acetic acid. These agents can cause asthma and other health issues.
 Theoretically, the strong static magnetic fields of MRI scanners can cause physiological changes. After a human neural cell culture was exposed to a static magnetic field for 15 minutes, changes in cell morphology occurred along with some modifications in the physiological functions of those cells. However, these effects have not yet been independently replicated or confirmed, and this particular study was performed in vitro.
 Ultrasound imaging can deform cells in the imaging field, if those cells are in a fluid. However, this effect is not sufficient to damage the cells.
 As with any allied health professional, exposure to infectious diseases is likely, and use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) and infection control precautions must be employed to reduce the risk of infection. Those with family health histories reported feeling increased amount of stress due to concern of bringing infectious diseases home.
 In 2016, 59% of technologists surveyed reported that being overworked lead to risking medical error and threatening patient safety. Being overworked also led to depersonalization due to the emotional drain it takes on technologists' mental health, also putting patients at risk.
 Due to constantly maneuvering heavy patients, technologists are at risk for work related injuries from the strain it puts on their bodies. Most technologists who develop a work related injury, later report having more work related injuries.

References

External links 
 CORU
 Irish Institute of Radiography and Radiation Therapy (IIRRT)
 International Society of Radiographers and Radiologic Technologists (ISRRT)

Radiology
Radiography
Allied health professions
Hospital staff