[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Crazy Bear (Assiniboine chief)

hey could be killed.  They moved the treaty signing thirty five miles southeast to Henry, in today's Nebraska.

The U.S. government determined that in order to effectively negotiate they needed individual "Chiefs" to sign and represent their tribes.  Crazy Bear was so designated for the Assiniboine.

The treaty required the cessation of all hostilities between individual Indian tribes and whites, it determined specific territories for each Indian nation, and guaranteed annuity payments from the U.S. government for fifty years.  It also guaranteed protection to Indian tribes from white depredations.  The Indian nations guaranteed safe passage for white settlers traveling the various western trails and agreed to the establishment of U.S. Army forts.

The Chief's signed and for the most part kept their word.  The U.S. government did not.  They arbitrarily reduced the annuity payment from fifty years to ten years, and failed to keep white settlers, miners and hunters from trespassing on Indian territory.  The U.S. government's attitude on the treaty and their failure to abide by it is illustrated in the Commissioner of Indian Affairs Annual Report of 1852 wherein Commissioner Lea states, "It is therefore, no matter of regret or reproach that so large a portion of our territory has been wrested from its aboriginal inhabitants and made the happy abodes of an enlightened and Christian people" and "much of the injury of which the red men and his complaints has been the inevitable consequence of his own perverse and vicious nature."

After signing the treaty together with First to Fly, another Assiniboine Chief, the U.S. government presented them with silver medals commemorating the event.  Then they returned to Fort Union.  "But the Chief on his arrival at Fort Union was fated to mourn the loss of some of his relatives.  During his absence his son, Holy Seat, had been killed by the Blackfeet, his child died and his wife hung herself.  ....though much grieved at what happened, yet he behaved like a man, and as soon as he could recover sufficient spirit proceeded to make known to his people the spirit of the treaty."

As stated earlier, the U.S. government did not uphold their end; they were not timely in the first annual annuities and goods promised.  As a result, Crazy Bear was ridiculed and demeaned by his people.  "The old Chief stood alone against his people and maintained the equanimity of his temper.  He never swerved a particle  ....though he had a hard time of it with his people.  However, when the gentleman above named (Culbertson) came and issued out ten thousand dollars worth of goods as the governments presents for the first year, the Indians were struck dumb and those who before reproached now flattered their ruler."

Post-treaty
The Chief then administered his tribe and maintained a peaceful relationship with the U.S. government.  As a result of his family tragedy, Crazy Bear took responsibility for and raised his granddaughter Sweet Grass (Iron Cradle).

In spite of the treaty, things were not going well for the Indians of the Great Plains.  Increased white encroachment, disease and diminishing resources troubled the Great Chief.  In a letter to Father De Smet dated July 28, 1854, he wrote, "I see the buffaloes decrease every year.  What will become of us without help?  If our children are not instructed in time, they will disappear like the game."

Death
Crazy Bear contracted the dreaded smallpox and died at the age of seventy in 1856.  The smallpox epidemic had struck the tribes of the northern plains with devastating results.  The disease killed approximately 2,000 people of which an estimated 1,200 were Assiniboines.   "Crazy Bear is buried south of the river where Big Muddy empties into the Missouri River, up the river from there on the south side where there are bad land and a bunch of ash trees."