[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# WMAC Masters

in a long-abandoned wild west town), with abandoned buildings and saloons.  Tumbleweeds, wagon wheels, and haystacks littered the landscape. Thunder and lightning were a constant presence. This Battlezone took place in the stage for the Wild, Wild, Wild West Stunt Show at Universal Studios Florida.

 Doom City – a city scene with wreckage everywhere (cars, buildings, etc.), and even some burning buildings. Searchlights would roam around the area randomly. This battlezone was actually part of Kongfrontation at Universal Studios Florida.
 Mayan Mystery – a Mayan courtyard scene with waterfalls and climbable boulders, including some with Mayan face carvings. This Battlezone took place on the Animal Actors Stage at Universal Studios Florida.
 Dark Alley – a city slum scene set in an alleyway, in front of brick buildings which featured many balconies and dumpsters. This Battlezone is actually part of the New York area of Universal Studios Florida.
 Pressure Pit – an underground battlezone, located 500 feet below the WMAC Arena, featuring crates and construction; this battlezone gets its name from the fact that the air pressure there can cause one's ears and nose to bleed.
 Arena Rapid Transit System (used only for the Dragon Star Rematch) – an underground subway station setting; it featured subway cars entering the station, which transported the ninjas to the battle. It took place in the Earthquake ride at Universal Studios Florida.
 Stone Valley – a forest-like setting with many trees and huge boulders, as well as waterfalls and ponds.
 Nuclear Nightmare – a battlezone set among nuclear power plants.
 Danger Dock – a typical harbor setting right by the river, which has boardwalks, shacks, and a more open courtyard area fit for battle. This battlezone was part of the San Francisco Area of Universal Studios Florida.

NOTE: In Battlezones settings with water hazards, like Mayan Mystery and Danger Dock, if a combatant was knocked into the water during the match, he or she would automatically lose the match.

NOTE 2: Stone Valley, Nuclear Nightmare and Danger Dock were not used in Season 2.

NOTE 3: The Dark Alley battlezone was the only Battlezone that had been rained on during the show's run, despite the constant thundering in Ghost Town.  A thunderstorm was appearing in one episode, and Great Wolf and Turbo were battling it out in the Dark Alley. According to the officials, if the rain was too great for combat, the match had to be cancelled or suspended. This never came to pass, because soon after the rain started, Great Wolf defeated Turbo, ending the match.

Ninjas
There were many different types of ninjas that appeared in the show, most of them specific to a battlezone, although they would appear in other places, including the Dragon Star matches. According to Shannon Lee, they were all WMAC Academy Cadets who would eventually become Masters; Tsunami and Kid Carmichael were known to be former ninjas.  The different kinds of ninjas included the following: