[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Central Bank of Armenia

od 2002–2003 was momentous as a number of essential changes and innovations occurred in the banking legislation. On 29 May 2002, the Armenian Law on "On Credit Organizations" which gave the Central Bank authority to license and supervise the activities of credit institutions in Armenia.

Statistics 

According to the article 5(g) of the Law on the Central Bank of RA the Central Bank of the Republic of Armenia (CBA), implements collection, compilation and publication of monetary and financial statistics in order to carry out its objectives. Particular tasks in this area include:
 Collection and compilation of accurate monetary and financial statistics;
 Provision of accurate, reliable and timely data to the public through statistical publications and website of the Central Bank.
 
Since 2011 the responsibility for the compilation of the external sector statistics (balance of payments, international investment position and external debt) has been undertaken by the Central Bank of Armenia.To carry out its objectives according to the Law on Central Bank of RA, the Central Bank of Armenia, within the framework of the CBA Board Resolutions and the CBA Chairman Decrees, is engaged in the collection of other sectors' statistics (Real, External and Government Sectors) for its internal use. According to the Law of RA on State Statistics the National Statistical Service of RA (NSSA) is officially responsible body for statistics of these sectors of economy, the website of which is www.armstat.am.
 
The Central Bank conducts statistical analyses in all four sectors of the economy (smoothing of time series, forecast and classification of economic indicators, calculation of various indices, etc.) and participates in developing the statistical methodology in accordance with international standards. In order to monitor and evaluate certain economic phenomena, the CBA conducts surveys, in particular to find out expectations of business entities on economic growth and inflation, disclose price-generation mechanisms at enterprises, measure banks' expectations on macroeconomic and financial indicators, evaluate foreign cash held by household, etc.
The Central Bank releases the statistical data through the CBA homepage and the CBA following publications according to advance release calendar :
 The Central Bank Bulletin" (monthly)
 The Central Bank Statistical Bulletin" (annual).
An important step to the development of Armenia's statistical system was its subscription on November 7, 2003 to the Special Data Dissemination Standard (SDDS) of the IMF (www.dsbb.imf.org ), which enables compilation of the participant countries’ statistics on the base of unified  standards. Armenia was the 3rd among the CIS countries and the 54th in the world countries that was joining this system.
The CBA statistical work are coordinated by the Statistics Department of the Central Bank. The Department comprises the Monetary and Financial Statistics Division, Data Processing Division, the Economic Statistics Development Division, the External Sector Statistics Division, and the Credit Registry.

Cooperation with international financial organizations 

There is integration of the Republic of Armenia and its Central Bank in the world community.  The CBA maintains mutual cooperation with:
 International Monetary Fund (IMF)
 World Bank
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
 Asian Development Bank

The international cooperation has allowed the CBA to begin realization of the received credits on transformation system, maintenance of balance of payments, financing of private business, institutional and rehabilitation loans, and other similar programs.

The positive results of work with the international financial organizations opens new prospects for the realization of joint projects together with various economic institutes and large banks of the world.

Independence 

The sole founder of the Central Bank is the Republic of Armenia. The Central Bank is independent from state authorities of the Republic of Armenia in implementing its activities in the context of setting targets and deciding on the tools to achieve these targets. Independence is needed in order to implement effective policies aimed to maintain price and financial stability. In doing so, the Central Bank makes its contribution to a sustainable economic growth in a longer run.

See also

Armenian dram
Armenia Securities Exchange
Central Bank Visitor Center (Armenia)
Central Depository of Armenia
Economy of Armenia
Federation of Euro-Asian Stock Exchanges
List of banks in Armenia
List of central banks
State Revenue Committee of Armenia

References

External links 
 Armenian Constitution
 Central Bank of Armenia
 ABC Finance
 LexBox database (collection of legal information of different countries) 
 ArCa Armenian Card
 Financial System Mediator
 Armenian Legal Information Centre