[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Eikev

0, "for the land"; the blessing about Jerusalem derives from the words of Deuteronomy 8:10, "the good" (as Deuteronomy 3:25 refers to "this good mountain and Lebanon"); and the fourth blessing about the Good and Who does good derives from the words of Deuteronomy 8:10, "that He (God) has given you."

Chapter 7 of Tractate Berakhot in the Mishnah, Jerusalem Talmud, and Babylonian Talmud interpreted the laws of the Grace after Meals in Deuteronomy 8:10.

The Mishnah taught that if one has before one many types of food, Rabbi Judah taught that if there is one of the seven species for which the Land of Israel was praised among them, one recites the blessing over that first. But the Sages taught that one recites first a blessing over whichever of them one wants.

The Mishnah taught that women and minors were exempt from the obligations to recite the Shema prayer and wear tefillin, but are obligated in prayer, the mezuzah, and Grace after Meals.

The Mishnah taught that if a man is impure due to a seminal emission, he recites a blessing after eating food which, after partaking, one is obligated to recite a blessing, but he does not recite a blessing before. Rabbi Judah, however, taught that he recites the blessings before and after.

Rabbi Awira told—sometimes in the name of Rabbi Ammi, and sometimes in the name of Rabbi Assi—that the angels asked God whether God was not showing favor to Israel. And God asked the angels how God could not show favor to Israel, when Deuteronomy 8:10 required them to bless God when they had eaten and were satisfied, but the Israelites bless God even when they have eaten only the quantity of an olive or an egg.

Rabbi Joḥanan deduced from Deuteronomy 8:14 that people who are haughty of spirit are as though they had denied the fundamental principle of God's existence. And Rav Nachman bar Yitzchak found in Deuteronomy 8:14 a prohibition for haughtiness of spirit. For Rabbi Abin said in the name of Rabbi Ilai that wherever it is stated "Beware, lest" (as it does in Deuteronomy 8:11) the reference is to a prohibition.

In Deuteronomy 8:14, the heart becomes proud. A Midrash catalogued the wide range of additional capabilities of the heart reported in the Hebrew Bible. The heart speaks, sees, hears, walks, falls, stands, rejoices, cries, is comforted, is troubled, becomes hardened, grows faint, grieves, fears, can be broken, rebels, invents, cavils, overflows, devises, desires, goes astray, lusts, is refreshed, can be stolen, is humbled, is enticed, errs, trembles, is awakened, loves, hates, envies, is searched, is rent, meditates, is like a fire, is like a stone, turns in repentance, becomes hot, dies, melts, takes in words, is susceptible to fear, gives thanks, covets, becomes hard, makes merry, acts deceitfully, speaks from out of itself, loves bribes, writes words, plans, receives commandments, acts with pride, makes arrangements, and aggrandizes itself.

The Pesikta de-Rav Kahana cited Deuteronomy 8:14 for the proposition that God's fate and Israel's fate are intertwined. According to Bar Kappara, God told Israel that the time of God's redemption (when God would release God's right hand, which was restrained while Israel is in exile) was in Israel's hand, and the time of Israel's redemption was in God's hand. As the time of God's redemption (and action) was in Israel's hand, therefore, Israel should heed the words of Deuteronomy 8:14, "let not your heart grow haughty so that you forget the Lord your God." And that the time of Israel's redemption was in God's hand was seen in Psalm 137:5, "If I forget you, O Jerusalem, My right hand will forget." To Rabbi Dosa, this verse meant that God said that if God forgot Jerusalem, God's right hand would forget how to perform miracles (and God would thus cease to be God).

A Midrash taught that God told the Israelites that during all the 40 years that they spent in the wilderness, God did not make it necessary for them to escape. Rather, God cast their enemies down before them. As Deuteronomy 8:15 reports, there were numerous snakes, fiery serpents, and scorpions in the wilderness, but God did not allow them to harm the Israelites. Thus, God told Moses to write down in Numbers 33 the stages by which Israel journeyed in the wilderness, so that they would know the miracles that God had done for them.