[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Transmetropolitan characters

Transmetropolitan is a cyberpunk comic book series written by Warren Ellis with art by Darick Robertson and published by the Vertigo imprint of DC Comics (originally by Helix). It chronicles the battles of Spider Jerusalem, infamous renegade gonzo journalist of the future. Jerusalem dedicates himself to fighting the corruption and abuse of power of two successive United States presidents; he and his assistants strive to keep their world from turning more dystopian than it already is.

Protagonists
Spider Jerusalem, main character of the series, gonzo journalist extraordinaire. He is inspired by Hunter S. Thompson, and the spiritual cousin to Doonesbury's "Uncle Duke". His early, unshaved appearance is a direct reference to Robertson's friend Andre Ricciardi, and not Alan Moore as often suggested.

The Filthy Assistants

Channon Yarrow

Channon Yarrow, Spider's first assistant in the series. She was formerly a stripper, pay-dacoit, and bodyguard. Physically, Channon is quite tall (it is never told how tall, but she is portrayed as a half a head taller than Spider Jerusalem and a full head taller than Yelena Rossini). Per Spider's orders, Channon ingests medication to give her a genetic trait protecting her from cancer, and takes up chain smoking.

Channon begins the series as one of the strippers at a strip club in the Angels 8 district of the city, which is invaded by Spider Jerusalem during the Transient Riots. Inspired when Spider quells the riots by broadcasting a live bulletin about it directly to the rest of the City via a local feedsite, Channon (who turns out to be a journalism student stripping to pay for school) quits the club and is hired by The Word editor Mitchell Royce to be Spider's assistant, a job originally consisting primarily of making sure her boss is supplied with enough brain-enhancing drugs and alcohol to be an effective journalist.

Channon leaves Spider's employ briefly, following her boyfriend Ziang's choice to dump her and have his consciousness downloaded into a cloud of floating nanotechnological computers, an experience Spider made her chronicle in his weekly column because he felt that everyone should witness it at least once. During her time away, she became a "Bride of Christ" - Fred Christ, the self-appointed leader of the Transient Movement and half-alien 'love messiah' founder of the Church of Transience.

She rejoined Spider and his new assistant, Yelena, early in their fight to prevent the election of President Gary Callahan, aka "The Smiler", taking on the role of bodyguard. In this new role, Channon is depicted as physically more powerful and imposing than before, regularly fighting off multiple assailants and taking point when strategy is required. Much of the situations she helps fight off comes from the Smiler himself, who has it out for Spider and his assistants. She also demonstrates expertise with a number of small arms, due to her being regularly searched for them at school, to make sure that she was armed.

At the end of the series' run, Channon and Yelena are shown to have retired to the Mountain to care for Spider. The two look after him as live-in assistants. Whilst both are now journalists in their own right, Channon refuses to do weekly journalism after her experiences with Spider, focusing instead on books (at the end of the series she has a three-book contract).

Yelena Rossini

Yelena Rossini, Spider's second assistant in the series. Daughter of rich philanthropist and political figure, Oscar Rossini.

Physically, Yelena is quite short (it is never told how tall, but she is portrayed as a half a head shorter than Spider Jerusalem and a full head shorter than Channon Yarrow), with shoulder-length brunette hair and is usually seen in baggy black t-shirts and suits (primarily to obscure her short stature and modest bust—particularly when compared to Channon). Per Spider's orders, as with Channon, she ingested medication to give her a genetic trait protecting her from cancer, and took up chain smoking.

After Channon leaves Spider's employ to become a nun, Mitchell Royce, Spider's editor, assigns her to be Spider's assistant, a job consisting primarily of making sure her boss is supplied with enough drugs and alcohol to be an effective journalist. Initially, he claims Yelena is his niece, though she later reveals it was simply a ploy to make sure Spider behaves himself around her. She later refers to him as "Uncle Mitch", however. Of note is that Yelena has quite a different history from that of Channon. About a week after she's hired, she is interviewed by a major broadcaster, and she describes herself as 24 years of age, born and raised in what is presumed to be a high-class section of the City (Old Heath Road), fluent in seven languages, and a recent business school graduate.