[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Benoît Pelletier

Benoît Pelletier  (born 10 January 1960) is lawyer, academic, and politician in the Canadian province of Quebec. He was a Liberal member of the National Assembly of Quebec from 1998 to 2008 and was a prominent cabinet minister in the government of Jean Charest. He is best known for promoting the concept of "asymmetric federalism" to incorporate Quebec nationalism into a decentralized Canadian federal structure.

Early life and career

Pelletier was born in Quebec City, Quebec. His father, Jean-Paul Pelletier, was an administrator and municipal councillor.

Pelletier received a law degree from Université Laval in 1981 and was admitted to the Barreau du Québec the following year. He later earned a Master's Degree in law from the University of Ottawa (1989) and doctorates in law from the University of Paris I: Panthéon-Sorbonne (1996) and the Aix-Marseille University (2000).

Pelletier was a legal adviser at the Canadian Department of Justice from 1983 to 1990, when he received a faculty position at the University of Ottawa. He taught there for several years and was recognized as professor of the year in 1998. He also authored several works on constitutional law and was often interviewed as an expert on the subject in the 1990s. He has been a guest professor at the Universities of Nantes (1993), Corsica (1997), Paris II (1998), Paris V (1998) and Lyon III (1998), as well as at Queens and Cornell Universities (both 2016). He has also twice been a visiting scholar at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, D.C.

He was a lawyer with the firm Noël et associés from 2009 to 2011. He was the Government of Canada’s chief negotiator on the Huron-Wendat (2011–2013) and Cree (2013–2016) dossiers. In 2014–2015, he was Special Representative to the Minister of Indigenous and Northern Affairs Canada in relation to the five-year review of the Specific Claims Tribunal Act.

Pelletier was one of three members of an external panel established in 2015 by the federal government to study the issues surrounding medically assisted dying.

Legislator

Pelletier was first elected to the National Assembly of Quebec in the 1998 provincial election, winning the safe Liberal seat of Chapleau in the Outaouais region. The Parti Québécois (PQ) won a majority government in this election, and Pelletier entered the legislature as an opposition member. In January 1999, Liberal leader Jean Charest appointed him to the high-profile post of critic for Intergovernmental Affairs. As a member of Quebec’s Official Opposition (1998–2003), at the outset of his political career, Benoît Pelletier was appointed Quebec Liberal Party critic on Intergovernmental Affairs. From 1999 to 2001, he was also Chairman of the Liberal Party’s Special Committee on the political and constitutional future of Quebec society. In this role, he developed the Party’s position on intergovernmental relations.

After his appointment, Pelletier was commissioned to lead a comprehensive review of the Liberal Party's constitutional platform. Two years later, he brought forward a policy document entitled, Quebec's Choice: Affirmation, Autonomy and Leadership. Its highlights included a call for the Canadian Constitution to recognize the "specificity" of Quebec; a requirement that judges consider this "specificity" when ruling on charter rights cases that affect Quebec government policy; a provincial veto over constitutional changes; greater provincial autonomy over international affairs, telecommunications, and the environment; and the creation of a new council for overseeing federal-provincial issues. This document marked a shift away from former Liberal premier Robert Bourassa's definition of Quebec as a "distinct society," and Pelletier acknowledged that his party was taking a more "pro-Canada" stance than in past years. He said, "what [Quebecers] want above all is to say [...] that they want to be Canadians, but in their own way." Quebec's Choice helped launch Jean Charest's drive to create the Council of the Federation, and Pelletier has sometimes been recognized as the council's chief architect.

Pelletier was very critical of the approach taken by Jean Chrétien's federal government in fighting the Quebec sovereignty movement. During the period of the Gomery inquiry, he remarked that the sponsorship scandal was caused by figures in the Canadian government who believed that "with money you could change the view of the population."