[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ubaidullah Sindhi

at-o-Makalat
 Zaati Diary (an autobiography)

Translation of his work
Pakistani columnist Farman Nawaz translated his Urdu articles namely (Islam teaches lesson of harmony to human beings, The Basic Moral standards of Humanity, Theory of civilization, Survival of the fittest and Islam) into English.

World outlook and philosophy 
Ubaidullah Sindhi was of the view that the Quran uses Arabic words to make clear what God considers right and wrong. Other religious holy books like the Bible, the Gita and the Torah are also followed by many people around the world. He realized non-religious people (atheists) also existed in this world. After all he had spent some time among the communists in Russia. The individuals, who inaccurately interpreted the Bible and the Torah, were declared nonbelievers by Islam. In the same way, the person who incorrectly explains the Quran, can be declared an atheist. In Islam, the emphasis is clearly on God being eternal and everything in the universe belonging to Him alone. God alone is the Creator and Protector. It is evident from Ubaidullah Sindhi's travels around the world that he had an international and world outlook. It is also evident from his lifetime behavior and struggles that he wanted India not to be ruled by the British. He wanted India to be ruled by the Indians.

Death 
In 1936, the Indian National Congress requested his return to India, and the British Raj subsequently gave its permission. He landed at the port of Karachi from Saudi Arabia in 1938. He then went to Delhi, where he began a programme teaching Shah Waliullah's Hujjatullahil Baalighah book to Maulana Saeed Ahmad Akbarabadi, who would then write an exegesis in his own words. Opposed to the partition of India, Ubaidullah led a conference supporting a united India in June 1941 at Kumbakonam. Right after his return to India, he started meeting Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose and planned his movement to Germany and Japan. They met several times and supposed to have discussed a plan similar to the one carried out by Ubaidullah, Raja Mahendra Pratap and Maulana Barkatullah during the First World War. He was opposed to the Pakistan plan of Mohammad Ali Jinnah and Muslim League. In his view Muslims and Hindus of India were one civilization and he was against the idea of foreign help in Indian affairs. Ubaidullah left for Rahim Yar Khan to visit his daughter in 1944. At the village 'Deen Pur' near Khanpur town in Rahim Yar Khan District, he was taken seriously ill and died on 21 August 1944. He was buried in the graveyard adjacent to the grave of his mentors.

Legacy
Pakistan Postal Services has issued a commemorative postage stamp in honor of Ubaidullah Sindhi in its 'Pioneers of Freedom' series in 1990.
 Saeed Ahmad Akbarabadi wrote Maulana Ubaidullah Sindhi awr Unke Naaqid.

References

Sources 
برصغیر میں اصول تفسیر کا اتقاء سرسید احمد خان، حمید الدین فراہمی، عبید اللہ سندھی کے خصو صی افکار کی روشنی میں
تحقیق مخطوط "التفسیر إلھام الرحمن" للشیخ عبیداللہ السندي (1944م) من سورۃ الدھر إلي سورۃ الحجرات (دراسۃ و تحقیقا)
 
 
 
Mawlana Ubayd Allah Sindhi's Mission to Afghanistan and Soviet Russia
.
.
.
. 
 
 
Maulana Ubaydullah Sindhi Deobandi in the Sight of Sheikh Muhammad Ikram
An Analysis of the Work of Mulana Ubaid Ullah Sindhi

1872 births
1944 deaths
Converts to Islam from Sikhism
Deobandis
Hanafis
Maturidis
Hindu–German Conspiracy
Indian Muslims
20th-century Muslim scholars of Islam
People from Sialkot
Students of Mahmud Hasan Deobandi
Indian travel writers
Urdu-language travel writers