[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# William Harrison Graham

William Harrison Graham (August 3, 1844 – March 2, 1923) was a U.S. Representative from the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.

Biography
William H. Graham was born on August 3, 1844, in Allegheny, Pennsylvania (now part of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania). During the American Civil War, he enlisted on April 5, 1861, in the Second Regiment of the Virginia Infantry of the Union Army.
 
After a service of two years, the unit was mounted and became the Fifth Regiment of West Virginia Cavalry. He was mustered out on June 14, 1864.

Post-war life
Following his honorable discharge from the military, Graham engaged in the leather business in Allegheny, Pennsylvania. Elected to the Pennsylvania State House of Representatives, he served from 1875 to 1878.

He was then appointed as Recorder of deeds in Allegheny County, Pennsylvania, and served in that capacity from 1882 to 1891. He was also engaged in banking.

Elected as a Republican to the Fifty-fifth Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of William A. Stone, Graham was reelected to the Fifty-sixth and Fifty-seventh Congresses, but was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1902.</ref>The Political Graveyard.</ref>

Graham was subsequently elected to the Fifty-ninth, Sixtieth, and Sixty-first Congresses. He served as chairman of the United States House Committee on Ventilation and Acoustics during the Sixtieth Congress, and of the United States House Committee on Expenditures in the Department of Agriculture during the Sixty-first Congress. He was an unsuccessful candidate in the Republican primaries for renomination.

Later life, death and interment
After his time in Congress, Graham served as a member of the Allegheny County Board of Viewers from 1911 to 1923. He died in Pittsburgh in 1923 and was interred in Highwood Cemetery.

References

1844 births
1923 deaths
Republican Party members of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives
Union Army soldiers
Politicians from Pittsburgh
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Pennsylvania