[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Burton (American politician)

ormed the John Burton Foundation, an organization that, according to its website, is "dedicated to improving the quality of life for California’s homeless children and developing policy solutions to prevent homelessness."

In February 2007, he was appointed board member of the University of Phoenix.

In 2008, Burton settled an alleged sexual harassment lawsuit filed by Kathleen Driscoll, then the executive director of his charitable foundation. She claimed Burton sexually harassed her by making unwanted advances, suggestively raising his eyebrows and commenting on her body. At a 2008 news conference in her attorney's office, Driscoll said, "I had a dream of helping homeless children through a job I loved. John Burton turned that dream into a sexual harassment nightmare and quite frankly a living hell." Burton's attorney, Susan Rubenstein, quickly countered, saying, "John Burton has dedicated approximately a half-century of his life to public service, and if he were a sexual harasser, I think it would have been unearthed by now." "I think the allegations are shocking and a shakedown and are absolutely meritless." Within hours Rubenstein received information that Driscoll had written or said complimentary things about Burton that contradicted her allegations. In a June 2007 e-mail to another foundation employee, Driscoll had written, "I love John because his heart is so good and pure." Rubenstein continued, "I just got off the phone with another [person] who felt compelled to tell me that she had lunch with Driscoll and she said Driscoll had nothing but admirable things to say about Mr. Burton."

Party leadership (2009–2017) and aftermath
On April 26, 2009, Burton was elected chair of the California Democratic Party, succeeding Art Torres. He received roughly 76% of the vote, over his sole challenger, Chris Finnie of Santa Cruz.

Burton stepped down from his party chairmanship in May 2017. He was succeeded by vice chairman Eric Bauman. At his farewell, he recalled a lesson learned early in life. Near tears he described walking in San Francisco with his father, who doled out whatever money he had to the poor. When John asked why, Burton recalled, "He put his finger in my face and told me he never ever wanted me to walk past some guy in bad circumstances without leaving something in the cup." Burton continued, "That's what Democrats do. …There’s a lot of people out there that if we don’t fight for them, nobody’s going to fight for them because they don’t have any power."

After promoting expanded medical care for Californians, he was extolled in a video and by a long line of effusive party luminaries. He was applauded for his decades-long leadership, leading protests against the Vietnam War, his support of Central Valley farmworkers, the homeless, and the needy. He finally ended his comments by raising both middle fingers and saying, "Fuck Trump," to a loud consensus.

San Francisco Port Commission 
Burton was appointed to the San Francisco Port Commission on October 22, 2020 by Mayor of San Francisco London Breed.

Personal life 
Burton was previously married to Michele Burton, a healthcare consultant. Their daughter, Kimiko Burton, served as San Francisco Public Defender from 2001 to 2003, and currently serves as a member of the California State Personnel Board.

References

External links

John L. Burton for Democratic Party Chair, burton2009.com; accessed May 22, 2019.
"Our Man in Sacramento" (2002), San Francisco Chronicle; accessed January 7, 2018.
 Burton used mastery of politics in long career, San Diego Union-Tribune, December 5, 2004.
  (1980-1990's)
 (2000's)

1932 births
Living people
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from California
University of San Francisco School of Law alumni
Democratic Party California state senators
Democratic Party members of the California State Assembly
California Democratic Party chairs
San Francisco State University alumni
Politicians from San Francisco
Politicians from Cincinnati
21st-century American politicians