[Source: Gutenberg#1404 | Part 240]
# The Federalist Papers — Hamilton, Madison, Jay

he State of Connecticut; and yet it may be safely
affirmed that more numerous encroachments have been made upon the trial
by jury in this State since the Revolution, though provided for by a
positive article of our constitution, than has happened in the same
time either in Connecticut or Great Britain. It may be added that these
encroachments have generally originated with the men who endeavor to
persuade the people they are the warmest defenders of popular liberty,
but who have rarely suffered constitutional obstacles to arrest them in
a favorite career. The truth is that the general GENIUS of a government
is all that can be substantially relied upon for permanent effects.
Particular provisions, though not altogether useless, have far less
virtue and efficacy than are commonly ascribed to them; and the want of
them will never be, with men of sound discernment, a decisive objection
to any plan which exhibits the leading characters of a good government.

It certainly sounds not a little harsh and extraordinary to affirm
that there is no security for liberty in a Constitution which expressly
establishes the trial by jury in criminal cases, because it does not do
it in civil also; while it is a notorious fact that Connecticut, which
has been always regarded as the most popular State in the Union, can
boast of no constitutional provision for either.

PUBLIUS

1. It has been erroneously insinuated with regard to the court of
chancery, that this court generally tries disputed facts by a jury. The
truth is, that references to a jury in that court rarely happen, and are
in no case necessary but where the validity of a devise of land comes
into question.

2. It is true that the principles by which that relief is governed are
now reduced to a regular system; but it is not the less true that
they are in the main applicable to SPECIAL circumstances, which form
exceptions to general rules.

3. Vide No. 81, in which the supposition of its being abolished by the
appellate jurisdiction in matters of fact being vested in the Supreme
Court, is examined and refuted.




FEDERALIST No. 84

Certain General and Miscellaneous Objections to the Constitution
Considered and Answered.

From McLEAN's Edition, New York. Wednesday, May 28, 1788

HAMILTON

To the People of the State of New York:

IN THE course of the foregoing review of the Constitution, I have taken
notice of, and endeavored to answer most of the objections which have
appeared against it. There, however, remain a few which either did not
fall naturally under any particular head or were forgotten in their
proper places. These shall now be discussed; but as the subject has been
drawn into great length, I shall so far consult brevity as to comprise
all my observations on these miscellaneous points in a single paper.

The most considerable of the remaining objections is that the plan of
the convention contains no bill of rights. Among other answers given
to this, it has been upon different occasions remarked that the
constitutions of several of the States are in a similar predicament.
I add that New York is of the number. And yet the opposers of the new
system, in this State, who profess an unlimited admiration for its
constitution, are among the most intemperate partisans of a bill of
rights. To justify their zeal in this matter, they allege two things:
one is that, though the constitution of New York has no bill of rights
prefixed to it, yet it contains, in the body of it, various provisions
in favor of particular privileges and rights, which, in substance amount
to the same thing; the other is, that the Constitution adopts, in their
full extent, the common and statute law of Great Britain, by which many
other rights, not expressed in it, are equally secured.

To the first I answer, that the Constitution proposed by the convention
contains, as well as the constitution of this State, a number of such
provisions.

Independent of those which relate to the structure of the government, we
find the following: Article 1, section 3, clause 7--"Judgment in cases
of impeachment shall not extend further than to removal from office, and
disqualification to hold and enjoy any office of honor, trust, or profit
under the United States; but the party convicted shall, nevertheless,
be liable and subject to indictment, trial, judgment, and punishment
according to law." Section 9, of the same article, clause 2--"The
privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless
when in cases of rebellion or invasion the public safety may require
it." Clause 3--"No bill of attainder or ex-post-facto law shall be
passed." Clause 7--"No title of nobility shall be granted by the United
States; and no person holding any office of profit or trust under them,
shall, without the consent of the Congress, accept of any present,
emolument, office, or title of any kind whatever, from any king, prince,
o