[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# A Bullet for the General

"¿Quién sabe?" before shooting him. Tate's body begins its return to the United States, while Chuncho, laughing manically, tosses his bag of money to a group of peasants and flees from the authorities down an external corridor of carriages, exhorting the poor to buy dynamite instead of bread.

Cast

 Gian Maria Volonté as Chucho/El Chucho/Chuncho Muños
 Lou Castel as Bill "Niño" Tate/El Niño/Taylor
 William Berger as Bill "Niño" Tate 
 Klaus Kinski as El Santo
 Martine Beswick as Adelita
 Jaime Fernández as General Elías
 Andrea Checchi as Don Felipe
 Spartaco Conversi as Eufemio
 Joaquín Parra as Picaro
 Aldo Sambrell as Lieutenant Alvaro Ferreira
 José Manuel Martín as Raimundo
 Santiago Santos as Guapo
 Valentino Macchi as Train Engineer
 Guy Heron as Pepito 
 Carla Gravina as Rosaria 
 Rufino Inglés as Captain Enrique Sanchez Compoy 
 Vicente Roca as Hotelier 
 Antoñito Ruiz as Chico 
 Sal Borgese as Bandit 
 Damiano Damiani as Journalist with Elías 
 Aysanoa Runachagua as Paymaster 
 Richard McNamara as Opening Narrator

Production
The screenplay and story for A Bullet for the General is credited to  Salvatore Laurani while Franco Solinas is credited with the adaptation and dialogue. Film historian Howard Hughes noted that A Bullet for the General was the first Italian Western to seriously deal with the Mexican revolution and credited Solinas with the political aspects on the film. Solinas was a Marxist writer best known in film for his screenplays for Salvatore Giuliano and The Battle of Algiers.

A Bullet for the General was directed by Damiano Damiani and shot in Almería between July and August 1966. Damiani had originally wanted to shoot the film in Mexico which proved to be impossible.

Release
A Bullet for the General was released in Italy in December 1966.

Reception
In a contemporary review, the Monthly Film Bulletin declared the film to be "a lively sortie into the Mexican Revolution with a good deal of boisterous action and a spirited performance from Gian Maria Volonte". The review noted the running time cut from 135 minutes to 77 minutes, stating "substantial pruning unfortunately plays havoc with the continuity (a character who was clearly of some importance in the original is here reduced to a few marginal references)."

Damiano's film has been called a "serious statement about the Mexican Revolution" and has been recognised as an accomplished blend of "tension, action, politics and history".

References

Footnotes

Notes

Sources

External links

1966 films
1960s Italian-language films
Spaghetti Western films
Films directed by Damiano Damiani
1966 Western (genre) films
Mexican Revolution films
Films scored by Luis Bacalov
Films shot in Almería
1960s Italian films