[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Winter Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China

he commander of the Newly Organized 5th Army and the commanders the 43rd division and the 195th division captured alive by the Communists.  Learning the news of the defeat of the southern front, the Nationalist reinforcements to Faku and the southern front both withdrew back to Shenyang and Tieling.

Taking advantage of their new victory, the Communist 1st column and 8th column continued to push westward, taking Xinli Village (新立屯) by destroying the Nationalist 26th division of the 49th Army during its attempt to flee.  The Communist 9th column, meanwhile, took Panshan by destroying the Nationalist 184th division of the 60th Army.  However, the continuous offensives also exhausted the Communist supply and besieged Faku remained firmly in the Nationalist hand.  Due to the continuous defeats, Chiang Kai-shek had to personally hold a military conference to readjust the Nationalist strategies on January 10, 1948, by flying to Shenyang from Nanjing, and replaced Chen Cheng with Wei Lihuang.  In order to strengthen the Nationalist force in Northeast China, the Nationalist Reorganized 54th division was transferred from Shandong to Jinzhou.  While Chen Cheng left northeast China with Chiang Kai-shek, the new Nationalist commander-in-chief in northeast China Wei Lihuang was preparing for the worst: giving up Jilin City and Changchun when necessary, while hold on to Shenyang with everything he got.

Third Stage
The Communist took full advantage when new Nationalist commander-in-chief Wei Lihuang was busy reorganizing his defense by replenishing themselves at the same time.  After half a month rest, the Communist resumed their offensive by concentrating their forces to the south of Shenyang.  The Communist 4th column and 6th column besieged Liaoyang.  To stop any possible Nationalist reinforcement, the Communist 1st column, 2nd column, 7th column, 8th column, and 9th column were deployed to Panshan and , regions between Shenyang and Liaoyang, and regions between Jinzhou and Yi County.

On February 2, 1948, the Communist 4th column and the 6th column took Liaoyang after decimating the Nationalist 54th division that defended the city, and they continued their victory push southward, taking Anshan on February 19, 1948, after decimating the local garrison, the Nationalist 25th division.  On February 24, 1948, the communist 4th column launched a long-distance strike at Yingkou, and although the 52nd Army, the local Nationalist garrison managed to beat back the Communist attack at the night of February 25, 1948, the Nationalist 58th division, the cream of the crop of the Nationalist 52nd Army, mutinied by defecting to the communist side under the leadership of the division commander Wang Jiashan ().  After southern Liaoning fell into the Communist hand, the defender of Faku, the Nationalist 62nd division of the Newly Organized 6th Army abandoned the city and attempted to breakout the siege, but was decimated on its way at the mouth of Tong River () to the west of Kaiyuan, which fell into the Communist hand on February 29, 1948.

In order to completely cut the link between Changchun and Shenyang, the Communist decided to take Siping (city) by redeploying the 1st column, the 3rd column and the 7th column on February 29, 1948, from southern Liaoning to Siping (city), while the communist 2nd column, 6th column, 8th column, and the 10th column were already deployed two days ago on February 27, 1948, to Changtu and Kaiyuan to stop any possible Nationalist reinforcement to the city.  On other fronts, faced with impossibility, on March 9, 1948, the Nationalist garrison of Jilin City, the 60th Army evacuated the city and retreated to Changchun by abandoning all heavy equipment.  Under the brilliant leadership and direction of Wei Lihuang, the evacuation was a great success and was credited by the BBC as another equivalent of Dunkirk Evacuation on land.  However, due to the urgency faced by the nationalists, the abandoned equipment and supplies were not destroyed and fell into the enemy hand intact, which significantly boosted the Communist strength.  On March 12, 1948, the communist 1st column, the 3rd column and the 7th column launched their final assault on Siping (city), decimated the Nationalist 88th division of the 71st Army and other units defending the city within twenty-four hours.  Two days after taking Siping (city), Communists declared the end of Winter Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China on March 15, 1948.

Outcome
The nationalists lost a total of eight divisions plus one defected to the Communists, totaling 156,000 troops, and 17 cities and towns fell into the Communist hand.  The Nationalist troops in northeast China was compressed into three isolated regions around Jinzhou, Changchun and Shenyang as a result of the three-month-long Winter Offensive of 1947 in Northeast China, and the communist paved the way for the later victory in Liaoshen Campaign and Changchun.