[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# USS Johnston (DD-821)

USS Johnston (DD-821) was a  of the United States Navy, the second Navy ship named for Lieutenant John V. Johnston, who served in the Navy during the American Civil War.

Construction and career 
Johnston was laid down on 26 March 1945, by Consolidated Steel Corporation, Orange, Texas; launched on 10 October 1945; sponsored by Mrs. Marie S. Klinger; grandniece of Lt. J. V. Johnston; and commissioned on 23 August 1946.

Service in the United States Navy 
After shakedown in the Caribbean, Johnston reported to Newport, Rhode Island, on 16 May 1947, for duty with the Atlantic Fleet. Operating out of Newport, its home port, it sailed on 9 February 1948, for Northern Europe where it visited ports in Great Britain, France, and Scandinavia before returning to Newport on 26 June. For fourteen months it operated along the Atlantic coast, then sailed on 23 August 1949, for the Mediterranean. From then until 4 October 1961, it deployed with the 6th Fleet on eight occasions and supported peace-keeping efforts in the Middle East.

While on its first Mediterranean deployment, it helped to stabilize the Adriatic Sea during the Trieste crisis, and it patrolled the coast of Greece to bolster the country's freedom and national security against threatened Communist domination. Johnston returned to Newport on 26 January 1950. It operated out of Newport from Canada to the Caribbean until 4 June 1951, when it departed with Midshipman at sea training off Northern Europe. Following its return to Newport on 28 July, it cleared the East Coast for the Mediterranean on 3 September and joined the 6th Fleet in operations that carried it from French Morocco to Turkey; it then returned to home port on 4 February 1952.

Johnston departed Newport on 7 January 1953, for NATO operations in the North Atlantic. Before sailing for duty in the Mediterranean on 16 March Johnston aided the Dutch after storms in the North Sea had caused extensive flooding in the Netherlands; its crew donated bundles of warm clothing and more than $1,200 for the storm victims. It operated in the Mediterranean until 8 May when it steamed for Newport, arriving on 18 May.

After a four-month deployment in the Mediterranean during early 1954, Johnston operated for more than seventeen months along the Atlantic coast from New England to Cuba. On 5 November 1955, it steamed for maneuvers off Northern Europe, followed by another tour of duty in the Mediterranean. While operating in the eastern Mediterranean during February 1956, it patrolled off Israel and Egypt as the Middle East rumbled over the developing Suez Canal crisis. Returning to Newport on 5 March, it embarked midshipmen on 5 June for two months of at-sea training off Northern Europe, after which it resumed operations out of Newport.

Johnston sailed once again on 6 May 1957, for peace-keeping operations with the 6th Fleet. Before returning to the United States on 1 August it ranged the Mediterranean from Spain to Sicily on anti-submarine warfare (ASW) barrier patrols. While at Marseilles, France, on 3 July, it helped fight a destructive blaze on board . Steaming from Newport on 3 September, it joined the Atlantic Fleet for the NATO Exercise "Strike Back" in the North Atlantic. It returned to Newport on 22 October, then resumed operations that sent it into the Caribbean and the Gulf of Mexico.

Returning to the North Atlantic on 6 June 1959, for further NATO maneuvers, Johnston steamed to Charleston, South Carolina, on 25 July and joined Destroyer Squadron 4 (DesRon 4) for deployment to the Mediterranean. Departing Charleston on 21 September, it conducted Fleet operations in the western Mediterranean; on 18 December it joined naval units from France, Italy, and Spain along the French coast for a review in honor of President Dwight D. Eisenhower. Following patrols along the Greek coast, it departed Athens for the United States on 24 March 1960, arriving at Charleston on 10 April.

Before deploying again to the Mediterranean, Johnston joined in NATO Exercise "Sword Thrust" during the fall of 1960; then it departed Charleston on 8 March 1961, to bolster the 6th Fleet's continuing efforts to maintain peace in the Middle East. After returning to the United States 4 October, it steamed on 19 November for patrol duty off the Dominican Republic. During this brief but important duty its presence did much to stabilize a situation "which had threatened to plunge the country into bitter fighting and a return of the Trujillo dictatorship."