[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# MV George Prince ferry disaster

nits was commendable. Had the ferry not overturned so rapidly, their immediate response would have been instrumental in saving a number of lives. Unfortunately, the first rescuers were only able to find and rescue two survivors from the river; other survivors made their way onto the overturned hull.

Coast Guard Commandant's remarks
From the Coast Guard investigation report:
 Circumstances of the collision prevent the usual application of the "Western Rivers Rules of the Road", which state that a vessel to the starboard has right-of-way (which is why all powered vessels have a red light facing to port, and a green light facing to starboard). George Prince was expected to do one of three things: head down river to pass behind the Frosta, slow and/or stop midstream and wait for the Frosta to pass, or proceed directly across to the West Bank. Only two minutes elapsed between the departure of the ferry and the collision. Since there was doubt as to the intention of the George Prince, and there was no response to attempts to determine the ferry's intentions, the duty of the pilot of the Frosta was to immediately reverse engine and sound the danger signal.
 The George Prince proceeded across the busy waterway apparently oblivious to the imminent danger. Auletta apparently never sighted the Frosta, nor did he hear the radio calls or horn signals. A reasonably alert pilot would have seen the ship coming upriver. Even though a strict application of the "Rules of the Road" gave the George Prince the right-of-way, this of course does not give the right to proceed into harm's way without taking any evasive maneuvers.
 Neither vessel took any early or substantial action to avoid the collision.
 Auletta's judgement and reaction were certainly impaired by the 0.09% blood alcohol content, although to what degree can not be known, although three areas have been well established as affected by alcohol levels under 0.10%:
 steadiness, orientation, and balance,
 attention, memory, and information processing,
 peripheral vision and visual field
 In this circumstance, the ability of the eyes to adjust to darkness, to detect moving targets at low levels of illumination, and mental attentiveness are all affected. The Commandant states,"It is imperative that the deck watch of any vessel be in complete control of his faculties", and the evidence shows that Auletta was not in control of his faculties, as it is inconceivable that such an experienced mariner could either ignore or fail to see the Frosta unless his faculties were impaired.
 The captain of the Ollie K Wilds stated that the windows of his pilot house were closed, and that he did not hear the Frostas horn. A previous accident involving the George Prince followed a similar scenario. On that occasion, the captain of the ferry stated that he did not hear the sounding of vehicle horns or the shouts of passengers. The morning of the accident, the windows were likely closed, and this may have prevented Auletta from hearing the Frostas horn. Therefore, it is imperative that a lookout be designated and posted outside to listen for and relay signals from other vessels.

Closing of the ferry
With the opening of the Luling–Destrehan Bridge in October 1983—barely a mile upstream from the ferry landings—the ferry ceased operations. At the dedication of the bridge, both Governor David C. Treen and Bishop Stanley Ott remembered those killed in the accident.

The asphalt ramps to the tops of the levees still exist, but have fallen into disrepair.

Documentary and memorial