[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Averno (wrestler)

ring the same show Volador Jr. won an Ultimate X match, earning enough points for Team Mexico to win the entire tournament, becoming the 2008 World X Cup holders. Volador Jr. would work more matches for TNA, but Averno, Último Guerrero and Rey Bucanero did not.

Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (2014–2021)

On May 17, 2014, Averno made his debut for Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide (AAA), joining the rudo stable La Sociedad. In a main event six-man tag team match, Averno teamed with Chessman and Pentagón Jr. to defeat Cibernético, Fénix and Psycho Clown, pinning Fénix for the win. After the match, Averno was attacked by an unnamed "mysterious wrestler", portrayed by his old rival Místico. On September 26, Averno and Chessman came together with Cibernético to reform the Los Hell Brothers stable, with Averno replacing former member Charly Manson for this incarnation of Los Hell Brothers. In February 2015, Los Hell Brothers officially joined La Sociedad. On June 14, 2015, at Verano de Escándalo, Averno won his first title in AAA, when Los Hell Brothers captured the AAA World Trios Championship. At Triplemanía  XXIII Los Hell Brothers successfully defended the AAA World Trios Championship in a Steel Cage match, defeating the trios of Fénix and Los Güeros del Cielo (Angélico and Jack Evans) and Los Perros del Mal (El Hijo del Fantasma, Pentagón Jr., El Texano Jr.) In late 2015 Cibernético left AAA, which forced AAA to strip Los Hell Brothers the trios championship on January 6, 2016. On January 22 at Guerra de Titanes, Averno and Chessman won the vacant AAA World Tag Team Championship. However, immediately afterwards, La Sociedad turned on the two and expelled them from the group. Los Hell Brothers subsequently made several successful title defenses and began bragging about how there were no challengers left for them to deal with, that "no man" could defeat them. In the spring of 2016 sisters-turned-rivals Mari Apache and Faby Apache reunited as Mari returned to the tecnico side and started to team up with her sister on a regular basis. At that point in time the Apaches challenged Los Hell Brothers, demanding that they put the tag team championship on the line, a challenge that Averno and Chessman turned down, acting very dismissing and sexist in the process. During the July 8 AAA Television taping Averno and Chessman dressed up as a pair of frumpy women as they mocked Los Apaches. At the subsequent taping Los Apaches distracted Averno and Chessman during a title defense against Jack Evans and Angélico, which lead to Averno and Chessman losing the tag team championship. Afterwards it was announced that Averno and Chessman had finally agree to face Los Apaches at Triplemanía XXIV. The match at Triplemanía XXIV ended in a no-contest after Chessman and Averno hit the Apaches with fluorescent light tubes, causing Gran Apache to come to their aid. Averno and Chessman then paired up with Ricky Marvin to form a new trio named OGT, winning the AAA World Trios Championship on November 4. They lost the title to El Apache, Faby Apache and Mary Apache on March 5, 2017, when Marvin was defeated by Faby in a singles match.

Championships and accomplishments
Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre
CMLL World Middleweight Championship (1 time)
CMLL World Tag Team Championship (3 times) – with Mephisto
CMLL World Trios Championship (1 time) – with Ephesto and Mephisto
Mexican National Trios Championship (1 time) – with Satánico and Mephisto
Mexican National Welterweight Championship (1 time)
NWA World Middleweight Championship (1 time)
NWA World Historic Middleweight Championship (1 time, inaugural)
Lucha Libre AAA Worldwide
 AAA World Tag Team Championship (1 time) – with Chessman
AAA World Trios Championship (3 times) – with Cibernético and Chessman (1), Chessman and Ricky Marvin (1), and Chessman and Super Fly (1)
Pro Wrestling Illustrated
PWI ranked him 48 of the 500 best singles wrestlers of the PWI 500 in 2006
Total Nonstop Action Wrestling
TNA World X Cup (2008) – with Rey Bucanero, Último Guerrero and Volador Jr.
World Wrestling Association
WWA Middleweight Championship (1 time, current)

Luchas de Apuestas record

Footnotes

References

1977 births
20th-century professional wrestlers
21st-century professional wrestlers
Living people
Mexican male professional wrestlers
Masked wrestlers
Professional wrestlers from Mexico City
AAA World Trios Champions
AAA World Tag Team Champions
Mexican National Trios Champions
CMLL World Middleweight Champions
CMLL World Tag Team Champions
CMLL World Trios Champions
NWA World Historic Middleweight Champions
NWA World Middleweight Champions