[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adnan Farhan Abd Al Latif

g a dagger shoved down your throat." The Miami Herald writes that at times Latif "would smear his excrement on himself, throw blood at his lawyers, and on at least one occasion was brought to meet his lawyer clad only in a padded green garment called an 'anti-suicide smock' held together by Velcro."

In 2008, Latif's attorney Remes filed an emergency federal court motion stating that Latif was suffering seizures and was not being properly treated. The motion, which requested Latif's medical records, a pillow, and an additional blanket, was denied. Falkoff recalled, "he was the guy that we tried unsuccessfully to get medical records for, and a blanket, and mattress, after we found him lying on the floor of our interview cell, weak and emaciated."

In a letter described in an April 17, 2009, Al Jazeera report, Latif stated he had recently been abused at Guantanamo. The report also quoted attorney David Remes' observations on the appearance of Abdul Latif and his other clients: "Adnan Latif ... has a badly dislocated shoulder blade. I've seen the evidence of physical torture and I've also heard about the evidence of psychological torture."

The Associated Press reported on May 11, 2009, that Remes said that Latif had slit his wrists during his most recent visit. Remes said that Latif had used the edge of a strip of broken veneer from the side of a table in the interview room to sever a vein in his wrist, and used the interview table to hide his bleeding wrist from others and the room's video camera. Remes stated that Latif had tried to commit suicide before, and therefore had at times been confined to the prison's psychiatric facility. Remes also said Latif needed mental health care, but all camp authorities were doing was attempting to keep him subdued.

A December 10, 2012, article at Truthout reported that Latif had written a letter to Remes complaining of his treatment at Guantanamo. Dated May 28, 2010, Latif complained in the letter that guards were placing contraband items, such as scissors, in his cell. "The way they deal with me proves to me that they want to get rid of me, but in a way that they cannot be accused of causing it," he told his attorney. The same article reports that on two separate instances in 2010, camp officials tried to get Latif to fire Remes. On one of these occasions, he was given an injection with an unspecified drug before a meeting with a military lawyer. Latif told Remes later (according to attorney notes, as described in the Truthout article) that "they wanted to have no one report" his death.

Clearances for release
On April 25, 2011, whistleblower organization WikiLeaks published formerly secret assessments drafted by Joint Task Force Guantanamo analysts.
Latif's nine page long assessment was drafted on January 17, 2008, and signed by camp commandant Mark Buzby, and it recommended that he be transferred out of Department of Defense control. Historian Andy Worthington, the author of The Guantanamo Files, writes that the 2008 assessment repeated earlier recommendations that Latif be released. Worthington reported that in addition to being cleared for release by Joint Task Force Guantanamo, and by the US District Court Judge Henry Kennedy, Latif had been cleared for release by the Guantánamo Review Task Force that President Barack Obama had set up when he came to office in 2009.

Death

On September 10, 2012, Latif died at Guantanamo. 
He had been held there for 10 years, 7 months and 25 days, after arriving there on January 17, 2002. 
On September 10, camp authorities informed the press that a detainee held in the punishment cells of Camp Five had been found dead early in the afternoon of September 10, but did not reveal the detainee's name, and stated that the cause of death was not apparent. 
The next day it was acknowledged the prisoner was Adnan Latif, and later a military autopsy reportedly declared suicide as the cause of death. The results of a full Naval Criminal Investigative Service investigation were not expected to be known until sometime in 2013.

Before the publication of Latif's identity, Wells Dixon, a lawyer who helped several Guantanamo detainees with their habeas corpus petitions, described the captives' feelings of despair, which he attributed to recent judicial reverses.

Further reading 
 A death at Gitmo  Adnan Latif's case shows the need to end our Guantanamo experiment. - OP-ED by Marc Falkoff published in the Los Angeles Times.
 Statement of lawyers representing Adnan Farhan Abdul Latif  September 11, 2012
 The death of Adnan Farhan Abdul Latif

See also
 Poems From Guantánamo
 Guantanamo suicide attempts
 Guantanamo force feeding

References