[Source: PubMed]

39. BMJ Glob Health. 2022 Apr;7(4):e008012. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2021-008012.

Ethical considerations in international clinical trial site selection.

Miller J(1)(2)(3)(4), Millum J(5).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, USA 
jennifer.e.miller@yale.edu.
(2)Equity Research and Innovation Center, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.
(3)Program for Biomedical Ethics, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, 
Connecticut, USA.
(4)Yale Interdisciplinary Center for Bioethics, Yale School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut, USA.
(5)Philosophy, University of St Andrews, St Andrews, UK.

New medicines and vaccines are predominantly tested in high-income countries. 
However, as the COVID-19 pandemic highlighted, the populations who can benefit 
from these interventions are not limited to these wealthier regions. One-third 
of novel Food and Drug Administration approved drugs, sponsored by large 
companies, treat infectious diseases like tuberculosis and HIV, which 
disproportionately affect low-income and middle-income countries (LMICs). The 
medicines for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) are also relevant to LMIC health 
needs, as over three-quarters of deaths from NCDs occur in LMICs. There are 
concerns clinical trial data may not extrapolate across geographical regions, as 
product effectiveness can vary substantially by region. The pentavalent 
rotavirus vaccine, for example, had markedly lower efficacy in LMICs. Efficacy 
variations have also been found for other vaccines and drugs. We argue there are 
strong ethical arguments for remedying some of this uneven distribution of 
clinical trial sites by geography and income. Chief among them, is that these 
disparities can impede equitable access to the benefits of clinical research, 
such as representation in the evidence base generated to guide prescribing and 
use of medicines and vaccines. We suggest trial site locations should be made 
more transparent and for later stage trials their selection should be informed 
by the global distribution of disease burden targeted by an experimental 
product. Countries with high prevalence, incidence, severity or infection 
transmission rates for targeted diseases should have real opportunities to 
engage in and enrol their populations in trials for novel medicines and 
vaccines.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2021-008012
PMCID: PMC8987699
PMID: 35387769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: JeM declares she receives 
grant funding from the National Institutes of Health (NIH), Centre for Faster 
Cures and Susan G. Komen Foundation and serves on the bioethics advisory board 
for Alexion and the pharmacy and therapeutics committee for Cambia Health. She 
is also a founding board member of Bioethics International, a 501c3 nonprofit. 
JoM is employed by the NIH.