[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hispanic Admirals in the United States Navy

nderwater systems, and offensive and defensive weapon systems associated with undersea warfare.

Personal awards include the Legion of Merit (two awards), Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Meritorious Service Medal (two awards), and various other personal, campaign, and unit awards.

2007 - present

, there are four admirals in the Navy of Hispanic descent. They are:
Rear Admiral Albert Garcia, Civil Engineer Corps, from Round Rock, Texas. His academic background includes a Bachelor of Science, Master of Science, and Ph.D. in Environmental Engineering from Texas A&M University. Garcia has served as commanding officer of Officer in Charge of Construction, Atlantic; Commodore for the 9th Naval Construction Regiment; Assistant Chief of Staff for Reserve Affairs in the First Naval Construction Division; he commanded Task Force Charlie of the MEF Engineering Group and later was assigned as the Deputy Commander of the MEF Engineering Group in Iraq. In 2004 he assumed responsibility for consolidating several reserve augment units into a new command, NAVFAC Contingency OICC. He assumed the duties of Deputy Commander of the First Naval Construction Division in August 2005.

Rear Admiral Will Rodriguez, Engineering Duty Officer. Born in Portsmouth, Virginia, His father was Captain William Primitivo Rodriguez, USN, a 1954 graduate of the U.S. Naval Academy. Rodriguez has been the Chief Engineer for the Space and Naval Warfare Systems Command (SPAWAR 05). Between November 2005 and February 2006, he was the Acting Commander for SPAWAR as well. Rodriguez's academic background includes a bachelor's degree in Mathematics and Computer Science and a Master of Science Degree in Systems Technology (Command, Control and Communications with emphasis in Computer Science and Communications Engineering).
Rear Admiral George 'Rico' Mayer (See: The academy's Hispanic alumni above)
Rear Admiral Patrick H. Brady (See: The academy's Hispanic alumni above)

See also

Hispanics and Latinos in the United States Naval Academy
Hispanics and Latinos in the United States Navy
Hispanics and Latinos in the United States Coast Guard
Hispanics and Latinos in the United States Marine Corps
Hispanics and Latinos in the United States Air Force
Hispanic and Latino Americans in World War II
Hispanics and Latinos in the American Civil War
History of the United States Navy
List of United States Navy people
List of Hispanic and Latino Medal of Honor recipients

References

External links

+
 Navy Admirals
Hispanic and Latino American history