[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Winchester, Virginia, in the American Civil War

Guards)
 33rd Virginia Infantry, Company D (Mountain Rangers)

Cavalry:
 1st Virginia Cavalry, Company A (Newtown Light Dragoons)
 11th Virginia Cavalry, Company H
 12th Virginia Cavalry, Company C
 18th Virginia Cavalry, Company F
 23rd Virginia Cavalry, Company K
 39th Virginia Cavalry, Company A

Artillery
 Jackson Virginia (Winchester) Artillery Company (Cutshaw's Battery)

Militia
 31st Regiment, Virginia Militia
 51st Regiment, Virginia Militia

Contribution to military medicine
In spite of Winchester's wartime hardships, a few residents made great contributions to the Confederate cause, such as Dr. Hunter McGuire, chief surgeon of the Second Corps of the Army of Northern Virginia, who laid foundations for the future Geneva conventions regarding the treatment of medical doctors during warfare.  Winchester served as a major center for Confederate medical operations, particularly after the Battle of Sharpsburg in 1862 and the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863, and set the stage for advancements in the practice of medicine, internationally and during combat operations.

Winchester Medical College, at which Hunter McGuire was a professor and his father the founder president, was deliberately burned in 1862 by the Union troops of Gen. Nathaniel Banks. It never reopened.

The "Devil Diarists" of Winchester
Many citizens of Winchester recorded diaries of events during the war.  The Federal Secretary of War Edwin Stanton summarized his impression of Winchester after visiting there by noting that "the men are all in the army" and "the women are the devil", while Maj. Gen. Milroy said that "Hell is not full enough ... There must be more of these Secession women of Winchester to fill it up." Noted diary accounts include:

 Portia Baldwin Baker – As the Union Army destroyed the Winchester Academy and a Quaker Church, Portia remarked, "They are foot by foot and plank by plank destroying our property".
 Julia Chase – Born in Maine in 1831, she moved to Winchester when her father became the U.S. Postmaster, and her home was on Loudoun Street & Fairfax Lane. Julia was a Unionist, and witnessed the mistreatment of Winchester loyalists by Confederate authorities, including the arrest of her elderly father. After three years of witnessing Union defeats and disappointments, she celebrated the "glorious" victory of Sheridan's army at the Third Battle of Winchester in 1864.
 Laura Lee – Laura was the daughter of Daniel Lee, who served in the Virginia House of Delegates and as the Frederick County Clerk. Laura was Pro-Secession, and resided in the home of her sister-in-law, Mary Greenhow Lee.
 Mary Greenhow Lee – Born to a wealthy family in Richmond in 1819, her father, Robert Greenhow was the mayor of Richmond, Virginia.  She married Laura's brother, Hugh Holmes Lee in 1843, who was a lawyer in Winchester.  A pro-Secessionist, Mary was "banished" from Winchester on February 23, 1865, by Maj. Gen. Sheridan, and she never returned, living in Richmond and then Baltimore, Maryland.
 Cornelia Peake McDonald – Cornelia was married to a Winchester lawyer, Angus McDonald III, 23 years her senior, and who served as a colonel in the Confederate Army.  Cornelia is noted for tenderly caretaking for one of her slaves who had run away to the North, only to willingly return after mistreatment with the Union Army. Her home was ultimately used as a hospital.
 Kate Sperry – Born in 1843 in Winchester, Kate married Dr. Enoch Hunt who was a regimental surgeon in the 2nd Mississippi Regiment of the Confederate Army. Kate was a Pro-Secessionist, and is famous for her vow, "Surrender? Never Surrender".

Presidential combatants
Among those who took part in battles at Winchester were future U.S. presidents William McKinley and Rutherford B. Hayes, who both were officers in the U. S. Army of West Virginia.

Fortifications and posts in Winchester

Primary redoubts and forts