[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Luis Miquilena

rgarita Island, looking to Castro for assistance with Chávez, however "Fidel had discovered the immense vanity of Chavez, and took advantage of it to get the slice of the century. Thereafter he devoted himself, in a roguish way, to take advantage of Chávez, regardless of what happened in Venezuela".

In an interview a month after the failed coup against Chávez in April 2002, Miquilena rejected the view that the people had restored Chávez to power. Miquilena declared that it was the incompetence of one of the coup leaders, Pedro Carmona, who had served as president for 36 hours, which restored Chávez to power "by his decree to dissolve the Assembly and by ousting all mayors". In 2007, Miquilena voiced his disagreement with the proposal for constitutional reform.

Later life and death
In 2013 after Venezuela suffered the effects of Chávez's presidency, Miquilena was interviewed by the Venezuelan news website Runrunes. He stated that he did not feel guilty about helping Chávez gain power but stated that he felt "very sorry" for not being able to fight against the effects of Chávez during the end of his life. When asked how he would fight back against the Bolivarian government, he said that he would be "in the front line, uniting and gathering people to face the disaster we are suffering" and that "the popular struggle is not armed. It is the struggle of the people on the street. In every line of people to buy flour bread and toilet paper should be someone shaking up the people".

Three years later, Miquilena died in Caracas on November 24, 2016, and the interview, one of his last, was released to the public.

Popular culture
Miquilena is featured in the Miguel Otero Silva's La Muerte de Honorio, a novel about the anti-Jiménez resistance movement.

Notes

References
El Mundo (Madrid). May 12, 2002. "Hugo Chávez Junto al Patio del Pez que Escupe Agua".  
El Universal (Caracas, Venezuela). 1 Feb 2008. Hombres y proyectos que han pasado por el MIJ en la revolución. (Men and projects and have passed through the Ministry of Interior and Justice during the revolution.)

 

1919 births
2016 deaths
Communist Party of Venezuela politicians
Democratic Republican Union politicians
Fifth Republic Movement politicians
Members of the Venezuelan Chamber of Deputies
Members of the Senate of Venezuela
People from Falcón
Venezuelan Ministers of Interior
Prisoners and detainees of Venezuela
Venezuelan torture victims
Members of the Venezuelan Constituent Assembly of 1999
Justice ministers of Venezuela