[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 99]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

l tube which
showed you the moon so much larger than you ever saw it before, and this
curious exhibition of to-night, and a variety of others, which I will
hereafter show you, if you desire it, depend entirely upon such a little
bit of glass as this." Mr Barlow then put into his hand a small round
piece of glass, which resembled the figure of a globe on both sides. "It
is by looking through such pieces of glass as this," said he, "and by
arranging them in a particular manner, that we are enabled to perform
all these wonders." "Well," said Tommy, "I never could have believed,
that simply looking through a bit of glass could have made such a
difference in the appearance of things." "And yet," said Mr Barlow,
"looking at a thing through water alone, is capable of producing the
greatest change, as I will immediately prove to you." Mr Barlow then
took a small earthen basin, and, putting a half-crown at the bottom,
desired Tommy gradually to go back, still looking at the basin, till he
could distinguish the piece of money no longer. Tommy accordingly
retired, and presently cried out, that, "he had totally lost sight of
the money." "Then," said Mr Barlow, "I will enable you to see it, merely
by putting water into it." So he gradually poured water into the basin,
till, to the new astonishment of Tommy, he found that he could plainly
see the half-crown, which was before invisible.

Tommy was wonderfully delighted with all these experiments, and declared
that from this day forward, he would never rest till he had made himself
acquainted with everything curious in every branch of knowledge.

"I remember reading a story," said Mr Barlow, "where a telescope (for
that is the name of the glass which brings distant objects so much
nearer to the eye) was used to a very excellent purpose indeed." "Pray,
how was that?" said Tommy.

"In some part of Africa," said Mr Barlow, "there was a prince who was
attacked by one of his most powerful neighbours, and almost driven out
of his dominions. He had done everything he could do to defend himself
with the greatest bravery, but was overpowered by the numbers of his
enemy, and defeated in several battles. At length he was reduced to a
very small number of brave men, who still accompanied him, and had taken
possession of a steep and difficult hill, which he determined to defend
to the last extremity, while the enemy was in possession of all the
country round. While he lay with his little army in this disagreeable
situation, he was visited by a European, whom he had formerly received
and treated with the greatest kindness. To this man the unfortunate
prince made his complaints, telling him that he was exposed every
instant to be attacked by his stronger foe; and though he had taken his
resolution he expected nothing but to be cut off with all his army.

"The European happened to have with him one of these curious glasses,
which had not long been invented in Europe, and was totally unknown in
that part of the globe; and he told the prince, his friend, that he
would soon inform him of what his enemy was doing, and then he might
take his own measures with the greater confidence. So he produced his
glass, and after having adjusted it, turned it towards the enemy's camp,
which he observed some time with great attention, and then told his
friend that he might at least be easy for the present, for the enemy's
general was at that instant thinking only of a great feast, which he was
giving to the officers of his army. 'How is it possible,' replied the
prince, 'that you can pretend to discover so accurately what is done in
yonder camp? My eyes, I think, are at least as good as yours; and yet
the distance is so great, that I can discover nothing distinctly.' The
European then desired his friend to look through the telescope, which he
had no sooner done, than he rose in great trepidation, and was going to
mount his horse; for the spectacle was so new to him, that he imagined
the enemy was close to him, and that nothing remained but to stand upon
his defence. The European could not help smiling at this mistake; and
after he had with some difficulty removed his panic, by explaining the
wonderful powers of the glass, he prevailed upon him to be quiet.

"But the unexpected terror which this telescope had excited inspired him
with a sudden thought, which he determined to improve to the advantage
of the besieged prince. Acquainting him therefore with his intention, he
desired him to draw out all his men in their military array, and to let
them descend the mountain slowly, clashing their arms and waving their
swords as they marched. He then mounted a horse, and rode to the enemy's
camp, where he no sooner arrived than he desired to be instantly
introduced to the general. He found him sitting in his tent carousing in
the midst of his officers, and not at all thinking of an engagement.
When he approached he thus accosted him; 'I am