[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# List of coups and coup attempts

president.
1979 Salvadoran coup d'état: Military officers overthrew President Carlos Humberto Romero and established the Revolutionary Government Junta of El Salvador.
Operation Storm-333: Babrak Karmal overthrows Hafizullah Amin and established a pro-Soviet, Parcham-dominated government.

1980–1989

1980
Coup d'état of May Eighteenth in South Korea: On 17 May, General Chun Doo-hwan forced the Cabinet to extend martial law to the whole nation, which had previously not applied to Jeju-do. On 18 May, citizens of Gwangju rose up against Chun Doo-hwan's military dictatorship and took control of the city. In the course of the uprising, citizens took up arms to defend themselves, but were ultimately crushed by the army. On 20 May 1980, Chun Doo-hwan and Roh Tae-woo ordered the National Assembly to be dissolved by deploying troops in the National Assembly. 
1980 Mauritanian coup d'état: Colonel Mohamed Khouna Ould Haidalla led a bloodless military coup that ousted President Mohamed Mahmoud Ould Louly. 
1980 Bolivian coup d'état: General Luis García Meza enacted a violent military coup against his cousin, President Lidia Gueiler, who subsequently fled the country. The coup began the rule of the first Junta of Commanders of the Armed Forces.
1980 Turkish coup d'état: On 12 September, the National Security Council, headed by Chief of the General Staff General Kenan Evren, declared a coup d'état on the national channel. The Council then extended martial law throughout the country, abolished the Parliament and the government, suspended the Constitution, and banned all political parties and trade unions.
Liberia: A military coup led by Master Sergeant Samuel Doe overthrew the government led by President William Tolbert, ending 102 years of continuous rule by the True Whig Party.
Guinea Bissau: Prime Minister and commander of the armed forces, João Bernardo Vieira, overthrew the government.
1980 Surinamese coup d'état (also known as the Sergeants' Coup): A group of military officers, led by Dési Bouterse, overthrew the government of Prime Minister Henck Arron. The coup began a military dictatorship that lasted until 1991.
1980 Upper Voltan coup d'état: Colonel Saye Zerbo led a military coup and overthrew President Sangoulé Lamizana.
Nojeh coup plot in Iran: A plot by military officers to overthrow the newly established Islamic Republic of Iran and its government of Abolhassan Banisadr and Ruhollah Khomeini was largely thwarted by the arrest of hundreds of officers at Nojeh Air Base.

1981
1981 Spanish coup d'état attempt (also known as 23-F or the Tejerazo): Lieutenant-Colonel Antonio Tejero attempted a coup in which members of the military entered the Congress of Deputies during the vote to elect a President of the Government. The officers held the parliamentarians and ministers hostage for 18 hours, but surrendered the next morning without killing anyone.
1981 Gambian coup d'état attempt: Members of the Gambia Socialist Revolutionary Party and disaffected staff of the Gambia Field Force led a failed coup against President Dawda Jawara, who was in the United Kingdom. The attempt was quashed by the Senegalese armed forces.
Assassination of Ziaur Rahman in Bangladesh: A faction of officers of the Bangladesh Army succeeded in assassinating President Ziaur Rahman, who had survived many prior assassination attempts. The army suppressed the coup, and Vice President Abdus Sattar became acting president.
Suriname: Wilfred Hawker led an attempted coup against the government of Dési Bouterse, who had come to power in a coup the previous year. The coup failed, and Hawker was imprisoned and later executed.
1981 Central African Republic coup d'état: General André Kolingba overthrew President David Dacko, who was out of the country, in a bloodless coup.
1981 Ghanaian coup d'état: On 31 December, Flight Lieutenant Jerry Rawlings overthrew Hilla Limann and the People's National Party, and established the Provisional National Defence Council.
1981 Seychelles coup d'état attempt (also known as the Seychelles affair or Operation Angela): A South African-orchestrated coup attempt failed to overthrow the government of Prime Minister France-Albert René in Seychelles and install the previous president James Mancham to power.
Institution of martial law in Poland: General Wojciech Jaruzelski formed the Military Council of National Salvation and announced the institution of martial law in the country.