[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Thomasian Martyrs

y he declared himself a priest and a religious. He was taken to a place of torture, and in the morning of the following day, he was shot in Valdesenderín del Encinar. His rosary and his breviary were found near his cadaver.

In his honor, P. Paredes street, a street close to UST was named after him.

Jesus Villaverde Andrés
Jesus Villaverde Andres was born in San Miguel de Dueñas, León, Spain, on December 4, 1877. In 1894, he entered the Dominican Order and after completing his theological studies, he was ordained to the priesthood on June 26, 1903.  He was then sent to the Philippines, and around the years 1905-1910, he taught at the Colegio de San Juan de Letran. He returned to Spain and was assigned to the Convent of Valencia. In 1916, he went back to the Philippines to teach in the University of Santo Tomas where he held a professorial chair in theology after obtaining his Doctorate in Sacred Theology from the UST Faculty of Sacred Theology in 1919. He became professor of dogmatic theology and canon law in the same faculty. He held several positions of responsibility in UST. He was secretary general from 1919 to 1921 and treasurer from 1929 to 1932. During the years 1921-1924, Villaverde was in the United States, serving as prior of the Dominican Community in Rosaryville, New Orleans. When he returned to Manila, he became the rector of the Colegio de San Juan de Letrán from 1924 to 1927. He then became dean of the UST Faculty of Sacred Theology from 1932 to 1934.  Among the new Thomasian blesseds, it was only Jesús Villaverde Andrés who was able to see UST in its present location, having resided at the present Priory of St. Thomas Aquinas. Villaverde occupied one of the rooms in the UST Fathers' Residence.

Villaverde went back to Spain to serve as prior of the Santo Tomás Convent in Avila and later on was assigned to Madrid. While in Madrid, his convent was attacked by the communists on July 1936. Villaverde had to hide in his mother's house in Cuesta de los Descargos. Later on, his brother, Carlos, a military man, took custody of him for three months. In his brother's house he did nothing but pray and console his family. On October 15, he was arrested by the milicianos. Carlos' children tried to save Villaverde by telling the arresting officers that there was no priest in their house, but when the milicianos threatened to take Carlos instead, Villaverde voluntarily showed up and handled himself over to the arresting officers. He was brought to the place of torture and later on executed; the manner of which still remains a mystery.

Throughout his life as a Dominican, Villaverde faithfully carried out all his duties as a priest and a religious. Often criticized for his being strict and somewhat temperamental, unknown to many, Villaverde was quietly suffering the pains brought on him by his liver disease. Witnesses of his priestly life affirm that he was an excellent preacher, and his brilliance as a theology earned him the respect of the Holy See.

Pedro Ibáñez Alonzo, Manuel Moreno Martines, Maximino Fendandez Mariñas and José María López Carillo
These four martyrs of the Religious Persecution in Spain sailed to the Philippines as young Dominican missionaries assigned to the Holy Rosary Province. They stayed for sometime in the convent of Santo Domingo in Intramuros while taking up theological studies in the University of Santo Tomás. They were ordained as priests in Santo Domingo Church, and after several assignments both in and out of the Philippines, they went back to Spain and were assigned to the Holy Rosary Convent in Madrid. After their convent was attacked by the Republicans, they went into hiding until they were found and arrested by the milicianos who tortured and eventually executed them. Alonzo was a missionary in China before going back to Spain. He and Carillo tried to escape the persecution but the milicianos caught and executed them. Martines, who studied moral theology in UST, was executed after being caught by milicianos in a train station. Eleven gunshot wounds were found on the body of Mariñas.

Jose Maria de Manila

Born on September 5, 1880, in the old city of Manila, Eugenio Saz-Orozco took the name Jose Maria when he entered the Order of the Friars Minor Capuchin in Spain. His father was the last mayor of Manila during the last years of the Spanish government that ended in 1898.

He finished his secondary schooling in 1895 at the University of Santo Tomas while remaining “alumno interno” at San Juan de Letran. It was his school records in UST that identified him as “de Manila” thus indicating he was born in the City. He went to Spain in 1896 for the purpose of making the necessary higher studies in preparation for a career. It was in Spain that he decided to join the Capuchin Order. He and was ordained to the priesthood on November 30, 1910.