[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Diniyar Bilyaletdinov

Lithuanian club FK Trakai. After the 2018 season he left the club.

International career

After Russia failed to qualify for the 2006 FIFA World Cup, he and several younger players were recalled to the U-21 squad for the 2006 UEFA U21 championship playoffs against Denmark but lost out to the Danes.

Bilyaletdinov played in ten out of twelve UEFA Euro 2008 qualifiers. He scored the equalising goal against Israel, but the team lost in final minutes, 1–2. In the following match against Andorra, he assisted Dmitri Sychev in scoring the winning goal, resulting in the team qualifying for the tournament proper. He was called up to Russia's squad for Euro 2008 and played in all of Russia's run to the tournament's semi-final. For the FIFA 2010 World Cup qualification he was called up for six of the ten matches and scored twice in the play-off first leg against Slovenia, which Russia won 2–1. His two goals were not enough as Russia lost the second leg 1–0 and Slovenia progressed to the World Cup on the away goals rule.

Personal life
Bilyaletdinov is an ethnic Tatar. His father Rinat Bilyaletdinov was also a professional footballer and is now a coach.

On 11 June 2011, Bilyaletdinov married Maria, a former cheerleader for the basketball club CSKA Moscow. Their first son, Timur, was born on 21 March 2012.

It was reported on 28 September 2022, that Diniyar Bilyaletdinov has been drafted into the Russian army following the partial mobilization announcement made by President Putin. Diniyar clarified on the next day that he won't be called up at this time, after his military registration data was brought up-to-date during a visit to the military commissariat.

Career statistics

Club

International

Scores and results list Russia's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Bilyaletdinov goal.

Honours

Club
Lokomotiv Moscow
 Russian Premier League: 2004
 Russian Cup: 2006–07
 Russian Super Cup: 2005
 CIS Cup: 2005

International
Russia
 UEFA European Championship bronze medalist: 2008

Individual
Everton Goal of the Season: 2009–10 vs. Manchester United

References

External links

 EvertonFC.com profile
 fclm.ru Lokomotiv Moscow Player profile
 Premier League profile 
 Bilyaletdinov's Instagram account
 
 

1985 births
Living people
FC Lokomotiv Moscow players
Everton F.C. players
FC Spartak Moscow players
FC Anzhi Makhachkala players
FC Torpedo Moscow players
FC Rubin Kazan players
FK Riteriai players
Men's association football midfielders
Russia men's under-21 international footballers
Russia men's international footballers
Russian men's footballers
Russian Premier League players
Premier League players
UEFA Euro 2008 players
Russian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Russian expatriate sportspeople in England
Expatriate men's footballers in Lithuania
Footballers from Moscow
Tatar people of Russia
Tatar sportspeople
A Lyga players
Moscow State University of Economics, Statistics, and Informatics alumni