[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ebrahim Hatamikia

e. Hatamikia's films centered on the trauma of war veterans and the destitute lives they have lived in the post-war period, while Avini's films promoted the heroism of soldiers and the necessity of fighting for the Islamic Republic, however both directors have upheld a somber vision of the war hero.

Even though the war cinema addresses the ideological, charismatic and populist characteristics of the political system, these are raised in the context of war, not as political criticism. In effect these films belong to the war genre rather than a political genre. Because of the agitated political atmosphere of the country, many films were considered political. This was because people were searching for symbolism when analyzing these films. Ebrahim Hatamikia shot From Karkheh to Rhine in Germany, a country in the West. The film is a call for reunion, for the return of women who have been alienated by the Revolution, especially those who have physically left home for the West. In this film, the split between men and women — in this case brother and sister — and the cultural space between them are shown by the different countries in which they live. The westernized sister has to be reconciled with her radical religious Iranian brother. the film was a powerful indictment of the failures of the state to honour its soldiers. Though highly acclaimed by  and other art magazines, Kayhan was quick to denounce the film as yet another example of failure of the cinema to mark the successes and glories of the war. The paper warned its readers about the new immoral trend and noted that yet again the Ministry of Culture and Islamic Guidance was at fault; its cinema section had provided a $1 million budget for the film.

The Scent of Joseph's Shirt (1996) is Hatamikia's first female-centric film. The female characters in Hatamikia's films usually have a visible presence even though they may not be the main characters.

The war era has become the theme of many films, with some of them representing the situation of cities in the wartime. Hatamikia in Union of the Good (1992) portrays the general image of Tehran as a quiet city that turned to a location of a rocket war and sometimes this calmness and quietness breaks with the sound of ambulances and fire-fighting alarms.

Recognition 
Hatamikia is one of the most notable members of a group of Iranian filmmakers who experienced the Iran-Iraq War and one of the first Basij filmmakers that took a critical look at post-war Iran by portraying the disillusionment of war veterans and their treatment by both secular society and the government that reneged on its promises. His films appeal to a broad audience because they delicately tread the thin line between what many secular Iranians define as typical Basij government propaganda and the secular anti-government sentiment. In so doing, his films have allowed a space for Iranians to begin to think about and debate the war. Also, they have encouraged a generation of young Iranians to rethink the war and revolutionary values in general.

His ability to translate an American film scenario for an Iranian audience and make it look like the Iran-Iraq war points to the
universality of war, is an issue which overlooked by film critics. However The Glass Agency (1998) was dismissed by American critics as nothing more than an attempt to make an Iranian version of Dog Day Afternoon (Sidney Lumet, 1975), Hatamikia went on to make other imitations, like The Red Ribbon (1999), which looks a lot like The English Patient (Anthony Minghella, 1996).

Political views 
He criticized assassination attempt of the reformist Saeed Hajjarian by writing an open letter to the nation.

Filmography

as director

Short films

Feature films

TV series

other works

Short films

Feature films

TV Series

Documentary appearances

Awards and nominations

Footnotes

Notes

References

Sources

External links 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Ebrahim Hatamikia's First website (in Persian)
 Ebrahim Hatamikia's Second website (in Persian)
 Ebrahim Hatamikia's Biography
 Ebrahim Hatamikia's portfolio

 
1961 births
Living people
Iranian Azerbaijanis
Iranian film directors
Iranian screenwriters
Film people from Tehran
Crystal Simorgh for Best Director winners
Producers who won the Best Film Crystal Simorgh
Crystal Simorgh for Best Screenplay winners