[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sam Collyer

Kelly went down.

Round 110—Collyer led off with his left, which brought upon Kelly's nose, and then, putting in two heavy right-handers clinched, Kelly and threw him, falling heavily on him.

Round 111 and Last—Collyer rushed at Kelly and hitting a heavy right-hander in the mouth knocked him down.

The sponge was thrown up in token of defeat and Sam Collyer hailed the victor.  Kelly, the game fellow, was much mortified at the result and shed tears.  Collyer went over to him and putting his arms around him, also burst into tears.  He then went around among the crowd and collected money for the man he had beaten in a fair fight for the championship of the lightweights of America.

Rivalry with Billy Edwards
On August 24, 1868, Collyer lost his American Lightweight Title to Billy Edwards in 47 rounds. Their second fight was on March 2, 1870, on Mystic Island CT, near Long Island, NY. The American Lightweight Title was again decided in this fight, this time with Collyer throwing in the sponge in 40 rounds.

Edwards accepted a third challenge from Collyer in July 1870. Collyer sent the final installment for the stakes by courier, however they did not reach the stakeholder before the agreed time, thus forfeiting the match to Edwards. Collyer claimed he sent the payment on time and it was the courier's fault for late delivery of the payment, and sued to get his money back, damaging his reputation as a prize fighter.

The rivalry between Collyer and Edwards continued to spill out of the ring. In March 1871, Collyer challenged Edwards to a fight on the spot in Harry Hill's Saloon in New York. Tensions rose and Edwards drew a pistol in Collyer's face, and Collyer responded by punching Edwards. The fight escalated with Collyer taking more of the beating.

Their third and final contest came on August 8, 1874, in Mill Creek, WV. In the 10th round, Collyer landed a square uppercut that knocked Edwards on his back, ending the round. The 11th came and Edwards appeared winded and was slow to come to the line. As he did, Collyer's seconds noticed something in Edwards hands, and the referee called for him to open them. In the New York Clipper's article from 22 August 1874, covering the fight it said:

Five days later, on August 13, 1874, the referee Charles Carroll publicized his decision, declaring Edwards the winner, effectively making an unsatisfactory ending to Collyer and Edwards' six-year rivalry.

Death of Billy Walker and Prison Time
Sam Collyer was the trainer for, and seconded Billy Walker in a prize fight verses Jimmy Weedon on August 31, 1876, in Pennsville, NJ. In round 76, Weedon knocked out Walker, who did not get back up. Collyer threw up the sponge to end the fight. Walker would die later that night from his injuries. Weedon, Collyer and a number of other men involved in the fight were arrested, tried and convicted. Collyer, Weedon and the others were sentenced to six years in prison for manslaughter. Weedon died a year later in prison. Collyer was pardoned and released two years later.

Later career
Collyer continued to fight in small bouts after being released from prison. In 1888, Collyer heard that the current Lightweight Champion Jack McAuliffe had claimed he could knock out the veteran Collyer in two rounds. The 46-year old Collyer then challenged the 22-year old McAuliffe to a gloved fight of six rounds. The fight took place on December 16, 1888, in New York City. Collyer lost in two rounds in three minutes. Afterward, the Governor of New Jersey, Collyer's former Civil War commander the General George B. McClellan summoned for Collyer and made him take an oath to forever leave the prize-ring.

Later life
After retirement Collyer began working as a machinist in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, and remained there until his death on December 7, 1904.  During his life he raised the teenage sons of his late brother, Henry Jamieson, and performed with the boys in Barnum and Bailey show.

Medal of Honor citation
Rank and organization: 1st Sergeant, Company B, 139th New York Infantry. Place and date: At Petersburg, Va., 30 July 1864; At Fort Harrison, Va., 29 September 1864. Entered service at: New York, N.Y. Birth: France. Date of issue: 5 April 1898.

Citation:

Voluntarily went between the lines under a heavy fire at Petersburg, Va., to the assistance of a wounded and helpless officer, whom he carried within the Union lines. At Fort Harrison, Va., seized the regimental color, the color bearer and guard having been shot down, and, rushing forward, planted it upon the fort in full view of the entire brigade.

Legacy
Collyer was elected into the Boxing Hall of Fame in 1964.

Partial List of Fights

See also

List of Medal of Honor recipients
List of Bare-knuckle Lightweight Champions
List of bare-knuckle boxers

References

External links