[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# European Development Fund

The European Development Fund (EDF) is the main instrument for European Union (EU) aid for development cooperation in Africa, the Caribbean, and Pacific (ACP Group) countries and the Overseas Countries and Territories (OCT). Funding is provided by voluntary donations by EU member states. Until 2020 the EDF was subject to its own financial rules and procedures, and was managed by the European Commission (EC) and the European Investment Bank. The EDF has been incorporated into the EU's general budget as of the 2021–2027 multi-annual financial framework.

Articles 131 and 136 of the 1957 Treaty of Rome provided for its creation with a view to granting technical and financial assistance to African countries that were still colonised at that time and with which certain countries had historical links. Usually lasting 6 years, each EDF lays out EU assistance to both individual countries and regions as a whole.

Funding
Until its incorporation into the EU's general budget in 2021, the EDF was funded outside the EU budget by the EU Member States on the basis of financial payments related to specific contribution shares, or "keys". The Member State contributions keys were subject to negotiation. The EDF was the only EU policy instrument financed through a specific key that was different from the EU budget key, reflecting the comparative interests of individual Member States.

There was a debate on whether to 'budgetise' the EDF. However, in the Communication A budget for Europe 2020, the European Commission underlined that it was not appropriate at the time to propose that the EDF be integrated into the EU budget. The perceived advantages included:
 contributions would have been based on GNI and this may have increased the voluntary contributions
 the harmonisation of EU budget and EDF administration might have decreased administration costs and decreased the effectiveness of the aid
 20% of aid to the ACP countries already originates from the EU budget
 an all-ACP geographic strategy was no longer relevant as programmes are more localised to regions or country-level
 there would have been increased democratic control and parliamentary scrutiny
The perceived disadvantages were that:
 90% of EDF resources reached low-income countries as opposed to less than 40% of aid from the EU budget development instruments
 a loss of aid predictability and aid quality as the EU budget is annual, unlike the 6-year budget of the EDF

In 2005, the EU and its Member States agreed to achieve a collective level of ODA of 0.7% of GNI by 2015 and an interim target of 0.56% by 2010, with differentiated intermediate targets for those EU Member States which had recently joined the Union. On 23 May 2011, EU ministers responsible for development cooperation gathered to take stock of progress made and concluded that additional efforts would be needed to close an estimated gap of €50 billion to reach the self-imposed collective EU target of 0.7% by 2015.

By 2015, the EU had not reached 0.7% of GNI, though the commitment to this target was recently reaffirmed. The commitment held no deadline. Concord, the European confederation for relief and development, described the pledge as "vague and non-binding" and said 2020 should be the new deadline.

The EDF has been incorporated into the EU's general budget as of the 2021–2027 multi-annual financial framework.

Agenda for Change
The European Commission's development strategy – Agenda for Change – puts ‘inclusive and sustainable growth for human development’ at its centre. Adopted in 2011, it adopted 2 reforms designed to make its development policy both more strategic and more targeted. The Agenda for Change made new policies and rules for budget support. The three main elements of this Agenda were:
 Targeting and concentrating aid
 Budget support (or 'State Building Contracts in fragile states)
 Other reforms for effectiveness – joint programming, common results framework, innovative financing (such as blending loans and grants), and Policy Coherence for Development

10th EDF 2008–2013
The 10th EDF from 2008 to 2013 has a budget of €22.7 billion. This represents about 30% of EU spending on development cooperation aid, with the remainder coming directly from the EU budget.

The budget of the 10th EDF can be broken down as follows:
 €21 966 million to the ACP countries (97% of the total),
 €17 766 million to the national and regional indicative programmes (81% of the ACP total),
 €2 700 million to intra-ACP and intra-regional cooperation (12% of the ACP total),
 €1 500 million to Investment Facilities (7% of the ACP total).
 €286 million to the OCTs (1% of the total),
 €430 million to the commission as support expenditure for programming and implementation of the EDF (2% of the total).