[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Immigration and Checkpoints Authority

In 2010, Deputy Commissioner Clarence Yeo became the Commissioner of the ICA.

On 1 July 2011, Keretapi Tanah Melayu Berhad (KTMB) and the Malaysian CIQ agencies were relocated to the Woodlands Train Checkpoint (WTCP). From then on, all arriving and departing trains terminated and started at WTCP.

Integrated Checkpoints Command 
On 2 January 2015, the Integrated Checkpoints Command concept was introduced. Under the Integrated Checkpoints Command, ICA checkpoints are split into three domains: Land, Sea and Air.  Each domain is headed by a Domain Commander who reports directly to the Commissioner. All Home Team agencies deployed at the checkpoints must report to the Domain Commander.

In 2017, the amended National Registration Act empowered ICA officers to investigate and enforce offences under said Act.

On 30 March 2017, it was announced that Woodlands Town Centre would be absorbed by the new Woodlands Checkpoint extension.

On 1 April 2018, the amended Immigration Act took effect. ICA officers would now perform roles as first responders. The amendment gave immigration officers the legal powers of police officers in relation to offences committed in the vicinity of checkpoints.

On 3 September 2018, Marvin Sim became the Commissioner of ICA. He was previously senior director of Joint Operations Group at MHA and deputy director at CNB.

On 10 May 2019 during its Work Plan Seminar, ICA announced its new crest, mission and vision. The organisation's values remain unchanged.

On 25 November 2019, ICA took over the investigation of offences under the National Registration Act and National Registration Regulations. These offences were previously investigated by the SPF.

COVID-19 pandemic 
In January 2020, ICA became the first line of defence against the COVID-19 pandemic. The Singapore government immediately started border health control procedures, announcing travel bans on foreign visitors arriving from affected areas and temperature screening at checkpoints. Incoming travellers were issued health advisories. Stay-Home Notices (SHN) and other enhanced measures were later added to contain the outbreak.

Counter services in the ICA Building became strictly for selected services that cannot be done or completed online or by e-appointment only. All applications are to be done online. Members of the public should use the e-Services at the ICA Building. If you have made the application earlier and the process requires you to proceed to the building itself for physical collection (e.g. NRIC and passports), you will have to book the appointment via the e-Appointment service.

Stay-Home Notices were issued by ICA to travellers who were deemed to be "at-risk", such as those returning from affected areas. Such travellers were not allowed to leave their place of stay for a 14-day period, starting from the day of arrival. A Singaporean who was served his stay-home notice on arrival back into Singapore, posted on social media a photo of him eating bak kut teh, a meat soup dish in Singapore, on the same day he arrived in Singapore. He was later convicted of breaching his stay-home notice.

Starting from 23 March 2020, no foreign visitors were allowed transit or entry into Singapore.

From 27 March 2020, Stay-Home Notices were issued by email.

On 28 March 2020, entry requirements were extended to all Long Term Pass holders. They would have to obtain an Approval Letter of Entry before travelling to Singapore.

On 10 April 2020, it was announced that a cluster of COVID-19 cases at the ICA building at Kallang Road, where 3 officers had tested positive for the coronavirus. The building was closed for a day on 11 April for disinfection purposes.

On 1 April 2022, the Causeway fully reopened at midnight, signalling the return to normalcy since Malaysia closed the land border with Singapore on March 18, 2020.

On 13 February 2023, Singapore reverted to DORSCON Green, which meant the cessation of all COVID-19 related border measures. However, returning travellers from air and sea checkpoints were still required to complete a health declaration form.

Checkpoints 
Below is a list of Singapore's ports of entries for persons, conveyances and goods. All of them fall under the purview of the ICA. Only two, Tuas and Woodlands Checkpoints are fully owned by ICA.

Land Domain 
Tuas Command
Woodlands Command
Woodlands Train Checkpoint (WTCP)
Woodlands Checkpoint (NWC)
Old Woodlands Checkpoint (OWC)

Woodlands Command is the world's busiest land checkpoint, clearing more than 100 million travellers every year. It consists of Woodlands Checkpoint, WTCP, Old Woodlands Checkpoint and Woodlands Mini-checkpoint.

The Woodlands Mini-checkpoint consists of ten immigration counters used to clear motorcycles during the morning peak period.