[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Satveer Chaudhary

Satveer Singh Chaudhary (born June 12, 1969) is an American criminal and immigration lawyer. He is also a politician and a former member of the Minnesota State Senate and the Minnesota House of Representatives serving from 1996 to 2010. During his fourteen-year tenure, Chaudhary represented portions of Anoka and Ramsey counties in the northern Minneapolis and St Paul metropolitan area. The Senate District at the time of his departure from politics was known as Senate District 50.  However, Chaudhary also represented the area in the Minnesota House from 1997-2000 as District 52A; and in the Senate from 2001 to 2002 as Senate District 52.  While in office, Chaudhary served as a member of the Minnesota Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, was the first Asian American legislator in Minnesota history.  He was also the first South Asian senator in American history and for a time was the highest ranking political official of South Asian descent, as well as one of the youngest senators in that state's history.

On August 10, 2010, Chaudhary was defeated by former Minnesota House Member Barb Goodwin in the primary election for the Minnesota State Senate seat.  He then went on to resume his full time career as a private practice attorney in the Twin Cities of Minneapolis-St. Paul.

Early life and career
Chaudhary was born in Minneapolis in 1969, three years after his parents immigrated from Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, India. His father, Dr. Surendra Pal Singh Chaudhary, is a retired inspector with the United States Department of Agriculture. Chaudhary's mother, Raj Mohini Chaudhary, worked as a research assistant at the University of Minnesota, owned an import firm, and established a family wellness foundation for the South Asian community SEWA-AIFW.

In 1977 Chaudhary's parents moved to the Minneapolis suburb, Fridley, Minnesota, where Chaudhary spent the remainder of his youth.  He attended Columbia Heights High School, and it was during high school Chaudhary stated that  government teacher, Jack Gause, first involved him in state politics.

Upon graduation from high school in 1987, Chaudhary pursued his degree at St. Olaf College in Northfield, Minnesota. As an undergraduate, Chaudhary was in the student senate, the multi-cultural student association, political awareness committee organizer and lobbied for the state student coalition. In the summer and fall of 1989, while still a college student, Chaudhary served as Special Assistant to Hubert H. (Skip) Humphrey III.   During his junior year, he attended Manchester College, Oxford University in England where he studied British and American foreign policy, and was a member of the famed Oxford Union debating society, the Oxford Law Society, and Oxford Indian Students Association.   Before Chaudhary's 1991 return to the United States from Great Britain, he traveled extensively in India, South Africa, and Namibia.  There he witnessed the first celebration of Namibia's independence day, and met both Nelson Mandela and  Bishop Desmond Tutu.  Chaudhary stated these experiences were an opportunity to witness truly international struggle.  Back in Minnesota, Chaudhary went on to graduate from St. Olaf, receiving his B.A. in Political Science.

Chaudhary and then served as a foreign policy staff member for Senator Edward Kennedy, working in the area of foreign policy. In 1992, he took a year off from academics to work on the Tom Harkin presidential campaign and Gerry Sikorski's last 6th Congressional District race.

After his time in Washington, D.C., Chaudhary continued his studies in law at the University of Minnesota Law School. As a law student, Chaudhary clerked for Judge John Stanoch and at the Hennepin County, Minnesota Attorney’s Office. Chaudhary also acted as Special Assistant to Skip Humphrey during his time as Attorney General of Minnesota. He received the Governor’s Certificate of Commendation for his work with the Legal Aid Society in Minneapolis and was an author for the Journal of Global Trade. Chaudhary graduated from law school in 1995.

Minnesota House of Representatives
Just two weeks out of law school, Chaudhary ran for the Minnesota House of Representatives in the July 1995 special election for the District 52A legislative seat, in a Minneapolis suburban area that includes parts of Fridley and New Brighton and all of Columbia Heights and Hilltop. Chaudhary lost the race, but later defeated the winner, Republican incumbent Skip Carlson in a 1996 rematch. At the time he was elected, Chaudhary became the first Asian-American member of the Minnesota Legislature, and the fourth Indian-American elected to a state legislature in U.S. history.  When he joined the legislature, there was only three other minority representatives in the House; Richard "Jeff" Jefferson, Edwina Garcia and Carlos Mariani. With Chaudhary's election, the number of minorities in the entire Minnesota legislature totaled five.