[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Afghanistan–United States relations

Afghan Ministry of Defense reacted to the Taliban's attack by stating that the "Afghan National Defense Security Forces will not leave this attack without response, and will take the revenge of the blood of the martyrs," threatening the signatory's commitment to reduce violence between their forces.

Plans for negotiations between the Afghans and Taliban leadership were further complicated not only by continued violence between the two sides, but also due to a presidential election that led to a governmental split, with President Ashraf Ghani and Abdullah Abdullah "separately taking the oath of office" in individual ceremonies on the 9th of March. Furthermore, with the sudden outbreak of COVID-19, US troop withdrawal was complicated by quarantine methods necessitated by directives from the Pentagon requiring returning troops to be placed in short-term quarantine.

According to the New York Times, "at least 300 troops from the 82nd Airborne division returning from Afghanistan have had to self-quarantine at Fort Bragg, N.C., and dozens more from the 1st Armored Division are doing the same at Fort Bliss, Tex."

Withdrawal of U.S troops

On April 13, 2021, US President Joe Biden announced the withdrawal of all remaining troops in Afghanistan by September 11, 2021. The withdrawal began on May 1, and the Taliban concurrently launched a nationwide offensive. Kabul fell on August 15, and the Islamic Republic was dissolved. The next day, Biden admitted to the press that his administration did not anticipate the Taliban would reach Kabul so fast. The US officially completed its withdrawal from Afghanistan on August 30, upon which the Taliban claimed victory. The U.S. Embassy in Kabul—having relocated to Hamid Karzai International Airport on August 15—suspended operations in Afghanistan on August 31 and relocated to Doha, Qatar. On November 12, 2021, the U.S. announced that an interests section would open at the Embassy of Qatar in Kabul on December 31, to serve as the protecting power for the U.S. in Afghanistan. The Islamic Republic's diplomatic missions to the U.S. operated independently for several months before shutting down operations and transferring custody of the properties to the U.S. State Department on March 16, 2022. Afghanistan has no protecting power in the U.S.

Arms trade
The United States sold $15,892,402,425 worth of weapons to Afghanistan between 1950 and 2020, two thirds of which were exchanged since 2016. According to University of Texas at Austin professor Jason Brownlee, the U.S will likely increase their weapon sales to the Afghan government to fight the Taliban after the withdrawal of U.S troops from Afghanistan.

Public opinion
According to a BBC poll conducted from 2005 to 2006, the U.S. was the most favored country in Afghanistan, in a field also consisting of Iran, China, Russia, France, Japan, EU, Britain and India.

A national poll in Afghanistan conducted by the BBC, ABC News and ARD in 2009 found that 47% of people had a favorable view of the U.S., down from 65% in 2007 and 83% in 2005.

Frozen Afghan reserves  
In February 2022, US President Joe Biden signed an order releasing $7bn in frozen Afghan central bank reserves, which had been frozen since the Taliban came to power.  The reserves were proposed to be split between humanitarian efforts for the Afghan people and American victims of terrorism, including relatives of 9/11.

Following a devastating magnitude 5.9 earthquake in June 2022, the Taliban has repeatedly called for the United States to unfreeze its foreign assets. The group also requested for the US to reduce sanctions in hopes that it would allow for a better recovery process. The Taliban also called for an international humanitarian assistance, in which the US provided $55 million.

In August 2022, the Biden administration decided it would not release the 7 billion USD held by the Afghan Central Bank on U.S. soil. After a recent U.S. terrorism intervention in central Kabul, killing al Qa’ida leader Ayman al-Zawahiri, the U.S. abandoned earlier talks with the Taliban because of international security reasons. In a letter sent to U.S. President Joe Biden and Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen, a number of renowned international economists called for Washington and other nations to release 9 billion USD in Afghan central bank assets because "without access to its foreign reserves, the central bank of Afghanistan cannot carry out its normal, essential functions."

In mid-September 2022, the Biden administration decided to transfer $3.5 billion in Afghan central bank assets to the Swiss-based Bank for International Settlements (BIS), which supports the liquidity of central banks. The governing Taliban had condemned the transfer and insisted on direct payments to the Afghan Central Bank.

See also

 Foreign relations of Afghanistan
 Foreign relations of the United States
 Afghan Americans

References