[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Henichesk

Henichesk (, ; , ) is a port city along the Sea of Azov in Kherson Oblast, southern Ukraine. It serves as the administrative centre of Henichesk Raion. Since 9 November 2022, it has served as the temporary administrative centre of the Russian occupation administration in the region. Henichesk also hosts the administration of Henichesk urban hromada, one of the hromadas of Ukraine. In January 2022, Henichesk had an estimated population of 

As a result of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the city has been under Russian occupation. Following the 2022 Ukrainian southern counteroffensive, Henichesk became the de facto administrative centre of the oblast under Russian occupation.

History 

In 1640  Evliya Çelebi  mentioned a Chenishke fortress. The name Henichesk is derived from a Turkic root for "narrow" referring to a thin strip of Azov Sea nearby. In 1648 Guillaume de Beauplan described it: "is but two hundred paces over, and fordable in calm weather". After the annexation of Crimean Khanate, Henichesk was founded as a fort by the Russian Empire in 1784 and from 1812 was also known as Ust-Ozivske. It was a port and a trade center on the salt route that went from Crimea north to Ukraine and Russia. At the turn of the 20th century, it was the location of one of the largest flour mills in southern Ukraine.

During World War II, the town was occupied by Germany. The Germans operated a prison in the town.

2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine 

On 24 February 2022, Henichesk was seized by the Russian army in the Russian invasion of Ukraine. A famous incident occurred where an old woman confronted Russian soldiers and said "Put sunflower seeds in your pockets so they grow on Ukraine soil when you die." The city was also the scene of the death of Vitalii Skakun, who died blowing up a bridge to stop the Russian advance.

On 18 April, Russian occupiers restored the monument of Lenin, which had been removed by the Ukrainian government as part of the country's decommunization process.   

On 3 June, Volodymyr Zelenskyy decreed the creation of a military administration for the city.

On 9 November, separatist leader and deputy head of the military–civilian administration of Russian-occupied Kherson, Kirill Stremousov, died in a crash near Henichesk.

On 21 November, Ismail Abdullaiev and the  channel that he directs relocated to Henichesk.

Geography

Climate
Under the Köppen climate classification, Henichesk has a humid continental climate that closely borders on a semi-arid climate with cold winters and warm summers.

Notable people
Yosyp Abramovych Daits (1897–1954), Ukrainian artist
Iuliia Mendel, Ukrainian journalist

Gallery

See also
 List of cities in Ukraine

References

External links

 Non-official city site

Cities in Kherson Oblast
Port cities and towns of the Azov Sea
Port cities and towns in Ukraine
Cities of district significance in Ukraine
Spa towns in Ukraine
Populated places established in 1784
Populated places established in the Russian Empire
1784 establishments in the Russian Empire