[Source: PubMed]

8. Eur J Psychotraumatol. 2024;15(1):2416824. doi: 10.1080/20008066.2024.2416824.
 Epub 2024 Oct 23.

Gaza's hidden crisis: adults, children, and generations of psychological torment 
to come.

Javanbakht A(1).

Author information:
(1)Stress, Trauma, and Anxiety Research Clinic (STARC), Wayne State University 
School of Medicine, Detroit, MI, USA.

For more than a year, the world has been exposed to the ongoing conflict in 
Gaza, and the destruction, medical devastation, and the death toll of this 
crisis. What has been largely missing from the picture, has been an attention to 
the long-term mental health impact of the ongoing trauma among the Palestinian 
civilians and the Israeli hostages in Gaza. This article anticipates the 
enduring generational impact of war trauma on mental health of the civilians in 
Gaza, drawing from the author's clinical and research experiences of Iraqi, 
Syrian, Afghan, African, and Ukrainian war-exposed civilians, refugees, and 
survivors of torture. Across most different studies, war exposure leads to PTSD 
in nearly 30-50% of adult civilians, and similar rates of depression and 
anxiety. Civilians in Gaza, facing daily horrors and a profound sense of 
helplessness, are likely experiencing even greater psychological distress. 
Children, significantly affected during critical developmental stages, are at 
risk of long-term mental and physical health issues. The psychological, 
cultural, and epigenetic aspects of the intergenerational transmission of trauma 
can lead to psychological torment across generations. Addressing the mental 
health needs of these populations is crucial to mitigating the profound and 
lasting impact of war.

Plain Language Summary: War exposure leads to PTSD in up to 50% of civilians, 
with Gaza's population likely facing even higher psychological distress due to 
daily horrors and profound helplessness.Children in Gaza are at significant risk 
of long-term mental and physical health issues, including PTSD, anxiety, 
depression, and chronic illnesses.The psychological and epigenetic transmission 
of trauma will affect future generations, making it essential to address their 
mental health needs to mitigate the lasting cycle of trauma and violence.

Durante casi un año, el mundo se ha visto expuesto al conflicto en curso en 
Gaza, y la destrucción, devastación médica y el número de víctimas mortales de 
esta crisis. Lo que en gran medida ha estado ausente en este escenario, ha sido 
una atención del impacto a largo plazo de la salud mental del trauma en curso 
entre los civiles palestinos y los rehenes israelíes en Gaza. Este articulo 
anticipa el impacto generacional duradero del trauma de la guerra en la salud 
mental de los civiles en Gaza, basándose en las experiencias clínicas y de 
investigación del autor con civiles, refugiados y sobrevivientes de la tortura 
expuestos a las guerras de Iraq, Siria, Afganistán, África y Ucrania. Según la 
mayoría de los estudios, la exposición a la guerra provoca TEPT en casi el 
30-50% de los civiles adultos, y tasas similares de depresión y ansiedad. Los 
civiles de Gaza, que se enfrentan a diario a los horrores y a una profunda 
sensación de impotencia, probablemente están experimentando un sufrimiento 
psicológico aún mayor. Los niños que se ven afectados de manera significativa 
durante etapas críticas del desarrollo corren el riesgo de sufrir problemas de 
salud mental y física a largo plazo. Los aspectos psicológicos, culturales, y 
epigenéticos de la transmisión intergeneracional del trauma pueden provocar 
sufrimiento psicológico a lo largo de las generaciones. Atender las necesidades 
de salud mental de estas poblaciones es crucial para mitigar el impacto profundo 
duradero de la guerra.

DOI: 10.1080/20008066.2024.2416824
PMCID: PMC11500549
PMID: 39441219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported 
by the author(s).