[Source: PubMed]

52. Front Psychiatry. 2021 Jun 18;12:643618. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2021.643618. 
eCollection 2021.

From Enchantment to Disillusion: A Narrative Exploration of Cannabis Use 
Disorder Among Young Israeli Combat Veterans.

Serebro M(1), Sobol-Goldberg S(2), Feingold D(3).

Author information:
(1)MA Program, Psychology Department, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel.
(2)School of Social Work, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat Gan, Israel.
(3)Psychology Department, Ariel University, Ariel, Israel.

Introduction: Substance use is common among military personnel and war veterans, 
especially combat veterans. Despite substantially high prevalence of cannabis 
use and Cannabis Use Disorder (CUD) consistently reported among veterans, little 
is known about psychological factors which may underlie CUD among this 
population. Methods: In this study, we used narrative analysis in order to 
interpret retrospective in-depth interviews of combat veterans (N = 12) who were 
released from mandatory military duty during the past 5 years and currently 
qualified for a diagnosis of CUD. Participants were recruited from a larger 
quantitative study were eligible for participation if they screened positive for 
a diagnosis of CUD according to the Cannabis Use Disorder Identification Test- 
Revised (CUDIT-R) questionnaire. CUD diagnosis was validated in-person using the 
cannabis section of the Alcohol Use Disorder and Associated Disabilities 
Interview Schedule-5 (AUDADIS-5) interview protocol. All interviews were 
transcribed and coded using the content analysis procedure. Findings: Five main 
themes were extracted: (a) Traumatic events (b) Attitudes toward cannabis use 
(c) Combatant identity (d) The role of authority/father figures, and (e) Moral 
crisis. A meta-theme has been identified, "from enchantment to disillusion," 
representing a gradual psychological shift from a hopeful, highly motivated 
stance into the current state of mental rupture and moral injury, which are 
unsuccessfully compensated by excessive use of cannabis. Conclusions: This study 
shed light on the etiology of CUD among young combat veterans, highlighting the 
role of supposed self-medication for trauma and sense of betrayal.

Copyright © 2021 Serebro, Sobol-Goldberg and Feingold.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2021.643618
PMCID: PMC8249726
PMID: 34220568

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.