[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Klymentiy Sheptytsky

aeli Air Force, were both harbored by Sheptytsky in Lviv. Later in their lives, both men would write about their experiences, Lewin in A Journey Through Illusions and Kahane in the Lvov Ghetto Diary.

Sheptytsky was recognized as one of the Righteous among the Nations by the State of Israel in 1995.

Soviet persecution
With the return of the Soviets in 1944 a coordinated action to destroy the church and subject it to the Moscow Patriarchate was implemented. After the death of the Metropolitan, his successor, Joseph Slipyj, named Sheptytsky the Archimandrite of the Studite Order. This meant that at the time of the mass arrest of church hierarchs carried out by the NKVD in 1945 he was one of the highest ranking clergymen left. As such he became an informal leader of the church, meeting with monks and priests and strengthening them in their resolve. On 5 June 1947, he himself was arrested by Soviet authorities and held, first in an NKVD prison in Lviv, then in Kyiv, and finally, after his steadfast refusal to renounce his faith and serve the Moscow Patriarchate, sentenced to eight years imprisonment. Ivan Kryvytskyi described him: 

He died on 1 May 1951 in Vladimir Central Prison.

Veneration
Sheptytsky was beatified on 27 June 2001 by Pope John Paul II in Lviv, during his apostolic journey to Ukraine, together with 27 other members of the Ukrainian Catholic Church previously declared Venerable.

On 29 July 2011, a monument to Andrey and Klymentiy Sheptytsky was unveiled in their home village of Prylbychi.

Legacy
In November 2011, James Temerty, chairman of the Ukrainian-Jewish Encounter Initiative (UJE) donated $1.2 million to establish three endowed chairs in Jewish Studies at the Ukrainian Catholic University in Lviv, Ukraine.

A human rights activist, who served time in Soviet prisons, Myroslav Marynovych, the vice Rector of the Ukrainian Catholic University, said: We have always wanted to plunge more deeply into the legacy of previous generations of ethnic Ukrainians and Jews who lived on historically Ukrainian lands. This legacy knows not only pain and injustice, but also the experience of tolerant co-existence and mutual assistance. In order to guarantee a humane outline for the future, we must not forget the former and actively the experience the latter. For example, the spiritual inheritance of the Sheptytsky brothers alone, Andrey and Klymentiy, is sufficient to reveal to the contemporary person all the beauty of the love of humanity.

References

External links
Patron Saints Index: Blessed Clement Sheptytsky
Pastor of the 20th century
Klymentiy Sheptytsky at Yad Vashem website

1869 births
1951 deaths
Clergy from Lviv Oblast
Klymentiy
Ukrainian nobility
19th-century Polish nobility
Polish Austro-Hungarians
Ukrainian Austro-Hungarians
Members of the Ukrainian Greek Catholic Church
Ukrainian priests
Members of the Diet of Galicia and Lodomeria
Members of the Austrian House of Deputies (1901–1907)
Members of the Austrian House of Deputies (1907–1911)
Ukrainian politicians before 1991
Eastern Catholic beatified people
Jagiellonian University alumni
Studite Brethren
Ukrainian beatified people
Ukrainian Righteous Among the Nations
Ukrainian Christian monks
Ukrainian expatriates in Bosnia and Herzegovina
Polish anti-fascists
Catholic resistance to Nazi Germany
Eastern Catholic Righteous Among the Nations
Ukrainian anti-communists
Ukrainian people who died in Soviet detention
20th-century venerated Christians
Archimandrites
20th-century Eastern Catholic martyrs
Founders of Eastern Catholic religious communities
Ukrainian anti-fascists
20th-century Polish nobility