[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Israel Baseball League

The Israel Baseball League (IBL; Hebrew: ליגת הבייסבול הישראלית, Ligat ha-Beisbol ha-Israelit) is a five-team professional baseball league in Israel. The first game was played on June 24, 2007.

League structure 
The current league teams are the Team Misgav, Bet Shemesh Blue Sox, Ra'anana Express, Tel Aviv Lightning, Tel Aviv Academy. Former teams include Netanya Tigers, Petach Tikva Pioneers, and Modi'in Miracle. 

The teams play games at four ballparks. The Yarkon Sports Complex, seating 15,000, in the Baptist Village in Petach Tikva, just outside Tel Aviv, is home to the Ra'anana Express and the Tel Aviv teams. Gezer Field, about halfway between Jerusalem and Tel Aviv, is home to the Bet Shemesh Blue Sox. The Misgav Sports Complex is used for the Misgav team.
in the past, Sportek Baseball Field, in Tel Aviv, was shared by the Tel Aviv Lightning and the Netanya Tigers.

Players 
The IBL had 120 players from nine countries in 2007: the United States (77 from 19 states), the Dominican Republic (16), Israel (15), Canada (9), Australia (7), Colombia, Japan, New Zealand, and Ukraine. The league had hoped to be made up of at least 25% Israelis by its fifth year. About 40% of the league was Jewish.

The league held tryouts in 2007 in Los Angeles, Massachusetts, Miami, Israel, and The Dominican Republic. Those selected were current and former U.S. minor leaguers, professional baseball players from other countries, and starting college players.

The first pick in the draft was infielder Aaron Levin, 21, who played for Cuesta College and was selected by Modi'in. The first players signed were outfielder Dan Rootenberg and pitcher Adam Crabb.

Pitcher Sandy Koufax was the last player chosen in the draft, by the Modi'in Miracle. "His selection is a tribute to the esteem with which he is held by everyone associated with this league," said team manager Art Shamsky.

After the one IBL season, nine players went on to other professional leagues. These nine players were:
Eladio Rodriguez, who was signed by the New York Yankees, and in 2008 played for their A+, AA, and AAA teams
Jason Rees, who also was signed by the New York Yankees
Maximo Nelson, who signed with the Japanese champion Chunichi Dragons
Juan Feliciano, who turned down AAA offers from the Washington Nationals, Houston Astros, and Pittsburgh Pirates to sign with the Sultanes de Monterrey of the Mexican League
Adam Crabb, who signed and played with the Adelaide Giants of the Australian Baseball League
Rafael Bergstrom, who signed and played with the Bridgeport Bluefish (Atlantic League)
Jason Benson, who signed and played with the Newark Bears (Atlantic League)
Josh Doane, who was invited to spring training to try out for the Boston Red Sox, and in 2008 hit .278 for Texas of the Continental League
Michael Olson, Signed as international free agent by Red Sox, but retired due to shoulder injury

2007 season 

The league had an eight-week, 45-game season. Games were seven innings, with a home run hitting contest (a "home run derby") to decide a tie. There were two umpires per game, with three on Sunday nights. Most of the umpires were international, although some were Israeli.

Bet Shemesh (29–12; .707), led by hitters Gregg Raymundo and Jason Rees, had the best regular season record in the league, and finished with a 2.5 game lead over Tel Aviv (26–14; .650), led by pitchers Aaron Pribble and Daniel Kaufman.

On August 19, in Petach Tikva, Ron Blomberg's Bet Shemesh Blue Sox shut out Art Shamsky's Modi'in Miracle 3–0 in the IBL's inaugural championship game. Californian RHP Rafael Bergstrom (7–2, 2.44) pitched a complete-game shutout for Bet Shemesh, downing Dominican RHP Maximo Nelson (5–3, 3.55 ERA) who pitched for Modi'in.

Hitting 
Catcher and former Boston Red Sox minor leaguer Eladio Rodriguez of Modi'in was the league batting champion (.461) and had 16 home runs in 102 at bats, and 23-year-old Australian right fielder Jason Rees led the league with 17 home runs and 50 RBIs in 130 at bats. Rodriguez, 28 years old, and Rees, 24 years old, were both subsequently signed in October to minor league deals by the New York Yankees. Third baseman Gregg Raymundo, who hit .292 in 7 minor league seasons and played for the Texas Rangers' and Pittsburgh Pirates' AAA teams, was a close second in batting with a .459 batting average.