[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Vuelta de Obligado

and Lagos, with the mission of guarding the chains across the river. Some sources increase the Argentine naval power to a third gunboat, the unarmed brigantine Vigilante, whose artillery had been dismounted and transferred to one of the batteries, eight armed launches and at least five armed barges.

Main action
The combat began at dawn, with intense cannon fire and rocket discharges over the Argentine batteries, which had less accurate and slower loading cannons.  From the beginning the Argentines suffered many casualties: 150 dead and 90 wounded. Furthermore, the barges that held the chains were burnt down, and the Republicano was lost by being blown up by its own commander when he was unable to defend it any longer. A number of armed launches were also sunk in battle. The gunboats Restaurador and Lagos disengaged successfully and withdrew upriver, towards Tonelero Pass. The third gunboat and the armed barges also survived the action, but the dismantled brigantine Vigilante was scuttled by her crew, and the remaining launches were destroyed by the combined fleet on 28 November.

Shorly afterwards, the French steamer Fulton sailed through a gap open in the chain's barrier. Disembarked troops overcame the last defenders of the bluff, and 21 cannons fell into the hands of the allied forces.

The Europeans had won free passage at the cost of 28 dead and 95 wounded. However, their ships suffered severe damage, which stranded them at Obligado for 40 days to make emergency repairs.

Secondary action
Meanwhile, 40 km to the north, a small Argentine naval force composed of the sloop Chacabuco, the gunboats  Carmen, Arroyo Grande, Apremio, and Buena Vista kept watch over a secondary branch of the Paraná whose control gives full access to the ports of Entre Ríos. Like at Obligado, a double chain, held by seven barges, was also deployed across the river. When news of the battle's outcome reached the squadron, the  Chacabuco was scuttled, and the remainder of the flotilla took shelter in the port of Victoria.

Upstream
Only 50 out of 92 merchantmen awaiting at Ibicuy Islands continued their upriver trip. The rest gave up and returned to Montevideo. The British and the French ships that sailed past upriver were again attacked on their way back at Paso del Tonelero and at Angostura del Quebracho. The combined fleet suffered the loss of six merchant ships during the later engagement, on 4 June 1846.

Aftermath 
The Anglo-French victory did not achieve the Europeans'  goal. The severe damage to their naval forces and the loss of merchantmen indicated that it would be too costly to sail Argentine rivers without the authorisation of the Argentine authorities.

Some Unitarian leaders, who were traditional enemies of the Argentine leader, were moved by the events, with the Unitarian General Martiniano Chilavert offering to join the Confederacy's army.

France and the United Kingdom eventually lifted the blockade and dropped their attempts to bypass Buenos Aires policies. They acknowledged Argentina's legal right over the Paraná and other internal rivers and its authority to determine who had access to it in exchange for the withdrawal of Rosas's army from Uruguay.

The Battle of Obligado is remembered in Argentina on 20 November, which was declared "Day of National Sovereignty" in 1974 and became a national holiday in 2010. The Paris Métro had a station named Obligado for this battle until 1947, when it was renamed Argentine as a goodwill gesture after the visit of Eva Perón to France.

References

Sources 
 .
 .
 .
 .

External links 

1845 Anglo-French action in Uruguay by W.L. Clowes
Henry Norton Sulivan on the 1845 Anglo-French action in Uruguay (3 parts)
20 de noviembre de 1845 – La Vuelta de Obligado. by Felipe Pigna
La Vuelta de Obligado – Histarmar  (accessed 2016-01-14)

Vuelta de Obligado
1845 in Argentina
1845 in France
1845 in the United Kingdom
Amphibious operations
Argentina–France military relations
Argentina–United Kingdom military relations
Vuelta de Obligado
History of Buenos Aires Province
Juan Manuel de Rosas
Vuelta de Obligado
Vuelta de Obligado
Vuelta de Obligado
November 1845 events
Riverine warfare