[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Thunderbolt (film)

ilm. Utilizing a full-scale outdoor set consisting of control tower and terminal, the recreated Entebbe Airport also had a collection of realistic scale models of the Ugandan Air Force MiG-17 and MiG-21 fighters. Three of the four Hercules transports that were flown in the raid are seen in the film.

Operation Thunderbolt was produced with the co-operation of the Israeli Air Force and the Israeli government. The film features original footage of prominent politicians such as Yitzhak Rabin, Shimon Peres and Yigal Allon, although scenes with Peres being briefed by Yonatan Netanyahu's team and a hostage's father talking to Rabin feature a stand-in whose face is not seen. The exterior scenes set in Uganda were photographed near Eilat, Israel. Nearly all of the extras portraying Ugandan soldiers were played by Ethiopian Jewish immigrants. The scenes featuring the Knesset were filmed in Jerusalem, and the Tel Aviv airport sequences were filmed at Ben Gurion International Airport.

Originally filmed with all characters speaking in Hebrew, French, German, Arabic, or English per role, Operation Thunderbolt was shot a second time concurrently in an all-English version for the international market. With permission from the Globus Group, a number of documentaries on the rescue use footage from the film, alongside dramatizations of the events.

Music
Dubi Zeltzer composed the film score. Yehoram Gaon performed the theme song, "Eretz Tzvi" (Land of the Deer) with lyrics by Talma Alyagon Raz. Like the film, "Eretz Tzvi" would become a famous song as well. In 2014, Gaon and Raz collaborated to make a new version of the song, with new lyrics inserted in honor of Roi Klein.

Reception
Operation Thunderbolt was well received in its native Israel and was somewhat successful overseas. Of the three films that appeared in the 1970s (the others were American made-for-TV dramas Victory at Entebbe and Raid on Entebbe), Operation Thunderbolt was the most accurate with an authentic feel coming from the use of period-accurate uniforms, weapons, aircraft and vehicles. In 1978, the film was released theatrically in the UK, and in the same year, it was nominated for an Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.

Home media
Although Operation Thunderbolt had some VHS releases over the years, Israeli video company SISU Home Entertainment released a special 25th anniversary two-disc DVD set of the movie in 2003. The set contains the movie with original multilingual audio and English subtitles on one disc and a 60-minute documentary about the raid on the other, plus a letter by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on his brother's role in the operation.

Influence
Taito's Rail Shooter, by the same name as the film, which serves as the sequel to "Operation Wolf", has a similar plot which is loosely based on the film itself.

See also
 Raid on Entebbe
 Victory at Entebbe
 7 Days in Entebbe
 List of submissions to the 50th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film
 List of Israeli submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film

References

Notes

Citations

Bibliography

 Barron, Colin N. Planes on Film: Ten Favourite Aviation Films. Stirling, UK: Extremis Publishing, 2016. .

External links

 
 

1977 films
Docudrama films
1970s action thriller films
Aviation films
Cultural depictions of Idi Amin
1970s English-language films
English-language Israeli films
Films about the Israel Defense Forces
Films about aircraft hijackings
Films about terrorism in Africa
Films directed by Menahem Golan
Films set in 1976
Films set in Athens
Films set in Uganda
Films set in airports
Films set on airplanes
Films shot in Israel
Golan-Globus films
1970s Hebrew-language films
Operation Entebbe
Films about battles and military operations
Films produced by Menahem Golan
Films with screenplays by Menahem Golan
Films produced by Yoram Globus
1977 multilingual films
Israeli multilingual films