[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# War in the North

ched two offensives against Huesca and Segovia to stop the Nationalist advance, but both failed. On June 3, Mola was replaced by Davila. On June 12, the Nationalists started their assault of the Iron Belt and, after heavy aerial and artillery bombings, entered Bilbao on June 19.

Battle of Santander

After the fall of Bilbao, the Republican government decided to launch an offensive against Brunete to stop the Nationalist offensive in the north on July 6, but by July 25, the offensive had ended. The Republican troops in Cantabria had low morale, and the Basque soldiers did not want to stop fighting. On August 14, the Nationalists launched their offensive against Cantabria, with the 90,000 men, 25,000 of whom were Italian, and 200 aircraft of the Army of the North. On August 17, the Italians occupied the El Escudo Pass and encircled 22 Republican battalions at Campoo, Cantabria. On August 24, the Basque troops surrendered to the Italians at Santoña, and the Republican troops fled from Santander. On August 26, the Italians occupied Santander, and by September 1, the Nationalists had occupied almost all of Cantabria. The Nationalists captured 60,000 prisoners, the greatest number during the war.

Asturias Campaign

After the failed republican offensive against Zaragoza, the Nationalists decided to continue their offensive against Asturias. The Nationalists had overwhelming numerical (90,000 men against 45,000) and material (more than 200 aircraft against 35) superiority, but the Republican Army in Asturias was better organised than in Santander, and the difficult terrain provided excellent defensive positions. During the Battle of El Mazuco, 30,000 Navarrese troops, led by Solchaga and supported by the Legion Condor, eventually took the El Mazuco valley and the critical nearby mountains (Peña Blanca and Pico Turbina), which were held by 5,000 Republican soldiers only after 33 days of bloody combat.

On October 14, the Nationalists broke the Republican front, and on October 17, the Republican government ordered the evacuation of Asturias to begin. However, Nationalist ships were blockading the Asturian ports, and only a few military commanders (Adolfo Prada, Galan, Belarmino Tomas) managed to escape. By October 21, the Nationalists had occupied Gijón and completed the conquest of the northern zone.

Aftermath
With the conquest of the North, the Nationalists controlled 36% of Spanish industrial production, 60% of the coal production and all of the steel production. Furthermore, more than 100,000 Republican prisoners were forced to join the Nationalist Army or were sent to labour battalions. The Republic had lost the Army of the North (more than 200,000 soldiers), and by then, a complete military victory of the Republic in the war became impossible. Franco then decided to start a new offensive against Madrid, but Vicente Rojo Lluch, the leader of the Republican Army, launched a diversionary offensive in Aragon, the Battle of Teruel.

See also 

 List of Spanish Nationalist military equipment of the Spanish Civil War
 Condor Legion
 List of weapons of the Corpo Truppe Volontarie
 List of Spanish Republican military equipment of the Spanish Civil War
 Kasilda Hernáez

References

Bibliography
 
Graham, Helen. (2005). The Spanish Civil War. A Very Short introduction. Oxford University Press. .
Jackson, Gabriel. (1967) The Spanish Republic and the Civil War, 1931–1939. Princeton University Press. Princeton. .

External links
Juan Antonio de Blas, El Mazuco (La defensa imposible), in La guerra civil en Asturias, Ediciones Júcar, Gijón 1986 (pp369–383).
 El Mazuco (the impossible defence) Translated from the Spanish  
  La Guerra Civil en Cantabria
  Almirante Cervera log

Battles of the Spanish Civil War
Conflicts in 1937
1937 in Spain
Basque history