[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hueyatlaco

that the 200,000 ybp findings were valid, while Irwin-Williams argued in favor of a more recent—though still somewhat controversial—figure of 20,000 ybp. Webb and Clark suggest that her promoting the 20,000ybp date is "particularly puzzling," as it was unsupported by any evidence the team uncovered.

The delays forced Steen-McIntyre to write her doctoral dissertation not on Hueyatlaco as planned, but rather on the dating of volcanic ash in geographic strata.

Despite leading the original excavations, Irwin-Williams never  published a final report on the site.

1981 Publication
In 1981, the journal Quaternary Research published a paper by Steen-McIntyre, Fryxell and Malde that defended an anomalously distant age of human habitation at Hueyatlaco.
The paper reported the results of four sophisticated, independent tests: uranium-thorium dating, fission track dating, tephra hydration dating and the studying of mineral weathering to determine the date of the artifacts. These tests, among other data, validated a date of 250,000ybp for the Hueyatlaco artifacts. They wrote:

"The evidence outlined here consistently indicates that the Hueyatlaco site is about 250,000 yr. old. We who have worked on geological aspects of the Valsequillo area are painfully aware that so great an age poses an archeological dilemma [...] In our view, the results reported here widen the window of time in which serious investigation of the age of Man in the New World would be warranted. We continue to cast a critical eye on all the data, including our own."

Aftermath
In a letter to Quaternary Research, Irwin-Williams objected to several points in the article by Steen-McIntyre et al.; Malde and Steen-McIntyre responded with a point-by-point rebuttal.

Steen-McIntyre claims that some of the original research team were harassed, viewed as incompetent, or saw their careers hampered due to their involvement in such a controversial and anomalous investigation.

In 1990, Frison and Walker discuss possible pre-clovis sites dating to perhaps 20,000ybp but argued against human habitation of Hueyatlaco ca. 250,000ybp. They argue that the stone tools found at the site are "entirely too modern" to have possibly been manufactured by hominids of that era, and that the animal remains at the site are consistent with fauna that thrived no earlier than the last glacial maximum ca. 18,000 to 20,000ybp.

In 1996, Steen-McIntyre appeared on the television special "The Mysterious Origins of Man." Narrated by Charlton Heston, the program detailed a variety of claims that contradicted or challenged the scientific consensus about humanity's genesis and development. Frank Steiger posted a rebuttal of the program, including Steen-McIntyre's statements, on a talk.origins discussion board. However, Steiger's rebuttal claims that Steen-McIntyre discovered "an arrowhead" in New Mexico rather than multiple artifacts in Mexico. It is unclear if the error is Steiger's, or a misstatement on the television special. Moreover, Steiger's rebuttal makes no mention of the multiple peer-reviewed papers that appear to support the anomalously old age of tool-bearing strata at Hueyatlaco. Again, it's uncertain if the program failed to accurately outline the findings of Steen-McIntyre or if Steiger's rebuttal was incomplete.

Biostratigraphic researcher Sam VanLandingham has published two peer-reviewed analyses that confirm the earlier findings of ca. 250,000ybp for the tool-bearing strata at Hueyatlaco. His 2004 analysis found that Hueyatlaco samples could be dated to the Sangamonian Stage (ca. 80,000 to 220,000ybp) by the presence of multiple diatom species, one of which first appeared during this era and others that became extinct by the era's end. VanLandingham's 2006 paper refined and re-confirmed his 2004 findings.

In 2008 during a Geological Society of America conference, Joseph Liddicoat presented paleomagnetic research into the volcanic ash at Hueyatlaco. The ash was dated to sometime after the Brunhes–Matuyama reversal, ca. 780,000ybp.

See also
Xalnene Tuff footprints
Cerutti Mastodon site

References

Bibliography
Hardaker, Chris The First American: the suppressed history of the people who discovered the New World, Career Press, 2007

Former populated places in Mexico
Archaeological sites in Puebla
Pre-Clovis archaeological sites in the Americas