[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ronald Greenwald

e course of many decades.

Other activities

Bophuthatswana
Rabbi Greenwald had a variety of unusual ties to South Africa in the Apartheid era. He was the diplomatic representative of the African Bantustan of Bophuthatswana in the United States, when that "homeland" lacked international recognition.

Schools and camps
When not engaged in high-stakes international diplomacy, Greenwald operated Camp Sternberg, a summer camp in the Catskill Mountains, which he founded in 1964 and ran Monsey Academy for Girls, a private high school in Rockland County, New York, of which he was the founder.

Involvement with charitable organizations
Greenwald served as chairman of the board of the Women's League in Rockland County (which creates and oversees adult group homes in that county) and of the Borough Park, Brooklyn branch of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services (JBFCS). He also served on the Board of Governors of the Orthodox Union, and as acting chairman of Magenu.

Rabbi Greenwald and the Prince of Italy

Greenwald worked with Prince Emanuele Filiberto of Italy in a variety of capacities. In January 2007, the two met in New York to discuss, among other things, a billion dollar Las Vegas hotel construction project being worked on by the "Made in Italy Group." (Both men serve the project in various capacities.) During the meeting, Prince Filiberto expressed regret for his great-grandfather Victor Emmanuel III's cooperation (albeit limited) with Adolf Hitler and the Nazis in their campaign of aggressive war and genocide against the Jews. He further reiterated his prior condemnation of those actions and expressed optimism regarding the present and future of Italian-Jewish relations.

Other positions

Greenwald served as Chairman of the Board of the Women's League, once led by Rebetzin Perlow, the wife of Rabbi Yaakov Perlow, the Novominsker Rebbe.

Rabbi Greenwald has also held positions as:
Executive Director of Yeshiva Toras Emes in Brooklyn, New York
Director of the Jewish election campaign of former New York Governor Nelson Rockefeller
Chaplain of the New York State Police
Director of the Jewish presidential campaign of Richard Nixon

References

External links
 
 .

1934 births
2016 deaths
Orthodox rabbis from New York City
20th-century American rabbis
21st-century American rabbis