[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mohammed El Senussi

. He also says the main objective is to end the violence on the streets in Libya.

On 4 March, he called the West to use airstrikes against Gaddafi after his contacts in Libya told him they need airstrikes. He also argued that a no-fly zone would be insufficient but later called for the no-fly zone.

He later stated that international community needs "less talk and more action" to stop the violence. He has asked for a no-fly zone over Libya but does not support foreign ground troops. He sent a letter to current UN secretary general Ban Ki-moon calling the UN to impose the no fly zone. He has also stated that a no-fly zone is the only way to stop Gaddafi who he has said is relying completely on the air force. He viewed the departure of Moussa Koussa as a sign that the government is falling with in. He also does not think there will be a stalemate.

On 20 April 2011, Mohammed spoke in front of the European Parliament calling for more support for Libya. He also stated that he would support any form of government that Libya would choose after Gaddafi, including a constitutional monarchy.

On 21 September 2011, Mohammed visited Rome to meet members of the Italian government and the Libyan opposition.

On 20 October 2011, Mohammed hailed the death of Gaddafi and the fall of Sirte as a victory of peace and freedom. He views it as opening a new chapter in Libyan history and that the era of oppression was behind them now.

Support in Libya 
Support in Libya for the return of the 1951 Constitution and the Senussi monarchy has increased significantly since the start of the Libyan Civil War and is especially prevalent on social media. Active groups advocating for the reinstatement of the 1951 Constitution and the return of the Senussi monarchy have emerged in Tripoli, Zliten, Jebel Akhdar, and other cities across Libya. These groups call themselves Movements for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy and frequently host public events showcasing their support for the 1951 Constitution and the leadership of Prince Mohammed El Senussi.

In addition to frequent conferences and public advocacy in favor of the reinstatement of the Constitutional monarchy led by Mohammed El Senussi, members of the Libyan government have also spoken out in support of the return of the monarchy. In 2014, former Libyan Minister of Foreign Affairs Mohamed Abdel Aziz called for the return of a constitutional monarchy as a "uniting symbol for the nation." Abdel Aziz also made contact with Mohammed El Senussi to discuss the matter.

Despite the growing support for the return of the Constitutional monarchy under his leadership, Prince Mohammed El Senussi has insisted that it is up to the Libyan people to decide the future of their country.

National Conference for the Activation of the Constitution of Independence 
Nearly a thousand Libyan citizens gathered to attend the National Conference for the Activation of the Constitution of Independence, held in October 2017 in the city of Gharyan. The conference was broadcast live on Libyan television and was the first of similar future events to take place in Tobruk, Beida and Jaghbub as part of the larger Movement for the Return of Constitutional Legitimacy occurring across the country.

Supporters at the event advocated for the restoration of the 1951 Constitution and the Constitutional Monarchy, which brought unity, stability and autonomy to Libya until Colonel Gaddafi's 1969 coup. They assert a return to the 1951 Constitution (amended in 1963) is the only path forward for a peaceful Libya.

Heir to the throne, Prince Mohammed El Senussi, was widely referenced by the conference's attendees as the leader of the Libyan people according to the Constitution of Independence."

Attendees called upon the Crown Prince to "assume all his constitutional powers and resume the constitutional life that the Founding Fathers created."

Recent developments
Since the Gaddafi regime was removed from power in Libya, Mohammed El-Senussi has used his position as Crown Prince of Libya to advocate for a better future for the Libyan people.

On 8 December 2011, Mohammed met with members of the Filipino government to discuss lifting the ban on deployment to Libya by the Philippine government. He also praised the Filipino health workers that refused to abandon their post and continued treating citizens in Tripoli during the war.

On 6 March 2012, Eastern Libyans declared their desire for autonomy in Benghazi. Mohammed's relative, Ahmed al-Senussi was announced as the leader of the self-declared Cyrenaica Transitional Council.

On 5 March 2014, the Libyan Transitional Government rehabilitated the Senussi family. The government's decree restored the citizenship of former king's relatives and paved the way for the return of their confiscated property.