[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 34th G8 summit

ed, "I think it is not reasonable to continue to meet as eight to solve the big questions of the world, forgetting China -- one billion 300 million people -- and not inviting India -- one billion people." Japan and the United States announced opposition to Sarkozy's implied suggestion.

Participants

These summit participants are the current "core members" of the international forum:2008 Hokkaido G-8, delegations.Munari, Carmen. "Agenda política - Lula participa de reunião do G8 no Japão", O Globo (São Paulo). July 4, 2008 (in Portuguese). "México: presidente Calderón viaja a Japón por cumbre G8 y visita China", Univision (Mexico). July 4, 2008. (in Spanish)  Saidani, Hamid.  <<L’UPM sera au centre des discussions, Entretien Bouteflika-Sarkozy au Japon,>> Lakoom-info (Paris). July 5, 2008. (in French)  Lian, Yan.  "Japanese ambassador: G8 Summit to highlight African issues", Xinhua (Beijing)> July 5, 2008.Liang, Yan.  "Indonesian president to speak on food security at G8+8 summit", Xinhua (Beijing). July 2, 2008. <<G8 – Afrique, Des promesses mais pas beaucoup d’argent,>> Lakoom-info (Paris). July 5, 2008. (in French)   "Support for Africa's development not just a moral imperative; it is critical to global security, Deputy Secretary-General tells African Union assembly", ReliefWeb, UN-OCHA (United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs). June 30, 2008.Yan, Yangtze.  "UN chief urges G8 nations to honor commitments to aid Africa", Xinhua (Beijing). July 7, 2008.

Priorities
Traditionally, the host country of the G8 summit sets the agenda for negotiations, which take place primarily amongst multi-national civil servants in the weeks before the summit itself, leading to a joint declaration which all countries can agree to sign. This year, leaders of the G8 hoped to find common ground on climate change, the global economy, and a host of political crises.

Issues
The summit was intended as a venue for resolving differences among its members. As a practical matter, the summit was also conceived as an opportunity for its members to give each other mutual encouragement in the face of difficult economic decisions.

Africa

The G8 leaders were in a position to discuss the "full range of issues relating to African development". The need to address long-term planning for African development has been a G8 agenda item for a number of years. In 2008, Japan hosted both the G8 summit and the Fourth Tokyo International Conference on African Development (TICAD-IV) -— a pentannual (recurring in five-year cycles) meeting for African leaders and their development partners.  This meant that Japan had the opportunity to help Africa into the spotlight of international attention. Africa, which has been on the G8 agenda since 2000 when Japan last chaired the G8, has continued to lag behind on progress towards meeting Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) while Asia has made considerable strides during the same period. Unanswered questions remain about why what has happened in Asia has not happened in Africa.

After discussions, the G8 leaders announced new measures on improving education, health, water supplies and sanitation and increasing the number of doctors and nurses in Africa. However, the Times says that it will be by the presence, or absence, of a headline figure on overall African aid that their talks will be judged a success or failure. Fukuda and Brown are reported to be pressing for the fulfillment of pledges made at the 2005 Gleneagles summit, but Sarkozy and Berlusconi are seen to be for pulling back from those commitments.

The G8 leaders set a five-year deadline to commit $60-billion in funding to help Africa fight disease, including pledging 100 million mosquito nets by 2010 which will prevent thousands of deaths from malaria. They also renewed a commitment made three years ago to double aid for Africa to $25-billion by 2010 and to consider pledging further assistance after 2010.

Climate change
The G8 leaders claimed that they would discuss the "full range of issues relating to climate".

A package of proposals has been developed for further discussion including "a new framework that will ensure participation by the United States and China, the world's largest greenhouse-gas emitters." The G8 conference is claimed by G8 organisers to be "an important platform to firm up commitments" based on the initial framework agreed upon at the December 2007 United Nations Climate Change Conference held in Bali, Indonesia.

In the "Challenge to the G8 Governments" by over 100 NGOs and other organisations and individuals, critics of the G8 claimed that the G8 states are themselves responsible for the climate crisis. They called for the G8 governments to "stop financing projects and policies that contribute to climate change".