[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jeanne d'Arc (video game)

ground by English troops, leaving only three survivors: a village girl, Jeanne, and her friends Roger and Liane. Guided by a voice from the heavens and wielding one of the five armlets which bestows powerful abilities upon her, Jeanne sets out to build an army and save her country from the English.

Development
Jeanne d'Arc was developed by Level-5, a company that had previously developed a number of traditional role-playing video games with the Dark Cloud series, Dragon Quest VIII: Journey of the Cursed King, and Rogue Galaxy. Jeanne d'Arc was the company's first project on the PSP handheld. The team chose to make the game a tactical RPG "[...] so that players new to the genre will still be able to play the game, while veteran strategy game players will find this game both nostalgic and entertaining." The development team also wanted to create an enjoyable game for all players despite some of them having no knowledge of the historical events on which it is based.

The most important aspect of the North American localization of Jeanne d'Arc was its voice-overs. A number of French actors and actresses, as well as North American actors speaking with French accents, auditioned for the game's audio. Ultimately, American actors using mild French accents were chosen for the main roles while individuals with authentic French accents were used in some of the game's supporting characters. A French vocal coach was on hand to assure proper pronunciation and accents. Voice actress Kari Wahlgren was approached specifically for the lead role in the English version of the game.

Reception

Jeanne d'Arc received "generally favorable reviews" according to the review aggregation website Metacritic. IGN said, "Extremely deep gameplay. Balanced tactical strategy and fast paced action with rich game mechanics. An intriguing twist on a well known tale. These three statements only scratch the surface of the game." 1UP.com said, "A gaggle of inferior strategy-RPG options sporting higher asking prices already litters the PSP's substandard role-playing pool, so this fully competent, polished game should be an instant no-brainer for fans of the genre." In Japan, Famitsu gave it a score of one ten, two eights, and one seven, for a total of 33 out of 40.

Jeanne d'Arc sold approximately 45,387 copies during its first week of sale in Japan. The game was listed as the 190th-best-selling game in the country in 2006 by Famitsu with 68,013 copies sold by the end of the year. Jeanne d'Arc was re-released as part of Sony's "The Best" range of budget titles in Japan on July 5, 2007. The game has since become available as a downloadable title from the PlayStation Network in both Japan and North America.

Jeanne d'Arc was listed by IGN as "Game of the Month" for August 2007. In 2011, the website also listed it at #21 among their top 25 best PSP games. GameTrailers made it a nominee for "Best PSP Game" despite not releasing a video review for it. They even said of it, "Passing this one up would be a true act of heresy."

Notes

References

External links
 

2006 video games
Level-5 (company) games
Fantasy video games set in the Middle Ages
PlayStation Portable games
PlayStation Portable-only games
Sony Interactive Entertainment games
Tactical role-playing video games
Video games about demons
Video games developed in Japan
Video games featuring female protagonists
Video games set in France
Works about Joan of Arc
Single-player video games
Japan Studio games