[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Laura Plantation

nd some items of apparel are on display, giving a sense of daily life.  Laura Locoul Gore's memoir, Memories of the Old Plantation Home, provided much of what is known about life on Laura Plantation. The gift shop has displayed some books about the area and related subjects.

Interior

Fire of 2004 

On August 9, 2004, the plantation house was significantly damaged by an electrical fire which destroyed 80% of the house, including the kitchen wing behind the house.  The left half of the house survived, but even the elevated foundation of the right side was burned. Restoration work was completed in 2006, despite the interruption of Hurricane Katrina in August 2005. The ashes of the kitchen wing were cleared, but the back wing was not rebuilt. Instead, the back corners of the house were capped with old gray boards to indicate where two back wings of the house had existed when Laura Locoul, the last DuParc descendant, sold the plantation in 1891.

Residents
The first owner, Guillaume Benjamin Demézière Duparc, lived at the plantation for 4 years, dying in 1808, 3 years after the house was completed. His daughter Elisabeth married into the Locoul family. Generations later, Laura Locoul Gore, who was born in the big house in 1861, inherited the plantation after she had married and moved to New Orleans. Her memoir was published posthumously in 2000. 
A local historian wrote about her ancestors of the early nineteenth century in Louisiana:
On October 25, 1821, Elisabeth Duparc, a native of Pointe Coupée and the daughter of the late Guillaume Benjamin Demézière Duparc and Anne Nanette Prudhomme, was married at the St. John the Baptist Catholic Church in Edgard to George Raymond Locoul, a native of Bordeaux, France, the son of Raymond Locoul and Marie Roland. From this marriage, the lands of Duparc, which is presently represented by Laura Plantation at the river, became the property of the Locouls. One member, Marie Elisabeth Aimée Locoul, the widow of Jean Flavien Charles de Lobel Mahy, the granddaughter of Guillaume Duparc, subdivided the Duparc tract from the river to 

After inheriting the plantation, Laura Locoul Gore became its fourth mistress. She ran the plantation as a sugar cane business until 1891, when she sold it to Aubert Florian Waguespack. The Waguespack family ran, resided on, and lived at the plantation for nearly another century, until 1984.

The Brer Rabbit and Br'er Fox tales recounted in Louisiana and the South are variations on traditional stories that originated in Senegal and were brought by enslaved Senegalese to America around the 1720s as part of their culture. According to the plantation's history, Alcée Fortier, a neighbor of the family and student of folklore, visited there in the 1870s to listen to the freedmen.  He collected the stories, which freedmen told their children in the Louisiana Creole language that had developed since colonial times. It was a creole language based in French and absorbing African languages. These stories were about Compair Lapin and Compair Bouki (the clever rabbit and stupid fool), in which the rabbit plays a traditional trickster role. Twenty-five years later in 1894, Fortier published stories which he had collected and translated in the edition Louisiana Folk Tales: In French Dialect and English Translation. Fortier may have collected some of the tales at Laura Plantation and his own family's plantation.

In the late 20th century, Laura Plantation's association with Fortier's Br'er Rabbit tales drew the attention of preservationist Norman Marmillion. He created a for-profit company to attract enough investors to embark on a ten-year plan of restoration of the plantation. Some investors are descendants of former owners.

See also
Whitney Plantation
Rural African American Museum, Opelousas

References

 Sources
 Speakman, Stephanie (September 20, 1998). World of the Bayou and the Plantation.
 Taylor, Delia (August 10, 1993). The Greater Baton Rouge Business Report.

External links

 LauraPlantation.com
 The Cultural Landscape Foundation/Laura Plantation
 Reid, Molly. "Creole Country: Laura Plantation Rises From the Ashes", The Times-Picayune, August 15, 2007

Slave cabins and quarters in the United States
Houses completed in 1820
Creole architecture in Louisiana
Pre-statehood history of Louisiana
Houses on the National Register of Historic Places in Louisiana
Louisiana African American Heritage Trail
Louisiana Creole culture
Sugar plantations in Louisiana
Historic house museums in Louisiana
Museums in St. James Parish, Louisiana
Senegalese-American history
Houses in St. James Parish, Louisiana
Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Louisiana
Plantation houses in Louisiana
National Register of Historic Places in St. James Parish, Louisiana
1805 establishments in the Territory of Orleans