[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Banoo Main Teri Dulhann

Banoo Main Teri Dulhann (English: I will become your Bride) (international title: The Vow) is an Indian soap opera that aired on Zee TV from 14 August 2006 to 28 May 2009. It starred Divyanka Tripathi and Sharad Malhotra in the lead roles of Vidya and Sagar. The series deals with the life of a small city woman, Vidya, who reaches Delhi after marrying Sagar, a rich businessman.

Season 1

The story is about a beautiful, simple and loyal Vidya from Benaras(Varanasi). She does all the work in her household and her uncle, aunt, and cousin Shalu torture her. They don't allow Vidya to get an education, leaving her illiterate. Soon, Rajendra Pratap Singh who was a landlord in Banaras who lives in Delhi and is a businessman comes to Benaras to find a wife for his son Sagar. When Sagar's father sees Vidya, he decides that she will be his daughter-in-law. On the day of her marriage day, Vidya finds out that Sagar is mentally unstable with the mind of a child due to a car accident that happened six months ago that almost claimed his life. Sagar does not realize he is married so he and Vidya get off to a rocky start. Sindoora, Sagar's evil step-sister wants the Thakur's property. She caused the deadly car accident to kill Sagar but was unsuccessful. Chandra and Mahua are Sindoora's younger sisters and do whatever Sindoora tells them to and continually harass Vidya. Sindoora attempts to put much blame on Vidya to expel her from the house. But, her generous ex-husband Aniket and son Bharat are supportive toward Vidya. Aniket and Bharat both want to see Sagar and Vidya together. Despite these problems, she completes all of her duties and endears herself to the family, even Sagar. Sagar's younger cousin Cheenu and Shalu marry. Vidya's ex-lover and a goon from Banaras Harsh comes to Delhi and marries Chandra. Mahua, who is divorced from her husband, marries Rajeev Shokla. Vidya learns that the doctor from Singapore can cure Sagar, so she and Sagar both go there. Sindoora finds out and then plans multiple attacks on Sagar and Vidya but Sagar's operation went successfully. He becomes mentally normal, but he doesn't remember anything before his car accident and so doesn't remember Vidya. Sindoora then takes advantage of this and tries to turn Sagar's against Vidya, but Sagar learns that he and Vidya are married and later they remarry. Sindoora blames Harsh for the attacks on Sagar and Vidya in Singapore. Sindoora tries again to kill Sagar but Aniket becomes paralyzed while trying to protect Sagar. Gayatri, Sagar's paternal aunt arrives and knows that Sindoora is trying to kill Sagar. So she teams up with Vidya to get rid of Sindoora. With Gayatri's encouragement Vidya learns to read and write. They try their best to expose Sindoora but Sagar doesn't listen to their arguments. Vidya then pretends to be pregnant for Sagar under Gayatri's orders but fails to hide the truth from him. Sindoora plots and manages to send her ex-husband Aniket to jail by blaming him for Sagar's accident. Sindoora then plots and pays a man to run over Gayatri. She doesn't die but becomes comatose. She again plans an attack on Sagar in Benares which makes him not just mentally normal, but also remember multiple occasions when Sindoora had tried to kill him. He plots with Vidya and Chinu to get proof against her pretending to be mentally unstable but Sindoora identifies his plans and attacks the couple again. Later, Sindoora corners Sagar and Vidya on the edge of the cliff of Kailashpati Shankar Mandir (Lord Shiva) and she kills both of them by shooting them with her gun twice in a row. Bharat learns that Sindoora killed Sagar and Vidya and flees the house.

Season 2