[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Title 18 of the United States Code

lse personation
: Firearms
 defines various terms as used in §§ 921–931, which are also found in the definition of aggravated felony. 
 prohibiting certain behavior involving firearms (e.g. 18 U.S. Code § 922(g), declaring it unlawful for a prohibited person to ship, transport, or possess a firearm)

: Foreign relations threats
: Forfeiture (§§ 981–987)
: Fraud and false statements (§§ 1001–1040)
: addresses computer fraud, defining a protected computer via the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act.
: Fugitives from justice
: Homicide
: Indians
: Kidnapping
: Labor
: Liquor traffic
: Lotteries
: Mail fraud
 targets frauds and swindles.
 applies to fictitious name or address.
 applies to fraud by wire, radio, or television.
 applies to bank fraud.
 provides for injunctions against fraud.
 is a single sentence: "For the purposes of this chapter, the term 'scheme or artifice to defraud' includes a scheme or artifice to deprive another of the intangible right of honest services."
 targets health care fraud.
 targets securities fraud.
 is a single sentence: "Any person who attempts or conspires to commit any offense under this chapter shall be subject to the same penalties as those prescribed for the offense, the commission of which was the object of the attempt or conspiracy."
 was introduced by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and applies to failure of corporate officers to certify financial reports.
: Malicious mischief
: Military and navy
: [Repealed]
: Nationality and citizenship
: Obscenity
: Obstruction of justice
: Partial-birth abortions
: Passports and visas
: Peonage, slavery, and trafficking in persons
: Perjury
: Piracy and privateering
: Postal Service
: Presidential and Presidential staff assassination, kidnapping, and assault
: Prison-made goods
: Prisons
: Privacy
: Professions and occupations
: Protection of trade secrets
: Protection of unborn children
: Public lands
: Public officers and employees
: Racketeering
: Racketeer influenced and corrupt organizations
: Railroads
: [Repealed]
: Records and reports
: Riots
: Robbery and burglary
: Sabotage
: Seamen and stowaways
: Searches and seizures
: Sexual abuse
: Sexual exploitation and other abuse of children
: Domestic violence and stalking
: Seamen shipping
: Stolen property
: Telemarketing fraud
: Terrorism
: Torture
: Trafficking in contraband cigarettes
: Treason, sedition, and subversive activities
: Transportation for illegal sexual activity and related crimes
: War crimes
: Wire and electronic communications interception and interception of oral communications
: Stored wire and electronic communications and transactional records access
: Prohibition on release and use of certain personal information from state motor vehicle records

Part II—Criminal Procedure
: General Provisions
: Arrest and Commitment
: Rewards for Information Concerning Terrorist Acts and Espionage
: Searches and Seizures
: Pen Registers and Trap and Trace Devices
: Release and Detention Pending Judicial Proceedings
: Speedy Trial
: Extradition
: Jurisdiction and Venue
: Military Extraterritorial Jurisdiction
: Extraterritorial Jurisdiction over Certain Trafficking In Persons Offenses
: Limitations
: Grand Jury
: Special Grand Jury
: Indictment and Information
: Trial by United States Magistrate Judges
: Arraignment, Pleas and Trial
: Witnesses and Evidence
: Protection of Witnesses
: Verdict
: Sentences
: Death Sentence
: Post-Conviction DNA Testing
: Postsentence Administration
: [Repealed]
: Miscellaneous Sentencing Provisions
: Special Forfeiture of Collateral Profits of Crime
: Contempts
: Crime Victims Rights

Part III—Prisons and Prisoners
: General Provisions
: Bureau of Prisons
: Commitment and Transfer
: Transfer To or From Foreign Countries
: Employment
: has been repealed per section 218 of title II of Public Law 98-473, and section 5 of Public Law 94-233.
: has been repealed per Public Law 98-473, title II, section 218(a)(5), as of October 12, 1984. 98 Stat. 2027. 
: Offenders with Mental Disease or Defect
: has been repealed per Public Law 98-473, title ii, section 218(a)(6), as of October 12, 1984. 98 Stat. 2027. 
: Discharge and Release Payments
: Institutions for Women
: National Institute of Corrections

Part IV—Correction of Youthful Offenders
: General provisions
: has been repealed in its entirety.
 and : have been repealed per Public Law 98-473, title II, section 218(a)(8), as of October 12, 1984. 98 Stat. 2027.
, , and : have been repealed per Public Law 94-233, section 5, as of March 15, 1976. 90 Stat. 231.
: have been repealed per Public Law 98-473, title II, section 218(a)(8), as of October 12, 1984. 98 Stat. 2027.
: Juvenile delinquency

Part V—Immunity of Witnesses
: Immunity of Witnesses