[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nonviolence International

also acts as a fiscal sponsor for Control Arms, Center for Jewish Nonviolence, We Are Not Numbers, Holy Land Trust, the al Watan Center and many other groups. Additionally, the organization has been widely outspoken against torture and human rights abuses propagated by the United States Government.

Leadership 
Mubarak Awad, the founder and president, is an adjunct professor of nonviolent resistance at American University. He is affiliated with a number of renowned global nonviolent activists such as the Dalai Lama, Archbishop Desmond Tutu and Mairead McGuire. He was born in Jerusalem in 1943 and later chose Bluffton University over Yale University to pursue degrees in social work and psychology. He has since been influenced by Mennonite and Quaker pacifist ideologies. He obtained a master's degree from Saint Francis University and later a PhD in Psychology from Saint Louis University. In 1988, Awad was deported from Palestine for his leadership in helping spark the First Intifada; he is barred from all but short visits to his homeland.

Michael Beer began working with the organization in 1991 and has maintained the executive director position since 1998. Beer is a global activist for human rights and minority rights and has been an outspoken voice for grassroots movements around the world. He focuses on nonviolence training and education and has worked with activists in numerous countries including Myanmar, Kosovo, Indonesia, Thailand, Cambodia, India, Zimbabwe and the United States. He is a frequent public speaker on nonviolence and has been broadcast on C-SPAN, CNN and other major media outlets.

Jonathan Kuttab is a co-founder and prominent civil rights lawyer in Israel, Palestine and New York. Kuttab co-founded the Palestinian Center for the Study of Nonviolence as well as the Mandela Institute for Political Prisoners. He is also a co-founder of Al-Haq, a major Palestinian human rights organization.

Joshua Kirshbaum is the Director of the Nonviolence International New York Office.
In early 2018 Nonviolence International welcomed Joshua to be the youngest office head in the network. Quickly after taking office as the Executive Director of the New York Region, they began to expand and now Joshua and his teams run the Nonviolence International New York Office and the Nonviolence Resource Center in Harlem, Nonviolence Arizona Research Program in Tucson, Arizona, the peacebuilding and VR tech project in Seville, Spain, and The New York Graduate plan. He is an active member and consultant for over a dozen organizations and nonprofits around the world. Over 12 active programs spanning nonviolent action training, youth leadership empowerment, sustainable peace, and international disarmament advocacy and much more. 
for Joshua's young age, he has an extensive history in peacebuilding on an international scale and has been trained by some of the world's leading activists in nonviolence methodology. Joshua's past activities include his work connecting major corporate sponsors with important causes, expanding their philanthropic markets throughout Latin America. Opening a chain of philanthropic projects across South America from his community center "La Casa De La Vida" and "Estudio Ecuador" and the formation of Peace Vision Action Coalition (PeaceVAC), allowing the support of Coalitions and advocacy groups in Civil Society at the United Nations.

Activities
The main focus of the organization is promoting nonviolent solutions through the training and education of individuals, NGOs, and governments. It provides education materials, and sponsors and organizes training and strategy sessions. Specifically the organization:
 Sponsors local, national, regional and international seminars on nonviolence;
 Offers training programs and develops educational materials;
 Provides resources and specialists to groups or governments seeking alternative possibilities for peace;
 Prints and disseminates articles, newsletters, reports and undertakes public interest research on nonviolence;
 Provides public education through speakers and the media;
 Cooperates with other nonviolence, peace and conflict resolution organizations internationally in order to work together toward a common goal.

References

External links

New York Website 
Harlem Resource Center 

Activism
Peace organizations
Non-profit organizations based in Washington, D.C.
Nonviolence organizations based in the United States
Organizations established in 1989
501(c)(3) organizations
Nonviolence
Nonviolence organizations