[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Versailles wedding hall disaster

es. The owners viewed the sagging floor primarily as a cosmetic problem, and attempted to level it with additional grout and fill. However, their approach not only failed to provide additional structural capacity, it also inadvertently introduced a new and significant dead load at the weakened area.

During the wedding event in 2001, this significantly overstressed floor section failed, resulting in the catastrophe. The engineer Eli Ron, inventor of the Pal-Kal method of construction, was arrested and subsequently indicted in August 2002 on the charge of manslaughter.

Aftermath
Following the disaster, the "Versailles Law" was passed by the Parliament of Israel. This law established a special committee responsible for treating the people injured in the disaster. Moreover, an official investigation committee was established by the then Prime Minister Ariel Sharon under the leadership of the former judge Vardimos Zeiler(he), who was in charge of the security of public places and buildings. The Zeiler Committee on Building Safety investigated both the Versailles wedding hall collapse as well as the Maccabiah bridge collapse which occurred four years earlier in 1997, and released its final report in December 2003.

In October 2004, the three owners of Versailles wedding hall — Avraham Adi, Uri Nisim, and Efraim Adiv – were convicted of causing death by negligence and causing damage by negligence. Adi and Adiv were sentenced to 30 months' imprisonment while Nisim was sentenced to four months of community service.

The wedding hall was subsequently demolished, and as of 2023 the site remained unoccupied and sealed. Across the street from the site is a memorial garden with names of victims inscribed on a wall.

In May 2007, Eli Ron and three engineers involved in the building's construction were sentenced to prison by the Jerusalem District Court. Eli Ron received a four-year sentence, Shimon Kaufman and Dan Sheffer 22 months, and Uri Pessah six months. In December 2006, the court convicted all three men of causing death by negligence and sabotage by negligence.

In popular culture 
The Pal-Kal issue was mentioned in the episode "Point of Origin", season 1, episode 5, of the show 9-1-1, where an Indian Wedding goes awry when dancing guests collapse the third floor, killing dozens. Captain Robert Nash describes the building having used the prohibited "Kal-Pal" technique and angrily attacks the owner for causing death by negligience.

Memorial 
A memorial garden to the victims was built near the disaster site.

See also 
 Structural failure
 List of structural failures and collapses
 Hyatt Regency walkway collapse, a similar incident that occurred 20 years prior that was due to insufficient load capacity as a result of negligent design flaws.

Notes

 Levinson, Jay. "Review of Press Coverage: The Versailles Hall Disaster," Disaster Prevention & Management, Volume 10:4 (2001), pp. 289–290.

External links 

 BBC report of the accident
 CNN report
 YouTube video

Building and structure collapses in 2001
2001 disasters in Asia
May 2001 events in Asia
Building and structure collapses in Asia
2001 in Jerusalem
Filmed deaths from falls