[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Stari dvor

while from 1954 to 1957 he was president of the National Assembly, so the Maršalat obstructed the view from both buildings. The building was demolished most likely as the expansion of the Pioneer's Park, former Royal Garden, began, and the massive gates into the park were already demolished.

Today 

Former complex today consists of only two buildings, Old Palace and New Palace. Today, the palace is home to the City Assembly of Belgrade. Visitors can take a tour inside the Old Palace. Tourists can sign up to visit the Old Palace at the tourist stands throughout Belgrade.

There were suggestions that monument to king Alexander I Obrenović, placed in the late 2004 along the boulevard bearing his name, at the square between the Zvezdara municipal building and the Students Residence King Alexander I, should be relocated to the location of the 1904 demolished Old Konak, where he was assassinated.

Architectural design 

The Old Palace has almost square foundation of 40x40 m. Its design is classical, with central windowed inner hall. There used to be a greenhouse and richly ornamented oaken stairs added later, and leading onto the first floor (they were designed by a famous architect Jovan Ilkić). Those stairs were destroyed in World War I. Around this central space with columns and galleries there were other rooms of the Palace, the most important of them being the great hall for receptions and balls and the dining room. As parts of the Palace there were also a nicely arranged library and the Palace chapel, which faced the garden. The whole interior equipment of the Palace has been mostly imported from Vienna.

By its external architecture the building is one of the most beautiful achievements of academism in Serbia of the 19th century. The facade which faces the garden is most richly made, having projecting balconies which provided closer contact with the garden. The most characteristic motifs of this facade are the caryatids at the first-floor level which, above the balconies at each end of the facade support richly made tympanums of the ending windows. The caryatid are repeated on the facade facing the Kralja Milana street, and the line of Doric columns in beneath them. The Doric columns also appear on the facade against the garden, between richly decorated windows. The other two facades are somewhat simpler. The basement and the corners of the building are rustically designed. The balconies and the attic are balustraded. The three corners of the building used to have proportional domes.

References

External links 

 Stari dvor – City of Belgrade website 

Buildings and structures in Belgrade
Palaces in Serbia
Royal residences in Serbia
Legislative buildings
Houses completed in 1884
Architecture in Serbia