[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# University of Saskatchewan academics

St. Peter's College

St. Peter's College was founded in 1921 by the Benedictine monks of St. Peter’s Abbey in Muenster, Saskatchewan and was designated as a provincial heritage building until late May 2010. This U of S off-campus affiliated college is located about 100 kilometres east of Saskatoon.

First and second year courses are offered in Bachelor of Arts and Science (Science, Fine Arts, Social Science, and Humanities) as well as Agriculture & Bioresources, Commerce and Pre-Education. Some second, third and fourth year courses are offered to obtain a degree program while attending at Muenster.

Gabriel Dumont College

Gabriel Dumont Institute of Native Studies and Applied Research Inc. (GDI) was first formed in 1980 to serve Métis and Non-Status Indian students and their community. Gabriel Dumont Institute delivers various levels of post-secondary educational programs. Saskatchewan Urban Native Teacher Education Program (SUNTEP) students earn a Bachelor of Education. Dumont Technical Institute (DTI) provides adult basic education (ABE), vocational skills training, and various cultural programs. As of 1994, Gabriel Dumont College (GDC), located at 2 - 604 22nd Street West, Saskatoon is affiliated with the U of S to provide students with the first two years of study, towards either the Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science degree.

Centre for Continuing and Distance Education
The Centre for Continuing and Distance Education (CCDE) is an initiative to provide university courses to students in rural and urban communities who cannot attend the campus facilities. Prior to 2006, CCDE was named Extension Division. The office is located in the Williams Building, 221 Cumberland Ave. N., Saskatoon. CCDE's programs cover a wide variety of topics, including adult education, agriculture, arts, business and leadership, children's programs, counselling, group facilitation, horticulture, Indigenous peoples, languages, learning disabilities, nature & the environment, publications, teaching ESL, seniors' courses, and special education, as well as for-credit courses.

Campuses

Emma Lake Kenderdine Campus
The Emma Lake Kenderdine Campus consists of a  plot of land on Emma Lake, located about 50 kilometres north of Prince Albert. The campus has served as an environmental research centre, and has hosted thousands of artist's workshops, community arts programs, and experiential learning projects.

It was established by Augustus Kenderdine in 1935 as the Murray Point Art School. The campus hosted the Emma Lake Artist's Workshops which were attended by artists such as Dorothy Knowles, William Perehudoff, Douglas Bentham, Robert Christie, and the Regina Five. In the 1970s, the U of S and Prince Albert Community College transformed the Murray Point Art School into the Emma Lake Kenderdine Campus. In 1988, the Prince Albert Community College merged with Northern Technical Institute, forming what would become the SIAST Woodland Campus. In 1998, University of Saskatchewan became the sole owner of the campus due to organizational changes at SIAST. In 2005, the Emma Lake Kenderdine Campus added experiential learning projects in science (biology, soil science, education, and renewable resource management) to its list of programs.

In November 2012, the University of Saskatchewan announced its decision to suspend all activities of the Emma Lake Kenderdine Campus through 2016. This was done as part of the university's operating budget adjustments in an effort to cut costs.

See also

 College Building (Saskatchewan), national historic site Canada
 List of universities and colleges in Saskatchewan
 List of synchrotron radiation facilities
 Memorial Gates (University of Saskatchewan)
 Plasma Physics Laboratory (Saskatchewan)
 Saskatchewan Accelerator Laboratory
 University of Saskatchewan Huskies

Further reading
 Jean E. Murray, The Early History of Emmanuel College. Saskatchewan History 9.3 (1956).

Notes

External links
 University of Saskatchewan

Academics