[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mississippi Marine Brigade

The Mississippi Marine Brigade was a Union Army amphibious unit which included the United States Ram Fleet and operated from November 1862 to August 1864 during the American Civil War. The brigade was established to act swiftly against Confederate forces operating near the Mississippi River and its tributaries.  The brigade was commanded by Brigadier General Alfred W. Ellet and operated in coordination with the Mississippi River Squadron during the Union brown-water navy battle against the Confederate River Defense Fleet and land based forces. The brigade was independent of the Union Army and Navy and reported directly to the Secretary of War, Edwin M. Stanton.  Despite the name, it was never part of the United States Marine Corps.

Organization

Brigadier General Alfred W. Ellet was the commanding officer of the United States Ram Fleet.  The ram fleet had proven themselves a useful addition to the Mississippi River Squadron through their actions at the First Battle of Memphis and on the Yazoo River.  However, the ram fleet was outside the Union Navy and Army command and reported directly to the Secretary of War, Edwin M. Stanton.  Although they coordinated their activities with the Mississippi River Squadron led by Charles H. Davis, the reporting structure was problematic for Union Navy leaders.  The brigade was never incorporated into the Union Navy, however, when David Dixon Porter took over command of the Mississippi River Squadron, he demanded and received full authority over the ram fleet.  Porter needed an amphibious force to suppress enemy fire from the river shores that threatened his fleet.

On November 1, 1862, Ellet was charged with creating and commanding the Mississippi Marine Brigade.  The unit consisted of artillery, cavalry and infantry with the ram fleet used for transportation. The brigade was not able to recruit from existing Army or Navy units and instead recruited convalescing soldiers from hospitals who wished to return to service.  Ellet promised recruits bonuses, the opportunity to serve aboard clean vessels with good food and the potential for fame.

On November 5, Ellet's nephew, Charles Rivers Ellet was promoted to the rank of colonel and became the third member of the Ellet family to lead the ram fleet.  Ellet was only 19 years old, which made him one of the youngest colonels in the Union Army.  Another nephew, John A. Ellet also served as Lieutenant Colonel in the brigade.

The unit consisted of about 350 officers and men, including boat crews which used the nine steam powered rams of the United States Ram Fleet.  Other vessels were added to the ram fleet including the tugs Alf Cutting, Bell Darlington and Cleveland; the hospital ship Woodford and the transports Autocrat, Baltic and Diana.

Vicksburg Campaign

On December 12, 1862, the Queen of the West was one of the ships that accompanied the USS Cairo up the Yazoo River.  The Cairo was struck by a 'torpedo' or naval mine and began to sink rapidly.  The Queen of the West was able to rescue part of the crew from the Cairo before it sank.

In February 1863, the Queen of the West was run past the batteries of Vicksburg, Mississippi to support Admiral David Farragut south of the city.  The Queen of the West severely damaged the CSS Vicksburg and captured four transport ships supplying Confederate forces.  The Queen of the West also conducted activities on the Atchafalaya River, destroying Confederate supplies and burning three plantations. She was captured by Confederate forces on the Red River near Fort DeRussy and entered into Confederate service as the CSS Queen of the West.

On March 26, the ram ships Switzerland and USS Lancaster were run past the batteries at Vicksburg to support Admiral Farragut. Charles Rivers Ellet commanded the Switzerland and his cousin, John A. Ellet, commanded the Lancaster.  Both ships received heavy fire from the batteries and the Lancaster was run aground and sunk to avoid capture by the Confederate forces.  The Switzerland was damaged but was repaired and continued duty south of Vicksburg on the Mississippi River.

On June 14, the unit joined Brigadier General Joseph A. Mower in the Battle of Richmond, Louisiana and skirmished with the Confederates, losing 3 wounded.