[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Romuald Boco

une based side against Dempo SC. He has appeared in all 20 league matches in the 2014–15 I-League season, under the coaching of Stuart Watkiss.

International career
Boco was part of the Beninese 2004 African Nations Cup team, who finished bottom of their group in the first round of the competition.

Boco and Benin finished third in 2005 African Youth Championship. He also scored a goal against Ivory Coast in the tournament. He has also represented Benin U20 team at the 2005 FIFA World Youth Championship under the coaching of Serge Devèze and appeared in all three group matches. Benin finished third in the Group A and bowed out of the tournament.

Boco captained Benin in the 2008 African Nations Cup in what was only the country's second time qualifying for the competition, and was part of the Beninese 2010 African Nations Cup team.

He scored his first and only goal for the national team on 11 February 2009 against Algeria in a friendly match, that ended as their 2–1 defeat. Between 2004 and 2013, Boco earned 52 caps for Benin internationally, scoring a goal.

Career statistics

Club

International
Score and result list Benin's goal tally first, score column indicates score after Boco goal.

Honours
Benin U20
African Youth Championship third place: 2005

Accrington Stanley
Conference Premier: 2005–06

Sligo Rovers
FAI Cup: 2010
League of Ireland Cup: 2010

References

External links
 
 
 Romuald Boco Interview at irishtimes.com

1985 births
Living people
People from Bernay, Eure
Black French sportspeople
French sportspeople of Beninese descent
Beninese men's footballers
Footballers from Eure
French men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Benin men's international footballers
Ligue 2 players
China League One players
National League (English football) players
English Football League players
League of Ireland players
I-League players
Chamois Niortais F.C. players
Accrington Stanley F.C. players
Sligo Rovers F.C. players
Burton Albion F.C. players
Shanghai Port F.C. players
Plymouth Argyle F.C. players
Bharat FC players
Portsmouth F.C. players
Havant & Waterlooville F.C. players
Leyton Orient F.C. players
2004 African Cup of Nations players
2008 Africa Cup of Nations players
2010 Africa Cup of Nations players
Beninese expatriate men's footballers
French expatriate men's footballers
Beninese expatriate sportspeople in England
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Beninese expatriate sportspeople in Ireland
Expatriate men's association footballers in the Republic of Ireland
Beninese expatriate sportspeople in China
Expatriate men's footballers in China
Beninese expatriate sportspeople in India
Expatriate men's footballers in India