[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Walter Travis

ding of the two extremes and trees of any kind are non-existent—as they should be, and holes should be so laid out as to provide for the playing of every conceivable sort of stroke, with every club in one's bag.  He noted, diversity of play should be the aim of the architect of a first-class course.

Some have characterized Travis as a "penal designer".  However, a careful study of his writings leads to the conclusion that he was a firm believer in "thinking" and "strategic" golf; with the golfer given opportunities to avoid difficulty with well-considered and executed shots.
  
Travis's first project as a golf course architect was his collaboration with John Duncan Dunn in the 1899 design of Ekwanok Country Club in Vermont. However, much of Travis's early acclaim and notoriety as a golf course designer may be traced to his extensive remodeling of the Garden City Golf Club's Devereux Emmet course, that was unveiled when Garden City Golf Club hosted the 1908 U.S. Amateur Championship.  In all, nearly 50 golf courses bear his mark, either as an original design, or as a remodeling project. Other Travis-designed courses that still exist include:  Camden Country Club, Cape Arundel Golf Club, Country Club of Scranton,  Country Club of Troy, Cherry Hill Club, Garden City Country Club, East Potomac Golf Links, Granliden on Sunapee (9 holes), Jekyll Island Golf Club (Great Dunes), Lochmoor Club (assisted John Sweeney), Lookout Point Country Club, North Jersey Country Club, Onondaga Golf and Country Club, Orchard Park Country Club, Pennhills Club, Round Hill Club, Stafford Country Club, The Golf Club at Equinox, Westchester Country Club (West, South and Short courses), White Beeches Golf & Country Club, and Yahnundasis Golf Club.

Noted courses that were extensively redesigned by Travis include: Canoe Brook Country Club (North Course), Columbia Country Club (with Harban and White),  Grand Mere Golf Club in Quebec, Country Club of Buffalo (now Grover Cleveland Golf Course), Sunningdale Country Club, Lakewood Country Club, Country Club of New Canaan, Louisville Country Club, Poland Spring Golf Club, Stamford Golf club, and Westchester Hills Golf Club.  Through consultations, he influenced the design of:  Pinehurst No. 2, National Golf Links of America, Pine Valley Golf Club, and Cobbs Creek Muni. Through Travis's consultations with the original designers, several noted courses reflect his influence, including Pine Valley Golf Club, National Golf Links of America, and Pinehurst No. 2.  Following his restoration of Hollywood Golf Club in 2021, golf architect Brian Schneider presented Walter Travis design elements in this interview.

Travis could lay claim to being the first "U.S. Open Doctor" with his remodeling of the Country Club of Buffalo and Columbia Country Club courses just prior to their hosting the U.S. Open in 1912 and 1921, respectively. Travis remained active as a designer to the end, making a last visit to inspect the construction of his course at the Country Club of Troy a month before his death on July 31, 1927.

Death and legacy
Travis died in Denver, Colorado on July 31, 1927. His induction into the World Golf Hall of Fame in 1979 was in recognition of his legacy as the first three-time champion in the U.S. Amateur Championship and the first non-Brit to win the British Amateur Championship. His willingness to experiment led to landmark changes in the landscape of golf equipment, especially his use of the Haskell golf ball to win the 1901 U.S. Amateur Championship.  His most enduring legacy may be the many premier golf courses he designed or remodelled throughout his career.   Four Travis-designed or redesigned courses are regularly included in Golfweek's rankings of  America's top 100 "Classic" courses:  Country Club of Scranton, Ekwanok Country Club (assisted John Duncan Dunn), Westchester Country Club's West course, Hollywood Golf Club (redesigned Mackie's work), and Garden City Golf Club (remodeled Emmet's work).

In 2019, Travis was inducted into the New York State Golf Association's Hall of Fame.

 
In 1999, Golf World magazine ranked Travis second in its Top Ten List of Underrated Golf Course Architects''.

References

External links

The Walter J. Travis Society

Australian male golfers
American male golfers
Amateur golfers
Golf course architects
World Golf Hall of Fame inductees
Golfers from New York (state)
Emigrants from the British Empire to the United States
People from Maldon, Victoria
1862 births
1927 deaths
Sportsmen from Victoria (state)