[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Buck Danny

Tuckson from bringing the Flying Tigers the plans for the Allied offensive in Burma. He and his Black Dragon superiors commit suicide at the end of Attack in Burma to avoid falling into Allied hands. Although he only appears in the "Flying Tigers" story arc, Mo is an iconic figure in the franchise.

Recurring characters
 Lieutenant Commander Slim Holden: a Navy fighter pilot and TOPGUN strike fighter tactics instructor who has a long history with the three main characters. Although as good a pilot as Danny, Tumbler or Tuckson, Holden's impulsiveness, fondness for the bottle, confrontational nature and lack of respect for authority have made it harder for him to progress through the ranks; this is occasionally a sore point between him and Danny. Despite their differences, they remain friends and Danny has more than once requested his presence on dangerous missions. Based on his personality, Slim is comparable to Tom Cruise's character Maverick from the movie Top Gun.
 Admiral Hal Walker: an admiral in the U.S. Navy, and the trio's direct superior since the "Mission Apocalypse" story arc, as captain of the carrier USS Eisenhower, where the core trio is often stationed on board. Sometimes impulsive and easily displeased, especially when Sonny Tuckson is involved. His most memorable attribute is his dog, O'Connor, who lives on board with him and quickly became Sonny's worst nightmare.
 O’Connor the dog (sometimes spelt O’Conner) is Admiral Walker's pet and a mascot for the carrier USS Eisenhower. He is very fond of Captain Tuckson, much to the Admiral's displeasure. O’Conner acts like a sort of ‘Marmaduke’ - he is cherished by his owner and lives to cause trouble for Tuckson. In Ghost Squadron he tags along with Sonny when he is transferred to a top secret land-based flying outfit. In Mystery in Antarctica, Buck and Tumbler play a cruel prank on him wherein they fake O’Conner's death by his hand; Sonny soon has nightmares of getting put to death by an enraged Admiral.
 Lieutenant Cindy McPherson: the first female U.S. Navy pilot portrayed in the series, she has appeared in several of the later novels (nineties and onwards). A crack pilot, she is also very attractive and a frequent target for Sonny Tuckson's advances.
 General C. Scott: a general in the U.S. Air Force, often in charge of classified and extremely delicate operations. He first appears in Ghost Squadron, where he and Danny command an off-the-books fighter unit in the Bosnian War, and is referred to only as "General X." His name is revealed in The Night of the Serpent, in which he directs an operation to recover an American pilot in North Korea.

Bibliography

As originally published

Jean-Michel Charlier and Victor Hubinon

Jean-Michel Charlier and Francis Bergèse

70th Anniversary edition 

16 pages were written for Les Oiseaux Noirs before Charlier's death. The script was finished by Fréderic Zumbiehl and Patrice Buendia, and the artwork was finished by Bergèse. The second album was drawn by Andre Le Bras. The two were released as a 70th Anniversary edition in 2017.

Jacques De Douhet and Francis Bergèse

Francis Bergèse

Frédéric Zumbiehl and Francis Winis

Frédéric Zumbiehl and Gil Formosa

Spin-off series 
In 2013, Dupuis created a spin-off series, ‘Buck Danny Classic’, drawn in the original style, and focussing on the period covered in the first books, with the Korean War for the first two volumes, the end of the Second World War for the next two volumes, then the Cold War for the last two. As of September 2020, the series has 6 albums.

Frédéric Zumbiehl and Jean-Michel Arroyo

Frédéric Marniquet, Frédéric Zumbiehl, and Jean-Michel Arroyo

New edition albums
Beginning in 1983, in the line of the New "Buck Danny" novels by Charlier and Bergèse, Publisher Dupuis took it upon them to re-issue the previous albums in a collectors edition under the new format "Tout Buck Danny" ('Everything Buck Danny' or 'The complete Buck Danny'). These differed from the original albums still in print as each volume being a solid hardcover book with three or four of the original novels plus some additional material. With most of the Buck Danny stories stretching out over two or even three albums, this enabled the reader to have a complete adventure in one novel. Yet the addition of magazine artwork, promotional material and other work made it clear that this editions were aimed at the elder collector. During the hiatus years after the death of Charlier, this series continued with the accumulated material and its success no doubt prompted Dupuis to press Bergèse into continuing the series. At present, with 'complete' album 16 covering the 'loose' albums 49, 50 and 51, the 'complete' books have caught up with the loose album series. 
La Guerre du Pacifique, première partie (War in the Pacific, Part 1).
Covers the albums 1) 2) and 3) and Charlier and Hubinon's first collaboration: The Agony of the Bismark