[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jason Jarrett (footballer)

eeks. He joined League One Oldham Athletic on an end-of-season loan in January 2008. He scored three times in fifteen games for the "Latics", including two in a 4–1 victory against Roses derby rivals Huddersfield Town, before also missing a penalty that would have completed a first career hat-trick.

After applying himself well in pre-season, he made three appearances for Preston in October 2008, but was told by manager Alan Irvine that he would be restricted to appearance from the bench at Deepdale. During his time at Preston he suffered with depression. In January 2009, Jarrett left Preston after negotiating an early release to his contract, and joined League One side Brighton & Hove Albion, signing a contract until the end of the 2008–09 season. Adams lost his job not long afterwards, and new manager Russell Slade brought in his own man in Gary Dicker from Stockport County. It was announced on 12 May 2009, that Jarrett would be leaving Brighton after the expiration of his contract at the end of June 2009.

In September 2009, he joined up with Micky Adams again, this time at League Two Port Vale on a trial basis. He was signed up on a three-month deal before the month was up, in an attempt to "kick-start his career". His first task was to regain the fitness necessary for regular football. However, he was not offered a new contract at the end of the year, having played just thirteen games, due to illness and injury. Adams admitted "the fans didn't see the best of him".

In July 2010 he signed a six-month contract with Oldham Athletic. Manager Paul Dickov spoke of how versatile the player was, and that he was planning to play the midfielder in defence, in the belief he can bring a lot of experience to a young side. He was released on 13 January 2011 after his short-term contract was completed, having made ten appearances. He spent July 2011 on trial at Rochdale.

He signed with Conference North club FC Halifax Town in July 2012. He moved on to Airbus in January 2013, and played ten Welsh Premier League games. He signed with Chester in May 2013. He made 32 appearances for the "Seals" as they were relegated out of the Conference Premier in 2013–14.

Jarrett signed with Salford City in June 2014. He made his club debut in the opening league match of the season on 16 August as Salford beat Scarborough 4–1. The "Ammies" won the Northern Premier League Division One North title in 2014–15.

Style of play
Brighton manager Micky Adams described Jarrett as "an energetic box-to-box midfielder who can operate in either an attacking or defensive role anywhere across the middle".

Later career
Jarrett took an FA refereeing course in 2013 at Lancashire FA, he continued to play semi-professional football whilst gaining experience refereeing on Sunday mornings in the Lancashire Sunday Football League. He made the decision to retire from playing football and concentrate on his refereeing career.

He set up a coaching academy named ProBall Sport.

Career statistics

Honours
Wigan Athletic
Football League Second Division: 2002–03
Championship second-place promotion: 2004–05

Salford City
Northern Premier League Division One North: 2014–15

References

1979 births
Living people
Footballers from Bury, Greater Manchester
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Blackpool F.C. players
Wrexham A.F.C. players
Bury F.C. players
Wigan Athletic F.C. players
Stoke City F.C. players
Norwich City F.C. players
Plymouth Argyle F.C. players
Preston North End F.C. players
Hull City A.F.C. players
Leicester City F.C. players
Queens Park Rangers F.C. players
Oldham Athletic A.F.C. players
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
FC Halifax Town players
Airbus UK Broughton F.C. players
Chester F.C. players
Salford City F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Cymru Premier players
Northern Football League players
English football referees