[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Margaret Howard, Countess of Nottingham

ain, Sir Andrew Sinclair. Margaret insisted in a letter to Sinclair that Christian IV should know "that I deserve as little that name he gave me as either the mother of himself or his children". Sinclair had to pass the letter on to Christian IV. Anne of Denmark asked James to banish her from court.

The French ambassador Antoine Lefèvre de la Boderie was aware of the quarrel, and wrote of the age difference between Lady Nottingham and the Admiral. He describes the argument centering on a clock and the time of departure. Christian IV two or three times indicated the time two o'clock with his fingers. The Countess, who was pregnant, thought Christian IV and Anne of Denmark were laughing at her. Boderie knew that Margaret had written to Sinclair, and Anne of Denmark had expelled her from court, berating her as the grandchild of an illegitimate son of James V. His letter is an important source for our knowledge of the incident. Boderie's version of events was a source of amusement to Henry IV of France.

Dudley Carleton found fault with Christian IV. He heard that Christian IV had written to Anne of Denmark to complain about the Countess of Nottingham's letter to him, which did "some hurt". Carleton thought that Christian IV had shown two fingers to the Earl of Nottingham, who took no offence. The Countess was offended, more so because she was pregnant and anxious of her credit and honour.

Another, possibly apocryphal, cause for the quarrel was included in Edward Peyton's Catastrophe of the House of Stuarts. During The Entertainment of the Kings of Great Britain and Denmark at Theobalds House. King James was carried to bed and Christian IV was so "disguised" or drunk that he tried to seduce the Countess of Nottingham, causing a quarrel with the Earl of Nottingham, "And Denmark was so disguised, as he would have lain with the Countess of Nottingham, making horns in derision at her husband the high Admiral of England; which caused a deep discontent between them".

Life at court
The countess seems to have been quickly returned to royal favour. Like many courtiers she gave Anne of Denmark clothes as New Year's Day gifts. On 1 January 1609, she gave the queen a satin petticoat embroidered round about the hem and up the front with grapes, roses, pansies, birds, clouds, and bats described as "fruits batts or flindermyse".

There was another incident at the wedding of Princess Elizabeth and Frederick V of the Palatinate in February 1613, recorded by the master of court ceremony, John Finet. He noted a confrontation between the French ambassador's wife and the Countess of Nottingham. As the ambassador's wife was directed to a place at dinner deemed inappropriate by the Countess, she grasped her hand and would not let her go all through the meal.

In July 1614, she was a godparent to Thomas Ingram.

When the Earl of Nottingham gave up the admiralty he was declared to be the first earl of England. However, during the planning of the funeral of Anne of Denmark in 1619 other aristocrats including Alethea Howard, Countess of Arundel and Dorothy Percy, Countess of Northumberland refused to give her precedence. One solution suggested was to make Helena, Marchioness of Northampton the chief mourner.

Material culture
An inventory of luxury goods belonging to Margaret and the Earl of Nottingham written by the notary David Moysie in 1606 gives an idea of the material culture of Jacobean courtiers. There were a large number of buttons set with diamonds and rubies, a flask of amber for musk, two bezoar stones, a variety of silver plate including a lemon squeezer and dishes for sausages and eggs, a silver sugar box shaped like a scallop shell, and bed curtains of velvet and of "China stuff." A portrait of the countess attributed to Paul van Somer places her in a rich interior with curtains dressed with bobbin lace and wearing needle lace collar and cuffs.

William Monson
After her first husband's death, she married William Monson, 1st Viscount Monson in October 1625 at Reigate. She rode with him in the market on the next day and several visits to show off her new husband. They had no children.

Margaret died in her house at Covent Garden on 4 August 1639 and was buried at Chelsea.

External links
 'Lady called Margaret Stuart, Countess of Nottingham, c.1620' attributed to Paul van Somer, Portland Collection

Notes

1590s births
1639 deaths
Daughters of Scottish earls
English ladies-in-waiting
English countesses
Monson
17th-century Scottish women
17th-century Scottish people
Court of James VI and I
Household of Anne of Denmark
Margaret
Wives of knights