[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

most Zionist organizations, including the right-wing Tnuat HaMizrahi, Bnei Akiva, and Brit HaKanaim Barak, but also Labor Zionists from Borochovia, Gordonia, Hashomer Hatzair, Poale Zion, and Tze'irei Zion, and trans-ideological bodies such as HaNoar HaTzioni (HH), ORT, HIAS, and the Romanian WIZO.

Organizational activity in view of relocation also fell on the HH, which established branches (snifim) throughout the country, with a central one being a farm in Floreasca. In April 1938, Wilhelm Fischer, Carol Singer and Ernő Vermes traveled with Niemirower to Jerusalem, "to investigate the possibility of increased immigration for the Romanian Jews and to intervene with Zionist forums towards ensuring this." Țurlea argues that the Zionist emigration current was consolidated by the antisemitic restrictions, a move up from its previous status as "insignificant". He also notes that few of the emigrants were permanently departed, citing a November 1939 report by Marcu Beza, the Romanian Consul in Palestine. According to Beza, a majority of Romanian Jews in Palestine had concluded that Romania was preferable, and were overwhelming the Consulate with repatriation requests; "there was even a newly-established body organizing their illegal return to Romania."

Niemirower had a seat in Carol's new Senate to his death in late 1939. In March 1940, the seat went to a new Chief Rabbi, Alexandru Șafran. With backing from Tivadar Fischer and Filderman, he was able to block a law project which would have prevented Jewish physicians from practicing, as well as obtaining guarantees that some Jews would still be allowed to work in other fields. The FRN's decline was marked in mid 1940 by a Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, the first of several territorial changes which split the PER's old constituency. Antisemitic factions of the FRN circulated claims that Jews were to be held responsible for the Soviet advances—Rabbi Șafran attended a special Senate meeting where Cuza, now an FRN dignitary, apparently tried to have him lynched. He was ultimately able to submit a statement on behalf of all Romanian Jews, who thereby declared themselves "united with the Romanian people in national solidarity and discipline, in profound patriotic faith, and in deep devotion to King and Country." The Senate was dissolved by Carol on July 6, 1940, leaving the Jews entirely unrepresented. The same day Renașterea Noastră published parts of the speech Șafran had prepared, assuring Romanians of the Jews' "ardent and sincere" patriotism. Of the former PER leaders, the elderly Diamant opted to stay behind in Bukovina; he was deported by the Soviet occupiers to the Gulag, where he died some time after.

Holocaust and resistance

Under FRN government pressures, EZNSz/UNET created an apolitical, regional, replacement for the PER. Called Social Zionist Council (Consiliul Sionist Social), it grouped together the Fischers and other former party members. It continued to exist until the Second Vienna Award, when Northern Transylvania was ceded by Romania to Hungary; it was banned in September 1940. Tivadar Fischer, József Fischer, and Marton remained on Hungarian territory. In 1944, they were moved into Kolozsvár Ghetto, where the former two functioned as Judenrat members, answering to Rudolf Kastner (Fischer's son-in-law) and Dieter Wisliceny. Marton also stayed behind in Cluj, writing works which looked beyond fascism to a future "new Emancipation". The party was decimated by the Nazis, with all three of its Năsăud candidates in the 1931 election being killed in extermination camps. The Fischers were among the 300 Jews for whom Kastner obtained a reprieve from extermination at Auschwitz. They were instead transported by the Nazis to Bergen-Belsen, and subsequently allowed to leave for Switzerland.

Other former party cells existed in Nazi-aligned Romania. EZNSz/UNET maintained a presence in southern Transylvania and the Banat, under Wilhelm Fischer and Carol Reiter. Recommended by his brother Tivadar, Fischer was also a liaison with international Zionism, which allowed him to establish the WJC bureau in Bucharest in 1941. Also here, FRN officials allowed Weissman and Sami Singer to canvass for the JNF, and set up a Zionist Union dedicated to the emigration project. Among the Jews who took this route in 1940 was PER activist Ebner, followed in 1941 by Mizrachi.