[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Juniper Shield

int Special Operations Task Force–Trans Sahara (JSOTF-TS) to help combat terrorism in the region. In 2012, the name of Operation Enduring Freedom - Trans Sahara transitioned to Operation Juniper Shield, although the operation was still referred to in US Government sources as OEF-TS as late as 2014. 

ABC News reported that US forces arrived in Niger in early 2013 to support the French military intervention in Mali; 150 US personnel set up a surveillance drone operation over Mali that was conducted out of Niamey. As of 2017, there were about 800 US troops in Niger, the majority of whom are construction crews working to build up a second drone base in northern Niger. The remainder conduct a surveillance drone mission out of Niamey that helps out the French in Mali and other regional countries in the fight against the terrorists, and less than a hundred US Army Special Forces soldiers are also advising and assisting Niger's military to build up their fighting capability to counter the terrorists. CNN reported that following the Tongo Tongo ambush in October 2017, which left 4 US soldiers killed, the government of Niger granted the US military the authority to arm its drones in Niger; the US military had been seeking the authority to arm its drones in Niger for months prior to the ambush.

ABC News also reported that there are 300 U.S. military personnel in Burkina Faso and Cameroon carrying out the same task as US forces in Niger, The Guardian reported that the US military deployed 300 personnel to Cameroon in early October 2015, with the approval of the Cameroonian government, their primary mission was to provide intelligence support to local forces as well as conducting reconnaissance flights, The personnel are also overseeing a program to transfer American military vehicles to the Cameroonian Army to aid in their fight against Islamist militants, Army Times later reported that US soldiers in Cameroon are also providing IED awareness training to the country's infantry forces. CNN reported that in May 2016 that US personnel conduct the drone operations from Garoua to help provide intelligence in the region to assist local forces. In 2023, The 2023 Niger coup happens and leads to The Nigerien crisis.

See also 
 Tuareg Rebellion (2007–2009)
 Insurgency in the Maghreb (2002–present)
 2012 Northern Mali conflict
 List of wars 2003-current

References

Sources

External links
 Official United States Africa Command site
 Maps of Operation Enduring Freedom
 Trans-Sahara Counterterrorism Initiative Details of the operation by Global Security.

War on terror
Counterterrorism in the United States
Juniper Shield
Juniper Shield
Conflicts in 2022