[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Progressive Canadian Party candidates in the 2006 Canadian federal election

" into Canada.  Butcher later clarified that he believed it was inappropriate for Canada to entice doctors to emigrate from medically underserviced areas in the global south.  Some took issue with his comments, arguing that Canada's medical system would collapse without doctors from other countries.

Butcher intended to seek the Conservative nomination again for the 2006 election, but withdrew shortly before the vote.  The nomination was won by Kevin Serviss.  Butcher subsequently left the Conservative Party, charging that Serviss was a special-interest candidate who should not have been permitted to seek the nomination.  He also argued that the Conservative Party was drifting too far to the right under Stephen Harper's leadership, and would pursue a socially conservative agenda if it came to power.  He chose to run for the Progressive Canadian Party instead.  In an interview with the Sudbury Star during this election, he cited Pierre Trudeau as his favourite Canadian politician.

Windsor West: Chris Schnurr

Schnurr (born in Wingham, Ontario) is the assistant to the Director of Development and Stewardship Officer of University Advancement at the University of Windsor (Windsor Star, 1 October 2005)  He also operates a graphic design business.  A former member of the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada, he describes himself as fiscally conservative and socially moderate (Windsor Star, 6 January 2006).

He has called for greater AIDS/HIV awareness in the Windsor gay community (Star, 7 December 2004).  Before joining the Progressive Canadian Party, he planned to vote for the Liberals in the 2006 election because of concerns about the Conservative Party's social policies (Star, 19 April 2005).  In 1999, he organized the first gay pride parade in Sarnia (Globe and Mail, 23 August 1999).

In 2005, Schnurr wrote a Letter to the Editor supporting the energy policies of the former provincial government of Mike Harris, which required energy consumers to pay the real cost of electricity.  Schnurr argued that the policy encouraged conservation, and criticized the succeeding governments of Ernie Eves and Dalton McGuinty for supporting artificially lower rates (Star, 10 August 2005).  He has also called upon the government to address rising gas prices, otherwise they could be faced with a renewed demand for the nationalization of the oil industry (Star, 14 September 2005).

Schnurr has argued against affirmative action policies for universities, describing such policies as reverse discrimination (Star, 7 April 2003).  He was an opponent of the 2003 Invasion of Iraq (Star, 13 December 2002).

He was a candidate for city council for the City of Windsor municipal election in November 2006 .

He received 614 votes (1.29%), finished fifth out of seven against New Democratic Party incumbent Brian Masse during the 2006 federal election.

Chris Schnurr resigned from the Progressive Canadian Party as their Communications Director and Health Critic, along with President Jim Love and Leader Tracy Parsons in November 2007.

Markham—Unionville: Fayaz Choudhary

M. Fayaz Choudhary is a Creative/Futuristic minded small business man who started his first business while still in school (22 years ago) and continues run his thriving business in greater Toronto

Born Pakistan, Fayaz chose Canada as the land of opportunity and freedom to call home for himself and his family. He and his wife of 13 years, Tayyaba, are the parents of twin boys, Munam and Afraz, and two daughters, Samahat and Sabahat.

Starting with a degree in Science from the University of Karachi, Pakistan, His love of learning has earned him additional skills in various fields of computers and electronics.

Using that knowledge, Fayaz Choudhary became a Local Radio producer on 770AM running state of the Art web radios and web TV. He is also the founder of first Urdu community web radio in Canada.

An active member of the community, Fayaz’s love of learning and youth inspired him to create and finance the “Munam’s scientific inventor’s award 1993, 1994, and 1995” for teens

Fayaz Choudhary is committed to support the needs of other hard working Canadians because he believes that any man who works hard enough could aspire to any job in a country of opportunity like Canada.

A man who delights in helping others, Fayaz Choudhary characterizes this opportunity to serve by running as a candidate with a simple slogan. “We will build our future together!”

Footnotes