[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 23]
# Das Kapital, Volume I

died in 1883.

The Marx-Engels-Gesamtausgabe contains critical editions with apparatus the different editions.

There are a number of different English translations. There is some controversy as to the choice of edition that has been translated as representing this work to foreign language readers.

As Marx notes in the afterword to the second German edition of Capital, Marx's different editions of Capital reflect his reworking of published material especially in the presentation of the work particularly on the theory of value.

The Marx-Engels-Gesamtausgabe contains the four variants of Capital, Volume I in their entirety.

In spite of enormous effort, Marx did not live to complete his goal to publish the remaining volumes of . After Marx died, Engels published as editor and in some ways expanded from Marx's economic manuscripts of volumes II (1885) and III (1894). Scholars are divided over which of several plans for the work was Marx's final. Because the project was not definitively completed, volume one's role in the critique of political economy leaves unanswered scientific questions that Marxian political economists continue to debate.

Presentation method and literary form 
Marxian political economists are divided over the methodological character driving Marx's choice of presentation order of economic concepts, a question frustrating quicker completion of this book in Marx's adult life.

There are logical, historical, sociological and other interpretations attempting to clarify method which Marx did not explain because his writing project on dialectics had lower priority than other matters.

Since 1867, scholars have promoted different interpretations of the purpose driving volume one's long and oftentimes expansive argument. Key writers include Louis Althusser, Harry Cleaver, Richard D. Wolff, David Harvey, Michael Lebowitz, Moishe Postone, Fred Moseley, Michael Heinrich and others. In the Arabic world, Marx's ideas were discussed by thinkers such as Sadiq Jalal Al-Azm, Al-Tayyeb Tizini, Rizgar Akrawi and others.

There exist multiple plans for the project of  and consequently whether or not Marx did complete his project is an ongoing debate among Marxian political economists.

Notes

References 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Althusser, Louis; Balibar, Étienne (2009). Reading Capital. London: Verso.
 Althusser, Louis (1969) (October 1969). "How to Read Marx's Capital". Marxism Today. pp. 302–305. Originally appeared in French in L'Humanité on 21 April 1969.
 Bottomore, Tom, ed. (1998). A Dictionary of Marxist Thought. Oxford: Blackwell.
 Fine, Ben (2010). Marx's Capital. 5th ed. London: Pluto.
 Furner, James (2018). Marx on Capitalism: The Interaction-Recognition-Antinomy Thesis. Leiden: Brill.
 Harvey, David (2010). A Companion to Marx's Capital. London: Verso.
 Harvey, David (2006). The Limits of Capital. London: Verso.
 Mandel, Ernest (1970). Marxist Economic Theory. New York: Monthly Review Press.
 Postone, Moishe (1993). Time, Labor, and Social Domination: A Reinterpretation of Marx's Critical Theory. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
 
 Shipside, Steve (2009). Karl Marx's Das Kapital: A Modern-day Interpretation of a True Classic. Oxford: Infinite Ideas. 
 Wheen, Francis (2006). Marx's Das Kapital--A Biography. New York: Atlantic Monthly Press. . .

See also 
 
 Capital, Volume II
 Capital, Volume III
 Marx-Engels-Gesamtausgabe

Notes

External links 

 Marx, Karl (1867). Capital, Volume I. Full text at the Marxists Internet Archive.
 Capital Volume I, complete book in PDF format by Progress Publishers
 Marx, Karl (1887). Capital, Volume I. HTML5 version of the 1887 English edition.
 
 Marxist analyses of Karl Marx's "Capital" at the Marxists Internet Archive.
 Engels, Fredrich (1868). Synopsis of Capital, Volume I.
 Gellert, Hugo (1934). Capital in Lithographs.
 Rozdolsky, Roman (1977). "The Making of Marx's Capital".
 Teeple, Gary (1984). "Notes for the Study of Marx's Capital: Volume One". 2022 revised version.
 Harvey, David (2010). "A Companion to Marx's Capital".
 Harvey, David. "Reading Marx's Capital". An open course consisting of a close reading of the text of Marx's Capital, Volume I in thirteen video lectures.
 Hardt, Michael. "Reading Notes on Marx's Capital".
 Cleaver, Harry. "Study Guide to Capital, Volume I".
 "The MarX-Files: Resources on Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels".
 Hans Ehrbar (2010). Annotations to Karl Marx's Capital.
 Clarke, Simon (2011). "Reading Guide to Capital".
 "Japan gives a comic twist to 'Das Kapital'". The Irish Times. 21 November 2008. Retrieved 24 April 2019.
 Liberation School. (2021). "Reading Capital with Comrades". A 12-part podcast series on volume 1.

1867 books
1867 in economics
Books by Karl Marx
Marxist works
Memory of the World Register

de:Das Kapital. Band I