[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Sanctuary city

protect you. We are with you." 
Lansing voted to become a sanctuary city in April 2017, but reversed the decision a week later due to public and business opposition. An order by mayor Virg Bernero still prohibits Lansing police officers from asking residents about their immigration status, however.

Minnesota
 Minneapolis has an ordinance, adopted in 2003, that directs local law enforcement officers "not to 'take any law enforcement action' for the sole purpose of finding undocumented immigrants, or ask an individual about his or her immigration status." The Minneapolis ordinance does not bar cooperation with federal authorities: "The city works cooperatively with the Homeland Security, as it does with all state and federal agencies, but the city does not operate its programs for the purpose of enforcing federal immigration laws. The Homeland Security has the legal authority to enforce immigration laws in the United States, in Minnesota and in the city."

Mississippi
Mississippi has banned sanctuary cities.

Missouri
Missouri has banned sanctuary cities.

Montana
On April 2, 2021,  Governor Greg Gianforte signed a bill that bans Sanctuary cities in the state of Montana into law. Montana became the 13th state to ban sanctuary cities.

Nevada
 Clark County and Las Vegas

New York
New York has a pro-sanctuary city law.

 Albany - Mayor Kathy Sheehan stated that the city complies with federal law and cooperates with ICE, but she asserted that comments by national government officials show a failure "to understand what is happening in our cities and why a city like Albany would choose to label itself as a sanctuary city."
 Ithaca
 New York City (see also illegal immigration to New York City)
Newburgh declared itself a sanctuary city in March 2017.
 Rochester
 Syracuse

New Jersey
In 2018, Attorney General Gurbir Grewal issued the 'Immigrant Trust Directive', which effectively made New Jersey a sanctuary state. Among the municipalities which are considered sanctuary cities are Asbury Park, Camden, East Orange, Hoboken, Jersey City, Linden, New Brunswick, Newark, North Bergen, Plainfield, Trenton and Union City. Those with specific executive orders made by mayors or resolution by municipal councils are:
 Jersey City
 Maplewood
 Newark
 East Orange
 Prospect Park
 Union City
Highland Park (see:Reformed Church of Highland Park)
Hoboken

New Mexico 
All county jails are prohibited from honoring ICE detainers, unless they have an arrest warrant signed by a judge.

North Carolina 
North Carolina has banned sanctuary cities. The state currently restricts any city or municipality from refusing to cooperate with federal immigration and customs enforcement officials. There are therefore no official sanctuary cities in the state.  A bill, initially under consideration as of March 2017, is entitled Citizens Protection Act of 2017 or HB 63.  Under the new provisions, the state would be able to deny bail to undocumented immigrants for whom Immigration and Customs Enforcements (ICE) has issued a detainer; allow the state to withhold tax revenues from cities who are not in compliance with the statewide immigration regulations; and encourage tipsters to identify municipalities which violate these laws. A similar version of HB 63 was introduced in February 2023 during the 2023-2024 session.

Ohio 
 Cleveland
 Cincinnati's mayor declared the city a sanctuary city on January 30, 2017, in response to a federal executive order limiting immigration issued three days earlier.
 As of 2019, Ohio, Kentucky and Michigan are pushing for 'anti sanctuary cities' measures in their states.

Oregon
State law passed in 1987: "Oregon Revised Statute 181.850, which prohibits law enforcement officers at the state, county or municipal level from enforcing federal immigration laws that target people based on their race or ethnic origin, when those individuals are not suspected of any criminal activities."
 Beaverton city council passed a resolution in January 2017 stating, in part, "The City of Beaverton is committed to living its values as a welcoming city for all individuals ...regardless of a person's ... immigration status" and that they would abide by Oregon state law of not enforcing federal immigration laws.
 Corvallis
 Portland

Pennsylvania
There are currently 18 sanctuary jurisdictions in the state of Pennsylvania. Sanctuary jurisdictions exist in Bradford County, Bucks County, Clarion County, Delaware County, Erie County, Franklin County, Lebanon County, Lehigh County, Lycoming County, Montgomery County, Montour County, Perry County, Philadelphia County, Pike County, and Westmoreland County.