[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tang campaign against the Eastern Turks

The Tang campaign against the Eastern Turks of 629-630 was an armed conflict that resulted in the Tang dynasty destroying the Eastern Turkic Khaganate and annexing its territories.

The Khaganate, led by Illig Qaghan, threatened the Tang early in the reign of Emperor Taizong (r. 626–649). The Tang waited several years to prepare for war by appeasing the Khaganate. The Tang also formed an alliance with the Xueyantuo, Khaganate's vassals seeking independence. The Tang offensive launched in the winter of 629, led by General Li Jing; the Khaganate was destroyed following Illig Qaghan's capture in 630.

Initially, the Tang attempted to settle the Eastern Turks within its borders, and left the territory north of the empire to the Xueyantuo. This changed when Ashina Jiesheshuai, of the Eastern Turkic royal house, attempted to assassinate Taizong. The Eastern Turkic Khaganate, led by Qilibi Khan, was reestablished as a Tang vassal by resettling Eastern Turks between the Great Wall and the Gobi Desert. The new Khaganate was intended to be a buffer against the Xueyantuo. Qilibi Khan's reign collapsed around new year 645 from internal dissent and Xueyantuo pressure.

The Tang made no further attempts to create an Eastern Turkic vassal. The hostile Second Turkic Khaganate was founded by Ilterish Qaghan during the reign of Taizong's successor, Gaozong.

Background 
The Eastern Turkic Khaganate was a vassal of the Sui Empire - the Tang's predecessor - but had rebelled during the reign of Emperor Yang of Sui (r. 604–618). During the Sui breakup late in Yang's reign, the Khaganate supported various claimants to the imperial title to promote conflict and make them subservient to the Khaganate. Among those benefiting from Khaganate support were Emperor Gaozu (founder of the Tang), Xue Ju (Emperor of Qin), Liang Shidu (Emperor of Liang), Liu Wuzhou (Dingyang Khan), Gao Kaidao (Prince of Yan), Dou Jiande (Prince of Xia), and Liu Heita (Prince of Handong). The Tang won hegemony in 623 following the death of Liu Heita. Following the Tang victory, the Khaganate began asserting control over Tang territory through routine raids even though Gaozu remained an ally and tributary. Furthermore, the Khaganate continued to support Liang Shidu (the last competing Chinese claimant to Tang), and harbour Prince Yang Zhengdao and his grandmother Empress Xiao of Sui. The Turkic raids were so serious that Gaozu considered moving the Tang capital from Chang'an to what is now southwestern Henan. The move was supported by crown prince Li Jiancheng, Li Yuanji (Prince of Qi), and the chancellor Pei Ji. Li Shimin, the Prince of Qin and future Emperor Taizong, convinced Gaozu to abandon the proposal by promising to - eventually - defeat the Eastern Turks.

In 626, Li Shimin eliminated his rivals to the throne - Li Jiancheng and supporter Li Yuanji were murdered during the incident at Xuanwu Gate - and became Emperor Taizong by forcing Gaozu to name him crown prince and then to abdicate. Less than a month after Taizong took the throne, a Khaganate raid - led by Illig Qaghan and Ashina Shibobi - began that eventually reached Chang'an. The Eastern Turks withdrew after Taizong personally made tribute - with promises of further tribute - outside the city at the Wei River Bridge.

Détente early in Emperor Taizong's reign 

Relations between the Tang and the Eastern Turkic Khaganate were relatively peaceful in the following years. During that time, the Tang received reports claiming misgovernance and internal dissent within the Khaganate. Khaganate government functions were entrusted to Zhao Deyan (趙德言), from China, whose corruption and complicated regulations alienated the population. Furthermore, Illig Qaghan favoured ethnic Xiongnu over Eastern Turks, leading to rebellions and their suppression. By 627, Taizong considered attacking the Khaganate. Chancellor Xiao Yu supported attacking. Taizong was convinced not to by Zhangsun Wuji, his brother-in-law, who argued that there was no good reason to as the Khaganate had not broken the peace.

At the same time, the Xueyantuo and Uyghurs, vassals of the Khaganate, were growing in strength and becoming difficult to contain. Illig Qaghan's relationship with Ashina Shibobi was deteriorating. Ashina Shibobi was in charge of the eastern Khaganate and was blamed for the gradual independence of the Khitan and Xi tribes. Furthermore, Ashina Shibobi campaign against the Xueyantuo and Uyghurs was a failure and was arrested by Illig Qaghan for a few days. Upon release, Ashina Shibobi rebelled and fought Illig Qaghan in 628.