[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Johns Hopkins University SAIS Europe

The Johns Hopkins University SAIS Europe in Bologna, Italy, is the European campus of the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS), a division of Johns Hopkins University located in Washington, D.C. SAIS degree programs emphasize international economics, international relations, EU policy and global risk with options to specialize in a broad range of other policy areas and geographic regions.

SAIS Europe was founded in 1955 by C. Grove Haines. In 1961, the school moved to its present location on Via Belmeloro and completed a major renovation of its facilities in 2006. The Bologna Center was inaugurated by then-Johns Hopkins University President Milton S. Eisenhower.

Notable alumni at SAIS have included foreign ministers, ambassadors, corporate board members, journalists, and deans at academic institutions. As of 2020, SAIS Europe has 8000+ alumni from 115 countries.

Overview
In Foreign Policy (magazine) polls, SAIS is consistently ranked as a top master's degree program for those pursuing a career in international relations.

SAIS Europe has an enrollment of about 200 students from 40 countries with a student-faculty ratio of approximately 6 to 1. One of the distinguishing characteristics of the school is its resident faculty complemented by some 40 adjunct professors drawn from top universities, institutes, think tanks, international NGOs, consulting firms, and financial institutions in Europe and beyond. In a typical year, students can choose from more than 70 course offerings.

The Director of the SAIS Europe is Michael Plummer, Eni Professor of International Economics. Prior to SAIS, Plummer was the Head of the Development Division of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Fulbright Chair in Economics and Pew Fellow in International Affairs at Harvard University, and an Asian Development Bank (ADB) distinguished lecturer.

In 2022, SAIS Europe alumnus '81 James Anderson and his spouse, Morag Anderson, donated $100 million to further secure the European campus' role as a vibrant hub for scholarship, learning, and public policy at a critical juncture in global history.

SAIS Europe is located next to the Brown in Bologna campus by the Brown University Department of Italian Studies, and the University of Bologna campus, the oldest university in Europe. The SAIS Europe campus has previously been featured in popular media: in 2012, HGTV House Hunters International (HHI!) Season 32 Episode 6 "Hitting the Books in Bologna, Italy" filmed MAGR candidate Kevin Rejent at the campus.