[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Schwester Selma

he hospital to this day. She would constantly remind her students, "Those who come to us need help". She wrote in her memoir, "Above all they should remember and never forget that one has to try everything when dealing with the patient to cause him as little pain as possible and to spare no effort".

Schwester Selma's contract included a three-month vacation in Germany every three years, but she took advantage of that clause only twice, in 1922 and 1925. In 1927 she was offered the position of head nurse at the Eidingen Stift Institution, a Jewish hospital in Leipzig. While she seriously considered the offer, the Frankfurt-based board of directors of Shaare Zedek convinced her not to leave, with a promise "to support her for the rest of her life".

Schwester Selma was the only operating-room nurse on duty during the 1929 Hebron massacre. A rescue team managed to evacuate the wounded from Hebron and rush them to the Shaare Zedek and Hadassah hospitals in Jerusalem. Specialists from throughout Jerusalem came to Shaare Zedek to operate on the wounded, and Schwester Selma assisted them for 23 hours without a break.

The November 1947 United Nations Partition Plan for Palestine was announced during her annual two-week holiday, which she spent with friends in Naharia. Immediately after the adoption of the resolution by the UN General Assembly, 1947–48 Civil War broke out, leading to an Arab siege of Jerusalem. Desiring to return to her post at the hospital, Schwester Selma spent three weeks petitioning the offices of the British Mandatory government, the incoming Israeli government, and even the underground leaders, to assist her. Finally the army agreed to put her on one of its armed convoys supplying food and medicine to the besieged city.

During Israel's polio epidemic in the early 1950s, Shaare Zedek was the only hospital in Jerusalem with an isolation ward. Schwester Selma displayed unceasing devotion to the running of the iron lung machines, teaching and supervising the untrained personnel who were recruited to work in the ward.

Shaare Zedek School of Nursing 

In 1934 Schwester Selma founded the Shaare Zedek Nursing School. The idea was initially opposed by Dr. Wallach, who worried that the school would emphasize theory over practical nursing, but Schwester Selma's curriculum proved him wrong. Examinations following the three-year course of study were administered by doctors from the British government hospital in Jerusalem. Schwester Selma taught all the practical nursing classes in the school's early years. After her death, the school instituted a Schwester Selma Award, which is bestowed on each year's outstanding graduate.

Personal life 
A diminutive figure who stood less than  tall, Schwester Selma was known for her kindness and her scrupulousness. She adopted as her personal motto a poem by Indian poet Rabindranath Tagore, which she kept on the wall in her room:

I slept and dreamt
that life was joy.
I awoke and saw
that life was duty.
I acted and behold,
duty was joy.

She never married. Both she and Dr. Wallach, who also never married, lived in separate rooms in the hospital. She often welcomed staff and patients for a chat in her sparsely furnished room, where she poured them cups of mint tea.

Schwester Selma and Dr. Wallach adopted three girls who had been abandoned in the hospital. One was Samoohah Calderon, whose mother had died and whose father had been drafted into the Turkish army; the infant's grandparents asked them to keep the baby. The second adoptee, Bolissa, was given to them by her father, who had carried her all the way from Syria; her mother had died en route. Bolissa was killed in the 1948 Ben Yehuda Street bombing. The third adoptee was named Sarina. The girls grew up on hospital grounds and were sent to school; one of the girls became a nurse; another a dental technician.

Awards and recognition

In 1974, at the age of 90, Schwester Selma was named a "Worthy of Jerusalem" by Jerusalem Mayor Teddy Kollek. A Time cover story on 29 December 1975, named her as one of the world's "living saints" in a list that included Mother Teresa, Sister Annie, Dom Hélder Câmara, and Father Matta El Meskeen. Numerous publications called her the "Jewish Florence Nightingale" for her decades of selfless devotion to patient welfare.

Schwester Selma once received a diamond ring from a Holocaust survivor whose sister had given her the valuable item before she was deported, saying, "If I do not return, give it to a human being who has never married and has devoted her life to helping other people". When the survivor read about Schwester Selma in the European press, she gave the ring to her.

Later life and death