[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Yorktown order of battle

ed by Brigadier General George Weedon
Mercer's Virginia Militia Battalion
Weedon's Virginia Militia Battalion
 2nd Brigade, commanded by Brigadier General Robert Lawson
Lawson's Virginia Militia Battalion
 3rd Brigade, commanded by Brigadier General Edward Stevens
Steven's Virginia Militia Battalion

French Army
The French forces at Yorktown came from two separate sources.  The larger force, the Expédition Particulière, under the command of Lieutenant General the Comte de Rochambeau, landed at Newport, Rhode Island in 1780, and marched overland to join Washington's army outside New York in the summer of 1781.  These troops marched with Washington's army from New York to Yorktown.  More of the French troops were transported by boat on the Chesapeake than Americans, due to the French fleet commanders' preferences for transporting their own.  The second source for French troops was the Caribbean colony of Saint-Domingue (Haiti), where Admiral de Grasse picked up more than 3,000 troops under the command of Major General Claude-Anne de Rouvroy de Saint Simon before departing for North America.  The land forces were also supplemented by a number of marines provided by de Grasse in support of the siege.

The French order of battle is listed below.

 Commander Lt. Gen. Comte de Rochambeau, commanding
 Commander of Artillery Commandament d'Artillerie commanded by Lt. Col. Comte d'Aboville
2éme Bataillon du Régiment d'Auxonne (Artillery)
 4 Companies from 1ére Bataillon du Régiment de Metz (Artillery)
 Company from the Régiment de Grenoble (Artillery)

 Maj. Gen. Charles Gabriel, Baron de Viomenil's Division
Brigade Bourbonnois
Régiment de Bourbonnais (2 Battalions)
Régiment de Royal–Deux–Ponts (2 Battalions)
 Maj. Gen. Joseph Hyacinthe, Comte de Viomenil's Division
Brigade Soissonais
Régiment de Soissonnais (2 Battalions)
Régiment de Saintonge (2 Battalions)
 Maj. Gen. Marquis de St. Simon's Division
Brigade Agenois
Régiment d'Agenois (2 Battalions)
Régiment de Gatinois (2 Battalions)
 Brigade Touraine
Régiment de Touraine (2 Battalions)
 Detachment at Gloucester under Brigadier Marquis de Choisy
1ére Légion (Volontaires Étrangers de la Marine) — 4 companies of infantry and detachment of 2 guns
2éme Legion (Légion de Lauzun) — 2 Squadrons of Hussars
Corps Royal d'Infanterie de la Marine (from the squadron in the Bay)

Notes

Sources

Morrissey, Brendan (1999), Yorktown 1781: The World Turned Upside Down, Oxford, United Kingdom: Osprey Military. 
Theodore P. Savas & J. David Dameron, The New American Revolution Handbook, New York and California: Savas Beatie, 2010/2011. .
Digby Smith & Kevin F. Kiley, An Illustrated Encyclopedia of Uniforms of the American War of Independence 1775-1783, Lorenz Books. .
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Les Combattants Français de la Guerre Américaine 1778–1783, 1903 Paris, France.

American Revolutionary War orders of battle
Yorktown campaign