[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

y abandoned ship.  During the night of 4 June President Tang and General Chiu fled to Tamsui, and from there sailed for the mainland on the evening of 6 June aboard the steamship Arthur.  Their departure was delayed for a day because of disorder in Tamsui (see below).

Japanese occupation of Taipei 

Leaderless and without pay, the troops of the Taipei garrison abandoned their posts and began looting the city.  The city's powder magazine was fired, and there were several fatal shootings.  Alarmed at the growing chaos, a number of local businessmen, including the influential Koo Hsien-jung, decided to invite the Japanese in. On Koo's initiative, three representatives of the city's foreign community left Taipei, intending to make contact with the Japanese forces in Keelung and urge them to enter Taipei to restore order.  The foreign envoys met a Japanese force at Xizhi on 6 June, and when he learned of the growing disorder in Taipei the Japanese commander immediately ordered an advance to occupy the city.  The first Japanese troops entered Taipei at dawn on 7 June, and during the next two days put down the riots.  Most of the Chinese soldiers in Taipei surrendered their weapons without resistance.

Japanese occupation of Tamsui 

During the first week of June, while the Japanese were securing Keelung and advancing on Taipei, law and order broke down in Tamsui.  On 5 June Tang Jingsong and several senior ministers boarded the steamship Arthur at Tamsui, intending to escape to mainland China, and it was rumoured that they had with them large sums of money owed in pay to the Chinese garrisons of the northern towns.  Large numbers of Chinese soldiers in flight from Keelung had poured into Tamsui on 4 June, and on 5 June a party of soldiers boarded the steamship and extorted $45,000 from its passengers.  The money was distributed among the various infantry units present in Tamsui.  On the evening of 5 June the gunners of Tamsui's Hobe Fort, indignant that they had been left out of this distribution of spoils, threatened to fire on the steamship unless a suitable bribe was found.  The European employees of the Maritime Customs raised the sum demanded ($5,000) during the night and handed it over to the gunners in return for the breechblocks of the fort's four Krupp cannon. The Hobe Fort, the 'lock and key of the northern gate' (北門鎖鑰) as the Chinese called it, had been built only a few years earlier at great expense by the Chinese governor Liu Mingchuan.  It was now effectively disarmed before it had even fired a shot at the Japanese.  During the afternoon of 6 June Arthur got up steam and attempted to leave Tamsui, as her captain believed that it was now safe to do so, but was fired on several times by a Chinese field battery.  Around fifty Chinese soldiers aboard the steamship were wounded by the exploding shells and several soldiers were killed, including the captain of Tang Jingsong's bodyguard.  The German gunboat , which had been sent to Tamsui to protect the town's European residents, immediately replied, putting the Chinese battery out of action.  Arthur left Tamsui that evening with Tang Jingsong and most of the senior officers of the republic on board.  The Chinese troops in Tamsui now began to loot the town, singling out the wealthy foreign residences for immediate attention, but the presence of Iltis and the British gunboat  deterred them from making physical attacks upon the foreigners.  Order was only restored with the arrival of the Japanese.  On 7 June two Japanese warships entered Tamsui harbour, and their appearance immediately put an end to the looting.  On 8 June eighteen Japanese cavalry troopers advanced northwards from Taipei and occupied Tamsui without firing a shot, taking the surrender of several hundred Chinese soldiers.

Political developments 
On 14 June, Admiral Kabayama arrived in Taipei, and announced the establishment of Japanese administration in Taiwan.  With northern Taiwan now firmly under their control, the Japanese repatriated the thousands of Chinese soldiers captured at Keelung, Taipei and Tamsui during the brief campaign.  Japanese transports ferried them across the Formosa Strait and landed them in the Fukienese port of Amoy.

The first phase of the campaign had seen the flight of the Republican president Tang Jingsong, the Japanese occupation of Keelung, Taipei and Tamsui and the surrender of the Republican garrisons in northern Taiwan.  It was generally expected, both by the Japanese and by foreign observers, that resistance to the Japanese occupation of Taiwan would now evaporate.  The American war correspondent James W. Davidson commented:

At 2 a.m. on 5 June the yellow Republican Tiger gathered in his long tail and laid down and died for lack of nourishment.