[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Colenso

that Māori as well as settlers enjoyed. This put him in opposition to a wide range of New Zealanders. In 1847, Judge Chapman, Doctor Featherston, the bank manager McDonald and the merchant Waitt visited the Hutt valley. There was criticism of what was called "the malicious interference of Colenso".

His standing in New Zealand colonial society and the Church Missionary Society, along with his fervent hope of ordination, was lost when it was discovered that he was the father of a son (Wiremu) by Ripeka, the Māori maid of his wife, Elizabeth Colenso, in May 1850.  In November 1851, Colenso was suspended as a deacon and dismissed from the mission in 1852. In 1853, he was convicted of a technical assault over an argument about Ripeka and their son.

Following a long wilderness period during which he continued his botany work, he took an active role as a local politician in Napier. He represented Napier as the Member of Parliament for the Napier electorate from the 1861 by-election to 1866, when he retired.

In 1871, Colenso was the speaker at the Hawkes Bay Provincial Council when Ngati Kahungunu had been persuaded by farmers, the Russell Brothers, that they could get their land back in what came to be known as the Repudiation Movement. Their chief Henare Matua had already pronounced all land dealing with both the crown and private sales illegal. The brothers persuaded Māori that legal action against large land owners such as Donald McLean would succeed. Colenso advised Māori not to take a legal path that would leave them deep in debt. Lawyer and later Government Native Minister John Sheehan, who spoke fluent Māori, acted on behalf of the Repudiation Movement. Matua attempted to stand as an MP but lost and the movement, deep in debt, petered out.

He died in Napier in 1899, leaving two sons and a daughter. His son from Ripeka, Wiremu/William, left New Zealand for Cornwall, married a cousin and lived in Penzance until his death. His son from Elizabeth Fairburn, Ridley Latimer, attended St John's College, Cambridge, and finally settled in Scotland. His daughter Frances Mary married William Henry Simcox and settled in Ōtaki, New Zealand. Neither of his sons had surviving children – Frances had nine.

Commemoration
Many species have been named in honour of Colenso including Acrothamnus colensoi.

Colenso Society
Founded in 2010 by academics and historians across New Zealand, the Colenso Society aims to "promote the study of the life and work of the Reverend William Colenso FLS FRS".

Published work

Gallery

Notes and references

 about Bishop Colenso of Natal and his cousin William Colenso, the naturalist

External links

Biography in 1966 An Encyclopaedia of New Zealand
 from the Dictionary of New Zealand Biography
1899, Appreciation in Transactions of the Royal Society of New Zealand

Entry in The Cyclopedia of New Zealand, 1908
Biography in Botanical Discovery in New Zealand: The Resident Botanists by W. R. B. Oliver 
William Colenso in Signposts – a blog about Te Ara: The Encyclopedia of New Zealand

1811 births
1899 deaths
19th-century British businesspeople
19th-century New Zealand politicians
Anglican missionaries in New Zealand
Botanists active in New Zealand
British Anglican missionaries
British printers
Cornish Christian missionaries
British emigrants to New Zealand
Explorers of New Zealand
Fellows of the Royal Society
Members of the New Zealand House of Representatives
Missionary botanists
New Zealand explorers
New Zealand MPs for North Island electorates
New Zealand naturalists
New Zealand people of Cornish descent
People from Penzance
Scientists from Cornwall
Fairburn–Newman family