[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jade Esteban Estrada

Adventures in Wonderland and Tales of a Hard Nut, a comedic adaptation of The Nutcracker. In 2017, he returned to San Antonio to begin a two-year artist residency at the Overtime Theatre where he wrote, directed and choreographed Sinderella and the Glass Zipper, a burlesque adaptation of Cinderella.

Of Estrada’s second holiday play, How Burlesque Saved Christmas, Bryan Rindfuss of the San Antonio Current wrote, “From the wild mind behind such unusual offerings as ICONS: The Lesbian and Gay History of the World, Vol. 1, Sinderella and the Glass Zipper, and Tales of a Hard Nut comes How Burlesque Saved Christmas — an original production written, directed and choreographed by multitalented performer Jade Esteban Estrada. Bursting with all the makings of a naughty adaptation of How the Grinch Stole Christmas!, the seasonal affair builds on Estrada’s ever-creative comedic chops as well as his background in the scantily clad world of burlesque.”

In 2018, Estrada wrote, directed and starred in Madame X: A Burlesque Fantasy, a story based on the life of portraitist John Singer Sargent and his famous painting, Portrait of Madame X.

Solo work from 2000–2009 
During the height of his Latin pop music success, Estrada wrote a solo musical comedy entitled ICONS: The Lesbian and Gay History of the World, Vol. 1, which he performed at the 2002 Columbus Gay and Lesbian Theatre Festival in Columbus, Ohio. In the show, he portrayed Sappho, Michelangelo, Oscar Wilde, Gertrude Stein, Sylvia Rivera and Ellen DeGeneres. The presentation found a core audience among college students and played such institutions as Princeton University, Cornell University and other academic stages.

Two years later, he premiered its sequel, ICONS: The Lesbian and Gay History of the World, Vol. 2, at the 2004 Columbus Gay and Lesbian Theatre Festival. In this installment, he took on the roles of Alexander the Great, Christina, Queen of Sweden, Susan B. Anthony, Billie Jean King, Harvey Milk and Mark Bingham. The show garnered the award for Audience Favorite in Solo Performance. Niki D'Andrea of the Phoenix New Times observed, "While Estrada's long been an admired figure in gay culture, his ICONS show has earned kudos from all sorts of groups."

Estrada debuted ICONS: The Lesbian and Gay History of the World, Vol. 3 at the 2006 Columbus Gay and Lesbian Theatre Festival. In this show, he portrayed Naomi (biblical figure), King James VI and I, Bessie Smith, Greg Louganis and Mary Cheney and won festival awards for Best Solo Performance and Best Original Music.

In 2007, Estrada received a commission to create a solo show about Russian playwright Anton Chekhov for the Twin Cities Chekhov Festival in Minneapolis, Minnesota. Chek it, Baby: A Fabulous Explanation of Anton Chekhov's Fiercest Plays earned favorable reviews when it premiered at Bryant-Lake Bowl the following year. In Lavender Magazine's 2008 Theatre Year in Review, John Townsend gave the show an Outstanding Touring Performance nod and wrote, "Jade Esteban Estrada actually put a queer spin on Anton Chekhov, the one playwright you may have thought was totally queer-resistant. If you ever had any doubt of Chekhov’s greatness, Estrada erases that." Tad Simons of Minneapolis-St. Paul Magazine called it "genuinely funny."

Solo work from 2010–present 
In 2010, Estrada premiered his one-person show, ICONS: The Lesbian and Gay History of the World, Vol. 4, in Tallahassee, Florida.

When Estrada embarked on a five-city tour of Mike Daisey's The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs in 2013, critics praised the unexpected collaboration. "Estrada is a comedian, singer, and gay entertainment icon. Daisey’s monologue — written for himself — tells the story of a technology early adopter whose faith in Apple and its charismatic founder is challenged when he discovers the wretched conditions Chinese workers endure to make our cherished i-devices. What does playing for laughs have to do with social justice issues? A lot, it seems. Estrada’s comedic timing puts the spotlight on the fan boy’s increasing double vision as he attempts to hold on to his devotion to the world of Mac," observed Scott Andrews of the San Antonio Current.  "Jade Esteban Estrada knows how to draw an audience in and hold them in the palm of his hand," wrote Deborah Martin of the San Antonio Express-News. "He puts that skill to fine use in The Agony and the Ecstasy of Steve Jobs, a solo show written by Mike Daisey exploring the cult of tech giant Apple.