[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dermot O'Hurley

van to visit with some fellow priests whom he had known while living in Catholic Europe. At the time, Cavan town and County Cavan was the territory of the Clan O'Reilly. However, O'Hurley was recognised during a visit to Slane Castle by the Baron's first cousin, Lord Chief Justice Sir Robert Dillon.

According to Philip O'Sullivan Beare, "A grave question was started at dinner, in the presence of the squint-eyed Robert Dillon, one of the Queen's judges. The heretics, giving each his own opinion, freely proceeded to such extreme folly, that Dermot, who was present, and long kept silent lest he should betray himself, could not any longer stand their rashness, and so, to the great astonishment of all, he easily refuted the silly doctrines of the heretics, with an air of authority, and great eloquence and learning. Hereupon Dillon was led to surmise that this was some distinguished person who might greatly obstruct heresy."

Once his suspicions were aroused, Sir Robert Dillon made inquiries, eventually uncovered the real identity of his cousin's houseguest, and immediately informed Dublin Castle. Baron Slane was immediately summoned by Lord Justices Loftus and Wallop and, under pain of severe penalties, agreed to arrest Archbishop Dermot O'Hurley.

Meanwhile, the Archbishop had already left Slane Castle and was staying with Thomas Butler, 10th Earl of Ormond, a Protestant, referred to as "Black Thomas" () (lit. "Thomas the Black", fig. "Thomas the Puritan"), who was then the Lord Treasurer of Ireland.

As his nickname suggests, the Earl was a Protestant and had played a role in ending the Second Desmond Rebellion through scorched earth and total war that triggered a State-imposed famine, which killed an estimated third of Munster's population. At the same time, however, the Earl's entire family, his Old English tenants, and all the Irish clans subject to his leadership were Catholic Recusants, who were covertly being allowed religious toleration. Meanwhile, Loftus, Wallop, and many other officials in Dublin Castle, greatly envied the Earl's favour with the Queen and kept him accordingly under constant surveillance in the hopes of implicating him in illegally tolerating Catholicism or in anything else that that might construe as high treason. Despite the extremely high risk, however, the Earl of Ormond seems to have agreed to conceal and protect Archbishop Dermot O'Hurley, as long as he avoided matters other than his religious ministry and remained within the confines of County Tipperary.

While a guest at the Earl's still extant Elizabethan Manor House at Carrick-on-Suir, the Archbishop wrote a letter to Dr. Miler Magrath, the former Franciscan Friar who had become the Protestant Church of Ireland's Archbishop of Cashel. In the letter, Archbishop O'Hurley both requested a meeting and suggested nonviolent mutual religious toleration of one another's competing apostolates. The Earl of Ormond, to whom O'Hurley had assigned the delivery, did not trust Rev. Dr. Magrath and secretly kept the letter, which still survives at the Bodleian Library at Oxford University (MS Carte 55, fol. 546).

Immediately after making a pilgrimage to Holy Cross Abbey near Thurles in September 1583, Archbishop O'Hurley was met at Ormonde Castle by Baron Slane. The Baron explained the imminent danger to both himself and his family and in return, the Archbishop voluntarily agreed to travel with him and surrender at Dublin Castle.

During their journey, the conversation turned to the recent conversion to Anglicanism by Rt.-Rev. Peter Power, the Roman Catholic Bishop of Ferns. Archbishop O'Hurley commented about his former colleague, "Many who are lions before the battle are timid stags when the hour of trial comes. Lest this prove true of me, I daily pray to our good Lord for strength; for 'let him that thinketh himself to stand look lest he fall.'"

The unwritten laws governing hospitality were considered sacred among the Gaelic nobility of Ireland and were just as important to Gaelicised Hiberno-Normans like the Earl of Ormond. The Earl is alleged to have felt insulted by the arrest of a guest in his house who was under his protection. Later emigre chronicler Philip O'Sullivan Beare considered the Archbishop's arrest to be so heinous of an insult under the traditional code of conduct that the Earl should have raised the clans subject to him and taken up arms against Baron Slane and the Lord Justices. Even though the Earl chose not to take up arms, O'Sullivan Beare does credit him with doing everything he possibly could to save Archbishop O'Hurley from the executioners. Other more recent historians, however, believe that the Earl of Ormond may secretly have colluded with Baron Slane and played just as central of a role in arranging the Archbishop's arrest.

Imprisonment and torture