[Source: PubMed]

39. BMC Public Health. 2023 Jan 31;23(1):212. doi: 10.1186/s12889-023-15105-z.

Perceptions of the health impacts of climate change among Canadians.

Casson N(1), Cameron L(2), Mauro I(2), Friesen-Hughes K(2), Rocque R(2).

Author information:
(1)Prairie Climate Centre, University of Winnipeg, 515 Portage Ave, R3B 2E9, 
Winnipeg, MB, Canada. n.casson@uwinnipeg.ca.
(2)Prairie Climate Centre, University of Winnipeg, 515 Portage Ave, R3B 2E9, 
Winnipeg, MB, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Understanding public perceptions of the health risks of climate 
change is critical to inform risk communication and support the adoption of 
adaptive behaviours. In Canada, very few studies have explored public 
understandings and perceptions of climate impacts on health. The objective of 
this study was to address this gap by exploring perceptions of the link between 
climate change and health.
METHODS: We conducted a survey of Canadians (n = 3,014) to address this 
objective. The 116-question survey measured prior consideration of the link 
between climate change and health, affective assessment of climate health 
impacts, unprompted knowledge of climate health impacts, and concern about a 
range of impacts. ANOVA tests were used to assess differences among 
sociodemographic groups.
RESULTS: Overall, Canadian's have a similar level of concern about health 
impacts of climate change compared with concern about other impacts (e.g. 
biophysical, economic, and national security). Among health-related impacts, 
respondents were more concerned about impacts on water, food and air quality, 
compared with impacts on mental health, infectious diseases and heat-related 
illnesses. There were differences among sociodemographic groups; women were 
significantly more concerned than men about all of the health-related impacts; 
respondents with a high school level of education were significantly less 
concerned about all health-related impacts compared with respondents with more 
education; and respondents on the political left were more concerned with those 
in the political centre, who were more concerned than those on the political 
right.
CONCLUSION: There is emerging literature suggesting that framing communication 
around climate change in terms of the health risks it poses may increase 
perceptions of the proximity of the risks. These results suggest that it is 
important to be specific in the types of health risks that are communicated, and 
to consider the concerns of the target sociodemographic groups. The differential 
knowledge, awareness, and concern of climate health impacts across segments of 
the Canadian population can inform targeted communication and engagement to 
build broader support for adaptation and mitigation measures.

© 2023. The Author(s).

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-023-15105-z
PMCID: PMC9887551
PMID: 36721132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.