[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bangladesh Krishak Sramik Awami League

Bangladesh Krishak Sramik Awami League (BaKSAL) (, ; বাকশাল) was a political front comprising Bangladesh Awami League, the Communist Party of Bangladesh, the National Awami Party (Muzaffar) and Jatiyo League.

Following the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution of Bangladesh, enacted on 25 January 1975, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman formed BaKSAL on 24 February. In addition, with the presidential order, all other political parties were outlawed with the formation of BaKSAL and were obliged to join the party due to a State of Emergency. 

The party advocated Democratic socialism as a part of the group of reforms under the theory of the Second Revolution. BaKSAL was the decision-making council to achieve the objectives of the Second Revolution.

BaKSAL was dissolved after the assassination of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman in August 1975. With the end of BaKSAL, all the political parties that had merged with BaKSAL, including the Awami League, again became independent political parties.

Background 

Sheikh Mujibur Rahman (aka Mujibur) and his Awami League won a landslide victory in the 1973 Bangladeshi general election. However, Mujib had a hard time fighting with corruption within his own government and the leftist insurgency caused by the Jatiya Samajtantrik Dal. In the face of growing unrest, on 28 December 1974 Mujibur declared a state of emergency. He pushed the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution through parliament on 25 January 1975. The amendment was passed in the Parliament unanimously. It dissolved all political parties, including the ruling party Awami League, and gave him the authority to form a national party called 'Bangladesh Krishak Shramik Awami League' or shortened as 'BaKSAL'. All the MPs and political parties were required to join the party to fight the prevalent crisis. In many ways, BakSAL had striking similarities with the National Union Party formed at the height of the American Civil War.

Formation 

On 24 February 1975, Mujibur formed a new party, the Bangladesh Krishak Sramik Awami League (BaKSAL), which all MPs were required to join. Any MP who missed a parliamentary session, abstained, or failed to vote with the party would lose their seat. All civilian government employees, professionals, and trade union leaders were pressed to join the party. All other political organizations were banned. Most Awami League politicians and many from other parties joined BaKSAL, seeing no other way to retain any political power. The Jatiyo Samajtantrik Dal, Purba Banglar Sarbahara Party, Purbo Bangla Sammobadi Dal-Marxbadi-Leninbadi (East Bengal Communist Party Marxist–Leninist), East Pakistan Communist Party, and Bangladesh Communist Party (Leninist) did not join BaKSAL.

BaKSAL was scheduled to officially replace the nation's other political organizations, and associations, on 1 September 1975.

Organizationally, President Mujibur Rahman, BaKSAL chairman, appointed for the national party a fifteen-member executive committee, a 120-member central committee, and five front organizations, namely, Jatiya Krishak League, Jatiya Sramik League, Jatiya Mahila League, Jatiya Juba League and Jatiya Chhatra League (peasants, workers, women, youth, and students respectively). All members of the executive committee and central committee were to enjoy the status of ministers. BaKSAL was also designed to overhaul the administrative system of the country to make it people-oriented.

Executive committee 

 Sheikh Mujibur Rahman (Chairman)
 Syed Nazrul Islam (Vice-Chairman)
 Muhammad Mansur Ali (Secretary General)
 Abul Hasnat Muhammad Qamaruzzaman
 Abdul Mannan
 Khondaker Mostaq Ahmad
 Abdul Malek Ukil
 Professor M. Yousuf Ali
 Manaranjan Dhar
 Muzaffar Ahmed Chowdhury
 Sheikh Abdul Aziz
 Mohiuddin Ahmed
 Gazi Golam Mostafa
 Zillur Rahman
 Sheikh Fazlul Haque Mani
 Abdur Razzaq

Central Committee