[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hundred Years' War, 1369–1389

hat Edward III's renunciation of France had been imperfect. In consequence, the King of France retained his suzerainty over Aquitaine. Charles V summoned the Black Prince to answer the complaints of his vassals, but Edward refused. The Caroline phase of the Hundred Years' War began.

French recovery

When Charles V resumed the war, the balance had shifted in his favour; France remained the largest and most powerful state in Western Europe, and England had lost its most capable military leaders. Edward III was too old and the Black Prince an invalid, while in December 1370, John Chandos, the vastly experienced seneschal of Poitou, was killed in a skirmish near Lussac-les-Châteaux. On the advice of Bertrand du Guesclin, appointed Constable of France in November 1370, the French adopted an attritional strategy. Rather than seeking battle, the English were worn down by an incremental approach whereby the areas ceded at Bretigny were retaken piece by piece, including Poitiers in 1372.

In August 1372, the English suffered a disastrous naval defeat at La Rochelle, when a supply convoy carrying reinforcements for Aquitaine, along with £20,000 to pay the troops, was intercepted and sunk by a Castilian fleet. This exposed the English coast to French and Spanish raids, isolated Gascony, and increased public opposition to the war. In addition, Jean III de Grailly, Captal de Buch, a Gascon fighting for the English who had filled the gap left by Chandos, was captured in the fighting around La Rochelle. Despite pleas from his own knights, Charles refused to ransom the Captal, arguing he was too dangerous to release, and kept him in prison where he died in 1376.

The English responded with a series of destructive military expeditions into French territory called chevauchées, hoping to bring du Guesclin to battle. The most significant of these was led by John of Gaunt in 1373; launched between two bouts of the Black Death in 1369 and 1375, the plague had a devastating economic impact, making it difficult for him to fund the campaign. According to chronicler Jean Froissart, the Chevauchée had been planned for three years. The English were known for their capability in this type of warfare. The English plan involved marching from Calais through Champagne and Burgundy into Aquitaine, a journey of over 1,000 miles lasting five months.

By burning manors, mills and villages, they hoped to destroy the French tax base and demonstrate Charles's inability to protect his subjects, moving at speed to allow them strike and withdraw before the enemy could respond. On this occasion, Charles issued strict instructions to avoid major combat and ordered farmers to take refuge in fortified towns. As they entered Burgundy, the English columns were tracked by one of du Guesclin's most effective subordinates, Olivier de Clisson, who killed over 600 and took many others prisoner. Most of their baggage and transport was lost crossing the Loire and Allier in October, leaving them short of supplies.

By the time they reached Bordeaux on Christmas Eve 1373, the English had been decimated by disease and starvation, with many of the knights on foot. Defeat caused great anger and resentment in England against John of Gaunt, who remained a powerful political player, but his unpopularity meant his efforts to agree peace with France were unsuccessful. By 1374, the Treaty of Bretigny had been nullified in fact as well as name; apart from Calais, England held no more territory than before their victory at Crécy in 1346.

Treaty of Bruges

Instigated by Pope Gregory XI, the 1375 Treaty of Bruges agreed a 12-month truce between the two sides while they negotiated an end to the fighting. France was represented by Philip II, Duke of Burgundy, and England by John of Gaunt. Talks eventually broke down over the issue of Aquitaine; the English wanted full sovereignty, while the French insisted it be retained by the House of Valois. Despite attempts by the Pope to broker a compromise, agreement could not be reached and the war resumed in 1377.

The Black Prince died in 1376; in April 1377, Edward III sent his Lord Chancellor, Adam Houghton, to negotiate with Charles, who returned home when Edward himself died in June. He was succeeded on the throne of England by his ten-year-old grandson, Richard II. It was not until Richard had been deposed by his cousin Henry Bolingbroke that the English, under the House of Lancaster, could forcefully revive their claim to the French throne. The war nonetheless continued until the first of a series of truces was signed in 1389.