[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of Cambuslang

es with slate perches.
Wellshot House – original early-19th-century mansion house of Thomas Gray Buchanan, on whose lands the late-19th-century villa suburb was built. This is now divided into flats. The walls to his orchard can be seen on Brownside Road, as well as (so it is claimed) the gatehouse.

Churches
 Cambuslang Baptist Church (1895, by William Ferguson). New Testament Greek 'classical style' typical of Baptist churches, with an 'ingeniously planned' Memorial Hall at the rear (1932, by Millar and Black). The Baptist congregation was dissolved in 2022, and the building used by a congregation of The Romanian Church of God.
 Cambuslang Flemington Hallside Church (1885, with halls of 1929) in simple lancet style.  Located close to Halfway.
 Cambuslang Old Parish Church (1839–41, by David Cousin; chancel rebuilt in 1919–22 to plans drawn up before the First World War in 1913 by MacGregor Chalmers; War Memorial 1921 by MacGregor Chalmers; Halls 1895–97 by A Lindsay Miller, extended 1968). This is the successor to the original and subsequent parish churches, with some memory of its medieval predecessors in its Transitional style, if a bit 'English' in perspective. A stone inscribed 'AMT 1626' inside the spire may be a relic of the first post-reformation kirk. The arms the Heritors are displayed on the walls of the kirk, with those of the Duke of Hamilton, as chief Heritor, appearing a dozen times. The current decorative scheme dates from 1957–58 includes stained glass windows (by Sadie McLellan) showing the Life and Works of St Cadoc, Christ as Head of the Church, symbols of the Passion and Angels. Tapestries, also by McLellan, include an Angus Dei, Burning Bush. The organ of 1896 is by Abbot & Smith of Leeds and was rebuilt in 1968 by Conacher and Co of Huddersfield. The bell is inscribed MIH 1612 (for John Houston, a heritor) and CH (Charles Hogg, an Edinburgh bell-founder). Located in the Kirkhill district of the town.
 St Andrews Church of Scotland (1961–66, by Beveridge & Dallachy). This was part of the new town centre 'with many popular mannerisms'. In one courtyard is a relief of 'Christ and St Andrew' (by Thomas Wallen, who also designed the font and chancel pavement). The furnishings and stained glass windows are 19th-century relics from the demolished Rosebank and West Parish churches. The organ is by Compton. The building has served as Cambuslang Parish Church since the 2008 union Cambuslang Old Parish, Trinity St Paul’s, and St Andrew’s.
 St Bride's Catholic Church is a small church of 1902, possibly on the site of a medieval chapel dedicated to Our Lady. A stained glass window depicting the calling of Peter and Andrew by Gordon Webster stands near the new entrance.
 St Cuthbert's Episcopal Church is the hall of a church planned in 1909 by HD Walton but never built. Land was gifted by Anne, Duchess of Hamilton.
 St Paul's United Free Church (1904–05, by Alexander Petrie).
 Trinity Parish Church (1897–99, by William Ferguson). Originally a United Presbyterian Church, it is of red Corncockle sandstone in a freely interpreted Perp style, advertising the wealth of the surrounding suburb. The stained glass windows show, in the gallery, the 'Resurrection' by Stephen Adam (after 1914) and, in the east aisle, 'Christ's Entry into Jerusalem' by Gordon Webster (1947).

Schools
 West Coats Primary School. Cambuslang's first school after Cambuslang Public School. During the war it was transformed into a hospital.
 St Bride's Primary School (1936, by John Stewart of the county council). Built as an RC Advanced Division school, in his 'particularly severe stripped classical manner'. The school was rebuilt in the 2010s.
 James Aiton Primary School (a county council erection of 1974, by Edward Allan) This was part of the post-tenement developments. It was formerly single-storey, circular, open planned and pre-fabricated. The school was rebuilt in the 2010s.
St. Charles Primary School in Newton was demolished and rebuilt in a new location (several hundred yards further up Westburn road) in the 2010s. The original building followed the same wooden-fronted architecture as the first buildings in Westburn village.

Public buildings