[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Foreign policy of the Stephen Harper government

The Conservative Party Government of Canada led by Prime Minister Stephen Harper (in office February 6, 2006 – November 4, 2015) has been characterized as a great break from the previous 70 years of post-war Canadian diplomacy. Indeed, Harper moved away from the multilateral and internationalist policies of the Liberal Party, and reduced Canada's emphasis on the United Nations, peacekeeping, conflict resolution, and multilateralism.

Harper sought to strengthen cooperation with the United States, particularly in that country's war on terror. As part of this policy, his government continued and expanded Canada's participation in the US-led War in Afghanistan. Harper also led Canada in the Libyan civil war and the Syrian civil war. In parallel, Harper showed relentless support for Israel throughout his whole premiership.

General aspects
Commentators generally agree that Stephen Haper's foreign policy differed largely from his predecessors. The switch essentially ended Canada's posture as a country encouraging peacekeeping, conflict resolution, multilateralism, and the post-war world order. There are, however, few defining aspects of Harper's foreign policy, outside of an increased interest in international trade and relentless support of Israel. This led University of Ottawa professor Roland Paris to reject the claim that Harper's foreign policy was ideological, instead arguing that it was "incoherent". Even at the 2013 Manning Conference, there was a consensus among foreign policy panelists that "the government, and the broader conservative movement from which it springs, don't so much have a foreign policy as a vague foreign-policy vision, dressed up with a mish-mash of policy ideas."

According to Toronto Star commentator Eugene Lang, Harper's foreign policy had been "all war, no diplomacy". He points to the fact during Harper's premiership, "the Canadian Armed Forces have had their most active period in living memory". Indeed, Harper had increased Canadian presence in Afghanistan and took part in conflicts in Libya and Syria. Lang argues that Harper overused the military and underused diplomatic channels to achieve Canada's goal of promoting peace.

According to Andrew Nikiforuk of The Tyee, Harper's foreign policy should be analyzed as a tool used to shore up votes from different immigrant community groups within Canada which can swing elections in certain districts. Nikiforuk points to Harper's denunciation of human rights abuses in Sri Lanka as a way to win the support of Toronto's Tamil community. He also notes that Harper's support for Israel "through fire and water", as he told the Knesset, helped him win the support of the majority of Canadian Jews in the 2011 federal election. This was a community that reliably voted for the Liberal Party in previous elections. Nikiforuk concluded that Haper had a "Diaspora-driven foreign policy".

Personnel 
Harper's first Minister of Foreign Affairs was Peter MacKay. On 14 August 2007, MacKay was replaced as Minister of Foreign Affairs by Maxime Bernier in a cabinet shuffle. Mackay was appointed as Minister of National Defence. On 26 May 2008, Bernier resigned and was replaced by David Emerson. Following the 2008 Canadian federal election, Lawrence Cannon became Foreign Minister. Following the 2011 Canadian federal election, John Baird became Foreign Minister. On 3 February 2015, Baird resigned and was replaced by Rob Nicholson.

Relations with the United States 

Relations with the United States are always a central issue in Canada, and the period prior to Harper's premiership was criticized by Kim Richard Nossal for "the lamentably awkward and embarrassingly public handling of the continental relationship." He blames Canadian politicians for "firing off verbal pot‐shots at American expense – a temptation to which they have succumbed even when they have been perfectly aware that their doing so can serve no useful Canadian purpose, much less exert a constructive influence on American behaviour."

In contrast, during the 2006 election campaign, Harper promised to improve relations with United States, blaming the previous Liberal government of damaging the relationship due to inappropriate comments made towards the George W. Bush administration.

However, shortly after being congratulated by George W. Bush for his victory, Harper rebuked U.S. Ambassador to Canada David Wilkins for criticizing the Conservatives' plans to assert Canada's sovereignty over the Arctic Ocean waters through an increased presence by the Canadian Forces.

U.S. Ambassador
On February 16, 2006, Harper named former Progressive Conservative Party Cabinet Minister Michael Wilson as Governor General Michaëlle Jean's appointee to the post of Canada's Ambassador to the United States, replacing Liberal appointee Frank McKenna.

Wilson stated in his first press conference as Ambassador that "Softwood lumber is clearly at the top of the heap, the top priority."