[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kurt Becher

o most passengers paid "in the form of jewelry, gold (gold jewelry, gold bullions and Napoleon gold), platinum, precious stones, and other valuables." Dagobert Arian of the Jewish Agency suggested that Becher had hidden most of his loot before he was captured, and that this explained the difference.

Historian Yehuda Bauer writes that Becher is known to have had specific Jewish treasures in his possession, which came from payments made to him by the Aid and Rescue Committee, and from property he had confiscated in Hungary. Of the luggage that made up the Becher Deposit, Becher gave one case to Moshe Schweiger (an associate of Rudolf Kastner), who had been released from Mauthausen specifically to take possession of the case. On 24 May 1945, Subsection B of the 215th American Counter Intelligence Corps (CIC) detachment found 18.7 pounds of gold, 4.4 pounds of platinum, and some jewelry hidden under beds in a house Becher had been living in, and on 30 May, the suitcase Becher had given to Schweiger was handed over to the CIC. On 25 June some other Jewish refugees Becher had been using as couriers handed in gold and paper shares.

Postwar activities
After the war, Becher became a prosperous businessman in Bremen. He was the president of many corporations, including the Cologne-Handel Gesellschaft, which did extensive business with the Israeli government.

By 1960 he was one of the wealthiest men in West Germany, with estimated assets of US$30 million. He came to public attention once again in 1961 when he served as a witness for the prosecution during the trial in Jerusalem of SS officer Adolf Eichmann. He provided his testimony from his home in Germany, because he was unwilling to travel to Israel. He reportedly died a wealthy man.

See also
Joel Brand
Kastner train
Chaim Michael Dov Weissmandl
Rudolf Vrba
Alfred Wetzler
History of the Jews in Hungary
Ein Lied von Liebe und Tod (film)

Awards
German Cross in Gold on 15 January 1943 as SS-Hauptsturmführer in the SS-Kampfgruppe "Fegelein"

Notes

References

"Statement from Kurt Becher , The Trial of German Major War Criminals, Sitting at Nuremberg, Germany, 4–15 April 1946, The Nizkor Project
"The Testimony of Kurt Becher" , Trial of Adolf Eichmann, The Nizkor Project
  Yad Vashem, retrieved 8 May 2006
Arendt, Hannah. Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil, first published 1963, this edition Penguin Books, 1994. 
Bauer, Yehuda. Jews for sale: Nazi-Jewish Negotiations, 1933-1945. Yale University Press, 1994. 
Kadar, Gabor, and Vagi, Zoltan. Self-financing Genocide: The Gold Train, the Becher Case, and the Wealth of Hungarian Jews. Central European University Press, 2004. 
Hecht, Ben. Perfidy, Milah Press, first published in 1961; this edition 1999. 
Zweig, Ronald W. The Gold Train: The Destruction of the Jews and the Looting of Hungary. HarperCollins, 2002.

Further reading
Hilberg, Raul. The Destruction of the European Jews, first published in 1961, this edition Yale University Press, 2003.

External links
Picture of Kurt Becher

Blood for goods
SS-Standartenführer
Recipients of the Gold German Cross
1909 births
1995 deaths
Nazi concentration camp personnel
Waffen-SS personnel
Holocaust perpetrators in Hungary
German prisoners of war in World War II held by the United States