[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Coalition for the International Criminal Court

civil society groups, and individuals. They provide updates on developments at the court as well as at the Assembly of States Parties; reports on ICC-related events worldwide; details on new resources and upcoming events; and information about key issues related to the International Criminal Court.

The Monitor is a bi-annual journal on worldwide ICC-related updates worldwide mailed to all members of the ICC and other interested parties. It is published in English, French, and Spanish.

CICC's publication The Monitor
•	The CICC Bulletin is a bi-monthly online publication featuring updates on the work of the ICC and CICC, as well as on the progress of the four situations currently before the court. It is published in English, French, and Spanish. 
•	The MENA Update is a bi-annual online newsletter in Arabic providing updates on ICC -related issues in the Middle East and North Africa 
•	The Europe Update is a bi-annual online newsletter with information on the latest ICC- related events in Europe 
•	The Africa Update' is a bi-annual online newsletter focused on ICC developments in Africa

In Situ blog
•	The Asia Update is a biannual online newsletter with information on ICC- related developments in Asia

•	The CICC blog “In Situ – See justice through the eyes of civil society”: in situ is Latin for "in the natural place", and refers to bringing international justice and trial proceedings home to affected communities. The coalition's blog endeavors to help bridge the gap between the populations affected by the crimes under the court's investigation and the ICC's daily activities at its headquarters in The Hague. In Situ features posts by some of the more than 2,500 members in 150 countries around the world.

In addition to these publications and the CICC website (www.iccnow.org), the Coalition's electronic resources include information email lists in English, French, Spanish, and Portuguese to which daily postings are made. Summaries of all news coverage of the ICC, information on new ratifications of the statute and progress towards ratification, announcements of upcoming events, notes and reports on the Assembly of States Parties, and other critical information is made available through these lists.

See also
World Federalist Movement/Institute for Global Policy
International Criminal Court

References

Further reading

Pace (2018). Rome Report of the Coalition for an International Criminal Court; the Role of the Coalition at the Diplomatic Conference Establishing the International Criminal Court (15 June-17 July 1998)''.  http://www.coalitionfortheicc.org/rome-report 

(See Chapter 11: The Making of the ICC)

(See Chapter 5: NGOs-Advocates, Assets, Critics, and Goads)

(See Chapter 5: Negotiations: NGOs Shape the Terms of ICC Debate: 1995-1998)
Terra Viva

External links
Coalition for the International Criminal Court website
International Criminal Court website
CICC In Situ blog
No, the ICC is not badly run, interview with William R. Pace, Convenor of the Coalition for the International Criminal Court (1995-2019). Accessed 27 February 2019
[https://4genderjustice.org/ Women's Initiatives
for Gender Justice]

International Criminal Court