[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Isaiah 53

Isaiah 53 is the fifty-third chapter of the Book of Isaiah in the Hebrew Bible or the Old Testament of the Christian Bible. This book contains the prophecies attributed to the prophet Isaiah and is one of the Nevi'im. Chapters 40 to 55 are known as "Deutero-Isaiah" and date from the time of the Israelites' exile in Babylon.

The Fourth Servant Song: Isaiah 52:13 to 53:12

Isaiah 52:13–53:12 makes up the fourth of the "Servant Songs" of the Book of Isaiah, describing a "servant" of God who is abused but eventually vindicated. Major themes of the passage include:

 Human opposition to God's purposes for the servant. The servant has an exalted status in the eyes of God, but  people despise him and consider him hated by God (Isa 52:13-53:3).
 The servant's violent torture and death. This passage uses violent language to describe the fate of the servant, including suffering, smitten, afflicted, wounded, crushed, bruising, cut off, anguished and exposed to death.
 Prophetic incredulity. The prophet questions whether anyone will believe what he is reporting (Isa. 53:1).
 The servant's innocence. In the moment of crisis, the servant is described as innocent of retaliation (Isa 53:7), violence, or deceit (Isa 53:9).
 Blessings upon his persecutors. As a result of the servant's sufferings, his persecutors are given peace (Isa 53:5), healing (Isa 53:5), release from their guilt (Isa 53:6, 12) and escape from punishment (Isa 53:8).
 The vindication of the servant after death. After his violent persecution and death, the servant is given long life and prospers the purpose of the Lord (Isa 53:10).
 Extending righteousness to others. The righteous servant will "make the many righteous," thus extending his righteousness to others (Isa 53:11).
 Forgiveness and intercession. Because of the servant's actions, "the guilt of the many" is removed from them (Isa 53:6, 12) and they receive intercession on their behalf from the servant (Isa 53:12).

The passage's themes include a wide variety of ethical subjects, including guilt, innocence, violence, injustice, adherence to the divine will, repentance, and righteousness. Major interpretive options for the servant's identity will be discussed below.

Text 
The original text was written in Biblical Hebrew. This chapter is divided into 12 verses, although the pericope begins in Isaiah 52:13. The pericope thus encompasses 15 verses. The passage survives in a number of autonomous and parallel manuscript traditions in Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and others.

Hebrew
The standard Hebrew edition that serves as the basis for most modern translations is Codex Leningradensis (1008). Other manuscripts of the Masoretic Text tradition include Codex Cairensis (895), the Petersburg Codex of the Prophets (916), and the Aleppo Codex (10th century).

Fragments containing all or parts of this chapter were found among the Dead Sea Scrolls. These are the earliest extant witnesses to the Hebrew text of the chapter:
1QIsa (2nd century BCE.): all verses
1QIsa (1st century BCE): all verses
4QIsab (4Q56): extant verses 11–12
4QIsac (4Q57): extant verses 1–3, 6–8
4QIsad (4Q58): extant verses 8–12
Greek
The translation into Koine Greek known as the Septuagint was made in the last few centuries BCE. Extant ancient manuscripts of the Septuagint version include Codex Vaticanus (B; B; 4th century), Codex Sinaiticus (S; BHK: S; 4th century), Codex Alexandrinus (A; A; 5th century) and Codex Marchalianus (Q; Q; 6th century). Several passages of the text were included in the New Testament (see New Testament below) and serve as further witnesses to the Greek text in the first century. Origen's Hexapla preserved assorted Greek translations of the text from Aquila, Theodotion, and Symmachus, dating to the second century CE.

Latin
Jerome translated his Vulgate from Hebrew manuscripts that were available to him in the 4th century CE. Retroversion of the Latin into Hebrew may recover what his Hebrew manuscripts said at the time.
Other Languages
Versions of Isaiah 53 exist in many other languages, but they are of limited use for establishing the critical text. The Aramaic Targum Isaiah is often paraphrasing and loose with its translation. Many other early translations (i.e. Ethiopic, Slavonic, etc.), produced by Christians, were dependent upon the Septuagint and are of limited use for recovering the Hebrew.

Parashot
The parashah sections listed here are based on the Aleppo Codex. Isaiah 53 is a part of the Consolations (Isaiah 40–66). {P}: open parashah; {S}: closed parashah.
 {S} 53:1-12 {P}