[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Dutch resistance

e girl with the red hair", communist resistance assassination agent
 Pierre Schunck of the Valkenburg resistance
 Pieter Meindert Schreuder, a resistance leader in Groningen
 Henk Sneevliet, Marxist resistance leader
 Han Stijkel, an armed resistance leader in The Hague, bombed the Amsterdam Public Records Office
 Bram van der Stok
 Tina Strobos, a medical student who smuggled resistance supplies and hid Jewish refugees in her house
 Jacoba van Tongeren, the female leader of Group 2000
 Gerrit van der Veen, sculptor and resistance leader in Amsterdam, bombed the Amsterdam Public Records Office in 1943
 Koos Vorrink, socialist politician and resistance leader
 Gerben Wagenaar, Communist resistance leader
 Joop Westerweel, a schoolteacher and Christian anarchist, leader of the Westerweel Group resistance group
 Bernardus IJzerdraat, one of the first to resist

See also 
 Binnenlandse Strijdkrachten
 Dutch underground press
 Englandspiel
 Netherlands in World War II
 Resistance during World War II
 Verzetsmuseum

References

Further reading 
 Bentley, Stewart. The Dutch Resistance and the OSS (2012)
 Bentley, Stewart.   Orange Blood, Silver Wings: The Untold Story of the Dutch Resistance During Market-Garden (2007)
 Fiske, Mel, and Christina Radich. Our Mother's War: A Biography of a Child of the Dutch Resistance (2007)
 van der Horst, Liesbeth. The Dutch Resistance Museum  (2000)
 Schaepman, Antoinette. Clouds: Episode of Dutch Wartime Resistance, 1940–45 (1982)
 Sellin,  Thorsten, ed. "The Netherlands during German Occupation," Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science Vol. 245, May 1946 pp I to 180 in JSTOR
 Warmbrunn, Werner. The Dutch under German occupation, 1940–1945 (Stanford University Press, 1963)
 Dewulf, Jeroen. Spirit of Resistance: Dutch Clandestine Literature during the Nazi Occupation (Rochester, NY: Camden House, 2010). 
 Manheim, Jack. Memoirs of the Dutch Underground, 1940–1945: Why me? (England, UK: Amazon, 2017). 
 Maass, Walter B. The Netherlands at War: 1940-1945 (Abelard-Schuman, London, New York, Toronto, 1970) Library of Congress: 68-14569

External links 

 CIA paper on the Dutch resistance and the OSS on the Wayback machine
 Homepage of the Dutch Resistance Museum in Amsterdam 
 Dutch Resistance Museum – history and practical information.
 Discussion of the Netherlands under Nazi occupation
 On war atrocities in the Netherlands, some in revenge for resistance activities
 
 Jan de Hartog's speech given at Weber State College – his personal account of his participation in non-violent Dutch Resistance as an author.
 Vergeten verzet in Nederlands-Indië – an account (in Dutch) of the 'forgotten' resistance to the Japanese occupation of the East Indies.

 
Articles containing video clips
Military history of the Netherlands during World War II
Netherlands in World War II
World War II resistance movements