[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Albert C. Barnes

Albert Coombs Barnes (January 2, 1872 – July 24, 1951) was an American chemist, businessman, art collector, writer, and educator, and the founder of the Barnes Foundation in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.

Early life and education
Albert Coombs Barnes was born in Philadelphia on January 2, 1872 to working-class parents. His father, butcher John J. Barnes, served in the American Civil War in Company D of the 82nd Pennsylvania Volunteer Infantry. He lost his right arm at the Battle of Cold Harbor. After the war John Barnes received a disability pension of $8/month, and took jobs such as inspector, night watchman, and letter carrier when he could find them. Albert Barnes' mother, Lydia A. Schaffer, was a devout Methodist who took him to African American camp meetings and revivals. The family lived first at 1466 Cook Street (now Wilt Street) in the rough working-class neighborhood of what is today Fishtown, and later in a slum area known as "the Neck" or "the Dumps".

Albert Barnes completed elementary school at William Welsh Elementary School in 1885. That year Barnes was one of two boys from his school who were accepted at Central High School, a public school highly respected for its rigorous academic program. Barnes graduated at age 17 on June 27, 1889 with an A.B. degree, part of the 92nd class. 
At Central, Barnes became friends with William Glackens, who later became an artist and advised Barnes on his first collecting efforts.

Barnes went on to attend medical school at the University of Pennsylvania, enrolling in September 1889 and receiving his degree as of May 6, 1892. He earned his way by tutoring, boxing, and playing semi-professional baseball. 
In 1892, he interned at Penn's Graduate Hospital then known as Polyclinic Hospital in Philadelphia and at the Mercy Hospital of Pittsburgh. 
He also is listed as having been an assistant physician at the State Hospital for the Insane in Warren, Pennsylvania in 1893.
His experience as an intern convinced him that he was not suited to clinical practice. 
Although he obtained the degree of medical doctor, he never practiced.

Barnes decided instead to pursue an interest in chemistry as it applied to the practice of medicine. 
He traveled to Germany, then a center of chemical research and education, studying in Berlin around 1895. Returning to the United States, he joined the pharmaceutical company H. K. Mulford in 1898. The company sent him back to Germany to study in Heidelberg, a city that Barnes described as "a loadstone [sic] for scientific investigators of every land." 
According to the Archiv für Experimentelle Pathologie und Pharmakologie he was among those receiving firsts and seconds, given June 26, 1901, from the Pharmakologischen Institut zu Heidelberg.

Career
In 1899, he went into business with German chemist Hermann Hille (1871-1962), and created Argyrol, a silver nitrate antiseptic which was used in the treatment of ophthalmic infections and to prevent newborn infant blindness caused by gonorrhea. The two left H.K. Mulford and Company to organize a partnership called Barnes and Hille. This new company was founded in 1902. Hille ran production and Barnes ran sales. The company prospered financially, but the relationship between the two men waned. In 1908 the company was dissolved. Barnes went on to form A.C. Barnes Company and registered the trademark for Argyrol. In July 1929 Zonite Corporation of New York bought A.C. Barnes Company. The move was well timed as the stock market crashed in October that year.

Marriage and family
Barnes married Laura Leggett (1875–1966), daughter of a successful grocer in Brooklyn, New York City, but had no children.

When the Barnes Foundation was established, Laura Barnes was appointed as vice president of the board of trustees. Following the death of Captain Joseph Lapsley Wilson, she became the director of the Arboretum. In October 1940, she began the Arboretum School of the Barnes Foundation with the University of Pennsylvania botanist John Milton Fogg Jr. She taught plant materials. She regularly corresponded and exchanged plant specimens with other major institutions, such as the Arnold Arboretum of Harvard University and the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.

She succeeded her husband as president of the Foundation after his death in 1951. She died April 29, 1966, leaving her art collection to the Brooklyn Museum of Art.

Her work was recognized by the 1948 Schaffer Memorial Medal from the Pennsylvania Horticultural Society. In 1955, she became an honorary member of the American Society of Landscape Architects. She received an honorary doctorate in horticultural science from St. Joseph's University of Philadelphia.

Art collecting

In 1911, Barnes reconnected with his high school classmate William Glackens and in January 1912, just after turning 40 years old, Barnes sent him to Paris with $20,000 to buy paintings for him. Glackens returned with 33 works of art.