[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Omicron Delta Kappa

nually depending on the tradition of each individual circle.  The number of candidates  tapped each year is limited to thirty five percent of the undergraduate population, but most circles limit membership to fewer than the top one quarter of one percent of the students on their respective campuses.

Once a circle votes on who will be tapped for membership, it withholds that secret from all but those few chosen for initiation.  Once tapped, each candidate must maintain the secret until the circle reveals it to the campus and community in a public ceremony, only after the circle has initiated the new members into the bonds of the society through its private ritual.  At some institutions, such as the University of Missouri, with several such elite societies that tap new members, the public revelations are all held in conjunction, in an annual ceremonial Tap Day celebration on campus.

Circles

Omicron Delta Kappa uses the term circle to indicate chapters. As of May 4, 2023, 431 circles have been chartered. The practice of automatically designating circles with Greek letter names was abandoned in 1949, although some select circles have adopted nicknames in later years. Members who have died are said to have entered the Eternal Circle.

Notable members

Athletics
Griff Aldrich (Hampden-Sydney College 1996) Head coach of Longwood University.
Frank Beamer (Virginia Tech 1967) Head coach for Virginia Tech Hokies football team.
Terry Bowden (Auburn University 1994) College football head coach.
Paul "Bear" Bryant (University of Kentucky 1949) Longtime Head Coach for the University of Alabama football team.
Ron Fraser (University of Miami 1975) College Baseball Coach at University of Miami
Bob Griese (University of Miami 1988) NFL Quarterback for the Miami Dolphins
Gene Keady (Purdue University 1988) Longtime head coach for Purdue University basketball.
Archie Manning (University of Mississippi 1970) NFL quarterback for the New Orleans Saints, Houston Oilers, and Minnesota Vikings.
Peyton Manning (University of Tennessee 1997) NFL quarterback for the Denver Broncos
Rudy Niswanger (Louisiana State University 2005) NFL center for the Kansas City Chiefs
Arnold Palmer  (Wake Forest University 1964) Professional Golfer.
Joe Paterno (Pennsylvania State University 1976) Football Coach.
Gaylord Perry (Campbell University 1978) Professional Baseball Player and Cy Young Award winner.
James E. Perry (Campbell University 1978) Professional Baseball Player and two-time winner of Cy Young Award.
Homer Rice (Georgia institute of Technonogy, 1981) Football Coach and Athletic Director.
Myron Rolle (Florida State University 2008) Former safety for the FSU Seminoles and 2009 Rhodes Scholar
Adolph Rupp (University of Kentucky 1937) Longtime University of Kentucky basketball head coach.
Tubby Smith (University of Kentucky 2001) Men’s Basketball Coach
Steve Spurrier (University of Florida 1991) Heisman Trophy winner, NFL Quarterback, and Head Coach for the University of Florida, the Washington Redskins, and the South Carolina Gamecocks.
Bob Wolff (Duke University 1942) longest running sports broadcaster in television and radio history

Business
Ely Callaway Jr. (Mu, 1940), American entrepreneur, textiles executive, winemaker, and golf club manufacturer
Dan Carmichael (Mu, 1967)
Robert S. Jepson Jr. (Epsilon, 1963), chairman of the board and CEO of three corporations and a California winery, director of four other companies, founder of the Jepson School of Leadership Studies at the University of Richmond
Richard D. Kinder (Alpha Xi), CEO of Kinder Morgan, former president of Enron, ranked #46 on the 2011 Forbes 400 list of richest Americans. Kinder's net worth is more than $8.2 billion as of March 2012.
Kenneth L. Lay (Alpha Xi, 1964), former chairman and CEO of Enron
Clay Foster Lee Jr. (Pi, 1951), retired Bishop of the United Methodist Church
S. Robson Walton (Beta Beta, 1965), chairman of Wal-Mart Stores, Inc., ranked #11 on the 2011 Forbes 400 list of richest Americans. Walton's net worth is $23.1 billion as of March 2012.

Education
William Hazell, fifth president of the New Jersey Institute of Technology
Barry Bishop (Alpha Theta, 1953), geographer, researcher, and Executive Vice Chair of Research, National Geographic
Thomas Hines, professor emeritus of history at the University of California, Los Angeles
Frank Hereford (Omicron), fifth president of the University of Virginia
Rudolph Rummel, professor emeritus of political science at the University of Hawaii who coined the term democide
Kenneth P. Ruscio (Alpha, 1975), 26th president of Washington and Lee University
Donna Shalala, fifth president of the University of Miami
Sidney A. McPhee (honoris causa initiate in 2010), tenth president of Middle Tennessee State University
Cornel West, Dietrich Bonhoeffer Chair, Union Theological Seminary