[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Andrés Madrid

Andrés David Madrid (born 29 July 1981) is an Argentine former footballer who played as a defensive midfielder, and is a current manager.

He spent most of his professional career in Portugal, mainly with Braga.

Football career
Born in Mar del Plata, Buenos Aires Province, Madrid started playing football in the youth ranks of Club Atlético Platense, making his professional debut in 1998. He would first appear in the Argentine Primera División with Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata, in the 2000–01 season.

Madrid moved to Portugal in January 2005, joining S.C. Braga of the Primeira Liga. His league debut took place on 4 February in a derby 0–1 away loss against Vitória de Guimarães. He went on to become an important figure for the Minho club as it achieved three consecutive fourth places, with the respective UEFA Cup qualification.

However, after some injury problems, Madrid fell out of favour in Braga and, during the 2009 January transfer window, joined former coach Jesualdo Ferreira at FC Porto, which had the possibility of making the move permanent at the end of the campaign. He made his first league appearance for his new team on 7 March by playing 21 minutes in a 4–1 win at Leixões SC, and contributed with six appearances – although only one complete – to help the Dragons collect a fourth consecutive league title, subsequently returning to Braga.

In the following years, Madrid's importance gradually diminished, and he was released by the club on 31 August 2011. On 27 September, he signed a one-year contract with fellow league side C.D. Nacional.

Madrid signed with C.R.D. Libolo in November 2012, thus becoming the first Argentine footballer to play in the Angolan League. Following a poor individual season, he returned to Portugal for a trial with S.C. Olhanense, being released shortly after.

Honours
Porto
Primeira Liga: 2008–09
Taça de Portugal: 2008–09

References

External links

1981 births
Living people
Footballers from Mar del Plata
Argentine men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Argentine Primera División players
Primera Nacional players
Club Atlético Platense footballers
Club de Gimnasia y Esgrima La Plata footballers
Primeira Liga players
Campeonato de Portugal (league) players
S.C. Braga players
FC Porto players
C.D. Nacional players
SC Mirandela players
SC Vianense players
Girabola players
C.R.D. Libolo players
Argentine expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Portugal
Expatriate men's footballers in Angola
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Portugal
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Angola
Argentine football managers
SC Vianense managers
Argentine expatriate football managers
Expatriate football managers in Portugal