[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michael Cherney

ska
According to the Financial Times, in 1994, Oleg Deripaska, then an independent metals trader, won the backing of Cherney and TWG to become general manager of Sayansk aluminium plant in Siberia, which lead to formation of SibAl and a partnership between Cherney and Oleg Deripaska in this company.

Cherney had joint ventures with Deripaska in Blonde, Operator Trade Center, CCT, and Arufa between 1995 and 1998. Also, Cherney and Deripaska were partners with Anton Malevsky, who is with the Izmailovskaya OPG (), in the coal industry and Sergei Popov, who is with the Podolskaya OPG (), in the fashion industry.

BulgarTabac
In 2002, 80% of the capital in the Bulgarian State-owned tobacco company, Bulgartabac, was placed on the market. In April 2002 Cherney put together a three-partner consortium called "Metatabac" to bid for Bulgartabac. Ownership was structured between three groups: the Russian firm Soyuzcontracttabac, which owned 35%, MCG Holdings, a firm owned by Cherney, which owned 35%, and another 30% held by a Cypriot company named Metacontact Ltd.

Mobiltel
In 1997, he bought Mobitel from Grigory Luchansky. In 2002 Cherney was involved in the selling-on of the Bulgarian mobile provider Mobiltel. Cherney bought the company together with Austrian business men Martin Schlaff, former minister of the Austrian People's Party Josef Taus, and financial expert Herbert Cordt. The 768 million Euro deal was financed by BAWAG P.S.K. In 2005 Mobiltel was sold for 1.6 billion euros to Mobilkom Austria Group with a huge profit of 830 million Euros. Critics found it hard to understand "why the state bought an asset for such a high price from someone who was effectively a go-between who stood to pocket a fat profit, rather than directly from the original owner of the company".

Gad Zeevi
In 2001, Zeev Fraiman (), an Israeli economics expert, claims that Gad Zeevi () is a partner with Cherney in the telephone monopoly Bezeq () during its earliest stages of privatization.

The Intelligence Summit
Cherney is the founder and primary sponsor of the Intelligence Summit. In February 2006, The New York Sun reported that John Deutch and James Woolsey had resigned from the Intelligence Summit's board of advisers after receiving information that the conference's primary sponsor, Cherney, had "alleged ties to the Russian mafia".

Legal investigations
Jalol Akhatovich Khaidarov (; born 18 March 1963, Tashkent, Uzbek SSR, USSR) assisted the Israeli law enforcement community.

Invalid passport
On 21 May 1994, Cherney and his future wife were detained by immigration officers on arrival in Heathrow from Geneva. It was discovered that they had attempted to enter the UK on false Polish passports and they were deported back to Switzerland.

The following day they were arrested by the Swiss police on the grounds that they had made use of false identities. Both were searched and found to be in possession of two allegedly invalid Polish driving licences. Cherney gave a statement to the police in which he admitted using a Polish passport in an attempt to enter the UK, which had been successful previously. On 25 October 1994 the Swiss authorities confirmed that they would not be pressing any charges against Cherney. On 20 November 1996 the Swiss Federal Aliens Office confirmed that he was no longer subject to a prohibition order and that there was nothing to prevent his coming into Switzerland.

Alleged illegal payments to Avigdor Lieberman
Cherney is a close friend of Avigdor Lieberman who allegedly received millions of shekels from various entrepreneurs, including Cherney, while serving as member of Knesset; under Israeli law, MKs are not allowed to receive any payment beyond their salary. One claim is that Cherney paid a company called Path to the East large amounts of money between the years 1999 and 2006, and that these sums were then allegedly passed on to Lieberman as a bribe. Other allegations concern a company called M.L.1, founded by Lieberman's daughter Michal when she was 21. These allegations concern money transferred to M.L.1 from unknown sources outside Israel; the money was later allegedly used for paying salaries to Avigdor and Michal Lieberman.

In April 2007, Israeli police questioned Avigdor Lieberman, Israel's Deputy Prime Minister, on suspicions of illegally financing his 2001 electoral campaign. According to the police, in May 2001, three months after Lieberman was appointed Minister of Infrastructure in Ariel Sharon's Cabinet, approximately $US500,000 was transferred to the bank accounts of Lieberman associates through Cyprus. This money could be traced back to Cherney. Cherney's attorney, Yaakov Weinroth, said the money was transferred by his client "for a totally transparent, legal wine deal".