[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of Providence, Rhode Island

02 acres of land to the city for the development of Roger Williams Park. The elaborately landscaped grounds were designed by Horace Cleveland and intended to serve as an escape for the workers of the industrial, urban center of Providence, in accordance with the ideas of the City Beautiful movement.

By 1890, Providence's Union Railroad had a network which included more than 300 horsecars and 1,515 horses. Two years later, the first electric streetcars were introduced in Providence, and the city soon had an electric streetcar network extending from Crescent Park to Pawtuxet in the south and Pawtucket in the north. According to journalist Mike Stanton, "Providence was one of the richest cities in America in the early 1900s."

Increased population density caused public health problems; in 1854, an epidemic of cholera swept the city. A survey of living conditions conducted by the city discovered unhealthy crowding among immigrants and workers. In one case, 29 people were recorded as living in a single-story house; in another, 47 people shared a two-story home. The survey found 5,780 latrines in the city, of which "fewer than half were emptied annually". 1854 was remembered as "The Year of Cholera" for the next 30 years.

Sole capital 

The Rhode Island General Assembly rotated among a number of legislative buildings throughout the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations. In 1900, the assembly passed the Article of Amendment XI, making Providence the state's sole capital and the legislature's permanent home. This designation was concurrent with the construction of the Rhode Island State House, which was completed in 1904.

Early 20th century

An "industrial wonder"
At the start of the 20th century, Providence had grown to become one of the ten largest industrial centers of the United States. Providence ranked first nationally in per capita wealth. Its Board of Trade boasted of what it called the Five Industrial Wonders of the World: Brown & Sharpe, the world's largest tool factory; Nicholson File, the world's largest file factory; American Screw, the world's largest screw factory;  Gorham, the world's largest silverware factory; and Corliss, the world's largest engine factory. The city was also first in the nation for production of jewelry and woolen and worsted textiles, and third in production of base metals.

Influenza outbreak

In early September 1918, the first cases of the Spanish flu started appearing in Providence. By the end of the month, public health superintendent Charles V. Chapin had identified over 2,500 cases in the city. Chapin and other officials responded by ordering more hospital beds and increased staffing. On October 6, the Providence Board of Health issued a general closure order, affecting all public and private schools, theaters, movie houses, and dance halls. The spread of the influenza reached its highest level during October 3–9, with 6,700 cases reported. The closure order was rescinded on October 25. The flu returned for a smaller second wave in January 1919, which hit schools particularly hard. By February 5, no new cases were being reported and the epidemic was declared over.

Early decline
The city began to see a decline by the mid-1920s as manufacturing industries began to shut down. In 1922, it was affected by the 1922 New England Textile Strike, shutting down the mills in the city over an attempted wage cut and hours increase.

The city was deeply affected by the Great Depression, which left more than a third of the labor force unemployed. The subsequent Recession of 1937–1938 was immediately followed by the New England Hurricane of 1938, which flooded the city's downtown. The hurricane was particularly destructive to the struggling textile industry, with many mills never reopening following the storm.

Mid-late 20th century

Urban decline
From the 1940s to 1970s, middle class residents vacated Providence faster than any other American city other than Detroit. The remainder of these residents were disproportionately poor and elderly.

Starting in 1956, construction began on Interstate 195 and Interstate 95, which necessitated the demolition of hundreds of homes and dozens of businesses. These highways ultimately severed Downtown from the South Side, the West End, Federal Hill, and Smith Hill. Over the following years, the Providence Redevelopment Authority further razed a number of blocks west of Downtown in an unsuccessful effort to attract investment.

Decline of downtown