[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Defense industry of Russia

Almaz-Antey – air defense systems
United Aircraft Corporation – fixed-wing airplanes
Tactical Missiles Corporation – air- and naval-based missiles
Russian Helicopters – helicopters
Uralvagonzavod – main battle tanks
United Shipbuilding Corporation- submarines, corvettes, frigates, aircraft carriers.

Problems
Problems in the industry include a high level of debt, inflation and lack of qualified personnel. Significant portions of the increases in Russia's military procurement budget are being eaten up by inflation: while the country's overall inflation rate in 2008 was 13%, in certain weapon categories the figure was more than 30%. Many skilled workers are nearing retirement age, and young graduates are hesitant to enter the industry due to low wages and insufficient career opportunities. Further growth will require a serious upgrade of production facilities, as well as investment in skills and training. Yury Solomonov, chief designer of the Topol-M and Bulava ICBMs, has said that Russia is 10–15 years ahead of its rivals in the development of strategic nuclear weapons, but 30 years behind in the development of conventional arms. After collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia's nuclear shipbuilding industry has been transformed into something much smaller. Key enterprises on the Black Sea coast appeared to be on the territory of now-independent Ukraine - which proclaimed non-nuclear status. Admittedly, these enterprises had little to do with nuclear propulsion technology, except for some ambitions in the late 1980s when the Soviet navy planned the construction of nuclear-powered aircraft carriers. Russian defense industry proved unequal to the challenge of manufacturing battleships and other BMP-3, BMD heavy combatants T-90 tanks, artillery, missiles, space technology, nuclear technology even lack of funds from state.

See also
Armed Forces of the Russian Federation
Military-Industrial Commission of Russia
List of Russian weaponry
List of Russian weaponry makers
List of Russian aerospace engineers
List of Russian naval engineers
Shipbuilding in Russia
Aircraft industry of Russia
Future of the Russian Navy
Russian Navy
Russia and weapons of mass destruction
Russian Aerospace Defense Forces
Strategic Missile Troops
Universal Combat Platform T-99
UAC/HAL Il-214
Sukhoi/HAL FGFA

References

Russia
Industry in Russia