[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# 2007 New Year Honours

, TimeBank. For services to Volunteering.
Professor Ian Swingland, Founder, The Durrell Institute for Conservation and Ecology. For services to Conservation.
Graham Francis Taylor, lately Headteacher, The Downs School, Newbury, Berkshire. For services to Education.
Ms Edna Margaret Telfer, Director, Bristol Drugs Project. For services to People who Misuse Drugs.
Joyce Anne, Mrs. Thacker, Senior Head of Service for Children and Young People, Rotherham Metropolitan Borough Council. For services to Young People.
Robert Russell Thompson, Director of Fundraising, Royal British Legion. For services to Ex-Servicemen and Women.
Duncan Gillies Thomson, lately Convenor, Loch Lomond and The Trossachs National Park Authority. For services to the Environment.
Sarah Winifred, Mrs. Todd, Grade A, Northern Ireland Office.
Martin John Devereux Traynor, Chief Executive, Leicestershire Chamber of Commerce. For services to Business and to the community in the East Midlands.
Stephanie Linda, Mrs. Trotter, President, CO-Gas Safety and Vice-President, Consumer Safety International. For services to Health and Safety in the Gas Industry.
Mohammed Tufail, Director, North Staffordshire Racial Equality Council. For services to Community Relations.
Dr. Rowena Jane Tye, Team Leader, Ofwat).
Adrian Underwood, lately National Director, Boarding Schools' Association. For services to Education.
Rosemary Margaret, Mrs. Varley, lately Regional Commissioner, NHS Appointments Commission and Chair, General Optical Council. For services to the NHS and to Healthcare.
Professor Richard Frank Verdi, Professor of Fine Art and Director, Barber Institute of Fine Arts, University of Birmingham. For services to Art and Art History.
Adrian Vinken, Chair, Culture South West and Chief Executive, Theatre Royal, Plymouth. For services to the Arts.
Professor Jeffrey King Waage, Professor of Applied Ecology, Imperial College London. For services to Science.
Judith Ann, Mrs. Walker, Chief Crown Prosecutor, South Yorkshire Crown Prosecution Service.
Councillor Alexander Watson, Leader, Derwentside District Council. For services to Local Government.
Andrew White, B2, Ministry of Defence.
John White, Head, Devolved Customer Relations, OGCbuying.solutions, H.M. Treasury.
Robert Ernest Wilkins, Director of Transport and Environment, East Sussex County Council. For services to Local Government.
Dr. Charlotte Francesca Williams. For services to Ethnic Minority Groups and to Equal Opportunities in Wales.
David Huw Jones Williams, Assembly Lawyer, Legal Services Department.
Roy Wilsher, Chief Fire Officer, Hertfordshire Fire and Rescue Service. For services to Fire Safety.
Margaret, Mrs. Winchcombe, Health and Social Care Consultant. For services to disabled people.
Ms Carol Wolstenholme, lately Leadership Development Manager, The Pension Service, Department for Work and Pensions.
Miss Susan Elizabeth Wolstenholme, Director, British Tennis Foundation. For services to Disabled Sport. 
Ms Sarah Ann Wood, lately Director of Policy, Local Government Association. For services to Local Government.
Guy Anthony Woolfenden, Composer and Conductor. For services to Music.
Ian Harold Woosnam, M.B.E., Golfer. For services to Sport.
Christopher Worthy, Grade B2, Ministry of Defence.