[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# National Council of Educational Research and Training

ling for a period of one year from 1 November 2021.

National Council of Educational Research and Training had tied up with Microsoft’s global training partner, Tech Avant-Garde (TAG) and facilitated a Connected Learning Community (CLC) for improving digital skills among its teachers.

Controversies

Ever since its establishment, the organization has faced a great deal of controversy and continues to do so today. The disagreement centers around accusations of, on the one hand, the leftist bias of books pre-2014, and on the other of suppressing the cultural and heritage history of India and attempted saffronizing of Indian history post-2014. Allegations of historical revisionism with a Hindu nationalist plan arose in two terms: under the Janata Party government 1977 to 1980 and again under the Bharatiya Janata Party government from 1998 to 2004. In 2012, the organization has been blamed for publishing 'undefensive' cartoons against B.R. Ambedkar, the architect of the Indian Constitution and thus lodging an insult to the Constitution, in its textbooks. The controversy led to the resignation of NCERT chief advisors Yogendra Yadav and Suhas Palshikar and an apology from the government. Again in 2022, a new controversy started when both CBSE and NCERT removed topics regarding Islamic Empires in the class 12 history textbook and chapters like “Challenges to Democracy” in the class 10 political science subject and many others, saying it is necessary to reduce syllabus to reduce examination pressure on students by removing repeated concepts and lessons learnt in middle school and high school classes.

According to historian Sadanand More, the NCERT, as the zenith organization that provides advice and support for the improvement of school education, has been avoiding mentioning in school history books that about half of the Indian subcontinent was ruled by the Maratha Empire for a period before the British East India Company conquered it.

See also 

Indian Certificate of Secondary Education (ICSE)
 Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) 
 Joint Entrance Examination (Main)
 National Curriculum Framework (NCF 2005)

Notes

References

External links 

 

Educational organisations based in India
Organisations based in Delhi
Educational research
Research institutes in Delhi
Education policy in India
Teacher education in India
Training organizations in India
Educational organizations established in 1961
1961 establishments in Delhi