[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Pallisers

r. Lady Glencora intensifies her activity as a society hostess. The episodes conclude with the death of Glencora, and the story of the marriages of the children. These episodes cover the events of the last two of Trollope's Palliser novels, The Prime Minister and The Duke's Children.

Cast (partial)

Anthony Ainley: Rev. Emilius
Terence Alexander: Lord George
Anthony Andrews: Lord Silverbridge
Sarah Badel: Lizzie Eustace
Robin Bailey: Prime Minister Gresham
George Ballantine: Smithers
Kenneth Benda: Major Domo
Donald Bisset: Doctor
Sydney Bromley: Mr Clarkson
Edward Burnham: Mr. Turnbull
Antony Carrick: Superintendent Worth
Anna Carteret: Lady Mabel Grex
Dallas Cavell: Captain Colepepper
Helen Christie: Lady Monk
Jeremy Clyde: Gerard Maule
Michael Cochrane: Lord Gerald Palliser
James Cossins: Sergeant Bunfit
Brenda Cowling: Mrs Bunce
Roland Culver: Duke of Omnium and Gatherum
Iain Cuthbertson: Major Mackintosh
Veronica Doran: Bonteen's maid
Fabia Drake: Countess of Midlothian
Gareth Forwood: Everett Wharton
Sonia Dresdel: Marchioness of Auld Reekie
Donald Eccles: Squire Vavasor
Sheila Fay: Mrs. Meager
Lynne Frederick: Isabel Boncassen
John Glyn-Jones: John Vavasor
Derek Godfrey: Robert Kennedy
Gordon Gostelow: Mr Scruby
John Hallam: Lord Chiltern
Susan Hampshire: Lady Glencora Palliser
Edward Hardwicke: Prince of Wales
Rachel Herbert: Lady Dumbello
Jeremy Irons: Frank Tregear
Derek Jacobi: Lord Fawn
Martin Jarvis: Frank Greystock
Hayden Jones: Mr. Bunce
Alan Judd: Archbishop
Barry Justice: Burgo Fitzgerald
Penelope Keith: Mrs Hittaway
Jo Kendall: Adelaide Palliser
Rosalind Knight: Aspasia Fitzgibbon
Philip Latham: Plantagenet Palliser
Roger Livesey: Duke of St. Bungay
Desmond Llewelyn: Speaker
Angus MacKay: Mills Happerton
Leonard Maguire: Andy Gowran
Mel Martin: Violet Effingham
John Scott Martin: Bunce's Crony
Anna Massey: Lady Laura Kennedy
Donal McCann: Phineas Finn
Denis McCarthy: Doctor
Barbara Murray: Marie Goesler, usually known as Madame Max Goesler; then married as Marie Finn
Caroline Mortimer: Alice Vavasor
Jay Neill: Photographer
John Nettleton: Mr Fothergill
Máire Ní Ghráinne: Mary Flood
Kate Nicholls: Lady Mary Palliser
Arnold Peters: Policeman
Donald Pickering: Dolly Longstaffe
Ellen Pollock: Lady Baldock
Bryan Pringle: Mr Monk
Maurice Quick: Collingwood
George Raistrick: Member of Parliament
Edwin Richfield: Police Sergeant
John Ringham: Major Tifto
Clifford Rose: Quintus Slide
Sheila Ruskin: Emily Wharton
Peter Sallis: Mr Bonteen
Norman Shelley: Prime Minister Mildmay
John Slavid: Head Croupier
Michael Spice: Inspector Staple
Neil Stacy: Lawrence Fitzgibbon
John Stratton: Mr Bott
Stacey Tendeter: Girl in Street
Gary Watson: George Vavasor
Moray Watson: Barrington Erle
Lockwood West: Lord Brentford
June Whitfield: Mrs Bonteen
Wendy Williams: Jane
Stuart Wilson: Ferdinand Lopez

Crew
Director: Hugh David and Ronald Wilson
Adaptation: Simon Raven
Script Editor: Lennox Phillips
Designer: Raymond Cusick

Production
Novelist Simon Raven presented the idea of an adaptation of the Palliser novels to a BBC2 editor and began working on the script in 1969. Raven admitted that he might have offended "Trollope purists" by the additions and subtractions he made. "The most obvious way I have bent Trollope's scheme in the six books is to maintain the relationship between Glencora and Plantagenet throughout the serial. A television serial needs a hero and heroine, and at the expense perhaps of Trollope's own plan, I have blown them up to give them more lasting significance than he indicated."
 
Production stretched over 13 months and the series was transmitted at the height of industrial action in the UK, marked by Three-Day Weeks and power shortages at the start of 1974. A sudden general election called for February 1974 resulted in the postponement of the series as it dealt with political storylines heavily featuring the Liberal Party, albeit completely fictional. The series resumed, but a second general election in October 1974 caused further transmission challenges. All this contributed to scheduling difficulties and though the series was meant to have finished in June, the final two episodes did not go out until November because of strikes at the BBC.

The series was partly financed by the American Time-Life Films and, in its first presentation in the United States, was the first weekly series of extended length to be screened on pay-television which had previously principally screened films and sport. The then new Home Box Office (HBO) paid a reported $500,000 for a one-year screening licence.