[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Human rights in Lebanon

e case anymore, as their rights are equal to the rights of any other citizen of Lebanon, and that's granted by the country's laws.

Abortion

Abortion is illegal except in cases where the pregnant person's life is at risk. It is criminalised in Lebanon's Penal Code of 1943.

Treatment of homosexuals

A few courts have ruled that Article 534 of the Lebanese Penal Code should no longer be used to arrest LGBT people, however members of the LGBT community are still being arrested, harassed and prosecuted by the same law. Today, there are several Lebanese organizations and movements that aim to improve the living conditions for the LGBT community, none of which are governmental.

In 2002, a gay rights organization was started in Lebanon. The group, known as Hurriyyat Khassa or Private Liberties sought to reform the Article 534 of the criminal code so that sexual relations between consenting adults in private were no longer a crime.  Another gay rights organization in Lebanon is called Helem (), meaning "Dream" in Arabic and an acronym for the Lebanese Protection of Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, and Transgender community.  These organizations have staged a few public demonstrations, lectures, fundraisers for AIDS education, charitable events and exhibitions of films and have been interviewed by the Lebanese media.

"Anal examinations" were used in Lebanon on men suspected of homosexuality.  On 28 July 2012, a gay venue in Beirut was raided by police and 36 men were taken into custody, where they were forced to undergo these examinations.  In response, dozens demonstrated in Beirut against these "examinations," calling them the "tests of shame." This practice was however outlawed by the Ministry of Justice as well as for the Lebanese Doctors' association banning its members from practising it.

On 24 June 2022, Lebanese authorities unlawfully banned peaceful gatherings of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) people, violating constitutional rights to equality, free expression, and free assembly. A wave of anti-LGBTI hate speech on social media by individuals and some religious groups, followed the ministry's letter, including incitement to violence, death threats, and calls to ban the scheduled events by force.

Women's voting rights

Women earned the right to vote in 1952, five years later than men, who earned it in 1947 shortly after independence from the French mandate. In 1957 the requirement for women to have elementary education before voting was dropped.

Internet restrictions
Multiple websites have been reported to be blocked, somewhat inconsistently. The Ministry of Telecommunication is known to have ordered gambling sites and a few pornographic sites to be blocked, based on judiciary decisions.

Lebanese law permits the censoring of pornographic and religious materials only when considered a threat to national security.  the law doesn't prohibit individuals from accessing pornographical content (save for child porn, considered a criminal act), or any other type of content on the Internet.

See also

 Human trafficking in Lebanon
 Internet in Lebanon
 Human rights in Islamic countries
 Internet censorship by country

References

External links
 Trafficking of Burundian women in Lebanon, BBC News, 27 June 2007

 
Lebanon