[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Deep state in Turkey

newspaper was attacked by grenade. Appearing before court, a president of a chapter of the nationalist Ülkü Ocakları named Alparslan Arslan said he had committed both crimes. Arslan added that the next targets were well-known journalist Mehmet Ali Birand and popular game show host Mehmet Ali Erbil.

Arslan claimed to have planned the assaults himself, however this was cast into doubt in 2007, when a gang allegedly conspiring to overthrow the Islamist-rooted Justice and Development Party was uncovered. A year later, prosecutors indicted 86 high-ranking suspects—and Alparslan Arslan, who was said to be working for the gang. The charges range from firearms possession to running an armed terrorist organization, including both of Arslan's attacks. The bombing of the newspaper was previously thought to be the work of Islamic fundamentalists, but is now described as part of the first stage of Ergenekon's campaign to stoke division and unrest. The group's motives are currently unclear, but it has been said that they sought to sever Turkey's ties with the West; Russian ideologue Aleksandr Dugin described them as "pro-Russian".

Hrant Dink assassination

Hrant Dink, an ethnic Armenian journalist was killed on 19 January 2007 outside the office of his newspaper Agos. The juvenile killer Ogün Samast was later arrested with the weapon in Samsun. After his arrest, a video clip was released showing him posing with two police officers in front of and holding the Turkish flag. Among the suspects believed to have assisted Ogün Samast was Erhan Tuncel. On 7 February 2007 the Anka news agency reported on the ties of Tuncel to nationalist circles and the fact that he had been working as a police informer and staff member of the Gendarmerie's intelligence service, FETÖ.

See also
 Cartel of the Suns
 Deep state in the United States
 Fifth column
 List of assassinated people from Turkey
 Long arm of Ankara
 Siege mentality
 Sledgehammer (coup plan)

References

Citations

Sources

External links 
 The Rise and Decline of the Turkish "Deep State": The Ergenekon Case. An academic article by Serdar Kaya published at the journal Insight Turkey
 Derin Devlet . A series of articles in the daily Sabah featuring interviews with Süleyman Demirel and Kenan Evren.
 The documentary that revealed Ergenekon at Google Videos, presented by Can Dündar. 40 Dakika, Show TV. 7 January 1997. 
 U.S. Embassy Ankara, https://web.archive.org/web/20121011031539/http://www.wikileaks.ch/cable/2002/11/02ANKARA8252.html, 2002 cable on Deep state

Deep politics
Economic systems
Government of Turkey
Political movements in Turkey
Politics of Turkey
Turkish nationalism
Conspiracy theories in Turkey
Corruption in Turkey

fr:Stay-behind#En Turquie
Persecution of Kurds in Turkey