[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Trịnh–Nguyễn War

n their lands (1673). Although the Nguyễn nominally accepted the Lê King as the ruler of Vietnam, the reality was, the Nguyễn ruled the south, and the Trịnh ruled the north. This division continued for the next 100 years. The border between the Trịnh and the Nguyễn was strongly guarded but peaceful.

Conquest of Huế (1775)
The long peace came to an end in 1774. At the time, the Nguyễn were under heavy assault from Tây Sơn army and part of their force had been defeated in recent fighting in Cambodia. The result was, the army in the north defending Huế was weak. Trịnh Sâm, one of the last Trịnh Lords and ruler of the north, launched his attack on the Nguyễn on 15 November 1774. For the first time, the Nguyễn walls were broken and captured. In February 1775, the Nguyễn capital of Huế was captured by the Royal (Trịnh) army. After some fighting with the army of the Tây Sơn, a treaty was signed and the Trịnh army left the destruction of the Nguyễn to the southern rebels. A dozen years later the Trịnh Lords would be thrown out of Vietnam by the youngest and most popular of the Tây Sơn brothers.

Legacy
To fight against the larger and more powerful Imperial army under Trịnh clan, Nguyễn lords actively expanded their territory to the South into the former land of the Champa empire. They annexed much of the area that is now the southern half of Vietnam. Both sides were enthusiastic about using foreign technologies and welcoming to outsiders. From foreign traders, craftsmen, and mercenaries (mostly from Portugal, Holland, China and Japan), both sides acquired advanced civil and military technologies such as mechanics, shipbuilding and artillery construction, as well as cultural and religious elements. This long period played an important role in the formation of Vietnamese identity. 

The Dutch brought Montagnard slaves they captured from Nguyễn lord territories in Quảng Nam Province to their colony in Taiwan.

See also
 Southern and Northern Dynasties of Vietnam
 Northern and southern Vietnam
 Sino–Dutch conflicts
 Cambodian–Dutch War
 Lê–Mạc War

Citations

References

Primary sources

External links
 Coins of Vietnam - with short historical notes

Revival Lê dynasty
Wars involving Vietnam
Military history of the Dutch East India Company
Wars involving the Dutch Republic
17th century in Vietnam
17th-century conflicts