[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gaelic football, hurling and camogie positions

he midfield to have a good understanding of their goalkeeper. They must anticipate where their goalkeeper will place the ball and therefore take advantage and bring the ball forward.
Note that there is rarely a "left midfielder" and "right midfielder" – both play 'off' each other as a combined unit.

If one midfielder is attacking, the other always goes up the field with him in support. Both midfielders always attack or defend at the same time.

Half-forwards

Right and left half-forwards
The role of the right and left half-forward who wear, respectively, numbers 10 and number 12 jerseys, is to build up attacks and to feed the ball to the full-forward line and also taking shots on goal or above the bar when opportunities present themselves. The half-forwards will cover much ground and utilising speedy half-forwards to run at defences is a common tactic. They operate from the midfield to the opposition's 45 metre line. The right half-forward's main opposing player is the left half-back and vice versa.

Sometimes referred to as right/left wing forward.

Centre half-forward

The role of the centre half-forward who wears the number 11 jersey, is to build up attacks and feed the ball to the full-forward line. The centre half-forward is responsible for taking shots on goal and points when opportunities present themselves. The centre forward will cover much ground and utilising speedy half forwards to run at defences is a common tactic. The centre forward also helps win breaking ball in the midfield, helping to win the possession to bring the ball forward. The centre forward operates from the midfield to the opposition's 45-metre line.

Sometimes referred to as centre forward.

Full-forwards

Left and right corner-forward
The role of the left and right corner-forwards, who wear the number 15 and 13 jerseys respectively, is to watch the full-forward's breaks and to score points and goals. The full-forward line operates around the opposition's 21-metre line. The corner-forwards are generally marked by the corner-backs.

Full-forward
The role of the full-forward who wears the number 14 jersey is to score goals in particular although points are usually the outcome of their attempts on goal. The full-forward line operates around the opposition's 21-metre line. The full-forward is generally marked by the full back.

It is common for teams to employ a tall full-forward to pluck high balls from the sky and to challenge the size and strength of the full-back.

Substitute
Substitutes wear jersey numbers 16 upwards (usually up to 31). 16 is usually worn by the substitute goalkeeper, and the third choice goalkeeper usually wears the number 31 jersey.

See also
Number (sports)

References

External links
Official GAA website

Positions
Football positions
Positions
Positions
Numbering in sports