[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of the North Sea

of outstanding naval tactics by the English under command of Sir Francis Drake and the breaking of the bad weather.  The strengthened English Navy waged several wars with their neighbors across the North Sea and by the end of the 17th century had erased the Dutch's previously world-spanning empire.

The building of the British Empire as a domain on which the sun never set was possible only because the British navy exercised unquestioned control over the seas around Europe, including the North Sea.  In the late 18th century, Britain's naval supremacy faced a new challenge from Napoleonic France and her continental allies.  In 1800, a union of lesser naval powers, called the League of Armed Neutrality, was formed to protect neutral trade during Britain's conflict with France.  The British Navy defeated the combined forces of the League in the Battle of Copenhagen in 1801 in the Kattegat.  French plans for an invasion of Britain were focused on the English Channel, but a series of mishaps and a decisive British naval victory in the Battle of Trafalgar, off the coast of Spain, put them to rest.  After Napoleon's fall, Britain was the preeminent power in Europe and the world.  The Victorian Era was a long period of prosperity and growth for England, often referred to as the Pax Britannica or British Peace.

Scotland
Scotland emerged as a prominent economic power during the Scottish Enlightenment of the 18th century.  This era established a great herring fishing industry resulting in Scotland becoming a European leader in that industry.

19th century
During the First Schleswig War (1848–51), the Crimean War (1854–56) and the Second Schleswig War (1864), belligerents took steps to reduce or eliminate commerce in the North Sea by their enemies. In the first Schleswig War, Denmark was able to halt maritime commerce by the Kingdom of Prussia in the North Sea and in the second, imposed tolls on ships crossing through the Danish straits between the Baltic and North Seas. The Crimean War saw British and French expeditions sent into the Baltic to prevent Russian ships' egress into the North Sea though they saw little action.

The Austro-Prussian War (1866) resulted in Prussia's gaining full control of the Kiel Canal, allowing their Baltic ports access to the North Sea.

France declared war on Prussia 19 July 1870 which initiated the Franco-Prussian War (1870–1871).  The French Navy was, at the time far larger and superior to the North German Federal Navy, the Navy of the North German Confederation.  Though the French did take a number of merchant ships bound to and from North Germany, shortages of manpower and coal, as well as conflicting orders, made the attempted blockade of Prussian ports ineffective.  The French had planned a seaborne assault on the North Sea coast in order to relieve expected pressure on the front in Alsace and Lorraine.  However, this coast, which was difficult to navigate to begin with, had been heavily fortified before the war.  The ironclads of this time consisted of broadside turret and the new casemate ironclads which protected the revolving turret.

A convention passed in November 1887 came to the aid of fishermen of the North Sea.  This law restricted liquor traffic from bum boats. The island of Heligoland was ceded to Germany 1890 when the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland and the German Empire signed the Treaty of Heligoland.  The Cod War of 1893 erupted between Denmark and Britain over fishing territories.  Denmark declared a fishing territory of 13 nautical miles (24 km) around their shores which included Iceland and the Faroe Islands.  Britain did not acknowledge this claim.

20th century

The Dogger Bank Incident

Tensions in the North Sea were again heightened in 1904 by the Dogger Bank incident, in which Russian Baltic Fleet vessels mistook British fishing boats for Imperial Japanese Navy ships and fired on them, and then upon each other.  The incident, combined with Britain's alliance with Japan and the Russo-Japanese War led to an intense diplomatic crisis.  The crisis was defused when the Russian Empire was defeated by the Empire of Japan and agreed to pay compensation to the fishermen.

The First World War

During the First World War, Great Britain's Grand Fleet based at Scapa Flow and Germany's Kaiserliche Marine faced each other across the North Sea.

Due to its numerical advantage in dreadnoughts, the Grand Fleet obtained Naval superiority and was able to establish a sea blockade of Germany's coast.  The goal of the blockade was to deny Germany access to maritime trade including war materials and to guarantee the undisturbed ferrying of British troops.  Because of the strong defensive fortress of Heligoland, the Germans controlled the German Bight, while the rest of the North Sea and the English Channel were controlled by the Royal Navy for the duration of the war.