[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Gordon Lindsay

popularity of some of its members rose, they left the fellowship to establish their own organizations and publish their own literature. As a result of the popularity of the magazine, and Lindsay's status as a key organizer of revival meetings, Lindsay played a key role in the Healing Revival period.

Lindsay's own work began to move in the direction of missions. He began sponsoring missions programs in several foreign countries and started a radio ministry. During 1956 he conducted a Winning the Nations Crusade, sending teams of ministers all around the world. The Voice of Healing magazine changed names briefly to World-Wide Revival in 1958 before reverting to Voice of Healing later the same year. The final name change to Christ for the Nations occurred in 1971. One of Lindsay's last "visions" before his death was a bible training institute in Dallas, Texas.

Lindsay was a prolific writer, publishing over 250 volumes of historical and doctrinal books on the healing revival movement. His ministry came to a halt with his sudden death on April 1, 1973. Lindsay's wife Freda and family continued the work he began. Christ for the Nations, Inc. has five main facets: a national church program; a national literature work; a Jewish mission in Israel national and international Bible training schools; and a prayer and tape ministry.

Gordon Lindsay was also the first Evangelical preacher/writer to assume a link between the UFO phenomenon of his day and the fallen Angels (Nephilim) in Genesis 6. He wrote several books about the subject, as well as articles in the Voice of Healing Magazine.
His daughter Shira is married to Pastor Ari Sorko-Ram, who founded the Maoz Israel ministry in Israel.

Christ For The Nations Institute
His son, Dennis Lindsay, is the current president of CFNI  and continues the work that his parents started.

Dr. John Hollar is the current executive director of CFNI.

References

Sources

External links
Christ For The Nations Official Website
http://fredalindsay.com/
Current President Dennis Lindsay

1906 births
1973 deaths
20th-century American historians
20th-century apocalypticists
20th-century evangelicals
American evangelicals
American evangelists
American historians of religion
American magazine founders
American Pentecostal missionaries
American talent agents
Branhamism
Evangelical writers
Prosperity theologians