[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Approval voting

ove average approval, or they vote for their two most approved of candidates, this is not a dichotomous cutoff, as this can change if candidates drop out.  On the other hand, if voters' threshold for receiving a vote is fixed (say 50%), this is a dichotomous cutoff, and satisfies IIA as shown below:

B now wins with 60%, beating C with 55% and D with 40%

With dichotomous cutoff, C still wins.

B now wins with 70%, beating C and A with 65%

With dichotomous cutoff, C still wins.

Compliance with voting system criteria 

Most of the mathematical criteria by which voting systems are compared were formulated for voters with ordinal preferences. In this case, approval voting requires voters to make an additional decision of where to put their approval cutoff (see examples above). Depending on how this decision is made, Approval satisfies different sets of criteria.

There is no ultimate authority on which criteria should be considered, but the following are criteria that many voting theorists accept and consider desirable:
 Unrestricted domain—A voter may have any preference ordering among the alternatives.
 Non-dictatorship—There does not exist a single voter whose preference for the alternatives always determines the outcome regardless of other voters' preferences.
 Pareto efficiency—If every voter prefers candidate A to all other candidates, then A must be elected. (from Arrow's impossibility theorem)
 Majority criterion—If there exists a majority that ranks (or rates) a single candidate higher than all other candidates, does that candidate always win?
 Monotonicity criterion—Is it impossible to cause a winning candidate to lose by ranking that candidate higher, or to cause a losing candidate to win by ranking that candidate lower?
 Consistency criterion—If the electorate is divided in two and a choice wins in both parts, does it always win overall?
 Participation criterion—Is voting honestly always better than not voting at all? (This is grouped with the distinct but similar Consistency Criterion in the table below.)
 Condorcet criterion—If a candidate beats every other candidate in pairwise comparison, does that candidate always win? (This implies the majority criterion, above)
 Condorcet loser criterion—If a candidate loses to every other candidate in pairwise comparison, does that candidate always lose?
 Independence of irrelevant alternatives—Is the outcome the same after adding or removing non-winning candidates?
 Independence of clones criterion—Is the outcome the same if candidates identical to existing candidates are added?
 Reversal symmetry—If individual preferences of each voter are inverted, does the original winner never win?

Approval satisfies the mutual majority criterion and Smith criterion when voters' preferences are dichotomous; this is because the winner will be someone that the most voters prefer above all others, or that ties with other candidates but the group of tied candidates is preferred by more voters than any candidate not in the group.

See also 
Some variants and generalizations of approval voting are:
 Multiwinner approval voting — multiple candidates may be elected, instead of just one.
 Fractional approval voting — the election outcome is a distribution - assigning a fraction to each candidate.
 Score voting (also called range voting) — is simply approval voting where voters can give a wider range of scores than 0 or 1 (e.g. 0-5 or 0-7).
 Combined approval voting — form of score voting with three levels that uses a scale of (-1, 0, +1) or (0, 1, 2).
 D21 – Janeček method — limited to two approval and one negative vote per voter.

Notes

References

Sources

External links 

 Approval Voting Article by The Center for Election Science
 Could Approval Voting Prevent Electoral Disaster? Video by Big Think
 Approval Voting on Dichotomous Preferences Article by Marc Vorsatz.
 Scoring Rules on Dichotomous Preferences Article by Marc Vorsatz.
 The Arithmetic of Voting article by Guy Ottewell
 Critical Strategies Under Approval Voting: Who Gets Ruled In And Ruled Out Article by Steven J. Brams and M. Remzi Sanver.
 Quick and Easy Voting for Normal People YouTube video

Single-winner electoral systems
Cardinal electoral systems
Monotonic electoral systems
Approval voting
Rating systems