[Source: PubMed]

64. Influenza Other Respir Viruses. 2020 Jul;14(4):444-451. doi:
10.1111/irv.12742.  Epub 2020 Apr 19.

Influenza response planning for the centers of excellence for influenza research 
and surveillance: Science preparedness for enhancing global health security.

Moore KA(1), Ostrowsky JT(1), Mehr AJ(1), Osterholm MT(1); CEIRS Pandemic 
Planning Committee.

Collaborators: Compans RW, García-Sastre A, Orenstein WA, Pekosz A, Perez DR, 
Rothman RE, Sauer LM, Schultz-Cherry SL, Steel J, Topham DJ, Treanor JJ, Webby 
RJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy (CIDRAP), University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Centers of Excellence for Influenza Research and Surveillance 
(CEIRS) network, funded by the US National Institutes of Health, has been 
operational since 2007 and is tasked with conducting research to improve 
understanding of influenza viruses. Recently, CEIRS developed an Influenza 
Response Plan (IRP) to improve science preparedness for the network.
METHODS: Development of the IRP involved a collaborative process between project 
staff, CEIRS center directors or their designees, and NIAID CEIRS leadership 
(referred to as the Pandemic Planning Advisory Committee [PPAC]). Project staff 
identified and summarized the response capabilities of each center and then 
worked with the PPAC to identify and rank research priorities for an emergency 
response using a modified Delphi method.
RESULTS: Key elements of the response plan include tables of response 
capabilities for each CEIRS center, a framework that outlines and ranks research 
priorities for CEIRS during an emergency situation, and an operational strategy 
for executing the research priorities.
CONCLUSIONS: The CEIRS IRP highlights the importance of enhancing science 
preparedness in advance of an influenza pandemic or other influenza-related 
zoonotic incident to ensure that research can be carried out expeditiously and 
effectively in emergency situations and to improve global health security.

© 2020 The Authors. Influenza and Other Respiratory Viruses Published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/irv.12742
PMCID: PMC7264601
PMID: 32306541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]