[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Humanitarian aid during the 2006 Lebanon War

ernment, has picked up an additional 100 Australians, and negotiations are under way for a third rescue vessel to be in Beirut by July 21. A Greek Navy ship evacuated another hundred and as of July 21 six Australian government-chartered ships are on their way to Lebanon. They will arrive on July 22.

The Australian government has been heavily criticized by Australia's ethnic Lebanese community and others for its slow and inadequate response in supporting and evacuating its citizens in Lebanon. In total 2,500 Australian citizens were evacuated from the Lebanon most of them through Cyprus.

Brazil 
Brazilians are being evacuated by bus to the city of Adana, on Turkey, where the Boeing 707 popularly known as "Sucatão" (which was the previous presidential aircraft), belonging to the Força Aérea Brasileira, is being used to bring back those who do not have their own means to go back to Brazil. The buses have a large Brazilian flag on their top, to avoid being fired upon by Israeli forces.

On July 17, a group of 122 Brazilians left Beirut on 3 buses towards Adana, where the Sucatão was waiting to transport them back to Brazil, going to Recife, Guarulhos, and Rio de Janeiro. After a stopover at Algiers, it arrived on July 18 at Recife, where none of the 98 passengers (including 85 Brazilians and 5 Argentines) disembarked. It later arrived at the Base Aérea de São Paulo at Guarulhos.

On July 21, a bus with 52 Brazilians left Beirut to Adana; its passengers had their own flights and thus did not need the help of the Brazilian Air Force. Another bus with 45 Brazilians left from Damascus.

On July 23, two more buses with 85 Brazilians left Damascus to Adana.

On July 24, the Sucatão again arrived at Recife bringing more than 90 passengers from the region of the conflict.

Still on July 24, ten buses with a total of 305 Brazilians left the Beqaa Valley to Damascus.

Also on July 24, 73 Brazilians boarded a Canadian ship destined to Turkey.

On July 25, a third flight of the Brazilian Air Force with 80 passengers arrived at Recife.

More flights were currently (as of July 25) planned, some for the Sucatão and some for TAM Airlines planes. Also, another ten buses will leave the Beqaa Valley to Damascus, transporting not only Brazilians, but also Canadians, Argentines and Paraguayans.

Canada 
Canada, which lost eight citizens and one UNIFIL soldier in IDF airstrikes, leased seven ships and started evacuating on July 20 some of the up to 50,000 Canadians in Lebanon to Cyprus. As of July 18, about 30,000 citizens had registered with the Canadian embassy in Beirut. The parliamentary opposition, families of victims, and others in Canada have been critical of the government's response time and the use of online registration for potential evacuees. At least 100 Canadians secured passage on ships chartered by other nations, including France and the UK. Jacques Chirac, president of France, offered Jean Charest, premier of Quebec, France's assistance in removing Canadians.

Prime Minister Stephen Harper, who was meeting with French president Jacques Chirac in Paris, travelled on his official jet to Cyprus on July 19 to allow 87 Canadians to return to Canada with him, in what he described as the "right thing to do". He was accompanied to Cyprus by only his essential staff: his bodyguards, communications aides, his logistics organizer, the tour director, a doctor, and his official photographer. Logistical difficulties developed after the government decided to evacuate Lebanon of Canadians to Turkey, and had to request that the British remove 120 Canadians to Cyprus to meet the prime minister's flight, but only about 20 boarded the British vessel. A boat chartered by the Canadian government brought Canadians, but was delayed for a number of reasons.

France 

France sent a ferry from Cyprus to evacuate its own nationals with as much as a third of the passengers permitted to be nationals of other nations including Europe and the US.

Greece 
Two frigates of the Hellenic Navy, a C-130 transport aircraft of the Hellenic Air Force, and several Greek ferry boats were sent to Lebanon. They evacuated between 2500 and 5000 Greek citizens, as well as large numbers of nationals of the European Union, United States, and other western countries. Evacuees traveling by ferry were first sent to Cyprus, where they boarded Olympic Airlines aircraft for transfer to Greece.
Several Greek commercial ships were also used by other western countries, such as France and Sweden, in order to evacuate their nationals from the area, due to the proximity of Greece to the coast of Lebanon.

Iceland 
Four Icelanders left Beirut on a bus arranged by the Norwegian embassy on July 16, 2006; another group of six who were unable to board the bus after an apparent misunderstanding was evacuated by a Finnish bus on July 17, 2006. It was further planned to fly them to Copenhagen from Damascus's international airport.

India