[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# HMCS Prevost

His Majesty's Canadian Ship (HMCS) Prevost () is a Canadian Forces Naval Reserve Division (NRD) located in London, Ontario. Dubbed a stone frigate, HMCS Prevost is a land-based naval establishment for training part-time sailors as well as functioning as a local recruitment centre for the Royal Canadian Navy (RCN). Prevost reserve sailors serve on all classes of ship on both coasts and the Great Lakes and have served on many occasions overseas on UN and NATO tours of duty, along with harbour defence units.

Current 

Today, HMCS Prevost is the home to over 180 naval reservists and generates trained individuals and teams for Royal Canadian Navy's domestic and international operations, while at the same time supporting the Canadian Armed Forces efforts to connect with Canadians through the maintenance of a broad national presence.

HMCS Prevost is properly referred to as a ship, since it has been officially christened as His Majesty's Canadian Ship.  However, since the ship is part of the reserves the majority of its sailors do not operate on a full-time basis, though there is a small staff that does.

The ship also hosts, in its wardroom, regular meetings of Fanshawe Yacht Club when the Upper Thames River Conservation Authority facility at Fanshawe Lake is closed for the winter.

History

1938 
London Division Royal Canadian Naval Volunteer Reserve (RCNVR) was organized following a visit in July by Commander E. R. Mainguy, RCN.  Authority for this decision was received together with the appointment of E. E. Hart in command, as a lieutenant, 8 August 1938.  The division was to consist of a half ship's company – 6 officers and 45 men. Quarters for the division were situated on the second floor of the Darch Building on Talbot Street, and the Market Square was used for parade ground activities.

1939–1945 
After the outbreak of war, and the apparent inadequacy of the quarters, a move was made on 15 November 1939, to the Carling Block at Richmond and Carling streets, a property which had been vacated by the Postal Department upon completion of the Federal Building.

The decision, in 1941, to create independent commands in all shore establishments, brought about the search for appropriate names.  As all naval divisions were affected, and to perpetuate names of ships that had served naval forces, but whose names were not currently allocated, it was decided to rename the division, for the most part, after ships that had served on the Great Lakes during the War of 1812. HMCS Prevost, named after , a schooner brig serving with the Royal Navy's Lake Erie squadron, so named in honour of the wife of Sir George Prevost, the then Governor General of Canada and Commander-in-Chief, of the British Forces in North America. The commissioning pennant was hoisted on 1 November 1941.

In the interest of operational efficiency, the Royal Canadian Navy had to employ a common language, English, since the majority of its members were English-speaking.  Canadians speaking only French were recruited, but their inadequate knowledge of English, produced high percentages of failures among the French-speaking recruits.  In the summer of 1941 an English language course was established at  at Quebec City, Quebec. Little progress was made, however, and in 1943 the school was transferred to HMCS Prevost.  The naval schoolmasters were professional language teachers, and the ratings were quartered with English-speaking families in the city.  At the end of a three-month course the men were returned to their respective divisions for further training and subsequent draft to .  The school was moved to HMCS Cornwallis in January 1945.

Another facet of training during this time was that of civilians interested in the Navy generally but particularly in HMCS Prevost.  Many were instructed in navigation by Alexander H. Jeffery, Q.C. and Professor R.L. Allen of the University of Western Ontario, together with the co-operation of J. Gordon Thompson in the use of his yacht. During the period of hostility of World War II, HMCS Prevost  enrolled 4,480 officers, ratings and members of the Women's Royal Naval Service ("wrens") into the Royal Canadian Navy.

The Commodore Walter Hose Efficiency Trophy was won by HMCS Prevost, under the command of Lieutenant-Commander J.R. Hunter RCNVR in 1941 and 1942 and again in 1943 and became permanent property of the division.

1946–1950 
At the close of hostilities, HMCS Prevost was converted from a wartime establishment to a permanent naval division.  Specialized training equipment, including gunnery, ASDIC, radar, communication, seamanship and engineering was installed and recruiting commenced.  Permanent force staff officers and supply officers together with their staff were appointed to assist with the administration and specialized training.