[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nodocephalosaurus

docephalosaurus to be within a southern Laramidian clade containing Akainacephalus that is nested within Asian taxa rather than other Laramidian taxa and suggested that this clade was a separate biogeographic dispersal event from Asia independent from the main radiation of Laramidian ankylosaurids. 

A phylogenetic analysis conducted by Wiersma and Irmis (2018) is reproduced below. 

The results of an earlier analysis by Arbour & Currie (2015) are reproduced below.

Paleoenvironment

Nodocephalosaurus is known from the De-na-zin member of the Kirtland Formation which has been dated to the upper-most Campanian to lower-most Maastrichtian stage, 73.49 ± 0.25 to 73.04 ± 0.25 Ma, and may be a taxon unique to the Willow Wash local fauna. The Kirtland Formation consists of interbedded sandstone, siltstone, mudstone, coal and shale. The Kirtland Formation lies on the western margin of the Western Interior Seaway and represents a floodplain that was abundant with ferns, conifers and flowering plants.
Based on the abundance of angiosperms with leaves that have entire or nearly entire margins and drip points, the Kirtland Formation may have had a warm temperate to subtropical climate. The Kirtland Formation was better drained than the underlying Fruitland Formation due to the lack of coal swamps. The presence of Nodocephalosaurus and other ankylosaurids suggests that there was a higher diversity of ankylosaurids in the San Juan Basin than that of nodosaurids. 

Nodocepahlosaurus coexisted with the saurolophine hadrosaurids Anasazisaurus, Kritosaurus and Naashoibitosaurus, the lambeosaurine hadrosaurid Parasaurolophus, the chasmosaurine ceratopsid Pentaceratops, the pachycephalosaurid Sphaerotholus, the ankylosaurine ankylosaurid Ziapelta, the dromaeosaurid Saurornitholestes, and an indeterminate ornithomimid. Non-dinosaur taxa contemporaneous with Nodocephalosaurus include an indeterminate choristodere, the crocodylomorphs Denazinosuchus, Brachychampsa and Leidyosuchus, the turtles Basilemys, Denazinemys, Neurankylus, Plastomenus and Thescelus, and the fishes Melvius and Myledaphus.

See also

 Timeline of ankylosaur research

References

Late Cretaceous dinosaurs of North America
Ankylosaurids
Fossil taxa described in 1999
Paleontology in New Mexico
Campanian genus first appearances
Campanian genus extinctions
Ornithischian genera