[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Juno and the Paycock (film)

Jack Cox to hold the camera for long single shots. He was eager to have a scene set outside the flat inserted into the film, and after permission from O'Casey, added a pub scene. O'Casey made quite an impression on Hitchcock, and was the inspiration for the prophet of doom in the diner in The Birds.

Sara Allgood reprised her role as Juno from the play. Barry Fitzgerald made his film debut. The tailor Mr Kelly, who repossesses Captain Boyle's new clothes (bought on hire-purchase), is portrayed by a Jewish actor and given a strong Germanic accent, although there is no indication in the original play that the character (there called Nugent) is anything other than an Irish Gentile. It has been alleged that this plays up to the stereotype of Jews as alien usurers, and 'reading' the language used by the tailor in the film – "I should vorry vot you dress yourself in? Go ahead, jump in a pillowslip!" – has obviously been reworked to sound Jewish compared to Nugent in O'Casey's play: "What do I care what you dhress yourself in ? You can put yourself in a bolsther cover, if you like."

Similarly, the songs in the film are deliberately the kind of fake-Irish music hall ones then popular in America, such as If You're Irish, Come Into the Parlour, where in O'Casey's original their meaning is other; the words of She is Far from the Land, Thomas Moore's plangent song in memory of his close friend Robert Emmet, another martyr of an earlier revolution, and his lover Sarah Curran.

There are many other differences: in the film it is the daughter who scolds the mother about extravagance based on her lover's meretricious promises, while in the play Juno warns her husband. In the film Joxer is introduced in effect as a secret Fenian; in the play he's a pointless drunk with no political connection.

Copyright and home video status
The original negative of the film is held in the BFI National Archive but it has never received a full restoration.

Like Hitchcock's other British films, all of which are copyrighted worldwide, Juno and the Paycock has been heavily bootlegged on home video. Despite this, licensed releases have appeared on DVD from Film First in the UK and Universal in France.

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 Alfred Hitchcock Collectors’ Guide: Juno and the Paycock at Brenton Film

1930 films
1930 drama films
Tragicomedy films
British black-and-white films
British drama films
Films shot at British International Pictures Studios
British films based on plays
Films based on works by Seán O'Casey
Films directed by Alfred Hitchcock
Films set in Dublin (city)
Irish Civil War films
Films set in 1922
1930s English-language films
1930s British films