[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 53]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

rust him again. Tommy appeared in
ecstasies at the confidence that was reposed in him, and, after thanking
his father for his extraordinary goodness, he desired leave to go back
again with Mr Barlow's servant.

When he arrived at Mr Barlow's, his first care was to ask Harry to
accompany him again to the farmer's house. Thither the two little boys
went with the greatest expedition; and, on their entering the house,
found the unhappy family in the same situation as before. But Tommy, who
had hitherto suppressed his feelings, finding himself now enabled to
execute the project he had formed, went up to the good woman of the
house, who sat sobbing in a corner of the room, and, taking her gently
by the hand, said, "My good woman, you were very kind to me in the
morning, and therefore I am determined to be kind to you in return."
"God bless you, my little master," said the woman, "you are very welcome
to what you had; but you are not able to do anything to relieve our
distress." "How do you know that?" said Tommy; "perhaps I can do more
for you than you imagine." "Alas!" answered the woman, "I believe you
would do all you could; but all our goods will be seized and sold,
unless we can immediately raise the sum of forty pounds; and that is
impossible, for we have no earthly friend to assist us; therefore my
poor babes and I must soon be turned out of doors, and God alone can
keep them from starving."

Tommy's little heart was too much affected to keep the woman longer in
suspense; therefore, pulling out his bag of money, he poured it into her
lap, saying, "Here, my good woman, take this and pay your debts, and God
bless you and your children!" It is impossible to express the surprise
of the poor woman at the sight; she stared wildly round her, and upon
her little benefactor, and, clasping her hands together in an agony of
gratitude and feeling, she fell back in her chair with a kind of
convulsive motion. Her husband, who was in the next room, seeing her in
this condition, ran up to her, and catching her in his arms, asked her
with the greatest tenderness what was the matter; but she, springing on
a sudden from his embraces, threw herself upon her knees before the
little boy, sobbing and blessing with a broken inarticulate voice,
embracing his knees and kissing his feet. The husband, who did not know
what had happened, imagined that his wife had lost her senses; and the
little children, who had before been skulking about the room, ran up to
their mother, pulling her by the gown, and hiding their faces in her
bosom. But the woman, at the sight of them, seemed to recollect herself,
and cried out, "Little wretches, who must all have been starved without
the assistance of this little angel; why do you not join with me in
thanking him?" At this the husband said, "Surely, Mary, you must have
lost your senses. What can this young gentleman do for us or to prevent
our wretched babes from perishing?" "Oh, William," said the woman, "I am
not mad, though I may appear so; but look here, William, look what
Providence has sent us by the hands of this little angel, and then
wonder not that I should be wild." Saying this, she held up the money,
and at the sight her husband looked as wild and astonished as she. But
Tommy went up to the man, and, taking him by the hand, said, "My good
friend, you are very welcome to this; I freely give it you; and I hope
it will enable you to pay what you owe, and to preserve these poor
little children." But the man, who had before appeared to bear his
misfortunes with silent dignity, now burst into tears and sobbed like
his wife and children; but Tommy, who now began to be pained with this
excess of gratitude, went silently out of the house, followed by Harry;
and, before the poor family perceived what had become of him, was out of
sight.

When he came back to Mr Barlow's that gentleman received him with the
greatest affection, and when he had inquired after the health of Mr and
Mrs Merton, asked Tommy whether he had forgotten the story of the
grateful Turk. Tommy told him he had not, and should now be very glad to
hear the remainder; which Mr Barlow gave him to read, and was as
follows:--


"CONTINUATION OF THE HISTORY OF THE GRATEFUL TURK."

"When Hamet had thus finished his story, the Venetian was astonished at
the virtue and elevation of his mind; and after saying everything that
his gratitude and admiration suggested, he concluded with pressing him
to accept the half of his fortune, and to settle in Venice for the
remainder of his life. This offer Hamet refused with the greatest
respect, but with a generous disdain; and told his friend that, in what
he had done, he had only discharged a debt of gratitude and friendship.
'You were,' said he, 'my generous benefactor; you had a claim upon my
life by the benefit you had already conferred; that life would have been
well bestowed had it been lost in your service; but since