[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dingtao Campaign

ijing–Hankou Railway.  To achieve this goal, the defense minister Bai Chongxi and the chief of the general staff Chen Cheng were sent to Kaifeng to oversee the operation, and Liu Zhi was named as the frontline commander-in-chief, and was sent to the Kaocheng (考城) – Minquan (民权) frontline to command.

Zhengzhou front:
A brigade from the Reorganized 55th Division and another from the Reorganized 68th Division would attack Cao (曹) County from the region from Lanfeng (兰封) to Shangqiu, with the help of a regiment from the Temporarily Organized 4th Column.
Reorganized 41st Division would attack Dongming (东明) from Fengqiu (封丘).
Reorganized 3rd and 47th Divisions would attack Dingtao (定陶) from Fengqiu (封丘) in a pincer movement.
Xuzhou front:
The 5th Army, Reorganized 11th and 88th Division would advance toward regions including Yutai (鱼台), Feng (丰) County, and Chengwu (城武), from the regions including Yu (虞) City and Xuzhou.
Other forces deployed:
 Four brigades and two security regiments were tasked to secure the Kaifeng–Shangqiu section of the Lanzhou–Lianyungang Railway.
 General reserves included 13 brigades in the region of Anyang, Xinxiang and the region to the east of these two prefectures.
The main thrust would be that of Zhengzhou front.

Communist strategy
Troops of communist 3rd, 6th and 7th Columns under the command of Liu Bocheng and Deng Xiaoping was resting, re-supplying and regrouping in the southwestern Shandong after the communist victory of Longhai Campaign at the time.  Due to the overwhelming nationalist numerical and technical superiorities, the communist central military committee, the communist high command, radioed the local communists to instruct them to concentrate their force in each battle to achieve at least 3:1 superiority, and 4:1 was even better when fighting the nationalist regular forces.  After destroying a portion of the nationalist force, then targeting the next and so on, accumulate many smaller victories into an eventual large one.  Liu Bocheng and Deng Xiaoping analyzed their positions and concluded that a communist victory could be secured due to the following reasons.  Despite the absolute numerical and technical superiority, the nationalists only had fifteen brigades devoted to the actual attacks on the frontline, and this strength would be further reduced if the nationalists advance further.  Although two armies out of the top five crack nationalist units were deployed in the nationalist thrust from Xuzhou, it actually was not the main thrust.  Instead, the nationalist thrust from Zhengzhou was the true thrust against the communist bases, but among the nationalist forces deployed for this thrust, only the nationalist Reorganized 3rd and 47th Divisions were truly capable.  If one of these reorganized division (possibly two) were annihilated, the nationalist thrust from Zhengzhou would be effectively neutralized.  With the main thrust gone, the other nationalist thrust from Xuzhou against the communists would not last long either, and the nationalist offensive would be crushed.