[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Cycle index

K4 is:

The cycle index of the face permutations of a cube

Consider an ordinary cube in three-space and its group of symmetries (automorphisms), call it C. It permutes the six faces of the cube.
(We could also consider edge permutations or vertex permutations.)
There are twenty-four automorphisms.

 The identity:
There is one such permutation and its contribution is 
 Six 90-degree face rotations:
We rotate about the axis passing through the centers of the face and the face opposing it. This will fix the face and the face opposing it and create a four-cycle of the faces parallel to the axis of rotation. The contribution is 
 Three 180-degree face rotations:
We rotate about the same axis as in the previous case, but now there is no four cycle of the faces parallel to the axis, but rather two two-cycles. The contribution is 
 Eight 120-degree vertex rotations:
This time we rotate about the axis passing through two opposite vertices (the endpoints of a main diagonal). This creates two three-cycles of faces (the faces incident on the same vertex form a cycle). The contribution is 
 Six 180-degree edge rotations:
These edge rotations rotate about the axis that passes through the midpoints of opposite edges not incident on the same face and parallel to each other and exchanges the two faces that are incident on the first edge, the two faces incident on the second edge, and the two faces that share two vertices but no edge with the two edges, i.e. there are three two-cycles and the contribution is 

The conclusion is that the cycle index of the group C is

Cycle indices of some permutation groups

Identity group En
This group contains one permutation that fixes every element (this must be a natural action).

Cyclic group Cn
A cyclic group, Cn is the group of rotations of a regular n-gon, that is, n elements equally spaced around a circle. This group has φ(d) elements of order d for each divisor d of n, where φ(d) is the Euler φ-function, giving the number of natural numbers less than d which are relatively prime to d. In the regular representation of Cn, a permutation of order d has n/d cycles of length d, thus:

Dihedral group Dn
The dihedral group is like the cyclic group, but also includes reflections. In its natural action,

Alternating group An
The cycle index of the alternating group in its natural action as a permutation group is

The numerator is 2 for the even permutations, and 0 for the odd permutations. The 2 is needed because
.

Symmetric group Sn

The cycle index of the symmetric group Sn in its natural action is given by the formula:

that can be also stated in terms of complete Bell polynomials:

This formula is obtained by counting how many times a given permutation shape can occur. There are three steps: first partition the set of n labels into subsets, where there are  subsets of size k. Every such subset generates  cycles of length k. But we do not distinguish between cycles of the same size, i.e. they are permuted by . This yields

The formula may be further simplified if we sum up cycle indices over every , while using an extra variable  to keep track of the total size of the cycles:

thus giving a simplified form for the cycle index of :

There is a useful recursive formula for the cycle index of the symmetric group.
Set  and consider the size l of the cycle that contains n,
where 
There are  ways to choose the remaining  elements of the cycle and every such choice generates
 different cycles.

This yields the recurrence

or

Applications 

Throughout this section we will modify the notation for cycle indices slightly by explicitly including the names of the variables. Thus, for the permutation group G we will now write:
 

Let G be a group acting on the set X. G also induces an action on the k-subsets of X and on the k-tuples of distinct elements of X (see #Example for the case k = 2), for 1 ≤ k ≤ n. Let fk and Fk denote the number of orbits of G in these actions respectively. By convention we set f0 = F0 = 1. We have:

a) The ordinary generating function for fk is given by:
  and
b) The exponential generating function for Fk is given by:
 

Let G be a group acting on the set X and h a function from X to Y. For any g in G, h(xg) is also a function from X to Y. Thus, G induces an action on the set YX of all functions from X to Y. The number of orbits of this action is Z(G; b, b, ...,b) where b = |Y|.

This result follows from the orbit counting lemma (also known as the Not Burnside's lemma, but traditionally called Burnside's lemma) and the weighted version of the result is Pólya's enumeration theorem.

The cycle index is a polynomial in several variables and the above results show that certain evaluations of this polynomial give combinatorially significant results. As polynomials they may also be formally added, subtracted, differentiated and integrated. The area of symbolic combinatorics provides combinatorial interpretations of the results of these formal operations.