[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Syrian nationalism

panning the Arabian Peninsula, Greater Syria and Iraq; with its government being headquartered in Damascus. The empire was to be headed by an Arab Caliph, and the Caliph was to appoint a President for every five-year term, from a list of candidates suggested to him by the Council of Representatives.

Rashid Rida's comrade 'Abd al-Rahman al-Kawakibi (1854-1902), a Syrian of Kurdish origins born in Aleppo, was another major Muslim figure who championed Arab unity. Al-Kawakibi believed that Arabs are the best people to lead Islamic revival, and promoted the re-kindling of Arab consciousness as a means to empower the Muslim World. Through his books like Taba’i al-lstibdad (The Nature of Tyranny) and Umm al-Qura (The Mother of Villages—Mecca), Kawakibi boldly defied the Turkish Sultan and promoted Islamic revolution to overthrow various political tyrannies. Kawakibi believed that pristine Islam opposed tyranny and advocated a political system that was a middle road between democracy and dictatorship. He argued that tyranny leads to the weakening of national spirit and degradation of national culture. Kawakibi's second major work, Umm al-Qura, was about an Islamic congress of representatives all across the Muslim World, who held debates to discuss about Islamic socio-political revival. Rashid Rida popularised the work through Al-Manar in 1902.

The formation of the Syrian state 

As in many other countries of the region, after the fall of the Ottoman empire the land now known as Syria was left without a common identity to bond the different ethnicities together. Already during the period of the Tanzimat, thinkers like Butrus al-Bustani, belonging to the Nahda movement, were claiming the existence of a natural Syrian nation, or Great Syria, also known as the region of the Levant.

Nonetheless, after World War I, the area was subject to the division in spheres of influence operated by the British and the French with the Sykes-Picot agreement. After a brief attempt in 1919 to establish an independent Arab Kingdom of Syria under King Faisal, in 1920 the territory was split in three separate regions under the control of France.

After years of conflict and revolts, in 1936 Syria managed to negotiate a treaty of independence from France and became a nation with Hashim al-Atassi as its first president. In the following years, Syria passed from being still under the influence of France, to being controlled by Vichy France in 1940 during World War II, to becoming again occupied by British and Free French forces with the 1941 Syria–Lebanon campaign. After 1941, the Prime Minister of Iraq Nuri Pasha al-Said expressed his support for a Greater Syrian country that includes Iraq, Syria, Lebanon, Palestine and Jordan.

After a five years long struggle, and with the end of the war, on the 17th April 1946 Syria became a recognized independent state. However, the Israeli–Palestinian conflict of 1948, and the rise of pan-Arabist nationalist movements, led to multiple coups d'état, the most famous that of 1949 by Husni al-Za'im. It is during this revolutionary period that the Ba'ath Socialist Party emerges for the first time. The party, founded in 1947 was promoting pan-Arabist ideas and anti-imperialist tendencies, it quickly gained popularity becoming in the 1954 elections the second biggest party in the Syrian parliament.  The Ba'ath party played a major role in offering the Syrian community a new imagined identity that could even connect them to other countries in the Arab world under existent traditions.

Ideology

Syrian nationalism 
Syrian nationalism posited a common Syrian history and nationality, grouping all the different religious sects and variations in the area, as well as the region's mixture of different peoples. However, Greater Syria does not have a history as a state, and its inhabitants do not identify as members of a Greater Syrian nation. The idea of a Greater Syria is not inherently political; it bases itself on culture, seeing that people from the region share many traditions. Pan-Syrian nationalism can be distinguished in two forms: a pragmatic and a pure form. The pragmatic form accepts pan-Arabism and sees the building of Greater Syria as a step forward to building an Arab nation. The pure form completely rejects the idea of an Arab nation, stating that Greater Syria is a complete nation on its own.