[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Collision Course (Space: 1999)

eing blasted out of orbit was no random accident.  Their worlds have been destined to meet in the body of time for the purpose of mutation.  The collision will act as a catalyst, allowing her people to evolve into a noncorporeal form of existence.  To achieve this, she asks the Alphans do...nothing.

The Moon will continue on, Arra tells Koenig, spreading humanity throughout the deepest reaches of space.  She pauses, sensing the thoughts of Bergman and company as they finalise plans for Operation Shockwave.  Three cargo Eagles are dispatched with nuclear charges, which must be deployed in space at the exact position now occupied by the Atherian vessel.  She tells Koenig that nothing must be done to interfere with this sacred event.

Though Koenig has complete faith in the aged monarch, he begs Arra to return with him.  She refuses as she has much to do to prepare for the coming transmutation.

Its power restored, Eagle Four is released from the alien ship.  As it departs, Koenig contacts Alpha, ordering Operation Shockwave suspended.  At a command conference, the Commander relates his encounter with Arra.  With the Moon emerging from the plasma cloud, readings confirm collision with Atheria in seven hours.  The senior staff is flabbergasted by his intention to do nothing.  However, Helena and Bergman support Koenig, citing his case is based on faith.  If Arra has convinced Koenig, they should place their faith in him.  Koenig confirms Shockwave is cancelled.

After the meeting adjourns, Helena and Bergman reveal they were merely humouring the Commander. The doctor confines Koenig to his quarters under sedation.  Morrow is directed to assume command and proceed with Shockwave.  Sensing their treachery, Arra reaches out to Koenig. Roused from a drugged sleep, he overwhelms the sentries stationed outside his quarters and escapes.  Arming himself, he meets up with Carter, also called into action by Arra.

They make their way to Main Mission where, at minus three minutes to detonation.  After storming the room, Koenig orders Computer to seal all entrances.  The two men herd everyone away from the detonation switch.  Koenig tries to convince the hostages that the collision will not result in destruction, but in the evolution of the Atherians to a higher form of life.  His desperation only reinforces everyone's belief he is mad.  At the risk of being shot, Morrow makes a dash for the switch.

A brawl erupts as the two worlds rush toward each other, ending with the two 'madmen' being restrained. Helena moves to detonate the charges.  Realising the countdown expired during the fight, Bergman stops her—the collision is now inevitable.  The Alphans instinctively back away from the visual of Atheria's approaching surface on the big screen.  Koenig waits for Arra...who does not appear.  Clinging to his faltering faith, he calls out for her as the floor begins heaving beneath his feet.

At the moment of contact, Atheria vanishes...the Moon ploughing through the space it occupied.  Later, Koenig broods as he stares out a window into the empty space.  He is joined by Helena, who apologises for her actions.  He interrupts, insisting she did nothing wrong.  His story was mad.  How could anyone possibly know that two planets on a collision course would not collide, but merely touch...?

Regular cast
 Martin Landau — Commander John Koenig
 Barbara Bain — Doctor Helena Russell
 Barry Morse — Professor Victor Bergman
 Prentis Hancock — Controller Paul Morrow
 Clifton Jones — David Kano
 Zienia Merton — Sandra Benes
 Anton Phillips — Doctor Bob Mathias
 Nick Tate — Captain Alan Carter
 Suzanne Roquette — Tanya (uncredited)

Music 
In addition to the regular Barry Gray score (drawn primarily from "Breakaway" and "Another Time, Another Place"), music tracks composed by Gray for the previous Anderson productions Captain Scarlet and the Mysterons, Joe 90 and the film Thunderbird 6 were also utilised.