[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Baku Slavic University

Literature Institute of the base of the same name was restored. All the training and education and scientific research institute of the department implemented 18. At that time, the education center, 280 teachers, including 6 doctors, professors and 84 candidates of sciences, senior lecturer working.

1974 in two of the faculty at the institute - # 1 for students graduating from secondary school in the Russian language, Russian language and literature, for students graduating from the Azeri language in # 2, a decision was made on the establishment of Russian language and literature departments. Scientific-research and educational institute meets goals and objectives, purposeful character and Azerbaijan National Academy of Sciences of the Coordination Council of the plan was carried out. During the period of operation of the teaching staff of the institute, the All-Union and international scale scientific-methodical conferences, seminars, and symposium probably took an active part.

Modern history 
1994 in accordance with international standards of the new four-year curriculum for undergraduate training has taken place.

President of the Republic of Azerbaijan, Heydar Aliyev, 13 June 2000 in the MF in the decree on the basis of the Azerbaijan Pedagogical Institute of Russian Language and Literature is a unique educational institution in its own direction and the entire eastern region known as the rare specialties training of professional staff in carrying out the high school – was established in Baku Slavic University.

Well-known scholar, doctor of philological sciences, professor, honored scientist Nurlana Aliyev by the decree of the President of the republic, was appointed the rector of BSU. Developed and implemented a broad program of reforms under his leadership, the university's teaching, education, material-technical base of the completely updated, BSU has become one of the most advanced educational institutions.

With the countries of the world community of independent Azerbaijan, as well as constantly expanding relations with Eastern European states of these countries is not only the language and literature, as well as economy, geography, socio-political system and culture that are deeply conditioned the need for the preparation of highly qualified personnel. The purpose of this task with a high level of implementation of the re-organization of the necessity of having high school emerged. In fact, higher status and ability of students to new educational center providing a wide ixtisaslasmasını created.

BSU in a short period of time, highly qualified, professional staff, educational and scientific potential, with modern infrastructure has become a comprehensive educational institution. This is a unique educational and cultural center of Baku Slavic University as the Slavic peoples of the region and promotes the study of moral values. The Russian, Slavic languages and literature is carried out serious research, not only for our republic, but also highly qualified human resources for a number of Eastern countries. Structural changes which have occurred in the university covers all of its areas of activity.

Quarry in the regular education during the last two years BSU has become a center of scientific slavistika and Slavic culture. Today at Baku Slavic University has 26 departments. University professors and teaching staff of 38 doctors, professors, 184 candidates of sciences, senior lecturer and senior lecturer and teacher, includes more than 200.

Faculties 
There are 5 faculties and 2 departments.
Faculty of Pedagogy.
Bachelor in Russian literature and language with a focus of choice from:
 Elementary teaching.
 Primary school educators.
 Social work and social pedagogics.
 Preschool education and training.
Faculty of Linguistics and foreign language teaching.
Bachelor in Linguistics (Russian/English/French/German language and literature) and Foreign language teaching (Russian/English/French/German). The chair of the faculty includes 7 departments.
Faculty of Translation. 
Bachelor in translation for the English, Greek, Russian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Polish and Czech languages.
Faculty of International relations and regional studies. 
Bachelor in International studies and politics with a focus on East (Russia, Ukraine, Poland) and Central Europe (Czech Republic), Balkan (Bulgaria), Greece and Turkey.
Faculty for Azerbaijan linguistics and journalism.

Departments:
Master's department.
Dean's office for International Students.

Base and opportunities Education 
BSU in the "Dictionary Center", "Turkish-Slavic Relations", "Translation Problems", "International Relations" scientific-research laboratories, "The problems of Azerbaijan" was established in scientific and educational center.