[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kerry and Kay Danes

ement in the theft of over $US6 million worth of sapphires and cash from a gem mine that he had been hired to secure. Under Lao law, suspects could be held for up to twelve months before charges were laid. GML fugitive Bernie Jeppesen attributed Danes' problem to his association with Gem Mining Lao.

Danes' wife, Kay (aged 33), worked as an office manager for Lao Securicor security company, which contracted to GML. She tried to flee the country on foot the same day with two of their three children (the third child, aged 14, was not in Laos), but was detained with $US52,700 cash at the nearby Laos-Thailand border by the head of Lao secret police. Under Lao law, suspects could be held for up to twelve months before charges were laid. The children aged 11 and 7 were released and with the aid of Australian consular staff, returned to Australia two days later on 25 December 2000 to stay with their grandparents in Brisbane. Kerry and Kay Danes were incarcerated in separate sections of mixed-sex Phonthong Prison, known as the 'Foreigners Prison', near Vientiane. On Christmas Day, Kay reportedly told her mother by mobile phone: "Mum, I think by tomorrow I'll be dead."

Allegations
In May 2001, the Danes' Sydney-based lawyer said Kay's psychological condition was deteriorating, and she had developed a bad toothache in need of treatment. However, Kerry was physically and mentally strong. The case against the Danes centred on the transfer of a small fortune ($AUD200,000) to a Lao bank account in Kay Danes' name. The transfer occurred about the time authorities alleged that finished and rough-cut sapphires worth millions of dollars disappeared from the office of a mining company that Danes provided security for. Soon after the Danes were detained, fugitive Bernie Jeppesen (GML) claimed that two dubious Australian characters (one notorious for money laundering and the other a disbarred lawyer) known as associates of murdered Melbourne lawyer/conman Max Green) were the main accusers against the Danes.

Conviction
In June 2001, a Lao court convicted both Kerry and Kay Danes of embezzlement, tax evasion and destruction of evidence, sentenced each to seven years imprisonment, and ordered them to pay fines and compensation of $AUD1.1 million. The Australian government intervened on their behalf, and the Danes had served less than a total of ten months in prison when provisionally released on 6 October 2001. Not yet permitted to leave the country, the Danes decamped at the residence of Australian ambassador to Laos, Jonathan Thwaites.  Laos authorities returned cash seized from Kay Danes and bank account funds of almost $200,000 ordered frozen at the time of the Danes' arrest. However, it was expected that such monies would be used to pay fines and compensation.

Pardon
In large part due to Laos's strong ties with Australia, coupled with the fact that Kerry Danes was still enlisted as a full-time non-commissioned officer in the Australian Defence Force, the pair received a formal presidential pardon on 6 November 2001, which absolved them of their convictions. According to Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs Alexander Downer, the Danes were advised they were free to leave Laos and welcome to return at any time if they wished. The couple flew back to Australia, and Kerry Danes returned to military service.

Fines
As a condition of release in October 2001, the Danes agreed to pay the June 2001 court-ordered $AUD1.1 million in fines and compensation in four equal instalments. When told that the Lao government was considering court action for non-payment in August 2002, Kay Danes argued on ABC Local Radio that the agreement was simply a diplomatic face-saving exercise, and she felt that the Australian government should intervene on their behalf again because she would be "executed" if forced to return to Laos. The Australian Foreign Minister's press secretary advised that the issue was a private legal matter between the Laos government and the Danes. Australia was obligated to pass on any court order issued in Laos, however no official documents had been received by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade.

Film
In 2013, the producers of The Bodhi Tree film considered buying an option on Kay Danes' 2009 memoir Standing Ground: An Imprisoned Couple's Struggle for Justice Against a Communist Regime but later decided to base the film on two novels by British journalist Paul Conroy. The Bodhi Tree concentrates on the main story of lawyer Max Green, Australia's biggest legal fraudster, who embezzled millions of dollars and was later murdered in Cambodia. The smaller supporting story fictionalises the Danes in Laos.

Kay Danes