[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# History of the Pittsburgh Pirates

am in major-league history to score 10 runs in the first inning and nevertheless lose the game. Pirates broadcaster (and former pitcher) Jim Rooker famously vowed that if the team blew the lead, he would walk home from Philadelphia—a vow he fulfilled after the season while raising money for charity.

The Pirates would win the first three NL East titles of the 1990s, but failed to advance to the World Series each time. In 1990, the Pirates faced off against their old rivals, the Reds, and fell to the eventual world champion in six games. The Bucs were even better in 1991, easily winning the National League East by 14 games, but they once again fell in the NLCS despite taking a 3–2 lead in the series. The young, upstart Atlanta Braves won Games 6 and 7 at Three Rivers Stadium, denying the Bucs' bid for their 10th National League pennant. Despite losing Bonilla to free agency in the 1991–92 offseason, the Pirates won their third consecutive division title and once again faced off against the Braves in the 1992 National League Championship Series. Atlanta took a 3–1 lead in the series, but the Pirates won Games 5 and 6 to force a deciding Game 7 in Atlanta. Drabek pitched into the 9th inning as the Bucs clung to a 2–0 lead; he was removed after the Braves loaded the bases with no outs. Reliever Stan Belinda retired two Braves on a sacrifice fly and a pop-out, and the Pirates were only one out away from going to the World Series. Pinch hitter Francisco Cabrera singled to left, scoring two runners—including Sid Bream, a former Pirate and one of the slowest players in baseball- to win the series for Atlanta.

That offseason, Drabek and Bonds became free agents, and the Pirates' internal replacements were insufficient to keep the team competitive. The Bucs finished with a below-.500 record in 1993, the first of 20 consecutive losing seasons that would become a record for the four major professional North American sports leagues. As the team slipped down the standings in the mid-1990s, the Pittsburgh Associates looked to find a buyer for the team, and rumors once again circulated that the team would be moved. The ownership group was only intended to be a short-term steward of franchise to ensure its future in Pittsburgh, but the Associates ended up owning the Pirates for more than a decade.

McClatchy buys the team
In 1996, McClatchy publishing company chairman Kevin McClatchy led a group of investors to purchase the Pirates for $95 million. McClatchy immediately moved forward with a two-pronged plan to return the Pirates to relevance: off the field, the Pirates would need a new ballpark to replace the aging Three Rivers Stadium and increase revenue streams; on the field, the Bucs would need to cut payroll, trade players for prospects, and build up the farm system. Leyland, unwilling to endure a rebuild, quit after the 1996 season, being replaced in his capacity by Gene Lamont.

At first, the plan seemed to be working: despite fielding a league-low $9 million payroll, the 1997 squad—known as the "Freak Show"—remained in contention for the newly-created National League Central for most of the summer. The following year, the city pushed through funding for a new, baseball-only stadium on the North Shore. As construction on the new ballpark took place down the street, the Pirates failed to build on their 1997 season. General manager Cam Bonifay sought to have a winning team in place for the opening of the new stadium in 2001, but the Bucs lost 93 games in 1998 and again in 2000.

A new ballpark and continued struggles (2001–present)

In 2001, the Pirates opened a new stadium, PNC Park, featuring a simple concept and strategic usage of the Pittsburgh skyline.

General manager Dave Littlefield was installed July 13, 2001, midway through the 2001 season, and began overhauling the team to comply with owner Kevin McClatchy's dictum to drastically reduce the payroll. Enigmatic but talented third baseman Aramis Ramírez was traded to the Chicago Cubs in 2003 for a fairly minimal return under pressure to dump his $6 million salary for 2004, and he proceeded to become a star for the Cubs. Brian Giles was one of the National League's best hitters for several years, but he and his $9 million salary were also traded in 2003 to the San Diego Padres for youngsters Óliver Pérez, Jason Bay, and Cory Stewart. Pirate fans found this trade much more palatable in the short run, as Pérez led the majors in strikeouts per inning and Bay won the Rookie of the Year Award in 2004, while Giles put up a subpar season by his standards. After the 2004 season, Jason Kendall went to the Oakland Athletics in a cross-exchange of high-salary players.