[Source: PubMed]

1. Eval Program Plann. 2022 Dec;95:102154. doi:
10.1016/j.evalprogplan.2022.102154.  Epub 2022 Aug 8.

A clustered randomized controlled trial to assess whether Living Peace 
Intervention (LPint) reduces domestic violence and its consequences among 
families of targeted men in Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC): 
Design and methods.

Jansen S(1), Nsabimana E(2), Kagaba M(1), Mutabaruka J(1), Rutembesa E(1), Slegh 
H(3), Mihigo B(1), Mahwa A(3), Ruratotoye B(3), Haile Z(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Rwanda, Kigali, Rwanda.
(2)University of Rwanda, Kigali, Rwanda; Hope and Homes for Children, Kigali, 
Rwanda. Electronic address: nsabepa@yahoo.fr.
(3)Living Peace Institute, Goma, Democratic Republic of the Congo.
(4)Ohio University, Heritage College of Osteopathic Medicine, USA.

The aim of this study is to assess the effectiveness of Living Peace 
Intervention (LPint) in terms of reduction of domestic violence and a range of 
secondary outcomes, including violence against children, mental health 
wellbeing, and social/family relations. The study aims also to determine whether 
LPint reduces domestic violence due to mediating effects of reduction of 
psychopathology, improved positive masculinity attitudes, family and social life 
and psychological states. This study uses a Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial 
design, with person-level and cluster-level outcomes. The counterfactual is 
villages that are listed as being affected by the conflict in North and South 
Kivu of Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Sixty villages with 1736 
participants were included in the study. The primary analysis will use 
generalized estimating equations to compare treatments versus control groups on 
their mean change in domestic violence between baseline and endline one and two. 
The allocated group will be regarded as fixed effects whilst villages and time 
points are regarded as random effects in the model. This is a unique study in 
the context of a protracted violent humanitarian crisis notably the DRC. It uses 
a Cluster Randomized Controlled Trial (CRCT) to obtain hard empirical evidence 
to prove the scalability of the Living Peace intervention in close humanitarian 
contexts.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.evalprogplan.2022.102154
PMID: 36027758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]