[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Republican Proposal

the candidate who would represent Cambiemos in the presidential election.

On 25 October, he won second place with 34.15% and managed to enter the ballotage. On 22 November, he was elected President of Argentina with 51.34% of the votes after winning in the second round the Kirchnerist Daniel Scioli

Horacio Rodríguez Larreta was elected Chief of Government of the City of Buenos Aires under another district coalition: Unión-PRO. María Eugenia Vidal (PRO) defeated Aníbal Fernández and became Governor of the Buenos Aires Province, putting an end to 28 years of Peronist control.

Republican Proposal joined the International Democrat Union on 17 January 2017.

In the legislative elections of 2017, Esteban Bullrich, member of Republican Proposal, obtained the first place and Cambiemos defeated the Citizen's Unity of the former Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner.

In March 2018, Union for Freedom, member of the Liberal International, agreed to its dissolution and integration into the PRO. This merger was approved by the PRO National Council and Patricia Bullrich joined the party.

In June 2019, an extension of the Cambiemos alliance was made: it is renamed Juntos por el Cambio, by adding to Federal Peronism led by Miguel Ángel Pichetto, who would share the presidential formula of space together with Mauricio Macri. In the 2019 presidential elections, JxC was in second place, with 40% of the votes, behind Fernández, who won first round with 48% of the votes.

In the province of Buenos Aires, Governor María Eugenia Vidal sought re-election but was defeated by the candidate of the Frente de Todos, Axel Kicillof, who won 52% of the votes against 38% obtained by JxC. In the city of Buenos Aires, Mayor Horacio Rodríguez Larreta joins the Radical Civic Union and the Socialist Party to the district alliance and is reelected as Chief of Government with 56% of the votes in the first round.

Ideology 
Despite its heterogeneity and post-ideological profile, PRO can be classified as a centre-right party close to the conservative-liberal tradition and the neoliberal paradigm.

The party claims to revive the "spirit" of Arturo Frondizi, who was Argentine president of the Radical Civic Union between 1958 and 1962, on the website.
In general, PRO can be classified as conservatism with elements of economic liberalism.

Fabián Bosoer, a political scientist who writes for Clarín, says PRO is "centre-right or republican liberal" party.

PRO's fundamental ties come from other centre-right parties. It sought alliances with parties like the Democratic Party.

PRO is affiliated with the International Democratic Union and has links with international networks of think tanks such as the Konrad Adenauer Foundation.

Mauricio Macri defined his own strength as "pro-market and pro-business".

Despite the majority of PRO members, they refuse to accept that their party be classified as "right-wing" for various reasons.  In Argentina, only 20% of citizens recognize themselves as right-wing and PRO, like other modern parties, to seek where there is a greater number of potential votes, hoping to add voters to the centre without losing the support of those on the right-wing. A rejection to be placed in the field of the right-wing prevails, which in Argentina is strongly associated with authoritarianism. There is also a centrist faction led by Horacio Rodríguez Larreta.

Economic issues 
PRO supports lower taxes, deregulation and free trade. Macri has expressed opposition to the nationalization of the country's airline and oil companies.

During Macri's presidency, he liberalized foreign exchange and exports and imports controls, cut some taxes and energy subsidies.

Social issues 
Mauricio Macri has opposed LGBT rights during the 90s but has evolved since then. In 2009 he declared to be in favor of same sex unions and that he was not appealing the ruling that enabled the marriage between two men in the City of Buenos Aires. Nevertheless, in 2010 the majority of national deputies of PRO voted against same-sex marriage, including Gabriela Michetti, who actively campaigned against it.

During Macri's presidency, when the PRO leader declared himself pro-life, most party members voted against legalizing abortion.

Foreign policy
Macri improved the relations with the United States and from Mercosur achieved a free trade agreement with the European Union and closer ties with the Pacific Alliance.

PRO and Cambiemos opposes strongly the regime of Nicolás Maduro in Venezuela for human rights abuses and calls for a restoration of democracy in the country.

During the first week in office, Macri annulled the Memorandum of understanding between Argentina and Iran, which would have established a joint investigation into the 1994 bombing with AMIA, a terrorist attack on a Jewish organization for which Argentina blamed Hezbollah and Iran.