[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mojave Road

crossing – The only water crossing on this trail. (mile 121) 
Manix Wash – The exit point of the Mojave Road. (mile 133) 
 Camp Cady – a former U.S. Army Camp along the old Mojave Road, on the Mojave River (mile 136.1) 
 Fork of the Road – Location along the north bank of the Mojave River were the old Mojave Road split off from the route of the Old Spanish Trail/Mormon Road east of Yermo. (mile 147) 
 Drum Barracks the end of the trail in the west in Wilmington, Los Angeles.

Historic designations
Mojave Road Los Angeles became a California Historic Landmark (No.963) on 19 March 1985, and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2021.
California Historic Marker reads:
NO. 963 THE MOJAVE ROAD – Long ago, Mohave Indians used a network of pathways to cross the Mojave Desert. In 1826, American trapper Jedediah Smith used their paths and became the first non-Indian to reach the California coast overland from mid-America. The paths were worked into a military wagon road in 1859. This "Mojave Road" remained a major link between Los Angeles and points east until a railway crossed the desert in 1885.

Camp Cady also is a California Historical Landmark Marker #963-1 on the site reads:
NO. 963-1 Camp Cady was located on the Mojave Road which connected Los Angeles to Albuquerque. Non-Indian travel on this and the nearby Salt Lake Road was beset by Paiutes, Mohaves, and Chemehuevis defending their homeland. To protect both roads, Camp Cady was established by U.S. Dragoons in 1860. The main building was a stout mud redoubt. Improved camp structures were built 1/2-mile west in 1868. After peace was achieved, the military withdrew in 1871. This protection provided by Camp Cady enabled travelers, merchandise, and mail using both roads to boost California's economy and growth.

See also
California Historical Landmarks in San Bernardino County, California
California Historical Landmarks in Los Angeles County
 Category: Mountain ranges of the Mojave Desert
 Category: Protected areas of the Mojave Desert
 Desert Region of California

References

External links
 Mojave National Preserve, Mojave Road
 BLM: Mojave Recreation website
 Mojave Road at dirtopia.com
  Maps of the Mojave Road, Topo Maps of the GPS Track of the Mojave Road off-road trail, (map panels connect sequentially from east to west) from mojave-road.com. 
  Topographical Sketch showing the Outward and Inward Route of a Party, while examining as to the practicability of a Diversion of the Colorado River for Purposes of Irrigation, Lithograph by Eric Bergland, 1875. From, Wheeler, G.M., Topographical Atlas Projected To Illustrate United States Geographical Surveys West Of The 100th Meridian Of Longitude Prosecuted In Accordance With Acts Of Congress Under The Authority Of The Honorable The Secretary Of War, And The Direction Of Brig. Genl. A.A. Humphreys, Chief Of Engineers, U.S. Army. Embracing Results Of the Different Expeditions Under The Command Of 1st Lieut. Geo. M. Wheeler, Corps Of Engineers. Julius Bien, lith., G. Thompson, Washington, 1876 from davidrumsey.com accessed 3 December 2014.  Shows the Colorado River above Ehrenburg, Arizona to Stones Ferry at the mouth of the Virgin River; in Southern California, parts of Nevada, and Arizona.  Includes the roads and railroads of the time, including the detailed routes of the Bradshaw Trail and the Mojave Road and the Old Spanish Trail/Old Mormon Road to Salt Lake City, from Los Angeles to Forks of the Road.  From a Wheeler Annual Report.  Gift to the David Rumsey collection by Mark Sappington.
The Mojave Road in 1863. The Pioneering Photographs of Rudolph s'Heurese. By Jeff Lapides, 2018, published by the Mojave Desert Heritage and Cultural Association.

Mohave Trail
Historic trails and roads in California
History of the Mojave Desert region
Mojave National Preserve
Native American trails in the United States
Geography of San Bernardino County, California
Trails and roads in the American Old West
History of Southern California
National Register of Historic Places in San Bernardino County, California
Native American history of California