[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Olson 30

l class associations exist where the boat is popular enough to support a regular one-design fleet. There are established fleets in the Pacific Northwest, San Francisco, and Los Angeles areas, as well as representation on the Great Lakes, on the United States East Coast, Hawaii, and in the Caribbean.

Where boats do not race in One Design starts, the boat competes using the well-known PHRF handicapping system, and more recently in some cases in IRC (sailing). Using these handicapping systems, the Olson 30 is commonly pitted against other well-known racing designs such as the Melges 24, Soverel 33, and J/29.

General Sailing Performance 

Because the Olson 30 is so light for its length and has a relatively overpowered (for its design's age) sail profile, the Olson 30 excels at light-air sailing. In moderate conditions the sailing performance is unremarkable. In heavy conditions upwind the Olson 30 suffers from the lack of weight to drive the bow and the boat through waves, however downwind in a breeze the Olson 30 surfs and planes readily, and it was for these conditions the boat was ultimately designed. The stock rudder tends to be underpowered in heavy air, leading to difficult driving downwind especially in short waves and big wind.

Modifications 

As a production recreational sailboat the Olson 30 has been very resilient over time, and one can still find non-racing Olson 30 sailboats actively sailing today in exactly the same configuration as they were shipped in from the factory more than 30 years ago.

However, as a One Design sailboat racing class, the Olson 30 has always been an experimental class. It lacks the extremely rigid One Design class rules that limit sail purchases, sail and boat materials, and some types of modifications. As a result, many racing Olson 30s, in an effort to tweak performance and increase the longevity of an already very resilient boat, have had minor-to-extensive work done to maximize the performance of the boat within the class rules.

Many boats have been upgraded to a Ballenger double-spreader rig, frequently using the original spar and a retrofit kit that includes new shrouds and two pairs of spreaders. This stabilizes the otherwise flexible rig. Several Seattle owners, who owned boats with Ballenger or Sparcraft single-spreader masts, pioneered a technique to move the single-spreader rig's existing capshroud terminals to the very top of the mast by elongating the spreaders and cutting longer capshrouds.

Due to some challenges of steering the boat downwind in a blow, some boats were fitted with elliptical rudders to improve handling. These rudders were typically fabricated by Moore. A newer non-class, deeper elliptical foil by Foss Foils in Newport, California was created for pure offshore ocean racing which garnered measurable stability on S/V Kato in the 2016 Single Handed Transpac (winner), and on S/V Concussion with her 2nd place finish in Lauderdale to Key West. The Foss Foil has more wetted surface area and weighs over twice as much as the original foil, which tends to cancel out any penalty by ratings review.

While One Design racing class rules specifically prohibit reinforcing the hull with longitudinal stringers or added bulkheads, many other kinds of modifications exist to increase hull rigidity. These can include a rigid beam between the chainplates, rod rigging run from under the base of the keel-stepped mast to the chainplates, and so on. Recently the class rules were amended to allow some very limited reinforcement of the area between the forward bulkhead and cabinets.

A few boats had inboards installed, although this is uncommon.

References

External links 
Olson 30 National and Regional Racing Fleets
Olson 30 Discussion and Archives

Sailing yachts
1970s sailboat type designs
Sailboat types built by Ericson Yachts