[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Big Night (1951 film)

ston Foster as Andy La Main
 Joan Lorring as Marion Rostina
 Howard St. John as Al Judge
 Dorothy Comingore as Julie Rostina
 Philip Bourneuf as Dr. Lloyd Cooper
 Howland Chamberlin as Flanagan
 Myron Healey as Patrolman Kennealy
 Emil Meyer as Peckinpaugh
 Mauri Leighton as Terry Angelus

Reception

Critical response
When the film was released, film critic Bosley Crowther, panned the drama, writing, "Not only is the story presumptuous and contrived, without any clarification of character or theme, but it is directed by Joseph Losey in a provokingly ostentatious style and it is played by a cast of professionals as though it were an exercise at dramatic school. Preston Foster is funereal as the father, Howard St. John is insolent as the man who beats him up. Philip Bourneuf is bleary as a bibulous professor and Joan Lorring is sugary as a benevolent girl. Apparently everybody was concerned with theatrical effects and forgot all about a story with point and intelligence."  Similarly, Variety's review criticized the "muddled script" and disliked the low-key lighting and "obscure" scenes that would be evoked by later critics as hallmarks of film noir style.

Seen in the light of film noir, Losey's career, and reconsiderations of the political elements of older films, The Big Night has fared much better with critics.  Richard Brody, writing in The New Yorker, refers to the film as "an obscure gem" that "displays the sort of scathing critique of American society that, at the time of its release, led to trouble," claiming that it "reveals the period’s rank ideological foundations—an undercurrent of ethnic and racial hatred and an entrenched mythology of masculinity that gives rise to secrets, lies, and violence. Losey’s nerve-jangling style matches the subject: his images’ crisscrossing and striated lines evoke George's unresolved tangle of conscience and identity."

References

External links
 
 
 

1951 films
1951 drama films
American drama films
American black-and-white films
1950s English-language films
Film noir
Films based on American novels
Films directed by Joseph Losey
Films scored by Lyn Murray
Films with screenplays by Ring Lardner Jr.
United Artists films
1950s American films