[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Asian Americans

Desert Eagle
Bobby Murphy, billionaire co-founder of Snapchat
Satya Nadella, CEO of Microsoft
Laxman Narasimhan, Designated CEO of Starbucks
Shantanu Narayen, CEO of Adobe Systems
Indra Nooyi, chairman and CEO of PepsiCo
Dinesh Paliwal, CEO of Harman International
Ellen Pao, former CEO of Reddit
James Park, co-founder and CEO of Fitbit
Vikram Pandit, president and CEO of Citigroup
Sundar Pichai, CEO of Google
Christine Poon, former vice chairman of Johnson & Johnson and worldwide chairman of J&J's Pharmaceuticals Group
Ritu Raj, founder of Wag Hotels
Raj Rajaratnam, billionaire founder of Galleon Group
Vivek Ranadivé, founder of TIBCO Software and owner of Sacramento Kings
Punit Renjen, CEO of Deloitte
Steve Sanghi, founder, chairman and CEO of Microchip Technology
Niraj Shah, billionaire co-founder and CEO of Wayfair
Ram Shriram, billionaire co-founder of Junglee.com and early investor in Google
John J. Sie, founder of Starz Inc. 
Ben Silbermann, billionaire co-founder and CEO of Pinterest
Pradeep Sindhu, founder of Juniper Networks
Patrick Soon-Shiong, billionaire surgeon and founder of Abraxis BioScience and owner of the Los Angeles Times
K. R. Sridhar, founder and CEO of Bloom Energy
Lisa Su, president and CEO of Advanced Micro Devices
Raj Subramaniam, president and CEO of FedEx
Anjali Sud, CEO of Vimeo
David Sun, billionaire Taiwanese American co-founder of Kingston Technology
Rajeev Suri, CEO of Nokia
Sehat Sutardja, CEO of Marvell Technology Group
Sonia Syngal, CEO of Gap Inc.
Lip-Bu Tan, president and CEO of Cadence Design Systems
Wayne Ting, CEO of Lime
Janie Tsao, co-founder of Linksys
Victor Tsao, co-founder of Linksys
Greg Tseng, co-founder of Tagged
Kevin Tsujihara, chairman and CEO of Warner Bros.
John Tu, billionaire Taiwanese American co-founder of Kingston Technologies
Jayshree Ullal, CEO of Arista Networks
Romesh T. Wadhwani, billionaire founder of Symphony Technology Group
An Wang, founder of Wang Laboratories
Charles B. Wang, co-founder and former CEO of Computer Associates International, Inc.
Niniane Wang, technology executive
Roger Wang, billionaire founder chairman of Golden Eagle International Group
William Wang, billionaire Taiwanese American co-founder and CEO of Vizio
Padmasree Warrior, CEO of Fable and former CTO of Cisco and Motorola
Andrea Wong, president and CEO of Lifetime Networks
Yishan Wong, former CEO of Reddit
Sheryl WuDunn, won Pulitzer Prize at The New York Times in 1990; currently, an investment banker
Jeff Yang, co-founded A Magazine in 1989 and is a columnist for the San Francisco Chronicle.
Jerry Yang, Taiwanese American billionaire and co-founder and former CEO of Yahoo!
Bing Yeh, co-founder of Silicon Storage Technology, acquired by Microchip Technology and Greenliant Systems
Gideon Yu, co-owner of San Francisco 49ers and former CFO of Facebook and YouTube
Eric S. Yuan, billionaire founder and CEO of Zoom Video Communications, founding engineer at Webex, Ranked No. 1 of Top CEOs in 2018 of a large company on Glassdoor
Min Zhu, co-founder and former president and chief technical officer of WebEx.
Sheila Lirio Marcelo, founder and former CEO and chairwoman of Care.com.

Entertainment
Ruben A. Aquino, animation director, supervising animator for Walt Disney Animation Studios
Chang and Eng Bunker, (the source for the term "Siamese Twins")
Ping Chong, theater director, choreographer, video and installation artist
Shin Lim, close-up magician
Alain Nu, mentalist, magician

Actors and filmmakers