[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2006 St. Louis Rams season

arter, QB Marc Bulger completed a 2-yard TD pass to WR Kevin Curtis for the only score of the period, yet the only score of the fourth quarter came from Huard completing an 11-yard TD pass to TE Kris Wilson. With the loss, the Rams fell to 4–4.

Week 10: at Seattle Seahawks 

at Qwest Field, Seattle

Trying to end their three-game skid, the Rams flew to Qwest Field for an NFC West rematch with the Seattle Seahawks. In the first quarter, the Rams struck first with rookie DE Victor Adeyanju returning a fumble 89 yards for a touchdown. Afterwards, the Seahawks responded with QB Seneca Wallace completing a 3-yard TD pass to WR Darrell Jackson. Then, St. Louis had kicker Jeff Wilkins nail a 40-yard field goal. In the second quarter, Seattle took the lead with Wallace completing a 15-yard TD pass to TE Jerramy Stevens. The Rams responded with Wilkins's 42-yard field goal. In the third quarter, Wilkins gave St. Louis a 35-yard field goal for the only score of the period and the lead. In the fourth quarter, the Seahawks responded with WR Nate Burleson returning a punt 90 yards for a touchdown. The Rams retook the lead with RB Steven Jackson’s 14-yard TD run, yet it was followed up with a failed two-point conversion. However, just like earlier in the year, Seahawks kicker Josh Brown came out with the win, as he kicked a 38-yard field goal. With the loss, the Rams fell to 4–5.

Week 11: at Carolina Panthers 

at Bank of America Stadium, Charlotte, North Carolina

Trying to end a four-game skid, the Rams flew to Bank of America Stadium for a Week 11 fight with the Carolina Panthers. After a scoreless first quarter, the Panthers took control for the rest of the game. In the second quarter, Carolina kicker John Kasay made a 40-yard field goal, while QB Jake Delhomme completed a 62-yard TD pass to WR Steve Smith. In the third quarter, Kasay improved the Panthers’ lead with a 34-yard field goal for the only score of the period. In the fourth quarter, Carolina wrapped up the game with DE Mike Rucker sacking QB Marc Bulger in the Rams end zone for a safety. With St. Louis’ fifth-straight loss, the Rams fell to 4–6.

Week 12: vs. San Francisco 49ers 

at Edward Jones Dome, St. Louis, Missouri

Trying to end a five-game skid, the Rams went home for an NFC West rematch with their historic rival, the San Francisco 49ers. After a scoreless first quarter, the Rams drew first blood in the second quarter with kicker Jeff Wilkins' 24-yard field goal and RB Steven Jackson’s 36-yard TD run. he 49ers responded with RB Frank Gore's 12-yard TD run, yet St. Louis got Wilkins to kick a 51-yard field goal as time ran out on the half. In the third quarter, the 49ers took the lead with QB Alex Smith completing a 1-yard TD pass to TE Eric Johnson for the only score of the period. In the fourth quarter, the 49ers increased its lead with kicker Joe Nedney nailing a 24-yard field goal. The Rams got the win with QB Marc Bulger completing a 5-yard TD pass to WR Kevin Curtis. Not only did St. Louis improve its record to 5–6, but they also snapped a five-game losing streak.

Week 13: vs. Arizona Cardinals 

at Edward Jones Dome, St. Louis, Missouri

Coming off their victory over the 49ers, the Rams stayed at home for an NFC West rematch with the Arizona Cardinals. In the first quarter, the Rams trailed early as Cardinals RB Marcel Shipp got a 1-yard TD run. St. Louis responded with kicker Jeff Wilkins. In the second quarter, the Rams continued to struggle as QB Matt Leinart completed an 11-yard TD pass to WR Larry Fitzgerald, while kicker Neil Rackers nailed a 23-yard field goal. In the third quarter, St. Louis tried to retaliate with QB Marc Bulger completing a 15-yard TD pass to WR Torry Holt, yet the Cards responded with Shipp's 6-yard TD run. In the fourth quarter, the Rams had Wilkins kick a 37-yard field goal. However, the Big Red pulled away with Shipp's 9-yard TD run and Rackers' 20-yard TD run. Even though St. Louis made another TD, with Bulger completing a 1-yard pass to WR Isaac Bruce, Arizona held on to win. With the loss, the Rams fell to 5–7.

Week 14: vs. Chicago Bears