[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# GoShogun

gy missiles launched from the robot's upper back, giving its head a semi-divine aura. Initially, GoFlasher has a purely destructive power, but as Beamler develops, this power becomes an animating one, giving sentience to enemy robots, which then choose to self-destruct rather than continue fighting.

Dokuga Crime Syndicate
NeoNeros (v.b. Yuzuru Fujimoto): The evil leader, renamed Dark Star (v.b. Ike Medlick) in Macron 1. A menacing figure on a dark throne, he is always shown in shadow, and his true form is not revealed until the finale.
Leonardo Medici Bundle (v.b. Kaneto Shiozawa): One of three chief officers of NeoNeros, specializing in intelligence, espionage, and intrigue. Appears as a dandy prince with long blond hair, usually holding a rose or a glass of red wine; judges everything on the basis of beauty or lack thereof, and goes into battle with classical music playing on loudspeakers. Over time, develops a romantic interest in Remy. His first and second names are based on Leonardo da Vinci and Lorenzo de Medici. In The Time Étranger, he is portrayed as a latter-day samurai, preferring the katana to other weapons. Renamed Prince Eharn (v.b. Gregory Snegoff) in Macron 1.
Suegni Cuttnal (v.b. Shōjirō Kihara): Second henchman of NeoNeros, responsible for military strategy. Portrayed as an older-looking, one-eyed pirate, usually with his pet crow sitting on his shoulder. He runs a business selling his own brand of tranquilizers ("Cuttnalizers"), which he himself consumes frequently, by the handful. His other legitimate businesses include Disney-like amusement parks. The Time Étranger gives greater prominence to his role as a pharmaceutical scientist and later as surgeon general. Renamed Captain Blade (v.b. Mike Reynolds) in Macron 1.
Yatta-la Kernagul (v.b. Daisuke Gōri): A synthetic human with blue-green skin, and third henchman of NeoNeros, responsible for combat operations. Crude, brutish, and has severe anger management issues. One of his driving ambitions, however, is to open a chain of fried chicken restaurants called "Kernagul's Fried Chicken" and a hamburger chain called "KerDonald's". He is shown to have achieved this dream in The Time Étranger. Renamed Lord Jeraldan (v.b. Robert V. Barron) in Macron 1.
Dr. Jitter (v.b. Mikio Terashima): Scientist working for Dokuga, responsible for inventing destroids intended to destroy GoShogun, as well as other weapons and technological tricks. Often complains about insufficient funding. Renamed Dr. Fritz (v.b. Gregory Snegoff) in Macron 1.
Mother (v.b. Satomi Majima): Dokuga's super-computer, counterpart to Father.
Keruna: Kernagul's stress-relief robot, mainly functioning as his personal punching bag during outbursts of anger. Typically a source of comic relief, Keruna also plays a pivotal role towards the end of the show. Renamed Clarence (v.b. Ted Layman) in Macron 1.