[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Crownsville Hospital Center

tate Archives Collections, which contain reference materials from the Hospital, the Auxiliary, Paul Lurz, and Doris Morgenstern Wachsler.

Property development 

The State of Maryland is examining possible uses for the property. A number of different development models are being proposed as follows.

Crownsville Community Campus 
A local non-profit community organization called Community Services Center at Crownsville is concerned about development and the impacts it would have on local traffic, security, historic resources, green space, and the community, and has been seeking the authority to control the  of State owned excess property which includes the former Crownsville Hospital Center. CSCC's project is called the Crownsville Community Campus with a mission as follows:

CSCC seeks to restore the outer facades of the existing buildings while renovating their interiors to accommodate tenants. The project does not involve developing green-space or former hospital space into standardized housing. CSCC's model is a self sustaining one that involves granting excess revenue, mostly rental income, back to non-profits (primarily those that operate on site). The Crownsville Community Campus project is designed as the catalyst for an Altruistic Economic Cluster – an economic model revolving around helping others. Additionally, special attention has been given to traffic and security concerns. Their plan also involves funding to enhance and access historic, community, and green resources associated with the site. Bob Pascal had been associated with CSCC's plan as a funding partner and potential tenant.

See also
Petersburg State Colony for the Negro Insane

References

Citations

General sources 
 Bowlin, Lauren. "Maryland Historical Trust NR-Eligibility Review Form".  Crownsville Hospital Center Complex-Maryland State Archives.maryland.gov,n.d.Web.  30 Sep. 2013.  <Crownsville Hospital Center Complex-Maryland State Archives>.
 Osborn, Lawrence A. "From Beauty to Despair: The Rise and Fall of the American State Mental Hospital." The Psychiatric Quarterly 80(4) (2009): 219-31. Dec. 2009. Web. 1 Oct. 2013.
 Stuckey, Zosha. "Race, Apology and Public Memory at MD Hospital for Negro Insane." Disability Studies Quarterly Vol 30 (1), 2017. (On Line Journal)

Primary sources referenced in this article, unless otherwise noted with in-line citations:

 
 Reports of The Maryland State Lunacy Commission in the Maryland State Archives in Annapolis, Maryland.
 "Materials Towards a History of Crownsville" in a collection donated by Doris Morgenstern Wachsler located at the Maryland State Archives.

External links 
 Crownsville Hospital Center 2017 Interior and Exterior Photographs of Crownsville State Hospital
 Crownsville Hospital, photographs at Forgotten Photography.
 Historic photos of Maryland Lunatic Asylums 1908–1910, from the Maryland State Archives.
 Photographic Archives of Maryland, search on Historic Photos of "Crownsville State Hospital" for pictures of the hospital. Maryland State Archives.
 Crownsville Hospital's patient cemetery at Find a Grave.
 "Separate and Unequal: The Legacy of Racially Segregated Psychiatric Hospitals...", by Vanessa Jackson.
 "Studying a Relic of a Painful Past",
 
 Documentary film, Crownsville Hospital: From Lunacy to Legacy Website

Hospital buildings completed in 1911
Defunct hospitals in Maryland
Psychiatric hospitals in Maryland
Buildings and structures in Anne Arundel County, Maryland
2004 disestablishments in Maryland
Hospitals disestablished in 2004
1911 establishments in Maryland
African-American history of Maryland
Health policy in the United States
Race and health in the United States
Unfree labor in the United States