[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Intelligence Summit

shing and making money from it."  Legal analyst Victoria Toensing said, "This is not a mainstream conference with recognized names in the field. I've been in the intelligence and terrorism world a long time, and I would not suggest going to this conference for intelligence or terrorism information."

2006 Intelligence Summit
The Intelligence Summit gained prominence in February 2006, when a conference speaker, former US Deputy Undersecretary of Defense John A. Shaw, asserted that Russia had helped Saddam Hussein smuggle out his WMDs; he also claimed that the DIA and CIA had interfered with his investigations. Shaw's accusations became part of the controversy surrounding the Iraq War. Shaw had been fired from the Department of Defense in 2004 in the wake of an FBI corruption probe allegedly tied to false accusations being used to manipulate contract awards in Iraq.  Numerous examples of Shaw's claims were public, including placing stories in the Financial Times and Washington Times, an "official" DoD Report that Shaw produced without authorization and an official DoD press release that was subsequently withdrawn, allegedly with the intent to damage specific competitors and help his "friends" bidding for reconstruction contracts in Iraq.  Shaw made these statements in the face of several official investigations to the contrary, most notably the Report of the Iraq Study Group led by Charles Duelfer published on 30 September 2004.

Shortly after the 2006 event, the Bush Administration purportedly ordered government personnel not to associate with The Intelligence Summit or attend its conferences; The New York Sun reported, "(B)oth John Deutch and James Woolsey abruptly left their positions at Intelligence Summit, according to its president, John Loftus, who said their departure is part of a campaign by the Directorate of National Intelligence to punish him for releasing the recordings [of Saddam Hussein]...."  Woolsey denied that there had been any pressure to withdraw, stating that "If Loftus is saying that anyone pressured me about this issue he is quite wrong."  UPI reported that Deutch and Woolsey resigned from the Board after learning that the conference's primary sponsor was Michael Cherney, who "has been investigated or blacklisted on suspicion of money laundering, illegal business deals and connections to the Russian mafia by half a dozen European countries and barred from entry by the U.S. authorities"

2007 Intelligence Summit
The 2007 summit was organized with the Secular Islam Summit, which was held simultaneously with the Intelligence Summit. UPI reported of the 2007 conference that "most, if not all panelists seemed to be preaching to the choir. The conference, at times, had an air of a reunion of good ol' boys; all in sync with the program, rather than a group of very serious professionals out to warn the free world of the dangers facing democracies.... Many would rather 'not waste time' talking with a government they say will never keep its word. Instead, they would prefer to simply 'kick butt,' as one speaker put it, and making realistic plans to enable regime change in Syria and Iran through assassinations and intimidation. His comments were received with applause and cheers from the audience."

See also
Terrorism
WMD theories in the aftermath of the 2003 Iraq War
Operation Iraqi Freedom documents

References

External links
Intelligence Summit Speakers & Organizers via Archive.org
"Spy world: What happens when you get a bunch of spooks, lawmakers, gadget geeks, and military interrogators together in a hotel conference room and ask them to talk - on the record?" by Patrick Radden Keefe. The Boston Globe, February 13, 2005.

American websites
Recurring events established in 2006
2006 conferences
2007 conferences