[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# André Cailloux

udson, and in each assault he repeated his urgent call, "Let us go forward, for one more time!" Finally, falling under the mortal blow, he gave his last order to his attending officer, "Bacchus, take charge!" If anyone should say the knightly Bayard did better or more, according to history, he lies.

Confederate General Gardner later asked for a truce along the northern front of the Port Hudson works so that the bodies of the slain members of the Native Guard could be recovered.  General Banks responded that "I have no casualties in that area" and denied the request for a truce.  As a result of this, Cailloux's decomposing body lay on the ground for 47 days until Port Hudson finally surrendered to Banks on July 9, 1863.  Few of the dead were identified, but Cailloux's body was identified by a ring he wore which was recognized by surviving members of his regiment.

Most of the Union dead were buried in the area. This was later established as Port Hudson National Cemetery. In 1974 the cemetery was designated as a National Historic Landmark.

Funeral
Cailloux's remains were recovered and returned to New Orleans. The story of the captain's heroism had preceded this. When his funeral was held in the city on July 29, 1863, Cailloux was honored by a long procession and thousands of attendees. His widow Felicie had asked Fr. Claude Paschal Maistre to officiate, despite an interdict against the priest from Bishop Jean-Marie Odin, who supported the Confederate cause. Born in France, Maistre was the only Catholic priest in the area to support the abolition of slavery. He conducted the funeral despite his ban, and Cailloux was buried in Saint Louis Cemetery #2.

After Cailloux's death, his widow, Félicie, struggled to receive the financial benefits promised to veterans by the United States government. After several years of effort, she received a small pension, but she died in poverty in 1874. She was working at the time as a domestic servant for Fr. Maistre.

Legacy 
Cailloux's story was made into an eponymous short film in 2020, directed by Dane Moreton. In 2022, Cailloux was a featured character in the 2022 drama Emancipation, starring Will Smith and with Mustafa Shakir as Cailloux. The same year, the former Catholic church in New Orleans where Cailloux was famously funeralized became the André Cailloux Center for Performing Arts and Cultural Justice. A small park near the center has also been renamed after Cailloux.

See also
Military history of African Americans in the American Civil War

References

Further reading

 Holden, Randall G., Futile Valor, Baton Rouge, Louisiana: MCG Publishing, 1998.
 Ochs, Stephen J., A Black Patriot and a White Priest: André Cailloux and Claude Paschal Maistre in Civil War New Orleans, Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 2000.

External links
"The Siege of Port Hudson", Hardy Family Genealogical Site

1825 births
1863 deaths
19th-century American slaves
Confederate States Army officers
Union Army officers
People of Louisiana in the American Civil War
Military personnel from New Orleans
African Americans in the American Civil War
Union military personnel killed in the American Civil War
African-American Catholics