[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Terrorism in Malaysia

licing and military forces of the country. The main task for the police force is to ensure public order, providing assistance to other government agencies, protecting lives and properties as well as assisting the cause of war. The military is responsible to protect national interest and sovereignty.

Terror groups, members and attacks

Terrorist groups
A number of extreme groups that have been designated as terrorist groups in Malaysia are:

Local
Jihadist faction'''
 Al-Ma'unah (defeated and dissolved)
 Darul Islamiah Malaysia (defunct)
 Kumpulan Mujahidin Malaysia (defunct)
 Tanzim Qaedat al-Jihad (defunct)
Others faction
 Malayan Communist Party (peace deal)
 Cult of Matiu (active as of 2023)

Foreign
Jihadist faction
 Abu Sayyaf
 Al-Qaeda
 Darul Islam
 Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS)
 Jemaah Islamiyah

Pirate faction
 Indonesian pirates
 Moro pirates
 Somali pirates

Others faction
 Japanese Red Army (dissolved)
 Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam
 Sultanate of Sulu (Jamalul Kiram III faction) (defeated)
 Moro National Liberation Front (Nur Misuari faction)

Notable terrorist members

Malaysian
Three Malaysian terrorists: Mohamed Amin Mohamed Razali, Jamaludin Darus and Zahid Muslim who were a members of the Al-Ma'unah that was involved in the Sauk Siege have been executed by hanging in 2006. Azahari Husin and Noordin Mohammed Top (both have been killed by authorities in Indonesia) are responsible for the bombing incidents in Indonesia. Another Malaysian terrorist, Zulkifli Abdhir killed in the Philippines during an encounter between Philippine authorities and Moro Islamic Liberation Front (MILF) in an event known as the Mamasapano clash. Many other Malaysian terrorists were also killed in the Middle East, mainly served under the ISIS. Some of them that are known are: Zainuri Kamaruddin (killed), Ahmad Affendi Abdul Manaf (killed), Ahmad Salman Abdul Rahim (killed), Ahmad Tarmimi Maliki (killed), Fadzly Ariff Zainal Ariff (killed), Mohd Amirul Ahmad Rahim (killed), Mohd Lotfi Ariffin (killed), Mohd Najib Hussein (killed), Mohamad Syazwan Mohd Salim (killed) and Zid Saharani Mohamed Esa (killed).

Foreigners
While foreigners who have been either involved, arrested or labelled as terrorist in Malaysia over their terrorism act are:
Agbimuddin Kiram (deceased), Ahmed Bilal (released), Amirbahar Hushin Kiram (detained), Jamalul Kiram III (deceased), Mas Selamat Kastari (detained) and Nur Misuari.

Notable terrorist attacks

Malaysian Airlines System Flight 653 hijacking

The aircraft crashed at Tanjung Kupang, Johor, on the evening of 4 December 1977, the result of an apparent hijacking by unknown assailants as soon as it reached cruise altitude. It was the first fatal accident for Malaysia Airlines (as Malaysian Airline System is now known), with all 93 passengers and 7 crew, from 13 countries, killed instantly. The Boeing 737 was en route from Penang International Airport to Singapore International Airport (Paya Lebar) via Sultan Abdul Aziz Shah Airport. The circumstances in which the hijacking and subsequent crash occurred remain unsolved.

AIA Building hostage crisis

On 5 August 1975, a group of Japanese Red Army (JRA) terrorists launched a coordinated operation against several foreign embassies, housed in AIA Building in Kuala Lumpur city centre. They took 50 hostages, including an American consul and a Swedish diplomat. The JRA terrorists sought the release of their comrades from the Japanese Government and they threatened to kill the hostages if the Japanese Government did not meet their demand. The crisis ended when five JRA prisoners were released from a Japanese prison. The terrorists then flew to Libya.

Sauk Siege

On 2 July 2000, Al-Mau'nah leader, Muhammad Amin bin Mohamed Razali launched a raid on a Malaysian Army Reserve camp in the early morning, stealing weapons such as M16 rifles, Steyr Aug rifles and others. After that, the group hid in a jungle near Bukit Jenalik, Sauk, Perak. On 5 July 2000, the group was besieged by Royal Malaysian Police and Malaysian Army. The security forces achieved victory in the battle. One militant died and 5 militants were wounded.

Sulu invasion on Sabah

The standoff started on 11 February 2013 when around 200 militants sent by Jamalul Kiram III, a self-proclaimed/claimant of a defunct-Sulu Sultanate arrived on Lahad Datu from Simunul island in the Philippines to stake his claim over a former dispute between Philippines and Malaysia. His followers were reported to have mutilated dead Malaysian security personnel bodies and tried to take Sabahan residents hostage. The invasion ended with the death of 56 of his followers together with 10 Malaysian security forces and six civilians, while the other followers were either captured and escaping back to the Philippines.

See also

 Counter-terrorism in Malaysia
 2000 al-Qaeda Summit
 Moro attacks on Sabah
 Separatist movements of Malaysia
 Separation of Singapore from Malaysia

References