[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry D. Cooke

ver the District, upon which the universally beloved Shepherd would become governor. Cooke suffered a serious setback when Jay Cooke & Co. failed on September 18, 1873, in the Panic of 1873. The impending failure of the bank had already forced his resignation on September 10 as territorial governor.

Cooke was also involved in one of the scandals that plagued the Grant administration known as the Seneca Stone Ring Scandal. The owners of the Seneca Quarry, the Seneca Sandstone Company, had sold shares to senior Republican leaders in 1867 at half price, including Ulysses Grant a year before his election to the presidency, in the hopes of buying influence in the post-war building boom in Washington, D.C. This move undercapitalized the company, such that it took out several unsecured loans to fund its operations, notably from the Freedman's Savings Bank, which served freed African-American slaves and their descendants. Henry Cooke sat on the boards of both the Seneca Sandstone Company and the Freedman's Bank and facilitated the loans, though this was a clear conflict of interest. With the Panic of 1873, the indebted Seneca quarry could not pay its debts back, which in turn helped undermine the Freedman's Bank. Both institutions went bankrupt in 1876. Congress investigated and recommended that Henry Cooke and others be indicted, but no one ever was.

The failure of Jay Cooke & Co. forced Henry Cooke, his wife, and their three young children to move in with Cooke's eldest daughter and her husband. In 1875, Cooke earned a substantial sum as the executor of the estate of Salmon P. Chase, the former Chief Justice of the United States. The Cookes journeyed to Europe in the summer and fall of 1875.

Cooke had long suffered from Bright's disease. In early 1881, he fell seriously ill. He died of kidney failure on February 24, 1881, and was buried at Oak Hill Cemetery in Washington, D.C.

References

Bibliography
 
 
 

1825 births
1881 deaths
Mayors of Washington, D.C.
Politicians from Sandusky, Ohio
Transylvania University alumni
Ohio Republicans
Washington, D.C., Republicans
Burials at Oak Hill Cemetery (Washington, D.C.)
19th-century American politicians
Washington, D.C., government officials