[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# The Day the World Gets 'Round

rison's vocal parts, the overdubs for Barham's contributions took place in London during the first two months of 1973. Mixing on the album was completed by the start of March, shortly before the Concert for Bangladesh won the Grammy Award for best album of 1972.

Material World Charitable Foundation

On 26 April 1973, Harrison set up the Material World Charitable Foundation, to which he donated the publishing royalties from "The Day the World Gets 'Round" and eight other songs on Living in the Material World. Part of the foundation's mission was to "encourage the exploration of alternative life views and philosophies" and "[support] established charitable organizations with consideration to those with special needs" – so allowing Harrison to donate money without encountering the problems that had hampered the Bangladesh aid project. In his 2009 book You Never Give Me Your Money, Doggett writes that the foundation "continues to fund worthy causes to this day".

The first event sponsored by the Material World Charitable Foundation was Ravi Shankar's Music Festival from India, in September–October 1974, following which Harrison and Shankar toured North America together. During their stopover in Washington, DC, Harrison used his audience with US president Gerald Ford to ask for presidential intercession into the ongoing IRS audit that was still holding the Bangladesh fund's US proceeds in escrow.

Release
Apple Records released Living in the Material World in late May 1973, with "The Day the World Gets 'Round" appearing as the penultimate track. Reflecting the album content, Tom Wilkes's design for the LP's face labels contrasted a devout spiritual existence with life in the material world, by featuring a painting of the Hindu god Krishna and his warrior prince Arjuna on side one, and a picture of a Mercedes stretch limousine on the reverse. The latter image was a detail taken from Ken Marcus's inner gatefold photograph, which depicted Harrison and his fellow musicians at a Last Supper-style banquet. The album was a commercial success, topping America's Billboard 200 chart for five weeks, thus ensuring the Material World Charitable Foundation a considerable injection of funds.

The release reflected Harrison's continued belief in the power of music to instigate change in the world, an ideal that distinguished Material World as the last of "rock's grand statements", Leng suggests, and "the final fading of the 1960s dream into middle-age contentment and fiscal luxury". Author and former Mojo editor Mat Snow writes of the timing of the album's US release: "he caught a public mood that craved an echo of 1960s idealism as America was gripped by the cynicism revealed in the Watergate hearings."

Reception
In a highly favourable review in Rolling Stone magazine, Stephen Holden described Living in the Material World as "inspirationally, opulently, romantic" and referred to "The Day the World Gets 'Round" as a "devotional prayer" that, combined with the album-closing "That Is All", left the listener "suspended in ethereality". Decades later, Bruce Eder of AllMusic was likewise impressed, writing that Harrison's singing "soars magnificently in his heartfelt performance".

While Holden admired Harrison's lyrics for imparting "an extraordinary sincerity that transcends questions of craftsmanship", other reviewers bristled at the apparent preachiness in songs such as "The Day the World Gets 'Round". Peter Doggett has commented on the impression left among music critics: "the prevailing tone of the record was moral disapproval, never an attractive quality in a popular singer."

In his 1996 biography on the ex-Beatle, Alan Clayson praised Harrison's vocal performance on a song that, although "naive", "smouldered from the angered question of why a mere pop star rather than a governing body was obliged to pinpoint iniquities", Clayson adding that "never had his pipes been so adept" as on Material World. To Greg Kot, writing in Rolling Stones posthumous tribute to Harrison, "The Day the World Gets 'Round" and the ballad "Who Can See It" "aspire to a hymnlike calm but never rise to the transcendent heights of [All Things Must Pass]". Writing for Blogcritics, Seattle-based music critic Chaz Lipp views the production on Material World as "meticulous" and superior to its predecessor, such that "[t]he delicate melodies of songs like 'The Day the World Gets 'Round' and 'Be Hear Now' are never lost in bombast." In his review of the 2006-remastered album, for Mojo magazine, Mat Snow wrote of "this long overdue reissue" being "worth it alone for four wonderful songs", one of which was "The Day the World Gets 'Round". More recently, Snow has praised the song for its "deep and delicious emotion" and comments that through the idealism Harrison expressed on Living in the Material World, he was "without qualification, perhaps more loved and respected as a human being".