[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ștefan Voitec

, a delegation comprising both, alongside Constantinescu-Iași, Mihai Roller and Scarlat Callimachi, issued a public protest against perceived injustices against PSU and CNA activists. It referenced allegations that Nicolae Ceaușescu, at the time a junior CNA affiliate, had been brutalized by Police.

Voitec served as PSU Secretary, answering directly to Ghelerter, who was party Chairman; he also participated in the Interparliamentary Socialist Conference of 1931, and negotiated a non-aggression pact with the PCR in 1936. Between these dates, in the legislative election of July 1932, he was a PSU candidate for the Assembly of Deputies, in Baia County (first on that list, ahead of Franț Picolschi). He was editor of the party newspaper, Proletarul, until the latter was banned by the government of Gheorghe Tătărescu in 1935. In June 1934, addressing the PSU congress in Piatra Neamț, Voitec had defined the party's goal as being "the restoration of working-class unity". This effectively meant that the party wished to absorb the PSDR and the PCR into a "united front of proletarian action", primarily dedicated to isolating fascism. Korner also noted that, precisely because it stressed the ideal of "total unity", the PSU could not be interested in joining the Fourth International.

After 1936, relations between the PSU and the PCR were again tense, leading to a scrutiny of Voitec and Ghelerter's stances by Stalinist observers. In July 1937, a notice published by the Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia claimed that the PSU had become an adversary of proletarian solidarity, to emerge as a "Trotskyist agency planted in the bosom of Romania's working class." The following month, the Communist Party of Estonia alleged that Romanian "Trotskyist–Fascists", including Ghelerter, Voitec, Cristescu, and Richard Wurmbrand, worked hand in hand with Iron Guard fascists, as well as with Romania's secret police, the Siguranța. An anonymous report, published by the Comintern in October, detailed this claim by alleging that Ghelerter had an understanding with the Siguranța, which allowed him to publish texts critical of Soviet communism. The same source also noted that the PSDR was also infiltrated by, and unusually tolerant of, Trotskyist militants. Popovici had by then been expelled from the PSU, after favoring a closer alliance with the mainline communists. This split left Voitec as the sole party Secretary in 1936; a year later, the PSU was folded back into the PSDR. Upon this, Voitec became the PSDR librarian.

Wartime and August coup
Despite being soon after banned by the National Renaissance Front, the PSDR remained active in the underground, and Voitec was its Secretary from 1939. The PCR leadership had returned to labeling him a disgraced Trotskyist. Such epithets appear in a February 1939 document, in which the communists argued that a "proletarian front" could only be formed with the PSDR masses, not their leaders. Voitec formally retired from public life during Ion Antonescu's dictatorship (see Romania during World War II). A noted left by Ion Vinea, suggests that by 1941 Voitec was an editor at Vinea's own newspaper, Evenimentul Zilei. This was a conscious move to undermine Antonescu's censorship by taking in known leftists—Voitec's colleagues included Nicolae Carandino and Miron Radu Paraschivescu. His former colleague in the press, Relgis, reports that in October 1942 Voitec was a custodian for the former Adevărul library, which had been taken over by the Ministry of Propaganda. He allegedly used this position to conserve books by Jewish authors whom Antonescu had banned. 

At least one report suggests that Voitec also became a journalist for Curentul, the far-right newspaper. Moreover, he supported Antonescu's war in the East as a correspondent for Nazi newspapers such as Der Soldat and Sentinel. His texts were distinctly anti-Soviet, and also affirmed that Bessarabia was rightfully a Romanian province. Voitec worked as a researcher on encyclopedic projects, which were politically tinged. Anti-communist Pamfil Șeicaru recalls validating his employment as editor at Evenimentul Zilei by 1943; he was to work on a "political dictionary", whose purpose was to familiarize Romanians with key concepts in the field. He and Carandino reportedly used this cover to network with anti-fascist cells, placing Voitec's protegé Mircea Ștefanovici in the editorial offices of Tinerețea magazine. In his more public activities, Voitec and Mușoiu attended a ceremony honoring the memory of novelist Panait Istrati, which had Alexandru Talex for a speaker.`