[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 New Orleans mayoral election

was one of two candidates who expressed intent to run before Hurricane Katrina. Some saw Arey's candidacy as a platform to draw attention to the importance of the arts in New Orleans' culture and recovery. In 1998, Arey was a 5-time champion on the game show Jeopardy!, winning $42,802 and a new car.

 Greta Gladney Greta Gladney, a Lower Ninth Ward activist, ran due to threats to neighborhoods, community-based programs, and public schools in the wake of Katrina.   Gladney is a member of ACORN and the Frederick Douglass Community Coalition, and executive director of The Renaissance Project.

 Marie Galatas Marie Galatas, a pastor and civil rights activist from the 7th Ward of New Orleans who founded the Grass Roots Organization for Women and who has hosted a number of radio and cable TV programs.

 Leo Watermeier Former state Representative Leo Watermeier, a French Quarter activist,  first announced his candidacy in 2004.  He was one of only two candidates who had already announced their intentions to challenge Nagin's bid for reelection before Hurricane Katrina.

 Shedrick White  Shedrick White, a student at the Southern University at New Orleans who has worked on conflict resolution with public housing residents.

 Sonja "Lady" DeDais Sonja "Lady" DeDais wanted to "take care of the city" and to develop a new evacuation plan without excessive military involvement. She was known for her flamboyant hats.

 James Lemann James Lemann, a former aircraft mechanic and community activist, proposed increased use of solar power and development of a research institute to study meteorites.

 F. Nick Bacque F. Nick Bacque, a real estate financial worker and medical student at Tulane University, tried to get youth involved in the city's reconstruction.

 Elvin Brown  Elvin Brown, the CEO of an elderly care facility, described himself as "the people's voice."

 Mac Rahman Mac Rahman owner of an Asian-Creole restaurant in the Carrollton neighborhood, wanted to consolidate the city's assessors offices and to make the city's government as efficient as that of Jefferson Parish.

 Norbert Rome Norbert Rome, a community activist, formerly of the Gert Town neighborhood.

 Roderick Dean Roderick Dean proposed taking up offers of international aid to New Orleans, and seeking corporate sponsorship of Carnival.

 Jimmie Thorns, Jr.  Jimmie Thorns, Jr., a real estate appraiser and consultant who had served as chairman of the Black Economic Development Council and the Urban League.  Thorns dropped out of the race on March 31 and endorsed Mitch Landrieu.

Issue of displaced voters
At the time of the election, at least two-thirds of the city's residents were still displaced, scattered across the country facing serious obstacles (such as severely damaged houses, neighborhoods without reliable utilities, and financial constraints) to returning.   The state legislature passed legislation allowing for absentee voting in polling places in 10 parishes, but there was still concern about the difficulty displaced residents outside Louisiana may have faced in placing their votes.   With the majority of the displaced residents staying outside Louisiana and outside the reach of local New Orleans media outlets, their ability to obtain information about the campaign remained open to question.

No reliable figures currently exist for the size and ethnic makeup of New Orleans's current population.   It is widely recognized, however, that the current demographics of New Orleans are on average more white and more affluent than they were before Katrina.   This made it very hard to predict the outcome of the election.   This new demographic reality encouraged many candidates that might not have considered entering the race before the storm.   New Orleans has not had a white mayor since 1978, but a large number of candidates - including every candidate considered to have a 'serious' chance of winning other than incumbent Nagin - were white.

On February 24, a federal judge rejected a lawsuit by the NAACP, ACORN, and the Grassroots Legal Network seeking to set up physical polling places in cities like Houston, Texas and Atlanta, Georgia, which have large numbers of displaced New Orleanians.   An appeal in this case was likewise rejected on March 27.

On March 25, a study of change-of-address forms found that 80 percent of the city's registered voters either did not file for a change of address or have listed a new address within the greater New Orleans area.  If accurate, these findings would indicate that with most voters still in the area, absentee voters would not be as significant a factor in the election as previously believed.  The NAACP and other civil rights groups disputed these findings, arguing that they do not take into account people who are dispersed but have not filled out change-of-address paperwork.