[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# 17th Maine Infantry Regiment

n the hill, gave time for the removal of the artillery. The action was heated. The regiment received constant rifle and artillery fire. Regimental historian, Edwin B. Houghton had a Rebel shell explode beneath his horse throwing him a distance unhurt but covered in the blood and tissue of his steed.

Hooker and his army were actually holding and making Lee pay dearly for every bit of ground gained. Hooker was active, moving to and fro, directing his subordinates when at 9:30 a.m., a spent Rebel shell hit a column, knocking him senseless and rendering him hors de combat. Fairview was evacuated at that time, briefly recaptured in a counterattack, but by 10 a.m. it was abandoned for good. The loss of this artillery platform doomed the Union position at the Chancellorsville crossroads as well, and the Army of the Potomac began a fighting retreat to positions circling United States Ford. The soldiers of the two halves of Lee's army reunited shortly after 10 a.m. But the regiment retired with the brigade and went to the support of the batteries in the Army of the Potomac's center. The men of the 17th were struck by how the Rebel attacks kept coming and were impressed by the presence and activities of Hooker and Sickles. 

Confusion was rife in the AoP while Hooker was incapacitated. Several units began retreating. At one point, Lt. Col. Merrill marched three of  the regiment's companies three miles back to  U.S. Ford before the brigade commander Col. Hayman recalled them. Hayman's regiment, the 37th New York under Lt. Col Gilbert Riordan had also retreated and Hayman recalled them as well. He later criticized them in his after action report. Merrill wrote in his report that the 2nd Brigade "was ordered from the field to the [U.S. Ford] road in the rear of the large brick [Chancellor] house." As the historian Brian Swartz has written, Merrill neglected to mention how far back he had fallen. While some of the regiment criticized the movement, some of the men who had remained on the line noted that the fighting was over when this occurred and said the companies "became detached and wandered down to the river ... [and they] must have got lost again on their way back, as they didn't arrive until about 4:00 p.m."

On the evening of May 3 and all day May 4, Hooker remained in his defenses north of Chancellorsville. The 17th in its division positions were behind a double line of breastworks supported by artillery. Occasional Rebel musketry and artillery fired on the regiment's positions, but no assaults came. The regiment was eventually relieved by the 20th Indiana and retired to the rear.

When Lee saw that Hooker was threatening no offensive action, he turned on Sedgwick's troops to the east. By this time Sedgwick had placed his divisions into a strong defensive position with its flanks anchored on the Rappahannock, three sides of a rectangle extending south of the Plank Road. The Rebels reoccupied Marye's Heights on the morning of May 4, cutting Sedgwick off from the town. Lee attacked him around 6 p.m pushing back Sedgwick's left-center across the Plank Road. Throughout the day on May 4, Hooker provided no assistance or useful guidance to Sedgwick. Outnumbered, Sedgwick withdrew across the Rappahannock at Banks's Ford during the pre-dawn hours of May 5. 

Tuesday, May 5, proved to be a dreary, rainy day that saw the two armies facing each other in static positions. When Hooker learned that Sedgwick had retreated back over the river, Hooker felt he was out of options to save the campaign, and on the night of May 5–6, the army withdrew back across the river at U.S. Ford. The rain had swollen the river so much that engineers had to use the two existing pontoon bridges at U.S. Ford to make one long enough to cover the increased width of the river. On that Tuesday, Col. Roberts returned and assumed command, and early on the 6th, the 17th Maine withdrew across the river without any loss of men, and returned to its camp at Falmouth near Potomac Creek.

Aftermath
Despite the temporary absence of Merrill and three companies, the 17th Maine had fought hard and well, but at a cost. It suffered 113 men killed, wounded, and missing out of about 625 in action. Upon the regiment's return to Camp Sickles, on Wednesday, May 6, Colonel Roberts resigned command due to illness. Lieutenant Colonel Charles B. Merrill stepped up to command the regiment.