[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cavalry scout

ns (screening), and platoon route/area/zone reconnaissance.
Supervises the employment of OPSEC measures.
Coordinates the evacuation of casualties.
Coordinates and conducts platoon resupply.
Requests and adjusts aerial fires.
May also serve as an Assistant Operations NCO at battalion or higher level.

Uniform
Cavalry Scouts wear the ACU, or Army Combat Uniform. The standard camouflage pattern issued is the OCP (OEF) Camouflage Pattern, commonly referred to as Multicam. Two unique articles, the stetson hat as well as spurs, can be worn during special events or when directed by the chain of command. Cavalry Scouts are permitted to wear the Cavalry Stetson Hat with the Dress Uniforms during formal unit functions. The Stetson is traditionally accompanied by wearing the spurs which are earned when the unit conducts a "Spur Ride." Cavalry Spurs can be earned by all Cavalry Scouts. Spurs may be worn on bloused combat boots with the dress uniforms and the duty uniform. The generally accepted Cavalry Spurs are the simplified Prince of Wales spurs (spurs without the rowel, or star-shaped 'wheel' on the back).

A Scout is authorized to wear silver spurs if he has completed a Spur Ride, a rigorous series of physical and mental tasks/events designed to test the scout's military skills, military bearing, physical endurance, mental fortitude, teamwork, ability to act under pressure and exhaustion, and ability to think and improvise quickly. The spur ride was similar to the Infantry's Expert Infantryman Badge in that only a scout could earn them. That tradition has since changed from the mid to late 1990s and now anyone serving in a Cavalry unit, CA or CSS can earn them. The Spur Ride rarely lasts more than three days (sometimes as little as one very long day and night), primarily due to U.S. Army regulations against hazing traditions. In short, it once was a "gut" check or a "smoke" session but it has changed with the times but some units still practice some of the older traditions when it comes to earning the spurs. The exact details of a Spur Ride varies according to the traditions of the particular Cavalry Squadron.

A Scout who has previously earned his silver spurs and then serves in combat is eligible for brass or gold combat spurs. Scouts who have directly been involved in combat are often awarded combat spurs in lieu of the normally prerequisite silver spurs. A Cavalry Trooper that has earned both Silver spurs and Gold spurs are known as a Master Spur Holder in the Order of the Spur.

The Certificate awarded to Order of the Spur inductees, while honored by Cavalrymen everywhere, is not a document that is authorized for inclusion in a soldier's permanent official military file. Regardless, induction into the Order of the Spur is for life, and once awarded is recognized no matter which duty station the Cavalry Scout is assigned to.

Although awarding of the Cavalry Spurs is often reserved for Cavalry troopers only, a deserving soldier or foreign military member who has provided great service (often in combat) to the Cavalry Squadron may be awarded Spurs.

The spurs and stetson are not authorized and are not official headgear or award. They are part of the esprit de corps that lives within the Cav.

Qualifications
Physical demands rating and qualifications for initial award of military occupational specialty; the job is available to female personnel. Cavalry scouts must possess the following qualifications:

Physical Demands Rating = Very heavy
Physical profile (The PULHES Factor) = 111121 or better
Correctable vision of 20/20 in one eye and 20/100 in other eye
Normal color vision
A minimum score, of 87 in aptitude area CO (ASVAB/GT score)
Formal training (completion of military occupational specialty I 19D course conducted under the auspices of the U.S. Army Armor School) mandatory
Highest rank an individual may be reclassified into military occupational specialty 19D is rank SPC

Additional skill identifiers
6B – Reconnaissance and Surveillance Leaders Course
D3 – Bradley Fighting Vehicle System
E9 – M901 (ITV) Gunner/Crew Training
F7 – Pathfinder
J3 – Bradley Fighting Vehicle Master Gunner
P5 – Master Fitness Trainer
2C – Javelin Gunnery
2S – Battle Staff Operations (skill level 3 and above)
4A – Reclassification Train
2B – Air Assault
B4 – Sniper
R4 – Stryker Armored Vehicle Operator
R7 – Graduate of ARC (Army Reconnaissance Course) All graduates of the Army Reconnaissance Course that are recommended by the Armor Proponent will be awarded the “Personnel Only” SI/ASI R7 in coordination with the Branch Manager for that CMF.
R8 – Airborne Cavalry

 Ranger

Skill qualification identifiers
3 – Advisor
P – Parachutist
Q – Equal Opportunity Adviser
8 – Instructor
X – Drill Sergeant
V – Airborne Ranger
G – Ranger
4 – Recruiter
D – SHARP Representative