[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ernst Reuter

ng to West-Berlin.

A few months after the uprising of 17 June 1953 in East Berlin, Reuter died from a sudden heart attack in West Berlin. He was 64 years old. His funeral was attended by more than 1 million people and he was honored with an Ehrengrab (honorary grave) in the Waldfriedhof Zehlendorf.

Family 
Reuter was a younger half brother of Otto Sigfrid Reuter, a völkisch-religious ideologue. Reuter was married in 1920, and he and his wife Lotte (Charlotte) had two children, Hella (1920–1983), and (Gerd Edzard) Harry (1921–1992). Harry was adopted by Margareta Burkill and her family in Cambridge. Harry became a British citizen and a professor of mathematics. Harry's son Timothy was a distinguished mediaeval historian. In 1927 Reuter divorced Charlotte and remarried. He and his second wife Hanna had one son, Edzard, who became the CEO of Daimler-Benz.

Honours 

 Ernst-Reuter-Plakette (Ernst Reuter Medal): the highest award by the City of Berlin was established by the Senate of Berlin for persons whose work benefited the city in 1954.
 Ernst-Reuter-Gesellschaft (Ernst Reuter Association): a group of alumni and friends of the Free University of Berlin that was founded in 1954. The Association names the winners of the annual  "Ernst-Reuter-Preis" for excellent dissertations from the university and provideds "Ernst-Reuter-Stipends"  for studies abroad.
 Former places where Reuter lived received memorial plaques: Hardenbergstraße 35 (Berlin-Charlottenburg), and Bülowstraße 33 (Berlin-Zehlendorf).
 Among the many places in Berlin that commemorate Reuter are:
 a major public square and subway station Ernst-Reuter-Platz (Berlin U-Bahn),
 a government building
 a school
 a youth hostel
Other towns in Germany have streets or schools named after Ernst Reuter.

The "Champion of Liberty" series issued by the United States Postal Service in 1959 honored Reuter with two stamps.

Quote 
 "Ihr Völker der Welt ... Schaut auf diese Stadt und erkennt, dass ihr diese Stadt und dieses Volk nicht preisgeben dürft, nicht preisgeben könnt!" (People of this world... look upon this city and see that you should not, cannot abandon this city and this people) —Reuter's speech from 9 September 1948 (German)

Publications 
 Ernst Reuter: Rationalisierung der Berliner Verkehrsbedienung. Verkehrstechnik (29 June 1928) 9; 26:437–439.
 Ernst Reuter: Die Gründung der Berliner Verkehrs-A.-G. Verkehrstechnik (14 December 1928) 9; 50: 917–919

Literature 
 Willy Brandt, Richard Löwenthal: Ernst Reuter. Ein Leben für die Freiheit (Eine politische Biographie). München: Kindler Verlag, 1957
 Klaus Harpprecht: Ernst Reuter. Ein Leben für die Freiheit (Eine Biographie in Bildern und Dokumenten). München: Kindler Verlag, 1957
 Ernst Reuter. Schriften –  Reden. Hg. v. Hans E. Hirschfeld und Hans J. Reichardt. Vorwort von Willy Brandt. Bd. 1–4. Frankfurt am Main; Berlin; Wien 1972–1975.
 David E. Barclay: Schaut auf diese Stadt: Der unbekannte Ernst Reuter. Berlin: Siedler Verlag, 2000. 
Andreas Daum, Kennedy in Berlin. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2008, .

References

External links 

 Ernst Reuter Page of the SPD (German)
 Biography (German)
 Honors for Ernst Reuters (German)
 Foundation:Bürgermeister-Reuter-Stiftung
 Ernst Reuter Association
 Ernst Reuter Foundation for Advanced Study 

People from Aabenraa Municipality
German Army personnel of World War I
German prisoners of war in World War I
World War I prisoners of war held by Russia
Bolsheviks
Communist Party of Germany politicians
Exiles from Nazi Germany
German socialists
German anti-communists
Mayors of West Berlin
Members of the Abgeordnetenhaus of Berlin
People from the Province of Schleswig-Holstein
Social Democratic Party of Germany politicians
1889 births
1953 deaths
Members of the Reichstag of the Weimar Republic
German expatriates in Turkey
Burials at the Waldfriedhof Zehlendorf