[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Energoatom

he safety of Ukrainian nuclear power plants for many years: the periodic meetings are held at the IAEA to comply with the provisions of the Convention on Nuclear Safety; there is a safety monitoring by international experts (OSART, ASSET, WANO missions) organized within the framework of cooperation.

Increasing the reliability and efficiency of operating NPPs is implemented through the Comprehensive Consolidated Safety Upgrade Program of Power Units of Nuclear Power Plants (CCSUP - approved by the Ordinance of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine (CMU) dated 07.12.2011 No. 1270. The Ordinance of the CMU dated 08.05.2019 No. 390 amended the Ordinance of the CMU dated 07.12.2011 No. 1270 and extended the period of validity of the CCSUP until 12.31.2023. The Ordinance of the CMU dated 07.11.2018 No. 924 increased the amount of funding for the CCSUP. Due to the military aggression of the Russian federation, Energoatom on its own initiative developed a draft ordinance on amending the Ordinance of the CMU dated 07.12.2011 No. 1270 regarding the extension of the term of the CCSUP until 31.12.2025) and the Comprehensive Consolidated Program for Improving the Efficiency and Reliability of NPP Power Units Operation.

CCSUP was developed based on the recommendations of the joint project of the European Commission, the IAEA and Ukraine on improving safety and implementing post-Fukushima measures at NPP power units in order to increase the level of safety and reliability of operation of nuclear power units; reducing risks of the accidents at nuclear power plants during natural disasters or other extreme situations; increasing the efficiency of managing project and off-project accidents at nuclear power plants, minimizing their consequences.

Date of Implementation of the Program: 2011–2023.

The purpose of the implementation of the Comprehensive Consolidated Safety Upgrade Program of Power Units of Nuclear Power Plants is:

 implementation of the recommendations of the IAEA and other international organizations regarding the improvement of the safety level of power units of Ukrainian nuclear power plants;
 fulfillment of the requirements of the current domestic nuclear legislation and legislation in the field of civil defense regarding the company's readiness to act in conditions of threat and occurrence of nuclear and radiation accidents, man-made and natural emergencies.
 implementation of measures aimed at preventing accidents similar to the accident at the Fukushima NPP;
 replacement of the safety important equipment with the modern one.

The CCSUP contains 1,295 measures, of which 1,070 have been implemented as of 2022.

Energoatom also implements post-Fukushima measures aimed at preventing accidents during natural disasters or other extreme situations, minimizing the consequences of such accidents; increasing the efficiency of project and off-project accident management at nuclear power plants, minimizing their consequences. In total, 90% of the 238 post-Fukushima measures have already been implemented as of 2022.

Construction of new Nuclear Power Units in Ukraine 
On August 31, 2021, in Washington (USA), Energoatom and Westinghouse signed a Memorandum of Understanding, which provides for the construction of five nuclear power units in Ukraine using AP1000 technology.

On 2 June 2022, at the site of the Khmelnytskyi NPP, a Declaration was signed on the start of practical implementation of the joint project of Energoatom and Westinghouse on the construction of AP1000 power units at the site of the Khmelnytskyi NPP.

On the same day, Energoatom and Westinghouse signed a Memorandum on expanding cooperation, which provides for an increase in the number of AP1000 power units planned for construction from five to nine, as well as the establishment of a Westinghouse engineering center in Ukraine to support AP1000 projects planned for implementation in Ukraine and Europe. In addition, this Memorandum provides for operation support of the operating power units of Ukraine's NPPs and future decommissioning works.

Key stages of the pilot project implementation:

 preparation and conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement on cooperation between Ukraine and the United States in the construction of AP1000 nuclear power units in Ukraine;
 preparation and adoption of a draft law of Ukraine "On the placement, design and construction of power units at the Khmelnytskyi NPP site";
 obtaining licenses for the construction and commissioning of two AP1000 power units at the Khmelnytskyi NPP site.

Managing spent nuclear fuel at Ukrainian NPPs 
Ukraine fully fulfills its obligations in all aspects of handling spent nuclear fuel in accordance with the requirements of the "Joint Convention on the Safety of Spent Fuel Management and on the Safety of Radioactive Waste Management" (Joint Convention) ratified by the Verkhovna Rada of Ukraine on 20 April 2022.