[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joel Grant

s been training for a couple of months but when he came in he wasn't up to speed. He had a setback and from then it's been a struggle really. Sometimes things that look good don't work out. You have to say, if we're being honest, that's how it looks as we speak. That's one that hasn't gone to plan."

On 8 April 2022, Grant was released by mutual consent, he had only made two substitute appearances for The Mariners during the season.

Nantwich Town
Ahead of the 2022–23 season, Grant signed for non-league team Nantwich Town, scoring on his debut in a friendly against Wrexham.

International career
In June 2006 Grant earned a call-up to the Jamaica under-23 squad to play in the Central American and Caribbean Games taking place in Colombia between 15 and 29 July. He spent much of February 2007 with the squad for the CONCACAF under-20 World Cup qualifiers.

In May 2014 Grant was called up to the Jamaica senior squad, and made his full international début playing for 78 minutes against Serbia on 26 May. He scored his first goal at the senior level in a 2–2 draw with Egypt on 4 June 2014 at Leyton, England.

On 2 June 2016, Grant was called up to the Jamaica squad for the Copa América Centenario as a replacement for the injured Simon Dawkins.

Career statistics

Club

International

International goals
As of match played 27 May 2016. Jamaica score listed first, score column indicates score after each Grant goal.

Honours
Aldershot Town
Conference Premier: 2008
Conference League Cup: 2008

Jamaica
Caribbean Cup: 2014

References

External links
Joel Grant player profile at crewealex.net

1987 births
Living people
Footballers from Acton, London
English men's footballers
English people of Jamaican descent
Black British sportsmen
Jamaican men's footballers
Jamaica men's international footballers
Exeter City F.C. players
Watford F.C. players
Aldershot Town F.C. players
Wycombe Wanderers F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Crewe Alexandra F.C. players
Plymouth Argyle F.C. players
Swindon Town F.C. players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Nantwich Town F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
2015 Copa América players
2015 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
Copa América Centenario players
Men's association football wingers
Men's association football forwards