[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of fictional anarchists

ole.

 Floren An anarcha-feminist, Mujeres Libres member, spirit medium, and militia soldier during the Spanish Civil War, in Libertarian Women (Libertarias) (1996). The role of Floren is performed by Ana Belén.

 Gin A hippie squatter. She is played by Sabine Singh in The Anarchist Cookbook (2002).

 Johnny Red A 1960s radical who idealizes Sweden. He is played by John Savage in The Anarchist Cookbook (2002).

 Han Myung-Gon A disguise artist and leader of an underground terrorist cell, in Anarchists (Anakiseuteu) (2000). Han Myung-Gon is played by Kim Sang-Joong.

 Karla A bisexual squatter with issues of misandry, in The Anarchist Cookbook (2002). She is played by Gina Philips.

 Kim An exiled hero of the Spanish Civil War. He is played by Antonio Resines in The Shanghai Spell (El Embrujo de Shanghai) (2002).

 Lee Geun A martial artist, and member of an underground terrorist cell, in Anarchists. Lee Geun is portrayed by Jeong Jun-ho. (Anakiseuteu) (2000).

Lily Cruz/Ivy Aguas A strong woman vowing revenge against the corrupt and terroristic/fascistic Ardiente political clan responsible for her family's loss, in Wildflower She is portrayed by Maja Salvador In this 2017-2018 Philippine political action-crime-suspense epic.

 Nandu Forcat A former soldier in the Spanish Civil War. He is played by Eduard Fernández, in The Shanghai Spell (El Embrujo de Shanghai) (2002).

 Pedro An inmate in a World War II era German prison camp, captured while trying to assassinate fascists. He is played by Fernando Rey in Seven Beauties (Pasqualino Settebellezze) (1975).

 Pilar An anarcha-feminist, Mujeres Libres member, and militia leader during the Spanish Civil War, in Libertarian Women (Libertarias) (1996). The role of Pilar is performed by Ana Belén.

 Puck A college dropout, slacker, and squatter, in The Anarchist Cookbook (2002). He is played by Devon Gummersall.

 Rick Pratt A college student, activist, and self-proclaimed "people's poet" in the 1982 BBC television series, The Young Ones, created and performed by Rik Mayall. Rick is a hypocritical, tantrum-throwing attention-seeker, and fan of Cliff Richard. It is implied in the final episode that contrary to his proletarian pretensions, he is from an upper class, Conservative background. He and his co-stars die in the final episode of the series when, having robbed a bank, the bus they are escaping in falls over a cliff and explodes. Mayall created "Rick" as one of several characters he portrayed during his solo act at The Comedy Store, during the early 1980s. Mayall co-created The Young Ones with then girlfriend Lise Mayer during the same period. Injecting the character into the series, it was pitched to the BBC and subsequently picked up for production.

 Sweeney A promiscuous squatter, and DJ who works at a record store in The Anarchist Cookbook (2002). Sweeney (Johnny Whitworth) is one of the squatters who falls under the control of the nihilist, Johnny Black, through an addiction to cocaine.

 Sang-Gu A member-in-training of an underground terrorist cell in Anarchists (Anakiseuteu) (2000). Sang-Gu (Kim In-Kwon) is adopted into the terror cell after they rescue him from a public execution. Orphaned after his family was killed during a village massacre, he traveled to Shanghai to take part in revenge killings against Japanese politicians. He becomes an apprentice to each of the senor cell members, but gravitates to Seregay, and is the only witness to Seregay's death. As the only surviving member of the cell, the narration of the film is told from his perspective decades later.

 Seregay An expert marksman and assassin, and member of an underground terrorist cell in the Korean film, Anarchists (Anakiseuteu) (2000). Seregay (Jang Dong-gun), is an old comrade of Lee Geun, and a victim of torture at the hands of Japanese interrogators, leading to a self-destructive opium addiction. After failing a mission, he is ordered by his leftist leaders to redeem himself by taking part in an impossible assassination mission. Surprisingly, he succeeds, but is betrayed by another assassin sent to be sure he is killed.

 Tina Santiago A young mother and widow of an Iraq War veteran, turned militant Black bloc protester in This Revolution (2004). Actress Rosario Dawson was arrested during filming for breaking an anti-mask ordinance at the Republican National Convention protest march. The script of the film was quickly rewritten to account for her absence, and live footage of the arrest was included in the movie, portrayed instead as the arrest of the character, Santiago.

 Jerome Valeska An anarchist, terrorist, and criminal gang lord, created by producer and screenwriter Bruno Heller for the television series Gotham, and played by actor Cameron Monaghan. The character acts as a tribute and forerunner to the Batman supervillain Joker, as well as exploring the mythology of the character.