[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James M. Hinds

sided with the Confederacy. These sentiments were later eulogized by Logan H. Roots, a contemporary who represented Arkansas in Congress. Hinds found himself referred to as a carpetbagger, a pejorative term used by resentful Southerners to disparage Northerners who moved south during Reconstruction.

In mid-1865 in Little Rock, Hinds formed a law practice with Elisha Baxter, one of the state's leading Unionists. Baxter, who fought with the Union Army during the war, would be selected to serve on to the Arkansas Supreme Court by the newly established government and was later governor of Arkansas.  In October 1867, Hinds was elected a delegate at Arkansas's 1868 Constitution Convention.  At that Convention he was made chairman of the Committee on the Elective Franchise.  The new constitution that emerged that February, ratified in March, provided voting rights for black males over the age of 21 and for the creation of public schools for both black and white children. Elected to Congress for the 2nd congressional district early that year as a Republican, Hinds went to Washington D.C. in April 1868, where he arranged for Arkansas to be the first state to rejoin the union under the 1867 Reconstruction Acts.  In May 1868, Hinds was a delegate at the 1868 Republican National Convention held in Chicago. Returning to Arkansas in August, he campaigned vigorously for Republican presidential candidate Ulysses S. Grant and for civil rights for former slaves.

Assassination
Hinds was the first U.S. Congressman assassinated in office. He was murdered on the eve of the 1868 presidential election, which was a contest over civil rights and suffrage for freed slaves. Republicans, led by former Union Army General Ulysses S. Grant, favored those measures, while the Democratic Party opposed them. On October 22, 1868, en route to a campaign event for Grant near the village of Indian Bay in Monroe County, a man shot Hinds and fellow Republican politician Joseph Brooks in the back with a shotgun. Brooks managed to stay on his horse and ride to the event to bring back assistance. Hinds was knocked off his horse by the shotgun blast to his back, and lay on the road until help arrived. Before he died, Hinds wrote a short message to his wife and identified his killer. He died about two hours after the attack. A Coroner's Inquest identified the shooter as George Clark, secretary of the Monroe County Democratic Party and a local Klansman. Clark was never arrested or prosecuted.

A week after the attack, The Morning Republican newspaper published the story, recounting that "Men passing and returning soon found Mr. Hinds lying in the road still alive and rational, but conscious of the fact that his wound was of such serious nature that but a few moments more remained of his earthly career."

Arkansas Governor Powell Clayton feared that the murder of Hinds, coming amid rising violence against Republicans and former slaves, was a precursor to a general attack on state officers to seize control of the government and the polls prior to the election, and initiated military action against the Ku Klux Klan.  The insurrection did not take place. Hinds is interred near his birthplace, at Evergreen Cemetery in Salem, New York. The Congressional Cemetery in Washington D.C. contains a memorial stone in his honor.

See also

 List of assassinated American politicians
 List of United States Congress members killed or wounded in office
 List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899)

Notes

References

Further reading
Trelease, Allen W.White terror: the Ku Klux Klan conspiracy and Southern Reconstruction Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1995 (2nd edition); New York : Harper & Row, c1971 (1st edition).

External links 

 The Ku Klux Klan first came to national prominence during the 1868 presidential campaign, when its members assassinated Arkansas congressman James M. Hinds, three South Carolina legislators, and other Republican leaders.
 

|-

 

1833 births
1868 deaths
1868 murders in the United States
19th-century American lawyers
19th-century American politicians
Arkansas lawyers
Assassinated American politicians
Dakota War of 1862
Deaths by firearm in Arkansas
Minnesota lawyers
Minnesota Democrats
People from Hebron, New York
People from St. Peter, Minnesota
People murdered in Arkansas
Politicians from Little Rock, Arkansas
United States Army soldiers
United States Attorneys for the District of Minnesota
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Arkansas
1860s assassinated politicians