[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Source protection

disclose information likely to identify a journalistic source, unless a court of competent jurisdiction finds there is no other reasonable way to obtain the information in question, and that the public interest of administrating justice in the case outweighs the public interest of source protection.

In 2019, the Supreme Court of Canada overturned an order that would have required a journalist to disclose the source of her reporting on the Sponsorship scandal, former cabinet minister Marc-Yvan Côté had sought the order in a bid to have charges against him stayed, arguing that officials from an anti-corruption police unit had leaked information about the case to the press. The case was remitted back to the Court of Quebec for further consideration of new facts.

Technology 
Newsrooms rely on end-to-end encryption technologies to protect the confidentiality of their communications. However, even these methods are not completely effective.

More schools of journalism are also beginning to include data and source protection and privacy into their curriculum.

Technologies used to protect source privacy include SecureDrop, GlobaLeaks, Off-the-Record Messaging, the Tails operating system, and Tor.

Latin America and the Caribbean 
Banisar wrote: "There are important declarations from the Organisation of American States (OAS). Few journalists are ever required to testify on the identity of their sources. However direct demands for sources still occur regularly in many countries, requiring journalists to seek legal recourse in courts. There are also problems with searches of newsrooms and journalists' homes, surveillance and the use of national security laws".

In 1997, the Hemisphere Conference on Free Speech staged in Mexico City adopted the Chapultepec Declaration. Principle 3 states: "No journalist may be forced to reveal his or her sources of information." Building on the Chapultepec Declaration, in 2000 the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) approved the Declaration of Principles on Freedom of Expression as a guidance document for interpreting Article 13 of the Inter American Convention of Human Rights. Article 8 of the Declaration states: "Every social communicator has the right to keep his/her source of information, notes, personal and professional archives confidential."

There are developments with regards to the status of the above regional instruments since 2007:

 Guatemala 2013: (The then) President Otto Pérez Molina expressed interest in signing the Declaration of Chapultepec, he later suspended the signing.
 Venezuela 2013: announced its withdrawal from the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR) and the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.

See also 
Confidentiality
Senior Administration Official
Shield laws in the United States
Barack Obama on mass surveillance
Julian Assange
WikiLeaks
GlobaLeaks
The Insider (film)

References

External links
Silencing Sources: An International Survey of Protections and Threats to Journalists’ Sources. Global survey of source protection laws by Privacy International, 2007. 
ECtHR case law factsheet on the protection of journalistic sources
Model Brief on the Protection of Journalists' Sources by Privacy International 2009. Creative Commons Non-Commercial Use
Amicus Curiae brief in Sanoma Uitgevers B.V. v the Netherlands, providing an overview of International and European domestic law on protection of sources - the Open Society Justice Initiative, the Committee to Protect Journalists, the Media Legal Defence Initiative, ARTICLE 19, and the Guardian News and Media Limited, December 2009.
Infosec for Investigative Journalists, version 2016 by Silkie Carlo and Arjen Kamphuis

Sources (journalism)
Freedom of the press
Secrecy
Journalism