[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Davidson (philosopher)

nding. Davidson argued that Aristotle's Nous identified God with rational thought, and that God could not exist apart from the world just as the Aristotlean soul could not exist apart from the body. Thus Davidson grounded an immanent Emersonian World Soul in a sophisticated Aristotelian metaphysics.

Though initially a panentheist, Davidson's studies in Domodossola—including the work of the Italian Renaissance philosopher Giordano Bruno, Leibniz, Kant, and Rosmini—led him to a panpsychistic monadology, a theory that reality consists of an infinite number of mental or spiritual substances, each with an Aristotelian telos. Human psyches are unique however, because they possess autonomy, which provides the potential to become divine through proper, moral association with other human psyches. This allowed Davidson to reject pantheism, which, he reasoned, led to a God "scattered through the universe...so that the total Absolute exists only in the sum of things taken together." Rather, Davidson argued, God exists everywhere, but he "exists fully or completely" in each monad. Reality is a Göttergemeinschaft, a society of gods; metaphysical, social and spiritual unity is moral rather than ontological.

Davidson's religious philosophy had important consequences for social thought. Apeirotheism was utterly democratic and perfectionistic because it entailed that each individual has the potential to be a God, although restrictive social relations have thwarted the development of most people's potential. For Davidson, because we contain the divine within us, our unfettered natural instincts would impel us to act morally. As individuals became increasingly aware of the divine within themselves, so they became increasingly moral. James believed this individualistic religion made Davidson "indifferent...to socialisms and general administrative panaceas." According to James, Davidson taught that "Life must be flexible. You ask for a free man and these Utopias give you an interchangeable part, with a fixed number, in a rule-bound social organism." Apeirotheism called for the release of each individual's potential divinity through self-cultivation and the nurturing of others rather than through changes in one's material conditions. Davidson was convinced that this release would lead to the only true reform of human society; it was to this task that he devoted the rest of his life.

Publications
Some of his publications are (ref. LWBL):
Davidson, Thomas. A Short Account of the Niobe Group, 1874;
Davidson, Thomas (ed.). The Philosophical System of Antonio Rosmini-Serbati. London: Kegan Paul, 1882. 
Davidson, Thomas. The Parthenon Frieze, and Other Essays. London: Kegan Paul, 1882. 
Davidson, Thomas. The Place of Art in Education, 1886;
Davidson, Thomas. Hand-Book to Dante, from the Italian of Scartazzini, with Notes and Additions, 1887;
Davidson, Thomas. Prolegomena to Tennyson's In Memoriam;
Davidson, Thomas. Aristotle and Ancient Educational Ideals. New York: Scribner, 1892 (repr. 1905).
Davidson, Thomas. The Education of the Greek People and Its Influence on Civilization. New York: Appleton, 1894 (repr. 1906).
 Davidson, Thomas. Rousseau and Education According to Nature. New York: Scribner, 1898.
 Davidson, Thomas, with Charles Montague Bakewell as editor. [https://books.google.com/books?id=pvISAAAAYAAJ The Philosophy of Goethe's Faust] Boston: Ginn, 1906.

Notes

References

 
 
 

Further reading
 International Journal of Ethics, xi. 440
 Who's Who in-America, 1900
 American Hebrew, lxvii. 514, 585.
 James A. Good, "The Value of Thomas Davidson." Transactions of the Charles S. Peirce Society 40, no. 2 (Spring 2004): 289–318.
 Amy Kittelstrom, The Religion of Democracy: Seven Liberals and the American Moral Tradition.'' New York: Penguin, 2015.

External links

 
 
 
 Hardy, Dennis A., Book: Utopian England: Community Experiments 1900–1945 (Studies in History, Planning, and the Environment)
 Thomas Davidson papers (MS 169). Manuscripts and Archives, Yale University Library.

1840 births
1900 deaths
19th-century American philosophers
Alumni of the University of Aberdeen
British emigrants to the United States
Idealists
Panentheists
Panpsychism
Philosophers of religion
People from Old Deer
Scottish classical scholars
Scottish philosophers