[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1935 Maccabiah Games

espite qualifying, she declined to compete for Austria in the Olympics in  Nazi Germany, which led to her being banned from competing and her records erased by Austria.  Polish future Olympian Ilia Szrajbman competed in swimming; he was killed in the Majdanek concentration camp during the Holocaust.

Daniel Prenn, who had been ranked as high as #6 in the world, represented Great Britain in tennis. In chess, Abram Blass won a gold medal for Poland, followed by David Enoch, Eduard Glass, Heinz Josef Foerder, Yosef Dobkin, Victor Winz, Moshe Czerniak, and Siegmund Beutum.

In the final scoring, Austria placed first with 399 points, followed by Germany with 375.3 points, and Eretz Israel placed third with 360.5 points. They were followed by Poland 4th, USA 5th, Czechoslovakia 6th, South Africa 7th, Egypt 8th, Yugoslavia 9th, Great Britain 10th, France 11th, Romania 12th, the Netherlands 13th, Denmark 14th, DZG 15th, Greece 16th, Belgium 17th, Morocco 18th, and Latvia, Libya, and Lithuania  tied for 19th.

Sports 

The 2nd Maccabiah introduced many new sports including: judo, cycling, weightlifting, rowing, volleyball, and darts. The 2nd Maccabiah was the last time motorcycle racing took place. Handball and Basketball which were played during the 1st Maccabiah did not take place in this one; they were played in the 3rd Maccabiah.

Games that took place:

Participating communities

28 Delegations took park in the 3rd Maccabiah. The number in parentheses indicates the size of the delegation.

 
 
  (350)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  (134)

Debuting countries 
10 countries made their Maccabiah debut at these games.

References

External links

Unofficial
 Summaries of each of the Games
 Jewish Virtual Library 
"'Maccabiah saved my life'; Hirschler, water polo player from Hungary, was invited to 1935 Maccabiah; his decision to stay saved him from Nazis," 7/7/05
David Ofer - The 1935 Maccabiah Games on the Digital collections of Younes and Soraya Nazarian Library, University of Haifa

 
Maccabiah Games
Maccabiah Games
Maccabiah Games
Maccabiah Games
Maccabiah Games
Maccabiah Games
20th century in Tel Aviv