[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iain Evans

ng preselection, with Evans coming second. Bob Day, who held membership of the Liberal Party for 20 years, and the endorsed Liberal candidate for Makin in 2007, quit the party after failing in his bid to win Mayo preselection, citing a "manipulated" preselection process. Evans agreed to some extent.

Remarkably on 30 March 2010 exactly four years after he had been elected Liberal leader, Evans stood for the deputy's job but was defeated by the man who toppled him for the leadership in 2007, Hamilton-Smith. Evans was once again defeated by Hamilton-Smith for a leadership position in a rematch between the two former leaders. Evans was overlooked for the deputy's job despite getting the support of Redmond. Redmond had made it known that Hamilton-Smith was not her preferred deputy and a party room meeting was called for 6 April to reconsider the deputy's job. Hamilton-Smith stood aside but Evans did not renominate for the job and it went instead to Mitch Williams.

On 31 January 2013 Redmond resigned as leader. Steven Marshall, who had by this point replaced Williams as deputy leader, became acting leader and formally appointed leader on 4 February. Evans, once again contested the now vacant deputy's job but was defeated by his former deputy Vickie Chapman.

Evans suffered a 2.8-point two-party swing against him, reduced to a margin of 8.1 points in Davenport at the 2014 state election, with two-party swings against him of up to 8 points in some booths, including the traditionally Liberal-voting booth of Belair which Labor won by three votes. On 6 June 2014 he announced he would stand down from the shadow ministry and parliament within a year and before the next election. There was speculation that Evans was asked to delay his resignation and the by-election for a year due to federal Liberal government budget cuts and that there could be a "super Saturday" of by-elections in up to five Liberal-held seats.

Evans resigned from parliament on 30 October 2014. A 2015 Davenport by-election occurred.

Post-Parliamentary career 
Evans is a political lobbyist active in South Australia. As of April 2018 he is lobbying on behalf of Leigh Creek Energy. He also lobbies for Kangaroo Island Plantation Timbers, which has proposed to construct an international port on the north coast of Kangaroo Island.

References

External links

Stateline (ABC TV) 24-Mar-2006: Can Liberals heal rifts?
 

|-

|-

1959 births
Living people
Liberal Party of Australia members of the Parliament of South Australia
Members of the South Australian House of Assembly
University of South Australia alumni
Leaders of the Opposition in South Australia
21st-century Australian politicians