[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Europe District

provides design and construction services to DeCA and AAFES across Europe. Future commissary construction is planned for the Ramstein, Wiesbaden, Ansbach and Stuttgart communities in Germany. The district recently turned over new commissaries at Chièvres Air Base, Belgium, and Grafenwoehr, Germany.

7. Foreign Military Sales (FMS) –
The Israel Area Office is currently the district's southernmost location with about 25 employees. The district supports the Israeli Air Force, Navy and Army through such projects as the design and construction of hangars, ports, maintenance facilities and military infrastructure. Recently, the Europe District completed the last of dozens of military construction projects originally ordered by the Wye River Memorandum – a $275 million FMS endeavor. One of the most high-profile projects has been the $16 million Military Operations in Urban Terrain site, the largest in the world when constructed in 2007. The district is gearing up to support Israel with a renovation of a port in Haifa and construction of helicopter pads in Ramon Airbase.

8. International Engineering –
The International Engineering Center (IEC) provides design and construction contracting services to U.S. government agencies in Europe and Africa for projects that are outside the above categories. Work ranges from traditional military engineering construction of facilities, roads and bridges, to renovating orphanages and building customs and border crossing stations. Major programs include:

• Exercise-related construction (ERC) – The IEC supports EUCOM's Theater Engagement Plan by coordinating and managing Exercise Related Construction throughout Eastern Europe and Africa 
• Georgia Border Security and Law Enforcement Program – The district supports the Department of Homeland Security with construction of customs and border crossing stations. Primary end users are the Georgia Border Guard and the Georgia Customs Department 
• International Narcotics and Law Enforcement (INL) Program – The IEC continues to assist INL with design and renovation of facilities for the Department of State such as police academies, forensics laboratories and pistol ranges 
• Civil-military operations – The IEC provides contracting services to the EUCOM and AFRICOM civil military operations programs to design and construct basic humanitarian projects, including improving potable water, renovating schools, orphanages, and hospitals, and building wells 
• Counter-Narcotics and Terrorism (CNT) Program – The district is currently working on several CNT projects in Europe worth about $4.1 million 
• Operation Enduring Freedom - Trans Sahara (OEF-TS) – OEF-TS is the U.S. military component of the Trans-Sahara Counter-Terrorism Initiative, a U.S. government program designed to help develop the internal security forces necessary to control borders and combat terrorism and other illegal activity.. AFRICOM executes OEF-TS through a series of military-to-military engagements and exercises designed to strengthen the ability of regional governments to police the large expanses of remote terrain in the trans-Sahara. The IEC has supported projects on several facilities in Mali, Niger, and Chad. The IEC is utilizing the newly awarded Multiple Award Task Order Contract which provides the flexibility and responsiveness required by customers to meet late emerging requirements in a more timely manner.

9. Contingency Support

As North Atlantic Division's forward deployed district, the Europe District is heavily involved with Field Force Engineering (FFE) doctrine development, training and implementation. FFE is the means by which the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers supports maneuver commanders in combat or contingencies.

The district conducts regular training for volunteer FFE staff from both Europe District and other North Atlantic Division districts.

The Europe District continues to support overseas contingency operations in Afghanistan through providing roughly $45 million in design, procurement and reachback support each year.

External links 
 Official Website

References 

United States Army Corps of Engineers
Organisations based in Wiesbaden
1971 establishments in Germany
Military units and formations established in 1971