[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Brady Poppinga

for two seasons while serving as a missionary in Uruguay. He currently acts as a youth leader, giving hour-long motivational and moral lessons weekly as well as supporting other youth activities. He has given a devotional on faith, family and football, an event that was open to the entire community.

Poppinga has supported the Boy Scouts of America by way of a public service announcement, for which he recorded both an English and Spanish version. In the same way, he has lent his support to the American Family Insurance Military Cap Campaign by shooting various promos. Poppinga also recorded an intro for one of the units included in the Green Bay Packers Fit Kids program. He was a participant in the All-Pro Dad event, encouraging fathers to become more involved in their children's lives.

Poppinga has hosted a football camp, "The Poppinga Football Experience," in Utah, as well as a charity fundraiser football camp in Wyoming for a Children's Hospital. He has served as an instructor in several other football camps. In addition, he has supported his coach's and teammates' fundraising efforts through participation in Mark Tauscher's Trifecta Foundation Annual Golf Outing, the Brett Favre Fourward Foundation Annual Celebrity Softball Game, the Donald Driver Foundation Dinner, and the Family Services of Northeast Wisconsin Green and Gold Gala, an annual event hosted by Coach Mike McCarthy.

Poppinga has made various monetary donations to the community and beyond. He donated hundreds of dollars worth of new toys to a local nursery, as well as autographed items to an event that benefited the memorial of a fallen Green Bay Fire Fighter. He donated items to the Los Angeles Fire Department, where his brother-in-law is a fire fighter, as a contribution to a fundraiser that benefited victims of 9/11. Through the Fistula Foundation, he paid for surgeries of two women in Ethiopia, and through the Invisible Children Foundation, he purchased school supplies for students in Uganda. He also supported Amnesty International to assist in the case of someone who was unfairly imprisoned.

References

External links
 Green Bay Packers profile

1979 births
Living people
American football outside linebackers
BYU Cougars football players
Dallas Cowboys players
Green Bay Packers players
St. Louis Rams players
People from Evanston, Wyoming
Players of American football from Wyoming
American Latter Day Saints
American Mormon missionaries in Uruguay