[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Elizabeth Hesselblad

Maria Elizabeth Hesselblad, OSsS (4 June 1870 – 24 April 1957), was a Swedish religious sister who founded a new, active, branch of the Bridgettine order in the Roman Catholic Church, known as the "Bridgettine Sisters". Hesselblad is recognised as a Righteous Among the Nations due to her efforts in World War II saving the lives of Jews during the genocide of the Holocaust.

Pope John Paul II beatified her on 9 April 2000 and Pope Francis canonised her 5 June 2016 at Saint Peter's Square.

Life

Early life and conversion

Maria Elizabeth Hesselblad born on 4 June 1870 as the fifth of thirteen children born to August Robert Hesselblad and Cajsa Petersdotter Dag – Lutheran parents from Fåglavik in Västra Götaland County; she had a brother named Thur. She was baptized the following month and received into the Lutheran Church of Sweden in her parish of Hudene.

By 1886, she had to work to help them make ends meet. At first she looked for work in Sweden, but eventually emigrated to the United States of America in 1888, where she studied nursing at Roosevelt Hospital in New York City. While there, she did home nursing, which brought her into contact with the Catholic faith of many of the poor for whom she cared. She developed an interest in the Roman Catholic Church while deep prayer and personal study led her down the path of conversion, and on 15 August 1902, the Feast of the Assumption, she received conditional baptism from a Jesuit priest, Johann Georg Hagen, in the chapel of the Georgetown Visitation Monastery in Washington, D.C. Hagen also became her spiritual director. As Elisabeth Hasselblad reflected on that moment, she wrote: "In an instant the love of God was poured over me. I understood that I could respond to that love only through sacrifice and a love prepared to suffer for His glory and for the Church. Without hesitation I offered Him my life, and my will to follow Him on the Way of the Cross". Two days later, she received her First Communion and would depart for Europe.

Hesselblad approached Hagen and asked that she be received into the Church at once to which Hagen said: "My dear daughter, how could I do that? I have just met you". She replied: "My father, forgive me, but I have fought in darkness for twenty years; for many years I have studied the Catholic faith and have prayed for a strong faith … I now possess this faith, and I am ready to submit to an examination on all the points of doctrine". Hagen questioned this, and after great consideration told her: "I see no reason not to receive you unto the Church. Today is August 12, and the 15th will be the Feast of the Assumption of the Blessed Virgin Mary. That day, I will receive you into the Catholic Church; the following Sunday, the 17th, you will be able to receive Holy Communion. Spend these few days in retreat and come to see me twice a day for lessons". It was in that same year that her brother, Thur, also converted to Catholicism.

Religious experiences

Hesselblad then made a pilgrimage to Rome, where she received the sacrament of Confirmation. She also visited the house of Bridget of Sweden there, where Bridget had spent the last half of her life, which made a deep impression upon her. At that point Hasselblad felt called to dedicate her life to the work of Christian unity. She returned to New York City briefly, only to go back to Rome, where, on 25 March 1904, she was welcomed as a guest by the nuns of the Carmelite monastery housed there; the prioress welcomed her after hesitating to accept her due to her weak health. However, she allowed Hasselblad on the condition of a period of probation. Yet it was at this point she fell gravely ill and even had to receive the Extreme Unction. She slowly recovered and held out against her family's pleas to return to Sweden.

She petitioned the Holy See to be able to make religious vows under the Rule of the Order which Bridget had founded, and had been a prominent presence in the Church in Sweden before the Protestant Reformation had taken hold there. Hasselblad received special permission for this from Pope Pius X in 1906, at which time she assumed the habit of the Bridgettines, including its distinctive element of a veil with a symbolic crown. She professed into the hands of Hagen on 22 June 1906, the Feast of the Sacred Heart.

Hesselblad attempted to revive interest in the order and its founder in both Sweden and Rome. Her proposal to establish a monastery of the order on the site where Bridget had lived received no volunteers from the few monasteries of the order still in existence. Giving up on the intention of following the established way of life in the order, she proposed one which included the care of the sick. To this end she was joined by three young women from England, whom she received on 9 November 1911, with which the new congregation was established. Their particular mission was to pray and work, especially for the conversion of the Scandinavian people to the Catholic Church.