[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 11th Michigan Infantry Regiment

aged at Battle of Ruff's Station, where Colonel Stoughton suffered a severe shell wound that necessitated the amputation of his leg. Five companies from the 11th Michigan participated in a successful but costly assault against Rebel entrenchments near the railroad, losing three dead and ten wounded.

The 11th Michigan was again lightly engaged at Peachtree Creek on July 20, where the unit rushed the length of the Union line under artillery fire to plug a gap with John Newton's 4th Corps division. In the ensuing actions against Atlanta, the regiment was again called upon to charge entrenched Rebels, this time at the Battle of Utoy Creek on August 7. The Michiganders seized the first line of Confederate trenches at the cost of fifteen dead and fifteen wounded. With the regiment's three-year enlistment period about to expire, the soldiers nearly mutinied when ordered to charge across the open field, but a timely speech by Mudge convinced the bluecoats to do their duty under fire one last time.

The regiment was relieved from front line duty on August 27, but a Rebel cavalry raid by Joseph Wheeler necessitated their involvement in another infantry-cavalry chase. After helping to drive Wheeler off, the unit finally embarked for home via railroad on September 19. Stopping at Sidney, Ohio, on the 24th, the Michiganders stumbled across Copperhead Clement L. Vallandigham and democratic vice presidential candidate George H. Pendleton, both of whom were reviled by the soldiers for their antiwar stances. Mudge narrowly restrained his soldiers from killing the politicians, who were chased off but still delivered speeches in town later that day. Upon departing Sidney, Mudge's troops made off with a cannon used by Vallandhigham's supporters to fire off salutes in his honor. The 11th Michigan returned home safely, and was mustered out on October 11, 1864.

Total Strength and casualties
The 11th Michigan had a total enrollment of about 1,323 men. (Precise figures are unavailable due to lax recordkeeping, and the numbers vary by source.) Approximately 279 of the Michiganders died in the service (97 in battle). About 265 were discharged for disability.

Commanders
William J. May
William Lewis Stoughton
Melvin B. Mudge

See also
James Wood King - Medal of Honor nominee and quartermaster sergeant, 11th Michigan Infantry
William G. Whitney - Medal of Honor winner and member of Company B, 11th Michigan Infantry

References

 The Civil War Archive
 Faust, Eric R. Conspicuous Gallantry: The Civil War and Reconstruction Letters of James W. King, 11th Michigan Volunteer Infantry. Kent, OH: Kent State University Press, 2015.
 Faust, Eric R. The 11th Michigan Volunteer Infantry in the Civil War: A History and Roster. Jefferson, NC: McFarland, 2015.

External links
11th Michigan Infantry Monument, Fort Oglethorpe, GA
11th Michigan Infantry website

Units and formations of the Union Army from Michigan
St. Joseph County, Michigan
Military units and formations established in 1861
1861 establishments in Michigan
Military units and formations disestablished in 1864