[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Transformers: The War Within

fter Springer tries to make the Protectobots regain control of their combined form, separates; Devastator himself is separated against his will at the hands of the Protectobots using a plug transmission of a powerful shock into his body in a sabotage strategy, and the Ultracons, now foiled, retreat.

The Fallen, with the help of the Chaos Trinity, now begins his plans to acquire four Transformers for a mysterious ritual, manipulating the Autobots into attacking a new Decepticon mobile command base which turns out to be Trypticon, who decimates them with ease. Realising that someone is manipulating them, Jetfire calls a truce with Shockwave to compare notes. They are attacked by the Chaos Trinity, who dispatch Shockwave and capture Jetfire. However, Grimlock, believing that Jetfire has sold out his comrades, then arrives and cuts his way through the acolytes before being beaten senseless by the Fallen and acquired. As the Trinity prepare the ritual by capturing Hot Spot, the Fallen invades the Autobot base to capture Blitzwing who is in lockdown in a capture cell. While the Fallen, now with his four targets secured, prepares to break the Seal of Primus, Shockwave's Decepticons arrive and gun down the Trinity before allying with Prowl's Autobots to deal with the threat. Grimlock and Jetfire also form a truce to prevent the Fallen from completing his ritual and Primus himself kills the Fallen. The various factions agree to seal off the chamber together. Jetfire, however, believes that a bigger threat may appear... as the shadowed shape of Unicron appears in the far distance.

Volume Three: The Age of Wrath

Plot

The series is set a short time after The Dark Ages. The defeat of the Fallen has united the Autobots, with Ultra Magnus acting as overall commander. They have pushed back the various Decepticon factions, to the point where peace talks have been agreed between the Autobots and both the Decepticons and Ultracons. Starscream's Predacons are determined to disrupt the talks, attacking the ceremony and killing most of the High Council. However, the other three factions unite to drive them off, with Motormaster gravely wounding Grimlock as he takes a fatal shot meant for Magnus. Afterward, all of the factions are taken by surprise when they are attacked by a huge army of Seeker clones, commanded by none other than Megatron.

As Megatron reunites the Decepticon factions and punishes Starscream for stealing his thunder, Megatron's clones chase down every last Autobot. His forces begin to drill deep into the planet, uncovering a sentient computer network known as the Source, as Perceptor and several other escaped Autobots prepare to fight back. Megatron bargains with the forces who created his army as Nightbeat analyzes a captured clone. Meanwhile, Perceptor sends the Turbomasters to his lab, thinking they can locate the missing Optimus Prime. However, Flash tinkers about with the equipment and is beamed to another world. Dreamwave's closure meant the series was halted at issue #3, but information and images released indicate that Flash would have found Optimus Prime and returned to battle Megatron.

Notes
 A new miniseries which started in Fall 2004, continuing on from the previous two War Within miniseries. The comic was again written by Simon Furman, and was drawn by Joe Ng. The serial was discontinued after issue #3 due to the bankruptcy of Dreamwave in January 2005.
Although not named, Megatron's mysterious benefactors are clearly the Quintessons, the creators of the Transformers in the original TV series.

IDW Publishing
After acquiring the rights to the Transformers licence, IDW Publishing reprinted the first volume of War Within in trade paperback format on March 28, 2007, with the second volume following in May.

On February 11, 2009, IDW released The Transformers: War Within Omnibus, which collected volumes 1 and 2 of the series.

References

External links

War Within
2002 comics debuts
2003 comics endings
Comic book limited series
Dreamwave Productions titles
IDW Publishing titles