[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# North Carolina Department of Health and Human Services

record keeping and management concerning various funds, among other budgetary problems. Wos released her responses to the audit, agreeing on all points with the auditor, including the conclusion that NCDHHS had consistently exceeded budgeted amounts for administrative costs due to lack of oversight.

When speaking to the General Assembly in February 2013, Wos laid out her department priorities as "Medicaid and information technology." In July 2013, NCDHHS went live with its NCTracks system for managing Medicaid billings. Also that month, after three years in development NCDHHS oversaw the statewide rollout of NC Fast, a new system meant to manage the state's food stamps. Two months later, state food banks reported that NC Fast had developed a significant backlog, with North Carolina residents turning to the food banks as a last resort. Media criticism focused on Accenture, the company contracted to build the system. Accenture had previously run into budget issues with other contracted state systems.

Federal authorities began investigating NCDHHS for signs of wrongdoing in relation to work agreements in July 2013 from as early as 2006, with Wos and NCDHHS announcing their cooperation. In September 2013, Wos attracted criticism in the press for NCDHHS pay hikes, as well as a number of department hires that other employees perceived as underqualified. Wos defended the work contracts, arguing the higher rates were an effort to attract talent and avoid turnover, and that the hires were "an integral part of our effort to deliver more efficient, effective services." Under Wos, NCDHHS expanded its audit team in August from 6 to around 30. Wos was questioned at a state legislative hearing in October 2013, with lawmakers addressing higher salaries, severance payments, and her stated plan to reform Medicare in state.

Backlog resolution (2014)
In early 2014, NCDHHS dealt with a backlog of duplicate food stamp applications in the NCFast system, with many people waiting over a month for benefits. The backlog reached about 24,000 cases by January 18. On January 23, the USDA threatened to withhold $88 million in administrative funding for the state's food stamp program unless the backlog was promptly dealt with. The first deadline was set as February 10, and required the resolution of the "longest-delay cases." County agencies at NCDHHS met the deadline "by working nights and weekends, hiring temporary staff and diverting staff from other program areas." An end of March deadline was given for fixing the entire backlog.  Though NCDHHS initially gave assurances it could meet the March deadline as well, on March 11, Wos told lawmakers that it would be difficult to resolve the outstanding 1,975 backlogged cases before March 31.

On March 25, Wos announced that NCDHHS was on track to meet the March deadline, excluding that Guilford County had just revealed 8,100 cases that hadn't been entered in computers or NCTrack. Wos argued the rate which NCDHHS' cut down on the backlog, however, showed "that [NCFast] works and it works very well." The state sent 22 workers to help Guilford County clear the cases before the March 31 deadline. In July 2014, the press revealed that in March, "the staff of the Guilford County [NCDHHS had been] instructed not to enter information into NC FAST in order to hide a case backlog from the [USDA]."

Surplus, Brajer hired (2015-16)
Throughout 2013 and early 2014, NCDHHS worked to resolve glitches with the NCTracks Medicaid billing system. The department announced the system was working "effectively" by July 204. The state's Medicaid program ended 2014 with a $130 million surplus, a contrast to the usual deficit held by the department. Despite the surplus, Wos stated that she was "disappointed" that the state elected not to move forward with her proposal to reform the state's Medicaid program. By 2015, NCDHHS had announced that the glitches from both NCTTracks and NC Fast were resolved, and Wos had "[convinced] the legislature of the need to invest in the state’s medical examiner system."

Wos resigned on August 15, 2015, stating in a press conference that it was "simply time to go home" and spend time with her family. Asked by the press if she would "change any of the decisions that she made over a sometimes rocky tenure," she replied "not at all." Wos was replaced by Rick Brajer, a former medical technology executive. After being sworn in, Brajer asserted to the press that Wos' resignation had been unrelated to the ongoing federal investigation into NCDHHS.