[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Screening (economics)

er is the uninformed party, they will not be able to notice these aspects until the individual has been employed, and therefore, the time and effort put into the employee causes inefficiency. Hence, it is important for industries to understand the biases involved when utilising screening techniques.

Incorrect Screening in the Insurance Market 
Typical screening processes in the insurance market involve looking at historic data and demographic information, however, these screening processes may lead to incorrect conclusions. For example, a young male would typically be seen as high risk however, this may not truly be reflected as they could be a safe driver. Therefore, insurance companies need to ensure that further information is gathered prior to concluding what category individuals suit.

Contract theory 
In contract theory, the terms "screening models" and "adverse selection models" are often used interchangeably. An agent has private information about his type (e.g., his costs or his valuation of a good) before the principal makes a contract offer. The principal will then offer a menu of contracts in order to separate the different types. Typically, the best type will trade the same amount as in the first-best benchmark solution (which would be attained under complete information), a property known as "no distortion at the top". All other types typically trade less than in the first-best solution (i.e., there is a "downward distortion" of the trade level).

Optimal auction design (more generally known as Bayesian mechanism design) can be seen as a multi-agent version of the basic screening model. Contract-theoretic screening models have been pioneered by Roger Myerson and Eric Maskin. They have been extended in various directions. For example, it has been shown that, in the context of patent licensing, optimal screening contracts may actually yield too much trade compared to the first-best solution. Applications of screening models include regulation, public procurement, and monopolistic price discrimination. Contract-theoretic screening models have been successfully tested in laboratory experiments and using field data.

See also
Adverse selection
Information asymmetry
Joseph E. Stiglitz

References

Asymmetric information
Education economics