[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Teddy Altman

ife-or-death decision regarding his care, not as his doctor but as his wife. Though the newly-weds both maintain that theirs is a simple marriage of convenience, and Teddy continues to date other men, Henry later confesses that he has feelings for Teddy. She tells him she does not feel the same way.

Teddy again removes Cristina from her service when she performs a surgery despite Teddy's opposition. She tells Owen that Cristina's over-abundance of confidence makes her dangerous, and that she will keep Cristina off her service until she feels she is ready to return. When Andrew returns and asks Teddy to move to Germany with him, she accepts, and agrees to divorce Henry. However, in the seventh season finale, Teddy changes her mind and tells Henry that she is falling in love with him. The two begin their married life properly, but in season eight, Henry dies, leaving Teddy distraught. She blames Owen because she wasn't told that Henry had died until after her surgery on another patient. Feeling that he put the hospital before her, she breaks off her friendship with him, causing problems with them being able to work together that are later made worse by Cristina's own relationship troubles with Owen (During this time, Cristina tells Owen that he has to grant Teddy her anger, to which an enraged Owen lashes out the hypocrisy in the situation, given that when Cristina discovered she was pregnant with Owen's child, she told him that keeping the pregnancy was non negotiable and wanted to pursue an abortion, despite Owen's desire to have a child, and his pleas to keep the pregnancy, points out that Cristina never "granted him any anger" over what he thought was  her selfish decision). After a particularly bad case, Bailey sternly tells Teddy that what happened with Henry was not Owen's fault and that Teddy knows this and needs to get over it, which pushes Teddy to behave more civilly towards Owen, but she finally lets go of her anger after she desperately begs Owen to convince Cristina (who by this point has broken up with him) to not transfer away from Seattle and is left shocked and silent when Owen furiously tells her he will not do that because he and Teddy are only co-workers and, as she made very clear, not friends and therefore she has no right to ask him for any help or favors. She and Owen eventually make up in the season finale. Owen finds out she was offered a job at the United States Army Medical Command, but turned it down because she wanted to be there for Owen, if he and Cristina were to separate. He ultimately fires her and she does take the military job, and tells her that he'll be okay as they part having restored their friendship. Teddy and Owen make up and hug each other goodbye as he wants her to take the job offer, which would be good for her.

Teddy is later mentioned in season thirteen episode, "True Colors", when army officers speak to Amelia about the return of Owen's missing sister, Megan, whom Teddy knew while serving. 

In Season 14, following the split between Amelia and Owen, in which Amelia tells Owen to profess his love for Teddy, Owen travels to Germany to be with her. In Germany, Teddy and Owen sleep together, but after the two fight over their history, Teddy sends Owen on his way. In the season finale, Teddy returns to Grey Sloan, and it is revealed that she is pregnant with Owen's baby.

During the 15th season, Teddy, now heavily pregnant with Owen's baby, gets involved with Tom Koracick, an attending neurosurgeon at Grey Sloan. Teddy and Tom's relationship quickly progresses, much to Owen's dismay, with Tom offering to help Teddy with the baby once she gives birth. However, though Teddy recognizes how right Tom is for her, she realizes that she is still in love with Owen. In the Season 15 finale, Teddy gives birth to her and Owen's daughter, whom they both have named Allison, in honor of Teddy's best-friend Allison Brown, who died during 9/11. Having broken up with Tom, Teddy admits her feelings to Owen, who reciprocates.

In the 16th season, as Teddy and Owen plan to get married, Teddy struggles with being a new mother, and because she misses working, Owen offers to take time off as well. When Teddy learns that Owen might be the father of Amelia's baby, she runs back to Tom, and they begin to have an affair. It is later revealed that Owen is not the father, but Teddy and Tom still continue to sneak behind Owen's back. Towards the end of the season, Teddy travels to L.A. with a couple other surgeons from Grey Sloan for a medical conference, and she reminisces on her relationship with Allison, who was also her secret lover. At the end of the season, Teddy and Owen prepare for their wedding, but on the day of, Teddy accidentally sends Owen a voicemail of her and Tom having sex, and Owen postpones the wedding.