[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Miguel Comminges

Miguel Gregory Comminges (born 16 March 1982) is a Guadeloupean former professional footballer. Having spent his career in France, England, Wales, and the United States, he played for the Guadeloupe national team. A versatile player, he played on either side of defence, as well as in midfield.

Comminges began his career playing for Amiens SC, breaking into the first-team during the 2001–02 season. He joined Stade Reims of Ligue 2 the following season, and spent four years with the club. In 2007, Comminges moved to England, signing for Football League One side Swindon Town on a one-year deal, after a successful trial, and played regularly during the 2007–08 season. When his contract expired, he signed for Championship side Cardiff City on a free transfer. During his time at Cardiff, Comminges was briefly loaned out to Carlisle United. In January 2011, he left Cardiff and joined Southend United on a free transfer for the remainder of the 2010–11 campaign. He was released by Southend at the end of the season, and later signed for MLS side Colorado Rapids in September 2011. Comminges left the club when his short-term contract expired in January 2012. He joined League One side Stevenage, signing in September 2012 after a successful trial period, and spent a season at the club before being released in May 2013.

Club career

France
Comminges had played youth football in his native Guadeloupe for local side Rapid Club Petit-Canal before moving to France in 1997. After a successful spell on trial, he joined the youth academy at Amiens SC at the age of 15, breaking into the first-team in 2002. Although naturally right-footed, Comminges' first experience in the Amiens first-team came as a left sided player as manager Denis Troch was forced to utilise him in an unfamiliar position following an injury crisis at the club. During the 2002–03 season, he made 14 league appearances as Amiens finished in a mid-table position, despite only being on an amateur contract at the club. He left the club in May 2003, and joined Stade Reims of Championnat National, the third division of the French football league system, on a free transfer. In his first season with the club, he helped the side earn promotion to Ligue 2, with Reims finishing the season as champions. During his four years with the club, Comminges made 74 league appearances, with Reims establishing themselves in the second tier of French football.

Swindon Town
Shortly after leaving Reims, Comminges was invited to England for a trial at League One side Swindon Town after impressing manager Paul Sturrock, who had travelled to France a year earlier on a scouting tour. His trial period was successful, and he signed a one-year deal in July 2007, earning early praise from Sturrock for his performances in the club's pre-season friendly matches, describing him as "outstanding" following a 4–0 victory over Austrian side SV Bad Ischl. Comminges made his debut on the opening day of the 2007–08 season, replacing Sofiane Zaaboub on the left side of midfield, in a 1–1 away draw against Northampton Town. Three days later, on 14 August 2007, Comminges made his first start for the club, playing the first 59 minutes in a 2–0 home loss to Charlton Athletic in the League Cup. He was almost ever-present for Swindon during the season, playing regularly at right-back, before finishing the season on the opposite side of the defence, making 47 appearances in all competitions. At the end of the campaign, with Swindon finishing in mid-table, Comminges was named as the club's Player of the Year. New Swindon manager Maurice Malpas stated a desire to extend Comminges' contract, and the player was offered a new two-year deal in April 2008. However, Malpas indicated that he was losing patience with Comminges' hesitation in signing the contract, and shortly after, Comminges' agent informed the club that he would be signing for Championship side Cardiff City – a claim that Cardiff initially denied.