[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# TVRI

ejecting democracy"; but HTI spokesperson Ismail Yusanto says that "TVRI is a public broadcaster, and HTI is also a part of the public" and the broadcast is "a part of the public's right to be broadcast and heard". TVRI was subsequently warned by KPI that they could face sanctions for the broadcast.

Later on 15 September, TVRI aired a delayed broadcast of the Democratic Party convention for more than 2 hours, the political party of which was founded by the incumbent president Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono. The broadcast again caused KPI sanctioning, due to the violation of political independence principle according to the law. However, TVRI directors secretary manager Usi Karundeng said that the network was never intervened or paid for by the party.

Dismissal of Helmy Yahya and internal chaos
On 6 December 2019, Helmy Yahya was temporarily dismissed as President Director for the 2017-2022 period by the TVRI Board of Supervisors led by Arief Hidayat Thamrin and replaced by acting President Director Supriyono. According to news sources in almost all mass media on 16 January 2020, Helmy Yahya was officially dismissed from his position by the board permanently and unilaterally, citing the "expensive" purchase of broadcast rights for the Premier League from Djarum-owned premium multi-platform network, Mola TV, a problem during Siapa Berani quiz show, and various other problems. Despite public pushback against the dismissal, the board continued to refuse Helmy Yahya's opposition to his dismissal until the election for the new president director to replace him.

On 17 January, 4,000 TVRI employees declared a motion of no confidence to the Board of Supervisors. One day before, the board's room was sealed. As of 27 March 2020, another three directors (including News (Editor in Chief) and Program Director Apni Jaya Putra) were also temporarily dismissed for less than a month by the TVRI Board of Supervisors regarding the Helmy Yahya case. On 13 May, all of them (including Apni) were permanently dismissed.

On 27 May 2020, the TVRI Board of Supervisors appointed Indonesian advertising practitioner, journalist, and filmmaker/film director Iman Brotoseno as the new President Director for the remainder of the 2017–2022 period, replacing Helmy Yahya. The appointment caused controversy thanks to his endorsement of incumbent president Joko Widodo in the 2019 election, but he stated that he "would be independent and impartial". He was also criticized for his past posts on Twitter which included Indonesian colloquial terms for pornography and porn films.

On 5 October 2020, the Board of Supervisors Arief Hidayat Thamrin was ultimately dismissed by first commission of People's Representative Council. However, Arief was suspended from power since 11 May.

Identity

List of logos

List of slogans 
Menjalin Persatuan dan Kesatuan (Weaving Unity and Oneness, 1962–2001)
Makin Dekat Di Hati (Going Closer to The Heart, 2001–2003)
Semangat Baru (New Spirit, 2003–2012)
Saluran Pemersatu Bangsa (The Nation's Unifying Channel, 2012–2019)
Media Pemersatu Bangsa (The Nation's Unifying Media, 2019–present)

See also
 Television in Indonesia
 Radio Republik Indonesia, the Indonesian public radio network
 Antara, the Indonesian news agency
 Public broadcasting in Indonesia

References

Further reading
Department of Information, Republic of Indonesia (1999) Indonesia 1999: An Official Handbook (No ISBN)
Schwartz, Adam (1994) A Nation in Waiting: Indonesia in the 1990s, Allen & Unwin.

External links

TVRI Video On-Demand
TVRI Klik

 
1962 establishments in Indonesia
Publicly funded broadcasters
Public broadcasting in Indonesia
Mass media companies of Indonesia
Television companies of Indonesia