[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Goler T. Butcher

vernment generally and with respect to agriculture pricing and marketing patterns, the agriculture sector, foreign exchange rates, both as to food and cash crops through budgetary allocations and national investment policies."

Butcher's Influence on the United States Foreign Policy on Global Hunger

In 1977, Butcher became the first black woman to hold the position of assistant administrator to AID Africa.  One of Butcher's "first actions upon becoming assistant administrator for Africa, was to examine the steps AID had taken in the past to provide opportunity for entities owned, managed or principally identified with minorities and women to serve in its program as contractors and grantees…"   In her new position, Butcher testified before Congress in hearings dealing with the inadequacy of small business contracting policies in the Africa Bureau due to contracting barriers constructed during the Ford administration.  Butcher believed that AID had a responsibility "to assure that contractors exercise equal opportunity employment,"  and this responsibility had been "virtually ignored."   "In addition to compliance with existing law and contracting regulations, Butcher proposed several new initiatives, one of which established the Minority Involvement Office in the Africa Bureau."
	Later that year, "Butcher returned to Congress to explain why the U.S. should be more responsive to Africa's development."  Butcher called Africa "the stepchildren of our foreign assistance program" and informed Congress of the minimizing AID assistance since 1962, but was encouraged by the "current $155 million in development assistance."   During her address, Butcher outlined initiatives to "overcome hunger and malnutrition…[to train] personnel in agricultural skills… [to construct] the rural infrastructure necessary for delivery of inputs and information and the outward movement of produce… [to assist] in the development of educational systems [and to give] greater attention to the geographical allocation of our assistance in terms of common or interrelated problems among the countries of the continent…" 
	Each fiscal year Butcher would "map out her imaginative programs and her vision of enlarging the role of AID in assistance programs in Africa" to the House Subcommittee.   In 1979, Butcher noted that Africa was lagging "behind…the rest of the countries in the developing world."  She attributed this lag to the geographical isolation of Africa and the shortage of trained manpower, an area AID Africa specifically targeted.  In order to avoid falling on deaf ears after her frequent testimonials, Butcher would tie U.S. incentives into reasons why the U.S. should focus on supporting Africa's development programs.  Specifically, Butcher pointed out Africa possesses "substantial[ly] confirmed or highly probable deposits of important minerals."

Volunteer positions
Among her volunteer positions, Butcher was:
board member - Amnesty International 
honorary vice-president - American Society of International Law 
member - Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights under Law
member - International Human Rights Law Group
member - Council on Foreign Relations (1992)

Personal life and legacy
Goler Teal married George Hench Butcher Jr., a mathematics professor at Howard University. They had four children. Goler T. Butcher died after a fatal heart attack in 1993, aged 67 years, in Washington, D.C. The Howard University's Goler Teal Butcher International Moot Court Team  honors her name. The American Society of International Law created the Goler T. Butcher Medal in her honor, awarded since 1997 to leading people in international law.

References

External links 
Goler Teal Butcher Award
American Society of International Law awards and honours

1925 births
American human rights activists
American legal scholars
1993 deaths
20th-century American lawyers