[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Directives for military officers and military commanders in the event of an armed attack on Norway

The Directives for military officers and military commanders in the event of an armed attack on Norway (Direktiver for militære befalingsmenn og militære sjefer ved væpnet angrep på Norge)  is commonly  referred to as “the poster on the wall” (plakaten på veggen) since it was posted in every military office wall until after the Cold War ended. The poster on the wall is a directive which sets out the duties for all Norwegian commanding officers and Ministry Officials during any attack on Norway. It was issued by Norwegian Royal resolution on June 10, 1949.

According to unwritten tradition, this directive was to be hung in each military office in Norway.

Background 
When Germany invaded Norway on April 9, 1940, many of Norway’s commanding officers of both the Army and the Navy were uncertain of what to do since they did not receive any orders. This led to many giving up without mounting a defence. Although the highest levels of government ordered an immediate mobilization, the ministers of the Norwegian government knew nothing about the details of mobilization, which were left totally to the Ministry of Defence. Since the Minister of Defence was new to his duties, he deferred this action to his Commander-in Chief, General Kristian Laake.

Kersaudy describes the events which then followed as: “On the morning of 9 April, however, the General obstinately refused to take the alert seriously and it was only with the greatest difficulty that the officer on duty at headquarters could prevail on him to leave his country home and return to Oslo. But once in Oslo, the General called the Minister of Defence and advised him to mobilize the four brigades stationed in southern Norway…” The mobilization plan for a partial mobilization at the time relied on the post office to order these brigades to mobilize, with an inherent delay of several days.

The situation was further confused by the radio announcement by Vidkun Quisling of a coup d'etat declaring an ad hoc government during the muddle of the invasion. He ordered that the defence mobilization should cease. This, combined with misdirection by other Nasjonal Samling leaders led to all-out confusion such that the mobilization was not effected until hours after the first German advance forces reached Norwegian soil.  This poorly managed mobilization allowed German forces to establish a strong beachhead in Norway.

Despite the strength of the German invaders and the poor initial leadership and misdirection, the Norwegian armed forces, aided by British, French and Polish forces, kept up an organized military resistance for two months, longer than any other country invaded by Germany, except for the Soviet Union. The resistance was notably strong at Vinjesvingen, Gloppedalsura, Fossum bridge, Hegra and the Narvik front.

An important influence for this document, was the Battle of Drøbak Sound, where the Oscarsborg Fortress at the ship route to Oslo opened fire on own decision on passing German warships and sank the leading one. This gave the King and the government several hours of time to order mobilization, evacuate the gold reserve and leave Oslo for London. 

With the start of the cold war and the memory of the occupation years, the Norwegian people wanted to be well prepared for any future invasion. Therefore, directives were issued to guide response in the event of any invasion of Norway, the Direktiver for militære befalingsmenn og militære sjefer ved angrep på Norge.

Even if the text of the directive does not directly apply to the rest of the rank and file of the armed forces, the duty to defend Norway, is "De Jure" based on the Norwegian Constitution §85 (Defence against treason or acts against the Storting) and §109 (Conscription), in short, both articles clearly states that one shall defend Norway against any threat, foreign or domestic.

”De facto” the directive is taught to all conscripts and is subsumed to be equally applicable to all personnel, regardless of rank.

The directive 
The directive instructs all military officers and military commanders that they were to: 
Take up arms and fight courageously against each and every enemy who attempts to invade and conquer Norway. 
Know that once a mobilization order has been issued, it can not be recalled before each and every individual musters at his point of mobilization. 
Know that all orders, even those issued in the King’s name or the ministry’s name, which countermand the mobilization are phony and shall not be complied with. 
Recognize it is every man’s duty to resist, even though all may appear lost and others give up.  Resistance shall be continued both at home and abroad. 
In the event of a partially successful or successful invasion, engage in both espionage and sabotage.  
In the event of capture, provide no information to the enemy while a prisoner of war.

The directive consists of four sections, which are summarized below:

Definitions

Directives that applies to all officers and NCOs