[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jiaganj Azimganj

Jiaganj Azimganj is a city and a municipality in Murshidabad district in the Indian state of West Bengal.

Geography

Location
Jiaganj and Azimganj- the two towns located on opposite sides of the Baghirathi River, Jiaganj (Ziaganj) on the east bank and Azimganj on the west bank. Jiaganj is located at . Azimganj is located at is located at .

Baluchar is the original ancestral name of Jiaganj. The name was changed to Jiaganj after the Mughal Empire conquered Bengal, and came in power of Murshidabad.

Area overview
While the Lalbag subdivision is spread across both the natural physiographic regions of the district, Rarh and Bagri, the Domkal subdivision occupies the north-eastern corner of Bagri. In the map alongside, the Ganges/ Padma River flows along the northern portion. The border with Bangladesh can be seen in the north and the east. Murshidabad district shares with Bangladesh a porous international border which is notoriously crime prone (partly shown in this map). The Ganges has a tendency to change course frequently, causing severe erosion, mostly along the southern bank. The historic city of Murshidabad, a centre of major tourist attraction, is located in this area. In 1717, when Murshid Quli Khan became Subahdar, he made Murshidabad the capital of Subah Bangla (then Bengal, Bihar and Odisha). The entire area is overwhelmingly rural with over 90% of the population living in the rural areas.

Note: The map alongside presents some of the notable locations in the subdivisions. All places marked in the map are linked in the larger full screen map.

Demographics
 India census, Jiaganj Azimganj had a population of 47,228. Males constitute 51% of the population and females 49%. Jiaganj and Azimganj has an average literacy rate of 68% : male literacy is 73%, and female literacy is 62%. In Jiaganj Azimganj, 11% of the population is under 6 years of age.

Neighbourhoods

Begamganj
Begamganj is a very old locality in Jiaganj. The main marketplace in Jiaganj (e.g. SabjiMandi) is within this locality. The Boro Govinda Bari is a place of religious interest. The Sarbajanani Durga Puja in Baroaritala and Saraswatitala is famous and old one.

Shibtalaghat
It is a locality in jiaganj near the Bhagirathi river. Bikki Khela Ghar, Anjali Villa, an ancient Shiva temple etc. are located here.

Bhattapara

Bhattapara is a locality at Jiaganj town named after Bhattacharyas, who used to live here (more than 350 years) from the earlier time of Nawab Murshid Kuli Khan (Subedar of Bengal) of Murshidabad and the next generations of Bhatta family have been living still now at Bhattapara. "Pathar Bari" temple of Goddess Durga is situated near the bank of the river Bhagirathi at Bhattapara is their ancient architecture. Bhattas (Bhattacharyas) were also one of the old Landlord (Lakheraj i.e. Non-Taxable Zamindary). They were also Hindu Paschatya Vaidic Brahmins. Originally they came from Kanauj (U.P) at the time of King Ballal Sen/ Laxman Sen. They have also a temple of "Laxmi-Narayan Dev" adjacent to their residential house. Most of their buildings are now dilapidated and abandoned condition. The descendants of the said Bhattacharyas are commonly known as their glorious title "Bhatta".

Rampada Chakraborty (1831 A.D.) of Bhattapara was the first priest of Amaipara Goddess 'Kali'. The only one Girls' High School of Jiaganj was started in 1937 at Bhattapara under the tenancy of Landowners (Zaminder): Priya Nath Bhatta & Manindra Nath Bhatta being patronized and founded by Rai Bahadur Surendra Narayan Singha. In Bhattapara was residence of several landlords from British India. Most prominent of them is Manmothonath Saha and Sripath Sing. There is a college named "Sripath Sing College" made by Sripath Sing Dugar. Also a temple of Lord Krishna (Thakur Bari) made by Manmothonath Saha. There was also a famous house named "Kartik Bari" where taxes was used to be collected when Manmothonath Saha was a landlord (up to 1965). Every year a puja of Lord Kartik (another Hindu God) was used to be held there in "Kartik Bari". Netaji Subhas Chandra Bose visited Kartik Bari before independence (before 1947). A gigantic sweet (Chomchom) was made in his honour. Author S.K.Roy has written a lot about Bhattapara and Jiaganj in his books. The title Bhatta was given by the Nawab of Murshidabad.

Debipur
Debipur a small neighbourhood situated on the banks of Bhagirathi-Hooghly river, traditionally known as 'Ganga'. Debipur constitutes the ward number 8 of Jiaganj-Azimganj Municipality. It consists of Debipur Mahanta Ganapati Das High School and Debipur Sub-Post office.

Azimganj

Azimganj is situated at the west bank of river Bhagirathi. There are two railway stations Azimganj city and Azimganj junction. The old and historic city of Nawab period is situated near Azimganj city railway station.