[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Velocity (character)

arin, although this was never realised because the comic's first series ended shortly after. The second volume closed with Ripclaw and Velocity heading towards Antarctica in search of the alien technology usurped by Cyberdata which eventually led to the development of Cyberforce and the other SHOCs.

Cyberforce Volume 3: Rising From the Ashes
In the third volume of Cyberforce, released in June, 2006, Cyberdata is finally destroyed. However, the company releases a failsafe virus meant to kill all those on the planet infected with the alien technology. In this Marc Silvestri re-introduction of Cyberforce, Ripclaw and Velocity are betrayed by the captain of the vessel that helped them reach Antarctica, and flee to the ruins. Once inside, the tunnel collapses, burying them alive. Ripclaw, weakened by the virus, is killed by the captain of the ship. Carin kills the captain and buries Ripclaw in a shallow grave, resigning herself to die.

Carin then undergoes a transformation in the ruins of the alien ship which removes the tattoo scar from over her eye and gives her a different, older look. The previously established relationship between herself and Ripclaw is tentatively explored during the first story arc, where the two are seen holding hands and embracing one another.

First Born
In the First Born limited series, Velocity was briefly taken over by the Angelus until it was driven out by Cyblade.

Cyberforce/Hunter-Killer
Carin was the first to become alerted when Cyberforce's base on Mikquit Island was attacked by a Hunter-Killer squad. She took point and grabbed Samantha Argent and dragged her off, until Architect stopped her by restructuring the island. When the two teams started working together against Morningstar and Cyberdata she, Cyblade and Samantha attacked Cyberdata's San Francisco server. However she was captured and, along with Cyblade and Wolf, connected to Cyberdata's server in order that Cyberdata could speak through them. When she was released, it was revealed that she and 12 million others worldwide were being mind-controlled and given new Ultra-Sapien abilities via their Jett phones. She recovered when Damper plugged himself into the Jett network.

Powers and abilities
Carin can run at speeds in excess of , but has yet to max-out her speed for fear that she could rip the world to pieces. She has been shown to sustain speeds in excess of Mach 3, as when she destroyed a warship from within while saving Cyberforce from an updated killer robot. Cyberdata cybernetically implanted layers of Kevlar under her skin to avoid friction burns. Her speed also grants her super-fast reflexes. In issue #31, when she spends a day with her sister Cassie, Carin also demonstrates that her eyes can move at an incredible pace as well, allowing her to follow the path of a card while playing a game of three-card monte. The Brain Box also enhances her reaction time and ability to process sensory input, so she will be able to control herself and understand what she sees and hears when moving at high speed.

Lately she has gained Ultra-Sapiens abilities. When activated, these allow her to sprout sharp ridges along the outer length of her arms and legs, as well as the ability to quickly heal from injuries.

Limited series
Velocity, Vol. I, #1–3 (November 1995 – January 1996)
Velocity, Vol. II, #1–4 (June 2010 – April 2011)

References

External links

 Velocity at the Big Comic Book DataBase

Characters created by Marc Silvestri
Comics characters introduced in 1992
Cyber Force characters
Fictional cyborgs
Fictional mutants
Image Comics characters who can move at superhuman speeds
Image Comics characters with accelerated healing
Image Comics female superheroes
Top Cow titles