[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marie-Clémentine Anuarite Nengapeta

image of the Mother of God in her right hand. Her remains – after exhumation – were then moved to the Isiro Cathedral. Olombe was sentenced to death in 1965 but escaped from prison. He returned to prison and his sentence was commuted to life imprisonment in 1966, though he received a pardon in 1971.

The Anuarite Woman of Courage Prize
The Anuarite Woman of Courage in the D.R.C. Prize was established in 2009, named after the late sister to honor her courage and strength. The prize is meant to recognize and honor the vital contribution of women to the development of democratic values in the nation. On an annual basis a cash prize is awarded to a Congolese woman who helped to make her area a better place through hard work and dedication.

Beatification
The beatification cause commenced under Pope Paul VI on 14 April 1977 and she became titled as a Servant of God. A cognitional process was opened in the Isiro-Niangara diocese from 13 January 1978 until later in 1978. Her writings received theological approval on 9 May 1980 before the Congregation for the Causes of Saints validated the cognitional process on 12 February 1982. The cause's officials sent the Positio in 1983 before theologians approved the cause on 21 February 1984 as did the C.C.S. on 17 April 1984.

Pope John Paul II approved this cause on 9 June 1984 and beatified Nengapeta on 15 August 1985 during his visit to Zaire. She is the first Bantu woman elevated to the altars with her beatification. To the left of the altar sat the late sister's parents. The pope expressed that he also forgave her killer. There were around 60,000 people at the beatification and it was rumored that her killer was present, as was President Mobutu Sese Seko.

Her killer tried to secure a meeting with the pope to express his great remorse but it was denied. Joaquín Navarro said the audience was refused because the former colonel made the request through a news editor who interviewed him. One source said a contributing factor was that he was considered to be unstable.

The current postulator for this cause is Fr. José Antonio Pérez Sánchez.

She is a patron of the African Jesuit AIDS Network.

References

External links

 Hagiography Circle
 Santi e Beati
 Faith ND
 Comboni Scholasticate

1939 births
1964 deaths
20th-century Roman Catholic martyrs
20th-century venerated Christians
Beatifications by Pope John Paul II
Deaths by firearm in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Democratic Republic of the Congo beatified people
Democratic Republic of the Congo Roman Catholics
People from Haut-Uélé
Venerated Catholics
People of the Congo Crisis
Virgin martyrs