[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# John Watkins (diplomat)

t's name was not mentioned.

Watkins' death certificate was signed by pathologist Iona Kerner. Kerner only externally examined the body and observed no unusual markings, and an investigative report stated "coronary thrombosis in an unexpected, sudden, and accidental death". No autopsy was performed.

Investigation of death
In 1980, the circumstances of Watkins' death started to become public when David Martin's Wilderness of Mirrors revealed that the KGB, using a honey trap, had targeted Watkins for blackmail because of his homosexuality. Chapman Pincher's March 1981 book Their Trade is Treachery was reported to have caused a "sensation in the press" with the claim that Watkins died while being questioned in a Montreal hotel room. In April 1981, for the second edition of S – Portrait of a Spy, Ian Adams found that the Quebec coroner who had signed Watkins' death certificate in 1964 had not realized he was a former ambassador nor was he aware of the true circumstances of his death. Additional details of Watkins' entrapment emerged in John Sawatsky's two-part series published in June 1981.

In September 1981, Quebec Minister of Justice Marc-André Bédard ordered an inquest into the death of Watkins. Solicitor General Robert Kaplan criticized the inquest as "unnecessary and a witch hunt", but said he would cooperate with the investigation. A few weeks prior, Dery stated that he wanted to interview Bennett and that he was considering plans to take the inquest to Australia, where the former Mountie had retired, or bring him to the inquest in Canada.

21 witnesses testified at the inquest, including many police officers whose testimony was often contradictory. Martin, one of the constables who responded to the Chateaubriand Holiday Inn, said that he received the impression from a telephone call made by Lemire that Watkins' body was taken to the morgue over the objections of Bennett and Brandes; however, Lemire, his partner, said the only telephone calls he made were to verify the identities of Bennett and Brandes. The person to whom Lemire's call was allegedly made was also found not to have been on duty that night. Written testimony from Watkins' only known living relatives stated that his health had declined in the six months prior to his death.

On 22 December 1981, Brandes, then chief superintendent of the RCMP, also testified that Watkins' health was failing, so they let him dictate the pace of the questioning. He said that the former diplomat was not held against his will, and that he voluntarily cooperated with the investigation. Bennett stated that he and Bennett were in constant contact with Watkins, including visits to the theatre, watching television, and going for walks together, and that the interrogations typically occurred once each day for about three hours. He testified that on the day Watkins died, he was questioned for four hours in a session focused on recapping information about events already obtained from him. Bennett stated that Watkins was reminiscing about his time in the diplomatic corps when he suddenly collapsed and died. Although he had known Watkins for only a month, Brandes stood by his statement that appeared in the coroner's report that noted he was his friend. He testified: "We spent a great deal of time together under very close relations and, yes, I considered him a friend." Brandes testified that he and Bennett sought to avoid publicity of the former ambassador's death "for the protection of operational national matters that had international ramifications" and only asked the police investigators to avoid making his death a cause célèbre. Brandes had not mentioned that he was an RCMP officer and said that had not thought it was important to notify Montreal authorities that Watkins was a former diplomat.

Kerner, the pathologist, said she would have "most certainly" conducted an autopsy had she known that Watkins was a former diplomat having died in the presence of RCMP officers. After a two-week recess in the proceedings, John Wendell Holmes testified that he initially "took it as a joke of some sort" when Watkins told him in London that he was being investigated by the RCMP as a security risk. Holmes stated that Watkins behaved as someone "who felt he didn't have much longer to live, because of his heart attack", but believed him to be on good terms with those interrogating him. Alex Capon, a physician called to see Watkins a few days prior to his death, told the inquest: "It came as no surprise to me to learn of his death." During a break in the interrogation, Capon had advised Watkins to enter the hospital immediately; however, Watkins refused.  In May 1982, Bennett was interviewed in Australia by two Quebec Police Force officers. On 23 June 1982, the inquest concluded when Dery ruled that Watkins died from natural causes unrelated to intensive police questioning. The RCMP was completely exonerated in the role of Watkins' death.