[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Newman Edwards

4, 1875 he fought a pistol duel with Col. Emory S. Foster, editor of the St. Louis Journal, who had accused him in print of lying. Neither man was injured.

Edwards left the Dispatch, planning to move to Santa Fe and raise sheep. However, he was persuaded by friends and family to remain in Missouri.

In 1877, Edwards published Noted Guerrillas, an account of Confederate partisan warfare during Civil War in western Missouri and border Kansas. Edwards grew concerned by the early-1870s that Missouri, a divided state which ultimately remained in the Union, would be isolated from the mainstream Lost Cause movement. So more than just a chronicle of the guerrilla war in the western borderlands, "Noted Guerrillas" also functioned as the basis of an "irregular Lost Cause" that Edwards specially constructed for Missouri. William Clarke Quantrill, "Bloody Bill" Anderson, and the James brothers, Frank and Jesse, were among the bushwhackers deified as Confederate heroes in place of standard Lost Cause icons like Robert E. Lee, J.E.B. Stuart, and P. G. T. Beauregard.

He later moved to Sedalia to become editor of The Democrat. He next became editor of the St. Joseph Gazette.

In 1887, Edwards returned to Kansas City as editor of the paper he had founded. Edwards' health was damaged by alcoholism, and he died in 1889 at the age of 50 in Jefferson City. He was buried in Dover, Missouri.

Writings

References

Bibliography 

 
 Hulbert, Matthew Christopher. "Constructing Guerrilla Memory: John Newman Edwards and Missouri's Irregular Lost Cause," Journal of the Civil War Era 2, No. 1 (March 2012), 58-81.
 Hulbert, Matthew Christopher. The Ghosts of Guerrilla Memory: How Civil War Bushwhackers Became Gunslingers in the American West. Athens: University of Georgia Press, 2016. .

External links
John N. Edwards: biography, memoirs, reminiscences and recollections; his brilliant career as soldier, author, and journalist; choice collection of his most notable and interesting newspaper articles, together with some unpublished poems and many private letters. Also a reprint of Shelby's expedition to Mexico, an unwritten leaf of the war: comp. by his wife, Jennie Edwards
Biographical sketch of John E. Edwards
Edwards and the Jesse James myth 

1839 births
1889 deaths
James–Younger Gang
American duellists
Confederate States Army officers
People from Warren County, Virginia
Missouri Democrats
19th-century American journalists
American male journalists
Shelby's Iron Brigade
Kansas City Times people