[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International financial institutions

uction and Development. The Islamic Development Bank is among the leading multilateral development banks. IsDB is the only multilateral development bank after the World Bank that is global in terms of its membership. 56 member countries of IsDB are spread over Asia, Africa, Europe and Latin America.

Bilateral development banks and agencies
A bilateral development bank is a financial institution set up by one individual country to finance development projects in a developing country and its emerging market, hence the term bilateral, as opposed to multilateral. Examples include:
 the Netherlands Development Finance Company FMO, headquarters in The Hague; one of the largest bilateral development banks worldwide.
 the DEG German Investment Corporation or Deutsche Investitions- und Entwicklungsgesellschaft, headquartered in Cologne, Germany.
 the French Development Agency, and Caisse des dépôts, founded 1816, both headquartered in Paris, France.
 the CDC Group, is a development finance institution owned by the UK Government headquartered in London.

Other regional financial institutions
Financial institutions of neighboring countries established themselves internationally to pursue and finance activities in areas of mutual interest; most of them are central banks, followed by development and investment banks. The table below lists some of them in chronological order of when they were founded or listed as functioning as a legal entity. Some institutions were conceived and started working informally 2 decades before their legal inception (e.g. the South East Asian Central Banks Centre)

See also

 Climate Investment Funds
 Development finance institution
 Financial Stability Board
 Global financial system
 National development bank

References

External links
Dataset on all official international lending (230,000 loans, grants and guarantees) by states and multilateral institutions over the period 1790-2015.
Bank Information Center
 World Bank page describing MDBs

 
Supranational banks
International development
Multilateral development banks