[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Angola–United States relations

Angola and the United States have maintained cordial diplomatic relations since 1993. Before then, antagonism between the countries hinged on Cold War geopolitics, which led the U.S. to support anti-government rebels during the protracted Angolan Civil War.

Although Angola won independence from Portugal in 1975, the U.S. – alone among its Western peers – never granted diplomatic recognition to the People's Republic of Angola, the socialist one-party state under which the country was governed until 1992. Anxious to contain the spread of communism in the region, and to protect American interests in the Angolan oil sector, the U.S. was staunchly opposed to Angola's ruling party, the left-wing, Soviet-aligned Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA). When the Angolan Civil War began in 1975, the U.S. extended military aid to both of MPLA's domestic rivals: the National Liberation Front of Angola (FNLA) and Jonas Savimbi's National Union for the Total Independence of Angola (UNITA). The presence of Cuban troops in Angola greatly increased the U.S.'s investment in the outcome of the war. The ensuing conflict became entangled with the South African Border War, and the U.S. government was accused of complicity in – and collaboration with – the invasion of Angola by South Africa's apartheid regime. 

Even as MPLA consolidated its control over Angola, U.S. President Gerald Ford – supported by his Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger – continued to deny recognition to its government, a policy maintained by his successors. The Clark Amendment blocked any further U.S. aid to Angolan rebels between 1976 and 1985, but relations between the two countries remained extremely cold. After 1985, President Ronald Reagan announced the resumption of U.S. support to UNITA, in line with the so-called Reagan Doctrine. However, a parallel initiative of the Reagan administration stemmed from the latter's policy of constructive engagement with South Africa on regional issues. In this regard, the U.S. pursued negotiations to ameliorate Southern Africa's various interlocking conflicts, in particular by linking the independence of South West Africa to a Cuban withdrawal from Angola. This policy came to fruition with the Tripartite Accord of 1988, which the U.S. was instrumental in mediating. 

Thereafter, with the end of the Cold War imminent, the governments of both countries were increasingly comfortable cooperating to end the Angolan civil conflict through a negotiated settlement, notwithstanding the sticking point presented by ongoing – and indeed augmented – American support to UNITA under President George H. W. Bush. On 19 May 1993, with intra-Angolan peace talks still underway, the government of President Bill Clinton extended formal diplomatic recognition to the MPLA-led Angolan government, which had held multi-party elections the previous year. While UNITA continued to take and hold territory throughout the 1990s, the U.S. government's attention increasingly shifted to supporting the Angolan government's national reconciliation efforts, and to strengthening bilateral economic ties. 

The importance of those economic ties persists, although it is diminished: Angolan oil exports are no longer of strategic importance to the U.S., and Angolan trade is increasingly oriented towards China. However, American oil companies retain significant investments in Angola, which remains the U.S.'s third-largest trading partner in sub-Saharan Africa. The U.S. is also Angola's primary source of official development assistance. In the 21st century, regional security partnership, especially in the Gulf of Guinea, has been an additional focal point of bilateral relations.

History

1961–1974: Angolan War of Independence