[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kevin McLeod (footballer, born 1980)

the club, in a 3–3 draw at Scunthorpe United on 4 May 2008. He was the first and last player to score for the club that season, as he had opened the scoring at Sheffield United on 11 August 2007. The season was a travesty for the club as they were relegated in last place, fifteen points from safety.

In June 2008, it was revealed the McLeod has turned down the offer of a further two-year contract at Colchester United and the player agreed to join League One rivals Brighton & Hove Albion on a free transfer. Assistant manager Dean White felt that McLeod could have a big season at the club. He scored twice in his first season at Brighton, with strikes against Northampton in the Football League Trophy and Hartlepool in the FA Cup. However, after many injuries and time spent playing in the reserves due to lack of fatigue and excessive weight, McLeod was released from his contract at Brighton at the end of January 2010. He quickly signed a short-term contract until the end of June 2010 with League One side Wycombe Wanderers. Making his debut in a 1–1 draw at Brentford, he played eleven games for the club before being released at the end of the season. He suffered his second relegation, as Wycombe finished five points from safety.

In July 2010 he joined League Two Aldershot Town on trial, the next month he joined fellow League Two side Port Vale on trial, again teaming up with former boss Micky Adams. He joined St Mirren on trial the following month, but again failed to win a contract.

Having begun the 2011–12 football season with newly promoted Conference Premier side Braintree Town, McLeod went on to enjoy a very brief stay with Thurrock before signing for Chelmsford City during December 2011. McLeod has since joined a Sunday league team in Colchester where he has continued to perform at a high level.

Playing style
Described as a "lively character on and off the pitch", McLeod is a winger who "likes to take on opposing full-backs". Commentators have noted that "his ability to carry the ball and run at defenders are his major strengths".

Personal life
In June 2005 his agent was Neil Sang.

In 2007 Special Duties and Koopa re-recorded the "Up the U's!" with a song entitled "Stand Up For Col U" featuring the vocal talents of McLeod and his Colchester United teammates Jamie Cureton, Chris Iwelumo, Wayne Brown, Karl Duguid, Kevin Watson, Pat Baldwin and Dean Gerken. The single was released to raise funds for the Teenage Cancer Trust and also he has a son called Callum .

Statistics

Notes
a. Football League Trophy results included in totals.
b. Play-off results included in totals.

Honours
with Everton
FA Youth Cup winner: 1998

with Queens Park Rangers
Football League Second Division play-off final runner-up: 2003

with Swansea City
Football League Two third place promotion winner: 2004–05
Football League One play-off final runner-up: 2006

Essex County Cup 2017/18

References

External links

Kevin McLeod player profile at seagulls.co.uk
Kevin McLeod player profile at cu-fc.com
Kevin McLeod player profile at swanseacity.net
Kevin McLeod player profile qpr.co.uk

1980 births
Living people
Footballers from Liverpool
English men's footballers
English people of Scottish descent
Premier League players
English Football League players
Men's association football midfielders
Everton F.C. players
Queens Park Rangers F.C. players
Swansea City A.F.C. players
Colchester United F.C. players
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. players
Wycombe Wanderers F.C. players
Redbridge F.C. players
Braintree Town F.C. players
Thurrock F.C. players
National League (English football) players
Chelmsford City F.C. players