[Source: PubMed]

100. J Law Med. 2009 Dec;17(3):426-38.

Can we prevent doctors being complicit in torture? Breaking the serpent's egg.

O'Connor M(1).

Author information:
(1)St George Private Hospital, Sydney. celticdr@bigpond.net.au

A significant minority of the tortured prisoners who survive report that a 
doctor was present during their torture. Yet few medical practitioners are ever 
criminally prosecuted or even disciplined by their regulatory bodies. Can such 
gross violations of the Hippocratic Code be so easily ignored or are these 
doctors carefully shielded from detection and prosecution by a grateful state? 
Mostly doctors act to vet prisoners for their capacity to withstand the torture 
or resuscitate them to allow torture and interrogation to continue. However, on 
occasion, the "healers" may be the actual torturers as happened in Russian 
psychoprisons in the latter part of the 20th century. This article argues that 
the de facto immunity which complicit doctors currently appear to enjoy must be 
stripped away and replaced by effective processes to detect and then prosecute 
criminal behaviour. This will require widespread reporting of cases and action 
by international bodies, including non-government organisations. Prevention is 
clearly preferable and this will require improvements in undergraduate and 
graduate medical education about international humanitarian and human rights 
law. There is evidence that many medical faculties pay scant attention to this 
education and their students graduate with serious flaws in their understanding 
and attitudes towards human rights. Education should target "doctors at risk" in 
prisons, armed forces and the police. It should address professional behaviour 
which tolerates or even protects cultures of abuse. A code of professional 
conduct would assist "doctors at risk" to resist overtures for them to become 
complicit in torture, Medical Practice Acts should include statements on 
respecting human rights when defining good professional conduct. Doctors who 
become complicit in torture betray their profession. Swift action should be 
taken to stop such abuses and perpetrators should receive strong disciplinary 
action from regulatory bodies.

PMID: 20169802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]