[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Iran–Venezuela relations

hit a new high in early 2023 due to increased shipments to Venezuela and China. Iran had supported Venezuela's oil exports, and its navy established a presence in Panama Canal for the first time ever. The two countries also announced direct flights between Tehran and Caracas starting in August 2023.

Academic relations
The good cooperation between the two countries also expands in cultural and scientific fields in addition to the economic domains. At a time when Venezuela and Russia were working on nuclear cooperation, the Iranian Minister of Science, Research and Technology, Mohammad Mehdi Zahedi, headed a delegation to Caracas to hold talks with high-ranking officials in order to follow up on implementation of agreements which had been inked between the two countries in 2006. Additionally, two technical and educational committees for implementing Iran-Venezuela agreements were also set up. The Iranian delegation visited the Venezuelan Foundation for Seismological Research, Caracas Central University, Simon Bolivar University, and the Venezuelan Institute for Scientific Research. Beyond the political-military sphere the two countries also pledged to work together academically in the commissioning of a new university programme at the existing, tuition-free Bolivarian University, with a focus on teaching socialist principles and to promote discussion of "21st century socialism." The government of Venezuela said this followed with plans to establish the University of Civilizations under accords recently signed with Iran.

Trade relations
As of the end of 2008, Iran's beneficence to Venezuela had paid dividends in the form of an Iranian ammunition factory, a car assembly plant, a cement factory and even direct air service between Tehran, Damascus and Caracas courtesy of Iran Air, amongst others.

Trade between Venezuela and Iran has grown steadily and the two countries have launched joint ventures in a number of sectors, including energy, agriculture, housing, and infrastructure (2008). The value of industrial development projects carried out by Iranian firms in Venezuela stands at around $4 billion (December 2008).  Iran-Venezuela bilateral trade spiked, from less than $189,000 in 2001 to almost $57 million by the end of 2008.

In 2007, Iran Air, in partnership with Conviasa, started a Tehran-Caracas flight via Damascus. The flights along with the partnership between Conviasa and Iran Air ceased in 2010.

On March 10, 2013, the Times of Israel reported that "annual bilateral trade between the two countries is estimated to be in the hundreds of million of US dollars."

In mid-2020, the Iranian state-run corporation Etka, which, according to the Wall Street Journal, is owned by Iran's ministry of defense and has connections to the Revolutionary Guards, opened a supermarket in Caracas called "Megasis" mainly selling products imported from Iran.

On May 13, 2022, According to Iran's official news agency IRNA, a 110 million Euro contract has been signed to repair and restart Venezuela's smallest refinery, the 146,000-barrel-per-day El Palito.

On June 11, 2022, Iran and Venezuela signed a 20-year cooperation agreement in Tehran.

International reactions
A number of the relations between Iran and Venezuela have been controversial in other countries.

2006: Venezuela's F-16 fleet to Iran
In 2006, the Iranian media published series of reports that suggested Venezuela was interested to sell its 21 F-16 Fighting Falcons to Iran. The rumours were confirmed, when a Hugo Chavez advisor told the Associated Press that: "Venezuela's military is considering selling its fleet of U.S.-made F-16 fighter jets to another country, possibly Iran, in response to a U.S. ban on arms sales to President Hugo Chávez's government". In response, Sean McCormack, the U.S. State Department spokesman, warned Venezuela and suggested: "Without the written consent of the United States, Venezuela can't transfer these defense articles, and in this case F-16s, to a third country".

2012: U.S. Congress examines Iran in Latin America
In early 2012, the U.S. Congress began to voice escalating concern over Iran's interests in Latin America, particularly its relations with Venezuela. On January 18, Representative Jeff Duncan (R - South Carolina) introduced the Countering Iran in the Western Hemisphere Act of 2012. The bill called on the United States to use all elements of national power to counter Iran's growing presence and hostile activity in the Western Hemisphere. Then, on February 2, Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen (R-FL) convened a Committee on Foreign Affairs hearing on Iranian activity in the Western Hemisphere. Finally, on March 7, Duncan's legislation concerning the Iranian government's activities in the Western Hemisphere passed out of the House Foreign Affairs Committee with strong bipartisan support.