[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Suzuki RE5

ransmission is by duplex chain.

Clutch and gearbox
Wet multiplate clutch, and five-speed, constant-mesh, manual. The gearbox is virtually the same as that fitted to Suzuki's GT750 water-cooled triple. RE5 final drive is by 630 chain via a 14-tooth drive sprocket and 43-tooth unit at the rear wheel.

Carburetion
Carburetion had five separate circuits. Suzuki used peripheral ports for the RE5, as they give better high-speed running but are known to have low-speed issues. This is dealt with by using a two-stage Mikuni carburetor. An 18 mm throat splits into two small peripheral induction tracts. The primary butterfly is directly controlled by one of the five throttle cables, providing smooth low-speed running. A diaphragm controls the secondary carburetor port, and this is activated when a set vacuum is reached in the carburetor circuit. This much larger 32 mm port enters the rotor chamber between and slightly below the two small primary ports. Indirectly involved with carburetion is the unique "port valve". This small butterfly valve pivots in the rotor housing inside the secondary port and is directly controlled by another of the throttle cables. Without the port valve, the long induction tract of the secondary port would fill with traces of exhaust gasses whenever the secondary valve was closed. This occurs as the tip of the rotor passes the induction port at the end of the exhaust cycle before beginning the induction cycle. If this was allowed to happen, when the secondary throat finally opened the engine would first swallow an induction charge contaminated with exhaust gasses causing a momentary misfire and felt as a dead spot or hesitation in acceleration. The port valve is therefore effectively timed to remain closed whenever the secondary carburetor throat is closed, isolating the induction tract from exhaust gasses. Carburetor tuning involves adjusting cables controlling the primary butterfly and the port valve, among other things, illustrated by Suzuki Service Bulletin Nine. The carburetor also incorporated a fuel pump which was mechanically actuated at 35 degrees of primary butterfly movement (later changed to 28 degrees) to enrich the fuel mixture during acceleration.

Ignition
CDI triggered by two sets of points. A basic problem with the rotary engine design is a lack of engine braking, partially due to the mass of the rotor. Leaning of the mixture on overrun also contributes to erratic and "lumpy" running. One way to solve the problem is to shut off ignition entirely on overrun, but this leads to excessive contamination of the combustion chamber by unwanted deposits, which can cause the apex seals to stick. Suzuki opted for a compromise by using two sets of ignition points. One set of points ran on a dual lobe cam for normal operation, firing the rotor every face. The other set ran on a single cam on the same shaft for triggering the spark plug on overrun. The second set (the B points) were triggered by an rpm sensor (the speed relay) and a vacuum switch, which meant that they worked on engine deceleration (high vacuum) and above 1,700 rpm. This system fired the rotor every second face. This kept the combustion chambers relatively clean. It also served to smooth the lumpy feel of the bike as RPM reduced on overrun and addressed some issues with backfiring (more correctly, "afterfiring"). Engine braking is also significantly improved. The B point system was discontinued on the "A". It is believed that the factory also employed mechanics to visit dealerships and disconnect the B points on any "M" (1975) models still in the showrooms. Suzuki toyed with the idea of two plugs like the Mazda's, but as with so much of their engineering on this bike, overthought the application, believing that they would require two plugs of different heat ranges. The idea was dropped, and the bike shipped with a single 18 mm conical seat gold palladium spark plug housed in a copper insert in the rotor housing (NGK A9EFV).