[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Uranium mining in the United States

bandoned, and are the responsibility of the US Department of Energy.  Accidental releases from uranium mills include the 1979 Church Rock uranium mill spill in New Mexico, called the largest accident of nuclear-related waste in US history, and the 1986 Sequoyah Corporation Fuels Release in Oklahoma.

In 1990, Congress passed the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA), granting reparations for those affected by mining, with amendments passed in 2000 to address criticisms with the original act.

Uranium mining, milling and the American Southwest

In the post-war period mine workers in the Four Corners area were exposed to and brought home large amounts of radiation in the form of dust on their clothing and skin. Epidemiologic studies of the families of these workers have shown increased incidents of radiation-induced cancers, miscarriages, cleft palates and other birth defects. The extent of these genetic effects on indigenous populations and the extent of DNA damage remains to be resolved.

Uranium mining, milling and the Navajo people

After the end of World War II, large uranium deposits were found on and near the Navajo Reservation in the Southwest, and private companies hired many Navajo employees to work the mines. Disregarding the known health risks imposed by exposure to uranium, the private companies and the United States Atomic Energy Commission failed to inform the Navajo workers about the dangers and to regulate the mining to minimize contamination. As more data was collected, they were slow to take appropriate action for the workers.

Studies provided data to show that the Navajo mine workers and numerous families on the reservation have suffered high rates of disease from environmental contamination, but for decades, industry and the government failed to regulate or improve conditions, or inform workers of the dangers. As high rates of illness began to occur, workers were often unsuccessful in court cases seeking compensation, and the states at first did not officially recognize radon illness.

In 1990 the US Congress passed the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act, to settle such cases and provide needed compensation. In 2008 the US Congress authorized a five-year, multi-agency cleanup of uranium contamination on the Navajo Nation reservation; identification and treatment of contaminated water and structures has been the first priority. Certain water sources have been closed, and numerous contaminated buildings have been taken down. By the summer of 2011, EPA had nearly completed the first major project of removal of 20,000 cubic yards of contaminated earth from the Skyline Mine area.

See also
 Anti-nuclear movement in the United States
 Botanical prospecting for uranium
 List of uranium projects
 Nuclear labor issues
 Nuclear power in the United States
 The Return of Navajo Boy, a 2000 documentary film about Navajo struggling with the legacy of uranium mining on their lands
 Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act
 Virginia Uranium, Inc. v. Warren

References

External links 
 
 The Return of Navajo Boy Webisodes, EPA Clean-up of uranium contamination at Navajo Reservation