[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nate Thompson

ayers to appear in all 16 playoff games that season, and he was often tasked with "eating minutes", preventing the Islanders' top forwards from scoring rather than generating points of his own. He scored only one goal in all 16 playoff games, and the Flyers fell to the Islanders in the second round.

Winnipeg Jets 
On October 10, 2020, Thompson agreed to a one-year, $750,000 contract with the Winnipeg Jets. There, he was placed on the fourth line, centering Trevor Lewis and Mathieu Perreault. Sports broadcaster Kelly Moore referred to the line combination as the "Dirty 30s", as Perreault, the youngest skater on the line, was 33 years old. This proved to be one of the most productive lines on the team: by April 4, no goals had been the Dirty 30s during equal-strength play, and their collective plus–minus was a +18. On April 17, Thompson played in his 800th career NHL game, a 3–0 loss to the Edmonton Oilers. He was the third Alaskan skater to reach that milestone, following Scott Gomez and Brandon Dubinsky. Despite these on-ice successes, the 2020-21 NHL season proved emotionally difficult for Thompson: with the Canada–United States border closed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he was cut off from his family in the United States, especially his son, who lived in Minnesota.

Thompson did not take the ice for the game in which the Jets clinched a spot in the 2021 Stanley Cup playoffs, and the fourth line was used only sparingly in the North Division first-round playoff series against the Oilers. He was able to make a difference for the team in Game 1 of that series, however, by registering assists on both the game-tying and game-winning goals in Game 1. The Jets swept Edmonton and advanced to the second round, where they were swept in turn by Montreal. In 44 games with the Jets, Thompson scored two goals and three assists. He became a free agent at the end of the season.

Second stint with Philadelphia 
During the 2021 NHL free agency period, Thompson signed a one-year, $800,000 deal to rejoin the Flyers on July 28.

Later years and retirement
As a free agent from the Flyers, Thompson went un-signed over the off-season. He agreed to return to the Los Angeles Kings organization in accepting a professional tryout to participate in training camp and the pre-season. After he was released from his tryout with the Kings, Thompson was signed to a professional tryout contract with AHL affiliate, the Ontario Reign, on October 11, 2022.

Thompson announced his retirement from hockey on July 19, 2023.

International play 

In addition to his NHL career, Thompson has also represented the United States at the Ice Hockey World Championships. He first represented Team USA in 2012, serving as an alternate captain alongside Jets skater Jim Slater and under captain Jack Johnson of the Columbus Blue Jackets. Although the US failed to place, finishing seventh in the pool of 16, Thompson had two critical moments during the opening stages. First, he scored a regulation goal in Team USA's 5–4 overtime victory against Canada, the first time that the US defeated Canada at the World Championships since 2001. Later, Thompson scored the go-ahead goal in a 5–3 defeat of Belarus.

Thompson reprised his role as the alternate captain of Team USA at the 2013 IIHF World Championships, serving alongside Lightning teammate Matt Carle, while Paul Stastny of the Colorado Avalanche captained the team. Thompson scored his first goal in the tournament as part of an 8–3 rout of Russia in the Cluster B Quarterfinals; it was the first time that a Russian or Soviet Union team had allowed eight or more goals at an international ice hockey competition. Thompson and the US team ultimately took bronze in the tournament, defeating Finland 3–2 in a penalty shootout.

Personal life
Thompson married his first wife, former Boston College Eagles women's ice hockey player Cristin Stuart, in July 2013. They have one child together, Teague Thompson, born on May 18, 2015. By marriage to Cristin, Thompson was the son-in-law to Mayo Clinic physician Michael Stuart, and the brother-in-law to NHL players Mike, Colin, and Mark Stuart.

Raised in a Christian family, Thompson converted to Judaism in July 2018, the same faith of his second wife, Sydney Kaplan. The couple wed one week after Thompson's conversion was finalized. Thompson and Kaplan separated December 2020 and their divorce was finalized July 2021.