[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

rade economy, foreign trade accounting, and other specialties, and the students enrolled were required to fulfill four years schooling. The institute operated under the joint jurisdiction of the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Guangdong provincial government, with the former playing the dominant role.

In September 1994, Guangzhou Foreign Trade Institute was delegated to the jurisdiction of the People's Government of Guangdong Province by the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation. In January 1995, Guangzhou Foreign Languages Institute was transferred to Guangdong province by the State Education Commission. In May 1995, the two institutes merged. As a result, Guangdong University of Foreign Studies came into being.

In 2003, with the approval of the People's Government of Guangdong Province, Guangdong University of Foreign Studies joined the University Town program and officially started the construction of South Campus. In September 2004, the campus came into use and received its first batch of university students.

In October 2008, according to the decision by the People's Government of Guangdong Province, Guangdong Vocational College of Finance and Economics, which was established in April 1996, had been named Guangdong College of Finance and Tax Administration from April 1996 to July 2001 and was incorporated into Guangdong University of Foreign Studies.

Campuses
The university, which consists of three campuses,  covers an area of 2292 mu. The north campus, located at the foot of the Baiyun Mountains, covers an area of 939 mu. The south campus, situated in the Guangzhou Higher Education Mega Center, covers an area of 1095 mu. And the Dalang campus, located in Dalang, covers an area of 258 mu.

The North Campus is in Baiyun District and the South Campus is in Panyu District.

Structure

Faculties 

Altogether, there are 19 schools of bachelor-degree education: Faculty of English Language and Culture, Faculty of Economics and Trade, Faculty of International Business English, Faculty of Finance, Faculty of Commerce, Faculty of Accountancy, Faculty of Western Languages and Cultures, Faculty of Eastern Languages and Cultures, Faculty of Chinese Language and Culture, School of Legal Studies, Faculty of English Education, School of Cisco Informatics, School of Political Science and Public Administration, School of Marxism, School of Interpreting and Translation Studies, School of Journalism and Communication, College of Art, Physical Education Department, and Center for Experimental Education.

Research Centers
The university has formed a comprehensive system consisting of nation-level, province-level, city-level, and school-level research bases. It has one key research base of humanities and social sciences under the auspices of the Ministry of Education — Center for the Research of Linguistics and Applied Linguistics; one research base of the contrastive studies of the other countries and regions with China under the auspices of the Ministry of Education — Center for Canadian Studies; four key research bases   of humanities and social sciences under the auspices of Guangdong Department of Education—Center for the Research of Foreign Literature and Culture, Center for the Research of International Economics and Trade, Center for Translation Studies, Center for the Research of Cantonese Merchants; one key research base of soft science under the auspices of Guangdong province's Department of Education; one important base for the research and assessment of local legislature and consultation service under the auspices of Guangdong Department of Education; one key research base of humanities and social sciences under the auspices of Guangzhou Bureau of Education — Center for the Research of Guangzhou as an International Business Hub; one key laboratory of philosophy and social sciences under the auspices of Guangdong Department of Education — Center for the Research of Language Engineering and Computation; one strategic think-tank under the auspices of Guangdong Department of Education — Guangdong Research Institute for International Strategies.

In 2000, the Center for the Research of Linguistics and Applied Linguistics, whose predecessor was Research Institute of Foreign Linguistics and Applied Linguistics, was selected as the key research base of humanities and social sciences by the Ministry of Education.  The Center is dedicated to the research of second language acquisition, social and public discourses, and language ontology. Guangdong Institute for the Research of International Strategies, which was approved by the People's Government of Guangdong province in 2009, is a think-tank dedicated to the research on Guangdong's international strategies, particularly on China's participation in the governance of global economy, Guangdong's going global, the Maritime Silk Road, and the like.