[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Armenian Americans

inity Church in the City of Boston in 1956. Shahan Natalie, a Dashnak activist, organized the Operation Nemesis in the early 1920s, during which numerous Armenian Genocide perpetrators were murdered. From 1910 to 1912 he studied at the Boston University and died in Watertown, Massachusetts, in 1983.

Sports
Perhaps the best-known American athlete of Armenian descent is tennis player, former no. 1, Andre Agassi. Armenian-born chess players Tatev Abrahamyan and Varuzhan Akobian have represented the US in Chess Olympiad. The first ever Armenian Olympic medalist, Hal Haig Prieste, won a bronze medal diving in 1920 Antwerp Games. The US women's national water polo team won 2010 World Cup and 2012 Olympics under the coaching of Adam Krikorian. Zach Bogosian is the first NHL player of Armenian descent. Coach Jerry Tarkanian built the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV), into a "national powerhouse in college basketball" and was included in the Basketball Hall of Fame in 2013. Former WWE and ROH World Heavyweight Champion, Seth Rollins, is of Armenian descent on his father's side. Major league pitchers Steve Bedrosian and his son, Cam Bedrosian, are of Armenian descent.

Business
Some notable Armenian Americans in business include the founder of Masco Alex Manoogian, the Mugar family (owner of Star Market chain of supermarkets in New England), Kevork Hovnanian, founder of Hovnanian Enterprises, Avedis Zildjian, the founder of Zildjian Company (the world's largest cymbal manufacturer), Gerard Cafesjian, and Alexis Ohanian (founder of the internet service Reddit). Kirk Kerkorian, known as "the father of the megaresort", was claimed to be the richest man in Los Angeles prior to his death in 2015. Born to Armenian parents in Fresno, Kerkorian had provided over $1 billion for charity in Armenia through his Lincy Foundation. It was established in 1989, and was particularly focused on helping to rebuild northern Armenia after the 1988 Spitak earthquake. The foundation was dissolved in 2011, after 22 years of activity. Christmas Tree Shops, a chain of small stores, was founded by Charles Bilezikian and his wife.

Miscellaneous
Other notable Armenian Americans include astronaut James P. Bagian, who became the first Armenian to travel into space in 1989. It is claimed that he took the Armenian tricolor flag to space with him.

Other notable Armenian Americans also include: Oscar H. Banker (inventor of automatic transmissions for automobiles), and Luther Simjian (inventor of automated teller machines).

Armenian organizations 

 Armenian Assembly of America – Organization promoting awareness of Armenian issues
 Armenian Church Youth Organization of America – Promotes sports amongst Armenian American youth.
 Armenia Fund – Los Angeles based fundraising organization for capital improvements in Armenia
 Armenian General Benevolent Union – A non-profit Armenian organization founded in Cairo, Egypt; it moved its headquarters to New York City following the onset of World War II.
 Armenian lobby in the United States – The umbrella term for the broad coalition of organizations and individuals which coalesces to influence US policy on Armenia
 Armenian National Committee of America – The largest grassroots Armenian-American organization in the United States
 Armenian Professional Society  – Armenian-American professional association founded in 1958 to advance fellowship and education
 Armenian Relief Society – a nonsectarian, philanthropic entity benefitting the humanitarian, social and educational needs of both Armenians and non-Armenians. It is a non-governmental organization and has operates in 27 countries, including the United States.
 Armenian Students Association  – Encourages the educational pursuits of Armenian-Americans.
 Armenian Youth Federation United States Chapters – The youth arm of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation's US chapters
 Children of Armenia Fund – Foundation set up to reduce rural poverty in Armenia
 Fund for Armenian Relief – A New York City-based Humanitarian organization which provides short-term emergency relief and long-term programs focusing on child protection, economic development, education, health, care, and social services

See also

Armenian diaspora
Armenia–United States relations
List of Armenian Americans
Wilsonian Armenia

References

Bibliography

 Aleksandra Ziolkowska-Boehm, The Polish Experience Through World War II: A Better Day Has Not Come, Foreword: Neal Pease; Lanham MD: Lexington Books, 2013, ; 2015, .

Further reading
Apkarian-Russell, Pamela E. Armenians of Worcester. Charleston, SC: Arcadia Publishing, 2000.

Jordan, Robert Paul and Harry Naltchayan. The Proud Armenians, National Geographic 153, no. 6 (June 1978), pp. 846–873.