[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 92nd Illinois Infantry Regiment

bank. The four brigades would patrol the river, make as much noise as possible, and feign river crossing operations north of the city. That was what Bragg feared most feared, a crossing north of Chattanooga. This was all part of Rosecrans plan to take Chattanooga by maneuver versus pitched battle. 

Wilder's brigade moved out from its headquarters on 16 August, ascending the Plateau and camping that night at Sewanee,Tennessee near the University of the South. The brigade and Minty's cavalrymen led the advance. Those two brigades would move quickly to reach the river while Hazen and Wagner would make their best speed to follow. The 92nd and its companions quickly worked their way towards the Tennessee River, through Dunlap, reaching Poe's Tavern, to the northeast of Chattanoogas Ridge on August 20. The steep slopes of the Cumberland Plateau and Walden's Ridge were difficult terrain, and there was a dearth of forage, but the two brigades still made good time in their advance.

At dawn on 21 August, the command moved to the Tennessee River to begin their deception. Wilder and Minty divided the north bank between their brigades. The 92nd and its brigade mates covered southern side, from city to Sale Creek, and Minty's men from there north to the mouth of the Hiawassee River. Wagner and Hazen's brigades, traveling afoot were still crossing the mountains. Once they arrived, they would join the force already there to keep Bragg distracted.

The 92nd went with the 98th and a section of Lilly's battery ten miles up the Tennessee River toward Minty to the ferry at Harrison's Landing. After securing the ferry and destroying the lone rebel gun on the south side, they began trying to keep the Confederates on the opposite bank distracted. When Wagner and Hazen's brigades arrived on August 29, some of Hazen's dismounted infantry joined the 92nd and 98th at Harrison's landing to aid in the misdirection. The deception operation included the 92nd and its compatriots faking boat construction by hammering, sawing, and tossing bits of lumber into the river at Harrison's Landing so that it would float downstream to Chattanooga. The 92nd also joined the rest of the force in the nightly ritual of building numerous campfires to imitate the look of numerous regimental camps. The whole operation also benefited from the fact that the local population north of the river in Eastern Tennessee on the Cumberland Plateau was strongly Unionist which meant that any Rebels operating there would be quickly reported back to the Army of the Cumberland; in light of this Bragg and no cavalry screen patrolling that could see through the deception.

The 92nd played its part in the successful operation that kept Bragg in the dark. In the midst of this operation, Bragg had already decided to abandon Chattanooga (Rosecran's goal) and was planning to withdraw to a more defensible position further south. As the newcomer to the brigade, the 92nd occasionally found itself detached for independent duties. On such a detachment on 4 September, the regiment crossed the mountains at Dechard, Tennessee, and took part in the movements opposite and above Chattanooga, when it re-crossed the mountains and joined Gen. Thomas at Trenton, Alabama. Meanwhile, on the morning of September 5, the rest of the brigade were themselves tricked when Bragg's forces faked preparations to cross the river to the north side to attack. While Wilder and the other brigade commanders knew by the end of the day that it was a ruse, the reports sent to Rosecrans deceived him into believing Bragg was fleeing in chaos to Dalton or Rome, Georgia.

On September 9, the brigade received orders to cross the river at Friar's Island, two miles downstream from Harrison's Landing, and enter Chattanooga. The river crossing and movement to Chattanooga occupied the 9th and 10th. The 92nd was in the advance to Chattanooga, and participated in driving the rebels from Point Lookout, and entered the rebel stronghold, unfolding the Union banner on the Crutchfield House, and kept in pursuit of the rebels.

Ringgold 

After Rosecrans got his army across the Tennessee River, he lost contact with Bragg's army, and could only assume where he was. He mistakenly thought Bragg was in full flight toward Dalton or Rome. Bragg, however had scouts keeping him informed of Union movements. Since he did not know how close Bragg was, Rosecrans riskily split his army into their corps to quickly move from the river across the mountains south of the Tennessee through several passes. He sent each corps to a separate pass to take. Bragg made two failed attempts to attack Rosecrans in detail between September 9 and 12 that were bungled by his subordinates. Their failure actually helped keep Rosecrans unaware of how vulnerable his dispersion left him.