[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Walter Travis

ones's grip, altered his stance and recommended a longer and more sweeping stroke. A key point was to try to "drive an imaginary tack into the back of the ball".  There are some who have expressed the opinion that the Travis putting lesson helped Jones to become one of the great putters of all time.

The Schenectady Putter
The Schenectady Putter and Walter Travis will be linked together forever in the history of golf.  The Schenectady Putter was invented by Arthur F. Knight, a General Electric engineer, who created a model reflecting his ideas in the summer of 1902 at his home course, Mohawk Golf Club in Schenectady, NY.  It is noteworthy that Devereux Emmet, the designer of Mohawk Golf Club, was the first golfer of note to be shown Mr. Knight's new aluminum putter while he was visiting Mohawk.  Emmet asked to take the putter with him back to his home course, Garden City Golf Club, where he proposed to "play with it, show it at Garden City and at Myopia and will then send it back to you". It is reported that "A day or two later Mr. Knight received a telegram from Mr. W. J. Travis ordering a putter like Mr. Emmet's, and one was hurriedly made and forwarded". Later, a second putter was sent to Travis which was declared "the best putter I have ever used."  Travis used this putter to finish second in the U.S. Open Championship held at Garden City Golf Club.  "Within a week thereafter, Mr. Knight received over one hundred letters from prominent golfers asking for a putter like Mr. Travis's".  Knight was not prepared for such a response and was particularly concerned about what to call it.  It is reported that he was "anxious to call it the 'Travis' putter'."  He arranged a meeting with Mr. Emmet and Mr. Travis.  Emmet had consistently referred to it as the "Schenectady Putter" and Travis agreed that Schenectady would be "a more suitable and lasting name for the putter than his own, in which view Mr. Knight rather reluctantly concurred."  After his initial success with the Schenectady Putter in 1902, Travis used the putter to win the 1903 U.S. Amateur and then, of course, the 1904 British Amateur.  The putter became an instant commercial success.

Schenectady putters, marked "Patent Applied For", were produced prior to its patent on March 24, 1903. The Schenectady Putter was among the "centered-shafted, mallet-headed implements" that were banned by Royal and Ancient Golf Club Committee on the Rules of golf in 1910, in response to a request from a golf club in New Zealand.  The R&A's ban included the Schenectady Putter.  There is no evidence that Travis's use of the Schenectady to win the 1904 British Amateur contributed to this controversial ruling, though the myth persists.  The ruling became controversial because, for the first time, an R&A ruling was not wholly adopted by the United States Golf Association.  The USGA agreed with the banning of mallet-headed clubs but ruled that the Schenectady Putter, and other center-shafted putters did not fall within this category.  The R&A ban on center-shafted putters was finally removed in 1951.

Long after he had retired from active competition, Travis agreed to a match with an old opponent, Findlay S. Douglas, to support the war effort of the Red Cross.  The match was held at Garden City Golf Club.  Following the match, Travis donated his Schenectady Putter to the Red Cross fund-raising auction.  A member of Garden City Golf Club, Lewis Lapham, had the winning bid of $1,700 and immediately donated the Schenectady to Garden City Golf Club where it would remain for the next 34 years.  In 1952, it was taken from the club, and never returned.

Golf course design

Travis became a student of the layout and design features of golf courses early in his golfing career as the result of trips to Great Britain.  In late 1901, Travis wrote an article, published in the Bulletin of the USGA, titled, "Impressions of British Golf".  He observed that in "England and Scotland ... you have golf—golf in its best and highest form".  He referred to the "radical difference in their physical configurations in relation to our courses."  He was impressed with the lack of trees, the number and placement of bunkers, the natural undulations of the greens, and the quality of turf. In a later article, Travis presented his ideas for the design of a "first class" golf course. In this article, Travis emphasized the importance of soil that provides natural drainage, land that is more or less undulating—neither flat nor hilly ... but a judicious blending of the two extremes and trees of any kind are non-existent—as they should be, and holes should be so laid out as to provide for the playing of every conceivable sort of stroke, with every club in one's bag.  He noted, diversity of play should be the aim of the architect of a first-class course.