[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Leonidas Berry

ivil Rights Act of 1964 and the congressional approval of Medicare, Berry revived a joint NMA-AMA Liaison Committee tasked with ending racial discrimination in hospitals and medicine. This committee headed by Berry put pressure chiefly on the AMA to deliver health care equality in the United States.

Committed to community service, Berry helped found the Chicago Council for Biomedical Careers in 1950. With a purpose of preparing Black American youth for careers in medicine, the Chicago Council for Biomedical Careers helped to encourage those interested in becoming physicians by providing them with the education and resources they would need to achieve that goal. In particular, the council funded health care conferences and career counseling sessions. That same year he led a citywide movement with a focus on rehabilitating young drug users. His work on this issue caught the attention of the Illinois state government, and he was allocated $90,000 to set up the "Berry Plan," which was operational from 1951 to 1958. Through this plan, he was able to establish medical counseling clinics in the Cook County jail as well as several Provident, Cook County, and Northwestern hospitals. These clinics were unique because rather than focusing on criminalization they paid particular attention to addressing both the psychological and physical needs of their patient population.

In addition, Berry dedicated himself to providing care to African Americans who previously did not have access to medical services. This dedication is what inspired him to organize the Flying Black Medics project alongside more than two dozen Chicago medical professionals. On Sunday, February 15, 1970, Berry and a team of nurses, pharmacists, and social workers among other healthcare specialists flew to Cairo, Illinois to see to the medical needs of the community. At the time, Cairo was in the midst of a race riot. However, that did not deter the Flying Black Medics from delivering needed care to the city's impoverished residents. Upon arriving in Cairo, they set up a medical clinic in the basement of Ward Chapel A.M.E. Church, where they distributed supplies and doctors examined each patient that walked through the church's doors. Another key element of the clinic involved lectures on health as well as panel discussions throughout the day. Some of the topics covered included "Established and Innovated Proposals for Improvement of Health Care in Cairo and Vicinity" and "Health Facilities for the Poor and Disadvantaged in Cairo and Alexander County."  

Berry deeply believed that doctors had a duty to participate in civic affairs, so he fought fiercely against institutionalized racism during his lifetime. Thus, his willingness to speak out against and address the social injustices plaguing health care and the medical profession became not only a hallmark of his career but also of his life.

Awards
Rudolph Schindler Award 1977 from the American Society for Gastrointestinal Endoscopy
Distinguished Service Award from the National Medical Association
First Annual Clinical Achievement Award from the American College of Gastroenterology
Freedom Award for Public Service from the Chicago Chapter of the NAACP
Distinguished Alumni Award of Rush Medical College

References

1902 births
1995 deaths
20th-century African-American academics
20th-century American academics
African-American non-fiction writers
20th-century African-American physicians
20th-century American physicians
American gastroenterologists
20th-century American non-fiction writers
20th-century African-American writers