[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Robert Lebel (ice hockey)

Robert Lebel or LeBel (September 21, 1905 – September 20, 1999) was a Canadian ice hockey administrator, who served as president of the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA), and the International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF). Lebel founded a senior ice hockey league during World War II, and then became president of the Quebec Amateur Hockey Association (QAHA). He was a mayor of Chambly, Quebec, before joining the CAHA as an executive member and later its president. He was president of the IIHF during the early Cold War era, the last Canadian to lead the federation. He later founded the Quebec Major Junior Hockey League for junior ice hockey players. He received the 125th Anniversary of the Confederation of Canada Medal, was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, the IIHF Hall of Fame, three halls of fame in his native Quebec, and is the namesake of the Robert Lebel Trophy.

Early life
Lebel was born September 21, 1905, in Quebec City, Quebec. He played junior ice hockey as a goaltender in the Beaupre Shore junior hockey league. He later played in the Quebec Senior Hockey League and several amateur hockey teams in New York state. After retiring from playing, Lebel was a referee for nine seasons, and briefly coached with the Montréal-Nord Crescent Club in the Intermediate Hockey League.

Lebel graduated from the Quebec City Commercial Academy. He later worked as a bank teller and a bookkeeper at the Bank of Montreal branch in the Château Frontenac. He subsequently worked with the Huguenot Trust Company in New Rochelle, New York, for a year.

Beginnings in Quebec
Lebel began his career as a hockey administrator when he founded the Interprovincial Senior Hockey League in 1944, and he served as its president until 1947. The league included many players stationed at RCAF Station Lachine during World War II. He also served as president of the Quebec Amateur Hockey Association (QAHA) from 1945 to 1946, and again from 1951 to 1955. He relocated to Chambly, Quebec, in 1951 and became vice president of Bennett Limited. In June 1955, his term as QAHA president ended, and he was replaced by Lionel Fleury. Lebel then became president of the Quebec Amateur Hockey League from 1955 to 1957. At the same time, Lebel entered municipal politics in 1955, and served as the mayor of Chambly until 1957. During his time as mayor, he initiated the construction of a water treatment facility for the greater Chambly area, completed in 1959.

Canadian amateur hockey
Lebel served as first vice-president of the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA) from 1955 to 1957 under president Jimmy Dunn, and then succeeded him as president from 1957 to 1959, when he was followed by Gordon Juckes. When he was elected CAHA president on May 29, 1957, he became the first French Canadian to lead the country in hockey. When the Hockey Hall of Fame opened its first permanent building in 1961, Lebel represented the CAHA on its governing committee. He remained in that position for 17 years, and was made a trustee of the George Richardson Memorial Trophy, and the W. G. Hardy Trophy.

International ice hockey
Lebel became president of the International Ice Hockey Federation in July 1960; he was the second and most recent Canadian to hold the position since W. G. Hardy was elected in 1948. Lebel served as IIHF president until 1962. Due to a fear of flying, Lebel preferred a transatlantic crossing by sea, when attending federation meetings in Europe.