[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fjordman

of Vienna reader sarcastically said to Jensen that he did not know Norwegians looked so much like Arabs. Jensen's reply was that "in Oslo they do. Arabs, Kurds, Pakistanis, Somalis, you name it. Anything and everything is fine as long as they rape the natives and destroy the country, which they do".

Anders Behring Breivik, the far-right terrorist who committed the 2011 Norway attacks, frequently praised writings of Fjordman, citing him extensively in his manifesto. In terms of goals and means Breivik is quoted as saying, "Our views are quite similar with the exception of me being an actual armed resistance fighter." In response to learning the identity of the terrorist, Fjordman strongly distanced himself from Breivik, whom he referred to as a "violent psychopath", and said he "intensely dislike[d]" the fact that he was cited by Breivik. He also advocated giving Breivik the death penalty.

In particular, there is a 2008 article in the anti-Islamic blog The Brussels Journal where Fjordman focuses on a quote from Norwegian social anthropologist Thomas Hylland Eriksen. 
"Our most important task ahead is to deconstruct the majority, and we must deconstruct them so thoroughly that they will never be able to call themselves the majority again." –Thomas Hylland Eriksen (2008)
Apparently based on Fjordman's article, this quote has since become a focal point of the 1,500-page manifesto of Breivik, as well as Breivik's defence speech during his 2012 trial. Following the terror attacks the quote has been oft repeated by right-wing extremists all across Europe. Eriksen has since admitted that taken out of context the quote does look scary, but that it has a much more innocent meaning when properly understood.

In the aftermath of the attacks, the police confiscated Jensen's PC and questioned him, saying they wanted to "investigate how [he] might have influenced the charged man". In the weeks following the terrorist attacks, there was intense speculation regarding his identity. The week after the attacks Jensen reported to PST, the Norwegian internal security police. A few days later he was called in for questioning, and agreed to have his premises searched. The same day he revealed his identity in an interview with the newspaper Verdens Gang, and proclaimed that he would never again blog under the pseudonym Fjordman. He also questioned whether he would ever return to blogging, citing his exhaustion from the time after the attacks.

The next day he did blog under that name, describing how he had felt abused when the police searched through his house, a treatment he viewed as "politically motivated". Prior to the search Jensen hid his computer in a safety deposit box at the central station in Oslo. According to the police he had not intended to provide the computer, but changed his mind when he understood that the police would ask for a court order if he refused.

Blog announcement of 10 October 2011
On 10 October 2011, Jensen announced on a blog that due to having been involuntarily mixed in with the Breivik-case, he had become unemployed and was in the process of finding a new place to live. He in turn asked for donations from his supporters in what he dubbed a "Fjordman Relocation Fund". He also complained that his reply to a critical article in newspaper Aftenposten had been rejected by the newspaper (it was instead, however, published on the same blog), and about having been indirectly parodied in a Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation show as a paraplegic character whose last name was "Fjordland."

Continued writings 
Jensen wrote in an opinion piece published in Verdens Gang on 24 October, under the headline "Fjordman lives on," that he would continue writing with "undiminished force." He also announced that he would continue publishing his writings on blogs in English and Norwegian if newspapers would not publish them, and that he planned to release a new book by the next year. In an opinion piece published in Aftenposten the same day, he complained about what he considered to be harassment by the police in the aftermath of the July terror attacks.

In 2013, Jensen was granted 75,000 Norwegian kroner from the Fritt Ord foundation for a book he was writing on the Breivik case, titled Vitne til vanvidd [Witness to Madness]. The grant was criticized by AUF leader Eskil Pedersen and others who considered the grant as giving a platform to political extremism and offensive to victims and survivors of the 2011 terror attacks. Initially, no Norwegian publisher was willing to publish Fjordman's work. After being published in Denmark in 2015, the Norwegian Document Forlag eventually chose to publish the book in 2020.