[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2006 Auburn Tigers football team

vin Sears and Tray Blackmon, and running back Brad Lester.

Cotton Bowl Classic Outstanding Offensive Player: Courtney Taylor WR
Cotton Bowl Classic Outstanding Defensive Player: Will Herring LB

Depth chart
Starters and backups.

Postseason awards

Major Awards
Lou Groza Award Finalist: John Vaughn

All-Americans
Ben Grubbs, OG – ESPN.com, Pro Football Weekly First Team, Associated-Press Second Team

SEC Special Teams Player of the Year: John Vaughn

Associated Press All-SEC team
All-SEC First Team:
Quentin Groves, DE
John Vaughn, PK
Ben Grubbs, OG

All-SEC Second Team:
Kenny Irons, RB
Tim Duckworth, OG
Kody Bliss, P

Coaches All-SEC team
All-SEC First Team:
Kenny Irons, RB
Tim Duckworth, OG
Quentin Groves, DE
John Vaughn, PK

All-SEC Second Team:
Ben Grubbs, OG
Will Herring, LB
David Irons, CB
Kody Bliss, P

Freshman All-SEC Football Team
Sen'Derrick Marks, DT
Jerraud Powers, DB
Aairon Savage, DB

NFF National Honor Society
Three members of Auburn's 2006 senior class were among the inaugural inductees into the National Football Foundation National Honor Society, a recognition program for players who excel both on the field and in the classroom.
Kody Bliss
Will Herring
Karibi Dede

Trivia
 The 2006 Auburn team extended its win streak to five games over cross-state rival Alabama, matching Auburn's longest streak of dominance over the Crimson Tide.
 Auburn's Cotton Bowl Classic match-up against Big 12 Conference member Nebraska was the team's first bowl appearance versus a member of the Big 12 since their appearance in the 1986 Cotton Bowl Classic against Texas A&M. Since 1986, Auburn is 5–0 versus Big 12 conference members, having beaten Texas and Kansas each twice in addition to the Cotton Bowl Classic victory over Nebraska.  In bowl games, Auburn now has an all-time record of 6–5 against members of the Big 12.
 Auburn now has a 1–1 record in the Cotton Bowl Classic. 
 The 2007 Cotton Bowl Classic was Auburn's first broadcast television appearance on Fox.  In 1998, they appeared on Fox Sports South, the forerunner of Fox Sports Net against Ole Miss.

References

Auburn
Auburn Tigers football seasons
Cotton Bowl Classic champion seasons
Auburn Tigers football