[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Addison Montgomery

where he is waiting for her in a suit and tie. He tells her to ask him again, and gives her a ring, after which point the two are engaged. In the final episode of Private Practice, Jake and Addison get married and are beginning the rest of their lives with Henry.

Development

Casting and creation 

Kate Walsh first appeared as Addison on Grey's Anatomy. The character was initially planned to appear in several episodes but quickly became a regular on the show before leaving for Private Practice. In June 2012, Kate Walsh announced on Bethenny that the upcoming sixth season of Private Practice would be her last one. "It's been an incredible journey and an amazing ride and I'm hugely, hugely grateful. It's bittersweet. It's a huge chapter of my life. It's been eight years," she said.

Characterization 
Montgomery was initially described as "cold and unforgiving". As episodes passed, it was noted that the writers had "softened" the character.  Walsh summarized her as "a girl you love to hate". She said of Montgomery's transition from the end of Grey's Anatomy first season to the second: "She started out so together. Now she's a cat without a whisker — a little off balance and leaving a mess all over the hospital. She's a little untethered now, she's coming unraveled."

Walsh felt that Montgomery had become "stronger" and "more centered" between the first and the second season of Private Practice, "Initially she's still getting her footing, still isn't quite sure and a little wobbly, and then you see that she's got her groove back." Additionally, Walsh said of the character that "she's flawed and arrogant and really good at what she does. And no matter what happens, she picks herself up and moves on. She keeps trying." Walsh expressed satisfaction with the evolution of Montgomery's love life because "the only thing we saw of her in Grey's Anatomy was the ugly side of the Derek/Meredith triangle. And then, of course, Mark Sloan, but there was no real love there." She said the pairing of her character with Kevin Nelson (David Sutcliffe) is different from what transpires with Pete Wilder (Tim Daly) or Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey); "It's really fun to see this total other side of her come out that we never saw. It hit me, this little epiphany of like, 'Oh, we've never seen Addison into someone or someone that likes her back.'"

Reception 

TV Guide said of Walsh's stint on Grey's Anatomy: "Kate Walsh kicks butt as Addison, and I hope she sticks around. She adds spice to an already hot show." Joel Keller of AOL TV was disappointed with the character's evolution from Grey's Anatomy to Private Practice during its first season, saying she "went from strong and funny to whimpering and lovelorn." Keller was, however, happy to observe some maturity in the second season's storylines and that what he liked about her, "the ability to perform complicated surgical procedures even while everything in her personal life is in chaos", was reintroduced. By the time Private Practice ended, Margaret Lyons of New York Magazine deemed the character "fun" and added: "Even when tragedy befell her at every turn on PP, she was still sort of sassy and bright and interesting." Montgomery appeared in Comcast's list of TV's Most Intriguing Characters. Glamour named her one of the 12 Most Stylish TV Characters.  She was listed in Wetpaint's "10 Hottest Female Doctors on TV" and in BuzzFeed's "16 Hottest Doctors On Television".

In 2006, Walsh was among the cast of Grey's Anatomy to win the Satellite Award for Best Ensemble in a Television Series. The cast, including her, was nominated for the Screen Actors Guild Award for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series, which they won in 2007, and were nominated for again the following year. For her work on Private Practice, Walsh earned a nomination for Favorite TV Drama Actress at the 37th People's Choice Awards.

Notes

References

External links 
 Grey's Anatomy at ABC.com
 Private Practice at ABC.com

Grey's Anatomy characters
Fictional surgeons
Fictional characters from Connecticut
Fictional characters from New York City
Private Practice (TV series) characters
Television characters introduced in 2005
Fictional obstetricians and gynaecologists
Fictional female doctors
Fictional Columbia University people
American female characters in television