[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Winslow Boy (1948 film)

es against Ronnie. Although the family wins the case, each of them has lost something along the way: Dickie Winslow has been forced to leave Oxford out of lack of money, Catherine loses her marriage settlement and subsequently her fiancé, John Weatherstone, and Arthur Winslow loses his health.

Cast

 Robert Donat as Sir Robert Morton
 Cedric Hardwicke as Arthur Winslow
 Basil Radford as Desmond Curry
 Margaret Leighton as Catherine Winslow
 Kathleen Harrison as Violet
 Francis L. Sullivan as Attorney General
 Marie Lohr as Grace Winslow
 Jack Watling as Dickie Winslow
 Walter Fitzgerald as First Lord
 Frank Lawton as John Watherstone
 Neil North as Ronnie Winslow
 Nicholas Hannen as Colonel Watherstone
 Hugh Dempster as Agricultural Member
 Evelyn Roberts as Hamilton MP

 W.A. Kelley as Brian O'Rourke
 Edward Lexy as First Elderly Member
 Gordon McLeod as Second Elderly Member
 Marie Michelle as Mrs. Curry
 Mona Washbourne as Miss Barnes
 Ivan Samson as Captain Flower
 Kynaston Reeves as Lord Chief Justice
 Charles Groves as Clerk of the Court
 Ernest Thesiger as Mr. Ridgeley Pierce
 Vera Cook as Violet's friend
 Stanley Holloway as Comedian
 Cyril Ritchard as Music Hall Singer
 Mary Hinton as Mrs. Elliott (uncredited)
 Noel Howlett as Mr. Williams (uncredited)
 Wilfrid Hyde-White as Wilkinson (uncredited)
 Dandy Nichols as Miss Hawkins (uncredited)

Differences from the play
Unlike the play and the David Mamet remake, the 1948 film shows the actual trial, while in other versions, the trial occurs offstage and the audience is told (but not shown) what occurred during it.

Production
The film was shot in early 1948.

The Archer-Shee case took place in 1908, while the film is set in 1912-13, just prior to World War I.

Reception

Box office
The Winslow Boy was one of the most popular films at the British box office in 1948. According to Kinematograph Weekly the 'biggest winner' at the box office in 1948 Britain was The Best Years of Our Lives with Spring in Park Lane being the best British film and "runners up" being It Always Rains on Sunday, My Brother Jonathan, Road to Rio, Miranda, An Ideal Husband, Naked City, The Red Shoes, Green Dolphin Street, Forever Amber, Life with Father, The Weaker Sex, Oliver Twist, The Fallen Idol and The Winslow Boy.

As of 30 June 1949 the film earned £216,000 in the UK of which £159,034 went to the producer.

Awards
The picture was nominated for the BAFTA UN award for 1949.

Critical
Writing in The New York Times however, Bosley Crowther compared the film unfavourably to the play, "staged with superlative finish on Broadway two seasons ago," but praised the "sparkling performance" of Robert Donat, and concluded, that despite these reservations, "the screen has a striking and an inspiring picture in 'The Winslow Boy'"; The Monthly Film Bulletin noted, "It is very much a period piece, in which the middle class, with its comforts, its unlovely interiors and hideous clothes, is very much in evidence. It is too long, and would benefit by judicious cutting," although the reviewer concluded, "This is quite definitely a film to see and enjoy"; while more recently, Dennis Schwartz found the film to be "directed with great care for feeling and detail (the period settings are superb) by Anthony Asquith," and that it "proves to be excellent middle-class entertainment," and concluded by singling out Donat, "superb as the witty and elegant lawyer, who also has grit and compassion."

Among film-guide books, Leonard Maltin's Movie Guide rates it  3.5 stars (out of 4) stars, and Martin and Porter's, DVD & Video Guide rates it as 4 (out of 5) stars.

References

External links

 
 
 The Winslow Boy at BFI Screenonline

1948 films
1948 drama films
British drama films
British legal films
British courtroom films
British black-and-white films
London Films films
British films based on actual events
British films based on plays
Films based on works by Terence Rattigan
Films directed by Anthony Asquith
Films set in the 1900s
Films with screenplays by Terence Rattigan
Films with screenplays by Anatole de Grunwald
Films produced by Anatole de Grunwald
Films scored by William Alwyn
1940s English-language films
1940s British films