[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Timeline of the North Korean nuclear program

ut down the Punggye-ri site that was used for six earlier nuclear tests.
31 October: South Korea's National Intelligence Service conducts first ever inspection of North Korea's nuclear program and recommends international experts accept North Korea's invitation for an international inspection.

2019

  1 December: North Korea announced it had recently conducted a "very important test" at its Sohae site. Some analysts believed the test involved a new ICBM engine, as the country was believed to be migrating from its liquid-fueled missiles to new solid-fueled versions that were easier to transport, conceal and launch.
  14 December: The country announced it had conducted a "crucial test' at the Sohae site.
  21 December: The New York Times reported that "American military and intelligence officials tracking North Korea’s actions by the hour say they are bracing for an imminent test of an intercontinental ballistic missile capable of reaching American shores, but appear resigned to the fact that President Trump has no good options to stop it." Pyongyang had previously promised a "Christmas gift" if progress was not seen on relaxation of American sanctions. NBC News published commercial satellite photos showing what appeared to be the production and modification of ICBM launchers at a Pyongsong site.
 31 December: The Korean Central News Agency announced that Kim had abandoned his moratoriums on nuclear and intercontinental ballistic missile tests, quoting Kim as saying, "the world will witness a new strategic weapon to be possessed by the DPRK in the near future."

2020

17 January: John Hyden, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, states that North Korea is "building new missiles, new capabilities, new weapons as fast as anybody on the planet."
10 October: North Korea unveiled a massive ICBM during a military parade for the 75th anniversary of the Workers' Party of North Korea, with CNN reporting that it is one of the world's biggest road mobile ballistic missiles.

2023 
 North Korea announced a new nuclear warhead called Hwasan-31 () and 8 diagrams of weapons that can carry this warhead. The 8 Weapons were KN-24, KN-25, KN-23 Larger Variant, KN-23 SLBM Variant, KN-23 Smaller Variant, Haeil, Hwasal-1 and Hwasal-2.

See also

North Korea and weapons of mass destruction
Timeline of nuclear weapons development

References

Foreign relations of North Korea
Government of North Korea

North Korea nuclear program