[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# United States–Colombia Free Trade Agreement

bian Sintraminercol mining union has alleged that many international mining companies already working in Colombia have a record of paramilitary collaboration, as well as environmental negligence. The agreement has had much difficulty passing Congress for years due to the persistence of these issues.

The following videos, launched by the US Office on Colombia on June 23, 2011, provide testimony from Colombian citizens on the impact of the FTA on:
 Afro-Colombian and indigenous communities
Small-scale workers and farmers
Colombian civil society

Political violence had greatly lessened in Colombia over the past decade, however, and objections to the trade agreement have been criticized by Colombians and the Republican party.  Conservative Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper, who signed a Canada - Colombia agreement that took effect in August 2011, has accused opponents of trade deals with the country as "standing in the way of the development of the prosperity of Colombia," adding that "we can't block the progress of a country like this for protectionist reasons and try to use human rights as a front for doing that."

See also
 Peru-United States Free Trade Agreement
 Área de Libre Comercio de las Américas (ALCA), English name: Free Trade Area of the Americas
 Andean Trade Promotion and Drug Eradication Act
Rules of Origin
Market access
Free-trade area
Tariffs

References

External links
Embassy of Colombia
 The Colombian Government Trade Bureau
 U.S. International Trade Commission Press Release
 Congressional Research Service Report on Andean Free Trade Agreement, including Peru TPA
 Colombia-United States Free Trade Agreement at Discourse DB
Brief Summary of the Colombia Free Trade Agreement
Fact Sheets Detailed Summary of the Colombia Free Trade Agreement

Video talking about the reasons for a FTA with Colombia - Under Secretary of Commerce, Mr. Chris. Padilla)
May 20, 2008 McCain: Colombia FTA Benefits U.S.
May 14, 2008 - Colombian's leading productive sector trade unions and their members strongly support the U.S. - Colombia TPA. Here are their testimonies
May 8, 2008 - Businessweek "Cheap Shots Over Free Trade"
May 7, 2008 - U.S. Senate "U.S. - Colombia Trade Agreement Good for American Jobs"
May 6, 2008 - USTR Ambassador Schwab remarks to the Peterson Institute. "I call on the Congressional leadership to bring the Colombia FTA to a vote. Let’s move forward with our agenda"
May 6, 2008 - Bloomberg "Canada Pushes Colombia Trade Agreement, as U.S. Deal Languishes"
See how international trade impacts your state.

Colombia–United States relations
Free trade agreements of Colombia
Colombia
Treaties concluded in 2006
Treaties entered into force in 2012
Treaties of Colombia