[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yarl's Wood Immigration Removal Centre

's Commissioner for England Albert Aynsley-Green reported that children detained at Yarl's Wood faced "extremely distressing" conditions and treatment. On 11 January 2011, the High Court ruled that the continued detention of the children of failed asylum seekers at Yarl's Wood was unlawful.

Deaths 

In September 2005 Manuel Bravo, an asylum seeker from Angola, hanged himself while in detention awaiting deportation with his 13-year-old son following a dawn raid at his home in Leeds. In March 2014, 40-year-old Christine Case from Jamaica died at the centre from a massive pulmonary thrombo-embolism. The family were only told of her death eight hours later, and an investigation is under way into accusations that staff denied her medical assistance before her death. In April 2015 a 33-year-old detainee from India died of a suspected heart attack.

Inquiries into provision at Yarl's Wood 
A September 2003 report by the Inspector of Prisons, found that provision at Yarl's Wood was "not safe".

In March 2004, the Prisons and Probation Ombudsman published a report into allegations of racism, abuse and violence, based on 19 claims made by an undercover reporter for the Daily Mirror. The report found evidence of a number of racist incidents, although noted that staff had been disciplined following publication of the journalists findings, and that an allegation of assault had not been properly investigated.

In October 2004, the prisons and probation ombudsman published an inquiry into the disturbance and fire in 2002. One of its main findings was that the provision of sprinklers could have prevented the damage caused. In February 2005, a local fire chief alleged that the lessons had not been learnt as it was announced that there were no plans to introduce sprinklers.

In February 2006, the Chief Inspector of Prisons published an inquiry into the quality of health care at Yarl's Wood. It found substantial gaps in provision and identified 134 recommendations.

A 2006 Legal Action for Women (LAW) investigation into Yarl's Wood Removal Centre found that: 70% of women had reported rape, nearly half had been detained for over three months. 57% had no legal representation, and 20% had lawyers who demanded payment in advance. Women reported sexual and racial intimidation by guards. LAW's Self-Help Guide has been confiscated by guards depriving detainees of information about their rights.

In April 2009, the Children's Commissioner for England published a report which stated that children held in the detention centre are denied urgent medical treatment, handled violently and left at risk of serious harm. The report details how children are transported in caged vans, and watched by opposite-sex staff as they dress. This follows earlier allegations in 2005 by the Chief Inspector of Prisons that children were being damaged by being held in the institution, citing in particular an autistic five-year-old who had not eaten properly in several days.

In 2012, whistleblower Noel Finn raised concerns about abuse towards patients with mental illness and who are detained in Yarl's Wood, most had not received adequate assessment or treatment. Patients deported or removed back to the very place they had been tortured had gone unchecked by the home office. It was reported by the whistleblower that patients had been sexually abused, no one to date has been prosecuted.

In April 2014, the UN's Special Rapporteur on Violence Against Women, Rashida Manjoo, was barred from Yarl's Wood by the Home Office when she tried to investigate complaints about the centre as part of her fact-finding mission into violence against women in the UK. In her 2015 report, Manjoo said that her being barred from Yarl's Wood reminded her of when the Bangladeshi government refused her access to investigate alleged crimes against women at a notorious refugee camp and when the Indian government forbade her entry to state-run facilities.

In August 2015 the chief inspector of prisons, Nick Hardwick described Yarl's Wood as a "place of national concern" and said that decisive action was needed to ensure that women were only detained "as a last resort".

In August 2017, the chief inspector of prisons inspection "found that there had been significant improvements at the centre... The most noticeable change was that... on this occasion the atmosphere across the centre was far calmer, respectful and relaxed.' A subsequent report was published in July 2023 finding that " while the experience for most detainees was currently adequate, we left Yarl’s Wood concerned about deteriorating outcomes in a centre that was having to manage a complex and larger population of detainees, who were held for longer periods."

References

Bibliography

External links
 Yarl's Wood Immigration Centre
 UK Border Agency page on Yarl's Wood immigration detention centre
 Yarl's Wood Befrienders