[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# José Coronel Urtecho

José Coronel Urtecho (28 February 1906 – 19 March 1994) was a Nicaraguan poet, translator, essayist, critic, narrator, playwright, diplomat and historian. He has been described as "the most influential Nicaraguan thinker of the twentieth century". After an attraction to fascism in the 1930s, he became a strong supporter of the Sandinista National Liberation Front in 1977.

Early life
Coronel Urtecho was born on 28 February 1906, in Granada, Nicaragua, the son of Manuel Coronel Matus and Blanca Urtecho Avilés. His father, an influential politician, writer and journalist, hold relevant positions under the government of president José Santos Zelaya, such as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Minister of Governance, and Minister of Culture and Education. In 1910, Matus died under unclear circumstances shortly after the United States exiled Zelaya and invaded Nicaragua.  Some theorists believe Matus was killed by members of the Conservative party in a political hunt after Zelaya's fall, while other, less-accepted theories, believe he committed suicide. Coronel Urtecho since 6 years old at the time of his father's death, and never completely recovered from this loss.

Coronel Urtecho attended Jesuit High School, Colegio Centro América, where he published his first poems and literary analysis. Jesuit Catholic education deeply influenced him, and he remained in contact with the Society of Jesus for life.  Following his graduation from high school, Coronel Urtecho, his mother, and his sister moved to San Francisco. While living in California, he discovered North American poetry, and became a great admirer of many of its authors, such as Walt Whitman, Edgar Allan Poe and Ezra Pound, who he would eventually translate into Spanish.

Vanguard movement
He returned to Granada in 1927, and started publishing in the local newspaper Nicaraguan Daily. A fan of the burlesque and a man of a refined sense of humour, at his 20th Coronel published in his most sarcastic tone the poem “Ode to Ruben Dario” in which he publicly establishes a break from Modernism. Rebel in the content, the poem though is still traditional in its lyric. His “position is both rejection and adhesion, is the disciple’s insurrection against the admired teacher”. About a year later, he led with Luis Alberto Cabrales and Joaquín Pasos Argüello the foundation of the Vanguard Literary Movement, with other young Nicaraguan writers, among them Manolo Cuadra y Pablo Antonio Cuadra, the youngest of the group.

The movement developed between 1927 and 1933, renewing and influencing the country poetry and literature after forty years of Modernism and the heavy influence of Rubén Darío on Nicaraguan poetry.

In 1928, with Cabrales and Pasos, he founded the weekly magazine Semana, and founded Criterio with Dionisio Cuadra Benard, his close friend and classmate (both later married sisters María and Elisa Kautz). Magazines and newspapers were always key to the Vanguardists′ voice. In the following years, Coronel published most of his work in these two and many other newspapers, magazines and journals, including the Jesuit publications Revista del Pensamiento Centroamericano (The Central American Thinking magazine) and Cuadernos Universitarios (University Notebooks).

Political and diplomatic career

Coronel Urtecho was a man of swings in politics. He started far from his father's political path and support to the Liberal Revolution, led by José Santos Zelaya. On the contrary, growing under the influence of a conservative family, on his mother side, he started as an ultra-conservative and pro-fascist politician. He later changed his ideology completely and shared his father's passionate engagement to a revolution.

In 1934, at 28, he launched the Reactionary Movement and the newspaper La Reacción, in which he and the Vanguardist Movement advanced pro-fascist ideas and supported the eternal presidency of Anastasio Somoza García, father and founder of the infamous Somoza's dictatorship. Furthermore, he provided philosophical and intellectual foundation to the idea of Somoza ruling Nicaragua for ever, in a public letter that, years later, he himself regretted and felt ashamed of. "They (the Vanguardists) claimed the need to create a new culture for the nation, where a mix of colonial and indigenous heritage were the foundation" therefore and "influenced by fascist ideas, they proposed a radical solution to the political crisis: the suppression of political parties and of all forms of popular election, and advocating one president for life".

In 1935 he was elected Congressman, appointed Sub Secretary of Education (Instrucción Pública) in 1938, and Cultural Attache in New York and Spain, in 1948, by president Roman Reyes, Somoza's uncle.