[Source: PubMed]

33. PLoS One. 2020 Sep 17;15(9):e0239031. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239031. 
eCollection 2020.

Recent quantitative research on determinants of health in high income countries: 
A scoping review.

Varbanova V(1), Beutels P(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Modelling Infectious Diseases, 
Vaccine and Infectious Disease Institute, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, 
Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Identifying determinants of health and understanding their role in 
health production constitutes an important research theme. We aimed to document 
the state of recent multi-country research on this theme in the literature.
METHODS: We followed the PRISMA-ScR guidelines to systematically identify, 
triage and review literature (January 2013-July 2019). We searched for studies 
that performed cross-national statistical analyses aiming to evaluate the impact 
of one or more aggregate level determinants on one or more general population 
health outcomes in high-income countries. To assess in which combinations and to 
what extent individual (or thematically linked) determinants had been studied 
together, we performed multidimensional scaling and cluster analysis.
RESULTS: Sixty studies were selected, out of an original yield of 3686. 
Life-expectancy and overall mortality were the most widely used population 
health indicators, while determinants came from the areas of healthcare, 
culture, politics, socio-economics, environment, labor, fertility, demographics, 
life-style, and psychology. The family of regression models was the predominant 
statistical approach. Results from our multidimensional scaling showed that a 
relatively tight core of determinants have received much attention, as main 
covariates of interest or controls, whereas the majority of other determinants 
were studied in very limited contexts. We consider findings from these studies 
regarding the importance of any given health determinant inconclusive at 
present. Across a multitude of model specifications, different country samples, 
and varying time periods, effects fluctuated between statistically significant 
and not significant, and between beneficial and detrimental to health.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that efforts to understand the underlying mechanisms of 
population health are far from settled, and the present state of research on the 
topic leaves much to be desired. It is essential that future research considers 
multiple factors simultaneously and takes advantage of more sophisticated 
methodology with regards to quantifying health as well as analyzing 
determinants' influence.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0239031
PMCID: PMC7498048
PMID: 32941493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.