[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1982 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1982 in New Zealand.

Population
 Estimated population as of 31 December: 3,226,800.
 Increase since 31 December 1981: 32,300 (1.01%).
 Males per 100 females: 98.6.

Regal and viceregal
Head of State – Elizabeth II
Governor-General – The Hon Sir David Beattie GCMG GCVO QSO QC.

Government
The 40th New Zealand Parliament continued. The third National Party government was in power.

Speaker of the House – Richard Harrison
Prime Minister – Robert Muldoon
Deputy Prime Minister – Duncan MacIntyre
Minister of Finance – Robert Muldoon
Minister of Foreign Affairs – Warren Cooper
Chief Justice — Sir Ronald Davison

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition –  Bill Rowling (Labour) until 3 February, then David Lange.
Social Credit Party – Bruce Beetham

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – Colin Kay
Mayor of Hamilton – Ross Jansen
Mayor of Wellington – Michael Fowler
Mayor of Christchurch – Hamish Hay
Mayor of Dunedin – Cliff Skeggs

Events
The first Kohanga reo kindergarten, Pukeatua, opens at Wainuiomata. Within 12 years there were more than 800 nationwide.
Social Credit forms an agreement with National to back the Clyde Dam (a Think Big project) in exchange for policy concessions.
The Clutha Development (Clyde Dam) Empowerment Act was passed, overriding the High Court and Planning Tribunal.
The proposed aluminium smelter at Aramoana was cancelled.
The Social Credit Political League changes its name to the Social Credit Party.
New Zealand provided assistance to the British during the Falklands War, primarily by taking over routine patrol duties elsewhere to free up British military resources.
The Warehouse opens its first store, in Takapuna.
  January: The third Sweetwaters Music Festival is held near Pukekawa.
3 February: David Lange succeeds Bill Rowling as Leader of the Opposition.
 4 April: New Zealand breaks diplomatic relations with Argentina over the Falklands Crisis.
22 June: Robert Muldoon announces a 12-month wage and price freeze. The freeze actually lasts almost two years.
14 September: Samoans who take up permanent residence in New Zealand are entitled to New Zealand citizenship from this date. This follows a case referred to the Privy Council which decided in July 1982 to allow all Samoans born under New Zealand administration (i.e. prior to 1962) to claim New Zealand citizenship.
 November:  Mark Inglis and Philip Doole are stuck in an ice cave on Aoraki / Mount Cook for 14 days.
18 November: a suicide bomb attack was made against a facility housing the main computer database of the New Zealand Police in Wanganui by a "punk rock" anarchist named Neil Roberts. He was the only person killed, and the computer system was undamaged, see Terrorism in New Zealand.
14 December: Robert Muldoon signs a "Heads of Agreement" with Australia to allow the Closer Economic Relations agreement to come into force at the beginning of 1983.

Arts and literature
William Sewell wins the Robert Burns Fellowship

See 1982 in art, 1982 in literature, :Category:1982 books

Music
 DD Smash produce their debut album, Cool Bananas.

New Zealand Music Awards
Winners are shown first and in boldface with nominees underneath. 
 Album of the year:    DD Smash – Cool Bananas
 Single of the year:  Prince Tui Teka – E Ipo
 Top male vocalist:   Dave Dobbyn (DD Smash) 
Malcolm McNeill
Monte Video
 Top female vocalist:   Patsy Riggir 
Suzanne Prentice
 Trudi Green (The Neighbours)
 Top group of the year:   DD Smash 
Herbs
The Narcs
 Most promising male vocalist:   Dave Dobbyn (DD Smash) 
 Most promising female vocalist:   Jodi Vaughan 
 Most promising group:   Dance Exponents 
 Polynesian record of the year:   Prince Tui Teka – E Ipo 
 Producer of the year:   Ian Morris – Cool Bananas (DD Smash) 
 Engineer of the year:   Paul Streekstra & Doug Rogers – Cool Bananas (DD Smash) 
 Sleeve design of the year:   Wayne Robinson –Cool Bananas (DD Smash) 
 Outstanding contribution to music:   Simon Grigg 

See: 1982 in music

Performing arts

 Benny Award presented by the Variety Artists Club of New Zealand to Don Linden.