[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Francis Pangilinan

arcos and his cronies who collected taxes from farmers purportedly to develop the industry. In September 2015, Pangilinan announced his resignation from the post to run for senator in 2016.

Return to the Senate
Pangilinan won a third term in the 2016 Philippine Senate election, placing 8th overall.

In October 2016, he was appointed interim Liberal Party president, succeeding former Transportation and Communications Secretary Joseph Emilio Abaya. His appointment became permanent in August 2017. In May 2019, Pangilinan announced his resignation as Liberal Party president following the failure of Otso Diretso, where he served as its campaign manager, to win a single seat in the 2019 senatorial election. However, his resignation was rejected by Liberal Party chairperson Leni Robredo.

Originally a part of the majority, Pangilinan became part of the minority bloc in the Senate after the 2019 election, together with Senators Franklin Drilon, Risa Hontiveros, Leila de Lima, Bam Aquino and Antonio Trillanes. He principally authored the Sagip Saka Act signed on April 17, 2019. The bill aims to boost incomes for both fisherfolk and farmers through entrepreneurship by mandating government agencies to buy produce directly from them, eliminating middlemen that raise food prices. Pangilinan was also the principal author of Republic Act 11478, which would increase the bed capacity of the Bicol Medical Center from 500 beds to 1,000 beds. This also included upgrading its service facilities and professional health care services and authorizing the increase of its medical workforce complement. As a member of the minority, Pangilinan has been critical of the administration of President Rodrigo Duterte, including the War on Drugs with its "iron-fist" approach.

In 2020, Pangilinan authored the Coconut Farmers and Industry Trust Fund Act, which seeks to create a trust fund for coconut farmers to be used for several purposes such as management, utilization, and reconstitution for the purposes of the Philippine Coconut Authority Board. He had also co-authored laws pertaining to education, such as the GMRC and Values Education Act, institutionalizing values education in the K-12 curriculum, and the Alternative Learning System Act, which institutionalizes the alternative learning system in basic education for out-of-school children.

Pangilinan co-authored the COVID Vaccination Program Act of 2021, which aims to expedite the procurement and distribution of COVID-19 vaccines across the country.

2022 vice presidential campaign

On October 8, 2021, Pangilinan filed his certificate of candidacy to run as vice president, alongside presidential candidate Leni Robredo, in the 2022 Philippine presidential election. Unlike Robredo who is running as an independent candidate, Pangilinan ran as the candidate of the Liberal Party. He initially chose to seek reelection as senator.

One of his opponents in the vice-presidential election was his uncle-by-marriage and colleague, Senate President Tito Sotto (the husband of his aunt-in-law Helen Gamboa), who is running alongside Senator Panfilo Lacson. Pangilinan has stated that the conflictive situation was "painful" for his family.

Pangilinan's campaign slogan was "Goodbye Gutom, Hello Pagkain" (), as his platform focused on the agricultural sector, particularly boosting food security by providing fishermen and farmers priority attention.

Pangilinan placed second in the official tally with 9,329,207 votes, and lost to Davao City Mayor Sara Duterte by a wide margin of over 22 million votes.

Personal life
On April 28, 1996, Pangilinan married singer, actress, and television personality Sharon Cuneta. The couple has two daughters, including singer-songwriter Kakie, and an adopted son. He is also the stepfather of actress and singer KC Concepcion, Cuneta's daughter from a previous marriage, whom Pangilinan legally adopted.

Pangilinan and Cuneta own Sweet Spring Country Farm, an all-organic farm in Alfonso, Cavite.

References

External links
 Senator Kiko Pangilinan – Senate of the Philippines
 
 Kiko Pangilinan's Facebook Page
 Verified 

|-

|-

|-

|-