[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# V Corps Artillery (United States)

V Corps Artillery was a field artillery formation of the United States Army during World War II, Cold War, and War on Terrorism. It was officially inactivated in July 2007 at Tompkins Barracks, Schwetzingen, Germany.

Formation 
V Corps Artillery's lineage traces back to 13 May 1921 when Headquarters Battery, 13th Field Artillery Brigade, at Camp Bragg, North Carolina, became the artillery headquarters for V Corps. The distinctive unit insignia consisting of a gold shell a pine tree with thirteen branches proper, all within an oval red band bearing the motto "Steadfast and Strong" and in the base a five pointed star in gold was originally approved for the Headquarters and Headquarters Battery, 13th Field Artillery Brigade on 14 Mar 1941. The shell signifies the organization is an Artillery unit. The thirteen branch pine tree alludes to the number of the parent organization – 13th Field Artillery Brigade – while the star refers to the Brigade itself. Red and gold are the colors usually associated with Artillery. It was redesignated for the Headquarters and Headquarters Battery, V Corps Artillery on 28 Jan 1952.

On 2 March 1944, the 76th Field Artillery Brigade from the California Army National Guard was re-designated as V Corps Artillery in preparation for OPERATION OVERLORD, the Normandy invasion, during the Second World War. On 7 June 1944, the first V Corps Artillery elements were ashore on Omaha Beach and V Corps Artillery was in action the following day, firing in support of V Corps units.

Shoulder sleeve insignia 
The corps's shoulder patch, a pentagon whose points lie on an imaginary circle  in diameter whose edges are white lines  in width and whose radial lines are white  in width, was approved on 3 December 1918. The triangles thus outlined in white are flag blue. The pentagon represents the number of the Corps, while blue and white are the colors associated with Corps flags.

Operational history

World War II 
Upon the breakout from the Normandy hedgerows during Operation Cobra, V Corps Artillery sped across France with V Corps' armored formations. During the autumn of 1944, V Corps Artillery participated in the bloody battle through the Huertgen Forest. During the winter of 1944 and 1945, V Corps Artillery fought with distinction in the Battle of the Bulge, holding the North Shoulder in the Ardennes to defeat Hitler's last major counteroffensive of the war. During the desperate fighting in the Ardennes, V Corps Artillery fired thousands of rounds fused with the VT fuse for the first time in the history of warfare with devastating effect on German infantry and artillery. By the spring of 1945, V Corps Artillery significantly contributed to the conquest of the Third Reich, helping to secure the greatest military victory in the history of the United States.

Cold War 
V Corps Artillery (ten field artillery battalions between two brigades) returned to Germany in 1951 where it trained to defend the Fulda Gap, contributing to the deterrence of Soviet aggression during the Cold War. V Corps Artillery remained forward deployed throughout the Cold War, and continued to be headquartered out of Germany after the fall of the Berlin Wall and the demise of the Soviet Bloc. During the Cold War the command consisted of the 41st and 42nd Field Artillery Brigades.

War on Terrorism 
V Corps Artillery entered combat again during the United States invasion of Iraq, firing the initial artillery barrages of the war on 20 March 2003. V Corps Artillery units fired 414 missiles, 857 rockets, and over 18,500 cannon projectiles during major combat operations. The V Corps Artillery headquarters commanded seven artillery brigades during the first year of Operation Iraqi Freedom. For the first time in US military history, V Corp Artillery units fired the Army Tactical Missile System Block 1A and Unitary missiles with devastating effect on elite Iraqi formations, completing the seizure of Iraq within 21 days. V Corps Artillery directed the firing of the Sense and Destroy Armored munitions (SADARM) for the first time in combat during OIF. Throughout the ongoing occupation and civil/military administration of Iraq, V Corps Artillery soldiers ran Combined Joint Task Force 7's Joint Visitors Bureau. Many staff members and soldiers were tasked to support the initial standup of Combined Joint Task Force 7 (CJTF-7) at Camp Victory in Baghdad (On 14 May 2004, CJTF-7 was split into two organizations, Multi-National Force Iraq (MNF-I) and Multi-National Corps Iraq (MNC-I)).