[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hiram Gill

l Gill, drafted by Adella Parker, began circulating on October 8, 1910; a sufficient number to force an election were turned in by December 20. Gill was the first U.S. mayor to undergo a recall election. Los Angeles, California mayor A.C. Harper had resigned in the face of a proposed recall in 1909.

The same year that Gill was elected, the Washington State Legislature granted women's suffrage. Thus, when Gill's opponents managed to force a February 9, 1911 recall election, it was to a very different electorate, one that included 23,000 registered women voters, of whom 20,000 showed up at the polls. Real estate man George W. Dilling defeated Gill by a margin of 6,000 votes. Wappenstein was convicted of corruption and imprisoned; Times publisher Blethen and his son Clarence were also tried, but were acquitted. Gill ran again for mayor in March 1912, but progressive George F. Cotterill won (with Socialist Hulet Wells coming in second). Gill resumed the practice of law.

Comeback and second and third term as mayor
But Cotterill did not have an easy time in office. Labor troubles and the Potlach Riots of 1913 allowed Blethen at the Times to paint Cotterill as an ally of the Industrial Workers of the World (IWW), laying ground for Gill's political revival in the 1914 election. This time, though, Gill ran on a "closed town" platform and, remarkably, scored well with labor in the election. He was re-elected in 1916.

Gill appointed progressive Austin Griffiths—one of his opponents for the mayoralty—as police chief. He maintained a more neutral stance toward City Light than before: while still by no means a proponent of public utilities, he no longer actively obstructed the utility, nor did he (as before) force it to take on the most unprofitable tasks while leaving all good opportunities to the private sector. When Washington "went dry" (prohibited alcohol) in 1916, Gill enforced it aggressively, with police raids extending even to the elite Rainier Club (and with police causing significant damage to raided establishments). He took labor's side in several (though not all) strike actions, and even spoke out on behalf of the IWW after the 1916 Everett Massacre, earning him the wrath of the Times (while doing nothing to ingratiate him with his longtime enemies at the Seattle Post-Intelligencer).

Downfall

But Gill was not quite cut out to be the reformer. His early, dramatic prohibition raids did not go entirely well. In September 1916 Seattle weekly magazine had occasion to write, "So far as enforcing the prohibition law, the mayor has not tried to do that in the manner provided by the law. He chose the spectacular, bust-em-up-with-an-ax plan of action… Hence the whole proceeding has come to naught." And, despite those raids, he—and his "progressive" police chief—were soon taking protection money from bootleggers. Seattle was back to being, in effect, an "open town", so much so that the U.S. Army declared it off-limits, which was not good for business. And in January 1918, Gill was disbarred for a year for unethical solicitation of legal work. Gill ran for reelection in 1918, but was trounced, and died less than a year later.  He is interred at Evergreen Washelli Memorial Park.

Notes

References
 Burton J. Hendrick, "The 'Recall' in Seattle', McClure's, October 1911, p. 647–663.

1866 births
1919 deaths
History of Seattle
Mayors of Seattle
Politicians from Watertown, Wisconsin
Recalled American mayors
Seattle City Council members
University of Wisconsin Law School alumni
Washington (state) Republicans
19th-century American politicians