[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Blackfield

ld toured in support of the album in February 2014, with Wilson being present for all performances. On 29 January 2014 Wilson announced his intention to quit the band after the European tour, due to his increasingly tight schedule with his solo career and upcoming projects.

Second collaborative era

Blackfield V (2015–2018)
In January 2015 it was announced that Geffen and Alan Parsons were recording and performing together for a future Blackfield album. Despite Wilson's comments alluding to leaving the band in 2014, he was seen in recording sessions with Geffen and Parsons in June 2015 and June 2016. In August 2016, album details were officially announced, revealing the official album title – Blackfield V, its artwork, and that it would see a return to the collaborative approach between Wilson and Geffen taken for the first two Blackfield records. The album was initially scheduled for release on 18 November 2016, but was later delayed to 10 February 2017. On 8 December 2016 "Family Man", "How Was Your Ride?" and "Sorrys", the second, third and fifth songs from the album, were released.

On 28 June 2018, Steven Wilson announced the compilation album "Open Mind - The Best of Blackfield" on his Instagram. The album was released in September 2018.

Warner Records era

For the Music (2019-present)
On 13 May 2019, a picture of Geffen and Wilson working in a recording studio was posted on the band's Facebook page with the caption "Blackfield 6th, recording session, here we go again !" In July 2020, Geffen signed to Warner Records. After announcing his signing with Warner, on 24 July Blackfield released the first single, “Summer's Gone”, from their upcoming sixth album For the Music, followed by a second track “Under My Skin” on 2 October. For the Music was released worldwide on 4 December 2020. The album saw Geffen once again taking a leading role, with Wilson only providing lead vocals on three tracks.

Musical style and influences 
Geffen has described the band's sounds as
 "I don't think it's prog really, it's...very melodic...but it's not prog. I don't allow Steven to play more than two-minute solos. He respects that. Blackfield is everything, it's metal, it's prog, it's pop. Blackfield sounds so special because it's a really odd collaboration. I'm not coming from the prog scene, I'm coming from the indie rock, pop scene." 

Geffen states that while he enjoys mixing different musical sounds, he refuses to incorporate rap music into the band's sound, stating "I hate hip hop...We won't do a shitty pop song." Influences for the band include Jim Morrison, Radiohead, King Crimson, Genesis, and Pink Floyd.

Cross-overs 
There has been some overlap between Blackfield and Geffen and Wilson's other projects. The songs "Scars," "Cloudy Now," "Glow," "1,000 People," "Epidemic," "End of the World," "Zigota" and "Garden of Sin" had originally been written by Geffen in Hebrew before being translated into English and adapted by Blackfield. On the other hand, the song "Christenings" was originally conceived during Wilson's writing sessions for Porcupine Tree's 2005 release Deadwing, but was released on Blackfield II instead. Additionally, the track "Feel So Low", off of Porcupine Tree's 2000 release Lightbulb Sun, was re-recorded by Blackfield and added to the LP version of Blackfield's first album. In this version, Geffen sings the first verse in Hebrew.

Live, Blackfield has performed Porcupine Tree's "Waiting" and "Feel So Low", as well as covering Alanis Morissette's "Thank U," which Wilson had previously recorded solo for his own cover version compilation album.

Comments from other musicians
Some musicians have cited them as an influence, such as Dial, while others have expressed admiration for their work including Jordan Rudess, Arne "Lanvall" Stockhammer of Edenbridge, Nick Barrett of Pendragon, Thrawn of Secrets of the Moon, and Dean Marsh of Gandalf's Fist.

Musicians

Current members
 Steven Wilson – vocals, guitar, keyboards 
 Aviv Geffen – vocals, keyboards, guitar 
 Seffy Efrati – bass guitar, backing vocals 
 Tomer Z – drums, percussion 
 Eran Mitelman – piano, keyboards

Former members
 Chris Maitland – drums, percussion, backing vocals 
 Daniel Salomon – piano, keyboards, backing vocals

Discography

Studio albums

DVDs

Singles
2003: "Hello"
2003: "Pain"
2004: "Blackfield"
2004: "Cloudy Now"
2007: "Once"
2007: "Miss U"
2007: "My Gift of Silence"
2011: "Waving"
2013: "Jupiter"
2014: "Sense of Insanity"
2020: "Summer's Gone"
2020: "Under My Skin"

References

External links 

 Blackfield fan website
 Blackfield at MySpace Music

English art rock groups
English alternative rock groups
English pop rock music groups
English progressive rock groups
Israeli alternative rock groups
Musical groups established in 2001