[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mad Monster Party?

media
The film has been available on video for years, first on original distributor Embassy Pictures' home entertainment unit, and then on other independent labels before StudioCanal acquired some rights to the film. Currently, Lionsgate distributes the film on video under license from StudioCanal.

Before Lionsgate's current video release of Mad Monster Party?, almost all video releases have been from 16 mm film and were of very poor color quality. The original film negative was water-damaged some years ago, but Sony Pictures Television (which now holds the television rights) eventually unearthed an original 35 mm pristine print. This print was digitally remastered, and is the source for the current DVD issue and all subsequent television showings. Anchor Bay released the previous DVD on August 19, 2003, then re-released it on August 23, 2005 with additional features. On September 8, 2009, it was released as a "Special Edition" DVD by Lionsgate. The special features include a documentary including interviews with Rick Goldschmidt, Arthur Rankin Jr., voice artist Allen Swift, storyboard artist Don Duga, musical director Maury Laws and others. The film was released on Blu-ray on September 4, 2012.

Comic book adaptation
 Dell Movie Classic: Mad Monster Party (September 1967)

Related film
Rankin/Bass produced a related TV special called Mad, Mad, Mad Monsters from The ABC Saturday Superstar Movie series, which aired on September 23, 1972. This Halloween special featured many of the same monster characters. Bob McFadden did his imitation of Karloff when voicing Baron Henry von Frankenstein (who resembles Baron Boris von Frankenstein). The animation for the special is provided by Osamu Tezuka's Mushi Production with supervision by Steve Nakagawa, who was also known for his work with Iwao Takamoto at Hanna-Barbera Studios.

See also
 Boris Karloff filmography
 Hotel Transylvania

References

External links

 
 
 
 
 Rankin-Bass Mad Monster Party site

1967 films
1967 animated films
1960s American animated films
1967 musical comedy films
1960s science fiction comedy films
American animated fantasy films
American science fiction comedy films
American vampire films
1960s English-language films
1960s children's animated films
American crossover films
Dracula films
Films set in the Caribbean
Films set on islands
Frankenstein films
1960s monster movies
Mummy films
1960s stop-motion animated films
American werewolf films
Films scored by Maury Laws
Films with screenplays by Arthur Rankin Jr.
Television shows directed by Jules Bass
Rankin/Bass Productions films
American musical comedy films
Films adapted into comics
Vampire comedy films
Animated films about vampires