[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Johnny Weaver

ringside verbal confrontations with heel wrestlers or their managers. These confrontations always ended with Weaver slapping the wrestler or manager across the face, to the delight of the fans in the studio. Recipients of these slaps have included Roddy Piper, Lord Alfred Hayes, and Kevin Sullivan.

Weaver made a brief in-ring return in late 1987 in the corner of the "American Dream" Dusty Rhodes who was using a sleeper hold, calling it the "Weaver lock", and chasing down Lex Luger and the N.W.A. United States Title. During this angle, Weaver was placed in a Japanese version of the sleeper by Hiro Matsuda, causing him to bleed from the mouth. Weaver was in Rhodes' corner at Starrcade '87: Chi-Town Heat, when Rhodes defeated Luger in a steel cage after DDTing Luger onto a steel chair.

Legacy
CWF Mid-Atlantic out of Burlington, North Carolina promotes the Johnny Weaver Cup tournament every summer, culminating in Weaver Cup Finals Night every August. Mr. Weaver was a special guest in attendance to present the trophy to the tournament winner at every Finals Night until his death in 2008. Since then a former tournament winner usually presents the trophy, often accompanied by surviving members of Mr. Weaver's family. Past tournament winners have been "Dangerous E" Corey Edsel (2004), Jesse Ortega (2005), Gemini Kid (2006), "Handsome" Mitch Connor (2007), Brass Munkey (2008), Kamakazi Kid (2009), "The 1st" Ric Converse (2010), Arik Royal (2011, 2012) and Trevor Lee (2013)

Personal life
Weaver was a deputy sheriff with Mecklenburg County, North Carolina. In his 50s, Weaver became one of the oldest people to take the basic law enforcement test and ultimately joined the sheriff's office. He spent most of his nineteen-year career transporting prisoners on the same back roads he had traveled as a wrestler and promoter.

Weaver died of natural causes on February 15, 2008, aged 72.

Championships and accomplishments
American Wrestling Alliance
AWA Indiana World Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Sonny Weaver
Championship Wrestling from Florida
NWA Florida Tag Team Championship (1 time) - with Dick Slater (1)
NWA Southern Heavyweight Championship (Florida version) (4 times)
NWA Southern Tag Team Championship (Florida version) (1 time) - with George Becker
Mid-Atlantic Championship Wrestling
NWA Atlantic Coast Tag Team Championship (6 times) - with George Becker (4) and Art Nielson (2)
NWA Mid-Atlantic Tag Team Championship (2 times) - with Dewey Robertson (1) and Jay Youngblood (1)
NWA Southern Heavyweight Championship/NWA Eastern States Heavyweight Championship (3 times) 
NWA Southern Tag Team Championship (Mid-Atlantic version) (8 times) - with Cowboy Bob Ellis (1) and George Becker (7)
NWA Television Championship (1 time)
NWA Western States Sports
NWA International Heavyweight Championship (Amarillo version) (1 time)

References

External links

SLAM! Wrestling Article: Johnny Weaver dead at 72

1935 births
2008 deaths
20th-century professional wrestlers
American male professional wrestlers
NWA/WCW World Television Champions
Professional wrestling announcers
Stampede Wrestling alumni
NWA Florida Tag Team Champions