[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Avnei Hefetz

Avnei Hefetz () is an Israeli settlement (organised as a community settlement) located on the western edge of the northern West Bank. The settlement under the administrative municipal government of the Shomron Regional Council, is located adjacent to the Palestinian city of Tulkarm and to the Israeli settlements of Einav and Sal'it.

The international community considers Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank illegal under international law, but the Israeli government disputes this.

History
Established in 1990 by a group of Israeli Orthodox Jewish students from the Karnei Shomron Hesder Yeshiva with help from Amana, Avnei Hefetz is now home to over 200 families, including hundreds of children. The name of the village comes from Isaiah 54:12:
"And I will make thy pinnacles of rubies, and thy gates of carbuncles, and all thy border of precious stones."

In 1995, the Israeli military confiscated about 200 dunams of land from the Palestinian village Kafr al-Labad in order to enlarge Avnei Hefetz,  in total, about 355 dunams of Kafr al-Labad's lands have been added to Avnei Hefetz.

In 2016, settlement construction in the occupied West Bank increased by 34 percent. Authorities initiated a construction adding 1,814 new settler housing units. At least 129 new units in the Avnei Hefetz settlement were added to create a primarily industrial zone, rendering the colony increasingly closer to the  Palestinian village of Shufa.

Geography
The settlement is located adjacent to the Palestinian city of Tulkarm. The nearest Israeli cities are Netanya to the west and Kfar Saba to the southwest, both about a twenty-five-minute drive away. There are four distinct neighborhoods of Avnei Hefetz: Neve Hefetz – urban, Avnei Shoham – rural, Mitzpe Hefetz – rural, Avnei Hen – rural. In  its population was .

Education
There are many institutions located on the settlement: six nurseries, six kindergartens, a combined elementary school and junior high school, and a morning and evening kollel.

References

External links
Official website
Photos of Avnei Hefetz

Religious Israeli settlements
Populated places established in 1990
Shomron Regional Council
1990 establishments in the Palestinian territories
Israeli settlements in the West Bank