[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# St Bernard's Hospital, Hanwell

uality of human relationships and experience.

Theatre
Hanwell Insane Asylum was mentioned in George Bernard Shaw's 1914 play Pygmalion. Phonetics Professor Henry Higgins, after successfully telling strangers where they were born by their accent, was jokingly told he came from Hanwell Insane Asylum.

Museum 
Reverend H A Norris, (a former chaplain to the hospital) realized in the early 1980s that there were old records at hospital which were historically important and should join the others in the Greater London Council Records Library (now part of the National Archives). He feared these would be thrown out by staff, and volunteers formed the 'Museum Committee' to help. They recovered much of the hospital heritage. This also included mechanical restraints, ECT machines, and some of the old fixtures and fittings. The largest item by far was the last original 'seclusion room' with white stained leather-covered straw padding walls and floor. One of the books retrieved in the search by the museum committee was a discharge book, the first entry was within a few months of the asylum's opening and recorded the death of a young woman, it listed her reason for admission as being "Continually sneezing". Also on display was a letter written by Arthur O'Connor. He had been committed to Hanwell on 6 May 1875 for firing an unloaded pistol at Queen Victoria earlier on 29 February.

Blue Plaque 
Dr John Conolly and the former Hanwell Asylum were commemorated with an English Heritage blue plaque in May 2022, on a wall of what was the left-hand wing of the asylum. It is the first plaque in the scheme to go up in Hanwell and the date of its installation was chosen to support Mental Health Week in the UK.

Notes

References

External links 

 
 The local voluntary Patient and Public Involvement (PPI) Forum. Retrieved on 5 October 2006
Transport for London: Bus services to and from Hanwell. Accessed 5 June 2007
 National Rail Station: Hanwell. Accessed 5 June 2007
 The Glenside Hospital Museum. Accessed 5 June 2007 (a Bristol psychiatric hospital museum)

Martineau, Harriet, The Hanwell Lunatic Asylum Description of the Ellis system; published in Tait's Edinburgh Magazine, June 183.
 Roberts, Andrew (1981), The Asylums Index. Middlesex University, London, England. Retrieved on 7 October 2006

Psychiatric hospitals in England
NHS hospitals in London
Former psychiatric hospitals in England
Grade II listed buildings in the London Borough of Ealing
History of the London Borough of Ealing
History of Middlesex
Hospitals established in 1831
1831 establishments in England