[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# HESA Ababil

0. By 2018, Hezbollah stated that the Mirsad-1 had been retired from service.

Hezbollah has also built a large airstrip in Lebanon's Bekaa Valley. There is speculation that the airstrip could support larger, runway-launched Ababil-3 UAVs. Hezbollah is not definitively known to operate the Ababil-3.

Sudan 
The Ababil-3 is in service with Sudan. In 2008, an Ababil-3 crashed or was shot down while on a surveillance mission.

On March 13, 2012, another Sudanese Ababil was lost in action near Toroji, South Kordofan. Sudanese rebels of the SPLA-N said they downed it using ground fire, while the Sudanese government said it was due to mechanical failure.

Iraq 

On 16 March 2009, an American F-16 operating in Iraq shot down an Iranian Ababil 3 drone on 25 February 2009 that had been flying through Iraqi airspace for "almost an hour and 10 minutes." The drone crashed about 60 miles northeast of Baghdad, 12 miles inside Iraqi territory near the town of Balad Ruz in Diyala Governorate. Officials at Iraq's Defence and Interior ministries suggested that the drone might have been scouting for routes to smuggle Iranian weapons into the country. The New York Times, however, speculated that the drone was monitoring Iranian dissidents in Iraq, such as those at Camp Ashraf, which is located near where the drone crashed. Abdul Aziz Mohammed Jassim, head of military operations at the Iraqi defence ministry stated that since the drone, "crossed 10 km into Iraq, it's most likely that its entrance was a mistake."

More recently, Ababil-3 UAVs have been used extensively in the Iraqi Civil War. Their use began in summer 2014, shortly after the Fall of Mosul, from Rasheed Air Base.

Iran 
Iran is the primary operator of Ababil UAVs. Iran operates large numbers of Ababil-2 UAVs, mostly for training air defense crews, and operates Ababil-3 UAVs for surveillance use.

Syria 
Ababil-3 UAVs have been used in the Syrian Civil War since 2012. They have been used by Syrian Army and are some of the most commonly used UAVs in the war. They are especially commonly seen over Damascus.

Gaza 
On 14 December 2014, Hamas militants flew an unmanned air vehicle over a parade in the Gaza Strip marking the 27th anniversary of the organization's establishment. Israeli sources identified the aircraft as an Iranian-made Ababil. Also used in the 2021 conflict.

Yemen 

Houthi rebels have operated Ababil-T loitering munitions under the name "Qasef-1" to target Saudi and Emirati radar batteries. According to the Houthis, a new variant of the drone named "Qasef-2K" has been designed to explode from a height of 20 meters in the air and rain shrapnel down on its target and has been used to kill 6 people in the coalition controlled Al Anad Air Base in Yemen. Najran, 840 km southwest of Riyadh on the Saudi-Yemen border also has been receiving Houthi drone attacks.

After the Houthi attack on Saudi oil infrastructure on 14 September 2019, Saudi Arabia tasked F-15 fighter jets armed with missiles to intercept low flying drones, difficult to intercept with ground based high altitude missile systems like the MIM-104 Patriot with several drones being downed since then. On 7 March 2021, during a Houthi attack at several Saudi oil installations, Saudi F-15s shot down several attacking drones shot down using heatseeking AIM-9 Sidewinder missiles, with video evidence showing at least two Samad-3 UAVs and one Qasef-2K downed.
On 30 March 2021, a video made by Saudi border guards showed a Saudi F-15 shooting down a Houthi Quasef-2K drone with an AIM-120 AMRAAM fired at short range.

Operators

Current state operators 
 
 Aerospace Force of the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps: Ababil-1, Ababil-2, and Ababil-3, Ababil-4, Ababil-5
 Islamic Republic of Iran Air Force: Ababil-3, Ababil-4, Ababil-5
 Islamic Republic of Iran Army: Ababil-2
 : Ababil-3
 : Ababil-3, rebranded as "Zagil III-B"
 
 Syrian Arab Army: Ababil-2, Ababil-3
  Ababil-2, with license production

Non-state operators
  Hamas
 : Ababil-T, rebranded as "Qasef-1".
  Hezbollah: Ababil-2, rebranded as "Mirsad-1".
  Kataib Hezbollah: Ababil-3, rebranded as "Basir-1".
  Libyan National Army: Ababil-2.

Specifications (Ababil-2)

See also

References 

Attribution:

External links 

Loitering munition
Ababil
Unmanned military aircraft of Iran
Single-engined pusher aircraft
Military equipment of Iran