[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Thornton Chase

ife. A picture of the gravestone was published in 1920.

In 1920 Martha Root refers to distributing Chase's book The Bahai Revelation in various libraries on her tour around South America. Memorials of others began to be published in 1922 recalling the contact they had had with Chase.

Later period 

The memorial meeting in 1924 noted that inquirers were informed of "the truth of the Oneness of Mankind and the fatherhood of God, for which Mr. Chase had given his heart and life." The writer of the article, Willard Hatch, was requested to gather materials on the life of Chase in 1927. He updated attendees at the national convention of Baháʼís over the next few years, and was joined in the work by John Bosch. Bosch was in fact an inheritor of Chases' literary material and a collection of some Baháʼí materials Chase had not already sent to Chicago for archival purposes. A survey of the materials gathered was published in April 1930. Then a previously unpublished letter of Chases' was published in Star of the West 1930. Howard MacNutt, another very early Baháʼí, was photographed visiting the gravesite before his death in 1926. In 1930 a dinner was held for the poor commemorating his death followed by a talk on his life. A 5 page letter of Chase's was published in The Baháʼí World series for 1928–30, part of a major series of volumes covering world wide aspects of the religion, entitled Before Abraham was, I am; written in 1902 to a Christian. Further scholarly work on Chase appeared in a 1932 article which included several excerpts from letters and papers of Chase, and gathered materials were being sent to the national archives (and Hatch was perhaps on pilgrimage.) A letter to Chase from ʻAbdu'l-Bahá was central to a question of Baháʼí involvement in the political rights and responsibilities of being a citizen and a Baháʼí communicated specifically in 1933 and was further discussed at the convention and lead to a fuller clarification in 1934. Hatch held a meeting with African-Americans in August 1933 and there was the memorial meeting in September. In 1935 there were several actions remembering Chase:
 a personally owned copy of a book of Chase's was sold to raise money for the Baháʼí Fund,
 a Los Angeles area newsletter reproduced the notice of the first assembly-like institution in LA that elected Chase among the five members,
 more materials of Chases' were mentioned in the 1935 convention,
 and it was also established in 1935 that Chase was to be recognized as one of the Disciples of ʻAbdu'l-Bahá.

In 1937 at the memorial service it was clarified by official translation that the commemoration of visiting the gravesite was on the anniversary of the death of Chase. In 1938 some further materials Chase had had were given to the national archives of the Baháʼís including a seal and ring made with a gem given to him. The certificate from the State of California of the incorporation of the Los Angeles Spiritual Assembly updated in 1938 notes ʻAbdu'l-Bahá's visit to Chase's gravesite in 1912 and the annual memorial for Chase as part of its mandate. By 2005 it was noted the Bosches had donated 11 boxes of materials for the Chase collection of the US Baháʼí national archives. The 1944 Centenary of the religion was observed partially with a text The Baháʼí Centenary which included Chase's early history of the religion incorporated into a broader summary – uncredited, but noted in the second generation national Baháʼí newspaper, the Baháʼí News, that it was by Chase.