[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Watson Kirkconnell

red for active service on the Western Front. In November 1916, however, despite having been personally requested by Major P.G.C. Campbell and shortly before he was to be shipped overseas with the 253rd Battalion, Captain Kirkconnell was ruled unfit for combat duty by three successive Medical Boards.

A deeply disappointed Captain Watson Kirkconnell spent the rest of the war guarding POWs and civilian internees at Fort Henry and at Kapuskasing internment camp, both in rural Ontario. While serving as camp paymaster at Kapuskasing, Captain Watson Kirkconnell helped prevent a prisoner uprising and, on two occasions, he also discovered and foiled attempts to tunnel out of the camp.

During the fall of 1919, Captain Kirkconnell accompanied 445 POWs and internees from Fort Henry and Kapuskasing internment camp aboard the S.S. Pretorian, from Quebec City to Rotterdam, pending their repatriation to the Weimar Republic. Kirkconnell later recalled, after surrendering his prisoners to the neutral Dutch armed forces, "That they bore me no ill will for my performance at Fort Henry and Kapuskasing seemed clear when on the wharf my former prisoners called for, 'Three cheers for Captain Kirkconnell', and gave them lustily."

Despite years of grief over the combat death of his brother, Watson Kirkconnell later wrote, "Generally speaking, I could feel little animus against our German prisoners. Guarding them was simply a job. It was their duty to try to get away and our duty to prevent it. The ingenuity that they displayed in their attempts to escape was being duplicated by our men in German captivity."

Interwar period
Kirkconnell was first sworn into Freemasonry in Canada in December 1920 at the "Faithful Brethren" Lodge No. 77 in Lindsay, Ontario. He remained in "The Craft" for the rest of his life and even served as Grand Master of St. George's Lodge No. 20 of the York Rite in Wolfville, Nova Scotia, Kirkconnell later experienced some doubt about the organization, as his subsequent research made him realize that Freemasonry's legend of the murder of Hiram Abif is contradicted by the Antiquities of the Jews by Josephus. Kirkconnell later wrote, "I turned to books on the Craft itself, and found that most of its ritual lecture material was composed in England in the 18th century by Dr. James Anderson, Dr. J.T. Desaguliers, George Payne, and William Preston. I had grave reasons for suspecting that the Free and Accepted Masons were not much more 'ancient' than the establishment of Grand Lodge Masonry in London in 1717." 

However, Kirkconnell subsequently changed his mind about what he had formerly considered pseudohistory and, "passed from my early skepticism into a growing sense of the profound age of the Craft... There are elements in Masonry that are nearly as much older than Solomon as Solomon is older than Winston Churchill."

In 1922, Kirkconnell accepted the offer of a faculty position in the English Department at Wesley College. Kirkconnell taught English there for the eleven years, before switching to the Department of Classics for the next seven years. The experience for him proved life changing.

Like many other English-speaking Canadians of his class and generation, Kirkconnell had been brought up to believe in the racial superiority of White Anglo-Saxon Protestants. After he grew to adulthood, he accordingly opposed allowing any further non-British immigration into Canada. He also became passionately interested in the now discredited pseudosciences of scientific racism, Social Darwinism, and Eugenics. Kirkconnell read widely in all three subjects, and composed his own Nordicist tract predicting the imminent demise of the "Nordic race" in Ontario due to the increasing immigration of French-Canadians, Jews, and Slavic peoples. Although his racist writings remain largely unpublished, his eugenicist views were expounded in The International Aspects of Unemployment (1923), which called for the internment in labour camps and wholesale sterilization of disabled Canadians and all others deemed "unfit."

Kirkconnell's experiences, however, as a professor in the multiethnic and multilingual Manitoba city of Winnipeg exposed him to world literature, which caused him to begin questioning his views and making radical teaching innovations. For example, Kirkconnell believed that, not only the Icelandic sagas and the Elder Edda, but also the Old Irish Táin Bó Cúailnge and the Old Low German Heliand, "threw light on Beowulf, the Battle of Maldon, and the Caedmonian Genesis", and advocated teaching all of those texts together.