[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# DAM (band)

s, and letters so they can create three fictional characters that will be based on true stories. The song was supposed to be released with the album, but after the Palestinian prisoners' hunger strike, DAM decided to release the unfinished version to support the prisoners.

Musical Style and Impact 

DAM's musical style merges Western hip hop with traditional Palestinian musical influences, creating a distinct music genre that reflects their political message and identity. Rapping in both English and Arabic and even Hebrew, this fusion is further seen in their lyrics, which describe their experiences as Palestinians under occupation, their aspirations for social justice and human rights as well as their critiques of the society they live in.

While DAM was characterized early on as "young, angry, hardcore Palestinian Israeli youth straight out of Lyd's ghetto", they later took a different direction, "speaking to issues of racism and reconciliation with Israel", voiced in song lyrics such as: 

By 2012, DAM is said to have grown tired of their identification as a "resistance band", with its members instead seeking identities as mainstream commercial artists wanting to "move beyond the political hype" and "be known for their beats and verses". 

There has been almost no analysis of DAM's Hebrew songs or its position in Israeli society and culture, but the simplistic outline of a resistance narrative does not adequately reflect DAM's nuanced political and cultural stances and the multiple audiences it addresses.

Reception 

Because of the stance DAM has taken, the group has faced political pressure and censorship from Israeli authorities, who view their music as a threat to Israeli legitimacy. As a result, the rap group experienced difficulties in organising events and performances, Israeli authorities actively wanting to shut down these events over basis of inciting hate and unrest towards the Israeli state.

They have also faced backlash for their song "Mama I fell in love with a Jew", with a parodic music video where the rap group is in an elevator with an IDF soldier.

Their drawing on themes such as Arab violence and drug dealing have also drawn criticism from within the Arab community, which tends to avoid airing these problems in public.

Discography
Albums
Ihda' (2006)
Dabke on the Moon (2012)
Ben Haana Wa Maana (2019)

Together, these albums have earned DAM critical acclaim and helped make of this group a leading voice in Palestinian artistic resistance movements.

Contributing artist
The Rough Guide To Arabic Revolution (2013)

DAM in TV and cinema
(2002) Local angel (as DAM)
(2003) Channels of Rage by Anat Halachmi (as DAM)
(2007) Forgiveness (as DAM)
(2007) DAM – UK London by Eliot Manches (as DAM)
(2008) Slingshot Hip Hop by Jackie Salloum (as DAM and Suhell Nafar  as the narrator)
(2008) Salt of the sea by Annemarie Jacir (DAM's Song Shidu al Himme produced by K Salaam, and a Small part by Tamer Nafar as a waiter)
(2008) Where in the world is Osama Ben Laden? By Morgan Spurlock (In the soundtrack – Mali Huriye – I have no freedom song)
(2009) Checkpoint Rock – Songs for Palestine by Fermin Muguruza and Javier Corcuera (as DAM and Suhell Nafar  as the narrator)
(2010) Targeted citizen by Rahel Lea Jones (as DAM)
(2011) Habibi Rasak Kharban by Susan Youssef (Tamer & Suhell Nafar  in a small part as fishermen)
(2012) I'lam Media Center: I have the right! By Firas Khoury (Tamer Nafar as himself)
(2012) Yala on the Moon (Yala al Amar) by Jackie Salloum and Suhell Nafar  (DAM in the soundtrack and Tamer Nafar in a small part as a driver)
(2012) Art/Violence, a documentary by Udi Aloni,  Cinema Fairbindet Prize awarded in the Berlinale film festival 2012, DAM were part of the characters in the movie and their music video "If I Could Go Back in TIme-Law Arjaa bil Zaman" was used in the movie, as well Tamer Nafar was part of the Producers of the movie.
(2012) Insha'Allah a Canadian/French feature film directed by Anaïs Barbeau-Lavalette, the movie uses in one of the scenes 2 songs "Love us and Buy us - Hibuna Ishtruna ( from Ihdaa/Dedication) and the single "Targeted Citizen - Muwaten Mustahdaf"

Live Performances and Collaborations 

Many of DAM's live performances in Palestine and around the world have been in collaboration with other activist groups and artists in support of Palestinian resistance and culture. They are furthermore associated to other activist groups, advocating for the safety of Palestinian refugees and political prisoners.

Legacy and Influence 

DAM's music has been recognised as a powerful means to express Palestinian discontent and culture, spreading their message around the world. This group has inspired hope and change amongst the Palestinian resistance movement and general supporters of the Palestinian cause.

References

Citations

Sources

Further reading