[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Betts Galloway

87 for an International Indian Council that included representatives from eighteen tribes. Galloways wrote warmly and respectfully of the tribes, and was impressed with their government. He noted, "The speech by 'Poor Buffalo,' a Kiowa chief, impressed me as no other appeal I ever heard in my life."

During his 23 years as bishop, he presided over 123 annual conferences. He preached across the United States and visited field mission operations in Saudi Arabia, Ceylon (now Sri Lanka), China, Cuba, Egypt, England, France, Greece, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Korea, Mexico, Palestine, and Singapore. Sometimes he spent months in a country or held annual conferences, other times his stay was short—but he would always visit any mission in the area, regardless of denomination. As he traveled, he wrote letters that were published and widely read back in the United States. 

As a bishop, Galloway also preached to African-Americans whenever he could.  After overseeing the dedication of a new black church on a former plantation, he wrote an appeal for whites to financially support the construction of churches and schools for blacks. Although he also called for whites to teach in the black schools, Galloway believed in separatism.

Academic institutions 
Perhaps because of his conversion at college, one of his platforms as bishop was the importance of required religious education in colleges. In 1889, Galloway made the motion at an annual conference for the church to create a new college called Millsaps. Reuben Webster Millsaps offered land and a challenge gift of $50,000 to establish a Methodist college for men in Jackson, Mississippi; Galloway raised the matching $50,000. Galloway became president of the Board of Trustees of Millsaps College for the rest of his life. 

Around 1900, Galloway became chairman of the Board of Education of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. When Methodists in Arkansas expressed an interest in starting a church-run college for women, Galloway fully endorse the project—the result was Galloway College. He was also an effective advocate for the establishment of Hendrix College and Henderson-Brown College, both also in Arkansas.  

Later, he was president of the board of trustees for Vanderbilt University. He also served on the board of the John F. Slater Fund, a scholarship fund for African Americans

Honors 

 June 17, 1882, the University of Mississippi gave Galloway an honorary Doctor of Divinity. 
 Galloway received an honorary Doctor of Laws from Northwestern University in 1894, and from Tulane University in 1904.
 In 1889, a Methodist women's college was dedicated in his honor. Galloway Collage in Arkansas operated under that name until it merged with Hendrix College in 1933. 
 Hendrix College in Conway, Arkansas named a women's dormitory in his honor.
 The day of his funeral, all branches of federal, state, county, and local government in Mississippi remained closed. 
 In Jackson, Mississippi, Galloway Elementary School and Galloway Memorial Church were both named in his honor.

Publications 

 The Prohibition Handbook: Specially Designed for Circulation in the State of Mississippi (Jackson: Mississippi State Prohibition Executive Committee,1886)
 The Editor-Bishop, Linus Parker, His Life and Writings (Nashville: Publishing House Methodist Episcopal Church, 1886)
 A Circuit of the Globe (Nashville: Publishing House Methodist Episcopal Church, South,1895)
 Modern Missions:  Their Evidential Value (Nashville: Publishing House Methodist Episcopal Church, South, 1896)
 Eminent Methodists: Twelve Booklets in One Book (Nashville: Publishing House Methodist Episcopal Church, South,1897)
 Christianity in the American Commonwealth or, The Influence of Christianity in Making this Nation (Nashville: Publishing House Methodist Episcopal Church, South, 1898)
 The South and the Negro: An Address Delivered at the Seventh Annual Conference for Education in the South, Birmingham, Ala., April 26th, 1904 (New York: Southern Education Board, 1904)
 "Jefferson Davis, a Judicial Estimate; Address Delivered by Bishop Charles B. Galloway at the University of Mississippi, June 3, 1908". (Bulletin of the University of Mississippi,  Series VI, Supplement to No. 3, 1908)
 Great Men and Great Movements: A Volume of Addresses (Nashville: Publishing House Methodist Episcopal Church, South, 1914)

Personal 
Galloway became engaged to his future wife, Harriet E. Willis when they were thirteen and fourteen. However, they did not marry until September 1, 1869, on his 20th birthday. They had a son, E. S. Galloway, who attended Millsaps Collage and became a doctor in Jackson; he was also Secretary of the Mississippi State Board of Health.