[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Brussels Airlines

ls Airlines has been praised by the White House for continuing its normal flying operation to Western African countries during the Ebola outbreak, allowing essential aid to be delivered. All other airline companies, except Royal Air Maroc, suspended their flights to Sierra Leone, Liberia and Guinea.

On 22 March 2016, members of the terrorist organization ISIL detonated two bombs in Brussels Airport, closing the airport until Sunday, 27 March 2016. Brussels Airlines shifted some long haul flights to Zurich and Frankfurt and began Airbus A319/Avro RJ100 shuttle service between Liege/Antwerp and Zurich/Frankfurt, as well as providing contracted bus service from Brussels to Antwerp and Liege from where it served European destinations.

On 28 September 2016, the supervisory board of Lufthansa announced that the airline would exercise the option to acquire the remaining 55% of Brussels Airlines' parent company SN Airholding. The modalities would be defined before the end of the year to conclude the transaction at the beginning of 2017.

In March 2017, Thomas Cook announced its intention to sell its Belgian flight operations, Thomas Cook Airlines Belgium, which was shut down by November 2017 with two aircraft and all traffic rights being integrated into Brussels Airlines. Brussels Airlines took over the 160 Thomas Cook Airlines crew members.

In February 2018, CEO Bernard Gustin and financial director Jan De Raeymaeker resigned after a meeting with the Lufthansa board over the future of the airline. Gustin was replaced by Christina Foerster on 1 April 2018. On 1 May 2018, Dieter Vranckx joined the company as CFO.

In December 2019, it was announced that Dieter Vranckx will replace Christina Foerster as CEO of Brussels Airlines effective January 1, 2020.

During the COVID-19 pandemic in Belgium, Brussels Airlines suspended all flights from March 21 through April 19. Additionally, Brussels Airlines cancelled its wetlease contract with CityJet, leading to the termination of eight European destinations in the wake of the pandemic. At the end of June 2020, Brussels Airlines also announced that they were cancelling a number of flights scheduled for operation in September and October 2020. Like many airlines Brussels Airlines did not refund affected customers in line with Flight Compensation Regulation timelines during the COVID pandemic and encouraged passengers to take credit vouchers or flights on alternative dates instead.

In November 2021, Brussels Airlines announced a revision of their corporate design including a new logo.

Corporate affairs

Head office

The company is headquartered in the b.house (Building 26) in the General Aviation Zone on the grounds of Brussels Airport and in Diegem, Machelen, Flemish Brabant.

Ownership and structure
Brussels Airlines is the operating name of Brussels Airlines SA/NV (previously Delta Air Transport SA/NV) which has its registered office in Elsene-Ixelles, Brussels.

Brussels Airlines is almost 100% owned by SN Airholding SA/NV (1,811,308 shares out of 1,811,309), a Belgian holding company. Lufthansa owns 100% of SN Airholding SA/NV, having taken control of the remaining shares it did not own effective January 2017.

Dieter Vranckx has been the CEO since 1 January 2020. The executive committee consists of Dieter Vranckx (CEO & CCO) and Edi Wolfensberger (COO). Dieter Vranckx was previously the CFO of the company.

Business trends 
Limited information on Brussels Airlines appears to be published by the company or the Lufthansa Group. However, accounts for all Belgian companies must be filed with the National Bank of Belgium, and key trends over recent years are shown below (for years ending 31 December):

Destinations

Alliances
Brussels Airlines is a member of Star Alliance.

Codeshare agreements
Brussels Airlines codeshares with the following airlines:

 Aegean Airlines
 Aeroflot
 Africa World Airlines 
 airBaltic
 Air Canada
 Air Malta
 All Nippon Airways
 Asiana Airlines
 Austrian Airlines
 Cathay Pacific
 Croatia Airlines
 Egyptair
 Etihad Airways
 Eurowings
 Hainan Airlines
 Lufthansa
 Royal Air Maroc
 Singapore Airlines
 Swiss International Air Lines
 TAAG Angola Airlines
 TAP Air Portugal
 TAROM
 Thai Airways International
 United Airlines
In October 2019, Brussels Airlines and Africa World Airlines announced an interline agreement to better connect passengers traveling through their respective hubs in Accra and Brussels.

In December 2019, Brussels Airlines and Aeroflot announced a code-share agreement in effect January 20, 2020 between Moscow-Sheremetyevo and Brussels.

Fleet

Current fleet
, Brussels Airlines operates an all-Airbus fleet, composed of the following aircraft:

Fleet development
Brussels Airlines previously operated six British Aerospace 146s which were withdrawn in 2008.