[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yad Sarah

s are available to transport persons in wheelchairs to doctor's appointments, Yad Sarah center activities, social occasions, or errands. These vans also bring disabled individuals to and from polling places on election day. Yad Sarah provides airport pick-up and return for disabled tourists as well.

National emergency alarm system
Yad Sarah introduced the first emergency alarm response service in Israel. Thousands of Israelis have been supplied with alarm transmitters which they can mount on their wall or wear on their wrist, connecting them with Yad Sarah's 24-hour emergency response center. Following payment of a token fee, the transmitters are lent for an unlimited period of time and are installed, repaired and serviced by volunteers free of charge. Yad Sarah has installed its alarm transmitters in kindergartens and nursery schools free of charge, to provide contact in the event of a terrorist attack.

Services for the homebound
Meals on wheels: Yad Sarah provides cooked, frozen meals through a catering company and delivers them to the home for a nominal fee.
Laundry service: Volunteers pick up soiled linens and bedclothes from the homes of incontinent individuals, wash and iron them, and return them. This service is available in Israel's three major cities for a nominal fee.
Home repairs: Volunteers with mobile workshops perform home repairs for the elderly and housebound, collecting a token fee for parts.
Home visits: Yad Sarah volunteers visit elderly and homebound individuals on a weekly basis to engage them in handicrafts, computer instruction, taping and typing of life stories, and wheelchair outings.

Legal aid for the elderly
Lawyers, social workers, and legal and social-work students volunteer their expertise to draft wills, mediate property and landlord issues, mediate family disputes, advise on insurance rights and pensions, and advocate in cases of elder abuse, all at low cost. This service, overseen by Yad Riva within the auspices of Yad Sarah, also makes house calls.

Geriatric dentistry
Yad Sarah's dental clinic is one of the few in the world specializing in geriatric dentistry. Volunteer dental surgeons, certified hygienists, and dental students provide treatment at the Jerusalem headquarters as well as in a mobile clinic that visits the elderly at home or in old age homes. On average, patients pay 70% of the cost price of dental treatment, and Yad Sarah subsidizes the remainder.

Day rehabilitation centers
Yad Sarah operates Day Rehabilitation Centers in Jerusalem, Rishon LeZion, Beer Sheba, Ra'anana and Netanya. These centers, designed to help adults recover and restore independent functioning, offer activities such as art therapy, music, horticulture, and holiday parties. Participants arrive in wheelchairs, with crutches or walkers, or in Yad Sarah vans. Yad Sarah also operates a fitness center and a computer center for individuals with disabilities.

Children's services
The Yad Sarah Play Center in Jerusalem supplements the therapeutic process for children with mild to moderate developmental delays. Professionally trained volunteers guide children aged 3 to 12 in five play rooms, including a "noisy" activity room for children with coordination difficulties, a "quiet" activity room for youth with attention deficit disorders, a game room, an imagination room with costumes and props, a creativity room with arts-and-crafts supplies, and a computer room with interactive games and puzzles. Parents attend orientation workshops and accompany their child each week so they can learn new ways to play with the child at home. A morning program provides information and skills to parents of infants and toddlers with mild to severe developmental disabilities.

Yad Sarah dispatches a mobile lending library throughout the country which lends special toys, games and books to disabled children.

Retirement club
The Golden Age Club is an education and recreation program for retirees. Volunteers lead classes in language studies, arts and crafts, folk dancing, and Tai Chai, as well as offer podiatry, manicure, pedicure and reflexology. Participants can purchase discount tickets to theaters, concerts, and exhibitions. The club maintains a cafeteria which sells light meals, snacks and coffee, plus pre-cooked, frozen meals, at nominal cost.

Volunteers

Volunteers are of all ages and backgrounds, including different socioeconomic sectors and cultural and religious backgrounds. They include retirees and moderately disabled persons. While women usually dominate the volunteer field, fully 35% of the volunteer staff is male. Lupolianski, the founder and president of Yad Sarah, is also a volunteer. He still runs one of the equipment-lending branches in his home.

In addition to Yad Sarah's regular volunteers, students, bar and bat mitzvah groups, and other visitors to Israel often lend a hand at the wheelchair-repair center in Jerusalem.