[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Morocco–United States Free Trade Agreement

Also, expanding business with the U.S. "broadens and diversifies" the trade options for Morocco and opens up opportunities for technology transfer and "commercial know-how". Further, if U.S. companies decide to open plants in Morocco, this will create job opportunities and boost domestic employment.

While there has been a lot of favorable press about the USMFTA, not all consider it a sound agreement. Most notably, in Morocco, there has been concern regarding the reduction in tariffs for agricultural products and the increase in intellectual property and patent standards. The reduction of tariffs on agricultural products to zero threatens domestic farms and employment. With approximately 40–50% of the Moroccan workforce in agriculture, the fall-out of the USMFTA is of great concern. In addition, Moroccan pharmaceutical companies have voiced concerns over increased penalties for intellectual property and patent violations. The industry says these penalties could "undermine access to cheap medicines" for Moroccans.

See more
Rules of Origin
Market access
Free-trade area
Tariffs

References

External links
 Morocco FTA's official website
 USTR Site on Morocco FTA, including pact's final text
 Citizens' Trade Campaign Site on Morocco FTA
Proclamation by President George W. Bush to Implement the Morocco FTA
President's Message to the United States Congress on Morocco FTA
 Congressional Research Service Report on the Morocco FTA
 U.S. International Trade Commission Report on Morocco FTA
 U.S. International Trade Commission Report on 2005 Modifications to the Morocco FTA
U.S. Senate Finance Committee Hearing on Morocco FTA
U.S. House Ways and Means Committee Hearing on Morocco FTA
Testimony on Morocco FTA of David Hamod, National U.S.-Arab Chamber of Commerce

Economy of Morocco
Free trade agreements of the United States
Treaties of Morocco
Treaties concluded in 2004
Treaties entered into force in 2006
Morocco–United States relations