[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Trade Knowledge Network

The Trade Knowledge Network (TKN) is the collaboration of research institutions in developed and developing countries located in Africa, Asia, Europe and the Americas. The Trade Knowledge Network is aimed at building long-term capacity to address issues of trade and sustainable development in developing country research institutions, non-governmental organizations and governments through increased awareness, knowledge and understanding of the issues. The Trade Knowledge Network is not to be confused with the Trade Knowledge Exchange (TKE), a network of 6 organisations providing expert analysis on the key issues around the post-Brexit trade environment in the UK and globally.

Objective
TKN is composed of research and policy institutions in Africa, Asia, Europe, North and South America that are exploring the connection between trade and sustainable development and working to ensure that increased international trade can contribute to sustainable development in their countries and regions. The goal of the Trade Knowledge Network is to foster long-term capacity to address the complex issues of trade and sustainable development in partner-country research institutions, governments and the wider policy community, including business, academia, and environment and development NGOs.

The Trade Knowledge Network has four inter-related objectives to achieve this goal:

To produce objective, high quality, country- and region-specific policy and thematic research on trade policy and practice issues that present challenges or opportunities for achieving sustainable development in developing countries;
To inform and engage trade policy-makers and promote dialogue among stakeholders to incorporate sustainable development into trade negotiations, policy promulgation and trade practice;
To build the capacity of TKN Partner organizations to integrate sustainable development priorities into trade policy and practice through demand-driven training; South-South and North-South joint and cooperative research and policy engagement activities; and exchange and placement of young researchers and interns at TKN Partner organizations; and
To facilitate through the Trade Knowledge Network, its partners and among broader audiences globally, exchange of information, best policy and practice on trade and sustainable development.

Structure
The Trade Knowledge Network is managed collaboratively by the International Institute for Sustainable Development (Canada) and the International Centre for Trade and Sustainable Development (Switzerland).

Representatives of TKN partner institutions met at an inception meeting in 2000 and will hold a wrap-up meeting at a conference featuring the dissemination of research results. Partners communicate with each other on an ongoing basis primarily through the network's electronic mailing list.

Partner institutions selected the TKN research topics based on what was most relevant for their specific countries and regions. The research focuses on large economic sectors or sectors that have the potential to promote sustainable development.

Published opinions are solely those of the authors and are intended to stimulate focused discussion on issues of trade and sustainable development.

The Trade Knowledge Network gives members to opportunity and resources to explore trade issues that are important to national and regional development and to examine these through the lens of sustainable development. The research provides important capacity building opportunities that will enable decision-makers and policy-makers to incorporate sustainable development issues into national trade and development policy.

TKN is supported by the Rockefeller Foundation; the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs; the International Development Research Centre (IDRC); the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC); and the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA).

Members
Trade Knowledge Network has 20 member institutions located in eight countries: Argentina, Bangladesh, China, Chile, Costa Rica, Pakistan, South Africa and Vietnam.