[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# African Union Mission to Somalia

inistry of Youth and Sports headquarters wounding one Somali intelligence official.
 On 30 July five soldiers were killed by a car bomb near a security checkpoint on Maka al Mukarama Street.
 On 30 July a joint SNA/Ugandan convoy was ambushed at Goryowein in the Lower Shabelle region, some 140 km southwest of Mogadishu, as they patrolled the Mogadishu–Barawe road, a major supply route for forward bases.  Reports of casualties varied but Uganda admitted to losing 12 soldiers with another seven wounded in the attack.
 On 31 July a Somali intelligence official was targeted by an IED attached to his car. The official and two civilians were wounded.
 During August al-Shabaab released a video showing the murder of a Kenyan soldier, Leonard Maingi, who had been captured in January 2016 when the Kenyan base at El Adde was overrun by al-Shebaab.
 On 4 August four people were killed and six others wounded in a car bomb targeting The Ambassador Hotel on Maka al Mukarama Street.
 On 10 August a suicide bomber was stopped at a security checkpoint on Maka al Mukarama Street.  The bomber escaped but the bomb later detonated, killing one civilian and wounding three others.
 On 14 August an IED fitted under a taxi killed at least one person near the Jazeera Palace Hotel.
 On 27 August a car bomb detonated injuring two people on Maka al Mukarama Street.
 On 11 September a car bomb killed one person and injured four others near a cafe and hotel on Maka al Mukarama Street.
 On 20 September a Somali intelligence official was assassinated when a bomb on his car exploded in Mogadishu.
 On 24 September Somali General Abdullahi Mohamed Sheikh Qururuh and his bodyguard were assassinated by gunmen in Mogadishu.
 On 28 September a car bomb outside a restaurant killed seven people.
 On 29 September Somali sources reported 30 people — 12 soldiers and 18 insurgents — killed in an al-Shebaab attack on an SNA base in Barire, 47 km southwest of Mogadishu.  al-Shebaab sources reported 30 government soldiers killed and 11 vehicles captured by them.
 On 14 October a large vehicle-borne explosive device detonated at a busy crossroads in Mogadishu, killing at least 300 people. While al-Shebaab did not claim responsibility for this attack it was widely believed to have been the work of this terrorist group.
 On 25 October a Ugandan soldier and two civilians were reported killed by al-Shebaab insurgents in an ambush on the outskirts of Mogadishu which also left four terrorists dead.
 On 28 October five al-Shabaab terrorists detonated a car bomb outside a Mogadishu hotel before assaulting the building and killing civilians.  Up to 23 people were killed, along with two of the terrorists, before Somali security forces were able to end the attack.  Three surviving terrorists were captured. A second suicide car bomb detonated near the former Parliament house.