[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004

Signed into U.S. law by President George W. Bush on October 18, 2004, the North Korean Human Rights Act was intended to promote human rights and freedom of North Korean refugees by:
Providing humanitarian assistance to North Koreans inside North Korea;
Providing grants to private, non-profit organizations to promote human rights, democracy, rule of law, and the development of a market economy in North Korea;
Increasing the availability of information inside North Korea;
Providing humanitarian or legal assistance to North Koreans who have fled North Korea.

Background 
The North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004 passed the U.S. Senate on September 28, 2004, after a lengthy amendment process, and, with no further changes, passed the U.S. House of Representatives on October 4. It was signed by President Bush on October 18, 2004.

According to a statement released by the White House on October 21, 2004, the "Act provides [the U.S.] with useful new tools to address the deplorable human rights situation in North Korea by focusing [U.S.] efforts to help both those who flee the regime and those who are trapped inside the country."

According to a March 23, 2004, House resolution, the intent of the Act is "[t]o promote human rights and freedom in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, and for other purposes."

The Act earmarked $24 million a year and made North Koreans eligible for political asylum in the U.S.

The Act contains several statutes about promoting the Human Rights of North Koreans, assisting North Koreans in need, and protecting North Korean Refugees. Some are listed as following:
Sec. 102. support for human rights and democracy programs, Sec. 105. United Nations Commission on Human Rights, Sec. 107. special envoy on human rights in North Korea, Sec. 202(a) Humanitarian assistance through Nongovernmental and International Organizations.

Sec. 302. Eligibility for refugee or asylum consideration  
Sec. 302(a) of the Act states that the purpose of the Act "is not intended in any way to prejudice whatever rights to citizenship North Koreans may enjoy under the Constitution of the Republic of Korea."  However, interesting and potentially significant wording found in Sec. 302(b) states that "a national of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea shall not be considered a national of the Republic of Korea."  Previously, North Koreans had been treated as citizens of South Korea.

On September 23, 2008, the U.S. Congress extended the Act for four more years.  The North Korean Human Rights Reauthorization Act of 2008 was signed by President Bush on October 7, 2008. There were some revisions in this newest iteration of the Act, including elevating the post of U.S. special envoy on North Korean human rights to full ambassador while halving the funding for programs to promote human rights to $2 million from the initial $4 million.

History of the North Korean Human Rights Act 
The North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004 was originally sponsored by U.S. Senator Sam Brownback in response to "one of the worst human rights disasters in the world."

According to the Department of United States, the Government of North Korea is "a dictatorship under the absolute rule of Kim Jong Il" that continues to commit numerous, serious human rights abuses.

A large diaspora of refugees began fleeing North Korea in the mid-1990s due to ongoing privation, intermittent starvation, and political repression. Some have been resettled to South Korea, the United States, and other countries, but a large, unknown number remain in China and other East Asian nations.

Although not stated, but according to Brownback, the Act "calls on the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) to demand access to North Korean refugees in China, and urges heightened diplomatic pressure on China to reverse its policy of capturing and repatriating North Korean refugees.  China must stop turning a blind eye to the suffering, persecution and execution of the citizens of its neighbor."  

Despite China's obligations as a party to the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees and the 1967 Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees, China forcibly returns North Korean refugees back to North Korea where they face torture and imprisonment, and execution.

Implementation 
The law established an office at the State Department focused on North Korean human rights. It 
(1) authorized up to $20 million for each of the fiscal years 2005-2008 for assistance to North Korean refugees, $2 million for promoting human rights and democracy in North Korea and $2 million to promote freedom of information inside North Korea. 
(2) asserted that North Koreans are eligible for U.S. refugee status and instructs the State Department to facilitate the submission of applications by North Koreans seeking protection as refugees; and
(3) required the President to appoint a Special Envoy to promote human rights in North Korea.