[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Recognition of same-sex unions in Israel

tion agreement included "a clear commitment to advance the rights of the LGBT community in Israel" and "recognize the status of unmarried couples, including partners of the same sex, as married". The previous government included some far-right, Orthodox Jewish parties which oppose same-sex marriage.

Likud: The party has not taken an official position on the issue. Individual Likud members, such as Limor Livnat, Sharren Haskel, Tzachi Hanegbi, Gila Gamliel, Orly Levy-Abekasis, and Miri Regev, have expressed support for LGBT rights, and one of the party's members, Amir Ohana, the Speaker of the Knesset, is openly gay. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has not stated a position on same-sex marriage, though he has expressed support for LGBT rights. On the electoral compass devised by Kieskompas for the 2015 election, Likud was categorized as "Tend to agree" with the statement "Same-sex marriage should be legalized". Some Likud members, including Fateen Mulla and Shlomo Karhi, oppose same-sex marriage.
Yesh Atid: The party supports same-sex marriage, and the establishment of civil marriage in Israel. Party leader Yair Lapid strongly supports both. In a survey conducted by Channel 13 ahead of the 2022 elections, 16 of the 17 Yesh Atid MKs said they supported same-sex marriage, with one MK, Elazar Stern, declining to comment.
Shas: Although the party is consistently conservative on matters of religion and state, Shas MK Ya'akov Margi told Jewish Pluralism Watch, in response to its question on LGBT rights, that "Israeli citizens' rights cannot be neglected, no matter what they think and how they behave in their personal lives". In September 2017, Shas MK Yigal Guetta resigned from the Knesset under pressure from rabbis after attending the marriage of his gay nephew.
Blue and White: The political alliance supports LGBT rights. Ahead of the September 2019 election, MK Yair Lapid stated that the alliance would legalize same-sex marriage if it was elected to government. In a survey conducted by Channel 13 ahead of the 2022 elections, 7 of the 8 Blue and White MKs said they supported same-sex marriage, with one MK, Mufid Mari, declining to comment.
Yisrael Beiteinu: Although the party is a supporter of civil marriage in general, it has not taken a clear position on the subject of LGBT rights. On the electoral compass devised by Kieskompas for the 2015 election, Yisrael Beiteinu was categorized as "Tend to disagree" with the statement "Same-sex marriage should be legalized". Party leader Avigdor Lieberman expressed his support for same-sex marriage in 2022.
United Torah Judaism: The party opposes same-sex marriage, and LGBT rights in general.
Religious Zionist Party: The party is socially conservative, and opposes civil marriage and the recognition of same-sex relationships.
Israeli Labor Party: The party supports same-sex marriage. In 2019, the Labor Party made the legalization of same-sex marriage a condition for joining a coalition government. All 4 Labor MKs support same-sex marriage.
Meretz: The party supports same-sex marriage. Leader Tamar Zandberg reiterated the party's support ahead of the April 2019 election. The party's leader from 2019 to 2022, Nitzan Horowitz, is openly gay. In a survey conducted by Channel 13 ahead of the 2022 elections, 5 of the 6 Meretz MKs said they supported same-sex marriage, with one MK, Ghaida Rinawie Zoabi, declining to comment.
Hadash–Ta'al: Although the alliance has no official stance on LGBT rights, leader Ayman Odeh has expressed support for same-sex marriage. Hadash, one of the parties forming the alliance, explicitly supports same-sex marriage.
New Hope: In a survey conducted by Channel 13 ahead of the 2022 elections, 4 of the 5 New Hope MKs said they supported same-sex marriage, with one MK declining to comment.
United Arab List: The party is socially conservative, and opposes LGBT rights.
The Jewish Home: The party opposes same-sex marriage on religious grounds, but is in favor of extending certain rights, such as tax breaks, to same-sex couples.

After U.S. President Barack Obama's endorsement of same-sex marriage in May 2012, Opposition Leader Shelly Yachimovich, Vice Prime Minister Moshe Ya'alon, and many other ministers and parliament members of both the coalition and opposition announced that they agreed. Former President Shimon Peres also expressed his support in 2013. In February 2013, Tel Aviv Mayor Ron Huldai expressed his support for same-sex marriage. In May 2015, following Ireland's legalization of same-sex marriage by popular vote, Huldai reiterated his support, calling on the Knesset to act.

Meretz and Hadash have long had LGBT divisions. In 2009, Kadima became the first major party of the center to establish an LGBT division, and Labor and Likud soon followed suit. Yesh Atid also has an LGBT division.