[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Loomis Gang

as the acknowledged brains of the outfit. Despite increased pressure from people such as Roscoe Conkling, the Loomis Gang continued operations very much as before, until 1865. They took advantage of the American Civil War in various ways, mainly by large-scale horse theft for sale to the Union Army.

In 1865, things rapidly came to a head. Many men from the area were veterans of the Union Army, and four years of war had made them less willing to yield to the gang's intimidation and bullying. A mob attacked the Loomis farm under the direction of James Filkins, a blacksmith and outspoken opponent of the gang, who had become the constable of Sangerfield; in the conflict, Wash Loomis was killed. At first, the gang tried to carry on as before, but people had lost much of their fear of the outlaws' power. In 1866, another mob attacked their farm, burning the house and half-hanging Amos "Plumb" Loomis, in retaliation for depredations that had been laid at their door. After that, the Loomises went downhill fast; they lost their farm to tax arrears and faded into obscurity. Rhoda, Denio, and Cornelia spent their final years at Hastings, New York. With Denio, their home was on U S Route 11, across from the Bardeen one-room schoolhouse.

Legacy
The Loomis family descendants may be found in Central New York to this day. Many are proud of their descent from what was, in its time, the largest family criminal syndicate in the United States.

A legend in the neighborhood of their farm is that Wash Loomis' last words predicted violent death to any non-Loomis person who tried to own their farm.  Other legends speak of Wash Loomis' ghost appearing, portending death to someone, and of spectral horsemen riding the roads on October nights for revelry where the Loomis farm once stood.

George Washington Loomis, through the influence of his wife, Rhoda Marie Mallet, was considered to have disgraced the entire Loomis family in America, by that time quite large. Virtually every relative for the next hundred years took great pains to distance themselves and their own families from the highly distasteful matter.

The poet Ezra Loomis Pound was descended from the Loomis family and supposedly changed his name from Loomis to Weston, his mother's name, to distance himself from the criminal gang.

References

Frontier Justice: The Rise and Fall of the Loomis Gang by E. Fuller Torrey, MD
The Loomis Gang by George W. Walter.
The New York Sun, History of the Loomis Gang - http://www.watervillepl.org/files/2013/05/LoomisGang1877.pdf
Loomis Family History, by Norman R. Cowen - 

Outlaw gangs in the United States
Gangs in New York (state)