[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Neil Danns

the 7th tier.

Coaching career
After spending half a season as interim Player-manager at Macclesfield during the 2022–2023 season, in which he won the Northern Premier League Division One West, Danns left at the end of the season to become assistant Manager at Tranmere Rovers.

International career

Danns was called up by Guyana for friendlies against Grenada and Saint Lucia in March 2015. He qualifies for the team via his grandfather. He made his debut against Grenada on 29 March, setting up both goals in a 2–0 victory. After missing the first leg of the 2018 World Cup qualifier against Saint Vincent and the Grenadines because his Guyanese passport did not come through in time, Danns scored twice in the June 2015 second leg, which finished as a 4–4 draw, but his country lost out on away goals.

Danns scored in a 2–2 draw with Barbados in a 2019–20 CONCACAF Nations League qualifier, which doubled as a qualifying tournament for the CONCACAF Gold Cup. He captained the national side and scored their goal in a 2–1 defeat to French Guiana on 20 November that put them out of contention for Gold Cup qualification. However, CONCACAF awarded Guyana a 3–0 win against Barbados, who had fielded ineligible players, which meant that beating Belize in the final qualifier would be enough to see Guyana through to the Gold Cup for the first time in their history. Danns scored the opening goal from the penalty spot, and later missed a second penalty, as Guyana won 2–1.

Danns was named in Guyana's squad for the 2019 CONCACAF Gold Cup, played in all three group matches and scored all three of his country's goals. In the second match, he converted two penalties in a 4–2 loss to Panama that eliminated Guyana from the tournament, and in the third, after "dribbling from the left corner of the 18-yard box, Danns cut inside and curled a right-footer off the underside of the crossbar near the top right corner" in a 1–1 draw with Trinidad and Tobago. He was named in the group stage Best XI.

In June 2023 Danns was named to Guyana's 23-man squad for the 2023 CONCACAF Gold Cup qualification tournament.

Career statistics

Club

International goals
Scores and results list Guyana's goal tally first.

Managerial

Personal life

Danns was born in Liverpool, the son of Neil and Karen Danns. Neil senior was a backing singer on the UK's entry in the 1987 Eurovision Song Contest as well as a European title-winning skateboarder. Danns grew up in Toxteth, a difficult neighbourhood, and credited his parents for maintaining discipline and keeping him from involvement in crime. He has three children; the eldest, Jayden, has been a member of the academy at Liverpool F.C., the club which Danns supported as a boy.

In 2010, Danns took a video editing and production course at the London Academy of Media, Film and TV. He was reported to be about to release a single, but did not. His music interests and career were featured in BBC Sport's The Football League Show in February 2010. He is a regular user of Twitter.

Honours

Player
Blackburn Rovers
FA Youth Cup runner-up: 2000–01
Colchester United
Football League One runner-up: 2005–06
Birmingham City
Football League Championship runner-up: 2006–07
Blackpool
EFL League Two play-offs: 2017
Bury
EFL League Two runner-up: 2018–19
Connah's Quay Nomads
Cymru Premier: 2020–21
Macclesfield
North West Counties Football League Premier Division: 2021–22
Northern Premier League Division One West: 2022–23

Individual
PFA Team of the Year: 2005–06 League One

Manager
Macclesfield
Northern Premier League Division One West: 2022–23

References

External links
Official Website

1982 births
Living people
Footballers from Liverpool
Men's association football midfielders
Guyanese men's footballers
Guyana men's international footballers
English men's footballers
Blackburn Rovers F.C. players
Blackpool F.C. players
Hartlepool United F.C. players
Colchester United F.C. players
Birmingham City F.C. players
Crystal Palace F.C. players
Leicester City F.C. players
Bristol City F.C. players
Huddersfield Town A.F.C. players
Bolton Wanderers F.C. players
Bury F.C. players
Tranmere Rovers F.C. players
Radcliffe F.C. players
FC Halifax Town players
Connah's Quay Nomads F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
Northern Premier League players
National League (English football) players
Cymru Premier players
2019 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
English people of Guyanese descent
Macclesfield F.C. players
Black British sportsmen
North West Counties Football League players
Macclesfield F.C. managers
Northern Premier League managers
Tranmere Rovers F.C. non-playing staff