[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John Hill (game designer)

eld, a new set of regimental rules for Civil War battles, as well as two supplements, The War in the East, and The War in the West.

Hill was a frequent contributor to the Johnny Reb Gaming Society's popular CHARGE! magazine, offering rules interpretations and strategy advice for Johnny Reb players.

Awards and legacy
At the 1978 Origins  Awards, Hill's game Squad Leader received a Charles S. Roberts Award in the category "Best Tactical Game of 1977". 

The following year, at the 1979 Origins Awards, Hill was inducted into the Charles Roberts Awards Hall of Fame.

J P. Hunerwadel commented in 2001 that "John Hill's Squad Leader ... helped fuel the great board-war-game boom of the late seventies."

Johnny Reb was chosen for inclusion in the 2007 book Hobby Games: The 100 Best. Game designer Dana Lombardy commented, "John Hill's Civil War miniatures rules remain innovative, challenging, and lots of fun, a claim supported by the game's loyal fan support. Clubs still stage Johnny Reb sessions at conventions around the world, more than 20 years after the rules were introduced."

Personal life
Hill married Luella Burton in 1969, and the couple raised a daughter. After spending many years in Northern Virginia,  where he also served as a military analyst for the U.S. Government, Hill retired to New Mexico.

Hill died on January 12, 2015, at Christus St. Vincent Hospital in Santa Fe, New Mexico.

References

External links
 A Legacy to John Hill: Across a Deadly Field
 John Evans Hill Obituary in the Santa Fe, New Mexican newspaper
 John Hill's game designs
 Wargame Academy webpage for Squad Leader
  The Johnny Reb Gaming Society / CHARGE! magazine
 Johnny Reb 3
 John Hill at BGG
John Hill Memorial Garden Railroad Diorama

Board game designers
Artists from Santa Fe, New Mexico
People from Santa Fe, New Mexico
People from Elmhurst, Illinois
People from Chicago
People of the Central Intelligence Agency
1945 births
2015 deaths