[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Bradford Bypass

highway.
However, the office of Minister Mulroney stated that "it is not our intention to toll this highway".
Funding was committed to the project as part of the fall economic statement on November1, 2021.

In November 2022, construction on the project began with work on the Yonge Street interchange

Perspectives 
Construction of the highway is supported by the provincial government, the upper-tier governments of York Region and Simcoe County,
and the local municipalities of Bradford West Gwillimbury, East Gwillimbury, Georgina, Innisfil, King and Newmarket.
It is also supported by the Holland Marsh Growers Association and local businesses.
, Liberal and  candidates for the riding of York—Simcoe all publicly supported the highway during the 2018 provincial election campaign,
with Liberal leader Steven Del Duca stating in 2021 that support from locals means that the highway proposal is worth consideration.
A 2016 survey commissioned by the Town of Bradford West Gwillimbury showed that 85% of residents support construction of the Bradford Bypass, with stronger support among those familiar with the proposal.
Claimed benefits of the bypass would include removing through traffic from nearby rural roads and urban areas,
reduced congestion, improved air quality, and the potential revitalisation of downtown Bradford.

Environmental groups including Environmental Defence Canada, the Rescue Lake Simcoe Coalition and Simcoe County Greenbelt Coalition oppose the highway, criticising the impact it would have on the environment. In addition to increasing air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions, opponents claim the highway would disrupt woodlands, provincially significant wetlands, the Lake Simcoe watershed, wildlife habitats and species at risk.
The highway has also historically been criticised for its potential impact on the Holland Marsh and the Holland River.
According to the 1997 , it would cause severe water quality impacts in the Lake Simcoe watershed, with further studies required if the project was proceeded with.
The groups contend that there was "no climate change impact assessment required, no study of the impact on migratory birds or fish habitat, and no... archeological study" conducted as part of the .
They have also criticised the 32year timeframe since the need for and alternatives to the project were last assessed, the changes in circumstances since then, the potential for urban sprawl along the highway, and a claim that the bypass would save drivers only "60 to 80seconds" of journey time.

Archaeologists, historians, and Indigenous groups are also concerned about the threat the bypass would pose to the Lower Landing, a nationally significant historic site thought to be located along the proposed route. The Lower Landing was a key meeting place on the route connecting Lake Ontario to Lake Huron, and had been used for centuries by Indigenous peoples, explorers, fur traders, settlers, and soldiers travelling between the lower and upper Great Lakes prior to the mid-1800s.
Indigenous groups and heritage advocates are concerned that construction of the proposed bypass would irreversibly destroy the site before it can be properly investigated.  

Local municipalities and the provincial government have pushed back on environmental concerns, noting that the  will be updated to take into account existing and new federal & provincial legislation and standards.
The , meanwhile, contends that the route would result in "10 to 35 minutes of travel time saved each way."

Exit list 
The following table lists the proposed locations for interchanges along the Bradford Bypass contained within the MTO review.

Notes

References

External links 

 Official project website
 Government of Ontario page on the Highway 400 – Highway 404 Extension Link (Bradford Bypass)
 Information about the proposal from the Town of East Gwillimbury

Roads in Simcoe County
Roads in the Regional Municipality of York
Proposed roads in Canada