[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hepatitis B in China

to predict recurrence and metastasis, and the development of new drugs for HCC, to increase the rate of early diagnosis by more than 20% and 5-year survival by more than 5%. The fight against HBV and its related disorders is now thought of as a long-term one by the health authorities.

Social impact

Discrimination
People with Hepatitis B in China frequently face discrimination in all aspects of life and work. For example, many Chinese employers and universities refuse to accept anyone who tests positive. Some kindergartens refuse admission to children who are carriers of the virus. The hepatitis problem is a reflection of the vast developmental gap between China's rural and urban areas. The largest problem facing Chinese people infected with HBV is that illegal blood testing is required by most employers in China. According to a report by PBS, faking blood tests by hiring uninfected individuals to take them has become widespread. Following an incident involving a Hepatitis B carrier's killing of an employer and other calls against discriminatory employment practices, China's ministries of health and personnel announced that Hepatitis B carriers must not be discriminated against when seeking employment and education. While the laws exist to protect the privacy of employees and job seekers, many believe that they are not enforced.

"In the Hepatitis B Camp"
"In the Hepatitis B Camp" is a popular website for hepatitis B carriers' human rights in China. Its online forum is the world's biggest such forum with over 300,000 members. The website was first shut down by the Chinese government in November 2007. Lu Jun, the head of the rights group, managed to reopen the website by moving it to an overseas server, but the authorities in May 2008 began blocking access to the website within China, only 10 days after government officials participated in an event for World Hepatitis Day at the Great Wall of China. An official had told the head of the rights group, Lu Jun, at the time that the closure was due to the Beijing Olympic Games.

See also
 Jade Ribbon Campaign
 HIV/AIDS in the People's Republic of China
 Hepatitis
 Public health in the People's Republic of China
 Tuberculosis in China

References

External links
 WHO: China—World Health Organization Country Profile
 WHO: China Office—World Health Organization China Office
  乙肝·论坛·乙肝病毒携带者的网上家园-肝胆相照—"In the Hepatitis Camp"
  Hepatitis B Carriers BBS—"In the Hepatitis Camp"

Health in China
Hepatitis B