[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Polícia de Segurança Pública

e shield across the windscreen and Federal Signal front push bumper).

Vehicle appearance
PSP vehicles have some lack of uniform appearance due to the successive introduction of new liveries which however are usually only applied to new vehicles, with the existing ones keeping the original old ones.

The most recent livery for the PSP vehicles was introduced in 2014. The basic version of this livery consists in a white body with diagonal blue stripes, the wording "POLÍCIA" (police) in blue sans-serif lettering in the sides, rear and bonnet and a logo with the national colors on the front side panels. For the traffic patrol vehicles there is a variant, which intermediates red stripes with the blue ones and has the wording "TRÂNSITO" (transit) on the rear side panels. Another variant of the livery is its negative version (blue, with the stripes and wording in white) to be applied in vans and special vehicles. The three variants have been applied to most of the vehicles acquired after 2014. However, other vehicles carry older or not standard liveries, namely the 2004 livery (similar to the 2014 livery, but with the wording "POLICIA" in serif letters - which are inclined in the sides - and the PSP coat of arms instead of the national colors logo), the 1991 livery (blue body with doors, trunk and bonnet in white and crossed by red stripes), the 1979 livery (blue body with white front doors), the all blue body (used by most of the vans and special vehicles) and several special police programs (Safe School, Tourism support, etc.) liveries.

A restored Volkswagen Beetle historical patrol car - kept for use in ceremonies and exhibitions - is anachronistically painted with the 1979-1991 livery, instead of the original livery used by the PSP in the 1960s and 1970s, which consisted in a blue body and grey mudguards, with the word "POLÍCIA" on the doors.

Vehicles photos

Equipment

 Handguns
 : Glock 17 
 : Glock 19 - Standard issue sidearm
 : Heckler and Koch USP Compact 
 : SIG Sauer GSR - chambered in the .45 ACP
 : SIG Sauer SP 2022
 : Walther P99
 : Desert Eagle in .357 Magnum

 Shotguns
 : Fabarm SDASS Tactical
 : Benelli M3
 : Benelli M4

 Submachine guns
 : Beretta M12
 : FN P90
 : HK MP5
 : HK UMP45

 Less Lethal
 : FN 303

 Rifles
 : H&K 416A5
 : H&K G36
 : H&K G36C
 : SIG Sauer MCX
 : Accuracy International Arctic Warfare
 : Accuracy International AXMC

See also
 Polícia Judiciária - Portuguese criminal investigation police
 Guarda Nacional Republicana (GNR) - Portuguese gendarmerie force
 Foreigners and Borders Service - Portuguese border and immigration police
 Serviço de Informações de Segurança - Portuguese internal security intelligence agency
 Autoridade de Segurança Alimentar e Económica - Portuguese food and economical police
 Guarda Fiscal - Former Portuguese customs guard
 Polícia Internacional e de Defesa do Estado (PIDE) - Former Portuguese border, migration, political and state security police

References

External links 

Official website

Law enforcement agencies of Portugal
Portugal