[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Shiv Chopra

influence convinced Chopra that Health Canada was Corrupt to the Core - Memoirs of a Health Canada Whistleblower, the title of the autobiography. One aspect of his whistleblowing was flagging obstructions to advancement, which he grieved and sued. The major conflict was approval of unsafe products:

As a whistleblower has a daunting task of standing up to an institution, Chopra demonstrated the importance of documentation and public relations. Some family background and the wedding with Nirmala fill the first chapter, but most of 295 pages of text recount bureaucratic battling. The names and positions of 120 interlocutors in government are listed (pages 323-6). An appendix gives 20 pages of reproductions of key correspondence. Furthermore, Chopra lists 59 print media reports, 11 radio or television shows, and a bibliography of media sources, special reports, books and letters. Prefaces to the autobiography were supplied by Maude Barlow and MP Paul Dewar.

Five Pillars of Food Safety
In an epilogue, Chopra recounts a trip to Powell River, British Columbia, where he met with organic farmers. He experienced an epiphany while speaking to them. He summarized his expression in this declaration:

Since people in any country might aspire to such protection, Chopra stated, "Canada is a key country in which to launch such an action." (page 295) Chopra acknowledged assistance from The Council of Canadians to spread the word for food safety.

Awards and honors
On November 14, 2011, Chopra, Haydon and Lambert became the first recipients of the Canadian Journalists for Free Expression Integrity Award, in recognition of their role as "individuals who acted courageously in the public interest without thought of personal gain, and in doing so risked reprisals in the form of threats to their careers, livelihood, or personal freedom."

Film appearances
 2003: The Corporation 
 2005: Frankensteer 
 2008: Homo toxicus 
 2008: The World According to Monsanto 
 2009: The Idiot Cycle 
 2012: Seeds of Death: Unveiling the Lies of GMOs

See also 
 Canadian Human Rights Commission

References

External links
 

1933 births
2018 deaths
Canadian microbiologists
Canadian activists
Canadian whistleblowers
Indian emigrants to Canada
Anti-Indian sentiment in North America
McGill University Faculty of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences alumni
People from Kapurthala