[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

the country. When a woman started to burn an Israeli flag at one such rally in San Francisco, police rushed toward her and then other demonstrators joined the fracas, resulting in one arrest. A counter protest of a few hundred people was organized by San Francisco Voice for Israel in San Francisco.

In Los Angeles, 6,000 to 10,000 (some sources say 6,000-8,000, many say 10,000) demonstrated in support of Israel and against Hezbollah, waving Israeli and American flags. The pro-Israel rally included Hollywood actor and California Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger, Los Angeles Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa, Councilman Jack Weiss, Congressman Howard Berman (D), County Supervisor Zev Yaroslavsky, Wiesenthal Institute Head Rabbi Marvin Hier, Israeli General Consul Ehud Danoch, candidate for Calif. State Assembly Steven Sion (R), various rabbis and heads of Christian churches. A counter-rally of Arab Muslims waving Palestinian and Lebanese flags was on the opposite side of the street and numbered about 100. Large police forces guarded the area and streets and prevented Arab Hizbullah/Hamas supporters from entering the demonstration. The governor stated at the rally, "All of California stands by Israel in its just struggle against extremist Islamic terror organizations who oppose all peace arrangements." The speakers at the rally harshly condemned Hizbullah, Hamas, Iran and Syria, and stressed Israel's right to self-defense. Later, at a conference with ten rabbis from various parts of California including David Wolpe, Governor Schwarzenegger said he attended the rally in part because he had never heard an Israeli leader call for the destruction of an Arab or Muslim nation, which he could not say the same about Arab and Muslim leaders of countries.

A demonstration of about 1,000 in San Francisco in support of Israel was attended by Senator Dianne Feinstein, and Arab-American writer Nonie Darwish. Feinstein stated "Hezbollah, Damascus, Tehran could end this now with the release all of Israeli soldiers and by stopping the rocket attacks on Israeli communities," and said the groups have a greater agenda. Darwish received a loud applause after stating: "What is disproportionate is the indifferent reaction of the international community whenever Israel is attacked by terrorists!" Todd Chretien and Marsha Feinland of the smaller Green Party and Peace and Freedom Party who were running against Feinstein had a small group of supporters opposing the pro-Israel rally.

In Baltimore, Maryland, over 700 people arrived in Baltimore's Holocaust Memorial to show solidarity with Israel. Governor Robert Ehrlich, Mayor Martin O'Malley, and Congressman Ben Cardin were a few of the politicians who spoke. (See here for pictures from the Baltimore rally.)

Seattle Jewish Federation shooting - Naveed Afzal Haq (a Pakistani American) walked into the Jewish Federation of Greater Seattle building and shouted "I'm a Muslim American; I'm angry at Israel" before shooting six women, killing one.

19 July 2006, Delaware Senator Joe Biden (D) said in an interview on Larry King Live that the conflict "may be a real opportunity to change the dynamic of the region... This is the first time that everyone's on the same page.

"Not only are the Hezbollah holding Israeli soldiers hostage, but they're holding Lebanon hostage. Half the Lebanese people are angry at Hezbollah. The whole Sunni world understands this is a major gambit by Iran.

"France and the European countries are united in this effort. And so, if we're smart, we have an opportunity to use this as a very serious uniting effort to close down Syria and put inordinate pressure on Hezbollah."
KING: Is Hezbollah the prime villain?
BIDEN: Absolutely, positively, unequivocally...

ABC News/Washington Post Poll.  3–6 August 2006. N=1,002 adults in the US. MoE ± 3 (for all adults). 46% said Israel and Hezbollah are both responsible for the conflict in Lebanon, 39% said Hezbollah is most to blame, while only 7% said Israel is; 6% were unsure, and 1% felt otherwise. The same poll found that 58% blamed Hezbollah for the civilian casualties in Lebanon for locating its fighters and rocket launchers in civilian areas, while 21% blame Israel for bombing Hezbollah targets those areas; 10% both, 9% unsure, and 2% felt neither were to blame.
A worldwide online poll conducted by Bill O'Reilly and sponsored by MSNDirect.com in August 2006 found that of the over 50,000 voters (majority American), 96% say that Israel should not negotiate with Hezbollah or their demands. Only 4 percent said yes.
In a full-page ad published in the Los Angeles Times, The Hollywood Reporter, and the Variety
Nicole Kidman along with 84 other Hollywood people signed their names on what read:

"We the undersigned are pained and devastated by the civilian casualties in Israel and Lebanon caused by terrorist actions initiated by terrorist organisations such as Hezbollah and Hamas.