[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 38]
# List of smoking bans in the United States

surface area. It does not include casinos run by American Indian tribes, as those casinos are in the tribes' sovereign territory. Local governments may not regulate smoking more strictly than the Act. Prior to this law taking effect, several localities in Wisconsin had local smoking bans in effect.

Wyoming
 No statewide smoking ban. Instead, Wyoming state law only prohibits smoking where it could cause an explosion and in underground mines. Wyoming has no state laws concerning indoor smoking in general, and thus local governments can regulate general indoor smoking as they see fit. As of July 2017, seven cities in Wyoming have enacted local smoking bans, all covering restaurants, but varying otherwise.
Localities in Wyoming with a smoking ban that includes all bars and restaurants (6 total):
Burlington, October 9, 2008, banned in all enclosed workplaces, including bars and restaurants
Casper, November 4, 2015, banned in bars and restaurants, but not other workplaces 
Cheyenne, August 15, 2006, banned in all bars and restaurants, but not in all other workplaces; ban includes private clubs
Evanston, September 4, 2007, banned in all bars and restaurants, but not in all other workplaces
Laramie, April 6, 2005, banned in all bars and restaurants, but not in all other workplaces; ban includes private clubs
Mountain View, June 1, 2011, banned in all enclosed workplaces, including bars and restaurants
Localities in Wyoming with a smoking ban that does not include all bars and restaurants (1 total):
Rock Springs, March 1, 2008, banned in all restaurants, but not bars, private clubs, and other workplaces

See also
 Alcohol laws of the United States by state
 Electronic cigarette
 List of smoke-free colleges and universities
 List of smoking bans worldwide
 List of vaping bans in the United States
 Smokeasy
 Smoking ban
 Smoking in the United States
 Tobacco control

References

Further reading
 Reid, Roddey. Globalizing tobacco control: Anti-smoking campaigns in California, France, and Japan (Indiana University Press, 2005) online

External links

 "State Smoke-Free Indoor Air Fact Sheet", U.S. Centers for Disease Control, December 31, 2008
 "Smokefree Lists, Maps, and Data", Americans for Nonsmokers' Rights
 State-Specific No Smoking Sign Regulations
 State Smoking Laws
 "Short Chronological History of Cigarette"

Bans
Tobacco control
States of the United States law-related lists
United States environment-related lists
Smoking bans