[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# All-Polish Youth

The All-Polish Youth () refers to two inter-linked Polish far-right ultranationalist youth organizations, with a Catholic-nationalist philosophy. Its agenda declares that its aim is "to raise Polish youth in a Catholic and patriotic spirit".

The inter-war incarnation was created in 1922 as part of the National Democracy movement, and was modelled after the inter-war fascist movement Falanga. During World War II it operated underground and was clamped down on the break of 1945/1946 by the Communist authorities.

The present incarnation was created on December 2, 1989. Its manifesto from 1989 states that "one's country is the greatest earthly good. After God, your foremost love belongs to the Homeland, and foremost after God you must serve your own country," and declares itself opposed to "doctrines promoting liberalism, tolerance, and relativism.

The All-Polish Youth was affiliated with the League of Polish Families (2001-2006), but was never officially its youth wing. In the 21st century it has been a fierce opponent of LGBT rights leading it to be widely condemned as homophobic by various organisations.

The All-Polish Youth has strong alliance with National Movement party, but is independent and not part of this party.

Term "All-Polish"
The term all-Polish was coined by Jan Ludwik Popławski and was synonymous to Polish nationalism as a whole. It signified the struggle to unite Poland into one country (as its territory had been partitioned and seized by the Habsburg monarchy, the Kingdom of Prussia, and the Russian Empire and the country did not formally exist for 123 years). It also emphasized the importance of relations within the nation, as well as the equal status of all citizens with Polish nationality, regardless of their social and economic backgrounds.

Inter-war All-Polish Youth 

The organisation, properly the Academic Union "All-Polish Youth" (Związek Akademicki "Młodzież Wszechpolska"), was founded in 1922 as an ideological youth organisation with a strong nationalist sentiment, and was the largest student organisation in the Second Polish Republic. The Founding Convention of the All-Polish youth took place in March 1922, with Roman Dmowski being selected honorary chairman.

The term "All-Polish" is intended to represent a desire to unify all Polish lands, and accentuate national ties and the equality of all people of Polish origin regardless of their wealth or social status. The idea for creating the organization occurred when Poland was partitioned and not officially on the world map, therefore it aimed to unite Poles from all three partitions. In the inter-war period, members of the organisation participated actively in academic life, and became the heads of many student organisations. The All-Polish Youth was the largest student organization in Poland during the 1930s. The goals of the organization were mainly focused on three issues:
 Defending the autonomy of universities against centralising forces of the government
 Campaigning for lower tuition fees
 Limitation of non-Polish, especially Jewish students, from higher education

All-Polish Youth was the least radical of organizations of the National Democracy camp. Nevertheless, some of its members praised Mussolini and his Italian fascism for its hardline stances towards the left and realisation of "national revolution". Part of the members, including Jędrzej Giertych, also praised Hitler's Germany economical changes, but understood that it is with the contradiction with Polish national interests and changed his views a year after NSDAP obtained power in Germany. According to Jan Mosdorf, a pre-war chairman of All-Polish Youth who was murdered in Auschwitz, the organization was against fascists and Hitlerites. Some Members of the All-Polish Youth also praised authoritarian regimes of the Mediterranean, Salazar's Portugal and Franco's Spain.

They also favoured economically boycotting the Jews and limiting their access to higher education (numerus clausus). The All-Polish Youth also actively campaigned for ghetto benches, segregated seating for Jewish students.

Modern days 

The modern incarnation of the All-Polish Youth was founded in Poznań in 1989, on the initiative of Roman Giertych, the former leader of the League of Polish Families (LPR). Continuing the tradition of its precursors,   the organisation maintains its aim of raising youth with their ideology, and operates across all of Poland, working with high-school and university students. Following the incident, Leokadia Wiącek was expelled from All-Polish Youth, and the League of Polish Families cut ties with the group. As it was later determined, during the private party Leokodia Wącek was not a member of the organisation and the main Polish television channel Telewizja Polska apologized to All-Polish Youth for accusing them of neo-nazi connotations.