[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Elmer Wayne Henley

tand to testify in his own defense, although one of his attorneys, Will Gray, did cross examine a number of witnesses. On more than 300 occasions, Henley's attorneys raised objections to the testimony given or evidence presented against Henley which was overruled by the judge presiding at his trial.

On July 16, 1974, after hearing closing arguments from both prosecution and defense, the jury retired to consider their verdict. After one hour of deliberation they reached their conclusion: Henley was found guilty and sentenced to six consecutive 99-year terms of imprisonment. On July 25, Henley and his attorneys filed an appeal, contending that Henley had been denied an evidentiary hearing; that the jury had not been sequestered; that a motion to move the initial trial away from San Antonio had also been denied and that the presence of news media in the courtroom had also prejudiced his trial.

Appeal 
Henley's conviction was overturned on appeal on December 20, 1978.  He was tried for a second time in June 1979 and was again convicted of six murders and again sentenced to six life terms although to run concurrently rather than consecutively.

Elmer Wayne Henley first became eligible for parole on July 8, 1980; on this occasion—and each successive parole hearing to date—he has been denied parole. Henley's next eligible parole date is October 2025 when he will be 69 years old.

Henley is incarcerated in the Stiles Unit in Jefferson County.

David Brooks 
David Brooks was tried for the June 1973 murder of Billy Ray Lawrence in February 1975. He was convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment on March 4. Brooks died of COVID-19 complications in May 2020.

Art 
In 1994, at the suggestion of a Louisiana art dealer, Henley began to paint as a hobby, in part as a means of generating income for himself and his mother.

In interviews, Henley has stated that he suffers from a severe color deficiency in his eyesight that makes it impossible for him to clearly distinguish between reds and greens. To compensate, any people Henley paints are in black and white while his other works are usually in color. Henley refuses to paint or draw any images of a violent or exploitative nature: many of his works depict serene imagery such as landscapes, buildings and flowers and the majority being created using acrylics and graphite.

A pen pal with whom Henley has corresponded has also organized several exhibitions of his artwork. In 1997, the Hyde Park Gallery in Houston's Neartown area hosted Henley's first art show. This exhibition drew outrage from some victims' relatives. In 1999 the city of Houston expressed interest in building a monument to victims of violent crime, which Henley said he would be willing to help pay for with part of the proceeds from a second art show.

Media

Film 
 A film loosely inspired by the Houston Mass Murders, Freak Out, was released in 2003.
 Production of a film directly based upon the Houston Mass Murders, In a Madman's World, finished in 2014. Directed by Josh Vargas, In a Madman's World is directly based upon Elmer Wayne Henley's life before, during, and immediately after his involvement with Dean Corll and David Brooks. Limited edition copies of the film were released in 2017.

Bibliography 
 Christian, Kimberly (2015). Horror in the Heights: The True Story of The Houston Mass Murders. CreateSpace. .
 Gurwell, John K. (1974). Mass Murder in Houston. Cordovan Press.
 Hanna, David (1975). Harvest of Horror: Mass Murder in Houston. Belmont Tower.
 
 Rosewood, Jack (2015). Dean Corll: The True Story of The Houston Mass Murders. CreateSpace .

Television 
 A 1982 documentary, The Killing of America, features a section devoted to the Houston Mass Murders.
 FactualTV host a documentary focusing upon the murders committed by Corll and his accomplices. Dr. Sharon Derrick is among those interviewed for the documentary.
 The Investigation Discovery channel has broadcast a documentary focusing upon the Houston Mass Murders within their documentary series, Most Evil. This documentary, entitled "Manipulators", was first broadcast in December 2014.
 Episode 4 of Season 2 of the 2017 Netflix series Mindhunter follows a storyline involving interviews with Henley (portrayed by Robert Aramayo), centered around his involvement with Corll and the Houston Mass Murders.

Music 
 Australian band The Mark of Cain included a sample of Henley's confession to his mother over the phone on their 1989 album Battlesick; it is at the start of the song "You Are Alone."

See also 
 List of serial killers in the United States
 List of serial killers by number of victims

Notes

References