[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Judge Rotenberg Educational Center

es were irrelevant. In response, another group of researchers founded the Association for the Education and Treatment of the Severely and Profoundly Handicapped (AESEPH; later renamed TASH) in 1974, which distinguished itself through its opposition to the use of aversives and involuntary commitment.

In 1967, Matthew Israel founded the Association for Social Design (ASD) in Arlington, Massachusetts, based off of the utopian society described in B. F. Skinner's Walden Two. Israel had studied under Skinner at Harvard and would base his methodology at the ASD and later programs off of the work of Skinner and JABA. The ASD and a successor commune disbanded by 1970, after which Israel moved to Providence, Rhode Island, where he ran programs at the Patrick I. O'Rourke Children's Center and the Emma Pendleton Bradley Hospital. In 1971, when federal funding for his program at the O'Rourke Children's Center ran out, Israel established the Behavior Research Institute (BRI) at the Fogarty Center. Israel also established the Behavior Research Institute Camp in 1972 at Matthew Rossi's private home on Prudence Island; the camp initially housed two adolescents, one with autism and one with schizophrenia (Rossi's son). Rossi later wrote in 1976 that Israel's treatment provided no benefit for his son, alleged that he created "miserable situations", and accused Israel of manipulating other parents.

In February 1973, after several months of study, the Human Rights Committee of the Rhode Island Planning and Advisory Council on Developmental Disabilities published a report on the BRI raising concerns over the institute's unchecked usage of aversives. However, Massachusetts family court judge Michael DeCiantis ruled that the Massachusetts Department of Mental Health continue to pay the institute's $16,000 tuition, stating that he was particularly impressed by the institute's before-and-after videos. In response to allegations of abuse in the Human Rights Committee report, Rhode Island Mental Health Services for Children and Youth asked a team of ABA researchers led by Richard B. Stuart to conduct site visits to the BRI. In opposition to the Human Rights Committee, Stuart's team praised the BRI, reporting that it was effectively ran and well conceived, but recommended better oversight over the institute's usage of corporal punishment.

After the BRI raised its tuition in 1976, the state of Rhode Island transferred all eleven children attending the institute with funding from the Rhode Island Division of Mental Health to the Behavioral Development Center in Providence. The Behavioral Development Center was run by June Groden, who had previously collaborated with Israel, but separated after disagreements over educational practices and the use of aversives. In June 1978, June Ciric wrote to Rhode Island Governor J. Joseph Garrahy criticizing the state's decision to license the institution and alleging cases of child abuse and death at the institute. In response, the state governments of Massachusetts and New Jersey both investigated the institution, but concluded that while Ciric's son had been hospitalized as a result of the institute's handcuffs, the allegations of abuse were unsubstantiated.

Expansion to California (1975–1981) 
On June 17, 1975, the California Society for Autistic Children (CSAC; chapter of the National Society for Autistic Children), working with the North Los Angeles County Regional Center (NLCRC), passed a resolution providing three months of funding for a California branch of the BRI, despite objections from both the National Society for Autistic Children (NSAC) and the CSAC Los Angeles chapter. However, in November, the board of trustees of the NLCRC unanimously voted to withdraw its support for the BRI after it learned that BRI advocates had sent over 300 unauthorized telegrams to the manager of the Community Services Division of the California Department of Health. Despite these objections, the California branch opened in Van Nuys in 1976 as a cooperative owned by parents (as opposed to by the NLCRC), with Judith Weber serving as the corporation's executive director.

Israel opened the California branch of the BRI without a license to operate a group home, without a license to practice psychology in the state of California, and without a license to use aversives. The institute used aversives on residents there nonetheless. When the institute applied for a license to operate in 1977, the California Department of Health rejected the application, citing lack of meaningful peer review and the unnecessary use of painful aversives. The department also found that there was insufficient evidence to show that Israel was "reputable and responsible" and that he had the ability to comply with regulations. Without a license, the center was scheduled to shut down.