[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Search for Common Ground

a that debuted in Nepal in 2015. The show tells the story of Aasha Singh, the fictional first female Prime Minister of Nepal, played by Nepali star Gauri Malla. Over 25 percent of the Nepali population watched the show, which showcased female leadership, positive gender roles, and democratic values.

Studio Ijambo (Burundi) 
In 1994, the Rwandan genocide left 800,000 people dead and raised fears that violence would spread to neighboring Burundi. Search for Common Ground created Studio Ijambo as an independent radio station staffed by a mix of Hutus and Tutsis and promoting reconciliation through news programs and soap operas. In 2016, Secretary of State John Kerry credited Search with averting genocide in the country.

Talking Drum Studios (Liberia and Sierra Leone) 
Violent conflict plagued Liberia and Sierra Leone in the 1990s and early 2000s, with children often used as soldiers. In the aftermath, Search for Common Ground established Talking Drum Studios to foster healing, democracy, and peace. An especially popular program was Golden Kids News, which trained children as journalists. One participant was Michael Sambola, who became a famous investigative journalist and produced Gud Mornin Salone, the most popular radio program in Sierra Leone.

Structure
Search for Common Ground is headquartered in Washington, DC, and Brussels, Belgium, although over 90 percent of staff are based in other country offices. Search offices reflect the social divides that they seek to bridge, with staff recruited across ethnic, racial, and political lines and 89 percent of staff working in their home country.

John Marks led Search from 1982 to 2014, when Shamil Idriss became President and CEO. Search’s budget and portfolio has expanded steadily across decades, with net assets at $90.5 million in 2020. The organization has received funding from over 65 foundations and non-profit organizations, 14 governments, and 15 multilateral institutions.

See also
Conflict resolution
Conflict resolution research
Cost of conflict

References

Dispute resolution
International non-profit organizations
Charities based in Washington, D.C.
Peace organizations based in the United States