[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Greg Tansey

venage, Tansey made sixty-two appearances and scored nine times.

Inverness CT return
On 17 January 2014, Tansey re-signed for Inverness Caledonian Thistle on an 18-month deal. Upon returning to Inverness, Tansey stated that he rejoined the club because of his motivation to help them play in Europe.

After a substitute appearance against Aberdeen, he made his starting debut against Hearts in the League Cup semi-final where he opened the scoring with a thunderous 25-yard-strike. In the quarter-final of the Scottish Cup, in a 5–0 loss to Dundee United, Tansey was sent-off after lunging at Paul Paton. After being suspended for the game against Hibernian, it was confirmed that Tansey was eligible to play in the final of the Scottish League Cup. In the final against Aberdeen, Tansey played the whole 90 minutes plus extra time before the game eventually reached a penalty shoot-out. Aberdeen won the match and the Cup after Tansey, along with Billy McKay, missed their penalties in the shoot-out. Tansey scored his first league goal, of his second spell at Inverness, in a 2–2 draw against St Mirren on 29 March 2014. He then scored his second goal in the last game of the season, a 2–0 win over St Johnstone. On his return to Inverness CT's second spell, Tansey made twenty-one appearances and scored three times in all competitions.

At the start of the 2014–15 season, Tansey was a regular starter for the first team, operating in central midfield. He scored his first goal of the campaign during a 2–0 win over Motherwell. Two weeks later on 16 August 2014, Tansey scored his second goal of the season, in a 2–0 win over Kilmarnock. Two months later on 18 October 2014, Tansey's third goal of the season, in a 1–0 win over St Mirren. Tansey then scored from a penalty spot in the fourth round replay of Scottish Cup, in a 4–1 win over St Mirren on 2 December 2014. At the beginning of January 2015, Tansey signed an extension to his contract, keeping him at Inverness until the end of May 2017. Tansey scored three goals during February, starting the first one was against Partick Thistle in the fifth round of Scottish Cup, St Mirren and Dundee United. In the semi-final of Scottish Cup against Celtic, Tansey scored from the penalty spot to equalise after Craig Gordon was sent-off, as Inverness beat them 3–2 to put them through to their first ever Scottish Cup final. Tansey also played a vital to help the club qualify for the Europa League after finishing third when he provided assist for Edward Ofere to score the winning goal to guarantee European football for the first time. Tansey played as a centre-midfielder position in the Scottish Cup Final, as Inverness CT won 2–1 against Falkirk to win their first ever Scottish Cup Final. In his first full season at the club since his return, Tansey made 42 appearances and scored eight times in all competitions. Reflecting on winning the Scottish Cup, Tansey said: "The semi-final against Celtic was off the charts and then winning the Scottish Cup and playing in Europe."

In the 2015–16 season, Tansey played in both legs of the second qualifying round in the Europa League, as Inverness CT lose 1–0 on aggregate against Astra Giurgiu. At the start of the season, Tansey suffered an injury and had to be substituted during a 2–0 loss against Hamilton Academical on 22 August 2015. Following an assessment on his injury, he managed to recover and returned to the starting line-up, in a 1–1 draw against Dundee on 29 August 2015. Since the start of the season, Tansey continued to regain his first team place, playing in the midfield position. It wasn't until on 27 October 2015 when he scored his first goal of the season, in a 2–1 win over local rivals' Ross County. This was followed up by scoring in the next two matches against Dundee and Motherwell. Between 26 December 2015 and 2 January 2016, Tansey went on a scoring spree when he scored against Aberdeen, twice against Hamilton Academical and Ross County. He later two more goals later in the 2015–16 season. Despite missing two matches during the 2015–16 season, Tansey went on to make forty–five appearances and scoring nine times in all competitions.