[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# University Hospital Hairmyres

well spent the remainder of his stay writing, walking in the grounds and playing croquet. In July 1947 he returned to his rented house on Jura but his health gradually deteriorated and he moved to a sanatorium in the Cotswolds and died in January 1950 in University College Hospital, London, aged 46.

Post war
On 5 July 1948 Hairmyres Hospital was transferred to the Western Regional Hospital Board, one of five regional boards created in Scotland under the National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1947. In the years following the war, there was little investment in hospital buildings in Britain. Plans to upgrade Hairmyres to District General Hospital status were shelved. By 1950 the number of beds had fallen to 450, about two-thirds of the number envisaged in the 1945 survey. The New Town of East Kilbride was established in 1947 within  of Hairmyres Hospital, creating an increasing demand. The 1966 Lanarkshire Hospital Development Plan proposed two district hospitals in Lanarkshire, one in Motherwell and the other in Airdrie. There were no major development plans for Hairmyres. However, the hospital was to continue to have acute admitting facilities with "a functional relationship" with a Glasgow teaching hospital. This dependence was felt to be unsatisfactory by staff. Hairmyres had to wait until the establishment of Lanarkshire Health Board before any major redevelopment could begin.

On 1 April 1974 the National Health Service (Scotland) Act 1972 created fifteen new health boards in place of regional boards, hospital boards of management, executive councils and local government health authorities. Over the following years, the new Lanarkshire Health Board transformed the status of Hairmyres to the advantage of the local community. During the 1970s, 80s and 90s they invested in both staff and facilities. An increase in specialisation meant patients no longer had to travel to one of the Glasgow teaching hospitals for treatment. The board opened a new gymnasium, new clinical laboratories, a cardiac investigation and a bronchoscopy unit.

On 1 April 1994 Hairmyres Hospital acquired trust status and the redevelopment of the hospital on the ground behind the Nurses' Home began. The Hospital was totally rebuilt into a modern purpose built District General Hospital, with special expertise in Respiratory and Cardiac Care, and an expanded day-care/ambulatory surgery service.  It has also built up new services, including Cardiac Catheterisation, Psychiatry and Elderly care.

A new hospital, to be known as the University Hospital Hairmyres but known simply as "Hairmyres" by local residents, was procured under a private finance initiative contract in 1998. The new hospital buildings were built by the Kier Group at a cost of £67.5 million. Building work began in May 1998 and completed by February 2001. Services were moved into the new building in March 2001 and the hospital officially opened by Henry McLeish in September 2001.

In April 2006 NHS Lanarkshire issued its 'Picture of Health' document suggested the downgrading to two consultant-led A&E departments, with a choice between Monklands Hospital and Hairmyres Hospital for downgrading. The level two hospital would have a nurse-led Minor Injuries Unit, along with planned surgery, full diagnostic/outpatient services and general medicine. Eventually, Monklands was earmarked for downgrading. This would have resulted in NHS Lanarkshire having consultant-led accident and emergency departments only at Wishaw General Hospital and Hairmyres Hospital in East Kilbride.

The decision to downgrade was widely criticised, with the former Home Secretary, John Reid MP, voicing his disapproval of the plans. In September 2006, the plan was approved by Lewis MacDonald, Deputy Health and Community Care minister. In May 2007, the Labour administration lost out to the Scottish National Party in the 2007 Scottish Parliament election and the decision was overturned by the new Cabinet Secretary for Health and Wellbeing, Nicola Sturgeon. She demanded that NHS Lanarkshire find a way of keeping three fully functioning consultant-led A+E departments in Lanarkshire. In 2009 NHS Lanarkshire developed seven possible combinations of keeping three A+E departments open; these were subsequently delivered for public scrutiny.

In November 2017, NHS Lanarkshire renamed all three acute hospitals in the local area to reflect their new university teaching status.

Services
The hospital serves patients in the South Lanarkshire catchment area. It is one of three acute hospitals in NHS Lanarkshire. The hospital has 492 inpatient beds and 20 day beds, employing 2500 members of staff. Services include 24-hour Accident and Emergency, General Medicine, Oncology, Psychiatry, Care of the Elderly, General Surgery, Orthopaedics, and Vascular Surgery.

References

External links