[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Project Protector

d relieve the pressure on the Anzacs, improved inshore patrol capabilities (either through a new ship class or upgrades to the existing Moa class patrol boats), and a multi-role sealift ship. The aim was to bring all three projects under a unified umbrella, administered by a single prime contractor.

In July 2002, the New Zealand government sent details of Project Protector to 60 shipbuilders and ship design companies, and invited submissions from interested parties. Six companies were selected from the 21 responses received by the 13 September 2002 deadline: BAE Systems (partnering with Austal and Appledore Shipbuilders), Blohm + Voss, DSA (a collaboration between Damen Shipyards, Schelde Shipbuilding, and Australian Defence Industries), Singapore Technologies Marine, Tenix Defence, and Vosper Thornycroft Shipbuilding. On 26 May 2003, these six were invited to submit more detailed proposals, and were given until 31 October 2003 to respond.

Evaluation was predicted to be completed by early 2004, with a contract awarded by mid-2004. Tenix Defence was identified as the best supplier in April 2004, and the contract between the Ministry of Defence and Tenix was signed on 29 July 2004. The project was predicted in 2003 to cost NZ$500 million. Project Protector was the most complex project ever undertaken by New Zealand, with three ship classes (plus embarked small craft) under construction across three nations. All three ships were to be built to commercial standards, and maintained like commercial vessels. In order to operate the new ships, the RNZN had to recruit and train an additional 245 personnel.

All seven ships were planned to enter service across 2007. However, by August 2008, only the sealift ship  had entered service, and that had occurred six months behind schedule. The entry into service date for the six patrol boats was pushed back to the end of 2008. Further delays meant that the last Project Protector vessel did not enter service until mid-2010. In early 2010, the RNZN received a NZ$86.4 million settlement from BAE Systems Australia (which had acquired Tenix in 2008) as compensation for the delayed entry-into-service dates of the seven ships, along with defects in the sealift ship design, problems including a 100-ton displacement increase in the offshore patrol vessels, and other issues across the project.

Sealift ship

Project Protector called for a multi-role vessel with a tactical sealift capability, which would be used throughout the South Pacific region for disaster and humanitarian relief, peace support, military support, and development assistance support. The vessel would also serve as the RNZN's primary at-sea training ship after the frigate Canterbury was decommissioned. A limited patrol and response capability was also desired. The RNZN had previously tried to establish a sealift capability with the acquisition of  in the mid-1990s, but attempts to convert the former roll-on/roll-off freighter were unsuccessful, and the ship was decommissioned in 2001.

The ship had to be available for 160 days at sea per year, plus another 130 days berthed but available for deployment. She had to be capable of transporting a New Zealand Army heavy company and its equipment (identified in the initial proposal as 250 personnel, 315 lane metres of vehicles, and 33 TEU of equipment and stores), and be able to transfer the personnel and equipment between the ship and shore. The vessel had to embark and operate one SH-2G Super Seasprite, and be fitted with aviation facilities capable of operating two Cougar-size helicopters or one Chinook-size helicopter. Although the review called for the ship to be armed with a  gun, the 2003 request for proposals stipulated a  gun; this would help keep the project within the NZ$500 million budget, and provide ammunition commonality with the M242 Bushmaster fitted to the Army's LAV III infantry fighting vehicle.

The multi-role vessel  was the first ship completed under Project Protector. Based on , a commercial roll-on/roll-off ferry, Canterbury has a displacement of , a top speed of , and a range of . The vessel is capable of transporting 250 troops, up to 40 vehicles in 403 lane metres of space, 33 ISO 20-foot containers (including eight dedicated ammunition containers) and 20 NATO pallets of supplies. Loading is performed wharfside through stern and side access ramps, or via two  cranes. Two  landing craft medium (LCM) are carried by Canterbury for situations where wharf unloading is unavailable; these can be launched and recovered via the cranes, while "marriage blocks" and "flippers" help the LCMs dock with the stern ramp. One Super Seasprite and up to four NHIndustries NH90 helicopters can be hangared aboard. The ship is fitted with a single 25 mm Bushmaster gun in a Typhoon mounting and two 12.7 mm machine guns for self-defence. Canterburys hull is strengthened to Finnish-Swedish ice class 1C, allowing her to operate in the Ross Dependency.