[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Bell Pettigrew

9. In 1873 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh his proposer being Sir Thomas Richard Fraser and later that year was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh. In March 1873 he became a lecturer in Physiology at the Edinburgh Extramural School of Medicine.

In 1873, Pettigrew published Animal Locomotion: or Walking, Swimming and Flying, his most popular work. In 1875, he was appointed to the Chandos Chair of Medicine and Anatomy at St Andrews University and established a home on The Scores which he called Swallowgate because of its situation which allowed him to observe birds in flight.  
Over several subsequent years, Pettigrew assembled his magnum opus Design in Nature, published in three volumes and lavishly illustrated with engravings and photographs. 
Its publication was completed in 1908. 
In this work, he showed some indifference to Darwinism and mainstream evolutionary biology, favouring teleological points of view instead. His reputation was subsequently overshadowed by that of his colleague D'Arcy Wentworth Thompson.

Pettigrew lived at 4 Randolph Place in Edinburgh's West End.

He died at his home in St Andrews in 1908. Pettigrew's grave is in the Eastern Cemetery of St Andrews, linked to the southern wall of the grounds of St Andrews Cathedral. His widow and her second husband, Professor James Musgrove, were later buried beside him.

Family

In 1890 he married Elsie Gray. They had no children. She remarried after he died to his colleague James Musgrove.

Gallery

References

Further reading

External links

 
 
 
 
 

1832 births
1908 deaths
Fellows of the Royal Society
Scottish anatomists
Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
Scottish curators
Scottish naturalists
People from North Lanarkshire
19th-century Scottish medical doctors
Alumni of the University of Glasgow
Alumni of the University of Edinburgh
Scottish ornithologists
Scottish pathologists
Academics of the University of St Andrews
People educated at Airdrie Academy
Aviation pioneers
Aviation inventors
Scottish inventors