[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Paul Hunt (academic)

of policy and operational issues. For this, I am extremely grateful. However, to the best of my knowledge, neither the World Health Assembly, nor the WHO Executive Board, have ever considered one of my reports. Despite requests, I have never met a WHO Director General since my appointment in 2002.”

However, between 2011–2013, Hunt was appointed as a part-time Senior Human Rights Advisor to the Assistant Director-General, WHO, Flavia Bustreo, and he directed a project which researched whether there was evidence of impact of a human rights approach to health. This interdisciplinary and multi-author research concluded that applying human rights to women's and children's health policies and other interventions “not only helps governments comply with their binding national and international obligations, but also contributes to improving the health of women and children.” In 2015, Hunt co-edited a Special Issue of Harvard's Health and Human Rights which deepened analysis of this topic. 
 
In September 2010, Hunt co-organised an international roundtable in Geneva on maternal mortality, human rights and accountability, and the proceedings were subsequently published. In this roundtable, and in a paper he presented at an international conference in Delhi during November 2010, Hunt began to analyse accountability as having three components: monitoring, review and remedy.  This analysis was novel because, in the context of global health, accountability was usually understood as monitoring and evaluation, without the components of either independent review or remedy.

In 2010–11, Hunt sat on a Working Group of the UN Commission on Information and Accountability on Women's and Children's Health (COIA). The Working Group refined Hunt's conception of accountability in its submission to COIA. In its final report, Keeping Promises, Measuring Results, COIA adopted this understanding of accountability. This conception of accountability shaped COIA's recommendations to the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon, and led to the Secretary-General establishing the independent Expert Review Group on Information and Accountability for Women's and Children's Health (iERG). The iERG sat from 2011 to 2015 and was succeeded by the Independent Accountability Panel which largely shares COIA's understanding of accountability.  In 2015, Julian Schweitzer wrote on the British Medical Journal (BMJ) that the COIA's "definition of accountability – a cyclical process of monitoring, review, and action … – is now widely accepted in global health".  Hunt was the main architect of this conception of accountability in global health.

After WHO
Hunt has recently turned his attention to social rights in the UK. In 2014–15, he sat on the statutory human rights inquiry into emergency health care established by the Northern Ireland Human Rights Commission.  He has joined the Board of the National Health Service (NHS) England initiative, Sexual and Reproductive Health Rights, Inclusion and Empowerment (SHRINE). He has been appointed a Patron of Just Fair, a London-based think-tank on economic and social rights. With Ruth Lister, Baroness Lister of Burtersett he has written for the think-tank, Compass, on social rights in the UK. In 2017 the Centre for Welfare Reform published Hunt's Social Rights are Human Rights - but the UK System is Rigged. In 2018, Hunt was appointed by Nicola Sturgeon, First Minister of Scotland, to her Advisory Group on Human Rights Leadership. The Advisory Group is due to report in December 2018.

New Zealand Human Rights Commission

Appointment 
On 2 October 2018, the New Zealand Minister of Justice Andrew Little announced Hunt's appointment as the Chief Human Rights Commissioner at the New Zealand Human Rights Commission. He took up the role of Chief Human Rights Commissioner on 14 January 2019.

2021 Mongrel Mob Meeting 
On 1 May 2021, Hunt attended a gathering of the Mongrel Mob criminal gang, along with Green Party Co-leader Marama Davidson, Green MP Elizabeth Kerekere, and Anjum Rahman of the New Zealand Islamic Women's Council, focused on issues of supposed  human rights, social justice, and racism. It was later revealed that Hunt had given a $200 dollar koha (donation) of taxpayer money to the gang according to figures obtained under the Official Information Act by news organisation Newstalk ZB. Hunt was a speaker at the event, discussing  inclusion, building relationships, and the "stigmatising" idea of being tough on organised criminal gangs. This was highly controversial, especially in the wake of news implicating the Mongrel Mob in an international drug bust.

Hunt stated: "Human rights means that every voice is heard, including your voice, and that you also listen with respect."