[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Salwa Judum

Salwa Judum (meaning "peace march" in the Gondi language) was a militia that was mobilised and deployed as part of counterinsurgency operations in Chhattisgarh, India, aimed at countering Naxalite activities in the region. The militia, consisting of local tribal youth, received support and training from the Chhattisgarh state government. It was outlawed and banned by a Supreme Court court order but continues to exist in the form of armed auxiliary forces, District Reserve Groups, and other vigilante groups.

On 5 July 2011, the Supreme Court of India, in a case filed by Nandini Sundar and others, declared the militia to be illegal and unconstitutional and ordered its disbanding. The court directed the Chhattisgarh government to recover all of its firearms, ammunition, and accessories. The use of Salwa Judum by the government for anti-Naxal operations was criticised for its violations of human rights and poorly trained youth acting in counter-insurgency roles. The court also ordered the government to investigate all instances of alleged criminal activities by Salwa Judum.

On 25 May 2013, the group's founder, Mahendra Karma, who had become a senior Congress party leader, was killed in a Naxalite attack, along with other party members, in Darbha Valley of Chhattisgarh, 400 km south of Raipur and 50 km from Jagdalpur.

Origins
Salwa Judum was formed in 2005 as a state-sponsored vigilante movement against the Naxalites, a far-left movement with Maoist ideology in some states in rural India that is designated by the government as a terrorist organisation on account of its violent activities. Salwa Judum later received bipartisan support from both the ruling and opposition parties.

In 2008, Chhattisgarh state, along with neighbouring Jharkhand, accounted for over 65% of total Naxal violence in the country. Chhattisgarh had trained a number of 'Special Police Officers' or SPOs (also commonly referred to as Koya commandos), from amongst the tribespeople who were part of Salwa Judum.

History
Bastar and Dantewada districts of Chhattisgarh have traditionally been sparsely populated and rich in natural resources, but also include some of the poorest tribal regions. The Naxalites progressively achieved influence and control over local tribespeople through a combination of political mobilisation—around poor governance, land rights, livelihoods, and social inequity—and force.

The first movement against the Naxalites was the Jan Jagran Abhiyan, launched in 1991 by local tribal leader Mahendra Karma. This movement was mostly led by local traders and businesspeople. When it collapsed, the leaders had to seek police protection. However, the second time around, the state had signed mining agreements with the Tata and Essar groups and was eager to cleanse the region of Naxalites to permit mining operations to run smoothly. This was the beginning of police and military support for the movement. Mahendra Karma, a Congress Member of the Legislative Assembly (MLA) and the leader of the opposition in the State Legislative Assembly, became the public front and took the Bijapur-based movement to Dantewada, Katreli, and other parts of the region.

Salwa Judum herded villagers and tribal people into makeshift camps, where human rights abuses were rife, and the movement became increasingly violent and out of control. Salwa Judum has also been accused of burning more than 600 villages, forcing 300,000 people to flee their homes. As the situation further escalated, Human Rights Watch reported atrocities on both sides and large-scale displacement of the civilian population. By early 2008, at least 100,000 civilians caught in the conflict between the Naxalites and Salwa Judum activists had fled to camps in southern Chhattisgarh or to neighbouring Andhra Pradesh. By mid-2008, that figure had grown to 150,000.

Since the inception of the movement in 2005, over 800 people have been killed by the Naxalites and security forces. This includes 300 security personnel, of which SPO deaths total 98—one in 2005; 29 in 2006; 66 in 2007; and 20 in 2008. By 2008, the Maoist rebels had altered their tactics. Operating in smaller groups, they now targeted Salwa Judum leaders and security personnel, ambushing them and stealing their weapons. Posters threatening Salwa Judum leaders continued to appear in villages across Dantewada and Bijapur. By mid-2008, however, Mahendra Karma announced that the movement would soon cease to exist. By the end of 2008, Salwa Judum was losing its hold in the region. The number of people living in camps dropped from 50,000 to 13,000, and public support dwindled. An NHRC report published in October 2008 stated that Salwa Judum had lost its earlier momentum and was now restricted to its 23 camps in the Dantewada and Bijapur districts of Chhattisgarh.

Development of Special Police Officers