[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Structural dynamics

uencies of a given system, but not necessarily its full-time history response to a given input.  The natural frequency of a system is dependent only on the stiffness of the structure and the mass which participates with the structure (including self-weight). It is not dependent on the load function.

It is useful to know the modal frequencies of a structure as it allows you to ensure that the frequency of any applied periodic loading will not coincide with a modal frequency and hence cause resonance, which leads to large oscillations.

The method is:

 Find the natural modes (the shape adopted by a structure) and natural frequencies
 Calculate the response of each mode
 Optionally superpose the response of each mode to find the full modal response to a given loading

Energy method

It is possible to calculate the frequency of different mode shape of system manually by the energy method. For a given mode shape of a multiple degree of freedom system you can find an "equivalent" mass, stiffness and applied force for a single degree of freedom system. For simple structures the basic mode shapes can be found by inspection, but it is not a conservative method. Rayleigh's principle states:

"The frequency ω of an arbitrary mode of vibration, calculated by the energy method, is always greater than – or equal to – the fundamental frequency ωn."

For an assumed mode shape , of a structural system with mass M; bending stiffness, EI (Young's modulus, E, multiplied by the second moment of area, I); and applied force, F(x):

then, as above:

Modal response

The complete modal response to a given load F(x,t) is . The summation can be carried out by one of three common methods:

 Superpose complete time histories of each mode (time consuming, but exact)
 Superpose the maximum amplitudes of each mode (quick but conservative)
 Superpose the square root of the sum of squares (good estimate for well-separated frequencies, but unsafe for closely spaced frequencies)

To superpose the individual modal responses manually, having calculated them by the energy method:

Assuming that the rise time tr is known (T = 2/ω), it is possible to read the DAF from a standard graph. The static displacement can be calculated with . The dynamic displacement for the chosen mode and applied force can then be found from:

Modal participation factor

For real systems there is often mass participating in the forcing function (such as the mass of ground in an earthquake) and mass participating in inertia effects (the mass of the structure itself, Meq).  The modal participation factor Γ is a comparison of these two masses.  For a single degree of freedom system Γ = 1.

External links
 Structural Dynamics and Vibration Laboratory of McGill University
 Frequency response function from modal parameters
 Structural Dynamics Tutorials & Matlab scripts
 AIAA Exploring Structural Dynamics  (http://www.exploringstructuraldynamics.org/ ) – Structural Dynamics in Aerospace Engineering: Interactive Demos, Videos & Interviews with Practicing Engineers

Structural analysis
Dynamics (mechanics)