[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Krišjānis Kariņš

New Unity. The Union of Greens and Farmers and Harmony parties went into opposition, as did independent Member of Parliament Jūlija Stepaņenko.

2019 European elections 
Kariņš led his party into the 2019 European Parliament elections in Latvia. His party lost half of their seats, going to 2 from 4.

2022 candidacy for Prime Minister 
In June 2022, the New Unity party announced that Kariņš would once again serve as their candidate for prime minister. On September 9, the Latvian Association of Journalists criticized Kariņš for not participating in public debates and being overly selective for which interview programs he appeared on.

Prime Minister 

During his confirmation session, Kariņš promised that his government would be "evolutionary, not revolutionary”, and announced a seven-point program that prioritized financial sector reform, implementing anti-corruption measures, continuing the Kučinskis government's education reforms, improving but not overhauling the health care system, eliminating the controversial green energy subsidy, reducing the number of administrative divisions, and addressing "demographic issues." On 5 April 2019, he supported Minister of Environmental Protection and Regional Development Juris Pūce's action in dismissing long-serving Mayor of Riga Nils Ušakovs from his position due to multiple violations of the law.

Domestic policy

Financial sector reform 
On 13 June 2019, the Saeima approved measures that allowed Latvian institutions to implement UN sanctions more quickly, reduced the Financial and Capital Market Commission from five members to just three, and made these commissioners' positions subject to appointment by parliament. Commission chairman Peters Putniņš protested that the measures would allow politicians to have greater control of what should be a non-political regulatory body.

Education 
Upon his confirmation, Kariņš announced that his government would continue implementing reforms that had been planned by the previous government led by Māris Kučinskis. These included the reorganization and liquidation of schools that had low numbers of students, the gradual transition to Latvian-only education in public high schools, and new competence-based curriculum standards.

On 7 February 2019, Kariņš announced that there would be no increase in 2019 to teachers' salaries as promised according to a timetable agreed upon by the Latvian teacher's union and the Kučinskis cabinet. This led to a picket protest on 20 March, as well as the threat of an indefinite strike later that year. In an interview on 28 February, Kariņš expressed a wish to raise teachers' salaries without having to raise taxes, finding savings by liquidating and consolidating schools with low numbers of students. On 30 March, Minister for Education Inga Šuplinska claimed that money to finance the planned wage increases could be found by mid-May.

In April 2019, the Kariņš government announced a proposal for four tiers of minimum student numbers for schools based on the municipality's size and location. According to Šuplinska, roughly half of Latvia's schools would not meet the minimum requirements under the plan.

On 23 April 2019, the Constitutional Court of Latvia ruled that the planned transition to Latvian as the sole language of instruction in public schools did not violate the constitution. In June 2022, Saeima approved a government proposal to accelerate the transition to Latvian language-only instruction at preschool and primary levels of the education system so that it would be completed by the year 2025.

On 16 September 2022, a strike by education sector workers was narrowly avoided when a compromise agreement to raise teacher's salaries and balance their workloads between contact hours and preparation hours was reached between the Kariņš government and the Latvian Trade Union of Education and Science Employees just three days before the indefinite strike was set to begin.

Health care reform 
In February 2019, the Kariņš government announced that it would abandon the "two basket" system of health care funding that the Kučinskis government had begun to implement, a reform which would have made full access to state-provided health care only available to people paying social contribution taxes. The government announced in April 2019 that the health care system and tax code would both be reformed in 2021.

Green energy subsidy 
On 11 April 2019, he survived a 58-33 vote of no confidence spearheaded by Saeima Deputy Aldis Gobzems for not adhering to the Saeima's demand that his government cancel the green energy subsidy by the end of March. On that day, in a phone interview with Latvian Public Radio, he committed to canceling the subsidy within a reasonable timeframe and argued that the Minister of Economics, Ralfs Nemiro, Gobzems's former party member, had already published a report proving that doing so by the end of March was a legal impossibility.