[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Leonidas C. Houk

cused on local concerns, namely veterans' issues and the demand for federal government seed. He was chairman of the House Committee on War Claims during the Forty-seventh congress, and went to great lengths to get compensation for East Tennessee Unionists who suffered property damage during the war.

In 1881, Houk thwarted Rule's attempt to become Knoxville's postmaster, and instead helped his old mentor Oliver P. Temple get the appointment.  An enraged Rule ran against Houk for the Republican nomination, and after a hostile campaign, both claimed the nomination and ran against one another in the general election.  Houk won handily, and afterward ran virtually unopposed for four subsequent terms.  During this period, he went to considerable lengths to broaden the party's reach beyond its radical roots.  With Brownlow and the party's older leaders dead or retired, Houk became the leader of Tennessee's Republicans, and thus controlled the party's presidential patronage.

Like nearly all Stalwarts, Houk ultimately caved into supporting civil service reform as a means of compromise in the 1880s, voting for the Pendleton Civil Service Reform Act in 1883 which ended the traditional spoils system Republicans utilized in the post-war Reconstruction period to safeguard the constitutional rights of newly freed blacks.

By the late-1880s, Houk had formed an unspoken alliance with the state's Democrats (who now dominated state politics) in which he traded federal influence during Republican presidencies for a say in state affairs.  In 1888, however, Henry Clay Evans, who disliked what he perceived as Houk's subservience to state Democrats, captured the 3rd District's House seat, and immediately began fighting with Houk over distribution of patronage.  Although the 3rd District was gerrymandered to ensure Evans's defeat in 1890, he and Houk continued bickering over patronage and political appointments, and after Houk's death, his son, John C. Houk, struggled with Evans for several years for control of the state Republican Party.

Death

On May 24, 1891, Houk accidentally drank a bottle of arsenic solution at DePue's drug store in Knoxville, which he mistook for a glass of ice water, and died in pain the following day.  He was interred in Old Gray Cemetery. Houk's son, John Chiles Houk, succeeded him as the 2nd District's congressman. The younger Houk held the seat until 1895, and continued to play a role in East Tennessee politics into the 20th century.

Houk's broadening of the Republican platform solidified Republican control of East Tennessee's 1st and 2nd congressional districts. As of 2022, no Democrat has been elected to Congress in either district since Houk's day.

See also

List of United States Congress members who died in office (1790–1899)

References

External links
 
 Leonidas Campbell Houk entry at The Political Graveyard
 

1836 births
1891 deaths
Republican Party members of the Tennessee House of Representatives
People from Clinton, Tennessee
People from Sevier County, Tennessee
Tennessee lawyers
Southern Unionists in the American Civil War
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Tennessee
19th-century American politicians
Accidental deaths in Tennessee
19th-century American lawyers
Stalwarts (Republican Party)