[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# People's Alliance for Democracy

for the attending legislators.  PAD forces later regrouped around Parliament and again blocked the gates.  After the government had made its policy statement to the legislature, police again clashed with PAD forces so that the legislators could leave the building.  Clashes continued into the night.

Several protesters lost hands and legs, although at first it was not clear if these injuries were caused by tear gas canisters or the 'ping-pong' bombs which are explosives housed in ping-pong sized plastic balls. Director of the Central Institute of Forensic Science Pornthip Rojanasunand used the GT200 explosive detection device to try to identify explosive residue on the protesters; not finding any, she concluded that faulty Chinese-made tear gas grenades had caused the injuries.  A PAD protester, Miss Angkhana Radappanyawut, was killed. Dr.Pornthip stated unequivocally that her death was caused by the explosion of a tear gas canister directly striking the victim's body. She also stated that there was no need to conduct further investigations into the death and injuries of protesters because it was clear they were caused by police weapons. 
 
Afterwards, doctors from many major hospitals issued a statement, calling the counterattack by the Prime Minister and police unnecessary "brutality", and refusing to provide medical care to the police. The doctors claimed that many field rescue workers, including doctors and nurses, had also been attacked, and some were wounded. Doctor Suthep Kolcharnwit of the Chulalongkorn University Faculty of Medicine, with several doctors from Chulalongkorn Hospital, also refused to provide medical care to policemen injured in the clash, and urged doctors of other hospitals to boycott the police as well, though his actions were later disowned by the hospital and a case against him was filed with the Medical Council's ethics committee.

PAD vowed to file charges against the government and police.

On 8 October, Queen Sirikit attended the cremation of one of the young PAD woman who had been killed.

Seizure of Suvarnabhumi International Airport

Seizing the airport 
On the evening of Tuesday 25 November 2008, the PAD executed what they called "Operation Hiroshima."  A convoy of hundreds of PAD members dressed in yellow blocked the two ends of the road in front of the terminal building of Suvarnabhumi International Airport and blockaded the main road to the airport.  The airport is Bangkok's main airport and an important regional hub.  PAD forces quickly overpowered hundreds of policemen armed with riot gear.   PAD leaders mounted a mobile stage and proceeded to criticize the government.  All Suvarnabhumi flights were soon canceled, leaving thousands of travelers stranded in the airport.

The government called on the Royal Thai Army to restore order at the airport.  The Army did not follow the orders.  In a press conference on 26 November, Army Commander General Anupong Paochinda proposed that the PAD withdraw from the airport and that the government resign.  He also proposed that if the PAD did not comply, that they be subject to "social sanctions", whereas if the government did not comply, that the bureaucracy stop implementing government orders.  A written copy of the proposal was sent to the government.  Neither the PAD nor the government complied with the proposal.

At 4:30 AM on the morning of 26 November, three explosions were heard on the fourth floor of Suvarnbumi on the outside of the passenger terminal.  Another explosion was reported at 6 AM.  Several people were injured.  It was not clear who set off the explosions.  The PAD did not allow the police or forensics experts to investigate the explosions.

The PAD became the de facto authority over the airport and the airplanes within it.  Airports of Thailand, which planned to use U-Tapao military airbase outside of Bangkok as a replacement for Suvarnabhumi, pleaded with PAD leadership to release nearly a hundred empty aircraft from Suvarnabhumi.

Attempts to evict the PAD 
Also on 26 November, the Civil Court issued an injunction ordering the PAD to leave the Suvarnabhumi International Airport immediately.  Notices of the injunction were placed on the front doors of the houses of the 13 PAD leaders.  The PAD did not comply with the injunction.

On the evening of 27 November, the government declared a state of emergency around the two occupied airports and ordered police to clear out PAD forces.  The state of emergency allowed the military to ban public gatherings of more than five people.  The Navy was assigned to aid police at Suvarnabhumi, while the Air Force was assigned to aid police at Don Muang.  The Army's spokesman noted, "The army disagrees with using troops to resolve the problem. The army does not want to do that, and it is not appropriate to do that."