[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals

n perspective to the hazards, uses and risk management of the chemical product in the workplace. While there were some differences in existing industry recommendations and country specific requirements, there was agreement on a 16-section SDS to include the following headings in the order specified:

 Identification
 Hazard(s) identification
 Composition/ information on ingredients
 First-aid measures
 Fire-fighting measures
 Accidental release measures
 Handling and storage
 Exposure control/ personal protection
 Physical and chemical properties
 Chemical stability and reactivity
 Toxicological information
 Ecological information
 Disposal considerations
 Transport information
 Regulatory information
 Other information

The primary difference between the GHS and the international industry recommendations is that sections 2 and 3 have been reversed in order.  The GHS SDS headings, sequence and content are similar to the ISO, European Union and ANSI MSDS/SDS requirements.  The SDS should provide a clear description of the data used to identify the hazards.  A table comparing the content and format of a MSDS/SDS versus the GHS SDS is provided in Appendix A of the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) GHS guidance.

Training

Current training procedures for Hazard Communication in the United States are more detailed than the GHS training recommendations. Educating employees on the updated chemical and product classifications and related pictograms, signal words, hazard statements and precautionary measures at the level of detail by the national authority represents the greatest training challenge.  Training will be a key component of the overall GHS approach and should incorporate information as it is introduced into the workplace.  Employees and emergency responders will need to be trained on all new program elements, from hazard statements to pictograms. Bear in mind, if the importation of products using only GHS labeling is permitted prior to its adoption in the United States and Canada, employers may need to begin employee training earlier than expected.

Implementation

The United Nations goal was broad international adoption, and as of 2017, GHS has been adopted to varying degrees in nearly all major countries. 

GHS adoption by country:
 
Australia: In 2012, adopted regulation for GHS implementation, setting January 1, 2017 as the GHS implementation deadline.
Brazil: Established an implementation deadline of February 2011 for substances and June 2015 for mixtures.
Canada: GHS has been incorporated into WHMIS 2015 as of February 2015.
China: Established implementation deadline of December 1, 2011.
Colombia: By June, 2014 No deadline had been set up yet. the subcommittee for the implementation within the Mesa de Seguridad Química (Bureau of Chemical Safety), began communication between the government, the private sector and civil society.
European Union: The deadline for substance classification was December 1, 2010 and for mixtures it was June 1, 2015 per regulation for GHS implementation on December 31, 2008.
United Kingdom: Implemented under EU directive by REACH regulations, this may be subject to change due to Brexit. 
Japan: Established deadline of December 31, 2010 for products containing one of 640 designated substances.
South Korea: Established the GHS implementation deadline of July 1, 2013.
Malaysia: Deadline for substance and mixture was April 17, 2015 per its Industry Code of Practice on Chemicals Classification and Hazard Communication(ICOP) on 16 April 2014.
Mexico: GHS has been incorporated into the Official Mexican Standard as of 2015.
Pakistan: Country does not a single streamlined system for chemical labeling, although there are many rules in place. The Pakistani government has requested assistance in developing future regulations to implement GHS.
Philippines: The deadline for substance and mixture was March 14, 2015 per Guidelines for the Implementation of GHS in Chemical Safety Program in the Workplace in 2014.
Russian Federation. GHS was approved for optional use as of August 2014. Manufacturers may continue using non-GHS Russian labels through 2021, after which compliance with the system is compulsory.
Taiwan: Full GHS implementation was scheduled for 2016 for all hazardous chemicals with physical and health hazards.
Thailand: The deadline for substances was March 13, 2013. The deadline for mixture was March 13, 2017.
Turkey: Published Turkish CLP regulation and SDS regulation in 2013 and 2014 respectively. The deadline for substance classification was June 1, 2015, for mixtures, it was June 1, 2016.
United States: GHS compliant labels and SDSs are required for many applications including laboratory chemicals, commercial cleaning agents, and other workplace cases regulated by previous US Occupational Health and Safety Administration (OSHA) standards. First widespread implementation set by OSHA was on March 26, 2012, requiring manufacturers to adopt the standard