[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1956 in the United Kingdom

the Nurse Teaching Unit, University of Edinburgh, the first nurse teaching unit within a British university.
 3 June
 Third class accommodation on British Railways trains redesignated as second class (also applies on Great Northern Railway in Northern Ireland).
 Prime ministers Jawaharlal Nehru of India and Sidney Holland of New Zealand are made Freemen of the City of London.
 4 July – The National Library of Scotland's first purpose-built premises are opened on George IV Bridge in Edinburgh.
 5 July – Parliament passes the Clean Air Act in response to the Great Smog of 1952.
 9 July – Mettoy introduce Corgi Toys model cars, manufactured in South Wales.
 10 July – A private member's bill to abolish the death penalty is vetoed in the House of Lords; however, no capital punishment is carried out in the UK this year.
 22 July – The first UK Albums Chart is published, in Record Mirror (Frank Sinatra's Songs for Swingin' Lovers! tops it for the first two weeks.)
 26 July – Egyptian leader Gamal Abdel Nasser announces the nationalisation of the Suez Canal triggering the Suez Crisis.
 27 July – First Berni Inn steakhouse opens in Bristol.
 31 July – Jim Laker sets a record by taking 19 wickets in a first class cricket match, at Old Trafford in the fourth Test between England and Australia.
 9 August–9 September – Art exhibition This Is Tomorrow, featuring principally the interdisciplinary ICA Independent Group, at the Whitechapel Art Gallery, London. Among the exhibits is Richard Hamilton's collage Just What Is It that Makes Today's Homes So Different, So Appealing?, considered to be one of the earliest works of pop art.
 17 August – Scotland Yard are called to Eastbourne to investigate the activities of society doctor John Bodkin Adams. The case is reported around the world and press reports claim up to 400 patients may have been murdered.
 4 September – Opening of the first Welsh-medium secondary school in Wales – Ysgol Glan Clwyd, Rhyl.
 10 September – Guy Mollet visits London and proposes a merger of France and the United Kingdom. However, the idea is rejected by Anthony Eden.
 12 September – Manchester United become the first English team to compete in the European Cup, a competition for the champions of domestic leagues across Europe, when they play the first leg of the preliminary round in Belgium and beat R.S.C. Anderlecht 2–0.
 25 September – The TAT-1 transatlantic telephone cable between the UK and North America inaugurated.
 26 September – Manchester United qualify for the first round of the European Cup in style with a 10–0 win over R.S.C. Anderlecht at Maine Road in the second leg of the preliminary round. 
 28 September – Eden considers allowing France to join the Commonwealth of Nations, but this idea is also rejected.
 15 October – The RAF retires its last Lancaster bomber.
 17 October – The Queen opens the world's first commercial nuclear power station at Calder Hall.
 24 October – Protocol of Sèvres, a secret agreement between the UK, France and Israel allowing the latter to invade Sinai with the support of the two former governments. Eden subsequently denies existence of an agreement.
 5 November
 Jo Grimond replaces Clement Davies as leader of the Liberal Party. 
 Long-running television programme What the Papers Say airs for the first time.
 6 November – British and French forces seize control of two major ports in the Suez Canal in Egypt before declaring a ceasefire.
 9 November – At the Lord Mayor's Show in London, the first AEC Routemaster forms part of the procession, advertised as "London's Bus of the Future".
 15 November – The Manchester Guardian calls for the resignation of Anthony Eden as Prime Minister, despite his improvement in opinion poll showings.
 21 November – DIDO heavy water enriched uranium nuclear reactor opens at the Atomic Energy Research Establishment, Harwell, Oxfordshire.
 22 November–8 December – Great Britain and Northern Ireland compete at the Olympics in Melbourne, Australia, and win 6 gold, 7 silver and 11 bronze medals.
 29 November – Petrol rationing introduced because of petrol blockades from the Middle East due to the Suez Crisis.
 10 December – Cyril Norman Hinshelwood wins the Nobel Prize in Chemistry jointly with Nikolay Semyonov "for their researches into the mechanism of chemical reactions".
 12 December – The Irish Republican Army launches its Border Campaign in Northern Ireland with co-ordinated attacks on official premises.
 19 December
 Six people die and several more are injured in car crashes caused by heavy fog in northern England.
 Eastbourne GP Dr John Bodkin Adams is arrested for the murder of patient Edith Alice Morrell.
 21 December – The Government of Northern Ireland under Basil Brooke uses the Special Powers Act to intern several hundred republican suspects without trial.
 23 December – British and French troops withdraw from Suez under United Nations and United States pressure.
 25 December – PG Tips launches its long-running ITV adverti