[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Quantum nonlocality

er the theory is explicitly nonlocal. The interpretation therefore does not give an answer to Einstein's question, which was whether or not a complete description of quantum mechanics could be given in terms of local hidden variables in keeping with the "Principle of Local Action".

Bell inequality 

In 1964 John Bell answered Einstein's question by showing that such local hidden variables can never reproduce the full range of statistical outcomes predicted by quantum theory. Bell showed that a local hidden variable hypothesis leads to restrictions on the strength of correlations of measurement results. If the Bell inequalities are violated experimentally as predicted by quantum mechanics, then reality cannot be described by local hidden variables and the mystery of quantum nonlocal causation remains. However, Bell notes that the non-local hidden variable model of Bohm are different:

Clauser, Horne, Shimony and Holt (CHSH) reformulated these inequalities in a manner that was more conducive to experimental testing (see CHSH inequality).

In the scenario proposed by Bell (a Bell scenario), two experimentalists, Alice and Bob, conduct experiments in separate labs. At each run, Alice (Bob) conducts an experiment   in her (his) lab, obtaining outcome  . If Alice and Bob repeat their experiments several times, then they can estimate the probabilities , namely, the probability that Alice and Bob respectively observe the results  when they respectively conduct the experiments x,y. In the following, each such set of probabilities  will be denoted by just . In the quantum nonlocality slang,  is termed a box.

Bell formalized the idea of a hidden variable by introducing the parameter  to locally characterize measurement results on each system: "It is a matter of indifference ... whether λ denotes a single variable or a set ... and whether the variables are discrete or continuous". However, it is equivalent (and more intuitive) to think of  as a local "strategy" or "message" that occurs with some probability  when Alice and Bob reboot their experimental setup. Bell's assumption of local causality then stipulates that each local strategy defines the distributions of independent outcomes if Alice conducts experiment x and Bob conducts experiment 

Here  () denotes the probability that Alice (Bob) obtains the result   when she (he) conducts experiment   and the local variable describing her (his) experiment has value  ().

Suppose that   can take values from some set . If each pair of values  has an associated probability  of being selected (shared randomness is allowed, i.e.,  can be correlated), then one can average over this distribution to obtain a formula for the joint probability of each measurement result:

A box admitting such a decomposition is called a Bell local or a classical box. Fixing the number of possible values which  can each take, one can represent each box  as a finite vector with entries . In that representation, the set of all classical boxes forms a convex polytope.
In the Bell scenario studied by CHSH, where  can take values within , any Bell local box  must satisfy the CHSH inequality:

where

The above considerations apply to model a quantum experiment. Consider two parties conducting local polarization measurements on a bipartite photonic state. The measurement result for the polarization of a photon can take one of two values (informally, whether the photon is polarized in that direction, or in the orthogonal direction). If each party is allowed to choose between just two different polarization directions, the experiment fits within the CHSH scenario. As noted by CHSH, there exist a quantum state and polarization directions which generate a box  with  equal to . This demonstrates an explicit way in which a theory with ontological states that are local, with local measurements and only local actions cannot match the probabilistic predictions of quantum theory, disproving Einstein's hypothesis. Experimentalists such as Alain Aspect have verified the quantum violation of the CHSH inequality  as well as other formulations of Bell's inequality, to invalidate the local hidden variables hypothesis and confirm that reality is indeed nonlocal in the EPR sense.

Possibilistic nonlocality

Bell's demonstration is probabilistic in the sense that it shows that the precise probabilities predicted by quantum mechanics for some entangled scenarios cannot be met by a local hidden variable theory. (For short, here and henceforth "local theory" means "local hidden variables theory".) However, quantum mechanics permits an even stronger violation of local theories: a possibilistic one, in which local theories cannot even agree with quantum mechanics on which events are possible or impossible in an entangled scenario. The first proof of this kind was due to Daniel Greenberger, Michael Horne, and Anton Zeilinger in 1993 The state involved is often called the GHZ state.