[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Law firm network

e a former governor at the firms. Both of these networks became international, changing their names to State Capital Global Legal Network and to ALFA International.

Management structure
The typical network is run on a day-to-day basis by an administrative office called a secretariat or home office.

The head office is commonly located in major commercial centers in Europe or North America and does not practice law. Depending on the nature of the network (extension of the members or an independent business), the person responsible for the network will be an executive director or president/CEO.

The network may be governed by a board of directors. Networks also have representatives who form a management board with the executive director.

Membership
There are three different types of networks. The original large networks – Lex Mundi, ALFA, TerraLex, and State Capital Group – tended to members who were large firms. This was because they were competing against large firms opening offices. Newer networks are more likely to include smaller firms. Specialty law firms may participate in boutique networks based on their field of law. 

Law firm networks may offer their members territorial exclusivity. When that occurs, another firm can not be admitted within its exclusive territory.

Network members may together have hundreds of offices. Firms listed in the list of largest U.S. law firms have at most 4,000 attorneys. The largest networks include more than 10,000 attorneys.

Membership of networks may be open to accounting firms, and accounting networks also form alliances with law networks. Some commentators take the position that bringing together a group of lawyers and accountants to create a multidisciplinary association ultimately benefits clients as they often need a wide range of professional services advisors when involved in large transactions, for example, when incorporating a new business or in litigation matters, when for lawyers, the litigation support services of accountants can be very valuable. Bringing lawyers and accountants together does not create a multidisciplinary practice (MDP), as all firms are separate legal entities. MDPs that involve law firms partnering with non-law firms remain highly regulated or forbidden in most nations and jurisdictions.

Functions

Retaining firm independence
Becoming part of a network may help firms serve new marketplaces while retaining independence, creating economies of scale, and pool resources.

Client retention
Networks allow firms to refer their clients to similar-sized members in another jurisdiction, rather than lose clients to a larger international firm. Many firms believe that being part of a network provides clients with reassurance that they will receive similar levels of service from any firm in the network

Practice development
Networks allow firms to attract larger clients operating on a multi-jurisdictional basis. Others disagree that law firm networks offer practice development opportunities.

Advantages of exclusivity
Networks may offer firms exclusivity. This may be a city, state, or country.

Branding
Membership in a network gives members the right to promote their affiliation in its territory using the network's logo. Use of the brand is encouraged, but not usually required, and would typically be implemented across firm stationery, marketing brochures, and web pages.

Open discussion in a non-competitive environment
Many networks consist of non-competing firms and therefore provide their members with the opportunity to openly discuss issues affecting their firm.

See also
 Bar association
 Umbrella organization
 Business networking
 Professional services networks
 Multidisciplinary professional services networks
 Accounting networks and associations

References

Professional networks
 
Legal organizations