[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Va'etchanan

f Moses"; and (10)  "Moses My servant is dead." Rabbi Johanan taught that ten times it was decreed that Moses should not enter the Land of Israel, but the harsh decree was not finally sealed until God revealed it to him and declared (as reported in ): "It is My decree that you should not pass over."

Rabbi Jonah taught in the name of Rabbi Levi that the world was created with a letter bet (the first letter in , which begins, , Bereishit bara Elohim, "In the beginning God created") because just as the letter bet is closed at the sides but open in front, so one is not permitted to investigate what is above and what is below, what is before and what is behind. Similarly, Bar Kappara reinterpreted the words of  to say, "ask not of the days past, which were before you, since the day that God created man upon the earth," teaching that one may speculate from the day that days were created, but one should not speculate on what was before that. And one may investigate from one end of heaven to the other, but one should not investigate what was before this world. Similarly, the Rabbis in a Baraita interpreted  to forbid inquiry into the work of creation in the presence of two people, reading the words "for ask now of the days past" to indicate that one may inquire, but not two. The Rabbis reasoned that the words "since the day that God created man upon the earth" in  taught that one must not inquire concerning the time before creation. The Rabbis reasoned that the words "the days past that were before you" in  taught that one may inquire about the six days of creation. The Rabbis further reasoned that the words "from the one end of heaven to the other" in  taught that one must not inquire about what is beyond the universe, what is above and what is below, what is before and what is after.

Rabbi Eleazar read the words "since the day that God created man upon the earth, and ask from the one side of heaven" in  to read, "from the day that God created Adam on earth and to the end of heaven." Thus Rabbi Eleazar read  to intimate that when God created Adam in , Adam extended from the earth to the firmament. But as soon as Adam sinned, God placed God's hand upon Adam and diminished him, as  says: "You have fashioned me after and before, and laid Your hand upon me." Similarly, Rav Judah in the name of Rav taught that when God created Adam in , Adam extended from one end of the world to the other, reading  to read, "Since the day that God created man upon the earth, and from one end of heaven to the other." (And Rav Judah in the name of Rav also taught that as soon as Adam sinned, God placed God's hand upon Adam and diminished him.) The Gemara reconciled the interpretations of Rabbi Eleazar and Rav Judah in the name of Rav by concluding that the distance from the earth to the firmament must equal the distance from one end of heaven to the other.

Rabbi Levi addressed the question that  raises: "Did ever a people hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and live?" (, in turn, refers back to the encounter at Sinai reported at , , and after.) Rabbi Levi taught that the world would not have been able to survive hearing the voice of God in God's power, but instead, as  says, "The voice of the Lord is with power." That is, the voice of God came according to the power of each individual—young, old, or infant—to receive it.

The Gemara counted only three verses in the Torah that indisputably refer to God's Kingship, and thus are suitable for recitation on Rosh Hashanah: , "The Lord his God is with him, and the shouting for the King is among them"; , "And He was King in Jeshurun"; and , "The Lord shall reign for ever and ever." Rabbi Jose also counted as Kingship verses , "Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God the Lord is One"; , "And you shall know on that day and lay it to your heart that the Lord is God, . . . there is none else"; and , "To you it was shown, that you might know that the Lord is God, there is none else beside Him"; but Rabbi Judah said that none of these three is a Kingship verse. (The traditional Rosh Hashanah liturgy follows Rabbi Jose and recites , , and , and then concludes with .)