[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Harris M. Plaisted

e presidential nomination.

In January 1873, Plaisted was chosen by the state legislature to serve as Maine Attorney General, and he was reappointed in 1874 and 1875.  During his tenure, Plaisted tried 14 capital cases, all of which resulted in convictions, and all of which were sustained on appeal.

In September 1875, Plaisted was chosen in a special election to serve in the Forty-fourth United States Congress, filling the vacancy caused by the death of Congressman Samuel F. Hersey.  He served in the US House from September 13, 1875, to March 3, 1877, and resigned as Attorney General in December 1875 in order to attend the session of Congress that started later that month.  He did not run for renomination in 1876, accepting the decision of a Republican district convention that voted to maintain an informal rotation system which mandated the selection of a nominee from Aroostook County.  During Plaisted's tenure in the US House, his time and effort was concentrated on his service as a member of the committee that investigated the Whiskey Ring, a major scandal that came to light during the Grant administration.

After concluding his Congressional term, Plaisted resumed practicing law in Bangor.  In partnership with attorney Frederick H. Appleton, he compiled and published The Maine Digest, a collection of Maine Supreme Judicial Court decisions from 1820 to 1879.  In addition, he published accounts of two cases he handled as Attorney General, The Lowell Trial and The Wagner Trial.  He also researched and compiled a genealogical and biographical history of the Plaisted family.

Governor
In 1878, events including wage cuts that precipitated the Great Railroad Strike of 1877 caused Plaisted to leave the Republican Party because of dissatisfaction with their monetary policy.  As did many farmers and laborers, Plaisted opposed currency backed by gold and silver, arguing that it caused the post-Panic of 1873 deflation that reduced wages and prices paid to farmers, laborers, and producers of raw materials.  Instead, he favored federal government-issued currency not backed by gold and silver, believing that this would prevent deflation and make business easier to transact by holding costs and salaries steady.

Both the national Republican and Democratic parties favored specie-backed currency issued by state-chartered banks.  As a result of his unhappiness with the Republicans, Plaisted joined the new Greenback Party, and became their candidate for governor in 1880.  He was also backed by pro-Greenback Democrats, and became the fusion candidate of both parties.  Taking advantage of voter unhappiness caused by the lingering effects of the 1873 economic downturn, Plaisted prevailed over incumbent Republican Daniel F. Davis by fewer than 200 votes, becoming one of only four non-Republicans to hold the governorship between the founding of the party in the 1850s and the Great Depression in 1929.  Plaisted served from 1881 to 1883, and was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1883.

During Plaisted's term, the state legislature remained solidly Republican.  As a result, legislators were able to block many of Plaisted's appointments, and he vetoed a much higher than normal number of bills, including 31 vetoes of measures to re-charter banks that issued specie-backed currency.  By 1883, voter concern over the economic downturn that had begun in the 1870s had largely abated, and Plaisted was defeated for reelection by Republican Frederick Robie.

Later life and death
From 1884 to 1898 Plaisted was editor and publisher of the New Age, a newspaper in Augusta.  He used its editorial pages to convey his political views, and engaged in long-running debates with Republicans over their monetary policy, primarily Maine party leader James G. Blaine.

In his later years, Plaisted suffered from Bright's disease.  He died in Bangor on January 31, 1898, and was buried at Mount Hope Cemetery in Bangor.

Family
Plaisted was a member of a family long active in New Hampshire politics and government.  His grandfather Samuel Plaisted was a judge during the early years of New Hampshire's statehood.  Another ancestor, John Plaisted, was a member of the colonial legislature and a judge during the late 1600s and early 1700s.

Harris Plaisted was one of nine brothers and sisters.  Among his siblings was William, who served in the Maine State Senate, and Charles, who served in the New Hampshire House of Representatives.

In 1858, Plaisted married Sarah J. Mason.  She died in 1875, and in 1881 he married Mabel True Hill.  With his first wife, Plaisted was the father of three children, including Frederick W. Plaisted, who served as governor from 1911 to 1912.

See also

List of American Civil War brevet generals (Union)

References

Sources

Books

External links
 Retrieved on 2008-08-13

Officers of 11th Maine Volunteer Infantry Regiment