[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Keiko Fujimori

preparing to be a candidate in Peru's next presidential election, despite her denial of interest in running. The statement was seen as a possible accidental admission of her plans, since she had previously denied interest in running again after her losses in 2011 and 2016 before ultimately doing so.

Public and political image 
Fujimori has continued to promote her father's ideology of Fujimorism within Peru and her political career was her father's idea. The New York Times wrote that her political movement was created "to help whitewash" her father Alberto's legacy. She has been described as having an authoritarian, centre-right, right-wing populist, and far-right political ideology. According to Fujimori, she believes in leading Peru with a "heavy hand" and that democracy "cannot be weak ... must be supported by a solid principle of authority." She has based some of her support from the Peruvian elite of European-descent.

Michael Shifter, professor and president of Inter-American Dialogue, admitted that Fujimori has "definite political skill" and "has constructed a base of support." However, he considers the holdover of many of her father's officials in her own team as something that "generates resistance in parts of society that still have very bad memories from years defined by violation of human rights, corruption, and a polarized political climate." Despite attempts to craft her and her father's image as being moderate, anti-Fujimorism is considered one of the most important political forces in Peru. 

According to a poll taken by Ipsos in March 2016, 27% of voters "definitely would not vote" for her. Fujimori's Popular Force party, which held a majority within the Congress of Peru until its dissolution in 2019, has little public support in Peru. In early 2018, Fujimori saw approval rating of about 30%. By July 2018, her public approval had dropped to 14% and her disapproval had increased to more than 88%, with the drop in her approval rating being correlated with allegations that placed her in the midst of the Odebrecht scandal. Prior to first round presidential elections in 2021, Ipsos polls found that 66.3% of respondents definitely would not vote for her, 7.1% probably would not vote for her, 16.3% probably would vote for her, and 7% definitely would vote for her.

References

Bibliography

External links 
 Biography in-depth by CIDOB Foundation 
 Analysis of Keiko Fujimori by Washington Office on Latin America (WOLA)
 Official site of his period 2006–2011 in the Congress of the Republic of Peru 

1975 births
Boston University School of Management alumni
Candidates for President of Peru
Children of presidents of Peru
Columbia Business School alumni
First ladies of Peru
Keiko
Fujimorista politicians
Living people
Members of the Congress of the Republic of Peru
Peruvian anti-communists
Peruvian politicians of Japanese descent
Peruvian women in business
21st-century Peruvian politicians
21st-century Peruvian women politicians
Anti-abortion activists
Politicians from Lima
Peruvian women activists
Women members of the Congress of the Republic of Peru