[Source: PubMed]

97. Environ Health. 2017 Dec 5;16(Suppl 1):128. doi: 10.1186/s12940-017-0324-3.

Impact of extreme weather events and climate change for health and social care 
systems.

Curtis S(1), Fair A(2), Wistow J(3), Val DV(4), Oven K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geography, Durham University, Durham, DH1 3LE, UK. 
s.e.curtis@durham.ac.uk.
(2)Edinburgh School of Architecture & Landscape Architecture, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.
(3)School of Applied Social Science, Durham University, Durham, UK.
(4)School of Energy, Geoscience, Infrastructure and Society, Hariot-Watt 
University, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)Department of Geography, Durham University, Durham, DH1 3LE, UK.

This review, commissioned by the Research Councils UK Living With Environmental 
Change (LWEC) programme, concerns research on the impacts on health and social 
care systems in the United Kingdom of extreme weather events, under conditions 
of climate change. Extreme weather events considered include heatwaves, 
coldwaves and flooding. Using a structured review method, we consider evidence 
regarding the currently observed and anticipated future impacts of extreme 
weather on health and social care systems and the potential of preparedness and 
adaptation measures that may enhance resilience. We highlight a number of 
general conclusions which are likely to be of international relevance, although 
the review focussed on the situation in the UK. Extreme weather events impact 
the operation of health services through the effects on built, social and 
institutional infrastructures which support health and health care, and also 
because of changes in service demand as extreme weather impacts on human health. 
Strategic planning for extreme weather and impacts on the care system should be 
sensitive to within country variations. Adaptation will require changes to built 
infrastructure systems (including transport and utilities as well as individual 
care facilities) and also to institutional and social infrastructure supporting 
the health care system. Care sector organisations, communities and individuals 
need to adapt their practices to improve resilience of health and health care to 
extreme weather. Preparedness and emergency response strategies call for action 
extending beyond the emergency response services, to include health and social 
care providers more generally.

DOI: 10.1186/s12940-017-0324-3
PMCID: PMC5773887
PMID: 29219105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ETHICS APPROVAL AND CONSENT TO PARTICIPATE: Not 
applicable. CONSENT FOR PUBLICATION: Not applicable. COMPETING INTERESTS: The 
authors declare that they have no competing interests. PUBLISHER’S NOTE: 
Springer Nature remains neutral with regard to jurisdictional claims in 
published maps and institutional affiliations.