[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Four Loko

from the products. The new product was reintroduced in January 2011.

On October 25, 2013, Four Loko was distributed for the first time in Puerto Rico. Four Loko kept the standard 12% alcohol but in a reduced can size of 16 oz (475 mL), and with only three flavors: 

 Grape
 Fruit Punch
 Watermelon

In August 2016, Four Loko began selling in China. Secondary marketer Taobao claimed to still have for purchase the caffeinated version of the beverage. Four Loko has since seen market growth in Vietnam, Malaysia, Mongolia and Singapore.

In February 2017, Four Loko announced the release of two new product lines—the Bold Series and the Bartender Series. 

The Four Loko Bold Series comes in 24 oz. cans at 14% ABV, and includes the flavors:
 Blaze
 Frost

Four Loko Bartender Series came in 16 oz. cans and containing 10% ABV, and includes the flavors:
 Blue Mofo
 Purple Hooter
 Pink Scorpion

In April 2017, Four Loko announced a line of hard liquor called Four Loko Shots that come in 750 ml bottles and are 70 proof (35% ABV). Flavors include:
 Dragon’s Breath
 Green Tornado
 Screwball

In October 2020 Four Loko announced a line of bottled 13.9% ABV shots called Four Loko Pregame. Flavors include:

 Sour Blue Razz
 Lemonade
 Sour Peach

Restrictions on sale

In 2009, a group of U.S. state attorneys general began investigations of companies that produced and sold caffeinated alcohol beverages on the grounds that they were being inappropriately marketed to a teenage audience and that they had possible health risks (blackouts). The attorneys general were also concerned that these drinks could pose health risks by masking feelings of intoxication. In December 2008, Anheuser-Busch, manufacturer of Tilt and Bud Extra, as well as MillerCoors, manufacturer of Sparks, agreed to reformulate their drinks. In 2009, smaller companies such as Phusion fell under investigation because of their rise in market share.

The drink came under major fire in 2010, as colleges and universities across the United States began to see injuries and blackouts related to the drink's misuse. The University of Rhode Island banned the drink from their campus on November 5, 2010. The state of Washington banned Four Loko after nine university students aged 17 to 19 from Central Washington University in Ellensburg, Washington became ill at a house party in Roslyn, Washington.  The students were hospitalized with blood alcohol levels ranging from 0.12 to 0.35 percent (0.30 percent being considered potentially lethal), and one student almost died according to CWU President James L. Gaudino.

In October 2010, following the hospitalization of seventeen students and six visitors, Ramapo College of New Jersey banned the possession and consumption of Four Loko on its campus.  As a result, Worcester State University stopped the sale of all energy drinks and they, as well as Boston College, informed their students of the risks involved in consuming Four Loko. By November 2010, dozens of other colleges and universities sent out notices informing their students to avoid the drink, while several more placed outright bans on their campuses.

The Daily Collegian, Penn State's student newspaper, reported that on November 1, 2010 the Pennsylvania Liquor Control Board sent letters to all liquor stores urging distributors to discontinue the sale of the drink. The PLCB also sent letters to all colleges and universities warning them of the dangers of the drink. While the board stopped short of a ban, it asked retailers to stop selling the drink until U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) findings prove they are safe. Pennsylvania State Representative Vanessa Lowery Brown, sought to introduce legislation to ban alcoholic energy drinks in the state.

Several stores, including ShopRite Super Markets, Tops Markets, Price Chopper and Wegmans voluntarily pulled the product from their shelves. Shortly after, former Governor of New York David Paterson announced that Phusion was withdrawing the beverage from the state of New York as of November 19, 2010.

On November 20, 2010, Oregon Liquor Control Commission's five citizen commissioners held an emergency meeting resulting in a 4-1 vote on the ban. The ban became effective immediately and was in effect until May 18, 2011. The ban required businesses to cease the sale of alcoholic energy drinks and withdraw existing items immediately. The sale of the restricted products during this period carried a penalty of 30-day suspension of liquor license.