[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Legs (song)

played the love interest in the little-seen Baxter Robertson video for the Robertson song "Silver Strand", also directed by Newman. As the crew set up to shoot the "Legs" video in February 1984, Frazier turned 21. Much of the video was shot in Valencia, California, the area now called Santa Clarita.

The three Eliminator actresses—Jeana Tomasino, Kymberly Herrin and Danièle Arnaud—were paid more than $2,000 each (approximately $5,000 in 2020 dollars), a higher fee than usual, according to Herrin. Tomasino had been a Playboy Playmate in 1980; so was Herrin in 1981. This was Herrin's first ZZ Top video, and established Eliminator models Tomasino and Arnaud tended to push her to the rear. Herrin and singer-guitarist Billy Gibbons became friends during the shoot. Gibbons said that he kept in touch with Herrin for years afterward, calling her a "groovy hippie chick from Santa Barbara". ZZ Top later brought her back for the video to their 1985 single "Sleeping Bag". Newman dated Frazier for a while, but only after she was cast in the part. He said, "Look, you spend time with these people. What can I tell you?"

The single entered the Mainstream Rock Airplay charts in June 1984.

Spinning guitars

Dean Guitars created the pair of matching guitars shown in the music video, based on the Dean Z model, but painted white and covered in fluffy white sheepskin. Dean also painted the band's "ZZ" logo extending the length of each fretboard. Gibbons had picked up the sheepskin while touring in Scotland, and sent it to Dean for the custom project. Both the 4-string bass guitar and 6-string standard required the sheepskin to be trimmed away from the strings so that they could sustain. The glue was still drying on the sheepskin covering the tuning pegs when the guitars were couriered to the video shoot.

The custom style was duplicated in late 1985 by Gibson for the band's Afterburner Tour, based on a pair of Gibson Explorer models. Fabricated by Matthew Klein, the Gibsons were purposely made lighter in construction than the Deans, weighing about six pounds each (2.7 kg).

Awards
The video won the 1984 MTV Video Music Award for Best Group Video. Frazier and Newman attended the awards ceremony, and Newman accepted the award on behalf of the band. This was the first year the award was given. Sim Sadler and Bob Sarles edited "Legs," for which both received nominations for Best Editing in the first MTV Video Music Awards, in the Billboard Music Video Awards, and in the American Music Video Awards that year.

Chart performance

Weekly charts

Year-end charts

Personnel
Billy Gibbons – guitar, lead vocals
Dusty Hill – bass guitar, backing vocals (credit only)
Frank Beard – drums (credit only)
Terry Manning – recording and mix engineer, programming, drum machines, synthesizers, backing vocals
Linden Hudson – pre-production engineer

Cover versions
Nickelback covered the song on the 2011 ZZ Top: A Tribute from Friends.
Kid Rock covered the song on the 2002 album WWF Forceable Entry.

Parodies
The video was parodied in a 1984 episode of St. Elsewhere in which the Eliminator girls appeared, though the band was played by members of the show's cast.

References

1983 songs
1984 singles
ZZ Top songs
Songs written by Billy Gibbons
Songs written by Dusty Hill
Songs written by Frank Beard (musician)
American synth-pop songs
Warner Records singles
Song recordings produced by Bill Ham