[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bosco Adventure

to be misleading as the story develops. He often uses various weapons to attack the Bosco ship, such as bombs, catapults, stone throwers and others.
 Voiced by Kenichi Ogata
Franz is Hoodman's dwarf-like servant and bears certain resemblance to Ender. He drives the Scorpion, and likes to eat a lot.

 Voiced by Rihoko Yoshida
Tamia is Scorpion's competent and dangerous second in command. Her first appearance is in episode 15, when she is sent to back up Hoodman and seize the princess after a series of his unsuccessful attempts to do the same. She is a master of disguise and possesses a private army. She generally makes Bosco's progress harder, but from time to time also facilitates it since she gets into fights with Hoodman. Tamia is loyal to Scorpion, as he promised her half of the world after she hands Apricot over to him.
 Voiced by Hiroshi Ōtake
Messenger is a bat and serves as a bearer of Scorpion's messages to Hoodman. He often gives him ideas to help him catch the princess. Appears for the first time in episode 5.
 Voiced by Hidekatsu Shibata
Scorpion is a mysterious monster who gained control of Fountain land. He is a monster who feeds on planets and his intention with the present one is to dry it up so that he and his creatures can slowly eat it. His voice appears for the first time in episode 5, and is seen behind the curtain in episode 13, when Hoodman asks for new ship. He appears in the episode 24 in his real shape.
 Voiced by Seizō Katō
Oja is a big lizard who is the chief of the tribe that captures Apricot in episode 13. He appears in the episode 14 when Hoodman tries to exchange kidnapped Apricot for Frog - as Oja's only motive is to eat. Oja agrees, but eventually friends manage to escape the lizard's castle - leaving the lizards' chieftain with an empty stomach.

Episodes

Music
Background music in Bosco Adventure varies from colorful and cheerful, to moody, nostalgic and sentimental, with typical Japanese sounds. It has variety of cues, for every situation and place which crew visits (Sleeping Giant, Oasis, Ocean...) Several cues repeat throughout the episodes, depending on the situation.
Songs that were released on Bonus Disc as a part of DVD are: Tokimeki wa Forever (ときめきはForever, opening song, sung by Noriko Hidaka), Hareta hi nimo ai wo kudasai (はれたひにもあいをください, closing song, also sung by Noriko Hidaka), Kara Kara Makkura (カラカラまっくら, sung by voice actors that gave voice to Hoodman, Jack and Franz) and Bosco Adventure (ボスコアドベンチャー, sung by voice actors that gave voice to Apricot, Frog, Tutty and Otter).

Releases outside Japan
Arab World, as "سفينة الأصدقاء" (Safenat Al-Asdeqa'a = The Friends’ ship ) was dubbed in the early 90s by Kuwaiti dubbing center called Funoon Centre. It was a huge success and played by the TV channels in CCG ( Kuwait, Oman, UAE, Bahrain, Saudi Arabia and Qatar) 
Bulgaria, as "Приключенията на Боско" (Prikliucheniata na Bosko - The adventures of Bosco) showed from end of may/start of June to December 8 in 1991 on BNT (Kanal 1)
Cameroon, Egypt, France, as "Les aventures du Bosco". In Cameroon on CRTV in 1992, in Egypt on Egyptian Channel 3 in early 1990s, in France on La Cinq in 1990. Note that in Egypt it wasn't dubbed in Arabic, as only the French dub aired on Egyptian Channel 3 in the early 1990s, when there was a partnership between the Egyptian networks and the French network.
Canada, as "La Forêt Magique", in the early 1990s on TVA, a French-language network based in Montreal, PQ.
Estonia, as "Bosco Seiklused", in 1996.
Hungary, as "A Bosco léghajó kalandjai", shown on TV channel Msat and released on VHS by Tower Video with two episodes/volume.
Israel, as "חבורת הצב המעופף" ("Havurat Hatzav Hameofef" – The Flying Turtle Group), shown on the Israeli Channel 1.
Italy, as "La principessa dai capelli blu" (approx. Blue-haired princess), transmitted on Italia 1 in 1988.
Poland, as "Przygody Bosco" on Top Canal in 1991, and Polish-dubbed version on TVN in 1997.
Russia, Latvia, as "Приключения Боско" (Prikljuchenija Bosko). In Russia, only last ten episodes were shown on RTR in 1992. In Latvia, the same Russian-dubbed version was twice aired by KS Video channel in 1993 and 1994 (only episodes 17-26 were shown, with the last one being dropped both times).
South Korea, as "날아라 거북선" on KBS in 1987.
Spain, Mexico, Chile, as "Las aventuras de la nave Bosco"
Thailand, as "บอสโก ป่ามหัศจรรย์" (ฺBosco, the magical forest), shown on 7 Channel in 1991.
Serbia (Yugoslavia), as "Плава принцеза" (Blue princess), shown on TV Novi Sad in 1991. Overall, sixteen episodes were shown, first twelve and the last four.

References

External links
 Official anime website of Nippon Animation 
 

1986 anime television series debuts
Adventure anime and manga
Nippon Animation
Yomiuri Telecasting Corporation original programming