[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gibran Hamdan

before being released on December 5 and added to the team's practice squad.

Miami Dolphins
After Hamdan's contract with the Seahawks expired in January, he was signed to a future contract with the Miami Dolphins on February 6, 2007. He was released at the conclusion of the preseason on September 1.

Buffalo Bills
On September 26, 2007, the Buffalo Bills signed Hamdan to their practice squad after an injury to starting quarterback J. P. Losman. The Bills released Craig Nall and promoted Hamdan to the team's 3rd QB on October 19. Due to injury of Trent Edwards, Hamdan was promoted to backup quarterback for the game between the Bills and the Bengals on November 4, 2007.

Hamdan appeared in 3 preseason games in 2008, completing 30/47 passes for 258 yards averaging 5.5 yards, a 63.8% completion rate with no touchdowns or interceptions for a passer rating of 78.1. Hamdan suffered a concussion during the final preseason game against the Detroit Lions, a game in which he started.

Hamdan was promoted backup quarterback for the last two games of the 2008 season pushing J.P. Losman back to third string, who had lost his starting role earlier that year to Trent Edwards.

A restricted free agent in the 2009 offseason, Hamdan was re-signed by the Bills on February 26 as the Buffalo Bills. The signing of Ryan Fitzpatrick put him back to third string at the start of the 2009 training camp.

He attended the NFL broadcasters bootcamp in 2009 and was featured his own weekly show on the Buffalo Bills website named 'Hanging Ten with Hamdan'.

Hamdan appeared in all 4 2009 preseason games, with 32/48 attempts completed for 427 yards averaging 8.9 yards, a 66.7% completion rate, one touchdown and 2 interceptions for a passer rating of 84.3.

Hamdan was waived on November 19, 2009, in favor of Brian Brohm, who was signed off the Green Bay Packers' practice squad. The Bills re-signed Hamdan on December 22, 2009, after injuries to Fitzpatrick and Edwards, with cornerback Terrence McGee going on injured reserve to make room for Hamdan on the roster.

Toronto Argonauts
On March 10, 2010, it was announced that Hamdan had signed a one-year plus an option contract with the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League. He retired from football on June 4, 2010.

International baseball career 
Hamdan played youth international baseball for the United States U-15 national baseball team. However, on August 18, 2022, he announced that he would represent Pakistan in the qualifiers for the 2023 World Baseball Classic.

Personal life
Hamdan is married to Jenny Grant, granddaughter of former head coach in the NFL and CFL Bud Grant. Hamdan's younger brother Bush is also a former quarterback who played at Boise State, and is currently the offensive coordinator at Boise State.

After football, Hamdan started his own fashion line.

References

External links
 Toronto Argonauts bio
 Buffalo Bills bio 

1981 births
Living people
People from Potomac, Maryland
Sportspeople from Arlington County, Virginia
Players of American football from San Diego
Players of American football from Montgomery County, Maryland
Players of Canadian football from Maryland
Players of American football from Virginia
American people of Palestinian descent
American football quarterbacks
Canadian football quarterbacks
Indiana Hoosiers football players
Washington Redskins players
Los Angeles Avengers players
Amsterdam Admirals players
Seattle Seahawks players
San Francisco 49ers players
Miami Dolphins players
Buffalo Bills players
Toronto Argonauts players
American sportspeople of Pakistani descent
Expatriate players of American football
American expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands
Indiana Hoosiers baseball players