[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 53]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

_ to describe the quality in the
lady of his affections.

"Let her be as persistent as she may, it is not possible for any woman
to resist the laws and beliefs of Society. What can she do against all
the world? She can't escape from the conditions of her epoch. Oh! she
may talk boldly now, for she does not understand; she is a mere infant
as regards knowledge of the world, but once a wife----"

Henriette smiled and shook her head, by way of finish to her sentence.
Hubert mused silently for some minutes.

"I could not endure that there should be any disturbance--any
eccentricity--in our life----"

"My dear boy, if you don't trust to the teaching of experience to cure
Hadria of these fantastic notions, rely upon the resistless persuasions
of our social facts and laws. Nothing can stand against them--certainly
not the fretful heresies of an inexperienced girl, who, remember, is
really good and kind at heart."

"Ah! yes," cried Hubert; "a fine nature, full of good instincts, and
womanly to her finger-tips."

"Oh! if she were not that, _I_ would never encourage you to think of
her," cried Henriette with a shudder. "It is on this essential goodness
of heart that I rely. She would never be able, try as she might, to act
in a manner that would really distress those who were dear to her. You
may count upon that securely."

"Yes; I am sure of it," said Hubert, "but unluckily" (he shook his head
and sighed) "I am not among those who are dear to her."

He rose abruptly, and Henriette followed him.

"Try to win her to-night," she murmured, "and be sure to express no
opposition to her ideas, however wild they may be. Ignore them, humour
her, plead your cause once more on this auspicious day--the last of the
old year. Something tells me that the new year will begin joyously for
you. Go now, and good luck to you."

"Ah! here you are," cried Mr. Fullerton, "we were wondering what had
become of you. You said you wished to see a reel. Mrs. McPherson is so
good as to play for us."

The kindly old Scottish dame had come, with two nieces, from a distance
of ten miles.

A thrill ran through the company when the strange old tune began.
Everyone rushed for a partner, and two long rows of figures stood facing
one another, eager to start. Temperley asked Hadria to dance with him.
Algitha had Harold Wilkins for a partner. The two long rows were soon
stepping and twirling with zest and agility. A new and wilder spirit
began to possess the whole party. The northern blood took fire and
transfigured the dancers. The Temperleys seemed to be fashioned of
different clay; they were able to keep their heads. Several elderly
people had joined in the dance, performing their steps with a
conscientious dexterity that put some of their juniors to shame. Mr.
Fullerton stood by, looking on and applauding.

"How your father seems to enjoy the sight!" said Temperley, as he met
his partner for a moment.

"He likes nothing so well, and his daughters take after him."

Hadria's reels were celebrated, not without reason. Some mad spirit
seemed to possess her. It would appear almost as if she had passed into
a different phase of character. She lost caution and care and the sense
of external events.

When the dance was ended, Hubert led her from the hall. She went as if
in a dream. She would not allow herself to be taken beyond the sound of
the grotesque old dance music that was still going on, but otherwise she
was unresisting.

He sat down beside her in a corner of the dining-room. Now and then he
glanced at his companion, and seemed about to speak. "You seem fond of
your national music," he at last remarked.

"It fills me with bewildering memories," she said in a dreamy tone. "It
seems to recall--it eludes description--some wild, primitive
experiences--mountains, mists--I can't express what northern mysteries.
It seems almost as if I had lived before, among some ancient Celtic
people, and now, when I hear their music--or sometimes when I hear the
sound of wind among the pines--whiffs and gusts of something intensely
familiar return to me, and I cannot grasp it. It is very bewildering."

"The only thing that happens to me of the kind is that curious sense of
having done a thing before. Strange to say, I feel it now. This moment
is not new to me."

Hadria gave a startled glance at her companion, and shuddered.

"I suppose it is all pre-ordained," she said. He was puzzled, but more
hopeful than usual. Hadria might almost have accepted him in sheer
absence of mind. He put the thought in different terms. He began to
speak more boldly. He gave his view of life and happiness, his
philosophy and religion. Hadria lazily agreed. She lay under a singular
spell. The bizarre old music smote still upon the ear. She felt as if
she were in the thrall of some dream whose events followed one another,
as the scenes of a moving panorama unfold themselves before the
spectators.