[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vehicle routing problem

global distance travelled as well as the fixed costs associated with the used vehicles and drivers
Minimize the number of vehicles needed to serve all customers
Least variation in travel time and vehicle load
Minimize penalties for low quality service
Maximize a collected profit/score.

VRP variants

Several variations and specializations of the vehicle routing problem exist:
Vehicle Routing Problem with Profits (VRPP): A maximization problem where it is not mandatory to visit all customers. The aim is to visit once customers maximizing the sum of collected profits while respecting a vehicle time limit. Vehicles are required to start and end at the depot. Among the most known and studied VRPP, we cite:
 The Team Orienteering Problem (TOP) which is the most studied variant of the VRPP,
 The Capacitated Team Orienteering Problem (CTOP),
 The TOP with Time Windows (TOPTW).
Vehicle Routing Problem with Pickup and Delivery (VRPPD): A number of goods need to be moved from certain pickup locations to other delivery locations.  The goal is to find optimal routes for a fleet of vehicles to visit the pickup and drop-off locations.
Vehicle Routing Problem with LIFO: Similar to the VRPPD, except an additional restriction is placed on the loading of the vehicles: at any delivery location, the item being delivered must be the item most recently picked up. This scheme reduces the loading and unloading times at delivery locations because there is no need to temporarily unload items other than the ones that should be dropped off.
Vehicle Routing Problem with Time Windows (VRPTW): The delivery locations have time windows within which the deliveries (or visits) must be made.
 Capacitated Vehicle Routing Problem: CVRP or CVRPTW. The vehicles have a limited carrying capacity of the goods that must be delivered.
 Vehicle Routing Problem with Multiple Trips (VRPMT): The vehicles can do more than one route.
 Open Vehicle Routing Problem (OVRP): Vehicles are not required to return to the depot.
 Inventory Routing Problem (IRP): Vehicles are responsible for satisfying the demands in each delivery point 
 Multi-Depot Vehicle Routing Problem (MDVRP): Multiple depots exist from which vehicles can start and end.
 Vehicle Routing Problem with Transfers (VRPWT): Goods can be transferred between vehicles at specially designated transfer hubs.
 Electric Vehicle Routing Problem (EVRP): These are special VRP that take as an extra constraint the battery capacity of electric vehicles into account.

Several software vendors have built software products to solve various VRP problems. Numerous articles are available for more detail on their research and results.

Although VRP is related to the Job Shop Scheduling Problem, the two problems are typically solved using different techniques.

Exact solution methods
There are three main different approaches to modelling the VRP
Vehicle flow formulations—this uses integer variables associated with each arc that count the number of times that the edge is traversed by a vehicle. It is generally used for basic VRPs. This is good for cases where the solution cost can be expressed as the sum of any costs associated with the arcs. However it can't be used to handle many practical applications.
Commodity flow formulations—additional integer variables are associated with the arcs or edges which represent the flow of commodities along the paths travelled by the vehicles. This has only recently been used to find an exact solution.
Set partitioning problem—These have an exponential number of binary variables which are each associated with a different feasible circuit. The VRP is then instead formulated as a set partitioning problem which asks what is the collection of circuits with minimum cost that satisfy the VRP constraints. This allows for very general route costs.

Vehicle flow formulations
The formulation of the TSP by Dantzig, Fulkerson and Johnson was extended to create the two index vehicle flow formulations for the VRP

subject to

In this formulation  represents the cost of going from node  to node ,  is a binary variable that has value  if the arc going from  to  is considered as part of the solution and  otherwise,  is the number of available vehicles and  corresponds to the minimum number of vehicles needed to serve set . We are also assuming that  is the depot node.

Constraints  and  state that exactly one arc enters and exactly one leaves each vertex associated with a customer, respectively. Constraints  and   say that the number of vehicles leaving the depot is the same as the number entering. Constraints   are the capacity cut constraints, which impose that the routes must be connected and that the demand on each route must not exceed the vehicle capacity. Finally, constraints  are the integrality constraints.