[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Government of Barbados

pendence, the Parliament of the United Kingdom lost its ability to legislate for Barbados, but the existing English and British common law and statutes in force at that time, together with other measures already adopted by the Barbadian Parliament, became the basis of the new country's legal system.

Legislation may be shaped or influenced by such organisations as the United Nations, the Organization of American States, or other international bodies to which Barbados has obligatory commitments by treaty. Additionally, through international co-operation, other institutions may supply the Barbados Parliament with key sample legislation to be adapted to meet local circumstances before enacting it as local law.

New acts are passed by the Barbadian Parliament and require approval by the President to become law. The President, has the power to "withhold assent" from laws by vetoing the proposed law without parliamentary override.

Judicial branch 

The judiciary is the legal system through which punishments are handed out to individuals who break the law. The functions of the judiciary are to enforce laws; to interpret laws; to conduct court hearings; to hear court appeals.

The local court system of Barbados is made up of:
Magistrates' Courts: Covering Criminal, Civil, Domestic, Domestic Violence, and Juvenile matters. But can also take up matters dealing with Coroner's Inquests, Liquor Licences, and civil marriages. Further, the Magistrates' Courts deal with Contract and Tort law where claims do not exceed $10,000.00.
The Supreme Court: is made up of High Court and Court of Appeals.
High Court: Consisting of Civil, Criminal, and Family law divisions.
Court of Appeal: Handles appeals from the High Court and Magistrates' Court. It hears appeals in both the civil, and criminal law jurisdictions. It may consist of a single Justice of Appeal sitting in Chambers; or may sit as a Full Court of three Justices of Appeals.
The Caribbean Court of Justice (CCJ), (based in Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago), is the court of last resort (final jurisdiction) over Barbadian law. It replaced the London-based Judicial Committee of the Privy Council (JCPC). The CCJ may resolve other disputed matters dealing with the Caribbean Single Market and Economy (CSME).
 Chief Justices
 Justices of Appeals
 Magistrates

Perception
Transparency International ranked Barbados as 29th place (of 180) in the world on its Corruption Perceptions Index in 2021, being the least corrupt country in the Caribbean.

See also 
 Politics of Barbados
 Monarchy of Barbados
 Parliament of Barbados
 Prime Minister of Barbados
 Cabinet of Barbados
 List of government budgets by country
 List of countries by tax revenue as percentage of GDP

References

Further reading

Gallery

External links 

 Barbadian Government Website
 The Barbados Governmental System, Photius Coutsoukis
 Barbados Government statement on the proper titles for members of Government
Social Security provided by the Government of Barbados
Laws of Barbados, The World Law Guide
Laws of Barbados, The World Intellectual Property Organization

 
Barbados
 
Barbados politics-related lists