[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Derick Brassard

e new year. As the trading deadline approached, Brassard went on another hot streak, with three goals in as many games as he made himself an attractive trade target. In 58 games with Ottawa that season, Brassard scored 18 goals and recorded an additional 20 assists.

Pittsburgh Penguins (2018–2019) 

On February 23, 2018, Brassard was part of what Pittsburgh Penguins' general manager Jim Rutherford called "the most complex trade" of his career. Ottawa traded Brassard, prospect Vincent Dunn, and a third-round selection in the 2018 NHL Entry Draft to Pittsburgh, who sent Ottawa Ian Cole, prospect Filip Gustavsson, a first-round pick in the 2018 draft, and a third-round pick in the 2019 NHL Entry Draft. The Vegas Golden Knights, meanwhile, received Ryan Reaves and a fourth-round 2018 draft pick from the Penguins, while trading prospect Tobias Lindberg to Pittsburgh and offering to retain 40 per cent of Brassard's remaining salary. The latter configuration was necessary for the Penguins to remain within the bounds of the NHL salary cap. The Penguins were interested in acquiring Brassard in order to take the Metropolitan Division from the Washington Capitals, while Vegas agreed to retain a portion of Brassard's salary to ensure that he was traded to an Eastern Conference team that would see little playing time against the Golden Knights. Although Brassard had a strong finish to the regular season, with eight points in his first 14 games with the Penguins, he had an unusually difficult postseason stretch in the 2018 Stanley Cup playoffs, with one goal and three assists in 12 games. The Washington Capitals eliminated the Penguins from the playoffs in the second round. Brassard, meanwhile, attributed his postseason difficulties to a groin injury that he had suffered during the regular season, and his subsequent demotion to the fourth line.

Brassard had a slow start to the  season, with only one goal and four assists through eight games before suffering another groin injury on October 27 that caused him to miss nine games. He continued to struggle upon returning to the line-up, with only three points in 17 games by the Christmas break. In addition to lower body injuries limiting Brassard's effectiveness on the ice, he lacked stable linemates: although he seemed comfortable on captain Sidney Crosby's left wing, that position was filled by Jake Guentzel, and Brassard was subsequently demoted to third-line center. In 40 games for Pittsburgh during the 2018–19 season, Brassard scored only nine goals and a total of 15 points. He told reporters after the fact that he had difficulties finding a permanent, rewarding role within the Penguins organization. In addition to feeling outcast among Pittsburgh's strong core of skaters, Brassard had set personal goals of 50 to 60 points that season, which was made difficult by the limited playing time of a bottom-six forward.

Florida Panthers and Colorado Avalanche (2019) 
On February 1, 2019, the Penguins traded Brassard, Riley Sheahan, and three picks in the 2019 NHL Entry Draft to the Florida Panthers in exchange for Nick Bjugstad and Jared McCann. Both Brassard and Sheahan were set to become unrestricted free agents at the end of the season, and the Panthers, with three and a half weeks before the trading deadline, were open to flipping both players at the deadline. He played one game in his usual third line position, centreing Aleksander Barkov and Vincent Trocheck, before receiving a promotion to the second line wing with Trocheck and Mike Hoffman. Brassard dressed with the Panthers for only 10 games before being traded again, during which time he had one goal and three assists.