[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# HIV/AIDS in China

ught to suppress or minimize activism perceived as sensitive, obscene, or a threat to stability, including that related to HIV/AIDS. This phenomenon was particularly pronounced in Henan, where the initial blood donation outbreak, in which local authorities were extensively involved, was most severe.

In 2007, activist Gao Yaojie was placed under house arrest in her home in Zhengzhou in order to prevent her from visiting the United States to receive an award from Vital Voices Global Partnership and meet with Hillary Clinton.

Socioeconomic effect
The process of the effect of HIV/AIDS can be described as having three key stages: first, the effect experienced at the micro level; second, at the sectoral level; and finally, at the macro level. The effect began to be observed in China at the micro, or household level, and will most certainly be observed in the future at the sectoral level. Individuals and families have been bearing both the economic and social costs of the disease, and the poverty of those affected have increased and will further increase substantially.

Expenditures for the health sector will increase, for both treatment and prevention interventions. The macro level has been mostly unaffected. But if without effective preventive action, the HIV spread in the general population at large will affect the macro level as have happened in some countries in sub-Saharan Africa.

Media

Documentaries
Chinese-American director Ruby Yang has recently made a documentary about AIDS in rural China, which premiered on 14 June 2006, entitled The Blood of Yingzhou District.

An abridged version of Robert Bilheimer's acclaimed US-made 2003 documentary A Closer Walk was shown on China Central Television (CCTV) on World AIDS Day, 1 December (Friday), 2006, and was rerun Sunday and Monday. It was viewed by around 400 million people. The 75-minute-long documentary, narrated by actors Will Smith and Glenn Close, had premiered in the United States in 2003.

See also
HIV/AIDS in Hong Kong
Blood donation restrictions on men who have sex with men
The Blood of Yingzhou District
Plasma Economy
HIV/AIDS in Yunnan

Activists:
Hu Jia (activist)
Gao Yaojie
Wangdu (activist)
Wan Yanhai
Zeng Jinyan
Zhang Beichuan

Notes and references

Further reading

Gill B and Okie S. China and HIV — A Window of Opportunity. N Engl J Med 2007; 356(18): 1801–05.
Chen HT, Liang S, Liao Q, Wang S, Schumacher JE, Creger TN, Wilson CM, Dong B, Vermund SH. HIV Voluntary Counseling and Testing among Injection Drug Users in South China: A Study of a Non-Government Organization Based Program. AIDS Behav Mar 9, 2007.

Zhang, K. AIDS. Beijing: PUMC Publishing House; 2000. pp. 1–4.
Chen J, Zheng Z, Shao Y. Molecular-epidemiological analysis of HIV-1 initial prevalence in Guangxi, China. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 1999; 20: 74–77. (Chinese).
Liao SS. "HIV in China: epidemiology and risk factors. AIDS. 1998; 12 (Suppl B): S19–s25.
Chinese Ministry of Health; UN Theme Group on HIV/AIDS in the People's Republic of China. China responds to AIDS—HIV/AIDS situation and needs assessment report. Beijing: Chinese Ministry of Health; 1997.
Cohen MS, Henderson GE, Aiello P, Zheng H. "Successful eradication of sexually transmitted diseases in the People's Republic of China: implications for the 21st century. J Infect Dis. 1996; 174(S2): S223–s229.

External links

National Center for STD and AIDS Prevention Control, China CDC
 List of HIV/AIDS Research Centers in China—compiled by the Hong Kong AIDS Information Network.
AIDS Concern HK
China HIV/AIDS Information Network
UNICEF China - HIV/AIDS 

 
1989 establishments in China