[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Pacification of Manchukuo

the forces of Ma and Su in Heilongjiang, Japanese forces concentrated to the west. The forces of Feng Zhanhai and Wang Delin in Fengtian and Jilin were thus free to attack the railroads and other places in the South Manchuria Railway Zone and managed to briefly occupy the capital of Jilin province.

On 10 September 1932, at Dehui on the C. E. R. spur-line between Changchun and Harbin, 1,000 bandits drove out the Manchukuo garrison. They then looted the town for two hours as fighting went on. The garrison was able to rally and counterattack and repulse their opponents. On a raid on 11 September, Volunteer Army partisans derailed a train between Changchun and Harbin and robbed the survivors, kidnapping some for ransom, including five Japanese. On 15 September, a Red Spear militia not from the area, but merely passing through Pingdingshan village, fired on Japanese soldiers and later attacked the Japanese garrison in the nearby industrial city of Fushun. The next day in retaliation Japanese soldiers and police in tracking the rebels as they fled back through the villages, assumed all who were in the vicinity either to be members of the militia or their confederates and punished them, by burning homes and summary execution, bayoneting and machine-gunning village residents and killing some 3,000 men, women, and children, leaving only one survivor in the whole village. This became known as the Pingdingshan Massacre.

Meanwhile, in October to the west, a Manchukuo and Japanese force in the Li Hai-ching Subjugation, confronted the 3,000 man Li Hai-ching guerrilla force that had returned to attack Manchukuo and Japanese forces in south Heilongjiang province and forced their retreat into Jehol province.

Finally the Japanese took the initiative in the east. In mid-October, the Japanese estimated Tang Juwu's forces in the fourteen counties of south and eastern Fengtian at about 30,000 men. On 11 October 1932, the Japanese counterattacked in the Second Dongbiandao Subjugation. The Fengtian Army of seven brigades supported a Japanese force of two cavalry brigades and one mixed brigade that spearheaded the clearance of guerrillas from the Dongbiandao district. They attacked Tang Juwu's forces in the Tonghua and Huanren area. Tang Juwu broke through the Japanese encirclement to the west. On the 16th, the Japanese took over Tonghua, and on the 17th, Huanren, suffering casualties of 500 men while killing 270 and capturing 1,000.

Following that operation up from October to November 1932 in the Shenyang, Changchun, Jilin Subjugation the Japanese swept through the territory between Mukden, Changchun and Jilin, and forcing the Chinese guerrilla forces of Wang Delin to retreat towards Huinan and Siping.

From 6 November 20 to November, 1932, the Manchukuo Army launched the Ki Feng - Lung District Subjugation Operation clearing the Ki Feng-lung district of guerrillas with 5,000 Manchukuo soldiers consisting of a battalion of the Manchukuo Imperial Guards and the 2nd Cavalry Regiment of the Fengtian Army and a Cavalry detachment of the Jilin Army.

The Third Dongbiandao Subjugation operation, from 22 November to 5 December 1932, was launched to finally clear the remnants of Tang Juwu's guerrilla forces that had regrouped after the Second Dongbiandao Subjugation campaign. The Manchukuo force was made up of a unit of Manchukuo Imperial Guards as well as locally raised militia forces from the Yalu, Central and Shenghai districts totaling 5,000 men. The operation was a success and led to the capture of 1,800 "bandits", some of whom were later recruited into the Manchukuo Army.

On 24 December 1932, the Japanese 10th Division attacked guerrilla forces to the north of Mudanjiang River. 5 January 1933, General Kuan Chang-ching was forced to surrender his Volunteers at Suifenhe on the Soviet frontier. On 7 January 1933, Japanese took over Mishan. On 9 January 1933, Li Du's guerrilla forces crossed Ussuri River into the USSR. On 5 January, the Japanese began assaulting Dongning, Heilongjiang and on 13 January, Wang Delin and the remaining militias were forced to retreat from Dongning to the Soviet Union  By the end of February 1933, most of the large Volunteer Armies had dispersed into small guerrilla bands or had fled to the Soviet Union.

Aftermath 
This was not the end of the Volunteer Armies. Some fought on as small guerrilla units, frequently called "shanlin". The bandit experiences of some of the commanders stood them in good stead for they were adept at surviving in the Manchurian winters and adapted to guerrilla warfare and they continued to harass the Japanese and Manchukuo forces for many years.