[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alberto Rodríguez Saá

t Luis Inacio Lula da Silva and Pope John Paul II. The distinction is in recognition of his humanitarian support including food and aid relief that Rodriguez Saá offered to various Argentine provinces, Brazil, Peru, China, Iran and Haiti; he was also recognized for this by the United States Embassy.

The province of San Luis was voted the best managed in the country by private consultants for the seventh consecutive year, in Tax Efficiency Policy, Social indicators, Infrastructure, Fiscal Solvency and International Trade. Moreover, in its ambition to create a local "Silicon Valley," San Luis came fourth in a ranking of 150 'digital cities' developed by Motorola.

Rodríguez Saá sought the Federal Peronist nomination for the Presidency in 2011. Neither he nor his main rival, former President Eduardo Duhalde, were able to secure a clear majority ahead of the August 14 primaries, however, and each man ran on his own slate: Rodríguez Saá on the Federal Commitment, and Duhalde on the Popular Front. Both were handily defeated by the incumbent, President Cristina Kirchner, though Rodríguez Saá (who earned 1.7 million votes, or 8%) won in his native San Luis Province; he became the only candidate other than Mrs. Kirchner to win in any one jurisdiction.

International awards and honors

"Distinction for his commitment to environmental protection and combating desertification, land degradation and mitigating the effects of drought" (June 2011) delivered by the United Nations Convention to combat desertification.

Recognition to the Government of the Province of San Luis by the Senate of the Argentinian Nation (March 2011), for having signed on September 6, 2010, the Agreement called "Ten Commandments of peace between Progress and the Environment" and for the effective implementation of sustainable development policies. Upon signing the Treaty of Peace between Progress and the Environment, the Provincial Governor Alberto Rodriguez Saa was greeted by three Nobel Peace Prize winners (Wangari Maathai, Osvaldo Canziani, and Perez Esquivel).

"Tiradentes Medal", considered the highest distinction granted by the Carioca State. It is the same award that in previous years was assigned to former Brazilian President Luis Ignacio Lula da Silva and Pope John Paul II.

"Global Ambassador for Peace" (March 2011), the highest distinction made by the World Peace Organization in Geneva, for his policies put forward in San Luis on "Social Inclusion", "Sustainable Environment" "Health and Work", "Nuclear Nonproliferation," and "General Welfare", an honor previously bestowed upon Kofi Annan, former Secretary General of the United Nations.

"Distinction of the United Nations Environment Program" based in Kenya (March 2011) for having planted more than four million trees.
Recognition for his environmental leadership by former U.S. VP, Nobel Peace Prize winner Al Gore during his visit to the Province of San Luis (2009)

Participation in the Global Climate Change Convention in Copenhagen 2010, along with the leaders and presidents of all the nations assembled in order to reach an international agreement on climate change.

"Global Leader" (February 2009), a distinction made by the United Nations through the United Nations Program for Environment for his contribution to the Billion Tree Campaign.

Public office

1983–1994: National Senator for the Province of San Luis. In this position he served as: 
President of the General Law Committee
1st vice-president of the Peronist bloc (unified) in 1988
President of the Peronist bloc Honorable Senate of Argentina between 1989 and 1993.

2000: Re-elected Senator by the Province of San Luis.

2001: Chief of Cabinet of the Province of San Luis.

2003: Elected Governor of the Province of San Luis with a mandate until 2007.

2007: Re-elected Governor of the Province of San Luis with a mandate until 2011.

Academic activity

Professor of Labor and Commercial Law at Normal School "Juan Pascual Pringles" National University of San Luis.

Fellow Member of the San Luis History Board.

Honorary President and founder of the ICCED Foundation.

Honorary President and founder of the Institute of Historical and Social Studies "Juan Crisóstomo Lafinur"

Director of the Department of Regional Studies – Provincial Institute of Technology – San Luis

Professor of the Department Regional Studies – Provincial Institute of Technology – San Luis

Founder of "Institute of Legal Editions." San Luis 1999

Professor of the Department of Regional Studies – IUSI

Published works

"The Test of Desmalvinización." Buenos Aires-1985

"Argentine Model for the National Project". Buenos Aires-1986

"Critical Analysis on the national project." Buenos Aires, 1987

"San Luis a destination." San Luis 1997

"Dr. Juan Crisóstomo Lafinur, Notes." San Luis, 1997

"Tragic Cantata to the Death of Colonel Juan Pascual Pringles". San Luis, 2000

"Trilogy in Pringles," San Luis, 2001

References