[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of Asian Americans

or the Central District of California, and the first Asian American female to serve as a U.S. Attorney.
Minoru Yasui, World War II-era lawyer who fought the legality of the incarceration of Japanese Americans during the war. Posthumously awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 2015.

Literature

 Alfredo Alcala – Filipino comic book artist.
 Peter Bacho – author of the American Book Award-winning novel Cebu
 Lynda Barry – cartoonist of partial Filipino descent, most known for Ernie Pook's Comeek and Marlys, published in Salon.com and other independent papers.
 Carlos Bulosan – author, "America Is In the Heart."
 Regie Cabico – notable slam poet and performer
 Jorge Cham – author of PhD Comics
 Ernie Chan – comic book artist/inker for Marvel Comics and DC Comics.
 Eileen Chang – writer
 Lan Samantha Chang – writer; director of the Iowa Writer's Workshop
 Cherry Chevapravatdumrong – writer, Family Guy
 Frank Chin (趙健秀) – novelist, playwright, and essayist
 Kah Kyung Cho – philosopher at SUNY University
 Amy Chua – writer and Harvard professor
 Melissa de la Cruz – author of teen lit series Au Pairs, The Ashleys and Blue Bloods
 Tony DeZuniga – co-creator of Jonah Hex
 Ben Fee – writer and labor organizer
 Don Figueroa – comic book artist for IDW Publishing and Dreamwave Entertainment, working on various Transformers titles.
 Larry Hama – comic book writer for Marvel, DC, IDW Publishing, creator of G.I. Joe filecards.
 Tanuja Desai Hidier – author of Born Confused
 David Henry Hwang (黃哲倫) – playwright
 Lawson Fusao Inada - poet, winner of the American Book Award and former poet laureate of Oregon
 Gish Jen – writer, novelist
 Ha Jin – novelist, winner of the National Book Award for "Waiting"
 Cynthia Kadohata - author of children's books, recipient of the Newbery Medal (2005) and National Book Award for Young People's Literature (2013)
 Rafael Kayanan – Comics artist, TV writer and master level instructor in Sayoc Kali.
 Jaegwon Kim – philosopher at Brown University
 Maxine Hong Kingston – writer, novelist, recipient of the 2008 National Book Foundation's Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters
 Jean Kwok – writer, novelist
 Jhumpa Lahiri – Pulitzer Prize-winning author
 Gus Lee (李健孫) – writer
 Jim Lee – DC Comics writer, artist, editor and publisher
 Huping Ling – history professor, award-winning author, Executive Editor for the Journal of Asian American Studies
 Bette Bao Lord (包柏漪) – writer, novelist
 David Wong Louie – writer
 Adeline Yen Mah (馬嚴君玲) – author and physician
 Nick Manabat – creator of Cybernary, comic book artist for Wildstorm Productions
 Gary R. Mar – philosopher at Stony Brook University
 William Marr (馬為義, 非馬) – engineer, poet, translator, and artist
 Janice Mirikitani - former poet laureate for San Francisco
 Kenn Navarro – animator of cartoon Happy Tree Friends
 Aimee Nezhukumatathil – award-winning poet and professor
 Han Ong – playwright and author; recipient of MacArthur Foundation "genius" grant.
 Pai Hsien-yung – Chinese Muslim writer
 Linda Sue Park – American-born author; winner of the 2002 Newbery Medal for A Single Shard
 Whilce Portacio – created Bishop of the X-Men, co-founder of Image Comics.
 Randy Romero – writer
 Albert Saijo – poet
 Saumitra Saxena – award-winning poet in the modern Indian history. Graduated from Indian Institute of Technology and received his PhD from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
 Lisa See – writer
 T. K. Seung – philosopher and literary critic at University of Texas, Austin
 Kamila Shamsie – award-winning novelist of books such as Salt and Saffron and Broken Verses.
 Eileen Tabios – poet.
 Ronald Takaki – was an academic, historian, ethnographer and author and recipient of the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award in 1994
 Amy Tan – best-selling author of The Joy Luck Club, The Bonesetter's Daughter, The Kitchen God's Wife, etc.
 Romeo Tanghal – comic book artist.
 Bryan Thao Worra – award-winning Lao American writer, 1st Lao American NEA Fellow in Literature.
 Alex Tizon – Pulitzer Prize winner.
 Dr. Abraham Verghese – noted Doctor and Author; In My Own Country and My Tennis Partner
 Jose Garcia Villa – poet, writer, generationalist; pre-Beat Generation influence.
 Raees Warsi – notable poet, author and TV anchor
 Michi Weglyn - author and recipient of the Anisfield-Wolf Book Award in 1977
 Jade Snow Wong – writer
 Shawn Wong – novelist, "Americanese" and "Homebase"
 Timothy C. Wong (黃宗泰) – sinologist, translator, and literary theorist
 Hisaye Yamamoto - short story writer, recipient of the American Book Award for Lifetime Achievement in 1986
 Karen Tei Yamashita - author and playwright, recipient of the 2021 National Book Foundation's Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters
 Gene Luen Yang – graphic novelist
 Taro Yashima - author of children's books, recipient of the 1955 Children's Book Award 
 Laurence Yep (叶祥添) – author of children's books
 Charles Yu - novelist and winner of the 2020 National Book Award for F