[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of fictional anarchists

narchist, terrorist, and criminal gang lord, created by producer and screenwriter Bruno Heller for the television series Gotham, and played by actor Cameron Monaghan. The character acts as a tribute and forerunner to the Batman supervillain Joker, as well as exploring the mythology of the character.

 Yorgi An anarchist, terrorist, and criminal gang lord, in the film xXx (2002). Yogi (Marton Csokas) was an officer in the Russian army during the Second Chechen War, until he and his subordinates grew disgusted by the corruption of the government and the deaths of their own comrades. They mutinied, and reorganized as a criminal organization, Anarchy 99, named for the year their rebellion. In an effort to eliminate government on a global scale, he builds an automated submarine, Ahab, that will anonymously launch deadly gas at several cities worldwide, in the hope that the resulting social turmoil will initiate a breakdown in global order, leaving only a condition of "anarchy". He is killed by Xander Cage, who then successfully neutralizes the poison aboard the Ahab.

 Pa'u Zotoh Zhaan A Delvian priestess and political prisoner in the Sci-Fi Channel original series, Farscape (1999). She is of an empathic and telepathic alien species, and has skills in drug and explosive manufacture.
She dies early in season three of the series, sacrificing herself to save the lives of her shipmates. In reality, actress Virginia Hey was unable to continue playing the character, as the makeup effects were harming her kidneys.

 Zaheer Antagonist of the third season of Nickelodeon TV series The Legend of Korra. Zaheer is a self-described Anarchist and leader of the terrorist organization Order of the Red Lotus. Zaheer's goal throughout the series is to create a worldwide society based on the principles of freedom and chaos by overthrowing all world governments and killing the Avatar. Though born a non-bender, Zaheer gains the ability of airbending after Harmonic Convergence, which he becomes greatly adept gaining the ability of flight, a technique that no other airbender in the show has been shown to have.

 Swift Wind A recurring character in the Netflix animated series She-Ra and the Princesses of Power (2018). Swift Wind, a Pegasus, gained the ability to speak and think alongside various magical abilities following his transformation from a horse. Soon afterwards, he decided to dedicate himself to the cause of freeing horses from stables across Etheria. While never overtly referred to as an anarchist, Swift Wind does express a desire to "dismantle unjust hierarchies", and subscribes to a belief which he summarizes under the slogan "freedom, equality, and hay for all".

Theatre

Tom Collins A philosophy professor with AIDS, Tom Collins is a major character in the American Tony Award- and Pulitzer Prize-winning rock musical, Rent (1996), by Jonathan Larson. He is the friend and former roommate of several characters, including Roger, Mark, Benny, and Maureen, and is Angel's lover. During musical numbers, the performer playing Tom sings bass. The character is inspired by "Colline", a character in La bohème, by Giacomo Puccini.

Opera
Mario Cavaradossi Tosca's husband. Cavaradossi was a fugitive and he died by Scarpia's order, who was the chief of police.

See also
 Anarchism and the arts
 Libertarian science fiction

Footnotes and citations

Fictional
Anarchists, fictional