[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Power Inquiry

r of the Conservative party David Cameron and the Leader of the Liberal Democrats Sir Menzies Campbell.  The plenary sitting split into eight 'breakout' sessions where particular aspects of the Commission's recommendations were discussed.  These sessions, and the organisations sponsoring them, were:

 Politics, Citizenship & Young People (Carnegie Young People Initiative)
 Direct Democracy: Ideas for Citizen Power (Charter 88)
 Reviving Political Parties for Democracy (Demos)
 Parliament: Fit for (What) Purpose? (Hansard Society)
 Citizens and the State: A Marriage of Inconvenience? (Involve)
 The Future of Local and Neighbourhood Government (Local Government Information Unit)
 Clean Politics: Fair Votes (New Politics Network)
 Global Power - Is Parliament Relevant? (One World Trust)

The conference finished with a Question Time debate on Prospects for Democratic Change, chaired by Helena Kennedy with the following panellists:

 Nicholas Boles (Director, the Policy Exchange)
 Saira Khan (Businesswoman, TV presenter, author, runner-up on the first series of The Apprentice)
 Ed Miliband (Labour MP, former advisor to Gordon Brown and newly appointed Parliamentary Secretary to the Cabinet Office)
 Peter Tatchell (Human rights campaigner)

During the conference, David Cameron gave his support to a majority-elected House of Lords for the first time, saying, "In my view the Lords must have a significant elected element if it is to play a full and proper role". He also made strong comments on the future of the Royal Prerogative, saying "It's time to look at the power of the Executive to ride roughshod over the Legislature".

Many questions were asked of all the speakers by those attending the conference, and a lively debate took place over issues such as proportional representation for general elections and direct democracy initiatives such as referendums.

Power 2010

"Power 2010" is an attempt to carry forward the concepts behind the Power Inquiry into the UK 2010 General Election.

Five key constitutional reforms have been identified in a nationwide poll - introduce proportional representation, abolish ID cards, replace the Lords with an elected chamber, allow only English MPs to vote on English laws, and draw up a written constitution.

Power 2010 is attempting to get voters and candidates in the UK 2010 General Election to endorse these reforms by signing a personal pledge.

References

External links 
Power 2010 website
Power Inquiry website on Internet Archive
BBC - 'Political system faces meltdown'
Listen to Helena Kennedy discuss the Inquiry

Politics of the United Kingdom
Political advocacy groups in the United Kingdom
Constitution of the United Kingdom