[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sizewell nuclear power stations

m an intake structure about  offshore via twin  diameter tunnels. This water was returned to the sea through similar tunnels discharging  offshore.

Electricity output 
Electricity output from Sizewell A power station over the period 1966-84 was as follows.

Sizewell A annual electricity output GWh.

Decommissioning
The power station was shut down on 31 December 2006. The Nuclear Decommissioning Authority (NDA) subsidiary Magnox Ltd is responsible for placing contracts for the decommissioning of Sizewell A, at a budgeted cost of £1.2billion. Defuelling was completed in 2014.
Removal of most buildings is expected to take until 2034, followed by a care and maintenance phase from 2034 to 2092. Demolition of reactor buildings and final site clearance is planned for 2088 to 2098.

On 7 January 2007, a contractor working on the decommissioning of the station noticed water leaking on to the floor of the laundry where he was washing his clothes. The water was found to be cooling water from the pond that holds the reactor's spent nuclear fuel which had dropped more than  without activating any of the alarms. It is estimated that up to  of radioactive water had leaked from a  split in a pipe, with some spilling into the North Sea. According to the HM Nuclear Installation Inspectorate's report of the incident, without the chance intervention of the contractor, the pond could have drained before the next scheduled plant inspection. If the exposed irradiated fuel had caught fire, it would have resulted in an airborne off-site release of radiation.

Sizewell B 

Sizewell B is the UK's only commercial pressurised water reactor (PWR) power station. Its single reactor was built and commissioned between 1987 and 1995, and first synchronised with the national grid on 14 February 1995. The main civil engineering contractor was John Laing. The power station is operated by EDF Energy. The architectural design was carried out by Yorke Rosenberg Mardall.

EDF's strategic target is for 20 year life extension for Sizewell B PWR, beyond the current accounting closure date of 2035. This would mean the plant remaining in operation until 2055. , the power station is still planned to close in 2035.

Design 

The 'nuclear island' at Sizewell B is based on a Westinghouse '4-loop' plant known as SNUPPS (Standard Nuclear Unit Power Plant System) initially designed in the 1970s and used at Wolf Creek and Callaway but with additional redundancy and diversity in the safety systems, and other modifications such as the addition of a passive Emergency Boration System. The containment design was not based on SNUPPS however, but was designed by NNC (National Nuclear Corporation – bought by Amec Foster Wheeler in 2005) in conjunction with Bechtel.

The Wolf Creek and Callaway plants each have single half speed, 1,800RPM (60Hz), steam turbine-alternator sets which use the steam produced from the heat generated in the reactor to produce about 1,200MW of electricity at the US grid frequency of 60Hz. Such large turbo-alternator sets were not available in the UK at the time Sizewell B was designed. So that orders could be given to UK manufacturers, and to avoid project risk in dealing with what were at the time newly designed very large turbo-alternator sets, Sizewell B uses two full-speed, 3,000RPM (50Hz), nominal 660MW turbo-alternator sets similar to those used at the AGR power stations Hinkley Point B, Heysham 1, Hartlepool and Torness, and at some fossil-fuel power stations elsewhere, but adapted to cope with the wetter steam conditions produced by the PWR steam supply system. PWR steam supply systems produce saturated steam at lower temperature and pressure than the dry superheated steam produced by AGR reactors or fossil-fuel power stations, and the high- and intermediate-pressure stages of the steam turbines have to be designed cope with this Sizewell B can run at half power using one turbo-alternator.

The major components were supplied by:
 Reactor system: Westinghouse
 Reactor vessel: Framatome (main shell: Japan Steel Works, domes and other components: Le Creusot Forge)
 Core internals: Westinghouse
 Steam raising: Doosan Babcock
 Turbines: GEC-Alsthom
 Civil works: John Laing
 Fuel: Springfields Nuclear Fuel
 Architect: Yorke Rosenberg Mardall

A distinctive white hemisphere envelopes the outer shell of the twin-walled containment building that protects the pressurised water reactor and its steam generators.