[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Right-wing populism

oric as  have been frequently described as right-wing populist by academics and political commentators.

Asia-Pacific countries

Australia

Australia's main right-wing populist party is One Nation, led by Pauline Hanson, Senator for Queensland. One Nation typically supports the opposition Coalition.

Other parties formerly represented in the Australian Parliament with right-wing populist elements and rhetoric include the Australian Conservatives, led by Cory Bernardi, Senator for South Australia; David Leyonhjelm, Senator for New South Wales; and Katter's Australian Party, led by Queensland MP Bob Katter.

Some figures within the Coalition have been described as right-wing populists, including former Prime Minister Tony Abbott and Opposition Leader Peter Dutton.

In the Australian state of Victoria, The main opposition party Liberal Victoria and its leader Matthew Guy have been described by the media as right wing populists for their attacks on pandemic health measures and posting social media attacks on the Andrews Government. However, Liberal Victoria still aims to appeal to moderate voters on issues such as climate change and indigenous treaties Matthew Guy eventually lost the election.

China 
The wave of refugees caused by the Syrian crisis has caused a wave of anti-immigration sentiment on the Chinese Internet, and many narratives very similar to those of the populist right have since been observed, such as anti-"white leftism", Islamophobia, and anti-multiculturalism.

Japan 
Netto-uyoku, Zaitokukai, and the Japan First Party are evaluated as similar to Western far-right populism and the alt-right movement.

Pakistan 
In Pakistan, Pakistan Tehreek Insaaf (PTI) has recently been described as centrist-populist while sharing some characteristics with right-wing populists. Its leader Imran Khan has furiously attacked traditional politicians and made people believe that only he has the solutions. British journalist Ben Judah, in an interview, compared Imran Khan with Donald Trump on his populist rhetoric.

South Korea 

Conservatism in South Korea has traditionally been more inclined toward elitism than populism. However, since the 2016 South Korean political scandal, Korean conservative forces have changed their political lines to populism as the distrust of the elite spread among the Korean public.

Hong Joon-pyo and Lee Un-ju of the United Future Party are leading right-wing populists advocating anti-homosexuality, anti-immigration and social conservative views. Yoon Seok-youl, a candidate for the PPP in the 2022 South Korean presidential election, is criticized as a "populist" for using hostile sentiment toward feminism and proposing unrealistic economic policies.

South Korean right-wing circles insist that the impeachment of former President Park Geun-hye is wrong, stimulating conservative public nostalgia for the Park Chung-hee administration. It also shows a radical anti-North Korea, anti-Chinese and anti-communist stance.

Taiwan  
Taiwan's right-wing populists tend to deny the independent identity of their country's 'Taiwan' and emphasize their identity as a 'Republic of China'. Taiwan's left-wing Taiwanese nationalists have strong pro-American tendencies, so Taiwan's major and minor conservatives are critical of this. In particular, Taiwan's right-wing populists demand that economic growth and right-wing Chinese nationalist issues be more important than liberal democracy and that they become closer to the People's Republic of China. Some of Taiwan's leading right-wing populists include Terry Gou, Han Kuo-yu, and Chang Ya-chung.

European countries

In 2016, Senior European Union diplomats cited growing anxiety in Europe about Russian financial support for far-right and populist movements and told the Financial Times that the intelligence agencies of "several" countries had scrutinized possible links with Moscow. Also in 2016, the Czech Republic warned that Russia was trying to "divide and conquer" the European Union by supporting right-wing populist politicians across the bloc. However, as there in the United States of America, there seems to be an underlying problem that is not massively discussed in the media. That underlying problem is that of housing. A 2019 study shows an immense correlation between the price of housing and voting for populist parties. In that study, it was revealed that the French citizens that saw the price of their houses stagnate or drop were much more likely to vote for Marine Le Pen in the 2017 French presidential election. Those who saw the price of their house rise were much more likely to vote for Emmanuel Macron. The same pattern emerged in the 2016 United Kingdom European Union membership referendum, in which those that saw the price of their house rise voted to Remain. Whereas those that saw it flatline or drop voted to Leave.