[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 186]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

of use, at the time of the
disastrous epidemic which had carried off so many of the population, and
since then had been admitted to more intimate relationship with the
people; learning their troubles and their joys, their anxieties, and the
strange pathos of their lives. She learnt, at this time, the quality of
English kindness and English sympathy, which Valeria used to say was
equalled nowhere in the world.

Before the end of the winter, Algitha and her husband returned.

"I'm real glad, mum, that I be," said Dodge, "to think as you has your
sister with you again. There ain't nobody like one's kith and kin, wen
things isn't quite as they should be, as one may say. Miss
Fullerton--which I means Mrs. Burton--is sure to do you a sight o' good,
bless 'er."

Dodge was right. Algitha's healthy nature, strengthened by happiness and
success, was of infinite help to Hadria, in her efforts to shake off the
symptoms that had made her frightened of herself. She did not know what
tricks exhausted nerves might play upon her, or what tortures they had
in store for her.

Algitha's judgments were inclined to be definite and clear-cut to the
point of hardness. She did not know the meaning of over-wrought nerves,
nor the difficulties of a nature more imaginative than her own. She had
found her will-power sufficient to meet all the emergencies of her life,
and she was disposed to feel a little contemptuous, especially of late,
at a persistent condition of difficulty and confusion. Her impulse was
to attack such a condition and bring it to order, by force of will. The
active temperament is almost bound to misunderstand the imaginative or
artistic spirit and its difficulties. A real _cul de sac_ was to Algitha
almost unthinkable. There _must_ be some means of finding one's way out.

Hadria's present attitude amazed and irritated her. She objected to her
regular church-going, as dishonest. Was she not, for the sake of peace
and quietness, professing that which she did not believe? And how was it
that she was growing more into favour with the Jordans and Walkers and
all the narrow, wooden-headed people? Surely an ominous sign.

After the long self-suppression, the long playing of a fatiguing rôle,
Hadria felt an unspeakable relief in Algitha's presence. To her, at
least, she need not assume a false cheerfulness.

Algitha noticed, with anxiety, the change that was coming over her
sister, the spirit of tired acquiescence, the insidious creeping in of a
slightly cynical view of things, in place of the brave, believing,
imaginative outlook that she had once held towards life. This cynicism
was more or less superficial however, as Algitha found when they had a
long and intimate conversation, one evening in Hadria's room, by her
fire; but it was painful to Algitha to hear the hopeless tones of her
sister's voice, now that she was speaking simply and sincerely, without
bitterness, but without what is usually called resignation.

"No; I don't think it is all for the best," said Hadria. "I think, as
far as my influence goes, it is all for the worst. What fatal argument
my life will give to those who are seeking reasons to hold our sex in
the old bondage! My struggles, my failure, will add to the staggering
weight that we all stumble under. I have hindered more--that is the
bitter thing--by having tried and failed, than if I had never tried at
all. Mrs. Walker, Mrs. Gordon herself, has given less arguments to the
oppressors than I."

"But why? But how?" cried Algitha incredulously.

"Because no one can point to _them_, as they will to me, and say, 'See,
what a ghastly failure! See how feeble after all, are these pretentious
women of the new order, who begin by denying the sufficiency of the life
assigned them, by common consent, and end by failing in that and in the
other which they aspire to. What has become of all the talent and all
the theories and resolves?' And so the next girl who dares to have
ambitions, and dares to scorn the _rôle_ of adventuress that society
allots to her, will have the harder fate because of my attempt. Now
nothing in the whole world," cried Hadria, her voice losing the even
tones in which she had been speaking, "nothing in the whole world will
ever persuade me that _that_ is all for the best!"

"I never said it was, but when a thing has to be, why not make the best
of it?"

"And so persuade people that all is well, when all is not well! That's
exactly what women always do and always have done, and plume themselves
upon it. And so this ridiculous farce is kept up, because these wretched
women go smiling about the world, hugging their stupid resignation to
their hearts, and pampering up their sickly virtue, at the expense of
their sex. Hang their virtue!"

Algitha laughed.

"It _is_ somewhat self-regarding certainly, in spite of the incessant
renunciation and sacrifice."

"Oh, self-sacrifice in a woman, is always her easie