[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Ellis Beach, Queensland

Ellis Beach is a coastal locality in the Cairns Region, Queensland, Australia. In the , Ellis Beach had a population of 5 people.

Geography

The five-kilometre strip of Ellis Beach is located along the Coral Sea  north of Cairns on the Captain Cook Highway between Cairns and Port Douglas, within the Cairns Region local government area. The Ellis Beach locality extends into the Coral Sea and includes the off-shore islands:

 Double Island ()
 Haycock Island ()

History 
Ellis Beach is situated in the Djabugay (Tjapukai) traditional Aboriginal country. 

Double Island was developed as a luxury resort but has fallen into disrepair. As the island is leased by the Queensland Government to the resort operator, in 2023 there have been calls to the government to revoke the lease.

Demographics
In the , Ellis Beach had a population of 30 people.

In the , Ellis Beach had a population of 24 people.

In the , Ellis Beach had a population of 5 people.

Education 
There are no schools in Ellis Beach. The nearest government primary school is Trinity Beach State School in Trinity Beach to the south. The nearest government secondary school is Smithfield State High School in Smithfield to the south.

Amenities

Ellis Beach is also home to the Ellis Beach Surf Lifesaving Club which regularly hosts competitions and events. From November to May, a stinger net patrolled by the club helps protect swimmers from marine "stingers" (jellyfish species of Chironex and Irukandji) which inhabit the waters during those months. Ellis Beach features pumice stones along its shores.

There is a camping ground and a bar and grill restaurant.

Facilities 
Buchan Point SES Facility is on the western side of the Captain Cook Highway ().

In popular culture
Ellis Beach was featured in the fourth season of The Amazing Race.

References

External links 

Populated places in Far North Queensland
Beaches of Queensland
Suburbs of Cairns
Localities in Queensland