[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

lo and another officer turn ambush which results in capture of 30 of ambushers. Costello is promoted by Michael Collins to Colonel-Commandant at the age of 18.
Two Free State troops are killed in an ambush at Sugnagillow, County Donegal. Another two are killed near Newport, County Mayo.

August 1922

1 August – 
Seven irregulars are arrested in Ballina by the National Army.
In County Mayo, the Free State Authorities establish a volunteer Civilian Guard. The initiative is later expanded to other counties.
National Army troops advance through North Mayo via Lahardane. National Army troops are ambushed as they travel through Coolnabinna, at the foot of the Nephin Mountains. One National Army soldier is killed while two Irregulars are wounded. Part of the National army remains in Coolabinna and face a second attack. One of the irregulars is killed. The remaining National Army troops advance to Crossmolina, which is taken without a shot fired. The local population greet the arrival of National Army troops enthusiastically. After the National Army capture Crossmolina, a number of Irregulars are arrested. Thirty men from the town sign up for service in the National Army.
2 August – Naval Landing of Free State troops in County Kerry. Paddy Daly and the Dublin Guard, as well as others, a total of about 800, land at Fenit. They fight their way to Tralee at a cost of 9 killed and 35 wounded. Two Republican fighters are killed in the fighting and more are wounded. The remainder retreat.
Republican forces under Liam Deasy attack Bruree, County Limerick with three armoured cars, trying to re-take it from the Free State troops but their attack is beaten off.
Republicans abandon Tipperary town and retreat to Clonmel; it is then occupied by National Army troops under Paddy O'Connor.
2 August – Irregulars attack Swinford, County Mayo. Initially, the Irregulars capture the town, taking 40 National Army Troops.  In the evening, National Army troops counter-attack and recapture the town. As they approach the town, the National Army army is ambushed and commandant Scally from Athlone is killed. A second National Army Soldier is also killed. After the National Army employ a machine gun against the insurgents, five irregulars surrendered. All the surrendering irregulars were residents of Foxford. The remaining irregulars flee back into the countryside. As they leave the town, the barracks and town hall are burned.
Fighting around Carrick on Suir between 600 National Army troops under General Prout and 400 Republicans under Dan Breen.
3 August – 
The Free State forces under General Prout take Carrick on Suir with one man killed and three wounded. Breen's men retreat southwards.
A party of irregulars attack a National Army position at St. Muredach's College, Ballina. During the ensuring gun battle, one National Army soldier is severely wounded. Irregulars also attack troops stationed at the Ballina Workhouse.
A contingent of 70 National Army troops enter Ballinrobe, County Mayo. The National Army recruit a further 200 volunteers.
Around 250 pro-treaty IRA men from County Clare are embarked from Kilrush to Tarbert in fishing boats and take Ballylongford and Listowel.
Pro-Treaty supporter under suspicion of being an informant is executed by Anti-Treaty Volunteers in Donoughmore, County Cork.
4 August – 
Charlestown Public Hall, County Mayo, is burnt down.
Republican troops abandon Cashel, County Tipperary.
The National Army capture Tubbecurry, County Sligo. Three Irregulars are captured.
150 Free State troops under Paddy Daly take Castleisland, County Kerry. The Republicans abandon their positions after six shrapnel shells are fired at them from an 18-pounder field gun.
Three Free State soldiers, including two commandants, Collison and McCurtain, are killed in a mine and gun attack on a troop lorry in County Tipperary.
5 August – About 2,000 Free State troops under Eoin O'Duffy take Kilmallock, County Limerick. The Republicans retreat towards Charleville.