[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# List of Shaman King characters

te, their spirits go to find Hao, believing he will help them but are horrified when he decides to feed them to the Spirit of Fire. They are saved by Anna and later resurrected; out of gratitude toward her, they eventually become waitresses at Funbari Onsen, where Tamao criticizes Kanna for smoking.

 
 
 Nicknamed , Matilda is a Northern Scottish druid and is loud and aggressive. Raised by a kind elderly woman regarded as a witch when everyone else rejected Matti for her spiritual powers, her hatred of humanity comes from how the people helped by foster-mother's kindness did not come to save her when she was dying. Her spirit is ; in the 2001 anime, he is a Jack-o'-lantern-headed skeleton spirit inhabiting a pumpkinhead doll created by Matti while in the manga and the 2021 anime, he is actually the spirit of a killer who imitated Jack the Ripper and inhabits the knife that Matti arms her pumpkinhead doll with. Because he is scared of Hao's group, he does not attack them. The Hana-Gumi express strong devotion toward Hao, believing that they are the only ones who truly understand Hao, and refuse to accept Peyote's revelation that Hao actually trusts no one. After Anna saves their spirits from being devoured by the Spirit of Fire, they are resurrected. As one of the Funbari Onsen waitresses, Tamao criticizes her for the creepy hairstyle.

 
 
 Known as "Mari", Marion is a gloomy Italian doll master and the daughter of a Camorra boss and his fortuneteller mistress. While the members of her father's group despised Mari and her mother, her father did not care and had sufficient power to let Mari have her way. When he was killed, her mother was killed attempting to flee with Mari. Her medium, a gun-wielding doll named Chuck, was sewn together by her mother and accessorized with a valuable gun that belonged to Mari's father. The spirit who haunted the gun was a noble sharpshooting sheriff named  and swore to protect Mari after she noticed his presence. In the 4Kids English dub of the 2001 anime, Chuck is referred to as "Baby Chuck", and he uses a rattle. In battle, Mari becomes extremely powerful when irritated and can telekinetically paralyze their opponents with the feelings of rejection they have lived with. After the Hana-Gumi is killed by Peyote and saved from being devoured by the Spirit of Fire by Anna, they eventually become waitresses at Funbari Onsen, where Tamao criticizes Mari for being too gloomy.

Hao's other followers

 
 
 A shaman whose powers resemble that of a vampire, Boris is a descendant of Vlad the Impaler, who was taught the secrets of the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu five hundred years ago by Hao. The knowledge was passed down through generations of Boris' family, who awaited Hao's return; however, the family grew to hated with humans who rejected them out of superstition despite the family's aristocratic status and Boris wishes to avenge his ancestors, who were hunted as vampires. Boris' medium is blood and his Guardian ghost is , a former vampire hunter who despised the Tepes family but was overpowered by their knowledge of the Ultra Senji Ryakketsu. He is killed by Marco before the Shaman Fight begins in the Patch Village.

 
 
 Known as "", Kouji Yamada is a shaman who dies at the hands of his teammate, Boris Tepes, when his blood is drained and regarded as one of the weakest members of Hao's followers. After his death, his blood is used to power Boris' Over Soul. Before meeting Hao, he had been a photographer of ancient ruins and monuments though his only ability had been to photograph ghosts; Hao appreciated that Damayaji cared about the beauty of nature and recruited him. He does not like unnecessary cruelty and enjoyed drinking and eating king crab. Because he happens to resemble a hermit crab, he got along well with his guardian ghost, the nature spirit of a red king crab, and they both went to Heaven soon after being killed.

 
 
 A follower whose body has prosthetic blocks that allow his crippled body to move and create an almost endless variety of Over Souls using rat spirits. After the infant Hao escaped from the Asakura family with the Spirit of Fire, he became Hao's adoptive father and raised him. Among Hao's followers, he is regarded as the group's manager, often delivering orders from Hao regarding everyone's next course of action. Brocken is often seen riding on the shoulder of "Big Guy" Bill Burton. He has survived numerous battles and is the only survivor among Hao's followers after Peyote's betrayal, while Brocken was found by Mikihisa Asakura, and was brought to the meeting between the Asakura and the Tao families to explain what occurred. Many years after the Shaman Fight, he becomes a bodyguard to Tao Men.