[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

in the crossfire.
10 September – Anti-Treaty ambush of Free State troops near Rathmore, County Kerry. Seven Free State soldiers are killed. The Republicans retreat after an artillery piece is brought up to fire seven shells at them.
Republicans take Tarbert, County Kerry temporarily, capturing 40 rifles.
11 September – A Free State column travelling from Macroom, County Cork, towards Kerry, is attacked with a mine on a bridge at Carrigphooka in west County Cork. Free State commandant Tom Keogh and eight other soldiers are killed in the blast. A Republican prisoner is shot dead in reprisal by Dublin Guard troops.
12 September – The Battle of Ballina – Republicans under Michael Kilroy take Ballina, in a surprise attack while the Free State troops there are at a Mass service for a comrade killed in the fighting. Kilroy's men capture 100 rifles and 20,000 rounds of ammunition, and are reported by Free State authorities to have looted £25,000 worth of goods from local shops. Local banks are also raided. Kilroy later admits to drunkenness and indiscipline on behalf of his men. Two civilians are shot dead in the fire-fight between the combatants. One victim is a young woman called Connie Tynan – aged 19 – from Tullamore. The Republicans leave the town when Free State reinforcements arrive from Crossmolina, County Mayo. The Republicans' armoured car breaks down in the retreat and has to be abandoned.
Anti-Treaty IRA attack a lorry of Free State troops in Dublin on the South Circular Road. A grenade misses the lorry and explodes in an adjacent newsagents, killing two civilians, one a 7-year-old girl. The Free State soldiers chase the ambushers through the streets man and catch two of them. Both are shot on Bishops Street, allegedly after trying to escape. One, Sean McEvoy, dies.
13 September – The Anti-Treaty IRA in Dublin mounts three separate ambushes of Free State troops at Stephen's Green, Mountjoy Square and O'Connell Bridge in the city centre. The ambushes, consisting of gun and grenade attacks, result in the death of one Republican, the injury of another and the serious wounding of three Free State soldiers and three civilians.
14 September – Republicans under Michael Kilroy ambush a Free State convoy near Belderg, County Mayo, killing 4 Free State soldiers and capturing 16. Another ambush in the Ox Mountains kills up to 15 Free State soldiers, including Brigadier Joe Ring. Republican losses are reported in the press as 10 killed and more wounded, but this may be an overstatement.
Drumshambo barracks in County Leitrim is seized by Republicans after successful ambush of Free State troops.
A skirmish takes place at Stuake, Donoughmore, County Cork. Two Republicans are killed and another arrested and executed.
Press reports say that a total of six Anti-Treaty and six Free State troops are killed in an ambushes at Blarney.
Republican fighters open fire on Free State troops landing by sea at Courtmacsherry, County Cork. Three Anti-Treaty fighters and one Free State soldier are killed.
In Killarney, Free State troops break into the houses of six female Republicans and paint their bodies green.
15 September – 
Second consecutive night of sniping attacks in Dublin. Anti-Treaty fighters attempt to take over the Telephone exchange and Kingsbridge Railway Station in Dublin. They also attack the Wellington and Portobello military barracks. The attacks were driven off by Free State troops after several hours of firing.
The Battle of Glenamoy (Mayo) – Following the invasion of Ballina by Republican forces, a detachment of Free State troops leave Ballina and travel through Crossmolina on their way to Glenlossara Lodge, Belderrig, where Republicans are reported to be concentrated in numbers. The detachment arrest six Republicans in Belmullet. In Glenamoy, an advanced party of Free State soldiers encounter an Anti-Treaty IRA position in the house of a family where two sons were serving in the Army. Given the large numbers of Republicans, the Free State pull back and wait for reinforcements from Ballina.  As the Free State troops pass through Sheskin, four are killed when the Republicans open fire with machine guns. Free State reinforcements arrive and a five-hour gun battle breaks out. Two Free State soldiers are killed and one is injured. The Republicans suffer ten dead.
In Dundalk, the Anti-Treaty IRA made several attacks on Free State troops and took over the power station, cutting off the town's electricity supply. One Free State soldier is killed by a hand grenade in the clashes.
The Free State post at Athboy, County Meath is attacked. One soldier is killed.
The Free State's Lord Chief Justice rules that the country is in a state of war and Habeas Corpus no longer applies. He rejects an application to free two of the 5,000 prisoners taken by National forces since the outbreak of the civil war.
16 September – 
Michael Kilroy's Anti-Treaty IRA men attack Newport, County Mayo, but fail to take it and withdraw after a day o