[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Radiographer

is includes a role in initial radiological diagnosis, diagnosis consultation and what subsequent investigations to conduct. It is not uncommon for radiographers to now conduct procedures which would have previously been undertaken by a cardiologist, urologist, radiologist or oncologist autonomously.

Contrary to what could be inferred, radiographers conduct and contribute to investigations which are not necessarily radiological in nature, e.g. sonography and magnetic resonance imaging.

Radiographers often have opportunities to enter military service due to their role in healthcare. As with most other occupations in the medical field many radiographers have rotating shifts that include night duties.

Career pathways 
Radiography is a deeply diverse profession with many different modalities and specialities. It is not uncommon for radiographers to be specialised in more than one modality and even have expertise of interventional procedures themselves; however this depends on the country in which they operate. As a result of this the typical career pathway for a radiographer is hard to summarise. Upon qualifying it is common for radiographers to focus solely on plain film radiography before specialising in any one chosen modality. After a number of years in the profession, non-imaging based roles often become open and radiographers may then move into these positions.

Imaging modalities 
Generally, imaging modalities are all diagnostic, all have the potential to be used therapeutically in order to deliver an intervention. Modalities (or specialities) include but are not limited to:

 1Prefixes such as pediatric, geriatric, trauma are routinely placed used in conjunction with professional titles.
 2This list of technologies is not exhaustive.

Non-imaging modalities 
Non-imaging modalities vary, and are often undertaken in addition to imaging modalities. They commonly include:
 Academia – Education role.
 Clinical Management – Clinical managerial role which can be varied; may include managing audits, rotas, department budgets, etc.
 Clinical Research – Research role.
 Medical Physics – Multidisciplinary role ensuring the correct calibration of and most efficient use of diagnostic equipment.
 PACS Management – Managerial role concerned with maintaining and supervising appropriate and correct use of the RIS and PACS systems.
 Radiation Protection – A managerial role concerned with monitoring the level of ionising radiation absorbed by anyone who comes into contact with ionising radiation at their site.
 Reporting Radiography – A clinical role involved with interpretation of radiographs and various other radiological media for diagnosis.

Education and role variation 

Education varies worldwide due to legal limitations on scope of practice.

Belgium 
The profession of diagnostic radiographer is called "medical imaging technologist" in Flanders, it is a regulated healthcare profession. A diploma of a specific professional Bachelor is a requirement for registration and recognition.

Since 2 December 2014, everyone who works at a Medical Imaging department, is obliged to be in possession of the recognition and the visa issued by the Ministry of Health (a professional identity card that is considered a license)

To practice a health care profession with a foreign diploma from within the EEA or equivalent in the EEA, it is necessary to request the recognition for the profession from Government of Flanders (Agency of Care and Health).

It is possible to request the recognition if:
 The person have a diploma of their healthcare profession and want to practice their profession in Belgium.
 The person have obtained their degree in one of the countries of the European Economic Area (EEA) or Switzerland.
 Or the person's diploma is equivalent in a country of the EEA and they are a European national.

Germany 
In Germany radiographers must complete a 3-year apprenticeship before they qualify as a 'Medizinisch-technischer Radiologieassistent'. Only after qualifying do radiographers in Germany fulfil the requirements to practise as a fully qualified MTRA.

Similar to other countries, they work within the areas of radiography diagnostics (CT scans, magnetic resonance imaging, radiography, digital subtraction angiography), radiation therapy, radiation dosimeters and nuclear medicine.

Ireland 
 in the Republic of Ireland (ROI) must be registered with CORU before they can practice in the Republic of Ireland. Student radiographers training in the ROI will typically study for 4 years on an approved bachelor's degree program; currently degree programs only exist at University College Dublin.