[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chuck Bresnahan

2019.

In May, 2019, he joined forces with a teammate at the United States Naval Academy and former lead pilot for the Navy's Blue Angels, John Foley. He was hired to help create and supervise the Sports Division of John Foley CenterPoint Companies, Inc serving as Vice President of Sports Division.

Bresnahan was named head coach of the Jousters of The Spring League in October 2020, but was relieved of his duties as head coach of the Jousters after week 3, due to a disagreement on how to handle a COVID-19 breakout within his team. He has since joined his former player and Pro Football Hall of Famer, Rod Woodson (HOF-2009), as Head Football Coach – Football Delivery & Strategy of HOPE Through Football. Bresnahan has also worked with multiple foundations, charities and developmental organizations such as Teammates for Kids, The Progeria Research Foundation, Boys & Girls Club of Oakland, CA, Football University and the Pro Football Hall of Fame Academy.

Bresnahan was officially hired by the Vegas Vipers on September 13, 2022

Personal life
Bresnahan attended and graduated from St. Mary's High School in Annapolis, Maryland.

Bresnahan was is a 1983 graduate of the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis, MD.

His father Tom Bresnahan, was a longtime football coach and spent sixteen years as an NFL assistant, including 10 seasons with the Buffalo Bills, where he coached in their four straight Super Bowl appearances under Pro Football Hall of Fame Coach, Marv Levy.

While attending St. Mary’s High School, Bresnahan was involved as the driver in a single vehicle accident. Passenger and friend Michael Patmoore did not survive.

References

1960 births
Living people
American football linebackers
Cincinnati Bengals coaches
Cleveland Browns coaches
Florida Tuskers coaches
Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets football coaches
Indianapolis Colts coaches
Maine Black Bears football coaches
Navy Midshipmen football coaches
Navy Midshipmen football players
Oakland Raiders coaches
Sacramento Mountain Lions coaches
South Florida Bulls football coaches
Sportspeople from Annapolis, Maryland
The Spring League coaches
Vegas Vipers coaches
Wyoming Seminary alumni
Sportspeople from Springfield, Massachusetts
Coaches of American football from Massachusetts
Coaches of American football from Maryland
Military personnel from Massachusetts