[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# History of the Pittsburgh Pirates

dows and Shane Baz. Despite being seen as a fair trade at the time, the trade ended up backfiring spectacularly as Archer struggled while Meadows and Glasnow enjoyed great success in Tampa. The Pirates finished 82–79, just their fourth winning season in 25 years, but 8 games out of a wild-card spot.

Despite a quiet offseason in 2019, the Pirates were expected to contend in the National League Central. After jumping out to a 12–6 start, the team spent much of the first half of the season around .500, but went into the All-Star break only 2.5 games out of first place. Despite an underwhelming rotation, the team's offense was powered by rookie Bryan Reynolds a breakout season from Josh Bell, who was elected to the All-Star game.

The Pirates fell apart in the second half of the season, going 25–48. In addition to their on-field struggles, the team suffered from problems off the field as well, including brawls, fights between players in the clubhouse, and the arrest of closer Felipe Vazquez. The Pirates finished with a 69–93 record, the team's worst since 2010.

Manager Clint Hurdle was fired before the final game of the 2019 season, with bench coach Tom Prince serving as interim manager. Prince and pitching coach Ray Searage were fired several days later.

On October 23, Pirates president Frank Coonelly parted ways with the team. Huntington was fired on October 28.

2020–present: the Cherington era

Owner Bob Nutting announced the first hire of the new regime on October 28, 2019, naming Travis Williams the new team president. Huntington was fired the same day. Former Boston Red Sox GM Ben Cherington was named as the next general manager of the Pirates on November 18.

On November 27, the Pirates announced that former Minnesota Twins bench coach Derek Shelton would serve as the team's manager.

In the Pirates' first season under Shelton and Cherington, they went 19–41, finishing with the worst record of the pandemic-shortened season. The Pirates again finished last in the NL Central in 2021 and 2022.

References

Pittsburgh Pirates
Pittsburgh Pirates