[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Khmer Rouge Tribunal

Magistracy of Cambodia from a list of nominees submitted by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. There were also Reserve judges who were sometimes called upon to serve.

The judges were:

Supreme Court Chamber

Trial Chamber

Pre-Trial Chamber

Organs of the ECCC
Office of the Co-Prosecutors

The Office of the Co-Prosecutors (OCP) was an independent office within the ECCC staffed by both Cambodian and international personnel provided by the United Nations Assistance to the Khmer Rouge Trials (UNAKRT). The OCP was headed by the Cambodian National Co-Prosecutor (appointed by the Supreme Council of the Magistracy of Cambodia) and the International Co-Prosecutor (nominated by the United Nations Secretary-General), who served as co-prosecutors. The role of the OCP was to prosecute the senior leaders of the Khmer Rouge and others most responsible for the crimes committed during the period of Democratic Kampuchea. The OCP was responsible for the prosecution of cases throughout the investigative, pre-trial, trial and appellate stages. The OCP processed victim complaints; conducted the preliminary investigations (first investigatory stage); and issues Introductory Submissions to the Office of Co-Investigating Judges where there was sufficient evidence of crimes within the jurisdiction of the ECCC having been committed. Introductory Submissions set out the facts, applicable law, alleged offences, and person(s) to be investigated. The OCP also participated in the judicial investigations (second investigatory stage), filing Supplementary Submissions as necessary when new facts came to light and original allegations required additions or amendments.

Co-Prosecutors 
 Brenda Hollis, International Co-Prosecutor
 Chea Leang, National Co-Prosecutor

Office of Co-Investigating Judges

The Office of Co-Investigating Judges (OCIJ) undertook pre-trial investigations of the facts alleged by the Co-Prosecutors in their Introductory and Supplementary Submissions to determine whether the person(s) under investigation were to be indicted and sent to trial, or whether the case against them should be dismissed.

Co-Investigating Judges 
 Michael Bohlander, International Co-Investigating Judge
 You Bunleng, National Co-Investigating Judge

Defence Support Section

The Defence Support Section (DSS) was responsible for providing indigent defendants with a list of lawyers who could defend them, for providing legal support and administrative support to lawyers assigned to represent individual defendants, and for promoting fair trial rights. The DSS also acted as a voice for the defence in the media and at outreach events, and organised a legacy program. The DSS legacy program was designed to increase understanding of the criminal trial process and the right to a fair trial within Cambodia. The program provided an opportunity for Cambodian law students and lawyers to gain experience practicing international law in the hopes that the court will lead to a lasting improvement in the Cambodian legal system.

Author Mary Kozlovski addresses problems at the Court, including issues impacting fair trial rights, in an essay entitled Bringing the Khmer Rouge to Justice in the June 2012 issue of Global Insight, the journal of the International Bar Association (IBA).

Heads of the DSS
 Isaac Endeley (April 2012 – 2022)
 Nisha Valabhji (Officer-in-Charge, March 2011 – March 2012)
 Rupert Abbott (Officer-in-Charge) (November 2010 – February 2011)
 Richard Rogers (August 2008 – November 2010)
 Rupert Skilbeck (August 2006 – August 2008)

Victims Support Section

The Victims Support Section (VSS) served as the liaison between the ECCC and the victims or their representatives. Through the VSS, victims had the ability to seek support and assistance by participating in the ECCC's proceedings as Complainants or Civil Parties. The VSS was responsible for informing victims of their rights in the proceedings, and connecting them with legal representatives if they desire it. As such, victims were formally recognized as parties of the proceedings and eligible for either collective or individual reparations for damages caused during the regime. The VSS also ensured the safety and protection of its participants. This support and protection could be either physical protection for providing key testimony, or emotion support in the form of psychiatric help and assistance. In early 2012, Germany donated 1.2 million euros to the VSS. This marks Germany's fourth donation to the VSS since its official recognition as an organ of the ECCC. The financial assistance went primarily towards legal representation for the victims, effective legal participation, and information dissemination. Germany donated in total 1.9 million euro to the VSS.

Office of Administration