[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Androcide

Androcide is a term for the hate crime of systematically killing men, boys, or males in general because of their gender. Not all murders of men are androcides in the same way that not all murders of women are femicides. Androcides typically happen during war or genocide. Typically, men are not targeted because of misandry, or a base hatred of men. Rather, male civilians are targeted during warfare as a way to remove potential combatants, and men are targeted during genocide as a way to destroy the entire community. Perpetrators of androcide are overwhelmingly male.

Etymology
Androcide is a coordinate term of femicide and a hyponym of gendercide. The etymological root of the hybrid word is derived from a combination of the Greek prefix andro meaning "man" or boy, with the Latin suffix cide, meaning killing.

Causes
Androcide may be deliberate: for example, to degrade the offensive capabilities of an adversary. Massacres of men and boys may be of this type. For example, during the Kosovo War, the Serbian military under Slobodan Milošević routinely massacred male Albanians of "battle age" because they saw them as a threat.

Androcide may also be part of a larger genocide. Perpetrators may treat male and female victims differently. For example, during the Armenian genocide, elite men were publicly executed. Afterward, average men and boys would be killed en masse, and the women and little children in their communities deported. Gendercide Watch, an independent human rights group, regards this as a gendercide against men. Men were not the sole victims of the Armenian genocide; women and girls were also subject to massacre, death marches, rape, sex slavery, and forced conversion.

Men's rights activists such as Paul Nathanson, author of Replacing Misandry: A Revolutionary History of Men argue that the draft is a form of androcide. In many countries, only men are subjected to military conscription, which leaves them at greater risk of death during warfare compared to women. Worldwide, males constitute 79% of non-conflict homicides and the majority of direct conflict deaths.

Androcide has also been a feature of literature in ancient Greek mythology and in hypothetical situations wherein there is discord between the sexes.

Warfare
Generally, military services will forcibly conscript men to fight in warfare, inevitably leading to massive male casualties when faced with males on the opposing side. Non-combatant males make up a majority of the casualties in mass killings in warfare. This practice occurs since soldiers see opposing men, fighting or otherwise, as rivals and a threat to their superiority. Alternatively, they are afraid that these men will attempt to fight back and kill them for any number of reasons, including revenge, mutual fear, and self defense. Thus, they may kill preemptively in an attempt to prevent this possibility.

Examples