[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Jaffna University Helidrop

to fifteen to accommodate the ammunition boxes for the troops.

The third shuttle departed with Wg Cdr Sapre leading and Sqn Ldr Duraiswami as No.2. Under intense fire from LTTE positions, the load of 40 paras and 15 Sikh LI along with the ammunition boxes unloaded. Sapre's Mi-8 was heavily damaged.

As the second shuttle came in for their insertion, however, they faced a new threat as the Tigers brought RPG fire to bear against the helicopters. Heavy machine gun fire also hit the helicopters.

Vinayraj's load of forty paratroopers quickly disembarked; however, although the Sikh LI troops from Prakash's flight disembarked without any problems, it seems that there was some delay in dislodging the ammunition boxes, which further delayed the return flight Under heavy ground fire, the Mi-8s limped home to Palali.

Aborting further insertions
As the heavily damaged choppers returned to Palali airbase, it became clear that further missions might be impossible. Sqn Ldr Vinayraj's helicopter had sustained significant damage. The undercarriage had been hit, the portside battery compartment cover was missing and the whole fuselage was peppered with bullet holes. Wg Cdr Sapre's Mi-8 returned with its hydraulic system damaged.

It was also evident that the Tigers had improved the organisation and accuracy of ground fire during the third run. The Indian helicopters also faced a possible situation of RPG fire. Although Duraiswami's and Prakash's Mi-8s were still serviceable, it would have been very risky to fly directly over LTTE battlements in order to drop another 30 more troops.

After great deliberation, the decision was made by the IAF Commander, Gp Capt. M.P Premi, to abort further drops by the helicopters. GOC 54 Div, Maj Gen Harkirat Singh, was informed by Gp Capt Premi about the situation, and told the Mi-8s were not in a position to carry out further troop insertions. As Maj Sheonan Singh, the battalion second in command with the Para Commandos, was informed that no more support was available, Sheonan asked the GOC for the plan of action. By this time, although about sixty para commandos were in position, only fourth of the intended one hundred and twenty Sikh LI troops had been inserted. and sniper fire had picked off the Sikh LI radio man. All messages that received were relayed via the Para Commandos through hand-held short range walkie-talkies. At the landing ground, the battle was so intense that in many cases the Indian troops were not able to see the LTTE snipers and attackers. Under heavy fire from all sides, and coming under sniper fire, the troops were under orders not to use heavy weapons. The Sikh LI, as well as the commandos, were in danger of getting bogged down.

Debating over the choice to scrub the mission and extract the troops, and the possibility of capturing the LTTE high command, and in particular, hunt down Prabhakaran, the decision was taken by Harikat Singh to instruct the Para Commandos to stick to the operational plans already set. The Para Commandos would leave the landing ground and hunt for the place where the LTTE leaders were supposed to be hiding, while the Sikh LI troops would be left behind to hold the landing ground.

Although under intense fire and with few troops, Major Birendra Singh, leading the Delta Company, 13 Sikh LI, had earlier communicated to Rajiv Nair that he would prefer to hold the landing ground and wait for the rest of his company to come.  As the battle progressed the Commandos informed the Sikh LI of the turn of events.  By this time, Para Commandos had already set off for the task in hand and had separated from the Sikh LI troops.  Maj Gen Harkirat Singh would later claim that Birendra Singh had not dug with his troops at the landing ground, nor taken cover in the nearby buildings despite Para Commando advice. Over the course of their search, the Para Commandoes ran into a local LTTE sympathiser who claimed to know the location of the Commandos' targets. Following the man, the commandos were waylaid and were soon lost. By daybreak, they had retreated to a couple of houses in the area and fortified themselves in the premises.

With all radio contact with the Sikh LI platoon lost and their fate unknown, the Para Commandos' situation now became the major concern for all those in HQ 54 Div. As the morning progressed, GOC Maj Gen Harkirat Singh arrived in an Army Chetak to carry out a personal reconnaissance of the situation, drawing heavy small arms fire from the ground. One bullet went clean through the floor and into the space between where Harkirat was sitting and the pilot.

Rescue