[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# North Carolina State Highway Patrol

l Assembly increased the Patrol to 67 members and reduced the number of lieutenants to six. The Patrol was increased in size in 1933 to 121 members. Patrolmen were relieved of gasoline inspection duties and given responsibilities for issuing driver licenses and enforcing the new driver license laws.

Without vehicular radios, patrolmen were issued 2 rolls of dimes each week so they could phone in for calls on a regular basis. Though the legislature authorized the patrol to establish a one-way statewide radio system in 1937, it had many areas of no reception (dead spots), especially in the far eastern coastal areas and more so in the rugged western mountains. The system was flawed in that patrolmen could not answer back. Poor reception made it hard for patrolmen to tell which patrolman was being called, even when they could hear the radio. If dispatchers could not locate a patrolman, they would call certain selected stores, gas stations and post offices in the particular patrolman's district and ask the employees or personnel to watch for and to flag the patrolman down the next time he was seen passing by and to tell him to call in. If patrolmen arrested a violator, they would have minor offenders follow them to the justice of the peace office or courthouse. If they physically arrested a violator, the patrolmen would hide their motorcycle in brush and drive an offender to the local jail in his own vehicle.

All patrolmen were assigned individual vehicles in 1937, and over the passing decades, numerous executive, legislative, and administrative changes have occurred since the Patrol's creation. The duties and responsibilities have varied, different ranks have been designated, and the organizational structure has been modified to improve efficiency, to address the needs of the state and in response to changing technology. Examples included an expanded air wing after World War II, implementation of two-way radios, use of helicopters, abolition of fixed-wing aircraft, use of breath testing devices, K-9 dog units, body armor, pursuit vehicles such as Mustangs and Camaros, speed measurement instruments such as the "whammy" in the 1950s, later RADAR, VASCAR and LIDAR and more recently computerized dispatch through in-vehicle terminals.

In World War II, a number of Patrolmen who had served in World War I were recall to active duty and others enlisted, taking leave of absence from the SHP. Many others had served in the Guard or Reserves. Patrolmen assisted the military by being alert for saboteurs and spies by reporting suspicious activity to the FBI. Deserters and AWOLS were also arrested. By 1946, all personnel on military status had returned to duty with the Patrol.

As of 2008, the North Carolina State Highway Patrol had an authorized strength of over 1,800 sworn law enforcement officers.

In 2018, the NC State Highway Patrol arrested 19,910 people for Driving While Impaired and investigated 1,037 fatalities on North Carolina highways. The Motor Carrier unit fined thousands of truck drivers for various violations.

Rank structure

In the history of the Patrol there have been several ranks that have been abolished:

The rank of “Patrolman first class”, which was denoted by a one stripe chevron and represented 3 years of service, was abolished in 1960.

The rank of Corporal was established in 1931 as second in command in each district. It was abolished in 1968.

The Rank of Technical Sergeant was established in 1951 as third in command in each troop. There were only around eight at a given time in the state and the rank was made almost redundant and obsolete by the addition of the rank of First Sergeant in 1968, and so it too was abolished in 1973.

In 1962 the rank of “Air-wing Sergeant” was created and only held by two men, Patrolman Pilot Al Cope and Patrolman Pilot Dan Williams. The Rank was abolished in 1972 when the helicopter replaced the Patrol’s airplanes and Cope left the program. At that time Patrol Pilots were given the rank of “Warrant Officer”.

The Rank of Warrant Officer was used by several Helicopter Pilots for the Patrol until the early 1980s when the rank was abolished.

Lastly the ranks of First and Second Lieutenant were merged into one Lieutenant in the late 1970s to avoid confusion of seniority among members.

See also

 Richard Holden (highway patrol)
 North Carolina Highway Patrol K-9 incident
 Highway patrol
 List of law enforcement agencies in North Carolina
 State patrol

References

External links
 North Carolina State Highway Patrol official website

1929 establishments in North Carolina
Government agencies established in 1929
North Carolina Highway Patrol