[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Soraya Serajeddini

Soraya Serajeddini (March 23, 1960 – July 24, 2006), was a Kurdish-Iranian human rights activist. She was born in Tehran to a respected family of Naqshbandi Sufis. Her family fled Iran in 1980 and sought refuge in Sulaimaniya and Baghdad for two years, and then moved to the United States in 1982. She attended San Francisco State University and Northeastern University, and received her BS degree in Electrical Engineering in 1987.

Life 
She joined the Kurdish National Congress (KNC) in 1991 and was instrumental in publicizing Kurdish issues in the United States. Her last post was the Executive Vice President of the Kurdish National Congress of North America.

She organized a conference on the independence of Kurdistan in November 2005 in Iraqi Kurdistan. In March 2005, she and her husband (Thomas Ver Ploeg) were elected to the board of directors of KNC. In January 2006, she chaired the committee on Democracy and Freedom for All Iranians and Kurdish Human & National Rights and through her efforts the first conference of the committee was held in the US Senate building. She was also a moderator of a conference organized by The Kurdish Front for Promoting Democracy and Freedom in Syria in Washington in 2006. She died due to an asthma attack on July 24, 2006, in Millersville, Maryland. She is survived by her husband Tom Ver Ploeg and two sons, Aveen and Daryan.

Early life

	Soraya was born on March 23, 1960, in Tehran, Iran to parents Abed Serajeddini and Zayneb Setoodeh. Dr. Abed Serajeddini was a well-respected political, artistic, and intellectual figure in Iran, while Zayneb was a member of the prominent Setoodeh family from the city of Senendaj.

	She grew up spending nine months per year in Tehran, and then spending summers in rural Kurdistan. This mix of urban and rural upbringing meant that she developed an early understanding of the rural and mountainous life that many Kurds live. This stood in stark contrast to the situations presented to her by her close relationship with her father, whose many dealings with important officials meant that Soraya had the opportunity to meet foreign dignitaries, government officials, and artists from a very early age.

	Her parents were also considered to be liberal for their time and culture. They would encourage philosophical and intellectual discussion at the dinner table, and Soraya in particular loved these conversations. Soraya was always close to her father, and was the only child who would go up into his private study to read books and satisfy her love for learning. According to her sister Shawnem, she always expressed strong willpower and an urge to inform herself on all issues.

	Both parents were very supportive and passionate about the education of their children. They decided to send Soraya and her siblings to an Armenian Christian school so that they could receive a more secular education, which at the time was a controversial act among their extended family. Dr. Abed was religious, but never imposed his faith upon anyone that he encountered. Both parents together, through exposure to both high political and artistic culture as well as rural summers in farming communities, strived to make sure that their children were graceful and confident in their interaction with any type of person. Soraya's mother once said, after hearing Soraya excitedly describe her meeting the daughter of a sheikh, that she should “be in awe of no one” because every person deserves respect equally, herself included.

	With this background and education, Soraya became politically active as a 17 year old in Tehran where she was involved in anti-shah movements as part of a quickly destabilizing Iran. Her parents were worried about this political affiliation, since protesting the government at this time was considered dangerous. It soon became clear that the government was building a case on Soraya.

	In the coming years, the situation would turn dangerous for the Nakshbandis, and for Soraya's family in particular. In 1977 the Iranian prime minister, fearing the inevitable revolution, warned the Serajeddinis that the new government, led by Ayatollah Khomeini, was watching them, and that protection was not guaranteed to their family in the case of revolution. Soraya and her family, faced with the possibility of persecution or worse as enemies of a new, oppressive state, began their plans for a stealthy exit from Iran.

Soraya fled Iran in 1980 traveling overland to Sulaymaniyah, Iraq. She spent the next two years in various parts of Iraq, including Baghdad and Sulaymaniyah. During this time, Soraya began to understand the reality of the Kurdish condition in Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Turkey. This perspective, combined with the ambition and intelligence nurtured in her childhood, would become the foundation for her later career as an advocate for the Kurdish people.

Arrival to the USA