[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Plant morphology

racteristics and structures belong to each type is an important part of understanding plant evolution.  The evolutionary biologist relies on the plant morphologist to interpret structures, and in turn provides phylogenies of plant relationships that may lead to new morphological insights.

Homology 

When structures in different species are believed to exist and develop as a result of common, inherited genetic pathways, those structures are termed homologous. For example, the leaves of pine, oak, and cabbage all look very different, but share certain basic structures and arrangement of parts. The homology of leaves is an easy conclusion to make. The plant morphologist goes further, and discovers that the spines of cactus also share the same basic structure and development as leaves in other plants, and therefore cactus spines are homologous to leaves as well.

Convergence 

When structures in different species are believed to exist and develop as a result of common adaptive responses to environmental pressure, those structures are termed convergent.  For example, the fronds of Bryopsis plumosa and stems of Asparagus setaceus both have the same feathery branching appearance, even though one is an alga and one is a flowering plant.  The similarity in overall structure occurs independently as a result of convergence.  The growth form of many cacti and species of Euphorbia is very similar, even though they belong to widely distant families.  The similarity results from common solutions to the problem of surviving in a hot, dry environment.

Vegetative and reproductive characteristics 

Plant morphology treats both the vegetative structures of plants, as well as the reproductive structures.

The vegetative (somatic) structures of vascular plants include two major organ systems: (1) a shoot system, composed of stems and leaves, and (2) a root system. These two systems are common to nearly all vascular plants, and provide a unifying theme for the study of plant morphology.

By contrast, the reproductive structures are varied, and are usually specific to a particular group of plants.  Structures such as flowers and fruits are only found in the angiosperms; sori are only found in ferns; and seed cones are only found in conifers and other gymnosperms.  Reproductive characters are therefore regarded as more useful for the classification of plants than vegetative characters.

Use in identification 

Plant biologists use morphological characters of plants which can be compared, measured, counted and described to assess the differences or similarities in plant taxa and use these characters for plant identification, classification and descriptions.

When characters are used in descriptions or for identification they are called diagnostic or key characters which can be either qualitative and quantitative.

 Quantitative characters are morphological features that can be counted or measured for example a plant species has flower petals 10–12 mm wide.
 Qualitative characters are morphological features such as leaf shape, flower color or pubescence.

Both kinds of characters can be very useful for the identification of plants.

Alternation of generations 

The detailed study of reproductive structures in plants led to the discovery of the alternation of generations, found in all plants and most algae, by the German botanist Wilhelm Hofmeister.  This discovery is one of the most important made in all of plant morphology, since it provides a common basis for understanding the life cycle of all plants.

Pigmentation in plants 

The primary function of pigments in plants is photosynthesis, which uses the green pigment chlorophyll along with several red and yellow pigments that help to capture as much light energy as possible the other pigments ic carotenoids'.  Pigments are also an important factor in attracting insects to flowers to encourage pollination.

Plant pigments include a variety of different kinds of molecule, including porphyrins, carotenoids, anthocyanins and betalains. All biological pigments selectively absorb certain wavelengths of light while reflecting others. The light that is absorbed may be used by the plant to power chemical reactions, while the reflected wavelengths of light determine the color the pigment will appear to the eye.

Morphology in development 

Plant development is the process by which structures originate and mature as a plant grows.  It is a subject studies in plant anatomy and plant physiology as well as plant morphology.