[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tel Be'er Sheva

a is that of a horned altar, the first ever unearthed in Israel. Altars with horns at each of their four corners are mentioned frequently in the Bible (). The altar was not found assembled in situ, but was discovered in secondary use, the stones of the altar been incorporated into a later-date wall.

As of 1975, there was an unresolved debate about the dating of the altar between Professor Aharoni and Professor Yigael Yadin of the Hebrew University. Professor Aharoni believed that the Beer-sheba altar was one of the altars which were dismantled as part of Hezekiah's religious reforms. Its stones were then reused in an 8th-century wall, and the wall itself was destroyed at the end of the 8th century, probably during Sennacherib's Judean campaign of 701 B.C. However, Professor Yadin dates this wall more than 100 years later than Professor Aharoni. According to Professor Yadin, the wall was probably destroyed about the time the Babylonians captured and destroyed Jerusalem (587 B.C.).

Professor Aharoni's interpretation would seem to strongly support a correlation with the biblical account of the cultic reform carried out by King Hezekiah, who ruled around 715–686 BCE ().

National park; UNESCO recognition
The site was restored by the Israel Nature and Parks Authority in 1990. In 2003, its water system was opened to the public as well. The excavated town is now open for visitors under the name Tel Be'er Sheva National Park.

In 2007, Tel Sheva was recognized as a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Of more than 200 tells in Israel, Beersheba was cited as one of the most representative, containing substantial remains of a city with biblical connections.

See also
 "Abraham's well", a well dating to at least the 12th century CE; at Beersheba
 Archaeology of Israel

References

External links 

 Brochure of the Israel National Parks Authority
 Website of the Israel National Parks Authority
 Photos from the archaeological site

Tel Be'er Sheva
Holy wells
National parks of Israel
World Heritage Sites in Israel
Former populated places in Southwest Asia
Prehistoric sites in Israel
Bronze Age sites in Israel
Iron Age sites in Israel
Canaanite cities
Buildings and structures in Southern District (Israel)
Protected areas of Southern District (Israel)
Archaeological sites in Israel
Tells (archaeology)