[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Women's Loyal National League

men's rights, which they thought was divisive and not relevant to the goals of the organization.  It was adopted by a large majority, however.

Stanton was elected as president of the League and Anthony as its secretary. 
Its office was located in the newly established Cooper Union in New York City.

Using contacts developed by Stanton and Anthony through their previous work in the abolitionist and women's movements, the League launched a massive petition drive that gathered nearly 400,000 signatures calling for the U.S. Congress to pass an amendment that would abolish slavery.
The largest petition campaign in the nation's history up to that time, it gathered signatures from approximately one out every twenty-four adults in the Northern states.
Anthony was the chief organizer of this effort, which involved 2000 petition collectors.

U.S. Senator Charles Sumner, the League's close ally in Congress, presented the names of the first 100,000 petitioners to Congress in dramatic fashion by arranging for two black men to carry the petitions, which had been glued end-to-end to form a large roll, onto the Senate floor.
Afterwards he made a show of frequently delivering large batches of additional petitions as they arrived.

The petition drive was funded partly from donations from the petition signers themselves and partly from other donors.
The League also raised money by selling pins containing the words "In Emancipation is National Unity" and the image of a slave breaking his chains.
The Hovey Fund, created by a bequest from a supporter of abolition and women's rights, paid Anthony's salary of $12 per week.  Anthony, who had no other source of income, stretched her salary by boarding with the Stanton's, who had a more comfortable financial situation.
The League also employed an office clerk and two field agents, Hannah Tracy Cutler and Josephine S. Griffing, both of whom were abolitionist and women's rights activists.

The League held its second national convention in New York City on May 12, 1864. 
One resolution adopted at this meeting called for black men to have voting rights and also the right to be employed as soldiers, sailors and laborers with pay equal to that of whites.  Another called for women in the field of medicine be paid the same as men who were doing the same work.

Slavery in the U.S. was abolished in 1865 by the Thirteenth Amendment.  In August 1864, after it became clear that the amendment would be approved, the League judged its work to be over and closed its office.

Name variations

The Appendix of Volume II of the History of Woman Suffrage, whose editors include Stanton and Anthony, reprints a lengthy newspaper article about the League's founding convention, including the adoption of this resolution:  "Resolved, That the following be the official title and the pledge of the League—the pledge to be signed by all applicants for membership: 'Women's Loyal National League, organized in the city of New York, May 14, 1863.'"
The Appendix also reprints letters from the League's office using that name in its letterhead.
The main section of Volume II, however, presents the history of the League under a variation of that name: "The Woman's National Loyal League".
Other variations appear in the same volume,
and scholars in the earlier days of professionally written women's history referred to it by a confusing variety of names also.  The exhaustively researched The Selected Papers of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony, however, published by Ann D. Gordon in six volumes from 1997 to 2012, calls it by the official name used on the League's letterhead, "Women's Loyal National League".

Significance

The League was the first national women's political organization in the United States.
It demonstrated the value of formal organization to a women's movement that had previously been only loosely structured.
(Before the Civil War the women's rights movement had only a few state associations and no national organization other than an informal coordinating committee that organized annual national conventions.)
Its petition drive marked a continuation of the shift of women's activism from moral suasion to political action.
It significantly assisted the passage of the Thirteenth Amendment, which abolished slavery in the U.S.

The League contributed to the development of a new generation of women abolitionist leaders, providing experience and recognition not only for Stanton and Anthony but also for newcomers like Anna Dickinson, a gifted teenaged orator.
Its 5,000 members, 2,000 of whom actively circulated petitions, constituted a widespread network of women activists who gained experience that helped create a pool of talent for future forms of social activism.