[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Regional seat of government

s spirit of economy was to mark all UK preparations for nuclear war. They were completed between 1958 and 1961, and the construction was done in complete secrecy, with Parliament, as well as the public and the press, unaware of the work being carried out.

RSGs
The regional seats of government were;

 Region 1 (Northern)
 Gaza Barracks, Catterick Camp. This did not provide protected accommodation, and the Home Office intention was to build a new protected headquarters at Hexham, Northumberland.
 Region 2 (North East)
Imphal Barracks, York. As with Catterick, this was a temporary expedient, and the intention was to move into an expanded ex-ROTOR bunker at Shipton, a few miles north of the city.
 Region 3 (North Midlands)
 Plans for a new site at Grantham were abandoned, as new assumptions about Soviet targeting strategy assumed that Nottingham would avoid heavy fallout, and so to save money the old War Room there was expanded to serve as the RSG.
 Region 4 (Eastern)
 The existing War Room at Cambridge was expanded to serve as the RSG.
 Region 5 (London)
 The five London War Rooms were retained.
 Region 6 (Southern)
Warren Row, between Henley-on-Thames and Maidenhead, an underground aircraft components factory which dated from the Second World War and provided limited accommodation. Conditions here were primitive and unsatisfactory, and the Home Office proposed to build a new RSG in the Oxford/Reading area, with a site at Wallingford finally being decided upon.
 Region 7 (South West)
Bolt Head, near Salcombe in south Devon. This was a former protected radar station, one of dozens built by the RAF under the ROTOR Plan, only to find that the pace of military development – in particular the development of new radar technologies and replacement of manned aircraft by guided missiles – was faster than construction, so making this type of bunker redundant. Bolt Head was considered to be too remote to serve its region adequately, and so the plan was to build a new RSG at Norton Manor army camp, near Taunton.
 Region 8 (Wales)
The Barracks, Brecon. This was also a temporary expedient and the proposal was to build a new RSG at Llandrindod Wells.
 Region 9 (West Midlands)
 The Drakelow Tunnels, near Kidderminster. Another underground factory from the World War II era, built to handle dispersed aircraft engine production by the Rover company.
 Region 10 (North West)
Fulwood Barracks, Preston. As at Catterick, there was no protected accommodation here and so the Home Office proposed to build a new RSG at Lancaster.
 Region 11 (Northern Ireland)
 Regional War Room, Mount Eden Park, Belfast.

Another former ROTOR station, Barnton Quarry in the western outskirts of Edinburgh, became the Scottish National HQ, with three subsidiary bunkers: North Zone at Anstruther in Fife, another former ROTOR station; East Zone using the former war room at Kirknewton; and West Zone taking over a former anti-aircraft control station at East Kilbride.

The existence of the entire network was blown open in 1963, when a small group called Spies for Peace, acting on a tip-off, broke into RSG6 at Warren Row and – anonymously – produced a pamphlet exposing the network, Danger! Official Secret. The Spies For Peace were never caught and the result was a political scandal.

The RSGs entered public consciousness: evidently, the government was spending large amounts of taxpayers' money to protect itself while doing nothing for the mass of the population who faced annihilation in a nuclear war. Investigations by other journalists uncovered and published the sites of most of the other bunkers in the network, and despite this being technically illegal, none were prosecuted.

Sub-regions 
Below the RSGs would be another series of bunkers called Sub-Regional Controls, with several per civil defence region. By 1962 the Home Office wanted 29 of these, a costly increase from the 19 originally planned. Use of the following extant buildings was proposed: