[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 22]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

long time aware of his father's presence.
He had several masters, who endeavoured to teach him everything that was
good; and he was educated with several little boys about his own age.
One evening his father asked him what he had done or learned that day.
'Sir,' said Cyrus, 'I was punished to-day for deciding unjustly.' 'How
so?' said his father. _Cyrus._--There were two boys, one of whom was a
great and the other a little boy. Now, it happened that the little boy
had a coat that was much too big for him, but the great boy had one that
scarcely reached below his middle, and was too tight for him in every
part; upon which the great boy proposed to the little boy to change
coats with him, 'because then,' said he, 'we shall be both exactly
fitted; for your coat is as much too big for you as mine is too little
for me.' The little boy would not consent to the proposal, on which the
great boy took his coat away by force, and gave his own to the little
boy in exchange. While they were disputing upon this subject I chanced
to pass by, and they agreed to make me judge of the affair. But I
decided that the little boy should keep the little coat, and the great
boy the great one--for which judgment my master punished me.

"'Why so?' said Cyrus' father; 'was not the little coat most proper for
the little boy, and the large coat for the great boy?' 'Yes, sir,'
answered Cyrus; 'but my master told me I was not made judge to examine
which coat best fitted either of the boys, but to decide whether it was
just that the great boy should take away the coat of the little one
against his consent; and therefore I decided unjustly, and deserved to
be punished.'"

Just as the story was finished, they were surprised to see a little
ragged boy come running up to them, with a bundle of clothes under his
arm. His eyes were black, as if he had been severely beaten, his nose
was swelled, his shirt was bloody, and his waistcoat did but just hang
upon his back, so much was it torn. He came running up to Tommy, and
threw down the bundle before him, saying, "Here master, take your
clothes again; and I wish they had been at the bottom of the ditch I
pulled you out of, instead of upon my back; but I never will put such
frippery on again as long as I have breath in my body."

"What is the matter?" said Mr Barlow, who perceived that some
unfortunate accident had happened in consequence of Tommy's present.

"Sir," answered the little boy, "my little master here was going to beat
me, because I would not fetch his ball. Now, as to the matter of that, I
would have brought his ball with all my heart, if he had but asked me
civilly. But though I am poor, I am not bound to be his slave, as they
say black William is; and so I would not; upon which little master here
was jumping over the hedge to lick me; but, instead of that, he soused
into the ditch, and there he lay rolling about till I helped him out;
and so he gave me these clothes here, all out of good-will; and I put
them on, like a fool as I was, for they are all made of silk, and look
so fine, that all the little boys followed me, and hallooed as I went;
and Jack Dowset threw a handful of dirt at me, and dirtied me all over.
'Oh!' says I, 'Jacky, are you at that work?'--and with that I hit him a
good thump, and sent him roaring away. But Billy Gibson and Ned Kelly
came up, and said I looked like a Frenchman; and so we began fighting,
and I beat them till they both gave out; but I don't choose to be
hallooed after wherever I go, and to look like a Frenchman; and so I
have brought master his clothes again."

Mr Barlow asked the little boy where his father lived; and he told him
that his father lived about two miles off, across the common, and at the
end of Runny Lane; on which Mr Barlow told Harry that he would send the
poor man some broth and victuals if he would carry it when it was ready.
"That I will," said Harry, "if it were five times as far." So Mr Barlow
went into the house to give orders about it.

In the mean time Tommy, who had eyed the little boy for some time in
silence, said, "So, my poor boy, you have been beaten and hurt till you
are all over blood, only because I gave you my clothes. I am really very
sorry for it." "Thank you, little master," said the boy, "but it can't
be helped; you did not intend me any hurt, I know; and I am not such a
chicken as to mind a beating; so I wish you a good afternoon with all my
heart."

As soon as the little boy was gone, Tommy said, "I wish I had but some
clothes that the poor boy could wear, for he seems very good-natured; I
would give them to him." "That you may very easily have," said Harry,
"for there is a shop in the village hard by where they sell all manner
of clothes for the poor people; and, as you have money, you may easily
buy some."

Harry and Tommy then agreed to go early the next morning to buy some
clothes for the poor children. They accordingly set ou