[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Bohemian Flats

traditional costumes all made by a woman from Slovakia. The Lipa Slovak group is named after the national tree of Slovakia, the linden tree in North America. They perform several times per year at events such as Czech festivals and the Festival of Nations.

See also
History of Minneapolis

Footnotes

References
Archaeology of the Central Minneapolis Riverfront, Part 1: Historical Overview and Archaeological Potentials, The Minnesota Archaeologist, Vol. 48, No. 1-2, 1989, Scott F. Anfinson, Minnesota Historical Society
The Bohemian Flats, Minnesota Historical Society Press, St. Paul, 1986
The Hidden Mississippi, Bohemian Flats Park, Kiosk - The University of Minnesota
Collins, Cindy, Bohemian return to the Flats The Bridge, September 23, 2005
Bohemian Flats Park Website
Bohemian Flats Day 
Bohemian Flats Master Plan, University of Minnesota.
UMN River Life, Living with the Mississippi: The Bohemian Flats, December 18, 2014
"In the City: The City to Be Without a Place to Dump Its Garbage After Tuesday of this Week." Minneapolis Tribune 30 April 1890.
"That Garbage Dump: The Health Officers Think the New Site Will Answer." Minneapolis Tribune 26 August 1890.
75 Years of Grace (1883–1963), Emmanuel Lutheran Church. 
"Venice Again Appears on Flats Under Washington Avenue Bridge." Minneapolis Tribune 12 April 1922.
"Anxiety! Dwellers on the Bohemian Flats Filled With Alarm." Minneapolis Tribune 3 April 1897
“The Flood of 1952.” National Park Service
"The Court Says, Stop!" Minneapolis Tribune 1 September 1899.
"Goodbye Dump." Minneapolis Tribune, May 26, 1892.

External links
Bohemian Flats at the Minnesota Historical Society.

Czech-American culture in Minnesota
Czech communities in the United States
Ethnic enclaves in the United States
European-American culture in Minneapolis–Saint Paul
Former populated places in Hennepin County, Minnesota
German-American culture in Minneapolis–Saint Paul
Irish-American culture in Minnesota
Italian-American culture in Minnesota
Lithuanian-American culture in Minnesota
Mississippi Gorge
Mississippi National River and Recreation Area
Neighborhoods in Minneapolis
Parks in Minneapolis
Norwegian-American culture in Minneapolis–Saint Paul
Populated places established in 1867
Shanty towns in the United States
Slovak-American culture in Minnesota
Swedish-American culture in Minneapolis–Saint Paul
Housing in Minnesota