[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# WMAC Masters

get back at Warlock, but ended up mistakenly booby-trapping Red Dragon's gloves minutes before his bout, thinking those were Warlock's gloves). The final incident was another where Red Dragon lost by getting knocked into the water by the Machine in the Mayan Mystery battlezone and ending up all wet.

There was also one instance where the match ended in someone surrendering, and this occurred in the second episode of WMAC Masters. The Pak brothers, Ho Young and Ho Sung (Star Warrior and Superstar, respectively) were pitted in a preliminary match against one another, and just as Superstar's gauge was almost at the bottom when Star Warrior had him beaten, Superstar bowed to his brother, signifying that he was giving up, thus awarding Star Warrior the win. The storyline was that Star Warrior had saved his brother's life using Drunken Fist many years ago. When Superstar saw his brother switch forms to Drunken Fist in the match, he bowed out.

The two combatants who win their respective preliminary matches will face off in the "Battledome". The match lasts 2 minutes. The fighters each try to force the opponent into the cage wall. If successful, the fighter will get points, and the opponent will receive a mild electric shock. The higher the points, the better chance of winning. Ninjas will invade the cage during the match, and if a ninja forces one of the fighters into the cage, the opponent gets the point. Also, if a fighter chooses to hold on to the cage after being knocked into it, no scoring can take place until he lets go. In case of a tie, the fighters will compete in sudden death.  The winner will receive the opponent's "Ki-Symbol" and have it placed on their "Dragon Belt".

Super Challenges and 4-man Battledome finals
In other episodes, 6 masters take part in what was called a "Super Challenge." One at a time, they would compete in separate battlezones against a group of ninjas in 45 seconds of time, and would be scored at the end of the time period. The 4 top-scoring combatants move onto the Battledome in a 2-minute free-for-all match with the same rules as the regular matches (score points by knocking the opponent onto the cage wall), with the winner receiving 3 Ki-Symbols, one from each of the defeated opponents.  No ninjas would participate in this sort of Battledome match, but Sudden Death rules still applied in case of a tie at the end of the match.

Only three of these were ever held, one in the first season and two in the second season. Before the start of the first Super Challenge, Olympus, the Dragon Star champion at the time, was asked to demonstrate a Ninja Challenge. He would be surrounded by ninjas in the WMAC Arena, where he would then proceed to battle them for the 45 seconds. Once the demonstration was finished, the real challenge began.

Challenge 1 results, including the Battlezones fought in and the final ranking going into the 4-Man Battledome Finals, were as follows (in order of appearance. Those that moved on to the 4-Man Battledome Finals are in bold print):

Red Dragon (Mayan Mystery): 92 points. Final rank: 5th place
Tsunami (WMAC Arena): 101 points. Final rank: 3rd place
Great Wolf (WMAC Arena): 126 points. Final rank: 1st place
Warlock (WMAC Arena): 102 points. Final rank: 2nd place
Tiger Claw (Mayan Mystery): 90 points. Final rank: Last place
Panther (WMAC Arena): 97 points. Final rank: 4th place

Battledome Finals Winner: Tsunami. Final score: Great Wolf 1, Warlock 1, Tsunami 4, Panther 1.

Challenge 2 results:

Yin Yang Man (Mayan Mystery): 79 points. Final rank: 3rd place
Turbo (Mayan Mystery): 77 points. Final rank: 4th place
Great Wolf (Ghost Town): 73 points. Final rank: 5th place
Star Warrior (Mayan Mystery): 91 points. Final rank: 1st place
Bam (Ghost Town): 72 points. Final rank: Last place
Olympus (Pressure Pit): 80 points. Final rank: 2nd place

Battledome Finals Winner: Turbo, by Sudden Death. Final score: Olympus 2, Yin Yang Man 3, Star Warrior 0, Turbo 3. (Note: With Turbo and Yin Yang Man tied at the end of regulation, Olympus and Star Warrior were told to leave the dome, so the other two could conclude the match under Sudden Death rules. Turbo came out the victor.)

Challenge 3 results:

Great Wolf (Ghost Town): 75 points. Final rank: 5th place
Kid Carmichael (Doom City): 74 points. Final rank: Last place
The Machine (Ghost Town): 92 points. Final rank: 1st place
Tsunami (Ghost Town): 88 points. Final rank: 2nd place
Warlock (Doom City): 86 points. Final rank: 3rd place
Tiger Claw (Dark Alley): 86 points. Final rank: 3rd place

Battledome Finals Winner: Warlock. Final score: The Machine 2, Tsunami 0, Tiger Claw 2, Warlock 3.

NOTE: Great Wolf is the only Master to have taken part in all 3 Ninja Challenges.

Dragon Star Matches
Once a master achieved Full Dragon Belt status (acquiring 10 opponents' Ki-Symbols), he would compete for the Dragon Star against the champion.