[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nate Thompson

ered during a January 5 match against the San Jose Sharks continued to hinder Thompson for the remainder of his Senators tenurehe was in and out of the lineup through January and February, missing 11 out of his last 15 games. In his time with the Senators, Thompson recorded four goals and 11 points.

Los Angeles Kings 
The Los Angeles Kings acquired Thompson and Dion Phaneuf from the Senators on February 13, 2018, in exchange for Marián Gáborík and Nick Shore. Thompson enjoyed the trade, which put him in the more physically aggressive Western Conference and allowed him to exercise his abilities as both a two-way player and as a penalty killer. He was also familiar with many of his new teammates, such as Richard Park, who Thompson played with on the Islanders, and Jake Muzzin, with whom Thompson practiced during the offseason. He played in 26 games for the Kings to close out the regular season, recording six points. The Kings qualified for the 2018 Stanley Cup playoffs, but were swept in the first-round series by the Vegas Golden Knights.

Thompson returned to the Kings for the 2018-19 NHL season, centering Kyle Clifford and Trevor Lewis on the fourth line. He also spent extensive time skating alongside rookie Austin Wagner, serving as a mentor for the younger player. The Kings as a whole struggled to score at the start of the season, and Thompson did not notch his first goal of the year until November 18 as part of a 5-3 loss to the Nashville Predators. Shortly after that goal, assistant coach Marco Sturm decided to move Thompson from the penalty kill unit to the second power-play unit for the Kings; it was the first time in his NHL career that he had been on the offensive side of a power-play squad. Thompson skated in 53 games with the Kings during the 2018-19 season, recording four points, averaging nearly 13 minutes per game, and winning 53 percent of his faceoffs.

Montreal Canadiens 
On February 11, 2019, as part of a larger series of moves for both teams, Thompson was traded to the Montreal Canadiens, who also received a fifth-round selection in the 2019 NHL Entry Draft in exchange for a fourth-round selection. Thompson and AHL call-up Dale Weise were part of a larger effort from general manager Marc Bergevin to rebuild Montreal's fourth line, which had not seen a goal since December 29. Flanked by Weise and Nicolas Deslauriers, Thompson quickly became the Canadiens' everyday fourth-line center, playing in 25 of the 26 regular-season games following his trade while putting up one goal and six assists.

Thompson signed a one-year, $1 million contract extension with Montreal on April 25, 2019. He was thrilled by the extension, telling reporters, "I had no intention of going to free agency. This is the team I wanted to play on." Responding to criticisms from sports journalists that he was slow on the ice, Thompson spent the offseason improving his diet and exercising in order to build lean muscle mass. Continuing to serve on the fourth line, Thompson also became an unofficial captain for the Canadiens during the 2019–20 season, mentoring rookie centers Nick Suzuki, Ryan Poehling, and Jesperi Kotkaniemi. "Uncle Nate", as many of the younger players referred to him, recorded four goals and 10 assists in 63 games with Montreal, going −2 and winning 55.1 percent of his face-offs.

Philadelphia Flyers 

At the NHL trading deadline on February 24, 2020, Montreal sent Thompson to the Philadelphia Flyers in exchange for a fifth-round selection in the 2021 NHL Entry Draft. Coach Alain Vigneault was in need of more veteran skaters, and inserted Thompson into Connor Bunnaman's spot on the fourth line. On March 11, Thompson was diagnosed with a left knee sprain resulting from a collision with Ondrej Kase of the Bruins, and he was expected to miss at least two weeks. The following day, however, the COVID-19 pandemic forced the NHL to indefinitely suspend the remainder of the 2019–20 season. At the time, Thompson had only appeared in seven games for Philadelphia, recording one assist in the process. When the NHL resumed for the 2020 Stanley Cup playoffs in Toronto, Thompson was one of 31 Flyers selected to play in the "bubble". Vigneault was criticized for Thompson's expanded role in the playoffs: Thompson was one of the only players to appear in all 16 playoff games that season, and he was often tasked with "eating minutes", preventing the Islanders' top forwards from scoring rather than generating points of his own. He scored only one goal in all 16 playoff games, and the Flyers fell to the Islanders in the second round.