[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Loudoun County in the American Civil War

art and his three brigades crossed the river on June 27, several days behind schedule, leaving Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia blind as they embarked on their second northern invasion.

 Battle of Aldie, June 17, 1863
 Battle of Middleburg, June 17–19, 1863
 Battle of Upperville, June 21, 1863

General Early's Valley Campaign and Washington, D.C. Raid: July, 1864 
Following his raid on the B&O railroad, central Maryland and aborted attack on Washington D.C. at the Battle of Fort Stevens, Confederate General Jubal A. Early retreated to Virginia, crossing the Potomac at Conrad's Ferry on July 14, making camp at Big Springs just north of Leesburg.  On the 15th a detachment of Federal cavalry from Harpers Ferry led by General George Crook crossed into Loudoun from Berlin and skirmished with Confederates at Lovettsville.  Early's Federal pursuers under General Horatio Wright reached Leesburg on the 16th and fought with Early's rearguard at Leesburg in the morning. Crook's cavalry skirmished with Confederate cavalry at Waterford later in the day.  Late in the afternoon on the 16th, Federal cavalry under Alfred N. Duffié, also operating from Harpers Ferry, raided Early's wagon trains as they traveled west towards Snickers Gap on the Leesburg and Snickers Gap Turnpike just east of Purcellville at Heatons' Crossroads.  That evening at dusk, Duffié's cavalry attacked and routed a detachment of Confederate cavalry in camp at Woodgrove.  Early safely withdrew across the Blue Ridge on the 17th and established a line near Berryville in the Shenandoah Valley.  The Union infantry under Wright drove off a small force of Confederates holding Snickers Gap in the afternoon of the 17th and were later attacked in camp by elements of Mosby's Rangers. The following day the pitched Battle of Cool Spring, or Snickers Ferry, was fought on its western slope as Union infantry tried unsuccessfully to force a crossing of the Shenandoah River. On the 19th, Mosby's Rangers engaged a detachment of Federal cavalry that was dispatched south to Ashby's Gap to conduct a flanking movement on Early's lines.  The brief campaign was locally known as the Snickers Gap War.

 Heaton's Crossroads, July 16, 1864
 Skirmish at Woodgrove, July 16, 1864
 Battle of Snicker's Ferry, July 17–18, 1864
 Battle of Ashbys Gap, July 19, 1864

Partisan warfare in Loudoun
In between and during the passing of the armies through Loudoun, bitter sectional warfare raged in the county. Owing in part to its divided loyalties and in part to its ideal terrain, various partisan groups on both sides of the conflict routinely attacked one another, the nearby armies, and preyed on the citizens of the county.

The depredation of Loudoun

 The Confederate evacuation
 The bombardment of Leesburg
 The Burning Raid of Major General Philip Sheridan

Fortifications in Loudoun

Primary redoubts and forts
 Fort Evans - Constructed in the long Edwards Ferry Road in summer 1861, following the Rockville expedition, to defend the eastern approaches to Leesburg.
 Fort Johnston - Constructed atop Catoctin Mountain in the winter of 1861-62 to defend the western approaches to Leesburg.
 Fort Beauregard - Partially constructed atop a hill above Tuscarora Creek the winter of 1861-62 to defend the southeastern approaches to Leesburg.

Batteries and earthworks
 Edwards Ferry Rd - "The Masked Battery" - a  long,  deep trench across Edwards Ferry Road at Cattail Branch auxiliary of Fort Evans, used during the defense of Leesburg during the Battle of Ball's Bluff and Edwards Ferry.  Evidence of the works can still be found near Edwards Ferry Road and Battlefield Parkway.
 Potomac Trenches
 Goose Creek - A series of three gunpits with cannon embrasures and infantry entrenchment atop Bluffs on the west bank of Goose Creek to defend the eastern approach to Leesburg along the Alexandria Turnpike after the wooden bridge over the creek had been burnt during the Rockville expedition.  Evidence of the works can still be found north of modern-day Route 7.
 Loudoun Heights - Loudoun Heights was first fortified in 1861 by Stonewall Jackson as part of the defenses of Harpers Ferry.  In 1862, during the Battle of Harpers Ferry Brigadier General John G. Walker constructed gun embrasures atop the mountain for his ordnance to aid in the siege of the town (see the Maryland Campaign section above).  Following the Battle of Antietam, the Union army took possession of the mountain and enlarged its defenses, adding rifle pits, entrenchments and additional blockhouses. The fortifications were manned by Cole's Maryland Cavalry during the winter of 1863-1864 and were attacked by Mosby's Rangers during the Battle of Loudoun Heights.