[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Clairemont, San Diego

ommunity, with branches to the northeast.  Tecolote Creek, a seasonal stream, runs through the canyon.  San Clemente Canyon runs east-west, bordering the community on the north side. Trails extend through both canyons for hiking or mountain biking. The geology in Clairemont is primarily sedimentary.

The native vegetation is primarily chaparral.  Trees include Coast Live Oak, California sycamore, and formerly Engelmann Oak.  Wildlife in the canyons includes coyotes, rabbits, feral parrots, and owls (from which Tecolote Canyon takes its name).

Many neighborhoods have views of Mission Bay and the Pacific Ocean on the west, and Fortuna Mountain and Cowles Mountain to the east. Neighborhoods along Tecolote Canyon have views of this preserved open space canyon system.

Attractions and activities

City of San Diego Parks in and around Clairemont Mesa-

Tecolote Canyon Natural Park - Tecolote Canyon runs through the community of Clairemont Mesa and was dedicated by the City of San Diego as Tecolote Canyon Natural Park in 1977. This park is about  and is approximately  long.  There are multiple entrances to park throughout the community; some of these entrances provide public parking and bathroom facilities.

Marian Bear Memorial Park - Also known as San Clemente Canyon, it was officially renamed to Marian Bear Memorial Park by the City of San Diego in 1960. Marian Park is roughly  and runs parallel to the south side of the 52 freeway. The main entrances to the park are off of Regents Road and Genesee Avenue. Both of these entrances provide public parking, restrooms and picnic benches.

North Clairemont Community Park - Located at 4421 Bannock Avenue in North Clairemont.  This 14.5 acre park has Basketball courts, Multi-purpose sports fields, playgrounds, and a tennis court.

MacDowell Neighborhood Park - Located at 5173 Arvinels Avenue in North Clairemont, just north of Innovation Middle School which was previously known as MacDowell School.  This 3.14 acre park features wide lawns with shade trees and a playground.  A walk/bike path begins in park and runs south to Clairemont Mesa Blvd west of I-805.  Rough trails also lead north into San Clemente Canyon and the Marion Bear Memorial Park trail system.

Gershwin Neighborhood Park - Located at 3508 Conrad Avenue in North Clairemont. This 5.39 acre park features basketball courts, a playground, comfort station, and a tennis court.

Cadman Community Park - Located at 4280 Avati Drive in Clairemont, this 8.36 acre park has baseball, basketball, tennis and a tot lot.

Olive Grove Park - Olive Grove Park is located at 5951 Printwood Way in the Clairemont Mesa East neighborhood.  It was built on the site of an olive farm that was one of the area's previous uses before re-development as a residential suburb beginning in the 1950s.

Mount Etna Neighborhood Park - Located at 4741 Mt. Etna Drive in Clairemont Mesa.  A 7.32 acre park with three baseball fields, a playground, and a comfort station.

Western Hills Neighborhood Park - Located at 4810 Kane Street in the Bay Park neighborhood of Clairemont. This 12.82 acre park has basketball courts, a playground, and a scenic canyon location.

Mount Acadia Neighborhood Park - Located at 3865 Mt. Acadia Boulevard in Clairemont Mesa.  This 9.13 acre park has two softball fields, a playground, a tot lot, and a comfort station.

East Clairemont Athletic Area - Located at 3451 Mt. Acadia Boulevard in Clairemont Mesa.  This 9.13 acre sports park has three softball fields, a baseball field, a playground, and a comfort station.

Tecolote Golf Course - This 18-hole  golf course located within Tecolote Canyon.  A natural creek-bed  runs through the golf course, which was designed by Robert Trent Jones Sr. and Sam Snead.

YMCA's Krause Family Skate & Bike Park - This destination park is affiliated with the Mission Valley YMCA but is located in the San Diego community of Clairemont Mesa at 3401 Clairemont Drive, San Diego, CA 92117. Skateboards, bikes, scooters, and inline skates are allowed. The large facility includes beginner, intermediate and advanced skate and BMX courses, a street area, mini ramps, a concrete pool, and the former Dew Tour vert ramp. In addition, the park houses the world's first and only Skatercross track, completed in 2016. The park is open to visitors with paid daily or monthly passes. As of summer 2017, the park was undergoing renovations; with old ramps being torn down and replaced in anticipation of the 2017 Clash at Clairemont, an event sponsored by professional skater Andy Macdonald.

Education

Public educational facilities in Clairemont consist of twelve elementary schools, two middle schools, two senior high schools and a community college. Five schools with specialized educational programs are also located in Clairemont. San Diego Unified School District operates public schools in the Clairemont neighborhood.