[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Internal media of the Chinese Communist Party

Internal media of China enables high-level Chinese Communist Party (CCP) cadres to access information that is subject of censorship in China for the general public.

As He Qinglian documents in chapter 4 of Media Control in China,<ref>He Qinglian: [http://www.hrichina.org/sites/default/files/PDFs/Reports/HRIC-Fog-of-Censorship.pdf THE FOG OF CENSORSHIP - MEDIA CONTROL IN CHINA],  published in Chinese in 2004 by Human Rights in China, New York. Revised edition 2006 published by Liming Cultural Enterprises of Taiwan. Retrieved August 7, 2016.</ref> there are many grades and types of internal documents (). Many are restricted to a certain administrative level – such as county level, provincial level or down to certain official levels in a ministry. Some Chinese journalists, including Xinhua correspondents in foreign countries, write for both the mass media and the internal media.

Since Xi Jinping became CCP general secretary, internal reports have been increasingly subject to censorship previously reserved only for public media.

 Types of documents 

 Formal Documents (正式文件; zhèngshì wénjiàn) are written and issued by leading organizations of the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) and government. These instructions (指示; zhǐshì), regulations (规定; guīdìng) and notices (通知; tōngzhī) are binding on lower level units. The most important formal documents are CCP Central Committee documents (中共中央文件; zhōnggòng zhōngyāng wénjiàn).
 Status Reports (动态简报; dòngtài jiǎnbào) are written and issued by the CCP, the government and the military. Leading departments provide comprehensive reports to higher levels and bulletins to guide the work of lower level units. In news organizations, the most important is the monthly evaluation titled Situation Report (情况通报; qíngkuàng tōngbào). The Situation Report lists incidents in which Chinese media violated guidelines and the penalties imposed in each instance. The Report is an essential management tool of the Propaganda Department of the Chinese Communist Party for controlling news media, so that the various Chinese media do not violate propaganda discipline or as the propaganda department puts it "self-discipline".
 Reference Materials (参考资料; cānkǎo zīliào) are edited and published by larger news units such as CCP newspapers or government newspapers. According to news discipline, any matter that the media outlets believe would harm the image of the CCP or government, threaten social stability and unity, or other matters not suitable for open publications such as corruption, social unrest, and larger business swindles are often reported internally rather than in the mass media. Many well-done reports by conscientious journalists are placed in internal channels rather than in the mass media. These "internal materials" are often printed in only a few dozen copies for distribution to leaders and certain organizations. The most authoritative are the three types of internal references edited by the Xinhua News Agency.

The PRC State Secrecy Protection Law (保守国家秘密法; bǎoshǒu guójiā mìmì fǎ) Section Nine stipulates three grades of state secrets: top secret (绝密; juémì), secret (机密; jīmì) and confidential (秘密; mìmì) as well as a fourth grade of information, internal materials (内部资料; nèibù zīliào) that may be read by Chinese citizens only. The Chinese State Secrecy Protection Law Implementing Regulations (国家秘密法实施办法; guójiā mìmì fǎ shíshī bànfǎ) section two defines these grades of secrecy and the permissions allowed to government departments at each level. In each Chinese administrative region, Party organizations such as committees and disciplinary committees, government organizations such as people's congresses, governments, and consultative congresses, and military organizations such as military districts and their provincial military districts, and the hundreds of agencies subordinate to them issue these three types of internal documents.

The level of classification is tied to the administrative levels of the CCP and the government in China. The higher the administrative level of the issuing office, the more secret the document. In local governments the issuing grades are province (省; shěng), region (or city directly subordinate to a province) (地区; dìqū or, respectively 省直辖市; shěngzhíxiáshì) and county (县; xiàn). Grades within government organs are ministry (部; bù), bureau (局; jú) and office (处; chù). Grades in the military are corps (军; jūn), division (师; shī), and regiment (团; tuán). The most authoritative documents are drafted by the Central Committee to convey instructions from CCP leaders.  Documents with "Chinese Communist Party Central Committee Document" (中共中央文件; zhōnggòng zhōngyāng wénjiàn) written at the top in red letters are the most authoritative.

 Internal news publications