[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

ield gun.
Three Free State soldiers, including two commandants, Collison and McCurtain, are killed in a mine and gun attack on a troop lorry in County Tipperary.
5 August – About 2,000 Free State troops under Eoin O'Duffy take Kilmallock, County Limerick. The Republicans retreat towards Charleville.

Plot to Isolate Dublin Fails when Free State Intelligence officers discover from captured the Anti-Treaty officer Liam Clarke that Republicans have planned to destroy all the bridges leading into Dublin. In the ensuing manoeuvres
31 Anti-Treaty Irregulars are captured at Glencullen Bridge.
Troops capture 104 Anti-Treaty fighters in the act in north County Dublin, including their officer Pat Sweeney, crippling the remnants of the Anti-Treaty IRA in Dublin.
A National Army soldier is killed by a sniper at Tralee.
6 August – 
In County Mayo, National Army troops leave Killala by sea and capture Enniscrone, County Sligo. Separately, a column of Troops leave Ballina and head to Enniscrone. The column is attacked and forced back to Ballina. They return with reinforcements, including an armoured car, and capture three Republicans. One is killed. After Enniscrone is captured, the National Army control the entire western coast from the River Moy down to Galway.
Anti-Treaty IRA fighters ambush a Free State provisions column at Knockeen crossroads in Kerry. One National Army officer is killed and several privates are wounded.
7 August – 
Heavy fighting takes place at Newcastle West, County Limerick. Free State troops, advancing from Rathkeale, take the town with armoured cars and infantry supported by artillery. During the 12-hour battle, a party of Republicans is caught in machine gun fire from one of the Free State armoured cars, taking many casualties. The Republican headquarters is shelled by field guns and they eventually retreat along the Cork road. Press reports say that 12 Anti-Treaty fighters are killed in the action. National Army casualties are reported as, 'less than those of the irregulars.'
Joe Hudson, Glasthule, Dun Laoire is shot dead in his Garden at the same address by Free State Army officer.
National Army troops assault and take Kildorrey, County Cork from its anti-Treaty garrison. Casualties are reported as one dead and 2 wounded on either side. 27 Republicans are taken prisoner.
8 August – Free State seaborne landings take place in County Cork. Emmet Dalton and 800 troops, with two artillery pieces and armoured cars, land at Passage West. A further 200 men are put ashore at Youghal and 180 troops land at Glandore. Heavy fighting takes place at Rochestown in Cork, as 200 Anti-Treaty troops try to block the Free State advance on Cork City. Nine National Army and seven Republicans are killed before the Free State troops secure the area.
9 August – There is fighting at Douglas, County Cork. The Free State troops take 36 Republican prisoners.
A National Army soldier is killed in ambush at Ferrycarrig, County Wexford.
General Prout's Free State column takes Redmondstown, County Kilkenny, with the aid of artillery.
10 August – The Republicans abandon Cork city and burn the barracks they had been holding, including Charles Fort. The National Army takes the city unopposed.
General Prout's Free State troops take Clonmel.
11 August – Liam Lynch, the Anti-Treaty IRA's Chief of Staff, abandons Fermoy, the last major Republican held town. Lynch issues orders that Republican forces are to abandon the policy of holding towns, and orders them to form flying columns and pursue guerrilla warfare. End of the war's conventional phase.
A Free State Naval landing takes place at Kenmare. Commandant Tom "Scarteen" O'Connor (formerly local IRA commander) lands unopposed with 200 pro-treaty men and occupies Rathmore and Millstreet. Kerry operations in August have cost the National Army a total of 11 killed and 114 wounded.
12 August – Free State President Arthur Griffith dies of a stroke. He is replaced by W. T. Cosgrave.
15 August – Free State troops take Clifden in County Galway without resistance. The Republicans abandon the town and burn the local radio transmitter station.
16 August – 300 men of the Anti-Treaty IRA 4th Northern Division under Frank Aiken attack Dundalk. They use two mines to breach the walls of the barracks and temporarily take over the town. Six Free State soldiers and one Commandant, Byrne, are killed in the attack. Fifteen more are wounded. Two Republicans are accidentally killed by one of their own mines and thirty wounded. About 240 Republican prisoners are freed from the prison and 400 rifles are taken. However, Aiken does not try to hold the town and, while in possession of it, calls for a truce in a meeting in the town square.
17 August – Free State troops under Dan Hogan re-occupy Dundalk unopposed. One civilian is killed in the operation.
Two unarmed National Army medics are shot dead by a sniper at Inisfallen, County Kerry.
18 August – 
A lorry of Free State soldiers is ambushed between Clonmel