[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Tommy Widdrington

eahy. Widdrington become the club's caretaker manager following the sacking of Ben Garner on 14 November 2020, with Rovers sitting 18th in League One. He oversaw a 4–3 victory over Chelsea U21 in the EFL Trophy on 18 November, before Paul Tisdale was appointed as permanent manager the following day.

On 10 February 2021, Widdrington was once again installed as caretaker manager following the dismissal of Paul Tisdale. He was in this position until Joey Barton was appointed as manager 11 days later, having overseen a 3–1 victory over Portsmouth and a 2–0 defeat to Gillingham. Following the club's relegation to League Two at the end of the 2020–21 season, the Director of Football role was removed from the club's board with Widdrington now taking on the role of Director in charge of outgoing loan deals and "ensuring the strategic vision is followed at all levels throughout the club". As the club moved into the new season, manager Joey Barton and Widdrington had a strained relationship with Barton claiming in October 2021 that he had no relationship with Widdrington or his scouting team. On 3 December 2021, Widdrington departed Bristol Rovers.

King's Lynn Town
On 10 December 2021, Widdrington was appointed manager of King's Lynn Town, who were second-from-bottom of the National League. His first match in charge was the following day and saw his new side defeat bottom side Dover Athletic 2–1 thanks to a double from Josh Barrett whom had been brought in to Bristol Rovers under Widdrington. Lynn's relegation to the National League North was confirmed in the penultimate match of the 2021–22 season with a 3–3 draw with Eastleigh.

An impressive start to life back in the sixth tier saw Widdrington awarded the National League North Manager of the Month award for August 2022 having earned sixteen points from a possible eighteen. King's Lynn knocked League Two side Doncaster Rovers out of the first round of the FA Cup with a 1–0 win at the Eco-Power Stadium. On 1 April 2023, following a 1–0 victory to keep his side second in the league, Widdrington's resignation was announced to allow him to take a new role at another club. The club noted that no agreement had been reached between the two clubs or between King's Lynn Town and Widdrington.

Aldershot Town
The following day to his resignation from King's Lynn Town, Widdrington was announced as the new manager of National League strugglers Aldershot Town. Aldershot ended the 2022–23 campaign in 18th-place, five points above the relegation zone.

Personal life
Widdrington celebrated his goal for Port Vale against Brentford on 24 October 2000 with five bottles of Budweiser, and subsequently crashed his BMW into a set of traffic lights in Hanley early the following morning. He was charged with refusing to take part in police drink-driving tests and entered a Guilty plea. He was banned from driving for 12 months and given a £500 fine.

His eldest son Kai is a professional dancer. His younger son, Theo, turned professional at Portsmouth in April 2017.

Career statistics

Managerial statistics

Honours

As a player
Grimsby Town
Football League Second Division play-offs: 1998
Football League Trophy: 1998

Port Vale
Football League Trophy: 2001

Hartlepool United
League Two second-place promotion: 2002–03

Salisbury City
Southern Football League Premier Division: 2005–06
Conference South play-offs: 2007

Individual
Port Vale Player of the Year: 2000

As a manager
Eastbourne Borough
Sussex Senior Challenge Cup: 2016

Individual
Conference National Manager of the Month: April 2010
Conference South Manager of the Month: August 2013, August 2014
National League North Manager of the Month: August 2022

References

1971 births
Living people
Footballers from Newcastle upon Tyne
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Wallsend Boys Club players
Southampton F.C. players
Wigan Athletic F.C. players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Hartlepool United F.C. players
Macclesfield Town F.C. players
Salisbury City F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
English football managers
Salisbury City F.C. managers
Hemel Hempstead Town F.C. managers
Eastbourne Borough F.C. managers
Bristol Rovers F.C. managers
King's Lynn Town F.C. managers
Aldershot Town F.C. managers
National League (English football) managers
English Football League managers
Association football coaches
Macclesfield Town F.C. non-playing staff
Southend United F.C. non-playing staff
Coventry City F.C. non-playing staff
Bristol Rovers F.C. non-playing staff