[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# World War Z

the Vice President of the United States throughout most of the war, heavily implied to be Howard Dean.
 Dean Edwards as Joe Muhammad, a paraplegic former member of a Neighborhood Security team, a volunteer quasi-military outfit intended to protect communities from zombie attacks during the war.
 Frank Darabont as Roy Elliot*, a former Hollywood director who used his talents to direct military propaganda films during the war, inspiring hope to combat Asymptomatic Demise Syndrome.
 Becky Ann Baker as Christina Eliopolis, a pre-war F-22 pilot in the United States Air Force who flew supply runs during the war.
 Parminder Nagra as Barati Palshigar*, an Indian broadcaster for Radio Free Earth who provided information to isolated civilians and fought misinformation during the war.
 Masi Oka as Kondo Tatsumi*, a former otaku who became a member of the Japan Self-Defense Forces Shield Society branch.
 Frank Kamai as Tomonaga Ijiro, a hibakusha who was permanently blinded by the atomic bombing of Nagasaki, going on to survive in the wilderness of Hokkaidō during the war and become the founder of the Shield Society.
 John Turturro as Seryosha Garcia Alvarez, a Cuban civilian.
 Ric Young as Xu Zhicai*, a former crewmate of a Type 094 submarine who fought in the Second Chinese Civil War on the side of the victorious rebels.
 Alfred Molina as Terry Knox*, the Australian former commander of the International Space Station throughout the war.
 John McElroy as Ernesto Olguin, a Chilean diplomat who attended the Honolulu Conference.
 Common as Darnell Hackworth*, a former member of the US Army K-9 Corps.
 F. Murray Abraham as Sergei Ryzhkov*, an Eastern Orthodox priest and former military chaplain who inadvertently sparked the religious revolution that transformed Russia into a theonomy.
 Brian Tee as Hyungchol Choi / Michael Choi*, a diver in the United States Navy Deep Submergence Combat Corps.
 René Auberjonois as Andre Renard*, a former soldier in the French Army who helped clear the Parisian catacombs of thousands of reanimated refugees.
* The Complete Edition

Reception
In her review of the audiobook for Strange Horizons, Siobhan Carroll called the story "gripping" and found the listening experience evocative of Orson Welles's famous radio narration of The War of the Worlds, broadcast October 30, 1938. Carroll had mixed opinions on the voice acting, commending it as "solid and understated, mercifully free of 'special effects' and 'scenery chewing' overall", but lamenting what she perceived as undue cheeriness on the part of Max Brooks and inauthenticity in Steve Park's Chinese accent.

Publishers Weekly also criticized Brooks' narration, but found that the rest of the "all-star cast deliver their parts with such fervor and intensity that listeners cannot help but empathize with these characters". In an article in Slate concerning the mistakes producers make on publishing audiobooks, Nate DiMeo used World War Z as an example of dramatizations whose full casts contributed to making them "great listens" and described the book as a "smarter-than-it-has-any-right-to-be zombie novel". The World War Z audiobook won the 2007 Audie Award for Multi-Voiced Performance and was nominated for Audiobook of the Year.

Film adaptation

In June 2006, Paramount Studios secured the film rights for World War Z for Brad Pitt's production company, Plan B Entertainment, to produce. The screenplay was written by J. Michael Straczynski, with Marc Forster directing and Pitt starring as the main character, UN employee Gerry Lane.

Despite being the draft that got the film green-lit, Straczynski's script was tossed aside. Production was to begin at the start of 2009, but was delayed while the script was completely re-written by Matthew Michael Carnahan to set the film in the present – leaving behind much of the book's premise – to make it more of an action film. In a 2012 interview, Brooks stated the film now had nothing in common with the novel other than the title. Filming commenced mid-2011, and the film was released in June 2013.

See also
 List of zombie novels
 Midway Studios – Newcastle, who worked on a cancelled video game adaptation of the book in 2008

References

External links

 
 

2006 American novels
2006 debut novels
2006 science fiction novels
American horror novels
American novels adapted into films
American post-apocalyptic novels
American zombie novels
Books by Max Brooks
Dystopian novels
Epistolary novels
Satirical novels
Novels set in fictional wars
World War Z (franchise)
Science fiction horror novels
Military science fiction novels
Viral outbreaks in fiction