[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 82]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

them an equal weight, they will still remain
suspended. In this method we weigh every thing which is bought, only,
for the greater convenience, the beam of the scale, which is the same
thing as this stick, is generally hung up to something else by its
middle. But let us now move the stick, and see what will be the
consequence." Mr Barlow then pushed the stick along in such a manner,
that when it rested upon the back of the chair, there were three feet of
it on one side, and only one on the other. That side which was longest
instantly came to the ground as heaviest. "You see," said Mr Barlow, "if
we would now balance them, we must put a greater weight on the shortest
side; so he kept adding weights, till Tommy found that one pound on the
longest side would exactly balance three on the shortest; for, as much
as the longer side exceeded the shorter in length, so much did the
weight which was hung at that end require to exceed that on the longest
side."

"This," said Mr Barlow, "is what they call a _lever_, and all the sticks
that you have been using to-day are only levers of a different
construction. By these short trials, you may conceive the prodigious
advantage which they are of to men; for thus can one man move a weight
which half-a-dozen could not be able to do with their hands alone; thus
may a little boy, like you, do more than the strongest man could effect
who did not know these secrets. As to that instrument by which you were
so surprised that Harry could cleave such a vast body of wood, it is
called a wedge, and is almost equally useful with the lever. The whole
force of it consists in its being gradually narrower and narrower, till
at last it ends in a thin edge, capable of penetrating the smallest
chink. By this we are enabled to overthrow the largest oaks, to cleave
their roots, almost as hard as iron itself, and even to split the solid
rocks." "All this," said Tommy, "is wonderful indeed; and I need not ask
the use of them, because I see it plainly in the experiments I have made
to-day."

"One thing more," added Mr Barlow, "as we are upon this subject, I will
show you." So he led them into the yard, to the bottom of his granary,
where stood a heavy sack of corn. "Now," said Mr Barlow, "if you are so
stout a fellow as you imagine, take up this sack of corn, and carry it
up the ladder into the granary." "That," replied Tommy, laughing, "is
impossible; and I doubt, sir, whether you could do it yourself."
"Well," said Mr Barlow, "we will, at least try what is to be done." He
then led them up into the granary, and, showing them a middle-sized
wheel, with a handle fixed upon it, desired the little boys to turn it
round. They began to turn it with some little difficulty, and Tommy
could hardly believe his eyes, when, presently after, he saw the sack of
corn, which he had despaired of moving, mounted up into the granary, and
safely landed upon the floor. "You see," said Mr Barlow, "here is
another ingenious contrivance, by which the weakest person may perform
the work of the strongest. This is called the _wheel_ and _axle_. You
see this wheel, which is not very large, turns round an axle which goes
into it, and is much smaller; and at every turn, the rope to which the
weight is fixed that you want to move, is twisted round the axle. Now,
just as much as the breadth of the whole wheel is greater than that of
the axle which it turns round, so much greater is the weight that the
person who turns it can move, than he could do without it." "Well," said
Tommy, "I see it is a fine thing indeed to acquire knowledge, for by
these means one not only increases one's understanding, but one's bodily
strength. But are there no more, sir, of these ingenious contrivances,
for I should like to understand them all?" "Yes," answered Mr Barlow,
"there are more, and all of them you shall be perfectly acquainted with
in time; but for this purpose you should be able to write, and
comprehend something of arithmetic."

_Tommy._--What is arithmetic, sir?

_Mr Barlow._--That is not so easy to make you understand at once; I
will, however, try to explain it. Do you see the grains of wheat which
he scattered in the window?

_Tommy._--Yes, sir.

_Mr Barlow._--Can you count how many there are?

_Tommy._--There are just five-and-twenty of them.

_Mr Barlow._--Very well. Here is another parcel; how many grains are
there?

_Tommy._--Just fourteen.

_Mr Barlow._--If there are fourteen grains in one heap, and twenty-five
in the other, how many grains are there in all? or, how many do fourteen
and twenty-five make?

Tommy was unable to answer, and Mr Barlow proposed the same question to
Harry, who answered, that, together, they made thirty-nine. "Again,"
said Mr Barlow, "I will put the two heaps together, and then how many
will there be?"

_Tommy._--Thirty-nine.

_Mr Barlow._--Now, look, I have just taken away nineteen from the
number; how many, do yo