[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Solomon's Porch

e passageways leading up to the surface of the Temple Mount, is a complete fabrication, not mentioned in any of the historical records, including the Mishna.  According to the evidence, Triple Gate is situated on the east wall of Herod's Temple, exactly where Solomon's Porch would have been located.

Triple Gate not to be confused with “Solomon's Stables” 
East of Triple Gate and beyond the east wall of the Temple House, in the far SE corner of the Temple Mount, are the terraced substructures referred to as “Solomon's Stables”, a name given to this substructure by the Crusaders in the 12th century, because it is where they stabled their horses.  When Solomon built his porch, east of the Temple House, this section of the Temple Mount rectangle did not exist. This would have been the area described by Josephus as being “like a precipice” with a steep decline down into the Kidron Valley. These terraced underground vaults were not part of Solomon's Temple, or Zerubbabel's Second Temple, or Herod's Temple. This may have been built by Herod's heirs, some time after his death. Archaeologists have identified the stones used in the construction of the vaults as being recycled stones from Herod's era. Given this evidence, some believe this substructure to have been built by Emperor Hadrian when he built the Temple of Jupiter, on the Temple Mount, in 135 C.E.

Conclusion 

If the piers were placed there by Solomon, then this would have been the same location of the “banks” a retaining wall used to raise up the ground level, as a foundation for the porch. According to Josephus, this and the “east wall” were indeed built by Solomon.  Evidence suggests that the magnificent halls of Triple Gate might have been the triple-aisled, open-aired, portico that Solomon, King of Israel, added along the east wall of the Temple's Outer Court in 950 B.C.  If this is true, the Triple Gate connection gives us a powerful key in unlocking the mystery of the location of Solomon's Porch and the Holy House. 
 
At the time of this writing, the Triple Gate Halls are in ruin and full of rubble. Despite their condition, there is proof that Solomon laid the foundation and built the piers that support the partial ruins. This makes Triple Gate a possible candidate for actually being Solomon's Porch, and unlocking the ultimate mystery of the Temple locations.

References

External links
 - Description of Solomon's Porch
 
 

Second Temple
Colonnades
Solomon