[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of American and British defectors in the Korean War

consider the soldier merely as a thing to be used, like the rifle he carries or the pack he wears, are bound to come out very badly in their calculations. Our experience, and that of the men who wrote this book, included battle, capture and much thought in Korea. We were a few among many thousands. 

Despite political and personal reasons for his defection, Condron's lifestyle in China challenged the core socialist values of the regime. The Foreign Office and British Embassy in Beijing reported Condron had been drinking "on a fairly hearty scale" and fraternising with Chinese girls, which was taboo at the time. In 1959 Condron was in a relationship with Jaquelin Hsiung-Baudet, an illegitimate daughter of the French diplomat Philipe Baudet whom he met while working as an English teacher at the Beijing Language and Culture University.

Condron returned to the United Kingdom in 1960 due to growing xenophobia in China, and received an honourable discharge from the Royal Marines. In 1962 Jaquelin moved to the UK to join her then husband. In 1963 Condron worked selling the Encyclopædia Britannica door-to-door, while Jaquelin worked at the BBC World Service. Condron and his wife had a son, Simon, who attended the University of Cambridge in the 1970s. Jaquelin divorced Condron due to alcoholism and later emigrated to the US. His son, Simon, worked at the BBC and Condron lived in his London flat until his death in March 1996 aged 68.

Documentaries
They Chose China (2005), a 52-minute documentary film, directed by Shui-Bo Wang.  Includes interviews with Samuel Hawkins and the families of Clarence Adams and James Veneris (both of whom were already deceased when the film was made), and archived interviews with Veneris and Adams.
Crossing the Line (Korean: 푸른 눈의 평양시민, "A Blue-Eyed Pyongyang Citizen in North Korea") is a 2006 documentary film by Daniel Gordon and Nicholas Bonner.

See also
Seven American servicemen are known to have defected to North Korea after the war:
Larry Allen Abshier (1962)
James Joseph Dresnok (1962)
Jerry Wayne Parrish (1963)
Charles Robert Jenkins (1965)
Roy Chung (1979)
Joseph T. White (1982)
Travis King (2023)

References

Further reading
Turncoat: An American's 12 Years in Communist China, by Morris Wills and J. Robert Moskin.
21 Stayed: The Story of the American GIs Who Chose Communist China, by Virginia Pasley.
The Korean War, by Max Hastings.  See Chapter 16, "The Prisoners".
An American Dream : The Life of an African American Soldier and POW Who Spent Twelve Years in Communist China, by Clarence Adams.  .
Frederick, Jim, "In from the Cold", Time, 4 November 2004.

External links
Essay on the GIs by Adam Zwieback
1963  TIME magazine article with quotes from Albert Belhomme
AP feature with quotes from several of the repatriated GIs
Watch They Chose China at NFB.ca

Korean War-related lists
Korean War, American and British
Korean War
Korean War
Korean War prisoners of war
Military history of the United Kingdom during the Korean War
Military history of the United States during the Korean War
Korean War, Defectors
Korean War, Defectors
Lists of 20th-century people
Lists of 21st-century people