[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of Battle Angel Alita characters

ts such as Ido, but has taken to illegally supplementing his income by posing along with his accomplices Tanji and Van, as a lubrication crew for cyborgs.  They then ambush and paralyze their victims to steal their spinal columns, as these fetch the highest prices on the black market for body parts.

Alita meets Hugo during her hunt for the criminal Megil, and is impressed by his willingness to protect her even though he is grossly outmatched.  The two then strike up a friendship which Alita makes clear she would like to take further, and she embarks on a bounty-hunting spree to help Hugo reach his 10 million chip mark.  However Hugo is blinded by his obsession with Tiphares and does not reciprocate Alita's romantic interest in him.  After his run in with Zapan, Hugo becomes a marked bounty. Despite learning the truth about him, Alita is still willing to go with him to Tiphares.  He is mortally wounded by Clive Lee, and is only saved by Alita linking her life support to his severed head.  Transplanted into a cyborg body by Ido, Hugo learns the reality that a surface dweller such as himself has no hope of reaching Tiphares. After confronting Vector with this, who also confesses it, Hugo snaps and attempts to climb one of the Factory tubes that connects Tiphares to the Scrapyard.  He makes it up further than any previous person, but is crippled by a massive spiked defense ring dropped down the tube. Alita is able to reach him just before a second one is dropped, but cannot save him, as his torso is shredded.  Hugo is able to share his last words with Alita before falling to his death.  This subsequently leads Alita to run away from home and turn to Motorball for distraction.

Vector

; Portrayed by Mahershala Ali

 is a Scrapyard businessman — the top broker in illegal human body parts and organs — with a reputation for hiring powerful cyborg muscle to back him up.  Vector furthermore supplies Tiphares, on a monthly basis, with one person's worth of body parts and organs. Last Order reveals that Vector came from a poor village on the outskirts of the city, and due to the ability to instantly judge whether anyone was lying to him, became the most powerful magnate in the Scrapyard.

The original series reveals that Vector is assisted by Myra, unnamed in the Japanese version, who works for Vector out of a mobile clinic. Vector buys stolen spinal columns from Hugo and — knowing that no-one can go to Tiphares — offered to send Hugo to Tiphares for 10 million chips.  Although he used Hugo, Vector has some honor: he repeatedly protected Hugo by killing witnesses and hiding Hugo, and offered Hugo partnership of the supply routes (a highly lucrative position).  Vector later sustains serious injury and escapes with his life after meeting with Den as the Barjack closed in on Tiphares, but is instrumental in restoring peace and order to the Scrapyard when Tiphares almost collapses and the factories shut down.

Vector also appears in the 1993 OVA where he has a stake in the Coliseum gladiators (in addition to his black market dealings).  He also he has more control over exports to Zalem (Tiphares).  He is killed in the OVA when he is impaled after being confronted by Ido over Hugo.  In the live-action movie, he is occasionally used as a vessel by Nova when he needs to speak with others.  He is stabbed through the torso by Alita while Nova was using him to taunt her.

Shumira

 is Jashugan's somewhat naïve, but warm-hearted younger sister.  She is saved from being raped by two thugs by Ido while he is searching for Alita, a month after she ran away following Hugo's death.  When he shows her a holographic image of Alita, Shumira recognizes her as a Motorball player, taking Ido to a circuit where Alita is racing and introducing him to the sport.  She hosts Ido at her apartment for a week, after which they watch Jashugan at a race where he suffers a flatline attack, during which Ido has to use her brainwaves in order to successfully resuscitate Jashugan.   Shumira meets Alita in person when she, Jashugan and Ido come across Alita and Ed at a Scrapyard open air restaurant.  She covets Kimji, Alita's odd rotor wing pet (actually a Tipharean surveillance drone sent to spy on Alita), and asks if she can have him if Alita loses to Jashugan in arm wrestling.  As a precaution for the next flatline attack, Ido creates a direct interface that will allow him to transmit Shumira's brainwaves via radio to Jashugan's brain.  Prior to his challenge race with Alita, Jashugan receives a good luck necklace from Shumira and tells her to marry Ido.  He then sedates her, nullifying any effect to resuscitate him should he have another flatline attack.  Shumira thus does not see her brother's final race and subsequent death.