[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 76 mm divisional gun M1902

The 76.2 mm divisional gun model 1902 () was a Russian light field gun used in the Russo-Japanese War, World War I, the Russian Civil War, and a number of interwar armed conflicts with participants from the former Russian Empire (the Soviet Union, Poland, Finland, Estonia, etc.). Modernized versions of this gun were employed in the early stages of World War II.

History 
This gun, known as the "three-incher", (трёхдюймовка) was developed by Putilovski Works in Saint-Petersburg in 1902. The lead designers were L. A. Bishlyak, K. M. Sokolovskiy, and K. I. Lipnitskiy. It incorporated many new features for that time: a carriage with recoil devices, traverse and elevation tracking mechanisms, a precision sight for direct and indirect firing, a manual interrupted screw breech, and single-piece ammunition loading.

To simplify the mass production process, the designers used cheap types of carbonized steel in the gun's construction, without or with minimal use of rare and expensive nickel-, manganese- or chromium-added types of steel. Early versions had two seats for the crew, one on each sides of the barrel; from 1906, the seats were replaced with an armoured shield. The shield had a specific design: an outer shield with a large rectangular opening and a smaller, inner shield behind it. The upper and lower portion of the outer shield were folded during transport.

The gun had fragmentation (shrapnel) and canister ammunition. More specialized types of projectiles included smoke, incendiary, and chemical rounds. Many ammunition pieces were French originated. Limbers could carry 40 or 44 rounds in a light artillery and 28 rounds in a mounted artillery, while caissons carried 48 rounds in both cases.

Employment

Russo-Japanese War
M1902 divisional guns were the mainstay of Russian Empire artillery and were accepted well by the army. Their characteristics were at the same level with similar 75-mm French and German guns. The gun was used in action for the first time in the Russo-Japanese War at the Battle of Telissu, but proved ineffective due to lack of crew training and the outdated conceptions of the senior artillery
officers.

World War I
The M1902 was also used during World War I.  After the collapse of the Russian Empire in 1917 M1902 guns were employed by different factions: bolshevist Red Army, monarchist or counter-revolution White Guard, nationalist forces in Russian-minority areas, national armies of Poland and Finland and simply anarchists and bandits throughout the vast territories of former imperial Russia.  In some episodes the gun saw its first anti-tank usage. The White Guard and intervening Allied forces used a small number of tanks, primarily French Renault FTs and British Mk Vs or Whippets. The M1902 gun with its high muzzle velocity was an effective weapon against such targets with only anti-bullet armour protection. In the 1920 Polish-Soviet War M1902 guns were again used against Polish FTs.

German Use

Due to a string of Russian defeats during the first two years of World War I large numbers of M1902's and their ammunition ended up in German hands.  A combination of factors led the Germans to issue M1902's to their troops as replacements.

These factors included:  
 An underestimation of light field artillery losses during the first two years of the war and an inadequate number of replacement guns being produced.  
 An underestimation of ammunition consumption, inadequate production and resulting shortages.  
 The superior ballistic performance of the M1902 compared to German designs.

Once production of German guns and ammunition caught up during the last two years of the war the M1902's were converted to anti-aircraft guns on a number of different high-angle mounts and these continued in German service until the end of the war with German ammunition.

Romanian service 
Romania had a considerable number of World War I guns of 75 mm and 76.2 mm. Some models were modernized at Resita works in 1935 including M1902. The upgrade was made with removable barrels. Several types of guns of close caliber were barreled to use the best ammunition available for 75 mm caliber which was explosive projectile model 1917 "Schneider". The new barrel was made of steel alloy with chrome and nickel with excellent mechanical resistance to pressure which allowed, after modifying the firing brake, the recovery arch and the sighting devices an increase of the range from 8.5 km to 11.2 km and a rate of fire of 20 rounds/minute. During World War 2 these guns also used Costinescu 75 mm anti-tank round. These upgraded field guns were used in all infantry divisions in World War II.