[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Business marketing

majority of businesses only allocate 5% of their budget towards promotions. By contrast, B2C companies typically spend 5% to 12% of their total revenue towards marketing.

Growth 

According to Morris, Pitt and Honeycutt (2001), the growth of business marketing is largely due to three "revolutions".

 Technological revolution. Technology is changing at an unprecedented pace, and these changes are speeding up the pace of new product and service development. A large part of that has to do with the Internet, which is discussed in more detail below. Technology and business strategy go hand in hand. Both are correlated.  While technology supports forming organization strategy, the business strategy is also helpful in technology development. Both play a role in business marketing.
Entrepreneurial revolution. To stay competitive, many companies have downsized and reinvented themselves. Adaptability, flexibility, speed, aggressiveness and innovativeness are the keys to remaining competitive today. Marketing is taking the entrepreneurial lead by finding market segments, untapped needs and new uses for existing products, and by creating new processes for sales, distribution and customer service.
(Occurring within marketing itself) Companies are looking beyond traditional assumptions and they are adopting new frameworks, theories, models and concepts. They are also moving away from the mass market and the preoccupation with the transaction. Relationships, partnerships and alliances are what define marketing today. The cookie-cutter approach is out. Companies are customizing marketing programs to individual accounts.

Impact of the Internet 

According to Anderson and Narus (2004), two new types of resellers have emerged as by-products of the Internet: infomediaries and metamediaries. Infomediaries, such as Google and Yahoo, are search engine companies that also function as brokers, or middlemen, in the business marketing world. They charge companies fees to find information on the Web as well as for banner and pop-up ads and search engine optimization services. Metamediaries are companies with robust Internet sites that furnish customers with multiproduct, multivendor and multiservice marketspace in return for commissions on sales.

See also
 Business-to-business marketing
Business-to-consumer marketing
Business-to-government marketing
 Industrial marketing 
 Marketing

Footnotes 
 Anderson, James C., and Narus, James A. (2004) Business Market Management: Understanding, Creating, and Delivering Value, 2nd Edition, 2004, Pearson Education, Inc. 
 Business Marketing Association (2003) "Marketing Reality Survey"
 Blaney, Bill (2012) B2B A To Z. Marketing Tools and Strategies That Generate Leads For Business-To-Business Companies, Denham Publishing, 2012. p. 8-12 
 
 
 
 Morris, Michael H., Pitt, Leyland F., and Honeycutt, Earl Dwight (2001) Business-to-Business Marketing: A Strategic Approach, Sage Publications Inc.
 
 Brown, Duncan and Hayes, Nick. Influencer Marketing: Who really influences your customers?, Butterworth-Heinemann, 2008
 John Fahy and David Jobber, Foundations of marketing, Rogan (2011: p137)

References 

Business-to-business
Marketing by target group