[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joël Epalle

and he only appeared in two Champions League matches. On 7 January 2005, Epalle was released by Panathinaikos, to empty a foreign player's spot, so the club would be able to sign Brazilian defensive midfielder Anderson de Lima Freitas.

Iraklis
Briefly after his release Iraklis decided to sign him.

VfL Bochum
In January 2007, Epalle signed a three and a half years contract with VfL Bochum. The transfer fee was 600,000 €. Epalle debuted for VfL Bochum in a home match against Mainz. He played in the whole match but Mainz managed to win the match by 0–1 in a close encounter. In the next match Epalle was once again a starter and he helped VfL Bochum to get an away 0–0 draw from German giants FC Bayern. Epalle's first major contribution to the team came in a match against Arminia Bielefeld. He dribbled in the centre of the field before passing the ball towards Gekas to help him score the second goal of their team in what was meant to be a 1–3 away win for VfL Bochum. In the match Epalle scored his first goal for VfL Bochum. A corner was taken by his teammate Misimović an Alemannia Aachen defender poorly cleared the ball and Epalle took advantage of the loose ball to score his team's second goal, in a match that finished 2–2. Epalle continued showing his scoring abilities, as he send the ball to settle in the net of Hannover 96, during a count-attack of his team, to make the score 2–0, that was also the final score of the match. He also proved himself to be highly effective in front of the goal in an away match against Eintracht Frankfurt by scoring twice. His first goal was a powerful effort from just outside the area in the 58th minute of the match and second was scored in the 69th minute after an assist by Gekas. In his first season for VfL Bochum Epalle played in all of 17 VfL's Bundesliga matches for the second round of the 2006–07 club's campaign (all as a starter), scored four goals and handed three assists to his teammates.

In the opening stages of the 2008–09 season Epalle was forced to miss several matches due to a toe injury. He was able to make his come back, in a 0–0 home draw against Werder Bremen, after replacing the injured Christian Fuchs in the 42nd minute.

On 11 June 2010, Bochum announced that the contract of Epalle would not be extended beyond its original expiry date on 30 June 2010. During his spell at Bochum he became a firm favorite amongst his teammates and the club's fans due to his hard-working style of play and the trademark back-flip celebration of his goals.

FK Baku
In the summer of 2010, Epalle signed a contract with Azerbaijan Premier League outfit FK Baku, to meet again with Winfried Schäfer, his former manager for the Indomitable Lions. His first game for FK Baku was on 15 July, for the Second Qualifying Round of UEFA Europa League, against Budućnost of Montenegro. Epalle was suspended for that match, as he was sent off in an Iraklis' match four years ago against Wisła Kraków, and due to this Budućnost gained a 3–0 default win, in a match they had originally lost 2–1. Epalle was handed a further two-match suspension. He made his league debut for his new club on 22 August in a 2–1 home win against Gabala. He was substituted in the 83rd minute of the match for Ibrahim Kargbo. The next match he featured, was a 1–1 home draw against Ganja on 12 September. In November his agent stated that Epalle was not happy with the lifestyle of Azerbaijan and with the situation in Azerbaijani football. The main reasons for that reaction was the low attendance of Azerbaijani Premier League and the fact that he could do nothing besides training and staying in his hotel room. His agent also declared Epalle's desire to return in the Greek Superleague for Iraklis. He played again on 13 November coming in as a substitute for Aleksandar Šolić in the 78th minute, in a match that FK Baku won 2–0. In the next match against MOIK Baku he came in as an 84th-minute substitute, and he managed to score a goal in the 88th minute, his first and only goal for FK Baku. In his short spell for FK Baku Epalle totally played in ten matches and scored one goal.

Iraklis

On 18 January 2011, Epalle signed a two and a half-year contract with Iraklis. He made his first appearance, in his second spell for the club, in a 0–0 home draw against Kerkyra, as he came in, to replace Javier Robles, in the 55th minute of the match.

Sarawak FA
On 2 April 2012, Epalle officially signed with Sarawak FA. On 24 March 2012, he made his first appearance with Sarawak FA against Malaysia national football team in a friendly match at State Stadium, Kuching. The match ended with draw 1–1. Epalle scored the equalizer. His official league debut, in the game against Kelantan FA on 7 April 2012, saw Epalle fouled and he received a free-kick in the 18th minute which led to a goal by Guy Bwele in the 1–1 draw. His first goal for Sarawak was scored against Kuala Lumpur FA, an equaliser in a 1–1 draw on 4 May 2012.