[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John Watkins (diplomat)

to France, Jules Léger, and his wife Gabrielle, and Basil Rakoczi was among the many unknown artists he befriended. After entertaining his cousins in Paris and a road trip around Europe in May 1964, Watkins suffered a heart attack that summer. In September, he moved to an apartment in Montparnasse.

Soviet defections, Operation Rock Bottom and death
In April 1962, two British officers from MI5 and MI6 who had assisted the United States Central Intelligence Agency in the debriefing of Soviet defector Anatoliy Golitsyn travelled to Ottawa to update the Security Service. The two officers reported that Golitsyn had brought with him a collection of leads into operations that the Soviet Second Directorate had directed against the Canadian Embassy, including an operation to blackmail a gay Canadian ambassador who had been caught in a sex trap. Golitsyn could only narrow the time frame to the 1950s and was unable to identify the ambassador or whether he had been swayed or controlled by the trap. In an effort to identify the unnamed ambassador, the Canadian Security Service launched Operation Rock Bottom. Security Service officers Charles Sweeny and Leslie James Bennettconsidered to be the RCMP's counterespionage guruwanted to question Golitsyn for further details but were told they had to wait in line behind the Americans, British, French, Germans, and Dutch. While waiting for their turn, Sweeny and Bennett attempted to match up clues by scouring almost 500 files at External Affairs. In August 1962, they finally had their opportunity to question Golitsyn at a safehouse in Washington, D.C., but were unable to discover any new leads. The investigation initially focused on David Johnson, the Canadian ambassador to the Soviet Union from 1956 to 1960, who resigned his position after a previous investigation forced him to admit his homosexuality. Although Johnson had been an ambassador in the 1950s, other details from Golitsyn's leads did not match up. Additional review suggested that the unidentified ambassador could be Watkins, but the investigation stalled with no firm evidence against either him or Johnson.

In September 1963 in London, Soviet writer Yuri Krotkov defected to the West. Krotkov revealed that he had cooperated with the KGB years earlier in a seduction/compromise operation against Maurice Dejean, the French ambassador to the USSR, and his wife, and stated he had learned of a similar entrapment operation against a homosexual Canadian ambassador. Like Golitsyn, Krotkov said he did not know the ambassador's name, but he confirmed that the diplomat had fallen into the trap and the timeline he presented seemed to overlap with Watkins' post in Moscow. Although their suspicions had been pushed in the direction of Watkins, the Security Service felt they did not have enough evidence to interrogate the former ambassador. In February 1964, Yuri Nosenko, a KGB captain who had served in the Second Directorate, defected while in Geneva and in debriefing with the CIA identified the Canadian ambassador as Watkins. Given that the CIA suspected that Nosenko was a KGB plant sent to undermine Golitsyn, the information was not passed on to the Security Service until August 1964. The Canadians were not allowed to interview Nosenko. At this juncture, the Security Service had gone through Watkins' dispatches looking for evidence that he had attempted to influence Canadian policy in favour of the Soviets but were so overwhelmed by the vast number of files that they were unable to find any firm evidence. The RCMP determined that they would need to go to Paris and directly approach Watkins.