[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Homero Aridjis

he apocalypse will be the work of man and not of God is, for me, an absolute certainty. Therein lies the difference between the apocalyptic delirium of The Last Adam and Saint John's mediocre apocalyptic descriptions. Obviously, man's imagination has been enriched over the centuries."
Los invisibles:
Alberto Manguel: "Contemporary literature in Spanish generally lacks the voluptuousness and richness evident in Los Invisibles. It too often chooses between exacerbated realism and a kind of free-for-all fantasy. Aridjis, on the contrary, can use all kinds of voice, showing absolute mastery in all, and an astonishing narrative virtuosity. If "Los Invisibles" had to claim a lineage, it would be that of Voltaire's Contes philosophiques, Umberto Eco's Foucault's Pendulum and (because of its literary humour) Marcel Aymé's "La tête des autres."
J. M. G. Le Clézio: "After reading the novel, I believe it will be impossible to walk the streets of Paris without feeling surrounded by invisibles forces."
Solar Poems:
Yves Bonnefoy: "A great flame passes through the words, the poetry of Homero Aridjis, who sets reality alight in images that at once illuminate and consume it, making life a sister of dream. Homero is a great poet; our century has great need of him." (Preface to "Les poemes solaires")
Quincy Troupe: "Solar Poems" constantly serves up an exhilarating feast of wonderfully evocative images and metaphors that are also daring, cutting edge, full of surprises, often irreverent, historical, but sensual --- even erotic... Aridjis' poetry is full of love and a profound wonder for all of the universe and its inhabitants --- humans, animals, the earth, the seas, the sky and the sun and the moon. Solar Poems is a beautiful and necessary collection of poems by a wise poet at the peak of his powers."
News of the Earth:
Robert F. Kennedy Jr.: "Aridjis's new book covers more than thirty years of fighting to preserve our natural wonders. It will be an inspiration to future generations."
Jacob Scherr, NRDC: "Homero is one of the planet's great environmental heroes." 
Lester Brown, founder of Worldwatch and Earth Policy Institutes: "No one in Mexico has made a more important contribution to protecting the country's environment, an effort that has had ripple effects throughout the world."
Alejandro Jodorowsky: "The Group of 100 is a movement of conscience that strives to change our relationship with nature. Thanks to this group, presided over by the saintly poet Homero Aridjis, in our world we can still enjoy the magic of monarch butterflies, sea turtles and gray whales."
J.M.G. Le Clézio: "The great strength of Aridjis's work is the faith it transmits in a creative virtue of the world, pessimism notwithstanding, and in the possibility of saving it thanks to environmentalism. Aridjis's writings are not gratuitous; they are militant. Their source is the reality of the natural world."
Pierce Brosnan: "Our journey together to visit those great gentle creatures [gray whales] was one I will live with forever."
Serge Dedina, founder-director of Wildcoast:"News of the Earth can be read as a chronicle of the history of environmental activism in Mexico, but its scope reaches beyond Mexico, as so many of the issues featured are shared with the United States and Canada, its North American partners in NAFTA, and the world...It is an invaluable contribution to understanding why we must preserve our global environment."
Smyrna in Flames:
Stephanos Papadopoulos: "[T]he book's power is unmistakable. It lies in its indelible images, and in the very fact that Homero Aridjis, named after the greatest poet of Ionia, returns to his own bloody history by rewriting his father's memoirs, by giving the dead a voice, by returning the story to its owners. It is a bleak, terrifying, undeniably moving accomplishment."

Environmental activism

Aridjis is increasingly renowned as one of Latin America's leading environmental activists. As a child, he would often walk up a hillside behind his village to watch the migrating monarch butterflies. As he grew older logging thinned the forest and his concern for the fate of the butterflies and the trees triggered his earliest public defense of the environment.