[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Van Leer Jerusalem Institute

07 – Shimshon Zelniker

1994-1997 – Nehemia Levtzion

1968-1993 – Yehuda Elkana

Notable scholars and fellows
 Azmi Bishara
 S. N. Eisenstadt
 Rachel Elior
 Menachem Friedman
 Ruth Gavison
 Naomi Hazan
 Hanna Herzog
 Avishai Margalit
 Paul Mendes-Flohr
 Adi Ophir
 Naftali Rothenberg
 Yehouda Shenhav

Selected publications
The Institute publishes books, anthologies, monographs, position papers, and journals.
 Privatization Policy in Israel: State Responsibility and the Boundaries between the Public and the Private (2015), eds. Itzhak Galnoor, Amir Paz-Fuchs, and Nomika Zion. Published in cooperation with Hakibbutz Hameuchad Publishing House, Tel Aviv.
 Captives (2014), ed. Merav Mack. Published in cooperation with the Zalman Shazar Center.
 Literature and Class: Towards a Political Historiography of Modern Hebrew Literature (2014), eds. Hannan Hever and Amir Banbaji. Published in cooperation with Hakibbutz Hameuchad Publishing House, Tel Aviv.
 Reform Judaism: Thought, Culture and Sociology (2014), ed. Avinoam Rosenak. Published in cooperation with Hakibbutz Hameuchad Publishing House, Tel Aviv.
 Educational Accountability: Between Consolidation and Dissolution, Adam Nir. Published in cooperation with Hakibbutz Hameuchad Publishing House, Tel Aviv.
 Values and Citizens: Civics Education through Active Learning for Middle Schools (2014), ed. Naftali Rothenberg. Published with Reches Educational Projects LTD.
 Theseus's Paradox: Gender, Religion and State (2014), eds. Hanna Herzog and Anat Lapidot-Firilla. Published in cooperation with Hakibbutz Hameuchad Publishing House, Tel Aviv.
 The Gender Index: Gender Inequality in Israel 2014, Hagar Tzameret-Kertcher.
 Post-Subjectivity (2014), eds. Christoph Schmidt, Merav Mack, and Andy R. German. Published in cooperation with Cambridge Scholars Publishing.
 Marking Evil: Holocaust Memory in the Global Age (2015), eds. Amos Goldberg and Haim Hazan. Published in cooperation with Berghahn Books.
 The Legacy of Polish Solidarity: Social Activism, Regime Collapse, and Building of a New Society (2015), eds. Andrzej Rychard and Gabriel Motzkin; published in cooperation with Peter Lang Publishers
Science in Context Cambridge University Press in cooperation with Tel Aviv University
The Politics of Humanitarianism in the Occupied Palestinian Territories Conference Proceedings (CD)(2005)
Men and Women: Gender, Judaism and Democracy edited by Rachel Elior (2004)
Collective Identities, Public Spheres and Political Order in Modern and Contemporary Scenes Tal Kohavi, Julia Lerner, Ronna Brayer-Garb (2003)
Women in Conflict Zones: Struggling With Ethno-National and Racial Conflicts Maya Kahanoff (2003)
Policy Paper Uri Saguy and Gilead Sher (2002)
Jewish Identity in Modern Israel: Proceedings on Secular Judaism and Democracy edited by Naftali Rothenberg and Eliezer Schweid (2002)
The Public Sphere in Muslim Societies edited by Miriam Hoexter, Shmuel N. Eisenstadt, Nehemia Levtzion (2002)
Lire Albert Memmi: Déracinement, Exil, Identité (2002)

Journals
The Van Leer institute publishes two peer-reviewed academic journals: Journal of Levantine Studies (2011–) and Contributions to the History of Concepts (since the early 1990s), both in English. From 2011 to 2020, it also published Identities: Journal of Jewish Culture and Identity, a Hebrew-language journal. The institute also publishes the Hebrew-language magazine Theory and Criticism (Hebrew)- The journal is very critical of Israel according to Ofira Seliktar.

See also
Culture of Israel

References

External links
 
 https://www.facebook.com/vanleer.institute
 https://twitter.com/VanleerInst
 https://www.youtube.com/user/VanleerInstitute
 The Van Leer Jerusalem Institute Official EN App.
 The Polonsky Academy
 Economics and Society
 The Gender Index
 Privatization

1959 establishments in Israel
Organizations established in 1959
Buildings and structures completed in 1959
Research institutes in Israel
Philosophy research institutes
Buildings and structures in Jerusalem
Education in Jerusalem
Talbiya