[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Export Wheat Commission

s processes in its
key functional areas of bulk export consents, administration the Non-bulk Wheat Quality
Assurance Scheme (Non-bulk Scheme) and the performance monitoring of AWBI.
At the direction of the Minister, the EWC also completed three Ministerial investigations
during the reporting period.

During 2007–08, the EWC received and assessed a total of 54 applications for bulk
exports, consulting with AWBI and providing detailed comments and recommendations
to the Minister. The Minister approved six applications for 950,000 tonnes in five markets.
The EWC ensured that its consent compliance requirements for bulk wheat exports
were met by exporters.

Following the liberalisation of wheat exports in containers and bags on 27 August 2007,
the EWC administered the Non-bulk Scheme and during the reporting period, accredited
62 packers with 103 sites, 12 laboratories with 31 sites and six superintendence
companies with 18 sites.

The EWC also processed and checked more than 4,000 packer notifications of exports in
bags and containers and ensured they complied with the Non-bulk Scheme.

The EWC liaised with industry and grower organisations in relation to the Non-bulk
Scheme during the year and introduced a new online notification form to increase
efficiency for users as well as the EWC.

The EWC also continued to liaise with the Australian Customs Service and non-AWBI
exporters on compliance with non-bulk export consents given by the former Wheat
Export Authority prior to deregulation.

Ministerial directions
During the previous reporting period, 1 October 2006 to 30 September 2007, the
Minister had directed the former Wheat Export Authority to conduct one investigation
under section 5DC of the Act. The EWC presented two interim reports and then
delivered its final report on the investigation to the Minister on 14 December 2007.
During the reporting period the Minister gave the EWC directions to undertake two
further investigations (see page 59). While these placed additional requirements on the
Secretariat, I am pleased to advise that these were concluded in an efficient and timely
manner. The EWC presented its findings to the Minister in two confidential reports.

Performance monitoring
Due to the late closure of the 2005/06 National Pool, the EWC produced two reports on
the performance of AWBI instead of the required one.
The EWC delivered the 2007 PMR to the Minister in December 2007, in accordance with
its requirements under the Act. This 177-page report was adapted into a 28-page report
to growers, with the commercial-in-confidence elements removed.
The EWC subsequently produced a 108-page commercial-in-confidence Addendum to
the PMR and then published a 20-page Addendum to the Growers Report 2007 during
2007–08 to inform the Minister and growers on the performance of AWBI and a number
of other topical wheat industry issues.

Drought had a major impact on growers and exporters during the 2007/08 harvest which
yielded 13.04 million tonnes, although this was 2.23 million tonnes above the 2006/07 harvest.

The EWC statistics showed that approximately 5.4 million tonnes of wheat were
exported during 2007/08. Western Australia and South Australia were the major wheat
exporting States.

On 1 July 2008, following the passage of legislative change, the EWC was replaced by Wheat Exports Australia.

References

External links
 Export Wheat Commission archived website

Defunct government entities of Australia
Grain industry of Australia
Foreign trade of Australia
Wheat organizations
Agricultural organisations based in Australia
Australian food and drink organizations