[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 101]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

comes
stern. She wishes things, in this department, left as they are. Women
are made for purposes of reproduction; let them clearly understand that.
No picking and choosing."

"Men pick and choose, it is true," observed Lady Engleton in a musing
tone, as if thinking aloud.

"Ah, but that's different--a real scientific argument, though a
superficial observer might not credit it. At any rate, it is quite
sufficiently scientific for this particular subject. Our leaders of
thought don't bring out their Sunday-best logic on this question. They
lounge in dressing-gown and slippers. One gets to know the oriental
pattern of that dressing-gown and the worn-down heels of those old
slippers."

"They may be right though, notwithstanding their logic," said Lady
Engleton.

"By good luck, not good guidance. I wonder what her Serene Highness
Science would say if she heard us?"

"That we two ignorant creatures are very presumptuous."

"Yes, people always fall back on that, when they can't refute you."

Lady Engleton smiled.

"I should like to hear the question discussed by really competent
persons. (Well, if luncheon is dead cold it will be his own fault.)"

"Oh, really competent persons will tell us all about the possibilities
of woman: her feelings, desires, capabilities, and limitations, now and
for all time to come. And the wildly funny thing is that women are
ready, with open mouths, to reverently swallow this male verdict on
their inherent nature, as if it were gospel divinely inspired. I may
appear a little inconsistent," Hadria added with a laugh, "but I do
think women are fools!"

They had strolled on along the path till they came to the
schoolmistress's grave, which was green and daisy-covered, as if many
years had passed since her burial. Hadria stood, for a moment, looking
down at it.

"Fools, fools, unutterable, irredeemable fools!" she burst out.

"My dear, my dear, we are in a churchyard," remonstrated Lady Engleton,
half laughing.

"We are at this grave," said Hadria.

"The poor woman would have been among the first to approve of the whole
scheme, though it places her here beneath the daisies."

"Exactly. Am I not justified then in crying 'fool'? Don't imagine that I
exclude myself," she added.

"I think you might be less liable to error if you _were_ rather more of
a fool, if I may say so," observed Lady Engleton.

"Oh error! I daresay. One can guard against that, after a fashion, by
never making a stretch after truth. And the reward comes, of its kind.
How green the grave is. The grass grows so fast on graves."

Lady Engleton could not bear a churchyard. It made one think too
seriously.

"Oh, you needn't unless you like!" said Hadria with a laugh. "Indeed a
churchyard might rather teach us what nonsense it is to take things
seriously--our little affairs. This poor woman, a short while ago, was
dying of grief and shame and agony, and the village was stirred with
excitement, as if the solar system had come to grief. It all seemed so
stupendous and important, yet now--look at that tall grass waving in the
wind!"




CHAPTER XXVIII.


Professor Theobald had been engaged, for the last ten minutes, in
instructing Joseph Fleming and a few stragglers, among whom was Dodge,
in the characteristics of ancient architecture. He was pointing out the
fine Norman window of the south transept, Joseph nodding wearily, Dodge
leaning judicially on his broom and listening with attention. Joseph, as
Lady Engleton remarked, was evidently bearing the Normans a bitter
grudge for making interesting arches. The Professor seemed to have no
notion of tempering the wind of his instruction to the shorn lambs of
his audience.

"I _can't_ understand why he does not join us," said Lady Engleton. "It
must be nearly luncheon time. However, it doesn't much matter, as
everyone seems to be up here. I wonder," she went on after a pause,
"what the bride would think if she had heard our conversation this
morning!"

"Probably she would recognize many a half-thought of her own," said
Hadria.

Lady Engleton shook her head.

"They alarm me, all these ideas. For myself, I feel bound to accept the
decision of wise and good men, who have studied social questions
deeply."

Personal feeling had finally overcome her desire to fight off the
influence of tradition.

"I do not feel competent to judge in a matter so complex, and must be
content to abide by the opinions of those who have knowledge and
experience."

Lady Engleton thus retreated hastily behind cover. That was a strategic
movement always available in difficulties, and it left one's companion
in speculation alone in the open, arrogantly sustaining an eagle-gaze in
the sun's face. The advantages of feminine humility were obvious. One
could come out for a skirmish and then run for shelter, in awkward
moments. No woman ought to venture out on the bare plain without a
provision of the k