[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Military history of Singapore

During the confrontation, the First and Second Battalions, Singapore Infantry Regiment (1 SIR and 2 SIR) were placed under Malaysian command and deployed in various parts of Malaya to fight the saboteurs. Local defence was the responsibility of the Singapore Volunteer Corps and the Vigilante Corps.

On Feb 28, 1965, one platoon from the 2 SIR were caught in an ambush at Kota Tinggi. 8 soldiers were killed immediately while a 9th was taken prisoner and later executed. A reprisal mission led by then 2LT Daljeet Singh resulted in 7 Indonesian guerillas killed and several more captured.

Hostilities ended with the overthrow of President Sukarno in October 1965.

Post-independence

After Singapore's independence on 9 August 1965, strained ties with the two immediate neighbors, Malaysia and Indonesia made defense a high priority. Then-PM Lee Kuan Yew appointed Goh Keng Swee to head the new Ministry of Interior and Defence. In 1966, drawing from the Israeli model, National Service was determined the best way to provide for a deterrent to potential aggressors. A Brigadier T. J.D. Campbell was appointed as the first Director of the General Staff.

The first cohorts of officers and non-commissioned officers (now Specialists), taught by Israeli instructors, graduated from Singapore Armed Forces Training Institute (SAFTI) in 1967. With this new cadre of leaders, army was expanded from the existing two infantry battalions to two brigades between 1967 and 1970. Efforts were made to ensure unit integrity by keeping the officers, NCOs, and men of reservist battalions together.

The Air Defence Command (now Republic of Singapore Air Force) was formed with the help of Royal Air Force in 1968. The first class of pilots receiving basic military training and general flying instructions in the new Flying Training School at Tengah Air Base, and fighter training in the UK.

The Maritime Command (now Republic of Singapore Navy) was based at Sentosa temporarily until permanent facilities at the now-defunct Brani Naval Base were ready. Two gunboats were built by the British and Germans in 1969; subsequent models were built locally, entering service in 1970. The ex-USS Thrasher and USS Whippoorwill (commissioned RSS Jupiter and RSS Mercury) minesweepers and County-class tank landing ships were purchased from the United States subsequently.

Start of the defense industry
In 1967, the Sheng-Li Holding Company (Simplified Chinese: 胜利; pinyin: sheng li; translated: victory) was established under the Ministry of Defence to promote the local defence industry. By the 1970s, Singapore was producing small arms (the M-16) through Chartered Industries of Singapore (CIS) and small arms, mortar, and artillery ammunition through Chartered Ammunition Industries for local use and export. Sheng-Li Holdings was later restructured into Singapore Technologies (now ST Engineering) in 1989, the parent of ST Kinetics.
ST Kinetics produces the indigenous SAR-21 and Bionix AFV today. Others, either locally designed or locally owned designs, such as the Ultimax 100, SAR-80, SR-88, FH-88, and FH-2000 were also produced.

Peacetime emergency
 1974 : Attack on oil refinery and hijacking of ferry boat Laju
 1983 : Singapore cable car crash
 1986 : Collapse of Hotel New World
 1991 : Midair plane hijacking of Singapore Airlines Flight 117
 2013 : Riot at Little India

Humanitarian aid

 1999 : Medical support during the Jiji earthquake in Taiwan
 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami
 2005 : 
 Logistic support for Hurricane Katrina
 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake
 2005 Nias–Simeulue earthquake
 2006 : Yogyakarta earthquake

Peacekeeping missions
The Singapore Armed Forces are involved in various UN peacekeeping missions:
UNTAG (UN Transitional Authority Group) Namibia - ‘89,
UNIKOM (UN Iraq-Kuwait Observer Mission) Kuwait - ‘91
UNTAC (UN Transitional Authority in Cambodia) Cambodia - ‘93,
UNOSMA (UN Observer Mission to South Africa) South Africa - ’94,
UNSMA (UN Special Mission in Afghanistan) Afghanistan - ’97
INTERFET (International Force in East Timor) East Timor - ’99
UNTAET (UN Transition Authority in East Timor) East Timor - ’00
UNMEE (UN Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea) Ethiopia - ’02
UNMISET (UN Mission of Support in East Timor) Timor-Leste - ‘02

Iraq 
In 2003, Singapore deployed a C-130 transport aircraft, a landing ship tank and 31 personnel on a two months mission to assist in airlift, transportation and supply in rebuilding Iraq.

In 2017, Defence Minister Ng Eng Hen, Senior Minister of State for Defence Dr Mohamad Maliki Bin Osman, Chief of Defence Force Lieutenant-General (LG) Perry Lim, Deputy Secretary (Policy) Keith Tan, and senior SAF officers paid a visit to SAF medical teams stationed in Iraq.

In 2018, Defence minister Ng Eng Hen announced that more personnel from SAF and SPF will be sent for counter-terrorism training in Iraq.