[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henry de Lesquen

es ("Lesquenist Youth"). He founded a political movement in 2018, the National-Liberal Party (PNL; French "Parti National-Libéral"), which aims at promoting national liberal ideas, and restoring traditional French values and liberal economics through ideological influence rather than elected office.

Using irony and provocative symbolism akin to the Alt-Right movement, the logo of his party imitates the Wolfsangel used by the 2nd SS Panzer Division Das Reich in WWII. Through his online videos, Lesquen participated in popularizing the concept of "remigration" in France and spreading racialist theories built on anthropologist Carleton S. Coon's works. De Lesquen also introduced the word "candaule" as a French equivalent for the Alt-Right term "cuckservative". Similar to its American counterpart, the term is used as a distinction between the "true ring-wingers", who "oppose anti-racist laws" and "favor remigration", and the "losers of the right".

Relations with the FN 
He described Marine Le Pen as "a leftist woman entertaining herself hearing negro music in nightclubs" and an "incult" and the National Rally as a "pederastic lupanar."

Others 
At the end of 2018, he decided to support the "Yellow Vests", denouncing over-taxation and describing the movement as made up of "French people from French ancestors".

He stated that slavery was a historical necessity due to the low economic and technological levels and that Black slaves were relatively well-treated.

He described transsexual individuals as "perverts" and "mentally diseased" deserving psychiatry.

In March 2020, Lesquen stated "there is worse than coronavirus: judeovirus" at a meeting of the "Swiss Resistance" organization.

Private life 
Henry de Lesquen is a traditionalist Catholic. He broke off relations with his daughter, Clélie, after she married a Jew.

See also 
 Alt-right
 Carrefour de l'Horlorge
 Racialism

References

External links 

1949 births
Carrefour de l'horloge people
École nationale d'administration alumni
École Polytechnique alumni
Academic staff of Sciences Po
French far-right politicians
French civil servants
French people convicted of Holocaust denial
French people of Breton descent
Living people
New Right (Europe)
People from Kenitra
People from Versailles
Rally for the Republic politicians
French male bloggers
French YouTubers
Scientific racism
Rattachism
National liberalism
Proslavery activists