[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Factions in the Somali Civil War

1991)
Area of Operations: South Central Somalia
Tribal Affiliation: Hawiye (Habar Gidir, Xawaadle, Murusade and Abgaal clans)
Founded: February 1, 1989 in Rome

On January 26, 1991, the USC stormed the Presidential palace in Mogadishu, taking control of the capital and forcing Siad Barre into exile.

In November 1991, factionalism between Gen. Aidid and Ali Mahdi Mahammad caused a split in the USC. Mohamed Qanyare Afrah was chosen to be the Chairman of USC .

Somali Democratic Movement (SDM) 
Leaders:Maxamed Qanyare Afrah
Area of Operations: Mogadishu
Tribal Affiliation: Murusade 
Founded: April 1989

Al-Itihaad al-Islamiya (AIAI) 
 Leaders: Hassan Dahir Aweys, Hassan Abdullah Hersi al-Turki
 Area of Operations: Southwest (Ras Kamboni, Luuq)
 Religious Affiliations:Sunni Islam
 Founded: Late 1980s.

Southern Somali National Movement 
 Clan affiliation: Biimaal

United Somali Root (USR)
 Founded 1991, represents Somali indigenous groups, non-violence organization
 Leaders: Mohammed Husen, Ex-parliamentary Somali Transitional Federal Government; TFG, died 2010 in Mogadisho,
 and General Mohammed Mohammud Hayd Ex-cabinet of President Dr.Abdiqasiman, and parliamentary
 an advocate of Somali indigenous clans.
 Tribal Affiliation: Muse clan and madhiban  indigenous Somali clans.

Founded after the fall of Siad Barre through to the UN interventions (1991–1995)

Somaliland 

The Isaaq-dominated northern Somaliland region of Somalia declared its independence in 1991, but has not been recognized by any country or international organization as a sovereign nation.

Somali National Alliance (SNA) 
 Leaders: 1992-1996: Mohamed Farrah Aidid, Mohamed Nur Aliyou; 1996-2001: Hussein Mohamed Farah Aidid
 Area of Operations: Mogadishu
 Tribal affiliation: Habar Gidir, Ogaadeen, Raxanweyn, Sheekhaal, Duduble, Gugundhabe, Dir .
 Founded: June 1992 - 2004

Its constituents included Mohamed Aidid's breakaway United Somali Congress faction, the Somali Patriotic Movement, Southern Somali National Movement, and other southern factions. His son, Hussein Aidid, assumed leadership upon his death. The SNA became the core of the SRRC in 2001.

Somali National Front (SNF) 

 Leaders: General Siad Barre, General Mohammed Said Samatar, General Mohammed Hashi Gaani, General Ahmed Ali,'Gacaliye', General Omar Hagi Masallah, Dr. Ali Nur Mukhtar, Ahmed Sheikh Ali " Buraale ". Col. Abdirizak Isak Bihi, Mohamud Sayid.
 Area of Operations: Upper Jubba (Gedo), Middle and Lower Jubba regions; occasional forays to outskirts of Mogadishu
 Tribal Affiliation: Marehan (Mareehaan)
 Founded: March 1991

Loyalists to Siad Barre and Ahmed Ali, the remnants of his army forces founded the SNF militia after his ouster from office.

Their intent and goal was to recapture Mogadishu and reinstate the regime of Siad Barre, and to establish regional state in Gedo, Middle and Lower Jubba.

United Somali Front (USF) 
 Leaders: Abdurahman Dualeh Al;
 Area of Operations: Zeila, Somaliland
 Tribal Affiliation: Issa
 Founded: prior to 1991 as a small liberation movement. "New" USF founded Summer 1991

The original USF joined with the SNM in the creation of the Republic of Somaliland.

The Issa clan is a Somali clan that spreads across northwest Somaliland and the nation of Djibouti. The "new" USF especially sought to represent the interests of the Djibouti-based Iise.

Somali Africans Muke Organization (SAMO) 
(also called Somali Asal Muki Organization)

 Leaders: Mohamed Ramadan Arbow
 Area of Operations: ???
 Tribal Affiliation: Bantu
 Founded: 1993

Some of the tribes living the jubba and shabelle river banks

Somali National Democratic Union (SNDU) 
 Leaders: Ali Ismael Abdi and Abdullahi Azari
 Area of Operations: Galgadud, Mudug, Burtinle-Nugaal
 Tribal Affiliation: Awrtable and Lelkase Darood sub-clans
 Founded: 1991
Founding member of Puntland state, alongside the SSDF. 
 Museum : Museum is available at Mudug.

Somali National Union (SNU) 

 Leaders: Dr. Mohamed Ragis Mohamed
 Area of Operations:
 Tribal Affiliation: Reer Hamar; an Arabic, not ethnic Somali clan
 Founded: 1960s
 Ideology: Anti-Siad BarreReer Hamar interests

A political party that was active in the 1960s but was forced into dissolution during the Barre regime. It revived after his downfall.

United Somali Party (USP) 
 Leaders: Mohamed Abdi Hashi
 Area of Operations: Erigavo and Las Anod, Somaliland
 Tribal Affiliation: Dhulbahante, Warsangeli, Gadabuursi (Samaroon).
 Founded: 1957 - 1969 (original group); 1991

The "new" USP had no affiliation to the original group founded in the 1950s. The new group that bore their name were generally pro-Siad, but key participants in the Reconciliation Conference of the Elders at Borama in early 1993.

Those present at the 1993 Conference on National Reconciliation in Somalia