[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jack Ross (footballer, born 1976)

John James Ross (born 5 June 1976) is a Scottish professional football coach and former player, who was most recently the manager of Dundee United in the Scottish Premiership.

During his playing career, Ross played as a defender and midfielder. From 1992 to 1995 he played for youth sides at Dundee and Forfar Athletic, before dropping to the Scottish Junior leagues for first team action at Camelon Juniors. He then returned to the Scottish Football League in 1999 with Clyde, before a short stint in England with Hartlepool United in 2004. He returned to Scotland a year later and played for Falkirk, St Mirren, Hamilton Academical and Dunfermline Athletic until he retired in 2011 due to a knee injury. He also played once for a Scotland B team, in 2009.

Upon retiring, Ross started as a coaching career at Dumbarton, as assistant manager for both Alan Adamson and later Ian Murray, and was caretaker manager between them. He became the coach of the Heart of Midlothian under-20 team in July 2014. Ross was appointed Alloa Athletic manager in December 2015. In October 2016, he was appointed manager of St Mirren, leading them to the 2017–18 Scottish Championship title and was named PFA Scotland Manager of the Year, before leaving to become manager of Sunderland in May 2018. Ross was sacked by Sunderland in October 2019, and was then appointed by Kilmarnock a month later.

Ross guided Hibernian to a third-place finish in 2021 and two cup final appearances, but was sacked in December 2021. Ross was appointed Dundee United head coach in June 2022, but was sacked two months later after just seven games in charge.

Playing career

Early career
Ross had spells as a youth player at Dundee and Forfar Athletic. He then moved to Camelon Juniors, where he featured in their 1996 Scottish Junior Cup run, before losing in the final. He joined Clyde in 1999, playing in many different positions before settling in the right midfield role. He was made captain of the team when Ian Spittal was the team coach.

Moving to England
Ross signed a pre-contractual agreement with Hartlepool United in April 2004. Ross suffered ankle ligament damage and spent a large part of his time on the sidelines. Hartlepool funded his rehabilitation and also allowed him to return home. However, Ross refused to return to Hartlepool, train or play for the club and asked Hartlepool's chairman Ken Hodcroft to tear up his contract claiming he was homesick. Hartlepool refused and asked for compensation and a refund of agent fees. Ross left without consent and later went on sick and claimed that he would not return to Hartlepool even if "they were in the Champions League". He also criticised Hartlepool manager Neale Cooper for feeling let down by his actions, stating that "maybe the manager thinks I have let him down but that's nothing compared with how I feel about him". On 31 July 2005, Hartlepool agreed to terminate his contract after finally receiving compensation, which included a refund of the fees paid to Ross's agent.

Return to Scotland
Ross transferred to his home town club, Falkirk, in 2005 and was a regular in the team. Falkirk manager John Hughes warned Ross when he stalled on signing a new contract.

On 30 April 2008, it was announced that Ross had signed a pre-contract agreement with St Mirren and joined them at the end of the season on a two-year deal. Ross scored his first goal for St Mirren against Dundee United at Tannadice Park on 24 January 2009.

Having been released by St Mirren at the end of the 2009–10 season, Ross joined Hamilton Academical on a one-year contract. His contract with Hamilton Academical was cancelled after only three games. A few weeks later Ross signed for Dunfermline until the end of the 2010–11 season. He sustained a knee injury in training which led to his eventual retirement from football without having played a game for the Pars.

International career
Ross won his solitary cap for Scotland at junior level in 1999. In April 2009 he was included in George Burley's Scotland B squad for the match against Northern Ireland B at Broadwood Stadium. He came on at the start of the second half, replacing St Mirren teammate Scott Cuthbert, in a 3–0 win on 6 May.

Coaching career

Early career
In 2011, Ross joined Dumbarton as assistant manager to Alan Adamson. He became caretaker manager following Adamson's sacking in October 2012. During this spell he led Dumbarton to their first Scottish First Division victory in 16 years, with a 1–0 victory over Cowdenbeath. Despite this he was overlooked for the job and continued as the assistant manager to Adamson's successor Ian Murray in November of that year.

On 1 July 2014, Ross joined the Heart of Midlothian coaching staff. He left this position in October 2015.