[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Molly Scott Cato

sult in 2015, Bristol West, where the party had been placed second – a seat with a high student and academic contingent to its electorate. She was endorsed by Hugh Fearnley-Whittingstall. She finished in third place in the 2017 election, with the Green share of the vote dropping from 26.8% to 12.9%.

In the 2019 election, she stood in Stroud, with the Liberal Democrats standing down in the constituency and endorsing her as the Unite to Remain candidate. She came third, with 4,954 votes, 7.5% of the total and up 5.3% from 2017.

Local council 
In May 2011, Scott Cato was elected to represent Valley Ward on Stroud District Council. In May 2012, she became leader of the Green Group on the council and made an agreement with the Labour and Liberal Democrat groups to take overall control of the council, calling for "constructive co-operation" and rejecting the "tribalism of party politics" in favour of a "more inclusive" approach. She said, "We believe that no one party has a monopoly on good ideas and we will seek co-operation to achieve advances of our policy platform on an issue-by-issue basis." She became chairman of the council's Audit and Standards Committee in May 2013. At the council's AGM in June 2014, Scott Cato announced her resignation, to take effect from 1 July, the start of her mandate in the European Parliament.

European Parliament

In the May 2014 elections for the European Parliament, she was elected as an MEP in South West England for the Green Party, being the lead candidate on the party's list. The Green Party's share of the vote in her region was, at 11.1%, the highest of any electoral region. She had stood for the European Parliament on the Green Party list for the South West region at the previous election in 2009; in 1999 and 2004 she had been on the Green Party list in Wales. She stated, after her election, that her priorities as an MEP would be finance and farming: "I'm from the South West – it's vital to our region, and I hope to get farming working in a more socially and environmentally friendly way".

On 1 July 2014, the start of her mandate, she was appointed a full member of the Parliament's Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and a substitute member of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. In her first speech, also on 1 July, she expressed her opposition to the UK government's attempt to take away from her region control of £450 million EU convergence funding, saying: "Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly have a long history of using these funds efficiently and effectively".

In May 2019, Scott Cato was re-elected in the 2019 European elections. She was the only Green MEP in the South West England constituency and was elected on a vote share of 18.1% (up 7% from 2014).

Localism and community involvement 
In addition to her work on Stroud District Council, Scott Cato has, since 2007, been a director of Stroud Common Wealth, a not-for-profit private company, limited by guarantee, which owns and develops property "for community benefit and to enable social enterprise development." She was a director from 2009 to 2012 of Transition Stroud, which aims to strengthen the community's local economy, to reduce dependence on fossil fuel and to prepare for climate change. Transition Stroud is part of the Transition Towns network. Shortly after she moved to Stroud in 2006, she joined Stroud Community Agriculture (SCA), and was elected to its "core group" of members. SCA is a community-supported agriculture project, organised as a co-operative, which provides locally produced organic food for its members.

In 2009, Scott Cato was one of the founders of the Stroud pound. In 2012, she had an article about local currency published in the International Journal of Community Currency Research.

Other activities 
Scott Cato was a member of the Management Committee of the Association for Heterodox Economics from 2010 to 2014 and is on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Co-operative Studies, published by the UK Society for Co-operative Studies. She formerly served as a member of the Advisory Group of the Equality Trust. She was, from November 2010 to September 2013, a director and trustee of Meadow Prospect, the charitable branch of RCT Homes, a large social housing provider based in Rhondda Cynon Taf (RCT), and itself an Industrial and provident society with charitable rules. She is a Distinguished Fellow of the Schumacher Institute.

Together with Patrick Adams and her then partner, Christopher Busby, she founded Green Audit, an environmental consultancy and publishing organisation, in 1992, but later left the organisation, which continues to be run under Busby's direction.