[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Matt Carkner

arly in the first period, repeatedly punching the unwilling combatant in the face and earning a game misconduct. He received a one-game suspension for the incident. Boyle had punched Senators' star defenseman Erik Karlsson in the face during Game 1, and Carkner's actions were viewed as retribution. 

On July 1, 2012, Carkner signed a three-year contract with the New York Islanders. He played with the team during the next two seasons, but a back surgery in the 2014 offseason left him sidelined for the first 56 games of the 2014–15 season. He was activated off of the injured reserve list and placed on waivers on February 15, 2015 and cleared the next day, being assigned to the team's minor league affiliate, the Bridgeport Sound Tigers of the AHL.

On August 11, 2015, Carkner opted to remain with the Islanders' AHL affiliate as a free agent, agreeing to a two-year contract with the Sound Tigers.

On July 7, 2016, Carkner officially announced his retirement from professional hockey, via his Facebook page. He accepted a position to remain in the Islanders organization as an assistant coach to the Bridgeport Sound Tigers.

Personal life
Before signing his first one-way deal with the Senators, Carkner resided in Westport, Ontario (just under 2 hours from Ottawa) with his wife Kary, and their two children. Carkner is a third cousin of former NHL defenceman Terry Carkner. His father Dennis owns and operates D's Collision Centre in Winchester, Ontario.

Career statistics

Awards and achievements
1998–99 OHL Eastern Conference "Most Improved Player" Award
2006–07 AHL Yanick Dupre Memorial Award

References

External links 

Matt Carkner at NHLPA.com
15 Questions with Matt Carkner

1980 births
Binghamton Senators players
Bridgeport Sound Tigers players
Canadian ice hockey defencemen
Cleveland Barons (2001–2006) players
Ice hockey people from Ontario
Living people
Montreal Canadiens draft picks
New York Islanders players
Ottawa Senators players
People from the United Counties of Stormont, Dundas and Glengarry
Peterborough Petes (ice hockey) players
San Jose Sharks players
Wilkes-Barre/Scranton Penguins players
Canadian expatriate ice hockey players in the United States