[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2000 in Zimbabwe

copter circles tobacco seed beds on a farm in Norton to check that the owners had complied with their owner not to plant.
 97 prisoners have now been released under the Presidential Amnesty. 89 of the beneficiaries had already been convicted and were serving sentences in prison.
 31 October - Shamva farmer, Guy French, and five of his workers are attacked by war veterans with sticks and nail-studded clubs when they try to plant their ploughed field. Mr French is hospitalized with severe concussion, bruising and lacerations; his workers are admitted to Shamva Hospital.

November
 4,092 stockpiled anti-personnel mines are destroyed.
 1 November - Fuel prices increase for the second time in three months.
 Information Minister, Jonathan Moyo, calls for the removal of Chief Justice Anthony Gubbay.
 Karoi's Superintendent Mabunda returns to Karoi and visits all war veterans' bases on farms in the area. Increased violations are reported throughout the area that weekend including work stoppages, threats and a bull slaughtered. Farmers are laughed at by police in Karoi when they report incidences.
 6 November - University of Zimbabwe students hold a demonstration in support of striking lecturers. Riot police arrive and shoot tear-gas throughout the campus including in the hostels and UZ Clinic. Students are forced off the campus and the institution closes the following morning.
 A High Court Judge in Harare reserves judgement in the fraud case against Chenjerai Hunzvi. Hunzvi, accused of fabricating medical records, claimed a 118 percent disability from the War Victims' Compensation Fund.
 8 November - The continuing illegal movement of cattle from communal to commercial farms by war veterans leads to an outbreak of anthrax in Makoni North. Two people and 32 cattle die.
 9 November - Z$25 million worth of export beef is found rotten at the CSC factory in Gweru because of a faulty vacuum-packaging machine.
 10 November - The Supreme Court signs an Order by Consent declaring Fast-Track Resettlement unlawful. The commissioner of police is ordered to remove all squatters from farms that have been "fast-tracked".
 12 November - Municipal police in Mutare shoot and kill a 13-month-old baby whilst chasing unlicensed vendors at a bus stop.
 13 November - Mazoe farmer, Robin Marshall, in the presence of police, is attacked by war veterans and hospitalized with head injuries.
 14 November - War veterans begin rebuilding shacks on farms near Harare.
 17 November - President Mugabe's sister, Sabina, arrives at a farm in Norton in a Mercedes. She instructs 40 villagers to allocate land to themselves on a commercial farm that produces almost half of the country's seed maize.
 23 farms are gazetted for compulsory acquisition.
 Finance Minister Simba Makoni presents the 2001 budget to parliament. Income and corporate taxes are reduced as is duty on beer and bicycles.
 21 November - Anthrax spreads to Makonde where three pigs and 17 cattle die and six people are hospitalized after eating contaminated meat.
 Police fire live bullets at students protesting over catering at Hillside Teachers' Training College in Bulawayo.
 High Court Judge Chidyuasiku issues a Provisional Order preventing implementation of the Supreme Court Order to remove "fast-tracked" squatters.
 23 November - Leading pharmaceutical company, Johnson and Johnson, relocate their manufacturing division to South Africa owing to continuing economic instability.
 24 November - The Supreme Court overrules the High Court's Provisional Order saying it has no jurisdiction in the matter. The original Supreme Court Order stands.
 27 November - ZANU-PF wins the Marondera West by-election. The campaign was violent with numerous clashes and the death of one man. Out of 37,000 registered voters, only 12,000 go to the polls.
 Army and police are put on full alert to deter mass action threatened by the opposition.
 28 November - Nigeria's President Olusegun Obasanjo says that whilst he is willing to be a mediator in Zimbabwe's land crisis, the laws of the country must be followed.
 30 November - Minister of Information, Jonathan Moyo says government will not be removing squatters and war veterans from farms grabbed during "fast-track" resettlement. Minister Moyo says the Supreme Court Order is not a blanket eviction notice and that the government has not been acting unlawfully.
 Farmers in Bindura name three top government officials (two of whom are government ministers) involved in masterminding violence in the area.
 The CZI (Confederation of Zimbabwe Industries) announces that 23 percent of local manufacturing companies are to disinvest from Zimbabwe owing to economic decline.
 Telephone calls from Zimbabwe to Britain may be barred because the local PTC has failed to service its debt of Z$870 million to British Telecom.