[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Welsh (general)

ore in Columbia's Canal Basin, selling insurance, and operating a small fleet of canal boats which he named after his children.
 
He was appointed weigh master in 1850 and lock superintendent a few years later.  He was elected Justice of the Peace and also served as president of the Borough Council.

Civil War
When the Civil War erupted in April 1861, Welsh raised one of the first companies of volunteers from Lancaster County and was elected as its captain. Within days, the company was mustered into service as part of the 2nd Pennsylvania Infantry, and he was appointed lieutenant colonel of the regiment. This was a three-months regiment, which served briefly in the Shenandoah Valley, then York, Pennsylvania, where it served out its term. In July, when his term of enlistment was over, Welsh was appointed by Governor Andrew Curtin as a colonel and placed in charge of Camp Curtin, the processing center set up to process as many as 500,000 volunteers into war service.  Welsh is credited with instituting needed reforms in camp discipline and sanitation. 
 
In October 1861, he was appointed to command the 45th Pennsylvania Infantry, a three-year regiment, which he had recruited from Center, Tioga, Lancaster, and Mifflin Counties.  The 45th eventually became known as one of the best drilled and best disciplined regiments in the service, for which Welsh is credited.
 
After brief service around Washington, the 45th was sent south to Charleston Harbor, under Gen. H. G. Wright, as part of the blockade of southern shipping.  There it participated in the Battle of James Island on June 10, 1862. In July, the 45th was called north to become part of the IX Corps under Gen. Ambrose Burnside, and Welsh directed the successful rear-guard action during the Union evacuation of Acquia Creek, near Fredericksburg. 
 
When Confederate General Robert E. Lee launched his invasion of Maryland in September 1862, McClellan's Army of the Potomac (of which IX Corps was part) was sent in chase.  At the Battle of South Mountain on September 14, Welsh, now in brigade command, engaged the rebels at Fox's Gap.  His brigade came under heavy fire and suffered severe casualties, but succeeded in driving the Confederates off the ridge and securing a Union victory.
 
On September 17, 1862, at the Battle of Antietam, after first being held in reserved (on account of its losses at South Mountain), Welsh's brigade was placed into action in the afternoon after Burnside exhausted his other troops capturing the bridge that now bears his name.  Against steady opposition, Welsh's troops advanced a mile, entering the village of Sharpsburg (threatening to cut off the Confederate route of escape across the Potomac) before being called back because they could not be supported.  This was the furthest Union advance of the battle.  As it was, the battle ended largely in a stalemate.
 
Welsh's performance drew praises from his superiors, and he was promoted to brigadier general of volunteers on November 29, 1862 (confirmed by the Senate on March 13, 1863).  He was assigned to command the 1st division of IX Corps, sent west to Kentucky, then south to Mississippi to serve under Maj. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant during the Siege of Vicksburg, where he was assigned to guard the exterior of the Union line from attack by Confederate General Joseph E. Johnston. 
 
Upon the surrender of Vicksburg, he marched with Maj. Gen. William T. Sherman to Jackson, Mississippi, and defeated the Confederates at the battle of Jackson.  Welsh contracted a malarial fever during this campaign, from which he died in Cincinnati, Ohio, on August 14, 1863. He was buried in Mount Bethel Cemetery in his native Columbia.

Namesake
After the Civil War, Grand Army of the Republic Post #118 in Columbia was named for Welsh.  For many years, this was one of the most active G.A.R. posts in Pennsylvania.  The Sons of Union Veterans of the Civil War have a General Thomas Welsh Camp in Lancaster.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Union)

References

Warner, Generals in Blue, 1964
Albert, Allen D., History of the Fourth-Fifth Regiment Pennsylvania Veteran Volunteer Infantry 1861-1865, Williamsport, PA: Grit Publ. Co., 1912.
Wiggin, Richard, ed., "Pride of Columbia: The Life and Legacy of Brig. Gen. Thomas Welsh, Proceedings of a Symposium," October 20, 2007, available online at http://sites.google.com/site/generalwelsh/symposium
Welsh, Thomas, "History of Thomas Welsh," undated, in a private collection, but available online at http://sites.google.com/site/generalwelsh/appendixa
Welsh, Thomas, "Memorandum of the Travels of Thomas Welsh," undated, in a private collection, but available online at http://generalwelsh.googlepages.com/appendixb

1824 births
1863 deaths
People from Columbia, Pennsylvania
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
People of Pennsylvania in the American Civil War
Union Army generals
Deaths from malaria