[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1919 United States anarchist bombings

n Judge Albert F Hayden (Boston)
 Massachusetts State Representative Leland Powers (Newton, Massachusetts)
 Pittsburgh's Federal Judge W. H. S. Thompson (Pittsburgh)
 Immigration Chief W. W. Sibray (Pittsburgh) 
 Judge Charles C. Nott (New York)
 Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer (Washington D.C.)

Palmer, who was already the recipient of a mail bomb in April, was again attacked in the new wave of violence. None of the targeted men were killed, but one bomb took the life of New York City night watchman William Boehner and the bomb intended for Attorney General Palmer's home prematurely exploded and killed Carlo Valdinoci, who was a former editor of the Galleanist publication Cronaca Sovversiva and close associate of Galleani. Though not seriously injured, Palmer and his family were shaken by the blast and the house itself was largely demolished. Two near-casualties of the same bomb were Assistant Secretary of the Navy Franklin Delano Roosevelt and his wife Eleanor, then living across the street from Palmer. They had passed the house just minutes before the explosion and their residence was close enough that one of the bomber's body parts landed on their doorstep.

Each of the bombs was delivered with several copies of a pink flyer, titled "Plain Words", that read as such:
War, Class war, and you were the first to wage it under the cover of the powerful institutions you call order, in the darkness of your laws. There will have to be bloodshed; we will not dodge; there will have to be murder: we will kill, because it is necessary; there will have to be destruction; we will destroy to rid the world of your tyrannical institutions.

The flyer was later traced to a printing shop operated by two anarchists, typesetter Andrea Salsedo and compositor Roberto Elia, who were both Galleanists according to the later memoirs of other members. Salsedo committed suicide and Elia refused an offer to cancel deportation proceedings if he would testify about his role in the Galleanist organization. Unable to secure enough evidence for criminal trials, authorities continued to use the Anarchist Exclusion Act and related statutes to deport known Galleanists.

Response 

Fueled by labor unrest and the anarchist bombings and then spurred on by Attorney General A. Mitchell Palmer's attempt to suppress radical and non-radical labor organizations, the response to the bombings was characterized by exaggerated rhetoric, illegal search and seizures, unwarranted arrests and detentions and the deportation of several hundred suspected radicals and anarchists. Palmer, twice targeted by anarchist bombs, organized the nationwide series of police actions known as the Palmer raids in November 1919 and January 1920. Under suspicion of violating the Espionage Act, the Sedition Act and/or the Immigration Act of 1918, approximately 10,000 people were arrested, of whom 3,500 were held in detention. Of those held in detention, 556 resident aliens were eventually deported.

Media and popular culture 
The bombings were dramatized in the 2012 film No God, No Master. The bombing of the home of Palmer was also dramatized in the 2011 film J. Edgar.

The June Bombings and the "Plain Words" fliers were referenced in the video game Arkham Origins by Anarky, one of the game’s antagonists.

See also 

 Lexington Avenue explosion (1914)
 Preparedness Day Bombing (1916)
 Milwaukee Police Department bombing (1917)
 1919–1920 Palmer Raids
 Sacco and Vanzetti
 Wall Street bombing (1920)
 San Francisco Police Department Park Station bombing (1970)
 Greenwich Village townhouse explosion (1970)
 Anarchism and violence
 Propaganda of the deed
 Ted Kaczynski – Anarcho-primitivist called the Unabomber involved in a series of similar bombings
 List of incidents of political violence in Washington, D.C.

Notes

References 

 Allen, F. L., Only yesterday; an informal history of the nineteen-twenties. New York: Harper & Sons (1957).
  
 Avrich, Paul (Prof.), Sacco and Vanzetti: The Anarchist Background, Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press (1991), .
 Avrich, Paul (Prof.), Anarchist Voices: An Oral History of Anarchism in America, Princeton: Princeton University Press (1996).
 
 McCormick, Charles H., Hopeless Cases: The Hunt for the Red Scare Terrorist Bombers, University Press of America (2005), , .
 Neville, J. F., Twentieth-century cause cèlébre: Sacco, Vanzetti, and the press, 1920–1927. Westport, Conn: Praeger (2004).
 Post, Louis F., The Deportations Delirium of Nineteen-twenty: A Personal Narrative of an Historic Official Experience (NY, 1923), reissued: , .