[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Prague Security Studies Institute

or via the Security Reform Among other countries, the Program works closely with students and early career professionals from Ukraine, Moldova and Kosovo and organizes a series of meetings with, and briefings by, current and former Czech security policy experts and practitioners from the Parliament.

Security Scholars Programs 
Robinson-Martin Security Scholars Program ( RMSSP)
PSSI’s flagship program, launched in early 2002, is a two-semester, advanced introductory course to Security Studies held on the premises of PSSI for highly qualified Czech University students. The program offers lectures by, and interaction with, some 20 foreign policy luminaries from around the world in small group settings. As is stated on PSSI’s webpage, the overarching goal is building an ever-growing number of young, visionary professionals across the post-communist space well-versed in key security-related subjects and challenges.

MA Degree Program in Security Studies
PSSI co-sponsors Charles University’s master's degree Program in Security Studies to help enrich and accelerate the theoretical and practical training of security policy professionals and provide them with detailed knowledge concerning a number of prominent global “flashpoints.” and issue areas such as terrorism and WMD proliferation, energy security, counterspace defense, festering regional conflicts, the eurozone crisis, Putin’s Russia, China’s rise, financial sanctions etc. The MA Degree Program offers courses well beyond regional and transatlantic security concerns, covering the Middle East, East Asia and other theaters and focusing on disciplines, such as international economics and finance, intelligence gathering and dissemination and global energy security. In the Fall of 2012, an English-language curriculum was introduced, greatly expanding access to this cutting-edge program.

Whitaker Chair and Lecture Series in Security Studies
Named in honor of one of PSSI´s principal benefactors, Dr. James Q. Whitaker, this high-level Lecture Series focuses on free-market economics and geopolitical benefits, policy prescriptions important to Central and Eastern Europe as well as on priority security challenges worldwide.

Summer School
Since 2005, PSSI, in cooperation with NATO’s Public Diplomacy Division, has offered an intensive course of study in July each year for graduate students in political science, international relations and other relevant fields from NATO’s member states and partner countries. The Summer School often has as many as 15 nationalities represented in each these sessions. Subjects include key future challenges for NATO as well as pressing issues on the global security agenda, such as the trajectory of Russia, transatlantic relations, Afghanistan, energy security and the new NATO’s Strategic Concept.

Program of Atlantic Security Studies
Established in 2003 to augment PSSI’s Security Scholars Program, the Program of Atlantic Security Studies serves as the Institute’s public policy arm. It seeks to identify and analyze relevant foreign policy and security-related issues that affect the transatlantic community as well as international security more broadly. The primary focus of PASS is to organize international conferences, roundtables, and workshops that bring together high-level decision-makers, opinion leaders, and experts in a number of fields from different countries and disciplines that would, in many cases, not be exposed to one another under normal professional circumstances. PASS conferences have covered topics such as the NATO Strategic Concept, Asia-Pacific Security Challenges, Trilateral Space Security, and Democracy and Security.

Corporate Council Program (CCP)
The Corporate Council Program was established in the fall of 2003, Chaired by William F. Martin. The Program offers PSSI students the benefits of integrating into their academic course load the management and decision-making skills of leading business executives from across the globe. The CCP seeks to construct mutually-reinforcing relationships between select multinational corporations/banks and PSSI.  Under its banner, is our The Club of Prague, which seeks to provide a forum for a sophisticated dialogue among the region’s leading energy experts and the exploration of cooperative ventures.

PSSI Boards

International Advisory Board:

Elie Wiesel, Dennis C. Blair, R. James Woolsey, Alexandr Vondra, Timothy Garton Ash, Michael Žantovský, Michael Novak, Adam Michnik, Robert Pfaltzgraff, Dorothy Stapleton, Hassan bin Talal, Karel Schwarzenberg, Jiří Schneider, Petr Kolář; (In memoriam, Václav Havel)

Executive Committee:

R. Daniel McMichael, James Q. Whitaker, Curtin Winsor Jr., Jan Ruml, Brian Kennedy, Alejandro Chafuen, C. Richard D’Amato, Jonna Bianco.

Annual Report
PSSI Annual Report

References

External links
PSSI Official Website
Neocon Europe Prague Security Studies Institute
PSSI Washington
PSSI Twitter
PSSI Blog