[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# PeaceMaker

ts citizens and the international community. The game starts with both counters at zero. Any of them dropping too low cause the game over: either the leader is removed from office, or the new intifada begins. When both counters are up to the maximum, the conflict is solved by the two-state solution.

Development 
PeaceMaker started as a university project in 2005. It was carried out by a small team of master's students at  Carnegie Mellon's Entertainment Technology Center in Pittsburgh, a department shared between the  College of Fine Arts and the  School of Computer Science. American Eric Brown and former Israeli officer Asi Burak were the producers of the game. Tim Sweeney was the lead game designer, working with Olive Lin, writer Victoria Webb and composer Ross Popoff. Eric Keylor and Lin were the programmers. The team was supervised by two professors of the university.

To prototype the game design, the team used board games. They helped to "model the stakeholders in the conflict". They were then converted into a dice game which could be coded. The logic engine and the artificial intelligence were developed in Java. The graphical user interface used Adobe Flash and QuickTime. The different graphic elements were made by Patrick Bannan. He used the software 3ds Max, Adobe Photoshop and Adobe Illustrator, starting with 3D modeling, texture mapping and lighting.

A prototype of the game was presented at the Game Developers Conference in 2005. Given the excellent reception, Brown and Burak decide to complete the project, in order to distribute it to the general public and educators. After graduating, they founded the studio ImpactGames and planned to produce other games of the same kind. Their objective is to "impact society and promote change through interactive media". They also want to change the industry, by "making something that compares to the role documentaries play in the movie industry". In order to make an unbiased game, they wanted the contribution of Palestinians ; two joined the team.

Initially, the developers did not want to "define the end-solution", in order to avoid controversy. Victory was then defined by the lowering of violence. Early players' reactions showed the necessity for "a more meaningful outcome". With the input of experts from both sides and the United States, they chose the two-state solution. It was mainly because of the support of the United Nations Security Council resolution, the roadmap for peace and the Arab peace initiative.

This choice was one of the design assumptions made by the developers. Game designer Tim Sweeney, although he admitted they are debatable, claimed his right to define the scope of the work. He considered that they do not favour any side, but rather peace. The developers assumed that both sides wanted peace and that the player can make a difference, but does not have total control of their side, and that peace could be achieved through small, concrete actions.

The first stable version of PeaceMaker was released on 1 February 2005, downloadable from the company website. A box version was published on Amazon.com four months later. The game is playable in English, Hebrew and Arabic, to "strengthen the multiple point-of-views". The game was sold for twenty dollars. ImpactGames was criticised for this, from people considering that such a game should be free of charge. This had been a major debate at the beginning of the development. Eric Brown explained that being for-profit allowed to find investors more easily. Moreover, they wanted to make an example of commercially viable game within the industry. On 4 November 2013, Brown updated the ImpactGames blog to announce that PeaceMaker was now free to download and play, hoping this would "allow the game to find an even larger audience in schools, community centers, and the general public.".

Reception 

PeaceMaker received positive reviews from both the gaming and general press. In an article published in Gamasutra, Ernest W. Adams stated that the game is "fun and challenging", and holds a deep level of subtlety. He compares it to Balance of Power, a simulation of geopolitics during the Cold War, published by Chris Crawford in 1985. Adams claimed that while Balance of Power can be summarised as a zero-sum game, PeaceMaker is "a richer and more difficult challenge".