[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 92]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ers," observed Hadria.

"Ah! but its spring awakenings!" cried Miss Du Prel.

The chime of a clock startled them with its accusation of lingering too
long. The hostess remonstrated at the breaking up the party. Why should
they hurry away?

"The time when we could lay claim to have 'hurried' has long since
passed, Lady Engleton," said Hubert, "we can only plead forgiveness by
blaming you for making us too happy."

Professor Theobald went to the window. "What splendid moonlight! Lady
Engleton, don't you feel tempted to walk with your guests to the end of
the avenue?"

The idea was eagerly adopted, and the whole party sallied forth together
into the brilliant night. Long black shadows of their forms stalked on
before them, as if, said Valeria, they were messengers from Hades come
to conduct each his victim to the abode of the shades.

Professor Theobald shuddered.

"I hate that dreadful chill idea of the Greeks. I have much too strong a
hold on this pleasant earth to relish the notion of that gloomy
under-world yet a while. What do you say, Mrs. Temperley?"

She made some intentionally trite answer.

Professor Theobald's quick eyes discovered a glow-worm, and he shouted
to the ladies to come and see the little green lantern of the spring.
The mysterious light was bright enough to irradiate the blades of grass
around it, and even to cast a wizard-like gleam on the strange face of
the Professor as he bent down close to the ground.

"Fancy being a lamp to oneself!" cried Lady Engleton.

"It's as much as most of us can do to be a lamp to others," commented
Hadria.

"Some one has compared the glow-worm's light to Hero's, when she waited,
with trimmed lamp, for her Leander," said Professor Theobald. "Look
here, Mr. Fleming, if you stoop down just here, you will be able to see
the little animal." The Professor resigned his place to him. When Joseph
rose from his somewhat indifferent survey of the insect, Professor
Theobald had established himself at Mrs. Temperley's right hand, and the
rest of the party were left behind.

"Talking of Greek ideas," said the Professor, "that wonderful people
perceived more clearly than we Christians have ever done, with all our
science, the natural forces of Nature. What we call superstitions were
really great scientific intuitions or prophecies. Of course I should not
dare to speak in this frank fashion to the good people of Craddock Dene,
but to _you_ I need not be on my guard."

"I appreciate your confidence."

"Ah, now, Mrs. Temperley, you are unkind. It is of no use for you to try
to persuade me that you are _of_ as well as in the village of Craddock
Dene."

"I have never set out upon that task."

"Again I offend!"

Hadria, dropping the subject, enquired whether the Professor was well
acquainted with this part of the country.

He knew it by heart. A charming country; warm, luxuriant, picturesque,
the pick of England to his mind. What could beat its woodlands, its
hills, its relics of the old world, its barns and churches and smiling
villages?

"Then it is not only Tudor mansions that attract you?" Hadria could not
resist asking.

Tudor mansions? There was no cottage so humble, provided it were
picturesque, that did not charm him.

"Really!" exclaimed Hadria, with a faintly emphasized surprise.

"Have I put my luckless foot into it again?"

"May I not be impressed by magnanimity?"

The Professor's mouth shut sharply.

"Mrs. Temperley is pleased to deride me. Craddock Dene must shrivel
under destroying blasts like these."

"Not so much as one might think."

The sound of their steps on the broad avenue smote sharply on their
ears. Their absurd-looking shadows stretched always in front of them. "A
splendid night," Hadria observed, to break the silence.

"Glorious!" returned her companion, as if waking from thought.

"Spring is our best season here, the time of blossoming."

"I am horribly tempted to take root in the lovely district, in the hope
of also blossoming. Can you imagine me a sort of patriarchal apple-tree
laden with snowy blooms?"

"You somewhat burden my imagination."

"I have had to work hard all my life, until an unexpected legacy from an
admirable distant relation put me at the end of a longer tether. I still
have to work, but less hard. I have always tried not to ossify, keeping
in view a possible serene time to come, when I might put forth blossoms
in this vernal fashion that tempts my middle-aged fancy. And where could
I choose a sweeter spot for these late efforts to be young and green,
than here in this perfect south of England home?"

"It seems large," said Hadria.

Professor Theobald grinned. "You don't appear to take a keen interest in
my blossoming."

Why in heaven's name _should_ she?

"I cannot naturally expect it," Professor Theobald continued, reading
her silence aright, "but I should be really obliged by your counsel on
this matter. You