[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Britannia (board game)

Britannia is a strategy board game, first released and published in 1986 by Gibsons Games in the United Kingdom, and The Avalon Hill Game Company in 1987 in the United States, and most recently updated in late 2008 as a re-release of the 2005 edition, produced by Fantasy Flight Games. It broadly depicts the wars in, and migrations to, the island of Great Britain in the centuries from the Roman invasions to the Norman Conquest.

Britannia was selected among the anthology Hobby Games: The 100 Best and is ranked by members of the Board Game Geek site in the top 350 of over 10,000 ranked games.  Britannia has spawned a subgenre of wargames characterized by epic time scales with players taking the part of multiple tribes or nations over the course of the game.

Components
 a rulebook
 a board depicting a map of the island of Britain
 251 unit markers in red, blue, yellow and green representing infantry, cavalry, leaders, Roman forts and Saxon Burhs.
 17 nation cards with information about each nation
 175 victory point tokens in denominations of 1, 5 and 25
 16 population markers
 one sword-shaped game round marker
 five white, six-sided combat dice

Gameplay

Britannia is a three-to-five player game that takes about four hours to complete.  Primary rules are for four players using the counter colours, but there are variant scenarios for three and five players, as well as a three-player shorter game and several short two-player scenarios.  Each player controls several nations.

The game begins with one army in each area of Britain, with each part of the island occupied by different nations: the Belgae, Welsh, Brigantes, Caledonians (representing the distinctive Broch culture) and Picts.  A force of Romans begin in the English Channel and are the first nation to move.  Through their superior fighting power and mobility the Romans will come to dominate most of the board, but eventually the Roman Empire will withdraw their forces from Britain completely, leaving behind just the scattered Romano-British.  Meanwhile, throughout the game, further nations arrive from across the seas: the Irish and Scots, and later the Dubliners, from the west; the Norsemen from the north; the Saxons, Angles, Danes and Norwegians from the east; the Jutes and Normans from the south.  All of these nations will compete with each other, as well as the existing nations, for turf.  Some nations will be destroyed, and the recurring theme in Britannia is that nations will rise and fall.  However all nations will make their contribution to a player's Victory Point total and eventual victory or defeat.

At the end of the game all four players will have the possibility to become the King of England through their control of Harold the Saxon, William of Normandy, Harald Hardrada and Svein Estrithson.  It is possible that no nation will be king if all four of these leaders have been killed or if they lack the required number of regions.  However this in itself will not determine who will win the game.

Nations take their turns in strict order, each taking one turn in each Game Round.

Each nation's turn has five phases.

 Population Increase Phase In this phase nations other than the Romans count the territory they hold and may be able to add new armies to the board through natural increase of population.
 Movement Phase In this phase a nation may move none, some or all of its pieces on the board.  Distances are generally limited, but some nations may be able to move pieces along the coasts using boats.  Also new forces arriving from across the sea will be able to land.  Roman and cavalry forces can move further than infantry, as can forces with leaders.
 Battles/Retreats Phase Where a nation has moved forces into an area held by another nation a battle will occur.  Once all movement is complete battles are resolved with the aid of dice.  Battles are conducted in rounds and forces of both sides may retreat after each round.  The ability of nations to retreat and fight another day is a major part of the flavour of gameplay.
 Raider Withdrawal Phase Some nations have designated Game Rounds called Raiding Turns which allow their forces to remain at sea, or return to the sea after making an attack on the land.  These forces will return in later Game Rounds.
 Overpopulation Phase At the end of their turn if a nation other than the Romans has more armies than twice the number of areas held, the excess armies are removed due to overpopulation.

A nation is made up of several different playing pieces: