[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# No. 462 Squadron RAAF

d No. 614 Squadron RAF. The squadron's Australian personnel were gradually posted to other units, although it was not until mid-1944 that Australian ground crew left and the Australian aircrew in the unit had dropped to a proportion similar to that of other squadrons in No. 205 Group RAF.

1944–1945

No. 462 Squadron was reformed at RAF Driffield, Yorkshire in Britain on 12 August 1944 as an Australian heavy bomber squadron within RAF Bomber Command, now equipped with Halifax B.Mk.III bombers. In its new incarnation the squadron had an Australian commanding officer and a higher proportion of its personnel were Australians. Many of its initial personnel were transferred from No. 466 Squadron RAAF, then also at Driffield. No. 462 Squadron flew its first operational mission on 25 August and subsequently took part in attacks against 39 different targets over the next four months in support of Allied ground forces in Western Europe and as part of Bomber Command's campaign against Germany.

On 27 December 1944 No. 462 Squadron was relocated to RAF Foulsham and became part of No. 100 Group RAF. This group specialised in electronic warfare and No. 462 Squadron's aircraft were modified to radar jamming equipment and other countermeasures. Until the end of the war the squadron used its special equipment and mounted small diversionary attacks to deceive the Germans as to the location of the raids conducted by Bomber Command. While the squadron maintained a high rate of operations at times, its losses were relatively light as the countermeasures carried by the aircraft also protected them from attack. No. 462 Squadron continued to operate until almost the end of the war in Europe, and was the only Australian squadron in Bomber Command to either fly a higher number of sorties in April 1945 than March or operate in May. The squadron flew its final operation of the war on the night of 2/3 May.

Following the end of the European war, the RAF sought to retain No. 462 Squadron for a period so that it could be used to test radio countermeasure equipment and techniques. As a result, the squadron continued to fly training and ferry flights and also conducted armed patrols over Germany. These duties continued until the squadron was disbanded at Foulsham on 24 September 1945.

Since 2005
No. 462 Squadron was reformed in April 2005 as a non-flying squadron within the Information Warfare Directorate of the RAAF's Air Warfare Centre. The squadron's role is to "protect the Air Force's capability through the conduct of information operations". The squadron has a detachment in Canberra but is primarily based at RAAF Base Edinburgh in South Australia. The squadron is supported by an Intelligence Flight, Training and Standards Flight, Operations Support Flight, and Engineering Maintenance Section. No. 462 Squadron attends to the requests of multiple customers seeking expert advice, accreditation of Air Force's standalone mission systems and networks and an incident response capability. It also supports exercises and operations across the world, receiving widespread recognition for its effectiveness and cutting-edge approach as Air Force's emerging cyber capability.

Aircraft operated

Squadron bases

Commanding officers

Squadron disbanded 3 March 1944 at Celone airfield, Italy.Squadron reformed 12 August 1944 at RAF Driffield, UK

Squadron disbanded 24 September 1945 at RAF Foulsham, UK.Squadron reformed 11 April 2005 in Canberra, Australia

Notes

References

External links

 462 Squadron at RAAF Museum
 462 Squadron RAAF at Australian War Memorial 

462
Military units and formations established in 1942
Australian Article XV squadrons of World War II
Information operations units and formations