[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# The Bhoys from Seville

re
Programme average - 7.8 million, 33.6% audience share
Viewing peaked at 10 million for the quarter-hour 10.00–10.15pm

BBC Head of Football, Niall Sloane said: "We're delighted that so many people tuned in to follow a British team's progress in the final. We're only sorry that Celtic didn't win."

Fans' awards
Approximately 80,000 Celtic supporters, the largest travelling support in history at that time, made the journey to Seville for this game. The exemplary conduct of the Celtic supporters (three arrests the night before the game, no arrests at all on the day of the final) received widespread praise from the people of Seville, and the fans were awarded Fair Play Awards from both UEFA and FIFA "for their extraordinarily loyal and sporting behaviour". Celtic Supporters Association general secretary Eddie Toner said, "The Fair Play Award is a fantastic tribute to the Celtic supporters who represented the club in Europe so magnificently last season. Celtic supporters have travelled in large numbers throughout Europe over many years and they have rightly earned an excellent reputation during this time. The Fair Play Award is further recognition of the Celtic supporters' high standing in Europe and an honour which is well deserved."

FIFA president Sepp Blatter also praised the Celtic fans when he presented the FIFA Fair Play award at Celtic Park; "I can only say that this is not the first time that Celtic fans have presented themselves as warm and wonderful supporters."

Sevilla fans travelling to the 2006–07 UEFA Cup in Glasgow noted that the visiting Celtic fans in 2003 had left them with a "great impression" of Glasgow.

In media and popular culture
The team and their supporters have since become known as "The Bhoys from Seville"; this is a play on words from the book and film The Boys from Brazil, the nickname of Celtic (the Bhoys), and the location of the UEFA Cup final (Seville). Although they lost in the final, the team is still compared favourably with European Cup winning team of 1967, the Lisbon Lions.

The support of the Celtic supporters and the team's performance during the campaign provided the inspiration for a number of books, television programmes, and DVDs. This included a book called Over and Over, which documented the experience of the travelling fans. The official video and DVD produced by the club was entitled The Road to Seville. The DVD edition included a bonus disc featuring the full away match with Liverpool at Anfield. A television programme and subsequent DVD produced by STV that took its name from the team was called The Bhoys from Seville.

The Bhoys from Seville DVD focused on the fans and their endeavours to get to Spain and see the final. The DVD also contained broadcasts from Scottish news programmes from Seville and a tribute piece to the Lisbon Lions.

Celts in Seville stage play
Actor and playwright Tony Roper wrote a play entitled Celts in Seville, the story of a typical Celtic supporting-family following the team over the course of their run to the final in Seville. The play enjoyed a successful initial run in 2008, and a similarly successful rerun in 2014. Roper wrote the play to highlight the passionate but good-natured support of Celtic fans during the campaign, stating "The reason I wrote this was not to celebrate Celtic not winning the UEFA cup, the reason I wrote the play was to celebrate Celtic supporters' way of not winning the cup."

Campaign results

See also
History of Celtic F.C.
Celtic F.C. in European football

References

Celtic F.C.
2002–03 in Scottish football
2008 plays
Culture in Glasgow
Association football fandom