[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nicolas Schöffer

red, yellow and blue as well as the non-colours: black, gray and white. Later the rear support disappears and the reliefs leave the wall to enter space as sculptural works but still with a single main view. They mark the transition to the second artistic period.

Second creative period (1950-1986) 

Schöffer's main achievements emerged during the second creative period. The rapid execution of the idea, the speed of creation was his central concern. Cybernetics enabled the automation of the creative process and secured a satisfying speed of artistic production. The perception of the viewer was central to the concept of the works. His artistic practise is characterized by a harmonious combination of art, technology and science which requires teamwork. He left part of the creative process to his colleagues. In several cases he only created the algorithm and let the program conjure up the spectacle. On the other hand, he also envisaged a participatory art in which the recipient changes the work of art, redesigns it and thus becomes the creator of the work himself. He did not shy away from having some of his artworks mass-produced. He questioned the traditional function of art and designed a cybernetic city where art plays the major role and is the organisational principle of its functioning.

Spatiodynamism (1950-1957) 
After a few initial sculptural works, Schöffer gave up the emphasized main view and created sculptures in which all views were of equal importance. He concentrated on the negative space within the sculpture and on the dynamic perception of the viewer as he/she moves around. The first sculptural works have a functionalist approach. Similar to the Russian Constructivists, Schöffer took industrial tasks as a source of inspiration. He planned semaphores, traffic signals, airport flight control signalling systems, clocks, power line pylons, etc.

Later he abandoned real tasks and shaped the rhythm of the space. He concentrated on the negative space between the vertical and horizontal steel parts of the structure that was holding permanently fixed rectangular and circular plates. These were at first coloured, later uncoloured polished steel. All views of the sculptures became equally important.

Schöffer was able to present himself to the public in his new role as a sculptor as early as 1950. The Galerie des deux Iles organized an exhibition entitled Schöffer Plasticien, the Galerie Harriet Hubbard Ayer presented the work of Schöffer and J.M. Savage entitled Les mobiles de l'Amour. In 1951 Schöffer took part in the Salon de la Jeune Sculpture. In 1952, the Gallery Mai showed an exhibitionthe to the public the title of which, Oeuvres Spatiodynamic, already contains the expression Spatiodynamic.

He worked out the extensive theory of Spatiodynamism (1950-1957) that he explains in his first book. Most of the spaciodynamic Sculptures were still static, only a few of them were works of kinetic art. Spatiodynamic 27 called CYSP0 as well was the last piece of the series and a preparation to the creation of the first cybernetic sculpture of art history.

Luminodynamism (1957-1959) 
The basic concept of the LUX series is similar to that of the light-space-modulator created by Moholy-Nagy, but the structure of the sculpture is different. The sculptures consists of a construction with horizontal and vertical square profiles and of the permanently fixed discs and plates. The ratio of the structure is based on the golden section. The construction is illuminated by colored and white light sources and the shadows on the walls are considered as part of the work. Schöffer also used a semi-transparent screen. This resulted in multiple possible readings of the work. Schöffer submitted the basic principle on April 14, 1956 in the patent office and it was registered on August 25, 1958 as a patent. Schöffer elaborated the theory of Luminodynamism (1957-1959) .

In these works, the play of movement and coloured lights provided an attraction that gave a completely original effect even when filmed. Schöffer shot several short films that we would call a video clip today, although the word didn't exist at the time.

Chronodynamism (1959-) 

The Microtemps (1960-1966) series challenges the capabilities of human visual perception and assesses the limitations of the related cognitive capacities. The Microtemps are small boxes, the inside of which is either painted black or white, or lined with a reflective material. Various discs, hemispherical shells and plates made of stainless steel are set in motion inside the box by a programmed motor. The speed of their rotations was adapted to the speed of the perception of an image, i.e. thirty thousandths of a second, in such a way that it challenged the recipient's cognitive capacities. The Luminos were similar with the difference that the rotating parts were shaded by a transparent screen. They were the first mass-produced works of art.