[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Danish Americans

r who developed the modern trampoline and made trampolining a worldwide sport. 
Related to American sports culture, competitive swimming and sports apparel have never been the same since Danish-American Carl C. Jantzen and his partners founded the Jantzen Knitting Works in Portland, Oregon, in 1910.

Music 
Gunnar Johansen was a Danish-American pianist and composer who emigrated originally to California and settled in Wisconsin, becoming the first musical artist in residence in the U.S. at the University of Wisconsin-Madison in 1939.
Carl Busch readily stands out as a Danish-American composer who embraced new musical themes, taking his artistic inspiration from "Western" Native-American tribal themes and melodies. 
The Danish-American tubist Anders Christian August Helleberg is remembered as not only a great symphony musician and virtuoso, but his Helleberg mouthpieces, which he developed, are still used throughout the world.
Mose Christensen was a noted American violinist; he became a founder and conductor of the Oregon Symphony. A native of Salt Lake, Utah, Christensen's father emigrated from Denmark with the wave of Mormon pioneers in the early 1850s. 
Kai Winding was a popular trombonist and jazz composer.
Lars Ulrich is the founder of Metallica and was born in Denmark. His father emigrated to California in 1980.
Julian Casablancas singer of The Strokes was born to a Danish mother

Entertainment 

The Barrison Sisters were a risqué Vaudeville act who performed in the United States and Europe from 1893 to 1897, advertised as The Wickedest Girls In the World. The sisters, whose birth name was Bareisen, emigrated with their mother to the United States in 1886, joining their father who immigrated earlier. 
Victor Borge, known as the Great Dane and Clown Prince of Denmark, gained fame for his offbeat comedy and music routines. 
Buddy Ebsen, actor known from The Beverly Hillbillies fish-out-of-water TV series had a Danish father and Latvian mother. 
Lauritz Melchior was a Danish and later American opera singer. He was the pre-eminent Wagnerian tenor of the 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s, and has since come to be considered the quintessence of his voice type.  His son, Ib Melchior is a screenwriter, dealing with science-fiction. 
Michael J. Nelson well known as the head writer of the series Mystery Science Theater 3000 and currently Rifftrax. 
Christine Jorgensen (born George William Jorgensen, Jr. in New York City to Danish immigrant parents), obtained a sex-change operation in Denmark in 1952 and made a celebrated return to the U.S. in 1953, after which she gave lectures, acted, and sang in nightclubs to the applause of ‘I Enjoy Being a Girl.’ Jorgensen's autobiography was made into a film and she became a spokesperson for transsexual and transgender people.
Soren Sorensen Adams, who was known as "king of the professional pranksters," was an inventor and manufacturer of novelty products, including the Joy Buzzer. He came to New Jersey with his family at age four. His other contributions to American popular culture include: Cachoo Sneezing Powder, the Exploding Cigarette Box, the Snake Nut Can, Itching Powder, the Stink bomb, and the Dribble glass

Journalism 
 Jacob Riis, a prominent socially conscious journalist and photographer, used his influence to help the less fortunate of New York City with his implementation of "model tenements. " As one of the first American photographers to use flash, he was a pioneer in photo journalism.  His book How the other half lives: Studies among the tenements of New York (1890) has proven especially influential in studies on poverty.