[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# National Schism

econd Hellenic Republic. A new assassination attempt of Venizelos took place in 1933, while the Venizelists attempted a coup in 1935. The National Schism was also one of the principal causes that led to the collapse of the Republic and the institution of the dictatorial 4th of August Regime in 1936.

As the nation polarized, the political fortunes of the great families were destroyed with each turn of the wheel. Particularly damaging was the existence of duplicate civil services and militaries, which increased the competition for government jobs. Additionally, the National Schism had encouraged the politicization of the military that had begun with the 1909 coup, and from 1916 onward the military was divided between Venizelists and royalists, settling the stage for the frequent coups and attempted coups of the interwar period. The politicization of the Army led many officers to see themselves as the final arbiters of politics. More importantly, the National Schism had "legitimised the use of violence", and throughout the interwar period political violence frequently marred the scene. The increasing breakdown of social norms alongside the acceptance of violence as legitimate also led to calls for a fascist style dictatorship, and Kostis noted that Benito Mussolini was a much admired figure in the 1920s–30s Greece. The popularity of Mussolini occurred despite his irredentist policies as claimed parts of Greece such as the Ionian islands because they had once belonged to Venice.

The division between Royalists and Venizelists even came to the United States and elsewhere with the Greek immigrants of that generation: immigrants favouring the two political camps would settle in nearby but carefully separated communities in American cities, often centred on competing Greek Orthodox parishes. In some cases, the animosity and mistrust between such parishes has survived into the 21st century, long after the original political disagreement was forgotten.

Books and articles

{{cite book|last=Gigantes|first=Philippe|title=I Should Have Died|location=London|publisher=Atheneum|date=1977|isbn=0689107668}}.
 

Notes

Further reading
 
 Leontaritis, George B. Greece and the First World War (1990) 587 pp
 Driault, Edouard. Greece and the First World War (1908–1923)
 Heinz A. Richter. Greece, 1915–1917, in the Russian archives Mazower, Mark. "The Messiah and the Bourgeoisie: Venizelos and Politics in Greece, 1909–1912," Historical Journal'' (1992) 35#4 pp. 885–904 in JSTOR

External links
 The Great War – Romanian & Greek Weapons of World War 1 feat. C&Rsenal
 The Great War – Greek Rifles and Pistols of World War 1 feat. C&Rsenal
 The Great War – A Crucial Test For Unity – Greece in WW1 I THE GREAT WAR Special
 The Great War – King Constantine I of Greece
 Serbia Is Invaded Once Again – The Entente Lands in Greece I THE GREAT WAR Week 63
 Nivelle's Spring Offensive – Royal Conspiracy In Greece I THE GREAT WAR Week 131
 The Merchant of Death – Basil Zaharoff I WHO DID WHAT IN WW1? – The Great War
 Russia's New Offensive – The Russian Women's Battalion of Death I THE GREAT WAR Week 153 – The Great War

1910s in Greece
Eleftherios Venizelos
Constantine I of Greece
Ioannis Metaxas
Greece in World War I
History of Greece (1909–1924)
Political schisms
Constitutional crises
Civil wars in Greece
Subsidiary conflicts of World War I