[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Wildlife of Israel

tions will be upgraded in Eilat, the Jordan Valley and kibbutzim Kfar Ruppin and Ma'agan Michael.

Lake Hula is the stopover point for tens of thousands of cranes migrating from Finland to Ethiopia every winter. In Israel, farmers set out food for them to keep them from damaging crops near the lake.

The number of raptors has been decreasing due to its prey becoming endangered or extinct as well as massive poisoning of some prey. About a fifth of the nesting birds are endangered (39 out of 206).

Yossi Lesham, director of Israel's International Centre for the Study of Bird Migration, says that the country has one of the highest concentrations of bird traffic in the world per square mile. On a single morning at the Jerusalem Birdwatching Observatory, the staff has spotted 10,000 eagles.

Arabian ostriches had been extinct from Israel years ago. The North African ostrich native to North Africa has been reintroduced from captivity to the open areas and reserves of the Negev desert in Israel where the Arabian ostriches lived before their extinction.

The northern bald ibis has been extirpated from Israel.

Invertebrates 

Israel has about 30,000 invertebrates, of which about 22,500 are insects and 3,900 are non-insect arthropods.
Among the invertebrates there is a wide variety of molluscs, of which about 230 are terrestrial, 850 are of the Mediterranean and 1,120 are of the Red Sea. The insects of Israel belong to various ecological zones, but mainly to the Mediterranean. There are insects belonging to roughly 27 orders in Israel, out of about 29 worldwide.

Invasive species
Israel contains many invasive species brought by man, including scores of molluscs (the most common is the common garden snail Cornu aspersum) which usually live around gardens and greenhouses but also in natural habitats of native molluscs. As of 2008, over 220 species of invasive insects have been identified, some of them considered pests. The situation is little better with vertebrates, as a 2004 report reported that there are two mammalian invasive species (the coypu and Indian palm squirrel), one fish species (mosquito fish), two reptilian species (the red-eared pond slider and the roughtail gecko) as well as 18 bird species. There are no amphibian invasive species, most likely due to the fact there are no suitable habitats for such.

Flora

There are 2,867 known species of plants found in Israel. Of these, at least 253 species are introduced and non-native. The coastal plain and Sharon regions are especially rich in endemic species. The Galilee fumitory (Fumaria thuretti Boiss), a rare flower with bright pink blossoms and an elongated bulge that collects nectar and attracts wild bees, was discovered in 2012 after botanists believed it was extinct.

See also
Biodiversity in Israel, the West Bank, and the Gaza Strip
Society for the Protection of Nature in Israel
Acanthobrama lissneri
Acanthobrama terraesanctae
Biblical Zoo
List of endemic flora of Israel
List of reptiles of Israel
Ramat Gan Safari
Tourism in Israel

References

Sources

External links

 
 

Biota of Israel
.
Israel
Natural history of Israel