[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Petter Andersson

r, European leagues soon got interested in securing the 23-year-old's services. Among these were F.C. Twente, with manager Steve McLaren scouting Andersson in Sweden on several occasions. Hammarby failed to produce any sort of challenge in the league this year and finished on 8th place in the table.

Groningen
On 1 September 2008, the final day of the international transfer window, he signed for the Dutch club FC Groningen on a four-year deal. The Eredivisie outfit paid a transfer fee of 880.000 euros, or 8,5 million Swedish crowns, to Hammarby.

Andersson enjoyed a successful start in Groningen while establishing himself as a key player in manager Ron Jans squad, who already consisted of several other Swedish players: Marcus Berg, Andreas Granqvist and Fredrik Stenman. He scored in just his second appearance for Groningen in a game against Heracles, playing as a forward, replacing Stef Nijland that recently had been sold to PSV Eindhoven. In total, he would come to score four goals in his first eight matches for the side. On 25 January 2009, Andersson suffered a serious knee injury in a match against AFC Ajax, which kept him off the pitch for the rest of the season. The club eventually finished sixth in the league.

Being sidelined for six months, Andersson returned to training and featured in Groningen's reserve team ahead of the 2009-10 season. He suffered a major setback as he, once again, tore his cruciate ligament during the fall of 2009. This caused him to miss the whole season.

Andersson made his comeback on the pitch on 23 October 2010, after being sidelined for 22 months because of injuries. He came on as a late substitute in a match against NEC Nijmegen and scored in the 90th minute, deciding the final result to 3–2 in NEC's favour. Andersson would onwards establish himself as a key player in manager Pieter Huistra's starting eleven. Notably, Andersson scored a brace in an important away match against ADO Den Haag on 1 May 2011, replacing the injured Tim Matavz in the starting eleven, securing a 4–2 win for Groningen. Weeks later, on 22 May, Andersson scored again in a match against Heracles in the play-off tournament for a spot in the second qualifying round of the 2011–12 UEFA Europa League. In the end, Groningen failed to qualify for any international play.

Ahead of the 2011–12 season, Andersson was named the new captain of Groningen, following the departure of fellow Swede Andreas Granqvist to Genoa. Manager Peter Huistra said Andersson was a perfect role model, citing his ability to "handle difficult backlashes" and "good language skills". Injury free, Andersson played a key part as Groningen avoided relegation from the top tier, eventually finishing 14th. He played 33 league games, scoring four goals, throughout the whole season. He could, however, not agree terms on a new contract with Groningen. On 18 May 2012, Andersson's departure on a free transfer officially got announced.

FC Midtjylland
In June 2012, Andersson signed a four-year contract with the Danish club FC Midtjylland. Andersson was brought in to replace Jakob Poulsen on the central midfield, who recently had been signed by Monaco.

He immediately established himself as a key player at Midtjylland. Notably, he scored in a 3–0 win against Randers FC on 12 May 2013 during the later stages of the season. Midtjylland eventually finished sixth in the Danish Superliga and failed to compete for international play. Andersson scored nine goals, a new career best, in a total of 26 appearances. He attracted interest from the domestic giants FC Copenhagen during the summer of 2013, whilst Midtjylland manager Glen Riddersholm named Andersson as one of the best players in the history of the club.

Andersson eventually remained at the side and continued his fine scoring form into the start of the 2013–14 season. He scored the single goal of the game as Midtjylland won against FC Copenhagen, 1–0, on 28 July 2013. A less severe knee injury would later rule Andersson out from play for almost two months. Andersson would ultimately make 20 league appearances for the side during the season, scoring six goals, as Midtjylland finished third in the table. Most notably, Andersson scored a brace in a 4–0 away win against AGF Århus on 18 April 2014, with Kristian Bak Nielsen providing the assists for both of the goals. He occasionally also captained the side during the season.

In 2014–15, Midtjylland won the Danish top tier for the first time in the club's history with Andersson being a key player. He featured in 23 league games, scoring four goals, as Midtjylland secured the title after a draw against FC Vestsjælland on 21 May 2015.