[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 3rd Vermont Infantry Regiment

ber 9, the Vermont regiments moved to Camp Griffin, about four miles from Chain Bridge. Here, on October 24, the 6th Vermont Infantry arrived, completing the initial organization of the "Old Vermont Brigade."

The history of the regiment from this point on is essentially that of the Vermont Brigade.

The original members of the regiment, who did not reenlist, were mustered out of the service on July 27, 1864. Veterans and recruits were consolidated into six companies, July 25, 1864. One year recruits and others whose term of service was due to expire prior to October 1, 1865, were mustered out on June 19, 1865. The remaining officers and men mustered out of service on July 11.

Medal of Honor

Six members of the regiment were awarded the Medal of Honor.
 Beattie, Alexander M., Captain, Co. F, " removed, under a hot fire, a wounded member of his command to a place of safety," at the Battle of Cold Harbor, June 5, 1864.
 Hawkins, Gardner C., 1st Lieutenant, Co. E, "when the lines were wavering from the well-directed fire of the enemy, this officer, acting adjutant of the regiment, sprang forward, and with encouraging words cheered the soldiers on and, although dangerously wounded, refused to leave the field until the enemy's works were taken," at the Battle of Petersburg, on April 2, 1865.
 Johnston, Willie, Musician Company D, 3rd Vermont Infantry The second Medal of Honor ever awarded.
 Pingree, Samuel E., Captain, Co. F, "gallantly led his Co. across a wide, deep creek, drove the enemy from the rifle pits, which were within 2 yards of the farther bank, and remained at the head of his men until a second time severely wounded," at the Battle at Lee's Mills, April 16, 1862.
 Scott, Julian A., Drummer, Co. E, "crossed the creek under a terrific fire of musketry several times to assist in bringing off the wounded," at the Battle at Lee's Mills, April 16, 1862.
 Seaver, Thomas O., Colonel, while "at the head of 3 regiments and under a most galling fire, attacked and occupied the enemy's works," at the Battle of Spotsylvania, May 10, 1864.

Engagements

Final Statement

See also
 Vermont in the Civil War
 Vermont Brigade

Notes/References

Bibliography

External links
 Vermont in the Civil War
 Vermont National Guard Library and Museum
 Vermont Military Records Project, Vermont Public Records Division
 William Scott, The Sleeping Sentinel

Units and formations of the Union Army from Vermont
Vermont Brigade
1861 establishments in Vermont
Vermont in the American Civil War