[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bad Company (1972 film)

the horizon, he investigates, only to find that it was the result of a burning barn, set afire during a raid by Big Joe. Before he is hanged for taking part in the raid, one of Joe's men confirms to Drew that Jake has joined up with the gang. Drew joins the posse in order to get his revenge on Jake.

The posse captures Big Joe's gang, and as Drew guards Jake, he realizes how guilty he is by lying about his money. Jake offers to split $1,000 that the gang has buried. Drew helps him escape during the night, but after a few days of riding, he realizes that there is no buried money. Jake assumes that Drew will kill him, but Drew swears instead to stick with Jake until he has repaid every cent that he owes Drew.

In the final scene, as they approach a town, Jake asks Drew, "So how'd that Jane Eyre turn out in the end?" Drew replies, "Fine. Just fine." The two boys walk into the Wells Fargo and rob it.

Cast
 Jeff Bridges as Jake Rumsey
 Barry Brown as Drew Dixon
 Jim Davis as Marshal
 David Huddleston as Big Joe
 John Savage as Loney
 Jerry Houser as Arthur Simms
 Damon Cofer as Jim Bob Logan
 Joshua Hill Lewis as Boog Bookin
 Geoffrey Lewis as Hobbs
 Raymond Guth as Jackson
 Ed Lauter as Orin
 John Quade as Nolan
 Jean Allison as Mrs. Dixon
 Ned Wertimer as Mr. Dixon
 Charles Tyner as Egg Farmer
 Ted Gehring as Zeb
 Claudia Bryar as Mrs. Clum
 John Boyd as Prisoner

Critical reception
Film critic Roger Ebert liked the film and wrote, "The movie is built as a series of more-or-less self-contained episodes, and the episodes that work are worth the effort. But we get the feeling the movie doesn't know where it's headed and the last scene (one of those freeze-frames that's supposed to crystallize a significant moment for us) left me suspended in midair. If there were ever a movie that just plain stopped, instead of arriving at a conclusion, this is it. Still, there were some good moments along the trail."

Film critic Dennis Schwartz also liked the film and wrote, "Revisionist Western that questions heroes and America as the land of opportunity, as is the want [sic] of many hipster films from the turbulent 1970s. It's the directorial debut for the co-screenwriter with David Newman of Bonnie and Clyde (1967), Robert Benton (Kramer vs. Kramer/The Late Show/Nadine), who again teams with the writer Newman. I thought this was the best film Benton ever directed, including his Oscar-winning Kramer vs. Kramer, and he disappointed me by never coming close again to being as subversive and hard-hitting as he was in this film. The ironic comical Western prides itself in taking on the Horatio Alger myth by debunking the belief that going West would lead adventurers to the land of plenty, as it bitterly points out the harsh realities of life and that taking to the road will more than likely mean meeting with bad company and hardship rather than good company and fortune."

The film holds a rating of 83% from 23 reviews on Rotten Tomatoes with the consensus: "Well-acted and pleasantly gritty, Bad Company is one of the more authentic Westerns of its era -- and an auspicious debut for director Robert Benton."

See also
 List of American films of 1972

References

External links
 
 
 

1972 films
1972 Western (genre) films
American Western (genre) films
1970s English-language films
Films directed by Robert Benton
Films shot in Kansas
Paramount Pictures films
Films with screenplays by Robert Benton
Films with screenplays by David Newman (screenwriter)
1972 directorial debut films
1970s American films