[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mysterious Island (1961 film)

, despite interference by a giant Ammonite. With the pirate ship raised and seaworthy, the castaways set sail. The volcano erupts and Nemo is killed as the Nautilus is buried. The rest escape and begin the journey home, vowing to continue Nemo's dream of achieving lasting peace throughout the world.

Cast
 Michael Craig as Captain Cyrus Harding
 Joan Greenwood as Lady Mary Fairchild
 Michael Callan as Herbert Brown
 Gary Merrill as Gideon Spilitt
 Herbert Lom as Captain Nemo
 Beth Rogan as Elena Fairchild
 Percy Herbert as Sergeant Pencroft
 Dan Jackson as Corporal Neb Nugent

Production

Development
 
In May 1959, Columbia announced it had signed a deal with Charles Schneer to distribute nine of his films over three years. The films would include Battle of the Coral Sea, Gulliver's Travels, The Werner Von Braun Story, Mystery Island, Gentleman of China, and Air Force Academy.

Mysterious Island would be the sixth collaboration between Schneer and Ray Harryhausen, beginning with It Came From Beneath the Sea, and the third in color, following The 7th Voyage of Sinbad and The 3 Worlds of Gulliver. Like Sinbad and Gulliver, it would be shot in Spain.

Screenplay
The novel on which the film is based is a sequel to two other novels by Jules Verne, In Search of the Castaways (1867) and Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea (1870). The first book featured the island, the pirates and a character Tom Ayrton who was marooned on a nearby island. The second book featured Captain Nemo and the Nautilus presumed lost in the maelstrom at the end of that novel.

In The Mysterious Island (1874) after the escapees' balloon landed on the island, among many adventures, they encountered Ayrton alive, fought the pirates and discovered that Captain Nemo was their benefactor and the island the base for the Nautilus.

Casting
The film was mostly cast with British actors. Michael Craig was under contract to Rank. Michael Callan was under contract to Columbia at the time. Percy Herbert was originally rejected for his role due to his British accent, but got the part after practising a southern accent by watching Suddenly Last Summer several times.

Filming
Filming started 21 June 1960. The beach scenes in Mysterious Island were shot on location at Sa Conca Bay, Castell-Platja d'Aro in Catalonia, Spain. The escape from the Confederate prison - using an observation balloon - was filmed in Church Square, Shepperton, England.

Interiors were completed at Shepperton Studios.

The stop motion animation effects were created by Ray Harryhausen. All the model creatures except the giant bird (which was re-purposed for use as the Ornithomimus in The Valley of Gwangi in 1969) still exist.

Michael Craig called Endfield "a dismal arsehole of an ex-pat American" and Schneer "a real Hollywood suit... the epitome of 'the son in law also rises".

Soundtrack
The film's music was composed by Bernard Herrmann who had already scored two previous Harryhausen and Schneer productions (The 7th Voyage of Sinbad and The 3 Worlds of Gulliver). The score was performed by the London Symphony Orchestra.

Critical reception
In their review, The New York Times noted "the impressive white-haired person of Herbert Lom," "Cy Endfield's spirited direction," and that Joan Greenwood "gurgles and croaks in a pleasantly distracting style."; and in 1978, their TV critic called the film a "Dandy fantasy-adventure, done with skill and imagination, keyed by fine Bernard Herrman score. A pip of this kind." Time Magazine  said " It should thrill the geewillikers out of anyone!"  The film's rentals brought in $5 million worldwide.

Home media
Blu-ray

ALL America - Twilight Time - The Limited Edition Series
Picture Format: 1.66:1 (1080p 24fps) [AVC MPEG-4]
Soundtrack(s): English DTS-HD Master Audio 5.1 and 2.0
Subtitles: English
Extras:
Isolated Score (presented in 2.0 Stereo)
Original Theatrical Trailer (2:31)
TV Trailer Spot #1 (1:03)
Case type: Keep Case
Note: Limited as in only 3,000 copies were made (none are numbered)

DVD

R1 America - Columbia/Tri-star Home Entertainment
Picture Format: 1.78:1 (Anamorphic) [NTSC]
Soundtrack(s): English Dolby Digital 2.0 mono
Subtitles: English, French, and Spanish
Extras:
"The Making Of Mysterious Island" featurette
"The Harryhausen Chronicles" featurette
"This Is Dynamation" featurette
Photo Gallery
Theatrical Trailer
Bonus trailers for The Golden Voyage of Sinbad and Sinbad and the Eye of the Tiger
Case type: Keep Case
Notes: Also available in The Fantastic Films of Ray Harryhausen: Legendary Science Fiction Series 5-disc box set, with Earth vs. the Flying Saucers, 20 Million Miles to Earth, It Came from Beneath the Sea, and H.G. Wells' First Men in the Moon.

LaserDisc

Columbia Tri-Star Video
 Picture Format: 1.33:1
 Soundtrack: English
 UPC: 043396767461
 
 Extras:
Ray Harryhausen on the making of the film
Posters, lobby cards