[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mike Smith (American football coach)

es and by George Seifert in 62 games.

Smith was named Sporting News 2012 Coach of the Year for the 3rd time by a pool of 27 NFL coaches and executives.

In the 2013 season, the Falcons slumped to a 4–12 record, and Smith was eventually named the head coach of the North Team in the 2014 Senior Bowl.

On December 28, 2014, multiple media outlets reported that the Falcons had hired Korn Ferry, a reputed firm, to assist in finding potential candidates to replace Smith should he be fired.  Later that day, the Falcons lost to the Carolina Panthers 34–3.  The game determined the NFC South champion, despite both teams having a losing record. On December 29, 2014, Smith was fired, after two losing seasons in a row.

Tampa Bay Buccaneers

On January 15, 2016, Smith was named the defensive coordinator for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers, under former assistant Dirk Koetter, who was named the Buccaneers' head coach that same day. On October 15, 2018, Smith was fired after leading Tampa Bay to the league's worst defense through the first six weeks of the season.

Head coaching record

Hula Bowl
In January 2022, Smith coached Team Aina in the Hula Bowl, a college football postseason all-star game. He returned as head coach of the same squad in 2023.

Personal life
Smith is the oldest of eight children. Mike and his wife, Julie, have one daughter, Logan. Mike is the brother-in-law of former NFL head coach Brian Billick.

References

1959 births
Living people
American football linebackers
Atlanta Falcons head coaches
Baltimore Ravens coaches
East Tennessee State Buccaneers football players
Jacksonville Jaguars coaches
Morehead State Eagles football coaches
National Football League defensive coordinators
San Diego State Aztecs football coaches
Sportspeople from Chicago
Sportspeople from Daytona Beach, Florida
Tampa Bay Buccaneers coaches
Tennessee Tech Golden Eagles football coaches
Winnipeg Blue Bombers players
Players of American football from Chicago