[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Treaty of Mendota

pological and historical perspectives have since shown, of course, that much of the focus of these types of provisions was twofold: to "de-barbarize" the Native Americans, and also to try to encourage the Native American's to contribute back to the American economy in the future, if not immediately.

In article 7, de facto sovereignty of the Sioux People affected by this treaty is very much shifted towards the President of the United States and his judgement. No explicit language is used to grant the Native Americans sovereignty over their reservation land.

Furthermore, article 6 prohibits the sale of alcohol in the region. This is seen as a precursor to the 1897 amendment to the Indian Appropriations Act which banned the sale of alcohol to Native Americans. This part of the law was ultimately struck down in the 1916 court decision United States v. Nice.

Contribution to the Dakota War of 1862

Ultimately, this act treaty can be seen as a continuation of the factors leading to the Dakota War of 1862 between the U.S. and the Sioux. Following the stricken article 3 in both this treaty and Treaty of Traverse des Sioux, along with many failures to pay the Native American's in due time for numerous reasons ranging from corruption in the Bureau of Indian Affairs and costs of the U.S. Civil War, the Sioux people were gravely shorted in their dealings with U.S. They were forced to shift from a nomadic culture into a fixed one, along reservation land that was seemingly guaranteed to be their own, but eventually proved not to be true. As their land was increasingly encroached upon by the American government and businesses, especially after Minnesota was admitted as a state of the Union in 1858, economic shifts occurred leading to depletion of wild game and the inability for the Native Americans to successfully engage in fur trade.

This fueled anger and discontent and eventually helped trigger the Dakota War of 1862.

See also 
Treaty of St. Peters
Treaty of Traverse des Sioux

General references 
Meyer, Roy Willard. History of the Santee Sioux: United States Indian Policy on Trial. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1993.
http://digital.library.okstate.edu/kappler/vol2/treaties/sio0591.htm 
Samuel H. Williamson, "Seven Ways to Compute the Relative Value of a U.S. Dollar Amount, 1774 to present," MeasuringWorth, April 2010.
Treaty of Mendota in MNopedia, the Minnesota Encyclopedia

Mendota
Native American history of Minnesota
Sioux Wars
History of Minnesota
Dakota
1851 treaties
1851 in American law
August 1851 events