[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Aaraam Thampuran

lows Ayinikad Namboothiri, the astrologer's instructions, and wears his Yagyopaveetham, the holy thread, and adopts back Brahmanyam. The day of the festival arrives. Nandan, who had gone in search of his friends, is now back in an inebriated condition and furiously demands Jagan to leave the palace.

Jagan pleads with him one day's time, but Nandan is not ready to listen. Finding no other option, Jagan locks up Nandan in a room and reaches the temple to perform the rituals. Kulappully Appan's henchmen attacks villagers. Jagan is helpless as he is supposed to control his emotions while performing the puja and holding the divine ornaments of the Goddess. The younger priest suddenly reappears and replaces Jagan in the puja so that Jagan can save the villagers. Jagan fights and saves the villagers, emerging as their leader. He then points his sword at Appan's neck and threatens to kill him if he ever comes back.

The festival concludes successfully, and the village is cheerful. Nandan is released, and Jagan announces to the cheering crowd that it is not him, but Nandakumar, the original owner of the Kanimangalam palace, and he is leaving the village with both Unnimaya and Krishna Varma, but Nanda Kumar, who is overwhelmed by seeing the affection of the people for Jagan, calls him back and hands over the ownership to him.

Cast

Soundtrack 

This film includes five songs written by Gireesh Puthenchery and one traditional song by Muthuswami Dikshitar. The songs are composed by Raveendran. The song were widely popular and topped the charts for months.  The song Harimuraliravam was picturized by director Priyadarshan as Shaji Kailas was on paternity break.

Reception

Box office 
The film was released in December 1997, which was subjected to high expectations, as it was the first collaboration between Mohanlal and Shaji Kailas. Upon its release, The film redefined the career of Shaji Kailas as a successful director. The film was made on a budget of , which was a high-budget film at the time. The film collected ₹4 lakhs (US$5,000) from first week, which was a record. In 1998, during the 250 days celebration of the film, Jayasurya was one among the ten fans who got the opportunity to garland Mohanlal as he went to the event as part of a mimicry show. It was also at the event that he received his first film offer from director Priyadarshan.

Critical response 
Padmanabha Venugopal of The Indian Express wrote, "The songs are ordinary, and the dialogue reminds us again of Devasuram as both scripts were authored by Ranjith. But it is an entertaining movie with brilliant acting from Lal, Manju and Narendra Prasad".

Awards 
The film won two Kerala State Film Awards—Best Background Music for Rajamani and Best Singer for K. J. Yesudas. 

Kerala State Film Awards
Best Singer – K. J. Yesudas
Best Background Music – C. Rajamani

Filmfare Awards South
Best Actress in Malayalam – Manju Warrier

References

External links 
 

1997 action drama films
1990s Malayalam-language films
1997 films
Films directed by Shaji Kailas
Films scored by Raveendran
Films shot at Varikkasseri Mana
Films shot in Ottapalam
Films shot in Thrissur
Films with screenplays by Ranjith
Indian action drama films