[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# East Sea Campaign

weapons. Whenever necessary, the RVN could deploy the destroyer , the frigates ,  and , as well as the corvettes  and  to provide fire support. The RVN also relied on two transport ships, namely the  and , to transport vital supplies and reinforcements to ARVN forces on the Spratly Islands.

Battle

Southwest Cay
On April 9, 1975, three VPN transport ships, disguised as fishing trawlers, began moving towards Southwest Cay in the Spratly Islands with members of the 126th and 471st Battalions all on board. On the morning of April 11, 1975, helicopters from the United States Seventh Fleet began circling the VPN transport ships, but they were allowed to move on as the disguised North Vietnamese 'fishing trawlers' were mistakenly identified as ships from Hong Kong. After the American helicopters flew away, the North Vietnamese continued sailing towards Southwest Cay. On the night of April 13, the three ships were closing in on Southwest Cay from three different directions. During the early hours of April 13, 1975, personnel from the VPN 126th Battalion and the VC 471st Battalion landed on Southwest Cay using rubber boats.

Taken by complete surprise, the ARVN on Southwest Cay put up stiff resistance, but they surrendered to the VPN/VC after 30 minutes of fighting. The VPN/VC claimed to have killed 6 ARVN in action, and taken 33 prisoners. In response to the attack on Southwest Cay, the RVN immediately formed a task force which came in the form of the frigate RVNS Lý Thường Kiệt and the HQ-402 transport ship to retaliate, but both ships were forced to turn back and defend Namyit Island instead. Having achieved their initial objective, the VPN command sent out the transport ship T641, to carry all the captured ARVN soldiers back to Da Nang. With Southwest Cay firmly in their hands, the VPN command set their sights on the next three targets: Namyit, Sin Cowe and Sand Cay.

Sand Cay
The VPN, however, were deterred from attacking Namyit Island because they had lost the element of surprise, as well as the strong presence of several RVN frigates surrounding that island. So, instead of attacking Namyit, the VPN selected Sand Cay as their next target. On the night of April 24, under the observation of the Taiwanese military, VPN transport ships sailed in a single column passed the Taiwanese-occupied island of Itu Aba towards their next objective. Again, following the same pattern of operation, the ships anchored near Sand Cay and prepared for their assault. At 1.30 am on April 25, 1975, three platoons from the 126th Battalion successfully landed on Sand Cay. One hour later, they opened their attack and the ARVN were easily defeated, suffering 2 deaths and 23 captured.

The loss of Southwest Cay and Sand Cay, in combination with the defeats suffered by the ARVN on the mainland, placed the RVN in a complex and difficult position. As a result, at 8.45 pm on April 26, 1975, RVN ships in the Spratly Island area were ordered to evacuate the ARVN 371st Local Battalion and withdraw from Namyit and Sin Cowe. While the RVN were preparing to withdraw from Spratly Island, VPN reconnaissance units sent reports back to Hanoi, informing the naval command of RVN ships leaving their positions in Namyit and Sin Cowe. Upon hearing the news of the South Vietnamese withdrawal, the VPN command ordered the 126th Battalion to capture the remaining islands. On April 27 and 28, the PAVN 126th Battalion marched onto Namyit and Sin Cowe without opposition. On April 29, 1975, the VPN had successfully completed their mission in capturing all of the islands of the Spratly group that had been held by South Vietnam.

Phú Quý Island
Phú Quý island, also known as Cu Lao Thu, is located off the coast of southern Vietnam. The island is about  away from Phan Thiết, and  away from Cam Ranh Bay. The island is about 21 square kilometers in size, and in 1975 it had a population of about 12,000 people. At the end of March 1975, the ARVN maintained a security team on Phú Quý, which included one police platoon and 4,000 members of the People's Self-Defense Forces. From April 1975, the local ARVN forces on Phú Quý were joined by an additional 800 ARVN soldiers, who escaped from the mainland town of Hàm Tân when PAVN forces captured it. On April 22, the RVN deployed the HQ-11 corvette and one small patrol boat to defend the island from VPN attack. On April 26, 1975, the PAVN South Central Coast Command at Cam Ranh Base and the 125th Naval Transport Brigade of the VPN began transporting members of the 407th Special Forces Battalion from Military Region 5, and elements of the 95th Regiment towards Phú Quý.