[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# William J. Colvill

William J. Colvill Jr. (April 5, 1830 – June 12, 1905) was an American Union colonel in the American Civil War who led the 1st Minnesota Volunteer Infantry in the Battle of Gettysburg. He was Minnesota Attorney General from 1866 to 1868 and he also served in the Minnesota House of Representatives.

Early life
Colvill was born in Forestville, New York, on April 5, 1830, to Irish and Scotch parents. He was graduated from the Fredonia Academy and taught a country school for one year. He studied law at Forestville and Buffalo, where he read law in the office of Millard Fillmore. He was admitted to the bar in 1851. He practiced law in Forestville about three years and, in 1854, migrated to Minnesota. He spent the first year, or more, in St. Paul, during which time he was, first, enrolling clerk and then secretary of the Territorial Council. He then moved to Cannon Falls and took a tract of land upon which part of the city now stands. He opened a law office in Red Wing in 1854 and in 1855 established The Red Wing Sentinel, a Democratic newspaper. His papers were always Democratic in politics, but always for the Union and against secession. Those who held such views before the war were known as Union Democrats and generally supported the policies of Stephen A. Douglas.

Civil War
When the Civil War broke out, the 31-year-old Colvill was the first man from Goodhue County to volunteer. The local men elected him captain of Company F, 1st Minnesota Volunteer Infantry Regiment. On June 26, 1861, the regiment arrived in Washington D.C.

First Bull Run
A month later, the regiment, with the Union Army, marched south into Virginia. On July 21, they met the Confederate Army outside Manassas, Virginia, at the First Battle of Bull Run. The regiment saw heavy fighting on Henry House Hill where they were ordered to support Rickett's Battery. The 1st Minnesota was one of the last regiments to leave the battlefield, and suffered the highest casualties of any northern regiment (48 killed, 83 wounded and 30 missing).

The Seven Days Battle
The Union Army, now under the command of General George B. McClellan, landed on the peninsula between the James River and York River, and marched west towards Richmond. The two armies fought a series of battles over a week known as the Seven Days Battle. On June 30, 1862, at the Battle of White Oak Swamp, Colvill received a bullet wound in the shoulder. He was sent to Baltimore where he spent the rest of the summer recuperating.

Antietam
Colvill returned to his unit on August 31. Shortly after he was promoted to major. On September 17, the unit, having a strength of 435 men, participated in the Battle of Antietam. The 1st Minnesota was on the extreme right of the leading brigade (commanded by the regiment's former colonel, Willis A. Gorman) as John Sedgwick's division ill-famed assault on the West Woods, resulting in a Union rout from that part of the field. Bursting through the far side of the woods, the column was exposed to heavy fire from both flanks. The unit suffered 15 killed, 79 wounded, and 21 missing. Shortly after the battle Colvill was promoted to lieutenant colonel.

Fredericksburg, Chancellorsville and Haymarket
On December 11, the 1st Minnesota was one of the units that captured the town of Fredericksburg, where they plundered the town in one of the more controversial acts in the war. Two days later, during the Battle of Fredericksburg, they were not sent in one of the many suicidal charges against Marye's Heights. The unit saw little action during the Battle of Chancellorsville. After the battle, General Joseph Hooker marched the Army of the Potomac north to counter General Robert E. Lee's invasion of Pennsylvania. On June 23, Colvill was promoted to colonel and commander of the regiment. Two days later, on June 25, the unit was attacked by General J. E. B. Stuart's cavalry at the Battle of Haymarket. During the battle while leading the regiment, Colvill's horse was shot from underneath him. On June 29, Colvill was arrested for allowing the men to cross a three-foot deep river on logs whereas the orders were to wade across. The march from Fredericksburg to Gettysburg would take 14 days, traveling 11 of those, averaging over 14 miles a day. By the time they reached the small town they were exhausted.