[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Complex interdependence

join. The United States must then decide whether removing economic ties is valuable for them or if maintaining economic relations with China is of more significant value for all based on the complex interdependence. Such a move displays the ideas of realists in the complex interactions among states.

Weaponized Interdependence 
Globalization has shaped the global network in such a way that almost all states depend on it due to its interconnectedness. Farrell and Newman believe that because of this interconnectedness, and because states often compete for power, interdependence can be weaponized in order to gather valuable information, or to deny a state network access for strategic purposes. They also argue that this complex interdependence creates power asymmetries in the global network. This is based upon network theory, where networks are composed of nodes and ties (connections).  Unlike Keohane and Nye, they believe that networks are the opposite of fragmented, and they instead produce lasting power inequality, where exchanges only go through a few chief nodes.  The more connections a node has, the more influence it will have in the network.  Because newer nodes will likely attach to more influential nodes, we end up seeing an unequal distribution as the networks grow, generating a “rich-get-richer effect”, leading to certain nodes becoming more utilized and central than others.  Most chief nodes are focused on advanced industrial economies (for example, the U.S).  The ability of a state to weaponize interdependence is dependent upon its institutions, the size of its economy, and how much autonomy the state has from that interconnectedness (whether or not it has asymmetrical interdependence).  Asymmetrical interdependence allows that state to leverage network structure strategically without feeling the consequences.

They can do this through (1) the chokepoint and/or (2) the panopticon effect (the two forms of weaponized interdependence). In this context, panopticon means that states have information they can use to their advantage in order to predict their opponent's actions, sway negotiations, etc. Chokepoint means that a state is able to limit or prohibit use of a node (often a high degree node), so that another state(s)/private actor(s) cannot go through it. However, only states with the legal or physical jurisdiction over that node can utilize this form of weaponization. They also need strong, centralized legal and regulatory institutions. This can create tensions between states that have the ability to weaponize information, versus states that cannot. So even though the United States has both the legal and physician jurisdiction over chief nodes, its domestic institutions and norms limit certain actions it can take (for example, it cannot cut states out of the network). SWIFT, a U.S dominated network system, vital to the global payment system, is just one example of Farrell and Newman's theory in work. We see the chokepoint effect when the U.S (and European officials) locked Iran out of the global payment system because they felt it was assisting the regime and a contributor to its financial strength. An example of the panopticon effect was the U.S' use of SWIFT, shortly after 9/11, in order to gain information about international terrorism, its networks, and its financing. Despite initial criticism from the EU and the public, they later approved of the U.S’ actions and only required that the U.S share the information it gained.  Therefore, just as the theory suggests, because SWIFT was a chief node in the global network system, certain states were able to weaponize it for strategic reasons.

References

Further reading
Keohane, R.O., & Nye, J.S. (1987). Power and Interdependence Revisited. International Organization, 41(4), pp. 725–753.
Keohane, R.O., & Nye, J.S. (1998). Power and Interdependence in the Information Age. Foreign Affairs, 77(5), p. 81.
Gillian E. Metxger. "Congress, Article IV, and Interstate Relations." Harvard Law Review Vol. 120:1468 Web.
Symbolic interactionism
Negarchy

International relations theory