[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Greywell

unted by wooden belfry containing four bells.

At the time of the Domesday Survey in 1086 it is thought that the Chapel of St.Mary, beside the Whitewater, was one of the two churches within the Manor of Odiham mentioned in the survey. The church is of Norman origin and was built in the 12th century.

Restored in 1870, it still boasts many old features, the most important of which is the early 16th century rood-screen, made of carved oak which before the restoration was used as a men's gallery with rood loft and circular stairs. The narrow 13th-century Early English chancel arch is also a prominent feature, while on the stonework to the left outside the church door there are visible remains of several consecration crosses dating back to the period of the Crusades. Church Cottage, beside the lych-gate on The Street, is believed to have been originally the priest's lodgings. St Mary's Church in Greywell is part of the United Parish of Newnham with Nately Scures with Mapledurwell with Up Nately with Greywell, which in turn is part of the North Hampshire Downs Benefice in the Church of England Diocese of Winchester.

Greywell is within the Anglican United Parish, which is served by St Swithun's, Nately Scures.

Greywell Tunnel

The Basingstoke Canal runs beneath the village through the Greywell Tunnel, a  tunnel built in the late 18th century. The last commercial passage of the tunnel was in 1914; a roof fall in 1932 led to the tunnel becoming totally blocked. The disused western portal of the tunnel is the largest winter bat roost in the UK, and is the second largest colony of Natterer's bat in Europe. Along with Greywell Moors, the tunnel and its bat colony form one of two Sites of Special Scientific Interest in the area. A short section of the canal still in water, leading from the western tunnel portal with the original towpath, is maintained as a nature reserve.

Notable residents
By date of birth:
Guy Carleton, 1st Baron Dorchester (1724–1808)
Maria Fetherstonhaugh (née Carleton) (1847–1918), romantic novelist 
Thomas Dawson, driver, Army Service Corps
William Harris, 6th Earl of Malmesbury (1907–2000)
Bill Newton Dunn (born 1941), Politician
Tom Newton Dunn (born 1973), Journalist
James Carleton Harris, 7th Earl of Malmesbury (born 1946)
Richard James Anthony Noble (born 1946), Entrepreneur
Nick Jeffery (born 1968), Chief Executive Officer of Vodafone UK

Further reading
Rupert Willoughby Greywell: Church and Village with illustrations by Nicholas Kavanagh, 1997, Friends of St Mary's, Greywell
Rupert Willoughby St Mary the Virgin, Greywell: An Architectural Note, 1996 (available at the church)

Gallery

References

External links

Hampshire Treasures: Volume 3 (Hart and Rushmoor) Page 61 - Greywell Group A - Natural Features and Group B - Archaeological Sites and Remains
Hampshire Treasures: Volume 3 (Hart and Rushmoor) Page 62 - Greywell Group D - Buildings, Monuments and Engineering Works
Hampshire Treasures: Volume 3 (Hart and Rushmoor) Page 63 - Greywell Group D - Buildings, Monuments and Engineering Works
Hampshire Treasures: Volume 3 (Hart and Rushmoor) Page 64 - Greywell Group D - Buildings, Monuments and Engineering Works
Hampshire Treasures: Volume 3 (Hart and Rushmoor) Page 65 - Greywell Group E - Street Patterns, Street Furniture and Open Spaces and Group F - Historical or Literary Associations
Stained Glass Windows at St. Mary, Greywell, Hampshire
Greywell Conservation Area Character Appraisal

Villages in Hampshire