[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Banksia verticillata

latives, but these do not appear to be closely related to the remaining members of B. ser. Spicigerae, but rather occur in a clade that is sister (next closest relative) to B. nutans:

(B. seminuda is omitted because it was not sampled in the study, not because it occurs elsewhere in the cladogram.)

Distribution and habitat
Banksia verticillata is found in scattered populations in two disjunct segments: one clustered around Walpole, and the other around  Albany and eastwards to Cheynes Beach. All but one are located within 2 km (1.5 mi) of the coast, the exception is less than 10 km (6 mi) inland. Plants grow on exposed coastal granite outcrops, often in cracks within boulders as well as shallow rocky soils. It is the only Banksia which grows exclusively in a granite soil. It grows in association with Taxandria marginata, Western Australian peppermint (Agonis flexuosa), Andersonia sprengelioides and species of Hakea in scrub and heath.

Ecology

The New Holland honeyeater (Phylidonyris novaehollandiae) is a major visitor and pollinator of Banksia verticillata. These birds can travel 15 m (50 ft) between inflorescences in a feeding session, and preferentially choose flower spikes with partly opened flowers. Other honeyeater species observed, the white-cheeked honeyeater (Phylidonyris nigra) and western spinebill (Acanthorhynchus superciliosus), visit this species to a much lesser extent. The brown honeyeater (Lichmera indistincta) has also been recorded as a visitor. Small mammals are not major pollinators, although bush rats (Rattus fuscipes) and house mice (Mus musculus) have been recorded. Honey bees (Apis mellifera) visit flower spikes but are not effective pollinators.

B. verticillata is significantly threatened by at least three microorganisms. Several populations have reduced or vanished from dieback (Phytophthora cinnamomi), such as those at Two Peoples Bay Nature Reserve and Gull Rock National Park. The honey fungus Armillaria luteobubalina has killed plants in Torndirrup National Park, and aerial canker (Zythiostroma) has decimated populations at Waychinicup National Park east of Albany.

B. verticillata plants are generally killed by fire and regenerate from seed. A field study after a mild fire in Torndirrup National Park published in 1994 found that plants burnt by fire were ten times as likely to have seedlings come up under their crown as unburnt plants (with an average of 25.2 seedlings per burnt plant), and burnt spikes released double the number of seeds as unburnt spikes. Despite this, interfire recruitment (seedlings arising between fires) has also been recorded, and might be more common than in other Banksia species. Observations at several of the populations showed many plants produced their first seed anywhere from 13 to 17 years of age, leading to a recommendation of 20 years between fires to allow seed banks to accumulate.  If fire occurs too frequently, plants are burned before reaching maturity or before they have produced sufficient seed to ensure regeneration of the population. This may cause a population decline or even local extinction. Too long a time between fires also causes population decline, as more plants die of natural attrition without releasing their seed, resulting in seed wastage.

Conservation

Banksia verticillata has been declared vulnerable under the federal Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999, and Rare under Western Australia's Wildlife Conservation Act 1950. A 1995 census yielded an estimated total population size of 4500 plants. Apart from dieback and aerial canker, frequency of bushfires and illegal picking have been cited as threats. Ongoing management includes monitoring of current populations, gathering more data on best response to fire, and restricting access to populations. Seed has been collected from many populations, but germination rates after ten years of storage are much lower than in Banksia brownii. Translocation is considered an option in the future, as is spraying with phosphite, particularly in the vicinity of Walpole. Used successfully on B. brownii but as yet untrialled with B. verticillata, phosphite boosts the resistance of both infected and uninfected plants, and also acts as a direct fungicide. Aerial spraying of phosphite boosts plant survival and slows the spread of infection, but must be carefully managed as studies have shown that foliar spraying of phosphite adversely affects root and shoot growth.

Cultivation
Banksia verticillata is seldom seen in cultivation. The natural growing conditions point to a sunny aspect and good drainage as being important in cultivation. It is good for coastal situations and erosion control. Very sensitive to dieback, B. verticillata (like most other western Australian banksias) perishes quickly in humid conditions or poor drainage. It has been grafted successfully onto Banksia integrifolia. Seeds do not require any treatment, and take 19 to 49 days to germinate.