[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hong Kong identity card

hinese (if any)
 Name in English
 Name in Chinese Commercial Code (if any)
 Sex
 Date of birth (DD-MM-YYYY)
 Symbols
 Holder's digital image
 Month and year of first registration
 Date of registration
 Date of expiry (first-generation computerised Hong Kong ID card only)
 Identity card number (Note)

The other difference between the first and second generation cards is the replacement of the coat of arms from the back, which was done to remove any colonial features in preparation for the handover in 1997.

Third and Fourth generation smart HKID 

Name in Chinese (if any)
Name in English
Name in Chinese Commercial Code (if any)
Date of birth (DD-MM-YYYY)
Sex
Symbols
Holder's digital image
Month and year of first registration
Date of (this) registration
Identity card number

Names in Chinese and Roman script

It is common for Chinese Hong Kongers to adopt western-style English names (such as John, Mary, etc.), in addition to their phonetic English names, after being registered on the birth register. Some of them may wish to include their western-style English name as part of their official English name (this is known as 'adding an English name' locally). They can apply to the Immigration Department for including such name as part of their official English name (example: someone named 'Tai Ming CHAN' may have adopted a Western-style English name Peter and wish to have this name shown as 'Peter Tai Ming CHAN' ('Peter' as a first name) or 'Tai Ming Peter CHAN' ('Peter' as a middle name)) on his HKID card and the government's records. This is not considered by the Immigration Department as a name change. The Immigration Department considers that his or her original name (in the format of 'Tai Man CHAN') is an alias, and that the newly lodged name (usually in the format of 'Peter Tai Man CHAN' or 'Tai Man Peter CHAN' or CHAN Tai Man, Peter) is the proper name of the applicant (in the sense that such name is the 'proper name' of the applicant). A legal hangover from the former British administration is that the English transliteration of a person's Chinese name is their official legal name, and not their name in Chinese characters as would be expected.

Normally, when non-ethnic Chinese register for their first HKID card, the space reserved for a Chinese name is automatically left blank by the Immigration Department. It is possible, however, to add a name in Chinese characters at any time through application to the Immigration Department. Where a non-ethnic Chinese person applies to add a name in Chinese characters after first registration, this is considered by the Immigration Department as a name change.

Use as a travel document

The Hong Kong permanent identity card by itself can be used to travel to Macau, as long as the holder has the right of abode or the right to land in Hong Kong, (the holder is able to stay for up to 1 year in Macau visa-free).

Albania also accepts the Hong Kong permanent identity card by itself for entry, for a stay of up to 90 days within 180 days.

Montserrat also accepts HKID for stay no longer than 14 days. Montserratian authorities allow to enter with any proof of identity (even driving licence) 

Some foreign territories require Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport holders to present their HKID as well to benefit from a visa exemption scheme: these places include Guam and the Northern Mariana Islands. Only HKSAR passport holders who were not born in Hong Kong or Macau are required to possess HKID when entering Taiwan.

HKID holders who possess right of abode or right to land are automatically eligible to use the e-Channel when arriving at or departing from Hong Kong. The e-Channel is not available when using an HKSAR passport and the person must clear immigration at an inspection counter if he or she arrives at or depart from a port of entry without HKID. Non-permanent residents are also eligible if they hold a Hong Kong Document of Identity for Visa Purposes or if they are successfully registered for e-Channel.

Replacement schedule 
The current replacement schedule is now complete.  For residents who are absent from Hong Kong, replacement cards are now issued by the Registration of Persons Office, where applicants must begin the process to replace their card within 30 days upon returning to Hong Kong. The process begins by making an appointment and completing the online application form, using either the website  or mobile app. Existing Hong Kong identity cards (if not yet invalidated) can still be used for immigration clearance.

Resident care homes will continue to have On-Site Identity Card Replacement Services.

See also

Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport
Hong Kong Re-entry Permit
Hong Kong Document of Identity for Visa Purposes
Resident identity card used in the People's Republic of China
Macau Resident Identity Card
National Identification Card (Republic of China) used in the Republic of China

References

External links