[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Economic impact of immigration to Canada

s needed in Canada, the federal government passed a law in 2008 that gave the immigration minister new powers to alter immigrant selection.  Many expected that these powers would be used to favour workers in skilled trades over immigrants selected on the basis of education through the points system.

While the well-being of immigrants has declined in recent years, this has not affected second-generation immigrants, or those who came to Canada as a child. This group is one of the most successful in Canada, with education and earning levels well above that of their parents and also above the Canadian average.

COVID-19
In 2020, the Canadian government has planned to support economic recovery through increased immigration adding further strain to the socioeconomic system  while other countries like New Zealand had a different COVID-19 recovery immigration strategy. The official Canadian government website quotes "Immigrants contribute to our economy, not only by filling gaps in our labour force and paying taxes, but also by spending money on goods, housing and transportation." However, the same is true with citizens and other capitalistic countries who also use young and changing temporary foreign workforce for achieving its economic needs and driving down wages. In pre-pandemic period the notion for aggressive immigration was to increase the tax base for supporting a growing number of Canadian seniors through old age security and GIS. During the pandemic, it was  re-framed as a "secret weapon to supercharge the country’s economic recovery." Stephen Punwasi, co-founder of the data journalism website Better Dwelling, evaluates Canadian immigration plans are becoming a snow job and predatory in nature, though Canadian liberal populism vehemently rejects the notion of needing modern slaves and intends to promote temporary workforce into permanent residents while lamenting the need of workforce in categories where majority of temporary workforce are employed. As a part of aggressively achieving Century Initiatives goal, some never-before-seen immigration changes were made in 2021 to expand pathways to permanent residency for international students and temporary foreign workers. These changes included lowering scores, considering the passing of an academic program, removing English and French language proficiency test result requirement, and eliminating work experience requirement, this solidified the notion that getting a study permit is an unofficially recognized pathway for getting Canadian residency, some considered this to be cracks in the immigration system, as a  backdoor to residency, and others as a convoluted pathway for migrant justice. More such changes were underway in 2022.
However, these changes and promotions were heavily critiqued, stating it would increase worker mobility from low-wage sectors to sectors with better pay, and the temporary workforce in odious sectors will be unwilling to work in low wages and unappealing working conditions as Canadian workforce are (and it was evident from the 74% increase in job vacancies in the sector after the first TR to PR scheme) or it could change employer behaviors and the currently suffering category without temporary workforce will even suffer more. During the pandemic from grassroot level investigation's in the refugees category it was found out that most refugees are ending up "on the street," and critiques recommend that Canada should not accept more refugees without proper systems that can ensure their welfare. The pandemic tagline for immigration was strongly promoted through other governmental stakeholders as well. Pedro Antunes, Chief Economist at Conference Board of Canada, based on forecasts stated that "Immigration continues to be an important driver of Canada’s social and economic well-being, especially as we recover from the COVID-19 pandemic." As a part of this liberal vision in 2022 the government lifted off 20 hours work limit for international students and gave employers more supply of labour at an external cost (negative) for majority of the resident population. Another government impact assessment stated that "high immigration levels have been recognized by the Bank of Canada as net benefit for the economy, driving labour force growth, consumption and housing activity." This was when Canada intensively started to face heightened housing crisis due to unplanned affordable housing development, and looming questions like whether low-skilled workers should be integrated completely or could they be brought in seasonally like many other countries do are present. Focussing on immigration as a solution towards generating tax revenue and filling up unwanted jobs was considered to be flogging a dead horse due to the meager amount in returns, lack of innovation, lack of infrastructure for training required citizen workforce, lack of inclusivity for training resident population through subsidies, bottlenecking of admissions to in-need and emerging p