[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Gareth Ainsworth

uggled with injuries, and his season ended in April after a scan revealed that he had broken his leg in a win over Luton Town. During the 2007–08 season, he assisted new manager Luigi De Canio in addition to his 25 games, and stated his intention to move into coaching once his player career is over.

In May 2008, Ainsworth accepted a player coach role under new QPR boss Iain Dowie. Dowie was sacked in October 2008, and Ainsworth was appointed as caretaker manager. On taking up the reins, Ainsworth announced that "QPR is very strong with the result of what happened and will stay strong, nothing is going to break us". During his time in charge QPR managed to test Manchester United at Old Trafford in a League Cup encounter that was only settled by a 76th minute Carlos Tevez goal. This performance caused Ainsworth to believe that the club could achieve promotion to the Premier League. He remained on the club's coaching staff after Paulo Sousa was appointed as manager in November. Sousa's reign did not last long however, and on 9 April 2009, Ainsworth again took the role of caretaker manager.

He was considered for the vacant management position at former club Lincoln City in September 2009.

Wycombe Wanderers
On 20 November 2009 Ainsworth joined League One club Wycombe Wanderers on a month-long loan. He went on to sign an eighteen-month contract with Wycombe in February 2010. He scored his first goal for the club in a 2–2 draw with Exeter City on 20 March 2010. However the club were relegated at the end of the season.

The club achieved promotion out of League Two at the first attempt in 2010–11, after finishing in the third automatic promotion spot, a single point ahead of Shrewsbury Town. Ainsworth scored eleven goals in 46 appearances, and captained Wycombe to the 3–1 victory over Southend United that ensured the club promotion on 7 May 2011. Later that month Ainsworth signed a new one-year contract with the club. For his performances he was named on the PFA League Two Team of the Year. However the "Chairboys" were relegated straight back down in 2011–12, with Ainsworth scoring twice in 32 games.

He retired from professional football on 27 April 2013, after playing his final game against his former club, Port Vale at Adams Park, although he agreed to sign a two-year contract to remain as Wycombe manager. On 30 August 2016, Ainsworth came on as a substitute in the EFL Trophy against Northampton Town, and provided an assist for Garry Thompson in a 3–0 victory. Ainsworth later combined managerial duties at Wycombe with playing for Woodley United.

Managerial career

Wycombe Wanderers
Following the sacking of Gary Waddock, Ainsworth was appointed as Wycombe Wanderers's caretaker manager on 24 September 2012. Before he took charge, Wycombe had picked up just four points from their seven league games.

After a loss and a draw, he led the team to victory over Torquay United on 6 October, and provided the cross himself for the opening goal of the game. In October, he signed Portuguese winger Bruno Andrade on loan from QPR. A further win over Fleetwood Town, Andrade scoring the only goal of the game, lifted the club out of the relegation zone. Ainsworth was appointed as the club's manager on a permanent basis on 8 November. In December 2012, the "Chairboys" gained ten out of a possible 15 points to rise ten points clear of the relegation zone – Ainsworth was recognised for this achievement by being nominated for the division's manager of the month award. In April 2013, Ainsworth signed a new two-year managerial contract, and also announced his retirement as a player.

Ainsworth lost striker Joel Grant to Championship club Yeovil Town at the start of the 2013–14 season, and signed attackers Jon-Paul Pittman, Steven Craig, and Paris Cowan-Hall to replace him. Defenders Dave Winfield and Charles Dunne also left Wycombe for clubs in higher divisions (though Dunne was loaned back to Wycombe for the season as part of the transfer). He signed right-back Nick Arnold and midfielder Billy Knott on loan. In the January transfer window he sold 18-year-old centre-back Kortney Hause to Wolverhampton Wanderers, and signed 19-year-old former Arsenal winger Anthony Jeffrey on a free transfer. Wycombe ended an eight match run without a win with a 1–0 victory over league leaders Chesterfield on 22 February, earning Ainsworth a mention as the Football League manager of the week. On the final day of the season Wycombe needed to win at Torquay United and hope results went their way elsewhere in order to stay up; they won their match 3–0 and finished outside of the relegation zone on goal difference.