[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Stephanus Jacobus du Toit

The Reverend Stephanus Jacobus du Toit (; 9 October 1847 – 29 May 1911) was a controversial South African nationalist, theologian, journalist and failed politician. In his younger years Du Toit did much to promote the Afrikaans language as a symbol of Afrikaner nationalism. Apart from the years 1882-8 when he was Superintendent of Education in the South African Republic, he lived in or near the town of Paarl in the Cape Colony. Disillusionment with the Kruger regime led him, in later years, to moderate his views. He was instrumental in initiating the translation of the Bible into Afrikaans and was a proponent of the Afrikaans language. He died an outcast.

Early years
He was born in 1847 near Paarl in the Cape Colony at Plaas Kleinbos, a farm that had been in the family's possession since their arrival in the Cape as Huguenot refugees in 1688. He was educated at Paarl Gimnasium and studied theology at the Theological Seminary at Stellenbosch, completing his studies in 1872 and was ordained as a minister in the Nederduitse Gereformeerde Kerk (Dutch Reformed Church) (NGK) the same year. Theologically his view were much influenced by Abraham Kuyper the Dutch Neo-Calvinist thinker. This made many congregations reluctant to invite him to be their minister. In 1875, he became the minister of a new congregation based close to the family farm – that of North Paarl, a post that he held until 1881.

Promoting the Afrikaans language
 
At the time, the better-educated Dutch settlers in the Cape Colony regarded the Afrikaans language as a patois that was used by the less-educated. Du Toit however regarded the Afrikaans language as a symbol of Afrikaner Nationalism.

In the early 1870s two Dutch schoolteachers, Arnoldus Pannevis and C.P. Hoogenhout made a number of pleas in De Zuid-Afrikaan newspaper that, for the benefit of the Cape Coloured community and also for the lesser-educated Afrikaner community, the Bible should be translated into Afrikaans. In 1874, Pannevis addressed his concerns to the British and Foreign Bible Society while Du Toit's articles in De Zuid-Afrikaan added support to Pannevis and Hoogenhout.

On 14 August 1875, Hoogenhout, Du Toit and others established the Genootskap van Regte Afrikaners (Society of True Afrikaners) which has as its objectives the promotion of the Afrikaans language, nation and country.  Initially this was to be achieved by the publication of a monthly journal and as soon as was possible, a dictionary and grammatical rules (spraakkuns). Du Toit was elected president of the association and within a year had compiled a set of grammatical rules. 
  
In 1876, he launched the first Afrikaans language newspaper Die Afrikaanse Patriot. Initially the paper, a monthly publication, had 50 subscribers, in its second year of publication 400 and by 1881 3000 subscribers, having in 1877 become a weekly publication. Although Du Toit could not openly control Die Afrikaanse Patriot without the consent of his church council, he was the driving force behind the paper, while his brother D.F. du Toit (known as Oom Lokomotief) was officially the paper's editor.
 
The British annexation of the Transvaal in 1877 caused considerable anger among the Dutch community in all of Southern Africa. Die Afrikaanse Patriot published a scathing attack and Du Toit proposed a boycott of British goods and services, and in October 1880 Die Patriot argued that the time had come for decisive action-—many Transvaal leaders state that this was the trigger for the start of the First Boer War which led, in 1881, to the Transvaal regaining its independence.

In 1879, Du Toit proposed the formation of the Afrikaner Bond, an anti-British organisation in which all Afrikaners could feel at home. Die Patriot urged a boycott of British products. Jan Hofmeyr, who had founded the Zuidafrikaansche Boeren Beschermings Vereeniging (South African Farmers' Protection Association) as a vehicle of protest against a proposed excise duty on wine agreed to merge the two organisations and by skilful manoeuvring gained control of the merged organization.

Later years

In 1882, after the Transvaal (now the South African Republic) regained its independence, its president Paul Kruger invited Du Toit to become Superintendent of Education, a post that he held until 1889. He assisted in drawing up the Republic's education law of 1882 which embodied Christian national principles. While he was secretary of state both the number of schools and the number of children attending school increased substantially.  In 1883–4, he was part of Kruger's delegation to Europe and helped negotiate the London Convention. In 1875, while in the Transvaal, he was appointed official translator of the Bible by the GRA, a task for which he received official encouragement from the government of the South African Republic.