[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hong Kong Metropolitan University

e assigned course credits so as to apply for qualifications.

Governance and Organisation 
Hong Kong Metropolitan University Ordinance states that the Chief Executive (Hong Kong Governor before the return of Hong Kong to China) or a person designated by him shall be the Chancellor of the University.

Academic and Research Units 
The academic units of the University consists of:
School of Arts and Social Sciences
Lee Shau Kee School of Business and Administration
School of Education and Languages
School of Nursing and Health Studies
School of Science and Technology
School of Open Learning
Li Ka Shing School of Professional and Continuing Education (LiPACE)
The University Office of Research Affairs is set up to serve as a centralised unit of the University overseeing research activities of the University, supporting research carried out by staff of the University and co-ordinating development projects with external funding. There are six main research institutes and they are:
Institute for Research in Innovative Technology & Sustainability
Institute for Research in Open and Innovative Education
Research Institute for Bilingual Learning and Teaching (RIBiLT)
Institute of International Business and Governance
Public and Social Policy Research Centre
Research Institute for Digital Culture and Humanities
OUHK Tin Ka Ping Centre of Chinese Culture

Gallery

Campus development 

The earliest campus of the Open University of Hong Kong was located at the Hennessy Centre at Causeway Bay. Then, it moved to the Trade and Industry Department Tower in Mong Kok. It soon moved to the Princess Road, Ho Man Tin for the preparation of the grand opening of Ho Man Tin Campus.

In April 1996, the campus located in 30 Good Shepherd Street opened and provided students with an ideal learning environment.

In July 2000, the multimedia laboratory subsidised by the Hong Kong Jockey Club opened.

In October 2000, the Island Learning Centre located in Shun Tak Centre, Sheung Wan opened. The Open University of Hong Kong Centre for Continuing and Community Education was officially renamed as the Li Ka Shing Institute of Professional and Continuing Education to acknowledge the donation of $40 million by the Li Ka Shing Foundation in supporting the establishment of the Island Learning Centre.

In April 2005, the OUHK rented the entire 1/F of the Ho Man Tin Plaza as its learning centre.

In May 2005, the Campus Phase II Development started. The Project was to build an academic building of 12 floors at the carpark of Ho Man Tin Main Campus located at Good Shepherd Street. The expense of the Development was about $170 million. It received various donations from the public, including the TS Kwok Foundation, the Tin Ka Ping Foundation, Wong Bing-lai, Serena Yang Hsueh-chi, Stanley Ho Hung-sun, the Chiang Chen Industrial Charity Foundation, Cheng Yu-tung, Solomon Lee Kui-nang and others. The Campus Phase II Development Project received the Government interest-free loan of $120 million. The OUHK officially named the new academic building after Dr Kwok Tak Seng Building to acknowledge the TS Kwok Foundation granting a donation of $40 million to support the Campus Phase II Development Project. In August 2008, the Campus Phase II Building Ground-breaking Ceremony was held. On 22 January 2008, the OUHK named the high block of the Ho Man Tin main campus building after Cheng Yu-tung, in recognition of his donation of HK$35 million towards the development of the University's phase II campus extension.

In May 2008, the Clinical Nursing Education Centre opened. It is the simulation centre incorporating the learning elements of general, mental and Chinese medicinal nursing.

In September 2008, the Campus Phase II opened.

In September 2010, the OUHK named the courtyard of the Ho Man Tin Main Campus after Siu Tsang Fung Kwan, in recognition of the donation of 10 million by Mr Gerald C S Siu and the support from his mother Siu Tsang Fung Kwan and his wife.

In December 2012, the OUHK received the grant of land on Chung Hau Street, Ho Man Tin from the Education Bureau and made use of it to develop the Campus Phase III and a new academic institute. The expected expense was about $720 million. In January 2011, the Campus Phase III received the Government interest-free loan of $317 million. In February 2012, the OUHK named the new campus and the auditorium after the Jockey Club, in recognition of its donation of $190 million in supporting the development of the Campus Phase III. On 28 February 2012, the ground-breaking ceremony of the Campus Phase III was held.

In August 2012, the OUHK sold the Island Learning Centre located at Shun Tak Centre, Sheung Wan and purchased a new learning centre in Kwai Hing. In September 2013, the Kwai Hing Learning Centre opened. The Li Ka Shing Institute of Professional and Continuing Education (LiPACE) moved to the Kwai Hing Learning Centre at the Block 2 of the Kowloon Commerce Centre.