[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hubertus von Bonin

Staffel was subordinated. At the time, II. Gruppe was based at Düsseldorf Airfield and was equipped with the Bf 109 E-1. On 25 August, a week before the outbreak of World War II, the Gruppe was ordered to Bönninghardt, an airfield southwest of Wesel, close to Germany's western border.

World War II

World War II in Europe began on Friday 1 September 1939 when German forces invaded Poland. Based in Bönninghardt, the Gruppe initially flew fighter protection during the "Phoney War" along the Belgian and Dutch border without claiming any aerial victories. On 1 November, II. Gruppe was ordered to Werl where elements were split off to form the nucleus of the newly created III. Gruppe of JG 26. On 1 January 1940, von Bonin was transferred and appointed Gruppenkommandeur (Group Commander) of the I. Gruppe of Jagdgeschwader 54 (JG 54—54th Fighter Wing). He replaced Major Hans-Jürgen von Cramon-Taubadel who was transferred. On 10 May, German forces launched the attack on France, Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands which became the Battle of France. At the time, I. Gruppe was based at Eutingen im Gäu near Horb am Neckar patrolling the German front along the Upper Rhine and Alsace. According to Mathews and Foreman, von Bonin claimed his first aerial victory of World War II the following day, which was not confirmed. Without seeing much further action, I. Gruppe was ordered to Vitry-en-Artois Airfield on 28 May where they fought in the Battle of Dunkirk. On 5 June, German forced launched Fall Rot (Case Red), the second phase of the conquest of France. I. Gruppe supported the left wing of Army Group B's advance. On 6 June, the Gruppe moved to an airfield at Cramont, approximately  east-northeast of Abbeville. Two days later, von Bonin shot down two Armée de l'Air (French Air Force) Bloch MB.150 fighters near Pontoise.

On 18 June, I. Gruppe was withdrawn from the combat area of Army Group B and ordered to Châteaudun Airfield before moving to Eindhoven Airfield in the Netherlands on 26 June for a period of rest and equipment overhaul. The following day, a Royal Air Force (RAF) flight of Bristol Blenheim bombers was intercepted, and four bombers were claimed shot down, including three by von Bonin. The Gruppe stayed in Eindhoven until 15 July when they moved to Schiphol Airfield. On 26 July, the unit was ordered closer to the English Channel and was then based at an airfield near Campagne-lès-Guines to participate in Battle of Britain. On 25 August, von Bonin was credited with the destruction of a RAF Supermarine Spitfire fighter. He claimed a further Spitfire and a Hawker Hurricane fighter east of Southend-on-Sea on 5 September while escorting Luftwaffe bombers attacking RAF ground targets. Von Bonin was credited with his last aerial victory over the RAF on 11 September when he claimed a Spitfire shot down  north of Dungeness. On 23 September, I. Gruppe was withdrawn from the English Channel and ordered to Jever Airfield where the Gruppe was again replenished. At Jever, the Gruppe flew fighter patrols over the German Bight.

On 29 April 1941, von Bonin had a taxiing accident in his Bf 109 (Werknummer 2055—factory number) while based at Wesermünde, present-day part of Bremerhaven. The aircraft sustained 10% damage.

Eastern Front and instructor

Operation Barbarossa, the German invasion of the Soviet Union, began on 22 June 1941. In the fortnight prior, JG 54 had been moved to an airfield in Lindenthal near Rautenberg, East Prussia, present-day Uslowoje in Kaliningrad Oblast. Tasked with supporting Army Group North in its advance through the Baltic states towards Leningrad, the unit began combat operations shortly afterwards. On 30 June, von Bonin was transferred to take command of Jagdfliegerschule 4, the fighter pilot school in Fürth. Command of I. Gruppe passed on to Hauptmann Erich von Selle.