[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Saša Ćurčić

cored his first goal in English football during League Cup third round replay away at Leicester City. The same month he opened his scoring account in the Premier League with a great individual effort versus Chelsea to put Bolton ahead at Stamford Bridge though the visitors still lost 3–2 in the end.

Entering the 1995–96 campaign, Bolton was a club of modest expectations simply trying to survive its first ever season in Premiership. At the time of Ćurčić's arrival, two months into the season, they were in the middle of a bad losing streak, firmly tied to the bottom of the table. His distinguished season-long form didn't help much as Bolton were easily relegated at the end, despite some results improvement following a mid-season managerial change (McFarland leaving the co-managerial team). The Serb had another shining moment towards the end of the season in April 1996, again versus Chelsea in the league, scoring another great goal against the London opposition, this time at home at Burnden Park. The goal proved to be a winning one as Bolton held on for a 2–1 win this time. So, despite Bolton's relegation, the season proved a success for Ćurčić individually, with seven goals from 33 appearances in all competitions with assists, surging runs, technical ability, and selfless teamwork as the staples of his game. Following the 0–3 FA Cup third round win away at Bradford City on 6 January 1996, where Ćurčić scored two goals, the opposition's manager Chris Kamara called Ćurčić – "a Serbian George Best".

In addition to playing at a high level, Ćurčić also established himself as a fan favourite, all of which made his departure from the club all the more emotional. Not too keen on playing football in the second-tier First Division, in August 1996, he joined Aston Villa for £4 million.

Aston Villa
Joining former Partizan teammate Savo Milošević at Villa Park, Ćurčić struggled to settle in. Playing on £11,000 weekly wages, he made his Villa debut in the Premier League against Derby County on 24 August 1996, going on to appear in 22 league matches for the club during the 1996–97 season mostly deployed in central midfield alongside Mark Draper and Ian Taylor. Still, Ćurčić experienced a hard time holding a regular first team place as his form from his Bolton days was nowhere to be found. Frustrated with the way things were going, in early January 1998, he labeled his move from Bolton to Villa "the biggest mistake I've made in my life" and publicly demanded that he be placed on the transfer list. Although he soon withdrew the request and made up with manager Brian Little followed by a fine performance in the 3–0 FA Cup third round replay win versus Notts County during late January (and scoring his first and what turned out to be only Villa goal in the next round against Derby County), Ćurčić was placed on the transfer list in late February.

His second season at the club turned out to be even worse. Villa manager Brian Little and Ćurčić never saw eye to eye, but by the time the 1997–98 season started their tense relations turned into a full blown feud. In late August 1997, Ćurčić relaunched his attack on Villa manager in the press, saying he's fed up with the way Little and the directors have treated him by not allowing him an opportunity to show what he can do. Little didn't take such public action kindly and although they made up again after meeting in private with Ćurčić even publicly admitting that he at last settled down at the club, it was obvious that their relationship deteriorated to a point of no repair. As a result, Ćurčić would go on to make only seven league appearances, mostly as a substitute, in addition to a few UEFA Cup outings where he had some decent performances. Little resigned in February 1998, but Ćurčić's fate at Villa had already been sealed for a while and there was no reprieve for him under new manager John Gregory. On 26 March 1998 he was sold to Crystal Palace for £1 million. On leaving Villa, Ćurčić still had some words for his former manager: 

In the end, Ćurčić's time at Villa is more remembered for his wild lifestyle and eccentric behaviour than anything football related. The trappings of sudden prominence and fortune didn't pass him by and in later interviews he admitted to drug use and out of control partying during his Birmingham days. One of the bigger oddities of his Villa period was his purchase of a double-decker bus, which he used to throw parties.

In July 2007, The Times came out with its list of 50 worst Premier League transfers of all time (period covering 1992–2007): Ćurčić's move from Bolton to Villa made the 16th spot.