[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# John Watkins (diplomat)

ins' dispatches looking for evidence that he had attempted to influence Canadian policy in favour of the Soviets but were so overwhelmed by the vast number of files that they were unable to find any firm evidence. The RCMP determined that they would need to go to Paris and directly approach Watkins.

Bennett was the obvious choice to lead the investigation, and William Higgitt selected corporal Harry Brandes over veterans Lloyd Libke and Murray Sexsmith as the interrogator to back him up. The two members of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's Soviet counterespionage unit flew to Paris where they immediately met with Ambassador Jules Léger at the Canadian Embassy to brief him on the reason for their trip and the allegations against Watkins. Watkins was a friend of Léger and was frequently invited to the embassy and Léger's home, so the two investigators hoped Léger could help them get Watkins to cooperate. Léger was skeptical of the allegations and initially reluctant to assist the investigators in approaching Watkins. He cautioned Bennett and Brandes that Watkins' had a recent heart attack and was not well. Understanding that Bennett and Brandes could approach Watkins without his help, Léger eventually agreed to assist the following day. That evening at an already scheduled dinner party at the embassy, Léger led the frail-looking Watkins into his office where he was introduced to Bennett and Brandes, the purpose of their visit from Canada described to him as a matter of national importance. Watkins, reportedly understanding the purpose of their visit even before it was explained to him, agreed to help. Watkins was told by Bennett that he could consult with Léger or anyone else, but he declined, stating that the ambassador would be hurt by the details.

Watkins was picked up at his apartment the following morning and taken to a CIA safehouse where he admitted to having a liaison with someone apparently under KGB control and failing to report it. He denied that he was blackmailed or did anything in conflict with Canadian interests. Bennett told Watkins that they preferred not to question him in France, and that the Canadian government would pay for him to travel to Ottawa. Watkins declined for fear inadvertently running into old friends there, but he did agree to Bennett's suggestion of going to London, where the debriefing continued at an MI5 safehouse. In London, Watkins met with John Wendell Holmes, his close friend and confidant who preceded him as chargé d'affaires in Moscow, and told him that he was being investigated as a possible security risk. After a week, Bennett and Brandes convinced Watkins to allow them to move the questioning to Montreal. There, the interrogation continued at the Holiday Inn Chateaubriand on Côte-de-Liesse Road. Each day, more details emerged as Watkins' revealed the story of his homosexuality, meeting Kamahl, and the Soviet's attempt to pressure him. After verifying Watkins' statements with the lengthy dispatches he had written in Moscow nearly ten years earlier, Bennett and Brandes were convinced that the former ambassador had been truthful and that the KGB attempt to blackmail him had failed.

On the evening of 12 October 1964, the interrogation was essentially finished when Watkins, while reminiscing about his diplomatic career, suffered a heart attack and died instantly. After feeling no pulse and attempting chest compressions, Bennett and Brandes telephoned for help. Two police officers from Saint-Laurent, Quebec, Remy Martin and Pierre Lemire, and two ambulance attendants responded to their call. Gus Begalki, the RCMP Security Service's senior non-commissioned officer, then convinced the Saint-Laurent police chief to keep the matter quiet out of concern that publicity regarding Watkins' death might allow the KGB to take countermeasures for the intelligence the Security Service had acquired regarding their operating methods.

Coroner Marcel Trahan ruled that Watkins had an "unforeseeable" death due to heart attack, and his report stated that Watkins died in the company of "friends" awaiting a flight to England. The report listed Brandes as the only witness and said he should be considered "a friend of the deceased". Brandes was not identified as a member of the RCMP and Bennett's name was not mentioned.

Watkins' death certificate was signed by pathologist Iona Kerner. Kerner only externally examined the body and observed no unusual markings, and an investigative report stated "coronary thrombosis in an unexpected, sudden, and accidental death". No autopsy was performed.