[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Colombia–Peru War

ted their commercial planes for war as a temporary Colombian Air Force.

At the end of December 1932, the flotilla of ships acquired by Colombia arrived in the Amazon, but President Enrique Olaya Herrera did not authorize the use of these to recover Leticia, hoping for a diplomatic solution instead.

The misgivings of the military were not absent in the war. General Rojas claimed command of operations in Belem do Pará, placing Vásquez Cobo in the background. The troops from Colombia, according to the latter, received the old general with indifference. Olaya had awarded him the Cross of Boyacá but it was not enough. However, it was not just a matter of pride or prepotency. Vásquez Cobo wanted to attack Leticia   immediately without taking into account of the guidelines that Rojas communicated to him. Olaya insisted on an assault on Tarapacá in two communiqués of January 20 and 28, 1933 and named Vásquez Cobo Minister of War on commission to overcome difficulties and place it, with all authority, above the military in service18. Vasquez Cobo then accepted Olaya's plan and expressed it in a message dated 5 February, accepting his march through Putumayo.

Battle of Tarapacá

The first attack by the Colombian Navy was on Tarapacá. The city was chosen because Leticia was on the border with Brazil, and the Colombian Forces preferred to attack a softer target rather than the well-defended Peruvian positions in and around the city. On  February 14, 1933, the Peruvian Air Force had attempted to bomb the Colombian Fleet, but most of the bombs hit off target.

Attack on Chavaco Island
On February 18, Peruvian aircraft attacked the Peruvian island of Chavaco in front of , which had been occupied by 30 Colombian soldiers under the command of Captain Ángel María Diago. One of the Peruvian planes was shot down, falling into the Putumayo River in flames.

Battle of Puerto Hilario

On March 13, the Colombian forces, in order to break the Peruvian garrison of Puerto Arturo, mobilized the Pichincha gunboat with the Magdalena and Margarita armored launches under the command of General Efraín Rojas. 180 men from the Junambú battalion began to land, trying to occupy the surveillance post of Puerto Hilario on the Cotuhé River (near Buenos Aires between Cerro Tarapacá and Leticia). They were forced to re-embark in droves due to the strong land defense and the attack by two squadrons of Peruvian aeroplanes (6 aircraft.) This attack caused casualties on the deck of the Pichincha. Second Lieutenant EP Antonio Cavero M. captured a Colombian flag. This Peruvian victory derailed the Colombian attempt to threaten Leticia from behind.

Battle of Buenos Aires

On March 17, Colombian General Efraín Rojas, with the ship MC Pichincha and an infantry section from the Amazonas Detachment, attacked a Peruvian post in a village located three hours from the site called Buenos Aires, on the Cotuhé River, forcing the retreat of 50 Peruvian soldiers.

At 17:00, between six and eight Peruvian planes (O-38P and Corsairs) bombed the position taken by the Colombians, leaving one Colombian soldier dead and six more wounded due to the impact of one of the bombs on the gunboat MC Pichincha (although the bomb did not pierce the gunboat's armor) and the capture by the Peruvian forces of the Colombian guide José María Hernández, who was shot in Iquitos days later; at the same time one of the Peruvian planes was shot down. Uncertain of receiving air support and facing the possibility of a counteroffensive, the Colombian flotilla withdrew from the area that same night.

Battle of Gueppi

Another military confrontation occurred on March 26, 1933, where Colombian troops ended up occupying the port of Gueppi.

Battle of Calderón
On April 16, a Peruvian unit commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Oscar Sevilla fired rifles and machine guns at a Colombian infantry company from the Juanambú Battalion belonging to the Putumayo Detachment. This company was commanded by Major Diógenes Gil and was in formation and without their arms being ready, since this unit was undergoing a cleaning review. The combat took place in a port called Calderón, 63 km from Puerto Arturo on the Colombian side of the Putumayo River, leaving one Colombian soldier dead and five more wounded; the Peruvian forces apparently had no casualties.

Battle of Yabuyanos
On April 29, at 11 p.m., in a place known as Yabuyanos, 80 km upriver from Calderón, the Peruvian infantry company Maldonado with 80 soldiers and commanded by Lieutenant Colonel Oscar Sevilla attacked the gunboats MC Cartagena and MC Santa Marta transporting two companies of Colombian infantry to Calderón. Colombian forces under the command of General José Dolores Solano responded to the attack and the following dawn made a landing, putting the Peruvian forces in retreat. In the end, Colombian forces reported one Colombian soldier wounded and two Peruvians dead.