[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Underground nuclear weapons testing

agreement of the United States Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) to perform experiments on both surface and sub-surface detonations. The Alaskan island of Amchitka was initially selected for these tests in 1950, but the site was later deemed unsuitable and the tests were moved to the Nevada Test Site.

The first underground nuclear test was conducted on 29 November 1951. This was the 1.2 kiloton Buster-Jangle Uncle, which detonated 5.2 m (17 ft) beneath ground level. The test was designed as a scaled-down investigation of the effects of a 23-kiloton ground-penetrating gun-type fission weapon that was then being considered for use as a cratering and bunker-buster weapon. The explosion resulted in a cloud that rose to 3,500 m (11,500 ft), and deposited fallout to the north and north-northeast. The resulting crater was 79 m (260 ft) wide and 16 m (53 ft) deep.

The next underground test was Teapot Ess, on 23 March 1955. The one-kiloton explosion was an operational test of an 'Atomic Demolition Munition' (ADM). It was detonated 20.4 m (67 ft) underground, in a shaft lined with corrugated steel, which was then back-filled with sandbags and dirt. Because the ADM was buried underground, the explosion blew tons of earth upwards, creating a crater 91 m (300 ft) wide and 39 m (128 ft) deep. The resulting mushroom cloud rose to a height of  and subsequent radioactive fallout drifted in an easterly direction, travelling as far as  from ground zero.

On 26 July 1957, Plumbbob Pascal-A was detonated at the bottom of a  shaft. According to one description, it "ushered in the era of underground testing with a magnificent pyrotechnic roman candle!" As compared with an above-ground test, the radioactive debris released to the atmosphere was reduced by a factor of ten. Theoretical work began on possible containment schemes.

Plumbbob Rainier was detonated at  underground on 19 September 1957. The 1.7 kt explosion was the first to be entirely contained underground, producing no fallout. The test took place in a 1,600 – 2,000 ft (488 – 610 m) horizontal tunnel in the shape of a hook. The hook "was designed so explosive force will seal off the non-curved portion of tunnel nearest the detonation before gases and fission fragments can be vented around the curve of the tunnel's hook". This test would become the prototype for larger, more powerful tests. Rainier was announced in advance, so that seismic stations could attempt to record a signal. Analysis of samples collected after the test enabled scientists to develop an understanding of underground explosions that "persists essentially unaltered today". The information would later provide a basis for subsequent decisions to agree to the Limited Test Ban Treaty.

Cannikin, the last test at the facility on Amchitka, was detonated on 6 November 1971.  At approximately 5 megatons, it was the largest underground test in US history.

Effects 

The effects of an underground nuclear test may vary according to factors including the depth and yield of the explosion, as well as the nature of the surrounding rock. If the test is conducted at sufficient depth, the test is said to be contained, with no venting of gases or other contaminants to the environment. In contrast, if the device is buried at insufficient depth ("underburied"), then rock may be expelled by the explosion, forming a subsidence crater surrounded by ejecta, and releasing high-pressure gases to the atmosphere (the resulting crater is usually conical in profile, circular, and may range between tens to hundreds of metres in diameter and depth). One figure used in determining how deeply the device should be buried is the scaled depth of burial, or -burst (SDOB) This figure is calculated as the burial depth in metres divided by the cube root of the yield in kilotons. It is estimated that, in order to ensure containment, this figure should be greater than 100.