[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nadine Smith

pted by the gay man who has been their foster father for more than 5 years.

Smith has served as a spokesperson for Equality Florida denouncing the adoption ban, in particular challenging the state for using huge sums of taxpayer dollars to fund a discredited anti-gay activist as their star witness.

Quotes 
 "George W. Bush and Al Gore shouldn't be talking about who's going to blink first. They should be talking about how are we going to restore faith in democracy in the American people, because it's been sorely tested right now."
 "They don't ask, we don't tell and rarely are they required to see with their own eyes the deep harm and real pain inflicted by laws that tell us we are less than our neighbors."
 "When fair-minded Floridians come to understand just how harmful this initiative is to so many Florida families, they will reject this amendment. Laws should not make it harder to take care of the people you love."
 "As a child I was told that Rosa Parks was tired and fed up one fateful day and decided right then and there that she would not give up her seat. I was impressed by her courage. Later, when I learned that her protest had been contemplated at length with the consequences fully measured, I was inspired even more deeply by her willingness to intentionally sacrifice her freedom and safety to make the country confront the ugliness of Jim Crow."
 "We march, we lobby, we educate, we protest and we should and we must. But it seems increasingly clear to me that we must now do what civil rights movements have always done: with forethought and solemnity place ourselves visibly at odds with an unjust law to provoke the consequences that can prick the conscience of our country."
 "Every civil rights struggle in this country has required people to sacrifice and make institutionalized discrimination so visible no one could avert their eyes. People stepped forward knowing they could lose their homes, lose their jobs, their safety. They walked willingly toward hateful mobs and police with snarling dogs. They turned a proposed one day bus boycott into 381 days of solidarity. They sacrificed and the country watched and changed. Every civil rights struggle in this country has required people to sacrifice. The country is watching. Are we ready to do the same?"

References

External links 
 Equality Florida
 IGLYO
 Smith Gives Letter to President Obama
 Black LGBT history
 Marriage Debate Florida
 Mayor makes inroads
 No Excuses? Do We Really Mean It
 Influencer Nadine Smith
 Nadine Smith Named Honorary Co-Chair of National Equality for Unity and Pride

African-American activists
Activists from Florida
African-American women journalists
African-American journalists
Journalists from Florida
American lesbians
African-American LGBT people
American LGBT journalists
LGBT people from Florida
American LGBT rights activists
Lesbian journalists
Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)
20th-century African-American women
21st-century American women
Women civil rights activists
21st-century African-American women