[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jim Schwartz

illiams, Marcell Dareus and Mario Williams being named to the Pro Bowl and the latter two being named First-Team All-Pro. Despite the success, head coach Doug Marrone resigned at the end of the season and new Bills coach Rex Ryan decided to bring in his own personnel, rather than retaining Schwartz.

2015 season
For the 2015 season, Schwartz took a consulting position with the NFL's officiating department to provide a coach's perspective on officiating decisions. On October 6, Schwartz declined the opportunity to replace Miami Dolphins defensive coordinator Kevin Coyle.

Philadelphia Eagles
On January 19, 2016, Schwartz was hired by the Philadelphia Eagles to be their defensive coordinator under coach Doug Pederson. Inheriting one of the league's worst defenses, Schwartz made an immediate impact. Implementing his 4-3 defense, Schwartz turned around the defense that previously ranked 30th in yards allowed and 28th in points allowed to 13th and 12th in his first season and fourth in both categories during his second. He would eventually lead the defense to his and the Eagles' first Super Bowl championship in Super Bowl LII. On January 7, 2021, Schwartz announced that he was going to step away from coaching due to health issues and resigned from the Eagles.

Return to Tennessee
Schwartz was hired by the Tennessee Titans as a senior defensive assistant on April 7, 2021.

Cleveland Browns
On January 18, 2023, Schwartz was hired by the Cleveland Browns as the defensive coordinator.

Head coaching record

Personal life
Schwartz and his wife, Kathy, have twins Christian and Alison, along with a younger daughter, Maria.

References

External links

 Detroit Lions Profile
Buffalo Bills profile
Philadelphia Eagles Profile

1966 births
Living people
Baltimore Ravens coaches
Buffalo Bills coaches
Cleveland Browns coaches
Detroit Lions head coaches
Georgetown University alumni
Georgetown Hoyas football players
Maryland Terrapins football coaches
Minnesota Golden Gophers football coaches
National Football League defensive coordinators
Philadelphia Eagles coaches
Tennessee Titans coaches