[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# International Committee of the Red Cross

ogether with members of the Iraqi Red Crescent. Their car accidentally came into the crossfire of fighting in the city.
 Nadisha Yasassri Ranmuthu (Sri Lanka). He was killed by unknown attackers on 22 July 2003, when his car was fired upon near the city of Hilla in the south of Baghdad.
 Emmerich Pregetter (Austria). He was an ICRC Logistics Specialist who was killed by a swarm of bees on 11 August 2008. Emmerich was participating in a field trip along with the ICRC Water and Habitat team on a convoy which was delivering construction material for reconstruction of a rural surgical health clinic in the area of Jebel Marra, West Darfur, Sudan.
 Kristofer Scott. He was killed on 25 January 2011 in Liberia.
 Khalil Dale. He was killed on 29 April 2012 in Pakistan.
 Hussein Saleh. He was killed on 20 June 2012 in Yemen.
 Abdul Bashir-Khan. He was killed on 29 May 2013 in Afghanistan.
 Dieudonné Ruhamanyi, Pascal Barholere. They were killed on 20 November 2013 in the Democratic Republic of the Congo.
 Siradjou Mamadou. He was killed on 8 March 2014 in the Central African Republic.
 Michael Greub. He was killed on 4 June 2014 in Libya.
 Laurent Du Pasquier (Switzerland). He was an Administration and Finance Manager in the city of Donetsk in Eastern Ukraine. He was killed by a shell which landed close to the ICRC's office on 2 October 2014. He was 38 years old. 
 Hamadoun Daou. He was killed on 30 March 2015 in Mali.
 Mohammed Al-Hakami, Abdulkarem Ghazi. They were killed on 2 September 2015 in Yemen.
 Alexis Marboua. He was killed on 12 October 2016 in the Central African Republic.
 Emmanuel Lukudu, Ghulam Maqsood, Ghulam Rasoul, Ghulam Mortaza, Ahmad Khalid, Najibullah Sahebzada, Sayed Shah-Agha. They were killed on 8 February 2017 in Afghanistan.
 Lorena Enebral-Perez. She was a physiotherapy specialist and requested a mission in Afghanistan where she could focus on children with disabilities. On 11 September 2017, while working at the ICRC's physical rehabilitation centre in Mazar-i-Sharif, Lorena was shot by a patient in a wheelchair. She was 38 years old.
 Atteyipe Youssouf. He was killed on 4 November 2017 in the Central African Republic.
 Hanna Lahoud. He was killed on 21 April 2018 in Yemen.
 Saifura Hussaini. She was killed on 16 September 2019 in Nigeria.
 Hauwa Liman. She was killed on 16 October 2019 in Nigeria.
 Saidi Kayiranga, Ahmed Wazir, Hamid Al-Qadami, John Kaka. They were killed on 20 March 2020 in South Sudan.
 Diomede Nzobambona. He was killed on 23 August 2021 in Cameroon.

In 2011, ICRC launched the Health Care In Danger campaign to highlight risks to humanitarian healthcare workers.

Characteristics

The original motto of the International Committee of the Red Cross was Inter Arma Caritas ("Amidst War, Charity"). It has preserved this motto while other Red Cross organizations have adopted others. Due to Geneva's location in the French-speaking part of Switzerland, the ICRC is also known under its initial French name Comité international de la Croix-Rouge (CICR). However, the ICRC has three official languages (English, French and Spanish). The official symbol of the ICRC is the Red Cross on white background (the inverse of the Swiss flag) with the words "COMITE INTERNATIONAL GENEVE" circling the cross.

Under the Geneva Convention, the red cross, red crescent and red crystal emblems provide protection for military medical services and relief workers in armed conflicts and is to be placed on humanitarian and medical vehicles and buildings. The original emblem that has a red cross on a white background is the exact reverse of the flag of neutral Switzerland. It was later supplemented by two others which are the Red Crescent, and the Red Crystal. The Red Crescent was adopted by the Ottoman Empire during the Russo-Turkish war and the Red Crystal by the governments in 2005, as an additional emblem devoid of any national, political or religious connotation.

Mission
The official mission statement says that: "The International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) is an impartial, neutral, and independent organization whose exclusively humanitarian mission is to protect the lives and dignity of victims of war and internal violence and to provide them with assistance." It also conducts and coordinates international relief and works to promote and strengthen international humanitarian law and universal humanitarian principles. The core tasks of the committee, which are derived from the Geneva Conventions and its own statutes are:
 to monitor compliance of warring parties with the Geneva Conventions
 to organize nursing and care for those who are wounded on the battlefield
 to supervise the treatment of prisoners of war and make confidential interventions with detaining authorities
 to help with the search for missing persons in an armed conflict (tracing service)
 to organize protection and care for civil populations
 to act as a neutral intermediary between warring parties