[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Artificial intelligence

e of AI has become widespread, several unintended consequences and risks have been identified.

Risks and harm

Privacy and copyright 

Machine learning algorithms require large amounts of data. The techniques used to acquire this data have raised concerns about privacy, surveillance and copyright. 

Technology companies collect a wide range of data from their users, including online activity, geolocation data, video and audio.
For example, in order to build speech recognition algorithms, Amazon others have recorded millions of private conversations and allowed temps to listen to and transcribe some of them.
Opinions about this widespread surveillance range from those who see it as a necessary evil to those for whom it is clearly unethical and a violation of the right to privacy.

AI developers argue that this is the only way to deliver valuable applications. and have developed several techniques that attempt to preserve privacy while still obtaining the data, such as data aggregation, de-identification and differential privacy.
Since 2016, some privacy experts, such as Cynthia Dwork, began to view privacy in terms of fairness -- Brian Christian wrote that experts have pivoted "from the question of 'what they know' to the question of 'what they're doing with it'.".

Generative AI is often trained on unlicensed copyrighted works, including in domains such as images or computer code; the output is then used under a rationale of "fair use". Experts disagree about how well, and under what circumstances, this rationale will hold up in courts of law; relevant factors may include "the purpose and character of the use of the copyrighted work" and "the effect upon the potential market for the copyrighted work". In 2023, leading authors (including John Grisham and Jonathan Franzen) sued AI companies for using their work to train generative AI.

Misinformation 

YouTube, Facebook and others use recommender systems to guide users to more content. These AI programs were given the goal of maximizing user engagement (that is, the only goal was to keep people watching). The AI learned that users tended to choose misinformation, conspiracy theories, and extreme partisan content, and, to keep them watching, the AI recommended more of it. Users also tended to watch more content on the same subject, so the AI led people into filter bubbles where they received multiple versions of the same misinformation. This convinced many users that the misinformation was true, and ultimately undermined trust in institutions, the media and the government. The AI program had correctly learned to maximize its goal, but the result was harmful to society. After the U.S. election in 2016, major technology companies took steps to mitigate the problem.

In 2022, generative AI began to create images, audio, video and text that are indistinguishable from real photographs, recordings, films or human writing.  It is possible for bad actors to use this technology to create massive amounts of misinformation or propaganda. This technology has been widely distributed at minimal cost. Geoffrey Hinton (who was an instrumental developer of these tools) expressed his concerns about AI disinformation. He quit his job at Google to freely criticize the companies developing AI.

Algorithmic bias and fairness

Machine learning applications will be biased if they learn from biased data.
Anyone looking to use machine learning as part of real-world, in-production systems needs to factor ethics into their AI training processes and strive to avoid bias. This is especially true when using AI algorithms that are inherently unexplainable in deep learning. The developers may not be aware that the bias exists.
Bias can be introduced by the way training data is selected and by the way a model is deployed. If a biased algorithm is used to make decisions that can seriously harm people (as it can in medicine, finance, recruitment, housing or policing) then the algorithm may cause discrimination.
Fairness in machine learning is the study of how to prevent the harm caused by algorithmic bias. It has become serious area of academic study within AI. Researchers have discovered it is not always possible to define "fairness" in a way that satisfies all stakeholders.

On June 28, 2015, Google Photos's new image labeling feature mistakenly identified Jacky Alcine and a friend as "gorillas" because they were black. The system was trained on a dataset that contained very few images of black people, a problem called "sample size disparity". Google "fixed" this problem by preventing the system from labelling anything as a  "gorilla". Eight years later, in 2023, Google Photos still could not identify a gorilla, and neither could similar products from Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Amazon.