[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Plant morphology

reflected wavelengths of light determine the color the pigment will appear to the eye.

Morphology in development 

Plant development is the process by which structures originate and mature as a plant grows.  It is a subject studies in plant anatomy and plant physiology as well as plant morphology.

The process of development in plants is fundamentally different from that seen in vertebrate animals.  When an animal embryo begins to develop, it will very early produce all of the body parts that it will ever have in its life. When the animal is born (or hatches from its egg), it has all its body parts and from that point will only grow larger and more mature. By contrast, plants constantly produce new tissues and structures throughout their life from meristems located at the tips of organs, or between mature tissues. Thus, a living plant always has embryonic tissues.

The properties of organisation seen in a plant are emergent properties which are more than the sum of the individual parts.  "The assembly of these tissues and functions into an integrated multicellular organism yields not only the characteristics of the separate parts and processes but also quite a new set of characteristics which would not have been predictable on the basis of examination of the separate parts."  In other words, knowing everything about the molecules in a plant are not enough to predict characteristics of the cells; and knowing all the properties of the cells will not predict all the properties of a plant's structure.

Growth 

A vascular plant begins from a single celled zygote, formed by fertilisation of an egg cell by a sperm cell.  From that point, it begins to divide to form a plant embryo through the process of embryogenesis.  As this happens, the resulting cells will organise so that one end becomes the first root, while the other end forms the tip of the shoot.  In seed plants, the embryo will develop one or more "seed leaves" (cotyledons).  By the end of embryogenesis, the young plant will have all the parts necessary to begin in its life.

Once the embryo germinates from its seed or parent plant, it begins to produce additional organs (leaves, stems, and roots) through the process of organogenesis.  New roots grow from root meristems located at the tip of the root, and new stems and leaves grow from shoot meristems located at the tip of the shoot.  Branching occurs when small clumps of cells left behind by the meristem, and which have not yet undergone cellular differentiation to form a specialised tissue, begin to grow as the tip of a new root or shoot.  Growth from any such meristem at the tip of a root or shoot is termed primary growth and results in the lengthening of that root or shoot. Secondary growth results in widening of a root or shoot from divisions of cells in a cambium.

In addition to growth by cell division, a plant may grow through cell elongation. This occurs when individual cells or groups of cells grow longer. Not all plant cells will grow to the same length.  When cells on one side of a stem grow longer and faster than cells on the other side, the stem will bend to the side of the slower growing cells as a result. This directional growth can occur via a plant's response to a particular stimulus, such as light (phototropism), gravity (gravitropism), water, (hydrotropism), and physical contact (thigmotropism).

Plant growth and development are mediated by specific plant hormones and plant growth regulators (PGRs) (Ross et al. 1983). Endogenous hormone levels are influenced by plant age, cold hardiness, dormancy, and other metabolic conditions; photoperiod, drought, temperature, and other external environmental conditions; and exogenous sources of PGRs, e.g., externally applied and of rhizospheric origin.

Morphological variation 
Plants exhibit natural variation in their form and structure.  While all organisms vary from individual to individual, plants exhibit an additional type of variation.  Within a single individual, parts are repeated which may differ in form and structure from other similar parts.  This variation is most easily seen in the leaves of a plant, though other organs such as stems and flowers may show similar variation.  There are three primary causes of this variation: positional effects, environmental effects, and juvenility.

Evolution of plant morphology 
Transcription factors and transcriptional regulatory networks play key roles in plant morphogenesis and their evolution. During plant landing, many novel transcription factor families emerged and are preferentially wired into the networks of multicellular development, reproduction, and organ development, contributing to more complex morphogenesis of land plants.

Positional effects