[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Allen County Museum

n Metcalf Street where a shelter was built around it until it was permanently relocated inside the museum.  The locomotive is just one example of the numerous engines to come out of the city of Lima. During its height, Lima Locomotive Works was the third largest producer of steam locomotive engines.

Native American Artifacts 
The museum has a significant collection of Native American artifacts including art, pottery, clothing, arrowheads, and other remnants of the original inhabitants.  Collections are categorized by the period in which the artifacts belong, going as far back as during the time of the Ice Age nearly 10,000 years ago. The largest collection of artifacts are from early and late modern history and show objects that were used in everyday life by the Native Americans.  One particular sign shows the original boundaries of the Shawnee Reservation that was allocated to the tribes to live on.  Later treaties would force the natives West from this land.  Another exhibit shows a recreation of the remains of a prehistoric Glacial Kame burial. The Kame people were a group of Native Americans who lived in the area about 4,000 years ago.  The mock skeleton shows the ritual process of burying the individual in a flexed position with their legs drawn up against the upper torso. The original skeleton was discovered in 1960 along with others in a mass burial just outside the city; the site is one of three burial sites located within Allen County.

George Washington's Mount Vernon 
On the upper level, the museum has an encased model of life at President Washington's Mount Vernon. The model shows the daily life of workers and family on the plantation and displays the floor plan and rooms of the mansion. George S. Pond and his son Stanton began the project in 1935 and took almost two and half years to complete. The model is an intricate work of art with thousands of pieces distinctly designed for the mansion. An example of complexity and dedication is the house's roofing shingles; more than 8,000 pieces were individually stained, polished, and placed on the model. The model also comes with doors with actual working hinges and can open and close with personally designed keys and locks. The room in which the exhibit is displayed houses a variety of priceless artifacts including French Canton glassware used by Washington and his staff, busts of famous Americans, original pages from the ledger of King George III with the King's actual signatures affixed on the top, and an original 1795 American flag.

Vehicles & Carriages 
The museum houses an impressive collection of motorized and non-motorized vehicles.  The collection includes Milburn Light Electric Car made by the Milburn Wagon Company in 1923, a 1909 gasoline powered Locomobile Sports Roadster, a J.K. Fetter & Son Studebaker wagon, William Cron & Sons single horse buggy, a restored 1920's Meadow Gold Milk Wagon, a 1925 Ford Model T Roadster, and a 1908 Thor Single Engine Motorcycle. The museum also displays a fully restored Gramm-Bernstein "Liberty Truck." From 1917 to 1919, over 5,000 of the U.S. Army Liberty Trucks were built in Lima by the Gramm-Bernstein and Garford companies. A strict standardization code was placed on the vehicles thus allowing the parts to be interchangeable if need be.  These vehicles saw significant use in Europe and the United States during World War I.

Unique 
The museum is also known for its vast collection of unique artifacts such as housing the world's largest collection of albino animals, replica room of Noah's Ark, two horse-drawn hearses (one with a display coffin still inside), and an interactive Native American Wigwam. Perhaps the most unusual exhibit is its collection of over one hundred objects removed from the mouth, throat, or esophagus by doctors Walter and Estey Yingling. The objects vary from coins, bones, teeth, buttons to larger pieces such as jewelry, bobby pins, a screw, keys, and a rubber hose.

MacDonell House

The MacDonnell House, also known as Banta-Van Dyke House, is a Shingle style house that was built in 1893.  It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1978.  The listing included two contributing buildings.

Outreach
The Museum offers monthly lectures and programs, Traveling Trunks, demonstrations, and special events, including the annual Christmas Tree Festival.

References

External links

Official site
Facebook
Growing Up In Lima During the 1930s Program