[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Democratic Society Party

entary oath included words such that "I would hold my nation high." Some members of the public questioned Leyla Zana on the grounds of which nation she had sworn to "hold high". Chairwoman Aysel Tuğluk made a statement to the press on Sunday in which she asserted, "We are here to serve our country."

Legislative period
On 5 November 2007, inclusion of the demand for autonomy in the six Kurdish provinces in the party program. Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdoğan accused the DTP of heading down a dead-end street by attempting to show Kurdish people are a minority group in Turkey.

On 11 November 2007, leader Nurettin Demirtaş called on political party leaders to convene a "democracy summit". Demirtaş noted his party has the will and initiative to stop bloodshed in the country. They acted as an intermediary in the release of the eight abducted soldiers. DTP members have been criticized after some party members met with PKK leaders when they went to northern Iraq to negotiate the release of Turkish soldiers. The DTP members did not sing Turkey's national anthem during the opening of a party conference.

The Democratic Society Party claimed that the 10% threshold of the national vote required in order to be represented in the Grand Assembly was aimed at disqualifying it from the parliament. However, many other parties failed to cross this threshold in the 2002 election. The Democratic Society Party decided to have its candidates run as Independents. On 13 May DTP announced that if they wanted to, they could lock up the elections by putting in five to ten thousand independent candidates. The next day in a statement, the Supreme Election Committee () responded to DTP's threat by stating that there was no issue and that they would simply use "larger envelopes".

20 DTP affiliates running as independents were elected to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey:

Batman: Ayla Akat Ata, Bengi Yıldız
Bitlis: Mehmet Nezir Karabaş
Diyarbakır: Aysel Tuğluk, Selahattin Demirtaş, Gültan Kışanak
Hakkâri: Hamit Geylani
Iğdır: Pervin Buldan
Istanbul: Sebahat Tuncel
Mardin: Ahmet Türk, Emine Ayna
Muş: Sırrı Sakık, Nuri Yaman
Siirt: Osman Özçelik
Şanlıurfa: İbrahim Binici
Şırnak: Sevahir Bayındır, Hasip Kaplan
Tunceli: Şerafettin Halis
Van: Fatma Kurtulan, Özdal Uçer

İstanbul deputy, Sebahat Tuncel, was under arrest when elected and being tried on charges of being a member of the PKK.

Hamit Geylani could not join the DTP parliamentarian group due to a former verdict of the Constitutional Court. Akın Birdal joined DTP to enable the party reach the 20 deputy threshold to form a parliamentary group.

Eight of the elected deputies from the party were women. The female deputies (including İstanbul deputy Sebahat Tuncel) are:

2009 local elections

After the 2009 local elections the DTP had mayors in eight provincial capitals:

At the time of 2009 local elections, DTP had mayors in 54 municipalities:

One minor municipality in each of the provinces of Adıyaman, Aydın, Iğdır, Kars, Konya and Van. 43 of them in seven provinces in Southeastern Turkey are densely inhabited by Kurds, including the mainly Kurdish inhabited city of Diyarbakır, where the mayor is Osman Baydemir from the DTP. The party originally also had five  municipalities in Muş. But Orhan Özer, the mayor of the minor municipality Rüstemgedik was expelled in May 2007 for practicing polygamy.

In this election on 29 March 2009, Democratic Society Party obtained the following votes in these provinces: Erzincan(0,53%), Erzurum (1,24%), Kars (14,66%), Malatya (0,06%), Tunceli (30%), Elazığ (2,51%), Bingöl (33,79%), Muş (37,23%), Ağrı (32,37%), Adıyaman (5,59%), Diyarbakır (65,27%), Siirt (49,43%), Bitlis (34,43%), Van (53,54%), Şanlıurfa (10,49%), Mardin (36,32%) and Hakkâri or Çolamerik (78,97%).

References

External links

Defunct Kurdish parties in Turkey
Defunct social democratic parties in Turkey
Banned Kurdish parties in Turkey
Banned socialist parties
Political parties established in 2005
Political parties disestablished in 2009
Former member parties of the Socialist International
Parties related to the Party of European Socialists
Regionalist parties
2005 establishments in Turkey
2009 disestablishments in Turkey