[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christopher Hedrick

. In 2014, the training outsourcing arm of Intrepid was sold to Xerox to bolster its learning services division. In 2017, Ingram, through its corporate education and training division Vitalsource, acquired Intrepid's learning technology management platform and line of business in a cash transaction.

Science and Technology Advisor to the Governor of Washington State
Previously, he served as the Science and Technology Policy advisor to Gary Locke, the Governor of Washington state, subsequently U.S. Secretary of Commerce and Ambassador to China. During his tenure as the governor's advisor, Washington was named as the state government that most effectively used information technology. While serving as the Science and Technology Policy advisor, Hedrick also was named to lead the Washington State Year 2000 Office, appointed by the Governor to be the public face of the state's Y2K preparations.

Gates Library Foundation
Prior to joining the Locke Administration, he was the founding Director of Strategy and Operations for the Gates Library Foundation, the predecessor organization to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. Hedrick organized and presented the original proposal to Bill Gates to create a $200 million  private philanthropic initiative focused on expanding access to the Internet and providing training and technical assistance to public libraries serving low-income communities.

Microsoft
The Gates Library Foundation grew out of a program called Libraries Online that Hedrick created and managed at Microsoft.  At Microsoft, Hedrick was a prominent advocate of bridging the "digital divide." He managed Microsoft's relationships with the United Negro College Fund and with the University of Washington and the state community college system, where he developed and managed  a software donation that was the largest in industry history at that time. This donation was announced at a joint event between President Bill Clinton and Microsoft CEO Bill Gates which Hedrick proposed and managed.

Earlier career
He has also been a senior administrator at the Peace Corps, where he worked for Carol Bellamy; served in the administration of Washington Governor Booth Gardner; was elected to the Olympia, Washington School Board; and was a Peace Corps Volunteer in Senegal. He worked for Congressman Don Bonker in Washington, D.C., directed his Olympia, Washington district office and managed Bonker's last two successful re-election campaigns,

Hedrick was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford University and graduated with honors and distinction from Stanford University. He is a graduate of Olympia High School and was elected as a Director of the Olympia School District in 1991.  In 2013, he was inducted into the Olympia High School Hall of Fame.

Non-profit Leadership
Until he moved back to Senegal, he was the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of The Evergreen State College, board member and Treasurer for the Program for Appropriate Technology in Health (PATH), the largest recipient of Gates Foundation funding for global health, and the Chairman of the Board of the Digital Learning Commons. He also served on the Board of Directors of LINGOs, a non-profit promoting sustainable global development by helping to build the capacity of the people delivering programs around the world.

Notes 

Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)
American Rhodes Scholars
Stanford University alumni
Peace Corps people
People from Olympia, Washington
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation people
Microsoft employees
Evergreen State College people