[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Carlucci American International School of Lisbon

ation

CAISL is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools (MSA). The school is licensed by the Portuguese Ministry of Education and an authorized International Baccalaureate (IB) World School. CAISL is the only school in Portugal with support from the U.S. State Department.

Leadership of the school's direction over its curriculum is entrusted by the Board of Trustees to the School Director, currently Mr. Nathan Chapman, who assumed the position in 2022. CAISL is divided into two sections, which are led by their own principals: the elementary school (EC3-5) and the secondary school (6-12). The current Elementary Principal is Katie Morris and the current Secondary Principal is Alan Shanks.

Governance
The Carlucci American International School of Lisbon is governed by the Fundação Escola Americana de Lisboa (FEAL; Portuguese for "American School of Lisbon Foundation"), a private foundation under Portuguese Law, which is in turn governed by a three-member Board of Trustees. The Embassy of the United States, Lisbon and Visteon, having played important roles in the formation of CAISL's non-profit status, each appoint trustees (2 from the Embassy and 1 from Visteon) which serve for three-year terms.

The current Board of Trustees of the Fundação Escola Americana de Lisbon is composed of:
Michael de Mello (representing U.S. Embassy, Lisbon and President of the Board)
Sara Krumm (representing U.S. Embassy, Lisbon)
Sérgio Mourão (representing Visteon)
Management of CAISL's financial matters is delegated by the Board of Trustees to the Chief Business Officer, currently Paulo Parreira.

Demographics
At the beginning of the 2022–23 school year, enrollment was 737, with 175 Portuguese students enrolled, 176 American students enrolled, and 386 of other nationalities. Additionally, there were 97 full-time faculty members, of which 67% were fluent English speakers. At the beginning of the 2019–20 school year, enrollment was 705, with 295 students enrolled in the elementary program and 380 enrolled in the secondary program.

Notable people

Alumni
Jorge Sampaio - Former President of Portugal
Bryan Adams - Grammy Award-winning Canadian musician 
Pedro Pinto - Chief of Press for UEFA, former CNN International anchor 
Princess Diana de Cadaval, Princess of Orléans, 11th Duchess of Cadaval - Portuguese noblewoman and author
Artur Pizarro - Yamaha Artist - awarded Portuguese concert pianist 
Mariana Bandhold - Portuguese singer and actress 
Mikkel Solnado - Portuguese-Danish musician 
Paula Lobo Antunes - Portuguese film and stage actress
Mishlawi - American rapper 

Faculty
Suzanne Anton - Former Attorney General of British Columbia

References

External links

 
 CAISL IB information

International Baccalaureate schools in Portugal
International schools in Lisbon
Lisbon
Educational institutions established in 1956
1956 establishments in Portugal
Education in Sintra
Private schools in Portugal