[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Raj Bhavan, Kolkata

dia.”

The South gate also provides a grand view, with the tree lined drive leading on to the lofty ionic pillars supporting the huge metallic dome. Entry inside the complex is strictly prohibited but photography is allowed from outside the gates with permission of the officer in charge at the gate.

Features
The plan comprises a central core with four radiating wings. The state rooms located in the central core are accessed from the outside by a flight of grand steps on the north. On the south is another portico surmounted by a colonnaded verandah with a dome above. The four wings accommodate the various offices and residential quarters along with four sets of staircases. The plan of the wings allows for a great deal of natural ventilation in the spaces while also permitting views across the gardens. The entire compound is surrounded by a balustraded wall with a grand arched gateway at each of the four cardinal points.

The plan of the building is very typical, a little like a man standing on his feet and holding two boxes in his two hands. The front of the palace faces north-east.

Interior
The three-storeyed Raj Bhavan building has a huge central area consisting of large halls having curved corridors on all four sides radiating to detached wings, each constituting a house in itself. There are about 60 rooms in Raj Bhavan, besides public halls, verandahs, porticos, banquets & halls and the cavernous  Throne room.

Residential suites
The residential portion is divided into four suites.  The Prince of Wales Suite in the north-west wing of the first floor is where the President, Vice-President and the Prime Minister of India and  heads of state of other nations reside when visiting the state of West Bengal. The Wellesley Suite is located on the second floor in the north-eastern wing, the Dufferin Suite is on the second floor of north-west wing, and the fourth suite is the Anderson Suite.
The ex-governor, Keshrinath Tripati has, however, changed the names of these suites to Indian names, e.g.: Prince of Wales suite to Rabindranath Tagore kaksh, Wellesley suite to Sagar kaksh, Dufferin Suite to Kanchenjunga kaksh and Anderson Suite to Vivekananda kaksh.

Drawing and dining rooms
Yellow Drawing Room: Located on the first floor of the Raj Bhavan, the beautiful drawing room has some wonderful paintings.

Blue Drawing Room: An elegantly furnished room used by the governor to meet guest.

Brown Dining Room: Adjacent to the Blue Dining room, it is used for small conferences and meetings.

Halls and banquet rooms
Throne Room: The Throne Room, as the name suggests, contains the throne of Wellesley. Next to it is the throne of Tipu Sultan. The room contains oil paintings of Mahatma Gandhi, Subhas Chandra Bose, Jawaharlal Nehru, Dr B C Roy. It also contains an Urn used to carry the Mahatma Gandhi's ashes.

Council Chamber: The Governor General used the Council Chamber to preside over the executive and later the Legislative Council. Now it is used by the governor to hold large meetings. A small dining room known as the Bharat Ratna Room and a billiard room is located just outside the Council Chamber.

The Marble Hall: Located on the ground floor of the Raj Bhavan, this is used for state and private meetings.

The Banquet Hall: The Banquet Hall with rows of Doric pillars on each side, flowering chandeliers and black Mahogany tables has entertained eminent guests like Queen Elizabeth.

Picture gallery

Old photos

Present photos

See also
 Government Houses of the British Indian Empire

References

External links

 The official website of Governor of West Bengal
 
 
 
 
Government House, Calcutta Undated 19th Century painting

Governors' houses in West Bengal
Houses completed in 1803
Palaces in Kolkata
Tourist attractions in Kolkata
Governors' houses in India
Government buildings in West Bengal
Neoclassical architecture in India