[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Project Mercy

water supply.  Clean water piped into each home is possible but only if economic conditions are improved for the entire community.  Project Mercy is involved in all these things in order to be a means of transformation through which God's love can renew the heart of the nation."

Childcare Programs 

Project Mercy recently embarked on a new orphan and foster care program called the "Children’s Institute".  This was in response to a request by the local government of the Oromia Region in Ethiopia if they would accept and provide care for vulnerable children, many of whom are HIV/AIDS victim orphans.  The plan provides for an intimate and nurturing environment for 200 young children in a family-like setting of one house mother and up to eight children per home, and anticipates the construction of 30 family homes.  The homes will each have a garden along with a cow to provide ongoing nutrition and care.  Construction has begun with significant progress being made on the first section of six homes.  Currently a number of orphans are being housed and cared for with other foster children at the Yetebon compound.

Many of the students give back to the community by teaching literacy, HIV/AIDS prevention, family planning, basic arithmetic and back yard gardening to families in the hard to reach mountain areas surrounding Yetebon.  Thousands of people have benefited from this initiative and nearly 8,000 can now read and write for the first time because of these programs.

Education Programs 
The Medhane-Alem School has about 1,600 students enrolled in Kindergarten through grade 12, and there are over 90 graduates of the high school who are currently enrolled in various universities within Ethiopia.  The School Meal Program also provides two meals per school day to each of the students.

Skills Enhancement Programs 
A Skills Enhancement Program is empowering men and women from the community by training them in marketable skills that they can use to earn an income.  Women are being trained in traditional spinning of cotton, weaving baskets, creating embroidered table linens and making elegant jewelry.  Men are learning masonry, construction material fabrication, carpentry and metal working.  In addition to learning a valuable trade, every individual enrolled in our Skills Enhancement Program must also learn basic reading, writing and arithmetic.

Healthcare Programs 
Project Mercy operates the Glenn C. Olsen Primary General Hospital.  This state of the art facility is equipped with diagnostic services, as well as a Surgical Ward, Pediatric Ward, Delivery Ward and Medical Ward.
Additionally, health classes are taught on personal hygiene, food keeping, housekeeping, and communicable and non-communicable disease control.
The hospital also has people from the community who have gone through training to become sanitarians.  They go into the mountains and outer areas of the region and teach families about hygiene and sanitation practices.

Relief Programs 
Providing a means for ongoing food sources is the key to eradicating future famine.  Initiating family food security measures provide sustenance and also a means for income.  Project Mercy’s agricultural program’s focus began as a result of the 2003 famine.  Project Mercy worked very hard during that time to deliver monthly dry rations dispersed to 200,000 heads of families at sites within a 180-mile circumference from Yetebon.  Project Mercy also cared for hundreds of the most severe cases of malnutrition in its emergency feeding centers.  Project Mercy’s Supplemental Care program involved 75,000 children who were fed five times per day.  An additional 1,300 children and elderly were cared for (fed intravenously due to the severity of malnutrition) in our Therapeutic Feeding Program.  In spite of the horrendous effects of the famine, most of the children and elderly were saved.

Agriculture Programs

Demonstration Gardens 
The farmers in the rural areas of Ethiopia had not been taught many of the newer farming techniques or how to replenish their land.  Project Mercy started large demonstration gardens in order to teach the school students as well as local farmers some of the methods that can be used to enhance their crops.  Gardens were started using a variety of nutritious vegetables – many of which were new to the people of Yetebon.  Once the vegetables matured, many from the community had their first introduction to broccoli, carrots, tomatoes, kale, spinach, etc.  The seeds of some of the new vegetables were also dried for the next planting and shared with those in the community who were interested.  The Project Mercy gardens are also used to provide a large portion of the food for the School Meal Program.