[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Vietnamese passport

rds of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Therefore, the Czech Republic agrees with other member countries of the European Union (EU) to stop recognizing it." The statement however did not specify whether the Czech Republic will stop issuing visas for the new Vietnamese passports.

Finland 
On August 11, the Embassy of Finland in Hanoi announced on its official website that the country will suspend the recognition of Vietnam's blue-violet passports. Accordingly, the Embassy said that this new passport does not contain information about the passport holder's place of birth. This is required for personal identification and processing of Finnish visa/residence permit applications. Finland has decided to suspend the recognition of new model passports of Vietnam. The Embassy of Finland will not accept applications for a visa/residence permit from applicants presenting this new passport form until further notice from the Finnish authorities. The Embassy will notify in case of any changes. Finland will actively work with EU member states, Schengen and the Vietnamese side to solve this problem.

Consideration of the United States 
On August 12, the US Embassy in Hanoi and the Consulate General of this country in Ho Chi Minh City said that US authorities are still in the process of reviewing Vietnam's blue-violet passport. However, the receipt of applications and visa approval is still taking place as usual. For new visa applications, the United States requires applicants to add their place of birth to their passport's observations before applying. For visa applications that have been received and scheduled for an interview, the United States notes that applicants need to bring an old model passport (with place of birth), birth certificate, ID card, or any other any documents that show the applicant's place of birth during the interview.

Acceptance of admission into France 
The French Republic is the first country in the Schengen area to announce that they will continue to recognize the new passport of Vietnam (with a blue-purple color) and still issue visas as normal to applicants using this passport type. However, the French authorities note that Vietnamese citizens holding a new blue-violet model passport should pay attention to change their schedule, do not enter German territory even if they have been granted a Schengen visa by France, due to the denial of admission from Germany for this new Vietnamese passport.

Acceptance of admission into the United Kingdom 
In the announcement of the UK Embassy and Consulate in Vietnam ("UK in Vietnam") on August 3, the UK immigration authorities announced that they would continue to recognize the new passport model of Vietnam (issued from July 1). However, the UK representative in Vietnam also noted that applicants need to monitor and update their stay schedule in the Schengen countries after the previous denial statements of some countries in this bloc.

Diplomatic efforts and re-recognition decisions 
In a negotiation effort of the Vietnamese government and German diplomatic missions, on August 3, the representative of the Ministry of Public Security of Vietnam said that it would add birth information to the observations section of the new passport to serve for visa applications in countries that are temporarily not recognizing the new passport. Minister of Public Security - General To Lam said this is only a temporary measure. In the fourth quarter of 2022, the Ministry of Public Security will amend and add birthplace information to the new passport form, especially the chip-based passport model, which will be issued at the end of 2022.

After the negotiation period, the German authorities announced to temporarily recognize the new passport of Vietnam in case the citizen has been added the place of birth to the observations of the passport. The German Embassy in Hanoi said that for citizens using a new passport that has added the place of birth to their observations, visa issuance will be restarted immediately. However, the representative also noted that this is only a temporary measure, and only applies to short-term visas for business or visiting relatives (90 days), or long-term visas for international students. The long-term stay and work visa category C remains temporarily suspended until further notice.