[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Battle of Bint Jbeil

Joseph wrote about Dan Halutz in Haaretz "He pushed for ineffectual military initiatives with a high casualty toll, like the conquest of Bint Jbail, which was meant to create a spectacle of victory in the place where Nasrallah delivered his "spider web" speech following the IDF pullout in May 2000."

The battle of the bodies
IDF has a long standing policy of not leaving wounded or dead fighters on the battle field and would at times go to great lengths to retrieve them. At the same time Israel has maintained a policy of not returning to families for burial the remains of killed fighters that had engaged in "hostile terrorist activity". Instead they are buried in fenced-off so called "cemeteries for enemy dead", maintained by IDF military rabbinate, in what the Israeli human rights organization B'Tselem considers a "demeaning and shameful manner".

This policy was particularly pronounced in the 2006 Lebanon war and would have a profound effect on the conduct of the war. IDF Chief of Staff Halutz repeatedly ordered Israeli troops during the war to capture Hezbollah bodies "to show to the media". During the war Israel also released footage to FOX news of the slain Hezbollah fighter Hadi Hasrallah, the 18-year-old son of Hezbollah Secretary General Hassan Nasrallah, killed in a clash in south Lebanon 1997 and whose body was retained by Israel. His remains were returned to Lebanon in an exchange in 1998.

Brig. Gen. Gal Hirsch, commander of Division 91, declared on 25 July that IDF "planned to take several bodies of dead guerrillas captive" in the battle of Bint Jbeil. In the first week of August Israel claimed to have captured five Hezbollah  operatives in the vicinity of Bint Jbeil. In fact IDF only captured four Hezbollah soldiers throughout the war and none in the Bint Jbeil region. The bodies of at least three Hezbollah soldiers, who were killed in the battle of Bint Jbeil, were captured by IDF and brought to Israel. The remains of Mousa Khanafir, Zayd Haydar and Marwan Samahat were returned to Lebanon in the prisoner exchange on 15 July 2008.

Veteran Israeli war correspondent Ron Ben-Yishai claimed that "in almost any ground battle, the moment our troops encountered resistance, the force's progress stopped, commanders demanded assistance, and the fighting focused on evacuating casualties from the battlefield... you will not find even one story about a force that fought until it completed its mission or a Hezbollah force that was defeated."

Although the IDF did not conquer Bint Jbeil, they fought hard and succeeded in preventing their comrades' bodies from falling into Hezbollah's hands.

Aftermath
Israel sent the elite of its regular forces, the Golani infantry brigade and the Paratroopers brigade to Bint Jbeil. The IDF enjoyed a tremendous superiority both in numbers and firepower as well as absolute air superiority. The over 5,000 IDF soldiers laying a siege around the town were faced by little more than 100 Hezbollah soldiers. The IDF failed to conquer the town or to make any other tangible operational achievements. According to Kober the Israeli withdrawal was "correctly interpreted by Hizballah as a great victory for the organization".

The Winograd Commission devoted a special chapter to the battle of Bint Jbeil and especially to the deadly clash on 26 July. The commission concluded that what was described as a "division-sized battle" was in reality no more than a "series of limited engagements between IDF forces and Hezbollah soldiers on the eastern edge, and to some extent on the western edge of the town." According to the report the failure capture Bint Jbeil became "a symbol of the unsuccessful action of the Israel Defense Forces throughout the fighting."

The Israeli leaders primarily responsible for the conduct of the war, Prime minister Olmert, Defense minister Peretz and Chief of Staff Halutz, were all in agreement in their testimony to the Winograd Commission. The 2006 Lebanon War would have been a "clear achievement for Israel had the initial limited ground operations in Maroun ar-Ras and Bint Jbeil been successful".