[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Keith Andrews (footballer)

League 2. MK Dons then had a fight on their hands to keep hold of their inspirational skipper with interest from a number of Premiership and Championship clubs. He featured in MK Dons's first three games of the 2008–09 season but then was sold to Blackburn Rovers managed by former manager Paul Ince.

Blackburn Rovers
Andrews ended a summer of speculation over his future when he completed a transfer to Premier League club Blackburn Rovers on 3 September 2008 in a three-year deal worth and rising up to £1m depending on appearances made for the football club over the coming years. The move temporarily reunited him with his former MK Dons manager Paul Ince before he was sacked as Rovers manager. He made his debut as a substitute on 6 September 2008 against West Ham United, a game in which Blackburn lost 4–1. Andrews made his home debut against Arsenal, on his 28th birthday, Arsenal went on to win the match 4–0. He scored his first goal for Blackburn in the 90th minute during a 2–2 draw with West Bromwich Albion. Due to injuries sustained by first team regulars, Andrews featured frequently for the Rovers first team, occupying a defensive central midfield role. In July 2009, Andrews signed a new four-year deal, which saw him contracted to Blackburn until 2013. On 25 September 2010, Andrews came on for Steven Nzonzi on 66 minutes against Blackpool at Bloomfield Road in a 2–1 win for his first game of the 2010–11 campaign.
The 2010–11 season was a frustrating one for Andrews as he only made six appearances in all competitions for Rovers due to injury.

Ipswich Town (loan)
Andrews agreed to a six-month loan move to Ipswich Town on 12 August 2011. This loan includes an option to buy the player permanently. A day later he made his debut in a 1–0 loss to Hull City and then 3 days later his first goal came against Southampton. This was followed by goals against Peterborough United and Leeds United. Steve Kean, the head coach of Blackburn Rovers, hinted that Andrews' may return to his parent club in January 2012, after a successful loan spell with Ipswich. This was contrary to Andrews' ambitions, who when responding to reports that Paul Jewell, the Ipswich head coach, wanted to sign him on a permanent deal, stated in an interview with the BBC that, "I don't particularly like the way I was treated at the club [Blackburn]. Not just the manager, the club in general."

West Bromwich Albion
Andrews completed a late deadline day (31 January 2012) free transfer to Albion, after handing in a transfer request at Blackburn. Andrews signed a six-month contract. On 12 February, Andrews scored his first goal for West Brom and their fourth against former club Wolves in a 5–1 win. Andrews then made it two goals in two appearances as he scored Albion's fourth in a 4–0 victory over Sunderland two weeks later. Andrews then made it three wins in three appearances as he produced another solid performance in the 1–0 win over Chelsea.

Andrews become a free agent as his West Brom contract ended at the end of the season.

Bolton Wanderers
Andrews signed for newly relegated Football League Championship club Bolton Wanderers on 29 June 2012 after agreeing a three-year contract. He made his debut on 18 August in the away game at Burnley and on 22 December he scored his first goals for Bolton scoring twice from the penalty spot in their 5–4 defeat against Peterborough United

Following the permanent signing of Jay Spearing, Andrews' first-team place at Bolton was no longer assured. On 9 August 2013, he signed a season-long loan deal at fellow Championship club Brighton & Hove Albion. He scored his first goal for Brighton in a 1–1 draw with Sheffield Wednesday on 1 October.

On 24 July 2014, Andrews completed a move to fellow Championship side Watford, on a season-long loan deal. He made his Watford debut from the start in the League Cup first-round tie at Stevenage on 12 August.

On 2 February 2015, transfer deadline day, Andrews rejoined Milton Keynes Dons on loan for the duration of the season after his loan to Watford was cut short.
On 4 August, he retired from professional football to take up a role as their First Team Coach.

International career
 
Andrews made his full international debut for the Republic of Ireland on 19 November 2008, coming on as a second-half substitute and scoring a goal as part of a 3–2 home defeat in a friendly match against Poland. He played his first competitive match for Ireland, being unlucky to have a goal disallowed in a 2–1 World Cup qualification group match victory over Georgia. He was also present in Paris for France 1–1 Ireland (18 November 2009).