[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# List of Jeeves characters

n the comic novels of P. G. Wodehouse. He is the father of Oswald and Honoria, as well as the uncle of Tuppy Glossop. Sometimes referred to as "the noted nerve specialist" or "the loony doctor", he is a practitioner of psychiatry. He also appears in a Blandings Castle novel outside the Jeeves canon.

Percy Gorringe 
Percy Gorringe is a fictional character in a Jeeves novel, being a side-whiskered poet and writer, the stepson of newspaper owner Mr Trotter and the son of Mrs Trotter. He gets engaged to Florence Craye and is intent on producing her novel Spindrift as a play in Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit, but is dumped by Florence after the play is a flop, as mentioned in Much Obliged, Jeeves. He writes mystery novels under the name Rex West.

Agatha Gregson

Agatha Gregson (née Wooster, later Lady Worplesdon) is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories, being Bertie Wooster's fearsome Aunt Agatha and mother of Thomas "Thos" Gregson.

Thomas Gregson
Thomas "Thos" (sometimes written Thos.) Gregson is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. The troublesome son of Agatha Gregson and her first husband Spenser Gregson, he first appears in "Jeeves and the Impending Doom", in which he is being tutored by Bingo Little. His next appearance is in "The Love That Purifies". In this story, he is stated to be fourteen years old. In the novel The Mating Season, he procures the cosh that ultimately ends up in Jeeves's possession. Bertie mentions reluctantly taking his cousin Thos to the theatre at the request of his Aunt Agatha in several stories.

Francis Heppenstall
The Reverend Francis Heppenstall is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He is the vicar at the village church at Twing. He is one of the entries in "The Great Sermon Handicap", manages the annual village school treat in "The Purity of the Turf", and is the uncle of Mary Burgess in "The Metropolitan Touch". He also has two sons.

Kipper Herring 
Reginald "Kipper" Herring is a fictional character in a Jeeves novel, being a childhood friend of Bertie Wooster from Malvern House. In Jeeves in the Offing, Kipper is employed as a journalist at the Thursday Review, in which capacity he writes a scathing review of a book on preparatory schools by his former headmaster Aubrey Upjohn. He is engaged to the mischievous Bobbie Wickham.

Jeeves

Reginald Jeeves, usually referred to as Jeeves, is a recurring fictional character in the eponymous stories, being the valet of Bertie Wooster.

Bingo Little

Richard P. "Bingo" Little is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. A member of the Drones Club and a close friend of Bertie Wooster, Bingo often falls in love in the early stories. Bingo also appears in Drones Club stories outside the Jeeves canon.

Mortimer Little
Mortimer Little, later Lord Bittlesham, is a fictional character appearing in the Jeeves semi-novel, The Inimitable Jeeves. He devotes himself almost entirely to eating and is very fat. He is the uncle of Bingo Little, who is dependent upon him for an allowance. In "Jeeves Exerts the Old Cerebellum", Bingo's stratagem, suggested by Jeeves, to get his allowance increased backfires by inducing Old Mr. Little to marry his cook, Miss Watson. He acquires the title Lord Bittlesham by the time he appears in "Comrade Bingo", and also appears in "Bingo and the Little Woman".

Daphne Dolores Morehead  
Daphne Dolores Morehead is a fictional character in a Jeeves novel, Jeeves and the Feudal Spirit. She is a young and attractive blonde bestselling novelist. Blue-eyed and curvaceous, she turned the head of Stilton Cheesewright, making him forget about his ex-fiancée Florence Craye and so-called rival Bertie Wooster. She is probably based on Daphne du Maurier.

In the Jeeves and Wooster television series, Morehead herself does not appear. Instead, she is impersonated by Jeeves.

Constable Oates
Police Constable Eustace Oates is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He is a police officer at Totleigh-in-the-Wold. He is bitten by Stiffy Byng's dog Bartholomew and gets his helmet stolen in The Code of the Woosters, and arrests Bertie in Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves.

Gwladys Pendlebury 
Gwladys Pendlebury is a fictional character appearing in the Jeeves short story, "The Spot of Art" (collected in Very Good, Jeeves). A portrait painter, she meets Bertie Wooster at a party in Chelsea. Though Bertie is initially in love with her, she ultimately gets engaged to Lucius Pim, whom she injured with her car. Her portrait of Bertie is used in soup advertisements.