[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ¡Ay Carmela!

n by Gustavete – "Come on, Paulino" – as he leads him away. The two men take to the road again and the song "¡Ay Carmela!" rises in the background.

Cast
 Carmen Maura as Carmela
 Andrés Pajares as Paulino
 Gabino Diego as Gustavete
 Mauricio De Razza  as Lieutenant Ripamonte
 José Sancho as Captain

Production 
Made in 1990, ¡Ay Carmela!  was director Carlos Saura’s twenty-third, feature-length film.  In Saura's earlier films, allusions to the war and to its consequences were characterized by violence and brutality, and if there was any humour at all it was grim and ironic. Of  ¡Ay Carmela! he said, "I would have been incapable a few years ago of treating our war with humour… but now it is different, for sufficient time has passed to adopt a broader perspective, and here there is no doubt that by employing humour it is possible to say things that it would be more difficult, if not impossible, to say in another way".

The film is based on the play of the same name by the Valencian dramatist, José Sanchís Sinisterra.  The play was a success in Spain and was translated to English and staged in London. The play focuses entirely on the two principal characters, Carmela and Paulino, and tells their story largely in flashback.  When it begins, Paulino is alone and depressed, for Carmela is already dead, the victim of a fascist bullet at their last performance as variety artist. In the first part of the play Carmela returns as a ghost to converse with Paulino, blaming him for all that has happened, and in the second part evokes in detail the fatal performance. The play contains only two characters and a single setting. Saura adapted the play with the help of scriptwriter Rafael Azcona, who had worked with him many times before but with whom he had broken in 1975 before making Cria Cuervos.

Saura opened up the story and presented it not in flashback but in a linear manner. This allowed him to follow the journey of Carmela and Paulino during the two days in which they travel from Republican to Nationalist territory, performing their act in both camps. It also allowed much more scope for the relationship and the characters of Carmela and Paulino to evolve and in relation to the events in which they find themselves caught up.  It also enabled Saura to depict other characters and locations mentioned in the play, in particular Gustavete, the travelling companion of Carmela and Paulino, and the Italian officer and theatre director, Lieutenant Amelio di Ripamonte.  The town where the action occurs and the theatre in which the final third of the film is located are also depicted. Some artistic resonance evoke memories of Ernst Lubitsch's  1942 comedy To Be or Not to Be.

The film takes its title from the song "Ay Carmela", which begins and ends the film. Originally a song from the War of Independence against Napoleon, it had been adapted and became the favourite song of the Republican soldiers and of the International Brigade during the Spanish Civil War.

DVD release
¡Ay Carmela! is available in Region 2 DVD in Spanish with English and French subtitles.

Awards
Winner of the 1990 Goya Awards for:
Best Film
Best Director: Carlos Saura
Best Actor: Andrés Pajares
Best Actress: Carmen Maura
 Best Adapted Screenplay: Carlos Saura, Rafael Azcona
Best Supporting Actor: Gabino Diego
Best Editing: Pablo González del Amo
Best Sound:  Gilles Ortion, Alfonso Pino
Best Costume Design: Rafael Palmero, Mercedes Sánchez
Best Make-Up: José Antonio Sánchez, Paquita Núñez
Best Production Design: Rafael Palmero
Best Production Supervision: Víctor Albarrán
Best Special Effects: Reyes Abades

See also
 List of submissions to the 63rd Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film
 List of Spanish submissions for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film

Notes

References 
 Edwards, Gwynne, Indecent Exposures, PMarion Boyars, 1995, 
 Schwartz, Ronald, The Great Spanish Films: 1950 - 1990, Scarecrow Press, London, 1991,

External links 
 
 ¡Ay Carmela! in Encyclopedia of Contemporary Spanish Film. Eds. Alex Pinar and Salvador Jimenez Murguia. Rowman & Littlefield, 2018 
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFZLwsA-Si8

1990 films
Films set in the 1930s
Spanish comedy-drama films
1990s Spanish-language films
Spanish Civil War films
Films directed by Carlos Saura
Spanish war drama films
Best Film Goya Award winners
Films featuring a Best Actor Goya Award-winning performance
Films shot in Madrid
1990 comedy-drama films
Films with screenplays by Rafael Azcona
1990s Spanish films
Films about Francoist repression