[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# William Evans-Gordon

ke who themselves, or their predecessors, came to this country as aliens exactly as do those people you now wish to exclude. It seems to me a useless and short-sighted, and at this moment very largely an inhuman policy, to keep out those who may, after all, be like those of whom I have just spoken".

In his 1905 election address, Evans-Gordon laid stress on the recently passed Aliens Act, which he had been greatly instrumental in carrying. He proceeds to explain his position with regard to the Jews. "It has been falsely asserted that the Aliens Act is aimed against the Jewish people, and that I have been actuated by anti-Semitism. I will not stoop to repudiate such charges. No man views with greater horror and indignation than I the recent barbarous and indescribable massacres of Jews in Russia. But in expressing my deep sympathy with the victims of this most terrible persecution I am bound to repeat my conviction that the solution of the Jewish problem in Eastern Europe will not and cannot be found in the transference of thousands of poverty-stricken and helpless aliens to the most crowded quarters and overstocked markets of our greatest cities. It will be found in the statesmanlike scheme of the Jewish Territorialist Organization for the inauguration of which we are indebted to the genius and patriotism of Mr. Israel Zangwill."

Vincent and Evans-Gordon successfully "stampeded their party into introducing laws to keep the foreigner out". Although a section of the Conservative Party had managed to persuade the Commons to pass anti-Jewish legislation, the Liberals only six months later had a landslide election victory in 1906. Although the Aliens Act was not repealed by the incoming Liberal government, the law was not strictly enforced. Evans-Gordon held on to his seat during the general Conservative defeat and continued to campaign for further anti-immigration legislation. In his successful bid for re-election in 1906, he spoke against the Sinti (German Gypsies) who were trying to settle in England, and, borrowing the slogan of the BBL, he campaigned with the slogan "England for the English and Major Gordon for Stepney".

However, Evans-Gordon's anti-Semitism has been questioned, as he was a supporter of Zionism and kept up regular correspondence with Chaim Weizmann, who would later write of him:I think our people were rather hard on him. The Aliens Bill in England and the movement which grew around it were natural phenomenon which might have been foreseen.... Sir William Evans-Gordon had no particular anti-Jewish prejudices... he was sincerely ready to encourage any settlement of Jews almost anywhere in the British Empire but he failed to see why the ghettoes of London or Leeds should be made into a branch of the ghettoes of Warsaw and Pinsk.... Sir William Evans-Gordon gave me some insight into the psychology of the settled citizen. Evans-Gordon received a knighthood in 1905.

Other parliamentary business

Pilotage Bill 1903
Evans-Gordon was one of the sponsors of the Pilotage Bill 1903, which dealt with Pilotage Certificates. Although the bill was read a second time in May 1906, it was withdrawn.

Anglo-French Festival 1905
During the Anglo-French Festival 1904 to celebrate the Entente Cordiale, Evans-Gordon apparently proposed an unprecedented multiple joint gathering in Westminster Hall, London, in August.

Later life
On 1 May 1907, Evans Gordon resigned from the Commons and retired from politics by becoming a steward of the Chiltern Hundreds.

He died suddenly on  at his home at 4 Chelsea Embankment, London. A notice of his memorial service appeared in The Times

He was the owner of a 24 hp Thornycroft Phaeton, delivered on 1 June 1906.

He was a member of several clubs: Carlton, Boodle's, Naval & Military and Orleans.

Family life
In 1892 Captain William Evans Gordon married Julia Charlotte Sophia Stewart (b. 21 June 1846) (Julia, Marchioness of Tweeddale), daughter of Lt.-Colonel Keith William Stewart Mackenzie (9 May 1818 – ? June 1881) and of Hannah Charlotte Hope Vere.

Julia was previously twice married: firstly (as his second wife, on 8 October 1873) to the Right Hon. Arthur Hay, 9th Marquess of Tweeddale, d. 1878; without issue. Secondly, in 1887 she married (as his second wife), the Right Hon. Sir John Rose, 1st Baronet, GCMG, of Queensgate, London, who died in 1888; without issue. Her third marriage to William Evans Gordon was also without issue.

Julia was the sister of James Stewart-Mackenzie, 1st Baron Seaforth, who fought with the 9th Lancers during the Second Anglo-Afghan War of 1878–1880 (later Colonel of the regiment), and was later military secretary to M. E. Grant Duff. He married the daughter of Edward Steinkopff, owner of the St James's Gazette and dedicatee of Evans-Gordon's  The Alien Immigrant. Julia and James had one further sibling, Mary Jeune, Baroness St Helier, society hostess and politician.

Evans-Gordon's siblings included: