[Source: PubMed]

15. Vaccine. 2024 Apr 8;42 Suppl 1:S73-S81. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2022.11.037.
Epub  2022 Dec 2.

Sustainable financing for Immunization Agenda 2030.

Saxenian H(1), Alkenbrack S(2), Freitas Attaran M(3), Barcarolo J(4), Brenzel 
L(5), Brooks A(6), Ekeman E(7), Griffiths UK(8), Rozario S(8), Vande Maele N(7), 
Ranson MK(9).

Author information:
(1)Independent Consultant, United States. Electronic address: 
helensaxenian@gmail.com.
(2)World Bank Group, Health, Nutrition and Population Global Practice, 
Washington, D.C., United States.
(3)UNICEF Supply Division, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(4)Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance, Geneva, Switzerland(1).
(5)Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, WA, United States.
(6)Bridges to Development, Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)World Health Organization, Geneva, Switzerland.
(8)UNICEF Programme Division, New York City, NY, United States.
(9)World Bank Group, Health, Nutrition and Population Global Practice, Geneva, 
Switzerland.

Sustainable financing for immunization refers to the sufficient and predictable 
allocation and use of resources to support the achievement of immunization goals 
within the framework of overall health financing. The Immunization Agenda 2030 
(IA2030) agenda spells out four important focus areas needed for sustainable 
financing: (1) ensuring sufficient and predictable resources, (2) making optimal 
use of resources, (3) aligning partnerships, and (4) supporting sustainable 
transitions from external assistance. This paper summarizes the evidence and 
proposes interventions under each area. While immunization is one of the best 
investments and justifies public financing, the COVID-19 pandemic has led to the 
worst economic recession since the Great Depression and threatens countries' 
ability to mobilize funding to ensure continuity and access to essential 
services, including immunization. Strategies for ensuring adequate resources 
differ by income group but include raising more revenues, reprioritizing the 
budget towards health, and ensuring that health resources favor Primary Health 
Care (PHC) and immunization. In low- and lower-middle income countries, support 
from Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, which channels the largest amount of external 
financing, will remain important, but some lower-middle income countries will 
need to prepare for transition. Countries benefitting from the Global Polio 
Eradication Initiative (GPEI) are also experiencing a transition from GPEI 
financing to domestic and other external financing. This paper outlines ways in 
which countries can improve the use of domestic and external resources to better 
incentivize high-quality PHC and immunization services and align immunization 
programs with health sector reforms. While governments must lead, collective 
action from development partners, the private sector, and civil society is 
needed to promote health system financing systems that ensure that the world is 
better prepared for future outbreaks and pandemics, while reinforcing the IA2030 
vision and making progress towards universal health coverage and the Sustainable 
Development Goals.

Copyright © 2022. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2022.11.037
PMID: 36464542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.