[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Uzhhorod National University

training, have the opportunity to become scholarship holders and win grant programs of academic exchanges named after Fulbright (USA), The scholarship program for graduates from Ukraine by the European-University in Frankfurt (Germany), Summer International School in Vilnius (Lithuania) and others.

Starting from the 2014/2015 academic year, the university started teaching in English for foreign students majoring in ‘Medical are’ and ‘Dentistry’. In the 2020 academic year, this practice was extended to all medical specialties, the field of knowledge ‘International Economic Relations’, ‘Hotel and Restaurant Business’, ‘International Law’, ‘Social Work’, ‘Management’, ‘Computer Engineering’, ’Economics’.  December 31, 2020, 1,635 international students enrolled in the university with a bachelor's or master's degree. A total of 1,724 people received educational services, including 15 graduate students and 38 clinical residents. Most international students are Indian citizens - 1222 people. Citizens of Jordan, Bangladesh, Nigeria, Ghana, Cameroon also study at Uzhhorod National University. Maldives, Zimbabwe, Austria, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania, Hungary, Turkey, USA, Netherlands, and other countries. People from 52 countries represent student assets.

Science
The scientific base consists of research institutes, laboratories, and centers, notably the Research Institute of Solid State Physics and Chemistry, Phytotherapy, Carpathian Studies, Central Europe, and Ukrainian Studies named after prof. Molnar, Means of Analytical Technology, Political Regionalism, Brain, Trauma, Family Medicine. There are research laboratories of physical electronics with a laboratory of space research, protection of natural ecosystems, research and training center of molecular microbiology and immunology of mucous membranes, Center of Gungarology.

Based on the concluded agreements, international cooperation with 86 scientific institutions in Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Croatia, France, Germany, Russia, the US, Italy, Lithuania, Turkey is carried out. Extensive international cooperation of the university contributes to the expansion of scientific research in various fields of knowledge: physics, chemistry, biology, medicine, philology, archeology, problems of the Carpathian region, etc.

The Council of Young Scientists of Uzhhorod National University provides informational and organizational support for young scientists and graduate students participating in grants, research internships, competitions of scientific works, conferences. In recent years, young scientists have repeatedly won grants from the President of Ukraine and scholarships of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine for young scientists, participated in international (e.g., Germany, Japan, USA, Slovakia, Hungary, and other countries) and national conferences.

Uzhhorod National University is one of the largest patent holders for protecting original technical solutions among higher education institutions in Ukraine. Over the years of operation of the patent and the licensing department received more than 936 security documents. In particular, the university's research and teaching staff became the authors of patents of Ukraine for invention - 409, utility model - 526, and industrial design - 1.

Education
For 75 years, the university has developed its school of teaching, scientific and educational traditions. It employs 158 doctors of sciences, professors, 715 candidates of sciences, associate professors. Uzhhorod National University scientists have published 77 monographs, 16 textbooks, 60 textbooks and 84 textbooks, and 3 dictionaries in recent years alone.

The university provides a wide range of educational services and has the right to train specialists in the following educational and scientific degrees: at the first (bachelor's) level of higher education – in 70 specialties; at the second (master's) level of higher education – in 61 specialties; at the third (educational and scientific) level of higher education - from 18 specialties.
List of educational programs:

Bachelor's degree

013 Primary education

014.01 Secondary education (Ukrainian language and literature)

014.02 Secondary education (Language and literature (English))

014.02 Secondary education (Language and literature (German))

014.02 Secondary education (Language and literature (Russian))

014.02 Secondary education (Language and literature (Romanian))

014.02 Secondary education (Language and literature (Hungarian))

014.02 Secondary education (Language and literature (French))

014.03 Secondary education (History)

014.04 Secondary education (Mathematics)

014.05 Secondary education (Biology and human health)

014.05 Secondary education (Biology)

014.06 Secondary education (Chemistry)

014.07 Secondary education (Geography)

014.08 Secondary education (Physics)

014.11 Secondary education (Physical education)

016 Special education