[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Pavee Point

acism, exist outside of the country and are unlikely to be resolved at a national level alone." Working internationally has allowed PP to network with other minority groups, learn new strategies for activism, and to get Traveller rights issues into the current dialogue on international human rights.

 In 2003, the Council of Europe invited PP to attend two conferences as an expert on and representative of the Traveller community. At the second seminar on 'Challenges for Cooperation and Integration between Roma and Travellers and local and Regional Authorities', Pavee Point representatives were given the opportunity to speak to an international audience.
 In 2004, the European Roma and Traveller Forum was formed after 10 years of careful deliberation. PP is a founding member of the forum, and is represented by Martin Collins. Along with two other delegates, Collins will form the official voice for the Irish Traveller ethnic group at a European level.
 in 2004, PP submitted a Shadow Report to UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (CERD). The Irish government had already sent a report of its own that included the fact that it would not acknowledge Travellers as an ethnic minority group. Pavee Point contested the Irish Government's refusal to recognise Travellers as an ethnic group. In their CERD report, PP described the government's actions as closed-minded and reprehensible- and not without negative ramifications for settled-Traveller relations. In 2005, Pavee Point was represented in CERD's hearing on Ireland.
 The Traveller & Roma Action for Implementation of Legal & Equality Rights (TRAILER) Project was formed by five countries to aid in the implementation of anti-discrimination legislation. PP is the representative organisation for Ireland.

Publications
The most recent report from Pavee Point is for 2016.

PP also publishes a wealth of analytical research reports on the conditions of Travellers, which are used as references in academic literature and international legislative bodies.

See also
Irish Travellers
Roma in Ireland
M50 Roma encampment

References

External links
Pavee Point official website
 European Roma and Travellers Forum

Non-profit organisations based in the Republic of Ireland
Irish Travellers
International organisations based in Ireland