[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

ing figure in Setsuna's life; she appears in one of his dreams, telling him it is okay for him to stop fighting. At the very end of the first series, Marina reads a letter from Setsuna about his search for answers and that though the two follow separate paths, they share the same goal of ending war.

 During the second series, Marina is arrested by the Federation because of her perceived connection with Setsuna in the first series. Setsuna rescues Marina during Celestial Being's operation to free Allelujah Haptism and she is brought on board the Ptolemaios II. After witnessing Azadistan in flames because of an attack by Ali Al-Saachez, she is left in the care of her former adviser, Shirin Bakhtiar, who is now a member of the anti-government group Katharon. However, Marina refuses to fight. Instead, she tends to the children orphaned by the conflict and uses their wishes as the basis for a song, which will be the main anthem of the people's longing for true peace. In the epilogue, she is seen leading a rebuilt Azadistan. In the Gundam 00 movie, she is seen telling the people of her realm not to panic about the ELS invasion. In the movie epilogue set 50 years after the ELS invasion, she is visited by Setsuna after he turned into an ELS being. Almost blind by then, she bursts into tears once she hears Setsuna's voice and they embrace. 

 
 In the first season, Shirin Bakhtiar (Persian: شیرین بختیار; Azeri: Şirin Bəxtiyar) serves as Marina Ismail's advisor and confidant. Shirin shows a great deal of political knowledge, however, much of her advice tends to be biting. By the second season, Shirin has left Marina to join the anti-Federation group Katharon where she is Klaus Grad's sub-commander. After Azadistan is attacked by Ali Al Saachez, Shirin comforts a grieving Marina. Shirin tells Marina the only way to rebuild Azadistan is to destroy the Federation and that it is her duty to fight as its princess. However, Marina says that she doesn't see how fighting will resolve anything which Shirin replies by saying she doesn't mind if Marina chooses not to fight, but she vows to continue fighting for her homeland. In the epilogue, Shirin is seen as a politician for the new Earth Sphere Federation. 

 
 Appearing in the second series, Klaus Grado is a top commander of the anti-government organization Katharon, which opposes the Earth Sphere Federation and its elite squad A-Laws. When Katharon member Lyle Dylandy joins Celestial Being as the new Lockon Stratos, Klaus begins a regular correspondence with Lyle about Celestial Being's activities. After helping the crew of the Ptolemaios II escape from an A-Law ambush, Klaus proposes an allegiance, however, the proposal is rejected by Sumeragi Lee Noriega and Setsuna F Seiei. Despite the rejection, Klaus continues to offer support to Celestial Being whenever possible. Four months after the collapse of the African orbital elevator, Katharon's Earth forces are nearly wiped out. Klaus decides to head to space, given hope by the global spread of the song written and sung by Marina Ismail and the children. In the epilogue, Klaus became a politician for the Earth Sphere Federation along with Shirin. At the Gundam 00 Movie epilogue set 50 years after the battle with ELS, Klaus is seem as the captain of the Deep Space Ship "Sumeragi" revealing that he turned into a true Innovator in the meantime.

Independent antagonists 
 
 Ali Al-Saachez ( Ali al-Sajis) is a major antagonist of the series, and the former cell leader of the KPSA terrorist group in which Setsuna was a member. Generally a sadistic sociopath, Ali merely fights to appease his insatiable appetite for conflict and destruction, adapting various aliases to work for any party that feeds his desire for more conflict. In spite of his brutish nature, Ali has proven himself to be an extremely skilled tactician with fighting abilities that border on being superhuman, and routinely fights the Gundams to a standstill before gaining his own advantage. Eventually, he manages to steal the Gundam Throne Zwei while killing two of the three Trinity Siblings. However the machine is soon destroyed after Ali's fight with Neil Dylandy. Barely surviving with most of his body damaged, Ali manages to recover and subsequently works for the Innovators, piloting the Arche Gundam. He is killed by Lyle Dylandy in episode 24 of season 2 after Tiera activates the Trial Gundam and disables his Gundam; while his Gundam is destroyed he survives and attempts to escape. However, he is cornered by Lyle and held at gunpoint. However, as Lyle decides to lower his gun and let him leave, Saachez tries to take advantage of the situation to kill Lyle, only to be killed by him.