[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Education in Jamaica

Education in Jamaica is primarily modeled on the British education system.

The Human Rights Measurement Initiative (HRMI) finds that Jamaica is fulfilling only 70.0% of what it should be fulfilling for the right to education based on the country's level of income. HRMI breaks down the right to education by looking at the rights to both primary education and secondary education. While taking into consideration Jamaica's income level, the nation is achieving only 62.8% of what should be possible based on its resources (income) for primary education and 77.2% for secondary education.

Early childhood education and big schools all around the country 

Early childhood education includes the Basic, Infant and privately operated pre-schools. The age cohort is usually 1 – 6 years. The Government of Jamaica began its support for the development of early childhood education, care and development in 1942. There are 2,595 early childhood institutions. Of these, 183 are not recognized by the government, 401 are day care centers, approximately 100 are infant schools and five are special education schools which offer early childhood care. The enrollment rate between 4 and 6 years is 62% - one of the highest rates in the region.

Primary education 

Primary education in Jamaica addresses the basic educational needs of students and prepares them for secondary education. It includes children between the ages of 5 and 12 years. Under the Caribbean Examination Council's Revised Primary Curriculum, student assessment has changed significantly from the former Common Entrance Examination at the end of Grade 6. Since 1999, the National Assessment Program (NAP) has been utilizing a variety of teaching strategies to ensure that learning experiences are more broad based and student centered. NAP adopts an integrated approach from grades 1-3 and a discrete subject area for grades 4-6. For many years, Jamaica has achieved universal primary education.

 Grade 1: Readiness Inventory 
 Grade 3: Assessment tests in Math and Language Arts
 Grade 4: Literacy and Numeracy Tests
 Grade 6: Achievement Test (GSAT): in Math, Language Arts, Social Studies (Civic Studies, Geography and History), Science and Communication Task

The six years of primary school education in Jamaica is compulsory and comes with many costs associated with it. Children receive their instruction in English, and remain there between the ages of 6 and 12. Schools may be state-owned, or private preparatory schools. Many students tend to enter primary schools already being able to read, as they would have been taught to do so in basic schools (kindergartens, daycare centers etc.)

Students tend to do a variety of subjects at the primary school level including religious studies, art and craft, Spanish, physical education and computer studies, though Spanish and computer studies are not the norm in most schools. When students get to Grade 4, much emphasis and focus is placed on the five subjects they will do at the end of Grade 6 (GSAT).

In most primary schools, one class teacher usually teaches students all the subjects. According to a UNESCO document entitled "Education for all 2015 National Review Report: Jamaica", "some 96 per cent of the teachers at this level are professionally trained with female [teachers] accounting for 88 per cent of the staff complement. Most students transition from primary to secondary level education." Between grades 1 and 3 students do between six and ten subjects depending on the schools. Between grades 4 and 6, most students will focus on five subjects, though after their Grade Six Achievement Exams in March each year, schools sometimes use the remaining school year to do other subjects like Art and Music. While the lecture method is used in some classes at some schools, most primary school teachers think students are too young for them to be taught by this method and instead opt to use more interactive approaches. Students are taught from early on to work in groups and teachers encourage students to commit a memorise much information. It is very common for primary school students in Jamaica to be required to recite on a daily basis, various poems, tables of multiplication (generally up to 12), tables of synonyms and even mnemonics. Visual aids are used a lot to help in the teaching and learning process and it is very common to see the walls of primary school classrooms decorated with charts made by teachers or those bought in stores, that contain information that students need to know.