[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operation Wallpaper

ed to their movements by those reconnaissance units. Eventually the Angolans lost 10 helicopters and started using smaller Aérospatiale Alouette IIIs to resupply their forces. Ten Soviet advisors were also killed as they landed at Cuito Cuanavale after being intercepted by a SAAF Dassault Mirage F1.

By 2 October, the Angolan brigades were 10 km from Mavinga but had suffered heavy losses from UNITA attacks and the SADF MRLs. At this point FAPLA morale was low and with the evacuation of the Russian advisors the Angolan forces were beginning to desert. Over two days of air attacks by SAAF Impala and Mirage aircraft, ground bombardments from the MRLs and with reduced supply and unit fighting ability, the Angolan brigades were ordered to retreat westwards and then to head for Cuito Cuanavale. By 4 October, 32 Battalion units began to withdraw.

Vital air support
The SAAF played a very important role in logistical support to the SADF Forces and UNITA against a coalition of Cuban and FAPLA troops moving in on Mavinga. The SAAF flew 310 night flying hours transporting mainly the Valkiri Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS) and their 127 mm rockets, ammunition and food; and performing Casualty Evacuation (Casevac) of wounded personnel. SAAF Lockheed C-130 Hercules, Transall C-160 and Douglas C-47 Skytrain aircraft were used.

Aftermath
It was realised by the South Africans at the end of the operation that it would be impossible for UNITA forces to stop a combined Angolan and Cuban force and that Mavinga would have fallen had it not been for the assistance of the SADF. The Angolan forces back in their base, began to rebuild while waiting for the rainy season to end and resume Operation Congresso II. The South African's suffered one soldier accidentally killed, while 500 UNITA soldiers died and 1500 wounded with other sources claiming dead and wounded to be as high as 2500. Angolan casualty figures range from 1589 to 2500 to as high as 4719 soldiers killed. Soviet casualties are listed as 10 dead and 9 wounded, while the Cubans lost 56 men and 60 wounded.

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 
 
 

Conflicts in 1985
Military history of Angola
Cross-border operations of South Africa
Battles and operations of the South African Border War
Military operations of the Angolan Civil War
1985 in Angola
1985 in South Africa
September 1985 events in Africa
October 1985 events in Africa