[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Anglo-Ethiopian Treaty of 1897

taxation, every advantage which he may accord to the subjects of other nations. 

On the other hand, all material destined exclusively for the service of the Ethiopian State shall, on application from His Majesty the Emperor, be allowed to pass through the port of Zeyla into Ethiopia free of duty. 

Article V.
The transit of fire-arms and ammunition destined for His Majesty the Emperor of Ethiopia through the territories depending on the Government of Her Britannic Majesty is authorized, subject to the conditions prescribed by the General Act of the Brussels Conference, signed the 2nd July, 1890.
 
Article VI.
His Majesty the Emperor Menelek II, King of Kings of Ethiopia, engages himself towards the Government of Her Britannic Majesty to do all in his power to prevent the passage through his dominions of arms and ammunition to the Mahdists, whom he declares to be the enemies of his Empire. 
The present Treaty shall come into force as soon as its ratification by Her Britannic Majesty shall have been notified to the Emperor of Ethiopia, but it is understood that the prescriptions of Article VI shall be put into force from the date of its signature. 

In faith of which His Majesty Menelek II, King of Kings of Ethiopia, in his own name, and James Rennell Rodd, Esq., on behalf of Her Majesty Victoria, Queen of Great Britain and Ireland, Empress of India, have signed the present Treaty, in duplicate, written in the English and Amharic languages identically, both texts being considered as official, and have thereto affixed their seals. 

Done at Adis Abbaba, the 14th day of May, 1897. 

(Signed) James Rennell Rodd.

(Seal of His Majesty the Emperor Menelek II.)

Notes

Sources 
 Excerpts from the "British Embassy, Addis Ababa" by Richard Pankhurst

1897 in Ethiopia
1897 in the United Kingdom
Treaties of the Ethiopian Empire
Treaties of the United Kingdom (1801–1922)
Treaties concluded in 1897
Ethiopia–United Kingdom relations
Treaties extended to British Somaliland
Ethiopia–Somalia border
May 1897 events
Bilateral treaties of the United Kingdom
Boundary treaties