[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hindawi affair

an government. The jury was unconvinced by this version of events, and subsequent appeal judges have dismissed such interpretations as entirely lacking in evidence. Historian Benny Morris and journalist Ian Black (Middle East editor of The Guardian) similarly dismissed this interpretation of events.

Repercussions
After the court found Hindawi guilty, the then-British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher broke off diplomatic relations with Syria. Following this, the United States and Canada recalled their ambassadors from Syria. The European Community also imposed minor sanctions.

The Helsinki Warning of the Lockerbie disaster almost exactly matched Murphy's circumstances, except that the woman carrying the bomb was Finnish.

Allegations of Mossad involvement
On 10 November 1986, French prime minister Jacques Chirac said in a recorded interview with the Washington Times, that German chancellor Kohl and foreign minister Genscher both believed that "the Hindawi plot was a provocation designed to embarrass Syria and destabilize the Assad regime ... 'by' ... people probably connected to Israeli Mossad". Chirac added that he tended to believe it himself. The German government denied the conversation and privately requested that Chirac retract his statement. Chirac was also criticised by the French president François Mitterrand. A few days later, Chirac changed his opinion and said to Pierre Beregovoy during French National Assembly debates that Israel was innocent.

In his interview with Time magazine on 20 October 1986, Syrian President Hafez al-Assad said that the Israeli intelligence agency planned the Hindawi operation. According to Seale, sources in Syrian intelligence told him that they "had fallen in to Israeli trap" and were penetrated and manipulated by Mossad to smear Syria with terrorism and isolate it internationally. Colonel Mufid Akkur, whom Hindawi named in court, was arrested in Damascus on suspicion of working for Israel.

Israeli intelligence operative Ari Ben-Menashe wrote in his memoir in 1992 that the Hindawi affair was an operation which had been conceived by Israeli intelligence. The organizer of the plot was Rafi Eitan who led Israeli intelligence's anti-terrorist group. The operation was meant to implicate the Syrian embassy in London as involved in terrorism and have all the Syrian diplomats expelled from England. Jordanian Mohammed Radi Abdullah, a paid Israeli agent, offered his cousin Hindawi $50,000 to place explosives by way of his girlfriend on the flight. Radi then arranged for Hindawi to meet a Syrian intelligence officer who arranged the details of the plot.

The allegation of Mossad involvement, however, is contradicted by evidence of Syrian sponsorship: including Hindawi's statements on interrogation, correspondence intercepted by the authorities after his arrest, the testimony of other captured terrorists, and the support provided by Syrian Arab Airlines. The Syrian government's claim that the Mossad replaced originally innocent luggage with the bomb is refuted by the discovery of hair belonging to Hindawi trapped under the tape used to attach the explosive to the bag.

Aftermath

In April 2001 Nezar Hindawi became eligible for parole, but his right of appeal was denied by the then Home Secretary David Blunkett, a decision upheld by the Court of Appeal.

In December 2011, Anne Murphy instigated legal action to sue Slate magazine for alleged defamation in an online article.

In 2012, the parole board reversed its previous decision to free Hindawi. A parole board spokesman refused to comment on the case but said that "The only legal question which the parole review has to answer is the risk of a further offence occurring during the parole window, weighed against the benefits to the prisoner and public of a longer period of testing on parole. Risk is the overriding factor".

In March 2013, Hindawi was granted parole, but later was deported to Jordan.

Cultural references
 The 1988 novel Special Deception by Alexander Fullerton uses the Hindawi trial as the background to a Soviet plot to stage an atrocity in Syria which will be blamed on the British government.
 Simon, one of the main characters in Atom Egoyan's 2008 film Adoration, claims that his father planted a bomb in his pregnant wife's luggage before she flew to Israel.
 Playwright Lucile Lichtblau won a 2011 Susan Glaspell Award for her work, The English Bride, inspired by the Hindawi affair. The play features a Mossad officer who unravels the story of a woman named Eileen Finney and the Arab man with whom she has fallen in love. A production directed by Carl Wallnau ran at 59E59 Theaters in autumn 2013.

See also

 State-sponsored terrorism
 Arab–Israeli conflict

References

Bibliography
Seale, Patrick. Asad of Syria: The Struggle for the Middle East. Los Angeles: University of California Press, 1988. , 475–482 p.