[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Human rights in Jordan

riarchal norms that restrict female employment and property ownership. And women do not have the same status as men with respect to nationality. A Jordanian man may marry a foreigner and pass on his nationality to his children; women cannot. Nor can women pass on their nationality to their husbands.

Women are no longer required to seek permission from their male guardians or husbands before obtaining or renewing their passports, but fathers may still prevent their children from traveling regardless of the mother's wishes. Muslim women are prohibited from marrying men of other religions unless the spouse agrees to convert to Islam, while Muslim men are permitted to wed Christian and Jewish women.

Child labor and forced labor 
In 2013, the U.S. Department of Labor's Findings on the Worst Forms of Child Labor reported that Jordan has "made a moderate advancement in efforts to eliminate the worst forms of child labor" but that a percentage as high as 0.8% of children aged 5 to 14 continue to engage in child labor, mostly in the agricultural sector and in domestic service.
In December 2014, the department issued a List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor where Jordan figures among 74 other countries that resort to such labor practices. Jordan was reported to make use of forced labor in the garment industry.

Lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights

Legal and societal discrimination and harassment remained a problem for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and intersex (LGBTI) persons in Jordan.
Jordan is one of the few countries in the Middle East where homosexuality is legal, provided that it occurs in private, does not involve prostitution, and only involves consenting adults. However, sexual orientation and gender identity issues remain taboo within the traditional culture and the government does not recognize same-sex civil unions or marriages.
Transgender Jordanians may be allowed to change their legal Sex, however Sex Reassignment Surgery is required.

National human rights institution

Jordan was one of the first countries in the Middle East to establish a national human rights institution (NHRI). The National Centre for Human Rights (NCHR) in 2006 secured 'A-status' accreditation from the peer review process of the International Coordinating Committee of NHRIs, giving it enhanced access to the United Nations human rights bodies. That status was subjected to special review twice by the ICC in 2007, and reaffirmed; it was again accorded A status under the ordinary review procedure in 2010. In the ICC annual meeting in March 2012, the Jordanian institution was elected as chair of the network of 99 institutions. The Commissioner General of the NCHR is Dr Mousa Burayzat.

Treaties
Jordan is a party to many human rights agreements, including:

International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women
Supplementary Convention on the Abolition of Slavery, the Slave Trade, and Institutions and Practices Similar to Slavery
Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment
Convention on the Rights of the Child
Optional Protocol on the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict
Convention concerning the Prohibition and Immediate Action for the Elimination of the Worst Forms of Child Labour
Right to Organise and Collective Bargaining Convention
Convention concerning Forced or Compulsory Labour
Equal Remuneration Convention
Abolition of Forced Labour Convention
Discrimination (Employment and Occupation) Convention
Employment Policy Convention
Convention against Discrimination in Education

Jordan was the only country in the Middle East and North Africa that is a member of the International Criminal Court (ICC), which prosecutes those who commit crimes against humanity, war crimes, aggression, and genocide, until Tunisia became a member in 2011. Palestine became a member of ICCC in 2015.

See also

Human rights in Muslim-majority countries

References

External links
Review of Jordan by the United Nations Human Rights Council's Universal Periodic Review, 11 February 2009
Human Rights Watch: Jordan
Censorship in Jordan, International Freedom of Expression Exchange

 
Jordan