[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lithuanian Territorial Defense Force

Lithuanian SS, but demanded that a German would lead the Lithuanian division and that Lithuanians must petition the Germans for its creation. They also demanded that the name of the inspector general of the Lithuanian armed forces be used in place of the name of the commander of the Lithuanian army.

On 3–4 January 1944, the general councilors discussed the draft petition, in whose preamble they wrote:"Violently breaking the solemn promises given to the Republic of Lithuania to respect the "sovereignty and territorial integrity and inviolability of Lithuania under all circumstances" (1926 treaty between the Republic of Lithuania and the Union of Socialist Soviet Republics, Article 2) on 15 June 1940, the Soviet Union's government, having militarily occupied Lithuania, falsifying the will of the Lithuanian people, and joining the territory of Lithuania to the Soviet Union with the help of the Red Army, is now again using Stalin's lips to "liberate" the Republic of Lithuania."They then requested permission to form the 1st Lithuanian Division, commanded by a senior Lithuanian officer, who would be called the inspector general. The division would be created by mobilization and would be tasked with the defence of Lithuanian territory from the Soviet invasion.

Adrian von Renteln removed all notions of Lithuania's sovereignty or independence  from the petition and rejected the request for permission for all willing men serving in self-defense units and the police to join the LTDF. Regardless, the councilors and members of the Council signed Renteln's edited petition. However, the most famous Lithuanian officers did not sign Renteln's edited petition.

The German administration's behaviour was assessed as such by the anti-Nazi 's :"Such German tendencies still show two things: first, that they do not trust the Lithuanians and do not want to allow them a larger, more independent armed force; secondly, that they are still only pursuing their unilateral interests (military and political), disregarding the interests of Lithuanians. Militarily, they want to get people to plug the gaps in their army; politically - to announce to the world that Lithuanians are asking to be accepted under German leadership and protection to fight for the New Europe."The further development of events showed that Lithuanians understood their interests, did not identify them with Nazi plans and refused to be blindly utilized by the German occupiers. Adrian von Renteln summoned general Povilas Plechavičius on January 7, 1944, to convince him that Lithuanian forces were necessary to combat Bolshevism. Plechavičius informed Renteln on January 9 that he would protect his countrymen if he was given the freedom to form and lead the Lithuanian units with uninfringed leadership. Since military formations could only be constituted in occupied territory with the approval of Reich SSPF Heinrich Himmler, Renteln pledged to speak with Berlin.

Plechavičius' conditions on January 31 and response 
Plechavičius wrote to Petras Kubiliūnas, the first general councillor, on January 31, setting out the following conditions for his command of the Lithuanian unit. The minimum 10,000-strong future brigade was to be the centre of the future Lithuanian armed forces for the anti-Bolshevik fight, exclusively controlled by the brigade's commander, and employed only inside the territory of the General District of Lithuania. Upon Lithuanian military mobilization, certificates for a person's irreplaceability in the economy and such would be removed. The brigade's military court would follow the Lithuanian interwar military court law to enforce discipline. The brigade would be tasked with protecting strategic military sites, if not protected by the Wehrmacht, while Ukrainian and other foreign units would leave Lithuania. If needed, the commander can employ other Lithuanian units in the Lithuanian General District and confiscate vehicles. Lithuanian police force would obey the brigade commander's orders to ensure security and order in Lithuania. 

The German establishment would not issue direct orders or use the brigade's individual units at will and would not hamper its creation. Deportation of Lithuanians for forced labour in Nazi Germany would stop during the brigade's creation. The Lithuanians would be armed, clothed and equiped along the lines of the German army, while the relatives of their dead and wounded would be treated identically as those of the German army. The General Commissioner of Lithuania appoints the brigade commander, who authors the text of the oath, together with the General Commissariat's Police Department's Head.