[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Craig Breslow

aseball Classic main tournament. He pulled out of being on the team in round one after the Twins offered him an invite to spring training, and was placed in Team Israel's designated pitcher pool, meaning he could be added in later rounds even though he did not play for the team in rounds one or two.

Pitches
Breslow's four-seam fastball ranged at ; he threw it 42% of the time, and batters hit .228 against it with a .366 slugging percentage. He added an  cut fastball and a  sinker. He also had a plus overhand curveball at , an average to above-average  changeup, and a  slider/slurve. During the 2016 offseason, Breslow dropped his arm slot and added a two-seam fastball. His ability to mix up his pitches was what made him very effective.

Intelligence

Breslow was nicknamed the "smartest man in baseball" by Minneapolis Star Tribune Twins beat writer La Velle E. Neal III, and The Wall Street Journal reporter Jason Turbow wrote:  "Judging by his résumé, Craig Breslow is the smartest man in baseball, if not the entire world." In 2010 the Sporting News named him the smartest athlete on their top-20 list.  In 2012, Men's Fitness named him one of the Top 10 Smartest Athletes in Professional Sports.

Referring to the reactions he has experienced to the plaudits, Breslow said: "There's no end to the teasing I've taken".  Red Sox manager John Farrell observed in 2013: "Breslow uses words in a normal conversation that I'm not used to."

As to the impact of his intelligence on his baseball performance, Breslow admits that he analyzes video and looks for inefficiencies in the "kinematic system" of his delivery. At the same time, he often subscribes to the "keep it simple, stupid" principle.

Rapsodo
During the 2016 offseason, Breslow began experimenting with the Rapsodo Baseball system to analyze his mechanics and spin rate on his pitches. His hope was to improve the movement on his pitches and revive his career. When he began using the system in October 2016, Breslow had  of horizontal break on his two-seamer. By January 2017, he was able to improve and add nearly  of additional movement on the two-seamer, resulting in a horizontal break of . Vertical movement on the pitch also increased by about .

Awards

 2005 Southern League All-Star
 2006 International League All-Star
 2006 SoxProspects.com All-Star
 2006 Pawtucket Red Sox Most Valuable Pitcher
 2007 International League All-Star
 2010 MLB Roberto Clemente Award Nominee
 2010 Oakland Athletics Dave Stewart Community Service Award Recipient
 2010 Finalist for the Hutch Award
 2010 Trumbull High School Athletics Hall of Fame Inductee
 2013 boSox Club Man of the Year
 2013 NECBL Hall of Fame
 2013 MLB Roberto Clemente Award Nominee
 2014 MLB Roberto Clemente Award Nominee
 2014 Distinguished Service Award from the Brotherhood of Congregation Mishkan Tefila, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts

Philanthropy
In 2008, Breslow started the Strike 3 Foundation, a non-profit charity that funds pediatric cancer research.

The organization has teamed up with the Yale-New Haven Children's Hospital, Connecticut Children's Medical Center, Conquer Cancer Foundation of the American Society of Clinical Oncology, and Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. The foundation donated $500,000 to the Yale-New Haven Children's Hospital to help enhance their Pediatric Bone Marrow Transplant Program. It has also made gifts to CureSearch for Children's Cancer, Connecticut Children's Medical Center, Yale's Smilow Cancer Hospital, and others.

Breslow hopes to hold annual events in Connecticut and during spring training. His first benefit raised $100,000, and his second benefit more than $85,000. The charity has raised more than $3 million.

In media
Breslow's collegiate career and his first year with the Brewers organization are partially discussed in the book Odd Man Out: A Year on the Mound with a Minor League Misfit by Matt McCarthy. McCarthy and Breslow were friends and teammates at Yale, and were on rival Pioneer League teams during the 2002 season. He also starred in a parody of Rex Ryan's foot fetish video called "ihaveprettylefthand".

Personal life
Breslow invested $50,000 in a Boston-based startup company that designs bicycle-friendly business apparel called Ministry of Supply. The investment came after his then-fiancée, Kelly Shaffer, bought him a shirt as a birthday present, Breslow took the shirt on the road and was so pleased with the performance he then bought two more shirts and a pair of pants. Then he decided to make the investment in the company.

Breslow and Shaffer married on November 9, 2013—ten days after he'd won the World Series with Boston. They have twin boys, Carter and Mason, born in June 2015, and daughter Livia, born December 2018. They live in Newton, Massachusetts.

See also

 List of select Jewish Major League Baseball players

References