[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# First Zionist Congress

es
Bulgaria and Serbia (1): Prof. Gregor Belkovsky 
Germany (2): Rabbi Isaac Rülf, Max Bodenheimer

In addition, it was agreed that one representative was to be appointed for each of Britain, America and Palestine. This was proposed to take place later at publicly convened assemblies.

Basel Program

On the second day of its deliberations (August 30), the version submitted to the Congress by a committee under the chair of Max Nordau, it was stated: "Zionism seeks to establish a home for the Jewish people in Palestine secured under public law." This gave clear expression to Herzl's political Zionist vision, in contrast with the settlement orientated activities of the more loosely organized Hovevei Zion. To meet halfway the request of numerous delegates, the most prominent of whom was Leo Motzkin, who sought the inclusion of the phrase "by international law," a compromise formula proposed by Herzl was eventually adopted.

The program, which came to be known as the Basel Program, set out the goals of the Zionist movement.  It was adopted on the following terms:

According to Israel Zangwill it was Max Nordau who came up with the phrase "home secured by public law" to avoid antagonising the Sultan "too deeply".

Achievements

The First Zionist Congress is credited for the following achievements:
 The formulation of the Zionist platform, (the Basel program, above)
 The foundation of the Zionist Organization
 The adoption of Hatikvah as its anthem
 The absorption of most of the previous Hovevei Zion societies
 The suggestion for the establishment of a people's bank, and
 The election of Herzl as President of the Zionist Organization and Max Nordau one of three vice-presidents.

Theodor Herzl wrote in his diary (September 3, 1897):

Subsequent congresses founded various institutions for the promotion of this program, notably a people's bank known as the Jewish Colonial Trust, which was the financial instrument of political Zionism. Its establishment was suggested at the First Zionist Congress in 1897; the first definite steps toward its institution were taken at the Second Zionist Congress in Cologne, Germany in May, 1898. For the Fifth Zionist Congress, the Jewish National Fund was founded for the purchase of land in Palestine and later the Zionist Commission was founded with subsidiary societies for the study and improvement of the social and economic condition of the Jews within the Land of Israel.

The Zionist Commission was an informal group established by Chaim Weizmann. It carried out initial surveys of Palestine and aided the repatriation of Jews sent into exile by the Ottoman Turks during World War I. It expanded the ZO's Palestine office, which was established in 1907, into small departments for agriculture, settlement, education, land, finance, immigration, and statistics. In 1921, the commission became the Palestine Zionist Executive, which acted as the Jewish Agency, to advise the British mandate authorities on the development of the country in matters of Jewish interest.

The Zionist Congress met every year between 1897 and 1901, then except for war years, every second year (1903–1913, 1921–1939). In 1942, an "Extraordinary Zionist Conference" was held and announced a fundamental departure from traditional Zionist policy with its demand "that Palestine be established as a Jewish  Commonwealth." It became the official Zionist stand on the ultimate aim of the movement. Since the Second World War, meetings have been held approximately every four years and since the creation of the State of Israel, the Congress has been held in Jerusalem.

Gallery

See also

Types of Zionism
World Zionist Congress
Zionist Organization, renamed World Zionist Organization in 1960
Zionism

References

Bibliography

 
 The Jewish Encyclopedia: Basel Program

Jews and Judaism in Basel
World Zionist Congress
Zionists
1897 conferences
1897 in Switzerland
History of Basel
August 1897 events
1890s political events
19th-century political conferences
Events in Basel