[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Temple Franklin

a major landowner since many areas of the country were being settled in the rapid postwar development. By that stage, Temple was disillusioned. He said that the United States was driven by factions and that if a foreign power were to attempt to conquer the country, it would certainly be successful.

After the elder Franklin died in 1790, Temple lived for a while with his father William in England. In London, he acted as an agent of the American Robert Morris of Philadelphia, a signer of the Declaration of Independence, a financier of the American Revolution, and the wealthiest man in the United States. (See Holland Land Company, The Holland Purchase, and The Morris Reserve.) In 1792, Franklin sold  of the Phelps and Gorham Purchase east of the Genesee River in New York state to The Pulteney Association, made up of three British investors. There was widespread land speculation in New York after the Revolution, as most of the Iroquois nations, as allies of the British, had been forced to cede their lands to the United States by the postwar treaty. Millions of acres became available for sale to investors, speculators, and settlers.

The town and village of Franklinville, in Cattaraugus County (one of the counties formed from land in the Holland Purchase), is presumably named after William Temple Franklin.

Marriage and family
During his first period in France, Temple had an illegitimate son, Théodore, with his mistress, Blanchette Caillot, a married woman. The boy died before reaching age five.

After his return to England and living with his father, Temple Franklin followed in his grandfather's and father's footsteps and had an illegitimate daughter, Ellen (May 15, 1798 London – 1875 Nice, France), with Ellen Johnson D'Evelin, the sister-in-law of his father's second wife, Mary (who had been a widow with children). William Franklin took responsibility for his granddaughter Ellen. Temple moved to Paris, where he lived the remainder of his life and never saw his father again. Temple's daughter, Ellen, eventually was married to Capel Hanbury and had a daughter named Maria Hanbury, who was unmarried and had no children.

When he was living in France again, Temple had a long relationship with Hannah Collyer (1771–1846), an Englishwoman. They finally married a month before his 1823 death in poverty in Paris. Temple is buried at Père Lachaise Cemetery. Hannah died on December 12, 1846, at age 75, and is buried next to Temple.

Years in France

After his move to France, Franklin continued to act as a real-estate speculator, gaining and losing a fortune.

By his will of 1788, Benjamin Franklin had bequeathed Temple his papers and correspondence and appointed him as his literary heir. Temple edited and published editions of Franklin's writings, including his well-known Autobiography, published in London and Philadelphia, 1816–1819. He published six volumes of papers from 1817 to 1819. His close friend, George Fox, inherited many of the senior Franklin's papers and later donated them to the American Philosophical Society. Temple Franklin's collected papers are held by the American Philosophical Society in Philadelphia.

Works
Edited The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin (London and Philadelphia, 1816–1819)
The Private Correspondence of Benjamin Franklin (1817). A series of letters on miscellaneous, literary, and political subjects, written between the years 1753 and 1790. Comprised and first published from the originals by his grandson William Temple Franklin.
Edited three-volume Memoirs of the Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin, published 1819

See also
 The Papers of Benjamin Franklin
 The Pulteney Association

Notes

Bibliography
 Schaeper, Thomas J. France and America in the Revolutionary Era: The Life of Jacques-Donatien Leray de Chaumont, 1725–1803. Berghahn Books, 1995.
 Schiff, Stacy. Benjamin Franklin and the Birth of America. Bloomsbury, 2006.

External links

 "William Temple Franklin Papers, 1775–1819", American Philosophical Society
 Claude-Anne Lopez, Temple's Diary (2005), a fictional account, highlighting historical events related to the Franklin household and the American Revolution, commissioned by the Independence Hall Association and published on its website: ushistory.org]
The Benjamin Franklin Collection at the Library of Congress includes material taken to London by William Temple Franklin to prepare his three volume work, Memoirs of the Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin (London: 1817–1818).

1760 births
1823 deaths
Benjamin Franklin
American diplomats
Patriots in the American Revolution
Franklin family
Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery
Members of the American Philosophical Society