[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hispanic Admirals in the United States Navy

rom George Washington University and a master's degree in psychology from Butler University. He earned his medical degree from the University of Barcelona Medical School in Barcelona, Spain. Diaz was the first Hispanic to become the director of the San Diego Naval District and Balboa Naval Hospital.

Rear Admiral Philip A. Dur (Ret.), born in Bethesda, Maryland, earned a bachelor's degree in Government and International Studies and a master's degree in Soviet East European studies from the University of Notre Dame. He also earned a master's degree in Public Administration and a Ph.D. in Political Economy and Government from Harvard University. Dur served as Assistant Deputy Chief of Naval Operations; director of the Navy Strategy Division; commander of the Battle Force United States Sixth Fleet; commander of Cruiser Destroyer Group EIGHT; United States Defense Attaché accredited to the Government of France; commanding officer, ; and director of the Political Military Affairs on the staff of the National Security Council.

Rear Admiral Alvaro R. Gomez (Ret.) born in Brooklyn, New York, earned a bachelor's degree in history from St. Johns University and a Master of Science degree in business administration from George Washington University.

Vice Admiral Diego E. Hernández (Ret.), born in San Juan, was the first Hispanic to be named vice commander of the North American Aerospace Defense Command (NORAD). Hernandez as commander of the Third Fleet, coordinated RIMPAC '88, a massive naval exercise which included more than 40 ships, approximately 200 aircraft and more than 50,000 sailors, airmen and Marines from the United States, Japan, Australia and Canada. This exercise marked the first inclusion of a battleship, the , as a component in RIMPAC.
Rear Admiral Rodrigo C. Melendez (Dental Corps) (Ret.), from Los Angeles, California, joined a Navy Dental Student Early Commissioning Program during his freshmen year in Dental School. He earned Bachelor of Science and Doctor of Dental Surgery degrees from the University of Southern California and a Master of Science degree from George Washington University. He served as Assistant Chief for Education, Training and Personnel, Bureau of Medicine and Surgery in Washington, D.C.
 Rear Adm. Moises DelToro III, grew up in South Bend, Indiana, and enlisted in the Navy in 1980. He was commissioned via the University of Utah Navy ROTC program in 1987 with a Bachelor of Science in Mechanical Engineering. He holds a Master of Science in Engineering Management from the Catholic University and a Master of Science in Resourcing National Security Strategy from the Industrial College of the Armed Forces.

His sea tours include command of the USS Rhode Island (SSBN 740 Blue) from March 2005 to March 2008. During this period, the ship was awarded two Battle Efficiency Awards for operational excellence and three Commander-in-Chief, Atlantic Fleet Retention Excellence Awards. DelToro also served as a division officer aboard USS Pittsburgh (SSN 720); engineer officer aboard USS Maine (SSBN 741 Blue), and executive officer aboard USS Salt Lake City (SSN 716), deploying to the Mediterranean, North Atlantic and Western Pacific, as well as conducting several strategic deterrent patrols.

Ashore he served as Nuclear Propulsion Officer Candidate Program Manager at Navy Recruiting Command, Action Officer on the Joint Staff (J-8), and Non-nuclear Enlisted Community Manager at the Bureau of Personnel. DelToro also served as executive assistant to the Director, Submarine Warfare (N-97) for one year before entering the Acquisition Professional Community in 2009, where he served in a number of assistant program manager positions. DelToro served as the program manager for Undersea Defensive Warfare Systems from December 2011 to April 2015. During this period the program was awarded a Secretary of the Navy Excellence in Acquisition Award and a Coalition for Government Procurement Excellence in Partnership Award. He was the recipient of the 2013 Naval Submarine League’s Vice Admiral J. Guy Reynolds Award for Excellence in Submarine Acquisition.

DelToro assumed command of the Naval Undersea Warfare Center (NUWC) in July 2015. In this position, he was responsible for leading more than 5,000 scientists, engineers, technicians and support personnel, both civilian and active duty, within two NUWC divisions. NUWC provides full spectrum research, development, test and evaluation, engineering, and fleet support for submarines, autonomous underwater systems, and offensive and defensive weapon systems associated with undersea warfare.

Personal awards include the Legion of Merit (two awards), Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Meritorious Service Medal (two awards), and various other personal, campaign, and unit awards.

2007 - present