[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Richmond and Petersburg Railroad

sengers would have to stay at hotels. Robert E. Lee, of the Confederate States of America predicted that the south's non-connecting railroads would cause problems for the military.  He was proven correct when two locomotives had to be hauled over land around Alexandria during the American Civil War.

Towards the end of the war, Lt. Gen. Ulysses S. Grant tried to cut off the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad, which was the supply line to Richmond, in the Siege of Petersburg.  The Confederacy eventually destroyed the bridge across James River as they retreated.  The U.S. Federal Government rebuilt the bridge over the James River, a ,  trestle bridge on the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad in the last year of the Civil War.

After the War, railroads were held by owners outside of the southern cities during the Reconstruction Era.  These non-residents were happy to have rail lines that passed through cities efficiently.  Union stations were built to connect different rail lines.  A company, owned by both railroads, was founded in 1867 to connect the Richmond and Petersburg with the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Potomac. Investments in the railroad also paid for the rebuilding of the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad Bridge over the James River.

The train took about an hour end to end in 1884, with a fast route with no stops that took 45 minutes.  Three passenger runs and a mail run went in each direction with connections to the Brighthope Railway, the Petersburg Railroad, the Norfolk and Western Railroad and the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Potomac Railroad.

The Richmond and Petersburg Railroad had been built with a  gauge and the Brighthope Railway, formerly the Clover Hill, had been changed to the narrow gauge of .  Railroad Officers of the South met in Atlanta in February 1886 to determine a day to standardize gauges on all railroads to enable trains to travel all over the south without loading or unloading or having passengers change trains. In May the gauge was quickly changed to .  The Brighthope Railway, a privately held spur, was not changed.

Railroads used wood to power the steam engines before the civil war.  During the Civil War, the Richmond and Petersburg wood choppers, who were slaves, provided fuel for the steam engines. After 1870, as the eastern forests were cleared, coal gradually became more important.  The Richmond and Petersburg hired firemen that shovel coal in 1893 and did not list any wood purchased in their account of fuel.

Belt Line

By the late 1880s, passenger and freight traffic was heavy enough that it was causing significant congestion in downtown Richmond as much of the track connecting to the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Potomac Railroad ran down the middle of Belvedere and Broad Streets.   To combat this, an additional line bypassing downtown Richmond was built jointly by the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad and the Richmond, Fredericksburg and Potomac Railroad.  This line, known as the Belt Line, connected with the Richmond and Petersburg main line at Coffer Road near Clopton and ran northwest, crossed the James River, and headed north along the west side of Richmond to a junction with the RF&P main line (which would be known as AY Interlocking).  The Belt Line opened in 1891 and had a single track and was used as a freight bypass while passenger trains continued to use the original route.

Merger into the Atlantic Coast Line and later years
Already in 1882, passengers could travel seamlessly in sleeper cars from Boston, Massachusetts to Washington, D.C. or from New York, New York to Jacksonville, Florida along the Atlantic Coast.  William T. Walters of Baltimore, Maryland formed a holding company, in 1889, later called the Atlantic Coast Line of five consecutive railroads starting with the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad and connecting all the way to Charleston, South Carolina.   In 1898, the Richmond and Petersburg Railroad merged with the Petersburg Railroad to form the Atlantic Coast Line of Virginia.  In 1900, all five railroads were merged to form the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad from Richmond all the way to Augusta, Georgia.