[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Luis Alfonso de Alba

borate the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, including the establishment of the negotiating Committee. He also pursued and achieved several measures that granted full participation of civil society, and particularly of persons with disabilities, in the elaboration of the Treaty.

De Alba served as Permanent Representative of Mexico to the International Organizations in Geneva from 2004 to 2009 and was elected Chairman of the Disarmament and International Security Committee (First Committee) of the General Assembly during its 59th Session (2004). Under his chairmanship, the Committee approved an initiative for the revitalization of its work, and in particular for the strengthening of dialogue and cooperation to advance the committee's agenda.

He was Chairman of the Council of the International Organization for Migration (IOM) at its 88th and 89th Sessions (November 2004 to November 2005). During his tenure, he undertook broad consultations leading to a comprehensive proposal for a new strategy to further improve the work and functioning of IOM and to develop a new paradigm on migration placing the rights of migrants at its core.

On 19 May 2006, De Alba was unanimously elected First President of the United Nations Human Rights Council, a mandate he held from 19 June 2006 to 18 June 2007. During that period, the council was entrusted by the General Assembly to design the new institutions of the international human rights system, while at the same time fulfilling its mandate to promote and protect human rights, in order to avoid a protection vacuum. Furthermore, De Alba actively promoted the negotiation and adoption of the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples. For his role in the council, he was considered a strong candidate for the post of High Commissioner for Human Rights in 2008; the role instead went to Navi Pillay.

In June 2009 De Alba was appointed Mexico's Special Representative for Climate Change and led negotiations for the 2010 United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP16). According to several diplomats involved in the negotiations, he helped to restore trust into the multilateral process after COP15 in Copenhagen. He was nominated for the Chatham House Prize (2011) for his role as chief negotiator at this high level meeting.

From 2011 to 2013 De Alba was Mexico's Permanent Representative to the United Nations (New York), where he introduced a new resolution on Special Political Missions of the UN, seeking greater transparency and accountability. He actively participated at the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio, Brazil, 2012) and was elected Senior Vice-President of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC) in 2012. He served as Co-Facilitator of the High Level Event on the Rule of Law (2012), led negotiations for the General Assembly Declaration of the High-level Dialogue on International Migration and Development (2013) and, along with an indigenous representative, facilitated the preparation of the World Conference on Indigenous Peoples.

In June 2013 De Alba was appointed Mexican Ambassador to Austria, concurrent with Slovakia and Slovenia and Permanent Representative to the International Organizations based in Vienna. Under his Chairmanship, the Expert Group on Protection Against Trafficking in Cultural Property approved the Guidelines for Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice Responses with respect to trafficking in cultural property and other related offences (2014). He chaired the 24th Session of the United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice (2015) and facilitated negotiations of the Doha Declaration approved at the 13th United Nations Congress on Crime Prevention and Criminal Justice (Doha, Qatar, 2015).

From May 2016 to September 2017 he was Permanent Representative of Mexico to the Organization of American States.

Since September 2017 De Alba has been serving as the Undersecretary for Latin American and the Caribbean, appointed by the Ministrer of Foreign Affairs of Mexico.

He has been appointed as  Special Envoy for the 2019 Climate Summit by Antonio Guttieres in November 2018.

References

1957 births
Living people
Mexican diplomats