[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 22]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

Free State. Four are shot in Roscrea, County Tipperary, one in Carlow.
16 January – Two Republican fighters are killed in a skirmish in County Tipperary.
17 January – 
Three National Army soldiers are killed in action 
In County Mayo, a National Army patrol is attacked as it returns from Kiltimagh to Swinford. Five National Army Troops are injured, one of which dies of his injuries a few days later. National Army troops return fire, killing one Irregular, and injuring four. A grenade is hurled during the attack that seriously injures a young girl.
18 January – Republican leader Liam Deasy is captured by Free State troops in the Galtee Mountains. He is not executed after he signs an order calling for men under his command to surrender.
Three National Army soldiers are killed in action (six have been killed int two days)
19 January – Republican fighters derail the railway line on the bridge near Ardfert, County Kerry. The train crashes, killing its two drivers.
20 January – 
Eleven Republican prisoners are executed by the Free State – two in Limerick, four in Tralee and five in Athlone.
In County Mayo, on the road between Kiltimagh and Swinford, a commercial traveler is killed and his companion is seriously injured after they fell into an ambush prepared by Irregulars.
22 January – Three Anti-Treaty IRA men are executed in Dundalk, having been captured on 7 January.
23 January – 
Two Republican prisoners are executed in Waterford.
Two civilian railway drivers are shot in Tralee railway station. One is killed, another is wounded. Republicans are blamed but do not claim the attack. The Railway drivers issue a statement that "neither murder nor intimidation would prevent them from carrying out their duties". Free State soldier Niall Harrington later alleges the culprits were National Army officers.
An Anti-Treaty IRA column under Tom McEllistrim and John Joe Sheehy attacks the National Army barracks, containing 60 troops, in Castlemaine, County Kerry. They use an improvised mortar, one of whose rounds makes a direct hit on the barracks. In a subsequent two-hour gun battle, one Free State soldier is killed, the town's railway station is burned and the bridge over the river Maine blown up by the Republicans. The National Army reports 4 Anti-Treaty fighters killed.
Two Free State officers Lt.s Kennedy and Cruise are seized while driving near Clonmel, shot and secretly buried. Their bodies are found on 3 April. 
25 January – One Free State soldier and one Anti-Treaty fighter are killed in two separate skirmishes in Kerry.
26 January – 
Three men are executed by the Free State in Birr, County Offaly for armed robbery. Although not actually IRA members, having been denied entry on the grounds that they were too young, the three had Republican connections and claimed as 'Republican soldiers' in an Anti-Treaty communique.
An anti-Treaty land mine outside Terenure College, Dublin destroys a National Army tender, badly injuring three Free State soldiers and two civilians.
27 January – Two Republican prisoners are executed in Portlaoise. The two are Joseph Byrne and Patrick Geraghty, commanders of the IRA Offally Brigade. The executions, 'terrorised' the Offaly Anti-Treatyites, who had killed 5 Free State troops up to that point, but killed only 2 after. A total of 22 people are killed in Offaly during the conflict. 8 Free State troops, 11 Republicans and 3 civilians.
The Free State executes a total of 34 Republican prisoners during this month, bringing the total number executed so far up to 53.
27 January – Anti-Treaty IRA ambush a party of five National Army soldiers at Abbeyfeale, County Kerry. A Captain Coyle is killed and three soldiers wounded. Free State troops pursue the IRA column, killing one of them and wounding another two.
A civilian William McGowan, is shot dead by a Free State sentry in Dublin's Phoenix Park.
28 January – In County Leitrim, Ballinamore Free State barracks, is attacked and taken by Republicans. They take 35 National Army soldiers prisoner, who they take with them back to the Arigna mountains. The barracks itself and the train station are destroyed with explosives.
29 January – The Earl of Mayo's house is destroyed and burned by Republicans.
A Free State soldier is killed in an attack on the National Army post in Castlemaine, County Kerry.
30 January – Free State Senator John Bagwell is kidnapped in Dublin by Anti-Treaty fighters. Senator O'Sullivan's house is also burned in Killarney.