[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Holtun

arge pyramid  south of Structure A-1. It measures  and supports a number of smaller structures (A-9 through to A-20) enclosing a courtyard with an area of . The structures have an average base width of  and an average height of  high.

Structure A-9 is the largest building standing on Structure A-8.

Structures A-21 to A-24 are four low mounds with an average height of . They are located to the east of Structure A-8.

Group B

Group B is situated  south of Group A. The group consists of two small clusters of buildings grouped around their respective plazas and contains a number of chultunob (subterranean storage chambers).

Structures B-1, B-2 and B-3 enclose an interior patio on the north, west and south sides respectively. These structures measure .

Structure B-4 is a small basal platform situated to the east of structures B-1 to B-3.

The south plaza of Group B has an area of  and is enclosed by a number of structures.

Structure B-5 is on the north side of the southern plaza in Group B. It measures  and stands  high.

Structures B-6 and B-7 are on the east side of the south plaza.

Structure B-8 is a range structure enclosing the south side of the plaza.

Structures B-9 and B-10 are on the west side of the south plaza.

Group C
This group lies  southeast of Group B and includes 29 structures, most of which are clustered on an artificially levelled hilltop.

Structure C-1 is a small mound on the north side of the group, it is associated with a nearby chultun.

Structures C-2 through to C-5 are part of a compact and formally arranged complex measuring  and form a T-shape as seen from above. The complex measures  high.

Structure C-6 is on the east side of the complex and measures .

Structure C-7 is the largest structure in the group and measures  square with a height of . It is on the south side of the complex.

Structure C-8 is on the east side of the complex and measures . It stands  high.

Structures C-15 to C-21 are long structures measuring up to  lying to the south of the group. The appear to be parapets enclosing an avenue running south to another cluster of buildings.

Structures C-22 to C-29 form a well-defined cluster arranged around a central courtyard lying to one side of a possible causeway running southwards from Group C to Group D. Most of these mounds are quite small, with only Structures C-22 and C-25 being of a larger size, measuring  in diameter and  high. The whole complex is located upon an artificially levelled platform; the central courtyard has an area of .

Group D
Group D is located to the south of Group C and is linked to it by a  wide causeway that runs for .

Structures D-1, D-2 and D-3, form another small cluster to one side of the causeway. Structure D-2 is on the south side and measures  by  high. The three buildings enclose a small  courtyard except on the east side.

Structures D-4 through to D-10 are arranged around a central plaza with an area of , mostly supported by Structure D-11.

Structure D-4 measures  by  high and is on the north side of the plaza.

Structure D-6 is a large building on the west side of the plaza. It measures  and is  high.

Structure D-9 is on the west side of the plaza and is the largest structure in Group D, measuring  by  high.

Structure D-10 is also on the west side of the plaza and measures  and stands  high.

Structure D-11 is an artificial platform supporting the southernmost cluster of buildings in the group, it is accessed via the causeway.

Structures D-12, D-13 and D-14 form another small plaza group, the plaza has an area of  and is open on the southern side.

Sculpture

The masks for which the site is best known were found on Structure A-2 and are known from three parts of the structure where they appear to have flanked the principle stairway. The first of these is  under the stone talud forming the last stage of construction. It was only partially uncovered during excavations and traces of red pigment were found on the plaster. The exposed portion of the mask measures  high by  thick and is inclined at 60°.

The second area of masks was found  inside the main looters' tunnel. There are three masks fashioned from limestone blocks and covered with a  thick coating of stucco. These masks are angled at 45°. The lowest is a zoomorphic mask with feline features that measures . Immediately above it is another mask measuring . It is an anthropomorphic mask in a good state of preservation with circular eyes, a prominent upper lip, a flattened nose and a downturned mouth. The third mask was destroyed by the looters' excavations and was estimated to have a height of  based on remaining stucco fragments.