[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Yad Sarah

Yad Sarah () is the largest national volunteer organization in Israel. Employing over 6,000 volunteers, with a salaried staff of 150, Yad Sarah serves over 350,000 clients each year. It is best known for its free loans of over 244,000 pieces of medical and rehabilitative home-care equipment annually, enabling sick, disabled, elderly and recuperating patients to live at home. This saves the country's economy an estimated $320 million in hospital fees and long-term care costs each year.

According to an independent survey, one out of every two Israeli families has been helped by Yad Sarah. The organization serves Jews, Christians, Muslims and Druze, as well as tourists with disabilities. Its menu of free or nominal-fee services include lending of medical and rehabilitative equipment, oxygen service, wheelchair transportation, national emergency alarm system, services for the homebound, legal aid for the elderly, geriatric dentistry, day rehabilitation centers, a play center for special needs children, and an education and recreation club for retirees. Yad Sarah receives no government funding, but relies on donations to meet its $23 million operating budget. It exports its expertise to developing countries and has established similar models in various countries. Yad Sarah is a recipient of the Israel Prize and has been awarded advisory status to the United Nations Economic and Social Council.

History

Yad Sarah started in the 1970s as a gemach (free-loan service) in the home of Rabbi Uri Lupolianski, who later served as mayor of Jerusalem from 2003 to 2008. At that time, Lupolianski was a high school teacher with a young family and one of his children needed a vaporizer during the winter, so his wife borrowed one from a neighbor. Upon hearing that such short-term-use items were hard to obtain, Lupolianski decided to start his own gemach by buying a few vaporizers to lend to others. People who heard about his gemach began dropping off other items which are also used for a short time, such as crutches, walkers and wheelchairs. With seed money from his father, Yaakov Lupolianski, and guidance from Kalman Mann, director general of Hadassah Medical Center, Lupolianski incorporated his gemach into a nationwide non-profit in 1976. Lupolianski named the organization Yad Sarah (Hebrew for "Memorial to Sarah") in memory of his grandmother, Sarah, who was murdered in the Holocaust. Yad Sarah raises 92% of its operating budget from donations. The organization does not receive any government assistance. Yad Sarah has helped establish equipment-lending centers and repair workshops in Angola, Cameroon, El Salvador, Russia, South Africa, and Jordan.

Operation
As of 2022, Yad Sarah operates 126 equipment-lending branches throughout Israel. These are located in cities, development towns, and Arab villages, hospitals and private homes. Altogether, the branches stock approximately 300,000 items and 300 types of medical and rehabilitative equipment, including wheelchairs, crutches, beds and oxygen tanks. Yad Sarah's six-story Jerusalem headquarters and central warehouse on Herzl Blvd. occupies a full city block.

Services

Equipment lending
Yad Sarah lends out wheelchairs, crutches, oxygen concentrators, apnea monitors, infant scales, hospital beds, shower chairs and commodes, high-tech and assistive devices, and many other home-care items. At any given time, 18,000 wheelchairs are in circulation. Equipment loans are free of charge; borrowers leave a refundable security deposit and can use the equipment for up to three months.

Worn or damaged items are repaired and refurbished at four regional warehouses staffed by volunteers. Yad Sarah receives donations of new and used equipment from local and foreign donors, and some communities have organized used equipment drives on the organization's behalf. In recent years, Yad Sarah began importing components and assembling its own orthopedic and high-tech equipment. It offers a six-month training course in parts assembly to unemployed new immigrants over the age of 50 from the Former Soviet Union and Ethiopia, with certification recognized by the Ministry of Labor.

In conjunction with its equipment-lending operation, Yad Sarah has established five resource and exhibition centers where clients can see and try out home-care equipment, and receive guidance on their use.

Oxygen service
Yad Sarah lends oxygen purifying machines and oxygen cylinders for home use. The organization is reimbursed for this service by Israel's National Insurance Institute (Bituah Leumi) and the patient's health insurer.

Wheelchair transportation
Specially equipped vans are available to transport persons in wheelchairs to doctor's appointments, Yad Sarah center activities, social occasions, or errands. These vans also bring disabled individuals to and from polling places on election day. Yad Sarah provides airport pick-up and return for disabled tourists as well.