[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blackadder: The Cavalier Years

greed awakens, and he proceeds to take the money from Baldrick, announcing that he will replace him as the executioner, saying it needs somebody who actually has an axe. (From this point, Sir Edmund – who has hitherto shown uncharacteristic touches of conscience – behaves like a typical Blackadder.)

30 January 1649 arrives, and with it King Charles' day of execution. He is left alone for a few minutes with his executioner (Sir Edmund, in a hood and with a false voice). Sir Edmund takes advantage of these minutes to relieve the King of his remaining wealth: however, the King eventually recognises him, but mistakes Blackadder's intentions and congratulates him for trying to save him even at the last minute, before giving him custody of his infant son, the later King Charles II of England, Scotland and Ireland. (Historically, he was 19 years old at the time of his father's death.) As he cannot explain his betrayal to the King, Sir Edmund panics and uses the plan that Baldrick had suggested earlier. The camera then focuses on Baldrick, who is listening to the sounds of the execution. Sir Edmund chops the pumpkin and proclaims "This is the head of a traitor." Predictably enough, the crowd answers him, "No, it's not! It's a huge pumpkin with a pathetic moustache drawn on it!" Sir Edmund apologises and says he will try again. Baldrick continues to listen as Sir Edmund beheads the King and the crowd cheers.

As the last scene begins, Sir Edmund and Baldrick have returned to Blackadder Hall. A disgusted Blackadder cradles the infant Charles in his hands. Baldrick tries to console him by saying that at least he tried, and that now the future of the British monarchy lies fast asleep in his arms in the person of this infant prince. He suggests to his master that he should be ready to escape to France, because as a known Royalist, he is in danger of being arrested by the Roundheads and beheaded. Sir Edmund, who apparently had forgotten that he is in danger, immediately rises from his seat, ready to take action. But it is too late; Roundheads are already at the Hall's doors, demanding his surrender. Sir Edmund explains to Baldrick that there is no choice for a man of honour but to stand and fight, and die in defence of his future sovereign. However, as a Blackadder, he was never a man of honour. Passing the prince to Baldrick, he proceeds to remove his long black hair (which was apparently a wig), his false moustache and beard, to reveal a Roundhead appearance – short blond hair and a clean-shaven face. Thus unrecognisable, when Cromwell enters the room, he denounces Baldrick as "royalist scum". The episode ends with a hapless Baldrick, still holding the Prince in his arms, being approached by Cromwell, sword drawn.

Cast
Rowan Atkinson as Sir Edmund Blackadder
Tony Robinson as Baldrick, Esquire
Stephen Fry as King Charles I
Warren Clarke as Oliver Cromwell
Harry Enfield as the narrator

Production
"Blackadder: The Cavalier Years" was recorded, on 10th January 1988.

Fry based his interpretation of King Charles on the then Prince of Wales, but now King Charles III. In series chronology, this episode takes place between the second and third series of the show, although it was produced after the third series had aired. The kitchen set is a redress of the servants' quarters from the third series. A behind the scenes studio tape was found in 2019 and was released by Kaleidoscope on their YouTube channel.

References

External links

Transcript and information at Blackadderhall.com

Blackadder episodes
British television specials
Comic Relief
1988 British television episodes
Fiction set in 1648
Fiction set in 1649
Television shows written by Ben Elton
1988 television specials
Television episodes about the English Civil War
Television shows written by Richard Curtis
Cultural depictions of Charles I of England
Cultural depictions of Oliver Cromwell