[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# List of coups and coup attempts

'état: Pro-British King Peter II and his supporters staged a coup in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia to replace pro-German Regent Prince Paul, leading to the Axis invasion of Yugoslavia.

1942
Coup attempt in Algeria: French Resistance fighters staged a coup in Algiers in the night before Operation Torch.

1943
1943 Argentine coup d'état: Arturo Rawson overthrew Ramón Castillo.
Fall of the Fascist regime in Italy: A coup on 24–25 July culminated with a vote of no confidence against Fascist dictator Benito Mussolini, ending 21 years of Fascist rule in the Kingdom of Italy. He was replaced by Marshal Pietro Badoglio.
Bolivia: Left-wing military officers and opposition militants of the Revolutionary Nationalist Movement under Gualberto Villarroel overthrew Enrique Peñaranda.

1944

Palm Sunday Coup in El Salvador: On 2 April, the army attempted to oust President Maximiliano Hernández Martínez.
20 July plot in Germany: Part of Operation Valkyrie, the German resistance and German Reserve Army attempted to kill Adolf Hitler and seize control of the Third Reich in order to negotiate peace with the Allies. The coup failed after it was found Hitler did not die in the bomb blast, and the Reserve Army began to refuse to take orders from the German resistance. 5,000 conspirators were given show trials and summarily executed.
King Michael's Coup in Romania: On 23 August, pro-German dictator Ion Antonescu was overthrown and King Michael of Romania switched the nation from the Axis side of the war to join the Allies.
1944 Bulgarian coup d'état: The government of pro-German Prime Minister Konstantin Muraviev was overthrown, and Kimon Georgiev of the Fatherland Front switched the nation from the Axis side of the war to join the Allies.
Operation Panzerfaust in Hungary: Nazi Germany forcefully replaced the royalist Hungarian government of Regent Miklós Horthy with the pro-Nazi Government of National Unity, led by Ferenc Szálasi.
El Salvador: On 20 October, Andrés Ignacio Menéndez was overthrown by Osmín Aguirre y Salinas.

1945
Kyūjō incident: 
1945 Brazilian coup d'état: Getúlio Vargas's government ended in a coup led by General Mourão, one of his former supporters.
1945 Venezuelan coup d'état: Isaías Medina Angarita was overthrown in a coup, and Rómulo Betancourt was appointed to lead a civilian–military junta.

1946 

 Overthrow of Gualberto Villarroel in Bolivia: An enraged mob stormed the Government Palace and lynched President Gualberto Villarroel.

1947
1947 Thai coup d'état: A coup against Thawan Thamrongnawasawat resulted in the return of Plaek Phibunsongkhram.
Hungary: The democratically elected Prime Minister Ferenc Nagy stepped down in the face of blackmail from the Hungarian Communist Party, and was replaced by Lajos Dinnyés. 
Romania: King Michael was forced to abdicate and leave the country at the hands of the Romanian Communist Party.

1948
1948 Czechoslovak coup d'état: The Communist Party of Czechoslovakia, backed by the Soviets, asserted control over the government of Czechoslovakia, beginning four decades of communist rule.
Venezuela: The democratically elected government of Rómulo Gallegos was overthrown, and a military junta was installed with Carlos Delgado Chalbaud as its leader.
Alwaziri coup in the Mutawakkilite Kingdom of Yemen: Imam Yahya Muhammad Hamid ed-Din was killed and the rival Sayyid family, the Alwazirs, seized power for several weeks.
El Salvador: On 14 December, Salvador Castaneda Castro was overthrown in a coup led by many younger military officers.

1949
March 1949 Syrian coup d'état: A bloodless military coup by U.S.-backed general Husni al-Za'im overthrew elected President Shukri al-Quwatli, allowing passage of the Trans-Arabian Pipeline. al-Za'im became President of Syria, and Muhsin al-Barazi became Prime Minister.
Syria: In August, Sami al-Hinnawi, along with several other officers of the Syrian Social Nationalist Party, executed al-Za'im and al-Barazi, and installed Hashim al-Atassi as president.
Syria: In December, Adib Shishakli led a military coup. He kept al-Atassi as president, but arrested Sami al-Hinnawi to end Hashemite influence in Syria.

1950–1959