[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Daniel Molokele

Daniel Fortune Molokele (b. Fortune Mguni on 31 January 1975 in Wankie, Rhodesia) is a Zimbabwean pro-democracy human rights lawyer well known for his fight for democracy. He currently resides in Hwange, Zimbabwe

Life background

Molokele was born Friday 31 January 1975 at the Wankie Colliery Hospital in the town of Hwange, in the north-western part of Zimbabwe.

His father's name was Godfrey Majahana Mguni. He was a career trade unionist and a well-known community leader in Hwange. Among his accomplishments was being elected as the Workers Committee Chairperson between 1979 and 1990. He was also a key leader of both the Associated Mineworkers Union of Zimbabwe and the Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions. He died on 28 September 2003.

Molokele's mother, Jane Mpofu, was a career educator specializing in pre-school education. She has since retired and is now based at Bulawayo.

Soccer and politics history in Molokele’s family

His father used to play in the amateur football league known as the Wankie Football Association. (WAFA) He was also the chairperson for a team that played under the WAFA league known as the Zulu Royals Football Club. Perhaps not to be outdone by his dad, Molokele's younger brother also set up his own successful junior soccer team known as Skyline Football Club. The team used to play under the Lwendulu Football Association (LIFA) during the latter part of the 1980s.

Politically, both of Molokele's parents were active local leaders for the Zimbabwe African People's Union (ZAPU) during his entire childhood years.

Molokele spent all his childhood years at No.1 Colliery (Lwendulu Village). His family stayed at several homes in Hwange that included P63, O21, L24 and M28.
Molokele did all his seven years of primary education at the St Ignatius primary school between 1982 and 1988.

In 1989, he was enrolled at a boarding school (Ingwenya Mission) at Ntabazinduna, just outside Bulawayo where he did his studies from Form 1 to 4 at John Tallach secondary school till 1992. Between 1993 and 1994, he was enrolled at another boarding school in Gweru where he did his A level studies at Fletcher High School.

In March 1995, he was admitted at the University of Zimbabwe (UZ) law faculty where he completed his Bachelor of Laws honours degree in May 1999.

Molokele was an activist from the time he arrived at the UZ. He was actively involved in various campus platforms such as the Christian Union, Matabeleland Development Society and of course in the mainstream student politics. In this regard, Molokele became one of the most successful student political leaders in the history of Zimbabwe. He was a student leader at the University of Zimbabwe in Harare between 1995 and 1999.

During the said period, he contested in three different elections in which he was elected as the Secretary General, Vice President and then finally as the President of the Students Union.

He was also involved in the national and international student politics. Specifically, he was elected as the Vice President of the Zimbabwe National Students Union (ZINASU) from 1997 to 1999. He also participated in different programmes and conferences of the Southern African Students Union (SASU) from 1997 to 1999.

He was one of the prominent student leaders that were instrumental in the setting up of the constitutional movement of Zimbabwe in 1997, the National Constitutional Assembly. (NCA) He was also at the forefront in the role that was played by the students' movement in the setting up of the Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) in 1999.

Unlike his peers, the late Learnmore Jongwe, Job Sikhala and Tafadzwa Musekiwa, among others, he opted not to be a Member of Parliament in 2000 and chose to work with the broader civil society movement initially in Zimbabwe before focusing at South Africa and Africa at large.

After his university years, Molokele relocated to Bulawayo where he initially worked as a legal practitioner at Ben Baron and Partners. He was soon lured to full-time activism when he was appointed as the Bulawayo regional programme officer for the National Constitutional Assembly (NCA). Afterwards he also worked as the Zimbabwe southern regional programme officer for the local chapter of Transparency International (TIZ).

During his Bulawayo years from June 1999 to December 2003, Molokele was actively involved in the setting up of various organisations such as the Christian Legal Society (CLS), Gospel Music Association (GMA) and the Christian Leadership Forum (CLF), Bulawayo Agenda, among others.