[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Privy chamber

oom of the Stool had a high standing.

Sir William Compton (1509–1528): Died in 1528 during the sweating sickness
Sir Henry Norris (1526–1536): Beheaded 1536 for High Treason
Sir Thomas Heneage (1536–1546)
Sir Anthony Denny (1546–1547)
Sir Michael Stanhope (1547–1551): Beheaded 1552 for High Treason

King Edward VI
During 1549–53, there were six "principal gentlemen" (Sir John Cheke, Sir Henry Sydney, Sir Nicholas Throckmorton, Sir Thomas Wroth, Sir Henry Nevill and Barnaby) and twenty-six "ordinary gentlemen" in Edward VI's Privy chamber. All of these gentlemen, except for Barnaby, were 10 to 15 years older than the king. Usually, the six "principal gentlemen" would be close intimates of the monarch; however, with a king as young and inexperienced as Edward, there was a huge possibility that some of these men could have forced themselves onto the king rather than the other way around. In fact, it might well have been the case that there were gentlemen of the privy chamber who were not so friendly with the king: such may have been Sir Phillip Hoby, who was a diplomatist and an intriguer, or Lord Strange and William Stanley who "confessed to having been employed by Somerset as a spy".
 
As salary, a gentleman received £50 a year, a gentleman usher £30, and a groom £20. The gentlemen were regular officers of the court and hence belonged to what was called the "Ordinary of the King's Honorable House", as opposed to the six gentlemen, two gentlemen ushers, four grooms, one barber, and one page, whose positions had been established during the reign of King Henry VIII.

The privy chamber led to the rise of many powerful men. Later in the reign of King Edward VI, Sir John Gates emerged as "a political figure, based in the privy chamber, and able to control access to the young king on behalf of his patron, the Duke of Northumberland." Usually, it was the person closest to the king (whether it was the Lord Chancellor, the Lord Protector or the Lord President of the Privy Council) who would pack the privy chamber with his allies. This not only suggests that the members of the privy chamber changed depending on who occupied these positions of power, but also hints that the privy chamber was very useful in maintaining the power of such people. In fact, John Fowler indirectly maintained Thomas Seymour's control over Edward by accepting bribes and allowing repeated contact and influence between the two.

Queen Mary and Queen Elizabeth
Queen Mary's household, at the time of her death, included a Privy Chamber establishment of seven Ladies and thirteen Gentlewomen, alongside a mere half a dozen Gentlemen and Grooms. Under Elizabeth I the number of males on the establishment was further reduced to just two, one Gentleman and one Groom.

James VI and I 
James VI of Scotland became king of England in 1603. The institutions of the Scottish royal court and household and the architectural spaces of the palaces were different to England. James' varlets of the "chalmer" became grooms of the bedchamber. Some English courtiers like John Fortescue, who resisted the appointments of Scottish courtiers lost their places.The new Privy Chamber formed in May 1603 had 48 gentlemen, twelve in service at any time. The new gooms seem to have been of lower family status than Elizabeth's but the ushers enjoyed some superiority. The Duke of Lennox was Chamberlain, but Sir Thomas Erskine was in charge. John Murray of Bedchamber became a particularly influential courtier and conduit of patronage.

Notes

References

English monarchy
Noble titles
 
Positions within the British Royal Household