[Source: PubMed]

12. Reprod Health. 2019 May 29;16(Suppl 1):57. doi: 10.1186/s12978-019-0710-0.

Prioritizing the sexual and reproductive health and rights of adolescent girls 
and young women within HIV treatment and care services in emergency settings: a 
girl-centered agenda.

Roxo U(1), Mobula ML(2), Walker D(3), Ficht A(4), Yeiser S(4).

Author information:
(1)USAID, 2100 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA, USA. uroxo@usaid.gov.
(2)USAID, 1300 Pennsylvania Ave NW, Washington, DC, USA.
(3)UNICEF, 3 UN Plaza, New York City, New York, USA.
(4)USAID, 2100 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Extensive documentation exists on a range of negative sexual and 
reproductive health outcomes and rights violations occurring during humanitarian 
emergencies. We explore two central questions: Do existing policies, services, 
and research adequately address the SRH rights, priorities and HIV risks of 
adolescent girls and young women in emergency settings? What are the missed 
opportunities for holistically addressing the vulnerabilities experienced by 
those living with HIV during rapid onset disasters and long term, protracted 
emergencies? Authors review considerations informing real-time decision making, 
and highlight missed opportunities to apply a gendered lens in the delivery of 
AGYW-centered SRHR/HIV services.
METHODS: A scoping review identified studies on HIV intervention and outcomes in 
emergency settings, published in the peer-reviewed literature (2002-2017). This 
exercise was complemented with a desk review of normative guidance, frameworks, 
and implementation guidelines on HIV and SRH in emergency responses, and by 
consultations with subject matter experts.
RESULTS: The existing frameworks and guidance pay scant attention to the sexual 
reproductive health and rights of young women living with HIV (WLHIV), focusing 
mainly on prevention of mother to child transmission (PMTCT), antiretroviral 
therapy (ART), HIV testing services, and linkage to treatment services. Applying 
a gendered sexual and reproductive health lens to the response offers 
opportunities to identify critical implementation questions, and highlight 
promising practices, to better tailor current services for AGYW.
CONCLUSIONS: A plurality of competing needs crowds out dedicated time and space 
to effectively integrate HIV and sexual and reproductive health interventions in 
emergency settings. Political will is required to advance multi-sectoral 
cooperation, through joint planning, rights-informed learning and integrative 
responses, and to promote creative solutions for ART continuation, drug supply 
and HIV testing, treatment and care. Recent advancements in policy and practice 
would suggest that a more AGYW-centered response is feasible.

DOI: 10.1186/s12978-019-0710-0
PMCID: PMC6538549
PMID: 31138222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.