[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Campaign in the Eastern Foothills of the Funiu Mountains

The Campaign in the Eastern Foothills of the Funiu Mountains (伏牛山东麓战役) was a series of battles fought between the nationalists and the communists during the Chinese Civil War after World War II for the control of western Hubei and the border areas of Hubei, Honan and Shensi provinces. The campaign resulted in the communist victory.

Prelude
In mid October 1947, the nationalists had gathered forces included the V Corps centered at Luoyang at the east, and the Reorganized 1st Division and the Reorganized 36th Division at Tongguan County at the west for the preparation to reopen the Longhai railway transportation / communication line by first surrounding and then annihilating the communist force led by commander Chen Geng (陈赓) and political commissar Xie Fuzhi.  On October 20, 1947, the communist high command ordered Chen Geng (陈赓) and Xie Fuzhi to split their force into three: one part would remain along the railroad to distract the enemy, and the other would strike southern Shaanxi.  The third part, the main force, should cross the railroad to push southward, and would strike regions included Nanzhao (南召), Wuyang (舞阳), and Fangcheng (方城) in western Hubei to establish new bases.  To carry out this strategy, Chen Geng (陈赓) and Xie Fuzhi decided to launch the Campaign in the Eastern Foothills of the Funiu Mountains.

Order of battle
Both sides were equally matched in terms of numbers, but the nationalists enjoyed significant technical advantage in terms of weaponry.
Nationalist order of battle: 9 divisions total
The Reorganized 1st Division
The Reorganized 3rd Division
The Reorganized 10th Division
The Reorganized 15th Division
The 20th Division
The Reorganized 36th Division
The Reorganized 41st Division
The 206th Division
Local security brigades and regiments
Communist order of battle: 9 divisions total
The 4th Column
The 9th Column
The 38th Army

First stage
The campaign started on October 29, 1947, with the communist 55th Division of the 38th Army deployed along the Longhai Railroad to tie down the nationalist forces, and the rest units of the communist 38th Army and the 12th Brigade of the communist 4th Column struck toward southern Shaanxi.  The rest units of the communist 4th Column and the communist 9th Column struck the nationalist controlled regions in multiple fronts.   From November 1, 1947, to November 4, 1947, Linru (临汝), Jia (郏) County, Dengfeng (登封), Lushan (鲁山), and Baofeng (宝丰) fell into the communist hands.  The nationalist Reorganized 15th Division guarding these regions suffered greatly in the process, with more than 2,500 killed in the battle of Jia (郏) County alone on November 4, 1947.  The nationalists were forced to redeploy by dispatching the Reorganized 3rd Division and the 20th Division toward Baofeng (宝丰) and Jia (郏) County, the 124th Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 41st Division toward Linru (临汝), and the 125th Brigade of the nationalist Reorganized 41st Division toward Xiang City (Xiang Cheng, 襄城) in hope of luring the communists out to fight a decisive battle.  However, the enemy would not take the bait and instead, took advantage of the nationalist redeployment by striking regions where nationalist defense was weakened by the redeployment.

On November 3, 1947, the communist 27th Brigade of the 9th Column besieged the town of Nanzhao (南召), and launched the assault on the town at 1:00 AM on November 4, 1947.   The strongest fortification at the Eastern Pass (Dong Guan, 东关) was blown up and attacking enemy subsequently penetrated into the town and annihilated most of the nationalist garrison consisted of two battalions.  As the survivors attempted to flee via the western gate, they were ambushed by the waiting enemy and the entire 500 strong nationalist garrison was thus completely wiped out.  After taking the town, the communists opened up the nationalist food depot and treasury to distribute food and money to the local populace, most of which was in severe poverty, and thus completely won over the local popular support.  On November 5, 1947, the 75th Regiment of the 25th Brigade of the communist 9th Column reached the outskirt of the Square City (Fang Cheng, 方城).  Although the nationalists had built many fortifications both inside and outside the town, the local nationalist commander Wang Jingxiu (王敬修) was well aware that his four-regiments strong security brigade was not a match for the enemy, and in order to avoid annihilation, the nationalist garrison wisely abandoned the town without a fight, thus successfully retreated before the enemy besieged the town.  After entering the town, the communist force with strict discipline discredited the negative nationalist propaganda about the communists and consequently, the local popular support drastically switched to the communist side.