[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Museum of Nuclear Science & History

s the individuals who questioned and defined the matter which makes up the universe. Visitors can use the interactive kiosk to trace the study of the atom.

World War II – A display that teaches the history leading up to the creation and use of the atomic bomb and the countries that became involved.

Critical Assembly, the Secrets of Los Alamos 1944: An Installation by Jim Sanborn – A special exhibition, staged as a tableau, that recreates the laboratory environment in which the first atomic bomb was assembled. Based on scholarly and eyewitness accounts, this exhibit features many artifacts that would have been (or were actually) present at Los Alamos National Laboratory in the 1940s. (This exhibit replaced "Secrets, Lies & Atomic Spies" in 2017.)

The Decision to Drop – The dawn of the Atomic Age began with the design and testing of the world's first atomic bomb during the Manhattan Project. Visitors are introduced to the daily lives of the scientists who lived at Los Alamos and journey with them to the Trinity site, where the first explosion occurred in 1945. These exhibits include a series of displays striving for an objective examination of the history leading up to and the policy decisions regarding the deployment of the first nuclear weapons code-named Little Boy and Fat Man.

The exhibit includes the text of comments by Manhattan Project staff (including a contentious Edward Teller statement advocating a high-altitude night-time demonstration detonation over Tokyo to precipitate Japanese surrender), the text of statements by Japanese politicians and military leaders, a copy of the petition protesting use without warning submitted by nuclear physicist Leó Szilárd, and photographs from the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum. The display also features video footage of the reminiscences of Col. Paul Tibbets (pilot of the Enola Gay, the B-29 bomber that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima, Japan), and coverage of the emotion the surrender of Japan produced in the United States.

Hiroshima and Nagasaki – This exhibit pays tribute to the people affected by the detonation of the atomic weapons that the Manhattan Project developed. This exhibit features images of these cities before, during, and after the bombings and representations of the commitment to peace that these communities continue to uphold today.

Cold War – An examination of the strategic conflict between the United States and the USSR in the second half of the 20th century, through US nuclear testing in the Marshall Islands and at the Nevada Test Site, Soviet nuclear development, the October 1962 Cuban Missile Crisis, and leading to the eventual collapse of the Soviet Union. This also includes the Palomares exhibition, an extensive accounting of the January 17, 1966 Palomares B-52 crash – a mid-air collision between two USAF aircraft (a B-52 bomber and a KC-135 tanker) over Palomares, Almería, resulting in radioactive contamination following the accidental dropping of four hydrogen bombs. 

Heritage Park – This 9-acre outdoor exhibit is complete with planes, rockets, missiles, cannons, and a nuclear submarine sail.

Nuclear Medicine – A display of early and modern medical equipment using nuclear physics principles.

Little Albert's Lab – An area presided over by an animatronic version of Albert Einstein, provides hands-on, family-friendly science activities for children.

Nano – An interactive exhibition where visitors can imagine and discover a world they cannot see and learn about big ideas from the small nanoscience world. (This display is now part of Little Albert's Lab.)

Energy Encounter – A series of displays focusing on the civilian use of nuclear power, including:
 history of nuclear reactors and discussion of their engineering principles
 examination of nuclear power accidents, safety engineering, and waste treatment/storage
 models of the American Palo Verde Nuclear Generating Station and French Superphénix Fast breeder reactor
 a model of the NS Savannah, the first nuclear-powered merchant ship
 nuclear energy as one part of a spectrum of alternative energy-producing methods

Radiation 101 – A display of everyday items and activities that expose people to ionizing radiation as well as a free-standing case containing the companion exhibit to the online exhibition: Atomic Advertising

Atomic Pop Culture – Visitors may be entertained while viewing how American popular culture reflected the dawning of the Atomic Age. This includes vintage movie memorabilia, comic books, accessories, and more.

Nuclear Waste Transportation – The TruPact II container is on display in this exhibita type of transportation container used by the US Department of Energy (DOE) to transport transuranic waste.

What's Up With U(ranium) – An exhibit that seeks to engage visitors in answering questions like "where does uranium come from," "how does it move through the environment," "how does it affect us," and "is it radioactive?"