[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Communist Party of Iran (Marxist–Leninist–Maoist)

lists have turned to fascist ideas in order to preserve their position. These ideas include racism, prejudice towards immigrants, xenophobia, cultures of misogyny and religious dogmatism. These are the mechanisms of response to the problems created by the capitalist society itself.

Internationalism

Communist party of Iran's (Marxist, Leninist, Maoist) theory of internationalism  
The CPIs theory of internationalism is an alternative to the dominant global system of capitalism. Capitalisms domination is asserted to have made a "great portion of people around the world have increasingly become proletarians who in fact work 'to survive for the next day, even without having an hour to think'". In addition, the relations of production are said to produce “social faults” such as patriarchy and imperial domination of some nations by those that are more powerful. Capitalisms drastic and irreversible effects on the environment and the numerous wars over the drive for profit are also critiqued by the CPI (MLM). These myriad factors prove that much of the world would stand to benefit from a revolution that would overturn the current capitalist world order. CPI (MLM) aspires to be the launching point of a world revolution where the masses at large can see an alternative to the current systems of oppression. In order to truly lead a revolutionary movement a movement must not align itself with Imperial powers such as the United States, China, Russia and The European Union. Interaction with local reactionary governments (Iran, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, Israel, Syria and Iraq, etc...) is to be avoided as well. Interactions with outside powers disrupts the parties true goals of revolution and establishment of a communist social system. Imperial and reactionary states would never assist a global revolution as their interest are diametrically opposed. The CPI (MLM) sees the global capitalist system as dictating the policies of countries such as the United States. They are much more likely to support nation states as opposed to non government actors. The nation state fits into the system of global capitalism much easier than movements such as the CPI (MLM) or the Autonomous Administration of North and East Syria. The current system as well allows for the domination of some states economically by imperialist powers. The essential weakness that all reactionary states and imperialist have is that they are exploiters. This trait is essential to the character of these nations, even if they find mass support or aid from petty bourgeoise these oppressors are an outside force with no sovereignty over those they control.

Revolutionary Internationalist Movement 
The CPI works with various other Leninist Maoist parties in a larger organization known as the Revolutionary Internationalist Movement (RIM). The CPI (MLM) participates in the RIM  with Communist (Maoist) Party of Afghanistan and the two organizations were critical of the United States military presence in the Middle east at large and specifically Afghanistan. The Revolutionary Internationalist Movement seeks to spearhead the world revolution against imperialist oppression such as the United States former presence in Afghanistan.  The RIM believes that Proletariat must be equipped with certain tools in order to oppose imperialism. The communist party, the peoples army and a revolutionary united front are all necessary in order to overturn the current world order.

Environmentalism 
The CPI (MLM) views climate change as an imminent threat. Iran's production of fossil fuels is seen as an essential part of the economy. However the CPI questions this view, the effects of its production and use are strongly negative for the people of Iran. Under a capitalist economy these troubles could not be addressed as profit is the driver behind all decisions. To address this the values behind our system must be questioned and private ownership of the means of production must come to an end.

See also 
 Union of Iranian Communists (Sarbedaran)
 Bhutan Communist Party (Marxist-Leninist-Maoist)
 Unified Communist Party of Nepal (Maoist)
 Communist Party of Turkey/Marxist-Leninist (Maoist Party Centre)

References

External links 
 https://cpimlm.org

2001 establishments in Iran
Banned communist parties
Banned political parties in Iran
Communist militant groups
Communist parties in Iran
Maoist organisations in Iran
Left-wing militant groups in Iran
Maoist parties
Militant opposition to the Islamic Republic of Iran
Political parties established in 2001