[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Nuclear receptor

sely balanced between agonism and antagonism.  In tissues where the concentration of coactivator proteins is higher than corepressors, the equilibrium is shifted in the agonist direction.  Conversely in tissues where corepressors dominate, the ligand behaves as an antagonist.

Alternative mechanisms

Transrepression 
The most common mechanism of nuclear receptor action involves direct binding of the nuclear receptor to a DNA hormone response element.  This mechanism is referred to as transactivation.  However some nuclear receptors not only have the ability to directly bind to DNA, but also to other transcription factors.  This binding often results in deactivation of the second transcription factor in a process known as transrepression. One example of a nuclear receptor that are able to transrepress is the glucocorticoid receptor (GR).  Furthermore, certain GR ligands known as Selective Glucocorticoid Receptor Agonists (SEGRAs) are able to activate GR in such a way that GR more strongly transrepresses than transactivates.  This selectivity increases the separation between the desired antiinflammatory effects and undesired metabolic side effects of these selective glucocorticoids.

Non-genomic 
The classical direct effects of nuclear receptors on gene regulation normally take hours before a functional effect is seen in cells because of the large number of intermediate steps between nuclear receptor activation and changes in protein expression levels.  However it has been observed that many effects of the application of nuclear hormones, such as changes in ion channel activity, occur within minutes which is inconsistent with the classical mechanism of nuclear receptor action.  While the molecular target for these non-genomic effects of nuclear receptors has not been conclusively demonstrated, it has been hypothesized that there are variants of nuclear receptors which are membrane associated instead of being localized in the cytosol or nucleus.  Furthermore, these membrane associated receptors function through alternative signal transduction mechanisms not involving gene regulation.

While it has been hypothesized that there are several membrane associated receptors for nuclear hormones, many of the rapid effects have been shown to require canonical nuclear receptors. However, testing the relative importance of the genomic and nongenomic mechanisms in vivo has been prevented by the absence of specific molecular mechanisms for the nongenomic effects that could be blocked by mutation of the receptor without disrupting its direct effects on gene expression.

A molecular mechanism for non-genomic signaling through the nuclear thyroid hormone receptor TRβ involves the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K). This signaling can be blocked by a single tyrosine to phenylalanine substitution in TRβ without disrupting direct gene regulation. When mice were created with this single, conservative amino acid substitution in TRβ, synaptic maturation and plasticity in the hippocampus was impaired almost as effectively as completely blocking thyroid hormone synthesis. This mechanism appears to be conserved in all mammals but not in TRα or any other nuclear receptors. Thus, phosphotyrosine-dependent association of TRβ with PI3K provides a potential mechanism for integrating regulation of development and metabolism by thyroid hormone and receptor tyrosine kinases. In addition, thyroid hormone signaling through PI3K can alter gene expression.

Family members  
The following is a list of the 48 known human nuclear receptors (and their orthologs in other species) categorized according to sequence homology. The list also includes selected family members that lack human orthologs (NRNC symbol highlighted in yellow).

Of the two 0-families, 0A has a family 1-like DBD, and 0B has a very unique LBD. The second DBD of family 7 is probably related to the family 1 DBD. Three probably family-1 NRs from Biomphalaria glabrata possess a DBD along with an family 0B-like LBD. The placement of C. elegans nhr-1 () is disputed: although most sources place it as NR1K1, manual annotation at WormBase considers it a member of NR2A. There used to be a group 2D for which the only member was Drosophila HR78/NR1D1 () and orthologues, but it was merged into group 2C later due to high similarity, forming a "group 2C/D". Knockout studies on mice and fruit flies support such a merged group.