[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# European Youth Forum

The European Youth Forum (from , YFJ) is an international non-profit association that serves as an umbrella organisation and advocacy group of the national youth councils and international non-governmental youth organisations in Europe. It works on youth rights in international institutions such as the European Union, the Council of Europe, and the United Nations.

The European Youth Forum works in the fields of youth policy and youth work development. It focuses its work on European youth policy matters, whilst through engagement on the global level, it is enhancing the capacities of its members and promoting global interdependence. In its daily work, the European Youth Forum represents the views and opinions of youth organisations in all relevant policy areas and promotes the cross-sectoral nature of youth policy towards a variety of institutional actors. The principles of equality and sustainable development are mainstreamed in the work of the European Youth Forum.

It consists of 44 National Youth Councils and 61 international youth NGOs, a total of 105.

History
The European Youth Forum is a European international organization, which was established in 1996 by national youth councils and international non-governmental youth organizations. It works as the successor to the Council of European National Youth Committees (CENYC), Youth Forum of the European Communities (YFEU), and the European Co-ordination Bureau of International Youth Organisations (ECB). CENYC and ECB had been representing youth interests since the sixties. The YFEU was set up by them in the late 1970s to work vis a vis the European Union (then called the European Community). The establishment of a single structure replacing all three was a major rationalization.

Vision, mission, and aims
According to the European Youth Forum their Vision, mission, and aims are as follows:

Vision
To be the voice of young people in Europe, where young people are equal citizens and are encouraged and supported to achieve their fullest potential as global citizens.

Mission
The European Youth Forum is an independent, democratic, youth-led platform, representing national youth councils and international youth organizations from across Europe.

The Youth Forum works to empower young people to participate actively in society to improve their own lives, by representing and advocating their needs and interests and those of their organizations.

Aims
 Increase the participation of young people and youth organizations in society, as well as in decision-making processes;
 Positively influence policy issues affecting young people and youth organizations, by being a recognized partner for international institutions, namely the European Union, the Council of Europe and the United Nations;
 Promote the concept of youth policy as an integrated and cross-sectoral element of overall policy development, namely through youth mainstreaming;
 Facilitate the participation of young people through the development of sustainable and independent youth organizations at the national and international level, particularly in respect to ensuring dependable, adequate funding for them;
 Promote the exchange of ideas and experience, mutual understanding, as well as the equal rights and opportunities among young people in Europe;
 Uphold intercultural understanding, democracy, respect, diversity, human rights, active citizenship, and solidarity;
 Contribute to the development of youth work in other regions of the world.

The European Youth Forum has the task of nominating 20 young people from its member organizations for the Advisory Council on Youth, 13 representatives from international youth organizations (INGYOs) and seven representatives from national youth councils for a two-year mandate. These are elected democratically by the member organizations, usually at the Council of Members (COMEM) in Brussels in spring.

Organisation

Presidents

Current Board
Each board elected by the entire membership every 2 years at the General Assembly, it is made up of:
 President nominated from a National Youth Council (NYC) and/or an International Non-Governmental Youth Organization (INGYO). 
 Vice-president nominated from a National Youth Council (NYC)
 Vice-president nominated from an International Non-Governmental Youth Organization (INGYO)
 4 board members nominated from a National Youth Council (NYC)
 4 board members nominated from an International Non-Governmental Youth Organization (INGYO)
The Secretary-General attends the board meetings as a non-voting ex-officio

Secretaries-General

Funding
In 2012, almost 87% of the Youth Forum income stemmed from annual grants from international institutions. 83.9% of the total income came from the European Communities' Budget, through a grant from DG Education and Culture, while around 3.2% was from Council of Europe grants.