[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Raymond Westerling

ent... but because they made themselves guilty of open and unmistaken crimes...I never had them [his troops] bombard a village, nor did I take the hut of innocent under fire. I had executed some criminals, but nobody had died needlessly or wrongly by my doing.

Investigation by the Dutch government 

Westerling's actions were investigated by the Enthoven Commission at the behest of the Lieutenant Governor-General of the Dutch East Indies, H.J. van Mook. That Enthoven Report was presented to the Drees cabinet in 1948. It was not made public and nothing was done with it. In that report, this committee concluded that Westerling's actions were warranted.

After a revealing publication in 1949 in De Groene Amsterdammer about Dutch war crimes in Java, the Van Rij and Stam committee was set up, using the Enthoven report. Their report was submitted to ministers Donker (Justice) and Staf (War) of the third Drees cabinet in 1954. Van Rij and Stam concluded, among other things, "Both the Lieutenant-Governor-General, and the Military Authority, as well as in its opinions the Mr Procurator-General were at fault". Any legal prosecution of the perpetrators of violent crimes would have to "bring up the whole background and all responsibilities will have to be checked".

In the late 1960s, following revelations by psychologist Joop Hueting, the Dutch government had archival research conducted by historians led by Cees Fasseur into the excesses committed by Dutch troops in Indonesia: this led to the publication of Excessennota in June 1969. This paper highlights the failure of administrative and political accountability. On 2 December 2016, in response to Rémy Limpach's study, The Burning Campongs of General Spoor, the Rutte cabinet decided that a broad, independent investigation should be conducted into the broad context of post-war decolonisation (including society) and political, administrative, judicial and military action in 1945-1949 in the Dutch East Indies, both from a Hague and local perspective. That research needed to take an integrated approach and delve deeper into issues that had been addressed in Limpach's study. The spiral of violence of the Bersiap needed to be systematically examined. Political decision-making in The Hague on decolonisation was the subject of that study. The aftermath after 1949 and veteran care also needed further investigation. The Royal Institute for Language, Land and Ethnology (KITLV), the Netherlands Institute for Military History (NIMH) and the Netherlands Institute for War, Holocaust and Genocide Studies (NIOD) have been commissioned by the cabinet to conduct the research.

Renewed interest 
The Dutch military operations in the Dutch East Indies continue to cause a stir in the Netherlands. The Dutch Honorary Debts Committee Foundation is working to ensure that the relatives of victims of the purges in South Celebes receive compensation and recognition from the Netherlands.

In 1969, together with cameraman Hans van der Busken and journalist Joop Buddinghausen, they managed to interview Westerling. It was Westerling's first recorded appearance on television, but unfortunately, fearing threats and repercussions, not a single Dutch broadcaster dared to broadcast it. After the footage was donated, it was finally broadcast on Dutch television for the first time on the program "Altijd Wat" (There's Just) on NCRV television on August 14, 2012 at 21.10. In the unseen interview, Westerling denied that war crimes were committed in the Dutch East Indies under his responsibility, saying in the interview:

He later stated that the Dutch government supported him. The news shocked and angered many veterans. As a result, journalists for the “Achter het Nieuws” event were escorted by the police because they were threatened.

In a 1971 interview he gave to the weekly Panorama Westerling revealed that he had court-martialed and executed 350 prisoners.

After a historian asked the interior minister for all documents relating to Westerling's coup against the Indonesian president in 1950, he was told that one document had been found at the AIVD that he could access. This document covered 11 pages. An appeal against this decision was rejected. In late July 2014, the Council of State ruled on appeal that it was implausible that the intelligence service AIVD had only one document about Westerling's failed coup. More documents should be found in the archives; possibly stored under a title other than 'the coup against Sukarno in 1950'. The minister had to take a new decision.

In August 2016, Australian historian Robert Cribb began investigating claims by widows and children of men allegedly executed there by Dutch soldiers in South Sulawesi. He had been appointed by the court in The Hague to do so.