[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Canada Day

ed to virtual events. The same cancellations occurred the following year; though, some also for political reasons. In-person festivities in Ottawa returned in 2022, being re-located from Parliament Hill to LeBreton Flats due to construction associated with the Parliament Hill Rehabilitation project.

Other events fell on the same day coincidentally, such as the first day of the Battle of the Somme in 1916—shortly after which Newfoundland recognized July 1 as Memorial Day to commemorate the Newfoundland Regiment's heavy losses during the battle—and the enactment of the Chinese Immigration Act in 1923, leading Chinese-Canadians to refer to July 1 as Humiliation Day () and boycott Dominion Day celebrations with shop closures, flying the Canadian flag on half-mast, or hanging wreaths in front of home and shop entrances until the act was repealed in 1947. Canada Day also coincides with Quebec's Moving Day, when many fixed-lease apartment rental terms expire. The bill changing the province's moving day from May 1 to July 1 was introduced by a federalist member of the Quebec National Assembly, Jérôme Choquette, in 1973, in order not to affect children still in school in the month of May.

Activities

Most communities across the country host organized celebrations for Canada Day, typically outdoor public events, such as parades, carnivals, festivals, barbecues, air and maritime shows, fireworks, and free musical concerts, as well as citizenship ceremonies. There is no standard mode of celebration for Canada Day; Jennifer Welsh, a professor of International Relations at the University of Oxford, said about this: "Canada Day, like the country, is endlessly decentralized. There doesn't seem to be a central recipe for how to celebrate it—chalk it up to the nature of the federation."

In the national capital of Ottawa, concerts and cultural displays are held on the front lawn of Parliament Hill, as organized by Canadian Heritage, which include the main "noon show" and an evening programme. The event traditionally begins with the singing of "God Save the King" and "O Canada" in English and French followed by a flyover by the Snowbirds. Typically the governor general and prime minister officiate, though the monarch or another member of the royal family may also attend or take the governor general's place. Smaller events are mounted in other parks around the city and in neighbouring Gatineau, Quebec. In provincial capitals, official celebrations are often held at the provincial legislative building, usually in the presence of the lieutenant-governor and/or premier of the province.

International celebrations

Canadian expatriates will often organize Canada Day activities in their local area on or near the date of the holiday. Examples include Canada D'eh, an annual celebration that takes place on June 30 at Lan Kwai Fong, in Hong Kong; Canadian Forces' events on bases in Afghanistan; at Trafalgar Square outside Canada House in London, England; in Mexico, at the Royal Canadian Legion in Chapala, and at the Canadian Club in Ajijic. In China, Canada Day celebrations are held at the Bund Beach by the Canadian Chamber of Commerce in Shanghai and at Canadian International School in Beijing, sponsored by the Canada China Business Council.

Criticism and protest
Given the federal nature of the anniversary, celebrating Canada Day can be a cause of friction in the province of Quebec, where the holiday is overshadowed by the province's Saint-Jean-Baptiste Day (Fête nationale), on June 24. For example, the federal government funds Canada Day events at the Old Port of Montreal—an area run by a federal Crown corporation—while the Fête nationale parade is a grassroots effort that has faced difficulties in operating due to limited funding from the federal government and a lack of corporate sponsors.

Canada Day has attracted a negative stigma among some indigenous peoples in Canada and their allies, who feel that it is a celebration of the colonization of indigenous land. Criticism of Canada Day celebrations were particularly prominent during Canada's sesquicentennial in 2017, with allegations that the commemorations downplayed the role of indigenous peoples in the country's history and the hardships they face in the present day.

The same grievances were aired four years later, after possible unmarked graves of indigenous children were found in late-June 2021, at the site of an Indian residential school in British Columbia. If not already cancelled or modified due to restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic, Canada Day festivities were cancelled in various communities in British Columbia, New Brunswick, and Northern Saskatchewan, while indigenous protest group Idle No More announced its intent to organize peaceful rallies in multiple major cities. Some politicians supported the cancellations, while others expressed concern that activists were attacking "the very idea of Canada itself" and hampering progress toward reconciliation.