[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Voice of India

Audience 
The works are of excellent typographical quality and widely available in print as well as over the web; there appears to exist a significant audience across the globe. They have been used by Bharatiya Janata Party and its allied organs to legitimize the basis of their political campaigns.

Reception 
Meera Nanda notes VOI to be the most strident medium of expression for Hindu triumphalism, wherein a common theme of Hindu superiority is put forward and which is increasingly penetrating public discourse in India. She observes VOI to be on the far right of even RSS and that its authors considering the old guards of RSS (and Bharatiya Janata Party) to be too soft on Islam, blame them for failing to provide a sound defense of Hinduism against other Abrahamic religions. Sebastian Kim notes that Goel and Voice of India are not officially associated with the Sangh Parivar or other mainstream Hindu nationalist groups, and that the latter had purposefully distanced themselves from Goel and VOI due to the shrill rhetoric. Moed Pirbhai notes an instance, where Goel was chided even by L. K. Advani, of Babri Masjid fame, for excessively strong language. Others have also noted of this non-linkage to have aided in VOI's impressions of being a neutral apolitical institution. Nanda also notes an increasing marriage of VOI with the European-American far right as evidenced from the popularity of Koenraad Elst, François Gautier et al.

Kondo observes cherry-picking of data and abuse of history to be a prominent tool in VOI publications; whilst destruction of temples, forced conversions etc. are highlighted to attest the true essence of Islam, the publications don't mention the numerous cases where Hinduism and Islam have co-existed peacefully for eras. Thomas Charles Nagy whilst assessing Ishan Sharan's The Myth of Saint Thomas and the Mylapore Shiva Temple and other works (all published by VOI) noted an aggressive and absolutist tone coupled with an affinity for manipulating the history, which was guided by the broader political aspects of present-day-India and the Hindutva ideology.

Pirbhai notes degradation of Islam as well as the derision of Muslims to be two core themes of VOI. He also remarks that the most repeated statement in Voice of India writings seems to be that ‘the problem is not Muslims but Islam’. According to Heuze, the Voice of India authors draw their inspiration from democratic texts, European thought and secular and democratic polemicists to justify their anti-Islamic "crusade" while simultaneously distancing themselves from everything that could be perceived as an endorsement of the extreme-right. Kim notes that the VOI publications have been integral resources behind the anti-Muslim and anti-Christian campaigns of the Indian Hindu-right. Malini Parthasarathy notes them to be at the forefront of the resurgence of Hindu nationalism in India.

Other scholars have noted its books to pursue a revisionist project centered around an "epistemic obsession with primordial Aryanism". Bergunder deems these non-scholarly revisionist attempts as a tool to fulfill their broader ideological agenda of rejecting the subaltern discourse. Indologists Michael Witzel and Steve Farmer writes:

Academics and intellectuals who disagree with the VOI scholarship are often branded as negationists, who suffer from Hindu cowardice and thus seek to conceal or whitewash facts.

References

External links

 

 
Book publishing companies of India
Hindu nationalism
Hindu revivalist writers
Hinduism and Islam
Hinduism-related controversies
Hinduism studies books
History books about Hinduism