[Source: Gutenberg#6762 | Part 83]
# Politics — Aristotle

me aim at the life of those who govern, others at
their government; the first arises from hatred to their persons; which
hatred may be owing to many causes, either of which will be sufficient
to excite their anger, and the generality of those who are under the
influence of that passion will join in a conspiracy, not for the sake
of their own advancement, but for revenge. Thus the plot against
the children of Pisistratus arose from their injurious treatment of
Harmodius's sister, and insulting him also; for Harmodius resenting the
injury done to his sister, and Aristogiton the injury done to Harmodius.
Periander the tyrant of Ambracia also lost his life by a conspiracy, for
some improper liberties he took with a boy in his cups: and Philip was
slain by Pausanias for neglecting to revenge him of the affront he had
received from Attains; as was Amintas the Little by Darda, for insulting
him on account of his age; and the eunuch by Evagoras the Cyprian in
revenge for having taken his son's wife away from him....

Many also who have had their bodies scourged with stripes have, through
resentment, either killed those who caused them to be inflicted or
conspired against them, even when they had kingly power, as at Mitylene
Megacles, joining with his friends, killed the Penthelidee, who used
to go about striking those they met with clubs. Thus, in later times,
Smendes killed Penthilus for whipping him and dragging him away from
his wife. Decamnichus also was the chief cause of the conspiracy against
Archelaus, for he urged others on: the occasion of his resentment was
his having delivered him to Euripides the poet to be scourged; for
Euripides was greatly offended with him for having said something of the
foulness of his breath. And many others have been killed or conspired
against on the same account. Fear too is a cause which produces the
same effects, as well in monarchies as in other states: thus Artabanes
conspired against Xerxes through fear of punishment for having hanged
Darius according to his orders, whom he supposed he intended to pardon,
as the order was given at supper-time. Some kings also have been [1312a]
dethroned and killed in consequence of the contempt they were held in by
the people; as some one conspired against Sardanapalus, having seen him
spinning with his wife, if what is related of him is true, or if not of
him, it may very probably be true of some one else. Dion also conspired
against Dionysius the Younger, seeing his subjects desirous of a
conspiracy, and that he himself was always drunk: and even a man's
friends will do this if they despise him; for from the confidence he
places in them, they think that they shall not be found out. Those
also who think they shall gain his throne will conspire against a king
through contempt; for as they are powerful themselves, and despise the
danger, on account of their own strength, they will readily attempt it.
Thus a general at the head of his army will endeavour to dethrone the
monarch, as Cyrus did Astyages, despising both his manner of life and
his forces; his forces for want of action, his life for its effeminacy:
thus Suthes, the Thracian, who was general to Amadocus, conspired
against him. Sometimes more than one of these causes will excite men
to enter into conspiracies, as contempt and desire of gain; as in the
instance of Mithridates against Ariobarzanes. Those also who are of a
bold disposition, and have gained military honours amongst kings, will
of all others be most like to engage in sedition; for strength and
courage united inspire great bravery: whenever, therefore, these join
in one person, he will be very ready for conspiracies, as he will easily
conquer. Those who conspire against a tyrant through love of glory
and honour have a different motive in view from what I have already
mentioned; for, like all others who embrace danger, they have only glory
and honour in view, and think, not as some do, of the wealth and pomp
they may acquire, but engage in this as they would in any other noble
action, that they may be illustrious and distinguished, and destroy a
tyrant, not to succeed in his tyranny, but to acquire renown. No doubt
but the number of those who act upon this principle is small, for we
must suppose they regard their own safety as nothing in case they should
not succeed, and must embrace the opinion of Dion (which few can do)
when he made war upon Dionysius with a very few troops; for he said,
that let the advantage he made be ever so little it would satisfy him to
have gained it; and that, should it be his lot to die the moment he had
gained footing in his country, he should think his death sufficiently
glorious. A tyranny also is exposed to the same destruction as all other
states are, from too powerful neighbours: for it is evident, that an
opposition of principles will make them desirous of subverting it;
and what they desire, all who can, do: and the