[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# LGBT rights in Iceland

Iceland's biggest annual events. In 2015, about 100,000 attended the Reykjavík Pride event, representing about 30% of the Icelandic population. In 2016, Icelandic President Guðni Th. Jóhannesson participated in the Reykjavík Pride parade, making him the first president to attend a gay pride parade.

Iceland is frequently referred to as one of the most LGBT-friendly countries in the world. Despite public antipathy towards LGBT people being high up until the 1980s, acceptance has increased significantly since then. Some of the earliest LGBT people to publicly come out include Hörður Torfason and Anna Kristjánsdottir, who both initially faced public discrimination and ridicule. The oldest existing Icelandic LGBT organization is Samtökin '78, which formed in 1978. They organized their first public protests in 1982, with support from sister associations in Denmark, Sweden and Norway. During the 1980s, Iceland came under considerable pressure from other Nordic states to improve the living conditions of LGBT people and pass anti-discrimination legislation; in 1984, the Nordic Council urged its member states to end discrimination against gays and lesbians. Over the following years, LGBT groups and activists began to enter the public eye and raise awareness of their cause and movement. With greater visibility, societal attitudes began to evolve and become more accepting and tolerant. In 1996, registered partnerships were legalised for same-sex couples, making Iceland the fourth country worldwide to provide legal recognition to same-sex couples (after Denmark, Norway, and Sweden). Anti-discrimination laws covering sexual orientation were also enacted, adoption by same-sex couples was legalised, and transgender transition laws were relaxed, allowing transgender people the right to change their legal gender on official documents. In 2010, the Icelandic Parliament voted unanimously to legalise same-sex marriage; Iceland became the ninth country to legalise it, joining the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain, Canada, South Africa, Norway, Sweden, and Portugal. In addition, former Prime Minister Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir (2009-2013), the first openly gay head of government of modern times, and her partner Jónína Leósdóttir became one of the first couples to marry in Iceland after the passage of the new law. Opinion polls have found overwhelming public support for same-sex marriage and LGBT rights more broadly. A 2004 poll showed that 87% of Icelanders supported same-sex marriage, the highest in the world at that time. Moreover, in 2015, the Church of Iceland (about two-thirds of Icelanders are members) voted to allow same-sex couples to marry within its churches.

Iceland is a very safe place for both LGBT citizens and travellers. The country is listed in the "Top 10 Gay Wedding Destinations" by Lonely Planet.

Summary table

See also

Human rights in Iceland
LGBT rights in Europe

Notes

References

Further reading