[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Nazi crimes against the Polish nation

Jews and various other groups, was carried out between 1942 and 1944. The camps were designed and operated by Nazi Germans and there were no Polish guards at any of them. Of Poland's prewar Jewish population of 3.5 million, only about 50,000–120,000 Jews survived the war.

1944 destruction of Warsaw

During the suppression of the 1944 Uprising in Warsaw, German forces committed many atrocities against Polish civilians, following the order by Hitler to level the city. The most notorious massacre took place in Wola where, at the beginning of August 1944, between 40 and 50,000 civilians (men, women, and children) were shot, sexually assaulted and tortured by the Einsatzkommando of the Sicherheitspolizei under Heinz Reinefarth's command and the amnestied German criminals from Dirlewanger. Other similar massacres took place in the areas of Śródmieście (City Centre), Stare Miasto (Old Town) and Marymont districts. In Ochota, an orgy of civilian killings, rape and looting was carried out by Russian collaborators of RONA. After the fall of Stare Miasto, during the beginning of September, 7,000 seriously wounded hospital patients were executed or burnt alive, often with the medical staff caring for them. Similar atrocities took place later in the Czerniaków district and after the fall of Powiśle and Mokotów districts.

Until the end of September 1944, Polish resistance fighters were not considered by Germans as combatants; thus, when captured, they were summarily executed. One hundred and sixty-five thousand surviving civilians were sent to labour camps, and 50,000 were shipped to concentration camps, while the ruined city was systematically demolished. Neither Reinefarth nor Erich von dem Bach-Zelewski were ever tried for their crimes committed during the suppression of the uprising. (The Polish request for extradition of amnestied Wilhelm Koppe from Germany was also refused.)

See also

 Anti-Polish sentiment
 Bialystok Ghetto Uprising
 Chronicles of Terror
 Consequences of Nazism
 Czestochowa Ghetto Uprising
 Generalplan Ost
 Genocide
 German-occupied Europe
 German retribution against Poles who helped Jews
 Gestapo-NKVD Conferences 1939-1940
 Ghetto Litzmannstadt
 Hans Frank
 Intelligenzaktion
 Intelligenzaktion Pommern
 The Holocaust in occupied Poland
 Gas van
 Holocaust victims
 Kraków Ghetto
 Medallions by Zofia Nalkowska
 Nazi crime
 Polish areas annexed by Nazi Germany
 Polish decrees
 Polish resistance movement in World War II
 Polish Underground State
 Porajmos (the "Romani genocide" or "Romani holocaust")
 Racial policy of Nazi Germany
 Sexual slavery by Germany during World War II
 Soviet repressions of Polish citizens (1939–46)
 Special Prosecution Book-Poland (Sonderfahndungsbuch Polen)
 Territorial changes of Poland
 Valley of Death (Bydgoszcz)
 War rape by German forces during World War II
 World War II casualties of Poland
 Zdzięcioł Ghetto

Quotes

Citations

References
  From German original Auftakt zum Vernichtungskrieg: Die Wehrmacht in Polen 1939, .
  Publ. in English, and in French as Crimes de guerre en pologne le genocide nazi 1939 1945.
 
 
 
 
  Reprint from Collins 1986 original, .
 
  See also:  "About the Institute" (IPN 2007).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Snyder, Timothy, Bloodlands:  Europe between Hitler and Stalin, New York, Basic Books, 2010.
 
 
 Rada Ministrów, Official list of places of detainment of citizens of Poland related to WWII. Rozporzadzenie Prezesa Rady Ministrów z dnia 20 wrzesnia 2001 (Dz.U.2001.106.1154).
 Terese Pencak Schwartz, Five Million Forgotten: Non-Jewish Victims of the Shoah. The Holocaust Forgotten Memorial.
 USHMM, Poles: Victims of the Nazi Era. Holocaust Teacher Resource Center. Retrieved 10 October 2013.

Further reading

Germany–Poland relations
The Holocaust in Poland
 
Poland
Anti-Polish sentiment in Europe
Nazi persecution of the Catholic Church
Genocides in Europe
Germanization
Persecution of Poles