[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# David Jewett

David Jewett (June 17, 1772 – July 26, 1842) was an American-born Brazilian naval officer known for his role in the sovereignty dispute between the United Kingdom and the United Provinces of the Río de la Plata (the predecessor state of Argentina) over the Falkland Islands. He was a naval commander in the Quasi-War with France and following the end of that conflict he offered his services as a mercenary in both the United Provinces and the Empire of Brazil.  Licensed as a privateer by the United Provinces to seize Spanish ships, he was later accused of piracy following the seizure of American and Portuguese flagged vessels. Jewett finished his career in the Imperial Brazilian Navy, serving under Lord Cochrane and died in Rio de Janeiro in 1842.

Early life
Jewett was born in New London (North Parish), in what was then the Connecticut Colony (presently the town of Montville, Connecticut in the United States), on 17 June 1772, son of Patience Bulkley and captain David Hibbard Jewett. He studied for a career in law, but after the experience of a sailing trip to Europe he changed his mind. Jewett joined the United States Navy in 1791, at age 19.

Early career

Jewett, with the rank of Master Commandant, commanded the 18 gun sloop-of-war USS Trumbull in the Quasi-War with France.  Following fitting out, Trumbull departed New London, Connecticut in March 1800 under his command.  Its first mission was to escort the provisions ship Charlotte from New York to the West Indies, replenishing the American Squadron operating against the French.  Trumbull later joined the American Squadron commanded by Silas Talbot in the , where the main duties in the area were protection of American shipping and the interception of French privateers and merchantmen.

Jewett was authorized as commander of the Trumbull to capture any vessel sailing under the flag of France.  On April 24, 1800, it came upon the French schooner Peggy and captured it.  The Peggy was returned to Connecticut where the local courts ruled her a prize of war in September 1800.  The owners of the Peggy appealed for her return in the US Supreme Court case United States v. Schooner Peggy.

On August 3, while off Jérémie in Haiti, Trumbull captured the French schooner Vengeance, armed with eight or ten guns (not, as is sometimes found, the 38-gun frigate Vengeance that tangled with the USS Constellation and was later taken into the Royal Navy). The ship had fled Haiti with 130 people aboard, crew and refugees together, as Toussaint's troops took possession of the island. Talbot ordered Jewett home with Vengeance as a prize, Trumbull arriving back at New London in late summer. The Vengeance was later condemned as a national vessel and was returned to France under the treaty soon afterwards concluded with that country.

Trumbull then returned to patrol off Santo Domingo, before later transporting Navy Agent Thomas T. Gantt to St. Kitts to relieve Thomas Clarkson. Following the end of hostilities with France as a result of the Treaty of Mortefontaine, Trumbull returned to the United States in the spring of 1801, was sold later that year and her crew discharged. Jewett left the Navy but rejoined during the War of 1812 against Britain, when he acted as a privateer. Jewett had earlier crossed the line between privateer and pirate after taking the Portuguese ship Carlota as a prize.

Service to the United Provinces

On June 22, 1815, Jewett arrived in the port of Buenos Aires, aboard his own ship the Invincible. He offered his services to the newly independent United Provinces of the River Plate (later Argentina), which accepted his proposal and authorized his corsair activities against the Spanish. From 1815 to 1817 the Invincible made use of the letter of marque issued for her and Jewett, and four ships were captured: the polacca Tita, the frigate Santander, the brigantines Jupiter and San Antonio, all of them deemed lawful prize by the Government of the United Provinces.

In January 1820 he was appointed a Colonel in the Argentine Navy. He was given command of the frigate Heroína, a ship owned by Patrick Lynch, acting as a privateer.  Jewett's activities were licensed by letter of marque that Lynch obtained from the Buenos Aires Supreme Director José Rondeau.

In March 1820 he set out on a voyage marked by misfortune, a mutiny, scurvy and piracy against Portuguese and American ships. Some 80 of his crew of 200 were either sick or dead by the time he arrived on 27 October 1820 at Puerto Soledad (later renamed Puerto Luis by Argentine settlers, it was the one-time Spanish capital of the Falkland Islands). At anchor there he found some 50 British and US sealing ships.