[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nuno Assis

ositive for 19-norandrosterona, a steroid – according to the president statement, sample A contained 4.5 nanograms per milliliter (ng/ml) and the counter-sample 4.0 ng/ml. The legal limit for such substance is 2.0 ng/ml and a normal person usually has between 0.1 and 0.2 with a maximum of 0.6 ng/ml.

The following day Vieira replied, accusing Luís Horta (president of LAD) and Luís Sardinha (president of the National Anti-Doping Council, CNAD) of fabricating data and lying to protect themselves – he brought to light that the meeting of CNAD that decided to prosecute the athlete did so disregarding the technical analysis that proposed that charges should be dropped, according to the meeting's agenda. One of his charges stated that CNAD punished the athlete knowing he was innocent only to hide the mess made by LAD collecting and analysing the sample. The original Justice Council of the Portuguese Football Federation sentencing included an indication that, in order to claim doping, it had to be proved that an athlete had the illegal substance in his body and that he had intentionally done it; at this point the World Anti-doping agency stepped in because the burden of proof of consumption intent in doping cases would undermine any doping situation. This appeal to the Court of Arbitration for Sport  agreed with the agency and found that foul-play was with the player and the original six-month sentence was increased to one year. At no point during the appeal were the LAD or CNAD procedures contested.

International career
Assis' first full cap for Portugal was won under coach Agostinho Oliveira in November 2002, in a friendly match. He came in as a substitute in the 2–0 victory over Scotland.

Assis returned to the national team after more than six years of absence, taking the pitch during the second half of the decisive 2010 FIFA World Cup qualifier against Malta (4–0, in Guimarães). He was not picked, however, for the final stages in South Africa.

Career statistics

Honours
Benfica
Primeira Liga: 2004–05
Supertaça Cândido de Oliveira: 2005
Taça de Portugal runner-up: 2004–05

Omonia
Cypriot Super Cup: 2012
Cypriot Cup runner-up: 2015–16

Individual
Cypriot First Division Team of the Season: 2015–16

See also
List of doping cases in sport

References

External links

1977 births
Living people
People from Lousã
Portuguese men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Primeira Liga players
Segunda Divisão players
Sporting CP footballers
F.C. Alverca players
Gil Vicente F.C. players
Vitória S.C. players
S.L. Benfica footballers
Saudi Pro League players
Al-Ittihad Club (Jeddah) players
Cypriot First Division players
AC Omonia players
Portugal men's under-21 international footballers
Portugal men's B international footballers
Portugal men's international footballers
Portuguese expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Saudi Arabia
Expatriate men's footballers in Cyprus
Portuguese expatriate sportspeople in Saudi Arabia
Portuguese expatriate sportspeople in Cyprus
Doping cases in association football
Portuguese sportspeople in doping cases
Footballers from Coimbra District