[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 221]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

e, and may be deduced from it, with more, or
lesse difficulty. For who is there that does not see, that they
who beleeve Jesus to be the Son of the God of Israel, and that the
Israelites had for God the Omnipotent Creator of all things, doe therein
also beleeve, that God is the Omnipotent Creator of all things? Or how
can a man beleeve, that Jesus is the King that shall reign eternally,
unlesse hee beleeve him also risen again from the dead? For a dead man
cannot exercise the Office of a King. In summe, he that holdeth this
Foundation, Jesus Is The Christ, holdeth Expressely all that hee
seeth rightly deduced from it, and Implicitely all that is consequent
thereunto, though he have not skill enough to discern the consequence.
And therefore it holdeth still good, that the beleef of this one Article
is sufficient faith to obtaine remission of sinnes to the Penitent, and
consequently to bring them into the Kingdome of Heaven.




That Faith, And Obedience Are Both Of Them Necessary To Salvation

Now that I have shewn, that all the Obedience required to Salvation,
consisteth in the will to obey the Law of God, that is to say, in
Repentance; and all the Faith required to the same, is comprehended in
the beleef of this Article, Jesus Is The Christ; I will further alledge
those places of the Gospell, that prove, that all that is Necessary to
Salvation is contained in both these joined together. The men to whom
St. Peter preached on the day of Pentecost, next after the Ascension
of our Saviour, asked him, and the rest of the Apostles, saying, (Act.
2.37.) "Men and Brethren what shall we doe?" to whom St. Peter answered
(in the next verse) "Repent, and be Baptized every one of you, for the
remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost."
Therefore Repentance, and Baptisme, that is, beleeving that Jesus Is The
Christ, is all that is Necessary to Salvation. Again, our Saviour being
asked by a certain Ruler, (Luke 18.18.) "What shall I doe to inherit
eternall life?" Answered (verse 20) "Thou knowest the Commandements,
Doe not commit Adultery, Doe not Kill, Doe not Steal, Doe not bear false
witnesse, Honor thy Father, and thy Mother;" which when he said he had
observed, our Saviour added, "Sell all thou hast, give it to the Poor,
and come and follow me:" which was as much as to say, Relye on me that
am the King: Therefore to fulfill the Law, and to beleeve that Jesus
is the King, is all that is required to bring a man to eternall life.
Thirdly, St. Paul saith (Rom. 1.17.) "The Just shall live by Faith;" not
every one, but the Just; therefore Faith and Justice (that is, the Will
To Be Just, or Repentance) are all that is Necessary to life eternall.
And (Mark 1.15.) our Saviour preached, saying, "The time is fulfilled,
and the Kingdom of God is at hand, Repent and Beleeve the Evangile,"
that is, the Good news that the Christ was come. Therefore to Repent,
and to Beleeve that Jesus is the Christ, is all that is required to
Salvation.




What Each Of Them Contributes Thereunto

Seeing then it is Necessary that Faith, and Obedience (implyed in the
word Repentance) do both concurre to our Salvation; the question
by which of the two we are Justified, is impertinently disputed.
Neverthelesse, it will not be impertinent, to make manifest in what
manner each of them contributes thereunto; and in what sense it is said,
that we are to be Justified by the one, and by the other. And first,
if by Righteousnesse be understood the Justice of the Works themselves,
there is no man that can be saved; for there is none that hath not
transgressed the Law of God. And therefore when wee are said to be
Justified by Works, it is to be understood of the Will, which God doth
alwaies accept for the Work it selfe, as well in good, as in evill men.
And in this sense onely it is, that a man is called Just, or Unjust; and
that his Justice Justifies him, that is, gives him the title, in Gods
acceptation, of Just; and renders him capable of Living By His Faith,
which before he was not. So that Justice Justifies in that that sense,
in which to Justifie, is the same that to Denominate A Man Just; and not
in the signification of discharging the Law; whereby the punishment of
his sins should be unjust.

But a man is then also said to be Justified, when his Plea, though in
it selfe unsufficient, is accepted; as when we Plead our Will, our
Endeavour to fulfill the Law, and Repent us of our failings, and God
accepteth it for the Performance it selfe: And because God accepteth not
the Will for the Deed, but onely in the Faithfull; it is therefore Faith
that makes good our Plea; and in this sense it is, that Faith onely
Justifies: So that Faith and Obedience are both Necessary to Salvation;
yet in severall senses each of them is said to Justifie.




Obedience To God And To The Civill Soveraign Not Inconsistent

Whether Christian, Having thus shewn what is