[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Counterpart Caribbean

d featured in the publication for the year of April 2008 until May 2009.

The Trust relies on donations and volunteers to keep it operating and to enable projects to be developed and undertaken. They welcome contributions from individuals and corporate entities of time and/or finance as appropriate.

The Trust has paid special attention to educating the important people of the future, the children, about the environment. Over the years it has held a notable exhibition centre located at Edge Hill, St. Thomas Parish in the Edgehill Plantation House. The centre is open for viewing by appointment, for a nominal charge. The Centre is dedicated to educating children and tourists about ecological science and the importance of conservation for future generations and in doing so raises several aspects of the social, cultural, economic and spiritual aspects of Barbados. The displays provide a number of exhibits demonstrating ecological footprint for example, eco-farming, alternative energy types, water conservation and has a number of plants and a herb garden. The exhibits include practical demonstrations on the loss of biological diversity, global warming, genetic engineering of food, nature conservation, fresh water access, sustainable tourism, coastal erosion and many other environmental issues. The group has been highly active in organising and collaborating with other groups to set up various workshops across the Caribbean islands in a diversity of different environmental issues. In November 2008, the organisation along with the Commonwealth Foundation, the Sandwatch Foundation, and the Barbados Youth Environment Programme provided a workshop entitled "“Youth and Climate Change: Cool Youth Leading the Way.” on climate change which involved a high number of the Caribbean islands including Bahamas, Barbados, British Virgin Islands, Dominica, Guyana, Jamaica, St. Kitts and Nevis, St. Lucia, St. Vincent and the Grenadines, and Trinidad and Tobago.” Counterpart Caribbean therefore considers it very important to work closely together with other environmental groups and the different governments and companies of the Caribbean to form alliances to increase their leeway on the environmental agenda.

The group is also very active in recycling in Barbados and works with several notable companies in Barbados to commit to recycling, especially plastics. The organization strongly encourage islanders to leave their plastic waste and to use more environmentally friendly shopping bags following the government research that in 1998 Barbadians were using over 78 000 000 plastic bags annually and was predicted to be over a billion by 2004. Some supermarket chains in Barbados are working with the group to use degradable plastic bags although others refuse to join the scheme.

Programmes

The CoRe Network (or Community Recycling Network) was established in 2010 with funding initially from the Coca-Cola Foundation, and subsequently from the Peter Moore's Barbados Trust and the Embassy of the United States (Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean). The programme teaches local communities, especially school groups, to bring their clean recyclables together at a central point for collection and payment by local recycling brokers.

The Green Business Barbados Programme is funded by a grant from the Inter American Development Bank. The project aims to give businesses the framework to "green" their organization and receive certification.

The book Bri and Luk - Friends in Times of Changing Climates, written by former Future Centre Trust Administrative Director Nicole Garofano, aims to inform students ages 9 and 10 about the impact of climate change on small island developing states such as Barbados and surrounding Caribbean islands.  A subsequent book - Book 2 - was developed for younger children, along with a puppet show that toured 30 schools in 2011.  Here the story of Luk the polar bear unfolds.  Luk comes to the Caribbean with his friend Bri the hummingbird to learn from the local animals and children how climate change is beginning to affect them.  Copies of these books have been provided to every primary school in Barbados as a class set, with the hopes the students will engage in initial learning about climate change and its effects both locally and globally.

References

External links
 Official site
 The Caribbean Online 

Charities based in Barbados
Economy of Barbados
Tourism in Barbados