[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Elizabeth Clarke Wolstenholme-Elmy

including papers for the National Association for the Promotion of Social Science and articles for feminist publications such as Shafts and national newspapers such as the Westminster Review. Pamphlets concerning her campaigns were also published by organisations like the Women's Emancipation Union.

Her writing includes: 
 The Report of the Married Women's Property Committee: Presented at the Final Meeting of their Friends and Subscribers' Manchester 1882. 'The Infants' Act 1886: The record of three years' effort for Legislative Reform, with its results published by the Women's Printing Society 1888. 
'''The Enfranchisement of Women' published by the Women's Emancipation Union 1892.

The British Library holds her papers and those of the Guardianship of Infants Act and the Women's Emancipation Union.

Wolstenholme wrote poetry as well. 'The Song of the Insurgent Women' was published on 14 November 1906 and (as Ignota) War Against War in South Africa' on 29 December 1899, shortly after the start of the Second Boer War.

Posthumous recognition

A blue plaque was installed at her home, Buxton House, by the Congleton Civic Society. It reads Elizabeth Wolstenholme-Elmy 1839–1918 Campaigner for social, legal and political equality for women lived here 1874–1918 (citing "1839" as Wolstenholme-Elmy's year of birth, but other sources cite 1833). 

Her name and image, and those of 58 other women's suffrage supporters, are etched on the plinth of the statue of Millicent Fawcett in Parliament Square, London, which was unveiled in 2018.

In April 2021, a new Congleton linkroad was named Wolstenholme Elmy Way in honour of Elizabeth and her husband, Benjamin.

A charity was set up in Congleton in 2019 to raise her profile. Elizabeth's Group raised funds to create a statue in Wolstenhome's memory. It was designed by sculptor Hazel Reeves and unveiled by Baroness Hale of Richmond on International Women's Day, 8 March 2022.

ReferencesNotesBibliography'''

External links
 Elizabeth Wolstenholme on Spartacus
 Elizabeth Wolstenholme-Elmy: Manchester's Free Love Advocate and Secular Feminist — Manchester's Radical History

English essayists
English humanists
English atheists
British secularists
English feminists
English tax resisters
Pseudonymous women writers
People from Eccles, Greater Manchester
Victorian women writers
Victorian writers
British women essayists
19th-century English non-fiction writers
19th-century English women writers
1830s births
1918 deaths
Date of birth unknown
National Society for Women's Suffrage
19th-century pseudonymous writers