[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Counterterrorism Mission Center

The U.S. Central Intelligence Agency's Mission Center for Counterterrorism (often referred to as the Counterterrorism Mission Center or CTMC, formerly the Counterterrorism Center, or simply CTC) is a division of the CIA's Directorate of Operations, established in 1986. It was renamed during an agency restructuring in 2015, and is distinct from the National Counterterrorism Center (NCTC), which is a separate entity. The most recent publicly known Assistant Director for Counterterrorism Mission Center was Chris Wood who led the organization from 2015 to 2017.

Foundation and early years
The Counterterrorism Mission Center was established as the Counterterrorism Center in February 1986, under the CIA's Directorate of Operations, with Duane Clarridge as its first director.  It was an "interdisciplinary" body; many of its personnel, and most its chiefs, were drawn from the CIA's Directorate of Operations, but others came from the Directorates of Intelligence and Science and Technology.  Observing that terrorism knew no geographical boundaries, the CTC was designed to cut across the traditional region-based bodies of the CIA.

Discredited by the Iran-Contra scandal of 1986, the original aims later gave way to a more analytical role. This did not prevent the Center contemplating an "Eagle" drone aircraft project in 1986–7, which could have been used to spy on hostage-takers in Lebanon. The idea was unrealistic in terms of the technical abilities of the time, but can be compared to the Predator drone eventually inaugurated in 2000.

Notable early members included Vincent Cannistraro, Chief of Operations and Analysis from 1988 to 1991, Robert Baer, from the Directorate of Operations, and Stanley Bedlington, a "senior analyst."

The 1990s
In the early 1990s, the CTC had no more than a hundred personnel, divided into about a dozen branches.  Besides branches specializing in Lebanon's Hezbollah, and secular groups like the Japanese Red Army, another concentrated on Sunni Islamist radicalism, primarily in Algeria. Former CTC Director Cofer Black illustrates the evolution of the organization's priorities throughout the 1990s during the 9/11 commission, explaining:During the early and mid 1990's, al-Qa'ida was not our principal counterterrorism target. Until September 11, Hizballah had killed more Americans than any terrorist group. The Egyptian Islamic Jihad, Hamas, Shining Path in Peru, Abu Saayef in the Philippines, 17 November in Greece, were all threats to Americans or American interests. Personnel and financial resources, management attention, policymaker interest were spread among these groups.In January 1996, the CTC opened the Bin Laden Issue Station to track Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda, with Michael Scheuer, formerly in charge of the CTC's Islamic Extremist Branch, as its first head.  The reasons were similar to those for the establishment of the CTC itself. The new station, unlike the traditional country-based ones, was not geographically limited and drew its personnel from across the U.S. intelligence community.

Geoffrey O'Connell was Director of the CTC from 1997 until Cofer Black became Director in June 1999, as part of a reshuffle by CIA chief George Tenet, who was embarking on a plan to deal with al-Qaeda.  At the same time Tenet made one of his executives Richard Blee head of the unnamed section in charge of the Bin Laden Station.

Paul Pillar became chief of analysis in 1993, and by 1997, he was the center's deputy director.  But in summer 1999 he suffered a clash of styles with Cofer Black.  Soon after, Pillar left the organization.  He was replaced as deputy director by Ben Bonk.  Henry Crumpton was head of operations in the late 1990s, and came back after 9/11 as chief of a new Special Operations section.

In the late 1990s, the CIA began to set up Counterterrorist Intelligence Centers, in collaboration with the intelligence services of individual countries to deal with Islamist militants.  The CTICs spread widely after the September 11, 2001 attacks, existing in more than two dozen countries by 2005.  Officers from the host nations serving in the CTICs were vetted by the CIA, and usually supervised by the local CIA chief of station.

"The Plan" (1999–2001)
In December 1998 CIA chief George Tenet "declared war" on Osama bin Laden.  Early in 1999 Tenet ordered the CTC to conduct a review of the CIA's operational strategy, with the aim of creating "a new, comprehensive plan of attack" against al-Qaeda. By mid-September, the result of this review, known simply as "The Plan", had been briefed to CIA operational level personnel, and to the NSA, the FBI, and other partners.