[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Suzuki RE5

much of their engineering on this bike, overthought the application, believing that they would require two plugs of different heat ranges. The idea was dropped, and the bike shipped with a single 18 mm conical seat gold palladium spark plug housed in a copper insert in the rotor housing (NGK A9EFV).

Cooling
The rotary engine places severe thermal stresses on its cases, as two sides of rotor are constantly exposed to high ignition and exhaust temperatures, while the third side inducts cool fuel/air mixture. To cope with this, and probably capitalizing on their previous experience with water cooling, Suzuki opted for a liquid-cooled engine using two separate systems. Oil is used to lubricate and cool the internals of the rotor and water-cooled the external jacketing. Oil is fed from an engine sump by a trochoid pump at around . The oil is then circulated through an oil cooler mounted across the frame and below the radiator. A pressure regulator also acts as a bypass in case of a blockage in the cooler. A centrifugal pump sends coolant around the external rotor jacketing but via an intricate path in an attempt to even out the massive thermal stresses. Liquid enters at the point of highest temperatures (ignition), passing from the right side to the left, and then makes a 180° turn, returning to the right side and passing near the exhaust port. Most of the coolant is then routed to the very large radiator that sits across the frame in front of the bike. Some of the coolant that was not directed to the radiator is now sent around the inlet port and the left side housing. Its passage is once again reversed before flowing to the radiator.   The water cooling is thermostatically controlled, and a shrouded fan on the right side of the radiator takes care of excessive temperatures, switching on at  and cutting when the temperature falls below .

Lubrication
Internally the rotor is cooled and lubricated by engine sump oil and the aforementioned trochoid pump. Engine oil is filtered by an easily accessible car-type oil filter on the lower right side of the cases. The filter includes an internal bypass valve in case of blockage. Further lubrication specifically for the tip, corner and side seals is provided by oil from a tank located under the seat. An engine-driven metering pump sends oil from this external tank into the carburetor at a ratio of around 100:1. Metering of the oil quantity is mechanically controlled by cables from the throttle grip. The metering pump also provided lubrication for the final drive chain. A second line is routed from the metering pump and around the bike, ending just above the drive chain behind the sprocket cover. This feature was also disconnected on the "A" models by a simple blanking plug at the metering pump. The gearbox is separated from the engine sump and has its own oil supply. Suzuki marketed its own brand of rotary oil but also approved at least two other oils for use in its rotary engine. Shell Super 10-20-50 and Castrol GTX were both endorsed lubricants.

Exhaust
Rotary exhaust temperatures reach , and as such, on a motorcycle, required a specialized exhaust system. Suzuki dealt with the problem by first exhausting into a large, heavily finned manifold which split the single exhaust into two streams. They then built two twin-shelled exhaust pipes which included air cooling ducts. Each muffler contains a stainless steel inner pipe which is a little shorter than the length of the external shell. The internal pipe ends in a removable stinger drilled with numerous holes and wrapped in a fibreglass-like material. The stinger (or spark arrestor as Suzuki calls it) exits the exhaust system at the end of the external shell. At the front of each pipe was a small forward-facing grille which allowed cool ambient air to be forced into the pipe by the bike's forward motion and to travel the length of the exhaust between the internal and external pipes. It then flowed through the holes drilled in the stinger, mixing with the hot exhaust gasses before exiting the system. Even so, Suzuki found it prudent to fit heat shields on the outside of the pipe to further protect riders and pillions. The bike's sound is unique among its two- and four-stroke contemporaries but also quite loud. Early in production (December 1974, Frame #11901), Suzuki reduced the size of the spark arrestor tubes, which both reduced noise and horsepower, but the RE5 exhaust note remains distinctive.

See also
List of motorcycles by type of engine

References
Citations

Sources

 'Suzuki Production Rotary Engine, Model RE-5 for Powering Motorcycles'; SAE paper 770190

External links

 Motorcycle Hall of Fame Museum: 1976 Suzuki RE5 Rotary

RE5
Motorcycles powered by Wankel engines
Motorcycles introduced in 1974