[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Whipper Billy Watson

St. Louis became a home away from home for Watson. More than 10,000 St. Louis fans watched local hero Lou Thesz beat Watson for the world title on April 25, 1947. After Packs retired in 1948, Tunney bought into the territory in St. Louis and this resulted in many more matches for Watson in the city.

Watson became one of a small group of wrestlers to have membership in the National Wrestling Alliance. In 1955, Watson expanded his business ventures by purchasing the Seattle territory from Bob Murray. Wrestlers from Toronto such as Doug Hepburn and Sky-Hi Lee wrestled for Watson in Seattle. Ken Kenneth ran the day-to-day operations for Watson and imported wrestlers from San Francisco to compete in Seattle. The territory folded a few months later.

On March 15, 1956, Watson ended Thesz's six-year reign as World Champion in front of 15,000 fans. Former boxing champion Jack Dempsey was the referee in the match. Watson traveled throughout North America and took on legends such as Gorgeous George, Pat O'Connor, Dick Hutton, Richard Dempk, Bobo Brazil, Hans Schmidt, Fritz Von Erich, Killer Kowalski and Buddy Rogers. Thesz regained the title from Watson on November 9, 1956, in St. Louis.

He also trained several wrestlers, including Farmer Brooks, a midget professional wrestler, and Rocky Johnson, a multiple-time tag team champion and father of The Rock.

Outside of wrestling, Watson considered playing football for the Edmonton Eskimos in the 1950s. Watson tested the waters of politics as the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada candidate in York East in the 1965 federal election. Watson placed second with 32% of the vote, falling about 2,500 votes behind Liberal Party of Canada candidate Steve Otto. Watson also promoted his own soft drink brand.

Later life
On November 28, 1971, he teamed with Bulldog Brower at the Gardens to beat Dingo the Sundowner and Man Mountain Cannon in less than five minutes.

Watson was hit by an out-of-control car while placing a fireplace screen in the trunk of his car on November 30 on Rogers Road in Toronto. After a three-hour surgery at Northwestern Hospital, his knee eventually recovered, but Watson could never wrestle again. Although he nearly lost a leg, he continued his fundraising activities into his retirement.

Watson was well known for his contributions to charity. He raised millions for campaigns such as the Easter Seals and was responsible for having 150,000 children join a safety club. He made many public appearances across Canada in support of children with physical disabilities and held an annual Easter Seals skate-a-thon at the Gardens. In 1974, he also started the "Whipper Watson Snowarama for Timmy" to raise money for the construction of a therapeutic pool. To date, Snowarama for Easter Seals Kids has raised over 16.1 million dollars provincially to help support children and youth with physical disabilities. Today, his campaign to build The Whipper Watson Therapeutic Pool at Southlake Regional Health Centre is illustrated in a mural in the facility.

As Watson was quoted in the Sault Star on January 31, 1979, "They deserve a chance to live life as normally as you or I and we can help them do it. We can tear down some of those needless barriers that the handicapped face everyday. We can give thanks that our kids and families aren't afflicted and we can get out and sincerely work hard to make the 1979 Snowarama the most successful yet."

Over the course of the next twelve years, Watson gained 130 pounds to weigh 350 pounds. He died on February 4, 1990, in Orlando, Florida. He is well-remembered in York Region where he lived. W.J. Watson Public School in Keswick, Ontario, is named in his honour. He was inducted into the Ontario Sports Hall of Fame in 1995.

Politics
Watson was the Progressive Conservative Party of Canada's candidate in York East in the 1965 federal election, losing by 3,000 votes.

Championships and accomplishments 
International Wrestling Association (Montreal)
IWA International Heavyweight Championship (1 time)

Maple Leaf Wrestling
NWA British Empire Heavyweight Championship (Toronto version) (9 times)
NWA Canadian Open Tag Team Championship (15 times) - with Pat Flanagan (1), Yvon Robert (1), Hombre Montana (1), Tex McKenzie (2), Antonino Rocca (1), Pat O'Connor (1), Yukon Eric, (2), Bobo Brazil (1), Bernard Vigal, (1), and Ilio Dipaolo (4)
NWA International Tag Team Championship (Toronto version) (9 times) - with Yukon Eric (1), Bill Soloweyko (1), Billy Red Lyons (1), Bruno Sammartino (1), Johnny Valentine (2), Bulldog Brower (2), and Mark Lewin (1)

National Wrestling Alliance
NWA World Heavyweight Championship (1 time)

National Wrestling Association
NWA World Heavyweight Championship (1 time)

NWA All-Star Wrestling
NWA Canadian Tag Team Championship (Vancouver version) (1 time) - with Dan Miller
Professional Wrestling Hall of Fame
Class of 2015

Ontario Sports Hall of Fame
Class of 1995