[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paschimbanga Bangla Akademi

, Shyamal Moitra And Sanat Kumar Chattopadhyay.

Functions

The Akademi is the official authority on Bengali language in West Bengal; although its recommendations carry no legal power — but still the educational boards and the universities of West Bengal and Tripura have deep regard for its rulings.

The Akademi accomplishes all its activities in close liaison with other academic and educational institutions including universities engaged in various aspects of Bengali language, literature and culture. Apart from its own programs, it also arranges programs in cooperation with different such societies. Such activities are not confined to Kolkata only, but also in districts and sub-divisions, even in the other states.

The function of the Akademi was initially settled by a seminar held at Sisir Mancha, Kolkata from 24 February to 1 March. These seminars determined the rationale of the Akademi and proposed to make a design and blue print to achieve its goals.

The tasks entrusted on Bangla Akademi are:

The rationalization and reform of Bengali script and orthography.
Compilation of standard dictionaries, encyclopedias and grammars.
Compilation of terminologies.
Bridging the gap between Bengali and other languages through translations and other activities.
Publication of children books.
Performing research-oriented works on Bengali language, literature and culture as well as arranging scholarships for researchers.
Distribution of civil literary prizes.
Publication of publish books on different subjects
Publication of the Akademi Magazine.
Preservation of an outstanding library.
Preservation of a world-class archive and museum.
To conduct seminars and conferences and cultural festivals and fairs.

Work of Paschimbanga Bangla Akademi

Scholars at the Bangla Akademi work to promote the Bengali language in various ways. They are doing research on spelling, grammar and the origin and development of Bengali. They are publishing works by prominent writers in the language. They have built a large library to preserve original manuscripts. The government of Japan has donated Rs. 500000 for research in the academy. The government of West Bengal has also given a lump some amount of money. The Akademi is spending the money on the Indo-Japan Cultural Center in Bidhannagar. The Akademi has also developed a Bengali font designed according to the changes made by them in the Bengali script. The font is available from this link.

Festivals Conducted by Bangla Akademi

Various festivals are being conducted nowadays by Bangla Akademi, e.g., Kabita Utsab (Poetry Festival), Little Magazine Mela (Little Magazine Fair), Kathasahitya Utsab (Fiction Festival), Chhora Utsab (Rhyme Festival) etc.

Awards awarded by Bangla Akademi
Rabindra Puraskar

Selected bibliography

Dictionaries and terminologies

Akademi Bidyarthi Abidhan (Bangla Akademi Bengali Dictionary for Students)
Akademi Banan Abidhan (Bangla Akademi Spelling Dictionary)
Paribhasha Sankalan – Prashashan (Collection of Administrative Terminologies)
Sahityer Shabdartho-Kosh (Dictionary of Literary Terms)
Bhasha-Tattwer Paribhasha (Terminology of Linguistics)
Byutpatti-Sidhyartha-Bangla Kosmh (Dictionary of Bengali Word Origin)
Bangla Bhashay Arthaniti Charcha Granthapanji (Catalogue of Economic Studies in Bengali)
Bangla Bhashay Itihaas Charcha Granthapanji (Catalogue of Historical Studies in Bengali)
Dhatubidya Paribhasha (Terminology of Metallurgy)
Saontali-Bangla Samashabda Abidhan (A Dictionary of Santali-Bengali Identical Words)

Complete and selected works of legendary authors

Sanchayita, Vol. II, (Ed. By Arun Kumar Basu) – an alternative anthology of Tagore Poems other than Sanchayita
Manik Bandyopadhyay Rachana Samagra, (Ek-Ekadash Khanda) – Complete Works of Manik Bandopadhyay, Vols. I-XI
Manik Bandyopadhyay Kishor Rachana Sambhar, (Ed. By. Parthojit Gangopadhyay) – Collected Juvenile Literature of Manik Bandopadhyay
Kazi Nazrul Islam Rachana Samagra (Ek-Saptam Khanda) – Complete Works of Kazi Nazrul Islam, Vols. I-VII
Budhhadeb Bose Prabandha Samagra (Ek-dui Khanda) – Complete Essays of Budhhadeva Basu, Vols. I-IV
Nirendranath Chakravarty Gadya Samagra (Ek-Tritiya) – Complete Prose Works of Nirendranath Chakravarty, Vols. I-III
Rezaul Karim Prabandha  Samagra – Complete Essays of Rezaul Karim
Jyoti Bhattacharya Prabandha  Samagra – Complete Essays of Jyoti Bhattacharya
Dwijendra-Giti Samagra – Complete Songs of Dwijendra Lal Roy
Somen Chanda Nirbachito Galpa Sangraha – Selected Stories of Somen Chanda
Samparka (Sampriti Bishayak Galpa) – Samparka: Stories on Communal Harmony (Ed. By Ashok Kumar Mitra and Bishnu Basu)

Collected essays