[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Raed Salah

e, May sought to ban Salah. On October 26, an immigration tribunal concluded that May had been justified in her position. The tribunal stated that it is "satisfied that the appellant has engaged in the unacceptable behaviour of fostering hatred which might lead to intercommunity violence in the UK."

Salah successfully appealed the decision. The court ruled that there were no grounds for expelling him nor denying him freedom of speech and that he wasn't a danger to British society.

2017 sermon and arrest 
In August 2017, a month after Salah was released from prison, having served a nine-month sentence for his 2007 sermon in East Jerusalem, he was again arrested. This time on allegations of membership in an illegal organization (the Northern Branch) and of inciting to terror over a sermon he gave in July the same year in which he praised the "martyrs of Al-Aqsa" and those guarding it.

During the trial, Salah argued that his views were religious opinions and that he did not call for violence. His lawyer said that quoting from the Quran should be protected by freedom of speech, and that it is a matter of interpretation whether such quotes are Islamic discourse or incitement.

On February 10, 2020, a court in Israel sentenced Salah to 28 months in prison for "inciting to terror". An appeals court upheld Salah's conviction and he began serving his sentence on August 4.

While he was taken to prison, hundreds of his supporters gathered outside in a show of solidarity with their preacher, chanting "Every Muslim and Arab in the world is proud of you — I do not respect the court's decision." Jamal Zahalka, former leader of the Arab-Israeli Balad party, said that Salah was the victim of a witch hunt: "this is another milestone in his political persecution. The [Northern Branch of the] Islamic Movement has been outlawed, now the right to speak is also outlawed."

On December 13, 2021, he was released from prison after having served 16 months of his sentence.

See also
 Hamed Abu Daabas
 Islamic Movement in Israel

References

1958 births
Living people
Leaders of political parties in Israel
Arab politicians in Israel
Arab citizens of Israel
Mayors of places in Israel
People from Umm al-Fahm
Gaza flotilla raid
Hebron University alumni
Islamic Movement in Israel politicians
Israeli people imprisoned abroad
Palestinian imams
Palestinian politicians
Palestinian religious leaders
Prisoners and detainees of Israel
Prisoners and detainees of England and Wales