[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rick Dykstra

by the Prime Minister as the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister of Citizenship and Immigration. Parliamentary Secretaries are charged with coordinating government policy through the committee process, and responding to questions in the House of Commons when the Minister is on official business.

On September 7, 2010, the federal Ethics Commissioner, issued a report in which the Commissioner found that “Mr. Dykstra personally solicited funds from individuals with whom he had official dealings shortly before and after the fundraising event”. While the Commissioner determined that this soliciting was not in breach of the Conflict of Interest Act, the Commissioner did note that, in this case, the Act was a lesser standard than under the Conflict of Interest and Post-Employment Code for Public Office Holders which applied before the Stephen Harper government came to power. Commissioner Dawson issued a warning to Dykstra to exercise caution in the future when making decisions that would have a significant impact on those he was soliciting donations from.

In 2010 and 2012 Dykstra caused further controversy when he voted against anti-abortion legislation, in particular Bill C-510 and Motion 312. Motion 312 was a motion that would study when life began, his decision was seen as hypocritical because in a 2006 survey put out by Campaign Life Coalition, Dykstra was listed as believing that life began at conception. In that same survey, Dykstra said that he would support measures to pass legislation to restrict abortion. Bill C-510, also known as Roxanne's Law, was proposed to protect pregnant women from being forced into abortion, and so his decision to vote against it in 2010, was also seen as hypocritical. On November 11, 2009, Dykstra received criticism when he was photographed using his BlackBerry during a Remembrance Day ceremony in St. Catharines. Dykstra stated that he was writing a brief note about the event to be uploaded to his blog and using the device's camera to photograph the wreaths. The photograph was taken by Renate Hodges, the campaign manager for former Liberal candidate, Walt Lastewka.

In August 2015, Dykstra was present for the raising of the Pride flag at city hall in St. Catharines, in support of the gay and lesbian community in St. Catharines.

On October 2, 2015, BuzzFeed reported that Dykstra bought alcohol for high school aged girls at a nightclub in St. Catharines on September 2, 2015, and that an associate and supporter of his had offered a 16-year-old girl indefinite VIP service at the same club once she became of legal drinking age if she would refrain from tweeting about the night and if she would claim that Dykstra never bought her drinks. Dykstra denied he knowingly bought under age girls any alcohol saying that he assumed anyone at the nightclub was of legal drinking age.

On August 4, 2015, Dykstra lost his seat to Liberal candidate Chris Bittle.

Provincial politics 
On March 6, 2016, Dykstra was acclaimed President of the Progressive Conservative Party of Ontario at its General Meeting in Ottawa, after his friend Patrick Brown, who had won the party leadership the year before, negotiated a deal to get the only other candidate to drop out.

On October 22, 2016, Dykstra's bid to stand for a by-election in Niagara-West Glanbrook was defeated by the local party membership, who nominated in his stead socially and politically conservative 19-year-old Brock University student Sam Oosterhoff.

Dykstra resigned as party president on January 28, 2018, several days after party leader Patrick Brown was forced to resign due to allegations of sexual misconduct. Dykstra resigned hours after Maclean's contacted him for reaction to allegations by a former staffer to another Conservative MP that she has been sexually assaulted by Dykstra the night the 2014 Canadian federal budget was released. According to the article, which was published later that night, the allegation had been brought to the attention of the Conservative campaign war room during the 2015 federal election, but Dykstra was not dropped as a candidate. On February 2, 2018, then Prime Minister Stephen Harper revealed in a statement that he knew about the allegations during the 2015 election but could not justify removing him as a candidate because the investigation was closed by police a year ago. However, this incident created a tense discussion between the campaign chair Guy Giorno, the campaign manager, Jenni Byrne, who advocated for his removal as a candidate while party lawyer Arthur Hamilton and Ray Novak, Harper's chief of staff, argued against his removal during the campaign.

On January 31, 2018, Conservative leader Andrew Scheer ordered a third-party investigation into the facts surrounding how Dykstra remained a candidate in the 2015 election after fellow MP Michelle Rempel publicly declared her outrage over the incident while MP Maxime Bernier and Brad Trost publicly demanded an investigation.

Electoral record