[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Jewett

erican ships. Some 80 of his crew of 200 were either sick or dead by the time he arrived on 27 October 1820 at Puerto Soledad (later renamed Puerto Luis by Argentine settlers, it was the one-time Spanish capital of the Falkland Islands). At anchor there he found some 50 British and US sealing ships.

Captain Jewett chose to rest and recover in the islands seeking assistance from the British explorer James Weddell of the British brig Jane. Weddell reports only 30 seamen and 40 soldiers out of a crew of 200 fit for duty, and how Jewett slept with pistols over his head following an attempted mutiny for which he had executed 6 members of his crew.

Declaration of Possession of the Islands

On November 6, 1820, Col Jewett raised the flag of the United Provinces of the River Plate and claimed possession of the islands. Weddell reports the letter he received from Jewett as:

<blockquote>Sir, I have the honour to inform you of the circumstance of my arrival at this port, commissioned by the supreme government of the United Provinces of South America to take possession of these islands in the name of the country to which they naturally appertain. In the performance of this duty, it is my desire to act towards all friendly flags with the most distinguished justice and politeness. A principal object is to prevent the wanton destruction of the sources of supply to those whose necessities compel or invite them to visit the islands, and to aid and assist such as require it to obtain a supply with the least trouble and expense. As your views do not enter into contravention or competition with these orders, and as I think mutual advantage may result from a personal interview, I invite you to pay me a visit on board my ship, where I shall be happy to accommodate you during your pleasure. I would also beg you, so far as comes within your sphere, to communicate this information to other British subjects in this vicinity. I have the honour to be, Sir Your most obedient humble Servant, Signed, Jewett, Colonel of the Navy of the United Provinces of South America and commander of the frigate Heroína''.</blockquote>

Many modern authors report this letter as the declaration issued by Jewett. Jewett's ship received Weddell's assistance in obtaining anchorage off of Port Louis, and, according to Weddell, "In a few days, he took formal possession of these islands for the patriot government of Buenos Ayres, read a declaration under their colours, planted on a port in ruins, and fired a salute of twenty-one guns."  Weddell also linked the ceremony to Jewett's claim to the wreck of the Uranie and comments that it was calculated to make an impression on the masters of ships in the area.  Weddell stated that some ship-masters were alarmed by Jewett's appearance, fearing being robbed or captured and said that one contemplated an armed response. Weddell was able to convince him Jewett was no danger and after being introduced to Jewett, he overcame his fears.

Based upon Jewett's statements in 1820, some researchers assert that he was ordered to claim the islands by Argentine authorities; others assert there is no documentary evidence to support a specific order. Jewett did not mention the claim in his 13-page request for resignation to the government of Buenos Aires, nor did the government gazette the sovereignty claim in the Gazeta de Buenos Ayres. 1820 was one of the most anarchical years in Argentine history, where there was twenty-four Governments in one year;  three in one day.  Other factors cited include the roundabout route Jewett took to the islands (he was eight months into the voyage when he arrived)  and the fact that the declaration was only reported in Argentina as a foreign news story after being reported in the Salem Gazette in 1821. The article was also reproduced in The Times of 3 August 1821.

Brazilian Navy career and later life
Jewett arrived in Rio de Janeiro in 1822 in command of the Maipu of 284-tons and armed with 18 cannons.  The ship, originally named Vicuña when flying under Chilean flag had been captured by the Spanish, and subsequently by the Heroina. Jewett acquired her and in 1822 sold her  to Emperor Dom Pedro I, to serve as the Caboclo. Jewett then offered to join the Brazilian Navy and was appointed commander of the frigate União on October 6, 1822.

In 1823, while under the command of Lord Cochrane (the Sea Wolf), Jewett held the rank of “Chefe de Divisão” and fought in the northern provinces of Brazil, then still sympathetic to Portugal.

Jewett was accused of misconduct, whilst in command of the ship Pedro I, and sentenced by the Supreme Military Court to 2 years of imprisonment, on May 20, 1824. He was pardoned two months later by the Emperor Pedro I.

In 1824, Jewett fought in the revolt in Pernambuco, against the rebel forces of Manuel de Carvalho Pais de Andrade. Cochrane's forces, including Jewett, took an active role in the restoration of public order.