[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Toldos Aharon

Toldos Aharon is a devout, insular, fervently anti-Zionist Hasidic group. The group is characterized by extreme conservatism and a desire to preserve the life of the old Yishuv in Jerusalem, in sharp opposition to Zionism, in a strict Haredi way of life, in a special style of clothing, and in an emphasis on prayer at a moderate pace and with enthusiasm. Headquartered in Jerusalem's Mea Shearim neighborhood, it also has significant numbers in Ramat Beit Shemesh, and New York City, and additional members in Tiberias and in Harish. The sect has about 1,800 households. Toldos Aharon is a split-off from Shomer Emunim. It is led by its Rebbe, Dovid Kohn.

History

The Chassidus is named after Aharon Roth, who established a group in Satmar in the year 1921, which was characterized by far-reaching criteria for the worship of God. In 1928, Rabbi Roth immigrated to the Land of Israel. Because of the special importance he saw in reciting amen aloud, Roth changed the group's name in 1933 to "Shomer Emunim".

Roth died on 6 Nisan in 1947. About a year later, his students split up, and a relatively small group chose his son, Avraham Chaim Roth, to succeed his father as Rebbe. Most of the students chose Aharon's son-in-law, Avrohom Yitzchok Kohn. He established his court on the outskirts of the Mea She'arim neighborhood (today, stands instead the beth midrash of the Toldos Avrohom Yitzchok Hasidic group). Rabbi Yoel Teitelbaum of Satmar opposed Aharon's approach, but with the rise of Kohn, who was his disciple, to serve as rebbe, there was a rapprochement between the two Hasidic sects.

Avrohom Yitzchok Kohn died during Hanukkah of 1996. Kohn had many sons, four of whom are rebbes today.

Accession of the current rebbe 
At the end of Avrohom Yitzchok Kohn's life, and in the context of two years in which he did not function, there was controversy in the community over who would inherit it. During these years, the institutions of the community found it difficult to function. Most of the members of the community and the administration of its institutions supported Kohn's second son, Dovid, who until then served as rabbi of Toldos Aharon in the town of Monsey, New York. Others favored the eldest son, Shmuel Yaakov, as successor. Among the supporters of the first-born were also the rabbi of the community in Jerusalem and its representative in the beth din of the Edah HaChareidis, Meir Brandsdorfer, and the kabbalist Daniel Frisch.

After Rabbi Kohn died, two of his sons came to an agreement, whereby the younger son, Dovid, from Monsey, New York, inherited the title "Toldos Aharon Rebbe". The eldest son, Shmuel Yaakov, a disciple of the Viznitzer Rebbe, became a rebbe as well, of a group that was entitled Toldos Avrohom Yitzchok, named after his father. The main beth midrash of Toldos Avrohom Yitzchok is also in Meah Shearim, one block away from the Toldos Aharon building. Both live in Jerusalem. Another son is a rosh yeshiva in Kiryas Joel, New York. The other two sons formed Hasidic courts on their own, both located in Meah Shearim as well, and are known as the Mevakshei Emunah Rebbe and the Nachlas Aharon Rebbe, respectively.

Aharon "Reb Areleh" Roth (1894–1946) - author of Shomrei Emunim, Shulchan HaTahor, and Taharas HaKodesh - founding Rebbe of Shomrei Emunim dynasty in the town of Satmar, (At that time, Hungary ; now, Romania), and Jerusalem.
Avrohom Chaim Roth (1924–2012) - author of Chukei Chaim - Shomrei Emumim Rebbe in Jerusalem and Bnei Brak - son of "Reb Areleh" Roth.
Rafael Aaron Roth - Shomrei Emunim Rebbe in Bnei Brak - son of Rabbi Avrohom Chaim
Gedalya Moshe Roth - Shomrei Emunim Rebbe in Ashdod - son of Rabbi Avrohom Chaim
Shlomo Roth - Shomrei Emunim Rebbe in Jerusalem and Beth Shemesh - son of Rabbi Avrohom Chaim
Yaakov Yitzchok Roth - in Beitar Illit - son of Rabbi Avrohom Chaim
Avrohom Yitzchok Kohn (1914–1996) - author of Divrei Emunah - previous Toldos Aharon Rebbe of Jerusalem - son-in-law of "R' Areleh" Roth.
Shmuel Yaakov Kohn - present Toldos Avrohom Yitzchok Rebbe in Jerusalem - eldest son of the previous Toldos Aharon Rebbe.
Dovid Kohn - present Toldos Aharon Rebbe in Jerusalem - son of the previous Toldos Aharon Rebbe.
Yosef Yoel Kohn - present Mevakshei Emunah Rebbe - son of the previous Toldos Aharon Rebbe
Yisroel Chaim Kohn - present Nachlas Aharon Rebbe - son of the previous Toldos Aharon Rebbe

Dress and customs