[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of Harringay (1880–present)

ool out of Harringay. At a meeting in Hermitage Road about the issue, a Mr. Cummings mentioned that the neighbourhood of Walthamstow had been utterly ruined by the erection of small houses and Board schools and that if a school were erected on the site proposed he, for one, would leave the district.

Faced with opposition from both Stroud Green and Harringay the School Board was caught between two opposing factions. Throughout 1890 and into 1891, numerous resolutions to build a school at either Stroud Green or Harringay were passed and reversed. In September 1891, they resolved once and for all to build a school in the Hornsey Station Estate purchased in 1883. Tenders were put out, work begun and the school opened to the junior boys and girls on 11 April 1893 and to the infants on 17 April 1893. Not long afterward, another Board school was erected in Duckett Road, and incidentally in Stroud Green.

Catering for religious needs there were, five churches on the combined estates. The first of these was the temporary St. Paul's Church of England (Iron Church) on the corner of Green Lanes and Burgoyne Road which opened on 23 December 1883. A permanent church at the other end of Burgoyne Road on the junction with Wightman Road opened in the early 1890s. St. Peter's, situated at the corner of Lausanne and Wightman Roads was opened in October 1884. At some time around 1888/1889 a Wesleyan Methodist Chapel opened in Hampden Road and early in 1891 the Primitive Methodists opened a Chapel in Mattison Road. The Emmanuel Union Chapel was built in Duckett Road at about the same time.

These various churches and chapels, as well as ministering to different religions needs, also provided social outlets by creating organisations such as choral and debating societies. Lectures on a wide range of topics, as well as concert entertainments, were also frequently held in some of the church halls. In this way a sense of local identity was created. Reinforcing this were the local residents' associations which existed on both estates from quite early on.

On the political level, it seems that the residents of the Harringay Park Estate were very politically conscious. In the first District Council election held in 1894, out of the 749 residents entitled to vote in the South Harringay ward, which comprised practically the whole of the Harringay Park Estate, 511 actually did so. As the Chairman of the Council commented afterwards The highest proportion of voters was in the South Harringay ward. While most of the western part of Harringay fell within the borough of Hornsey, the eastern fringe adjoining Green Lanes became part of a new ward within Tottenham in 1901 after the middle-class residents, chafing at their inclusion in the predominantly working-class wards of West Green and St. Ann's, sought to be transferred to Hornsey. Harringay ward was created out of parts of West Green and St. Ann's wards. Consequently, by 1901 there were three Harringay wards - North and South Harringay in the urban district of Hornsey (a municipal borough from 1903) and Harringay ward in that of Tottenham (a borough from 1934).

The development of East Harringay
Building to the east of Green Lanes started in the south-eastern part of the neighbourhood in the mid-1870s when Holloway-based contractor, William Williamson, built eight large houses on Green Lanes between the New River and Hermitage Road. During the same period, agreement was reached with the owners of the private Hermitage Road to widen it. In addition, Vale and Eade Roads were laid out.  Eleven houses were built in Eade Road in 1881 and 1882 and 16 in Hermitage Road between 1880 and 1884. By the end of the decade most of the houses in this part of Harringay had been built, although there was some small scale, infilling through the 1890s.

A sizeable portion of land around Vale Road was developed for industrial use and by 1914 the area was one of three main pockets of industry in the Borough of Tottenham. Firms which were settled there included the wine gum manufacturers Maynards and piano makers Eavestaffs and Brasteds.