[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Disabled Peoples' International

with the final version, saying it had not captured the enthusiasm of the Singapore Congress. The following key Executive posts were elected:

 Ron Chandran-Dudley, Singapore, chairperson
 Henry Enns, Canada, deputy chairperson
 Bengt Lindqvist, Sweden, secretary
 Joshua Malinga, Zimbabwe, treasurer.

Early divisions 
In her book of the history of DPI in the 1980s by one of the participants throughout, Diane Driedger, reports that the early years between 1981 and 1985 included quite a few conflicts within both the two staff teams (one office team in Canada and the other in Sweden) and within the elected members on the World Council. The 1985 World Congress in the Bahamas resolved these tensions with the elections of some new members, and staff relations reportedly improved with more oversight of staff team leaders as the Executive moved from taking a hands-off 'honorary' role to being more managerial. With some early funding from the international development funds of Canada and Sweden, DPI in 1982–85 focused on leadership development, but it was noted that the delegates for training seminars were mostly male, were many were already involved in DPI structures, and with very few Deaf people participating. This all reportedly improved after 1985, and disabled women self-organised within DPI, at one point threatening to split from DPI if their concerns weren't addressed, echoing the split from Rehabilitation International that had defined the creation of DPI.

Regional Development Program 
In 1985 DPI hired three Regional Development Officers for the Latin America region, based in El Salvador, Jamaica, and Argentina. In 1987 the European office was opened in Sweden. By 1989 only the Jamaica officer remained because the Latin America funding had ended, however the same year two new posts were established in Africa, in Zimbabwe (for anglophone countries) and in Mauritius (for francophone countries). In the era of apartheid in South Africa, the issue of possible recognition of Disabled People South Africa (DPSA) as a member of DPI was repeatedly debated at the Congress meetings, but DPSA was never admitted into membership during apartheid.

Court cases 
In 1983 Disabled Peoples' International filed a complaint against the United States with the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights due to a brief military intervention in Grenada where a mental institution was bombed by the United States, injuring six and killing sixteen people.

Projects

Human Rights Defenders  
Human Rights Defenders was started by DPI in 2011 to help people with disabilities in developing countries. They want to improve the legal, social, and economical issues that affect people with disabilities. As of 2013, Human Rights Defenders established two Women's Global Networks that promote rights of women with disabilities. They also set up a youth organization to promote rights for youths with disabilities. The Project was closed in 2013.

Hatchery For Guyana 
Hatchery for Guyana was started so that people with disabilities in Guyana would have honest employment. This project sold baby chicks to people with disabilities to rear so that they could earn an honest living and make a tangible contribution to society. Though DPI did not start this project, it did take place in funding it.

References

External links
Official website
Official website Developed By : Weblieu Technologies Private Limited

Disability rights organizations
International organizations based in Canada
Disability organizations based in Canada