[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Guibord case

tholic Church in Quebec had at any time consented to such an expansion of the Bishop's authority. Phillimore J. concluded that Guibord had not been a "pécheur public" as defined by the Ritual and so the church officials did not have the power under their own Ritual to deny him ecclesiastical burial.

In conclusion, Phillimore J. noted that the Committee was not deciding whether the civil courts could order that the burial be accompanied by the usual ecclesiastical rites because Brown had forewent that demand and counsel for the Institut had not requested it in the appeal to the Committee. Instead, the Committee's judgment was that the orders of the Court of Review and Court of Queen's Bench be reversed and that an order issue, requiring the church officials to allow the burial of the deceased in the section of the cemetery reserved for Roman Catholics, upon payment of all the usual fees.  The Committee also ordered costs to the Institut in all of the lower courts and the appeal to the Committee, except for the costs of the motion to recuse the judges in the Queen's Bench.

Aftermath
Following the court ruling, two attempts were needed to perform the burial of Guibord's remains in Côte-des-Neiges Cemetery.  The first attempt was on 2 September 1875, but the burial party was turned away by an angry crowd.  On the second, successful, attempt, on 16 November 1875, the burial party was accompanied by an armed police and military escort, numbering approximately 2,500 men.  He was buried in the same plot as the remains of his widow, Henriette Brown.  The coffin was encased in a mixture of cement and metal scraps to prevent disinterment by irate Catholics.

Following the burial, Bishop Bourget deconsecrated the ground in which Guibord lay, declaring the place of burial forever "under an interdict and separate from the rest of the cemetery."

Some years after the decision of the Judicial Committee, the Legislature of Quebec responded to the decision by enacting a law which stated that the Catholic church officials had sole authority to determine whether a person could be buried in consecrated ground, effectively changing the law as determined by the Judicial Committee.  The law is still in force today, as part of the Burial Act of Quebec.

Analysis
Professor Rainer Knopff argues the Judicial Committee compromised between two decisions of the lower courts: that the religious freedom argument was frivolous on one hand; or that the courts, not being a Catholic leadership, could not rule on whether a burial should be carried out in accordance with religious procedure on the other.  The Judicial Committee, conversely, concluded that while the courts were not Catholic leaders, they could uphold the people's rights and Guibord was entitled to a burial in holy ground.  However, the Court did not compel other religious ceremonies to be performed because it was not a Catholic institution.  Although burial anywhere could theoretically be justified under the law, the Judicial Committee ruled burial in holy ground was appropriate in this case and advised the other ceremonies to be performed.  The reasoning was that if Guibord was not buried in holy ground, his reputation would be damaged.  As Guibord was a good person, he should not be defamed while a terrible person, on the other hand, probably could be denied religious burial.

The Judicial Committee's decision has been cited in subsequent court decisions.  The case has also been referred to recently in a law journal article dealing with a similar issue of the relationship between the civil courts and religious authorities, in the context of civil and Jewish divorces.

References

Judicial Committee of the Privy Council cases on appeal from Canada
Canadian freedom of religion case law
History of Catholicism in Quebec
1874 in Canadian case law