[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Battle of Droop Mountain

oden's rear guard near Covington, capturing 21 men. However, Slack believed that Imboden was moving his command south toward the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad to reinforce Echols, and neither side pursued each other. Averell reached New Creek on November 17, bringing prisoners and captured horses.

Casualties
Averell had 45 men killed, including those mortally wounded. He also had 93 wounded and 2 captured. This total of 140 casualties agrees with the National Park Service summary. The original report listed 30 killed as part of 119 casualties, although some of the mortally wounded may not have died at the time of the report. The 10th West Virginia Infantry, followed by the 28th Ohio Infantry, had the most casualties. For Confederate troops, 33 were killed, 121 wounded, and 122 captured. The 19th Virginia Cavalry and the 22nd Virginia Infantry had the most casualties. The total of 276 casualties almost matches the count of 275 reported by Echols and used by the National Park Service.

Aftermath

Averell reported that his Droop Mountain "victory was decisive and the enemy's retreat became a total rout". However, Duffié reported that "Had General Averell, instead of attacking the enemy in force and making a general engagement, engaged him lightly, detaining him until my command reached Lewisburg, it is my opinion that we might have captured almost the entire rebel force." The Confederates were aware that if they had held their line on the mountain, they would have become trapped between Duffié and Averell. They also knew that if they had not retreated (or ran) when they did, they would have been surrounded by Averell's two wings of infantry led by Moor and Oley. One historian was critical of Averell's decision to end the mission, writing that if Averell had "the drive and the instinct for the jugular" of someone like Philip Sheridan or George Armstrong Custer, he would have continued pursuing Echols and gone on to the railroad bridge.

On November 7, Major General Sam Jones sent a report to General Samuel Cooper in Richmond requesting assistance and saying that Echols was badly defeated, closely pursued, and would probably not escape. By November 15, Jones believed the affair at Droop Mountain was not as big of a loss as he originally thought. On December 11, he reported that Confederate troops had reoccupied their positions held prior to the battle, and the enemy had suffered heavier losses than those inflicted.

After the Battle of Droop Mountain, the only major battles in West Virginia were the Battle of Moorefield, the Battle of Summit Point, and the Battle of Smithfield Crossing. All three battles were in the Eastern Panhandle of the state. Some historians conclude that Confederate resistance in West Virginia collapsed after the Battle of Droop Mountain. However, the Confederates returned to their original positions in December, and fighting may have simply shifted to the Shenandoah Valley. At worst (for the Union cause), the Battle of Droop Mountain can be considered a tactical victory for Echols, since the Confederate army was not eliminated from West Virginia and the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad was unharmed. In December, Halleck again ordered Averell to destroy the railroad and another expedition started. At best, the Battle of Droop Mountain was a sound victory for Averell and a morale booster. President Abraham Lincoln made reference to the battle in a speech, and Major General Ambrose Burnside confirmed that the victory encouraged his Army of the Ohio in Tennessee.

Future leaders
Averell was often criticized for being too cautious, and was removed in September 1864 as a division commander by General Philip Sheridan for not pursuing the enemy promptly enough. However, Averell was one of the few Union cavalry leaders that achieved cavalry victories in the eastern theater before Sheridan arrived. In addition to Droop Mountain, he soundly defeated the Confederates at the Battle of Rutherford's Farm and the Battle of Moorefield. He also performed well at the Battle of Kelly's Ford. Historian Scott Patchan noted that Averell had successes while "serving as an independent or quasi-independent commander, while his failures arose when his superiors expected him to cooperate within the framework of a larger command structure."

Averell and Echols were the generals on the field at the Battle of Droop Mountain. Of the Union leaders in the battle, Harris, Moor, and Oley eventually became generals. Schoonmaker led a charge against a fort in the Third Battle of Winchester, and was awarded the Medal of Honor. Harris served on the commission that tried the Lincoln assassination conspirators. For the Confederates, Jackson eventually became a general, while Patton would have become a general if he had survived his wounds received at the Third Battle of Winchester. Patton is the grandfather of the famous World War II tank commander, George S. Patton.