[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Politics of South Sudan

The politics of South Sudan concern the system of government in the Republic of South Sudan, a country in East Africa, and the people, organizations, and events involved in it.

As a region of the Republic of Sudan, South Sudan gained autonomy in 2005 with former rebel leader Dr. John Garang becoming the President of New Sudan and the Vice President of Sudan. Garang's death in 2005 led Salva Kiir Mayardit taking over as President and Riek Machar as the Vice President. Full independence from the Republic of Sudan was gained, following a referendum in 2011.

Eruption of the Civil War 
When Kiir sacked his  entire cabinet in 2013, Riek Machar accused him of stepping towards a dictatorship and challenged him for Presidency, triggering a civil war.

In September 2018, a Revitalized Agreement on the Resolution of the Conflict in the Republic of South Sudan (A-RCSS) was signed,  resulting to formation of the Revitalized Transitional Government of National Unity (R-TGoNU) initially for 24 months, was extended in August 2022.

History 
Prior to autonomy and eventual independence, Southern Sudan was a region of the Republic of Sudan, which had achieved independence from the co-rule of Great Britain and Egypt in 1956. Sudan had been divided culturally and ethnically between the majority-Muslim Arab north and the majority-Christian Nilotic south. Southern leaders and members of the Sudan Defense Force cited oppression of the North as reason for growing tensions between the two regions. This led to the formation of the Separatist Anyanya rebel army, who sought regional autonomy. The First Sudanese Civil War was a 16-year conflict between the Anyanya and the Sudan People's Armed Forces.

The war ended with the signing of the 1972 Addis Ababa Agreement which granted autonomy to the Southern region of Sudan. After an 11-year period of resolution, then president Gaafar Nimeiry declared all of Sudan, including the autonomous Southern region, to be an Islamic state. This declaration ended the Addis Ababa Agreement and removed autonomy from Southern Sudan, sparking the Second Sudanese Civil War from 1983 to 2005.

After the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (also known as the Naivasha Agreement) between the government of Sudan and the rebel Sudan People's Liberation Army, Southern Sudan regained its status as an autonomous region of the Republic of Sudan from 2005 to 2011, when South Sudan gained independence.

On 9th January 2005, the Government of Southern Sudan was established after the signing of the Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA). John Garang, the former rebel leader of the Sudan People's Liberation Army/Movement, became President of the Government of Southern Sudan and Vice President of Sudan. A constitution was adopted in December 2005.

In July 2005, Garang died in a helicopter crash in Uganda, and was succeeded in both posts by Salva Kiir Mayardit, with Riek Machar as Vice-President of Southern Sudan.

2011 Southern Sudanese independence referendum

A referendum on independence for Southern Sudan was held from 9 to 15 January 2011.

Voting on the referendum began on 9th January 2011. On January 12, after three days of voting, representatives of the Sudan People's Liberation Movement (SPLM) announced that, according to their estimates, 60 percent turnout threshold required for the referendum's validity (corresponding to around 2.3 million voters) had been reached. Official confirmation later the same day indicates that, when the referendum commission released a statement announcing that turnout would "exceed" the required 60 percent threshold.

Mohamed Ibrahim Khalil, chairman of the referendum commission, said 83 percent of eligible voters in the south and 53 percent in the north had voted. Over 90% of those who voted supported independence, which was officially granted on July 9. Salva Kiir Mayardit was appointed as South Sudan's first President, and Riek Machar was appointed as South Sudan's first Vice-president.

2013–2014 civil war and reform
In July 2013, Kiir dismissed all his Minister's, including Vice President Riek Machar, with the official aim of reducing the size of government. However, Riek Machar said it was a step towards dictatorship and that he would challenge Salva Kiir for the presidency.