[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 98]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

and could do nothing,
thought yourself superior to all the rest of the world, why should you
wonder, that men who really excel others in those things which they see
absolutely necessary, should have the same good opinion of themselves?
Were you to be in Greenland, for instance, how would you prove your own
superiority and importance?

_Tommy._--I would tell them that I had always been well brought up at
home.

_Mr Barlow._--That they would not believe. They would say that they saw
you were totally unable to do anything useful--to guide a boat; to swim
the seas; to procure yourself the least sustenance--so that you would
perish with hunger, if they did not charitably afford you now and then a
bit of whale or seal; and, as to your being a gentleman, they would not
understand the word, nor would they comprehend why one man, who is
naturally as good as his fellow-creature, should submit to the caprice
of another, and obey him.

_Tommy._--Indeed, sir, I begin to think that I am not so much better
than others, as I used to do.

_Mr Barlow._--The more you encourage that thought the more likely you
are to acquire real superiority and excellence, for great and generous
minds are less exposed to that ridiculous vanity than weak and childish
ones.

A few evenings after this conversation, when the night was remarkably
clear, Mr Barlow called his two pupils into the garden, where there was
a long hollow tube suspended upon a frame. Mr Barlow then placed Tommy
upon a chair, and bade him look through it, which he had scarcely done
when he cried out, "What an extraordinary sight is this!" "What is the
matter?" said Mr Barlow. "I see," replied Tommy, "what I should take for
the moon were it not a great many times bigger, and so near to me that I
can almost touch it." "What you see," answered Mr Barlow, smiling, "is
the moon itself. This glass has indeed the power of making it appear to
your eye as it would do could you approach a great deal nearer; but
still it is nothing but the moon; and from this single experiment you
may judge of the different size which the sun and all the other heavenly
bodies would appear to have, if you could advance a great deal nearer to
them."

Tommy was delighted with this new spectacle. The moon, he said, viewed
in this manner, was the most glorious sight he had ever seen in his
life. "And I protest," added he, "it seems to be shaded in such a
manner, that it almost resembles land and water." "What you say,"
answered Mr Barlow, "is by no means unreasonable. The moon is a very
large body, and may be, for ought we know, inhabited like the earth."

Tommy was more and more astonished at the introduction of all these new
ideas; but what he was particularly inquisitive about was, to know the
reason of this extraordinary change in the appearance of objects, only
by looking through a hollow tube with a bit of glass fixed into it. "All
this," replied Mr Barlow, "I will, if you desire it, one day explain to
you; but it is rather too long and difficult to undertake it at the
present moment. When you are a little farther advanced in some of the
things which you are now studying, you will comprehend me better.
However, before we retire to-night, I will show you something more,
which will perhaps equally surprise you."

They then returned to the house, and Mr Barlow, who had prepared
everything for his intended exhibition, led Tommy into a room, where he
observed nothing but a lantern upon the floor, and a white sheet hung up
against the wall. Tommy laughed, and said he did not see anything very
curious in all that. "Well," said Mr Barlow, "perhaps I may surprise you
yet, before I have done; let us at least light up the lantern, that you
may see a little clearer."

Mr Barlow then lighted a lamp which was within the lantern, and
extinguished all the other candles; and Tommy was instantly struck with
astonishment to see a gigantic figure of a man, leading along a large
bear, appear upon the wall, and glide slowly along the sheet. As he was
admiring this wonderful sight, a large monkey, dressed up in the habit
of a man, appeared and followed the bear; after him came an old woman
trundling a barrow of fruit, and then two boys (who, however, were as
big as men) that seemed to be fighting as they passed.

Tommy could hardly find words to express his pleasure and admiration,
and he entreated Mr Barlow in the most earnest manner to explain to him
the reason of all these wonderful sights. "At present," said Mr Barlow,
"you are not sufficiently advanced to comprehend the explanation.
However, thus much I will inform you, that both the wonderful tube which
showed you the moon so much larger than you ever saw it before, and this
curious exhibition of to-night, and a variety of others, which I will
hereafter show you, if you desire it, depend entirely upon such a little
bit of glass as this." Mr Barlow then put into his hand a small rou