[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mansurul Haq

Admiral Mansurul Haq  ( ; 16 October 1937 – 21 February 2018) was a senior officer of the Pakistan Navy who was forcibly retired from his service in 1997 on the allegations leveled against him in the corruption and kickbacks resulting during the technology transfer of submarines from France.

Driving a policy on anti-corruption by the Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, the Naval Intelligence led by Rear-Admiral Tanvir Ahmad exposed his role that led to his resignation on 1 May 1997. His case attracted subsequent media attention in Pakistan after his extradition from the United States by the joint teams of FIA and NAB. He was held in Sihala Prison to face accountability.

However, Haq was later released after successfully negotiating a plea bargain. In 2013, he later filed a lawsuit against the Government of Pakistan at the Sindh High Court, seeking to restore his rank and other privileges. The government restored his rank but not his privileges.

Biography

Mansurul Haq was born in Sialkot, Punjab in India, in 1937 into a Punjabi family. After his matriculation in Sialkot, he briefly attended the Murray College and commissioned in the Pakistan Navy in 1954 as Midshipman.

In 1954, he was sent to the United Kingdom where he attended the Britannia Royal Naval College in Dartmouth in England, graduated in geography course in 1956. In 1957, he did his further military training at  in Portsmouth where he specialized as gunnery specialist, returned to Pakistan before being promoted as sub-lieutenant in the Navy in 1958. In 1964–65, Lt. Haq served in the second war with India, and was posted in East Pakistan after the war.

In 1969–71, Lieutenant-Commander Haq was posted in East Pakistan where he was the Director of the Naval Intelligence, fighting a war against India in December 1971. He was taken as war prisoner by Indian Army and was repatriated back to Pakistan following the trilateral agreement signed in 1974.

His career progressed extremely well in the Navy, and was sent to attend the Naval War College in Rhode Island in the United States where he graduated in management course. In 1983, Captain Haq was promoted to one-star assignment in the Navy NHQ, and Cdre Haq briefly tenured as the ACNS (Ops). In 1985–89, Cdre Haq served in the Ministry of Defence and later as Director of Joint Training at the JS HQ before being promoted to two-star assignment, and Rear-Admiral Haq was made a senior fleet commander as Commander Pakistan Fleet (COMPAK), and later as Commander Karachi (COMKAR) in 1991–92.

On 22 February 2018, his family's spokesperson reportedly announced in a news media of his death in his estate in Dubai and was buried in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates .

Chief of Naval Staff

In 1992, Rear-Admiral Haq was promoted to three-star assignment, and was appointed as secondment at the National Shipping Corporation (PNSC) by then-Chief of Naval Staff Admiral S.M. Khan. However, his chairmanship was caught between the privatization policy led by then-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and Admiral S.M. Khan, when a civilian bureaucrat filed a petition against his tenureship at the Sindh High Court.

Vice-Admiral Haq fiercely opposed any attempts of privatization policy, causing a stress on the civil-military relations with the civilian federal government. In 1992, Vice-Admiral Haq announced to sell off the old metal scrap that would raise the revenue of US$50–60 million to buy new cargo ships.

In 1994, Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto publicly announced to promote Vice-Admiral Haq as a four-star admiral in the Navy, appointing him as the Chief of Naval Staff. The promotion came with controversy since Vice-Admiral Mansur was due retirement a month before the change was due.

Although, it was Admiral Saeed Mohammad Khan who had given a go-ahead of procuring the technology transfer of the Agosta 90B submarines in 1994 against his discretionary and wanting to directly procure the Victoria-class submarines. Admiral Haq, nonetheless oversaw the financial deals closed in between the Benazir administration and the administrations of Mitterrand and Chirac in 1994–97. In 1995, Adm. Haq held additional talks with the French Navy over the strengthening of the cooperation between two nations.

Dismissal and extradition

In 1996–97, the Naval Intelligence led by Rear-Admiral Tanvir Ahmed began investigating the allegations and rumors at the Navy NHQ surrounding the role of Admiral S.M. Khan and Admiral Haq. The whole nation became completely aware of the scandal in 1998, when the scandal was exposed.

In driving the anti-corruption policy by then-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif, Admiral Haq's role was exposed by R-Adm Tanvir Ahmed, and was forced retired from his four-star commission in 1997. The Naval Police and officials of the Naval Intelligence led by R-Adm. Tanvir Ahmed arrested Admiral Haq but no evidence came out to convict him in 1998.