[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Southern Baptist Theological Seminary

outhetic Counseling" or Bible-based counseling program, championed by Jay E. Adams since the 1970s. The dean of Southern Seminary's school of theology stated that the change was necessary because a successful integration of modern psychology and theology was not possible.

Notable associates

Alumni

 Jason K. Allen, President of Midwestern Baptist Theological Seminary 2012–Present
 Charles C. Baldwin, Chief of Chaplains of the United States Air Force 2004–2008
 Reginald Bibby, sociologist
 LaVerne Butler, pastor of 9th & O Baptist Church in Louisville, 1969–1988; president of Mid-Continent University in Mayfield, 1988–1997, leader of conservative resurgence in Southern Baptist Convention in the 1970s and 1980s
 Douglas Carver, Chief of Chaplains of the United States Army 2007–2011
 Chris Clarke, missionary to the equestrian community in Kentucky and neighboring states
 Dondi E. Costin, Chief of Chaplains of the United States Air Force 2015–2018, 6th President of Liberty University 2023–Present 
 W.A. Criswell, pastor of the First Baptist Church of Dallas, Texas; author; and president of the Southern Baptist Convention (1969–1970).
 Miguel A. De La Torre, author on Hispanic religious life; social ethics professor at Iliff School of Theology in Denver, CO, 1999–present.
 Mark Dever, pastor of Capitol Hill Baptist Church; well-known speaker, author, and theologian.
 Amzi Dixon, pastor of Moody Church, Chicago, IL (1906–1911); and Metropolitan Tabernacle, London, England (1911–1919).
Wilmer Clemont Fields (1922–2018), vice president for public relations for the Southern Baptist Convention; editor of Baptist Record and Baptist Program; director of the Baptist Press.
 Steven Furtick, pastor of Elevation Church; well-known pastor, speaker, and author.
 Jimmy Scroggins, Pastor of Family Church in West Palm Beach (multi campus neighborhood strategy church), creator of 3 Circles Evangelism Tool, former Dean of Boyce College.
 David P. Gushee, Christian ethicist, historian, public intellectual, and Holocaust scholar.
 Paul R. House, scholar, author, and seminary professor.
 Ben Campbell Johnson, Professor Emeritus at Columbia Theological Seminary, author
 Clarence Jordan, founder of Koinonia Farm (forerunner of Habitat for Humanity) and Greek scholar who translated the New Testament into a Cotton Patch version using the vernacular of the Civil Rights era in the South.
 R.T. Kendall, pastor of Westminster Chapel, London, England, 1977–2002.
 Pleasant Daniel Gold, Baptist pastor and newspaper publisher
 Matt Lockett, member of the Kentucky House of Representatives for the 39th District, 2021–Present
 David Gordon Lyon, Hollis Chair at Harvard Divinity School and founding curator of Semitic Museum
 James Merritt, pastor, president of the Southern Baptist Convention from 2000 to 2002
 Russell D. Moore, second president of the Ethics & Religious Liberty Commission.
 J. Frank Norris, fundamentalist Baptist pastor, trustee at Southwestern Baptist Theological Seminary, established Arlington Baptist College.
 Grady Nutt, religious humorist and national television personality; died in air crash, 1982.
 Wayne Oates, an American psychologist and religious educator who coined the word 'workaholic'.
 Luis G. Pedraja, Latino theologian, philosopher, author, scholar and educator
 Cicero Washington Pruitt, missionary to Northern China.
 Bronson Ray, Executive Secretary of the Foreign Mission Board of the Southern Baptist Convention (1928–1932).
 William Bell Riley, late founder of the World Christian Fundamentals Association
 Lee Roberson, founder of Tennessee Temple University, influential leader in the Southwide Baptist Fellowship, and former pastor of Highland Park Baptist Church in Chattanooga, Tennessee
 Gregory Alan Thornbury, president of The King's College in New York City (2013–2018).
 Jeff Struecker, pastor, author, and former US Army Ranger Chaplain.
 Ed Stetzer, author, speaker, researcher, pastor, church planter, and Christian missiologist.
 John D. W. Watts, Old Testament Scholar and Theologian, Old Testament Editor for the Word Biblical Commentary, Professor.
 Edwin O. Ware Sr., Kentucky native who was first president of Louisiana College in Pineville, Louisiana
 James Emery White, pastor, author, and Professor of Theology and Culture
 Steve Willis, pastor and health activist
 Norman Barton Wood, pastor, author, lecturer
 Bryant Wright, pastor, president of the Southern Baptist Convention from 2010 to 2011.

Faculty