[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Franklin J. Moses Sr.

d honest man").

Personal life
In 1830, Moses acquired two lots in Sumterville for a residence on the north side of Republican (now East Hampton) Street in between Main and Harvin streets. At about that time, he reversed the order of his first and middle names, and became known as Franklin I. Moses.

Moses married Jane McLellan (also spelled McClenahan) of Chesterfield, who was a devout Methodist and avid gardener. They had one son, Franklin Israel Moses Jr. Some people confused his middle initial as the letter "J," and thereafter both father and son used Franklin J. Moses, or F. J. Moses. Moses was raised as a Jew, but later left the religion. His wife did not convert to Judaism, and their son was raised in the Episcopal Church of the South Carolina elite. F.J. Moses Jr. also became an attorney, being elected to the state legislature during the Reconstruction era and in 1872 as Governor of South Carolina. Democrats classified him as a scalawag.

Legacy and honors
The senior Moses was conferred an honorary LL.D. the University of South Carolina. His son, who as Governor of South Carolina was the ex officio chairman of the Board of Trustees, presented the degree in a ceremony.

See also 
 List of Jewish American jurists

Notes

References

Ginsberg, Benjamin. Moses of South Carolina: A Jewish Scalawag During Radical Reconstruction (Johns Hopkins University Press; 2010) 240 pages.

External links
Biography of Franklin J. Moses, Sr., Library of University of North Carolina
Thomas Eveleigh Richardson Collection, University of South Carolina, has extensive references to Franklin J. Moses

1804 births
1877 deaths
University of South Carolina alumni
South Carolina lawyers
Jewish American people in South Carolina politics
Republican Party South Carolina state senators
American people of German-Jewish descent
American planters
Chief Justices of the South Carolina Supreme Court
Justices of the South Carolina Supreme Court
19th-century American politicians
19th-century American judges
19th-century American lawyers
Jewish Confederates