[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Craig Armstrong (footballer)

er at the club.

Armstrong revealed on his Twitter page following Forest Green Rovers final home league game of the season, a 0–0 draw with Wimbledon, that he would not be offered a new contract with the club at the end of the season. He was released following Rovers final day loss against Tamworth.

Boston United
In September 2011 Armstrong returned to a playing career with Conference North side Boston United. Armstrong made his debut against Altrincham in a league game on 8 October 2011 and also featured against Histon and Workington in his month with the Pilgrims.

Hucknall Town
In October 2011, Armstrong signed for Hucknall Town as a player-coach, linking up with manager Des Lyttle. Armstrong left Hucknall because of a budget cut at the club in March 2012.

Coaching career
Having learnt from some of the best managers in the business on 26 May 2011, Armstrong was appointed as joint manager of Eastwood Town alongside Jamie Brough. The season started well with victories against Solihull Moors and Gloucester City. However defeats against Corby Town and Stalybridge Celtic caused friction and after just eight games in charge Armstrong quit as Eastwood boss in September 2011.

After leaving his post as player-coach at Hucknall Town, Armstrong became manager of Quorn in late March 2012.

He moved on to work at Nottingham Forest as an elite development coach, later working as a regional co-ordinator for Arsenal and presently the academy recruitment manager Premier League side Crystal Palace.

References

External links

1975 births
Living people
Footballers from South Shields
English men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Nottingham Forest F.C. players
Burnley F.C. players
Bristol Rovers F.C. players
Gillingham F.C. players
Watford F.C. players
Huddersfield Town A.F.C. players
Sheffield Wednesday F.C. players
Grimsby Town F.C. players
Bradford City A.F.C. players
Cheltenham Town F.C. players
Burton Albion F.C. players
Kidderminster Harriers F.C. players
Mansfield Town F.C. players
Forest Green Rovers F.C. players
Boston United F.C. players
Hucknall Town F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Quorn F.C. managers
English football managers
Eastwood Town F.C. managers
Eastwood Town F.C. players
Nottingham Forest F.C. non-playing staff
Arsenal F.C. non-playing staff
Crystal Palace F.C. non-playing staff