[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Humber Heights-Westmount

cent high-density development is now taking place along Eglinton Avenue such as the 'Royal York Grand' condominium.

Demographics

Major ethnic populations (2016):
 67.2% White; 21.0% Italian, 9.1% Ukrainian
 10.5% Black
 4.4% Latin American (of any race)
 3.0% South Asian
 2.5% East Indian

Schools

Scarlett Heights Entrepreneurial Academy, formerly known as Scarlett Heights Collegiate Institute, a school existed from 1963 to 2018. It is currently a holding school for York Memorial Collegiate Institute.
St. Demetrius Elementary School is a professional primary school on La Rose Avenue. It is one of three Ukrainian Catholic schools within the Toronto Catholic District School Board. It was founded in 1975 as a result of the pastor of St. Demetrius Ukrainian Catholic Church, Rt. Rev. John Tataryn, who recognized the need to ensure the future of the Ukrainian Catholic community by providing its children with the opportunity to learn about and appreciate their unique heritage. The school was guided from its infancy stages to the present largely through the dedicated efforts of its founding principal, Sister Rachel Tataryn, SSMI, who served the school community in that capacity for many years. Today the school is an integral part of the St. Demetrius community, intimately linked with the Church, Demetrius Residence, and the Ukrainian Canadian Care Centre. St. Demetrius Catholic School celebrated its 25th anniversary in the year 2000.
Westmount Junior School is a public elementary school on Chapman Road near Royal York Road and Eglinton Avenue. It opened in January 1960. The school sits on a large parcel of land that is adjacent to park and recreational facilities. The six primary classrooms surround a large open area which is used for science and art activities. There is a computer lab set up within the resource center. The school has a courtyard that has a wide variety of plants. There are 21 teaching staff at the school.
All Saints Catholic Elementary School (est. 1962)

Institutions

Riverside Cemetery
Royal York Plaza
La Rose Plaza

Recreation

Douglas B. Ford Park - formerly Weston Woods Park
LaRose Park
Scarlett Heights Park
Top of Richview
Westmount Park
Weston Golf & Country Club

Churches

St Philips Anglican Church (est. 1830)
St Andrews Presbyterian Church, Humber Heights (est. 1951)
St Demetrius Byzantine Catholic Church (est. 1959)
All Saints Roman Catholic Church
Westmount Gospel Hall

References

External links
 Humber Heights-Westmount neighbourhood profile

Etobicoke
Neighbourhoods in Toronto