[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# November 1942

rn: 
Martin Scorsese, filmmaker, in Queens, New York
Bob Gaudio, singer, musician and record producer, in the Bronx, New York; 
Kang Kek Iew, Khmer Rouge leader and convicted war criminal, in Kampong Cham, French Indochina (d. 2020); 
István Rosztóczy, microbiologist, in Budapest, Hungary (d. 1993);

November 18, 1942 (Wednesday)
The British Eighth Army reached Cyrene, Libya.
Philippe Pétain granted Vichy Prime Minister Pierre Laval the authority to rule by decree.
President Roosevelt ordered registration for Selective Service of all youths who had turned 18 since July 1. This made about 500,000 more Americans eligible for service.
German submarines U-307, U-419 and U-649 were commissioned.
Born: 
Linda Evans, actress, in Hartford, Connecticut; 
Susan Sullivan, actress, in New York City

November 19, 1942 (Thursday)
The Soviets launched Operation Uranus, a counterattack aimed at surrounding Axis forces at Stalingrad.
The Battle for Velikiye Luki began on the Eastern Front.
Operation Freshman: A British airborne force landed using gliders in Norway with the intent of sabotaging a chemical plant in Telemark that the Germans could use for their atomic weapons programme. Neither of the two aircraft-glider forces were able to land near their objective and the operation ended in failure with 41 killed. 
Died: Bruno Schulz, 50, Polish writer, artist, literary critic and art teacher (shot by a Nazi)

November 20, 1942 (Friday)
The Siege of Malta ended after 2 years, 5 months and 9 days.
The British Eighth Army retook Benghazi.
The 1,525-mile Alaska Highway was officially opened.
Born: 
Joe Biden, 46th President of the United States, 47th Vice President of the United States, in Scranton, Pennsylvania 
Norman Greenbaum, singer and songwriter, in Malden, Massachusetts

November 21, 1942 (Saturday)
Hitler forbade the German 6th Army from retreating from Stalingrad.
German submarine U-517 was depth charged and sunk southwest of Iceland by Fairey Albacore planes from the aircraft carrier HMS Victorious. 
German submarine U-184 went missing off Newfoundland. Her fate is unknown.
The character of Tweety Bird first appeared in the Warner Bros. cartoon A Tale of Two Kitties.
Born: Afa Anoaʻi, professional wrestler, in Samoa
Died: 
J. B. M. Hertzog, 76, 3rd Prime Minister of South Africa
Count Leopold Berchtold, 79, Austro-Hungarian politician;

November 22, 1942 (Sunday)
During Operation Uranus the Red Army secured the vital bridge over the Don River at Kalach-na-Donu west of Stalingrad.
The new German army group Army Group Don was created with Erich von Manstein in command.
Paul Ludwig Ewald von Kleist was made Commander-in-Chief of Army Group A.
Viscount Cranborne replaced Stafford Cripps as Lord Privy Seal.
The Robe by Lloyd C. Douglas topped The New York Times Fiction Best Seller list, where it would stay for the rest of the year and much of 1943.
Born: 
Francis K. Butagira, diplomat, in Bugamba, Uganda
Dick Stockton, sportscaster, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

November 23, 1942 (Monday)
Operation Uranus ended in decisive Soviet victory with the German 6th Army completely encircled at Stalingrad.
The Governor General of French West Africa agreed to accept the authority of François Darlan.  This brought the strategically valuable port city of Dakar under Allied control.
German U-boat U-172 torpedoed and sank the British merchant ship  off the coast of Brazil. Chinese second steward Poon Lim survived and would spend 133 days adrift on a raft in the South Atlantic.
Died: 
Hernando Siles Reyes, 60, 37th President of Bolivia
Tomitarō Horii, 52, Japanese general (drowned while attempting to canoe down the Kumusi River during the Battle of Buna–Gona);

November 24, 1942 (Tuesday)
Case Blue ended in strategic Axis failure.
The Japanese destroyer Hayashio was heavily damaged by American planes in the Huon Gulf. The destroyer Shiratsuyu rescued the survivors and then scuttled the ship with a torpedo.
German submarine U-387 was commissioned.
Born: Billy Connolly, comedian, actor and musician, in Anderston, Glasgow, Scotland

November 25, 1942 (Wednesday)
Soviet forces launched Operation Mars, an offensive around the Rzhev salient near Moscow.
The Germans began airlifting supplies to the 6th Army trapped in Stalingrad. Only 47 Ju 52 transport planes were on hand for the first day, a small fraction of what was needed. Hermann Göring ordered as many Ju 52s as possible to be requisitioned from around occupied Europe to join in the operation.
The British Special Operations Executive (SOE) in co-operation with Greek Resistance fighters executed Operation Harling, destroying the heavily guarded Gorgopotamos viaduct.
British submarine Utmost was sunk off Sicily by  the .
German submarines U-275 and U-533  were commissioned.
Born: Rosa von Praunheim, Latvian-born German film director, author, painter and gay rights activist, in Riga