[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Macedonian Australians

cedonian: Македонски Културен Центар - Илинден] located in Balcatta, Perth, which also has a community center located there, and finally, The Macedonian Orthodox Church of "Saint Nikola" (Angove Street, North Perth) and the Macedonian Orthodox Church of "Saint Nikola" (Macedonia Place, North Perth).

There are also a number of smaller unofficial and official Macedonian groups and organisations in Perth including the Bitolsko Drustvo, Komitetot na VMRO-DPMNE Pert, Prilepski Odbor, Mislesevsko Drustvo, Penzionerskoto Drustvo, a number of women's annexes and organisations, youth groups such as the Mladinsko Drustvo pri Makedonskata Narodna Opstina and so forth. For major Macedonian events such as the Commemoration of the Ilinden Uprising of 1913, most of the above-mentioned organisations opt to unite under the banner of the United Macedonian Communities of Western Australia [in Macedonian: Обединети Македонски Организации на Западна Австралија] at events held at the Kings Park War Memorial in conjunction with the RSL of Western Australia.

The Macedonians of Perth also have their very own ethnic Macedonian radio station which runs 24 hours a day, seven days a week. The radio station is called MAK FM and is aired on 103.3fm from their station in Malaga, Perth. The above-mentioned organisations also have their own respective radio programs on another multi-ethnic radio station (6eba World Radio, 95.3fm) of which the largest and longest program is held by the Macedonian Australian Community Organisation (every Sunday from 19:30-22:30).

The Macedonians of Perth also hosted Australia's first "Macedonian Food Festival" in April 2011. This festival was organised at Edith Cowan University (ECU), Joondalup campus. The festival was organized by Robert Pasquale, Dame Krcoski and others members off the UMD. The festival was attended by approximately 1,000 guests. As of 2022, the food festival still continues at ECU and has grown to include other a variety ethnic groups. It is now known as the International Food Festival.

Further to this, Pasquale established the first Macedonian Student Association, at Edith Cowan University with approximately 50 members. ECU Vice Chancellor Prof. Cox named a street at the university Prilep Drive in honour of the university's Macedonian links.

Wanneroo

Wanneroo is one of the original Macedonian settlements in Australia. It was also the first "Macedonian village" in Australia. Approximately 25 kilometres from Perth it was an attractive location for many early Macedonian migrants. Many of these were Aegean Macedonians from the Florina and Kastoria regions. The first Macedonian to come to Wanneroo was Stojan Angelcoff who immigrated to Australia in 1923. He later brought out his wife and many other relatives. Many of the early migrants made a living through Market Gardening and scrub clearing. Soon families and wives were brought out to the settlement and it was referred to as the "Macedonian Village". It would be these wives and families who would later go on to found the social and cultural organisations found in the area. By 1930 there were some 150 Macedonians in Waneroo which was steadily increasing. Another settlement was founded at Upper Waneroo. The area was well suited to growing vegetables in the summer.

By World War Two the Macedonian community of Perth was primarily centred on Wanneroo. It was here that the "Edinstvo" group conducted many of its early functions and picnics. As the Perth metropolitan area was expanded Waneroo was gradually absorbed as a suburb of Perth. The lack of immigrants in the 1960s and 1970s led to the ageing of the community. Although many others came to the Waneroo area in the 1980s and 1990s. Some of the early areas of Macedonian settlement are still dominated by Market-gardening and second and third generation Macedonians. Today it is estimated that the original Macedonian community of Wanneroo numbers over 400 persons.

Manjimup