[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sam Ratulangi

in attendance. Ratulangi was appointed special adviser to the Indonesian government and a member of the Indonesian delegation in negotiations with the Dutch. He also visited troops in East Java and attended a financial conference in Kaliurang. Around this time, his was having issues with his health.

On 10 November 1948, a manifesto was announced by the Radio Republik Indonesia that urged the people of eastern Indonesia who were under the control of the Dutch to keep their unity with the Republic of Indonesia in order to one day become fully independent throughout Indonesia. The manifesto was called Manifes Ratulangie or Manifes Djokja and in addition to Ratulangi, it was also signed by I Gusti Ketut Pudja, Sukarjo Wiryopranoto, and others. The first point of the manifesto reads:

During Operation Kraai (the second Dutch military aggression against Indonesia), Yogyakarta was captured and the Indonesian leaders including Sukarno and Hatta were captured and exiled to Bangka. Ratulangi was captured by the Dutch on 25 December 1948. He was transferred to Jakarta on 12 January 1949 to be subsequently transferred to Bangka. However, due to his failing health, he was allowed to stay in Jakarta on house arrest. Ratulangi died on 30 June 1949. Ratulangi was temporarily buried in Tanah Abang, Jakarta. On 23 July 1949, his remains were transported to Manado on the KPM ship Swartenhondt. On 1 August 1949, the ship reached Manado. The next day Ratulangi's remains were transported and buried in his hometown of Tondano.

Family 

Ratulangi was married twice. He married Emilie Suzanne Houtman and had two children, Corneille Jose Albert 'Odie' Ratulangi and Emilia Augustina 'Zus' Ratulangi. Ratulangi and Houtman divorced in 1926. Ratulangi married Maria Catharina Josephine 'Tjen' Tambajong in 1928. They had three children, Milia Maria Matulanda 'Milly' Ratulangi, Everdina Augustina 'Lani' Ratulangi, and Wulan Rugian Manampira 'Uki' Ratulangi.

Ratulangi had two older sisters, Wulan Kayes Rachel Wilhelmina Ratulangi and Wulan Rachel Wilhelmina Maria Ratulangi. Both had notable achievements. Wulan Kayes was the first Indonesian woman to pass the klein-ambtenaars examination for low-level government jobs in 1898. Her marks were higher than the men who took the exam. Wulan Rachel was the first Indonesian woman to receive the hulpacte basic certificate for elementary education in Dutch in 1912.

Honours and legacy 

In August 1961, Ratulangi was posthumously awarded the title of National Hero of Indonesia by Sukarno. He also received posthumously the Bintang Gerilya in 1958, the Bintang Mahaputera Adipradana in 1960, and the Bintang Satyalancana in 1961.

Ratulangi is well-regarded in the Minahasa region of North Sulawesi. Main artery roads in all cities in Minahasa (Bitung, Manado, Tomohon, and Tondano) are named after Ratulangi. Manado's international airport is also named after him as is the state university in Manado. Statues and busts of Ratulangi can be found on the intersection between Jalan Sam Ratulangi and Jalan Bethesda in Manado, on the campus of Sam Ratulangi University, beside Ratulangi's tomb in Tondano, in Jakarta and Serui, and even in a park in Davao City (Philippines), which is located just north of the island of Sulawesi. In 2016, the Ministry of Finance issued new 2016 series notes in which the Rp. 20,000 valued note depicts Ratulangi on the front of the note. Sam Ratulangi is also featured on the newer 2022 series.

Notes

References

Bibliography 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1890 births
1949 deaths
Indonesian Christians
Indonesian collaborators with Imperial Japan
Members of the Volksraad (Dutch East Indies)
Minahasa people
National Heroes of Indonesia
Politicians from North Sulawesi
PPKI
STOVIA alumni