[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Hector de Saint-Denys Garneau

hat while illustrating "dimensions of the writing of the notebook which transform the usual aims of the diary [...]", the notebooks fall under "an erratic and heuristic form which is undoubtedly closer to the essay such as what Montaigne meant than what the word "essay" has come to designate today".

Recognition
After Garneau's death, his unpublished poems were collected by Élie under the title Les Solitudes, and published in 1949 together with Regards... as Poésies complètes: Regards et jeux dans l'espace, Les solitudes. Garneau's "influence only became apparent after the publication of his Poésies complètes in 1949," says the Dictionary of Literary Biography. "Since that time the number of studies on his life and work has multiplied considerably.". No writer has been the object of so much publications in Quebec. Nowaday  Garneau is considered the precursor of contemporary French-Canadian literature.

Garneau's 1935-39 diary was published in Montréal in 1954 under the title Journal, edited by Élie and Le Moyne and with a preface by Gilles Marcotte. Glassco published his translation, The Journal of Hector de Saint-Denys Garneau, in 1962.

Also in 1962, the Canadian poet F. R. Scott translated ten of Garneau's poems into English for his book, Saint-Denys Garneau and Anne Hebert. Glassco published his translated Complete Poems of Hector de Saint-Denys Garneau in 1975. Glassco's book won the Canada Council Award for translation that year.

Garneau's poetry has also been translated into Spanish by Luis Vicente de Aguinaga, and was published in 2007 as Todos y cada uno.

Some of Garneau's poems have been set to music by the Canadian contemporary classical composer Bruce Mather, and by the Quebec folk group Villeray.

Awards
 Maison Henry Morgan (1926)
 Association des auteurs Canadiens / Canadian Authors Association (1928)
 Canada Council Award (for English translations) (1975)

Commemorative postage stamp
On September 8, 2003, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the National Library of Canada, Canada Post released a special commemorative series, "The Writers of Canada", with a design by Katalina Kovats, featuring two English-Canadian and two French-Canadian stamps. Three million stamps were issued. The two French-Canadian authors chosen were De Saint-Denys Garneau and his cousin, Anne Hébert.

Public art
De Saint-Denys Garneau, along with Octave Crémazie and Émile Nelligan, is commemorated by a large ceramic mural by Georges Lauda, Paul Pannier and Gérald Cordeau at Crémazie metro station in Montréal. Entitled Le Poète dans l'univers, the work features an excerpt from his poem "Faction".

See also
 Quebec literature
 List of Canadian writers 
References

External links
 Archived biography of Garneau at Library and Archives Canada
  Regards et jeux dans l'espace on Bibliothèque mobile de littérature québécoise'' (HTML)
 Fonds d'archives Hector de Saint-Denys Garneau at Library and Archives Canada
 Collection Claude Décarie (Lettres de Saint-Denys Garneau) (R12405) at Library and Archives Canada. The collection includes some letters from Saint-Denys Garneau

1912 births
1943 deaths
20th-century Canadian poets
20th-century Canadian male writers
Canadian male poets
Canadian modernist poets
Canadian poets in French
French Quebecers
Writers from Montreal