[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Bob Corker

art of his attempts to appeal to his base "instead of appealing to our better angels and trying to unite us like most people would try to do". He mentioned the possibility of Trump's conduct squandering good will toward the US during a period where American leadership was "more important than ever."

In December 2018, with the possibility of a government shutdown that month looming, the House passed a bill funding the government through February and providing 5.7 billion for the border wall between the United States and Mexico favored by President Trump hours after he told House Republican leaders that he would not sign a package passed in the Senate due to it not providing money for the barrier. On December 21, after attending a meeting in the office of Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell, Corker announced that Senate leaders had reached an agreement on how to apply the House-passed bill and expressed hope it would ultimately lead to a deal averting a shutdown while cautioning the agreement was only on the bill's processing. In a December 23 appearance on State of the Union, Corker called the conflict between Democrats and Republicans over funding a "purposely contrived fight" that would end with American borders remaining unsecured no matter which side won and furthered that it was "a made-up fight so the president can look like he's fighting but even if he wins, our borders are going to be insecure." Corker noted that more funding was passed for border security in a 2013 amendment that received bipartisan support and opined that Trump would have accepted a deal offered by Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer the previous January granting 25 billion for border security in exchange for the reauthorization of the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program if he was more concerned about border security than politics. Corker also predicted that the "next three months could well determine whether [Trump] decides to run again or not."

Committee assignments
Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs
Subcommittee on Housing, Transportation, and Community Development
Subcommittee on Securities, Insurance and Investment
Subcommittee on Financial Institutions and Consumer Protection
Committee on Foreign Relations (Chairman)
Subcommittee on African Affairs (Ex Officio)
Subcommittee on European Affairs (Ex Officio)
Subcommittee on East Asian and Pacific Affairs (Ex Officio)
Subcommittee on Near Eastern and South and Central Asian Affairs (Ex Officio)
Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere and Global Narcotics Affairs (Ex Officio)
Subcommittee on International Development and Foreign Assistance, Economic Affairs, and International Environmental Protection (Ex Officio)
Subcommittee on International Operations and Organizations, Human Rights, Democracyand Global Women's Issues (Ex Officio)
Special Committee on Aging (Ranking member, 2009–2011)

Retirement

On September 26, 2017, Corker announced that he would not seek re-election in 2018, keeping his pledge when he ran in 2006 to only serve two terms in the Senate. After announcing his retirement, Corker intensified his opposition to President Donald Trump, accusing him of lying, debasing the United States, and weakening its global standing. However, Corker refused to use his powers as Senate Foreign Relations chairman to use procedural leverage in the Senate to influence Trump's rhetoric and actions.

He had been joining investment bank Jefferies Financial Group Inc. as a special adviser in 2020.

Political positions
Bob Corker is considered a moderate conservative and is often labelled as a moderate rather than a conservative. Corker scored 80% on American Conservative Union's 2017 Ratings of Congress. According to National Journal's 2009 Vote Ratings, he was ranked as the 34th most conservative member of the Senate.

111th Congress
National Journal: 66% Conservative
 Economic: 29% Liberal / 69% Conservative
 Social issues: 29% Liberal / 70% Conservative
 Foreign-policy: 41% Liberal / 56% Conservative
Americans for Democratic Action: 10% (Liberal Score)
National Taxpayers Union: 83% (Grade: B; Rank: 24)

Social policy

In the 2006 primary campaign, Corker's opponents claimed he had changed his view on abortion since his first Senate campaign in 1994. Corker responded that he "was wrong in 1994" when he said that the government should not interfere with an individual's right to an abortion, stating that he now believes that life begins at conception. Corker has since changed his position and opposes abortion except when the life of the mother is endangered or in cases of rape or incest.

Corker opposes same-sex marriage. However, in 2015, Corker was one of 11 Republican Senators who voted with Democrats in support of giving social security benefits to same-sex couples living in states that had not yet recognized same-sex marriage.