[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Washington Allon Bartlett

d executive officer of the flagship of the African squadron.  This service was not to be long, for in September 1855, Bartlett was struck from the Navy List by a naval board.  Upon an enquiry by the wife of Lt. Bartlett, it was noted that no charges had been preferred against any officers so struck.

Lt. Bartlett, upon his return to the United States, engaged in vigorous efforts to be restored to the Navy List, including the presentation in 1856 of a lengthy "Memorial" to Congress which outlined his service.  To a certain extent, the Memorial was focused on rebutting charges that Lt. Bartlett had been engaged in financial irregularities when acting as agent for the Treasury, and when an officer in the African squadron.  As of 1859, Lt. Bartlett had not been restored to service; Bartlett was granted leave to withdraw his petition to be restored to service by the U.S. Senate on March 13, 1857.

"Diamond Wedding"

The daughter of Lt. Bartlett, Frances Amelia Bartlett, married Don Esteban Santa Cruz de Oviedo, a wealthy Cuban landowner and slave-owner, in a lavish ceremony at St. Patrick's Cathedral (now St. Patrick's Old Cathedral) on Mott Street in New York on October 13, 1859.  The wedding was soon known as "The Diamond Wedding," in part because of the allegedly lavish gifts of jewelry given by the 55-year-old Oviedo to his 18-year-old bride.  The name was also attached to a satirical poem written by Edmund Clarence Stedman which appeared in The New York Tribune, which so enraged the father of the bride that an apology or "satisfaction" was demanded.  Neither a duel nor the threatened lawsuit ever came to pass.

The marriage lasted until Don Esteban's death in February 1870.  His widow, in 1882, was subsequently remarried to Bodo von Gluemer, a German engineering officer in the service of the Mexican Army.  As of 1904, Frances Amelia Bartlett de Oviedo von Gluemer was still alive, though in significantly reduced circumstances, pursuing claims under the Treaty of Paris, which ended the Spanish–American War, regarding property left to her by her first husband in Cuba.

Civil War career

Upon the outbreak of the Civil War, Bartlett was engaged in raising Bartlett's Naval Brigade for service.  However, upon reporting to the area of Fort Monroe, Virginia in the late spring of 1861, the Brigade was rejected for service by the commanding officer, Major-General Benjamin F. Butler.  Bartlett, who was Colonel of the Brigade, subsequently suffered a serious injury in a fall, and the Brigade was dissolved, portions of it being reformed as the 99th Volunteer Regiment of the New York militia in August, 1861.  Bartlett was subject to serious criticism in the press by some regarding his conduct, one article even noting that some in the Brigade questioned his sanity.

Bartlett continued to seek vindication; Senator John P. Hale of New Hampshire is on record as having written to Navy Secretary Gideon Welles regarding Bartlett's case in March 1862.  However, there is no record of Bartlett ever receiving vindication.  As of 1862, Bartlett was in a partnership practicing civil, marine, naval and steam engineering at 169 Broadway, in New York City.

Bartlett died in Brooklyn Heights, Brooklyn, New York City, in February 1865, and is buried at Green-Wood Cemetery, section 90, lot 772/775, in Brooklyn.

References

External links
 

1816 births
1865 deaths
Burials at Green-Wood Cemetery
Mayors of San Francisco
United States Coast Survey personnel
19th-century American politicians