[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Baitullah Mehsud

killed by fighters allied with Mehsud, a tribal leader in northwestern Pakistan, with support from al-Qaeda's terrorist network." U.S. President George W. Bush then placed Mr. Mehsud on "a classified list of militant leaders whom the C.I.A. and American commandos were authorized to capture or kill."

March 2009 Lahore police academy attack
In telephone interviews with news media Mehsud claimed responsibility for 30 March 2009 attack on the police training academy in Lahore. He told the BBC that the attack was in retaliation for continued missile strikes from American drones for which the Pakistani government shared responsibility.  In the same interview Mehsud claimed two other attacks:  a 25 March attack on an Islamabad police station and a 30 March suicide attack on a military convoy near Bannu.

April 2009 Binghamton shooting claim
Although the FBI later completely refuted that he had any involvement in the incident, Mehsud claimed responsibility for the shooting in Binghamton, New York, on Friday 13 April 2009. 13 people were killed in the shooting, after which the attacker committed suicide. In a telephone interview, Mehsud reportedly said: "I accept responsibility. They were my men. I gave them orders in reaction to US drone attacks." Mehsud made this claim despite the fact that the gunman in the shooting was alone and of Vietnamese nationality and had stated other motives in his last letter.

References

External links
Pakistan Taliban chief Baitullah Mehsud killed
Eye of the Predator by Abhisar Sharma
BBC Profile – Baitullah Mehsud BBC News 28 December 2007
Who is Baitullah Mehsud? Part 1 and Part 2 (c) 2007
Pakistan's Most Wanted IslamOnline.net, 29 January 2008
 "The Drone War," by Peter Bergen and Katherine Tiedeman in The New Republic
 "The Predator War," by Jane Mayer, The New Yorker

1972 births
2009 deaths
Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan members
Waziristan
Pashtun people
Deaths by drone strikes of the Central Intelligence Agency in Pakistan
Pakistani Islamists
Salafi jihadists
Leaders of Islamic terror groups