[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moumouni Adamou Djermakoye

nder house arrest for two weeks. After Maïnassara's victory, Djermakoye and the ANDP recognized it and supported him, but on April 28, 1998 he announced that the ANDP was breaking with Maïnassara's Rally for Democracy and Progress, alleging that Maïnassara had "humiliated and marginalised" the ANDP.

Following another coup in April 1999, Djermakoye was made President of the National Consultative Council during the transitional period prior to new elections. In August 1999, he was chosen by the ANDP to run again as its candidate in the October 1999 presidential election. In the election, Djermakoye received fifth place with 7.73% of the vote. On November 4, he announced his support for Mahamadou Issoufou, the candidate of the Nigerien Party for Democracy and Socialism, in the second round of voting. Issoufou lost the second round to Tandja. Djermakoye was elected to the National Assembly in the November 1999 parliamentary election from Dosso constituency; he was one of four ANDP candidates to win seats in the election.

Activities during the Fifth Republic (1999–2009)

In July 2002, the ANDP joined the MNSD-led Alliance of Democratic Forces, the ruling coalition, withdrawing from the opposition Coordination of Democratic Forces to which it had previously belonged. On November 8, 2002, Djermakoye was named Minister of State for African Integration and New Partnership for Africa's Development Programs; he served in this position until resigning from the government in November 2004 due to his participation in the elections that were about to be held. On September 19, 2004, he was again chosen as the ANDP presidential candidate; he said on this occasion that he did not intend to run again in the 2009 presidential election. In the November 2004 presidential election, he again took fifth place with 6.07% of the vote. Shortly before the first round of the election, Djermakoye said that he would support Tandja in the second round. In the December 2004 parliamentary election, Djermakoye was re-elected to the National Assembly from Dosso constituency.

On May 24, 2005, Djermakoye was elected as President of the High Court of Justice, a special judicial body composed of National Assembly deputies. Djermakoye was defeated by Mahamane Ousmane in an election for the position of Speaker of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) Parliament on November 14, 2006, taking  37 votes against 58 for Ousmane.

Reacting to President Tandja's controversial efforts to call a referendum on a new constitution that would allow him to run for re-election—efforts that were opposed by both opposition parties and members of the presidential majority coalition—Djermakoye expressed disapproval, saying that the nation could be "split in two" by Tandja's referendum plans. After the Constitutional Court ruled against Tandja on 25 May 2009, Tandja promptly dissolved the National Assembly on 26 May. Observers noted that in doing so he averted the possibility of being placed on trial for treason at the High Court of Justice, with Djermakoye presiding.

Djermakoye was taken ill, reportedly from the heat, at a 14 June 2009 rally in Niamey, protesting President Tandja's referendum proposal; he collapsed shortly before he was expected to address the protesters. Djermakoye, who was reported to have previously suffered from a heart condition, died at a Niamey hospital thirty minutes later. An official ceremony and military tribute for Djermakoye was held in Niamey on 15 June, with President Tandja in attendance. His funeral was also held in Dosso on the same day, amidst a large crowd of mourners.

References

Members of the National Assembly (Niger)
Presidents of the National Assembly (Niger)
Ministers of council of Niger
Foreign ministers of Niger
1939 births
2009 deaths
Nigerien Alliance for Democracy and Progress politicians
National Movement for the Development of Society politicians
20th-century Nigerien politicians