[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Yusuf Raza Gilani

e of the grand paramilitary operation in Karachi further damaged Gilani's position in the public circles. During Pervez Ashraf's tenure as leader, there was an increase in criticism of the Gillanian years, even after the NRO squabble was eventually resolved in the government headed by Pervez Ashraf.

A consistently strong US ally as prime minister, Gillani was ranked as the 38th most powerful person in the world by Forbes. After years of confronting and resisting the Supreme Court of Pakistan rulings to reinstate the corruption cases against Benazir and Asif Zardari, he was convicted by the Supreme Court of violating Article 63(1)(g) of the Constitution of Pakistan, on 26 April 2012. The verdict was rendered by the Supreme Court when it found him the guilty of contempt of court for refusing to reopen corruption cases against president Asif Ali Zardari, but it gave him only a symbolic sentence "till the rising of the court", a sentence lasting 30 seconds. However, this 30-second sentence was a legal conviction, enough to unseat from office. On 19 June 2012, he was disqualified and ousted by the same Supreme Court from holding the prime minister's office, with the Chief Justice Iftikhar Chaudhry clarifying that: "Gillani had ceased to be [the] prime minister and (is) disqualified from membership of parliament on 26 April 2012, the date of his conviction".

His disqualification term was ended in April 2017 and the Supreme Court allowed him to contest in the 2018 Pakistani general election.
He was PPP's candidate for Islamabad's general seat in the 2021 Senate Elections. He defeated the incumbent government's candidate Minister of Finance Dr. Abdul Hafeez Shaikh in a major upset victory, prompting the incumbent PM Imran Khan to take a vote of confidence from the National Assembly.

On 12 March 2021, he contested for the chairmanship of the Senate of Pakistan and lost to his rival Sadiq Sanjrani. Gilani received 42 votes, compared to his rival who received 48 votes. 7 votes were rejected.

In the wake of the 2008 general elections, his party formed a four-party coalition alliance and nominated him for the office of Prime Minister. He is the first prime minister that holds the distinction (thus far, the only prime minister to have achieve this milestone) for successfully presenting five consecutive federal budgets. As Prime Minister, Gillani announced the formation of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, rehabilitation of the troubled and war-torn tribal belt, and promised to reduce the federal budget deficit as well as announcing his ambitions to improve the system of education. This was followed by announcing the new agriculture, land and economic policy that lifted the bans on labour and students' unions, while he worked on and implemented the new energy and nuclear policies to tackle the energy crisis in the country. But his policies, without meaningful economic reforms, led to a high rise in inflation and sharp decline in economic performance, a period referred to as the "Era of Stagflation".

Book 

 Chah-e-Yusaf se Sada [Reflections from Yusuf's Well]/ چاہ یوسف سے صدا, Lahore : Nigarshat, 2006, 275 p. Autobiography he wrote while in jail.

Notes

References

External links

Prime Minister Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani  official Pakistan government site
Yousaf Raza Gilani – a profile, Daily Times, 23 March 2008
Profile: Yousuf Raza Gilani, Syed Shoaib Hasan, BBC News, 17 June 2009

|-

 
1952 births
Expelled members of the National Assembly of Pakistan
Yousaf Raza
Government College University, Lahore alumni
Living people
Minister of Railways (Pakistan)
Pakistan People's Party politicians
Pakistani people of Iranian descent
Pakistani politicians convicted of crimes
Pakistani politicians convicted of corruption
Pakistani prisoners and detainees
Pakistani Muslims
Pakistani Sunni Muslims
Pakistani white-collar criminals
People from Islamabad
People from Multan
People of the War in Afghanistan (2001–2021)
People of the insurgency in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa
Politicians from Karachi
Prime Ministers of Pakistan
Speakers of the National Assembly of Pakistan
University of the Punjab alumni