[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iain Gray

eckle him. Gray later stated that he had not been unsettled by the incident as "I spent two years working in the civil war in Mozambique, I've been to Rwanda two months after the genocide, I walked the killing fields in Cambodia and I was in Chile three days after Pinochet was demitted from office".

At the 2011 election, Labour suffered a net loss of seven seats, with many of their leading figures being defeated. Labour took a particularly severe beating in its Central Belt heartland, having to rely on regional lists in many cases. It was Labour's worst electoral performance in Scotland in eighty years. Gray himself was re-elected as MSP for East Lothian by the narrowest margin of his political career; with just 151 votes over the SNP candidate, making the Holyrood seat for the first time ever a Labour–SNP marginal. He announced on 6 May that he would stand down as party leader in the autumn.

Later political career

Gray was reappointed to the post of Shadow Cabinet Secretary for Finance in the Scottish Labour Shadow Cabinet on 29 June 2013. After the 2014 leadership election, he was made Shadow Cabinet Secretary for Education and Lifelong Learning.

On 13 June 2015, Gray was appointed Acting Leader of the Scottish Labour Party whilst a leadership and a deputy leadership election were simultaneously held, on account of deputy leader Kezia Dugdale resigning to run for the leadership. At the 2016 Scottish Parliament election, while several Labour MSPs lost their seats, Gray retained his seat with an increased majority compared to 2011.

Gray announced that he would be standing down at the 2021 Scottish Parliament election in June 2020, in order to spend more time with his family.

Gray nominated Anas Sarwar in the 2021 Scottish Labour leadership election.

Personal life
Gray has been married twice. His first wife, Linda Malloch, divorced him and later married Gray's long-time friend Kevin Dunion. Gray married his second wife Gill (a part-time constituency secretary to Labour MSP Mary Mulligan) in 1997, with whom he has two step-daughters. He is a lifelong fan of Edinburgh football club Hibernian, and enjoys reading, music and hill walking. He is a member of the Church of Scotland.

Notes

References

External links
 
Scottish Government biography
Gray becomes Scots Labour leader BBC News
Labour frontline team announced BBC News

1957 births
Living people
Members of the Scottish Parliament for Edinburgh constituencies
Labour MSPs
Ministers of the Scottish Government
People educated at George Watson's College
Alumni of the University of Edinburgh
Scottish schoolteachers
Members of the Scottish Parliament 1999–2003
Members of the Scottish Parliament 2007–2011
Politics of East Lothian
People educated at Inverness Royal Academy
Members of the Scottish Parliament 2011–2016
Leaders of Scottish Labour
Members of the Scottish Parliament 2016–2021