[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Chedworth Roman Villa

Chedworth Roman Villa is located near Chedworth, Gloucestershire, England and is a scheduled monument. It is one of the largest and most elaborate Roman villas so far discovered in Britain and one with the latest occupation beyond the Roman period. The villa was built in phases from the early 2nd century to the 5th century, with the 4th-century construction transforming the building into an elite dwelling arranged around three sides of a courtyard. The 4th-century building included a heated and furnished west wing containing a dining-room (triclinium) with a fine mosaic floor, as well as two separate bathing suites: one for damp-heat and one for dry-heat.

The villa was discovered in 1864, and was excavated and opened to public view soon afterwards. It was acquired in 1924 by the National Trust who have conducted a long-term conservation programme, with new on-site facilities and cover-buildings.

Historians have debated whether Chedworth was a villa rustica or a religious sanctuary and hostel, as evidence has been found in support of both arguments. Most currently believe, however, that Chedworth was the former, inhabited by a very wealthy Romano-Briton.

Siting

The villa stands in a sheltered, shady position overlooking the River Coln in the Cotswold Hills in Gloucestershire. It was located just off the Roman road known as the Fosse Way, and  north of the important town of Corinium Dobunnorum (Cirencester). Cirencester's reputation as a centre of tribal government and a civitas capital led to quick romanisation of the area and resulting concentration of wealth. Chedworth's location in the Cotswolds and the valley of the River Coln was important for agriculture. It was one of about fifty villas in the Cotswolds, and one of nine in just a  radius.

The villa was deliberately located next to a natural spring in the north west corner of the complex which was the villa's main source of water, and around which was later built an apsidal shrine to the water-nymphs (nymphaeum).

History

The two nearest settlements were Corinium (Cirencester) founded as forts in about 50, shortly after the Roman conquest, and Glevum (Gloucester) founded in 97. As the area became settled under Roman rule, these centres ceased to be military bases, soldiers retired to land provided by the Roman governorship in recognition of military service. It is noteworthy that twenty-two Roman villas have been found within a ten-mile radius of Chedworth. The villa may have been related to the retirement of these veteran soldiers. 

The villa was founded about 120 and consisted of separate buildings around 3 sides of a rectangle open to the east with a bath house to the north. The original structures were typical of a working farm and outbuildings. The villa went through at least six stages of construction or re-construction.

In the early 3rd century (Phase II) the west and south wings were rebuilt following a fire, and the north bath suite was enlarged with extra rooms added to its eastern side. In the early 4th century (Phase III), the villa was transformed into an elite dwelling enclosing the courtyard. The existing wings were linked by a covered portico, and an inner garden and outer courtyard were created. The dining-room (triclinium) received its mosaics and the northern half of the west wing was converted to become a second set of baths. Shortly afterwards (Phase IIIA) the baths in the north wing were rebuilt and changed to dry-heat (laconicum) baths, which meant that the villa had both damp-heat and dry-heat bathing suites. The floors of at least 15 rooms were decorated with mosaics. In the late 4th century (Phase IV) the north wing was extended with the addition of a new dining-room. Many of the rooms, particularly the dining rooms were heated by hypocaust.

A feature unique in Britain and discovered in 2017 is that a significant building phase of the villa dates from the 5th century after the end of Roman rule in Britain (410). In room 28 the mosaic and walls on the east and west sides were installed after 424.
This is the first evidence that concentrated wealth funded Roman lifestyles in Britain for at least 50 years later than previously thought, as the building of new rooms with a mosaic is evidence of prestige spending on specialized skills including mosaic craftsmen. Other mosaics in neighbouring rooms, including room 30, show stylistic similarities and may also be of the 5th century.

Later a workshop was installed on top of the mosaic floor and two hearths, made out of pieces of architecture of the villa, were built into the worn floor of the room.

52% of the coins found at the villa date from 564 to 585 showing that intensive occupation continued into the post-Roman period.

Nymphaeum