[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Battle of Kolb's Farm

erman finally received Hooker's note, which read as follows.

Sherman wondered why Hooker was anxious about his right flank since Schofield's corps was supposed to be there. He did not understand how he could have missed the sound of "two heavy attacks". At 9:30 pm, Sherman issued a reply to Hooker.

Sherman sent Thomas a message asking him to make sure Schofield was on Hooker's right. Thomas sent two replies saying that the situation on the right flank was under control, and suggesting that only weak Confederate forces must be in front of McPherson. Finally, Sherman received a message from Schofield reporting that Hood's corps attacked his and Hooker's positions at Kolb's Farm and was defeated. According to Sherman's Memoirs, written ten years after the war, he rode to the right flank on the morning of June 23 to meet with Schofield and Hooker. When he presented Hooker's message, Schofield became angry, saying his troops were in their proper position on the right. Sherman wrote that he chided Hooker for claiming three corps were in front of him.

Castel asserted that the account in Sherman's Memoirs was the product of faulty memory and personal animosity toward Hooker. Schofield later denied being angry with Hooker, and suggested that Sherman must have misunderstood Hooker's message. In fact, in Hooker's report to Thomas at midnight, he credited Hascall for helping to repulse Hood's assault. Schofield wrote that he did not recall meeting with Sherman in the morning and perhaps the commanding general met with Hascall instead. Hooker's claim that he faced three corps was absurd, but there was an element of truth to it. While Hood's corps was in front of Hooker and Schofield, part of Hardee's corps opposed Butterfield's division, and one of the Confederate cavalry brigades in the area originally belonged to the Army of Mississippi, that is, Loring's corps. In any case, once the action began, Hooker performed superbly as a combat leader.

Hooker already resented Sherman's obvious favoritism toward McPherson's Army of the Tennessee. He also believed that Sherman mishandled his corps at the Battle of New Hope Church. The Kolb's Farm incident led to a steady decline in Hooker's standing with Sherman. When McPherson was killed on July 22, Hooker expected to be promoted to command the Army of the Tennessee, since he was senior in rank. Doubting that Hooker would prove to be a cooperative and loyal subordinate, Sherman passed over him and selected Howard to replace McPherson. Hooker found this especially insulting because he blamed Howard for his defeat at the Battle of Chancellorsville. Hooker promptly tendered his resignation, which Sherman accepted.

Sherman frustrated

By the following day, Hood's corps entrenched itself and it was clear that assaulting it would be foolish. Sherman instructed Schofield to find whether the Confederate left flank could be turned. On the afternoon of June 23, Reilly's brigade moved south along the Sandtown road to where it crossed Olley's Creek. Reilly found dismounted and barricaded soldiers from Brigadier General Lawrence Sullivan Ross' cavalry brigade defending the crossing. Schofield reported to Sherman that his corps was extended too far. Clearly, Schofield was not able to outflank the Confederates unless Thomas' army shifted to its right. Thomas reported that his army was already extended too much. Furthermore, Sherman received a report that McCook's cavalrymen were unable to damage the railroad line supplying Johnston's army because they were unable to cross the Chattahoochie River. A frustrated Sherman sent a telegram to Union Army Chief of Staff Major General Henry Halleck that, "The whole country is one vast fort ... As fast as we gain one position the enemy has another all ready".

Sherman faced three choices: use McPherson to hit Johnston's right flank, wear down the Confederates trenches by artillery barrages and short infantry advances, or make a frontal assault. Even though Blair reported that the trenches in front of him were held by cavalry, Sherman rejected the first choice. He was so fearful that Johnston might strike his vital railroad supply line near Big Shanty, that Sherman wanted McPherson to strongly guard that area. He also rejected the second choice. One of his strategic missions was to prevent Johnston from reinforcing General Robert E. Lee's army, so Sherman could not allow a stalemate to develop. Therefore, Sherman resolved to adopt the third choice: to make a frontal attack. He reasoned that he outnumbered Johnston, yet the Confederate trench lines were longer than his own. Therefore, they must be weak somewhere. This resulted in the Battle of Kennesaw Mountain on June 27 in which the Union attacks were repulsed with heavy casualties.