[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Operation Mersad

Operation Forough Javidan (,  Operation Eternal Light, MeK's codename) and Operation Mersad (,  Operation Ambush, Iranian codename) were among the last major military operations of the Iran–Iraq War. 

In July 1988,   7,000 militants from the Peoples Mojahedin Organization of Iran(MEK) invaded Iranian Kurdistan, hoping to capture Kermanshah.  Led by Lieutenant-General Ali Sayad Shirazi, Operation Mersad began on 26 July 1988 and lasted only a few days, whereby the Iranian Armed Forces defeated MEK forces.

Prelude and objectives
On 20 July 1987 the Iran–Iraq War was coming to an end under the United Nations Security Council Resolution 598. Iran had suffered major defeats in southern Iraq during the Second Battle of Al Faw and Operation Tawakalna ala Allah as well as along the central portion of the border within Iran, and was contemplating on accepting the ceasefire. The MEK-Iraqi operation Eternal Light would occur on July 26 1988, six days after Ayatollah Khomeini had officially announced his acceptance of the UN brokered ceasefire resolution.

Both Iran and Iraq had accepted United Nations Security Council Resolution 598, which would end the war on 8 August 1988. However, the Iraqi-backed Mujahedin-e-Khalq militant group seized the opportunity to attack central part of the Iran-Iraq border before the ceasefire came into effect.

The attack agreed upon by the Iraqi leadership would be a two pronged assault. One portion of the MEK force would attack Iranian forces in Iraqi Kurdistan, an area that was still in Iranian and Peshmerga hands. When the Iranian troops moved to fight off the MEK attack in Kurdistan, the opposition Iranian militant group Mujahedeen-e Khalq (MEK), supported by Iraqi air power, would launch a large scale incursion into the central portion of Iran, aiming towards the heart of Iran. The MEK under their leader Massoud Rajavi harbored the hope that the attack would lead to a general uprising against the Islamic government of Ayatollah Khomeini. Rajavi would lead the Mujahedeen with Iraqi support in an attack on the western borders of Iran.

Saddam's official explanation for launching Operation Eternal Light was that he wanted capture more Iranian POWs so as to exchange Iraqi POWs in Iran. However, Dilip Hiro finds this explanation unconvincing. Instead Hiro argues Saddam wanted to impress Iraq's military superiority and wanted to end the Iran-Iraq war not in a stalemate but instead an Iraqi victory.

Operations Eternal Light and Mersad 

On 26 July 1988, the MEK, with the support of the Iraqi military, started Operation Forough Javidan (Eternal Light) in central Iran. In the face of Iraqi chemical attacks, Iran had evacuated Qasr-e Shirin and Sarpol-e Zahab. These two towns were to be used by the MEK to push further into Iran. On July 26, the MEK advanced further into Iran in coordination with the Iraqi Air Force and captured Kerend-e Gharb and Islamabad-e Gharb. The MEK and Iraqi forces razed to ground the city of Islamabad-e Gharb, which had a population of 15,000. This act alienated the local Kurdish population. They also captured key strongholds along the Baghdad-Tehran highway.

The MEK met scant resistance from the limited numbers of Revolutionary Guards, which were promptly defeated, pushing 145 km (90 mi) deep into Iran towards the provincial capital city of Kermanshah. Iran's Kurdish fighters did slow the advance, allowing time for the Iranians to prepare their counteroffensive.

The MEK's next target was the provincial capital city of Kermanshah, with a population of 500,000. Iran allowed the MEK to advance to the city but had prepared an ambush. This counterattack, called Operation Mersad was led by Lieutenant General Ali Sayyad Shirazi. Iran cut off MEK's supply lines, by landing paratroopers behind them.

As the Iraqi airforce did not venture beyond Islamabad-e Gharb, Iranian airforce attacked the MEK forces. Iranian Air Force F-4 Phantoms bombed Mujahedeen convoys on the Kermanshah highway, followed by Army Aviation helicopters using anti-tank missiles. Most enemy armour was destroyed, in a miniature version of the Highway of Death during the Persian Gulf War.

The MEK advance had been abruptly and completely halted. The Iranian army and Revolutionary Guard then moved north from Khuzestan, encircling and suppressing the remaining resistance in the city of Kerend-e Gharb on 29 July 1988.

On 31 July, Iran drove MEK forces out of Qasr-e-Shirin and Sarpol Zahab, though the MEK claimed to have "voluntarily withdrawn" from the towns. Iran estimated that 4,500 Mujahedeen soldiers were killed, while 400 Iranian soldiers died. Many senior MEK commanders were killed, and many MEK militants were not given quarter. Iran claimed it destroyed 200 tanks and 700 other vehicles.

The Iranian successes during Operation Mersad were partially because of effective coordination between the Army and the Revolutionary Guard.

Aftermath