[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Orto botanico di Padova

century, which are regarded as the oldest specimens in Europe. A gigantic plane tree in the outside Arboretum dates from 1680; it has a hollow trunk, owing to a lightning strike. In the Arboretum there is also a sectioned trunk of an elm tree, which died in 1991, with marked year rings.

Collections

Owing to a shortage of hothouses, the plants are mainly located outdoors. Six thousand types of plants are currently being cultivated and arranged according to taxonomic, utilitarian, ecological-environmental and historical standards. The systematic collection is concentrated in the four biggest central flowerbeds. Among the utilitarian collections, the medicinal plants are the most important. These are classified according to the Engler system, based on evolutionary relationships among the families. Each plant is labelled with its scientific name and its principal therapeutical properties. A poisonous plants collection has recently been set up with didactic aims: many of these poisonous plants are found also in the medicinal plants sector because in suitable quantities they can be used to treat illness and diseases.

Collections of the garden include:

Insectivorous plants: found in nitrogen-poor soils, these plants must use the proteins of some small insects captured with their leaves to avoid deficiencies.
Medicinal and Poisonous plants: plants representing the original purpose of the Botanical Garden.
Plants From the Euganean Hills and Triveneto Region: a collection of representative plants from the Euganean Hills and the area surrounding the Botanical Garden.
A section devoted to the collection, preservation and study of plants in danger of extinction.
Orchids
Aquatic plants
Alpine plants
Mediterranean plants

Habitats
 Mediterranean Maquis: contains typical coastal vegetation from the Mediterranean basin, a climate characterised by hot summers and mild winters. An impenetrable scrub is composed of a thick evergreen underbrush and trees as well as many climbing plants, often thorned.
 Alpine Garden: a typical Alpine climate, set above the mountain wood. Characterised by tracts of rocky detritus kept together by plant roots, shrubs, and small twisted trees such as the mugho pine and the dwarf juniper.
 Fresh Water Habitat: water plants are grown here in many tanks, and undergo similar adaptations caused by the habitats despite their original species.
 Succulent Plants: a reconstructed desert habitat (in spring and summer).
 Orchid Greenhouses: hot humid micro-habitat that allows the cultivation of tropical forest plants.

See also
List of the botanical gardens in Italy

References

Sources
Minelli, A. The botanical garden of Padova (1545-1995), Marsilio, 1988. 
 G. Buffa, F. Bracco, N. Tornadore, Guida all’Orto Botanico di Padova. Quattro percorsi per conoscerne la storia e le piante. Centrooffset, Padova, 1999.

External links

 The Botanical Garden of Padua, official website at the University of Padua
 Botanical Garden, Padua at the UNESCO World Heritage Centre
 Storia dell'Orto botanico di Padova , from the Società Botanica Italiana

Botanical gardens in Italy
World Heritage Sites in Italy
University of Padua
Buildings and structures in Padua
1545 establishments in Italy
Gardens in Veneto