[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Armenian genocide recognition

t which many Europeans take as casting doubt on the Turkish nation's commitment to human rights, causing them to oppose European Union membership a stance for which Turkish-Armenian intellectual Hrant Dink publicly issued condemnation to some countries before he was assassinated in 2007.

Countries 

On May 24, 1915, during World War I, the Allied Powers (the United Kingdom, France and Russia) jointly issued a statement in which they said that for approximately a month, the Kurdish and Turkish populations of Armenia had been massacring Armenians, with the connivance and often assistance of Ottoman authorities, and that the Allied Powers would hold all officers of the Ottoman Government implicated in such crimes personally responsible for crimes against humanity.

On April 20, 1965, Uruguay became the first nation in the world to officially recognize the Armenian genocide. During the second half of the 20th century and the 21st century, parliaments of several countries have formally recognized the event as genocide. Turkish entry talks with the European Union were met with a number of calls to consider the event as genocide, though it never became a precondition.

, 34 states had officially recognized the historical events as genocide. Sovereign nations (i.e. UN member-states) officially recognizing the Armenian genocide are:

States, regions, provinces, municipalities and parliamentary committees 
Recognition of the Armenian genocide also includes:

Australia 
Parliaments of 3 Australian states recognize the Armenian genocide:
 : In 2007 the Parliament of the State of New South Wales passed a motion condemning the genocide and called on the Australian Federal Government to do the same.
 : In March 2009 the Parliament of South Australia passed a similar motion to that passed in New South Wales in 2007.
 : On May 11 2023, the House Assembly of the State of Tasmania unanimously passed a motion recognizing and condemning the Armenian, Greek, and Assyrian Genocides of 1915.

Additionally, the City of Ryde adopted a unanimous motion dedicated to the centenary of the Armenian genocide at its Council Meeting on April 14, 2015. The motion further calls upon the Government of Australia to recognize and condemn all genocides. The City of Willoughby passed a motion recognizing the Armenian genocide on May 11, 2015.

Belgium
 : The Parliament of Flanders adopted a resolution recognizing the Armenian genocide and calling upon Turkey to come to terms with its past.

Brazil
The parliaments of 4 Brazilian states recognize the Armenian genocide:
 : In 2006, The Legislative Council of State of Ceará, Brazil, unanimously passed a bill which recognizes April 24 as the Day of the Armenian People. Armenian genocide victims will henceforth be commemorated on this day.
 : In 2013, the parliament of the state of Paraná adopted a bill recognizing the Armenian genocide in the Ottoman Empire.
 : The state of Rio de Janeiro recognized the Armenian genocide on July 24, 2015, with a law setting April 24 as "Day of recognition and memory of the victims of the Armenian Genocide".
 : The Legislative Assembly of the largest Brazilian state – São Paulo – passed a law recognizing April 24 as "a Commemoration Day of the 1.5 million victims of the Armenian Genocide in 1915" in 2003.

Bulgaria 
 : 5 provinces (oblasts) have recognized the Armenian genocide – first in 2008 was the Plovdiv Province followed by the provinces of Burgas, Ruse, Stara Zagora, Pazardzhik.

Canada
 : The Legislative Assembly of Alberta passed a law in 2021 unanimously recognizing the Armenian genocide and other genocides.
 : The Legislative Assembly of British Columbia recognized the Armenian genocide.
 : The Legislative Assembly of Ontario unanimously adopted a resolution recognizing the Armenian genocide in 1980.
 : Quebec was the first province in Canada to recognize the Armenian genocide in 1980.
Additionally, the cities of Montreal and Toronto recognized the Armenian genocide.

Egypt
 : In February 2019, the President of Egypt Abdel Fattah el-Sisi addressed his recognition of the Armenian genocide during the 2019 Munich Security Conference and urged for complete recognition of the genocide by Egypt.

France
 : On April 14, 2015, the Corsican Assembly adopted a resolution recognizing the Armenian genocide.

Iran 
 : The Tehran regional government recognized the Armenian genocide. Unofficially, the Islamic Republic of Iran has repeatedly recognized the Armenian genocide.

Israel 
 : On August 1, 2016, the Knesset's Education, Culture and Sports Committee announced its recognition of the Armenian genocide and urged the Israeli government to formally acknowledge the 1915 mass slaughter of 1.5 million Armenians as such. On March 30, 2023, the City Council of Haifa recognized the genocide and became the second city in Israel to do so, after Petah Tikva.