[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

he ELS in the Gundam Harute, a dual piloted Mobile Suit. 
 Allelujah has Heterochromia iridum; throughout the first season, his left gray eye represents his Allelujah personality and his right golden eye represents Hallelujah until the latter's destruction, after which both his eyes become visible. 

  
 Gundam Meister of the heavily armored Gundam Virtue/Nadleeh, its successor unit Gundam Seravee/Seraphim and finally the Gundam Raphael. Tieria Erde treats Veda's orders with high regard, valuing the mission above all other issues. As a result of his arrogance and cold attitude towards others, his relationship with the other Gundam Meisters got off to a rocky start. However, his attitude towards the other Meisters and the Ptolemaios crew gradually improves after being protected by Lockon Stratos from an attack in a battle against the AEU and the Union, an action which costs Lockon the use of his dominant eye. Of all the Gundam Meisters, Tieria is the most enigmatic, with an unknown past and a peculiar connection with the Innovators. Contrary of the other Meisters who were either K.I.A. or M.I.A. in the end of the first season, Tieria continued to work for Celestial Being during the four-year time-skip. At the end of the second season, Tieria is killed by Ribbons Almark while trying to stop him from taking control of Veda. Tieria, however, manages to upload his consciousness into Veda itself, subsequently ending the battle by remote-controlling Seraphim from Veda's core and activating its Trial System to shut down all enemy mobile suits. He briefly returns in the movie in a new body and pilots Gundam Raphael briefly before sacrificing himself to save Setsuna; he eventually ends up uploaded into Setsuna's 00 Qan[T] and is last seen when the Gundam departs to the ELS homeworld. His fate is unknown, although the 00 Qan[T] returns to Earth in the epilogue and a Tieria-type Innovade briefly appears aboard the Sumeragi. While Tieria never showed romantic feelings for anyone, as he was completely focused on his mission, showing little care for others, after Neil sacrificed his eye to shield him he warms a lot. He develops a close bond to Neil, even in the second season after Neil's death; when he doubts if he should tell his crewmates who are behind the A-Laws’ schemes (as he is an Innovade too), the "ghost" of Neil comes to comfort him, stating that Aeolia gave the Gundams to them, the Gundam Meisters. While he never truly reciprocates her feelings, Mileina Vashti stated that no matter which form he takes she loves him (A Wakening of Trailblazer).

Crew of the Ptolemaios 

Supporting the Gundam Meisters is the crew of the  led by Sumeragi Lee Noriega. At the end of the first season, the Ptolemaios was severely damaged and many of its crew were killed. During the second season, the new Ptolemaios II enters service crewed by the surviving members of the original Ptolemaios. They are later joined by Saji Crossroad and Soma Peries, the latter after recovering her memory as Marie Parfacy.

 
 Sumeragi is the tactical forecaster of the Celestial Being mothership Ptolemaios. As the most senior ranking officer on the ship, she is the de facto captain of the ship. She plans all the strategies the Gundam Meisters take part in and her strategic predictions are almost always accurate. Her real name is . In the beginning of the second season, Sumeragi is reluctant to rejoin the others until the encouragement from her companions helps her find the resolve to help them. At the end of the series, she remains with Celestial Being. 

 
 Originally a civilian and a senior high school student studying aerospace engineering, Saji is also Setsuna F Seiei's neighbour at Setsuna's residence in Japan. Orphaned prior to the start of the series, Saji was cared for by his sister Kinue. A gentle person with a submissive personality, he is often pushed around by his overbearing girlfriend Louise Halevy and continued to make ends meet with a delivery job at a pizza parlor. Despite his unaggressive nature, Saji has been caught up in the wake of the Gundams' actions, with Louise suffering and Kinue dead. As a result, Saji has developed a deep hatred for the Gundams, blaming them for the loss of his loved ones as he leaves for space to live his dream as an engineer.