[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battles of Lexington and Concord

Percy. "Why, the cannon at Concord" was the reply. Upon hearing this, Percy quickly returned to Province House and relayed this information to General Gage. Stunned, Gage issued orders to prevent messengers from getting out of Boston, but these were too late to prevent Dawes and Revere from leaving.

The British regulars, around 700 infantry, were drawn from 11 of Gage's 13 occupying infantry regiments. Major Pitcairn commanded ten elite light infantry companies, and Lieutenant Colonel Benjamin Bernard commanded 11 grenadier companies, under the overall command of Lieutenant Colonel Smith.

Of the troops assigned to the expedition, 350 were from grenadier companies drawn from the 4th (King's Own), 5th, 10th, 18th (Royal Irish), 23rd, 38th, 43rd, 47th, 52nd and 59th Regiments of Foot, and the 1st Battalion of His Majesty's Marine Forces. Protecting the grenadier companies were about 320 light infantry from the 4th, 5th, 10th, 23rd, 38th, 43rd, 47th, 52nd, and 59th Regiments, and the 1st Battalion of the Marines. Each company had its own lieutenant, but the majority of the captains commanding them were volunteers attached to them at the last minute, drawn from all the regiments stationed in Boston. This lack of familiarity between commander and company would cause problems during the battle.

The British began to awaken their troops at 9 pm on the night of April 18 and assembled them on the water's edge on the western end of Boston Common by 10 pm. Colonel Smith was late in arriving, and there was no organized boat-loading operation, resulting in confusion at the staging area. The boats used were naval barges that were packed so tightly that there was no room to sit down. When they disembarked near Phipps Farm in Cambridge, it was into waist-deep water at midnight. After a lengthy halt to unload their gear, the regulars began their  march to Concord at about 2 am. During the wait they were provided with extra ammunition, cold salt pork, and hard sea biscuits. They did not carry knapsacks, since they would not be encamped. They carried their haversacks (food bags), canteens, muskets, and accoutrements, and marched off in wet, muddy shoes and soggy uniforms. As they marched through Menotomy, sounds of the colonial alarms throughout the countryside caused the few officers who were aware of their mission to realize they had lost the element of surprise.

At about 3 am, Colonel Smith sent Major Pitcairn ahead with six companies of light infantry under orders to quick march to Concord. At about 4 am Smith made the wise but belated decision to send a messenger back to Boston asking for reinforcements.

Order of Battle

Continentals 
The continental force included some 4,000 militia and local minuteman companies. Although the Provincial Congress had organized local companies into regiments and brigades with designated commanders, units turned out piecemeal over the course of the day. Thirty towns from the surrounding area sent men into combat with many more on the way. By afternoon, many regimental commands were fundamentally present and acting in a coordinated manner. Several provincial generals were en route to the fighting during the day but not in a position to assert overall command. General William Heath of Roxbury, Massachusetts exerted command of a phase of the fighting toward the day's end.

British Forces 
The British force was organized into:
 Column
 Commander, Lieutenant Colonel Francis Smith
 Supernumeraries (6 Officers)
 Mitchell's Party (8+ Officers)
 Flank Companies (Grenadiers and Light Infantry) from:
 4th (The King's Own) Regiment of Foot
 5th Regiment of Foot
 10th Regiment of Foot
 18th (The Royal Irish) Regiment of Foot (Grenadiers only)
 23rd Regiment of Foot (Royal Welch Fusiliers)
 38th Regiment of Foot
 43rd Regiment of Foot
 47th Regiment of Foot
 52nd Regiment of Foot
 59th Regiment of Foot
 1st Battalion, Royal Marines
 Relief Force
 Commander, Brigadier General His Grace Hugh Percy, 2nd Duke of Northumberland
 2 6-pounder guns from 4th Battalion, Royal Artillery
 Battalion Companies from (7 regular companies, these did not include the flank companies):
 4th (The King's Own) Regiment of Foot
 23rd Regiment of Foot (Royal Welch Fusiliers)
 47th Regiment of Foot
 1st Battalion, Royal Marines

Battles

Lexington