[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# People's Alliance for Democracy

n entrance to the passenger terminal at Don Muang Airport at 3:55 AM on 30 November.  Before the explosion occurred, about 7 gunshots were heard from the direction of a warehouse deeper inside the airport compound.  No one was injured in the explosion.  It was not clear who or what set the bomb off.

A plainclothes policewoman at the airport was identified and captured by PAD security forces and forced onto the main PAD stage inside the airport.  Angry PAD protesters threw water at her and many tried to hit her.  She was eventually allowed to leave the airport.

Flights from Don Mueang Airport began again on 5 December.

2009 unrest

Pattaya 
In March 2009, Thaksin Shinawatra claimed via video broadcast that Privy Council President Prem Tinsulanonda masterminded the 2006 military coup, and that Prem and fellow Privy Councilor members Surayud Chulanont and Chanchai Likhitjittha conspired with the military and PAD to ensure that Abhisit became Premier.  Although Abhisit denied the accusations, thousands protested in Bangkok early April demanding that Abhisit resign from the Premiership and that Prem, Surayud, and Chanchai resign from the Privy Council.

The protests, led by the red-shirted National United Front of Democracy Against Dictatorship (UDD) expanded to Pattaya, causing the Fourth East Asia Summit to be canceled and a state of emergency to be declared in the region.  The PAD issued a statement demanding that Abhisit dismiss Deputy Prime Minister in charge of security Suthep Thaugsuban, Defence Minister Gen. Prawit Wongsuwan, and Thailand's army, navy and police chiefs immediately for failed to contain the UDD protesters.  PAD leader Chamlong Srimuang told a press conference that if the government could not help the country, the PAD would "come out."

Bangkok 
As the week-long Songkran (Thai New Year) holiday began, protests escalated in Bangkok.  Fighting erupted between anti-government protesters, PAD members, and the general population.  At a demonstration in front of Prem's residence, a PAD supporter plunged her car into a crowd of UDD protesters before driving away.  Abhisit declared a state of emergency for Bangkok and surrounding areas and denounced the anti-government protesters as "national enemies".

In a pre-dawn raid on Monday April 13, Thai soldiers in full combat kit fired live rounds and training rounds from automatic weapons to clear protesters from the Din Daeng intersection near the Victory Monument in central Bangkok, injuring at least 70 people.  Violent clashes at numerous locations in Bangkok continued while arrest warrants were issued for Thaksin and 13 protest leaders.  Surrounded by the military, many protest leaders eventually gave in to police on 14 April 2009, ending the violence.

Shooting of Sondhi Limthongkul 
Days after the Bangkok unrest was quelled by military forces, gunmen ambushed Sondhi's car at a petrol station, shot out the tires, and fired over 100 M-16 and AK-47 assault rifle rounds at the car.  Sondhi suffered one wound to the head and was conscious, standing, and lucid before being sent to the hospital for surgery.  Sondhi survived the surgery and was visited by relatives afterwards.  It was not clear who ordered the shooting, although the PAD's spokesman speculated that a faction of the military or police could have been behind it.

2005-2009 media

2005–2006 
The PAD is supported by the Sondhi Limthongkul-owned Manager Media Group, including Manager Daily newspaper and the ASTV satellite television channel. Sondhi had originally co-hosted a political talk show called Muangthai Raisabdah on MCOT's Channel 9. Sondhi's pro-Thaksin views (in a 23 September 2003 broadcast, he noted that Thaksin was "the best prime minister our country has ever had.") started changing in 2004 after the government fired Sondhi's banker, Viroj Nualkhair, from Krung Thai Bank for incurring too many bad debts. In September 2005, Sondhi allegedly made repeated disrespectful on-air references to King Bhumibol Adulyadej. Among these references was a claim that the government's 2004 appointment of Somdet Phra Buddhacharya as acting Supreme Patriarch of Thailand in place of the critically ill Somdet Phra Yanasangworn contravened the prerogative of the King. After discussions with King's principal private secretary, Arsa Sarasin, MCOT executives cancelled the program. Sondhi took his increasingly anti-Thaksin talkshow on the road, broadcasting via satellite (through his NEWS1 ASTV channel based out of Hong Kong) and webcasting via the website of his Manager Daily newspaper. Talkshow sites, including Sanam Luang and the King Rama V equestrian statue, became magnets for the PAD crowds.