[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# ArmaLite AR-7

ite sold the design to Charter Arms in 1973. According to some accounts posted by enthusiasts, this is when quality began to deteriorate. Barrels were said to have a tendency to warp. Other sources state that the first production at Charter had problems which were corrected in later production runs.

Production history
(Summary of information available in The Blue Book of Gun Values)
1959-1973: ArmaLite
1973-1990: Charter Arms
1990-1997: Survival Arms - Cocoa, Florida
1998-2004: AR-7 Industries - LLC, Meriden, Connecticut (bought by ArmaLite in 2004)
1997–2007: Henry Repeating Arms Co. - Brooklyn, New York
2007–present: Henry Repeating Arms Co. - Bayonne, New Jersey

AR-7 variants

ArmaLite AR-7 Explorer
Original ArmaLite barrels had a steel liner in an aluminum shell. The stock was a foam filled plastic shell with internal recesses for the receiver, barrel and one magazine and did not accept the receiver with a magazine in place. The original ArmaLite stock retained buoyancy longer than some later stocks by other makers. The receiver did not provide for a scope mount. The rear sight was a peep aperture, adjustable for elevation. The front sight was drift-adjustable for windage.

Argentine variant
The AR-7 was also manufactured in Argentina as the Sistema de Armas .22 LR Fire de Brenta. It came with various barrel lengths, shrouds and fixed rifle stocks as well as pistol grips with retractable stocks.

Herter's Outdoor Supply 
Herter's, Hy Hunter and American International Distributors marketed .22 replicas of the Broomhandle Mauser (as "Bolomauser"), Thompson submachine gun (as "T-62 Civilian Defense Model") and M1 Carbine made on AR-7 receivers and barrels.

Charter Arms AR-7 Explorer
The Charter Arms AR-7 Explorer rifle replicated the ArmaLite AR-7 Explorer with variations in finish.

Charter Arms Explorer II pistol

Explorer II was a pistol version of the AR-7. It resembled a Broomhandle Mauser. The receiver had a built-in pistol grip with no provision for the rifle stock (the internal parts are interchangeable between rifle and pistol). The rear sight of the pistol was an open notch adjustable for windage and elevation. The Explorer II front sight was integral with the barrel shell and was not adjustable. The magazine well in front of the trigger guard would accept any magazine designed for the rifle. A spare 8-round magazine could be carried inside the grip. The most common barrel was six inches.  Optional barrel lengths included eight and ten inches.

Legal note

Because the U.S. 1934 NFA regulations set the minimum rifle barrel length at 16 inches, Charter Arms made the barrels of the Explorer I rifle and Explorer II pistol non-interchangeable to prevent installing the pistol barrel on the rifle. The AR-7 barrel has an alignment lug that mates a notch in the receiver. The rifle receiver notch and barrel lug are on top; the pistol notch and lug are broader and on the bottom. If a Charter Arms factory-made pistol barrel were installed on a rifle, the extractor on the bolt would be opposite the extractor slot in the barrel, preventing the bolt from closing (plus the front sight would be upside down). Modifying the pistol barrel to fit the rifle, or modifying the rifle receiver to accept the pistol barrel, would be "making a short barrel rifle" legally requiring federal registration on an ATF Form 1 with payment of a $200.00 tax.

Conversely, after the Supreme Court ruling in United States v. Thompson/Center Arms Co., modifying the pistol to accept the rifle barrel and/or stock, or modifying the rifle barrel or stock to fit the pistol is legal so long as you do not have the rifle stock attached at the same time as the pistol barrel. It is legal (as a pistol) to have the rifle barrel attached with the pistol grip; there is no federal maximum pistol barrel length.

In the United Kingdom this rifle is a Section 1 Firearm requiring a Firearms Certificate to buy or acquire.

AR-7 Industries
AR-7 Industries made solid steel barrels much heavier than the AR-7 barrels by ArmaLite, Charter or Henry.