[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Robert V. Keeley

nd the American Embassy: A Diplomat’s View of the Breakdown of Democracy in Cold War Greece. One chapter of the Uganda book has been published in "Embassies Under Siege: Personal Accounts by Diplomats on the Front Line" (Institute for the Study of Diplomacy, Georgetown University, Brassey's, 1995). 

In 1995 Ambassador Keeley founded the Five and Ten Press Inc., a publishing company whose purpose was to publish in inexpensive format (booklets and pamphlets) original articles, essays, and other short works of fiction and nonfiction rejected or ignored by the media and mainstream publishers. The press was incorporated in the District of Columbia in February 1996. The name comes from the intention to price the products of the press at between five and ten dollars a copy. The press's first publication was a pamphlet entitled D.C. Governance: It's Always Been a Matter of Race and Money, issued in December 1995, and the second was a booklet with the title Annals of Investing: Steve Forbes vs. Warren Buffett, published in March 1996. A third, The File: A Princeton Memoir. was published in May 1996. All three had the same author: the publisher, whose business card identified his profession as "Consulting Iconoclast." In October 1996 the Press began to sell its publications on a subscription basis and mostly broke even financially.

In 2000 Keeley contributed a chapter on CIA-Foreign Service relations to the book National Insecurity-U.S. Intelligence After the Cold War, a work recommending reforms of the CIA, published by Temple University Press for the Center for International Policy. Also in 2000 Keeley edited a book for the American Academy of Diplomacy entitled First Line of Defense-Ambassadors, Embassies and American Interests Abroad that advocated greater reliance on and better funding for American diplomacy in conflict resolution and protecting our national security. Keeley also edited two yearbooks for the 50th reunion of Princeton's Class of 1951 in the year 2001. In 2010 Keeley published the book The Colonels' Coup and the American Embassy: A Diplomat's View of the Breakdown of Democracy in Cold War Greece. Keeley died after an apparent stroke in January 2015.

In 2004, Keeley was among 27 retired diplomats and military commanders who publicly said the administration of President George W. Bush did not understand the world and was unable to handle "in either style or substance" the responsibilities of global leadership. On June 16, 2004 the Diplomats and Military Commanders for Change issued a statement against the Iraq War.

References

External links

http://www.cnionline.org/cni-board-of-directors/

1929 births
2015 deaths
Military personnel from New Jersey
Princeton University alumni
Catholic University of America alumni
Ambassadors of the United States to Greece
Ambassadors of the United States to Zimbabwe
Ambassadors of the United States to Mauritius
United States Foreign Service personnel
20th-century American diplomats