[Source: PubMed]

41. BMC Med Ethics. 2003 Aug 1;4:E4. doi: 10.1186/1472-6939-4-4.

American physicians and dual loyalty obligations in the "war on terror".

Singh JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Howard College School of Law, King George V Ave, University of Natal, Durban, 
4041, South Africa. singhj9@nu.ac.za

BACKGROUND: Post-September 11, 2001, the U.S. government has labeled thousands 
of Afghan war detainees "unlawful combatants". This label effectively deprives 
these detainees of the protection they would receive as "prisoners of war" under 
international humanitarian law. Reports have emerged that indicate that 
thousands of detainees being held in secret military facilities outside the 
United States are being subjected to questionable "stress and duress" 
interrogation tactics by U.S. authorities. If true, American military physicians 
could be inadvertently becoming complicit in detainee abuse. Moreover, the 
American government's openly negative views towards such detainees could result 
in military physicians not wanting to provide reasonable care to detainees, 
despite it being their ethical duty to do so.
DISCUSSION: This paper assesses the physician's obligations to treat war 
detainees in the light of relevant instruments of international humanitarian law 
and medical ethics. It briefly outlines how detainee abuse flourished in 
apartheid South Africa when state physicians became morally detached from the 
interests of their detainee patients. I caution U.S physicians not to let the 
same mindset befall them. I urge the U.S. medical community to advocate for 
detainee rights in the U.S, regardless of the political culture the detainee 
emerged from. I offer recommendations to U.S physicians facing dual loyalty 
conflicts of interest in the "war on terror".
SUMMARY: If U.S. physicians are faced with a conflict of interest between 
following national policies or international principles of humanitarian law and 
medical ethics, they should opt to adhere to the latter when treating war 
detainees. It is important for the U.S. medical community to speak out against 
possible detainee abuse by the U.S. government.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6939-4-4
PMCID: PMC184479
PMID: 12892567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]