[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 1929 Bahamas hurricane

dergoing repairs were destroyed at Mangrove Cay. Many other vessels were damaged. The wind and waves vacated the seas of any ships, depositing them inland several hundred feet from their anchorage. Ten people drowned at Mangrove Cay. Another 18 drowned en route to the district after their ship sank.

Many communities on Andros Island lost homes and were littered by debris from destroyed buildings and storm-tossed boats. All churches on Andros Island were destroyed. Fresh Creek and Staniard Creek saw extensive damage from the hurricane. Six homes were razed and ten were badly damaged in Fresh Creek. Two jail cells were unroofed and the commissioner's office, residency, and outbuildings were damaged. The local telegraph station was knocked out of commission and the seawall was damaged. More than 20 people drowned following the sinking of four boats near the Andros Lighthouse at Fresh Creek. Twelve houses were destroyed in Staniard Creek; every remaining home was damaged. The local wharf and a recently completed bridge were washed away. People in the district were urged to seek shelter as water began to overtake the district. Seventy sought refuge at a Wesleyan mission house only for the building to be inundated by water, forcing the evacuees to relocate to the local schoolhouse. The house eventually held over 100 people; another 50 took shelter at a second school. A church collapsed during the storm with over a hundred inside, injuring one. Cargill Creek was abandoned after being entirely flooded, with only hills rising above the water. All homes were damaged in Blanket Sound, and 13 among them collapsed. Wrecked boats littered the area between Blanket Sound and Stafford Creek. All ships at Love Hill and Small Hope were damaged. Five homes were destroyed. Along Calabash Bay, seven houses were flattened. At the graveyard, 22 coffins were exhumed by the rough sea. Fifteen people went missing from Behring Point, where 12 homes were destroyed. Three homes remained in Rolle Town, with the rest destroyed. The wharf on Deep Creek was destroyed and its ships scattered. One ship was set adrift  away. Only three of the twenty-seven homes in Black Point, which lies along Deep Creek, remained after the storm. The storm surge along Andros Island's west coast killed ten people tending their crops in Southern Bight.

New Providence Island 

Nassau received its first bulletin from the U.S. Weather Bureau on the morning of September 25, shortly before the onset of gale-force winds by noon and hurricane-force winds that evening. Sustained winds at Nassau reached an estimated 120–140 mph (195–225 km/h), punctuated by a maximum gust of . The air pressure bottomed out at 936 mbar (hPa; 27.64 inHg). Radio contact between Florida and Nassau was lost between September 25 and the night of September 27. Few homes were left unscathed, with damage to private property "enormous" according to an Associated Press report and meteorologist Ivan Ray Tannehill. Many homes were unroofed, particularly in the colored quarter of Nassau. An estimated 73% of all homes and businesses in the city and 95% of churches were destroyed. Several of the remaining churches lost their roofs. The Government House's eastern wing was partially unroofed and the mansion of the Ministry of Education was razed. The police barracks and much of the prison lost their roofs; the prison's eventual repair was one of the costliest parts of the post-storm cleanup. Forty prisoners were released due to safety concerns. Parts of the Nassau hospital were damaged beyond repair, requiring demolition and reconstruction. The strength of the winds bent telephone poles at right angles to the ground and stripped the city's ceiba trees of their branches.