[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hydrological transport model

An hydrological transport model is a mathematical model used to simulate the flow of rivers, streams, groundwater movement or drainage front displacement, and calculate water quality parameters. These models generally came into use in the 1960s and 1970s when demand for numerical forecasting of water quality and drainage was driven by environmental legislation, and at a similar time widespread access to significant computer power became available. Much of the original model development took place in the United States and United Kingdom, but today these models are refined and used worldwide.

There are dozens of different transport models that can be generally grouped by pollutants addressed, complexity of pollutant sources, whether the model is steady state or dynamic, and time period modeled. Another important designation is whether the model is distributed (i.e. capable of predicting multiple points within a river) or lumped. In a basic model, for example, only one pollutant might be addressed from a simple point discharge into the receiving waters. In the most complex of models, various line source inputs from surface runoff might be added to multiple point sources, treating a variety of chemicals plus sediment in a dynamic environment including vertical river stratification and interactions of pollutants with in-stream biota. In addition watershed groundwater may also be included. The model is termed "physically based" if its parameters can be measured in the field.

Often models have separate modules to address individual steps in the simulation process. The most common module is a subroutine for calculation of surface runoff, allowing variation in land use type, topography, soil type, vegetative cover, precipitation and land management practice (such as the application rate of a fertilizer). The concept of hydrological modeling can be extended to other environments such as the oceans, but most commonly (and in this article) the subject of a river watershed is generally implied.

History

In 1850, T. J. Mulvany was probably the first investigator to use mathematical modeling in a stream hydrology context, although there was no chemistry involved. By 1892 M.E. Imbeau had conceived an event model to relate runoff to peak rainfall, again still with no chemistry. Robert E. Horton’s seminal work on surface runoff along with his coupling of quantitative treatment of erosion laid the groundwork for modern chemical transport hydrology.

Types

Physically based models

Physically based models (sometimes known as deterministic, comprehensive or process-based models) try to represent the physical processes observed in the real world. Typically, such models contain representations of surface runoff, subsurface flow, evapotranspiration, and channel flow, but they can be far more complicated. "Large scale simulation experiments were begun by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1953 for reservoir management on the main stem of the Missouri River". This, and other early work that dealt with the River Nile and the Columbia River<ref>F.S. Brown, Water Resource Development – Columbia River Basin, in Report of Meeting of Columbia Basin Inter-Agency Committee, Portland, OR, Dec. 1958</ref> are discussed, in a wider context, in a book published by the Harvard Water Resources Seminar, that contains the sentence just quoted. Another early model that integrated many submodels for basin chemical hydrology was the Stanford Watershed Model (SWM). The SWMM (Storm Water Management Model), the HSPF (Hydrological Simulation Program – FORTRAN) and other modern American derivatives are successors to this early work.

In Europe a favoured comprehensive model is the Système Hydrologique Européen (SHE),Vijay P. Singh,, Computer Models of Watershed Hydrology, Water Resource Publications, pgs. 563-594 (1995) which has been succeeded by MIKE SHE and SHETRAN. MIKE SHE is a watershed-scale physically based, spatially distributed model for water flow and sediment transport. Flow and transport processes are represented by either finite difference representations of partial differential equations or by derived empirical equations. The following principal submodels are involved:

 Evapotranspiration: Penman-Monteith formalism
 Erosion: Detachment equations for raindrop and overland flow
 Overland and Channel Flow: Saint-Venant equations of continuity and momentum
 Overland Flow Sediment Transport: 2D total sediment load conservation equation
 Unsaturated Flow: Richards equation
 Saturated Flow: Darcy's law and the mass conservation of 2D laminar flow
 Channel Sediment Transport 1D mass conservation equation.

This model can analyze effects of land use and climate changes upon in-stream water quality, with consideration of groundwater interactions.