[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lupe Valdez

as County were cited as steps towards re-certification of the Dallas County jail system, which passed inspection once again in 2011.  Also in 2010, Sheriff Valdez was elected to the Democratic National Committee and was appointed by President Barack Obama to a committee regarding immigration reform.

In November 2012, Valdez won a third term, defeating Republican challenger Kirk Launius.  In 2015, Valdez "changed policies on holding immigrants in the Dallas County jail for federal officials once the person is past his or her release date. People who committed minor offenses aren’t held for up to an additional 48 hours for agents of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement, or ICE."  This brought a warning from Governor Greg Abbott to "back down from a policy change on federal immigration detention requests."

In November 2016, Valdez won a fourth term with 58 percent of the vote, again defeating Republican Kirk Launius.

2018 Texas gubernatorial election 

In December 2017, Valdez announced her candidacy for Governor of Texas in the 2018 gubernatorial election against incumbent Republican Governor Greg Abbott. In the March 6, 2018 Primary she got more votes than any other Democrat, leading her closest competitor, Andrew White, son of former governor Mark White, by 16 percent. However, she only received 43% of the vote, forcing a run-off against White. The run-off occurred on May 22, 2018, resulting in Valdez's victory and making her the first Latina and first openly gay person nominated for governor by a major party in the state. Abbott won the election.

References

External links 
Election homepage

|-

1947 births
American women police officers
American politicians of Mexican descent
Hispanic and Latino American women in politics
Lesbian politicians
LGBT Christians
LGBT Hispanic and Latino American people
LGBT law enforcement workers
LGBT people from Texas
American LGBT politicians
American lesbians
Living people
People from Dallas County, Texas
People from San Antonio
Texas sheriffs
United States Customs Service personnel
University of Texas at Arlington alumni
Women in Texas politics
Women sheriffs
Candidates in the 2018 United States elections
21st-century American women