[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Sri Lanka Air Force

aturing the acquisition of between 8–12 aircraft, were to be pursued through a government-government basic agreement. In December, then Sri Lankan Prime Minister Ranil Wickramasinghe said Sri Lanka received offers from China, India, Sweden and Russia and they were in progress to take final decision.

By 2009 SLAF operated three FT-7, three F-7BS, six F-7G, two Kfir TC.2s, two Kfir C.7s, eight Kfir C.2s, seven MiG-27s and one MiG-23UB trainer. By 2017 the Migs and Kfirs have been withdrawn as only one Kfir out of seven still available (fifteen were originally procured) was serviceable and the seven surviving Mig23/27 aircraft were not operational. In March 2017, two J7GS were seen flying during the 66th Anniversary of the Sri Lankan Air Force. A single J7GS and J7BS were overhauled in China, while CATIC and the air force additionally overhauled an FT7 and another J7GS at the recently opened SLAF overhaul facility. The aircraft overhaul wing was opened as part of a joint venture between the air force and CATIC with a plan to overhaul all F7 aircraft in service. In December 2017, Janes reported that the Sri Lankan government was in talks with IAI for the upgrade and return to service of five of its Kfirs which had been grounded since a mid air collision in 2011. Meanwhile, a single Kfir C2 and a single Kfir C7 have been preserved for display. In 2021, the SLAF initiated its long-awaited program for the overhaul and service life extension of several of its aging air frames. This included five Kfirs fighters, two C-130 transports, four Antonov-32 transports, three Mi-17 heavy transport helicopters and its remaining Mi-35 attack helicopters. Five Kfir C2/C7/TC2 will be updated to a near Block 60 standard in a deal worth US$49 million with Israel Aerospace Industries, with an expected service life of 15 years. The work will be done in Sri Lanka by SLAF personal over two years, with upgraded avionics and the provision for advanced radar, sensors and helmets in the future.

Maritime reconnaissance 
Following the end of the war, SLAF shifted more focus on maritime patroling to counter smuggling in its territorial waters. To this extend it began looking to procure a dedicated maritime patrol aircraft. Attention was given in 2018 to the possibility of acquiring the Lockheed P-3 Orion with assistance from Japan. In April 2019, it was reported that India was considering transferring a single Dornier 228 reconnaissance aircraft.

In 2020, the SLAF has been in talks to acquire either Dornier Do228 or Beechcraft 360ER maritime reconnaissance aircraft from India and the United States respectively. In February 2022, the US Government agreed to provide two Beechcraft 360ER on a gratis basis under a foreign military sales contract to enhance the SLAF's maritime reconnaissance capability. In August 2022, the Government of India, delivered one Dornier Do228 as a grant with another on order, following crew training. The Australian Government has announced that it will gift a former Royal Australian Air Force Beechcraft KA350 King Air aircraft (registration A32-673) to the Sri Lankan Government in 2023 May.

Indigenous UAV program 
The SLAF has also embarked on the indigenous UAV program. The project started in 2011 with the Centre for Research and Development (CRD).--> The Lihiniya MK I had its first flight in April 2020. Lihiniya MK I and Lihiniya MK II were intended to be used to train and use as medium range tactical UAV System for the national defense requirements. The SLAF intends to have the first models entering service by the end of 2021 and implement lessons learnt in the design of the Lihiniya II UAV.

Organisation

Air Force Headquarters 

The professional head of the air force is the Commander of the Air Force,  Air Marshal Udeni Rajapaksa who reports directly to the Minister of Defence. The Commander of the Air Force exercises operational and administrative control of the air force from Air Force Headquarters, SLAF Colombo.

Air Force Board of Management
The Board of Directors numbers 13;
 Chief of Staff – Vacant
 Deputy Chief of Staff - Air Vice-Marshal Roshan Biyanwila
 Director General Air Operations – Air Vice Marshal Kapila Wanigasooriya
 Director General Ground Operations – Air Vice Marshal Waruna Gunawardane
 Director General Aeronautical Engineering-Air Vice Marshal Senanayake
 Director General General Engineering-Air Vice Marshal Nihal jayasingha 
 Director General Electronics, Telecommunications Engineering and Information Technology  – Air Commodore Jude perera
 Director General Logistics – Air Vice Marshal WMKSP Weerasinghe
 Director General Administration – Air Vice Marshal RS Biyanwila
 Director General Civil, Mechanical and Electrical Engineering]] – Air Vice Marshal Udula wijesinghe
 Director General Health Services – Air Vice Marshal Lalith Jayaweera
 Director General Training – Air Vice Marshal Bandu Edirisingha
 Director General Welfare – Air Vice Marshal DK Wanigasooriya

Commands