[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Lighthorsemen (film)

s Major Richard Meinertzhagen
 Anthony Hawkins as General Sir Edmund Allenby
 Gerard Kennedy as Colonel Ismet Bey
 Jon Sidney as Brigadier-General William Grant
 Graham Dow as Major-General Henry Hodgson
 James Wright as Brigadier-General Percy FitzGerald
 Steve Bastoni as Turkish Demolition Soldier

Production
The script was written by Ian Jones, who had long been interested in the Australian Light Horse ever since they featured in an episode of Matlock Police in 1971. He visited Beersheba in 1979 and had carefully researched the period. Simon Wincer came on board as director and he succeeded in helping secure a $6 million pre sale to RKO. Antony I. Ginnane's Film and General Holdings Company succeeded in raising the rest of the money. Simon Wincer later claimed that Ginanne, Ian Jones and himself had to put in their own money at some stage when the film looked like falling over. Well known Australian cinematographer Dean Semler was also brought in.

Despite being set in Palestine and Egypt, the film was shot entirely on location in Victoria and Hawker, South Australia. After the final day of filming had wrapped on 1 December 1986, actor Jon Blake was injured in a car accident near Nectar Brook, South Australia. He suffered permanent paralysis and brain damage.

The musical score was composed by Mario Millo. The original soundtrack recording was produced for compact disc release courtesy of Antony I Ginnane by Philip Powers and Mario Millo for Australian distribution in Australia by 1M1 Records and as a coupling with Shame on LP in the US. The movie was re-cut to a shorter length for the US release, which Wincer thought made the second half better, although he did not like the opening as much.

Historical inaccuracies
The German Empire flag on General Kressenstein's car features a band of red above a band of white above a band of black. In reality, the colours were ordered black-white-red.

Reception
The film received mixed reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes gives it a 67% approval rating based on 6 reviews.

Roger Ebert, reflecting other critics' opinions, stated that "I was disoriented almost all the way through the movie." but that in the climax, "I haven't seen a better action scene with horses since "Ben Hur"." An unfavourable review came from The New York Times, who stated the film was "a sort of pacifist-aggressive war adventure" and that "None of the performances are really bad, but none are very good". The Washington Post also gave the film a negative review, described it as "Mostly ... equine cinematography, a four-legged coffeetable movie about the Australian cavalry.".

The film grossed  in Australia after its release in 1987 which is equivalent to 8.25 million in 2009 dollars. It was also released in Canada, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States in 1988. It was considered a commercial disappointment, yet Wincer claims its pre-sales and television sales were about $6 million or 60% of the budget. The film won an AFI award in 1988 for Best Original Music Score and another for Best Achievement in Sound. It was also nominated for Best Achievement in Cinematography. The Lighthorsemen is included in the Australian Film Commission's Top Australian films at the Australian box office list at number 83.

See also
 Australian New Wave
 Breaker Morant
 Cinema of Australia
 Forty Thousand Horsemen
 Gallipoli

References

External links
 
 
 The Lighthorsemen at the National Film and Sound Archive
 Curator's Notes at Australian Screen

1987 films
1980s war films
1980s historical films
Australian films based on actual events
Australian epic films
Australian war films
Australian historical films
World War I films set in the Middle East
World War I films based on actual events
Australian World War I films
Films set in 1917
Films set in Palestine (region)
Films shot in Flinders Ranges
Australian Light Horse
Films directed by Simon Wincer
Films set in 20th-century Ottoman Empire
1980s English-language films