[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Schurman Commission

ed Filipinos "the largest measure of local self-government consistent with peace and good order.", with the caveat that U.S. constitutional considerations required that Congress would need to make specific rules and regulations. Arguelles said that, in his opinion, the plan would meet much approval.

A session of the Revolutionary Congress convened by Aguinaldo voted unanimously to cease fighting and accept peace based on McKinley's proposal as reported by Arguelles. The revolutionary cabinet headed by Apolinario Mabini was replaced on May 8 by a new "peace" cabinet headed by Pedro Paterno and Felipe Buencamino. After a meeting of the Revolutionary Congress and military commanders, Aguinaldo advised the commission that he was being advised by a new cabinet "which is more moderate and conciliatory", and appointed a delegation to meet with the commission. At this point, General Antonio Luna, field commander of the revolutionary army, arrested Paterno and most of his cabinet. On his return, Arguelles was accused of having become an Americanista, expelled from the army, and sentenced to twelve years of imprisonment.

Arguelles was replaced as Aguinaldo's representative by new emissaries who. meeting with the Commission on May 19, said that they had larger powers that Arguelles had had, discussed the Commission proclamation and proposal in detail and departed. The Commission was given to understand that they would return in three weeks, but they did not return,

Following these developments, Aguinaldo withdrew his support from the "peace" cabinet, and Mabini and his cabinet returned to power. Schurman, after proposing unsuccessfully to the commission that they urge McKinley to revise his plan to enlarge Filipino participation, cabled the suggestion to the President as his own. McKinley instructed Secretary of State John Hay to cable Schurman that he wanted peace "preferably by kindness and conciliation," but the preference was contradicted by a threat to "send all the force necessary to suppress the insurrection if Filipino resistance continued." McKinley also polled the other commission members, receiving a response that "indecision now would be fatal" and urging "prosecution of the war until the insurgents submit."

Conclusions
The commission concluded that "the United States cannot withdraw. ... We are there and duty binds us to remain. The Filipinos are wholly unprepared for independence ... there being no Philippine nation, but only a collection of different peoples."

In the report that they issued to the president the following year, the commissioners acknowledged Filipino aspirations for independence; they declared, however, that the Philippines was not ready for it.
On November 2, 1899, The commission issued a preliminary report containing the following statement: 
Specific recommendations included the establishment of civilian government as rapidly as possible (the American chief executive in the islands at that time was the military governor), including establishment of a bicameral legislature, autonomous governments on the provincial and municipal levels, and a system of free public elementary schools.

See also
Congress of the Philippines
Senate of the Philippines
House of Representatives of the Philippines

Notes

References
.
.
.
.

Further reading

 
  

Political history of the Philippines
History of the Congress of the Philippines
United States national commissions