[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# U2 spliceosomal RNA

ifications include the conversion of some uridine residues to pseudouridine, 2´-O-methylation, nucleobase methylation, and conversion of 5´-monomethylated guanosine cap to a 2,2,7-trimethylated guanosine cap. Many of these modifications reside in a 27-nucleotide region on the 5´ end of the molecule.

Conformational Dynamics 
The spliceosome is a dynamic molecular machine that undergoes several conformational rearrangements throughout assembly and splicing. Although many of the biochemical details surrounding spliceosomal rearrangements remains unclear, recent studies have visualized the formation of a critical folding complex between U2 and U6 snRNAs immediately proceeding the first step of the splicing reaction. This folding event facilitates the formation of a four-helix junction, which is believed to provide scaffolding for the critical components of the active site including aligning the 5´ splice site with the branch point adenosine for inline attack by the 2´ OH and coordinating two Mg2+ ions to stabilize negative charge formation in the proceeding steps.

Evolutionary Origins 
A notable characteristic of the U2-U6 fold is its structural similarity to that of domain V in self-splicing group II introns. The AGC triad found in U6 snRNA is conserved in group II introns and has been found to favor the same tertiary stacking interactions as well. The formation of a GU wobble pair early in the U2-U6 folding event is also observed in the formation of the catalytic core of group II introns. Finally, it is likely the spliceosome utilizes the same two-metal ion mechanism as group II introns given the structural conservation of metal binding sites found within the U2-U6 fold. The extent of both secondary and tertiary structure conservation between group II introns and the U2-U6 fold in the active site of the spliceosome strongly suggests both group II introns and the spliceosome share a common evolutionary origin.

See also 
Spliceosome
Small nuclear RNA
U1 spliceosomal RNA

References

Further reading

External links 
 
 U2

Small nuclear RNA
Spliceosome
RNA splicing