[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# German war crimes

the Zimmermann Telegram, led the U.S. entry into the war two months later on the side of the Allied Powers.

World War II

Chronologically, the first German World War II crime, and also the very first act of the war, was the bombing of Wieluń, a town where no targets of military value were present.

More significantly, the Holocaust of the European Jews, the extermination of millions of Poles, the Action T4 killing of the disabled, and the Porajmos of the Romani are the most notable war crimes committed by Nazi Germany during World War II. Not all of the crimes committed during the Holocaust and similar mass atrocities were war crimes. Telford Taylor (The U.S. prosecutor in the German High Command case at the Nuremberg Trials and Chief Counsel for the twelve trials before the U.S. Nuremberg Military Tribunals) explained in 1982:

German mistreatment of Soviet prisoners of war – at least 3.3 million Soviet POWs died in German custody, out of 5.7 million captured; this figure represents 57% POW casualty rate.
Le Paradis massacre, May 1940, British soldiers of the Royal Norfolk Regiment, were captured by the SS and subsequently murdered. Fritz Knoechlein was tried, found guilty and hanged.
Wormhoudt massacre, May 1940, British and French soldiers captured by the SS and subsequently murdered. No one was found guilty of the crime.
Lidice massacre after assassination of Reinhard Heydrich in 1942, when the Czech village was utterly destroyed, and inhabitants murdered.
Normandy Massacres, a series of killings in which up to 156 Canadian prisoners of war were murdered by soldiers of the 12th SS Panzer Division (Hitler Youth) during the Battle of Normandy
Ardenne Abbey massacre, one of the Normandy massacres; June 1944 Canadian soldiers captured by the SS and murdered by 12th SS Panzer Division Hitlerjugend. SS General Kurt Meyer (Panzermeyer) sentenced to be shot 1946; sentence commuted; released 1954
Graignes massacre, 11 June 1944, United States POWs that had surrendered were executed by the German troops by shooting and stabbing.
Malmedy massacre, December 1944, United States POWs captured by Kampfgruppe Peiper were murdered outside of Malmedy, Belgium.
 Wereth massacre. 17 December 1944, soldiers from 3./SS-PzAA1 LSSAH captured eleven African-American soldiers from 333rd Artillery Battalion in the hamlet of Wereth, Belgium. Subsequently, the prisoners were tortured, shot, and had their fingers cut off, legs broken, eyes gouged out, jaw broken and at least one was shot while trying to bandage a comrade's wounds.
 Wahlhausen massacre, December 1944, United States Pows from the 28th Infantry Division captured by German troops were summarily executed.
Gardelegen (war crime) of April 1945 when Nazi concentration camp prisoners were herded into a barn, which was then set alight, killing all inside
Oradour-sur-Glane massacre
Massacre of Kalavryta
Unrestricted submarine warfare against merchant shipping.
The intentional destruction of major medieval churches of Novgorod, of monasteries in the Moscow region (e.g., of New Jerusalem Monastery) and of the imperial palaces around St. Petersburg.
The campaign of extermination of Slavic population in the occupied territories. Several thousand villages were burned with their entire population (e.g., Khatyn massacre in Belarus). A quarter of the inhabitants of Belarus did not survive the German occupation.
Soap made from human corpses produced on a small-scale by German scientist Rudolf Spanner.
Commando Order, the secret order issued by Hitler in October 1942 stating that Allied combatants encountered during commando operations were to be executed immediately without trial, even if they were properly uniformed, unarmed, or intending to surrender.
Commissar Order, the order from Hitler to Wehrmacht troops before the invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941 to shoot Commissars immediately on capture.
Nacht und Nebel decree of 1941 for disappearance of prisoners.

War criminals 
 List of Axis personnel indicted for war crimes
 List of Nazi doctors
 Adolf Eichmann
 Heinrich Gross
 Hans Heinze
 Rudolf Hoess
 Karl Linnas
 Josef Mengele
 Otmar Freiherr von Verschuer
 Alfred Trzebinski

Massacres and war crimes of World War II by location

Austria 
Murders of disabled children by Heinrich Gross 
Recommendation of disabled children for euthanasia by Hans Asperger

Belarus 
The Holocaust in Belarus
Anti-partisan operations in Belarus
Operation Bamberg
Operation Cottbus

 1941
27 October, Slutsk, Slutsk Affair (4,000 people, including women and children)
28 September – 17 October, Pleszczenice-Bischolin-Szack (Šacak)-Bobr-Uzda (White Ruthenia) massacre (1,126 children)