[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hladno pivo

Hladno pivo (; trans. "Cold beer") is a Croatian punk rock band. The recording act, fronted by Mile Kekin, remains one of the most popular rock bands in Croatia.

Early history
The band was formed in 1987 in Zagreb, Socialist Republic of Croatia, SFR Yugoslavia. It initially consisted of five members: Zok, Tedi, Suba, Stipe and Mile. In their beginnings, the band largely played covers of the Ramones, Sex Pistols, Dead Kennedys, AC/DC, Motörhead, The Rolling Stones, The Beatles, Judas Priest, Azra, Zabranjeno pušenje and Električni orgazam.

On May 21, 1988 the band held their first concert in Kumrovec. In 1988 band has also held an unsuccessful concert at lake Jarun in Zagreb, due to the drummer of the band which played before them refusing to leave the drums for Hladno pivo.

In 1989 Stipe left the band (to form Falschspieler). This year was also important because Zok, Tedi, Suba and Mile recorded their first demo. The demo consisted of six songs: "Für immer Punk" (a Goldene Zitronen cover), "Bonzo", "Savršeni marginalci", "Niemals", "Buntovnik" and "Čelične zavjese". The demo was recorded at Jozo in Trešnjevka, Zagreb. One week later, Mile and Zok were sent to do their military service.

When they returned from military service in 1990 they started playing again. The result were the songs: "Princeza", "Heroin", "Dobro veče", "Trening za umiranje", "Buba švabe", "Zakaj se tak' oblačiš", and "Pjevajte nešto ljubavno". These songs were recorded in 1991 at Denis (a.k.a. Denyken) in Sopot, Zagreb. These songs, along with modified "Marginalci" were published as a cassette in production of Megatherium rec.

History 

Soon after Hladno pivo held their concerts in KSET and Video-teatar, they were accepted by the public. They soon recorded a music video of the song "Buba švabe" (remake of Toy Dolls' song "Spiders in the Dressing Room") in Mile's house for 200 German marks. This music video was broadcast as a part of a television music show called Hit-depo in April 1992. This allowed the band to be introduced to the whole of Croatia. The same year A. Dragaš and T. Šunjić offered the band to make a record as T.R.I.P. records. T.R.I.P. records had at that time negotiated with Croatia Records. The result of the collaboration was the T.R.I.P. zone compilation where Hladno pivo appeared with two songs. On December 17, 1992 in Ljubljana, Slovenia Hladno pivo opened for KUD Idijoti. The band also appeared at the Tivoli festival with Dr. Nele Karajlić and his fraction of Zabranjeno pušenje. The same year in November the band makes its first album – Džinovski at the Best Music studio, in Vrbik, Zagreb.

Džinovski was published in 1993 and was a hit. After Džinovski, Hladno pivo held about ten concerts in Croatia and Slovenia. In June 1993 Tedi left the band and was replaced by Hadžo from grindcore group Patareni. (Some informed sources claim that none of the former members of Hladno pivo had left the group, i.e. each of them was pushed out of the band in a very unfair and unfriendly way, leaving resentment for years after the event). After that the band started practicing a lot. While they were preparing for their next album, they held about 40 concerts across Croatia, Slovenia and a concert in Bregenz, Austria. In 1993 Hladno pivo was awarded the Porin music award for a best alternative rock album.

On October 11, 1994 Hladno pivo performed in Dom sportova, Trešnjevka opening for the Ramones. In February 1995 the band records their second album called G.A.D. under T.R.I.P. records – Croatia Records. The album G.A.D. appeared on the market in May 1995. On 19 January 1996, Hladno pivo held a concert in Skopje, Republic of Macedonia. In March 1997 the band chose Jabukaton as their recording studio and recorded their third album Desetka.

After the December 12, 1998 concert in Celje, Slovenia,  Hadžo left the band and was replaced by Šokec (bass guitar). In 1999 Suba had to do his military service and was temporarily replaced by Matko from Makarska, Croatia. Their fourth album Pobjeda was recorded from August 16 to August 23, 1999, this time under Gajba Records in collaboration with Dancing Bear. Gajba Records was founded because of the band's need to have better control of the recording of the album. The band had two new members: Stipe (trumpet) from Makarska, Croatia, and Milko (keyboards).

On 20 September 2008 they performed in front of 20,000 people on the band's 20th birthday in Zagreb.

In December 2022, the guitarist Zoran Subošić, along with several other Croatian citizens, including a human rights activist, was arrested in Zambia for suspicion of human trafficking after they tried to adopt smuggled Congolese children.

Discography

Džinovski
Džinovski is the first album by Hladno Pivo. It was recorded in September 1992 and released in March 1993.