[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1960 Louisiana gubernatorial election

The 1960 Louisiana gubernatorial election was held on April 19, 1960.

Primary elections were held in two rounds on December 5, 1959, and January 9, 1960.  After defeating Chep Morrison in a Democratic primary which featured some of the most racist campaign rhetoric in Louisiana political history, Jimmie Davis was elected to his second nonconsecutive term as governor after defeating the Republican candidate, Francis Grevemberg, in the general election.

Background
Like most Southern states between the Reconstruction Era and the Civil Rights Movement, Louisiana's Republican Party was virtually nonexistent in terms of electoral support. This meant that the two Democratic Party primaries held on these dates were the real contest over who would be governor. In this election, however, a Republican ran, the first since Harrison Bagwell of Baton Rouge in 1952, who had polled 4 percent of the vote against the Democrat Robert F. Kennon.

Democratic primary

Candidates 
Holt Allen, grocer from Jena
Jimmie Davis, former Governor of Louisiana from 1944 to 1948
William J. "Bill" Dodd, State Comptroller
John Krey, Jr., New Orleans businessman
Allen LaCombe, eccentric New Orleans gambler and perennial candidate
Chep Morrison, Mayor of New Orleans
James A. Noe, former Governor in 1936 and unsuccessful candidate in 1940 
William M. Rainach, State Senator from Claiborne Parish
Mack Stewart Jr., Baptist minister from Baton Rouge
Addison Roswell Thompson, a New Orleans taxicab company operator and Ku Klux Klan wizard

Withdrew 

 J. Marshall Brown, a New Orleans insurance agent
 Earl Long, incumbent Governor (running for Lieutenant Governor, barred from re-election by Supreme Court)

Campaign 
At the beginning of the campaign, incumbent governor Earl Long announced his intention to run, despite being constitutionally barred from succeeding himself.   After the Supreme Court insisted that he would have to resign several months before the election in order to legally run, Long withdrew and instead opted to run for Lieutenant-Governor on the Jimmy Noe ticket.  The campaign got off to a slow start, with Davis running a bland campaign calling for "peace and harmony."  Morrison campaigned on a platform of economic progress and development, while Noe and Dodd used promises of increased social programs to compete for traditional Long supporters.

Although easily winning the 1956 gubernatorial election, the ticket of Jimmy Noe and Earl Long finished a distant fourth.  This is due, in part, because of the significant problems Earl Long experienced during the latter part of his last term in office such as his involuntary commitment to a state mental hospital, his affair with stripper Blaze Starr, and his ambivalence regarding civil rights issues.

Davis originally campaigned on a vague platform of peace and harmony in the first primary, before adopting a defense of segregation in the runoff.  He was supported by the Regular Democratic Organization political machine in New Orleans and endorsed by The New Orleans Times-Picayune.

Morrison stressed his accomplishments as mayor for the previous fourteen years and called for industrialization of the state. He had the support of unions and favored large building programs and increased trade with Latin America.

Rainach campaigned as a staunch defender of segregation, using white supremacist rhetoric and attacking his opponents for their perceived softness on "the race question".

Results

Run-off

Campaign 
After seeing the explosive growth in support enjoyed by the little-known Rainach, who finished in third place after employing racist rhetoric in the primary, Davis adopted a similar tactic in the runoff. After receiving the endorsement of Rainach, Davis began to criticize Morrison for having received a large proportion of African-American votes in the primary.  The Davis campaign claimed Morrison was supported by the NAACP – which Davis termed as "a communist Negro organization founded in New York" – and that he would integrate the state and use increased black voter registration to dominate Louisiana politics.  The Times-Picayune aided the Davis campaign by emphasizing the high level of support Morrison had received from black voters. Earl Long also endorsed Davis.

Morrison responded in kind, extolling his record of support for segregation as mayor of New Orleans and questioning Davis's own segregationist credentials. He also boasted that he had been sued by the NAACP more times than any other Louisiana official.  Though he was a supporter of segregation, Morrison depended on black votes and could not afford to alienate potential supporters by using the overtly racist rhetoric of his opponent.  He remained on the defensive throughout the runoff campaign.  The political liabilities of being an urbanite, a Catholic, and a perceived integrationist cost Morrison any support he might have expected in conservative, Protestant, segregationist northern Louisiana.

Results

Republican primary