[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Views on military action against Iran

international law, principles and purposes of the Charter of the United Nations and regulations of the IAEA. They recognized the need for a comprehensive multilaterally negotiated instrument, prohibiting attacks, or threat of attacks on nuclear facilities devoted to peaceful uses of nuclear energy."

International Atomic Energy Agency
On June 14, 2007, the Director General (DG) of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Mohamed ElBaradei, speaking at a meeting of the IAEA, said that war against Iran "would be catastrophic, it would be an act of madness, and it would not solve the issue". During the preceding several weeks, ElBaradei had several times expressed his opposition to a military attack on Iran. He made these statements as part of what he saw as his role as Director General of the IAEA, stating "I have no brief other than to make sure we do not go into another war, or that we go crazy into killing each other."

Since January 25, 2023, Iran has manufactured enough highly enriched uranium (HEU) for several nuclear missiles per IAEA Director General Rafael Grossi. The HEU for each missile core, i.e. each warhead, is called an SQ (which means a significant quantity) per the IAEA's Safeguards Glossary.

History of opposition
Opposition against a military strike on Iran followed several claims that the United States and/or Israel might carry out such an attack, in relation to claims that Iran intends to field nuclear weapons.

2005
Organised opposition to a possible future military attack against Iran by Israel and/or the United States (US) is known to have started during 2005–2006. Beginning in early 2005, journalists, activists and academics such as Seymour Hersh, Scott Ritter, Joseph Cirincione and Jorge E. Hirsch began publishing claims that United States' concerns over the alleged threat posed by the possibility that Iran may have a nuclear weapons program might lead the US government to take military action against that country. These reports, and the concurrent escalation of tensions between Iran and some Western governments, prompted the formation of grassroots organisations, including Campaign Against Sanctions and Military Intervention in Iran in the US and the United Kingdom, to advocate against potential military strikes on Iran. Additionally, several individuals, grassroots organisations, and international government organisations, including the ex-Director General of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Mohamed ElBaradei, a former United Nations weapons inspector in Iraq, Scott Ritter, Nobel Prize winners including Shirin Ebadi, Mairead Corrigan-Maguire and Betty Williams, Harold Pinter and Jody Williams, Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament, Code Pink, and the Non-Aligned Movement of 118 states have publicly stated their opposition to such an attack.

Noam Chomsky claimed that the real reason for then President George W. Bush to attack would be to "control Middle East energy resources", in particular petroleum. Physicist Jorge Hirsch claimed that the real reason is that the US wishes to demonstrate its intent and capability to "use nuclear weapons against non-nuclear countries". Starting in 2005, these analysts, including Seymour Hersh, former UN weapons of mass destruction inspector in Iraq from 1991 to 1998, Scott Ritter, Joseph Cirincione, director for non-proliferation at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Professor at the University of San Francisco and Middle East editor for the Foreign Policy in Focus, Stephen Zunes claimed that the United States planned a military attack against Iran. Philip Giraldi, a former CIA officer, physicist Jorge E. Hirsch, and Seymour Hersh  claimed that the attack could be expected to use nuclear weapons, in line with the US Doctrine for Joint Nuclear Operations which was revised in March 2005.

2007
In early April 2007, Michael T. Klare claimed that references to Iran by US president George W. Bush in major televised speeches on January 10, January 23 and February 14, 2007, establish that Bush "has already decided an attack is his only option and the rest is a charade he must go through to satisfy his European allies". Klare claims that in these speeches in particular, Bush has developed a casus belli in order to prepare public opinion for an attack, focussed on three reasons: claims that Iran supports attacks on US troops in Iraq, claims that Iran has a nuclear weapons program, and claims that Iran could become a dominant power in the region and destabilise pro-US governments in Israel, Jordan, Bahrain and Saudi Arabia.

In October 2007, The Times reported that the UK had already begun attacking Iran with the SAS launching a series of limited ground invasions: