[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Immigrant health care in the United States

are also often correlated with greater difficulties in accessing and retaining insurance.

Undocumented immigrants and those with Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) deferments are not eligible for many of the coverage options offered through the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act.

Citizenship status 
Many immigrants report that distrust prevents them from actively seeking out health services. Although the Immigration and Naturalization Service has stated that receiving Medicaid or SCHIP benefits (with the exception of long-term care) does not jeopardize residency status, many lawful permanent residents are unaware and perceive otherwise. The New York Times reported that fear of deportation or detention causes immigrants, especially those who are undocumented, to refrain from seeking medical care. This includes screenings, picking up prescriptions, and participation in federal nutrition programs. A study by Russell Toomey and his colleagues similarly confirmed that Mexican-born teenagers and mothers decreased their usage of preventive health care and public assistance programs after the implementation of SB 1070 in Arizona. Prolonged fear of deportation has also been observed to exacerbate mental health conditions such as stress, depression, and anxiety.

Overall, undocumented immigrants are likely to be uninsured due to lack of employer-sponsored insurance and ineligibility for Medicare, Medicaid, CHIP, and PPACA Marketplaces. Health benefits are largely contingent on immigrant parents in that although a child may be born in the U.S., the naturalization process for adults can take between 5 and 10 years. Since welfare reform initiatives like the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act have been enacted, states have seen an overall decline in the number of children being vaccinated.

In August 2019, the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services announced the discontinuation of the medical deferred action policy that grants temporary protection from deportation to immigrants undertaking major, life-saving procedures. However, in September 2019, this decision was reverted after drawing substantial criticisms from advocacy groups.

Financial costs 

Financial costs of health care are also cited as a barrier to access, especially as they can be complicated by immigration status. A study by Nathan Gray and his colleagues found that immigrants who cannot access hospice care often must rely on more expensive choices such as hospitalization or emergency services instead. Additionally, bureaucratic procedures, such as extensive paperwork, may deter immigrants from seeking health care due to both the cost of completion and lack of familiarity.

The financial costs of health coverage are also often correlated with lack of insurance. Studies have shown a connection between the lack of coverage and higher poverty rates. In their research, Julia Prentice, Anne Pebley, and Narayan Sastry reported that immigrants are less likely to be insured than native-born citizens. Prentice, Pebley, and Sastry also found that immigrants tend to share more characteristic qualities of those who are uninsured and often of lower socioeconomic status. These include lower levels of education attainment, income, and ownership of non-housing assets. Additionally, lack of enrollment in public programs or health plans has been observed to disproportionately affect those in low-income families. Low-income immigrants are over two times more likely to lack health insurance than low-income citizens.

Social barriers

Language 

A study by Janice Tsoh reported that immigrants with limited English proficiency (LEP) and health literacy were more likely to rate their health status as poor. LEP is often correlated with experienced discrimination in medical care, as well. Studies have found that perceptions of discrimination have decreased among immigrants with LEP from the early 2000s to 2017. However, LEP patients may experience greater difficulties than English-proficient patients with communicating information with their practitioners. Furthermore, language proficiency can determine the types of treatments, exams, and other health services that Latino immigrants receive. Studies demonstrate that Latina patients were more likely receive recommendations for Pap smears and similar screenings from their doctors if their level of English proficiency was higher.

Linguistic difficulties can prevent immigrants from completing health insurance and medical forms. A study of Korean immigrants demonstrated that language barriers and uninsured status were major obstacles to utilizing healthcare in the United States. Additionally, LEP can limit employment to a small range of certain jobs, often those that are less likely to provide job-based insurance.