[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eelam War I

es, next by prison guards and finally by prisoners.

Following this settlement, the LTTE committed their first massacre of Sinhalese civilians. The massacres took place on November 30, 1984, in two tiny farming villages in the district of Mullaitivu in north-eastern Sri Lanka.

Anuradhapura massacre

The Anuradhapura massacre is an incident on May 14, 1985, in which LTTE cadres massacred 146 Sinhalese men, women, and children in Anuradhapura. The LTTE hijacked a bus and entered Anuradhapura. As the LTTE cadres entered the main bus station, they opened fire indiscriminately with automatic weapons killing and wounding many civilians who were waiting for buses. LTTE cadres then drove to the Buddhist Sri Maha Bobhi shrine and gunned down nuns, monks and civilians as they prayed inside the Buddhist shrine. Before they withdrew, the LTTE strike force entered the national park of Wilpattu and killed 18 Sinhalese in the forest reserve. The attack was allegedly sparked by the 1985 Valvettiturai massacre, where the Sri Lanka Army massacred 70 Tamil civilians in the LTTE's leader hometown.

Prawn farm massacre 

The Prawn farm massacre, also known as the 1987 Kokkadichcholai massacre, took place on January 27, 1987 in the village of Kokkadichcholai in Batticaloa District. At least 83 Tamil civilians were killed. The Special Task Force (STF), an elite special forces unit of the Sri Lanka Police, was accused of having perpetrated the massacre. The STF entered the village from Vellaveli, Kondavedduvan, Kaluvanchikudi and Kallandy camps in trucks. At a nearby junction, a vehicle was parked and some STF officers exited the vehicle and walked into the prawn farm. The STF gathered up the farm employees, checked their identity cards and herded them onto a semi-trailer; they were taken to a road junction and shot dead. Seven of the victims were boys aged 12 to 14. Forty non-employees who had sought refuge in the farm were also shot and killed. The bodies were later burnt on piles of old tires obtained by the security forces from the town's bus depot.

See also
Origins of the Sri Lankan Civil War

Eelam War II
Eelam War III
Eelam War IV
List of Sri Lankan Civil War battles
List of attacks attributed to the LTTE
Sri Lankan Civil War

References

External links
Ministry of Defence, Sri Lanka
Government of Sri Lanka Peace Secretariat
LTTE Peace Secretariat
Sri Lanka Monitoring Mission
Tamilnet

 
Phases of the Sri Lankan Civil War
1980s in Sri Lanka
1980s conflicts
Guerrilla wars
Tamil Eelam
History of Sri Lanka (1948–present)
Military history of Sri Lanka
1983 in Sri Lanka
1984 in Sri Lanka
1985 in Sri Lanka
1986 in Sri Lanka
1987 in Sri Lanka
Sri Lankan Civil War
Indian Peace Keeping Force