[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Scouts BSA

ly in official emblems.

The Scout Sign is used when giving the Scout Law or the Scout Oath and as a signal for silence. The Scout Salute is used when saluting the flag of the United States. The left-handed handshake is used as a token of friendship and as an identity with Scouts worldwide.

Emblems

Scouting uses a series of medals and patches as emblems. The badge for the Scout rank consists of a simple fleur-de-lis, which symbolizes a compass needle. The needle points the Scout in the right direction, which is onward and upward. The Tenderfoot badge takes the fleur-de-lis of the Scout badge and adds two stars and an eagle with an American shield. The stars symbolize truth and knowledge; the eagle and shield symbolize freedom and readiness to defend it. The Second Class badge features a scroll inscribed with the Scout Motto, with the ends turned up and a knotted rope hanging from the bottom. The knot reminds each Scout to remember the Scout slogan and the upturned ends of the scroll symbolize cheerfulness in service. The First Class badge combines the elements of the Tenderfoot and Second Class badges. For years, the First Class badge was used as the emblem of the BSA. Star has a First Class symbol on a five-pointed yellow star, and initially indicated the five merit badges required to earn the rank. Life has a First Class emblem on a red heart, and initially symbolized the first-aid and health-related merit badges that the rank required. Now it signifies that the ideals of Scouting have become a part of the Scout's life and character.

Equipment
In the United States, the Boy Scouts of America functions as a licensor and distributor of official Scout uniforms, camping gear, and other items since the 1920s.  These include backpacks, pocket knives, belt knives, tents, sleeping bags, canteens, and mess gear.

Uniform and insignia

The uniform and insignia of the Scouts BSA gives a Scout visibility and creates a level of identity within both the unit and the community. The uniform is used to promote equality while showing individual achievement. While uniforms are similar in basic design, they do vary in color and detail to identify the different divisions of Cub Scouts, Scouts BSA, Venturers, and Sea Scouts.

Scouts and adult leaders wear the Scout uniform. It generally consists of a khaki button-up shirt, olive green pants or shorts, belt, socks, and optional neckerchief. The Scouter dress uniform is appropriate for professional Scouters and Scouting leaders on formal occasions.

Organization

Troop and patrols
The troop is the fundamental unit of Scouts BSA. The troop size can vary from a minimum of five Scouts to over one hundred. Each troop is sponsored by a community organization such as a business, service organization, private school, labor group, or religious institution. The chartered organization is responsible for providing a meeting place and promoting a good program. A chartered organization representative manages the relationship between the troop, the chartered organization, and the BSA.

While boys and girls are members of Scouts BSA, individual troops are single gender. A boys' troop and girls' troop may however share a common Troop Committee made up of adult leaders, parents of Scouts, and other interested parties that manage membership, finances, camping arrangements, and chartered organization relations among other responsibilities.

Each troop is divided into patrols of eight or so Scouts led by a patrol leader elected from within the patrol. Patrol meetings are generally held during the weekly troop meeting. The patrol's independence from the troop varies among troops and between activities. Patrols' autonomy becomes more visible at campouts, where each patrol may set up its own camping and cooking area. Divisions between patrols may disappear during an event which only a small part of the troop attends. Patrols may hold meetings and even excursions separately from the rest of the troop.

When a Webelos den crosses over from Cub Scouting to Scouts BSA, the "new Scout patrol" method may be used. The new Scouts are kept together as a group, elect their own patrol leader, and are assigned a troop guide—an older Scout who acts as a mentor. Some troops may have an older Scout patrol that experiences more autonomy from the troop and provides older Scouts with expanded social contact and physical challenges.

Other sections

The Lone Scout program serves youth who cannot take part in a nearby troop on a regular basis because of distance, weather, time, disability, or other difficulties. While the Lone Scout does not participate in troop or patrol activities, they still learn the fun, values, and achievements of Scouting.