[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Simon Heslop

tally to five for the season; firstly scoring in a 2–1 reverse to Cambridge United, before scoring the winner with a shot from 20-yards against Weymouth. He also scored the only goal of the match in a 1–0 win over Ebbsfleet United on 10 April, and made 40 appearances in all competitions for Halifax.

Ahead of the 2008–09 season, back at Barnsley, Heslop trained with Rochdale with a view to a loan move. However, no transfer materialised, and he had a trial with Port Vale later that month, although "budget restrictions" meant the deal collapsed. A week before the start of the new season, Heslop joined League Two club Grimsby Town on an initial three-month loan deal, with the option to join permanently after the period was over. On securing the loan signing, Grimsby manager Alan Buckley said – "He is a bit of everything, a box-to-box player. He's got a good chance of starting next week if he impresses in training". He made his debut in a 0–0 home draw with Rochdale on the opening day of the season, and went on to make 11 appearances during the three-month period. Towards the latter stages of that season, in March 2009, Heslop spent a week on trial at Lincoln City, playing in a reserve match against Nottingham Forest.

In October 2009, over a year since his last first-team appearance for any club, Heslop was loaned out for a sixth time when he joined Kettering Town on a month-long deal. He made his debut on 31 October, playing the whole match in Kettering's 1–1 home draw with Stevenage. Heslop made five appearances during the month, including receiving a red card for two bookable offences in a home loss to Kidderminster Harriers, as the loan was extended for a further month. He made 12 appearances during his time with Kettering, three of which came in the FA Cup as the club were ultimately knocked out by Championship team Leeds United at Elland Road after extra-time, having taken them to a replay. Two months later, Heslop signed for fellow Conference Premier club Luton Town on a 28-day emergency loan in March 2010. He was brought in to replace Luton captain Kevin Nicholls, who had been ruled out for the rest of the season. Heslop started in Luton's 1–0 win over Wrexham shortly after, and scored his only goal for the club in a 4–0 win against Salisbury City at Kenilworth Road on 30 March. He made 13 appearances during his time with the club, including two appearances as Luton lost 2–0 on aggregate to York City in the Conference Premier play-off semi-final. Heslop was released by Barnsley at the end of 2009–10, having made just one appearance during his six-year association with the club.

Oxford United

Shortly after his release from Barnsley, Heslop joined League Two club Oxford United on a free transfer in June 2010. On signing Heslop, Oxford chairman Kelvin Thomas stated – "We are pleased to secure Simon's services. He is an excellent player and the encouraging thing about him signing is that he was made bigger financial offers at other clubs but wanted to come here". He made his debut on the opening day of 2010–11, playing the whole match as Oxford marked their return to the Football League with a 0–0 draw at Burton Albion. Just three days later, on 10 August 2010, Heslop scored twice in the club's 6–1 win over Bristol Rovers in the League Cup. He scored his first league goal the following month, netting with a 30-yard drive to open the scoring in an eventual 4–0 win over Morecambe at the Kassam Stadium. Heslop then scored with a "drilled right-foot shot" as Oxford secured a 2–1 home victory against Macclesfield Town on 28 December 2010. He added one further goal to his tally that season, scoring in the first-half from Jack Midson's cut-back in a 2–1 home win against Rotherham United in February 2011. Heslop scored five times, all at the Kassam, and made 40 appearances during his first season with the club.