[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fort Howell

Fort Howell is an earthworks fort built in 1864 during the American Civil War, located on Hilton Head Island, South Carolina.  It was named in honor of Union Army Brigadier General Joshua B. Howell, and Its primary function was to protect Mitchelville, a Freedman's town located to its east.

It was named to the National Register of Historic Places on June 15, 2011.  It was named as a site on the National Park Service's Network to Freedom, Underground Railroad.  It is also a site on the Civil War Discovery Trail  http://www.civilwar.org/civil-war-discovery-trail/ The Fort is owned by the Hilton Head Island Land Trust, Inc., a non-profit organization whose goal is to protect and preserve the Fort in perpetuity.

Current Condition 
Fort Howell, an essentially pentagonal enclosure constructed of built-up earth, is quite discernible despite natural erosion and the growth of trees and other vegetation over a period of almost 150 years.  Today, it is an historic site that is open to the public with adjacent areas for parking and several interpretive signs. There is a kiosk with signage which explains the history surrounding the Fort.  Metal figures representing soldiers and others, created by local artist, Mary Ann Ford, are placed about the grounds. Admission is free and the Fort is open from dawn to dusk.  Additionally, guided tours are provided in partnership between the Hilton Head Island Land Trust, Inc. and the Coastal Discovery Museum.

History 

Fort Howell is an earthworks fort built in 1864 during the American Civil War by the 32nd United States Colored Infantry Regiment (Union) from Pennsylvania and the 144th New York Infantry - regiments belonging to the Hilton Head District, Department of the South, United States Army.  It was constructed from late August or early September to mid-October 1864, using shovels, spades, picks, and axes, and working under the supervision of Captain Patrick McGuire of Company A, 1st New York Engineers and the officers and enlisted men of several companies of that regiment. It was built as a semi-permanent fort designed to be manned by artillerymen serving a variety of garrison, siege, or "seacoast" artillery pieces.  Intended to protect the approaches to the nearby freedman's village of Mitchelville, it was constructed on an open site just southwest of the settlement, likely on a recently logged site or a fallow cotton field.

The Fort was designed to hold as many as 27 guns, 16 of them grouped in barbette batteries firing from wooden platforms over the parapet wall, and 11 of them grouped in embrasure batteries firing through openings in the parapet wall.  Intended to protect the approaches to the nearby freedmen's village of Mitchelville, it was constructed on an open site just southwest of the settlement, likely on a recently logged site or a fallow cotton field, and covers more than 3 acres of land.

While the Fort saw no action, it served as a testament to the excellent skills of Chief Engineer and Captain Charles Suter, and military engineering exhibited by the men of the day as a permanent and defensible earthwork fort.  The exterior of the fort featured a moat and wooden palisade - sharpened logs driven into the ground to slow advancing troops.  The area directly adjacent to the fort walls was further protected by guns mounted in bastions.

Construction 

Two Federal regiments, one African-American (the 32nd United States Colored Infantry), and one white (the 144th New York Infantry), built this field fortification as a significant late-war addition to the defenses of Hilton Head, part of the Hilton Head District, Department of the South.

On 18 August 1864, the day after he ordered Suter to begin designing and building the fort near Mitchelville, Foster ordered Brig. Gen. Alexander Schimmelfennig, commanding the Northern District (Morris Island, Folly Island, and Little Folly Island) to send one of his white regiments “to go north,” and to send the 32nd United States Colored Infantry to Hilton Head Island.   The next day Brig. Gen. Edward E. Potter, commanding the Hilton Head District, ordered Col. George W. Baird of the 32nd United States Colored Infantry to move his regiment “to a point just beyond Mitchelville and encamp on ground which will be designated by Capt. Suter Chief Engineer Dept. South near which a work is to be constructed under his direction.” Potter's instructions were specific: “The 32nd U.S.C.T. [United States Colored Troops] will be charged with the construction of this work and will furnish daily as large a detail for this purpose as the strength of the Regiment will permit. The working parties will report to the Engineer Officer superintending the construction.”