[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pre-election day events of the 2006 Singaporean general election

t of the world", referring the four points brought up by Ng Eng Hen as "poisons" Workers' Party chairman Sylvia Lim released a press statement on 22 January, responding to each of the four "time bombs" criticised by Ng and adding that the party was standing firmly by its manifesto.

Cartoon T-shirts

During the weekend on 4–5 March, members of the Singapore People's Party were at the Pasir Ris–Punggol GRC conducting a walk-about and selling $10 white T-shirts featuring a caricature of a red ant with boxing gloves. Teo Chee Hean, incumbent MP and anchor minister of the GRC, made fun of it saying "I don't think our residents want their flats to be overrun by red ants". His fellow MP Charles Chong added: "It would be very unfair if they come with ants and you use elephants to step on them."

Desmond Lim, assistant secretary-general of the SPP responded that the red ant represented the party's never-say-die spirit: "Ants see no obstacles. If you put a stone in front of them, they will make a detour or climb over it. We are like small ants in the political scene here. But when ants come together, they can move mountains."

Pasir Ris–Punggol GRC housed the Buangkok MRT station where the white elephant incident took place in August 2005 when "white elephant" signs were placed in protest of the station's non-operational status. The incident prompted the government to eventually open the station in January 2006.

By-election strategy
The last three general elections in 1991, 1997, and 2001 have seen the PAP return to power on Nomination Day as the opposition parties adopted a by-election strategy and contested less than half the number of seats in these elections. For the coming election, early indications by the opposition parties suggest that more than half the seats will be contested. In a Today report dated 6 March 2006, Low Thia Khiang (WP) said that WP does not believe in a by-election strategy and "felt that every Singaporean should have the opportunity to vote".

Chiam See Tong (SPP) said that they would campaign on a by-election strategy given a chance, but he noted that the strategy has been used before and that "it may not capture the imagination of the voters as much." For twenty years since 1992, there is no by-election but there are requests to do so when MPs vacated their seats (cases such as the late former president Ong Teng Cheong resigning his seat to stand as a presidential candidate in the 1993 presidential elections, the legal case of Choo Wee Khiang in 1999, and the deaths of Ong Chit Chung and Balaji Sadasivan on 2008 and 2010, respectively); but the reason is that it does not disrupts the mandate of the Parliament but the review is that SMCs will be extended from 9 to 12 in 2011, followed by 13 in 2015. Eventually, the next by-election would not occur until the Hougang's by-election in May 2012, six years later.

Chee Soon Juan's bankruptcy
On 10 February, Chee Soon Juan (SDP) had been declared a bankrupt by the High Court, after failing to pay S$500,000 in damages awarded to Goh and Lee. Per the bankruptcy order, Chee was barred from standing for elections until February 2011. Chee is already ineligible for this election because of a fine in 2002.

Jeyaretnam's potential comeback
Opposition veteran J B Jeyaretnam, former MP and secretary-general of WP, had planned to make a comeback by paying off his bankruptcy to contest the election. He told Lianhe Zaobao that he had identified some potential candidates with whom he might form a team to contest a GRC. Steve Chia welcomed this development and expressed his hope that Jeyaretnam will challenge either Lee Kuan Yew or Goh Chok Tong to keep the "big guns" busy in their own constituencies and have less time to campaign for weaker PAP candidates in other electoral divisions. However, legal troubles surrounding him deny any chances of Jeyaretnam, as the earliest he would have been discharged was in mid-June. He was not found to be contesting any SMC or GRC on the Nomination Day, and thus he was not involved in this election as a candidate.

Goh Chok Tong's special assignment

On 19 March, Lee Hsien Loong said that PAP is aiming to win all the constituencies and is serious about taking over the two opposition wards in Hougang SMC and Potong Pasir SMC, saying that "We want to win, this is not masak-masak [a Malay term meaning a child's game]". The PAP candidates for these two wards will be Eric Low and Sitoh Yih Pin respectively. Both lost in the previous elections but had been working the ground in these wards since. They were assisted by Goh Chok Tong who had been given the special assignment to help the PAP win the two wards.