[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jamie Hand

Jamie Hand (born 7 February 1984) is an English former professional footballer and scout. A "tough-tackling, no-nonsense" midfielder, he made around 400 appearances in a 14-year career in football, and played in the English Football League (First Division and League Two), Scottish Premier League, Isthmian League, Conference (Premier, North and South), Southern League and Northern Premier League.

He began his career at Watford, making his first-team debut in January 2002 and winning the club's Young Player of the Year award in 2002–03. However he dropped out of the first-team in the 2004–05 season, and had brief loan spells at Oxford United, Livingston and Peterborough United, before he joined Fisher Athletic in February 2006 so as to facilitate a loan move to Northampton Town, who he helped to win promotion out of League Two in 2005–06. He joined Chester City in May 2006, before he moved on to Lincoln City in August 2007. He returned to Oxford United, before his contract was cancelled by mutual consent in May 2008.

After leaving Lincoln, he embarked on an extensive career in non-League football, firstly joining Ebbsfleet United in August 2008. He then played for Chelmsford City and Woking, before signing with Hayes & Yeading United in August 2010, who he would later captain. He joined Luton Town on loan in September 2011, but was fined The Football Association in April 2012 after insulting Luton fans on Twitter. He quit Hayes the following month over a row about club fines. He signed with Mansfield Town in July 2012, who in turn loaned him out to Eastleigh, Hayes & Yeading United and Margate. He joined Stockport County in July 2013, and then had a loan spell at Southport. He signed with Farnborough in December 2014, and later had brief spells in caretaker charge at Northwood and playing at Warrington Town, before he became a scout.

Playing career

Watford
Born in Uxbridge, London, Hand started his career at Watford. He made his first-team debut for the "Hornets" on 5 January 2002, coming on as an 89th-minute substitute for Paolo Vernazza in a 4–2 defeat to Arsenal at Vicarage Road. He got his first start in the First Division on 31 January, in a 1–1 draw at Preston North End. He played a total of 11 games in the second half of the 2001–02 season, though was sometimes played out of position by manager Gianluca Vialli.

Despite an over-abundance of central midfielders for manager Ray Lewington to choose from at the club, Hand featured 25 times throughout the 2002–03 season, picking up nine bookings as well as the club's Young Player of the Year award. He again made 25 appearances throughout the 2003–04 campaign, though injuries helped to ensure that he slipped down the first-team pecking order behind players such as Gavin Mahon, and he disappeared from matchday squads entirely under new boss Aidy Boothroyd. He later commented that: "Lewington always wanted more experience in his midfield. He would play me for two or three games and then leave me out because I was young but I think it did me more harm than good."

On 26 August 2004, he joined League Two club Oxford United on an initial one-month loan to help provide "U's" manager Graham Rix with cover for a number of injuries. He scored his first goal in the English Football League on 18 September, though this was the consolation goal from a heavy 6–1 defeat at Yeovil Town. His loan spell at the Kassam Stadium was ended after two months, during which time he had scored two goals from 11 appearances. On 5 January 2005, he joined Scottish Premier League side Livingston on loan until the end of the 2004–05 season. He played nine games for Richard Gough's "Lions" in the second half of the season.

On 23 September 2005, Hand joined Peterborough United on a one-month loan; "Posh" manager Mark Wright said that "he is a good acquisition - they have done us a great favour by letting him come here." He made ten appearances at the London Road Stadium, scoring one goal.

Fisher Athletic and Northampton Town
Hand departed Watford after the closure of the January 2006 transfer window, joining Fisher Athletic who were not bound by the regulations of the transfer window. Without making an appearance for the club, he joined Northampton Town on loan for the remainder of the 2005–06 season on 15 February. Fisher were managed by Justin Edinburgh, a former teammate of Northampton's then boss Colin Calderwood, leading to speculation that the Fisher move had been used to exploit a loophole in the transfer window system. Hand helped the "Cobblers" to secure runners-up spot in League Two and thereby win promotion from League One. However, he was not offered a contract at Sixfields and instead became a free agent.