[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Witness (organization)

iscrimination against Akhdam Women in Yemen: In 2009, WITNESS partnered with the Sisters Arab Forum (SAF) to produce a documentary called “Breaking the Silence,” about the plight of Akhdam women in Yemen. The video is currently banned in Yemen, and both WITNESS and SAF are working to repeal the ban.

Middle East and North Africa transitions
WITNESS launched a program in 2011 to support the transition to democracy in the Middle East and North Africa following the Arab Spring. This program includes: a partnership with the Egyptian Democratic Academy (EDA); hosting a human rights convention in the region to identify immediate needs; identifying, disseminating and translating innovative tools and tactics; and developing new apps for human rights in the region.

Child Soldiers
2007: WITNESS teamed with AJEDI-Ka/PES  to create a video to oppose the recruitment of child soldiers in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). The partnership sought to bring to justice those responsible for the crimes that led to the 2007 war crimes charges by the International Criminal Court (ICC) against Congolese warlord Thomas Lubanga Dyilo. The resulting film, A Duty to Protect, was screened at a high-level panel discussion at U.N. Headquarters in November 2007, following the arrest by the ICC of a second DRC warlord for the use of child soldiers. WITNESS partnered with Amnesty International to develop a companion curriculum for the film.

Human trafficking
Modern-Day Slavery in Brazil: In 2007, Bound by Promises, a film about modern-day slavery in rural Brazil, was screened before the Brazilian Congress’ Human Rights Commission.

Human Sex Trafficking in the United States: In 2012, WITNESS co-produced a 21-minute advocacy video called What I Have Been Through Is Not Who I Am, with ECPAT-USA. The short documentary tells the story of Katrina, a child who was trafficked for sex in the United States.

Elder abuse
In 2009, WITNESS and the National Council on Aging (NCOA) produced An Age for Justice: Confronting Elder Abuse in America, a film about the financial, emotional and physical abuse that up to an estimated five million older Americans face every year.

Climate change
WITNESS joined the "iMatter Trust Campaign" with Our Children's Trust, the iMatter Campaign and students from Montana State University’s MFA in Science and Natural History Filmmaking to co-produce a series of videos highlighting how climate change and government inaction are affecting the everyday lives of our youth.

The Hub: Human Rights Media Center
WITNESS launched the Hub in 2007 as a single point for users to upload human rights videos that might not be uploadable elsewhere. Because those needs have been fulfilled by other sources, the Hub has now become an archive for the content that had previously been uploaded.

Outside ratings
Charity Navigator awarded WITNESS 3 out of 4 stars overall, and 4 out of 4 stars on “Accountability and Transparency”.
The Global Journal rated WITNESS No. 83 of the top 100 non-governmental organizations in 2012.
The Global Journal rated WITNESS No. 52 of the top 100 non-governmental organizations in 2013.

See also
Video evidence
 Police accountability

References

External links 

innovations (MIT) Spring 2008
"A world of witnesses", an article in The Economist
Peter Gabriel fights injustice with video, a talk given at TED
A Top 100 NGO by The Global Journal

Human rights organizations based in the United States
Photojournalism organizations
Organizations established in 1992
1992 establishments in New York City
Non-profit organizations based in Brooklyn
Criticism of police brutality
Evidence law
Accountability