[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Luis Suárez

gue season, Suárez scored the winning goal in a 2–1 comeback away at Real Valladolid, leading his club to a victory that would ultimately hand them their first La Liga title in seven years. Suárez finished his debut season as Atletico's top scorer with 21 goals.

2021–22: Second season and departure

Suárez scored during his first league start of the season against Villarreal, although he suffered a bruise and had to be taken off, resulting in a 2–2 draw. On 21 September, Suárez scored both of Atletico's goals in a 2–1 comeback victory over Getafe. On 28 September, Suárez scored an injury time penalty during a 2–1 comeback away win against AC Milan in the 2021–22 UEFA Champions League group stage. O 2 October, Suárez both scored and assisted as Atletico defeated Barcelona 2–0 in La Liga, though he did not celebrate netting against his former club. Suárez scored another brace on 24 October, as he led Atletico to a 2–2 draw against Real Sociedad after trailing by two goals. On 2 April, he scored two goals against Alaves in a 4–1 win. Following the result he reached a tally of 11 league goals for the season; the tenth consecutive season in domestic leagues he reached double figures in his career.

On 15 May 2022, after the last home match this campaign for Atlético, the team announced Suárez's departure at the end of the season, where he was given a farewell as well as a standing ovation as fans unfurled a giant banner reading "Thank you Lucho for making us champions." Later on, the club also honored Suárez by presenting an illustration of his figure across the main mural at the museum of Wanda Metropolitano Suárez again ended the season as Atletico's top scorer with 13 goals.

Return to Nacional 
On 26 July 2022, Suárez announced that he had reached a pre-agreement with his boyhood club Nacional ahead of a free transfer to the club, which was confirmed the following day. He made his second debut for El Bolso on 2 August, in a Copa Sudamericana 1–0 defeat to Atlético Goianiense, at the Parque Central. Four days later, he scored the final goal in a 3–0 league home win over Rentistas.

On 31 October, during the Championship finals, Suárez had a Man of the Match performance where he scored twice to lead his team to a 4–1 victory against Liverpool Montevideo, making Nacional 2022 Uruguayan Primera División Champions. He ended the season with eight goals and three assists in 14 league games.

Grêmio
On 31 December 2022, Grêmio announced Suárez would join the club on a two-year contract. Suárez was presented on 4 January at Arena do Grêmio in front of 30,000 fans. He made his debut on 17 January 2023 in a match against São Luiz for the 2023 Recopa Gaúcha. Suárez scored a hat-trick in a 4–1 win.

On 8 April, Suárez won his second title for Grêmio: the Campeonato Gaúcho. Suárez scored a penalty goal against Caxias at the second leg of the 2023 Campeonato Gaúcho finals, thus beating Caxias 2–1 on aggregate.

In late June, rumours began to circulate that Suárez might retire before the end of his contract due his extensive knee injuries. On 21 June in a press conference, Grêmio president Alberto Guerra announced that Suárez "gives himself almost daily injections and special treatments, he is in constant pain. It is serious. Suarez has the possibility of being fitted with a prosthesis." However, on the next day, Grêmio played against América Mineiro, resulting in a 3–1 victory with a decisive performance by Suárez; with one goal, one assist and multiple plays and goal attempts. In the post-match press interview, Grêmio's vice-president Paulo Caleffi denied any rumors and Suárez himself mocked the rumors in social media.

In July, rumours resurfaced that Suárez still had knee issues, and was linked with Inter Miami for a reunion with Messi and Sergio Busquets and wished to leave early, starting negotiations with Grêmio's board.

After various rumours on media, Suárez revealed on a press conference together with Grêmio's vice-president Antônio Brum that he would shorten his contract to the end of 2023. He cited that his knee issues were particularly exacerbated with the long and intense schedule of the Brazilian league.

International career
Suárez was invited to play for Uruguay in the qualifying rounds for the 2007 U-20 World Cup, but his club, Groningen, did not release him to play. He did play in the tournament finals, and he scored two goals in four appearances. His goals came in a group stage draw against Spain and in the Round of 16 against the United States, but the U.S. won 2–1 and Uruguay was eliminated from the tournament.

Suárez made his senior debut for Uruguay on 8 February 2007 in a 3–1 win against Colombia. He was sent off in the 85th minute after receiving a second yellow card for dissent. Suárez played in 19 of 20 games in 2010 World Cup qualifying and the
inter-confederation play-offs and scored five goals.

2010 FIFA World Cup