[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Israeli Intelligence Community

The Israeli Intelligence Community is made up of Aman (military intelligence), Mossad (overseas intelligence) and Shabak (internal security).

Current agencies 
Military Intelligence Directorate (Aman): the supreme military-intelligence branch of the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF)

Intelligence Corps: the main intelligence-collection and -analysis body of the IDF General Staff; also includes the Israeli signals-intelligence agency known as Unit 8200
Information Security Department: the main information-security and counterintelligence unit of Aman
Research Department: the main all-source intelligence-assessment unit of Aman
Air Intelligence Directorate: the intelligence unit of the Israeli Air Force
Naval Intelligence Division: the intelligence unit of the Israeli Navy
Combat Intelligence Collection Corps: the intelligence unit of Israeli Ground Forces
Sayeret Matkal (סיירת מטכ"ל): the IDF's premier special-forces unit, directly subordinate to Aman 
The intelligence units of the four Regional Commands (Central, Northern, Southern, Home Front).

Mossad: the agency responsible primarily for foreign-intelligence work
Shabak ("Shin bet"): the organization charged with maintaining internal security, including in the Israeli-occupied territories
The intelligence branch of the Israeli Police
The Centre for Political Research: the intelligence branch of the Israeli Ministry of Foreign Affairs

Former agencies 
Nativ: the organization responsible for bringing Jews from Soviet Bloc countries, a later manifestation of the Mossad Le'aliyah Bet. Following the dissolution of the Soviet Union in the 1990s, it moved out of the intelligence community and became a department within the Prime Minister's office.
Lekem: the agency responsible for obtaining and securing secret technology. It was dissolved in 1986, and its director, Rafi Eitan, resigned over the exposure of Jonathan Pollard, whom a United States court convicted of spying for Israel.

Parliamentary supervision
Parliamentary supervision over the intelligence community is undertaken by the Subcommittee for Intelligence and Secret Services, a subcommittee of the Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee, which supervises the entire Israeli Security Forces.

Structure and organization
The issue regarding the suitable structure of the IIC, and questions as to dividing responsibilities and jurisdictions between Aman, Shabak, and Mossad, as well as the format of work for the three in relation to Prime Ministers and Ministers, all of these became agenda issues many times in the past. Various commissions and individual inspectors were appointed throughout the years, whether due to traumatic experiences or as a matter of routine, in order to examine the issues and propose recommendations. These were:

The Yadin-Sherf Commission (1963)
The Agranat Commission (1973–1974)
The Zamir Commission (1974)
The Commissions of Aluf Aharon Yariv (1984, 1986)
The commission to investigate the intelligence network following the War in Iraq (2004)

The government was tasked with the matter on a number of occasions and arrived at various decisions. The State Comptroller made the issue his agenda and submitted to the Knesset his findings and conclusions. In 1994, the Subcommittee for Intelligence also examined the questions and brought its recommendations before the Prime Minister.

The division of labour among the intelligence arms, Aman, Shabak, and Mossad, in the current structure of the IIC, is usually established upon a geographical basis. There are interfacing and overlapping segments, often rather wide, among the organizations. The level of coordination and inter-regional cooperation has suffered in the past from fundamental shortcomings, which has hindered the effectiveness of intelligence work on several fronts. The organizations repressed the necessity for the mutual sharing of intelligence information and in synchronizing some activities.

There are still open-ended issues remaining to be discussed, including disputed ones, as to the division of jurisdictions and inter-regional sectoral boundaries. In a document known as the "Magna Carta," the heads of the three services continue their attempt to arrive at agreements regarding these. The Intelligence Subcommittee follows this discourse and examines the steps required to practically settle key areas of dispute. If needed, the Subcommittee could become actively involved in the matter so as to ensure appropriate and reasonable standards for overall intelligence work in Israel.