[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# July 1976

Zhang Wentian, 75, former General Secretary of the Chinese Communist Party from 1935 to 1943, later persecuted during the Cultural Revolution
Anneliese Michel, 23, West German woman who died from malnutrition after her parents asked two Roman Catholic priests to treat her for psychosis by exorcism

July 2, 1976 (Friday)
The Provisional Government of South Vietnam, which had been installed after the fall of Saigon to the Viet Cong and to the North Vietnamese Army, was dissolved and the former Republic of Viet Nam was reunited with the Democratic Republic of Vietnam (North Vietnam) to form the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Huynh Tan Phat, who had been the head of government of South Vietnam's Communist state, became the first Vice President of the new SRV, with North Vietnam's President Ton Duc Thang as the SRV President.
A bomb placed by the Monteneros terrorist group killed 24 members of the Policía Federal Argentina in the Balvanera neighborhood of Buenos Aires, and injured 70 others. On orders of Horacio Verbitsky and Rodolfo Walsh, José María Salgado, a former PFA officer who had joined the Montoneros operative used his badge to gain entry into the dining hall of the Superintendencia de Seguridad Federal.  Salgado placed a time bomb, loaded with  of explosives and shrapnel and wrapped in an overcoat, beneath a chair.  The bomb exploded at 1:20 in the afternoon as PFA cadets were eating lunch.
More than 800 people were killed during an unsuccessful attempt by rebellious officers in the north African nation of Sudan to overthrow the government of President Jaafar Nimeiry.  At 5:00 in the morning, Nimeiry had arrived at the Khartoum airport after concluding official visits to the United States and France, and was driven back to the presidential palace.  A force of 17 rebels drove up to the airport at 5:10, firing their way into the terminal with plans to kill Nimeiry as he was disembarking from his flight.  Troops from the nearby military camp in Shagara attempted to capture him, even surrounding the presidential palace with tanks, before other troops loyal to Nimeiry suppressed the rebellion. Investigators concluded that Nimeiry's life had been saved because his airplane had arrived 15 minutes ahead of schedule due to tail winds on his flight back to Khartoum, and he had already landed and exited his plane; "He was in a building 100 yards from the main terminal when the shooting began and was whisked away in an unmarked car."  Death sentences were carried out on August 4 and 5 against 98 conspirators who were shot by a firing squad including the coup leader, Brigadier General Mohammed Nur Saeed of Sudan's Army, who had led the effort involving more than 1,000 troops who had been trained in camps in Libya.
The Supreme Court of the United States ruled in  Gregg v. Georgia, holding by a 7 to 2 majority that the death penalty was not inherently cruel or unusual and was a constitutionally acceptable form of punishment,  partially overturning the Furman v. Georgia case of 1972.
Chris Evert of the United States won the Wimbledon women's singles championship, defeating Evonne Goolagong of Australia in a third set that went into extra games, 6-3, 4-6, 8-6.
Born: Krisztián Lisztes, Hungarian national soccer football team striker; in Budapest