[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tel Nof Airbase

Tel Nof Airbase (, English: Lookout hill) , also known as Air Force Base 8, is the main base of the Israeli Air Force (IAF) and houses its headquarter. It is located 5 km south of Rehovot, Israel.

Tel Nof houses two fighter, two helicopter and a UAV squadron. Also located at the base is the Flight Test Center and several special units of the Israel Defense Forces, Unit 669 (heliborne Combat Search and Rescue) and the Paratroopers Brigade training center.

History 
Tel Nof was founded in July 1939 during the British Mandate as RAF Aqir and served as the main Royal Air Force station in Palestine. After the British withdrew in 1948, the base was initially called Ekron Airfield and, from 1950, Tel Nof Airbase.
 
The base housed the IAF Flight Academy until April 1966 when the Flight Academy was moved to Hatzerim Airbase.

Nuclear weapons 
Tel Nof Airbase is located 3 km northwest of the Sdot Micha Airbase complex, where nuclear weapons for its missions are reportedly stored. Fighter aircraft capable of carrying these weapons, such as today's F-15C/D Eagle Baz and once the F-4 Phantom II Kurnass, have been on alert around the clock at the base since the 1970s.

Current 
Since January 2019, the so-called "Red Baron" Squadron has been operating on Tel Nof to train German soldiers on the Heron TP UAV. IAI (Israel Aerospace Industries) has built its own version of this UAV for the German Air Force, whose crews are now being trained by Israeli soldiers and technicians. This unit is the only non-fully Israeli squadron within the IAF.

In November 2020, a brand-new F-35I Adir from the USA landed directly on Tel Nov. This specially equipped machine will serve as a test platform at the local Flight Test Center for further improvement of this stealth jet.

At the end of 2021, Israel ordered twelve new CH-53K King Stallion Wild transport helicopters from the US for two billion dollars, which will complement the CH-53D Sea Stallion Yas'ur on Tel Nof in the next few years. In July 2023, the 114 Squadron "Night Leaders" was temporarily closed and merged with the 118 Squadron "Night Riders". The former will reopen in the future and accommodate the new CH-53K King Stallion as they arrive from the United States.

The aging F-15C/D Eagle Baz fighter jets on Tel Nof will be replaced in the medium term by new F-15IA (Israel Advanced), which are based on the F-15EX Eagle II. 25 new jets for a complete squadron have already been ordered, which will not be delivered until 2028 at the earliest, and 25 more aircraft are to be added at some point. These new, powerful fighter bombers would be needed to carry heavy bunker-busting bombs that could then be used against Iran's underground nuclear facilities.

Units 
 106 Squadron "Edge Of The Spear" – operating F-15C/D Eagle Baz
 114 Squadron "Night Leaders" – temporarily closed until new CH-53K King Stallion Wild arrive from the US
 118 Squadron "Night Riders" – operating CH-53D Sea Stallion Yas'ur
 133 Squadron "Knights Of The Twin Tail" – operating F-15C/D Eagle Baz
 210 Squadron "White Eagle" – operating IAI Eitan UAVs
 5601 Squadron "Flight Test Center" Manat – operating examples of all IAF aircraft
 Unit 555 "Sky Ravens" – Electronic Warfare EW
 Unit 669 "Flying Cats" – heliborne Combat Search and Rescue CSAR (at Palmachim also)
 Paratroopers Brigade Training Center
 "Red Baron" Squadron – to train German crews on the Heron TP UAV

Note: IAF aircraft can usually be assigned to their squadron by the symbols on the tail