[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Battle of Droop Mountain

th of the battle.  Both Colonel Cochran and Lieutenant Colonel Thompson were thought to be captured or killed, but were unharmed and eventually returned to their units. The 26th Virginia Infantry Battalion, which had been posted on another road before the battle, became cut off from Echols' Brigade.

The first pursuers of the Confederate army were Moor's infantry, who fired into the retreating rebels from the original location of the Confederate artillery. Moor described a scene of dead and wounded horses, a "fast-moving mass" that "melted away by scattering through the woods south of the pike." Moor's infantry pursued the Confederates about , before stopping after dark to go into camp. Other pursuers were Gibson's Independent Cavalry Battalion and Ewing's Battery, who advanced about  before falling back  in the dark. Schoonmaker reported going into camp at 8:00pm.

Lewisburg
Duffié skirmished with enemy pickets on Little Sewell Mountain on November 6, and continued on to Meadow Bluff—about  from Lewisburg. His advance guard was briefly attacked at 2:00am on November 7, and his command was moving toward Lewisburg by 3:00am. The command arrived in Lewisburg at 9:00am, as the Confederate read guard was departing. Most of the Confederate army passed through 2 hours earlier. The Confederate read guard was the 16th Virginia Cavalry Regiment, which had been guarding the western approach to Lewisburg and had not endured fighting at Droop Mountain. Duffié began a pursuit with the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry as the advance, but returned to Lewisburg after finding blockades and a burnt bridge at the Greenbrier River. The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry captured 110 head of cattle and a small number of the enemy. At Lewisburg the knapsacks and tents of the 22nd Virginia Infantry were captured in addition to supplies. Averell had Schoonmaker's cavalry in the advance on the morning of November 7. Upon arriving in Lewisburg, Schoonmaker found looting that was ended by his provost marshal. Duffié reported that Averell arrived in Lewisburg around 4:30pm. By the evening, Echols was in Monroe County close to the Virginia border at Salt Sulphur.

Expedition ends

The pursuit of Echols ended on August 8, and Averell and Duffié appeared to blame each other for the stoppage. Averell reported that he began the pursuit on the morning of November 8, but ended the search because of a "formidable blockade", being "encumbered" with prisoners and captured property, and Duffié's infantry being "unfit for further operations". Duffié's report said he made the pursuit on the morning of November 8 with his cavalry and mounted infantry, and he "received an order from General Averell to return" when he was  from Union, West Virginia. One important factor in the decision to end the chase was that Averell was informed that reinforcements would be waiting for Echols at the Dublin Rail Depot. Although he could not have known, only the 36th Virginia Infantry Regiment with a battery was moving toward Echols' destination of Salt Pond Mountain. The 26th Virginia Infantry Battalion, which did not engage at Droop Mountain and became cut off from the main force, was able to reunite with Echols in Virginia by November 10—and had several hundred additional men that fled the battle.

Duffié began a move to Meadow Bluff as ordered, but found that location impractical because of bad weather and difficulties with the supply line. He endured a snowstorm on Sewell Mountain and returned to Charleston on November 13. Moor, with the 28th Ohio Infantry, 10th West Virginia Infantry, and Keeper's Battery, was sent back to Beverly. Moor took the prisoners and wounded, and reached his destination on November 12. Averell moved north with the cavalry, mounted infantry, and Ewing's Battery. They moved through White Sulphur Springs, where Averell learned that enemy troops were nearby.

Imboden reached Covington in Virginia's Alleghany County on November 8. There he found 100 to 200 men from Jackson's command that had fled Droop Mountain. During the night, more men arrived. He also had 800 more men, and two 6-pounder guns from the Rockbridge Home Guard and Cadets about  away at Clifton Forge.

Averell detached two squadrons of the 8th West Virginia Mounted Infantry, under the command of Major Hedgmen Slack, on the evening of November 8. On the next day, Slack had a small confrontation with Imboden's rear guard near Covington, capturing 21 men. However, Slack believed that Imboden was moving his command south toward the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad to reinforce Echols, and neither side pursued each other. Averell reached New Creek on November 17, bringing prisoners and captured horses.