[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Banks, Lancashire

ally important site for twenty species of birds.  Recreation, fishing, wildfowling and farming all take place within the estuary in balance with the wildlife interest.

Governance 
Banks is part of the South Ribble parliamentary constituency and represented by the Conservative MP Katherine Fletcher.

At local government level, Banks is one of the two remaining settlements within the historical civil parish of North Meols and has its own parish council. North Meols is also a ward under the administration of West Lancashire Borough Council.

Demography 

According to the 2001 census the population of North Meols was 3,793, and 3,730 of those people were white. Only 60 people in the village were from other ethnicity.

By the 2011 census the population had risen to 4,146.

Economy 

Even though modern Banks is primarily a commuter village for Southport, Liverpool and Preston, there is farming activity which has been the core of the community for hundreds of years. Most of the produce grown on the farms was sold to local markets, but now most is either sold to national supermarkets like Marks and Spencer or to countries in the EU.

Banks once had a thriving shrimping industry but this has dwindled to almost nothing due to cheaper foreign competition.
Recently there has been interest on Banks Marsh in the edible seaweed, samphire, (locally known as Sampi). It is found on few coastal areas in Europe. It is picked by local people in the summer months and mostly sold to Booths supermarkets that sell local produce.

There are two business areas made up of small businesses that provide local services. One is on the A565 (Southport New Road) and the other is a Granite worktop manufacturing business (Granite House) in the former grounds of Greaves Hall. Banks has a post office open Monday, Wednesday & Friday 10:30-16:30 Where all main Post Office services are offered along with a wide selection of Greetings Cards, Gifts and Stationery items. There is Co-op store, a hairdressers, and a newsagents. Healthcare facilities include the North Meols Medical Centre on Church Road, a doctor's surgery and a pharmacy. A new care home was completed in August 2014 (located just off Guinea Hall Lane on Greaves Hall Lane). Shortly afterwards a learning and head injury home was built adjacent to the care home. There is also a community centre on Hoole Lane. 

The village attracts walkers to its many public footpaths, and Banks Marsh attracts bird watchers. In addition many cyclists pass through the village and in recent years The Tour of Britain has passed through Banks on the A565.

Transport 
Since the closure of Banks railway station in 1964, the nearest railway station is ,  south west of the village, with trains to Liverpool, Wigan,  and Manchester.

The village has regular bus services linking it with Southport, Formby, Crosby, Bootle, Liverpool and Preston.

Roads 
Ralph's Wife's Lane is the main road connecting Banks with Crossens to the south. Its name has two origins: one that Ralph was a fisherman lost at sea or Ralph was a smuggler, again lost at sea. His wife's ghost is supposed to be looking for him. It has been reported that people have seen the ghost on dark winter nights walking from by St Stephens Church to Fiddler's Ferry holding a lamp waiting for her loved one to return home. The story states that she lit a lamp in her window every night and sat by it so he knew that she was waiting for him to return home. The site of the house is occupied by two bungalows.

Sugar Stubbs Lane is situated in Far Banks down the A565 road towards Mere Brow.  The road was once a track across the marsh. In the 1980s the road was extended across the Banks Moss towards Hundred End and Tarleton. Its history is that it was the route taken by monks from Lancaster who travelled by boat across the marsh to Liverpool, and marked their way across the marsh and estuary by dropping the stubbs from the sugar canes along the way so they could find their way back giving the name to Sugar Stubbs Lane and Sugar Stubbs Farm where a small farm shop is run from the house.

There are four properties on the lane, one, the former Mock Tudor gatehouse to Greaves Hall at the junction of the A565 road and Sugar Stubbs Lane. The driveway to Greaves Hall was restored in 2005 and is a public footpath.

Education 

The village has two primary schools, Banks Methodist Primary School on Chapel Lane and Banks St Stephens Primary School on Greaves Hall Avenue. (Banks St Stephens school relocated to its present site from Hoole Lane in July 1998.) There is also a children's nursery on Station Road.