[Source: PubMed]

27. Campbell Syst Rev. 2024 Apr 12;20(2):e1386. doi: 10.1002/cl2.1386.
eCollection  2024 Jun.

Case management interventions seeking to counter radicalisation to violence and 
related forms of violence: A systematic review.

Lewis J(1), Marsden S(1), Cherney A(2), Zeuthen M(3), Rahlf L(4), Squires C(1), 
Peterscheck A(1).

Author information:
(1)Handa Centre for the Study of Terrorism and Political Violence (CSTPV), 
School of International Relations University of St Andrews St Andrews, Fife 
Scotland UK.
(2)School of Social Science University of Queensland Brisbane Queensland 
Australia.
(3)Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) Mombasa Kenya.
(4)Peace Research Institute Frankfurt (PRIF) Frankfurt Germany.

BACKGROUND: Increasingly, counter-radicalisation interventions are using case 
management approaches to structure the delivery of tailored services to those at 
risk of engaging in, or engaged in, violent extremism. This review sets out the 
evidence on case management tools and approaches and is made up of two parts 
with the following objectives.
OBJECTIVES: Part I: (1) Synthesise evidence on the effectiveness of case 
management tools and approaches in interventions seeking to counter 
radicalisation to violence. (2) Qualitatively synthesise research examining 
whether case management tools and approaches are implemented as intended, and 
the factors that explain how they are implemented. Part II: (3) Synthesise 
systematic reviews to understand whether case management tools and approaches 
are effective at countering non-terrorism related interpersonal or collective 
forms of violence. (4) Qualitatively synthesise research analysing whether case 
management tools and approaches are implemented as intended, and what influences 
how they are implemented. (5) Assess the transferability of tools and approaches 
used in wider violence prevention work to counter-radicalisation interventions.
SEARCH METHODS: Search terms tailored for Part I and Part II were used to search 
research repositories, grey literature sources and academic journals for studies 
published between 2000 and 2022. Searches were conducted in August and September 
2022. Forward and backward citation searches and consultations with experts took 
place between September 2022 and February 2023. Studies in English, French, 
German, Russian, Swedish, Norwegian and Danish were eligible.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Part I: Studies had to report on a case management 
intervention, tool or approach, or on specific stages of the case management 
process. Only experimental and stronger quasi-experimental studies were eligible 
for inclusion in the analysis of effectiveness. The inclusion criteria for the 
analysis of implementation allowed for other quantitative designs and 
qualitative research. Part II: Systematic reviews examining a case management 
intervention, tool or approach, or stage(s) of the case management process 
focused on countering violence were eligible for inclusion.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Part I: 47 studies were eligible for Part I. No 
studies met the inclusion criteria for Objective 1; all eligible studies related 
to Objective 2. Data from these studies was synthesised using a framework 
synthesis approach and presented narratively. Risk of bias was assessed using 
the CASP (for qualitative research) and EPHPP (for quantitative research) 
checklists. Part I: Eight reviews were eligible for Part II. Five reviews met 
the inclusion criteria for Objective 3, and seven for Objective 4. Data from the 
studies was synthesised using a framework synthesis approach and presented 
narratively. Risk of bias was assessed using the AMSTAR II tool.
FINDINGS: Part I: No eligible studies examined effectiveness of tools and 
approaches. Seven studies examined the implementation of different approaches, 
or the assumptions underpinning interventions. Clearly defined theories of 
change were absent, however these interventions were assessed as being 
implemented in line with their own underlying logic. Forty-three studies 
analysed the implementation of tools during individual stages of the case 
management process, and forty-one examined the implementation of this process 
as-a-whole. Factors which influenced how individual stages and the case 
management process as a whole were implemented included strong multi-agency 
working arrangements; the inclusion of relevant knowledge and expertise, and 
associated training; and the availability of resources. The absence of these 
facilitators inhibited implementation. Additional implementation barriers 
included overly risk-oriented logics; public and political pressure; and broader 
legislation. Twenty-eight studies identified moderators that shaped how 
interventions were delivered, including delivery context; local context; 
standalone interventions; and client challenges. Part II: The effectiveness of 
two interventions - mentoring and multi-systemic therapy - in reducing violent 
outcomes were each assessed by one systematic review, whilst three reviews 
analysed the impact that the use of risk assessment tools (n = 2) and polygraphs 
(n = 1) had on outcomes. All these reviews reported mixed results. Comparable 
factors to those identified in Part I, such as staff training and expertise and 
delivery context, were found to shape implementation. On the basis of this 
modest sample, the research on interventions to counter non-terrorism related 
violence was assessed to be transferable to counter-radicalisation 
interventions.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: The effectiveness of existing case management tools and 
approaches is poorly understood, and research examining the factors that 
influence how different approaches are implemented is limited. However, there is 
a growing body of research on the factors which facilitate or generate barriers 
to the implementation of case management interventions. Many of the factors and 
moderators relevant to countering radicalisation to violence also impact how 
case management tools and approaches used to counter other forms of violence are 
implemented. Research in this wider field seems to have transferable insights 
for efforts to counter radicalisation to violence. This review provides a 
platform for further research to test the impact of different tools, and the 
mechanisms by which they inform outcomes. This work will benefit from using the 
case management framework as a way of rationalising and analysing the range of 
tools, approaches and processes that make up case managed interventions to 
counter radicalisation to violence.

© 2024 The Authors. Campbell Systematic Reviews published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of The Campbell Collaboration.

DOI: 10.1002/cl2.1386
PMCID: PMC11015087
PMID: 38618172