[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# RoboCop (character)

series (1987–1992).
 He appears in Dark Horse comics book series (1992–1994).
 He later appears in Avatar Press titles, Frank Miller's RoboCop and more (2003–2005).
 He appears in Dynamite Entertainment comic book series (2010–2012).
 He appears in Boom! Studios comic book series (2013–2015, 2018).

Crossovers 
 A four-issue comic book crossover featuring RoboCop and The Terminator was published in 1992 by Dark Horse Comics. A video game loosely based on the comic was released for the Sega Mega Drive/Genesis, the Super Nintendo Entertainment System, the Nintendo Game Boy, and Sega Game Gear. It was awarded Bloodiest Game of 1993 by Electronic Gaming Monthly. An adaptation of Robocop Versus The Terminator was planned in 1995 based on Dark Horse's comic but it was later cancelled.
 In WCW's PPV, Capital Combat, Robocop comes to the aid of Sting against The Four Horsemen.
 The name Alex Murphy appears on a headstone in Phantasm II.

Miscellaneous 
 A RoboCop statue will be built in Detroit after fans raised over $50,000 to fund it. In January 2020, the Detroit Free Press reported that the statue was "almost finished."
 The video game Deus Ex: Human Revolution, which is set in the future and features a cyborg who was attacked, then augmented by the megacorporation, has two police officers, one called Alex Murphy, in a police station in Detroit discussing "That 80s movie about the cop that gets shot up", then one of the men turns to the player and says "Hey, I think we were just talking about you."
 In the 1995 film adaptation of The Indian in the Cupboard, main character Omri places amongst different action figures - including Darth Vader - a RoboCop action figure into the cupboard bringing them all to life. RoboCop utters, "Halt!" before being returned to a regular toy after Omri becomes frightened by the venture. RoboCop was played here by J.R. Horsting.
 In an episode of Family Guy, the characters substitute paintball guns for real guns. When one character mentions that getting shot hurts, Peter Griffin tells him to calm down because he is "doing better than Peter Weller in the opening scene of RoboCop". In the episode "Burning Down the Bayit," Peter tries to talk Joe Swanson out of investigating the arson on Goldman Pharmacy by quoting that even RoboCop took a day off. It then shows a cutaway with RoboCop in his robe and slippers as he turns down a call.
 A Death Battle episode took place between RoboCop and the Terminator, with RoboCop emerging as the victor. He was voiced by Xander Mobus.
 He was also pitted against Terminator in an episode of Epic Rap Battles of History and was portrayed by Nice Peter.
 RoboCop appears in Steven Spielberg film Ready Player One. He appears as an OASIS avatar. RoboCop is shown entering the OASIS and later seen during the Battle of Castle of Anorak where he fought the Sixers.
 In early 2019, fast food franchise Kentucky Fried Chicken announced that the latest celebrity to play the Colonel would be RoboCop. A series of commercials were produced with original actor Peter Weller reprising his role.
In 2021, the character RoboCop appeared in one of a series of advertisements for UK insurance company Direct Line, played by actor and stuntman Derek Mears.
 In America: The Motion Picture, Robocop was portrayed by Paul Revere as a cyborglike centaur after merging with his dead horse.

Reception
The character has had a generally positive reception from critics.

See also

References

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

RoboCop (franchise)
Fictional cyborgs
Cyborg superheroes
Film characters introduced in 1987
Fictional amputees
Fictional gunfighters in films
Fictional hackers
Fictional murdered people
Fictional technopaths
Fictional Irish American people
Film superheroes
Fictional characters with disfigurements
Fictional characters with superhuman strength
Mortal Kombat guest characters
Action film characters
Crime film characters
Fictional characters with X-ray vision
Brain–computer interfacing in fiction
Augmented reality in fiction
Prosthetics in fiction
Fiction about memory erasure and alteration
Organ transplantation in fiction
Fictional portrayals of the Detroit Police Department
Fictional American municipal police officers
Fictional characters from Detroit
Christ figures in fiction