[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Noise regulation

recreational vehicle use.  Salt Lake health Department, UT (Section 4.5.10(x)) requires off-highway vehicles to be at least 800 feet from a dwelling during the day and has a curfew from 10 pm to 7 am.  They prohibit any noise disturbance and require sound levels to the less than 96 dB(A) at 50 feet.

Recreational snowmobiles
This provision is both an objective emission control and a subjective immission control with a curfew. It can apply to both public and private properties.  Since these vehicles can move in large open areas, an objective control, limiting maximum sound levels at a fixed distance is appropriate.  Since they also can move in bounded areas near residences, a subjective control is appropriate.  Numerous states and communities have objective controls; the most common maximum level is 78 dB(A). Federal law (36 CFR 2.18) regulates snowmobiles on federal property at 78 dB(A), so states and communities are free to regulate snowmobile sound levels on their property. Lincoln NE (Section 8.24.110) limits levels to 78 dB(A).	Maine (Section 13112, Chapter 937) exempts snowmobiles at sanctioned racing events.  Illinois (625 ILCS 40 Sec. 4-4)does also.

Refuse collection vehicles
This provision is an objective emission control and a subjective control. It can place a maximum sound level at a specific distance for the loudest operation.  It can set a curfew, or it can be based on noise disturbance in residential zones. Los Angeles, CA (Section 113.01) has a time limit that applies only within 200 feet of any residential building.  Chicago, IL (Section 11-4-2900) considers any noise it a noise disturbance if the activity occurs between 8pm to 8am.  Salt Lake City, UT (Section 4.5.6) considers it a noise disturbance if the activities occur between 10 pm to 7 am and closer than 800 feet from a dwelling.   Atlanta, GA (Section 74-137(a)(5)prohibits collection between 9pm and am on a weekend day or legal holiday, except by permit. In Maryland, refuse collection is exempt during daytime hours and must meet maximum land use levels [55 dB(A)] in residential zones at  night. Note in some areas garbage trucks themselves play music to let residents know it is time to bring out their garbage.

Standing motor vehicles
This provision is a subjective immission control. It sets a time limit on engine activity. It can also place a curfew on any engine activity. e. In Salt Lake City, UT (Section 4.5.10(xi)) it is considered a noise disturbance'' if the operation lasts more than 15 minutes.  Dallas, TX (Section 30–3.1) applies the code to vehicles over 14,000 GVWR; they must be more than 300 feet from a residential zone and there is a 10-minute maximum.  They also provide a list of idling vehicles that are exempt from prosecution such as buses or active concrete trucks.  Hammond, IN (Section 6.2.10) limits operation to 3 minutes in an hour for vehicles over 14,000 GVWR in either public or private property. It exempts buses and taxis. Massachusetts allows idling no more than 5 minutes.

Building codes
In the case of construction of new (or remodeled) apartments, condominiums, hospitals and hotels, many U.S. states and cities have stringent building codes with requirements of acoustical analysis, in order to protect building occupants from exterior noise sources and sound generated within the building itself. With regard to exterior noise, the codes usually require measurement of the exterior acoustic environment in order to determine the performance standard required for exterior building skin design.

The architect can work with the acoustical scientist to arrive at the best cost-effective means of creating a quiet interior (normally 45 dB).  The most important elements of design of the building skin are usually: glazing (glass thickness, double pane design, etc.), roof material, caulking standards, chimney baffles, exterior door design, mail slots, attic ventilation ports and mounting of through the wall air conditioners.  A special case of building skin design arises in the case of aircraft noise, where the FAA has funded extensive work in residential retrofit.

Regarding sound generated inside the building, there are two principal types of transmission. First, airborne sound travels through walls or floor/ceiling assemblies and can emanate from either human activities in adjacent living spaces or from mechanical noise within the building systems.  Human activities might include voice, amplified sound systems or  animal noise.  Mechanical systems are elevator systems, boilers, refrigeration or air conditioning systems, generators and trash compactors.  Since many of these sounds are inherently loud, the principle of regulation is to require the wall or ceiling assembly to meet certain performance standards (typically Sound Transmission Class of 50), which allows considerable attenuation of the sound level reaching occupants.