[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# High-speed rail in Canada

ton in 2014. The committee also held hearings on the subject in early 2014 in Calgary, Red Deer and Edmonton. The report released in May 2014 stated that although Alberta was not ready for high-speed rail, the government should start planning for it by acquiring land along a transportation corridor.

In 2015, the provincial New Democratic Party (NDP) government stated it was reviving the possibility of a bullet train operating between Edmonton and Calgary. The Minister of Infrastructure, Brian Mason, said the government had issued a request for a proposal to undertake the planning and implementation of a study "to determine the future needs for the QE II highway" due to high traffic volumes. "The high-speed train between Edmonton and Calgary is something that we're beginning to ask about," said Mason. The line would cost between $2.6 and $7 billion depending on the type of technology used. Annual operating costs of a high-speed rail line were estimated to be anywhere from $88 million to $129 million. Via Rail stated that such projects 'pay for themselves.' and that the government should invest more in the Canadian rail industry. The Liberal government of Canada also endorsed and prioritized investing heavily in national and provincial infrastructure projects.

Prairie Link 
EllisDon announced on July 8, 2021, that it had formed a partnership with AECOM to plan a high-speed rail line between Calgary and Edmonton, running through Red Deer. The group formed by the partnership is named Prairie Link. EllisDon estimated the project would cost $9 billion. The project was to be entirely financed by the private sector. The memorandum of understanding (MOU) that was signed with Alberta had no financial commitment from the government. The director of Prairie Link, Jeffrey Hansen-Carlson, said that "The MOU essentially sets the stage for a cooperative relationship between Prairie Link and the government to support project development." Prairie Link also emphasized that regulatory issues would also be discussed with the government since there is little regulation for high-speed rail in Alberta.

, the project was in the planning and development phase. Construction was projected to begin in 2023 and last 7–9 years. The trains would have been capable of reaching speeds of , well over the  threshold needed for newly built lines to qualify as high-speed under the general definition of the term.

Quebec City–Windsor

The Quebec City–Windsor corridor is the most densely populated and heavily industrialized region of Canada. With over 18 million people, it contains approximately half of Canada's population, the national capital, and three of the four largest metropolitan areas in Canada (Toronto, Montreal and Ottawa). It is already the focus of most Via Rail service. , 26 studies have been completed on the idea of high-speed rail in the Ontario-Quebec Corridor and none have been implemented.

1995 study

This study was initiated in 1992. The scope included "medium-fast" (200–250 km/h) and very fast (more than 300 km/h) technologies. It produced three reports: Quebec-Ontario High Speed Rail Project, Preliminary Routing Assessment and Costing Study, Final Report and Québec-Ontario High Speed Rail Project, Final Report.

Lynx consortium
In 1998, the Lynx consortium, including Bombardier and SNC-Lavalin proposed a  high-speed train from Toronto to Quebec City via Kingston, Ottawa and Montreal based on the TGV and the French Turbo-Train technology.

Bombardier JetTrain
In 2000, Bombardier developed the JetTrain. The high-speed train prototype generates its power to turn the wheels with a  Pratt and Whitney turbine. The Jet Train visited Calgary and Toronto in March 2003. The prototype then visited Miami on 7 October 2003 and Orlando on the 11th. After these promotional stops in the United States and Canada, no government purchased the Jet Train. The prototype is stored serviceable at the AAR/FRA Transportation Technology Center, at Pueblo, Colorado, United States.

2008 study
On January 10, 2008, Dalton McGuinty (Premier of Ontario), and Jean Charest (Premier of Quebec) announced their two provinces would conduct a joint $2 million feasibility study into the development of high-speed rail in the Quebec City–Windsor Corridor. The federal government agreed to participate in the study.
In February 2009, The EcoTrain Consortium, consisting of firms Dessau, MMM
Group, KPMG, Wilbur Smith & Associates and Deutsche Bahn International, were awarded a contract to update the feasibility studies for high-speed rail (HSR) in the Quebec City–Windsor corridor. The study was expected to take a year, but was delayed. Michael Ignatieff, then-leader of the Liberal Party said in 2011 that he would agree to fund the Quebec corridor and described it as a means to unite the country, similar to early railway projects in Canada. His NDP counterpart, Jack Layton, also pledged to fund the route.