[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Adva Center

Adva Center is a non-partisan Israeli policy analysis center based in Tel Aviv.

History
Adva (lit. "ripple") was founded in 1991 by activists from three social movements: the movement for equality for Mizrahi Jews, the feminist movement, and the movement for equal rights for Arab citizens. The director of the center is Barbara Swirski and its chairman is Yossi Dahan.

Objectives
Adva Center seeks policy changes that favor disadvantaged groups in Israel. This is done by offering consultations for advocacy organizations, Cabinet members and legislators; by organizing coalitions for social change; by testifying at public forums and giving media interviews; and by an extensive popular education program that brings progressive social ideas to a wide variety of audiences, from cleaning workers to senior executives.

Much of this work is done in the framework of the National Budget Analysis Program, under which the draft budget is analyzed annually for its implications for disadvantaged social groups  and Israeli society in general; and budget workshops are organized for civil society organizations throughout Israel. Policy analysis is published in various reports and monitors offering annual updates on educational achievements, wages and tax policy.

Adva has an extensive gender democracy program, under which, among others, approximately 30 Economic Literacy courses were conducted in the years 2008-2011 for female paid and elected officials in local governments throughout Israel, as well as for women active in non-profit organizations. In recent years, the thrust of Adva's gender program has been education for civic involvement and for advancing gender fairness in national and local programming and budgeting.

Strategies
The Adva Center carries out its work using the following strategies:
 Publishing information on economic and social policy, and disseminating it to social change organizations, government officials and the general public.
 Articulating alternatives regarding the national budget, as well as education, welfare and housing policy.
 Writing and initiating articles and op-eds on social issues in the written media and promoting coverage of social issues in the electronic media.
 Carrying out direct advocacy with government ministers, executive officials, Knesset committee chairs and Knesset members.
 Organizing conferences to stimulate public debate on issues like Israel's education system and government policy towards Bedouin citizens.
 Building and joining coalitions with relevant non-profit organizations to advocate for specific changes.
 Providing consultations for senior government ministry officials, politicians from the coalition and the opposition and the general public.
 Disseminating ideas for social change through lectures, seminars, workshops and training courses for everyone from senior public officials to students and members of youth movements.
 Conducting courses in socio-economic literacy, how to understand and influence the national budget, and how to mainstream gender into local budgeting - for social activists and women active in their local communities.
 Disseminating information via the Adva Center website in Hebrew, Arabic and English.
 Initiating projects to empower disadvantaged groups.

Reports

Social equality 
The Adva Center publishes a report on social and economic dynamics annually called "Israel: A Social Report". The report presents data in the areas of economic growth, investments, wages, primary and higher education, health care and retirement income. In December 2011, the Adva Center released an updated report by Dr. Shlomo Swirski and Etty Konor-Attias following a summer of unprecedented social justice protests in which almost all the issues raised by Adva over the years were brought into focus. The high level of inequality in Israeli society became a frequent topic of discussion in the Israeli media. The size, income and expenditures of Israel's middle class—first pointed out in an Adva Center report and updated annually—also became the subject of many media items and a concern in the corridors of power.

Health care 
A chapter of the annual Social Report focuses on health care. In the 2011 Social Report,  this chapter shows that the gap continued to widen in 2010 between the desirable and actual funding levels for the basket of health services provided by the health maintenance organizations. The burden of out-of-pocket payments for health services and for private health insurance policies doubled over the last decade. The Adva Center works closely with Physicians for Human Rights and with the Association for Civil Rights in Israel, among other organizations, on the public health issue.