[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Élisabeth Guigou

Norbert Röttgen of Germany and Grzegorz Schetyna of Poland – visited Kyiv to express their countries' firm support of the territorial integrity and the European integration of Ukraine. This was the first time that parliamentarians of the Weimar Triangle had ever made a joint trip to a third country.

Following the 2014 European elections, Guigou confirmed her interest in succeeding Michel Barnier as France's member of the European Commission, thereby challenging Pierre Moscovici.

From 2015, Guigou served as a member of the European Commission's High-level Group of Personalities on Defence Research chaired by Elżbieta Bieńkowska.

Later career
In December 2020, Guigou was named by Secretary of State for Child protection Adrien Taquet to lead a government-mandated committee on sexual violence against children. Amid revelations about sexual assault involving her friend Olivier Duhamel, Guigou resigned from that role in January 2021.

Overview

Governmental function

Minister of European Affairs : 1990–1993.

Keeper of the seals, Minister of Justice : 1997–2000.

Minister of Employment and Solidarity : 2000–2002.

Electoral mandates

European Parliament

Member of the European Parliament : 1994–1997 (Became minister in 1997, and elected in parliamentary elections).

French Parliament

Member of the National Assembly of France for Vaucluse : June 1997- July 1997 (Appointed Minister of Justice in July 1997).

Member of the National Assembly of France for Seine-Saint-Denis : Elected in 2002, reelected in 2007 and 2012.

Regional Council

Regional councillor of Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur : Elected in 1992, reelected in 1998, resigned in 2001.

Municipal Council

Deputy-mayor of Noisy-le-Sec : 2008–2010.

Other activities
 Anna Lindh Euro-Mediterranean Foundation for the Dialogue Between Cultures, President (since 2014)
 European Council on Foreign Relations (ECFR), Member of the Council
 Femmes d'Europe (Women of Europe), Founder
 Europartenaires, founding chairwoman and co-president (with Jean-Noël Jeanneney)
 Friends of Europe, Member of the Board of Trustees
 Institut de Prospective Economique du Monde Méditerranéen (IPEMED), Member of the Political Sponsorship Committee
 Institut du Bosphore, Member of the Scientific Committee
 Institut français des relations internationales (Ifri), Member of the Board of Directors
 Jacques Delors Institute, Member of the Board of Directors 
 Paris School of International Affairs (PSIA), Member of the Strategic Committee
 Trilateral Commission, Member of the European Group

Political positions
In December 2014, Guigou raised international media attention by sponsoring a resolution to ask the French government to recognise Palestine.

In May 2016, Guigou joined 16 French female politicians – including Christine Lagarde and Fleur Pellerin – in calling for an end to "immunity" for sexist male politicians in an open letter published in the Journal de Dimanche newspaper. The letter came after Denis Baupin, deputy speaker of the National Assembly, resigned over sexual harassment claims.

Personal life
Guigou is married to Jean-Louis Guigou, a professor of economics, former technical adviser to Michel Rocard and civil servant. They have one child.

References

External links
 

|-

|-

1946 births
Living people
Politicians from Marrakesh
Convention of Republican Institutions politicians
Unified Socialist Party (France) politicians
Socialist Party (France) politicians
French Ministers of Justice
Deputies of the 12th National Assembly of the French Fifth Republic
Deputies of the 13th National Assembly of the French Fifth Republic
Deputies of the 14th National Assembly of the French Fifth Republic
Women government ministers of France
Women members of the National Assembly (France)
20th-century French women politicians
21st-century French women politicians
Female justice ministers
Alumni of Lycée Descartes (Rabat)
Sciences Po Aix alumni
École nationale d'administration alumni