[Source: PubMed]

85. Georgian Med News. 2018 Oct;(283):1118-123.

[PROBLEMS OF IMPROVING ANTENATAL MONITORING OF PREGNANT WOMEN IN THE PRIMARY 
HEALTH CARE SYSTEM IN GEORGIA].

[Article in Russian]

Jincharadze N(1), Kazakhashvili N(1), Sakvarelidze I(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitty of Georgia; Tbilisi State University; Tbilisi Humanitarian 
Teaching University, Georgia.

The purpose of the above work is to study the trends of mothers' health 
condition according to the implementation of antenatal monitoring of primary 
healthcare programs in 1996 - 2016 in Georgia. The methodology basis of the 
research is the qualitative investigation, so called Desk Research: collecting 
statistical data, description, systematization, comparison, analyses and 
interpretation. Data about mothers' health indicators were derived from National 
Center for Disease Control and Social Health and National Service of Georgian 
Statistics. Dynamic of the following indicators were studied: Number of births 
at home and the share of births at medical institution received by the qualified 
medical personnel, percentage of pregnant women's timely application, covering 4 
antenatal visits, full time pregnancy, timely births, physiologic and pathologic 
births, Caesarean sections (planned, urgent); Number and indicator of mother's 
deaths. In order to study the law basis, the Statements of Georgian Government, 
normative acts of Labour, Health and Social Security of Georgia have been used 
for studying. In 1996 - 2016, as the result of Healthcare reforms, implemented 
in Georgia up to now, several parameters of antenatal monitoring were improved. 
The share of timely application and covering full, 4 antenatal visits increased; 
Share of births, received by qualified medical personnel increased; Number of 
mothers' mortality significantly decreased, but it is much higher when compared 
with the developed countries. Following the improvement in monitoring parameters 
and financial and geographical availability of antenatal care services, the 
unfavorable outcome of the pregnancy was revealed: the percentage of pathologic 
births increased, share of physiologic births decreased. The share of Caesarean 
sections is increasing and critically high. The share of early deliveries and 
incomplete period pregnancies increased. The above mentioned conditions indicate 
that there are systemic problems in the primary healthcare: In the preconception 
and then antenatal period, the quality of medical service does not meet the 
international standard. Assessment of pregnancy and fetal risks, prevention and 
management are inadequate.

PMID: 30516506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]