[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# John Kennedy (Louisiana politician)

to read and write and do basic math when we've got 18 years to do it. I don't understand that…I don't care what the political cost is. I'm willing to try just about anything to improve public elementary and secondary education, including vouchers, including school choice, including charter schools."

In 2023, Kennedy encouraged the Louisiana legislature to pass HB 12, a bill that requires schools to give extra tutoring to students who cannot read at grade level by third grade. He has served as a volunteer substitute teacher in Louisiana schools for more than a decade. He told CNBC he volunteered at the schools because "It occurred to me that not many of the folks in that room really knew what public schools were like today".

Banking 
Kennedy has warned against allowing Chinese investors into American markets without safeguards to prevent insider trading. He passed two bills, the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act and the Accelerating Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act, to require American markets to delist foreign companies that do not allow reviews of their audits. 

Kennedy criticized regulators for failing to spot the failure of Silicon Valley Bank, saying, "Where were the regulators? You couldn’t have found them with a search party."

Immigration and border security 
Kennedy opposes illegal immigration and has called for stronger border security. In 2008, while serving as Louisiana treasurer, he criticized Senator Mary Landrieu for opposing legislation that would have prevented illegal immigrants from receiving Social Security benefits. In 2019, Kennedy supported Trump's effort to build a border wall and said he believed it could save taxpayers money by reducing the number of migrants on government benefits. He also called for illegal immigrants to pay fines for breaking immigration laws, saying, "If you cross the border illegally or overstay your visit to this country, then you should pay a stiff penalty." Kennedy said weak border policies have allowed fentanyl to flow into the United States, leading to thousands of overdose deaths annually. He introduced a bill to extend the prison sentences of those caught dealing fentanyl. Kennedy also introduced a bill to classify cartels south of the border as terrorist organizations. 

Kennedy supports legal immigration, saying, "Legal immigration makes the country better. We are, after all, a nation of immigrants."

Abortion 
Kennedy is "strongly opposed" to abortion. He supported the 2022 overturning of Roe v. Wade, saying, "today's decision to return the issue of abortion to the American people and the states corrects a legal and moral error."

Greenhouse emissions 
In 2019, Kennedy introduced the American Innovation and Manufacturing Act, co-sponsored by Senator Tom Carper as an amendment to the American Energy Innovation Act. It would direct the Environmental Protection Agency to phase down production and consumption of hydrofluorocarbons over the next 15 years. Hydrofluorocarbons are potent greenhouse gases used primarily as coolants in refrigerators and air conditioning systems. The American Innovation and Manufacturing Act became law in December 2020 as part of the annual government funding bill.

Guns 
Kennedy had an "A" rating in 2016 and "A+" rating in 2022 from the NRA Political Victory Fund (NRA), which endorsed him during both elections. Kennedy opposed a rule from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms that effectively reclassified guns equipped with pistol stabilizing braces as short barreled rifles, which would require gun owners to register the weapons with the federal government. He argued the rule harmed gun owners with disabilities who needed the braces to use handguns. He tried to pass a joint resolution of disapproval under the Congressional Review Act to block the rule, but the resolution failed by a vote of 50-49. Kennedy supports gun ownership for self-defense and often says, "I believe love is the answer. I do. But I also own a handgun, just in case."

Criminal justice 
Kennedy opposed the First Step Act, a bipartisan criminal justice reform bill. The bill passed 87–12 on December 18, 2018. Kennedy said the bill did not do enough to protect victims of crime, saying, "This is not a criminal justice bill. It is a prisoner release bill. We should be protecting victims of crimes and not the offenders who committed the crimes." In 2023, he introduced a bill that would lower the amount of fentanyl a dealer must possess to face the mandatory minimum prison sentence. 

Kennedy has criticized prosecutors for declining to prosecute some offenders. In 2023, he introduced the Prosecutors Need to Prosecute Act, which requires prosecutors to disclose when they decline to prosecute cases. It would also remove funding for prosecutors who fail to report such cases.