[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Blood on the Tracks

he responded to an observation that the album was confessional and that "Tangled Up in Blue" drew on his relationship with Sara by saying, "There might be some little part of me which is confessing something which I've experienced and I know, but is not definitely the total me confessing anything."

According to Rolling Stone, in Dylan's lyric notebook, the working title of Simple Twist of Fate was  4th Street Affair; Dylan and Suze Rotolo lived at 161 W. 4th St. The narrator of the song memorializes an affair of ten years ago instead of singing about Dylan's marriage. In "Hot Press," writing about the three known lyric notebooks for the songs, Anne Margaret Daniel noted that "Simple Twist of Fate" was first entitled "Snowbound," and set in part, like "Tangled Up In Blue," in a New York City apartment.

In his 2004 memoir, Chronicles, Vol. 1, Dylan stated that the songs have nothing to do with his personal life, and that they were inspired by the short stories of Anton Chekhov.

Critical reception and legacy

Released in early 1975, Blood on the Tracks initially received mixed reviews from critics. Rolling Stone published two assessments. The first, by Jonathan Cott, called it "Dylan's magnificent new album". The second reviewer, Jon Landau, wrote that "the record has been made with typical shoddiness." In NME, Nick Kent described "the accompaniments [as] often so trashy they sound like mere practice takes", while Crawdaddy magazine's Jim Cusimano found the instrumentation incompetent.

An influential review of the album was written by Dylan critic Michael Gray for the magazine Let It Rock. Gray argued that it transformed the cultural perception of Dylan, and that he was no longer defined as "the major artist of the sixties. Instead, Dylan has legitimized his claim to a creative prowess as vital now as then—a power not bounded by the one decade he so affected." This view was amplified by Clinton Heylin, who wrote: "Ten years after he turned the rock & roll brand of pop into rock ... [Dylan] renewed its legitimacy as a form capable of containing the work of a mature artist." In The Village Voice, Robert Christgau wrote that although the lyrics occasionally evoke romantic naiveté and bitterness, Blood on the Tracks is altogether Dylan's "most mature and assured record".

Since its initial reception, Blood on the Tracks has been viewed by critics as one of Dylan's best albums. In Salon.com, Wyman wrote: "Blood on the Tracks is his only flawless album and his best produced; the songs, each of them, are constructed in disciplined fashion. It is his kindest album and most dismayed, and seems in hindsight to have achieved a sublime balance between the logorrhea-plagued excesses of his mid-1960s output and the self-consciously simple compositions of his post-accident years." Bell, in his critical biography of Dylan, wrote that Blood on the Tracks was proof that "Dylan had won the argument over his refusal to argue about politics. In this, he began to seem prescient." Bell concluded the album "might well count as one of the best things Dylan ever did". Novelist Rick Moody called it "the truest, most honest account of a love affair from tip to stern ever put down on magnetic tape".

A result of the acclaim surrounding the album has been that when critics have praised one of Dylan's subsequent albums, they have often described it as "his best since Blood on the Tracks". According to music journalist Rob Sheffield, Blood on the Tracks became a benchmark album for Dylan in the years that followed because it was "such a stunning comeback".

The album was also included in the book 1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die.

Hip hop group Public Enemy reference it in their 2007 Dylan tribute song "Long and Whining Road": "It Takes a Nation of Millions to Hold Us Back / You bet there's blood on them Bomb Squad tracks".

A film adaptation of the album is currently in pre-production, under the direction of Luca Guadagnino.

Track listing

Personnel 
For personnel details, see Heylin, 1996 and Björner, 2014. Track numbers refer to CD and digital releases of the album.

Musicians
 Bob Dylan – vocals, guitar (1–10), harmonica (1–5, 7, 9), Hammond organ (4), mandolin (8), production
 Chris Weber – guitar (1, 3, 4, 7), 12-string guitar (8)
 Gregg Inhofer – keyboards (1), piano (3, 4), Hammond organ (7, 8)
 Billy Peterson – bass guitar (1, 4, 7)
 Bill Berg – drums (1, 3, 4, 7, 8)
 Tony Brown – bass guitar (2, 5, 6, 9, 10)
 Kevin Odegard – guitar (1)
 Eric Weissberg – guitar (6)
 Charles Brown III – guitar (6)
 Buddy Cage – pedal steel guitar (6)
 Thomas McFaul – keyboards (6)
 Richard Crooks – drums (6)
 Peter Ostroushko – mandolin (8)

Technical
 Ron Coro – art direction
 Pete Hamill – liner notes
 David Oppenheim – illustrations
 Philip Rabinowitz – engineering
 Paul Martinson – engineering
 Glenn Berger – tape operator, assistant engineer
 Paul Till – photography
MInvolved in the Minneapolis recording sessions