[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Cornish nationalism

tacks on St. George's flags. Later in 2007, it claimed to have merged with another group to form the Cornish National Liberation Army. A message was sent claiming to be from this organisation, threatening celebrity chefs Rick Stein and Jamie Oliver, blaming them for the increase in house prices caused by the trend towards English people owning second homes in Cornwall. It is far from clear whether this was ever a real organisation.

Political representation

In Cornwall
In the 2009 local elections Mebyon Kernow won three of the 123 seats on the then newly created Cornwall Council. An independent councillor joined Mebyon Kernow in 2010. Mebyon Kernow also has 18 parish councillors elected. A number of nationalist independents were also elected to the Cornwall Council. Prior to the 2013 local elections  Mebyon Kernow held six seats on the council, having gained two due to defections from other parties, and winning one in a by-election. Keeping the seat won in the by-election, and a gain of one seat elsewhere, left them with four in total. This dropped them to being the sixth largest group on the council, from the position of fourth largest prior to the election, being overtaken by UKIP and the Labour party. In the 2017 council elections Mebyon Kernow again won 4 of the 123 seats available.

In the United Kingdom
Mebyon Kernow does not have any members elected to the UK parliament, but Andrew George and Dan Rogerson of the Liberal Democrats took up nationalist causes both in Parliament and outside of it. Andrew George was the first MP to take his parliamentary oath in Cornish. All five Cornish Liberal Democrat MPs put their names to the Government of Cornwall Bill 2009 which proposed setting up a legislative Cornish Assembly. In the 2015, 2017 and 2019 elections all six Cornish seats returned Conservative MPs, ousting the aforementioned Lib Dem supporters.

In Europe
Mebyon Kernow is a member of the European Free Alliance party in the European Parliament. In the 2009 European elections it received 14,922 votes, insufficient to gain any MEPs. Mebyon Kernow did not stand in the 2014 European elections.

Violence
A group called An Gof, referring to the blacksmith Michael An Gof who led the failed rebellion of 1497, made a number of attacks in the 1980s, including a bomb at a courthouse in St Austell in 1980, a fire in a Penzance hairdressers a year later, and an arson attack on a bingo hall in Redruth. It remained silent until 2007, when it made a statement that "any attempts from hereon to fly the hated and oppressive Flag of St George, which we know as the blood banner in our country, will result in direct action by our organisation". An English flag in Tresillian earlier that year was destroyed and the words "English Out" daubed on a garden wall.

In 2007, an email was sent from someone claiming to represent the Cornish National Liberation Army. It made headlines when it threatened to burn down two restaurants in Padstow and Newquay belonging to Rick Stein and Jamie Oliver respectively, whom the group called "English newcomers". The group claimed it had funding from "other Celtic Nations" and the United States, and appeared to be an amalgamation of the Cornish Liberation Army and An Gof. It also reportedly sprayed "burn second homes" onto walls in the county. There were also reports that the group had placed broken glass under the sand on Cornish beaches, "to deter tourists. "The group's actions were linked to local concerns about lack of affordable housing and an increasing number of second homes.

See also

 Cornish related pages 
Cornish devolution
Constitutional status of Cornwall
Corineus
Cornish Assembly
Cornish Foreshore Case
List of topics related to Cornwall
Royal charters relating to Cornwall

 Other major related movements 

 Welsh nationalism
 Welsh independence
 Breton nationalism
 Reunification of Brittany
 Pan-Celticism
 List of active autonomist and secessionist movements

References

Further reading
 Angarrack, J. Our Future Is History. Independent Academic Press. 2002. .
 Deacon, B., Cole, D. & Tregidga, G. Mebyon Kernow and Cornish Nationalism''. Welsh Academic Press. 2003. .

External links
Mebyon Kernow
The Cornish Stannary Parliament
The Celtic League
The Celtic Congress
The Federal Union of European Nationalities

 
Separatism in the United Kingdom
Celtic nationalism
Home rule in the United Kingdom
Independence movements
Nationalism
Identity politics in the United Kingdom
Regionalism (politics) in the United Kingdom