[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Maksym Kalynychenko

d form in the tail end Spartak's 2005 season. In the run-up to Germany 2006, coach Oleh Blokhin played Kalynychenko in friendlies against Luxembourg, Costa Rica and Italy.

The player also did not feature in the first of Ukraine's proper World Cup games, in which the team were defeated 4–0 by Spain.

Called to the starting 11 in the next game against Saudi Arabia, Kalynychenko provided the opening assist from which Andriy Rusol scored Ukraine's first ever World Cup final goal. He set up another goal headed in by Andriy Shevchenko, who in turn fed Kalynychenko for the 4th and last goal of the game. Kalynychenko was named Man of the Match for his technical contributions. This game was the turning point for Ukraine, paving the way for their subsequent route to the quarter-finals.

Kalynychenko put in a notable performance in the quarter-final against Italy, with dangerous crosses and a shot on goal from a rebounded attempt by Oleh Husyev. However, none of these chances was converted and Ukraine bowed out of the tournament on a score of 3–0 to Italy.

In FIFA of Ukraine's debut, Kalynychenko was described as the 'revelation' of his team's World Cup campaign.

Euro 2008 Qualifying
Maksym Kalynychenko was a regular player in the Ukraine squad in the UEFA Euro 2008 qualifiers. He was called up to the team for almost every game, except for three. He also managed to score a goal in a 5–0 win over the Faroe Islands. However, Ukraine did not manage to qualify for the tournament, finishing fourth in its group, behind France, Italy, and Scotland.

Personal life
Kalynychenko is married to Tetyana and they have one daughter, Oleksandra.

References

External links
Official website of Kalynychenko 
Profile on Official Spartak website
 Profile on website Football Ukraine
Lengthy Interview with Kalynychenko – Sport-express.ru 
 

1979 births
Footballers from Kharkiv
Men's association football midfielders
Ukrainian men's footballers
Ukraine men's international footballers
Ukrainian expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Russia
Ukrainian expatriate sportspeople in Russia
Ukrainian Premier League players
Ukrainian Second League players
Russian Premier League players
FC Spartak Moscow players
FC Dnipro players
FC Dnipro-2 Dnipropetrovsk players
SC Tavriya Simferopol players
2006 FIFA World Cup players
Living people
Ukrainian football managers
FCI Levadia Tallinn managers
Ukrainian expatriate football managers
Expatriate football managers in Russia
Expatriate football managers in Latvia
Ukrainian expatriate sportspeople in Latvia
Expatriate football managers in Estonia
Ukrainian expatriate sportspeople in Estonia
Ukrainian sportspeople in Russia during the Russo-Ukrainian War