[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Shaparak Khorsandi

Shaparak Khorsandi (, ; born 8 June 1973), who previously performed as Shappi Khorsandi, is an Iranian-born British comedian and author. She is the daughter of the Iranian political satirist and poet Hadi Khorsandi. Her family left Iran for the United Kingdom following the 1979 revolution, and her Iranian heritage and reactions to it are frequently referenced in her stand-up comedy performances. Khorsandi rose to national prominence after her 2006 Edinburgh Festival Fringe show Asylum Speaker and her appearance at the Secret Policeman's Ball two years later. She has featured on numerous British television and radio programmes, including the BBC Radio 4 programme Shappi Talk (2009 and 2010), and I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here! in 2017.

Khorsandi has authored several books. Her memoir A Beginner's Guide to Acting English was published in 2009. Her first novel, Nina is Not OK, was published in 2016, and her young adult fiction novel Kissing Emma, was published in 2021. The autobiographical Scatter Brain followed in 2023.

Biography 
Shaparak Khorsandi was born on 8 June 1973 in Tehran. Her parents were Fatemah, and the satirist and poet Hadi Khorsandi. The family fled from Iran to London after the Islamic Revolution following a joke that her father composed which was seen as critical of the revolutionary regime. Khorsandi graduated from King Alfred's College, now the University of Winchester, in 1995, with a Drama, Theatre, and Television degree. After graduating, she worked in various roles, including at a community theatre, in a sandwich shop, as a telephone fundraiser, and as a nude life model, whilst starting her career as a stand-up comedian. In 2010, the university awarded her an honorary doctorate.

In 2005, she married fellow comedian Christian Reilly, and they had a son before they divorced in 2011. Her daughter was born in June 2013; the following year she told an interviewer that they were not in contact with the girl's father, "But that's fine, I'm not angry or bitter about it." , she was in a relationship with fellow comedian Mark Steel.

Khorsandi was raised without any religion, and identifies as an atheist. She later became a patron of Humanists UK, which appointed her as its President for a three-year term from January 2016, succeeding Jim Al-Khalili. She became a vice-president of the group in 2019, a role she retained . In 2017, she came out as bisexual, and wrote that she had gone on marches in support of gay rights since she was 17: "Despite all those years of marching and getting drunk at Pride, officially coming 'out' as bisexual seemed like too much of a fuss." Khorsandi was diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder aged 47 and discussed this in a 2023 autobiography.

She originally performed professionally as Shappi Khorsandi. Khorsandi explained in The Independent about her decision to revert to using her full name, Shaparak, professionally. Having had her full name mocked and mispronounced when she was a child, she decided to be known as "Shappi" from the age of 16 but eventually decided that this was an attempt "to bend in a direction which would make my foreignness more comfortable for other people" and to revert to using her original name.

Career in comedy 
Khorsandi performs stand-up comedy, and appeared at Joe Wilson's Comedy Madhouse in 1997. Her Iranian heritage and reactions to it are frequently referenced in her comedy performances. In 2000, she was runner-up in the Hackney Empire New Act of The Year, and William Cook of The Guardian found her "feisty self-mockery" to be "refreshing... with something new to say and a new way of saying it". That summer, she made her debut at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe in the three-person show Pablo Diablo's Cryptic Triptych, performing between ventriloquist Mark Felgate and Russell Brand. The same year, she was nominated for 2000 the BBC New Comedy Award.

A short 2004 preview in The Times read that Khorsandi's act "uses her turbulent background to confident, creative effect". Her 2006 show at the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, Asylum Speaker, drew on her experience of leaving Iran and her fear on learning of death threats to her father. It was praised by Mark Monahan of The Daily Telegraph as "lively, ambitious and interesting" although he felt that the quality of the second half of the show was not as funny as the first. Jasper Gerard of The Sunday Times called Khorsandi the "surprise hit" of the Fringe. Theatre academics Elaine Aston and Geraldine Harris later wrote that this show was the "act that brought her wide media attention". Reflecting on her career to 2010, they considered that a key aspect of Khorsandi's comedy was that "her humour resonates with common experiences of racially marked prejudice and 'othering', but is rooted in the specificities of her own, lived, migratory experiences".