[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# Behaalotecha

ad to make a special inquiry of God before he could give a legal decision. Bamberger reported that the inability of Moses to handle these cases on his own troubled the Rabbis because they relied upon a worldview in which the entire Torah was revealed at Sinai with no need for subsequent revelations.

Numbers chapter 11
Reading the account of Eldad and Medad in Numbers 11:26–29, Gunther Plaut wrote that Moses pointedly rejected a narrow interpretation of prophetic privilege and shared his authority as leader. Jacob Milgrom wrote that God did not restrict God's gifts to particular individuals or classes, and the lesson inspired the prophet Joel to predict in Joel 3:1, "After that, I will pour out My spirit on all flesh; Your sons and daughters shall prophesy . . . ." Dennis Olson wrote that the episode illustrated the need to allow for the possibility that persons outside the institutional leadership of God's people may have genuine words and insights from God. Robert Alter wrote that Moses hyperbolically expressed the sense that holding on to a monopoly of power (equated with access to God's spirit) was not what impelled him, and pointed rather to an ideal of radical spiritual egalitarianism whereby God granted access to the spirit to anyone God chose. Terence Fretheim wrote that Moses shared the charisma of God's spirit and wished that all God's people could receive it. And Nili Fox suggested that the story may reflect an ancient debate about whether there could be only one legitimate prophet at a time, as perhaps implied by Deuteronomy 18:15–18, or if there could be many prophets in a single era.

Numbers chapter 12
Masha Turner suggested that one can read the account of Miriam and Moses's wife sympathetically as a case in which God sides with one maligned woman—Moses’ wife—against a more powerful one—Miriam.

Commandments
According to both Maimonides and Sefer ha-Chinuch, there are 3 positive and 2 negative commandments in the parashah:

To slaughter the second Passover lamb
To eat the second Passover lamb in accordance with the Passover rituals
Not to leave the second Passover meat over until morning
Not to break any bones from the second Passover offering
To sound alarm in times of catastrophe

In the liturgy
Some Jews read "at 50 years old one offers counsel," reflecting the retirement age for Levites in Numbers 8:25, as they study Pirkei Avot chapter 6 on a Sabbath between Passover and Rosh Hashanah.

The laws of the Passover offering in Numbers 9:2 provide an application of the second of the Thirteen Rules for interpreting the Torah in the Baraita of Rabbi Ishmael that many Jews read as part of the readings before the Pesukei dezimra prayer service. The second rule provides that similar words in different contexts invite the reader to find a connection between the two topics. The words "in its proper time" (, bemoado) in Numbers 28:2 indicate that the priests needed to bring the daily offering "in its proper time," even on a Sabbath. Applying the second rule, the same words in Numbers 9:2 mean that the priests needed to bring the Passover offering "in its proper time," even on a Sabbath.

The Passover Haggadah, in the korech section of the Seder, quotes the words "they shall eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs" from Numbers 9:11 to support Hillel's practice of combining matzah and maror together in a sandwich.

Jews sing the words "at the commandment of the Lord by the hand of Moses" (, al pi Adonai b'yad Moshe) from Numbers 9:23 while looking at the raised Torah during the lifting of the Torah (Hagbahah) after the Torah reading.

Based on the command of Numbers 10:10 to remember the Festivals, on the new month (Rosh Chodesh) and intermediate days (Chol HaMoed) of Passover and Sukkot, Jews add a paragraph to the weekday afternoon (Minchah) Amidah prayer just before the prayer of thanksgiving (Modim).

Jews chant the description of how the Israelites carried the Ark of the Covenant in Numbers 10:35 (, kumah Adonai, v'yafutzu oyvecha, v'yanusu m'sanecha, mipanecha) during the Torah service when the Ark containing the Torah is opened. And Jews chant the description of how the Israelites set the Ark of the Covenant down in Numbers 10:36 (, uv'nuchoh yomar: shuvah Adonai, riv'vot alfei Yisrael) during the Torah service when the Torah is returned to the Ark.

The characterization of Moses as God's "trusted servant" in Numbers 12:7 finds reflection shortly after the beginning of the Kedushah section in the Sabbath morning (Shacharit) Amidah prayer.

In the Yigdal hymn, the eighth verse, "God gave His people a Torah of truth, by means of His prophet, the most trusted of His household," reflects Numbers 12:7–8.

The 16th-century Safed Rabbi Eliezer Azikri quoted the words of the prayer of Moses "Please God" (, El nah) in Numbers 12:13 in his kabbalistic poem Yedid Nefesh ("Soul's Beloved"), which in turn many congregations chant just before the Kabbalat Shabbat prayer service.