[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# A Woman in Amber

A Woman in Amber: Healing the Trauma of War and Exile is a memoir written by Agate Nesaule. The first half of the memoir describes Nesaule’s experiences as a refugee when the Soviet army invaded Latvia; of the terrors of war and life in the displaced persons' camps in Germany; and her family's emigration to the United States in 1950.

The second half of the memoir describes Nesaule’s experiences in the United States. Through Nesaule’s memoir, the reader becomes acquainted with the Latvian community in Indianapolis during the 1950s. The memoir also explores the experience of immigration as seen from Nesaule’s point of view: that of a teenage girl in the 1950s. By the end of the memoir, Nesaule is able to heal from the harmful experiences of war and exile, which affected her life at such a young age.

Plot summary
A Woman in Amber begins with Agate Nesaule as an adult. She is a successful professor of Women’s Studies and 20th century English Literature at the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater. Despite her outward professional success, Agate lives with an inner turmoil caused by her memories of war and perpetuated by her husband, Joe. Nesaule goes into therapy, depressed and unable to come to terms with the root cause of her depression. On the advice of her therapist Ingeborg, Agate learns she cannot begin to heal until she is able to tell her story: what happened to her and her family during World War II in Latvia and Germany at the hands of the invading Russian soldiers.

She eventually admits to her therapist that she was in Germany after the war and that she was starving. From this revelation, she goes on to tell how she was prompted by her mother to beg from the Russian soldiers, in Russian, not Latvian, for food. Later in life, she mistakenly tells this same story to her husband, Joe. He mocks her and suggests that when she was forced to beg for food, she enjoyed it. Agate remembers that the Russians looked at her as if she were a goose singing. The shame of going hungry led her to believe she was not worth feeding.

When Mongolian and Russian soldiers arrive, her father is forced to leave the family. The women and young girls are taken to a basement where the women are repeatedly raped. Agate is young enough to escape this, but her fifteen-year-old cousin, Astrida, must hide under straw and a blanket. Agate’s mother, Valda, is understandably terrified by the Russian occupation and the horrors that occur in the basement. The soldiers force the women and girls outside. Everyone believes they are to be executed. Valda tries to pull Agate with her to the front of the line of those to be shot. Valda says that if she and Agate are first, they will not have to see the others die. Agate does not wish to die; Agate resists. The struggle Agate has with her mother that day remains a constant tension between the two.

Agate is unable to see Valda’s love for her in her wish to save her from witnessing executions. Later, the reader comes to see that Valda did care deeply for Agate and loved her very much; particularly in Valda’s description of her desire to prepare Agate for her wedding day, a preparation Valda was denied. Unfortunately for Valda and Agate, the trauma of war and their shared experiences left no time to reconcile before Valda’s death. But Agate is able to reconcile with her mother after the latter's death.

Agate and her family eventually escape to Berlin where they are admitted to a Displaced Persons' camp. Here they receive food and shelter. The family moves many times during the next several years, going from camp to camp. Agate attends Latvian school while in the camps.

At age twelve, Agate and her family leave the camps and emigrate to the United States. We learn of Agate's life in the United States and her parents' financial struggle. Agate must adapt to life rapidly in the United States. A quick learner, Agate teaches herself English in one summer by translating Margaret Mitchell’s Gone with the Wind.
An excellent student, Agate receives scholarships to attend Indiana University. While there, she meets her future husband, Joe. Agate’s family disapproves of the marriage, and it increased the distance between Agate and her mother.

During the next twenty years, Agate receives her doctorate degree, has a son named Boris, and becomes a successful professor at the University of Wisconsin-Whitewater. Constantly living with Joe’s put downs, harassments, and minimization of the trauma she endured in the war, Agate hides her feelings of depression and tries to carry on with her life. Though they are separated for much of their adult life, Agate and her sister, Beate, rejoin when Beate’s husband, Uldis, dies alone and penniless from alcohol poisoning.