[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 106]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

requently passes for wit with superficial
people; but he paid the greatest attention to what was said to him, and
made the most judicious observations upon subjects he understood. For
this reason, Miss Simmons, although much older and more improved,
received great satisfaction from conversing with him, and thought little
Harry infinitely more agreeable and judicious than any of the smart
young gentlemen she had hitherto seen at Mr Merton's.

But now the company was summoned to the important business of dinner.
Harry could not help sighing when he reflected on what he had to
undergo; however, he determined to bear it with all imaginable
fortitude, for the sake of his friend Tommy. The dinner indeed was, if
possible, more dreadful than anything he had before undergone--so many
fine gentlemen and fine ladies; so many powdered servants to stand
behind their chairs; such an apparatus of dishes which Harry had never
tasted before, and which almost made him sick when he did taste; so
many removes; such pomp and solemnity about what seemed the easiest
thing in the world--that Harry could not help envying the condition of
his father's labourers, who, when they are hungry, can sit at their ease
under a hedge, and make a dinner without plates, table-cloths, or
compliments!

In the mean time his friend Tommy was received amid the circle of the
ladies, and attended to as a prodigy of wit and ingenuity. Harry could
not help being surprised at this. His affection for his friend was
totally unmixed with the meanness of jealousy, and he received the
sincerest pleasure from every improvement which Tommy had made; however,
he had never discovered in him any of those surprising talents; and,
when he could catch anything that Tommy said, it appeared to him rather
inferior to his usual method of conversation. However, as so many fine
ladies were of a different opinion, he took it for granted that he must
be mistaken.

But if Harry's opinion of his friend's abilities was not much improved
by this exhibition, it was not so with Tommy. The repeated assurances
which he received that he was indeed a little _prodigy_, began to
convince him that he really was so. When he considered the company he
came from, he found that infinite injustice had been done to his merit;
for at Mr Barlow's he was frequently contradicted, and obliged to give a
reason for what he said; but here, in order to be admired, he had
nothing to do but to talk; whether he had any meaning or not, his
auditors always found either wit or sense, or a most entertaining
sprightliness in all he said. Nor was Mrs Merton herself deficient in
bestowing marks of admiration upon her son. To see him before, improved
in health, in understanding, in virtue, had given her a pleasurable
sensation, for she was by no means destitute of good dispositions; but
to see him shine with such transcendant brightness, before such
excellent judges, and in so polite a company, inspired her with raptures
she had never felt before. Indeed, in consequence of this success, the
young gentleman's volubility improved so much that, before dinner was
over, he seemed disposed to engross the whole conversation to himself;
and Mr Merton, who did not quite relish the sallies of his son so much
as his wife, was once or twice obliged to interpose and check him in his
career. This Mrs Merton thought very hard; and all the ladies, after
they had retired into the drawing-room, agreed, that his father would
certainly spoil his temper by such improper contradiction.

As to little Harry, he had not the good fortune to please the greater
number of the ladies. They observed that he was awkward and ungenteel,
and had a heavy, clownish look; he was also silent and reserved, and had
not said a single agreeable thing; if Mr Barlow chose to keep a school
for carters and threshers, nobody would hinder him, but it was not
proper to introduce such vulgar people to the sons of persons of
fashion. It was therefore agreed that Mr Barlow ought either to send
little Harry home to his friends, or to be no more honoured with the
company of Master Merton. Indeed, one of the ladies hinted, that Mr
Barlow himself was but "an odd kind of man, who never went to
assemblies, and played upon no kind of instrument."

"Why," answered Mrs Merton, "to tell the truth, I was not over fond of
the scheme. Mr Barlow, to be sure, though a very good, is a very odd
kind of man. However, as he is so disinterested, and would never receive
the least present from us, I doubt whether we could with propriety
insist upon his turning little Sandford out of the house." "If that is
the case, madam," answered Mrs Compton (for that was the name of the
lady), "I think it would be infinitely better to remove Master Merton,
and place him in some polite seminary, where he might acquire a
knowledge of the world, and make genteel connections. This will always
be the greatest advantage to a youn