[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# International reactions to the 2006 Lebanon War

al-Ali issued an informal statement titled "The Sharia position on what is going on." In it, the Kuwaiti based cleric condemned the imperial ambitions of Iran regarding Hezbollah's cross border raid.

Also on the National Flag grounds in Kuwait City hundreds gathered to express support to Hezbollah.

Malaysia
A large group of over 2,000 gathered in front of a mosque near the Petronas Twin Towers in Kuala Lumpur right after Friday prayers. The group later marched to several embassies to demand international community to intervene in the conflict and condemn Israeli aggression. A larger group also assembled in Kota Bharu to condemn the attack.

Netherlands
5,000 people demonstrated in Amsterdam against the Israeli military actions in Lebanon.

New Zealand
On Saturday 22 July, two hundred people demonstrated in Aotea Square in Auckland. One protester lowered the American flag and began waving a Palestinian flag. Police were prevented from arresting him after protestors intervened.

Over the weekend 4-7 August there were mobilisations across New Zealand calling for an end to Israeli aggression.

In Auckland around 300 people braved pouring rain to hold a lively march and rally to call for an end to US and Israeli imperialism in the Middle East. Demonstrators staged a die-in at the US consulate before burning US and Israeli flags.

In Auckland a protest was held outside a Ponsonby mosque demanding the deportation of Palestinian and Lebanese immigrants.

In Wellington a few hundred protestors marched down Lambton Quay to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade as part of a Wellington Palestine Group protest to demand that the government not allow Israel to reopen its embassy in New Zealand until such time as Israel has ceased from the war, demolished the security fence, withdrawn from territory and help Palestinian refugees.

In Dunedin an emergency demonstration against the war attracted 250-300 people who marched on the Octagon via Labour MP Pete Hodgson's office and called on the government not to resume any military joint-training exercises with the USA (something Foreign Affairs Minister Winston Peters was trying desperately to secure on his latest trip to Washington DC).

The National Distribution Union who represent packing and distribution workers in New Zealand has condemned the Israeli air strike on a Lebanese fruit-packing warehouse that killed 33 farm workers. A group called 'Aotearoa Jews for Justice' says they stand "in solidarity with the Lebanese and Palestinian people suffering at the hands of the Israeli army."

Amnesty International held vigils for peace in six major New Zealand cities on the night of Monday 7 August calling for an end to all violence.

Saudi Arabia
Abdullah bin Jabreen, one of Saudi Arabia's leading Wahhabi sheiks, issued a strongly worded fatwa declaring it unlawful to support, join or pray for Shiite Hezbollah.

Sweden
 
On 22 July 1,500 people marched in Stockholm against the Israeli bombings in Lebanon. Demonstrations were also held in Gothenburg, Malmö, and many other Swedish cities on the same day.

Norway

On 22 July, approximately 1,500 people demonstrated in Oslo in front of the Norwegian Parliament, in protest against Israeli military actions in Lebanon. The demonstration then proceeded to the Israeli embassy.

The same repeated on 5 August, with about 1,000 people taking part in the demonstration.

Syria
Thousands of protesters have thronged the streets of central Damascus to protest against Israel and support Hezbollah.

Turkey
Tens of thousands of people gathered in Turkey's southeastern Diyarbakır Province on 16 July to protest against the Israeli offensive in the Gaza Strip and against the Israeli attacks on Lebanon.

United Kingdom 
On 22 July, between 7,000 (according to the police) and 20,000 (according to organisers) people demonstrated in London in protest against the Israeli military actions in Lebanon. Demonstrations also took place in 10 other cities across the United Kingdom, including between 1,000 and 2,000 in Manchester. A pro-Israel rally was held a day later. That weekend, an anti-Israel protest was held at a Davis Cup tennis match between Great Britain and Israel in Eastbourne.

Smaller demonstrations and vigils have also been taking place.  For example, a vigil was held in Parliament Square on 18 July.  Another protest was held in front of Downing Street on 28 July, organised by the Stop the War Coalition and the CND. Worker-Communist Party of Iran organised a 3-day picket against the war in front of Israeli Embassy in London from 26 to 28 July.