[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Topoxte

smatic blade, a shell disk, two perforated ceramic disks and various other pieces of worked flint. Some of these items may actually be rubbish dumped on top of the burial, with only the inverted vessel being a definite offering associated with the human remains. The burial dates to the Late Classic.

Burial 16 was found under a patio in the central area of Topoxte island, to the east of some relatively tall structures. The remains are those of an adult, possibly male, aged between 17 and 25 years old. The burial dates to the Postclassic.

Burial 17 were excavated from an artificial terrace in east of the centre of Topoxte island, immediately to the southeast of a residential complex. The burial contains the remains of three individuals. The first was an adult male over 30 years old, buried in a seated position with a couple of associated pieces of flint. The remains date to the Postclassic. The second individual was buried prone, oriented northwards, they have been tentatively identified as a male of unknown age. He was interred in the Late Classic with a ceramic vessel, a ceramic bowl and a ceramic disk. The third individual is represented only by a skull, which belonged to a child of between 2 and 5 years of age. The skull was associated with various Early Classic artifacts but it is unclear if it dates from the same period or was deposited during the Postclassic.

Burial 18 was found close to the junction of the lowest tier of Building C with the main stairway of the pyramid. The burial dates to the Postclassic and consists of three individuals. They are of indeterminate gender, one being aged between 12 and 18 years old, the second being aged between 16 and 25 years old and the other being aged between 25 and 35 years old. The entire burial dates to the Postclassic.

Burial 19 was found in the southern part of Topoxte island, under the platform supporting Building A. The burial consists of two individuals and two additional skulls. Both individuals are adult males of between 17 and 25 years of age, with offerings consisting of a shell and various pieces of worked stone including flint, limestone and jasper. The entire burial has been dated to the Protoclassic (AD 0–250).

Burial 20 was located in a system of artificial caves in the southern part of the island, near Building A. It consists of an adult of indeterminate age and gender associated with a great deal of mixed rubbish. The remains date to the Protoclassic.

Burial 21 was found under the temple at the summit of Building C when archaeologists investigated a looters' tunnel. It dates to the Postclassic and was an adult male aged between 35 and 50 years of age, lying horizontally with an east–west orientation. There were few graves goods recovered, a monochrome vessel with a lid containing three small pieces of jade, a piece of quartz crystal, a shell bead and some pieces of turquoise.

Burial 22 is a collection of disarticulated longbones, belonging to a young child of between 2½ and 4 years old, buried at the base of a stela on the third tier of Building C.

Burial 23 was found inserted into the east side of the third tier of Building C. The burial was contained in a cist, with the remains aligned north–south. The skull was missing and the burial had no associated grave goods. The remains belonged to an adult female of between 23 and 30 years of age and date to the Postclassic.

Burial 24 was excavated between Buildings C and D, to the north of Stela 4 and Altar 4. The bones are those of an adult of unknown gender between 17 and 25 years old. The remains had a flint knife under the lower spine and date to the Postclassic.

Burial 25 consists of dispersed human bones of both sexes, scattered on an artificial terrace to the east of Building H and surrounded by residential buildings. The remains have been dated to the Postclassic but could be a Late Preclassic burial disturbed at a later date.

Burial 26 was found on the southern shore of Topoxte island. The remains are those of an infant aged between 2 and 5 years old. The bones were contained within an urn and the burial is dated to the Postclassic.

See also
 Ixlu

Notes

References

External links
 Topoxte History and Photo Gallery

Maya sites in Petén Department
Archaeological sites in Guatemala
Former populated places in Guatemala
Islands of Guatemala
Maya Postclassic Period
Maya sites that survived the end of the Classic Period