[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jimmy Smith (footballer, born 1987)

defeat to Birmingham City, receiving a four-match ban "for leading with his elbow in a challenge on Stuart Parnaby". After serving the suspension, Smith was unable to hold down a place in the Sheffield Wednesday first-team, returning to Chelsea upon the expiry of his loan deal in early January 2009.

Leyton Orient
Smith was loaned out once again in February 2009, this time joining League One side Leyton Orient for the remainder of the 2008–09 season. He was brought in by then-caretaker manager Kevin Nugent, who said – "Jimmy is joining from Chelsea and he will be a good addition to the squad. He has great ability and can play anywhere across the midfield". Smith made his debut for the club five days after joining, on 7 February, playing the whole match in the club's 0–0 away draw at Tranmere Rovers. He played regularly throughout the rest of the season, scoring his first goal for the club in a 2–1 victory over Colchester United at Brisbane Road in April 2009, a late winner that ensured Orient had all but secured their League One status for another season. Smith made 16 appearances during the successful loan spell, scoring once, as the club went from inside the relegation zone to finishing comfortably in mid-table during his three-month stay. He returned to Chelsea at the end of the season with a year remaining on his contract, but opted to leave the club to sign for Leyton Orient on a permanent basis, signing a two-year deal with the East London club. On the move, Smith stated – "The best thing about Orient is I know where I'm going to be from one week to the next. It's the reason I left Chelsea even though I had a year left on my contract". The 2009–10 campaign began with Smith scoring the winning goal on the opening day of the season, lifting the ball over Fraser Forster with just twenty minutes remaining to earn Orient a 2–1 victory away at Bristol Rovers. He was almost ever-present during the season, making 44 appearances in all competitions and scoring two goals, as the club narrowly avoided relegation to League Two by a point. His other goal during the season came in the club's 3–1 home win over Gillingham on 1 December 2009, a curling shot that doubled Orient's advantage just after half-time.

It took Smith three months to open his goalscoring account for the 2010–11 season, when he scored a late equaliser in a 2–2 draw against Peterborough United in November 2010. The goal was to spark a fine run of form for Smith into the new year, scoring in victories over Colchester United and Norwich City within the first week of 2011 – the latter goal a first-half header that ensured Orient progressed to the Fourth Round of the FA Cup courtesy of a 1–0 win at Carrow Road. Later that month, Smith scored another decisive goal in the FA Cup, this time as Orient disposed of Swansea City at the Liberty Stadium after securing a 2–1 victory. The win set up a Fifth Round tie at home to Premier League side Arsenal, with Smith playing the whole game as Orient took the North London club to a replay following a 1–1 draw. As well as his important goals in the FA Cup, Smith also scored four times within the space of a month between February and March 2011. The first of these goals came courtesy of a "powerful header" in a 4–1 home win over Bristol Rovers on 12 February, before scoring twice three days in a 3–2 victory over Milton Keynes Dons at Stadium mk. His eighth of the season came in Orient's 2–2 draw with promotion-chasing Huddersfield Town on 29 February, as Smith's low long-range strike restored parity late-on despite Orient only having ten men. Smith's form during the month resulted in him being nominated for League One Player of the Month for February. He added one further goal to his tally that season, volleying in Dean Cox's cross to score the only goal of the game as Orient won 1–0 away at Hartlepool United in March 2011. The victory meant Orient had gone a club-record fourteen league games without defeat. Smith scored nine times in 42 appearances during the season, as Orient missed out on the final play-off place by a point. He signed a new two-year contract extension at the end of the season, keeping him tied to the club until the summer of 2013.