[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Sdot Micha Airbase

Sdot Micha Airbase (in Hebrew: ) is an Israeli Air Force (IAF) missile base and depot, whose existence Israel neither confirms nor denies. It is situated in the center of Israel, halfway from Jerusalem to the Mediterranean Sea and extends nearly 13 km from southeast to northwest. The center of the base is located 1.5 km north of moshav Sdot Micha.

Name
The secret airbase has been called many names. It is most commonly called by sources as Sdot Micha Airbase due to its proximity to moshav Sdot Micha, and less commonly Tirosh or Zekharia Airbase (including different spelling), due to other nearby moshavs of these names or Kanaf 2 Airbase (literally Air Wing 2 Airbase).

In July 2017 the IDF temporarily uncovered the name of the airforce's 11th and secret airforce base called Sdot HaElah, but after the press had picked it up, it disappeared again from their website. The moshav Sdot Micha is located in the Valley of Elah, ( Emek HaElah in Hebrew), 4 km northwest of where David and Goliath are believed to have fought. The stream Elah (Nahal HaElah) runs south of the moshav but is dry for most of the year.

A 2005 official Israeli document regarding the Privatization of the Military Industry of Israel Ltd. later renamed IMI Systems (Resolution no.  M'Kh/24 of the Ministerial Committee on Privatization Affairs dated 28.08.2005) states: "IMI's rights in part of the land division known as "Area 209" designated for the "Arrow" battery were sold by IMI to the Ministry of Defense under an agreement dated May 10, 2005." In the official documents published at the time of the sale of IMI Systems to Elbit Systems (Resolution No. M'Kh/2 of the Ministerial Committee on Privatization of 23.12.2013) the base is referred to again as Area 209 (in Hebrew שטח אש 209). A restricted airspace and  restricted military area covering an area of 12,550 dunams in the Mateh Yehuda Regional Council.  The area was allocated to the Ministry of Defense by Israel Land Authority.

Missiles

Nuclear missiles, positions
It is believed that the base is a missile launch facility for nuclear-tipped Jericho 2 IRBMs and probably Jericho 3 ICBMs. Satellite images show launch areas for mobile missiles very explicitly, which is part of their deterrence.

The roads for the mobile missile systems are in between ridges of hills, which has the advantage that the missile bunkers could be dug into the limestone hills around and only need massive doors to protect them from nuclear explosions - direct hits excluded. The missile sites are also hidden there and cannot to be seen from the outside.

Anti-missile system
In 2012, an Arrow 2 missile battery – the third in Israel alongside Palmachim and Ein Shemer – has been deployed there, near the moshav Tal Shahar. The Arrow system was developed jointly by Israel and the USA in the 1990s and can shoot down incoming nuclear missiles at high altitudes. For target detection and tracking, it uses the Super Green Pine Radar installed on Ein Shemer with a range of 1,000 kilometers. The Arrow system is operated by the Israeli Air Defense Command, a division of the IAF.

According to Jane's Defence Weekly, Sdot Micha is also a location for the new Arrow 3 ABM, deployed there in the beginning of 2017. Satellite photos show four rectangular bunkers capable to withstand nuclear explosions and nearby sites of mobile launchers with six Arrow 3 missiles each. The US have accidentally published where the exact locations of the bunkers are.

Related nearby bases
All larger missiles of Israel are built in the Israel Aerospace Industries (IAI) MLM Division missile plant in Be'er Ya'akov, 20 km northwest to the base. Northwest near the base is also Tel Nof Airbase where F-15 jets can be equipped with nuclear bombs probably stored in the depot of Sdot Micha.

Units
 IAF 2nd Wing
 150 Squadron Jericho IRBM / ICBM
 199 Squadron Jericho IRBM / ICBM
 248 Squadron Jericho IRBM / ICBM
 Arrow 2 missile battery
 4 launchers with six Arrow 3 missiles each

History
The base was established in 1962 on the land of the depopulated Palestinian Arab village of Al-Burayj.

See also
Nuclear weapons and Israel

References

External links
 Sedot Mikha / Sdot Micha / Beit Zachariah / Zekharyeh

Airports in Israel
Rocket launch sites in Israel
Israeli Air Force bases
Israeli nuclear development