[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of former Muslims

– Sri Lankan cricketer
 Wong Ah Kiu (1918–2006) – Malay woman born to a Muslim family but was raised as Buddhist; her conversion from Islam became a legal issue in Malaysia on her death

Converted to Sikhism
 Kuldip Manak – deceased Punjabi folk singer

Part of an unorganized religion or no religion

 Mansiya V.P.  a Bharatnatyam exponent from Kerala India. Non-conformist on religious front but believes in God.
 Piro Preman, first female Punjabi-language poet who lived in the 19th century. Born a Muslim but became an apostate after joining the Gulabdasia sect

Became atheists

 Abdullah al-Qasemi – Saudi Arabian 20th-century writer and intellectual. Former Salafist who became atheist and rejected organized religion.
 Afshin Ellian – Iranian-Dutch professor of law, philosopher, poet
 Ahmed Harqan – Egyptian human rights activist and outspoken atheist.
 Ahmed Sharif – Bangladeshi humanist book seller, human rights activist and secular humanist.
 Al-Ma'arri – blind Arab philosopher, poet and writer.
 Alexander Aan – Indonesian atheist and ex-Muslim of Minang descent, who was attacked by a mob and arrested in 2012 for posting "God does not exist" and other antireligious writings on Facebook, attracting international attention.
 Ali A. Rizvi – Pakistani-born Canadian physician, writer and ex-Muslim activist
 Ali Soilih – Comorian socialist revolutionary; president of the Comoros
 Ali Dashti – Iranian rationalist and member of Iranian Senate. 
 Ali Sina – pseudonym of the founder of several anti-Islam and anti-Muslim websites.
 Aliaa Magda Elmahdy – Egyptian internet activist and women's rights advocate.
 Aliyah Saleem – British secular education campaigner, writer and market researcher, activist and co-founder of advocacy group Faith to Faithless.
 Anwar Shaikh – British author of Pakistani descent.
 Armin Navabi – Iranian-born atheist and secular activist, author, podcaster and vlogger, founder of Atheist Republic
 Aroj Ali Matubbar – self-taught Bangladeshi philosopher
 Arzu Toker – German-speaking writer, journalist, publicist, translator of Turkish descent, cofounder of the Central Council of Ex-Muslims in Germany.
 As'ad Abu Khalil – Lebanese professor of political science at California State University, Stanislaus. He describes himself as an "atheist secularist".
 Asif Mohiuddin – Bangladeshi blogger and secularist
 Ayaan Hirsi Ali – Somali-born Dutch feminist, writer, and politician.
 Ayaz Nizami – Pakistani Islamic Scholar became atheist, Founder of realisticapproach.org. an Urdu website about atheism, and Vice President of Atheist & Agnostic Alliance Pakistan He is currently detained under the charges of blasphemy and could face the death penalty.
 Ayman Odeh – Israeli politician
 Aziz Nesin – popular Turkish humorist and author of more than 100 books.
 Barack Obama Sr. – Kenyan senior governmental economist, and the father of 44th U.S. President Barack Obama
 Bisi Alimi – Nigerian gay rights activist based in the United Kingdom
 Catherine Perez-Shakdam – French journalist, political analyst and commentator; formerly a convert to Islam, born to a Jewish family
 Bonya Ahmed – Bangladeshi-American author, humanist activist and blogger, wife of Avijit Roy; hacked to death after receiving threats related to his promotion of secular views.
 E. A. Jabbar – Indian ex-Muslim, orator, writer, retired school teacher of Kerala. Editor of Yukthiyugam Malayalam Magazine
 Ebru Umar – Dutch columnist of Turkish descent, critic of Islam and of Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan.
 Enver Hoxha – Communist dictator who declared Albania the first atheist state, and who has been identified as an "arch-atheist."
 Fatima Sana Shaikh – Indian actress
 Faik Konitza – Albanian stylist, critic, publicist and political figure that had a tremendous impact on Albanian writing and on Albanian culture at the time.
 Faisal Saeed Al Mutar – Iraqi-born satirist, human rights activist, writer, founder of the Global Secular Humanist Movement (GSHM).
 Farhan Akhtar – Indian actor, singer, songwriter, playback singer, producer and television host.
 Fauzia Ilyas – founder of Atheist & Agnostic Alliance Pakistan
 Gauhar Raza – Indian scientist, Urdu poet and filmmaker. 
 Hafid Bouazza – Moroccan-Dutch writer.
 Hamed Abdel-Samad – German-Egyptian political scientist, historian and author.
 Hassan Bahara – Moroccan-Dutch writer.
 Humayun Azad – Bangladeshi author, poet, scholar and linguists.
 Inkulab – Tamil rationalist poet/writer and Marxist activist. Born as Sakul Hameed.
 Irfan Habib – Indian historian.
 Ismael Adham – Egyptian writer and philosopher.
 Ismail Kadare – world-renowned Albanian writer.
 Ismail Mohamed (activist) – Egyptian atheist human rights activist, host of The Black Ducks programme.
 Javed Akhtar – noted Indian writer and lyricist.
 Kacem El Ghazzali – Moroccan-Swiss writer and activist.
 Kanan Makiya – Iraqi-American academic and Islamic and Middle Eastern scholar.
 Kareem Amer – Egyptian blogger.
 Kumail Nanjiani –