[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ambassador Theatre (New York City)

plays and three-quarters of theatrical ticket sales in the U.S. by 1925. After World War I, the Shuberts contemplated the construction of six theaters along 48th and 49th Streets, just north of Times Square. Of these, only four were built, and only three (the Ambassador, O'Neill, and Kerr) survive.

Original Broadway run 

The Shuberts announced plans for their six new theaters in September 1920. The Ambassador, announced that November, was the first new theater that the Shuberts planned to build along 48th and 49th Streets. The Shuberts held a 21-year lease on the theater that extended from August 1919 to August 1940. The brothers believed that the 49th Street site could be as profitable as theaters on 42nd Street, which historically was Times Square's legitimate theatrical hub. The Shuberts built the Ambassador Theatre in 82 days, then a record for theatrical construction. The musical comedy The Rose Girl was announced in January 1921 as the Ambassador's first production, and the theater opened on February 11 with The Rose Girl. Biff, Bang, Bang! was staged that May, followed later the same year by the theater's first true hit: the operetta Blossom Time, which ran for 516 performances.

Generally, the Ambassador largely hosted operettas during the early 1920s, and many of its early productions were not successful. Its initial operettas included Al Goodman and Sigmund Romberg's The Lady in Ermine in 1922, as well as an American version of Eduard Künneke's Caroline the next year featuring Tessa Kosta. The operetta The Dream Girl opened in 1924 with music by Victor Herbert, who had died several months previously. This was followed by a revival of the drama Candida in 1925, as well as William A. Brady and Owen Davis's adaptation of the novel The Great Gatsby in 1926. Laurence Schwab and Frank Mandel signed a two-year lease for the Ambassador in June 1926, with plans to renovate the theater and stage their own plays inside. Subsequently, Queen High ran for 367 performances after its opening in September 1926, and Bartlett Cormack staged The Racket late the next year.

Most of the Ambassador's productions in the late 1920s were flops, revivals, or transfers from other theaters. Among the shows that transferred were the play Little Accident in 1929, as well as Street Scene later the same year. The following decade started with another transfer, the long-running prison drama The Last Mile, in 1930; Blossom Time was revived for a brief run the next year. The theater then showed vaudeville with the premiere of Chamberlain Brown's Scrap Book in 1932. The Ambassador's next hit was Ayn Rand's Night of January 16th, which opened in September 1935. The same year, the Shuberts placed the theater for sale; at the time, they still held a lease on the theater. The new owners insisted on staging only drama, which resulted in many flops in the late 1930s. One exception to this trend was the Abbey Theatre, which staged several plays in repertory during the 1937 season,

Intermittent theatrical use, playhouse 

In December 1938, the Theatrical Realty Corporation, headed by Lee Shubert, leased the Ambassador Theatre to the Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS) for use as a broadcasting studio. CBS enlarged the Ambassador's stage and used it to broadcast orchestra performances in early 1939. Later that year, the 1939 version of The Straw Hat Revue was presented at the Ambassador, while the theater was still being used as a radio broadcast studio. The Shuberts gave up their lease on the theater in September 1940, and the James P. Knight estate took over. That December, the Knights leased the Ambassador to Cummins Pictures Inc. for films. The New York Grand Opera Company performed at the theater in September 1941, and the Ambassador was leased to real-estate operator Irving Maidman two months later. The Ambassador returned to showing legitimate productions that November with Cuckoos on the Hearth, which transferred from the Mansfield Theatre.

Central Hanover Bank & Trust acquired the Ambassador in January 1942 and resold it to J. Arthur Fischer that June in an all-cash transaction. The burlesque revue Wine, Women and Song opened at the theater that September. However, the revue was closed three months later because it was "indecent", namely violating ordinances against obscenities; under the orders of the mayoral administration of Fiorello La Guardia, the Ambassador lost its license to operate as a legitimate theater. The Ambassador's theatrical license was restored in August 1943, just before the opening of a third and final revival of Blossom Time, which ran only 47 performances. This was followed by a set of Gilbert and Sullivan plays in early 1944, as well as transfers of Decision and School For Brides the same year.