[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 New Orleans mayoral election

lding process, and faulted Nagin for not doing more to pressure the federal government for information and funding.   Landrieu was endorsed by The Gambit, New Orleans CityBusiness, and The Louisiana Weekly newspapers.  After coming in third in the primary, Ron Forman endorsed Landrieu in the runoff.

 Ron Forman  Ron Forman has been president and CEO of the Audubon Nature Institute, which runs the Audubon Zoo and the Aquarium of the Americas, since 1977.  Forman supported Nagin in his 2002 electoral campaign, but broke with him after Katrina as buzz began to build around Forman as a potential challenger to Nagin. After much speculation, he formally announced his candidacy on February 14.  A former president of the Chamber of Commerce, he has a high profile in the city's business community and had strong support in the corporate world and among wealthy New Orleanians.  He had a large campaign war-chest and raised $2.1 million as of April 14, more money than any other candidate.  Forman proposed the creation of four deputy mayor posts, two white and two black, in an effort to promote better race relations.  Forman was endorsed by the Times-Picayune newspaper.

 Rob Couhig  Republican lawyer and businessman Rob Couhig formerly owned the New Orleans Zephyrs, a minor league baseball team.  His campaign platform included plans for a Rudy Giuliani-style crackdown on crime, selling off public hospitals, extensive bulldozing of blighted property, and a plan to retract the city's footprint by restricting rebuilding in the Lower Ninth Ward and New Orleans East.  Couhig entered the race in mid-February by running the campaign's first television attack ads, mocking the leading candidates.  In debates and public appearances, Couhig was one of the more combative candidates, regularly criticizing the front-runners.

 Virginia Boulet Corporate lawyer Virginia Boulet began her campaign in early February due to her dissatisfaction with Nagin's recovery plans.  She proposed financing the city budget through a bond issue, and instituting universal health insurance as a way to lure displaced residents back to the city.  She repeatedly emphasized the need to rebuild the wetlands east and southeast of New Orleans in order to protect the city from hurricanes.

 Tom Watson Pastor Tom Watson, an influential leader of the Greater New Orleans Coalition of Ministers, is active in programs to help youths in the city's poor neighborhoods. Watson has long been a critic of Nagin, and after declaring his candidacy on February 17 he became Nagin's first African American challenger.   Watson focused his campaign on the return of the New Orleans diaspora still scattered around the country after Hurricane Katrina, a constituency he says other candidates have neglected.  He also planned to address the racial and class divisions that impede the city's recovery and to reform the NOPD, which he characterizes as "corrupt and brutal."  He also proposed a cap on rents, which have skyrocketed since Katrina.

 Kimberly Williamson Butler  Clerk of Criminal Court Kimberly Williamson Butler made a surprise announcement on March 3 of her mayoral candidacy on the courthouse steps to reporters—who were there to cover her surrendering herself on an arrest warrant for contempt of court.

 Peggy Wilson Peggy Wilson was a city councilwoman from 1986 to 1998.  One of only two Republicans running, she was a favorite of some old line conservatives.  Wilson was also one of the few white candidates willing to discuss the city's changed racial demographics, openly stating that the shift in population after Katrina is part of the reason she decided to enter the race in November.  She campaigned on a proposal to declare New Orleans a 'tax-free city', financed with a federal bond issue, and attracted controversy with her vocal plans to keep "gangbangers" and "welfare queens" from returning to New Orleans.

 Johnny Adriani Johnny Adriani is a criminal defense paralegal who ran his campaign from his car after losing his home to flooding.

 Manny "Chevrolet" Bruno Manny "Chevrolet" Bruno is an out-of-work actor who said he was running because "I need the job".  He amused election watchers—in the current campaign and in his 2002 bid for mayor (under the slogan "A troubled man for troubled times") —with his deadpan, self-effacing humor. His campaign signs had a cartoon of a cocktail glass surrounded by the words "Good Cheap Fast" and the slogan "Troubled Now, More Than Ever".

 James Arey WWNO radio personality James Arey was one of two candidates who expressed intent to run before Hurricane Katrina. Some saw Arey's candidacy as a platform to draw attention to the importance of the arts in New Orleans' culture and recovery. In 1998, Arey was a 5-time champion on the game show Jeopardy!, winning $42,802 and a new car.