[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Songpa District

velopment district in order to invite autonomous private high schools, high schools with special purposes, or schools for foreign students. Songpa also supports 120 students in two schools for special education for the gifted in mathematics and science.

Support for students from low-income families

For students from low-income or unemployed families, Songpa adopted "One-Account-per-One-citizen" movement in which 10 residents save 10,000 won a month for a year to help one student. As of May 2009, 673.8 million won was saved in 5,615 bank accounts, and 93.5 million won was granted to 103 students. Songpa aims to save a total of 5 billion won by 2011.

The "Mentorship Program" is an after-class program for students from low-income families, in which mentors—consisting of college students, current and former teachers, and other volunteers—visit students once a week for a year to give them study assistence and guidance counselling. This one-on-one program is the largest of its kind in Seoul.

Educational programs for women
To support women's economic activities, Songpa launched a "Town-visiting Local Tax Law Fair". This program helps women better understand local tax law by explaining diverse taxable and non-taxable laws and pretest cases filed against the office.

There is a "Car Maintenance Class for Female Drivers", which teaches drivers how to change a tire and take emergency measures.

Culture

Art centers

The Songpa Culture and Art Center is planned to be completed by 2011 on the eastern side of Seokchon Lake. The center will accommodate as many as 1,500 people with its 3 floors and 2 underground floors. Various genres of arts including musicals, concerts, ballet, and modern dance will be performed at the center.

The weightlifting stadium in Olympic Park was transformed into Woori Financial Art Hall, a modernized musical theater with 1,260 seats. The Charlotte Musical Center, another art hall with its interior and exterior of medieval European design, performs more than 1,000 musicals a year.

Hanseong Baekje Culture Festival

In celebration of the area's historical significance during the Baekje Kingdom, Songpa has held the Hanseong Baekje Culture Festival in Olympic Park almost every year in September since 1994. Festival activities include a history and culture street parade, Baekje culture experience events, folk performances and a Baekje costume show. Designated as a culture festival by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in 2008, Hanseong Baekje Culture Festival has become one of Korea's representative festivals. Furthermore, Songpa District is planning to build a Hanseong Baekje Museum, which will feature antiques and remains from prehistoric ages, the Hanseong Baekje period, and the era of Three States, so that visitors can better understand Songpa's 2,000-year history.

More detailed information can be found at: http://hanseong.songpa.go.kr/

Local events

In spring, more than 25,000 people attend the "Seokchon Lake and Seongnae Stream Festival", a day dedicated to enjoying local blossoming cherry trees, which were planted and raised by the residents. In the festival, people enjoy musical concerts and participate in a cherry blossom road walking event, a photo contest, and a writing contest.

Dano is a traditional holiday on the fifth day of the fifth month of the calendar, when ancestors used to pray for a good harvest for the year. Among the most enjoyable traditional plays are seesawing and Pungmulnori. Koreans celebrate the first full moon day of the lunar year when the full moon is the biggest and the brightest, by praying for their hopes. Traditional activities include a bridge-treading rite, a tug of war, and a Catherine wheel game.

Performance

Following its ecological restoration, Seokchon Lake and Seongnae Stream became an eco-friendly park where residents enjoy both the beautiful nature and artistic performances in diverse genres including classical music, opera, jazz, dance, and fusion performed on the waterside stage.

Korea's traditional folk song performance is staged on every Sunday in Seoul Nori Madang. People enjoy traditional folk plays designated as intangible culture assets like farm band, masked dance, classical dance, farm music, and other folk songs. The domed hall accommodates 2,500 spectators, and performances are staged for four seasons.

"Suyo-mudae" stages noble artistic performances like plays, operas, and musicals every Wednesday in Songpa Gumin Hall, run by Songpa District.