[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marbella City Council dissolution

e been to call fresh elections that would create a council serving less than a full term (because, unlike that of the general election, the date of local elections is fixed at the same for all Spanish municipalities), but the Electoral Regime Organic Act explicitly states, in its 183rd article, that

In the case of Local Corporation dissolution by agreement of the Council of Ministers, as outlined in the basic legislation of local regime, elections shall be called for the constitution of a new Corporation in at most three months, except when its term would extend less than a year from the date it would convene for the first time. While the new Corporation is assembled or the term of the dissolved one expires, the ordinary management of its duties will be assigned to a Management Committee appointed by the Provincial Legislature or, instead, the competent institution of the correspondent Autonomous Community. {...}

Calls for elections
PP leader Mariano Rajoy repeatedly requested the Government to invoke article 50 of the  Public Administrations Juridic Regime and Common Administrative Procedure Act 1992, which allows, under special circumstances, to cut most of the terms involved in the election process in half. Such an action would place the new Council constitution date before the May 27 deadline imposed by the electoral law, so an election could have been held. He based his calls on the grounds that:
 The provincial assembly of Málaga, which would appoint the committee, is dominated by PSOE and IU, so the impartiality of the new committee is not guaranteed.
 Many PSOE councillors, including the one that ran for mayor in the last election, are in prison, while none of the PP councillors are known to be involved in the corruption. Polls suggest that, if elections were held now, the PP would win a majority in the council, up from its previous third force status after the (now defunct) GIL and the PSOE, so the new Corporation would be dominated by a party that is thought, as of today, corruption-free in Marbella.

On April 6, the Council of State decided against calling an election citing the time pressure as the determinant factor. The PP, nevertheless, proposed to modify the current election law to ease such restrains, citing this as "the most democratic path of action, consulting the people" and criticizing the PSOE government for its "lack of will to solve the problem" and its "focus on partisan interests above the people's". The same day, demonstrations demanding elections took place in Marbella.

Management committee formation
The next day, after a surprising government crisis caused by Defence Minister José Bono removal on his own request, the Council of Ministers agreed to issue Royal Decree 421/2006, dissolving the City Council of Marbella and commanding the Málaga provincial legislature to appoint the management committee.

In response to Rajoy's declarations, Public Administrations Minister Jordi Sevilla announced that, as mandated by Royal Decree 707/1982, the Committee members' political affiliation would be the same as the substituted councillors', that is, the balance of power would mimic the 2003 election excluding the GIL, which had the majority with 15 councillors but had since then ceased to exist. Since the PSOE got 5 councillors in the election, the PP 4 and the PA 3, no party should hold a majority in the committee. The agreement reached by the parties with representation in the Málaga provincial legislature finally did change the 2003 power balance: the socialists appointed 6 members (amongst them the President), the same as the PP, while the PA and IU were represented by 2 members each, for a total of 16.

Normalization
The appointed management committee ruled the city since early April 2006, its powers formally ending when the new Council elected in May 2007 was sworn in on June 16, so the citizens of Marbella were governed by unelected politicians for about one year and one month. In the 2007 election, the People's Party won a majority share of both the popular vote (50.5%) and the council (16 councilors of 27), and has ruled the city since. 

Marbella
2006 in Spain
2006 in politics