[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# HiPER

earch
In 2005 HiPER completed a preliminary study outlining possible approaches and arguments for its construction. The report received positive reviews from the EC in July 2007, and moved onto a preparatory design phase in early 2008 with detailed designs for construction beginning in 2011 or 2012.

In parallel, the HiPER project also proposes to build smaller laser systems with higher repetition rates. The high-powered flash lamps used to pump the laser amplifier glass causes it to deform, and it cannot be fired again until it cools off, which takes as long as a day. Additionally only a very small amount of the flash of white light generated by the tubes is of the right frequency to be absorbed by the Nd:glass and thus lead to amplification, in general only about 1 to 1.5% of the energy fed into the tubes ends up in the laser beam.

Key to avoiding these problems is replacing the flash lamps with more efficient pumps, typically based on laser diodes. These are far more efficient at generating light from electricity, and thus run much cooler. More importantly, the light they do generate is fairly monochromatic and can be tuned to frequencies that can be easily absorbed. This means that much less power needs to be used to produce any particular amount of laser light, further reducing the overall amount of heat being generated. The improvement in efficiency can be dramatic; existing experimental devices operate at about 10% overall efficiency, and it is believed "near term" devices will improve this as high as 20%.

Current status
Further research in the fast ignition approach cast serious doubt on its future. By 2013, the US National Academy of Sciences concluded that it was no longer a worthwhile research direction, stating "At this time, fast ignition appears to be a less promising approach for IFE than other ignition concepts."

See also

 Laser Mégajoule

References

Bibliography
 Mike Dunne et al., "HiPER Technical Background and Conceptual Design Report 2007", June 2007
 Mike Dunne et al., "HiPER: a laser fusion facility for Europe", 2005
 Edwin Cartlidge, "Europe plans laser-fusion facility", Physics World, 2 September 2005

External links
 HiPER Project – Project home page
 Fast track to fusion – includes an image of the gold-cone approach
 Hydrodynamic Instability Experiments at the GEKKO XII/HIPER Laser – the Japanese experiment of the same name, for comparison
 Laser vision fuels energy future – BBC news report
 Professor Mike Dunne, Director of the UK's Central Laser Facility, on European plans for creating fusion energy, Ingenia magazine, December 2007
 HiPER Power – Article on physics.org, August 2009

Nuclear research institutes
Inertial confinement fusion research lasers
Energy in the European Union