[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adam Smith College

f.  The senior staff of the board of governors were the principal, Dr. Craig Thomson, and the chairman of the board, Graham Johnstone.
 
Following this three board members, including the vice chair, resigned, as did the principal's secretary, the secretary of the board, and the vice principal of HR.

In response, the college's staff appealed to the Government Cabinet Secretary for Education Michael Russell to step in and act upon the findings of the investigations, and also suspend the principal and the board of governors, while a “transparent investigation by an independent third party” is carried out into their actions.

On 26 January 2012 the Interested Parties of Adam Smith College group launched the ItsOurCollegeNotCraigs website, which allowed staff and public to comment on the situation and sign a petition to the Government.  The Government Minister David Torrance was one of the first to comment on the site, encouraging any staff to contact him in confidence.

From 26 January 2012 the agenda and minutes of the board since June 2011 were not available on the college's web site, which was a requirement of the Constitution and Standing Orders of the board of governors.

On 27 January 2012, after an emergency board meeting, the chairman of the board resigned.

On 28 January 2012 these events were reported in the national press,

Government Minister David Torrance confirmed that he had been inundated by complaints from staff for months regarding bullying, intimidation, and financial misappropriation, and that the board and staff resignations had occurred.  He said “I have arranged a meeting with the Cabinet Secretary for Education Michael Russell to call on a full external enquiry into these allegations..”

An Adam Smith College spokesman confirmed that two executive directors were already being investigated, saying “These are being fully investigated and will comply with our official procedures."

References

External links
 
 BBC News- "Finishing touches for new college"
 Adam Smith College Students' Association

Education in Fife
Universities and colleges established in 2005
Further education colleges in Scotland
Kirkcaldy
2005 establishments in Scotland
Educational institutions disestablished in 2013
2013 disestablishments in Scotland