[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ebrahim Hatamikia

a. As Hamid Naficy notes, the film deals with the crisis of reintegrating war veterans into a society that nearly a decade after the war's end seems apathetic to their plight. in addition to criticize the government, it critiques society, which revered the soldiers but now wants to get on with life.

In Amethyst Color (2005) was banned from screening by the order of the Ministry of Intelligence because the film depicts the image of a security official. His other film, Dead Wave (2001) was also prohibited from screening by the demand of military officials. However, that both films were screened in Iranian cinemas at a later time. Despite the IRGC's strong footprint on post-revolutionary cinema, many of Iran's most important directors such as Ebrahim Hatamikia, Rasoul Mollagholipour, , and Ahmad-Reza Darvish, who were products of this system of support, have increasingly moved away from the war movies promoted by the IRGC. The situation has reached a point where an important war movie director, Ebrahim Hatamikia publicly criticizes the interference of military personnel in cultural and artistic activities. He talked about this in the press conference for his new film Dead Wave, which has yet to be released despite the fact that it was produced by Ravayat-e Fath Foundation. In fact, reportedly the producer prevented the movie, which is about a military commander obsessed with attacking an American warship who also has problems with his son, from being screened. A very high quality video of this movie was however widely and illegally distributed.

Cinematic style 
As of Richard Peña, The Red Ribbon (1999) reminds a bit of some of the later absurdist dramas by Fernando Arrabal. It is a dense and highly metaphoric drama involving three characters and set in a tank graveyard in the no-man's-land between Iran and Iraq. He aspires to the technical sophistication of Hollywood.

Hatamikia was one of the few war filmmakers with a previous background in Super 8 and animated film production who joined Jihad's Television unit and the IRGC's Audiovisual unit in 1986. He uses the war and its extreme situations as a vehicle to negotiate camouflaged taboo topics. In From Karkheh to Rheine a few veterans doubt about their participation in the war. The television series The Red Soil (2002–2003) momentarily exposes the absurdity of the concept of the nation as a homogeneous entity, with depiction of the confusion around which side of the border belongs on during the Iraqi occupation while portrays in-between spaces of an Iranian Arab and an Iraqi Arab.

His films brilliantly deal with the different and unexpected types of returns. Through the image of exiles seen in From Karkheh to Rhein and The Scent of Joseph's Shirt, Roxanne Varzi notes that the audience come to understand the international scope of the war, and that what binds a nation is so much more than land. Hatamikia believes none Iranian could escape the mark of war, by virtue of association. Therefore, every Iranian takes part in the act of mourning. His films open a new and safe realm for mourning through presenting the nation with its death in a beautiful and artistic way. Aftermore, by influences of Morteza Avini in The Chronicles of Victory (1986–1988) war documentary television series, Hatamikia depicts returning from the imaginary realm through the very visual realm that made that journey possible. At the same time that these films reinstate the importance of faith, they stress the importance of remaining in the realm of the real, with those who are still with us. In The Glass Agency, he envisages martyrdom as the only possible and proper ending for a war veteran. He draw on the themes of the Karbala paradigm, specially martyrdom and self-sacrifice, and employs elements of the Ta'ziyeh. Also, concept of Mostaz'af is present in his films.

In particular, Hatamikia's melodramas have been the hallmark of war films after Morteza Avini's films of the Sacred Defense. Hatamikia's films centered on the trauma of war veterans and the destitute lives they have lived in the post-war period, while Avini's films promoted the heroism of soldiers and the necessity of fighting for the Islamic Republic, however both directors have upheld a somber vision of the war hero.