[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Dimitri Payet

Bremen, losing 3–2 on aggregate. Payet appeared as a substitute in both legs. Due to focusing its efforts on performing well in four competitions, Saint-Étienne finished one spot short of relegation in the league. On 22 July 2009, Payet signed a two-year contract extension with the club until 2013.

In the 2009–10 season, Payet remained consistent appearing in 35 league matches scoring two goals and providing six assists. He also performed well in the cup competitions, particularly in the Coupe de France. On 24 January 2010, he scored a double in 4–1 victory over Lorient. Two weeks later, he scored the winner against Vannes. Saint-Étienne ultimately reached the quarter-finals losing to Lens. On 18 May 2010, Payet was involved in a physical altercation with teammate and captain Blaise Matuidi during the team's 1–0 defeat to Toulouse. Midway through the first half, Payet received criticism from teammate Yohan Benalouane for displaying a lack of aggression. He was then confronted by Matuidi, who echoed Benalouane's sentiments. Payet and Matuidi suddenly went face-to-face with the former player delivering a blow to Matuidi's head before the two were separated by referee Bruno Coue and teammates. As a result of the incident, Payet was substituted out after 31 minutes and sanctioned by club president Roland Romeyer. Payet apologized for the incident shortly after. On 6 October 2010, following both Payet and Matuidi's call up to the national team, Payet described the incident as "an argument that had no place" and that "the incident was explained and the two were on new ground". Matuidi described the altercation as a "lack of maturity" on both players part.

After the summer, Payet put the past behind him and opened the 2010–11 season by scoring seven goals in the first two months of domestic play. On 7 August 2010, he scored in the team's opening 3–1 defeat to Paris Saint-Germain. On 29 August 2010, Payet scored his first professional hat-trick in a 3–1 victory over Lens. After the international break, he scored a double against Montpellier. On 25 September, Payet delivered a perfect free-kick goal in the team's Derby du Rhône match against Lyon. The free-kick, described by local media as "superb and untouchable", was the only goal in the team's upset victory. The win placed Saint-Étienne in first place for the week. For his performances, Payet was awarded the UNFP Player of the Month award for September. Due to his performances domestically and international, Payet drew interest from several clubs, notably English clubs Chelsea and Liverpool. In January 2011, he was linked with a move to Paris Saint-Germain as the Parisian club looked to immediately replace the departed Stéphane Sessègnon. Payet sought for the move, but Saint-Étienne refused. Ahead of the closure of the transfer window, a frustrated Payet failed to show up to training in an effort to force the transfer. After returning to the team days later, Payet was demoted to the club's reserve team ahead of the team's league match against Montpellier on 5 February 2011.

Payet returned to Saint-Étienne's line-up for the following match against Lyon on 12 February. In his last 14 matches of 2010–11, Payet scored five goals and also registered a further three assists. He ended the season with 13 goals, making him Les Verts top scorer.

Lille

On 28 June 2011, Saint-Étienne manager Christophe Galtier confirmed that Payet was on the verge of signing with the defending league champions Lille after the player himself informed him the previous day. Hours later, the move was confirmed by both Saint-Étienne and Lille. Payet agreed to a four-year contract, while the transfer fee was priced at €9 million with future incentives to be included later.

Payet debuted for Lille in a 5–4 Trophée des Champions loss to Marseille at the Stade Ibn Batouta in Morocco on 27 July 2011. His Ligue 1 debut for the club came in the 2011–12 season opener against Nancy on 6 August. On 15 October, Payet scored his first goal for the club in a 3–1 win at Auxerre. Three days later, Payet made his UEFA Champions League debut as a 62nd-minute substitute for Benoît Pedretti in Lille's 1–0 home loss to Italian club Internazionale.

Payet ended his first season at Lille with six goals and six assists, starting in 23 of the team's 38 league matches.

In his second season at the Stade Pierre-Mauroy, after the sale of Eden Hazard to Chelsea, Payet established himself as a regular in Lille's attack, starting all but one of the team's Ligue 1 matches. At the season's winter break, Payet was recognised by the Ligue de Football Professionnel as the league's highest assist-maker, with 7 in the team's 19 matches. He had also reached six goals at the halfway stage, having scored in each of Lille's three matches prior to the winter break.