[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Cassinga

o insurgents operating in central and eastern Ovamboland were undertaken from Cassinga.  Medical treatment of the seriously wounded as well as the repair of equipment and the assembly of newly trained insurgents on their way to bases in the East and West Cunene Provinces all took place in Cassinga."

By 1978, PLAN's presence had attracted the attention of the South African Defence Force. Executing a massive external raid (dubbed Operation Reindeer) involving paratroops of the 44 Parachute Regiment supported by bomber and strike aircraft, South Africa briefly occupied Cassinga on 4 May 1978. The assault, which left sixty Cuban military advisers and over five hundred South West African exiles dead, is now called Battle of Cassinga has been subject to international controversy. Angolan officials subsequently flew in a team of international journalists who photographed mass graves on site, verifying several bodies as women and children in civilian dress. Indignant at claims that its personnel had committed a war crime, the SADF continued to maintain that the defenders were uniformed PLAN combatants. The Angolan government counted 624 dead and 611 injured civilians as well as combatants. Among the dead were 167 women and 298 teenagers and children. Since many of the combatants were female or teenagers, and many combatants did not wear uniforms, the exact number of civilians among the dead could not be established. A secret report to the SWAPO Central Committee listed 582 dead and 400 wounded.

The Namibians abandoned the camp after the attacks and moved their headquarters to Lubango.  the site of the battle is still partly mined, and the mass graves have fallen into disrepair.

Cassinga was the site of more fighting during Operation Askari, in late 1983. After driving back several Angolan units with air support and mechanised infantry, the SADF finally occupied the area for the second time on 22 December.

Railway 
Japanese interests wish to reopen the iron ore mine and link it by rail to the Namibian port of Walvis Bay, this being the most efficient port in the region.
This railway would go via Oshikango on Namibia's northern border.

See also 
 Cassinga Day, a national holiday in Namibia honouring those killed during the Battle of Cassinga.
 Railway stations in Angola
 Transport in Angola
 Iron ore in Africa

References

Explanations

Notes

Literature

External links 
 MBendi – Angola - Mining: Iron Ore Mining
 Saco Map

Battle of Cassinga
Populated places in Huíla Province
Communes in Huíla Province
Mining communities in Africa
Mining in Angola