[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fragile state

ing vulnerability and increasing resilience to internal and external shocks. In this way, fragile states exhibit a series of similar threats as failed states, but at a markedly lower magnitude. Their failures are an effective omen of what is to come if their administrative course remains unaltered. 

Followed by many donor countries and international organisations and institutions, this approach has led to debate within academia and beyond. Some scholars deem the categorisation of states as fragile as useful, highlighting the potential to predict state collapse and assess the many possibilities to prevent it. Two main criticisms of this notion exist: I) the potential of abuse of the category of state fragility, legitimising external intervention at the expense of the local agency; II) the analytical utility of the categorization effort itself is disputed, with the state-centric grouping together of a wide range of diverse countries leading to highly standardised development responses that cannot take into account often highly divergent political, economic and social conditions.

Indicators
The following factors are used by Fund For Peace to ascertain the status of a country.

Social
 Mounting demographic pressures and tribal, ethnic and/or religious conflicts.
 Massive internal and external displacement of refugees, creating severe humanitarian emergencies.
 Widespread vengeance-seeking group grievances.
 Chronic and sustained human flight.

Economic
 Widespread corruption
 High economic inequality
 Uneven economic development along group lines.
 Severe economic decline.

Political
 Delegitimization of the state.
 Deterioration of public services.
 Suspension or arbitrary application of law; widespread human rights abuses.
 Security forces operating as a "state within a state" often with impunity.
 Rise of factionalized elites.
 Intervention of external political agents and foreign states.

Intergovernmental organisations
Fragile states and post-conflict countries have participated in many intergovernmental groups and associations since the Second World War, including the Group of 77 and regional groups such as ASEAN and the African Union. However until recently countries affected by conflict had no dedicated international platform. In 2010 the g7+ was founded by a group of post-conflict countries to better represent their interests on the international stage. The g7+ is an intergovernmental organisation bringing together countries that have recent experience of conflict. The group aims to draw attention to the special challenges faced by fragile states, provides a platform for conflict-affected countries to come together to discuss their shared development challenges, and advocates for better international policies to address the needs of conflict-affected countries. The g7+ has created own index for measuring state fragility, identifying five clusters (political legitimacy, justice, security, economic foundation, revenue and services), which are located on a fragility spectrum consisting of five stages. Main differences with other indices are constituted by privileged role of individual, state-specific characteristics and self- rather than external assessment. It is important to remember, however, that concepts such as a "State Fragility Index" are affirmatively placed in a philosophical tradition that places a strong emphasis on the inherent "goodness" of state formation. Therefore, it should be viewed NOT as a strictly value-neutral metric, but simply as an administrative one.

Origins  

American international studies professor Joel Migdal looked into the relationship between state and society, where there is a disparity between the officially announced policies and the actual distribution of state resources. The list of countries included India, Mexico, Egypt and Sierra Leone etc. He traced this disparity to the lack of social control by the government - “the actual ability to make the operative rules of the game for people in the society." This not only includes existence of government agencies over the territory and extraction of resources but also the ability to appropriate resources and to regulate people's behavior.

Migdal stated the expansion of European economy and world trade in the 19th century led to drastic changes in people's strategies of survival in countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America. State policies enforced by Europeans, including land tenure laws, taxation and new modes of transportation, changed people's life situation and needs in these countries rapidly and deeply.  Old rewards, sanctions and symbols became irrelevant under the new situation and previous social control and institutions were eroded.