[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Parlement Jeunesse du Québec

The Parlement jeunesse du Québec (PJQ) is one of a number of provincial youth parliaments across Canada. Each year, about a hundred of young participants, aged between 18 and 25, meet up in Quebec to discuss and debate like the real politicians. It aims to reproduce the functioning of the parliament of Quebec, the National Assembly of Quebec. Indeed, like the real parliament, the PJQ has its majority party that forms the government, led by the Premier, as well as the official opposition, led by the Leader of Opposition.

While similar in many ways to the National Assembly of Quebec, the PJQ also has many differences that distinguish it from the real parliament. The main one is that there is no vote by party (In the British parliamentary tradition, deputies are required to vote with their party, or else they face expulsion). In other words, deputies from each party are free to vote for what they truly believe, and the Opposition can even agree with the decisions of the Government. This allows more genuine debates and participants have a special opportunity of expressing their ideas without being held back by their party.

The PJQ is organized by the Quebecer Association of the Young Parliament Members inc (Association québécoise des jeunes parlementaires [AQJP]), a non-profit organization that is financed by the participation fees, by governmental subsidies, and by private sponsors.

Rules of procedures 

The Parlement jeunesse du Québec aims at reproducing as precisely as possible the proper functioning of the Parliament of Quebec. A fictive party with the majority of the house forms the government and the Premier at its head is facing the leader of the official opposition and his parliamentary group.

The absence of party discipline 

The Parlement jeunesse du Québec has nevertheless distinctive elements with regards to the authentic National Assembly. The major one is the absence of party discipline, which enables a member of the governmental party to freely vote against a bill initiated by the executive and presented by a minister of his own party. Likewise, a member of parliament from the opposition can freely support governmental bills. In addition, the ministerial solidarity does not exist.

Those particularities aim at providing a better chance to every member of the simulation to speak their mind on the projects and participate in freer, more inclusive debates.

Legislative menu 

For each edition of the parliamentary simulation, four bills are written, presented and defended by their fictive minister. As in the real legislative framework, a shadow minister of the official opposition has the responsibility of passing criticism on the project as well as offering alternative policies. All members of the parliamentary simulation are assigned, based on their preferences, to a commission that will examine more closely one of the four debated pieces of legislation. Members of parliamentary commissions can propose amendments to the bill, in accordance with the governing "principle" of the latter. Accordingly, they have to conduct research on their particular topic and read the provided documentation beforehand to properly fulfill their role. In addition to the four bills presented by the ministers, four members of the opposition have the opportunity to present a motion, consisting in a short proposition of approximately 3 paragraphs addressing a limited and accessible issue and giving way to a 30 minutes debate.

Language 

The main language of the simulation is French, as all the written documentation is published in French and mostly all of the interventions are made in French during the debates. However, following the same rule that applies at the National Assembly of Quebec, all participants are free to express their point of view in the idiom of their choice, even though no translation services are provided.

History

The 1950s 
Religion at the core of debates