[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2001 in Zimbabwe

the country's major tea and coffee estates.
 28 April – Still no arrests three months after Daily News press bombings
Minister of Youth, Border Gezi, dies in a car crash.
 30 April – Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies move their seven expatriate families out of Zimbabwe, fearing for their safety.

May
 Three people are murdered in political violence in May 2001.
 1 May – War veteran Joseph Chinotimba invades May Day celebrations and takes over the proceedings, says companies in Bulawayo will be named for invasions by his colleagues.
 4 May – Economists predict that Z$8.5 billion will be needed to import grain into Zimbabwe; 40 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by the government; MDC activists are kidnapped and beaten in Masvingo.
 6 May – Riot police seal off high-density suburbs in Masvingo as political violence breaks out. MDC supporters are arrested and have their car impounded.
 8 May – Agriculture Minister Joseph Made announces that all wheat exports have immediately been suspended. Made continues to insist that wheat stocks are adequate and no grain will have to be imported; violent clashes take place in Masvingo between MDC and ZANU–PF supporters led by Chenjerai Hunzvi, and 13 people are injured.
 10 May – The British Council closes its Library and Information Department Offices in Harare for safety reasons; the World Press Freedom Campaign urges the Zimbabwean government to ensure the safety of journalists; Information Minister Jonathon Moyo says government will not order a halt to company invasions by war veterans.
 11 May – Eighty-one farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by the government; the world-famous Gonarezhou National Park, which is state-owned land, is demarcated into plots for agricultural resettlement; the French ambassador to Zimbabwe publicly condemns invasions of companies by war veterans.
 14 May – Mayoral elections in Masvingo are won by the MDC candidate.
 16 May – War veterans invade Speciss College in Harare.
 18 May – Some war veterans are arrested on charges of invading companies, but their leaders are not touched, in what is seen as a cover-up operation; one of those arrested, Mike Moyo, says Chinotimba and Hunzvi have benefited financially from the invasions and threatens to reveal them; Mike Moyo is released from police custody; 19 farms are listed for compulsory acquisition by the government.
 23 May – The house of Willias Madzimure, politician, is attacked by war veterans. The youth of the Movement for Democratic Change move into the area to protect the house.
 24 May – The Danish embassy suspends Z$100 million aid for private sector partnerships in Zimbabwe; Chenjerai Hunzvi is said to be recovering in hospital after collapsing in Bulawayo; the war veterans association denies reports that Hunzvi has died.
 25 May – Chenjerai Hunzvi is transferred to Parirenyatwa Hospital in Harare and said to be suffering from malaria.
 26 May – Defence Minister Moven Mahachi dies in a car crash near Nyanga; five other people in the car at the time only sustain minor injuries.
 27 May – MDC council election candidate is kidnapped and assaulted by ZANU–PF supporters; he still wins the election in Plumtree for the MDC.
 29 May – ZANU–PF supporters attack six homes, burn possessions and assault people they suspect of supporting the MDC in Bindura; the CFU says maize production has dropped by 43 per cent and predicts a deficit of 600 000 tonnes.
 30 May – US Secretary of State, Colin Powell, speaks out strongly against President Mugabe and urges South Africa to do likewise.
 31 May – Government officials including police, CIO and municipal workers are implicated in a land scam in which resettled people paid them Z$10 million in order to be allocated plots of land in Matabeleland; the CFU withdraws all litigation against the government and announces the formation of the Zimbabwe Joint Resettlement Initiative with Z$1 billion offered in aid for resettled people.