[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Conservatism in Australia

.

Newspapers and other publications owned by News Corp have been accused of adopting anti-Labor political positions. The publications owned by News Corp include The Australian, The Daily Telegraph, The Mercury, The Advertiser and The Courier-Mail. Sky News is also owned by News Corp.

Monarchism

 

Whether Australia should remain a monarchy or become a republic was a contentious issue in the 1990s. It has since not been a priority for the government as of 2019. In 1998 when debate peaked, Howard took the monarchist position favoured by most conservatives. Howard argued that the monarchy had provided a long period of stability and whilst he said there was no question that Australia was a fully independent nation, he believed that the "separation of the ceremonial and executive functions of government" and the presence of a neutral "defender of constitutional integrity" was an advantage in government and that no republican model would be as effective in providing such an outcome as the Australian constitutional monarchy. Despite opinion polls suggesting Australians favoured a republic, the 1999 republic referendum rejected the model proposed by the 1998 convention involving appointment of the head of state by Parliament. Conservatives generally support keeping the current flag (with its British insignia) and are proud of the nation's British heritage.

 Aboriginal conservatism in Australia 
Traditionally, Aboriginal Australians in cities have been known to predominantly vote for parties of the political left, such as the Australian Labor Party or the Australian Greens. Despite this, there are numerous Aboriginal activists, politicians and individuals affiliated with the political right. The most prominent Aboriginal Conservative was Neville Bonner who was the first Aboriginal Australian elected to federal Parliament. In the Northern Territory, the Country Liberal Party has had a fluctuating relationship with the state's Indigenous communities (even providing Australia's first Indigenous head of government, Adam Giles) and holds several of the territory's electorates with large Aboriginal populations.

Jacinta Price is a well-known conservative activist of Warlpiri descent who was elected to the Senate for the Country Liberal Party representing Northern Territory in 2022. Price has argued against claims of systemic racism against Aboriginals in the criminal justice system, instead arguing that "black-on-black violence" is most pressing in Aboriginal communities. Unlike many Aboriginal activists, Price opposes changing the date of Australia Day, describing the proposal as "virtue-signaling".

Originally a member of Labor, former Indigenous Advisory Council (IAC) member Warren Mundine has since shifted toward the political right. Mundine has criticised what he describes as efforts to introduce "critical race theory" in Australian schools, arguing it promotes a victim mentality among Aboriginals.

Former Aboriginal conservative politicians include:
 Adam Giles – Served as the Chief Minister of the Northern Territory (2013–2016).
 Joanna Lindgren – A former Liberal National Senator for Queensland (2015–2016).
 Hyacinth Tungutalum – The first  Aboriginal Australian elected to a State or Territorial parliament; member of the Country Liberal Party (1974–1977).
 Bess Price – A former Northern Territory Minister for Community Services; member of the Country Liberal Party (2012–2016)
 Eric Deeral – Queensland MP representing the Country Party (1974–1977)

See also

 Christian politics in Australia
 History wars
 Liberalism in Australia
 Socialism in Australia

References

Bibliography
 
 
 
 
 

Further reading
 Hirst, John, "Conservatism," in Graeme Davison et al. eds., The Oxford Companion to Australian History '' (2nd ed. 2001) pp 148–50

 
Political movements in Australia