[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 49]
# The Republic — Plato

waiting in the square
before his quarters near the river, keeping his men in order and
drilling them—signalled with his eye to Don Michelle, to whom the care
of Oliverotto had been committed, that he should take measures that
Oliverotto should not escape. Therefore Don Michele rode off and joined
Oliverotto, telling him that it was not right to keep his men out of
their quarters, because these might be taken up by the men of the duke;
and he advised him to send them at once to their quarters and to come
himself to meet the duke. And Oliverotto, having taken this advice,
came before the duke, who, when he saw him, called to him; and
Oliverotto, having made his obeisance, joined the others.

So the whole party entered Sinigalia, dismounted at the duke’s
quarters, and went with him into a secret chamber, where the duke made
them prisoners; he then mounted on horseback, and issued orders that
the men of Oliverotto and the Orsini should be stripped of their arms.
Those of Oliverotto, being at hand, were quickly settled, but those of
the Orsini and Vitelli, being at a distance, and having a presentiment
of the destruction of their masters, had time to prepare themselves,
and bearing in mind the valour and discipline of the Orsinian and
Vitellian houses, they stood together against the hostile forces of the
country and saved themselves.

But the duke’s soldiers, not being content with having pillaged the men
of Oliverotto, began to sack Sinigalia, and if the duke had not
repressed this outrage by killing some of them they would have
completely sacked it. Night having come and the tumult being silenced,
the duke prepared to kill Vitellozzo and Oliverotto; he led them into a
room and caused them to be strangled. Neither of them used words in
keeping with their past lives: Vitellozzo prayed that he might ask of
the pope full pardon for his sins; Oliverotto cringed and laid the
blame for all injuries against the duke on Vitellozzo. Pagolo and the
Duke di Gravina Orsini were kept alive until the duke heard from Rome
that the pope had taken the Cardinal Orsino, the Archbishop of
Florence, and Messer Jacopo da Santa Croce. After which news, on 18th
January 1502, in the castle of Pieve, they also were strangled in the
same way.




THE LIFE OF CASTRUCCIO CASTRACANI OF LUCCA

WRITTEN BY NICOLO MACHIAVELLI

And sent to his friends ZANOBI BUONDELMONTI And LUIGI ALAMANNI

CASTRUCCIO CASTRACANI 1284-1328


It appears, dearest Zanobi and Luigi, a wonderful thing to those who
have considered the matter, that all men, or the larger number of them,
who have performed great deeds in the world, and excelled all others in
their day, have had their birth and beginning in baseness and
obscurity; or have been aggrieved by Fortune in some outrageous way.
They have either been exposed to the mercy of wild beasts, or they have
had so mean a parentage that in shame they have given themselves out to
be sons of Jove or of some other deity. It would be wearisome to relate
who these persons may have been because they are well known to
everybody, and, as such tales would not be particularly edifying to
those who read them, they are omitted. I believe that these lowly
beginnings of great men occur because Fortune is desirous of showing to
the world that such men owe much to her and little to wisdom, because
she begins to show her hand when wisdom can really take no part in
their career: thus all success must be attributed to her. Castruccio
Castracani of Lucca was one of those men who did great deeds, if he is
measured by the times in which he lived and the city in which he was
born; but, like many others, he was neither fortunate nor distinguished
in his birth, as the course of this history will show. It appeared to
be desirable to recall his memory, because I have discerned in him such
indications of valour and fortune as should make him a great exemplar
to men. I think also that I ought to call your attention to his
actions, because you of all men I know delight most in noble deeds.

The family of Castracani was formerly numbered among the noble families
of Lucca, but in the days of which I speak it had somewhat fallen in
estate, as so often happens in this world. To this family was born a
son Antonio, who became a priest of the order of San Michele of Lucca,
and for this reason was honoured with the title of Messer Antonio. He
had an only sister, who had been married to Buonaccorso Cenami, but
Buonaccorso dying she became a widow, and not wishing to marry again
went to live with her brother. Messer Antonio had a vineyard behind the
house where he resided, and as it was bounded on all sides by gardens,
any person could have access to it without difficulty. One morning,
shortly after sunrise, Madonna Dianora, as the sister of Messer Antonio
was called, had occasion to go into the vineyard as usual to gather
herbs for seasoning the dinner, and hearing a slight