[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Cyberbots: Full Metal Madness

Cyberbots: Fullmetal Madness, released in Japan as simply , is a fighting game developed and published by Capcom in 1995. It is a spin-off of the beat'em up game Armored Warriors. Cyberbots was ported to the Sega Saturn and the PlayStation. The game only saw limited distribution in arcades outside Japan. With the exception of the untranslated PlayStation Network release, none of the console ports were released overseas. A port of Cyberbots: Fullmetal Madness is included in Capcom Fighting Collection on Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, Windows, and Xbox One.

Gameplay 
The premise in Cyberbots is similar to Armored Warriors, albeit it features a maximum of two playable characters on screen as opposed to three. Similar to the Armored Core series, different legs (which affect movement abilities), arms (which affect reach and melee capabilities) and weapons can be mixed and matched between the selectable robots available to the player. Gameplay in Cyberbots is similar to other Capcom-created fighting games, with a medium-sized command list of executing various attacks available to each individual robot. Battles are a duel-formatted affair with players and the computer fighting against one another to proceed to the next battle.

Each robot also has a gauge which is charged with energy every time it hits an opponent or the attack buttons are pressed simultaneously. Once the gauge is fully charged, the player can execute a "super special".

Plot
In the game the player first chooses the pilot and then the mecha (Valiant/Variant Armor or VA for short) they'll use to fight. The mechas determine the gameplay of the game, but the pilot is what determines the storyline the player will see. Near the end of the 21st century Earth begins to become over populated leading to many people living in man made space colonies. The primary army of Earth, "Earth Force", has been conducting experiments and their work, along with the actions of the playable characters will determine the future of Earth.

Characters

Playable characters
Jin Saotome voiced by: Tōru Furuya (game proper), Yuji Ueda (Marvel vs Capcom 2) - Jin's father (Ken Saotome) was killed in an accident one year before. To honor his memory he seeks to become the best VA pilot alive and wants to prove his worth through the VA battle circuit. He begins to question his father's death after meeting SHADE for the first time. Jin's mood goes from calm to rage within seconds, but he remains a good person. He is also friends with Gawaine Murdock. Jin appears in the Marvel vs. Capcom series and Tech Romancer as a playable character. He also makes a cameo in Hawkeye's ending in Ultimate Marvel vs. Capcom 3 as a member of his West Coast Avengers. His main mech is BX-02 Blodia. Blodia appears in PTX-40A's ending in Tatsunoko vs. Capcom: Ultimate All-Stars.
Santana Laurence Voiced by: Kiyoyuki Yanada - Santana is a self-centered loner who makes a living scrounging up parts for VA's and sometimes working as a mercenary. In the past he was the leader of the proud Mars Revolution. Santana knows SHADE and Gawaine. He's likely just an old friend of Gawaine, but he fought SHADE on Mars during the revolution. He's also a bit of a narcissist and a womanizer. Santana also has a cameo appearance in PTX-40A's ending in Tatsunoko vs. Capcom: Ultimate All-Stars.
Mary Miyabi Voiced by: Hisako Takayama - She is the only female Captain of Earth Force. When a prisoner escapes she is sent to retrieve him/her and bring them back immediately. While pursuing the prisoner she finds out more about the dealings of Earth Force and turns against them after meeting Arieta, Bao and Mao. She was trained by retired soldier, Gawaine Murdock. Aside for a soft side for children she is the typical soldier. She pilots the RF-004 Reptos.
Gawaine Murdock Voiced by: Tesshō Genda - Gawaine was a captain of Earth Force who retired at age 63 after the deaths of his men in a training accident. He lives in seclusion from everyone while trying to live out his final days in peace and quiet. He returns after Earth Force begins making trouble. Gawaine was Mary's captain when she was still lieutenant, a close friend of the Saotome family and good friend to SHADE in the past before SHADE was turned into a cyborg. He pilots the GP-N1 Guldin.
Arieta Voiced by: Mika Kanai - Earth Force kidnapped children and used them for experiments. Arieta escaped after seeing her friends die in their labs. She doesn't know exactly what Earth Force is trying to do, her only concern is escaping the torture that she had to endure. Without any friends to turn to for help so she runs without knowing where to go. A naturally kind hearted person, she seems to win over anyone she meets, except for SHADE and Devilotte.
Bao and Mao Voiced by: Kappei Yamaguchi (Bao); Kae Araki (Mao) - They are siblings that have been caught by Earth Force. They escape and find a VA that's programmed for self-defense. Even though they have no piloting experience, the VA still