[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chris Koster

ed an amicus brief opposing the individual mandate in the Affordable Care Act under the Commerce Clause. He filed a second amicus brief suggesting that the individual mandate could be upheld under Congress' ability to lay and collect taxes, which is how the Supreme Court ruled on the matter in 2012.

In 2012, Koster's staff moved to the Broadway Building in Jefferson City. After this move, a request was made for "repairs, replacements and improvements" on two floors. However, Koster's office was in the Supreme Court Building. Funding for the $3.2 million request came from money recovered from consumer fraud cases. Also in 2012, a report by state auditor Tom Schweich criticized Koster for his practice of awarding contingency fee contracts to law firms that had donated to his campaign.

Second term, 2013–2017 
Koster is an advocate of the death penalty. In July 2013, there were 21 inmates on death row in Missouri whose executions he was pressing the Supreme Court of Missouri to set a date for before the drugs used for lethal injections expired. After the 21 inmates filed suit against the Missouri Department of Corrections over the use of the drug propofol for lethal injections, concerning cruel and unusual punishment, the state Supreme Court temporarily halted the further use of the death penalty until the case was decided. Missouri law allows for the use of lethal gas where lethal injection is not available. While the propofol case was before the Missouri Supreme Court, Koster argued for the use of gas chambers to execute Missouri prisoners.

During his second term, Koster's office defended U.S. District Judge Catherine D. Perry after she denied a motion for temporary restraining orders on six police officers enforcing a "5-second rule" that required demonstrators to move every five seconds or face arrest in Ferguson, Missouri, citing the need for law enforcement's protection of property and the availability of a designated protest area. However, at the time of this ruling, the designated protest area was off-limits to the public. This "5-second rule" was later determined to be unconstitutional by a different federal judge.

In February 2014, Koster filed a suit on behalf of six states challenging California's prohibition on the sale of eggs laid by caged hens kept in conditions more restrictive than those approved by California voters in a 2008 ballot initiative, Proposition 2. In October 2014, Judge Kimberly Mueller dismissed the suit, ruling that the states lacked legal standing to sue on behalf of their residents and that Koster and other plaintiffs were representing only the interests of egg farmers, rather than "a substantial statement of their populations".

Also in October 2014, House Speaker Tim Jones announced plans to investigate charges that Koster took actions in office that were designed to benefit campaign contributors. Some of the actions investigated included: the Simmons Firm donating $100,000 to Koster's campaign in 2012 and both parties suing Republic Services in 2013; Koster ending an inquiry focusing on 5-hour Energy after conversations with a lobbyist for the company who was also a Koster contributor; Koster had negotiating an agreement with Pfizer, another campaign contributor, to pay Missouri $750,000 in connection with a multi-state investigation of illegal marketing practices, about $350,000 less than what the state would have collected had it participated in a joint negotiation with other states.

In Missouri, it is legal for elected officials to accept unlimited campaign contributions and gifts from lobbyists. Despite his position on lobbying reform, Koster rejects the idea of placing limits on the amount of money a corporation or a rich personl could contribute to a campaign. He instead suggests adding more transparency to the existing system. In December 2014, Koster said that he would no longer accept gifts from lobbyists.

During his second term as attorney general, Koster said that he supports same-sex marriage, but defended his state's former constitutional ban on it because voters approved it.

2016 gubernatorial election

In February 2016, Koster filed to run for governor of Missouri. He won the August 2 Democratic primary, but lost the general election to Republican Eric Greitens.

2017–present 
In February 2017, Koster was named Senior Vice President of Corporate Services at Centene Corp. In February 2020, Koster took the position of EVP, Secretary and General Counsel at Centene.

Electoral history

2016 Gubernatorial race

As Attorney General

As state senator

References

Sources
Official Manual, State of Missouri, 2005-2006. Jefferson City, MO: Secretary of State.