[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 in the Philippines

une 11. (AFP)
 June 19 – 900 villagers are evacuated as Mount Bulusan spews ash at Sorsogon. (Manila Standard)
 June 24 – President Arroyo signs the repeal of the death penalty law, as stated in Republic Act No. 9346.
 June 26 – The opposition bloc files impeachment charges against President Arroyo.

July
 July 14 – Mayon Volcano in Albay spews out lava and ash. The Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology raised the alert level from level 1 to level 3, prompting evacuations.
 July 15 – The Professional Regulation Commission admits that there was a leakage of test questions in the June 2006 Nurses Licensure Examination.

 July 24:
 Senator Manuel Villar is elected as the new Senate President, replacing Franklin Drilon at the resumption of the regular session of Congress.
 President Arroyo suspends classes in Metro Manila and other areas due to Typhoon Glenda (international codename: Kaemi).
 On her State of the Nation Address, President Arroyo proposes for the creation of five new super regions, and pushes for constitutional change, among others.

August
 August 7 – Mayon Volcano intensifies its volcanic activity, leading the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology to raise the alert level from level 3 to level 4, which prompted mandatory evacuation procedures.
 August 11 – An oil spill off the coast of Guimaras occurs, causing widespread environmental damage.
 August 16 – The administration block at the Judicial Committee of the House of Representatives junks the last impeachment case against President Arroyo.
 August 24 – The House of Representatives plenary junked the impeachment case against President Arroyo, voting 173–32.
 August 31 – The petition of Sigaw ng Bayan group for a people's initiative for amendments in the constitution is trashed by the Commission on Elections on the basis that there was no enabling law.

September

 September 28 – Typhoon Milenyo causes widespread damage throughout Luzon, causing at least two deaths, destruction to property, suspension of classes and the Metrorail, closing down of government offices, suspension of trading at the Philippine Stock Exchange, the paralyzation of the South Luzon Expressway, cancellation of flights at Ninoy Aquino International Airport and a Luzon-wide blackout.

October
 October 10 – At least six people are killed in a bombing at Makilala, Cotabato during the town fiesta. Earlier in the day, a blast wounded at least four people at Tacurong City.
 October 17 – Supporters of Mayor Jejomar Binay of Makati barricade themselves at the front of city hall as the Department of the Interior and Local Government hands out their suspension order against the Mayor, Vice Mayor and seven councilors.
 October 25 – The Supreme Court, voting 8–7, junks the petition of the Sigaw ng Bayan (Shout of the People) group for a people's initiative in the constitution.
 October 31 – Voters in Maguindanao's 29 municipalities have approved the creation of a new province to be composed of 10 towns, named Shariff Kabunsuan. It became the Philippines’ 80th province and the sixth in the Autonomous Region in Muslim Mindanao.

November

 November 26 – Miss Earth 2006 beauty pageant is hosted in the Philippines at the National Museum Grounds at Manila. Miss Chile wins the pageant.
 November 29 – The House of Representatives loosens it rules on amending the Constitution.

December 

 December 1 – Albay declares a state of calamity has Typhoon Reming causes 198 deaths and counting. 
 December 3  – President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo declares a "state of national calamity" as 406 perished after Typhoon Reming caused several mudslides around Mayon Volcano. 
 December 4 – U.S. Marine Daniel Smith is found guilty in the Subic rape case; Three other U.S. Marines are acquitted.
 December 7 – The House of Representatives passes a resolution calling for a Constituent Assembly, without a concurrent resolution of the Senate.

 December 8:
 Due to Typhoon Seniang threatens Cebu, the 12th ASEAN Summit is postponed.
 Dinagat Islands becomes the 81st province after the voters approved its secession from Surigao del Norte.
 December 10 – Meycauayan becomes a city in the province of Bulacan through ratification of Republic Act 9356 which was approved last October 2.
 December 12 – The House of Representatives backtracks on its plans for a constituent assembly and instead pushed for a constitutional convention.
 December 13 – The National Disaster Coordinating Council revises the death tolls for Typhoon Reming, with 720 dead, 2,360 injured and 762 missing persons.
 December 16 – Abra Representative Luis Bersamin Jr. is gunned down during a wedding ceremony at Quezon City. 
 December 27 – Khadaffy Janjalani's remains are recovered near Patikul, Sulu, by the Philippine military. 
 December 30 – Convicted American serviceman Lance Corporal Daniel Smith is freed from a Makati jail late evening Friday and transferred to the US Embassy on orders of the Philippine government.