[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Powder River

captured over 500 of their horses the next morning, March 18, as no guards for them had been posted. It was not until approximately 1:30 p.m. that day that Reynolds finally rendezvoused with General Crook. The reunited column returned to Fort Fetterman, Wyoming Territory, arriving on March 26, 1876.

Although the Cheyenne and Lakota only suffered several warriors killed, and two to three wounded during the battle, they lost most of their property, and in the words of the warrior Wooden Leg: "The Cheyennes were rendered very poor. I had nothing left but the clothing I had on ... My eagle wing bone flute, my medicine pipe, my rifle, everything else of mine, were gone." The women and children walked several days to reach the Oglala Sioux village of Crazy Horse farther north near the Little Powder River, where they were given shelter and food.  On the way, several Cheyennes froze to death. The army stated that the village consisted of about 104 lodges, including tipis and wikiups, while Cheyenne accounts said the village had about 40–65 tipis, and about 50 other structures. The number of warriors involved in the engagement was from 100 to 250, while there were around 383 United States soldiers and civilians present.

Aftermath
Colonel Reynolds was accused of dereliction of duty for failing to properly support the first charge with his entire command; for burning the captured supplies, food, blankets, buffalo robes, and ammunition instead of keeping them for army use; and most of all, for losing hundreds of the captured horses. In January 1877, his court-martial at Cheyenne, Wyoming Territory found Reynolds guilty of all three charges. He was sentenced to suspension from rank and command for one year. His friend and West Point classmate, President Ulysses S. Grant remitted the sentence, but Joseph J. Reynolds never served again. He retired on disability leave on June 25, 1877, exactly one year after the culminating battle of the Great Sioux War at the Little Bighorn. Crook's and Reynolds' failed expedition and their inability to seriously damage the Lakota and Cheyenne at Powder River probably encouraged Indian resistance to the demands of the United States.

Medals of honor
Three Medals of Honor were awarded to soldiers for their actions during the battle:
 Hospital Steward William C. Bryan, attached to Company K, 2nd United States Cavalry Regiment, "...having his horse killed under him. He continued to fight on foot, and under severe fire and without assistance conveyed two wounded comrades to places of safety, saving them from capture."
 Saddler (Private) Jeremiah J. Murphy, Company F, 3rd United States Cavalry Regiment, "..for trying to save a wounded comrade." 
 Blacksmith (Private) Albert Glawinski, Company M, 3rd United States Cavalry Regiment, "During a retreat Blacksmith Glavinski selected exposed positions, he was part of the rear guard."

Casualties
Native Americans

Killed in action
 Eagle Chief, Northern Cheyenne
 Whirlwind, Northern Cheyenne
 Unknown warrior, Oglala Lakota
 several women and children died of exposure following the battle

Wounded in action
 Braided Locks, Northern Cheyenne, "one cheek furrowed by a bullet"
 Unknown warrior, Northern Cheyenne, "forearm badly shattered"
 Unknown elderly woman, Oglala Lakota, "left in the village"

United States Army

Killed in action
 Private George Schneider, Company K, 2nd Cavalry
 Private Peter Dowdy, Company E, 3rd Cavalry
 Private Michael I. McCannon, Company F, 3rd Cavalry
 Private Lorenzo E. Ayers, Company M, 3rd Cavalry

Wounded in action
 First Lieutenant William C. Rawolle, Company E, 2nd Cavalry
 Sergeant Charles Kaminski, Company M, 3rd Cavalry
 Corporal John Lang, Company E, 2nd Cavalry
 Farrier Patrick Goings, Company K, 2nd Cavalry
 Private John Droege, Company K, 2nd Cavalry
 Private Edward Eagan, Company K, 2nd Cavalry

Battlefield
In the early 20th century, a schoolteacher named Frank Theodore Kelsey filed a desert claim for land along the Powder River, land that encompassed the Reynolds battle site. Kelsey would later become a Montana state senator, and helped to get the soldiers' monument placed near the village site in 1934, but died in 1937. Since then, the battlefield has changed hands over five times. Now, the Powder River / Reynolds Battlefield, located on private land at [45 05 18 N 105 51 28 W], is accessible by Montana Secondary Highway 391 (Moorhead Road), along the Powder River, in Powder River County, Montana. It is about  north of the present-day unincorporated community of Moorhead, Montana, and about  southwest of the present-day town of Broadus, Montana.