[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fabian Delph

Fabian Delph (born 21 November 1989) is an English former professional footballer who played as a central midfielder or left-back.

He was on the books of Bradford City as a youngster until he moved to Leeds United aged 11. Having played 45 matches for Leeds at League One level and once in the Championship, he transferred to Premier League club Aston Villa in August 2009 for £6 million. In 2012, he returned to Leeds for a short loan spell. Delph had a successful start to the 2012–13 Premier League season, leading Villa manager Paul Lambert to call for his inclusion in the England squad. In July 2015, Delph joined Manchester City for £8 million. In 2019, he moved to Everton, where he went on to spend three seasons, before announcing his retirement from football in September 2022.

Delph represented England at under-19 and under-21 level and made his senior debut in a friendly against Norway on 3 September 2014.

Club career

Leeds United

Born in Bradford, West Yorkshire, Delph started his career in football as a youngster at Bradford City. Delph left City in September 2001 to join Leeds United after he was recommended to their academy coach Greg Abbott by former Bradford manager Paul Jewell, whose son played with Delph. He went to Tong Secondary School, which he left in 2006 to sign a two-year scholarship with Leeds United, at the age of 16. He completed his studies at the partner school to Leeds, Boston Spa School.

After a string of impressive performances in spring 2007, Delph was made captain of the Leeds Reserves. He was given his debut at Leeds as a substitute in the final match of the 2006–07 season against Derby County on 6 May 2007, a match in which Robert Bayly was also given a debut for Leeds. He was awarded his first professional contract on 11 January 2008, and made two appearances for Leeds in the 2007–08 season, both as a substitute.

Delph impressed in the 2008–09 pre-season friendly against Barnet, earning praise from both manager Gary McAllister and former Leeds player Eddie Gray. He made his first League Cup start in Leeds' 5–2 win away at Chester City in the first round on 13 August 2008. Having gained more first-team experience, on 5 September 2008, Delph signed a new four-year contract at Leeds. He celebrated his new contract by scoring his first senior goal the following day as Leeds defeated Crewe Alexandra 5–2. He soon followed it up by scoring twice, both "superb goals" from long range, against Walsall during a 3–0 win.

Delph's form attracted the attention of Premier League managers, with Arsenal's Arsène Wenger reported to be lining up a £6 million bid for the midfielder, and Newcastle United having a bid rejected by Leeds chairman Ken Bates. His performances also prompted Stuart Pearce to give Delph his first call-up to the England under-21 squad in November 2008. He was a late substitute for Craig Gardner as England defeated Czech Republic to win his first under-21 cap on 18 November. During the January 2009 transfer window, Leeds rejected another two bids from Premier League for Delph, with Bates saying: "We explained to both clubs that we don't deal in petty cash." The following day he scored a "goal of genuine quality" against Brighton & Hove Albion by finding the top corner of the goal with a curling shot following a long run. Manager Simon Grayson said: "If he scores goals like that, his value is going to go up. It certainly won't go down." Despite the attention of Premier League managers, Delph remained with Leeds as the January transfer window closed.

By March 2009, his performances during the 2008–09 season earned Delph a nomination for the League One player of the year, which was won by Leicester City's Matty Fryatt, and helped him to win the young player of the year in the end of season Football League Awards. The awards for the 2008–09 season did not end there, with Delph winning young player of the season, goal of the season, for his strike against Brighton and player's player of the season at the club awards. After Leeds lost out in the playoff semi-finals against Millwall, there was much speculation about Delph's future at Leeds, however he did manage to play in Leeds' early pre-season matches, before ultimately Leeds turned down offers from other clubs and Delph completed his move to Aston Villa.

Aston Villa
After Leeds failed to gain promotion from League One, several Premier League clubs including Everton, Manchester City, Fulham, Sunderland, Tottenham Hotspur and Aston Villa were linked with Delph. On 3 August 2009, Villa agreed an undisclosed fee with Leeds for the transfer of Delph to Villa Park. The transfer was concluded the following day after Delph completed a medical and agreed personal terms.