[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 83]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

d the same question to
Harry, who answered, that, together, they made thirty-nine. "Again,"
said Mr Barlow, "I will put the two heaps together, and then how many
will there be?"

_Tommy._--Thirty-nine.

_Mr Barlow._--Now, look, I have just taken away nineteen from the
number; how many, do you think, remain?

_Tommy._--I will count them.

_Mr Barlow._--And cannot you tell without counting? How many are there,
Harry?

_Harry._--Twenty, sir.

_Mr Barlow._--All this is properly the art of arithmetic, which is the
same as that of counting, only it is done in a much shorter and easier
way, without the trouble of having the things always before you. Thus,
for instance, if you wanted to know how many barley-corns were in this
sack, you would perhaps be a week in counting the whole number.

_Tommy._--Indeed, I believe I should.

_Mr Barlow._--If you understood arithmetic you might do it in five
minutes.

_Tommy._--That is extraordinary, indeed; I can hardly conceive it
possible.

_Mr Barlow._--A bushel of corn weighs about fifty pounds; this sack
contains four bushels; so that there are just two hundred pounds weight
in all. Now, every pound contains sixteen ounces, and sixteen times two
hundred makes thirty-two hundred ounces. So that you have nothing to do
but to count the number of grains in a single ounce, and there will be
thirty-two hundred times that number in the sack.

_Tommy._--I declare this is curious indeed, and I should like to learn
arithmetic. Will Harry and you teach me, sir?

_Mr Barlow._--You know we are always ready to improve you. But before we
leave this subject, I must tell you a little story. "There was a
gentleman who was extremely fond of beautiful horses, and did not grudge
to give the highest prices for them. One day a horse-courser came to
him, and showed him one so handsome, that he thought it superior to all
he had ever seen before. He mounted him, and found his paces equally
excellent; for, though he was full of spirit, he was gentle and
tractable as could be wished. So many perfections delighted the
gentleman, and he eagerly demanded the price. The horse-courser
answered, that he would bate nothing of two hundred guineas; the
gentleman, although he admired the horse, would not consent to give it,
and they were just on the point of parting. As the man was turning his
back, the gentleman called out to him, and said, 'Is there no possible
way of our agreeing, for I would give you anything in reason for such a
beautiful creature?' 'Why,' replied the dealer, who was a shrewd fellow,
and perfectly understood calculation, 'If you do not like to give me two
hundred guineas, will you give me a farthing for the first nail the
horse has in his shoe, two farthings for the second, four for the third,
and so go doubling throughout the whole twenty-four, for there are no
more than twenty-four nails in all his shoes?' The gentleman gladly
accepted the condition, and ordered the horse to be led away to his
stables."

_Tommy._--This fellow must have been a very great blockhead, to ask two
hundred guineas, and then to take a few farthings for his horse.

_Mr Barlow._--The gentleman was of the same opinion; "however, the
horse-courser added:--'I do not mean, sir, to tie you down to this last
proposal, which, upon consideration, you may like as little as the
first; all that I require is, that if you are dissatisfied with your
bargain, you will promise to pay me down the two hundred guineas which I
first asked.' This the gentleman willingly agreed to, and then called
the steward to calculate the sum, for he was too much of a gentleman to
be able to do it himself. The steward sat down with his pen and ink,
and, after some time, gravely wished his master joy, and asked him, 'in
what part of England the estate was situated that he was going to
purchase.' 'Are you mad?' replied the gentleman; 'it is not an estate,
but a horse, that I have just bargained for; and here is the owner of
him, to whom I am going to pay the money.' 'If there is any madness,
sir,' replied the steward, 'it certainly is not on my side; the sum you
have ordered me to calculate comes just to seventeen thousand four
hundred and seventy-six pounds, besides some shillings and pence; and
surely no man in his senses would give this price for a horse.' The
gentleman was more surprised than he had ever been before, to hear the
assertion of his steward; but when, upon examination, he found it no
more than the truth, he was very glad to compound for his foolish
agreement, by giving the horse-courser the two hundred guineas, and
dismissing him."

_Tommy._--This is quite incredible, that a farthing just doubled a few
times, should amount to such a prodigious sum; however, I am determined
to learn arithmetic, that I may not be imposed upon in this manner, for
I think a gentleman must look very silly in such a situation.

Thus had Tommy a new employment and