[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Joint Expedition Against Franklin

The Joint Expedition Against Franklin was a joint engagement between the United States Army and Navy against the Confederate States Army during the American Civil War.  The engagement was intended to move Union forces into an area where Confederate forces were gathering as they prepared to move on Suffolk, Virginia.  Originally planned as a coordinated two-pronged attack with a naval flotilla supporting an infantry advance on Franklin, Virginia, communications delays caused the Union Navy to start the mission before the Army was ready to support it.  Instead,  found Union Naval forces on the Blackwater River greatly outnumbered by Confederate infantrymen and ultimately forced to retreat.  The naval action alone is also known as the Action at Crumpler's Bluff or the Battle of Crumpler's Bluff.

Simultaneously, a nearby Army reconnaissance team conducted a failed assault on the town on the basis that the audibly nearby Naval forces—which they did not know were then in retreat—would bring support.  The outcome left the Union forces with a combined 5 casualties and 21 wounded.  Dialogue between officers following the conflict left the Union navy questioning the usefulness of gunboats in joint expedition settings in which they would not be capable of supporting themselves.

The conflict

Background
Receiving orders early September 12, 1862, the Confederate Army's 4th North Carolina (NC) Cavalry immediately proceeded from Garysburg, North Carolina to Franklin, Virginia, arriving late the next day.  There, the 4th NC Cavalry, under the command of a Colonel Dennis Dozier Ferebee, was joined by the 52nd North Carolina Infantry, Edward Graham's Petersburg Artillery, and (two weeks later) the 11th North Carolina Infantry.  The 4th NC Cavalry's first major assignment was to construct a floating bridge across the nearby Blackwater River to replace the Seaboard and Roanoke Railroad bridge and thereby facilitate the eastward transfer of men and equipment into Franklin; Col. Ferebee reported the bridge finished on the 18th.

A small Union Army cavalry force was stationed in nearby Suffolk, Virginia under the command of Major General John J. Peck.  On September 23, Peck sent Colonel Samuel P. Spear to reconnoiter Franklin and the Confederates therein.  Spear reported back to Peck about the Confederate's replacement bridge capable of supporting artillery pieces, as well as an estimated Confederate concentration of 10,000–12,000 men.  Peck forwarded this information on to his commanding officer, Major General John Adams Dix who, in turn, developed a twofold mission to roust the enemy from Franklin and destroy the floating bridge with a joint service attack with the Union Army and Navy respectively.

Dix requested Union naval support from Acting Rear Admiral Samuel Phillips Lee.  Lee, in turn, sent orders to Lieutenant Commander C. W. Flusser, directing him to give all assistance to General Dix's purposes.  Three United States Navy steam-powered ferryboats stationed at Albemarle Sound were sent; , commanded by Lieutenant Commander Flusser, , commanded by Acting Lieutenant Edmund R. Colhoun, and , commanded by Acting Master Charles A. French.

Acting on Union picket intelligence of the Confederate's position in Franklin, both Generals Peck and Dix felt that it would be wiser to wait on the joint assault.  However, because Dix's messenger arrived five hours late, Commander Flusser never received word that the former's forces were delaying "until about the 10th".  Peck did however order a reconnaissance mission be undertaken in the area; at 9:00 p.m. on October 2, Colonel Spear left Suffolk with 1,300 soldiers, one Artillery section, and orders to survey Franklin and determine the extent of the Confederate forces south of Suffolk.

Attack

The evening of 2 October, Confederate pickets observed the three riverboats waiting around South Quay, Virginia, approximately  downriver from Franklin.  At 5:45 a.m. the next day, the three ships began moving towards the city while shelling the nearby banks.  The attack was led by Commodore Perry, followed by Whitehead astern Hunchback.  While the Union shelled the banks of the Blackwater, Confederate troops began distributing themselves along the riverside to take advantage of the concealment there.  Some of the 4th North Carolina Cavalry was dismounted and taken up by Colonel Marshall of the 52nd, and positioned along with his men at Crumpler's and neighboring bluffs to fire upon the riverboats.  Colonel Ferebee took the rest of the 4th NC Cavalry and dismounted and positioned them behind the trees and bushes along the banks of the Blackwater, under the command of a Lieutenant Ruffin.  According to a Union naval officer later, the Confederate's forces along the Blackwater also included "some nonuniformed irregulars and even 'some negroes.