[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Walter Oesau

her Landesmuseum) has documented his last journey in pictures.

Aftermath

Johannes Steinhoff, the high-ranking Luftwaffe ace (176 Kills) who went on to become the Chief of Staff for Allied Air Forces in Central Europe, once said: "Walter Gulle Oesau was the toughest fighter pilot in the Luftwaffe".

In 1940, frustrated with the perceived lack of success against RAF Fighter Command, Göring was keen on infusing the fighter force leadership with younger blood. He perceived a lack of aggressiveness in the Jagdgeschwader leadership. The likes of Theo Osterkamp were the first victim of this policy, handing over JG 51 to Werner Mölders. Oesau was considered to be one such rising star. However, being a star and staying in Göring's favor required keeping up the kill rate and promotions were invariably linked to scores. According to Dr. Kurt Tank, the Focke–Wulf designer, although many of the younger generation were good flyers, they were unable to cope with problems of overall planning and broader strategic aspects. However, Oesau was one of the outstanding leaders ever produced by Luftwaffe fighter wings with the likes of Werner Mölders and Adolf Galland.

The decision to continually retain or return gifted experts (Experten) to front line battle proved extremely costly, resulting in the death in combat of many of the earlier experts and aces. This, coupled with the acute shortage of well trained pilots and the fact that by 1943 they were facing a better equipped and well-trained enemy, meant the life expectancy of even the most gifted was tragically short. Author John Weal says that, although other Geschwaderkommodore would end up dying in combat, nothing would showcase the changing fortunes of Luftwaffe fighter forces than the death of Walter Oesau.

Personality and personal life

German historian Hans Otto Böhm commented on Oesau as "One of my best professors". There is little information available on the personal side of Walter Oesau. He had good sense of humor and liked to spend time with his friends. He was a simple man, who did not display any flamboyant personal emblems on his aircraft. His aircraft while commanding JG 2 did not have any special markings except for the unit's normal yellow under–cowling. While Oesau commanded, JG 2, like many others, dropped the special symbols for Stab (headquarters flight) units in favor of numerals. This helped make the leader's aircraft anonymous. Unlike other aces, Oesau reportedly never had markings on his rudder representing his personal tally, although this is contradicted by some photos displaying what may be his aircraft rudder painted with score of downed aircraft. The authenticity of the photograph is questioned by some as there are also Ju 87 photos supposedly signed by Oesau (he never flew a Stuka bomber).

Summary of career
Aerial victory claims
According to US historian David T. Zabecki, Oesau was credited with 125 aerial victories, nine of which during the Spanish Civil War. Mathews and Foreman, authors of Luftwaffe Aces — Biographies and Victory Claims, researched the German Federal Archives and found documentation for 127 aerial victory claims, plus three further unconfirmed claims. This number includes nine claims during the Spanish Civil War, 44 on the Eastern Front, and 74 on the Western Front, including 13 four-engined bombers.

Victory claims were logged to a map-reference (PQ = Planquadrat), for example "PQ 05 Ost 0021". The Luftwaffe grid map () covered all of Europe, western Russia and North Africa and was composed of rectangles measuring 15 minutes of latitude by 30 minutes of longitude, an area of about . These sectors were then subdivided into 36 smaller units to give a location area  in size.

Awards
 Spanish Medalla de la Campaña Spanish Medalla Militar Spanish Cross in Gold with Swords and Diamonds
 Iron Cross (1939)
 2nd Class (15 May 1940)
 1st Class (20 May 1940)
 Front Flying Clasp of the Luftwaffe in Gold for fighter pilots with pennant "300"
 Wound Badge (1939) in Black
 German Cross in Gold on 17 October 1943 as Oberstleutnant and Jagdfliegerführer 4 Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves and Swords
 Knight's Cross on 20 August 1940 as Hauptmann and Staffelkapitän of the 7./Jagdgeschwader 51
 9th Oak Leaves on 6 February 1941 as Hauptmann and Gruppenkommandeur of the III./JG 3
 3rd Swords on 15 July 1941 as Hauptmann and Gruppenkommandeur'' of the III./JG 3

Date of Rank

Notes

References

Citations

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Something of a mini-biography on Walter Oesau.

Further reading