[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Henrietta Marie

slaves. As there were no slaves on the ship at the time it wrecked, the cauldron had been used to store chain. The second cauldron was smaller and had two chambers. One chamber had a capacity of , and the second a capacity of . This vessel could have been used to cook a two-course meal for the crew.

Legacy
In May 1993, the National Association of Black Scuba Divers placed a memorial plaque on the site of the Henrietta Marie. The plaque faces the African shore thousands of miles away, and has the name of the slave ship and reads, “In memory and recognition of the courage, pain and suffering of enslaved African people. Speak her name and gently touch the souls of our ancestors." Dr. Colin Palmer stated, "the story ends in 1700 for this particular ship, but the story of what the ship represented continues today," he says. "The importance of the Henrietta Marie is that she is an essential part of recovering the black experience - symbolically, metaphorically and in reality".

A 1995 documentary, Slave Ship: The Testimony of the Henrietta Marie, was narrated by Cornel West.

The vessel was also featured on the History Channel's Deep Sea Detectives.

An exhibition, "A Slave Ship Speaks: the Wreck of the Henrietta Marie", was created by the Mel Fisher Maritime Museum in 1995, and toured museums around the United States for more than a decade. A new exhibition, including a great number of artifacts from the Henrietta Marie will be touring North America, starting in 2019. The name of the exhibition is Spirits of the Passage. 

The Mel Fisher Maritime Museum has also launched the Florida Slave Trade Center. A database and online exhibition featuring all of the artifacts from this ship wreck and a descriptive online exhibition and including other artifacts and documents from the museum's slave trade collection.

Notes

References
 Cottman, Michael H. (1999) "The Ghosts of the Henrietta Marie". Washington Post, Sunday, February 7, 1999. Found at 
 Cottman, Michael H. (2001) "The Slave Ship Henrietta Marie". In Brian Lamb, ed. Booknotes: Stories from American History. Public Affairs.  Found at Google Books.
 Konstam, Angus. (1999) The History of Shipwrecks. The Lyons Press.  Found at Google Books
 Malcom, Corey. (2004) "In Search of the Slave Ship Henrietta Marie." Sounding Line, newsletter of the Florida Keys National Marine Sanctuary, Summer/Spring 2004. Found at  
 Malcom, Corey. (Merchant ship) "The Henrietta Marie an English merchant slave ship]. At 
 Malcom, Corey. (Bilboes) "The Iron Bilboes of the Henrietta Marie". At 
 Malcom, Corey. (Trade goods) "Trade Goods on the Henrietta Marie and the Price of Men in 1699-1700". At 
 Malcom, Corey. (Cauldrons) "The Copper Cauldrons Aboard the Henrietta Marie". At 
 Malcom, Corey. (Artifacts) "A Collection of Artifacts Recovered from the Shipwreck Henrietta Marie, 2002". At 
 Malcom, Corey. (Hull) "A Re-examination of the Hull of the Henrietta Marie". At 
Sullivan, George. (1994) Slave Ship: The Story of the Henrietta Marie. Dutton Books.

Further reading
Burnside, Madeleine H. (1997) Spirits of the Passage. Simon & Schuster.
Cottman, Michael H. (1999) The Wreck of the Henrietta Marie: An African American's Spiritual Journey to Uncover a Sunken Slave Ship's Past. Harmony Books. 
Steinberg, Jennifer. (2002) "Last Voyage of the Slave Ship Henrietta Marie". ''National Geographic Magazine. August, 2002.

External links
 A Slave Ship Speaks: the Wreck of the Henrietta Marie. Historical Museum of Southern Florida exhibit brochure.

History of Florida
Shipwrecks of the Florida Keys
London slave ships
Maritime incidents in 1700
Archaeological sites in Monroe County, Florida