[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tennessee Department of Correction

The Tennessee Department of Correction (TDOC) is a Cabinet-level agency within the Tennessee state government responsible for the oversight of more than 20,000 convicted offenders in Tennessee's fourteen prisons, three of which are privately managed by CoreCivic. The department is headed by the Tennessee Commissioner of Correction, who is currently Frank Strada. TDOC facilities' medical and mental health services are provided by Corizon. Juvenile offenders not sentenced as adults are supervised by the independent Tennessee Department of Children's Services, while inmates granted parole or sentenced to probation are overseen by the Department of Correction (TDOC)/Department of Parole. The agency is fully accredited by the American Correctional Association. The department has its headquarters on the sixth floor of the Rachel Jackson Building in Nashville.

 the Tennessee Department of Corrections supervised sixteen prisons (counting two women's prisons as distinct from the men's prisons on the same site), including four private prisons operated by CoreCivic. These facilities have a total of 24,069 beds and an operating capacity to house 23,202 imprisoned individuals. On that date, 20,965 people were held in Tennessee prisons.

History
In 1923, the Administrative Reorganization Act created the Department of Institutions, charged with the management of the Tennessee prison system. In 1933 the General Assembly passed legislation that created an Industrial Division within the Department of Institutions.

In 1937, the name was changed to the Department of Institutions and Public Welfare, which had responsibility for a Confederate Soldier's Home, a School for the Blind, a School for the Deaf, a Tennessee Industrial School at the state penitentiary, the Blind Commission, the Clover Bottom Developmental Center, three regional psychiatric hospitals, and the Gailor Center.

In 1939, the Department of Institutions and Public Welfare was divided into a Department of Institutions and a separate Department of Public Welfare.

In 1953, the responsibility over mental health facilities was separated into the Department of Mental Health, and in 1955, the Department of Institutions arrived at its present name, the Department of Correction.

In 1961, the state legislature established the Division of Adult Probation and Parole within the department.

In 1963, an act created a Division of Youth Services and provided for an assistant commissioner.

In 1970, a Division of Rehabilitative Services was created by the General Assembly. In that same year, an act passed that relieved the Commissioner of the Department of Correction of the position of Chairman of the Board of Pardons and Paroles, with the position now being elected by Board members.

Central office

The Department of Corrections Central Office was moved to the Andrew Jackson State Office Building. In 1972 an act reformulated the Board of Pardons and Paroles, with the board now consisting of three full-time professional members appointed by the governor, including the chairman. In 1973 the Department of Corrections Central Office was moved to the First American Center. In 1974 the Tennessee Corrections Institute was create to train employees of the department. In 1978 the Board of Paroles expanded its membership to five. In 1979 the Department of Correction Central Office was again moved to the State Office Building, an act made the Board of Pardons and Paroles separate from the Department of Correction, the Board of Paroles became an autonomous unit, and the Department of Correction Supervision and Rehabilitation Fund was established.

In 1982 disbursement of funds for the fund was transferred from the Tennessee Department of Revenue to the Department of Correction. In the mid-1980s, the Department fell under federal oversight after a federal lawsuit was filed by inmates, who had complained of overcrowding and unfit conditions. In 1985, in a special session, the General Assembly funded over $320 million to improve the prison system as part of a Comprehensive Correction Improvement Act. In November 1994, Tennessee's prison systems were released from federal oversight.