[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 South Carolina state elections

his television ads. Jordan, a late entrant, went negative against both camps in radio and internet ads, but never gained traction outside of Anderson. No candidate received 50% of the votes in the primary, and thus Campbell and Bauer faced each other in a run-off, which Bauer won.

General Election

The Lieutenant Governor's race was dominated by the missteps of Bauer, the incumbent.  Bauer came under criticism for multiple citations for speeding and flamboyant personality.  His controversial public image, and the fundraising prowess of his opponent, Robert Barber, who did not face a primary, kept the race close in public polling throughout the campaign.  In late May, a two-passenger plane which Bauer was piloting crashed in the Upstate.  Bauer's ankle was shattered, but otherwise he and the passenger in the plane survived with minimal injuries.  The plane crash was later determined to have been caused by faulty bolts in the plane's construction.  Barber later suffered from his own personal problems with his James Beard Award winning restaurant, Bowen's Island, burned late in the campaign.  Bauer eventually won the general election with less than one percent over the vote after a recount.

Secretary of State
Republican Primary
Mark Hammond (Incumbent)
Bill McKown - Surfside Beach Town Councilman
L. W. Flynn (withdrew) - 2004 candidate for the State House of Representatives

Hammond initially faced little opposition from Flynn and McKown and far out fundraised both.  However, Flynn withdrew from the race and endorsed McKown, whose campaign picked up traction based on questioning Hammond's conservatism and support for the governor.  Hammond eventually defeated McKown.  Although Flynn received 6.5% of the vote in the primary, his votes were not officially tallied.

General Election

Mark Hammond faced Democratic challenger Cheryl Footman, who did not face a primary.  In a rather bizarre moment in the race, Footman attempted to burst into patriotic song at the end of her SCETV debate with Hammond, but was quickly cut off by the moderator.  Hammond easily won re-election.

State Treasurer
Republican Primary
Thomas Ravenel - 2004 Senate Republican primary candidate and businessman
Greg Ryberg - 2002 Treasurer candidate, state Senator from Aiken
Rick Quinn - former SC House Majority Leader
Jeff Willis - real estate developer

The Republican treasurer's race was hotly contested.  Ryberg and Quinn were initially seen to be the front-runners, and Ryberg, the 2002 Republican nominee, made an early $2 million loan to his campaign.  Ultimately, Ravenel defeated his opponents in the primary just short of the necessary 50 percent total to prevent a run-off.  Ryberg and Quinn both withdrew from the run-off, citing the need for party unity behind Ravenel.  Ravenel easily defeated Willis in the run-off.

General Election

The treasurer's race pitted Thomas Ravenel, a young millionaire and emerging politician, against Grady Patterson, a nine-term incumbent who did not face primary opposition.  The race was largely fought over the state of South Carolina's employee pension fund, with Ravenel taking issue with the state's projected unfunded liability and its failure to invest the fund in equity funds, which he claims would boost returns.  Patterson retorted by pointing out Ravenel's inexperience and accusing Ravenel of using the race as a platform to run against incumbent Senator Lindsey Graham, which Ravenel denied was his intention.  Thomas Ravenel won the election, but was indicted on June 19, 2007, on cocaine charges, and has been suspended as Treasurer.

Attorney general

The incumbent, Henry McMaster, did not face a primary and ran unopposed in the general election.

Comptroller General

Neither party held a primary for the race.  The incumbent, Richard Eckstrom, was challenged by Drew Theodore, businessman and son of former Lieutenant Governor Nick Theodore.  The only public issue in the race was incumbent Richard Eckstrom's use of a state-owned car to drive himself to Minnesota a year earlier, and also his use of state funds to refurbish his state offices upon taking office in 2003.  The race got some national attention when Saturday Night Live aired a sketch September 30, lampooning President Bush's low popularity by portraying Eckstrom as the only Republican running for office who was willing to be seen campaigning with the president.  Eckstrom eventually won reelection.

Superintendent of Education

Republican Primary
Karen Floyd - former Spartanburg County County Council Chair, attorney
Bob Staton - businessman, former chair of the SC Education Oversight Committee
Mike Ryan - teacher
Elizabeth Moffly - businesswoman
Kerry Wood (withdrew) - computer programmer