[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# José Manuel Rodríguez Delgado

José Manuel Rodríguez Delgado (August 8, 1915 – September 15, 2011) was a Spanish professor of neurophysiology at Yale University, famed for his research on mind control through electrical stimulation of the brain.

Biography
Rodríguez Delgado was born in Ronda, in the province of Málaga, Spain in 1915. He received a Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of Madrid just before the outbreak of the Spanish Civil War.  During the Spanish Civil War he joined the Republican side and served as a medical corpsman while he was a medical student.  Rodríguez Delgado was held in a concentration camp for five months after the war ended.  After serving in the camp, he had to repeat his M.D. degree, and then gained a Ph.D. at the Ramón y Cajal Institute in Madrid.

Rodríguez Delgado's father was an eye doctor and he had planned to follow in his footsteps.  However, once he discovered the writings of Santiago Ramón y Cajal, a Nobel laureate in 1906, and after having spent some time in a physiology laboratory, Delgado no longer wanted to be an eye doctor.  Delgado became captivated by "the many mysteries of the brain. How little was known then. How little is known now!”

In 1946 Rodríguez Delgado won a fellowship at Yale University in the department of physiology under the direction of John F. Fulton. In 1950, Rodríguez Delgado accepted a position in the physiology department which at the time was headed by John Fulton.  By 1952, he had co-authored his first paper on implanting electrodes into humans.

The Spanish minister of Education, Villar Palasí, asked Rodríguez Delgado to help organize a new medical school at the Autonomous University of Madrid. Rodríguez Delgado accepted Palasí's proposal and relocated to Spain with his wife and two children in 1974.

Rodríguez Delgado had last moved with his wife, Caroline, to San Diego, California before his death on September 15, 2011.

Research
Rodríguez Delgado's research interests centered on the use of electrical signals to evoke responses in the brain. His earliest work was with cats, but he later did experiments with monkeys and humans, including psychiatric patients.

Much of Rodríguez Delgado's work was with an invention he called a stimoceiver, a radio which joined a stimulator of brain waves with a receiver which monitored E.E.G. waves and sent them back on separate radio channels.  Some of these stimoceivers were as small as half-dollars. This allowed the subject of the experiment full freedom of movement while allowing the experimenter to control the experiment.  This was a great improvement from his early equipment which included visual disturbance in those whose wires ran from the brain to bulky equipment that both recorded data and delivered the desired electrical charges to the brain.  This early equipment, while not allowing for a free range of movement, was also the cause of infection in many subjects.

The stimoceiver could be used to stimulate emotions and control behavior. According to Rodríguez Delgado, "Stimulation of different points in the amygdala and hippocampus in the four patients produced a variety of effects, including pleasant sensations, elation, deep, thoughtful concentration, odd feelings, super relaxation, colored visions, and other responses." Rodríguez Delgado stated that "brain transmitters can remain in a person's head for life. The energy to activate the brain transmitter is transmitted by way of radio frequencies."

Using the stimoceiver, Rodríguez Delgado found that he could not only elicit emotions, but he could also elicit specific physical reactions.  These specific physical reactions, such as the movement of a limb or the clenching of a fist, were achieved when Rodríguez Delgado stimulated the motor cortex.  Humans whose implants were stimulated to produce a reaction were unable to resist the reaction and so one patient said “I guess, doctor, that your electricity
is stronger than my will”.  One of Rodríguez Delgado's most promising finds is related to an area called the septum verum, a structure within the brain's limbic system.  This area, when stimulated by Rodríguez Delgado, produced feelings of strong euphoria. These euphoric feelings were sometimes strong enough to overcome physical pain and depression.

Rodríguez Delgado created many inventions and was called a “technological wizard” by one of his Yale colleagues.  Other than the stimoceiver, Rodríguez Delgado also created a "chemitrode" which was an implantable device that released controlled amounts of a drug into specific brain areas.  Rodríguez Delgado also invented an early version of what is now a cardiac pacemaker.