[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# War crimes trials in Soviet Estonia

A number of war crimes trials were held during the Soviet occupation of Estonia (1944–1991). The best-known trial was brought in 1961, by the Soviet authorities against local collaborators who had participated in the Holocaust during the German occupation (1941–1944). The accused were charged with murdering up to 5,000 German and Czechoslovakian Jews and Romani people near the Kalevi-Liiva concentration camp in 1942–1943. The public trial by the Supreme Court of the Estonian SSR was held in the auditorium of the Navy Officers Club in Tallinn and attended by a mass audience. All three defendants were convicted and sentenced to death, one in absentia. The two defendants present for the trial were executed shortly after. The third defendant, Ain-Ervin Mere, was not available for execution.

A second trial was held in Tartu in 1962. The accused Estonian collaborators were charged with killing Soviet citizens and were sentenced to death in absentia. The trial verdict and testimony were inadvertently published in the magazine Sotsialisticheskaya zakonnost ('Socialist Legality') before the trial began.

The trials

The accused 
Ain-Ervin Mere, commander of the Estonian Security Police and SD (Group B of the Sicherheitspolizei) under the Estonian Self-Administration, was tried in absentia. Before the trial he was an active member of the Estonian community in England, contributing to Estonian language publications. At the time of the trial he was however held in captivity, accused of murder. He was never deported  and died a free man in England in 1969.
 Ralf Gerrets, the deputy commandant at the Jägala concentration camp. He was executed by shooting on March 31, 1961, at the age of 55.
 Jaan Viik, (Jan Vijk, Ian Viik), a guard at the Jägala concentration camp was singled out for prosecution  out of the hundreds of Estonian camp guards and police for his particular brutality. He was accused of throwing small children into the air and shooting them. He did not deny the charge. Viik was executed by shooting on March 31, 1961, at the age of 44. Viik had already served time in prison prior to his trial. In 1946, he was sentenced to 10 years in prison for voluntarily serving in a concentration camp.
 A fourth accused, Aleksander Laak, the commandant of Jägala concentration camp, was discovered in Canada; he committed suicide in 1960.

The crimes 
While the accused may have been involved in other crimes against humanity during the German occupation of Estonia, the trial focused on the events of September 1942. According to testimony of the survivors, at least two transports with about 2,100–2,150 people, arrived at the railway station at Raasiku, one from Theresienstadt concentration camp with Czechoslovakian Jews and one from Berlin with German Jews. Around 1,700–1,750 people, mainly Jews, not selected for work at the Jägala  camp were taken to Kalevi-Liiva and shot.

Transport Be 1.9.1942 from Theresienstadt arrived at the Raasiku station on September 5, 1942, after a five-day trip.
According to testimony by one of the accused, Gerretts, eight busloads of Estonian auxiliary police had arrived from Tallinn. A selection process was supervised by Ain-Ervin Mere, chief of Sicherheitspolizei in Estonia; those not selected for slave labor were sent by bus to an execution site near the camp. Later the police in teams of 6 to 8 men would execute the Jews by machine gun fire, on other hand, during later investigation some guards of camp denied participation of police and said that execution was done by camp personnel. On the first day a total of 900 people were murdered in this way. Gerrets told that he had fired a pistol at a victim who was still making noises in the pile of bodies. The whole operation was directed by Obersturmführer Heinrich Bergmann and Oberscharführer Julius Geese.

Usually able bodied men were selected to work on the oil shale mines in northeastern Estonia. Women, children, and old people would be executed on arrival. In the case Be 1.9.1942 however, the only ones chosen for labor and to survive the war were a small group of young women who were taken through concentration camps in Estonia, Poland and Germany to Bergen- Belsen, where they were liberated. Camp commandant Laak used the women as sex slaves, killing at least one who refused to comply.

According to an article published by the journal "Contemporary European History" in 2001,