[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alliances (The Wire)

discovers that Watkins has broken from the mayor and tells Carcetti, who immediately goes to Watkins' office with Wilson to pitch for Watkins' support. Carcetti indicates that he would be more dependent on Watkins' help than Royce if elected, and declares that the polls are closer than Royce admits.

Western District
Lieutenant Charlie Marimow meets with Assistant State's Attorney Rhonda Pearlman and Western district commander Major Cedric Daniels to discuss executing a series of warrants in the Western district. Daniels obligingly provides Marimow with the extra manpower he will require. Pearlman warns Marimow that he is wasting his wiretap on low-level targets that she will refuse to litigate against and refuses to accept responsibility for any mistakes he makes.

Marimow briefs his own men along with Daniels's DEU squad and flex squad and tries to convince them of the importance of the raids. After the briefing, Ellis Carver questions Thomas "Herc" Hauk about the logic of attempting street rips against Marlo Stanfield's people and advises Herc to take an interest in Royce's continued success because Royce will be unable to advance Herc's career unless he retains his position as mayor. Pearlman discusses her career with Daniels. With Marimow in charge of the major crimes unit and the subpoenas issued against Royce fundraisers, she has lost hope in her work and begins thinking where she can beg Demper to be reassigned.

Marimow's raids are disastrous: stash houses from the wiretap have long since moved and very few arrests are made. Marimow believes that the drug dealers are stupid and claims they must have been tipped off, and diverts the blame onto his sergeant by insisting that he find out more about Marlo. Carver steps in with some information about Marlo: he holds court in the same open area but otherwise moves around. Marimow tells Herc to come up with an investigative plan using this tip. Herc, Officer Kenneth Dozerman and Detective Leander Sydnor set up a concealed surveillance camera at Marlo's meeting place, but their efforts are noticed by a Stanfield soldier. Herc believes that the camera will build a case for them if they can find someone who can read lips to tell them what Marlo is saying and dismisses Sydnor's questions about the legality of the approach. Herc spends the morning making campaign calls for Royce. His direct approach has some success with the voters.

Stanfield Organization
Marlo and Chris discuss how to deal with Omar after his robbery of Marlo at a card game. Marlo wants to go straight after Omar through placing a bounty on him, but Chris reminds him of Avon Barksdale's failed efforts to track down Omar and convinces him that a subtle approach will be more likely to succeed and would prevent Omar from targeting them in return.

At their next meeting, Chris reports that Slim Charles approached him to organize a second meeting between Proposition Joe and Marlo. Old Face Andre arrives to talk to Marlo, who tells him that his store is going to be robbed again and instructs him to identify Omar as the culprit when reporting the crime to the police. Andre worries that Omar will seek revenge, but Marlo tells him Omar will not return from being arrested.

Chris later enacts the robbery of the store with Snoop, killing a delivery woman and pistol-whipping Andre before reminding him to blame Omar. Chris reports in to Marlo that the robbery was a success. Marlo tells him about the surveillance camera and asks him to take him to the meeting with Proposition Joe.

At the meeting, Joe tells him that he has a network of sources that provide him with information about activity on the street and within the justice system. He shows Marlo warrants for a drug kingpin named Charlie and is non-committal about helping him, since he is outside of the co-op. Marlo asks Joe about the video surveillance and finally agrees to work with the co-op in exchange for information about those investigating him.

Homicide
Bunk Moreland and Lester Freamon scour Baltimore for bodies they can tie to Marlo in the hope of finding Lex. They check with the coroner's office, in the sewers and Leakin Park. Freamon recalls coming to the park to look for a body as a cadet and being warned to only take an interest in bodies matching their description or they would spend all day finding various other bodies. When they return to the office empty-handed, Bunk convinces Freamon to turn his attention back to investigating real murders.