[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2003 BDO World Darts Championship

t won him the match. Davies said he began slower than before and was eager to participate in the final, "If anyone would have told me at the start of the week that I would be in the final, I'd have laughed. But I've got nothing to lose in this tournament. I've just come here to do as well as I can."

The other semi-final saw Van Barneveld enter the final with a 5–2 defeat of King and requited a loss to his opponent from the 2002 competition. Both players shared the first four legs of the first set which went to a fifth leg won by Van Barneveld on the double eight ring. Van Barneveld produced a 110 checkout to lead by two sets. Both players attempted a nine-dart finish in the first leg of set three: King missed the triple 20 ring and Van Barneveld the triple 19 on his eighth throw. Van Barneveld converted two 12-dart finishes to lead 3–0. King clinched two sets in a row to be 3–2 behind before Van Barneveld struck the double eight ring and made a 161 checkout to win the match. Post-game, King inculpated his defeat on the trajectory of his darts being affected by the activation of an air conditioning system, something the BDO denied. He commented: "Under the conditions, I thought I played exceptionally well – but to beat a player like Raymond, everything has to be right and fair."

Final

The final played between Davies and Van Barneveld on 12 January was held to the best-of-11 sets. Both players missed hitting the double rings before Van Barneveld produced a 132 checkout completed on the double one ring to take the first set 3–1 after twelve dart throws in leg four. He further extended his lead to 4–0 with three consecutive scores of 3–2 achieved from respective finishes on the double 11 ring in the second set, a 116 checkout in the third and finishing in eleven darts in the final leg of the fourth set. Finishes on the double 16 and 11 rings and a 121 checkout secured Davies the fifth set 3–1 and took set five 3–2. During the seventh set Davies won three successive legs from finishes on the double 20 and 10 rings and a 98 checkout. Van Barneveld won the eighth set 3–2 from two checkouts of 76 points and striking the double 18 ring in its fifth leg. Davies claimed the first leg of set nine after Van Barneveld was unable to convert an 84 finish. Van Barneveld made finishes of 96 and 72 points to win the match 6–3.

Van Barneveld took his third BDO world title after he had won the tournament in 1998 and 1999. He joined Eric Bristow and John Lowe as the third player to win three or more BDO world championships, and earned £50,000 prize money. Van Barneveld commented on the victory: "When you the win the title for the first time it's very good. After 2000 when I lost in the first round I did not believe in myself. I've had to work hard to get on this level again. Mentally, the fight came back in my life and I started to believe in myself again." Davies said he would return to participate at the 2004 event and that the loss of the opening four sets altered his strategy: "I knew with such a long format I had time to settle down but I gave Raymond too many chances. I was very nervous and, at the start, the darts just would not seem to fall the way they have been doing all week. I was trying and trying but Raymond was always coming up with the big score when he needed it. It is hard to play Raymond because once he gets into a rhythm it is very difficult to stop him. I hit too many single 20s tonight which was also disappointing."

Women's tournament

The four quarter-finals of the women's tournament took place between 4 and 5 January. Pre-tournament favourite Hoensellar and Krappen played the first quarter-final match. Krappen took the first set 3–0 before Hoensellar won the match 2–1 with set victories of 3–0 and 3–1. Kirk and Williams tied at 2–2 in the first set of their match before Kirk took the fifth leg to claim it. Kirk then won three legs in a row to whitewash Williams 2–0. Gulliver defeated Standley 2–1. Gulliver won the first set 3–0 before Standley won the next set 3–1. Gulliver completed the victory by winning set three. The final quarter-final match saw De Boer whitewash Rogers-Pickett 2–0; Rogers-Pickett tied the second set 2–2 before De Boer struck the double eight ring to win.

Both of the semi-finals were held on 9 January. Kirk overcame Hoenselaar in the first set and the latter commenced the second by claiming its first leg. Kirk took three consecutive legs to win 2–0 and earned a berth in the final. The other semi-final match saw Gulliver whitewash De Boer 2–0. De Boer took the match's first leg to which Gulliver replied with high scores for three successive leg victories to win the first set. Gulliver took set two to secure the second final spot.