[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Craig Hignett

at Middlesbrough.
On 2 December 2014, Middlesbrough FC announced that Hignett had parted company with the club. The statement explained that, "Following discussions between Craig, Head Coach Aitor Karanka, and the club, all parties have agreed for Craig to leave his position with immediate effect."

Hignett was widely praised for having a hugely influential role in the upturns of Boro's fortunes, which has seen them challenging for promotion this season.

In February 2016, Hignett was appointed first-team manager of Hartlepool United following the departure of Ronnie Moore. His first game as Pools boss came in a 2–1 home win against Yeovil Town. Hignett's arrival saw an upturn in form and a run of seven wins from eleven games during March and April saw Hartlepool rise from 22nd to a respectable finishing position of 16th in League Two.

Hignett's start to the 2016–17 season was solid if unspectacular. While Hartlepool lost just two of their opening twelve league games, they hadn't won a home game and had drawn six. October was an especially disappointing month for the team, surrendering seven points from winning positions, the most notable of which being throwing away a two-goal lead to lose 3–2 defeat at Barnet. Hartlepool's form never recovered and after a run of just twelve points from fifteen games, he was sacked on 15 January 2017 following a 1–0 defeat at Crawley Town.

Hignett returned to Hartlepool in March 2018 as the club's Director of Football. Following the dismissal of Matthew Bates in November 2018, Hignett took temporary charge of the first team in addition to his role as director of football. Although former Luton boss Richard Money took charge in December 2018, he was later moved to a senior position before departing and Hignett was reinstated as first-team manager on 23 January 2019.

On 10 October 2019 Hignett was sacked alongside coach Ged McNamee, his dismissal was viewed with surprise from fans.

Managerial statistics

Personal life

In June 2013, Craig Hignett joined former footballer Colin Cooper and Sky Sports presenter Jeff Stelling and 12 other intrepid explorers to climb the 5,895m summit of Africa's highest mountain, Mount Kilimanjaro, to raise vital cash for the Finlay Cooper Fund in aid of children's charities.

Honours
Middlesbrough
Football League First Division: 1994–95; runner-up: 1997–98
FA Cup runner-up: 1996–97
League Cup runner-up: 1996–97

Blackburn Rovers
League Cup: 2001–02

Individual
PFA Team of the Year: 1999–2000 First Division

References

Sources

External links

1970 births
Living people
Aberdeen F.C. players
Apollon Limassol FC players
Barnsley F.C. players
Blackburn Rovers F.C. players
Coventry City F.C. players
Crewe Alexandra F.C. players
Darlington F.C. players
English men's footballers
English expatriate men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Men's association football forwards
Hartlepool United F.C. players
Billingham Synthonia F.C. players
Leicester City F.C. players
Liverpool F.C. players
Leeds United F.C. players
Middlesbrough F.C. non-playing staff
Middlesbrough F.C. players
Premier League players
English Football League players
Cypriot First Division players
Scottish Premier League players
Expatriate men's footballers in Cyprus
People from Whiston, Merseyside
Footballers from Merseyside
Sportspeople from the Metropolitan Borough of Knowsley
Spennymoor United A.F.C. players
Hartlepool United F.C. non-playing staff
Hartlepool United F.C. managers
English football managers