[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hong Kong Human Rights Monitor

government officials and some non-governmental organisations. In the meetings, they explained the Article 23 legislation and its impact on the life and human rights of Hong Kong citizens. The media and government officials expressed understanding and concerns on the anxiety of the Hong Kong public.

The organisation also caught global attention as it joined the United Nations Human Rights Committee hearing in Geneva in 1999. This involvement will certainly help the organisation to learn more about the international context of human rights in Hong Kong and to gain further recognition from the local government.

In 1998, members of HKHRM met Tung Chee Hwa, the Chief Executive, and expressed their views on the issues of racial equality, the immigration appeal system, police monitoring and the pace of democratisation. Government support is received by the HKHRM after the meeting. The government shows its concern to the organisation and stresses its importance in Hong Kong.

Education

HKHRM is constantly invited to organise workshops and give talks to promote human rights.

In Hong Kong, many different communities in the society associate with and work together to hold some activities for the Human Rights Day every year since the United Nations adopted The Universal Declarion of Human Rights and set the date of 10 December as the International Human Rights Day in 1948.  HKHRM is one of the communities which helps in the Human Rights Day.

In 2005, the Faculty of Law of the University of Hong Kong joint hands with HKHRM to present a talk entitled Sexual Orientation and Human Rights in Hong Kong.

In March 2005, on the Teachers Professional Training Day organised by the Professional Teachers Union, HKHRM delivered a talk to a group of 40 teachers about the need for human rights education. It also introduced the Monitor’s work in the education of human rights.

In 2005, HKHRM organised three street forums in Siu Sai Wan, Causeway Bay and Tseuk Kwan O for community education and as an effort to request for the abolition of the functional constituencies. Academics and Legislative Councilors were invited to explain to the public why the functional constituencies cannot guarantee a fair and just political system.

In 2004, HKHRM cooperated with The Hong Kong Council of Social Service and Oxfam Hong Kong and organised a workshop for social service practitioners called Workshop on Basic Concepts on Legislating Against Racial Discrimination.

Current and future events
 Forming group to monitor possible interference on the freedom of expression by the HKSAR Government and/or Central Chinese authorities on existing and future legislation.
 Preparing the amicus curiae (Friend of the Court) documents on important constitutional matters.
 Monitoring the self-censorship of the media and the possible threat to other media.
 Carrying out research on existing laws on detention and imprisonment and proposing recommendations raised by the Monitor and Human Rights Watch.
 Urging the HKSAR Government to outlaw racial discrimination by maintaining a record of cases of racial discrimination to illustrate the need for action on this issue.
 Investigating issues on mental health and its implications on human rights.
 Refreshing the homepage from time to time to make sure members and other interested individuals are able to keep track of the Monitor's activities and the human rights situation in Hong Kong.
 Publishing and translating various human rights materials. This include booklets on women's rights, on the rights of minorities and on freedom of association and book on teaching human rights for teachers and video about human rights.
 Establishing a human rights information centre including legislation, government and non-governmental organisation publications and newspaper clippings.
 Continuing the police campaign which includes monitoring demonstrations, reforming the ineffective police complaints mechanism and improving the quality of autopsies by Government pathologists.

Membership

Membership of the Monitor is only HK$100, making it affordable to the majority of the Hong Kong community. All members are informed through a newsletter about the functions and events that they are concerned about. Monitor members have the autonomy to choose when and how they want to collaborate and help promote HKHRM goals. Members are expected to fully understand and demonstrate a legitimate commitment to human rights and the rules and regulations of Hong Kong law.

Funding

The HKHRM upholds and promotes its work through donations. The amount of work and research that could be done for a better human rights awareness in Hong Kong is affected by the amount of donations that come into the HKHRM fund. Donations are appreciated and non-refundable, but any legitimate donation is welcomed by the Monitor.