[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Sascha Riether

for the U21 side.

Senior career
Due to his good performance at Wolfsburg, Riether was considered to be called up by the national team. However, in May 2010, he was cut from being short–listed for the FIFA World Cup squad for the side. Three months later, he was finally called up by the senior team.

Riether made his debut with the German national team on 11 August 2010, in a friendly against Denmark and played 34 minutes coming on as substitute for Andreas Beck, as the match finished in a 2–2 draw. After the match, he said about his debut, quoting: "It was very special for me, the first international match, but unfortunately we did not win, but I'm really happy to get a taste of it."

To date, Riether's only other appearance with the national side was on 7 September 2010, playing the full 90 minutes of a 6–1 thumping of Azerbaijan in a UEFA Euro 2012 qualifying match. He have been since being called up by the national team on two occasions. Two years after moving to Fulham, Riether hopes his move would have benefited his international career, which never happened. So his two full caps came in a period of less than a month in 2010.

Personal life
Born in Lahr, West Germany, Riether grew up in Kühbach and excelled in wrestling. However, he had no interest in freestyle or Greco-Roman, leading him to change his interests to football. His interest in endurance racing earned him the nickname "Herbie". Growing up, he supported Borussia Dortmund and idolised Matthias Sammer.

In his early football career, Riether developed a reputation as "a good schoolboy, who always does his work without corners and edges, never attracts attention and therefore sometimes receives too little attention." He left school "at least 2-Abi" in 2002. In addition to speaking German, Riether speaks Spanish, French, English and some Portuguese. During his time at Wolfsburg, Riether developed a friendship with his then teammates, Gentner and Marcel Schäfer.

Riether is married to his wife Susana, a law student. In June 2020, he became a first time father when his wife gave birth to a baby girl, Sarah.

Career statistics

Club

International

Honours

Player
SC Freiburg
2. Bundesliga: 2002–03

VfL Wolfsburg
Bundesliga: 2008–09

Individual
Fulham Players' Player of the Year: 2012–13

References

External links 
 
 

1983 births
Living people
People from Lahr
Footballers from Freiburg (region)
German men's footballers
Men's association football defenders
Men's association football midfielders
Germany men's international footballers
Germany men's youth international footballers
Germany men's under-21 international footballers
Bundesliga players
2. Bundesliga players
Premier League players
Offenburger FV players
SC Freiburg players
VfL Wolfsburg players
1. FC Köln players
Fulham F.C. players
FC Schalke 04 players
German expatriate men's footballers
German expatriate sportspeople in England
Expatriate men's footballers in England