[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Siege of Jadotville

ere may have been perceived shame that "A" Company had surrendered, or because of political and strategic errors demonstrated at higher levels.

According to RTÉ, "Commandant Quinlan's action is cited in military textbooks worldwide as the best example of the use of the so-called perimeter defence".

The veterans of Jadotville were dissatisfied that the Defence Forces refused to acknowledge the battle and that there was an implied black mark on the reputation of their commander. A number of Irish soldiers, who had been involved in the siege, reputedly took their own lives in later years. Quinlan, who died in 1997, had his public reputation restored nine years after his death. John Gorman, a retired soldier who had been a 17-year-old private during the fight, campaigned to have the Battle of Jadotville recognised. In 2004 Irish Minister for Defence Willie O'Dea agreed to hold a full review of the battle. A Defence Forces inquiry cleared Quinlan and "A" Company of allegations of soldierly misconduct. A commemorative stone recognising the soldiers of "A" Company was erected on the grounds of Custume Barracks in Athlone in 2005. A commissioned portrait of Quinlan was installed in the Congo Room of the Irish Defence Forces' UN School.

In October 2017 a plaque commemorating Quinlan was unveiled in his native County Kerry, by former Taoiseach Enda Kenny. The decision of the state to honour the soldiers of Jadotville or their next of kin was one of the last decisions taken by Enda Kenny before he retired as Taoiseach in June 2017. They were presented with special medals in Athlone on 2 December 2017.

In popular culture
Declan Power's history, The Siege at Jadotville: The Irish Army's Forgotten Battle (2005), was adapted as the film, The Siege of Jadotville (2016). The cast includes Jamie Dornan and Mark Strong, and the movie had a "well received" premiere at the 2016 Galway Film Festival. It had a limited cinematic release in September 2016, and worldwide release on Netflix, on 7 October 2016. A radio documentary on the siege was broadcast on RTÉ Radio 1 in 2004.

Footnotes

References

Notes

Sources

Further reading
 
 
 
 
 
 Erik Kennes, Miles Larmer, The Katangese Gendarmes and War in Central Africa: Fighting Their Way Home, Indiana University Press, 2016

External links
 Battle of Jadotville Anniversary, exhibition of contemporary documents from the Irish Military Archives

Conflicts in 1961
Sieges involving Ireland
Sieges involving Sweden
Military operations involving India
1960s in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Mercenary warfare
United Nations operations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo
Likasi
Congo Crisis
State of Katanga
September 1961 events in Africa
20th-century sieges
Military history of the Republic of Ireland