[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 156]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

of the hut, set before me some broiled fish and
parched maize. After I had eaten, my friendly host inquired into my
country and the reasons of my visit. I was just enough acquainted with
the language he spoke to be able to understand him, and to give an
intelligible though imperfect answer. I therefore explained to him, as
well as I was able, that I had crossed the great water with the warriors
of the king of Britain; that we had been compelled to take up the
hatchet against the French and their allies, and that we had actually
set out upon an expedition against their colonies, but that we had been
surprised by a lurking party in the woods; that, in the confusion of the
fight, I had been separated from the rest, and had wandered several
days through the woods in search of my comrades; and that now, seeing
the tents of my brethren, the red men, I had come to visit them, and
smoke the pipe of peace in their company. All this I with some
difficulty explained to my entertainer, who listened to me with great
attention, and then bade me welcome in the name of his nation, which he
told me was called the _Saukies_; he added, 'that their young men were
dispersed through the woods, hunting the deer and buffalo, but they
would soon return loaded with provisions, and in the meantime I might
share his cabin and such provisions as he could command.' I thanked him
for his offer, and remained several days in his hut, always entertained
with the same hospitality, until the return of the young men from
hunting. They came at last in several boats, along the lake, bringing
with them a considerable quantity of wild beasts, which they had killed.
I was received by all the tribe with the same hospitality I had
experienced from the old chief; and as it was necessary to gain their
friendship as much as possible, I joined them in all their hunting and
fishing parties, and soon acquired a considerable degree of skill in
both.

"Hunting itself has something cruel in the practice; it is a species of
war which we wage with brute animals for their spoils; but if ever it
can be considered as excusable, it is in these savage nations, who have
recourse to it for their subsistence. They are active, bold, and
dexterous in all these exercises, to such a degree, that none of the
wild animals they attack have the smallest chance of escape. Their
parties generally consist of almost all the youth of their nation, who
go in a body to particular districts where they know game is plentiful.
Their common method is, when they are arrived at a spot which abounds in
deer or buffaloes, to disperse themselves through the woods; and then,
alarming the beasts in the neighbourhood, they drive them with shouts
and dogs towards some common place, which was always in the middle of
all their parties. When they have thus roused their prey, the various
squadrons gradually advance towards the centre, till they unite in a
circle, and enclose a prodigious number of frightened animals; they then
attack them either with fire-arms or arrows, and shoot them down
successively. By these means they are sure, in a single day, to destroy
a prodigious number of different beasts. But it sometimes happens that,
while they are engaged in the chase of other animals, they become a prey
themselves to their enemies, who take this method of surprising them in
the woods, and gratifying their resentment. This was actually the case
with my friends the Saukies, and produced a surprising event, the
consequence of which was my return to the English colonies in safety.

"The Saukies had been long at war with the Iroquese, a powerful tribe of
North Americans, in the interest of the French. The Iroquese had
received intelligence of the situation of the Saukies' encampment, and
determined to surprise them. For this purpose a thousand warriors set
out by a secret march through the woods, and travelled with silence and
celerity, which are peculiar to all these nations. When they had nearly
approached the hunting-grounds of their enemies, they happened to be
discovered upon their march by four warriors of another nation, who
instantly suspected their design, and, running with greater diligence
than it was possible so large a body could make, arrived at the
encampment of the Saukies, and informed them of the near approach of
their enemies. A great council was instantly assembled to deliberate
upon the choice of proper measures for their defence. As they were
encumbered with their families, it was impracticable to retreat with
safety, and it seemed equally difficult to resist so large a force with
inferior numbers.

"While they were in this uncertainty, I considered the nature of their
situation, and had the good fortune to find out a resource, which, being
communicated to my friend and chief, and adopted by the nation, was the
means of their safety. I observed that the passage to the Saukie camp,
for the Iroquese, lay along a