[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cycle index

s a regular permutation representation given by the group acting on itself (as a set) by (right) multiplication. This is called the regular representation of the group.

The cyclic group C6 in its regular representation contains the six permutations (one-line form of the permutation is given first):

 [1 2 3 4 5 6] = (1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)
 [2 3 4 5 6 1] = (1 2 3 4 5 6)
 [3 4 5 6 1 2] = (1 3 5)(2 4 6)
 [4 5 6 1 2 3] = (1 4)(2 5)(3 6)
 [5 6 1 2 3 4] = (1 5 3)(2 6 4)
 [6 1 2 3 4 5] = (1 6 5 4 3 2).

Thus its cycle index is:

Often, when an author does not wish to use the group action terminology, the permutation group involved is given a name which implies what the action is. The following three examples illustrate this point.

The cycle index of the edge permutation group of the complete graph on three vertices 
We will identify the complete graph K3 with an equilateral triangle in the Euclidean plane. This permits us to use geometric language to describe the permutations involved as symmetries of the equilateral triangle. Every permutation in the group S3 of vertex permutations (S3 in its natural action, given above) induces an edge permutation. These are the permutations:
 The identity: No vertices are permuted, and no edges; the contribution is 
 Three reflections in an axis passing through a vertex and the midpoint of the opposite edge: These fix one edge (the one not incident on the vertex) and exchange the remaining two; the contribution is 
 Two rotations, one clockwise, the other counterclockwise: These create a cycle of three edges; the contribution is 

The cycle index of the group G of edge permutations induced by vertex permutations from S3 is

It happens that the complete graph K3 is isomorphic to its own line graph (vertex-edge dual) and hence the edge permutation group induced by the vertex permutation group is the same as the vertex permutation group, namely S3 and the cycle index is Z(S3). This is not the case for complete graphs on more than three vertices, since these have strictly more edges () than vertices (n).

The cycle index of the edge permutation group of the complete graph on four vertices 

This is entirely analogous to the three-vertex case. These are the vertex permutations (S4 in its natural action) and the edge permutations (S4 acting on unordered pairs) that they induce:

 The identity: This permutation maps all vertices (and hence, edges) to themselves and the contribution is 
 Six permutations that exchange two vertices: These permutations preserve the edge that connects the two vertices as well as the edge that connects the two vertices not exchanged. The remaining edges form two two-cycles and the contribution is 
 Eight permutations that fix one vertex and produce a three-cycle for the three vertices not fixed: These permutations create two three-cycles of edges, one containing those not incident on the vertex, and another one containing those incident on the vertex; the contribution is 
 Three permutations that exchange two vertex pairs at the same time: These permutations preserve the two edges that connect the two pairs. The remaining edges form two two-cycles and the contribution is 
 Six permutations that cycle the vertices in a four-cycle: These permutations create a four-cycle of edges (those that lie on the cycle) and exchange the remaining two edges; the contribution is 

We may visualize the types of permutations geometrically as symmetries of a regular tetrahedron. This yields the following description of the permutation types.
 The identity.
 Reflection in the plane that contains one edge and the midpoint of the edge opposing it.
 Rotation by 120 degrees about the axis passing through a vertex and the midpoint of the opposite face.
 Rotation by 180 degrees about the axis connecting the midpoints of two opposite edges.
 Six rotoreflections by 90 degrees.

The cycle index of the edge permutation group G of K4 is:

The cycle index of the face permutations of a cube

Consider an ordinary cube in three-space and its group of symmetries (automorphisms), call it C. It permutes the six faces of the cube.
(We could also consider edge permutations or vertex permutations.)
There are twenty-four automorphisms.