[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# New York City ethnic enclaves

e, Korean, Greek, Dominican, and Italian people. The top three languages in Astoria are Bengali, Spanish, and Brazilians' native Portuguese.  The other Brazilian neighborhood, 46th Street between Fifth and Sixth Avenues, was officially named "Little Brazil", but resident Brazilians call it "Rua 46."

One of many Latin American groups represented in New York, Colombian Americans have a very strong presence in Jackson Heights and a nearby neighborhood, Elmhurst, especially along Roosevelt Avenue.

New York City also has some Salvadoran American ethnic enclaves such as the one in Flushing; others are in Corona, Jamaica, Williamsburg, and Parkchester. There is a sizable Honduran American population in the South and West Bronx.

Dominican

Immigration records of Dominicans in the United States date from the late 19th century, with New York City having a Dominican community since the 1930s. Large scale immigration of Dominicans began after 1961 onward when dictator Rafael Trujillo died.  Other catalysts in Dominican immigration were the invasion of Santo Domingo in 1965, and the regime of Joaquín Balaguer from 1966 to 1978.  In part due to these catalysts, starting in the 1970s and lasting until the early 1990s, Dominicans were the largest group of immigrants coming into New York City.  Now, Dominicans compose 7% of New York's population and are the largest immigrant group.  Major Dominican neighborhoods in New York include Washington Heights and Inwood in Manhattan, Bushwick, Southside Williamsburg, Sunset Park, and East New York in Brooklyn, Corona, Jackson Heights, Ridgewood, and Woodhaven in Queens, and most of the West Bronx, particularly areas like the Highbridge, University Heights, Morris Heights, Kingsbridge, and Fordham-Bedford, among others. In fact, Dominicans are the most dominant Hispanic group (and overall ethnic group) in many areas of the Bronx west of Third Avenue, often sharing these Bronx neighborhoods with Puerto Ricans, African Americans, as well as whites and other immigrants from Latin America and Africa. Upper Manhattan and western portions of the Bronx have some of the highest concentrations of Dominicans in the country.

The South Bronx is another neighborhood with a Dominican population.  During the 1970s, the area, while heavily populated by Puerto Ricans & African Americans, became infamous for poverty and arson, a lot by landlords seeking insurance money on "coffin ships" of buildings.  By 1975, the South Bronx was the most devastated urban landscape in America, and had experienced the largest population drop in urban history, given the exception of the aftermath of war.  The South Bronx has started to recover, and most of it has recovered from the damage done in the 1970s.

By 1984, the traditionally heavily Italian neighborhood of Corona had instead become heavily Dominican, and Corona experienced rapid economic growth – 59% – as compared to the rest of the city experiencing 7%, as well as having the most overcrowded school district in the city .

The Dominican population of Washington Heights is significant, and candidates for political office in the Dominican Republic will run parades up Broadway.

In some of these neighborhoods, shops advertise in Spanish and English, the Dominican flag is hung from windows, storefronts, and balconies, and the primary language is Dominican Spanish.

Ecuadorian

New York City has a large Ecuadorian American ethnic enclaves, and there are over 210,000 Ecuadorians in the city , making them the sixth largest ethnic population in the city. A part of Southside Williamsburg in Brooklyn is Ecuadorian in nature, with Spanish being the primary language of most Ecuadorians in the area, bodegas advertising goods in Spanish, and churches advertising bingo games in Spanish.

Other Ecuadorian neighborhoods include Tremont in the Bronx, and several neighborhoods in Queens, including Jackson Heights, Corona, and Ridgewood, have significant Ecuadorian communities. Corona's Ecuadorian community, notably, is the fastest-growing, with parts of Corona being over 25% Ecuadorian.

Mexican
Mexican Americans, , were New York's fastest growing ethnic group, with 186,000 immigrants ; they were also the third largest Hispanic group in New York City, after Puerto Ricans and Dominicans. Close to 80% of New York Mexicans were born outside the United States, and more than 60% of Mexican New Yorkers reside in Brooklyn and Queens.