[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nikolay Voronov

area of Operation Little Saturn.

From 16 to 19 December, Voronov coordinated the artillery of the Southwestern and Voronezh Fronts. On 19 December, he was sent to the Don Front to aid in the planning and implementation of operations for the elimination of the surrounded German troops in Stalingrad.

On 10 January 1943, after an artillery barrage, Operation Koltso was launched. For the operation, Voronov was awarded the Order of Suvorov 1st class. On 18 January, he was promoted to Marshal of the Artillery. On 31 January, Friedrich Paulus surrendered to Soviet troops and Voronov personally interrogated him. In early February, Voronov was sent to the Northwestern Front to assist with the planning and operation of the Demyansk Offensive. In April, the Katyusha rocket launcher units were handed over to the chief of the artillery, but self-propelled artillery units were placed under command of tank units, despite Voronov's protests. From May to June, Voronov oversaw the formation of the first five breakthrough artillery corps, and on 5 July served as the representative for the commander of the Bryansk Front, as well as checking the preparation of the artillery bombardment in the Battle of Kursk. On 3 August, he was sent to the Western Front to monitor the planning and conduct of the Battle of Smolensk.

On 30 August, Voronov was sent to the Kalinin Front. On 20 October, he coordinated the actions of the 1st Baltic Front, 2nd Baltic Front and Western Front. In early 1944, he had to resign from his position as a Stavka representative and return to Moscow for treatment of health issues. Voronov then helped redeploy ammunition and artillery to the Far Eastern Front. On 21 February, he was promoted to chief marshal of the artillery. On 20 March 1944, Voronov was featured on the cover of Time magazine.

Postwar 
In May 1946, Voronov began the establishment of the Academy of Artillery Sciences. He was also elected a deputy of the Soviet of the Union. In 1950, he was released from his position and became the president of the Academy of Artillery Sciences, responsible for developing strategic nuclear weapons. In 1953, he was appointed chief of the Military Artillery Command Academy in Leningrad. In October 1958, transferred to the Group of Inspectors General of the Ministry of Defence due to health issues, where he was until his death. In 1963, Voronov published his memoirs, titled 'На службе военной', or On Military Service. On 7 May 1965, he was awarded the title Hero of the Soviet Union on the 20th anniversary of the end of World War II. On 23 February 1968, a tumor was discovered and Voronov was operated on. On 28 February he died without regaining consciousness.

He was cremated and his ashes was buried in the Kremlin Wall Necropolis.

Personal life 
Voronov was an avid football fan and was a supporter of CSKA Moscow. He married Nina and had a son, Vladimir.

Honours and awards
Voronov received the following Soviet awards:
 Hero of the Soviet Union
 Order of Lenin, six times
 Order of the October Revolution
 Order of the Red Banner, four times
 Order of Suvorov, 1st Class, three times
 Order of the Red Star
 Medal "For the Defence of Leningrad"
 Medal "For the Defence of Stalingrad"
 Medal "For the Defence of Moscow"
 Medal "For the Victory over Germany in the Great Patriotic War 1941–1945"
 Jubilee Medal "Twenty Years of Victory in the Great Patriotic War 1941–1945"
 Medal "For the Victory over Japan"
 Jubilee Medal "XX Years of the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army"
 Jubilee Medal "30 Years of the Soviet Army and Navy"
 Jubilee Medal "40 Years of the Armed Forces of the USSR"
 Jubilee Medal "50 Years of the Armed Forces of the USSR"
 Medal "In Commemoration of the 800th Anniversary of Moscow"
 Medal "In Commemoration of the 250th Anniversary of Leningrad"
 Honorary weapons

He also received the following foreign awards:
 Order of Sukhbaatar (Mongolia)
Order of the Red Banner (Mongolia)
 Order of the Partisan Star, 1st class (Yugoslavia)
 Order of National Liberation (Yugoslavia)
 Cross of Grunwald, 1st class (Poland)
 Commander of the Order of Polonia Restituta (Poland)

Nikolay Voronov is interred in the Kremlin Wall Necropolis at the Red Square.

Dates of rank
Voronov's promotion dates were as follows:
 Kombrig: 26 November 1935
 Komkor: 20 June 1937
 Colonel General: 7 May 1940
 Marshal of the Artillery:  18 January 1943 (equivalent to NATO four star rank)
 Chief Marshal of Artillery: 21 February 1944

See also 
Ivan Kamera (1897-1952), artillery general during World War II

References

Sources

Bibliography

Memoirs 
 (Russian) Voronov, Nikolay Nikolayevich.  На службе военной (On military service). Moscow: Voenizdat, 1963