[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Noise regulation

ed while for moving sources it is not.  Historically, regulations were enforced by the subjective judgment of an enforcing officer.  With the advent of sound measuring equipment, the judgment can be based on measured sound levels. Most comprehensive noise ordinances contain four types of provisions.

Subjective Emission
These regulations allow an official to decide if the output of a sound source is acceptable without recourse to sound measurements and without regard to the presence of a specific listener. Regulations with plainly audible terms on public property as a criterion are examples.

Subjective Immission
These regulations allow an official to decide if the sound received by a listener is acceptable without recourse to sound measurements and without regard for the specific sound power generated by the source. Regulations with plainly audible or noise disturbance terms on private property as a criterion are examples.

Objective Emission
These regulations require an official to measure the output of a sound source to determine whether it is acceptable without regard to the presence of a specific listener. Regulations with specific maximum sound output levels for motor vehicles are examples.

Objective Immission
These regulations require an official to measure the sound received by a listener to determine whether it is acceptable without regard to the specific sound power generated by the source.  Regulations with maximum allowable sound levels on property lines are examples
Independence Day

Some definitions used in the United States
Many communities have definitions that are local to them, such as those defining motor vehicles and sound levels and sound level  measurements.  Some that have been added to make noise enforcement more specific are listed here.

Engine braking device
A compression braking device installed on large motor vehicles to assist in reduction, or control, of vehicle speed.  When activated, the engine converts from a power source to a power absorber by converting the engine into an air compressor.

Muffler
Any device for the abatement of sound emission while permitting the transfer of gas.  A muffler is considered to be in good working order if the sound reduction is equal to, or greater than, that of the original equipment.

Noise disturbance
Any sound or vibration which:
 may disturb or annoy reasonable persons of normal sensitivities or;
 causes, or tends to cause, an adverse effect on the public health and welfare or;
 endangers or injures people or;
 endangers or injures personal or real property.
This can also be defined as noise nuisance.

Place of public entertainment
Any location, exterior, or interior, to a building that regularly permits public entrance for entertainment purposes.  For this purpose, “public” means citizens of all types, including but not limited to, children, and private or public employees.

Plainly audible sound
Any sound for which the information content is unambiguously communicated to the listener, such as, but not limited to, understandable speech, comprehension of whether a voice is raised or normal, repetitive bass sounds, or comprehension of musical rhythms, without the aid of any listening device.

Powered model vehicle
Any self-propelled airborne, water-borne, or land-borne, plane, vessel, or vehicle, which is not designed to carry persons, including, but not limited to, any model airplane, boat, car, or rocket.

Real property boundary
An imaginary line along the ground surface, and its vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from that owned by another person, but not including intra-building real property divisions.

Sound reproduction device
Any device, instrument, mechanism, equipment or apparatus for the amplification of any sounds from any radio, phonograph, stereo, tape player, musical instrument, television, loudspeaker or other sound-making or sound-producing device or any device or apparatus for the reproduction or amplification of the human voice or other sound.

Vibration perception threshold
The minimum ground or structure borne vibrational motion necessary to cause a person of normal sensitivity to be aware of the motion through contact, hearing, or through visual observation of moving things.