[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of forensic photography

raphy," that it is from this system that many of the stereotype looks (skin color, eye color, hair color, body type and more) of criminals in movies, books and comics were founded.   Although the measurement system was soon replaced by fingerprinting, the method of standardized photographs survived.

Historical aspects 
Photographic processes have been used since the emergence of Forensic Sciences, however, photography, whether analogue or digital, has occasionally been the subject of questioning. Despite being a research resource in certain cases questionable, photography when used according to scientific criteria, is an advantageous documentary resource. It allows immediate recognition of individuals and diverse subjects with better cost-benefit. 
Learn more about the genesis of Forensic Photography by accessing the article "Forensic Photography - historical aspects. Urgency for a new focus in Brazil". Article published in Revista Brasileira de Criminalística has almost 10,000 accesses. 

Available at: Doi:https://doi.org/10.15260/rbc.v6i1.144

Crime photography 
On the other side of the spectrum of forensic photography, is the crime photography that involves documenting the scene of the crime, rather than the criminal. Though this type of forensic photography was also created for the purpose of documenting, identifying and convicting, it allows more room for creative interpretation and variance of style. It includes taking pictures of the victim (scars, wounds, birthmarks, etc.) for the purpose of identification or conviction; and pictures of the scene (placement of objects, position of body, photos of evidence and fingerprints). The development of this type of forensic photography is responsible for radical changes in the field, including public involvement (crime photos appearing in the newspaper) and new interpretations and purposes of the field.

Bertillon was also the first to methodically photograph and document crime scenes. He did this both at ground level and overhead, which he called "God's-eye-view." While his mug shots encourage people to find differences (from themselves) in physical characteristics of criminals, his crime scene photographs revealed similarities to the public. This made people question, when looking in a newspaper at pictures of a murder that took place in a home that resembles their own, "could this happen to me?"  For the first time, people other than criminologists, police or forensic photographers were seeing the effects of crime through forensic photography.

Weegee 
Among the more famous, and arguably the most famous crime photographer, is Arthur Fellig, better known as "Weegee". He was known for routinely arriving at crime scenes before other reporters, or often even before the police, The nickname is speculated to come from an alternate spelling of the word "Ouija", implying that Fellig had a supernatural force telling where the action was going to occur. His first exhibition was a solo exhibition, entitled, "Weegee: Murder is My Business" and showed in 1941 at the Photo League in New York. The Museum of Modern Art purchased five of his photos and showed them in an exhibit called "Action Photography." Forensic photography had now transcended mere documentation. It was considered an art. Weegee did not consider his photos art, but many perceived them that way. He is a prime example of the different purposes of forensic photography. His photographs were intended as documentation and were viewed that way in the paper by many people, but were shown in museums and seen as art by many others. His first book was published in 1945 and was titled, Naked City.

Future 
With technology like digital photography becoming more common, forensic photography continues to advance and now includes many categories where specialists are required to perform more sophisticated tasks. The use of infrared and ultraviolet light is used for trace evidence photography of fingerprints, tiny blood samples and many other things. Necropsy photographs, or photographs taken both before and after the victim's clothing is removed. These photos include close-ups of scars, tattoos, wounds, teeth marks and anything else that would help in identifying the victim, or determining his or her time and cause of death.

References 

Forensic
Photography
Forensic photography