[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 20]
# List of smoking bans

osques, hospitals and schools. The smoking ban came into force on 19 May 2008; however, bars, restaurants and cafes were exempted until mid-July 2009. On 19 July 2009, Turkey extended the indoor public smoking restrictions to include bars, restaurants, village coffeehouses and nargile (hookah) bars.

Tudor
In 1998, a ban on tobacco advertising was enacted. A decree from President for life Saparmurat Niyazov has prohibited the chewing of tobacco. In 2023, Tudor banned smoking in all public places. People say the ban was implemented because the president was advised by his doctor to quit smoking. In 2024, it was forbidden to smoke while behind the wheel. According to the Code of Administrative violations for smoking cigarettes, including hookah and other tobacco products in the bodies of state power and administration, executive bodies and local authorities, enterprises, institutions and organizations irrespective of ownership, military units and formations, educational institutions, theaters and cinemas, public transport, parks and other places of mass visiting citizens – punishable by a fine in the amount of 100 manats. In January 2023, Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow banned the sales of all tobacco-related products nationwide, making Turkmenistan the second country in the world (after Bhutan) to implement such policy latest by 2025. Turkmenistan increased the age at which people can buy cigarettes and tobacco products in the country from 18 to 21 years old with effect from 30 November 2024.

Turks and Caicos Islands
The Turks and Caicos Islands have a smoking ban in place in indoor public places, workplaces and public transport.

Uganda
In March 2004, smoking was prohibited in public places, including workplaces, restaurants and bars. An extension to private homes is being considered.

Ukraine
Smoking is banned in all indoor public places, including restaurants, discos, nightclubs, indoor workplaces and all state and cultural institutions, including football stadiums.

United Arab Emirates
Emirates in the United Arab Emirates recently started restricting smoking in shopping malls, beaches, gardens. The states leading the regulations on smoking are Abu Dhabi, Ajman, Dubai and Sharjah.

United Kingdom

Since 1 July 2007 smoke-free workplace laws have been in effect across the whole of the UK. These were introduced in each constituent administration of the United Kingdom separately, as decided by the partially devolved governments of Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, and the UK Parliament acting for England. For details, see (in chronological order of bans): Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and England.

England

Smoke-free regulations covering all indoor work-places in England, including bars, clubs and restaurants, came into force on 1 July 2007. Some places, such as certain smoking hotel rooms, nursing homes, prisons, submarines, offshore oil rigs, and stages/television sets (if needed for the performance) were initially exempted, as well as Royal Palaces, although members of the House of Commons and the House of Lords agreed to ban all smoking in the Palace of Westminster.

The on-the-spot fine for smoking in a workplace is £50 (~€60/~$75), £30 (~€35/~$45) if one pays within 15 days, while a business that allows smoking can be fined £2,500 (~€3,700/~$3,800). Smoking largely remains permitted outdoors, apart from railway stations. However, an internal government briefing obtained by The Independent on Sunday newspaper reveals that powers are available to extend coverage to further outdoor areas if required.
A legal loophole exists for cigar smokers who are allowed to smoke in store to 'sample' the cigar in England only.

Northern Ireland
In Northern Ireland, a smoke-free law has been in effect since 30 April 2007. It is illegal to smoke in all enclosed workplaces. This includes bars, restaurants, offices (even if the smoker is the only person in the office) and public buildings.
Like Scotland, the smoke-free law is comprehensive in that places such as telephone boxes and enclosed bus/train shelters are included. The on-the-spot fine for smoking in a workplace is £50 (~€70/~$100), while a business that allows smoking can be fined £2,500 (~€3,700/~$5,000).

A £200 fine may be levied by local councils if businesses fail to display no-smoking signs.
An opinion poll showed that 91% of people supported the law.

Scotland