[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ara Darzi, Baron Darzi of Denham

Ara Warkes Darzi, Baron Darzi of Denham,  (; born 7 May 1960) is an Armenian-British surgeon, academic, and politician.

Lord Darzi is an academic surgeon and holds the Paul Hamlyn Chair of Surgery at Imperial College London, specialising in the field of minimally invasive and robot-assisted surgery, having pioneered many new techniques and technologies. He is co-director of the Institute of Global Health Innovation and the NIHR Imperial Patient Safety Translational Research Centre at Imperial College London. He has become strongly identified with trying to change the National Health Service (NHS) in England and is recognised internationally as an advocate for applying innovative reforms to health systems globally.

Until resigning the whip in July 2019, Darzi sat as a Labour member of the House of Lords, but now sits as an independent peer because of his perception that Jeremy Corbyn failed to control antisemitism within Labour.

Early life and family
Darzi was born in Baghdad, Iraq to Armenian parents displaced by the 1915 Armenian genocide. His family had lived in Erzurum, Ottoman Empire (now Turkey). His paternal great-grandparents, Tatyos and Elbiz Shiroian, had one daughter and four sons.  Of them only Elbiz and her daughter, Arevalous (Darzi's grandmother), survived the genocide. They fled on foot to northern Iraq with the aid of a friend of Tatyos. Darzi's father was born in Mosul and his mother was born in Baghdad.

Darzi is fluent in Armenian and served as a choirboy for Armenian religious services, growing up in Baghdad . He graduated from Baghdad College, but the situation in Iraq in the late 1970s led to his family's emigration. At 17, he moved to Ireland to study medicine, while his parents and sister eventually settled in London. "We were refugees. We had thrived in Iraq. But it was quite clear that we had to move on again. The first Persian Gulf war was looming. I remember my father saying: 'The kids need to get out of here,'" Darzi recalled in 2015.

He studied medicine at the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, obtaining the degrees of LRCP&SI MB BCh BAO in 1984, and subsequently obtained the postgraduate degree of MD at Trinity College, Dublin. He moved to the UK from Ireland in 1990 to further his career in surgery. In 1991, he was appointed as a consultant surgeon at Central Middlesex Hospital at the age of 31 and then moved to St Mary's Hospital in 1994.

His wife, Wendy, is Irish. They have two children, Freddie and Nina.

Medical career

Darzi joined Imperial College London in 1994, obtained his Professorship in 1996 and became the Chair of Surgery and Head of department in 1998. Darzi holds the Paul Hamlyn Chair of Surgery at Imperial College London and the Institute of Cancer Research. He is also an honorary consultant surgeon at St Mary's Hospital, and the Royal Marsden Hospital.  He has held many senior administrative appointments within the Faculty of Medicine at Imperial College, Research Council, Editorial Board of Scientific Journals, and medical royal colleges.

Darzi was educated in Ireland, awarded an MD from Trinity College Dublin and the fellowships of essentially all the Royal Colleges of Surgeons in the British Isles (Ireland FRCSI, England FRCS, and both Scottish Colleges FRCSEd, FRCPSG).

He holds the fellowship of the American College of Surgeons and has been elected as a fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences, an honorary fellow of the Royal Academy of Engineering and more recently a foreign associate of the Institute of Medicine. From 2005 to 2008, he was president of Bath Institute of Medical Engineering (BIME). In December 2008 he received an honorary degree (Doctor of Engineering) from the University of Bath.

In 2010, he was made a fellow of the Royal College of Physicians, an honorary fellow of the Royal College of Physicians of Ireland, and an honorary fellow of the National Institute of Clinical Excellence.

Darzi's main clinical and academic interest is in minimally invasive surgery and allied technologies in which he and his team are internationally recognised.  He leads a team of researchers covering a wide spectrum of engineering and basic sciences research topics including Medical Image Computing, Biomedical Engineering, Clinical Safety, surgical education and training at post-graduate and undergraduate levels and robotics.  He has published more than 800 peer reviewed papers and authored, co-authored or edited several books.

This work has received international recognition including the Queen's Anniversary Prize for Excellence in Higher and further education 2001, Hamdan Award for Medical Research Excellence in 2004. In 2006, Darzi and his department were awarded the Rector's Research Excellence Award for their work on surgical robots. He has also delivered many named lectures around the globe.

On 2 May 2013, Lord Darzi was elected Fellow of the Royal Society.