[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marcoussis

naire.
 Count Aymar de la Baume Pluvinel, astronomer, member of the Academy of Sciences, pioneer of the photography of the celestial bodies.
 Ib Braase, Danish modern artist and sculptor who lived and worked here from 1968 until his death in 2009.
 Léo Roussel, racing driver, was born in Marcoussis.

Transport
Marcoussis is served by no station of the Paris Métro, RER, or suburban rail network. The closest station to Marcoussis is Saint-Michel-sur-Orge station on Paris RER line . This station is located in the commune of Saint-Michel-sur-Orge, 5.7 km (3.5 mi) from the town center of Marcoussis.

Events
The strawberry festival continues although the mass growing of strawberries disappeared at the start of the 1980s, whereas it was formerly produced locally in great quantity.

Bineau carnival
Each year in spring, the carnival of Bineau fills the streets of the village. This carnival is, according to certain sources, dedicated to the minister Jean-Martial Bineau (1805–1855) who under Napoleon III, took unpopular measures by decreasing the spending of State. The carnival takes place in the following towns: Arpajon, Leuville-on-Barley, Nozay, City-of-Wood. Marcoussis is not in the official procession of floats and majorettes, but has a festival organised by its citizens. A covered puppet in black trousers and a tail coat, capped with a hat top hat, and girds of a tricolour scarf is carried by the young people who are 18 years that year (formerly conscripts, nowadays boys and girls) dressed in the same costume. They are followed by the dressed up tanks and inhabitants. For certain groups the preparation for "' 'Bineau' '" lasts several months (choice of the theme, of the costumes and construction of the float which is drawn by a tractor). For the last ten years several groups are mobilized to make this festival a success. The procession starts at around 3pm, crosses the town by the main street from east to west to finish in place de la Republique, at dusk. Along the way, several stops take place among the houses of people who liberally offer drink to those in the procession. Bineau is placed at the top of a large heap of straw, piled-up over previous days, and set alight. The crowd forms a large farandole around fire, until it goes out. It is one of the great moments of the life of the commune, where the joy and good mood reign as Masters, and which many Marcoussisiens would not miss under any pretext.

Cultural heritage

Parish church
The parish church Sainte-Marie-Madeleine was built by Jean de Montagu at the same time as its castle at the beginning of the 15th century, it is registered on the additional inventory of historic buildings by decree of December 17, 1965. The nave with three spans was built in the middle of 16th century by Jeanne d' Amboise, daughter of the amiral de Graville whose armorial bearings decorate the key of central crossing. One can admire inside the church a Virgin with the Child in marble of Carrara, of 2 meters height, œuvre of Jean de Cambrai for Duke of Berry who made of it gift with the monastery of Célestins in 1408, it was classified as a historic building as of 1896. The frontage is of style Gothic architecture blazing, the door is sumontée of a contour in accordance, the stained glass with the top of the door of entry represents the armorial bearings of the lords of Marcoussis: Montagu, Graville, Balzac and Iliers d' Entragues and Esclignac.

Vestiges of the castle of Montagu
Was given to the orphans apprentices of Auteuil in 1940, by Genevieve de la Baume-Pluvinel, as well as the grounds and the modern castle, with the proviso of making it a school of horticulture which would bear the name of Saint-Anthony in homage to her brother who died at 18 years of age during the First World War. What remains today and is protected:
 the tower of the chatelet of entry,
 the tower of the oubliettes and grounds with levelling of the castle, classified with the title of historic buildings by a state decree of July 9, 1984,
 arched cellars, registered on the additional Inventory of Historic Buildings by a decree of 21 December 1984.

Castle of Célestins
Owned by the commune and currently housing the school of Arts, built in 1859 on the site of the convent dedicated to the Holy Trinity which had been completed in 1408 and occupied by Célestins.  The convent was set on fire at the time of the Wars of Religion then demolished at the start of the French Revolution.

Remains of the Castle of Bellejame
The castle was destroyed by fire in 1976 and the adjoining park now has the National Center of Rugby in its northern section. In the southern section, the park is managed by the general council of Essonne and has:
 The refrigerator which was used to store the ice recovered from nearby waters
 An arched source and;
 The remains of a hydraulic ram.