[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# May 1965

and on May 21, a Sullivan story with the headline "Signals Imply a 'Big Bang' Universe" would appear on the front page of the Times. Penzias and Wilson, who had made their observations from a hilltop station in Holmdel, New Jersey, would share the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1978 for their discovery.

The Wet Mock Simulated Launch of Gemini 4 was completed.
Born: 
Tim "Youngblood" Chapman, American bounty hunter and co-star (with Duane "Dog" Chapman) of Dog the Bounty Hunter
José Antonio Delgado, Venezuelan mountaineer and paraglider, in Caracas (died of hypothermia, 2006)
Hikari Ōta, Japanese television comedian, in Kamifukuoka
Died: Dick Wantz, 25, American baseball pitcher who had appeared in his first and only major league game (for the California Angels) on April 13. Wantz died one day after undergoing surgery for a brain tumor.

May 14, 1965 (Friday)
The first 270 members of the "Inter-American Peace Force" arrived in the Dominican Republic on behalf of the Organization of American States (OAS).  The units consisted of 250 soldiers from the Army of the Honduras, and 20 policemen from Costa Rica, which did not have an army.
Born: Eoin Colfer, Irish children's author, in Wexford
Died: 
Frances Perkins, 85, U.S. Secretary of Labor for 12 years (1933–1945) and the first woman to serve as a member of the U.S. President's cabinet.
Belva Gaertner, 80, murder suspect

May 15, 1965 (Saturday)
Prime Minister Keith Holyoake opened the Benmore Dam on New Zealand's South Island.
An avalanche came down from West Germany's highest mountain, the Zugspitze, onto the Hotel Schneefernerhaus near Garmisch-Partenkirchen, burying dozens of skiers and tourists. Until missing persons could be located, officials feared that as many as 90 people had been killed; ultimately, the death toll was ten. The resort was in its final week of the 1964–1965 season and temperatures were above 60 degrees when melting snow loosened and triggered the disaster.
President Johnson ordered the United States Mint to resume production of silver dollars for the first time since 1935, with directions that 45 million new coins would be minted and that "they will be distributed in the areas of the country where the silver dollar has traditionally been used as a medium of exchange". However, because of a shortage of silver and uncertainty about the metal composition, dollar coins would not be reintroduced until 1971.
Qualification of the G4C extravehicular suit was completed. This suit was basically the same as the G3C suit except for modifications which included a redundant zipper closure, two over-visors for visual and physical protection, automatic locking ventilation settings, and a heavier cover layer incorporating thermal and micrometeoroid protection. Six G4C suits would be at the launch site for the Gemini 4 flight crews by the end of May.

May 16, 1965 (Sunday)
While waiting to take off on a mission, a B-57B Canberra jet bomber exploded on the ground at Bien Hoa Air Base, Vietnam. This set off a chain of secondary explosions that destroyed 21 other airplanes at the base, killed 27 U.S. Air Force personnel, and injured 99 people. Among the dead was 34-year-old USAF Major Robert G. Bell, who in 1959 had been one of the 32 finalists for NASA Astronaut Group 1. The initial explosion happened at about 8:25 in the morning, and a serviceman at the scene would write later that the series of explosions that followed (many of them from bombs with delayed fuses) "lasted about three hours... Napalm, 500 lb. and 700 lb. demolition bombs, frag bombs and 50 caliber ammunition went off like Chinese fireworks." USAF Major General Joseph H. Moore estimated that the disaster destroyed 10 percent of the B-57 bombers that comprised the American nuclear fleet. Sabotage was ruled out, and the accident was eventually traced to a loose turbine on the B-57B hitting the fuse of an armed  bomb.
Major General Wladislaw Tykocinski of the Army of Poland, the senior foreign diplomat in West Berlin, asked the United States to grant him political asylum. Tykocinski, who left his wife and child behind in East Berlin, approached an American serviceman, 1st Sgt. Marion H. Tomlinson, at a delicatessen. 
U.S. Army Lt. General Marshall S. Carter, formerly the deputy director of the CIA, became the new director of the National Security Agency, replacing USAF Lt. General Gordon A. Blake.
Born:
Jason, Norwegian cartoonist, in Molde, as John Arne Sæterøy
Krist Novoselic, American bass guitarist for the grunge rock group Nirvana; in Compton, California
Died: Wing Luke, 40, Chinese-American lawyer and politician, plane crash