[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hyperboloid model

r for points on the geodesic, then

will be a point on the geodesic.

More generally, a k-dimensional "flat" in the hyperbolic n-space will be modeled by the (non-empty) intersection of the hyperboloid with a k+1-dimensional linear subspace (including the origin) of the Minkowski space.

Isometries 

The indefinite orthogonal group O(1,n), also called the
(n+1)-dimensional Lorentz group, is the Lie group of  real (n+1)×(n+1) matrices which preserve the Minkowski bilinear form. In a different language, it is
the group of linear isometries of the Minkowski space. In particular, this group preserves the hyperboloid S. Recall that indefinite orthogonal groups have four connected components, corresponding to reversing or preserving the orientation on each subspace (here 1-dimensional and n-dimensional), and form a Klein four-group. The subgroup of O(1,n) that preserves the sign of the first coordinate is the orthochronous Lorentz group, denoted O+(1,n), and has two components, corresponding to preserving or reversing the orientation of the spatial subspace. Its subgroup SO+(1,n) consisting of matrices with determinant one is a connected Lie group of dimension n(n+1)/2 which acts on S+ by linear automorphisms and preserves the hyperbolic distance. This action is transitive and the stabilizer of the vector (1,0,...,0) consists of the matrices of the form

Where  belongs to the compact special orthogonal group SO(n) (generalizing the rotation group SO(3) for ). It follows that the n-dimensional hyperbolic space can be exhibited as the homogeneous space and a Riemannian symmetric space of rank 1,

 

The group SO+(1,n) is the full group of orientation-preserving isometries of the n-dimensional hyperbolic space.

In more concrete terms, SO+(1,n) can be split into n(n-1)/2 rotations (formed with a regular Euclidean rotation matrix in the lower-right block) and n hyperbolic translations, which take the form

where  is the distance translated (along the x axis in this case), and the 2nd row/column can be exchanged with a different pair to change to a translation along a different axis. The general form of a translation in 3 dimensions along the vector  is:

 where .

This extends naturally to more dimensions, and is also the simplified version of a Lorentz boost when you remove the relativity-specific terms.

Examples of groups of isometries 

The group of all isometries of the hyperboloid model is O+(1,n). Any group of isometries is a subgroup of it.

Reflections 
For two points , there is a unique reflection exchanging them.

Let .
Note that , and therefore .

Then

is a reflection that exchanges  and .
This is equivalent to the following matrix:

(note the use of block matrix notation).

Then  is a group of isometries.
All such subgroups are conjugate.

Rotations and reflections 

is the group of rotations and reflections that preserve .
The function  is an isomorphism from O(n) to this group.
For any point , if  is an isometry that maps  to , then  is the group of rotations and reflections that preserve .

Translations 

For any real number , there is a translation

This is a translation of distance  in the positive x direction if  or of distance  in the negative x direction if .
Any translation of distance  is conjugate to  and .
The set  is the group of translations through the x-axis, and a group of isometries is conjugate to it if and only if it is a group of isometries through a line.

For example, let's say we want to find the group of translations through a line .
Let  be an isometry that maps  to  and let  be an isometry that fixes  and maps  to .
An example of such a  is  a reflection exchanging  and  (assuming they are different), because they are both the same distance from .
Then  is an isometry mapping  to  and a point on the positive x-axis to .
 is a translation through the line  of distance .
If , it is in the  direction.
If , it is in the  direction.
 is the group of translations through .

Symmetries of horospheres 

Let H be some horosphere such that points of the form  are inside of it for arbitrarily large x.
For any vector b in 

is a hororotation that maps H to itself.
The set of such hororotations is the group of hororotations preserving H.
All hororotations are conjugate to each other.

For any  in O(n-1)

is a rotation or reflection that preserves H and the x-axis.
These hororotations, rotations, and reflections generate the group of symmetries of H.
The symmetry group of any horosphere is conjugate to it.
They are isomorphic to the Euclidean group E(n-1).

History

In several papers between 1878-1885, Wilhelm Killing used the representation he attributed to Karl Weierstrass for Lobachevskian geometry. In particular, he discussed quadratic forms such as  or in arbitrary dimensions , where  is the reciprocal measure of curvature,  denotes Euclidean geometry,  elliptic geometry, and  hyperbolic geometry.