[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marching Knights

special parade following an undefeated football season, capped off with a Peach Bowl win in 2017.

In 2017, in addition to an impressive undefeated season, a major bowl game, and a parade at Disney World, the Marching Knights inaugurated their own permanent building, cementing their place on campus.

In 2018, for the first time ever, ESPN College Game Day broadcast live from UCF on Memory Mall, and the Marching Knights were featured prominently throughout the broadcast. Following the Game Day broadcast was UCF's first National ABC Prime-time game, where the #11 Knights beat #24 Cincinnati, with plenty of opportunity for the Marching Knights to receive recognition on TV and Social Media as well.

The Marching Knights have persevered through the 2020 pandemic. With many precautions and mitigations, they were still able to have a season and perform in person. While the band was not allowed to move on the field, the spirit of the Marching Knights was still upheld during the celebration of their 40th Anniversary – including an online round-table featuring former drum majors, directors, Driggers’ award winners and other prominent alumni members.

Directors 
In 1985, Mr. Gardner retired from directing the Marching Knights to focus on his health, and in 1986, Roger New-burn became the second Director. Since then, eight additional directors have led the Marching Knights:

Traditions 
"Memory Mall Flagpole Warm-up" - Every home game the UCF Drumline warms up and performs at one of the most popular spots to tailgate on campus, Memory Mall. They often perform is their signature cadence, "Mojo Knights" written by Jeff Moore.

"Circles" - Before the full band warm-up, each section circles up on their own in different spots in front of the Student Union to warm-up as a section. Every section has their own traditions during their warm-ups. For example, the trumpet section will do one of their warm-ups inside the Student Union.

"Union Warm-up" - The Marching Knights perform outside the Student Union right before they go and march to the Stadium. They will play a selection of warm-ups, halftime show music, and stands tunes. It ends with the UCF Fight Song "Charge On".

"March to Victory" - After the Marching Knights march their way through the tailgating at Memory Mall, they stop at Addition Financial Arena where they perform some school tunes for the tailgaters at Memory Mall. Following that performance, along with the UCF Spirit Squad and UCF mascot Knightro, they march to the stadium playing The Chant to hype up fans.

"Pregame" - Twenty minutes before kick-off, the UCF Drum line and a Drum Major will take the field. Following the sword plant, the UCF Drum line will play the "Tunnel Cadence" as the rest of the band, led by the other two drum majors, run onto the field from the tunnels on opposite corners of the field. Once the band is on the field in a massive block formation, they will play the "Pregame Fanfare" to the west and east stands. Following this, the band plays the piece "Carmina Burana" which ends with the band forming the knight head shape and going in the UCF Fight Song "Charge On". The Marching Knights then play the UCF Alma Mater and the National Anthem. After that, the Marching Knights perform a series of different songs and forms including, UCF Spell out, The Chant, and the Knights Spell out. As the team runs out, the band will play the UCF Fight Song "Charge On" and then march off the field.

References

External links
 UCF Marching Knights Official Website
UCF Marching Knights Twitter
UCF Marching Knights Facebook
UCF Marching Knights Instagram
UCF Marching Knights Spotify

University of Central Florida
UCF
Musical groups established in 1980
1980 establishments in Florida