[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# The Dark Knight

films of all time. In 2012, Total Film named it the sixth-most-accomplished film of the preceding fifteen years, and a 2020 article by Empire named The Dark Knight as one of the films that defined the previous three decades. In 2020, Time Out named it the seventy-second-best action movie ever made.

Ledger's Joker is considered one of the greatest cinematic villains; several publications placed his portrayal second only to Darth Vader. In 2017, The Hollywood Reporter named Ledger's Joker the second-best cinematic superhero performance ever, behind Hugh Jackman as Wolverine, and Collider listed him as the greatest villain of the 21st century. In 2022, Variety listed him as the best superhero film performance of the preceding 50 years (Eckhart appears at number 22). Entertainment Weekly wrote there had not been another villain as interesting or "perversely entertaining" as Joker, and Ledger's performance was considered so defining that future interpretations would be compared against it. Michael B. Jordan cited the character as an inspiration for his character Erik Killmonger in Black Panther. The "pencil trick" scene, in which Joker makes a pencil disappear by slamming a mobster's head on it, is considered an iconic scene and among the film's most famous. Similarly, the character's line "why so serious?" is among the film's most famous and oft-quoted pieces of dialog, alongside "everyone loses their minds," and Dent's line "you either die a hero or you live long enough to see yourself become the villain", as well as Pennyworth's line "some men just want to watch the world burn"; the lines also became popular internet memes.

The Dark Knight remains popular with audiences in publicly voted rankings. Over 17,000 people voted the film into the top ten of American Cinematographers "Best-Shot Film of 1998–2008" list, and listeners of BBC Radio 1 and BBC Radio 1Xtra named it their eighth-favorite film. Readers of Empire have alternatively voted it the fifteenth (2008), third (2014), and the fourth-greatest film ever made (2020). The Dark Knight was also voted the greatest superhero movie by readers of Rolling Stone (2014), and as one of New Zealand's favorite films (2015).

Sequel

The Dark Knight was followed by The Dark Knight Rises (2012), the conclusion of The Dark Knight Trilogy. In the film, the Batman is forced out of his self-imposed retirement following the events of The Dark Knight; he allies with Selina Kyle / Catwoman to take on Bane, a physically imposing revolutionary allied with the League of Shadows that is featured in Batman Begins. The Dark Knight Rises was a financial success, surpassing the box-office take of The Dark Knight, and was generally well received by critics but proved more divisive with audiences.

Notes

References

Citations

Works cited

External links

  (Warner Bros.)
  (DC Comics)
 
 
 
 

2
2000s American films
2000s British films
2000s crime action films
2000s English-language films
2000s superhero films
2008 action thriller films
2008 crime drama films
2008 films
American action thriller films
American films about revenge
American crime drama films
American neo-noir films
American sequel films
American superhero films
BAFTA winners (films)
British action thriller films
British crime drama films
British sequel films
Films about bank robbery
Films about kidnapping in the United States
Films about organized crime in the United States
Films about security and surveillance
Films about ship hijackings
Films about terrorism
Films directed by Christopher Nolan
Films featuring a Best Supporting Actor Academy Award-winning performance
Films featuring a Best Supporting Actor Golden Globe winning performance
Films produced by Charles Roven
Films produced by Christopher Nolan
Films produced by Emma Thomas
Films scored by Hans Zimmer
Films scored by James Newton Howard
Films set in bunkers
Films set in Hong Kong
Films set on fictional islands
Films shot at Pinewood Studios
Films shot in Chicago
Films shot in Hong Kong
Films shot in London
Films shot in Los Angeles
Films shot in the United Kingdom
Films that won the Best Sound Editing Academy Award
Films with screenplays by Christopher Nolan
Films with screenplays by Jonathan Nolan
IMAX films
Legendary Pictures films
Live-action films based on DC Comics
Syncopy Inc. films
United States National Film Registry films
Warner Bros. films