[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# DMARC

eply-To: John Doe <user@example.com>
The last line, Reply-To:, has to be designed in order to accommodate reply-to-author functionality, in which case reply-to-list functionality is covered by the preceding change in the From: header field. That way, the original meaning of those fields is reversed.

Altering the author is not fair in general, and can break the expected relationship between meaning and appearance of that datum. It also breaks automated use of it. There are communities which use mailing lists to coordinate their work, and deploy tools which use the From: field to attribute authorship to attachments.

Other workarounds
Wrapping the message works nicely, for those who use an email client which understands wrapped messages. Not doing any change is perhaps the most obvious solution, except that they seem to be legally required in some countries, and that routinely losing SPF authentication may render overall authentication more fragile.

Sender field

Making changes to the From: header field to pass DKIM alignment may bring the message out of compliance with RFC 5322 section 3.6.2: "The 'From:' field specifies the author(s) of the message, that is, the mailbox(es) of the person(s) or system(s) responsible for the writing of the message." Mailbox refers to the author's email address. The Sender: header is available to indicate that an email was sent on behalf of another party, but DMARC only checks policy for the From domain and ignores the Sender domain.

Both ADSP and DMARC reject using the Sender field on the non-technical basis that many user agents do not display this to the recipient.

History
A draft DMARC specification has been maintained since 30 January 2012.

In October 2013, GNU Mailman 2.1.16 was released with options to handle posters from a domain with the DMARC policy of p=reject. The change tried to anticipate the interoperability issues expected in case restrictive policies were applied to domains with human users (as opposed to purely transactional mail domains).

In April 2014, Yahoo changed its DMARC policy to p=reject, thereby causing misbehavior in several mailing lists. A few days later, AOL also changed its DMARC policy to p=reject. Those moves resulted in a significant amount of disruption, and those mailbox providers have been accused of forcing the costs of their own security failures onto third parties. As of 2020, the FAQ in the official DMARC wiki contains several suggestions for mailing lists to handle messages from a domain with a strict DMARC policy, of which the most widely implemented is the mailing list changing the “From” header to an address in its own domain.

An IETF working group was formed in August 2014 in order to address DMARC issues, starting from interoperability concerns and possibly continuing with a revised standard specification and documentation. Meanwhile, the existing DMARC specification had reached an editorial state agreed upon and implemented by many. It was published in March 2015 on the Independent Submission stream in the "Informational" (non-standard) category as RFC 7489.

In March 2017, the Federal Trade Commission published a study on DMARC usage by businesses. Out of 569 businesses, the study found about a third implemented any DMARC configuration, fewer than 10% used DMARC to instruct servers to reject unauthenticated messages, and a majority had implemented SPF.

Contributors 
The contributors of the DMARC specification include:
 Receivers: AOL, Comcast, Google (Gmail), Mail.Ru, Microsoft (Outlook.com, Hotmail), Netease (163.com, 126.com, 188.com, yeah.net), XS4ALL, Yahoo, Yandex
 Senders: American Greetings, Bank of America, Facebook, Fidelity Investments, JPMorganChase, LinkedIn, PayPal, Twitter
 Intermediaries & Vendors: Agari (Founder/CEO Patrick R. Peterson), Cloudmark, DMARC Advisor, Red Sift, ReturnPath, Trusted Domain Project, ProDMARC,

See also
 Authenticated Received Chain (ARC)
 Author Domain Signing Practices
 Brand Indicators for Message Identification (BIMI)
 DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM)
 E-mail authentication
 Certified email
 Mail servers with DMARC
 Sender Policy Framework (SPF)

Notes

References

External links 
 
 The Anti Spam Research Group wiki: Mitigating DMARC damage to third party mail

Email authentication
Spam filtering