[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of former Muslims

st human rights activist, host of The Black Ducks programme.
 Javed Akhtar – noted Indian writer and lyricist.
 Kacem El Ghazzali – Moroccan-Swiss writer and activist.
 Kanan Makiya – Iraqi-American academic and Islamic and Middle Eastern scholar.
 Kareem Amer – Egyptian blogger.
 Kumail Nanjiani – Pakistani American stand-up comic and actor.
 Lounès Matoub – Algerian Berber Kabyle singer.
 Maryam Namazie – Iranian communist, political activist and leader of the British apostate-organization Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain
 Massin Kevin Labidi – Dutch atheist activist of Tunisian descent, known for criticism of Islam.
 Mina Ahadi – Iranian-born pacifist, founder of the German apostate-organization "Zentralrat der Ex-Muslime"
 Mirza Fatali Akhundov – 19th century Azerbaijani playwright and philosopher.
 Muhammad Syed – Pakistani American speaker and political activist. Co-founder of Ex-Muslims of North America.
 Nahla Mahmoud – Sudanese-born British writer, secularist, environmentalist, and human rights activist, and spokesperson for the Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain.
 Parvin Darabi – Iranian born American activist, writer and woman's rights activist.
 Pelin Batu – Turkish actress and television personality
 Rahaf Mohammed – Saudi Arabian refugee in Canada whose January 2019 flight attracted international attention and involved diplomatic intervention.
 Ramiz Alia – Albanian communist leader and former president of Albania.
 Rana Ahmad – Saudi Arabian refugee in Germany, author, women's rights activist and founder of the Atheist Refugee Relief
 Razib Khan- Bangladeshi-American writer in population genetics and consumer genomics.
 Sagopa Kajmer – Turkish rap musician, songwriter, record producer and DJ
 Salman Rushdie – British-Indian novelist and essayist.
 Sam Touzani – Belgian actor, TV presenter, choreographer and comedian with Moroccan roots, critic of both the far-right and Islamism.
 Sarah Haider – American writer, speaker, political activist and co-founder of Ex-Muslims of North America.
 Sarmad Kashani – seventeenth-century mystical poet and sufi saint, arrived from Persia to India, beheaded for assumed heresy by the Mughal emperor, Aurungzebe. Sarmad renounced Judaism, briefly converting to Islam and then Hinduism. He later denounced all religions and rejected belief in gods.
 Sibel Kekilli – German actress of Turkish origin, known for her role as 'Shae' in Game of Thrones. Kekili was raised as a Muslim, but does not belong to any religion anymore, and although she stated she respects all religions, has criticised the physical mistreatment of women in Islam.
 Sherif Gaber – Egyptian political activist and blogger.
 Sofia Ashraf – Indian rapper and singer. 
 Taslima Nasrin – Bangladeshi author, feminist, human rights activist and secular humanist.
 Turan Dursun – Turkish author and Islamic scholar. He was once a Turkish mufti and later authored many books critical of Islam.
 Valon Behrami – Kosovo-born Swiss professional footballer who plays as a midfielder for English club Watford.
 Waleed Al-Husseini – Palestinian philosopher, essayist, writer, blogger and co-founder of  (CEMF).
 Yasmine Mohammed – Canadian-born human rights activist, founder of Free Hearts, Free Minds and author of Unveiled: How Western Liberals Empower Radical Islam.
 Zackie Achmat – South African anti-HIV/AIDS activist; founder of the Treatment Action Campaign.
 Zara Kay – Tanzanian-Australian activist, founder of Faithless Hijabi.
 Zineb El Rhazoui – Moroccan-born French journalist and former columnist for Paris-based satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo.
 Zoya Akhtar – Indian director and screenwriter.

Became agnostics