[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Penn State Mont Alto

suite is. The four-person suite includes two spacious bedrooms as well as a bathroom that is shared by all four people in the suite. Each room is carpeted and also includes a central air conditioning unit. Penn Gate II is located across Route 233 and is near the campus' baseball and softball fields.

Classroom buildings
Conklin Hall was originally built as a dormitory by students of the forestry school starting in 1909 and completed in 1911. The building is now home to the Student Center, Student Affairs offices and the archives.
The General Studies Building is where the majority of classes at Penn State Mont Alto are held. The three story brick building includes many traditional classrooms for lectures. The first floor holds an auditorium that is frequently used for special shows and speakers, as well as large lecture classes. In addition to the auditorium, the first floor holds the Learning Center, a place where students can go to study with a professional or student tutor. Several computer labs are held in the building as well.
The Science and Technology building is primarily used for science courses at Penn State Mont Alto. In it, you will find several labs specific to different courses such as chemistry and nursing. Many general education courses are held in this building as well, particularly those with large class sizes. It was built in the 1970s.
The Bookstore has a computer lab in the basement. Classes such as Computer Science and Management & Information Systems are typically held here.
The Allied Health Building was opened in 2022 and is a learning hub for the campus' nursing, occupational therapy assistant, and physical therapist assistant programs. The new facility includes simulation laboratories and an ambulance port for the Nursing program, enhanced clinical lab space and equipment for the PTA program and a modern simulated living space for the OTA program.

Other notable buildings
Wiestling Hall, located in the center of the campus mall, was built in 1807 and is the oldest building in the Penn State system outside of the University Park campus in State College, Pa. Originally built as an iron master's house it has served as the campus dining hall, classroom and dormitory. The second floor of Wiestling Hall is home to faculty and staff offices. The third floor of Wiestling has never been renovated, and remains true to the 1807 design. This third floor is only accessible through two hidden entranceways on the second floor of the building. Local legend holds that Wiestling is haunted by a ghost named Sarah and by the ghost of Col. Wiestling, the ironmaster who lived there. Wiestling Hall was originally called the "Hughes Mansion." It was built by Samuel and Daniel Hughes, owners of the original Mont Alto Iron Works. Samuel Lane supervised the construction of the Iron Works and the Mansion House between 1807 and 1808.  Holker Hughes, Isaac Waterman, Thomas Bever and Col. George Wiestling, built the reconstituted Mont Alto Iron Works in 1864. Wiestling made the Hughes Mansion House his home and named it "Wiestling Hall." Wiestling Hall was modernized and now it serves as the student building and houses the campus Student Government Association office.
History has it that John Brown spent time at Emmanuel Chapel before his raid on Harper's Ferry in 1859. Penn State Mont Alto bought the chapel in 1992 for $1 and reopened it in 1999.
The MAC (Multipurpose Activities Center) is the gym at Penn State Mont Alto. This building sports a few classrooms, a basketball gym, a weight room, a racquetball court, and a multipurpose room used for conferences, dances, and other occasions. Two tennis courts are located outside of the MAC as well.
The library at Penn State Mont Alto includes a variety of books and research databases that serve faculty, staff, and students, as well as members of the local community. Any Pennsylvania resident may borrow items from the Penn State University library system.
The most recent building to be added at Penn State Mont Alto was the Bookstore.
The dining hall was built in 1968.
September 10, 2014, Penn State Mont Alto opened its Veterans Center. The center was spearheaded by the Penn State Mont Alto Student Veterans Association (SVA) which received a $10,000 VetCenter Initiative grant from the SVA and The Home Depot Foundation partnership to refurbish the spring house on campus (built in 1905). It had previously served as a faculty lounge and mailroom. Now it has computers for Internet access and space for student veterans to study and gather.