[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Aberdeen

ight Brit Awards, grew up in Ellon.
 Rose Leslie, actress, best known for playing Ygritte in HBO's Game of Thrones.
 John Macleod FRSE FRS LLD (1876–1935) Biochemist and Physiologist. For his role in the discovery and isolation of insulin he was awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1923.
 John Alexander MacWilliam FRS (1857–1937), Professor of the Institutes of Medicine (later Physiology) at the University of Aberdeen. Pioneer in the field of cardiac electro-physiology & ventricular fibrillation of the heart. First to propose ventricular fibrillation as the most common cause of sudden death through heart attack. First to propose use of life saving electrical de-fibrilators. His work laid the frame work for the development of the pace maker.
 Laura Main, actress, best known for playing Sister Bernadette/Shelagh Turner in the BBC's Call the Midwife
 James Clerk Maxwell FRSE FRS (1831–1879), Chair of Natural Philosophy at Marischal College, University of Aberdeen from 1856 to 1860. Formulated the classical theory of electromagnetic radiation.
 Robert Morison (1620–1683), a Scottish botanist and taxonomist. He elucidated and developed the first systematic classification of plants. Gained his Master of Arts from the University of Aberdeen at the age of eighteen. For ten years Director of Louis XIV's royal gardens at Blois, France, then physician, botanist & superintendent of all royal gardens for Charles II of Scotland.
 Alberto Morrocco OBE FRSA FRSE RSW RP RGI LLD (1917–1998), Scottish artist and teacher famous for his landscapes of Scotland and abroad.
 Andy Nisbet (1953–2019), a Scottish mountaineer, guide, climbing instructor, and editor of climbing guidebooks. A pioneer of mixed rock and ice climbing techniques over 45 years. Developed over 1,000 new winter climbing routes in Scotland.
 Ara Paiaya, film producer and director of Skin Traffik, Instant Death and Purge of Kingdoms.
 Robbie Renwick, swimmer, 1x 2010 Commonwealth Games gold medalist.
 Professor Sir C. Duncan Rice, historian, former principal of the University of Aberdeen.
 Lawson Robertson (1883–1951), born in Aberdeen, competed for the U.S. Olympic Team at the 1904 Olympics in St. Louis, winning the bronze medal in the standing high jump. Head coach of U.S. track team at 4 successive Olympic games, 1924, 1928, 1932, 1936.
 Archibald Simpson, architect, one of Aberdeen's major architects.
 John Smith, architect, Aberdeen's other major architect and official City Architect
 Nicol Stephen, former Scottish Liberal Democrats leader, former Deputy First Minister of Scotland
 John Strachan, first Anglican Bishop of Toronto.
 Annie Wallace, actress in Hollyoaks.
 Ron Yeats, former football player, captain of the first great Liverpool team of the 1960s, also played for the Scotland national team.

Aberdeen in popular culture
 Stuart MacBride's crime novels Cold Granite, Dying Light, Broken Skin, Flesh House, Blind Eye and Dark Blood (a series with main protagonist, DS Logan McRae) are all set in Aberdeen.
 A large part of the plot of the World War II thriller Eye of the Needle by Welsh author, Ken Follett, takes place in wartime Aberdeen, from which a German spy is trying to escape to a submarine waiting offshore.
 A portion of Ian Rankin's novel Black and Blue (1997) is set in Aberdeen, where its nickname "Furry Boots" is noted.
 Songs titled "Aberdeen" have been recorded by the music groups Danny Wilson, Royseven, and Cage the Elephant.
 The Scottish rock band The Xcerts released the song "Aberdeen 1987" on their debut album In the Cold Wind We Smile, released on 30 March 2009. The first verse contains the line "15, sitting in a graveyard talking about their history". The graveyard referenced in the song is the graveyard of the Kirk of St Nicholas on Union Street.

See also

 Aberdeen Bestiary
 Aberdeen City Youth Council
 Aberdeen Safer Community Trust
 Aberdeen typhoid outbreak 1964
 Aberdonia (disambiguation)
 List of places in Aberdeen
 List of places in Scotland
 Our Lady of Aberdeen
 Voluntary Service Aberdeen
 Freedom of the City of Aberdeen

Notes

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 Shepherd, Mike (2015). Oil Strike North Sea: A first-hand history of North Sea oil. Luath Press.

External links

 Aberdeen City Council
 
 A collection of historic maps of Aberdeen from the 1660s onward at National Library of Scotland
 A selection of archive films relating to Aberdeen at the Scottish Screen Archive
 Engraving of Aberdeen in 1693 by John Slezer at National Library of Scotland
 

 
Cities in Scotland
Council areas of Scotland
Fishing communities in Scotland
Lieutenancy areas of Scotland
Port cities and towns in Scotland
Port cities and towns of the North Sea
Royal burghs
Grampian