[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# TaxPayers' Alliance

The TaxPayers' Alliance (TPA) is a pressure group in the United Kingdom which was formed in 2004 to campaign for a low-tax society. The group had about 18,000 registered supporters as of 2008 and claimed to have 55,000 by September 2010. However, it has been suggested that a vast majority of these supporters – who do not contribute financially or engage in campaigning – were simply signed up to a mailing list.

Questions have been raised about the funding of the organisation and there is speculation that significant contributions are received from overseas. The TPA was given the lowest possible grade for financial transparency by Who Funds You, a British project that seeks to rate and promote transparency of funding sources of think tanks. 

The alliance has also been questioned whether the group has links to similar organisations based at 55 Tufton Street in Westminster. The TPA is part of a global alliance of free-market advocacy groups known as the Atlas Network.

The group was founded by political strategist Matthew Elliott, who founded Eurosceptic think tank Business for Britain as well as Conservative Friends of Russia, Big Brother Watch and the NOtoAV campaign during the 2011 Alternative Vote referendum. In 2015, Elliot was appointed chief executive of the Vote Leave campaign to promote a British withdrawal from the European Union.

History 
The TPA was founded in 2004 by a group of libertarian Conservatives, frustrated by what they saw as the party's decision to ditch its traditional tax-cutting stance." At the time, the Conservatives felt the need to match the Labour Party's spending plans, and the TPA aimed to represent those "who want to have lower taxes and lower spending". The stated attraction for donors is the TPA's ability to "fly kites" for policy ideas which the Conservatives may then formally adopt.

The TPA's campaigning approach focussed on the media, relying in part on the reduction in journalists' investigation budgets. It aims to shape public opinion through the media by packaging its research "into brief, media-friendly research papers, complete with an eye-catching headline figure to give reporters a ready-made "top line"." Its research is often based on "using the government's own data and Freedom of Information requests to winkle out examples of public sector waste".

The TPA's income from donations rose from around £68,000 in 2005 to around £1m in 2009.

In September 2010, it was reported that the TaxPayers' Alliance was organising an event sponsored by several American lobbyists and groups involved in the Tea Party movement, including the Americans for Prosperity Foundation, the Cato Institute and The Heritage Foundation. 

The alliance has sought advice from the Tea Party leadership, with Matthew Elliott stating in September 2010, "We need to learn from our European colleagues and the Tea Party movement in the US. It will be fascinating to see whether it will transfer to the UK. Will there be the same sort of uprising?"

Overview

Media exposure 
In 2009, the TaxPayers' Alliance was mentioned 29 times by The Guardian, was quoted in 517 Daily Mail articles, 317 times in The Sun, including once by a shirtless model on Page Three.

Party affiliation 
The TaxPayers' Alliance is not officially affiliated with any political party. It has been accused of being a Conservative Party "front" by Labour MP Jon Cruddas. Polly Toynbee in The Guardian and Kevin Maguire in The Daily Mirror have also levelled this charge, although the group's leadership has denied it.

When Nick Ferrari asked TPA's campaign manager Susie Squire whether she was "secretly Conservative", she rejected the accusation as "outrageous", saying the organisation was "totally independent". In 2010, Squire became a special adviser to the Conservative Secretary of State for Work and Pensions, Iain Duncan Smith, before going on to become head of press for the Conservative party. Squire subsequently worked as David Cameron's press secretary in 10 Downing Street.

Funding 
The Taxpayers' Alliance is constituted as a private company limited by guarantee in the UK - number 04873888. As a small company, it is exempt from audit which means that it meets two of the following criteria:

annual turnover of £6.5 million or less
balance sheet total of £3.26 million or less
fewer than 50 employees.

The alliance has one office – one in London. Its website said that, in March 2009, it employed 13 members of staff, and has since expanded to 19 members of staff as of November 2018.