[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 2007 New Year Honours

illips, lately Chair, London Black and Ethnic Minority Network for NHS Staff and Allied Health Professionals. For services to Healthcare.
Dr. Mike Phillips, Writer and Broadcaster. For services to Broadcasting.
Steven Charles Pimlott, Theatre and Opera Director. For services to Drama.
Professor Colin Douglas Alexander Porteous, Senior Researcher, The Mackintosh School of Architecture and the Glasgow School of Art, Glasgow. For services to Architecture.
Edward Posey. For services to The Gaia Foundation. 
Mayo, Mrs. Perceval-Price, Vice-President, Industrial Tribunals and the Fair Employment Tribunal. For services to Employment Relations in Northern Ireland. 
Susan Mary, Mrs. Price, Executive Director, Groundwork, Wales. For services to Regeneration in Wales.
Dr. Heather Margaret Murray Reid, Meteorologist and Presenter, BBC Scotland. For services to Physics.
Novlette Elizabeth, Mrs. Rennie, Director, Sporting Equals. For services to Diversity in Sport.
The Reverend Canon James John Richardson. For services to the Church of England.
Janet Irene, Mrs. Roberts, Headteacher, All Saints Church of England Junior School, Fleet, Hampshire. For services to Education.
Professor Keith Roberts. For services to Plant Biology. David Bruce Robertson, Director of Education, Culture and Sport, Highland Council. For services to Education.
Ms Pamela Susan Robson, Human Resources Business Partner, Government Office for the South West, Department for Education and Skills.
William Ross, Highland Councillor. For services to Forestry in the Highlands.
Professor David Michael Rowe, Professor of Thermoelectrics, Cardiff University. For services to Technology.
John Michael Salisbury, lately Executive Producer, BBC Natural History Unit. For services to Broadcasting.
Peter John Scales, lately Chief Executive, London Pensions Fund Authority. For services to Local Government.
Annabella, Mrs. Scott. For services to Youth Justice.
Linda, Mrs. Scott, National Manager, Arkwright Scholarships Trust. For services to Engineering and Technology Education.
Paul Sergeant, Chief Executive, Wales Millennium Stadium. For services to Business.
Dipesh Jayantilal Shah, lately Chief Executive OYcer, United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority. For services to the Energy Industry.
Rita, Mrs. Sharma, Founder and Managing Director, Best at Travel plc. For services to the Travel Industry. 
Ms Diana Winifred Shindler, Legal Adviser, Department for Transport.
Kenneth Alan Shooter, lately Specialist Technology, Ofsted H.M. Inspectorate and Lead Adviser, Specialist Schools Programme, Department for Education and Skills.
Professor Jonathan Richard Sibert, lately Paediatrician, Cardiff and Vale NHS Trust and lately Professor of Child Health, Cardiff University. For services to Paediatrics and to Child Health.
Andrew Brian Simmons, Chief Executive, Hertfordshire Connexions Partnership. For services to Young People.
Jasminder Singh, Founder and Chair, Radisson Edwardian Hotel Group. For services to the Hotel Industry.
Tom Tar Singh, Founder and Non-Executive Director, New Look. For services to the Fashion Industry.
Rodney Gerald Yorke Slatford, Founder and Chair, The Yorke Trust. For services to Music.
Alan John Smith, Founder and Managing Partner, Red Box Design Group. For services to Architecture in the North East.
Brian Anthony Frank Smith, D.L. For charitable services.
Susan Ellen, Mrs. Smith, Deputy Chief Officer, Devon Fire and Rescue Service. For services to Fire Safety.
Ms Irene Ruth Spellman, Chief Executive, Institution of Mechanical Engineers. For services to Workplace Learning.
David Michael Cochrane Elsworth Steen, Commissioner, Gambling Commission. For services to the Gambling Industry.
Stef Stefanou, Chair, John Doyle Group plc. For services to the Construction Industry.
Ian Stephenson, Member, Advisory Committee on Business and the Environment. For services to the Environment.
Neil Stewart, lately Head of Energy Policy, Scottish Executive.
Robert Andrew Stiby, J.P., lately Chair, Tindle Radio Ltd. For services to Broadcasting.
Gary Steven Stockbridge, Team Leader, Traffic Information and Customer Services, Highways Agency, Department for Transport.
Harry Thomas Stratford, Chair, ProStrakan. For services to Life Sciences in Scotland.
Dr. Geraldine Mary Strathdee, Consultant Psychiatrist and Clinical Director, Oxleas NHS Trust. For services to the NHS.
Peter Charles Styche, lately Director, Spatial Planning and Housing, Government Office for the North West, Department for Communities and Local Government.
Steven Norman Sumner, National Health and Safety Policy Adviser, Local Government Employers. For services to Local Government.
Ms Moira Swinbank, Chief Executive, TimeBank. For services to Volunteering.
Professor Ian Swingland, Founder, The Durrell Institute for Conservation and Ecology. For services to Conservation.
Graham Francis Taylor, lately Headteacher, The Downs School, Newbury, Berkshire. For services to Education.
Ms Edna Margaret Telfer, Director,