[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Geneva Call

has organized events on this issue since 2011 and has started to formally engage ANSAs on displacement issues since 2018.
For example, Geneva Call organizes training sessions on displacement with ANSAs. Those activities were undertaken in various countries, such as the DRC, Myanmar, Iraq and Syria.

Medical care
Since ANSAs are reportedly responsible for a third of all incidents of violence against health care facilities and personnel worldwide, Geneva Call decided to engage ANSAs on the protection of medical care in armed conflict since 2018. This same year, it launched a fourth Deed of Commitment on such topic. Up to date, 4 ANSAs have signed the Deed of Commitment.

 Famine 
Geneva Call claim that a “better respect for international humanitarian law can mitigate [the] causes of conflict-related food insecurity”. Building on several researches showing the effects of armed conflicts on food systems and livelihoods, the organization developed a new Deed of Commitment to prevent starvation and conflict-related food insecurity. This fifth DoC is called Deed of Commitment on the Prevention of Starvation and Addressing Conflict-Related Food Insecurity.

 Actions areas 
Geneva Call engages Armed non-State actors (ANSA) in several countries on a global scale.

 Eurasia 

 Burma / Myanmar
 Thailand
 Philippines
 Afghanistan
 Ukraine
 Pakistan

 Middle East 

 Iraq
 Lebanon
 Syria
 Yemen

 Latin America 

 Colombia

 Africa 

 DRC (Democratic Republic of Congo)
 Mali
 South Sudan
 Sudan
 Libya
 Burkina Faso

Humanitarian norms

In addition to engagement on specific norms (anti-personnel mines ban, protection of children from the effects of armed conflict, prohibition of sexual violence and gender discrimination, protection of cultural heritage, displacement and protection of health care), Geneva Call seeks to build armed non-State actors knowledge of broad IHL rules, and their capacities to implement them.

In recent years, Geneva Call has increasingly provided training sessions and technical advice to armed non-State actors on how to incorporate IHL into their policies, codes of conduct and other internal regulations and on implementation. In some cases, especially where Geneva Call’s current themes of engagement are not priority issues or best starting points for dialogue, activities around IHL can serve as a method for engagement.

Impact

Success
From its inception in 2000, Geneva Call has engaged with more than 100 armed non-State actors worldwide and sensitized thousands of their leaders and members on international humanitarian norms. As of today, 54 armed non-State actors have signed the Deed of Commitment banning anti-personnel mines, 31 have signed the Deed of Commitment protecting children in armed conflict, 25 have signed the Deed of Commitment prohibiting sexual violence and gender discrimination, and 4 have signed the Deed of Commitment protecting health care in armed conflict.

Overall, their compliance record has been good. Except in one case, no conclusive evidence of violation of the Deeds of Commitment has been found to date. Signatories have taken implementing measures and cooperated in the monitoring of their compliance by Geneva Call. In addition, a number of armed non-State actors that have not signed the Deeds of Commitment have nevertheless taken steps towards compliance with international standards. For example, some have committed themselves to limiting mine, or facilitating mine action, and also to promoting respect and protection of healthcare facilities and humanitarian and health workers in areas under their control.

Over the past 22 years, Geneva Call has gained international recognition and support from many quarters, including States Parties to the Anti-Personnel Mine Ban Convention, the United Nations, the European Union, and the African Union, and is seen today as a global leader and a pioneer in its field.Praise'''

Ban Ki-moon, United Nations Secretary General from 2007 to 2016, has mentioned Geneva Call and its work on multiple occasions, including a speech where he identified the Geneva Call Deed of Commitment as a "successful example" of special commitments with non-state actors.
The International Forum on Armed Groups and the Involvement of Children in Armed Conflict, held by the Coalition to Stop the Use of Child Soldiers in July 2006, recognized the Deed of Commitment as "one of the most innovative forms of persuading armed groups to make unilateral declarations to abide by IHL norms".
In 2013, The Global Journal ranked Geneva Call 68th best NGO in the world and in 2017, NGO Advisor has rated Geneva Call as the 85th best NGO in the world in its 2017 edition of the ranking.

Criticism and Controversy