[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# StandWithUs

lo the diverse nature of Israeli society and highlight the challenges Israel faces its efforts to promote peace." In 2016, the group dispatched an airplane that flew over the venue of a Roger Waters' set at Desert Trip, displaying the message, "Support Israel-Palestine Peace — Not Hateful Boycotts."

In 2020, SWU criticized President Donald Trump's choice of retired Army Col. Douglas Macgregor to oversee US-German relations and called for a new nominee to serve as ambassador. They referred to Macgregor's 2012 remarks where he claimed that Jewish individuals, known as neocons, unconditionally support the Israeli government. SWU CEO Rothstein criticized this as a rehashed antisemitic conspiracy theory suggesting Jews prioritize Israel over their own countries. Later that year, SWU successfully urged Zoom to prevent a conference from using the videoconferencing platform to host Leila Khaled, invoking the platform's terms of service and anti-terrorism laws.

In February 2021, SWU launched letter-writing campaign to Che and Saturday Night Live condemning a joke made about Israel only vaccinating "the Jewish half" of its population. In April, fashion house Armani removed a blazer resembling a Holocaust concentration camp uniform following a request by SWU.

SWU holds a number of annual gatherings, including a "Festival of Lights" gala, which raises funds to combat antisemitism and has drawn over a thousand attendees each year, and an "Israel in Focus" International Conference.

SWU has conducted nation-wide tours for Israeli army veterans while opposing Jewish communities who host speaking tours of Israeli soldiers who speak out against the occupation.

Media

StandWithUs TV 
In 2020, SWU launched a new platform called "StandWithUs TV" that would produce content to "inform and inspire people of all ages". With the global Covid-19 pandemic impacting in-person activities, SWU decided to move more of its focus into the digital realm. 

Shows produced on the platform include "Standing with Israel", "Combatting Antisemitism", "Jewish Refugees in the Middle East", and "Walk Through Israel". Guests have included British Chief Rabbi Lord Sacks and Israeli Ambassador to the UK Mark Regev.

Campus Post 
In 2008, in collaboration with The Jerusalem Post, SWU began publishing a monthly newspaper, Campus Post, to be distributed on university campuses. The short-lived paper included articles by The Jerusalem Post writers on the topics of Israeli news, society, and culture, while students and others in North America contributed articles about pro-Israel activism.

Finances 

According to Cause IQ, SWU's revenue and expenses for the 2019 fiscal year were $17,848,945 and $13,935,408 respectively. In 2012, the Jewish Journal described SWU as "a $4 million-a-year operation".

Major donors include Adam Milstein, who donated $851,500 to SWU between 2004 and 2016. SWU's educational program, the Emerson Fellowship, is funded by J. Steve and Rita Emerson. The UK chapter of the group has raised hundreds of thousands of pounds in various fundraisers, including a November 2021 crowdfunding event that raised £750,000 and a May 2023 campaign that raised over £600,000. 

In 2009, over half of SWU's budget was allocated to fund student activities on U.S. campuses. and nearly 15% of the group's budget went to the Israeli office, which trains 150 Israeli students each year in advocacy skills in conjunction with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.

In January 2015, the investigative Israeli website The Seventh Eye reported that SWU would receive $254,000 from the Prime Ministers Office, to set up a "Social Media Ambassadors" program to educate young people on how to use social media to promote Israel. However, according to SWU, the project did not go ahead.

Reception 
SWU is widely perceived as right-leaning. It has been described as a leading pro-Israel advocacy group, as "one of the world's prominent Israel-advocacy groups", and as a leading and effective force on American campuses, with a presence "difficult to ignore". Judy Maltz of Haaretz has noted that "of all the pro-Israel forces active on U.S. college campuses today, none has poured as much energy, resources and sheer audacity into the battle for the hearts and minds of young Americans as StandWithUs". The organization is said to hold "significant sway both in Congress and among the American public".

In 2017, Bethany Mandel praised SWU for being the only national Jewish group to express discontent over JVP's decision to feature Leila Khaled as a speaker at one of its conferences, and suggested that other groups follow SWU's lead if they wished to maintain credibility.