[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of smoking bans

ced. Further as of 2014, there is strict provision of imprisonment for selling tobacco products to any person aged below 18 years of age .

The Cable Television Network (Regulation) Amendment Bill, in force since 8 September 2000, completely prohibits cigarette and alcohol advertisements.

Indonesia

In Jakarta's restaurants, hotels, office buildings, airports and public transport, and overall public areas smoking is not permitted. Restaurants wanting to allow smoking must provide a separate smoking space, as of 4 February 2006. As in some other Asian nations, it remains to be seen whether it can be enforced. Building separate facilities for smokers had only taken place in half of establishments by June 2007.

Smoke-free regulations were extended to Bali in November 2011, affecting tourist sites, including restaurants and hotels; plus schools, government buildings, places of worship and other public places. A ban on sale and advertising tobacco in schools was also enacted, although this would not stop tobacco companies offering sponsorship to schools. However, regulations were not strong enough, leading to a new stricter promulgation for June 2012.

Smoking in trains of state company PT Kereta Api Indonesia has been banned as of 1 March 2012.

Bali has banned smoking to be effective 1 June 2012, also having heavy fines.   Hotels, restaurants, tourist attractions, places of worship, healthcare facilities and schools are to be smoke-free areas.  Smoking and advertising for tobacco products have also been banned in playgrounds, traditional and modern markets, transportation terminals, airports, government offices and on public transportation.

Iran

Smoking in Iran has been banned in all public places since 2007. This includes all state bodies, hotels, restaurants. The law also bans the smoking of traditional waterpipes (ghalyun) which were common in Iranian tea houses. A smoking ban for all car drivers nationwide was implemented in March 2006, and although offenders can face fines, the ban has been widely ignored. The sale of tobacco products to anyone under the age of 18 is prohibited and is punishable by the confiscation of the vendor's tobacco products and a fine.

Arabie Saudite

Ireland became the first country in the world to institute a nationwide comprehensive smoke-free workplaces law on 29 March 2004. Prior to this, comprehensive smoke-free law was instituted, smoking had already been outlawed (1988) in public buildings, hospitals, pharmacies, schools, banking halls, cinemas, public hairdressing premises, restaurant kitchens, part of all restaurants, on public aircraft and buses, and some trains (Intercity trains provided smokers' carriages).

On 1 July 2009, Ireland banned in-store tobacco advertising and displays of tobacco products at retail outlets and introduced new controls on tobacco vending machines.

Isle of Man
The Isle of Man's smoke-free law is similar to the one introduced in England, and came into effect on 30 March 2008.  This also included Europe's first fully smoke-free prison.

Israel
In Israel, smoking is prohibited in public enclosed places or commercial areas via several laws:
particularly, since 1983, the "Israel Clean Air Act" ( (in Hebrew)). The law was amended in 2007 so that owners are held accountable for smoking in premises under their responsibility.  The second means by which smoking is regulated in Israel is via the environmental hazard law, and via criminal law smoking (or the introduction of second-hand smoke) may even be considered an assault.

The restrictions include all commercial entities such as lavatories, office buildings, gyms, cafés, restaurants, discos, pubs and bars, and it is illegal for the owners of such places to put ashtrays anywhere inside enclosed spaces. Also, owners of public places must display "no smoking" signs and prevent visitors from smoking. They can also designate a well-ventilated and completely separate area for smokers, as long as the non-smokers' area does not fall below 75% of the whole area. The fine for owners of public places is ₪ 5,000 (around US$1400) and for smokers – ₪ 1000.
In spite of all of this, the smoke-free law has not met with 100% compliance and smoking is still encountered in some pubs, bars and clubs. In Israel, a 2011 law restricts smoking in railway stations and at bus stops, and prohibits the sale of tobacco from automated vending machines. An individual may call the police in cases of smoking in a restricted environment and can also sue (via the citizen's court) the smoking entity (i.e., both the person smoking and the facility that allowed smoking to occur).

Some cities are known for their rigorous enforcement of the smoke-free laws, such as the city of Be'er Sheva (which raised revenue of 799,000 NIS (≈215K USD) in 2011 through fining smoking in public places) and Tel-Aviv, but in many municipalities the law isn't enforced.

Italy