[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Murder of Jessica Lal

eath was rejected on the grounds that the murder, although intentional, was not premeditated and Sharma was not considered to be a threat to society.

Sharma's lawyer announced that the decision would be appealed in Supreme Court because the judgment was wrong in holding Bina Ramani to be a witness.

Parole for Sharma
On 24 September 2009, the government in Delhi paroled Sharma for a 30-day period so that he could attend to some matters relating to his sick mother and the family business. The parole was further extended by 30 days, during which he was seen partying in a night-club and his mother appeared at public functions. Sharma returned himself to Tihar Jail on 10 November 2009, two weeks before his parole expired.

Sharma was granted a limited parole from 28 December 2013 to 5 January 2014. This was to allow him to sit for master's degree examinations in Delhi.

Release
In 2020 Sharma was out on bail because of the order of Delhi's LG on the grounds of good behavior.

Supreme Court confirmation of sentences
On 19 April 2010, the Supreme Court of India approved the sentences and said that 

Former Solicitor General of India, Gopal Subramaniam arguing on behalf of the prosecution quoted Chandra Mohan Tiwari vs. State of M.P., (1992) 2 SCC 105 and Jaswant Singh vs. State of Haryana, (2000) 4 SCC 484 to establish his case.
Senior advocate Ram Jethmalani, who represented Sharma in the Supreme Court, assailed the High Court verdict, alleging that the media had prejudged the issue and conducted a campaign to vilify his client. The Supreme Court accepted that there had been an element of "trial by media" but believed that it had not affected the decision of the High Court. The judges who maintained the Delhi High Court judgement pronounced by Justice R.S. Sodhi, were Justice P. Sathasivam and Justice Swatanter Kumar.

Perjury charges
In May 2013, Delhi High Court ordered prosecution of Bollywood actor Shayan Munshi and a ballistic expert, P. S. Manocha, for turning hostile. The court cleared a further 17 people whose allegedly hostile position was under review. Ten other people had been discharged from claims of perjury in earlier hearings and three had died since the original trial.

In popular culture
No One Killed Jessica, a 2011 Hindi film starring Rani Mukherjee and Vidya Balan, was inspired by the incident. Six Suspects, a 2016 novel by Vikas Swarup centred on a similar murder.

See also
Law of India
Ram Jethmalani, Indian lawyer and Manu Sharma's defence counsel

References

External links
 News summary at Rediff.com
 News summary at the BBC

Deaths by firearm in India
People murdered in India
Crime in Delhi
2006 crimes in India
Indian case law
1990s in Delhi
20th-century Indian women
20th-century Indian people
1999 murders in India
Women in Delhi