[Source: PubMed]

19. US Army Med Dep J. 2017 Jul-Sep;(2-17):12-17.

Low Prevalence of carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae among wounded military 
personnel.

Mende K(1), Beckius ML, Zera WC, Onmus-Leone F, Murray CK, Tribble DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Biostatistics, Uniformed Services 
University of the Health Sciences, Bethesda, Maryland.

Multidrug-resistant organisms (MDROs) are a global health problem that affect 
both civilian and military populations. Among wounded warriors, MDROs further 
complicate the care of trauma-related infections, resulting in extended duration 
of hospitalization, as well as increased morbidity and mortality. During the 
wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, extended spectrum β-lactamase-producing 
Enterobacteriaceae were frequently isolated from wounded warriors. The potential 
emergence of difficult-to-treat carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae 
represented a serious challenge for clinicians. We examined carbapenem-resistant 
Enterobacteriaceae prevalence among wounded military personnel over a 6-year 
period (2009-2015). Among 4090 Enterobacteriaceae isolates collected, 16 (0.4%) 
were carbapenem-resistant, of which the majority was Enterobacter aerogenes 
(44%) followed by Klebsiella pneumoniae (37%), and Escherichia coli (19%). Five 
isolates (31%) collected from 2 patients were carbapenemase-producers with one 
associated with an infection. All 5 carbapenemase-producing isolates were 
resistant to all tested carbapenems and each carried one carbapenemase gene (4 
with blaKPC-3 and 1 with blaNDM-1). Overall, although a large number of 
Enterobacteriaceae isolates were collected, only a small proportion was 
carbapenem-resistant and data indicate a lack of a cluster. Due to these limited 
numbers, it is difficult to make any conclusions regarding the association 
between carbapenem resistance, antibiotic exposure, and clinical outcomes.

PMCID: PMC5577940
PMID: 28853114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The authors have no 
conflict of interest to declare.