[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Helmut Zemo

RA for manipulating him, Punisher finds Mandarin making a speech at the United Nations and fires a special bullet. After using his rings to slow down the bullet while trying to deflect it, Mandarin is struck in the head with the bullet which is witnessed by Baron Zemo and anyone watching his speech.

Powers and abilities
Helmut Zemo is a gifted genius with certain scientific knowledge, excellent marksmanship, and impressive training in unarmed combat. He is also a highly accomplished leader and strategist. His headband has built-in circuitry designed to disrupt psychic powers. He carries various rifles and sometimes, a handheld spray gun for Adhesive X, the most powerful bonding agent ever invented. Like his father, Helmut does not grow old. The Moonstones grant him a wide array of abilities, including gravity, light, or molecular manipulation, superhuman strength and durability, as well as flight.

Reception
 In 2018, ComicBook.com included Baron Zemo in their "7 Great Villains for Black Panther 2" list.
 In 2020, CBR.com ranked Helmut Zemo 8th in their "Marvel: Ranking Black Panther's Rogues Gallery" list.
 In 2021, Screen Rant included Helmut Zemo in their "10 Best Marvel Legacy Villains Who Lived Up To Their Predecessor" list.
 In 2022, Screen Rant included Baron Zemo in their "15 Most Powerful Black Panther Villains" list.

Other versions
Marvel Zombies
In the Marvel Zombies limited series, a zombified Baron Helmut Zemo and his Thunderbolts attack Thor before he receives aid from Nova.

MC2
Helmut Zemo appears in the MC2 universe in an alternate reality in which Red Skull and the Nazis had successfully conquered the Earth. This version is a scientific advisor to Red Skull's successor, Victor Von Doom and Reed Richards. After Doom's demise at the hands of Crimson Curse, Richards and Zemo fight to become his successor.

Ultimate Marvel
In the Ultimate Marvel universe, Loki disguises himself as Baron Zemo while leading Third Reich soldiers and Ice Giants in an attack on Asgard during World War II.Ultimate Thor #2. Marvel Comics. In the present, Loki's elderly second-in-command Helmutt Zemo uses the Norn Stones to summon the god of mischief to his time. After escaping The Room With No Doors, Loki murders Zemo.

Marvel MAX
In Deadpool MAX, a heavily altered version of Baron Helmut Zemo appears in the first storyline. This version of the character is an American white supremacist who claims to have descended from German nobility despite having come from a working-class home. He fosters a hatred of minorities due to his father having had an affair with a black woman as well as the irrational belief that Jewish doctors killed his mother with poisoned water. He finds a survivalist retreat dubbed "Whiteland" and plans to use sarin gas on his followers to incite a race war across the United States. However, his plans are foiled when Deadpool infiltrates the compound and accuses Zemo of possessing Jewish ancestry, which distracts Zemo's henchmen long enough for Deadpool to kill them and Zemo.

Old Man Logan
In the Old Man Logan universe, Helmut Zemo is responsible for the deaths of most of the Avengers after turning the Thunderbolts against them. He only leaves Hawkeye alive out of spite for taking the Thunderbolts from him to begin with. Decades later, Hawkeye goes on a revenge killing spree against all the Thunderbolts for their betrayal. When he confronts Zemo in the Weapon X facility, he finds the villain in a wheelchair as Zemo had developed ALS while also working on recreating the Super Soldier Serum. While Hawkeye initially planned to leave Zemo humiliated in his condition, he instead decides to shoot dozens of arrows into Zemo using the last of his sight.