[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Years of Lead (Morocco)

he King, but elections are semi-fair, whereas they were blatantly rigged or suspended for many years during the 1970s and 1980s. Several independent human rights organizations have formed to investigate the impact of state repression during the years of rule and to press claims for damages suffered.

One of the most significant developments was the setting up of the Equity and Reconciliation Commission (ERC, French acronym IER) in January 2004. The ERC is an official government human rights committee authorized to examine human rights abuses committed by the government and administer compensations for victims of unfair policies. While this is almost unprecedented in the Arab world, the ERC's actual independence from the current administration and its ability to reach culprits in the Moroccan elite, known as the "makhzen", has been seriously disputed. The ERC is not mandated to identify or prosecute discovered human rights offenders and there has been no trials against government employees for their actions during the Years of Lead. The situation in Western Sahara, a territory annexed and occupied by Morocco after the Madrid Accords in the 1970s, has been mentioned by rights groups as especially serious. There are complaints that the ERC either cannot or will not examine the cases of disappeared or killed Sahrawis with the same forcefulness as with Moroccans.

On January 6, 2006, King Mohammed VI expressed regret for the human rights abuses that had occurred during his father's reign and spoke of the need for lessons to be drawn from the past.

The commission's work, and the emotional legacy of the Years of Lead on four families, is also explored in the 2008 documentary film Our Forbidden Places (Nos lieux interdits).

See also
 Human rights in Morocco
 Sand War
 1965 Moroccan riots
 Mehdi Ben Barka
 1971 Moroccan coup d'état attempt
 1972 Moroccan coup d'état attempt
 Green March and Western Sahara War 
 1981 Moroccan riots
 Politics of Morocco
 History of Morocco

References

Further reading
 Malika Oufkir and Michelle Fitoussi (2001), Stolen Lives: Twenty Years in a Desert Jail, Miramax Books ( )
 Ali Bourequat (1998), In the Moroccan King's Secret Gardens, Maurice Publishers
 Christine Daure-Serfaty (2002), Tazmamart, ()
 Ahmed Marzouki (2000), Tazmamart Cellule 10 (Tazmamart Cell 10), Editions Paris Méditerranée; Casablanca: Tarik Editions ()
 Interview with Mr. Marzouki:  
 Tahar Ben Jelloun (2000), This Blinding Absence of Light (Cette aveuglante absence de lumière), Editions du Seuil and New Press, ()
 Summaries of the book: &  
Sonja Hegasy, Bettina Dennerlein. "Die Marokkanische Wahrheitskommission zwischen Politik und Geschichte. " In: Christoph Marx (ed.), Bilder nach dem Sturm. Wahrheitskommissionen und historische Identitätsstiftung zwischen Staat und Zivilgesellschaft, Berlin: Lit Verlag. ().

External links
 Morocco Finds Graves of 50 killed in 70's - New York Times
 1981 martyrs' mass grave found in Casablanca - Moroccan Times
 Morocco's Truth Commission: Honoring Past Victims during an Uncertain Present - Human Rights Watch
 Royal Gulag - The Economist

20th century in Morocco
History of Western Sahara
Political and cultural purges
Political repression
Human rights abuses in Morocco
Torture in Morocco
Dirty wars
Cold War conflicts
Labor disputes in Morocco