[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Terrorism in Australia

rrested appeared in the video.

Burn also said: "We will allege that both of these men were preparing to do this act yesterday" and "We believe that the men were potentially going to harm somebody, maybe even kill somebody ...".

The JCTT investigation has been given the code name Operation Castrum.

May 2015 Melbourne 
On 8 May 2015 a 17-year-old was arrested in Greenvale, Melbourne for plotting to detonate home-made bombs. He was charged with:

Three alleged improvised explosive devices were found and rendered safe in a park by controlled detonation. The teenager appeared in court on 11 May and was remanded to reappear on May 26. 'Operation Amberd' was formed, and investigations made for 9 days, after a call to a security hotline. AFP and Victorian police of the Melbourne Joint Counter Terrorism Team (JCTT) carried out the raid. AFP Deputy Commissioner Mike Phelan said: "We can absolutely guarantee we have stopped something."

December 2016 Christmas terror plot 
On 23 December 2016 seven people were arrested in Melbourne for plotting an attack on Christmas Day. Properties were raided at Campbellfield, Dallas, Victoria, Flemington, Gladstone Park and Meadow Heights. The would-be terrorists planned to attack Federation Square, Flinders Street railway station and St. Paul's Cathedral, three landmarks clustered in the centre of Melbourne. An explosive device and other weapons were to be used. Abdullah Chaarani, Ahmed Mohamed and Hamza Abbas were found guilty 2 November 2018 in the High Court of Australia of plotting an attack in the name of the Islamic State. The trio smiled, laughed and made thumbs up as the verdict was announced. The police brought the weapons the trio had purchased to kill people who did not adhere to their radical version of Sunni Islam.

February 2017 Young
In late February 2017 a man was arrested at Young, New South Wales after an 18-month investigation. The man is a 42-year-old electrician and Australian citizen. He is alleged "... to have been researching how to develop laser missile detection equipment for IS and helping the extremists develop their own destructive missile arsenal". He appeared the same day at Young Local Court charged with two foreign incursion offences, and a count of "failing to comply with an order to assist access to data".

July 2019 Sydney 
On 2 July 2019 the JCTT carried out raids in Western Sydney, including in Canada Bay, Chester Hill, Greenacre, Green Valley, Ingleburn and Toongabbie. Three men aged, 20, 23 and 30-year were arrested.

On of them, Radwin Dakkak, now 25, was jailed for 18 months in December 2020 for "associating with a member of a terrorist organisation", that person being another of those arrested, Isaac El Matari, a member of Islamic State (IS). Dakkak was the first Australian to be prosecuted for this offence. Dakkak was released in January 2021 as he had already served most of his time in custody, waiting for court proceedings to conclude. Weeks later he was rearrested for allegedly breaching a control order.

In October 2021 IS member Isaac El Matari now aged 22, was jailed for preparing a terrorist attack. He received a maximum term of 7 years and 4 months, with a five-and-a-half-year non-parole period. El Matari previously served 9 months in jail in Lebanon for attempting to join IS, after which he returned to Australia in June 2018. He was under surveillance into 2019 and spoke with associates about establishing an IS insurgency in Australia.

Anti-terrorism legislation 

Prior to the 1960s, there had not been any act in Australia that could accurately be deemed "terrorism" in the modern political and strategic sense of the word. Politically motivated violent incidents were rare, usually isolated, and for the most part driven by issues arising from political legislation, greed, or individuals being singled out, such as the attempted assassination of Australian Labor Party Leader Arthur Calwell in 1965 over his Vietnam War stance. Likewise the 1968 attack on the US Consulate in Melbourne was also regarded to be an isolated incident protesting the US involvement in Vietnam. The two exceptions to this state of affairs would be the assassination attempt on the Duke of Edinburgh in 1868 by an Irish Nationalist named O'Farrell, who was later executed for his crime, and an attack in Broken Hill in 1915 by Afghan supporters of the Sultan of Turkey.