[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Scott Sagan

e of Nuclear Weapons" with Daryl G. Press and Benjamin A. Valentino in The American Political Science Review (February 2013);  and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences occasional paper, "A Worst Practices Guide to Insider Threats: Learning from Past Mistakes," (2014), with Matthew Bunn.

Awards

Scott Sagan was selected in 2018 by the Carnegie Corporation as an Andrew Carnegie Fellow. In 2017, Scott Sagan received the International Studies Association's Susan Strange Award. The award recognizes a person whose "singular intellect, assertiveness, and insight most challenge conventional wisdom and intellectual and organizational complacency" in the international studies community. Sagan was the recipient of the National Academy of Sciences William and Katherine Estes Award in 2015, for his pioneering work addressing the risks of nuclear weapons and the causes of nuclear proliferation. The award, which is granted triennially, recognizes "research in any field of cognitive or behavioral science that advances understanding of issues relating to the risk of nuclear war." In 2013, Sagan received the International Studies Association's International Security Studies Section Distinguished Scholar Award.  Sagan has also won four teaching awards: the 2020 Phi Beta Kappa of Northern California Teaching Excellence Award; the Monterey Institute for International Studies' 2009 Outstanding Contribution to Nonproliferation Education Award; the International Studies Association's 2008 Deborah Misty Gerner Innovative Teaching Award; Stanford University's 1998-99 Dean's Award for Distinguished Teaching; and Stanford University's 1996 Laurance and Naomi Hoagland Prize for Undergraduate Teaching. He teaches a popular course with Allen Weiner called "The Face of Battle," in which students walk key battlefields from American history, performing individual historical roles in staff rides and meeting with national security professionals.

See also

Nuclear Tipping Point
Nuclear weapons debate
Sam Nunn
William Perry
Henry Kissinger
George P. Shultz

References

External links
CISAC Biography

Living people
American political scientists
Nuclear weapons policy
Oberlin College alumni
Harvard University alumni
Alumni of the University of Aberdeen
Stanford University Department of Political Science faculty
Nuclear weapon safety
1955 births
American male writers
Sandia National Laboratories people