[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 119]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

hat!" said Master Compton, "does this beggar's brat think that he is
to govern gentlemen's sons, because Master Merton is so good as to keep
company with him?" "If I were Master Merton," said a third, "I'd soon
send the little impertinent jackanapes home to his own blackguard
family." And Master Mash, who was the biggest and strongest boy in the
whole company, came up to Harry, and grinning in his face, said, "So all
the return that you make to Master Merton for his goodness to you is to
be a spy and an informer, is it, you little dirty blackguard?"

Harry, who had long perceived and lamented the coolness of Master Merton
towards him, was now much more grieved to see that his friend was not
only silent, but seemed to take an ill-natured pleasure in these
insults, than at the insults themselves which were offered to him.
However, as soon as the crowd of tormentors which surrounded him would
give him leave to speak, he coolly answered, "that he was as little a
spy and informer as any of them; and, as to begging, he thanked God he
wanted as little of them as they did of him;" "besides," added he, "were
I even reduced so low as that, I should know better how to employ my
time than to ask charity of any one here."

This sarcastic answer, and the reflections that were made upon it, had
such an effect upon the too irritable temper of Master Merton, that, in
an instant, forgetting his former obligations and affection to Harry, he
strutted up to him, and clenching his fist, asked him, "whether he meant
to insult him?"

"Well done, Master Merton!" echoed through the whole society; "thrash
him heartily for his impudence." "No, Master Tommy," answered Harry; "it
is you and your friends here that insult me."

"What!" answered Tommy, "are you a person of such consequence that you
must not be spoken to? You are a prodigious fine gentleman, indeed." "I
always thought you one till now," answered Harry.

"How, you rascal!" said Tommy; "do you say that I am not a gentleman?
Take that!" and immediately struck Harry upon the face with his fist.
His fortitude was not proof against this treatment; he turned his face
away, and only said, in a low tone of voice, "Master Tommy, Master
Tommy, I never should have thought it possible you could have treated me
in this unworthy manner;" then, covering his face with both his hands,
he burst into an agony of crying.

But the little troop of gentlemen, who were vastly delighted with the
mortification which Harry had received, and had formed a very different
opinion of his prowess, from the patience which he had hitherto exerted,
began to gather round and repeat their persecutions. _Coward_, and
_blackguard_, and _tell-tale_ echoed in a chorus through the circle; and
some, more forward than the rest, seized him by the hair, in order that
he might hold up his head and show his _pretty face_.

But Harry, who now began to recollect himself, wiped his tears with his
hand, and, looking up, asked them with a firm tone of voice and a steady
countenance, why they meddled with him; then, swinging round, he
disengaged himself at once from all who had taken hold of him. The
greatest part of the company gave back at this question, and seemed
disposed to leave him unmolested; but Master Mash, who was the most
quarrelsome and impertinent boy present, advanced, and looking at Harry
with a contemptuous sneer, said, "this is the way we always treat such
little blackguards as you, and if you have not had enough to satisfy
you, we'll willingly give you some more." "As to all your nicknames and
nonsense," answered Harry, "I don't think it worth my while to resent
them; but though I have suffered Master Merton to strike me, there's not
another in the company shall do it, or, if he chooses to try, he shall
soon find whether or not I am a coward."

Master Mash made no answer to this, but by a slap of the face, which
Harry returned by a punch of his fist, which had almost overset his
antagonist, in spite of his superiority of size and strength. This
unexpected check from a boy, so much less than himself, might probably
have cooled the courage of Mash, had he not been ashamed of yielding to
one whom he had treated with so much unmerited contempt. Summoning,
therefore, all his resolution, he flew at Harry like a fury, and as he
had often been engaged in quarrels like this, he struck him with so much
force, that, with the first blow he aimed, he felled him to the ground.
Harry, foiled in this manner, but not dismayed, rose in an instant, and
attacked his adversary with redoubled vigour, at the very moment when he
thought himself sure of the victory. A second time did Mash, after a
short but severe contest, close with his undaunted enemy, and, by dint
of superior strength, roughly hurled him to the ground.

The little troop of spectators, who had mistaken Harry's patient
fortitude for cowardice, began now to entertain the sincerest respect