[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Percy Scott

r aeroplanes' guns suitable for attacking Zeppelins. Although workable proposals had been submitted in 1914, these had been rejected and once again in 1915 after successful trials. Fortunately for Britain the ammunition and flyers were available by 1916 when the Germans launched their air offensive.

Scott worked tirelessly to get guns from the Navy and Army for conversion into anti-aircraft guns. By pulling strings with Jellicoe and Kitchener he managed to build his numbers from twelve to 118. On his own authority, Scott dispatched Lieutenant-Commander Toby Rawlinson to Paris, who through his personal contacts managed to secure from the French two lorry-mounted examples of the highly effective 75mm gun; Rawlinson, a former racing driver, returned to London with the guns within 72 hours, before the Admiralty had actually written the order for them. Using the French design as a guide and cutting red tape by pulling in help from a wide range of sources Scott had by late November assembled an Anti-Aircraft Corps of 152 guns manned by volunteers from a wide range of professions. In February 1916 responsibility for the air defence of London was transferred from the Admiralty to the War Office. After some confusion it was agreed that Scott's association with the Corps should end and he took a position as advisor to Field-Marshal John French on air defence questions.

For the rest of the war Scott continued to suggest improvements on a wide range of subjects: his intervention with General Sir Henry Rawlinson led to changes being made to the mountings on the army's 9.2inch guns resulting in an increase in range from 13,000 to 17,000 yards while he also made important suggestions as to the handling of searchlights on the navy's ships to improve their ability to fight in the dark.

By 1918, with his supporter Jellicoe gone from the Admiralty, Scott was underemployed: in his opinion he was being given too little information to provide good advice on gunnery while the advice he gave was ignored. He therefore wrote to the Admiralty and "...pointed out to the authorities that as they would not give me anything to do I would do what I could without robbing the country of £1200 a year." (the salary he was being paid).

Post-war activities
In 1919 Scott began a remorseless but ultimately unsuccessful campaign in The Times against the battleship, saying I regarded the surface battleship as dead before the War, and I think her more dead now if that is possible. His prescient reasoning, set out in his autobiography, was that although a battleship could carry about  of high explosive which it could project to a range of about  it was vulnerable to aircraft carrying bombs and torpedoes as well as submarines. For the same cost as a battleship, several "aeroplane-carrying" ships could be built with aeroplanes capable of projecting 100,000 lbs of high explosive out to a range of .

Commercial success and controversy
Scott received payments from the Admiralty for his ideas totalling £10,000 equivalent to over £250,000 in 2005's money. More significantly, officers of the day were allowed to commercialize their inventions, and Scott landed a royalties agreement with Vickers leading to aggregate payments to him of some £200,000 equivalent to over £5,000,000 in 2005's money. Financial independence allowed Scott to indulge his intellectual arrogance and judgemental nature, which, when combined with his flair for self-publicity, formed the basis of his fractious relationship with Navy authorities. However, Jackie Fisher, creator of the radical Dreadnought concept and a dominant influence on naval reform in the years leading up to the First World War, recognized Scott's merits, kept his career on track and was instrumental in promoting and introducing many of his ideas.

Lawn mower 
In 1920, Scott invented a motor driven lawn mower, forecasting that the day would come "when gardeners will refuse to work for a man who does not possess an automatic mower."

Personal life and death
Scott was first married in 1893 to Teresa Roma Dixon-Hartland. Three children resulted but the marriage ended in divorce in 1911 as a result of his wife's adultery. In 1914 Scott remarried to divorcee Fanny Vaughan Johnston Welman (née Dinnis) but this relationship endured only briefly. Scott died of a heart attack in 1924 leaving an estate of nearly £130,000 (about £4,000,000 at 2005 value) plus two houses. His second son, Douglas, succeeded to his title.

Scott's younger brother Malcolm Scott was a popular comic entertainer in theatres and on radio.

Notes

References
Citations

Bibliography