[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mustafa Ben Halim

est civil engineering firms in the world. In 1973 a failed kidnapping attempt by mercenaries hired by Colonel Gaddafi forced him to relocate his family to London. In the years that followed, there were several assassination attempts made on Ben Halim's life which were foiled by British Intelligence.

Ben Halim was granted Saudi nationality in 1975, six years after King Faisal of Saudi Arabia granted the Ben Halim family passports to allow them to travel and conduct business in Lebanon and the United Kingdom. In 1980, he was appointed Personal Councilor to then Crown Prince Fahd bin Abdul Aziz of Saudi Arabia. Ben Halim was the last surviving of the Kingdom of Libya's premiers, and the only one of them who witnessed the fall of Muammar Gaddafi in 2011. After the fall of Gaddafi, Ben Halim returned to Libya after 42 years in exile. His homecoming was warmly received by the Libyan people. His house in Tripoli, which in 1969 was left in the custody of a sentry, was seized by the sentry who then claimed ownership of the property.

Personal life and death
Ben Halim was married to Yusra Kanaan. They had six children.
 Ben Halim's eldest son, Amr Ben Halim, is the Founder and a board member of Al Yusr Industrial Contracting Company. He also founded the Forum for Democratic Libya after the revolution in February 2011 to promote and advocate a culture of democracy. He has also supported other civil society organisations which aim to have a positive impact in post revolution Libya.
 Hany Ben Halim is a real estate developer and investor
 Tarek Mustafa Ben Halim, founded Alfanar, the Arab region's first venture philanthropy organisation, in 2004, after a career in investment banking. Tarek went back to Libya in 2005/6 to support Saif al-Islam Gaddafi in his attempts to bring about political reform. Tarek then resigned in 2008, as he was disenchanted with the lack of true intent to reform, and died in December 2009.
 Ahmed Ben Halim co-founded The Capital Partnership, an investment management firm, in 1998 following a career in banking and investment industries. He is also the founder and Chairman of Libya Holdings Group, an investment company focused on the development of Libya's energy, infrastructure and financial sectors.
 Abir Challah née Abir Ben Halim
 Sherine Ben Halim Jafar is an author. Her book "Under the Copper Covers", a culinary journey through North Africa and Middle East was published in 2015 by Rimal Publications

He turned 100 on 29 January 2021 and died on 7 December 2021.

Honours 

  Knight Grand Cordon of the Order of Idris I

Literature 
 Libya: The Years of Hope - The Memoirs of Mustafa Ahmed Ben-Halim - Former Prime Minister of Libya, 
"Libya's Hidden Pages of History: A Memoir - صفحات مطوية من تاريخ ليبيا السياسي" Rimal Publications, 2011 (Arabic Edition)  
"Libya's Hidden Pages of History: A Memoir" Rimal Publications, 2013 (English Edition)
Dictionary of Modern Arab History, an A-Z of over 2,000 entries from 1798 to the Present Day, by Robin Leonard Bidwell

References

External links
Forum for Democratic Libya

1921 births
2021 deaths
Egyptian centenarians
Libyan centenarians
Prime Ministers of Libya
People from Benghazi
Ambassadors of Libya to France
Transport ministers of Libya
Men centenarians
Egyptian emigrants
Immigrants to Libya