[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mare clausum

perio Lusitanorum Asiatico (Of the just Portuguese Asian Empire) addressing step by step the arguments of the Dutch. Despite his arguments, the international situation demanded an end to the Mare clausum policy, and freedom of the seas as an essential condition for the development of maritime trade.

England, competing fiercely with the Dutch for domination of world trade, opposed Grotius' ideas and claimed sovereignty over the waters around the British Isles. In Mare clausum (1635) John Selden coined the term, endeavoring to prove that the sea was in practice virtually as capable of appropriation as terrestrial territory. As conflicting claims grew out of the controversy, maritime states came to moderate their demands and base their maritime claims on the principle that it extended seawards from land. A workable formula was found by Cornelius van Bynkershoek in his De dominio maris (1702), restricting maritime dominion to the actual distance within which cannon range could effectively protect it. This became universally adopted and developed into the three-mile limit.

References

Bibliography
 Anand Prakash, "Origin and development of the law of the sea: history of international law revisited," Brill, 1983, 
 Tuck, Richard, Natural rights theories: their origin and development, Cambridge University Press, 1981, 
 Ferreira, Ana Maria Pereira, O Essencial sobre Portugal e a Origem da Liberdade dos Mares, Lisboa, Imprensa Nacional Casa da Moeda, [sd] (Basics of Portugal and the Origin of Freedom of the Seas, in Portuguese).
 Merêa, Paulo, "Os Jurisconsultos Portugueses e a Doutrina do "Mare Clausum"", Revista de História, nº 49, Lisboa, 1924 ("The Jurists and the Doctrine of the Portuguese" "Mare clausum", Journal of History, in Portuguese)
 Saldanha, António Vasconcelos de, "Mare Clausum" Dicionário de História dos Descobrimentos Portugueses, vol. II, pp. II, pp. 685–86 (Dictionary of the History of Discoveries, in Portuguese).
 van Ittersum, Martine Julia (2006). Hugo Grotius, Natural Rights Theories and the Rise of Dutch Power in the East Indies 1595–1615. Boston: Brill. hallo

See also
Treaty of Tordesillas
Treaty of Alcáçovas
Romanus Pontifex
Mare liberum
Hugo Grotius
John Selden

International law
Latin legal terminology