[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1978 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1978 in the United Kingdom.

Incumbents
 Monarch – Elizabeth II
 Prime Minister – James Callaghan (Labour)
 Parliament – 47th

Events

January
 1 January – The otter becomes a protected species, ending hunting of it.
 11 January – A North Sea storm surge ruins four piers in the UK: Herne Bay, Margate, Hunstanton and Skegness.
 16 January – The firefighters strike ends after three months when fire crews accept an offer of a 10% pay rise and reduced working hours.
 18 January – The European Court of Human Rights finds the United Kingdom government guilty of mistreating prisoners in Northern Ireland, but not guilty of torture.
 30 January – Opposition leader Margaret Thatcher says that many Britons fear being "swamped by people with a different culture".
 31 January – 18-year-old prostitute Helen Rytka is murdered in Huddersfield; she is believed to be the eighth victim of the Yorkshire Ripper.

February

 9 February – Gordon McQueen, 25-year-old Scotland central defender, becomes Britain's first £500,000 footballer in a transfer from Leeds United to Manchester United.
 13 February
 Anna Ford becomes the first female newsreader on ITN.
 An opinion poll conducted for the Daily Mail shows the Conservative opposition 11 points ahead of the Labour government, with an election due by October next year. The turnaround in fortunes for the Conservatives, who last month were narrowly behind Labour, is attributed to Margaret Thatcher's recent comments on immigration.
 17 February – Twelve people are killed in the La Mon restaurant bombing in Belfast.
 18 February – Twenty suspects are arrested in connection with the La Mon restaurant bombing.
 20 February – Severe blizzards hit the south west of England.

March
 8 March – The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy first broadcast by BBC Radio 4.
 26 March – The body of 21-year-old prostitute and mother-of-two Yvonne Pearson, who was last seen alive on 21 January, is found in Leeds. The Yorkshire Ripper is believed to have been responsible.
 30 March – Conservative Party recruit advertising agency Saatchi & Saatchi to revamp their image.

April
 April – First official naturist beach opens at Fairlight Glen in Covehurst Bay near Hastings.
 3 April – Permanent radio broadcasts of proceedings in the House of Commons begin.
 6 April – State Earnings-Related Pension Scheme introduced.
 23 April – Nottingham Forest win the Football League First Division title for the first time in their history. Their manager Brian Clough, who guided their East Midlands rivals Derby County to the title six years ago, becomes only the third manager in history to lead two different clubs to top division title glory; the others were Tom Watson with Sunderland and Liverpool before WWI, and Herbert Chapman with Huddersfield Town and Arsenal during the interwar years.

May
 1 May – Early May Bank Holiday observed for the first time.
 4 May – Altab Ali is murdered in East London in a racially motivated attack which mobilises the British Bangladeshi community to protest.
 6 May – Ipswich Town win the FA Cup for the first time by beating Arsenal 1–0 in the Wembley final.
 10 May – Liverpool F.C. retain the European Cup with a 1–0 win over Club Brugge K.V., the Belgian champions, at Wembley Stadium.
 16 May – 40-year-old prostitute Vera Millward is found stabbed to death in the grounds of the Manchester Royal Infirmary Hospital; she is believed to have been the tenth woman to die at the hands of the Yorkshire Ripper. Both of the victims killed outside Yorkshire have been killed in Manchester.
 17 May – Charlie Chaplin's coffin, stolen 11 weeks previously, is found in a field about a mile away from the Chaplin home in Corsier near Lausanne, Switzerland.
 25 May – Liberal Party leader David Steel announces that the Lib–Lab pact will be dissolved at the end of the current Parliamentary session by mutual consent, leaving Britain with a minority Labour government.
 31 May – Labour wins the Hamilton by-election, retaining it in the face of a strong challenge from the Scottish National Party in that seat.