[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum

the five figure range.

Weston State Hospital found itself to be the home for the West Virginia Lobotomy Project in the early 1950s. This was an effort by the state of West Virginia and Walter Freeman to use lobotomy to reduce the number of patients in asylums because there was severe overcrowding.

By the 1980s, the hospital had a reduced population due to changes in the treatment of mental illness. Those patients who could not be controlled were often locked in cages.  In February 1986, then-Governor Arch Moore announced plans to build a new psychiatric facility elsewhere in the state and convert the Weston hospital to a prison. Moore authorized work to begin on the prison conversion, but the state found the move to be unconstitutional and work was suspended.  Ultimately the new facility, the William R. Sharpe Jr. Hospital, was built in Weston and the old Weston State Hospital closed in May 1994. The closure came by court order due in part to a class action lawsuit filed by family members of patients.   The building and its grounds have since been mostly vacant, aside from local events such as fairs, church revivals, and tours.  In 1999, all four floors of the interior of the building were damaged by several off duty city, county and state police officers playing paintball, three of whom were dismissed over the incident.

Efforts towards adaptive reuse of the building have included proposals to convert the building into a Civil War Museum and a hotel and golf course complex.  A non-profit 501(c)3 organization, the Weston Hospital Revitalization Committee, was formed in 2000 for the purpose of aiding the preservation of the building and finding appropriate tenants.

21st century
Three small museums devoted to military history, toys, and mental health were opened on the first floor of the main hospital building in 2004, but were soon forced to close due to fire code violations.

The hospital was auctioned by the West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources on August 29, 2007. Joe Jordan, an asbestos demolition contractor from Morgantown, was the high bidder and paid $1.5 million for the  building. Bidding started at $500,000. Joe Jordan has also begun maintenance projects on the former hospital grounds. In October 2007, a Fall Fest was held at the Weston State Hospital. Guided historic and paranormal daytime tours were offered as well as evening ghost hunts and paranormal tours.

The main building of the asylum, known as the Kirkbride, holds several rooms that serve as the museum, located on the first floor. There are paintings, poems, and drawings made by patients in the art therapy programs, a room dedicated to the different medical treatments and restraints used in the past, and artifacts such as a straitjacket and hydrotherapy tub. The tour guides dress in clothes that resemble 19th century nurse outfits; blue dress, white apron, white cap, and white shoes. The shorter historical tour offer allows visitors to see the first floor of the Kirkbride, while the longer historical tour allows visitors to see all four floors, apartments of the staff, the morgue, and the operating room. Aside from the historical tours, there are also two paranormal tours. Both start as the sun sets, the shorter tour lasting around two to three hours, the longer tour being overnight with the option of having a private tour.

In popular culture
*The former facility was featured as a haunted location on several paranormal television shows, including Ghost Stories, Syfy's Ghost Hunters, Travel Channel's Ghost Adventures, and Paranormal Lockdown on Destination America/TLC as well as Portals To Hell  and Sam and Colby and most recently Travel Channel's Destination Fear and Conjuring Kesha.
The facility is featured in Bethesda Game Studios' 2018 video game Fallout 76, under the name “Fort Defiance”, acting as a base for The Brotherhood of Steel, one of the game's main factions.
The facility is featured in episode 60 of the podcast Lore.

See also
List of National Historic Landmarks
List of Registered Historic Places in West Virginia

References

External links

 
High Definition video from Kirkbrides HD
Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum at Abandoned
 Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum at Architecture of the State
Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum at Asylum Projects
 Trans-Allegheny Lunatic Asylum at Kirkbride Buildings
 Weston State Hospital Cemetery interments at Find-a-Grave