[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Foreign relations of the Axis powers

ple over the death of the führer.

A few Irish people served in German forces; for example James Brady and Frank Stringer served in  during 1944-1945 and were court-martialed and imprisoned after the war. And a third person, Patrick O'Neill, an Irish doctor, may have served in SS-Sturmbataillon 500.

Conversely more than 40,000 Irish fought alongside the British during the war  including the youngest ever RAF Wing Commander in history Fighter ace Paddy Finucane.  Éire produced British materiel under contract and was bombed during the war by the Luftwaffe in the Bombing of Dublin in World War II despite Éire's neutral status.  Fear of the British Plan W for a re-invasion of Ireland spurred Irish preparations for defence of the island against the possibility of a German or British attack.  Later in the war when the threat of a British invasion subsided The Irish government allowed RAF planes to fly the Donegal Corridor beginning in 1941.  This was a contravention of Irish neutrality and was thus not publicised at the time.

Ireland ended World War II as one of only five (non micro-state) European Countries to avoid entering the war.

Latvia 

German troops occupied Riga on July 1, 1941. Immediately after the instalment of German authority, a process of eliminating the Jewish and Roma population began, with many killings taking place in Rumbula. The killings were committed by the Einsatzgruppe A, the Wehrmacht and Marines (in Liepaja), as well as by Latvian collaborators, including the 500–1,500 members of the infamous Arājs Commando, which alone killed around 26,000 Jews, and the 2,000 or more Latvian members of the SD. By the end of 1941 almost the entire Jewish population was killed or placed in the death camps. In addition, some 25,000 Jews were transported to Latvia from Germany, Austria and the present-day Czech Republic, of whom around 20,000 were killed. The Holocaust claimed approximately 85,000 lives in Latvia.

Liechtenstein
According to some sources Prince Franz I of Liechtenstein — the absolute monarch of the small principality — was antipathetic to Nazism because his consort, Elisabeth (née von Gutmann), was Jewish.  Franz I died in 1938 and was succeeded by Franz Joseph II. Liechtenstein remained neutral throughout World War II, and its neutrality was never violated by any of the combatants.  However, two factors have linked the Liechtensteinian state to the Axis cause:

In 2005, it was revealed that Franz Josef II profited directly from the Holocaust. Labourers from the Strasshof concentration camp, provided by the SS, had worked on estates in Austria owned by the Liechtensteinian royal house.  The family also bought property in Austria and Czechoslovakia which had been taken from Jews by the Nazis.

At the end of the war, Liechtenstein gave asylum to about 500 soldiers of the First Russian National Army, which had been recruited by the German Wehrmacht from Soviet POWs.

Lithuania 

After the German invasion, Lithuanians soon realised that the Nazis had no plans for an independent or even autonomous Lithuania and, in fact, they viewed the natives as second-class citizens. Lithuania lost its independence completely, and economic conditions were harsh, especially in cities and towns (in villages people were at least able to grow food for themselves).

There was substantial cooperation between the German forces and some Lithuanians. The Lithuanian Activist Front group formed five police companies to assist in the occupation the country. Later, the units around Kaunas were incorporated into the Tautos Darbo Apsauga (National Labour Guard) and in Vilnius the Lietuvos Savisaugos Dalys (Lithuanian Self Defence).  These were then joined into the Policiniai Batalionai (Lithuanian Police Battalions) called by the Germans the Schutzmannschaft, with a total of 8,388 men by August 1942.  Another infamous unit was the Lithuanian Secret Police (Saugumo policija).  Despite the fact that the purpose of their creation was different, these Lithuanian units participated in the Holocaust, especially within Lithuania (including the areas of Vilnius region that are now in Belarus).

Monaco 
While Prince Louis II was strongly sympathetic to the French and later the Free French, he tried to keep Monaco neutral during World War II but supported the Vichy French government of his old army colleague, Marshal Philippe Pétain.  Nonetheless, his tiny principality was tormented by domestic conflict partly as a result of Louis' indecisiveness, and also because the majority of the population was of Italian descent; many of them supported the fascist regime of Italy's Benito Mussolini.