[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Judge Rotenberg Educational Center

The Judge Rotenberg Center (founded in 1971 as the Behavior Research Institute) is a controversial institution in Canton, Massachusetts, United States, for people with developmental disabilities and emotional and behavioral disorders. The center has been condemned for torture by the United Nations special rapporteur on torture. The JRC is known for its use of the graduated electronic decelerator (GED), a device that administers electric shocks to residents through a remote control. The device was designed by Matthew Israel, the institute's founder. While the FDA issued a formal ban on the GED in 2020, the device continued to be used on some residents pending an administrative stay for the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. In July 2021, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the FDA could not issue a "partial stay" but must issue a blanket ban or no ban at all, thus allowing the JRC to continue using the device on 55 people in the meantime. However, the Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2022 amended the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act to allow the FDA to ban medical devices for a specific use despite whether they were approved for other uses. This effectively overturned the ruling from the 2021 court decision.

The Judge Rotenberg Center's behavior modification program uses the methods of applied behavior analysis and relies heavily on aversion therapy. Aversives used by the JRC include contingent food programs, long-term restraints, sensory deprivation, and GED shocks. While JRC claims to rely mainly on positive behavior support and contends that aversives are used only as a last resort when positive intervention has failed, multiple state reports have found that aversives are used for minor infractions, and that no significant positive behavior support programs exist.

In a video that was made publicly available in 2011, JRC staff tied an autistic boy face-down to a four-point board and shocked him 31 times at the highest amperage setting. The first shock was given for failing to take off his coat when asked, and the remaining 30 shocks were given for screaming and tensing up while being shocked. The boy was later hospitalized with third degree burns and acute stress disorder, but no action was taken against any of the staff as neither the law nor JRC policy had been broken. In a separate incident, two residents were awoken from their beds at night, restrained, and shocked 29 and 77 times, respectively, due to false allegations that they had misbehaved. The center's founder, Matthew Israel, was indicted on criminal charges for ordering a video of the incident destroyed and was forced to resign his position at the JRC as part of a plea deal to avoid prosecution.

There have been repeated attempts to shut down the center by autism rights advocates, disability rights advocates, and human rights advocates. Organizations that oppose the center include the Autistic Self Advocacy Network, Disability Rights International, and Community Alliance for the Ethical Treatment of Youth. Six residents have died at the institute since it was founded in 1971.

History

Background and formation 

In 1957, the Society for the Experimental Analysis of Behavior was founded by a group of researchers interested in applications for the theory of operant conditioning, a form of behavioral modification coined by American psychologist B. F. Skinner and based on providing stimuli to reward approximations of a desired behavior. In 1967, the group established the Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis (JABA) to focus on the application of applied behavior analysis (ABA) to "socially important problems", including people with autism and other developmental disabilities. Researchers for JABA believed that because there was data supporting the effectiveness of the use of aversives on disabled people, their use was "science-based" and that arguments based on human values were irrelevant. In response, another group of researchers founded the Association for the Education and Treatment of the Severely and Profoundly Handicapped (AESEPH; later renamed TASH) in 1974, which distinguished itself through its opposition to the use of aversives and involuntary commitment.