[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# StarCraft in esports

appearing actively in Pro League in July 2009. In October 2010 he switched over to StarCraft 2 and competed in GomTV GSL 2. In November 2010 he retired from his KeSPA pro-gamer status to only focus on SC2 and have the opportunity to form a new SC2-team sponsored by Intel.

 Lee Yun-Yeol ([ReD]NaDa) 

The "Genius Terran" (also known as "Tornado Terran") started his pro-gaming career by beating ChRh (Choi In Kyu) on the "Amateur vs Pro" TV show. He has a consistent and dominating style, backed up with excellent macro. A strong micro among all StarCraft players (e.g. Nada's Vultures), Nada's infantry army had good performance. He has been on the team IS, KTF and now the Wemade FOX, formerly Pantech EX, formerly known as Toona SG. Nada has won 3 OSLs, 3 MSLs, and the first KT-KTF invitational tournament. After a resurgent OSL victory in late 2006, NaDa became the first player to have won the OSL three times, winning the "Golden Mouse". He recently qualified for his tenth MSL, but failed to qualify for the next OSL. Nada managed to reach the final sixteen in both the 2008 MSL and OSL, but was stifled of another attempt at a trophy by Hwasin and Jangbi respectively. As of December 2008 he is ranked 18 in KeSPA. As of June 2009, Nada has fallen to rank 31 in the KeSPA ranking system, making it the first time that he has been out of the top 30 since March 2002.

In October 2010 after his contract ended, he retired from playing StarCraft: Brood War professionally instead NaDa is currently pursuing a professional gaming career in StarCraft 2: Wings of Liberty. NaDa joined the StarCraft II team, Complexity Gaming, but announced his retirement in June 2012 due to financial difficulty, current poor state of health pending military issues, and various family issues.

 Choi Yeon-Sung (iloveoov) 

The next successful Terran player after Boxer and Nada, iloveoov's macro is even better than Nada's, leading to him being known as the "Cheater Terran" due to his ability to create large armies in a short span of time. He is also known as "Monster" because of his dominance over his opponents. He has won the MBCGame Starleague (MSL) three times in succession, and in November 2004 finally won the OSL. He won his 2nd OSL title in March 2006, defeating JulyZerg in the 1st ShinHan Bank tournament. iloveoov has now retired from professional gaming and is currently a coach for the SKT1 squad with Kingdom. However, in November 2008, he declared he would come back to the squad and works as coach in SKT. His first coming back game was held 17 November. He played against Kim Myung Un (Zerg) and lost, himself using Valiath (Valkyrie+Goliath). He has a relationship with Boxer (who was on the same SK Telecom T1 team with him), as he sees Boxer as a kind of "older brother" or mentor (Boxer brought iloveoov to the professional scene after seeing his talent in amateur leagues), and as a result, was somewhat regretful for beating him (3–2) in the finals of the EVER OSL in November 2004. He also won the WCG in 2006, beating Julyzerg 2–1 in the finals.

 Saim Akankan (Esran) 

One player you didn't expect is Esran. He's been one of the newcomer talents in the Starcraft 1 scene. At a young age he was able to prevail against veterans and he was hyped as the next German talent. His late career was chaotic but in the end he was able to build a good reputation.

 Lee Young-Ho (Flash) 

Nicknamed "The Little Monster", "God-Young-Ho", and "Ultimate Weapon", Flash arrived in the gaming scene by defeating Bisu in a Starleague game by "cheesing" his opponent. He was heavily criticized by StarCraft fans as a "cheap" player, but he dispelled all accusations by dominating the StarCraft gaming scene. He propelled his team KTF (now KT Rolster) into Proleague victories and championships by winning the 2010 Proleague. Flash is involved in a rivalry with Jaedong. Flash holds world records such as longest TvT winning streak, longest TvP winning streak, youngest Starleague winner, youngest Golden Mouse winner, highest KeSPA rank of all time, and the highest overall Elo, TvP, TvZ and TvT ranks of all time. He has been in three consecutive dual Starleague finals, winning four golds within the past year. He defeated Kal (Goojila) in the 2010 World Cyber Games, eventually becoming the world champion. He also came back in 2017 and won the ASL season 2, defeating sea in a series of 3–1. He had to beat Jaedong in the semi-finals and it went to the 5th game, which he eventually won 3–2.

Zerg

 Hong Jin-ho (YellOw)