[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# NFAT

Thymus and induced Treg (iTreg) cells which develop from naive CD4+ T cells in the periphery after their stimulation. iTreg cells seem to be highly dependent on NFATc1, 2 and 4 since deletion of any of these genes or their combination causes almost a complete loss of iTreg cells but not nTreg cells.

In Tfh cells just like in Th1, Th2 and Th17 cells NFAT:AP-1 complex is formed. This complex afterwards activates transcription of BATF which then also binds to NFAT and together with other proteins like IRF4 commences production of Tfh indespensable molecules: CXCR5, ICOS, Bcl6 and IL-21. Tfh cells express high levels of NFATc1 and especially NFATc2 and NFAT2/αA which suggest an important role of NFATc2. Deletion of NFATc2 in T cells facilitates an increased number of Tfh cells and higher germinal center response probably due to dysregulation of CXCR5 and decreased number of T follicular regulatory (Tfr) cells. Since Tfh are tightly connected with humoral response any defect in them will project into B cells. Therefore, it is not surprising that NFAT2 lymphocytes specific ablation causes a defect of the BCR-mediated proliferation but whether this phenotype is caused by sole dysregulation of Tfh or B cells or combination of both is uncertain.

B cells 
Although discovered in T cells it is becoming more obvious that NFAT is also expressed in different cell types. In B cells mainly NFATc1 and after activation also NFATc2 and NFAT2/αA are expressed and fulfil important functions like antigen presentation, proliferation, and apoptosis. Although the impairment of NFAT pathway has serious consequences in T cells, in B cells they seem to be rather mild. If for instance a specific B cell knockout of both STIM proteins is carried out, SOCE is completely abolished and therefore NFAT signalling as well. Although in these knockout B cells the resulting humoral response is very similar to B cells with no knockout, the complete abolishment of NFAT also brought about a decrease in IL-10. However, some studies suggest a more important role of NFAT in B cells and therefore this topic is still not well understood  and warrants further research.

T cell anergy and exhaustion 
T cell anergy is induced by suboptimal stimulation conditions when for instance TCR is stimulated without appropriate costimulatory signals. Because of the missing co-stimulation AP-1 is absent and a NFAT:NFAT complex is formed. This complex activates anergy associated genes like E3 ubiquitin ligases (Cbl-b, ITCH, and GRAIL), diacylglycerol kinase α (DGKα), and caspase 3 which promote the induction of T-cell anergy. Similar to T cell anergy is T cell exhaustion which is also caused by impaired formation of the NFAT:AP-1 complex but the underlying induction of exhaustion state is through chronic stimulation rather than suboptimal stimulation. In both anergy and exhaustion NFATc1 seems to play a key role. Conversaly, NFATc2 together with NFAT2/αA are needed to revert the state of anergy or exhaustion.

NFAT signalling in neural development 
The Ca2+ dependent calcineurin/NFAT signalling pathway has been found to be important in neuronal growth and axon guidance during vertebrate development. Each different class of NFAT contributes to different steps in the neural development. NFAT works with neurotrophic signalling to regulate axon outgrowth in several neuronal populations. Additionally, NFAT transcription complexes integrate neuronal growth with guidance cues such as netrin to facilitate the formation of new synapses, helping to build neural circuits in the brain. NFAT is a known important player in both the developing and adult nervous system.

Clinical significance

Inflammation 

NFAT plays a role in the regulation of inflammation of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In the gene that encodes LRRK2 (leucine-rich repeat kinase 2), a susceptibility locus for IBD was found. The kinase LRRK2 is an inhibitor for the NFATc2 variety, so in mice lacking LRRK2, increased activation of NFATc2 was found in macrophages. This led to an increase in the NFAT-dependent cytokines that spark severe colitis attacks.

NFAT also plays a role in Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA), an autoimmune disease that has a strong pro-inflammatory component. TNF-α, a pro-inflammatory cytokine, activates the calcineurin-NFAT pathway in macrophages. Additionally, inhibiting the mTOR pathway decreases joint inflammation and erosion, so the known interaction between mTOR pathway and NFAT presents a key to the inflammatory process of RA.