[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 25]
# Macedonia naming dispute

the mid-1990s, then-Premier Jeff Kennett backed the Greek position over the Macedonian question in his attempts to shore up local electoral support. Kennett's stance gained him supporters from the Melburnian Greek community, whereas he was referred to as "Kennettopoulos" by the Macedonian community.

At Kennett's insistence, his state government in 1994 issued its own directive that all its departments refer to the language as "Macedonian (Slavonic)" and to Macedonians as "Slav Macedonians". Reasons given for the decision were "to avoid confusion", be consistent with federal naming protocols toward Macedonians and repair relations between Macedonian and Greek communities. It was accepted that it would not impact the way Macedonians self identified themselves. The decision upset Macedonians, as they had to use the terms in deliberations with the government or its institutions related to education and public broadcasting. The Macedonian Community challenged the decision on the basis of the Race Discrimination Act. After years of litigation at the Australian Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission (HREOC), the Federal Court and High Court, previous judicial rulings were upheld that found Kennett's directive unlawful as it caused discrimination based on ethnic background and was struck down from usage in 2000.

Macedonian, language and dialect

Macedonian language (modern) 

The name of the modern Macedonian language, as used by its speakers and defined in the constitution of the Republic of Macedonia is "Makedonski jazik" (). The term "Macedonian language" is used by several international bodies, such as the United Nations and the World Health Organization. It is also used by convention in the field of Slavic Studies.

However, because this language is a South Slavic Indo-European language, and not descended from Ancient Macedonian, which was a Hellenic Indo-European language, several other terms remain in use. Some of the names use the family to which the language belongs to disambiguate it from ancient Macedonian, or from the homonymous dialect of modern Greek; sometimes the autonym "Makedonski" is used in English for the modern Slavic language, with "Macedonian" being reserved for the ancient language.

Affirmation of the classification of Macedonian as a separate language is an important issue for the ethnic Macedonian self-view. Critics often treat it as a dialect of Bulgarian, due to their close structural affinity and mutual intelligibility in both written and spoken forms; they also point to Macedonian's recent emergence as a separate standard language, and the political motivation behind its promotion in the mid-20th century.

Macedonian dialect (modern, Greek) 

Macedonian is applied to the present-day Greek dialect spoken by Macedonian Greeks.

Macedonian (ancient) 

The origins of the ancient Macedonian language are currently debated. It is as yet undetermined whether it was a Greek dialect which was part of or closely related to the Doric and/or Aeolic dialects, a sibling language of ancient Greek forming a Hellenic (i.e. Greco-Macedonian) supergroup, or an Indo-European language which was a close cousin to Greek and also related to Thracian and Phrygian languages. The scientific community generally agrees that, although some sources are available (e.g. Hesychius' lexicon, Pella curse tablet) there is no decisive evidence for supporting any of these hypotheses. The surviving public and private inscriptions found in Macedonia indicate that the written language in ancient Macedonia was Ancient Greek. Attic Greek, a form of the Greek language, eventually supplanted the ancient Macedonian entirely in Macedonia from the 5th Century BC, and it became extinct during the first few centuries AD. Attic Greek evolved into Koine Greek, then into Byzantine Greek and later into modern Greek.

Naming policies of foreign countries and organisations

See also 

 Macedonia (region)
 Macedonia (terminology)
 Macedonian Question
 Ireland–United Kingdom naming dispute
 List of homonymous states and regions

Notes

Further reading 
Floudas, Demetrius A. "Pardon? A Name for a Conflict? FYROM's Dispute with Greece Revisited" in: Kourvetaris et al (eds.), The New Balkans, New York: Columbia University Press (2002), 85-117.
 Heraclides, Alexis. "The settlement of the Greek-Macedonian naming dispute: the Prespa agreement." Bezbednosni dijalozi 11.2 (2020): 49-60. online in English
 Nimetz, M. (2020). The Macedonian "Name" Dispute: The Macedonian Question—Resolved? Nationalities Papers, 48(2), 205-214.
 Shterbani, Shefki. "The Macedonia Name Dispute: ICJ's Decision and its Legal Approach." Acta Universitatis Danubius Juridica 14.1 (2018): 101-112. online
 Tziampiris, Aristotle. "The Macedonian name dispute and European Union accession." Southeast European and Black Sea Studies 12.1 (2012): 153-171.

References