[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Montfort Secondary School

Montfort Secondary School (MSS) is a Catholic school in Hougang, Singapore. Founded in 1916, it is a government-aided secondary education all-boys school. It is one of the seven institutions governed by St Gabriel's Foundation.

History

Holy Innocents' English School (1916-1958) 
Montfort Secondary School was founded in 1916 as the Holy Innocents' English School, next to Nativity Church in Upper Serangoon Road, by the parish priest of Serangoon, Father Laurent. At the request of the Inspector of Schools, Father H. Duvelle, the successor of Father Laurent, organized an English class and a Chinese class on the floors of the two-storey building between the church and the school canteen. Mr Lee Ah Kow was engaged to run the classes which lasted for three years.

In March 1920, Father E. Becheras, the parish priest restarted the school with a class of 30 pupils under the charge of Mr Monterio. In the following year, another class was added. From 1922-1936, Mr P A D'Costa was recruited to be the Principal of Holy Innocents English School and the school grew. A block of five classrooms along Upper Serangooon Road was completed in 1927. In 1929, three additional classrooms along Holy Innocents Lane were added.

In 1932, another floor was added to the second block. In 1936, Mgr A Devals, the Bishop of Singapore and Malaya invited the brother of St Gabriel to run the Parish School. Brother Gerard Majella came from Bangkok to become the first Brother Director of the school. Brothers Adolphus and John de Breboeuf came in December 1936. This was also the year the school produced its first School Certificate class. Brother Gerard Majella was succeeded in 1938 by Brother Louis Gonzaga.

The Second World War Japanese occupation of Singapore interrupted the curriculum  of the school. Immediately after the war, Brother Louis Gonzaga returned from Bahau, Johor to reopen the school. He extended the block along Upper Serangoon Road by adding another floor. The new extension was opened by the Sultan of Johore. In 1949, Brother Louis Gonzaga started an afternoon school—-Holy Innocents' Afternoon School—-under the charge of Brother Basil. In 1955 Brother Noel became the Director of the Holy Innocents'. He set up a committee on 3 April 1955 to raise funds to further extend the school. Within three years, the extension was completed.

Montfort School (1959-1992) 
In 1959, Holy Innocents’ English School was renamed Montfort School in honour of St Louis Marie Grignion de Montfort, the founder of the religious institute, Montfort Brothers of St. Gabriel, because of the confusion which resulted due to three other schools in Singapore using the name Holy Innocents', namely Holy Innocents' Boys School, Holy Innocents' High School, and Holy Innocents' English School.

By the 1960s, Montfort School was synonymous with quality education provided by the Brothers of St Gabriel in the Upper Serangoon District.

In 1974, the full school split into Montfort Secondary and Montfort Junior.

In 1984, a decision was made by the Old Montfortian Association (OMA), led by its president, Lim Boon Heng, to relocate Montfort Junior and Secondary Schools to make them comparable to the newer Government Schools. A Building Fund Committee was formed to raise the funds to finance the building project, the cost of which amounted to $24 million. Capital grant from the Government was $18.5 million, and the schools had to raise $5.5 million. Piling began in August 1989 at the new site at Hougang Avenue 8, immediately after a ground-breaking ceremony which was officiated by Mgr Gregory Yong, on 12 August 1989. The main building works of the two schools started in March 1990 and took about 21 months to complete.

Progress as Montfort Secondary School 
On 2 January 1992, the two schools, Montfort Junior and Montfort Secondary, started functioning at their new premises as separate institutions. In 1997, the school underwent repairs and redecoration.

At the end of 2009, Montfort Secondary School underwent major redevelopment works which was under the Programme for Rebuilding and Improving Existing Schools (PRIME). The school was opened on 2 January 2012 and Montfort Secondary School returned to its Hougang location.

Montfort celebrated its 90th anniversary in 2006 with a 90 km run to its former location and a thanksgiving mass conducted by the Archbishop of Singapore, Nicholas Chia, a former pupil of the school. The mass was held in Church of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, the church at the old location of the school.

In 2017, Montfort had a centennial mass in Church of the Nativity of the Blessed Virgin Mary as a part of its celebrations for its 100th anniversary.

Identity and culture