[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Hacker Files

onitor and optical disk storage, possibly based on the NeXTcube's magneto-optical drive. It also had built in compatibility with NTSC\PAL formats and had built in composite video out, as well as advanced digital audio and video editing capacity on-chip, possibly as coprocessors similar to the Amiga.

DROS
DROS is the Digitronix Resident Operating System, a free copy of DROS was bundled with every machine. Lewis Shiner gives detailed information on the inner workings of DROS in the usr/hacker/mail section at the back of the first two issues. Because series consultant Alan Wexelblat had warned him that UNIX wasn't considered secure enough for government installation (in 1992), he decided that DROS would look like UNIX but would not exactly be UNIX. Kim Fairchild, another series consultant, suggested that he use emacs as DROS' resident text editor. In DROS file blocks are graphically represented as rows of stacked rectangular blocks. All commands shown when Jack interacts with DROS are Unix commands. As in UNIX, BSD and Linux, there are user and superuser accounts.

Command line examples

Notes
 In issue #11 of the series Digitronix technicians in Kazakhstan demonstrate an early prototype virtual reality computer interface that may be the same one later used by Barbara Gordon (Oracle).
 The letters printed in issues #3-12 were taken from online letter columns that Shiner setup on GEnie and CompuServe bulletin boards. Some of the letters were from computer industry professionals and enthusiasts who often corrected technical errors they had found in previous issues.
 The cover to issue #8 shows a DTX (Digitronix) SCSI optical storage disk (possibly a hybrid magneto-optical/DVD RAM drive), with a 40 megabyte to 2 gigabyte storage capacity and a DTX mainboard. The optical storage disk is labeled as "Macintosh, NeXT, DOS and Novell compatible".
 According to the book's Who's Who entry, Digitronix computers are supposedly used by both Batman and Oracle.

References

External links
 Streettech: A synopsis of The Hacker Files
 Phrack: Volume 4 Issue 40 File 2 of 14 July 9, 1992 
 Computer underground Digest: Volume 4 Issue 38, Sunday August 23, 1992 
 Usenet archive - The Hacker Files, mostly: by Johanna Draper, October 23 1992

DC Comics titles
Cyberpunk comics
1992 comics debuts
Fictional hackers