[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Bessarabian Peasants' Party

ndates in the Assembly and 6 in the Senate, with a plurality of the regional vote (48%), just ahead of the PP (at 46%). Its fief was a tri-county area comprising Bălți, Tighina and Soroca, where it won an absolute victory; it lost Ismail County (Avrescu's birthplace), taken by the PP in a landslide.

The PȚB's stand within the opposition became a cause for disputes among the other parties. Beginning in March, its envoys began talks of a fusion with Mihalache's PȚ. This move was resisted by Pelivan especially, who believed that political life also required decentralization. The talks also involved the PND, but Iorga rejected the close alliance between the PȚB and Constantin Stere, whom Iorga regarded as a wartime traitor. After excluding Andrei Scobioală, Halippa had managed to have Stere run as a PȚB candidate, but not a PȚB member, in the by-elections of Soroca. During the early months of 1921, the opposition collapsed into factions. Iorga, the Assembly President, refused to validate Stere's deputy mandate—meeting opprobrium from an ad-hoc coalition of PȚB-ists, Laborites and Socialists. The issue was taken up by a November 1920 Congress, which voted to continue with the FDNS, but also vetoed any merger.

Halippa and Stere stood together. According to Iorga, Halippa threatened with a parliamentary walkout, while Stere announced (to Inculeț's annoyance) that Bessarabia was ripe for revolution. Moving to the center, Inculeț vetoed Stere's adherence to the PȚB, his stand-off with Halippa almost splitting the party in two. After a new party congress in May 1921, both Halippa and Inculeț dismissed persistent rumors that Stere's "Independent Peasants' Party" had merged into the PȚB, despite Mihalache's interventions in favor of Stere. Halippa's supporters passed a resolution approving of a later union with the PȚ, and also stating their implicit collaboration with "all democratic forces" against "the reactionary tendencies of the oligarchy". Such terminology referred to the PP and the PNL, and alienated the Inculeț group, who were moving closer to an understanding with the National Liberals.

Schisms and dissolution
Over the following month, Stere managed to obtain the PȚ adhesion of seven PȚB deputies, including Halippa and Ion Codreanu. On July 18, Halippa, Stere, and 10 other deputies formally adhered to the PȚ. They "retained some autonomy" within the latter, ensuring an important Bessarabian electoral basis for Mihalache. The core faction of the PȚB, led by Inculeț, assumed control of the party during Halippa's absence, which prevented the merger from being more than a schism. On July 22, the party voted to expel Halippa, Buzdugan, Holban, and Minciună. Inculeț was Chairman, seconded by Pelivan and Bârcă; Ion Macovei, Mîță, A. Gropa and E. Dumbravă were co-opted on the CC. In fact, several of the latter had already left the party and sided with Halippa. The Inculeț party only represented two Bessarabian constituencies (Lăpușna and Orhei); the rest went over to Halippa or ceased to be.

Inculeț registered the scythe-and-rake symbol as his own, but had to sell his Cuvânt Moldovenesc to keep the party from going bankrupt. The party newspapers became Glasul Basarabiei and Pântea's own Basarabia. The latter attacked Halippa frequently, calling him such epithets as "chauvinistic" and "uncouth". The PȚB quit the FDNS and allied itself to the PNL, but asked in return that the latter party abandon its electoral chapters in Bessarabia. In early 1922, Ion I. C. Brătianu formed a National Liberal cabinet, and called in general elections in March. The Inculeț group, also known locally as the "Peasants' Liberal Party" (Partidul Țărănesc Liberal) or "Independent Party of the Bessarabian Peasants", only collaborated with the PNL in Ismail and Cetatea Albă counties; elsewhere, it ran as an opposition party. The campaign was primarily fought against Stere and the PȚ, and focused on emphasizing the party's image as the true inheritor of agrarian legitimacy. Such tactics were later excoriated by Stere, who called the PȚB "demagogic" and "anti-national".

The results were mixed. In the early race for the Senate, the gains were very small: Inculeț and his PNL allies had between them 13 seats, while the PȚ had won 11, with Stere personally defeating Inculeț at Bălți. With open and fraudulent support from the PNL government, Inculeț repeated some his 1919 success in the contest for the Assembly. The PȚB obtained 22 deputy seats and the fourth position nationally, while, in Bessarabia, Halippa's PȚ chapter only won 7 seats (the Averescu party registered less than 2% regionally).