[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Immigration New Zealand

response to the report, the Fifth National Government dissolved the Pacific Division and re-integrated it into INZ.

After the Department of Labour was merged into the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment (MBIE) in July 2012, Immigration New Zealand was incorporated into the new ministry.

Functions and structure
Immigration New Zealand is an agency within the Ministry of Business, Innovation and Employment that is responsible for facilitating and regulating immigration, tourism, foreign students and workers, and foreign investment in New Zealand. Immigration NZ's other responsibilities include migrant attraction, visa facilitation, border protection and refugee resettlement. As of 2017, the division has five branches:
Compliance, Risk and Intelligence
Visa Services, which provides immigration advice, services, and visa application processing. 
Service Design and Performance
Settlement, Protection and Attraction
Vision 2015, an initiative implemented in 2012 to upgrade INZ's information and communications technology.

Oversight
Administratively, Immigration NZ is headed by Deputy Chief Executive Greg Patchell. Politically, the agency comes under the portfolio of the Minister of Immigration, which was created in 1946.  Immigration NZ provides the Minister of Immigration with operational support while MBIE's Immigration Policy Team advises the Minister on policy matters. Immigration NZ and the Minister of Immigration are also regulated by the Immigration Act 2009. As of 2022, the current Minister is Michael Wood.

Offices and facilities
Immigration New Zealand maintains eight offices in New Zealand. INZ maintains offices in Auckland Central, Henderson, Manukau, Hamilton, Palmerston North, Wellington's Te Aro suburb, Porirua and Christchurch. In November 2017, the agency's general manager Steve Stuart announced that it would consider shutting down its Auckland Central and Henderson offices due to increased public usage of its websites and online visa application platforms.

Immigration New Zealand's Visa Services group also operated seventeen Visa Application Centres in Suva, Nuku'alofa, Apia, Bangkok, Jakarta, Manila, Ho Chi Minh City, Hong Kong, Shanghai, Beijing, New Delhi, Mumbai, Dubai, Pretoria, London, Moscow, and Washington, DC. In November 2017, it was announced that Immigration New Zealand would close down 12 of its existing 17 overseas offices as part of a policy to shift visa processing back to New Zealand. Affected offices included those in Ho Chi Minh City, Hong Kong, Jakarta, Bangkok, Moscow, New Delhi, Pretoria and Shanghai. While the offices in Manila, Washington, DC, London and Dubai would cease processing visas, it was decided that they would remain open in order to gather market intelligence, carry out verification activities and maintain relationships with key partner countries.

In September 2018, Immigration New Zealand embarked on a NZ$25.2 million restructuring plan that led to the closure of six offices in Hong Kong, Ho Chi Minh City, Moscow, Jakarta, Shanghai, and New Delhi. The Dubai, Pretoria, Bangkok, Washington DC, London, and Manila offices remain open but have ceased processing visas. However, visa processing centres in Beijing, Mumbai, and the Pacific Islands will remain open. Immigration NZ also announced the retrenchment of 380 roles and the relocation of 121 staff from their Auckland Central and Henderson offices to Manukau.

Refugee resettlement
In addition, Immigration New Zealand also manages the Mangere Refugee Resettlement Centre, which provides English language orientation classes, health screening, and mental health support for refugees who enter New Zealand under the Refugee Quota Programme. In 2016, the Centre was reopened after undergoing extensive renovation.

In 1987, the New Zealand Government established a formal annual quota for refugees. Under the Refugee Quota Programme, New Zealand takes in 750 refugees annually. Immigration NZ's Refugee Quota Branch (RQB) is charged with running the Refugee Quota Programme. In response to the Syrian Civil War, the New Zealand Government announced in September 2015 that the country would be taking in 600 Syrian refugees under an emergency quota as well as 150 within the normal quota.

Visas

Visas are issued by INZ staff in offices throughout New Zealand and around the world. Visa Services is the group within Immigration New Zealand responsible for providing immigration advice, services, and visa application services. Until June 2012, visas were issued by  the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade's embassy and high commission network. After June 2012, third-part providers (visa application centres) received and lodged visa applications submitted outside New Zealand. These visa application centers allowed Immigration New Zealand to share resources with its Five Country Conference partners: Australia, Canada, the United States, and United Kingdom.