[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Canada-Israel Committee

at we have already experienced." The CIC emphasized the shared values of both nations, urging the leaders to work for peace between Israel and Palestine while exploring solutions for the Iranian nuclear program.

Case studies into the CIC and Canadian Middle East policy

Yom Kippur War—October, 1973

Lobbying shortfalls 
The Arab-Israeli War, with the CIC's lobbying, did not sway the Canadian government or populace drastically in favor of Israel. The CIC sought for Canada to directly condemn the Arabs states for attacking Israel, but for a number of reasons, this goal was never realized. First, the CIC was still very young, underfunded, and unknown. Structurally, the CIC had little organization and unclear prioritization of goals. Constituent organizations of the CIC, among them the Canadian Zionist Federation, were far more established politically and opted to circumvent the CIC by lobbying the government directly. This fractured coordination, weakening the CIC's effectiveness vis-á-vis the Canadian federal government. Second, Canadian politics was resistant to favoring sides in ethnic divisions. The mold of supporting Israel was historically unfounded in Canada's foreign policy for fear of alienating other groups. And finally, Canada did not feel the same fervor for Israel as did its Jewish citizens.

Public apathy 
For Israel supporters, the war was perceived as an existential crisis for Israel; however, Canadian government officials could not be swayed to feel the same. A 1973 Gallup poll found approximately 73 percent of respondents to have no inclination toward either the Israelis or Arabs. Canada's indifference on the matter permeated through both society and politics, and the CIC's inexperience could not reverse this fact.

Arab economic boycott of Israel in Canada

Contextualization 
Following the 1973 Arab-Israeli War, Arab nations launched a joint economic boycott of Israel. In response, the CIC employed its energies in a manner becoming of a mature ethnic interest group. The CIC lobbied department officials, members of Parliament, and cabinet heads. Further, the CIC was able to bend the political debate in its favor by highlighting the larger inequities of Arab trade practices on Canadians. Support for Israel, the CIC argued, went hand-in-hand with improving civil and human rights of Canadians. In doing so, the CIC “gain[ed] the sympathy and support of wide segments of the public” by underscoring its significance to Canada. Garnering this level of support bolstered the likelihood with which the Canadian federal government would respond to public will and address the Arab boycott.

Internal restructuring and a larger budget enhanced the CIC's prominence within Canada's Jewish community. The CIC was “the unchallenged voice of Canadian Jews in matters concerning Israel,” which licensed the CIC to be the premier representative for Canadian Jews regarding the boycott. Determined lobbying influenced the framing of a government response toward the best interest of Canadians. Public opinion leaned in favor of ending the boycott, and additionally, media reporting was sympathetic to the CIC's position. This projected the CIC's messaging far beyond its own reach and was widely attributed to the degree of success achieved by Canadian Jewry.

Government response 
Because of concerns that opposing the boycott would endanger Canadian relations with Arab states, the government under Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau employed delay tactics on proposed legislation. Corporate lobbies warned against economic retaliation from Arab states that would harm business. These factors negated the CIC's momentum on the issue and ultimately prevented anti-boycott legislation from becoming law. The CIC's influence, despite its impetus, marginally affected the outcome.

The Lebanon War of 1982

Contextualization 
Israel's invasion into southern Lebanon caused disillusionment within Canada over its disposition toward Israel. Prime Minister Trudeau became quite critical of Israeli actions. He penned a letter to Menachem Begin calling for the removal of Israeli forces while issuing support for the Lebanese government. Initially, the CIC stepped into the fold to argue that Israel was justified in its invasion and Canada should, at the very least, take a hands-off approach to the matter.