[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hassan Saeed

ime and money since its inception in 2012. As part of the project Saeed has, for the first time in the country’s history, provided the following:

 All laws, regulations, decrees, and bylaws from a single source.
 The most authoritative and comprehensive legal dictionary.
 Consolidated all the laws.

Membership/Professional Qualification 
Saeed is a registered Barrister-at-Law in the High Court of Australia and a registered Advocator and Solicitor in the Supreme Court of Maldives. He served as a member of the Maldives Constitutional Assembly, Chairman of the National Law Commission and Member of the Judicial Service Commission. Briefly he served as a Member of the Board of Governors of International Islamic University Malaysia. He served as the Vice-President of People Party (Dhivehi Rayyithunge Party) and later he founded and served as the President of the Maldives National Party (Dhivehi Qaumi Party).

Reforms
As the Attorney General of the Republic of Maldives and as the Chief Judge of the Criminal Court and Juvenile Court in the Maldives, Saeed introduced many groundbreaking reforms that addressed and sought an end to a long history of human rights abuses and abuses of power in the Maldivian legal system.

Reforms as the Chief Judge 
Saeed introduced several steps enhancing rights of defendants. These include access to legal representation, access to evidence, medical examinations at the court’s expense in case of alleged torture or physical violence, and barring handcuffed defendants (unless violent).

On the administrative side, Saeed introduced sentencing guidelines, computerized the country’s 25-year-old criminal records, and created the first ever self-funded medica insurance scheme for the judges of his courts.

Saeed’s appointment as the Chief Judge of the Criminal Court and the Juvenile Court at the height of the 25-year authoritarian rule of President Gayyoom, a period in which citizens lacked very basic human rights, 97% of convictions were based on confessions, judges were hired and fired at the will of the executive branch, and judges lacked mandates for such reform initiatives. In this historical context, Saeed’s reforms were unprecedented and substantial.

Reforms as the Attorney General 
Saeed used his position as the Attorney General of the country to revolutionize the protection of human rights and the enhancement of legal-political rights and institutional reforms.

His formal legal opinion on citizens’ rights to form political parties paved the way for the first ever formation and registration of political parties with legislative and financial backing by the state. He also headed the establishment of the country’s first Human Rights Commission and provided a detailed legislative framework for it. Drawing from his postgraduate research, Saeed extended maximum protection for free speech by bringing an end to the criminal prosecution of reporters and editors by decriminalizing defamation, subsequently providing protection for whistleblowers.

On the criminal justice side, Saeed introduced the National Criminal Justice Reform Plan. The crown jewel of the Plan was the introduction of a modern Penal Code that is in accord with classic Islamic law and local customary practices while, by and large, complying with Western and international norms.

In a series of phases, he also replaced the confession-based investigation, prosecution, and conviction system with that of an evidence-based system. These included access to legal counsel during investigation, audio-video recording of investigations, introduction of arrestable and non-arrestable offences, habeas corpus, a bail system, separation of police from military, and the establishment of police oversight mechanisms. He also opened the country’s prison systems to domestic and international human rights bodies such as Amnesty International, the Red Cross, the Human Rights Commission of the Maldives, and parliamentary and judiciary committees

In the judicial reform, Saeed spearheaded the establishment of the Judicial Service Commission for overseeing judges (as opposed to the President and the Justice Minister). He started a program to replace old untrained judges with Western-educated law graduates. He ensured the selection of an equal number of male and female students – which eventually became the catalyst for the appointment of the first ever female judges in the country against the outcry of conservative religious groups.

Saeed also discarded the old rules requiring government written consent for citizens to bring legal action against the state in civil matters.

Seeing widespread domestic and international support for the reforms Saeed was introducing, several cabinet ministers who had been working in the country’s dictatorial setup, jumped onto the reformist bandwagon. This led to parallel reforms in several other fronts. This reformist pandora’s box soon led to the defeat of the conservative elements in the government.

References