[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chloe Rogers

ondon Olympics 2012

The squad selection for the Great Britain women's hockey team was announced on Friday, 18 May 2012. Chloe was included and is set to take part in her second Olympic Games.

Chloe was part of the Olympic bronze medal winning GB team at the London Olympic Games during August 2012.

Champions Trophy 2012

The Great Britain team made the final of this elite competition and secured a silver medal, losing 1–0 to Argentina.

Chloe was presented with a silver plate to mark her 50th Great Britain cap before the match started

Golf
Chloe has played golf from a young age and at the start of July 2007 won the BUSA Women's Individual Strokeplay Championship. As a result of this, she led the BUSA Women's England team to victory in the Home Golf Internationals at the start of September.

This is in addition to her 2004 title of Essex Ladies Champion. In 2000, she was one of the youngest ever finalists in the Daily Telegraph Junior Golf Championship.

Awards
Chloe was the Essex Chronicle Sports Personality of the Year 2009 and was presented with the award at the County Ground in Chelmsford by Essex and former Zimbabwean cricketer, Grant Flower. The award was voted for by readers of the Essex Chronicle and Brentwood Gazette. And she achieved this award again during 2012.

She has held the Marjorie Pollard Salver, presented by the Hockey Writers' Club of Great Britain in July 2008 during the Setanta Sports Trophy in Dublin.

Notes

External links
 
 Old Loughtonians Hockey Club
 Leicester Hockey Club
 Chelmsford Hockey Club
 Official Website of the Player
 Website of Bayleys Midlands in New Zealand
 Chloe's Team Essex Blog

Sportspeople from Harlow
1985 births
Living people
English female field hockey players
Field hockey players at the 2006 Commonwealth Games
Field hockey players at the 2008 Summer Olympics
Olympic field hockey players for Great Britain
British female field hockey players
Commonwealth Games bronze medallists for England
Olympic medalists in field hockey
Olympic bronze medallists for Great Britain
Field hockey players at the 2012 Summer Olympics
Medalists at the 2012 Summer Olympics
Commonwealth Games medallists in field hockey
Medallists at the 2006 Commonwealth Games