[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Molecular logic gate

hracene unit. An output of 1 (fluorescence) is obtained only when sodium ions are present in the solution (indicating an input of 1). Sodium ions are encapsulated by the crown ether, resulting in a quenching of the PET process, and causing the anthracene unit to fluoresce.

AND molecular logic gate 

This molecular logic gate illustrated demonstrates the advancement from redox-fluorescent switches to multi-input logic gates with an electrochemical switch. This two-input AND logic gate incorporates a tertiary amine proton receptor and a tetrathiafulvalene redox donor. These groups, when attached to anthracene, can simultaneously process information concerning acid concentration and oxidizing ability of the solution.

OR molecular logic gate 
De Silva et al. constructed an OR molecular logic gate using an aza-crown ether receptor and sodium and potassium ions as the inputs. Either of the two ions could bind to the crown ether, causing the PET to be quenched and the fluorescence to be turned on. Since either of the two ions (input “1”) could turn on the fluorescence (output “1”), the system resembled an OR logic gate.

INH molecular logic gate 
The INHIBIT logic gate incorporates a Tb3+ ion in a chelate complex. This two-input logic gate is the first of its kind and displays non-commutative behavior with chemical inputs and a phosphorescence output. Whenever dioxygen (input “1”) is present, the system is quenched and no phosphorescence is observed (output “0”). The second input, H+, must also be present for an output “1” to be observed. This is understood from a two-input INHIBIT truth table as included in Table 2.

NAND molecular logic gate 
Parker and Williams constructed a NAND logic gate based on turning on strong emission from a terbium complex of phenanthridine. When acid and oxygen (the two inputs) are absent (input “0”), the fluorescence from the terbium center is turned on (output “1”). Hence, the system acts as a molecular NAND gate.

NOR molecular logic gate 
Akkaya and coworkers demonstrated a molecular NOR gate using a boradiazaindacene system. Fluorescence of the highly-emissive boradiazaindacene (input “1”) was found to be quenched in the presence of either a zinc salt [Zn(II)] or trifluoroacetic acid (TFA). The system, thus, could realize the truth table of a NOR logic gate.

XOR and XNOR molecular logic gates 

De Silva and McClenaghan designed a proof-of-principle arithmetic device based on molecular logic gates. As depicted in Figure 10 A, Compound A is a push-pull olefin with the top receptor containing four carboxylic acid anion groups (and non-disclosed counter cations) capable of binding to calcium. The bottom part is a quinoline molecule which is a receptor for hydrogen ions. The logic gate operates as follows. Without any chemical input of Ca2+ or H+, the chromophore shows a maximum absorbance in UV/VIS spectroscopy at 390 nm. When calcium is introduced a hypsochromic shift (blue shift) takes place and the absorbance at 390 nm decreases. Likewise, addition of protons causes a bathochromic shift (red shift), and when both cations are in the water, the net result is absorption at the original 390 nm wavelength. This system represents an XNOR logic gate in absorption and an XOR logic gate in transmittance.

In another XOR logic gate system, the chemistry is based on the pseudorotaxane depicted in Figure 11. In organic solution the electron-deficient diazapyrenium salt (rod) and the electron-rich 2,3-dioxynaphthalene units of the crown ether (ring) self-assemble by formation of a charge transfer complex. An added tertiary amine like tributylamine forms a 1:2 adduct with the diazapyrene and the complex gets dethreaded. This process is accompanied by an increase in emission intensity at 343 nm resulting from freed crown ether. Added trifluoromethanesulfonic acid reacts with the amine and the process is reverted. Excess acid locks the crown ether by protonation and again the complex is de-threaded.

Half-adder and half-subtractor molecular circuits 
In compound B in Figure 10 B, the bottom section contains a tertiary amino group, also capable of binding to protons. In this system, fluorescence only takes place when both cations available. The presence of both cations hinders photoinduced electron transfer (PET) allowing compound B to fluoresce. In the absence of both or either ion, fluorescence is quenched by PET, which involves an electron transfer from either the nitrogen atom or the oxygen atoms, or both to the anthracenyl group. When both receptors are bound to calcium ions and protons respectively, both PET channels are shut off. The overall result of Compound B is AND logic, since an output of "1" (fluorescence) occurs only when both Ca2+ and H+ are present in solution, that is, have values as "1". With both systems run in parallel and with monitoring of transmittance for system A and fluorescence for system B the result is a half-adder capable of reproducing the equation 1 + 1 = 2.