[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Psychiatric and mental health nursing in the United States Army

Psychiatric and mental health nurses in the U.S. Army Nurse Corps employing groundbreaking protocols and treatments in psychiatric issues to address the unique challenges that our service men and women face, more commonly post-traumatic stress disorder and traumatic brain injuries. Most people understand that trauma exposure is a popular occupational hazard for military members. Psychiatric screenings, before and during their enlistment, and treatments after being exposed to warfare, death, destruction, and torture have been extremely beneficial for military personnel and their dependents.

Psychiatric and mental health nurses treat individuals diagnosed with conditions like schizophrenia, post-traumatic stress disorder, bipolar disorder, and depression. They are also trained in behavioral therapy which allows these nurses to teach patients and their loved ones how to deal with, react to, and overcome challenges that go along with different psychiatric disorders. Nurses in the psychiatric and mental health field can assess, examine, and treat patients with mental illness. Nurses with proper training are able to identify and understand the needs and help-seeking behaviors of military members and, with military cultural competence and knowledge about stress injuries, including psychological damage, they are able to deliver patient-centered care to patients with military culture experiences.

Duties and responsibilities 

 Prevention of mental illness through mental health promotion activities, interventions when emotional and mental health problems arise, and stabilization of individuals at their highest level of functioning 
 Provide specialized care to emotionally distressed individuals both as inpatients and outpatients and provide consultations within the general community
 Conduct patient counseling, crisis intervention, medication management, milieu and group therapy, and critical incident stress debriefings (CISD)
 Serve as an expert educator, adviser, and consultant on mental health issues to department chiefs and staff as well as the patients and their families
 Coordinate outpatient psychiatric care within the behavioral health care service line 
 Conduct medical research on diseases of military importance
 Conduct, supervise and participate in graduate medical education and training of other medical personnel
 Facilitating social and emotional needs
 Supervising medication schedules
 Evaluating patient progress
 Maintaining a safe environment

Unique duty positions 

 Psychiatric Clinical Staff or Head Nurse
 Head nurse in an alcohol and drug treatment program
 Advanced practice positions such as a Psychiatric and Mental Health Nurse Practitioner
 Clinical section chief
 Instructor
 Program director
 Member of medical company combat stress control or medical detachment

Requirements

Active duty 
 Bachelor's of Science in Nursing degree from an accredited nursing program
 Between 21 and 42 years of age 
 Current, valid and unrestricted nursing license 
 U.S. citizenship

Army reserve 
 Minimum of a Bachelor's or associate degree in Nursing or diploma in nursing from an accredited nursing school
 At least one year of experience in psychiatric nursing
 Between 21 and 42 years of age
 Current, valid and unrestricted nursing license 
 U.S. citizenship or permanent residency

Training

Active duty 
In the U.S. Army, the case diversity nurses experience in caring for Soldiers and their families far exceeds the medical care environment of the private sector. Army Nurse Corps officers have access to the most sophisticated and up-to-date technology, the opportunity to consult with experts in both the military and private sector, plus exceptional professional growth opportunities, which may include but are not limited to paid continuing education, clinical specialization, and residencies.

Army reserve 
The Army Reserve Nurse Corps begins with the Army Medical Department Basic Officer Leaders Course (BOLC), a three-week program that will expose nurses to the variety of mental and physical challenges they will face as a member of the United States Army's health care team. Candidates learn about the Army's approach to health care firsthand, train with other professionals, and attending lectures, conferences, and demonstrations that cover everything from U.S. Army customs to crisis management. Some candidates even have the opportunity to participate in a hands-on medical simulation of an in-theater field medical unit.