[Source: PubMed]

80. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2018 Apr 18;15(4):793. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph15040793.

Towards Improved Linkage of Disaster Risk Reduction and Climate Change 
Adaptation in Health: A Review.

Banwell N(1), Rutherford S(2), Mackey B(3), Chu C(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Environment and Population Health, School of Environment, Griffith 
University, Brisbane 4111, Australia. nicola.banwell@griffithuni.edu.au.
(2)Centre for Environment and Population Health, School of Medicine, Griffith 
University, Brisbane 4111, Australia. s.rutherford@griffith.edu.au.
(3)Griffith Climate Change Response Program, Griffith University, Gold Coast 
City 4222, Australia. b.mackey@griffith.edu.au.
(4)Centre for Environment and Population Health, School of Environment, Griffith 
University, Brisbane 4111, Australia. c.chu@griffith.edu.au.
(5)Centre for Environment and Population Health, School of Medicine, Griffith 
University, Brisbane 4111, Australia. c.chu@griffith.edu.au.

Climate change and climate-sensitive disasters significantly impact health. 
Linking Disaster Risk Reduction (DRR) and Climate Change Adaptation (CCA) is 
essential for addressing these ever present, complex and increasing risks. 
Recent calls have been made to build these links in health. However, there is a 
need to clearly articulate why linking DRR and CCA is important in health. 
Furthermore, little is known about how DRR and CCA should be linked in health. 
By extensively examining relevant literature, this review presents the current 
state of knowledge of linking DRR and CCA in health. This includes the potential 
for maximising conceptual synergies such as building resilience, and reducing 
vulnerability and risk. Additionally, technical and operational synergies are 
identified to link DRR and CCA in health, including: policy, Early Warning 
Systems, vulnerability and risk assessment, health systems strengthening, 
infrastructure resilience, disaster preparedness and response, and health impact 
pathways. Public health actors have a central role in building these links due 
to their expertise, work functions, and experience in addressing complex health 
risks. The review concludes with recommendations for future research, including 
how to better link DRR and CCA in health; and the opportunities, challenges and 
enablers to build and sustain these links.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph15040793
PMCID: PMC5923835
PMID: 29670057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest. The 
founding sponsors had no role in the design of the study; in the writing of the 
manuscript, and in the decision to publish the results.