[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Economy of Edinburgh

nificant role in the economy of the city. The presence of these educational institutions also attracts many overseas students (27,005) and those from the rest of the UK (15,270). For the 2021-22 academic year, there is a student population of 74,710 enrolled across the four universities in the city.

Life sciences and microelectronics in particular and have grown in prominence in recent years. The University of Edinburgh is a leader in the fields of medicine and law, and was a pioneer in British artificial intelligence teaching. Heriot-Watt University specialises in science and engineering and Napier University in the fields of computing and business, as well as creative fields.

The city is also home to a number of independent schools, with around one in five school-age pupils attending private institutions.

Infrastructure
The city is linked internationally by Edinburgh Airport (EDI) which in 2018 saw 14.3 million passengers throughout the year, which makes Edinburgh Airport the busiest Scottish Airport and sixth busiest in the UK.

In terms of rail connections, Edinburgh Waverley railway station is the principal mainline station in the city serving over 22.5 million passenger journeys over 2011–12.

The city is also well served by its bus service, with Lothian Buses having its headquarters in Edinburgh. Over 70 services run throughout the city, which includes a direct link to the airport and open top buses for city tours.

The first phase of the Edinburgh Trams was completed in May 2014, consisting of 16 tram stops along the single 14 km (8.7 mi) line. The route linked Edinburgh Airport in the West, to York Place in the East. The second phase of the Edinburgh Tram development was competed in June 2023 and added a further 8 stops from Picardy Place, which replaced the former York Place stop, to Newhaven in Leith, extending the line to 18.5 km (11.5 mi). There are plans to build new lines to Granton, the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, and Musselburgh but nothing is certain at the moment.

Challenges

Regeneration
Derelict land and areas on the waterfront of Edinburgh at places like Granton and Leith are in the process of being regenerated to make way for mixed commercial, residential and industrial developments to further provide for the forecast growth of the city.

Urban growth
In an economic sense Edinburgh is constrained by its relatively small size, and that there are economic benefits to be had with greater collaboration with surrounding areas such as Glasgow. Edinburgh itself is ringed by greenbelt land, which has seen developments such as the offices at Edinburgh Park and housing and commercial developments to the south of Edinburgh spring up on it.

See also
 Economy of Scotland
 Economy of the United Kingdom
 Economy of the European Union
 Politics of Edinburgh
 Transport in Edinburgh

References

External links

 Edinburgh Economy Watch (for the latest economic trends)
 City of Edinburgh Economic Data
 Edinburgh by Numbers Facts and Figures Booklet 2010/11
  Edinburgh's Economic Strategy