[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Malaysia My Second Home

and education of children or for medical purposes. From the second year on participants must maintain a minimum Fixed Deposit balance of RM60,000.

Medical report
All applicants and their dependents (spouse and children) are required to submit a medical report from any private hospital in Malaysia.

Medical insurance
Approved participants and dependants (spouse and children) must possess a valid medical insurance policy covering their stay in Malaysia. For those who are unable to get medical insurance because of age, or a pre-existing medical condition, this requirement can be waived.

Program incentives
Participants of the program may enjoy the following incentives:

Property purchases
Each participant is permitted to purchase residential houses at a minimum price above MYR 1,000,000 each such as Kuala Lumpur and Penang that are pre-approved by the Foreign Investment Committee of Malaysia.

In many other areas the minimum price or purchased property is lower. MM2H Participants in Sarawak may buy residential properties with minimum amount RM600,000 for Kuching Division and RM500,000 for other Division in Sarawak. However the visa issued to Participants of the MM2H Sarawak programme allows the participant to reside anywhere in Malaysia.

Vehicle purchase
The Government has decided to abolish the tax incentive on the purchase of a new locally assembled vehicle or the import of a pre-owned private vehicle into Malaysia under MM2H Programme. Therefore, this tax incentive will be terminated effective from 1 January 2018. However, Ministry of Finance will give special consideration to MM2H participant with first MM2H’s Visa approved beginning 1 January 2017 until 31 December 2017 to submit complete application via Sistem Maklumat Pengurusan Cukai / Sistem Maklumat Pengurusan Cukai Kerajaan Malaysia not later than 31 December 2018.

Domestic helper
Each participant is allowed to apply for one maid subject to the prevailing guidelines of the Immigration Department of Malaysia.

Identification card
The issuance of national ID cards for MM2H participants was suspended until further notice 1 July 2010.

Education
MM2H participants are allowed to bring their children and step children who are below 21 years old and not married as their dependents. Dependents who intend to continue their schooling in Malaysia are required to apply for a student pass. However, the participants are required to be responsible for all the living costs including study fees for their dependents while living in Malaysia.

Tax
Tax exemption is given to remittance of offshore pension fund into Malaysia. Foreign-source income is not taxable in Malaysia.

Working part-time
Over 50 year olds can work part-time (maximum 20 hours a week) subject to approval.

Other
 Import personal / household items, tax exempted
 Invest in local companies, share market and unit trusts
 Interest gained from bank fixed deposit is tax exempted
 Parents can join under a long-term visa

Restrictions
Participants are not allowed to work or be employed while staying in Malaysia. Persons wishing to obtain employment visas should apply directly to Immigration Department of Malaysia. 
Participants should not participate in activities that can be considered sensitive to the local people and/or a threat to the security of the country.
Citizens of countries that are not recognised by Malaysia including Israel are not allowed to participate.

Application procedure
Application can be made via any of the following channels.

Authorised sponsor companies
Application can be made through a number of private Malaysian companies, known as "sponsors", which offer application and follow-up services to foreigners. While the fees charged and services rendered can vary drastically from one sponsor to another, only authorised companies licensed by the Ministry of Tourism can provide such services to MM2H participants. (All sponsor licenses previously issued by the Immigration Department of Malaysia are no longer valid).

The Sarawak MM2H program does not allow the use of commercial "sponsors" or agents. An applicant must be sponsored by a Malaysian originating from Sarawak or a Sarawak Permanent Resident.

Personal application
As of January 2009, the Malaysian government will allow individual applications. Applicants no longer need to use agents, or other third parties.

Applications for those wishing to reside in Peninsular Malaysia are accepted at the MM2H One-Stop centre in Kuala Lumpur. If the applicant wishes to reside in the states of Sabah or Sarawak, applications need to be sent to the respective immigration offices or MM2H One-Stop centres in either of these states. Details are available on the www.mm2h.gov.my site.

Language of documentation
All documents can be presented in English. The required documents are listed on the English-language government site, www.mm2h.gov.my.