[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2006–2008 Lebanese protests

, Osman Ismail, said a road map had been set up to deal with the situation in Lebanon. However, according to many analysts, it was described as being rigged with mines that could explode anytime. And ultimately, Fouad Siniora stated that Lebanon was witnessing a very difficult moment in its history.

Economic impact
The ongoing protests were estimated to cost the Lebanese economy approximately $70 million a day, or $560 million thus far, according to Lebanon's Economy Minister, Jihad Azour. Stores and restaurants in Beirut were forced to keep their doors closed, and the pedestrian streets were deserted. With the holiday season coming up, including Christmas for the large Christian community, and Eid ul-Adha on December 27 for the Muslim community, businesses fear losing even more income due to the political crisis. Tourism, one of the largest sectors of the economy, which had still not fully recovered from the 2006 Israel-Hezbollah conflict, was also adversely impacted from the mounting tensions after the November 21, 2006 assassination of Cabinet Minister Pierre Gemayel. With Lebanon being a popular holiday destination, businesses also fear that the drop in tourism will further impact their business, with Paul Achkar, head of the Lebanese hotel association, stating that hotel occupancy is currently 25% of normal.

In March 2007, Standard Chartered Bank published a report that expressed concern about the ability of Prime Minister Fouad Siniora's government to push for fiscal and economic reforms amid the acute political division in the country.

Position of foreign governments

Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Jordan
On November 27, 2006, King Abdullah II of Jordan warned that the world might witness three civil wars in 2007 – one in Iraq, one in the Palestinian territories, and one in Lebanon.

As the protest began, leaders in Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Jordan publicly supported Siniora.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak told French television that the opposition was being unreasonable. "There is also the risk of outside interference in these demonstrations. That can lead to very serious confrontations and even lead to the destruction of Lebanon," he said.

Israel
On December 5, 2006 the Israeli government considered redeploying troops in Lebanon, without regard for the UNIFIL forces already in the country, if the Hezbollah-led protest succeeds in toppling the current Lebanese government. An Israeli government staff and a journalist from the Jerusalem Post warned that the goal of both Hezbollah and its sponsor, Iran, if achieved, could lead to negative results beyond Israel.

See also
Cedar Revolution
2011 Lebanese protests
2015 Lebanese protests

References

External links
Memorandum of Joint Understanding between Hezbollah and the Free Patriotic Movement
Full text of Nasrallah`s speech on the invitation to participate in an open sit-in in Beirut – Source: Moqawama.org, November 30, 2006
Full text of Nasrallah`s speech with Members of Public Action Committees – Source: Moqawama.org, November 19, 2006
Lebanon:Chronicles of an attempted suicide
Hezbollah's Democratic Demands by Mohammed Ben Jelloun, Swans Commentary, January 15, 2007.
 Hezbollah and the Political Ecology of Postwar Lebanon Mideast monitor
 Text and virtual tours of 14 Mars Upsurge for Independence and Sit-In of Opposition of 8 Mars
 Christian Politics in Lebanon 
 Lebanon's Constitution and the Current Political Crisis 

Conflicts in 2006
Conflicts in 2007
Political protests
Political protests
Hezbollah
Protests in Lebanon
Lebanese political
Lebanese political
Lebanese political
March 8 Alliance