[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Pablo Neruda

Plan A" which includes a reading by guest vocalist Sarah Harmer of the first two stanzas of the Pablo Neruda poem, "Ode To Age" ("Odă Bătrâneţii").
 Name dropped in the song La Vie Boheme from the 1996 musical Rent written and composed by Jonathan Larson: "To the stage, To Uta, To Buddha, Pablo Neruda too."

Literature 
 Neruda's 1952 stay in a villa on the island of Capri was fictionalized in Chilean author Antonio Skarmeta's 1985 novel Ardiente Paciencia (published as Burning Patience, later known as El cartero de Neruda, or Neruda's Postman).
 In 2008, the writer Roberto Ampuero published a novel El caso Neruda, about his private eye Cayetano Brulé where Pablo Neruda is one of the protagonists.
 The Dreamer (2010) is a children's fictional biography of Neruda, "a shy Chilean boy whose spirit develops and thrives despite his father's relentless negativity." Written by Pam Muñoz Ryan and illustrated by Peter Sís, the text and illustrations are printed in Neruda's signature green ink.
 The character of The Poet in Isabel Allende's debut novel The House of the Spirits is likely an allusion to Neruda.
 In the 2007 novel The Reluctant Fundamentalist by Pakistani author Mohsin Hamid, a key time in the political radicalization of the protagonist – a young Pakistani intellectual – is his short stay in Chile, in the course of which he visits the preserved home of Pablo Neruda.
 The newest novel of Isabel Allende, "a long petal of the sea," has numerous important key figures in Chilean history in its narrative. She writes about the life of Pablo Neruda and his involvement in the transportation of numerous fugitives from the Franco regime to Chile.

Film 
 The Italian film Il Postino, inspired by Antonio Skármeta's 1985 novel Ardiente paciencia (Ardent Patience, later known as El cartero de Neruda or Neruda's Postman), centers on the story of a local postman, a humble soul, living on Salina Island near Sicily during the 1950s, who is puzzled by the amount of mail received by a foreign gentleman who has recently moved in. Pablo Neruda (played by Philippe Noiret), who spent some time in exile there, befriends and inspires in him a love of poetry.
 Neruda is a 120-minute documentary about his life and poetry, including interviews with his friends like Volodia Teitelboim, Jose Balmes, Jorge Edwards, Andrej Wosnessenski, and Mikis Theodorakis. This film was directed by the German filmmaker Ebbo Demant and broadcast in 2004 on the European culture TV channel ARTE and the German public-service broadcaster ARD.
 Neruda, a 2016 Chilean film.
 The English film Truly, Madly, Deeply, written and directed by Anthony Minghella, uses Neruda's poem "The Dead Woman" as a pivotal device in the plot when Nina (Juliet Stevenson) understands she must let go of her dead lover Jamie (Alan Rickman).
 The 1998 film Patch Adams features Love Sonnet XVII.
 In the 2020 film Chemical Hearts, Grace Town (Lili Reinhart) and Henry Page (Austin Abrams) are shown reading the poems from Love Sonnet XVII and understanding the depths of it while Henry falls for Grace.
 In the film Barbershop (2002), the character Dinka (Leonard Earl Howze) gives flowers to the character Terri (Eve) with a poem by Pablo Neruda.
 The Sri Lankan film Alborada, otherwise known as Dawning of the Day, shows Neruda's stay in Ceylon as Chilean Consul in Ceylon.
 Mentioned in the song "La Vie Boheme" in the 2005 film adaptation of the award-winning and groundbreaking rock opera RENT originally written by the late Jonathan Larson adapted to screen by Stephen Chbosky and directed by American filmmaker Chris Columbus: "To the stage, To Uta, To Buddha, Pablo Neruda too."
 In the 2023 film Happiness for Beginners, Helen learns Jake has feelings for her by reading the poem he gave her, Neruda's sonnet "I do not love you."

Television 
 In the U.S. sitcom How I Met Your Mother, both Ted Mosby and the Mother's favorite poem is revealed to be Pablo Neruda's "Mañana XXVII."
 In The Simpsons episode "Bart Sells His Soul", Lisa mentions and quotes Pablo Neruda ("Laughter is the language of the soul") and Bart snidely replies that he is familiar with his work.
 In the Arthur episode "Mr. Ratburn and the Special Someone," Mr. Ratburn is seen reading a fictional collection of Neruda's works entitled Love Poems in the teacher's lounge.
 Mentioned in the Fox special Rent: Live, a live television broadcast of the rock opera RENT during the song "La Vie Boheme": "To the stage, To Uta, To Buddha, Pablo Neruda too." originally written and composed for the stage by the late Jonathan Larson