[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Connecticut Military Department

The Connecticut Military Department is a state agency of the government of Connecticut. Its primary components are the 
Connecticut Army National Guard, the Connecticut Air National Guard, and four companies of the state militia. The Military Department of the State of Connecticut traces its origins to May 11, 1637, when the "General Courts" (colonial assembly - legislature) established a military arm of the provincial government. In 1939, the State's Military Department was established to consolidate the offices of  Adjutant General, Quartermaster General, Armory Board, and Armory Board Inspector.

Mission
The Military Department of the State of Connecticut's principle public responsibility is to serve as the protector of American citizens of the State and their property in time of war, invasion, rebellion, riot or disaster. It serves as the main resource for the Governor in ensuring public safety in a variety of emergencies.

The Connecticut National Guard as the state militia also has a Federal Constitutional mission to support the President of the United States as Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the United States and the Federal Government in times of War or National Emergencies.

Components

Connecticut National Guard
The Constitution of the United States specifically grants the U.S. Congress the power to "raise armies." The U.S. Army, Navy, Air Force are armies raised under this provision. Additionally, the States, under the 2nd and 10th Amendments, have the right to raise their own armies, historically known as militias, today known as a State Defense Force (SDF). After the civil war, many states reduced funding for their militias and military training programs causing the threat of a reduction in war preparedness. As a result, Congress decided to raise a new federal army to be jointly administered by the states alongside the state defense forces: that army is known as the National Guard of the United States. Like the state militia/SDF, the National Guard is typically administered by the governors. Unlike the militia/SDF, the National Guard may be deployed abroad without the permission of the state governor, whereas the militia/SDF is under the exclusive authority of the states except in the rare event of invasion of the United States or domestic insurrection as specified in Article I Section 8 of the U.S. Constitution.

The Federal mission assigned to the National Guard is: "To provide properly trained and equipped units for prompt mobilization for war, National Emergency or as otherwise needed."

The state mission assigned to the National Guard is "To provide trained and disciplined forces for domestic emergencies or as otherwise provided by state law."
 
The Connecticut National Guard bestows a number of decorations for services to or on behalf of the state.

Major General Francis J. Evon, Jr. is the current Connecticut Adjutant General (TAG).

Connecticut Army National Guard
The Connecticut Army National Guard was originally formed in 1672. During the War of 1812, the Federalist state government refused to place the state militia under control of the Democratic-Republican national government, which resulted in friction, especially following British attacks on New London and Stonington.

After the American Civil War came to an end in 1865, a segregated company was raised in the Fifth battalion of the Connecticut National Guard so that men of color in New Haven could serve their state. Company A (1870-1919), bearing throughout its service monikers to honor its primary instigator, James H. Wilkins - a sergeant with the famous 54th Massachusetts Volunteer Infantry during the Civil War who bore the national flag at the Battle of Olustee - was also known as the Wilkins Guard, the Wilkins Old Guard, and the Wilkins Tigers.

The Militia Act of 1903 organized the various state militias into the present National Guard system.

The 102d Infantry Regiment fought with the 26th Infantry Division in World War I and then served with the 43d Infantry Division from 1924 to 1951-52, including World War II and a deployment to West Germany during the Korean War. Other major historical regiments of Connecticut were the 169th Infantry Regiment and 192d Field Artillery.

After 1968, the main formation in the state became the 43d Infantry Brigade of the 26th Infantry Division.

Today, the Connecticut Army National Guard is composed of approximately 5,000 soldiers.   It maintains facilities in 22 communities.  In 1999, these facilities included 22 armories, eight maintenance shops, four aviation facilities, four training site facilities.