[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hamid and Umer Hayat

t seemed to possess sums of cash unusual for an ice cream truck driver with only an 8th grade education (e.g. a $390,000 home with no outstanding debt). According to U.S. District Judge Garland E. Burrell Jr., Hayat "appears to have access to a significant amount of cash from an unexplained source."

Motion for a new trial
After his initial conviction, Hamid Hayat sought a new trial, for which his attorneys, Wazhma Mojaddidi and Dennis Riordan, filed a motion on the grounds of misconduct by jury foreman Joseph Cote as well as other court misconduct. Cote allegedly used racial slurs during the trial and compared Hayat to the Pakistani men who had conducted the recent terrorist attacks in London (see 7 July 2005 London bombings and 21 July 2005 London bombings). Cote also contacted an excused alternative juror during deliberations.

The hearing was held on April 6, 2007. On May 17, 2007, U.S. District Judge Garland E. Burrell Jr. rejected a new trial for Hamid Hayat, writing in his ruling that the reports of juror misconduct were not credible. Hamid Hayat's defense attorney, Wazhma Mojaddidi, announced plans to appeal.

September 2007 sentencing
On September 10, 2007, Hamid Hayat was sentenced to 24 years in federal prison. It was his 25th birthday. In the words of Judge Burrell Jr., Hayat had re-entered the U.S. "ready and willing to wage violent jihad."

Pre-crime 
The Hamid Hayat case is seen as an example of a pre-crime conviction (McCulloch and Wilson 2016). The dissenting Judge Tashima in Hayat's unsuccessful appeal argued that he would reverse the conviction "because the judicial branch's constitutional duty to do justice in criminal prosecutions was not fulfilled in this case in which the government asked a jury to deprive a man of his liberty largely based on dire, but vague, predictions that the defendant might commit unspecified crimes in the future" (United States v Hayat 2013: 4, 59, emphasis in original). Judge Tashima acknowledged that the law permitted conviction on the basis that the defendant might commit such unspecified crimes in the future, but argued that, when the law allows for such convictions, every aspect of the trial should be scrupulously fair, and that Hayat's trial did not meet this standard. The majority likewise described the government's "preventative approach" as "one that permits the conviction of potential terrorists who may never in fact have committed any terrorist act if not arrested and convicted" (United States v Hayat 2013: 24).

The Confession Tapes
In 2019, Hamid Hayat's story was featured in Season 2 of Netflix's documentary series The Confession Tapes in an episode entitled "Marching Orders".

US Government's Dismissal of All Charges 
In February 2019, the U.S. Government dismissed all charges. In a statement, Hayat's legal team, led by Riordan and Horgan, said “Hamid Hayat, his family, and his counsel appreciate the decision of the federal government today to dismiss the charges against him rather than seeking a retrial. That decision was obviously correct. Two federal judges have concluded that Hamid would not have been found guilty had the powerful evidence of his innocence that won his freedom in 2019 been presented to his jury in 2006. While we are grateful for the dismissal, the fourteen years Hamid spent behind bars on
charges of which he was innocent remain a grave miscarriage of justice. They serve as a stark example of how, in the post 9/11 era, the government’s effort to protect the public from terrorism could and did in this case go terribly wrong. Hamid’s exoneration is a cause for celebration, but the story of his case is tragedy that must not be repeated.”

In a statement, Hamid Hayat said “When (my attorney) Dennis said ‘Hey, congratulations, it’s over!’ I didn't believe it. Honestly, it was like a dream. Thank you to my family, CAIR-Sacramento, my legal team and my supporters for standing by me every step of the way.”

After being locked up for more than 13 years in a Phoenix, Ariz. prison, Hayat was released in August 2019 after an order was filed by U.S. District Judge Garland E. Burrell Jr. on July 30, 2019 to vacate Hayat’s conviction.

Judge Burrell Jr. was the original trial judge in the widely-criticized case that was recently highlighted in an episode of “The Confession Tapes” on Netflix.

References

Other sources
McCulloch, J and Wilson, D (2016) Pre-crime: Preemption, Precaution and the Future https://www.routledge.com/products/9781138781696

External links
 U.S. v. Hamid Hayat and Umer Hayat, facsimile of criminal complaint
 The Lodi Five, with numerous links to original trial documents
 PBS interview with ex-FBI agent James Wedick Jr.
 The FBI's rebuttal to Wedick's accusations

American people of Pakistani descent
People convicted on terrorism charges
People convicted of making false statements
1983 births
Living people
Pakistani Islamists
Naturalized citizens of the United States