[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stella Matutina

e rewritten by Aleister Crowley.

At this point, according to Francis King, the chiefs of the Amoun Temple were addicted to mediumship and astral travel. Their interpretation of the Golden Dawn techniques of astral projection and travel appears to have been derived from Florence Farr's Sphere group.

There were two main astral entities contacted. The first group were Rosicrucian, in which at times the medium believed to be controlled by Christian Rosenkreuz himself. The second were called Arabs, said to be the teachers of the Rosicrucians. The orders given by these "Arabs" had a substantial effect on the policies. For example, instructions received on January 9, 1915, was put into effect by the foundation of the Anglican spiritual healers organisation called the Guild of St. Raphael, as Francis King notes, "were almost without exception, members of the Stella Matutina". Recent documentary evidence, however, suggests King may have been mistaken and the Guild was not linked to Felkin (Chrism, 2006, p2)

Felkin was not satisfied with astral meetings as he wished for physical contact with the Secret Chiefs. From 1901 onwards, he traveled extensively in hoping to meet authentic Rosicrucians. In 1906, he believed he had found what he was looking for: a professor, his adopted daughter, and another gentleman, all who he believed were in fact Rosicrucians. The professors' adopted daughter had claimed to be the niece of Anna Sprengel (the Secret Chief who authorised the founding of the original Golden Dawn), and also claimed that her aunt was a member of the same organization as herself.

The purported Rosicrucian group which Felkin had made contact with was led by Rudolf Steiner, founder of the Anthroposophical Society, and at that time, still head of the German section of the Theosophical Society. King explains that it didn't appear as though this group was Theosophical, nor did it appear to be any later form of Anthroposophy. He speculates that, since Steiner was at that time also the Austrian Chief of Ordo Templi Orientis, his first Rosicrucian grade bore resemblance to the original first Degree of O.T.O.

Known members
James Chapman-Taylor
Robert Felkin – Frater Finem Respice: Imperator
Dion Fortune – Deo, non-fortuna – writer and founder of the Society of the Inner Light
Israel Regardie – Frater Ad Maiorem Adonai Gloriam
W. B. Yeats – Irish poet and winner of the Nobel Prize for Literature

See also
 Magical organization

References

Sources
Gilbert, R. A. Golden Dawn Companion. Aquarian Press, 1986. 
King, Francis (1989). Modern Ritual Magic: The Rise of Western Occultism. Avery Publishing Group. 
Regardie, Israel (1993). What you should know about the Golden Dawn (6th edition). New Falcon Publications. 

Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn
Religious organisations based in New Zealand
New religious movements