[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# March 1973

band, died of a heart attack after playing at a concert in Manchester while on the "Road to Nashville" tour of the United Kingdom. Young's band was traveling on a bus to its next stop when, as a British newspaper noted, he "died in a coach while travelling from Manchester to Chatham for a concert."

March 3, 1973 (Saturday)
All 25 people aboard Balkan Bulgarian Airlines Flight 307 were killed when the Ilyushin Il-18 airplane crashed while attempting a landing at Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport after having departed from Sofia.
King Hassan II announced his policy of "Moroccanization", forcing the transfer of any businesses, farmlands and assets that were more than 50% owned by foreigners to Moroccan individuals, generally political and military allies of the King.
The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) was signed in Washington D.C. at a meeting of representatives of 80 nations, and would enter into effect on July 1, 1975.
Two IRA bombs exploded in London, injuring 250 people, one fatally. Ten people were arrested hours later at Heathrow Airport, on suspicion of being involved in the bombings.
The Indian state of Orissa was brought under President's rule at the request of Governor B. D. Jatti, after the government of Chief Minister Nandini Satpathy had lost its majority in the state legislature. Jatti dissolved the state legislative assembly after opposition leader Biju Patnaik was preparing to form a state government.
The International Track Association (ITA), the first attempt to pay track and field athletes for their work, held its first track meet. Competition took place at an indoor event at Idaho State University in Pocatello, Idaho, in front of a crowd of 10,480. Three indoor world records (in the 100m dash by Warren Edmonson, the 600m run by Lee Edmonson and the high jump by John Radetich) being improved upon, though the marks were not recognized as world records by the International Amateur Athletic Federation. In 10 events for men and four for women, winners received $500 (equivalent to almost $3,500 fifty years later), with $250 for second place, $100 for third and $50 for fourth. An additional $500 was awarded for setting a new world record. The ITA had originally announced its plans on October 25, 1972, after the Summer Olympics in Munich, and signed several of the most famous stars of the time. The ITA was unable to become viable, in part because star amateur athletes were privately being paid higher amounts.  The last ITA meet would take place on August 25, 1976. 
Tottenham Hotspur won the English Football League Cup final at Wembley, beating Norwich City 1–0. The Spurs had finished in sixth place in First Division competition in 1972, while Norwich City had won the Second Division and a promotion.
At the 15th Grammy Awards, Record of the Year was won by Joel Dorn (producer) & Roberta Flack for "The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face" performed by Roberta Flack, and Album of the Year by Phil Spector (producer), George Harrison (producer & artist), Eric Clapton, Bob Dylan, Billy Preston, Leon Russell, Ravi Shankar, Ringo Starr & Klaus Voormann for The Concert for Bangla Desh
The aging British liner HMS Royal Ulsterman was sabotaged and sunk in the Lebanese harbor of Beirut.
Born: Xavier Bettel, Prime Minister of Luxembourg since 2013; in Luxembourg City
Died: 
Louis Prosper Gros, 79, French flying ace
Nikolai Nikitin, 65, Soviet structural designer and construction engineer
Antanina Vainiūnaitė-Kubertavičienė, 76, Lithuanian—Soviet stage actress