[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# List of Shaman King characters

telligent and kindhearted, he has poor judgment in situations involving children and their parents as a result of his own personal experience. Lyserg's name is a reference to lysergic acid diethylamide, while Morphine is also a drug reference, with both referring to Sherlock Holmes' drug addictions.

Shortly after Yoh and his friends are forced to find Patch Village to enter the Shaman Fight, Ryu encounters Lyserg, whom he initially mistakes as a girl because of Lyserg's androgynous appearance.  Hoping to find strong allies, he challenges Yoh's group to test their strength and is defeated and rebuked by Yoh for how Lyserg treats others. Though Yoh disagrees with Lyserg's desire for revenge, he allows Lyserg to join his group in hopes that they will be able to temper Lyserg's hatred and keep him from killing others unnecessarily. However, Lyserg quickly finds the X-Laws' single-minded ideology focusing on justice more appealing than Yoh's philosophies and joins them instead. He quickly becomes devoted to the group's leader Iron Maiden Jeanne and is mentored by Marco, the group's de facto head.

In the manga, Lyserg forms Team X-I with Jeanne and Marco. As the tournament progresses, Lyserg's attachment to his former friends gradually causes him to see that Yoh's way of seeing a situation is not entirely wrong and attempts to deter them from confronting the X-Laws. When he is sent to Hell to train, he is guided by Joco's spirit Pascal Avaf and realizes how he has been too consumed by his own hatred to see things clearly. He is later recognized by Lady Sati as one of the Five Grand Elemental Spirits and returns to being one of Yoh's allies. In the 2001 anime, he is one of the last surviving members of the X-Laws after their failed assault on Hao by attempting to open the Gate of Babylon.  After Meene Montgomery returns Morphine to Lyserg, she forces him to leave the group and rejoin Yoh and his friends.

As a shaman, Lyserg specializes in dowsing, which allows him to use his powers to locate people or objects.  His primary medium is a crystal pendulum, which he uses to form an Over Soul with Morphine, a poppy spirit who serves as Lyserg's spirit ally. In combat, Lyserg utilizes his Over Soul like a rope dart and is known for his considerable agility. As a member of the X-Laws, he is granted an angel spirit, Zeruel, contained within a derringer as a medium. While he abandons Morphine for Zeruel in the 2001 anime, he and Morphine are inseparable in the manga. As one of the Five Grand Elemental Spirits (notably as the smartest), he receives the Spirit of Fire when Hao discards it upon being recognized uncontested as the Shaman King. Several years after the Shaman Fight, Lyserg returned to England and graduated from Oxford University to become a police officer. Because of his shamanic abilities and combat skills learned from his time as a member of Yoh's group and as an X-Law, he garnered a high arrest rate and was eventually promoted to British Secret Intelligence Agency.

Team Hao
 is the team that Hao Asakura assembled to represent him in the Flower of Maize tournament during the events of Shaman King Flowers, with Hana as team leader.

Tao Men

 is the son of Tao Ren and Iron Maiden Jeanne, inheriting Bason and Shamash from them. He comes off having a superiority complex due to his upbrining, but adhere to a no-killing policy his parents implement on him.

Yohane Asakura

 is a member of the Asakura Family's branch who carries one of Hao's earrings on his person, having the ronin  Oboro Daikyoh as his spirit ally. Having been sheltered as a child in the mountains near Kyoto, he sought to kill Hana to take his place as future head of the family. But eventually makes peace with his cousin.

Alumi Niumbirch

, nicknamed  is the daughter of Silva who was born during the Shaman Fight. She was raised by Anna I and the Gandhara group with the former teaching her the ways of an Itako before becoming an apprentice to Anna Asakura, who declared to bethrove her to Hana. Like her father, Alumi uses the Silver Arms as her spirit allies along with other spirits she can summon as an Itako. She serves as Team Hao's manager.

Gakko Ibuki

 is an aloof youth who enjoys fighting, having Namaha as his spirit ally. He joined the Flower of Maize to fulfill his wish to be the strongest man alive.

Asakura Family