[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

of Northern Virginia continued to flee westward. Infantry led by Generals John Brown Gordon and James Longstreet, and cavalry led by Fitzhugh Lee formed a battle line near the Appomattox Court House. This was their last chance to escape to Lynchburg, as Union troops were attempting to surround them.

A Confederate officer approached Capehart's 3rd Brigade on horseback under a flag of truce. Capehart and the officer rode down the column to General Custer, where the officer told the general that Lee and Grant were in correspondence concerning a surrender of Lee's Army. The Confederate officer also requested a truce until the results of the negotiation were known. Custer's response was "Tell General Longstreet that I am not in command of all the forces here, but that I am on his flank and rear with a large cavalry force, and that I will accept nothing but unconditional surrender."

The 2nd West Virginia Cavalry's participation in this "battle" was mostly preparing to attack—but no full-fledged charges were made. Shortly after his meeting with Longstreet's representative, Custer turned command of the division over to General Capehart, commander of the 3rd Brigade (that included the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry). Custer rode off to see General Sheridan.

Thus, on April 9, 1865, Confederate General Lee unconditionally surrendered his starving Army of Northern Virginia to General Grant. The surrender look place at the home of Wilmer and Virginia McLean in the small community of Appomattox Court House, Virginia.

War's end
The 2nd West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry remained in battle line until the evening of April 9, and then went into camp.  On the next day, they marched toward Burkesville Junction, arriving on April 12.  After resting for the night, they marched to Nottoway Court House, and received new clothing.  The cavalry reached Petersburg, Virginia, by April 18, and camped outside the city.  On April 24, the division started a march to North Carolina to join General William Tecumseh Sherman's army confronting the Confederate army of General Joseph E. Johnston.  They reached South Boston, on the Dan River in Virginia, which is close to the North Carolina border.  However, on April 28, they became aware that Johnston had surrendered.  On the next day, the division began its return north.

The northbound division reached Petersburg on May 5, where they rested.  They were visited by General Custer's wife, Elizabeth Bacon Custer.  Knowing that her husband's division would soon be marching in Washington to celebrate the Union victory, Mrs. Custer suggested that the entire division wear a red tie like her husband's while it was on parade.  On May 10, the division began the trip to Washington, and eventually reached Alexandria, Virginia, where they made camp.

Grand Review of the armies
The Grand Review of the Armies began on May 23, 1865, as a Union celebration of the end of the Civil War.  Union troops paraded down Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, DC. The parade was led by Custer's 3rd Division.  The division was led by CompanyF of the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry as part of Capehart's Brigade.  The New York Times described men in Custer's division as "being decorated with a scarf or tie, known as the Custer Tie, red in color ..."  It also said "Capehart's brigade of West Virginia Veterans, as trusty a body as ever drew a sabre, are singled out for their fine appearance ..."

Final muster out
In early June 1865, the 1st, 2nd, and 3rd West Virginia Cavalries were ordered to proceed to Wheeling, West Virginia, to muster out.  On June 17, the men and their horses were loaded onto a Baltimore & Ohio Railroad train where they departed for Wheeling.  The three regiments camped on Wheeling Island between Wheeling and Belmont County, Ohio.  They were officially mustered on out on June 30, 1865.  On July 4, 1865, the men received their discharge papers.

During the war, the 2nd West Virginia Cavalry had 4 officers and 77 enlisted men killed.  An additional 115 men died from disease.  Four men received the Medal of Honor.  William H. Powell received his medal for actions at the Sinking Creek Raid.  Samuel O. McElhinny and Joseph Kimball won theirs for capturing battle flags at Sailor's Creek.  Bernard Shields won his medal for capturing a flag at Appomattox.

See also
West Virginia Units in the Civil War
West Virginia in the Civil War

Notes

Footnotes

Citations

References    

 

Units and formations of the Union Army from West Virginia
1861 establishments in Virginia
Military units and formations established in 1861
Military units and formations disestablished in 1865