[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# John T. Wilder

r was promoted to brevet brigadier general of volunteers on August 7, 1864. Throughout much of 1863 and 1864, Wilder suffered from bouts of dysentery brought on by a case of typhoid fever in 1862. For health reasons, Wilder resigned from the Army in October 1864 and returned home.

Postbellum career

After the war, Wilder settled in Rockwood, Tennessee, and later in Chattanooga. In 1867, Wilder founded an ironworks in the Chattanooga region, then built and operated the first two blast furnaces in the South at Rockwood, Tennessee. In 1870, Wilder established a company in Chattanooga to manufacture railroad rails. From 1884 to 1892, Wilder helped promote and construct the Charleston, Cincinnati & Chicago Railroad while living in Johnson City, Tennessee. While in Johnson City, Wilder developed the booming industrial suburb of Carnegie, named in honor of fellow industrialist Andrew Carnegie, and a host of iron-making and railroad-related manufacturing facilities. Iron ore was brought to Johnson City via the East Tennessee and Western North Carolina Railroad, and Wilder constructed a popular 166-room hotel near Johnson City named the Cloudland Hotel near the summit of Roan Mountain to serve tourists via this scenic narrow gauge railway line.

Wilder entered politics and was elected mayor of Chattanooga in 1871. Wilder resigned a year later to pursue his business interests. Wilder unsuccessfully ran for the United States Congress in 1876. In 1877, Wilder accepted the position of city postmaster, serving until 1882.

Wilder moved to Knoxville, Tennessee, in 1897 after receiving an appointment from President William McKinley as a Federal pension agent, then was commissioner of the Chickamauga and Chattanooga National Military Park.

Wilder died in Jacksonville, Florida, aged 87, while on his annual winter vacation with his second wife, Dora Lee, and was returned for burial in Forest Hills Cemetery in Chattanooga with his first wife, Martha Jane Stewart.

Two of Wilder's homes in Tennessee, the General John T. Wilder House in Knoxville and the John T. Wilder House in Roan Mountain, are listed on the National Register of Historic Places. Another that Wilder built in Greensburg, Indiana, is commemorated by a historical marker.

Notes

References

Further reading

External links
Historical Marker - Greensburg, Indiana - John Thomas Wilder House

John T. Wilder Civil War Correspondence and Papers digital collection
Tennessee Encyclopedia
Wilder Database at RootsWeb

1830 births
1917 deaths
Military personnel from Knoxville, Tennessee
Foundrymen
Union Army colonels
People of Indiana in the American Civil War
Mayors of Chattanooga, Tennessee
People from Greene County, New York
People from Greensburg, Indiana
Roan Mountain, Tennessee
19th-century American politicians
American Civil War prisoners of war
People from Rockwood, Tennessee