[Source: PubMed]

9. BMC Public Health. 2020 Jun 5;20(1):873. doi: 10.1186/s12889-020-09006-8.

Control of antimicrobial resistance in Iran: the role of international factors.

Mehtarpour M(1), Takian A(1)(2)(3), Eshrati B(4), Jaafaripooyan E(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Management and Economics, School of Public Health, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(2)Department of Global Health and Public Policy, School of Public Health, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(3)Health Equity Research Centre (HERC), Tehran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.
(4)Center For Preventive Medicine, Department of Social Medicine, Iran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(5)Department of Health Management and Economics, School of Public Health, 
Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. jaafaripooyan@tums.ac.ir.

BACKGROUND: Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is currently causing various 
challenges for all countries around the world. Accordingly, the WHO is placing a 
great emphasis on the global partnership and allinaces to drive countries 
towards developing policy guidances and a strategic framework for AMR 
contatiment. This study thus seeks to elaborate on the international factors 
underlying AMR management in Iran.
METHODS: Semi-structured interviews were conducted with managers from the 
Ministry of health (n = 14), Iran veterinary organization (n = 4), the national 
professional associations (n = 3) and researchers (n = 3), between November 2018 
and July 2019. Participants were selected using purposeful and snowball 
sampling. Interviews were recorded and transcribed verbatim and were 
subsequently coded and analyzed thematically using MAXQDA software (V.18) and 
reported.
RESULTS: International enabling and predisposing factors were identified in 
relation to the AMR control in the country. Enabling factors included knowledge 
transfer, facilitation in policy agenda setting, formulation and implementaion 
process, and AMR monitoring. Predisposing factors, alternatively, encompassed 
the migration of infectious patients, trafficking of medicine and livestock from 
neighboring countries, and the imposed sanctions.
CONCLUSION: Nowadays, AMR is taken cognizance of as a global challenge, thus to 
be addressed effectively, needs an international consensus more than ever. This 
harmony would not certainly underrate national efforts, but instead, is needed 
to reinforce such efforts through e.g. technical and financial assistance. It is 
suggested for policymakers to use all available political and legal means such 
as health diplomacy to establish humanitarian channels in order to enhance 
global convention and remove possible barriers as the sanctions and reduce their 
adverse consequences for AMR control.

DOI: 10.1186/s12889-020-09006-8
PMCID: PMC7275379
PMID: 32503497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no competing 
interests.