[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Schillings

the Data Protection Act 2018. A Mail on Sunday spokesman said the paper stood by the story and would defend the case "vigorously".

Schillings represented Malaysian fugitive Jho Low who was accused by US prosecutors of a money-laundering scheme connected to the 1Malaysia Development Berhad scandal.

Schillings represented Russian oligarch Alisher Usmanov, a long-time Vladimir Putin ally until he was placed under sanctions by the European Union due to the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Partners 
 Founder Keith Schilling was listed as 10th in The Times 100 Most Powerful Lawyers list 2008, and named in the Evening Standards 2008 Survey of the 1000 most influential people in London. In 2013, Schilling was awarded the 'Super Lawyer' leading lawyer accolade.
 Rod Christie Miller spoke to the parliamentary joint committee in 2011 on the draft defamation bill.
 Rachel Atkins acted for Jimmy Nail and Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou in his libel case against Ryanair's Michael O'Leary.
 Jenny Afia, who was also promoted to partner on 1 January 2012, was named Young Solicitor of the Year at the British Legal Awards 2008.

Former partners 
 Simon Smith, former Schillings managing partner, who has Hollywood actress Keira Knightley, Pam Brighton, Caprice, the Government of Saudi Arabia, Tiger Woods, Rolf Harris and footballer Cristiano Ronaldo among his clients.
 Davina Katz (née Hay) who headed the firm's family division recently left to set up Katz Partners LLP.
 Chris Scott, who was promoted to partner at Schillings in January 2012,[27] was involved with the firm's submission to the Leveson Inquiry. He discussed the effect of the Leveson report's findings on reputation management in The Lawyer.[28] Scott left Schillings to start up reputation management boutique Himsworth Scott.

References

External links 
 The Schillings website
 The Vigilante Bespoke website

Law firms based in London
Law firms established in 1984
1984 establishments in the United Kingdom