[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Hungnam evacuation

t Battalion. In the final steps, Admiral Doyle's warships laid down a wide barrage about  inland as the last platoons of the covering force loaded and as the 10th Engineer Combat Battalion and Navy demolition teams blew up the port before leaving the beaches aboard LVTs and LCMs shortly after 14:30.

By Christmas Eve the ships carrying the last X Corps troops and supplies were well out of Hungnam harbor en route to Pusan and Ulsan, a small port  north of Pusan. They left behind no serviceable equipment or usable supplies. About 200 tons of ammunition, a similar amount of frozen dynamite, 500 thousand-pound aerial bombs and about 200 drums of oil and gasoline had not been taken out, but all of this [had] added to the loudness of the final blowup of the port of Hungnam."

Aftermath
In retrospect, the evacuation of X Corps from Hungnam had proved successful as a logistical exercise. While the move could be considered a withdrawal from a hostile shore, neither PVA nor KPA forces had made any serious attempts to disrupt the operation or even to test the shrinking perimeter that protected the loading. Logistical rather than tactical matters therefore had governed the rate of the evacuation. Indeed, X Corps’ redeployment south had been a matter of how rapidly Admiral Doyle's ships could be loaded.

A remarkable number of refugees, over 86,000, had been lifted out of Hungnam. Including those evacuated from Wonsan and Songjin, the total number of civilians taken out of northeastern Korea reached 98,100. About the same number had been left behind for lack of shipping space. The evacuation included 14,000 refugees who were transported on one ship, the SS Meredith Victory—the largest evacuation from land by a single ship. This was made possible by a declaration of national emergency by President Truman issued on 16 December 1950 with Presidential Proclamation No. 2914, 3 C.F.R. 99 (1953). Among the civilians evacuated and brought to the South were the future parents of former South Korean President Moon Jae-in. Five babies were born on the ships and were nicknamed Kimchi 1–5 by US sailors.

In popular culture 

 Heungnam That I Saw Last (1984)
 A film about the Hungnam evacuation entered pre-production in 2005 but did not push through.
 The 2014 film Ode to My Father depicts the Hungnam Evacuation in its beginning.
 * Timeless "The Miracle of Christmas: Part II" covers the event.

See also 
 Battle of Chosin Reservoir
 Leonard LaRue
 SS Meredith Victory

References

External links
 Hungnam Overview (Blog)
 "Ship of Miracles" documentary film by RJ McHatton
 Novel about Hungnam evacuation 
 The Hungnam Evacuation at Korean War Educator
 Article about Moon Jae-in and "Kimchi 5"

1950 in Korea
Evacuations
Battles of the Korean War
Battles of the Korean War involving China
Battles of the Korean War involving the United States
December 1950 events in Asia
Battles and operations of the Korean War in 1950  
Battles of the Korean War involving South Korea
History of South Hamgyong Province