[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Albert Sidney Johnston

mmission has erected a historical marker near the entrance of what was once Johnston's plantation. An adjacent marker was erected by the San Jacinto Chapter of the Daughters of The Republic of Texas and the Lee, Roberts, and Davis Chapter of the United Daughters of the Confederate States of America.

In 1916, the University of Texas at Austin recognized several confederate veterans (including Johnston) with statues on its South Mall. On August 21, 2017, as part of the wave of confederate monument removals in America, Johnston's statue was taken down. Plans were announced to add it to the Briscoe Center for American History on the east side of the university campus.

Johnston was inducted to the Texas Military Hall of Honor in 1980.

In the fall of 2018, A. S. Johnston Elementary School in Dallas, Texas, was renamed Cedar Crest Elementary. Johnston Middle School in Houston, Texas, was also renamed Meyerland Middle School. Three other elementary schools named for Confederate veterans were renamed simultaneously.

See also

 Albert Sidney Johnston High School, a defunct public high school in Austin, Texas
 Statue of Albert Sidney Johnston (Texas State Cemetery), a 1903 memorial sculpture by Elisabet Ney
 Statue of Albert Sidney Johnston (University of Texas at Austin), a statue by Pompeo Coppini
 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)
 List of Confederate monuments and memorials

Notes

References
 Beauregard, G. T. The Campaign of Shiloh. p. 579. In Battles and Leaders of the Civil War, vol. I, edited by Robert Underwood Johnson and Clarence C. Buel. New York: Century Co., 1884–1888. .
 
 
 
 
 
 Dupuy, Trevor N., Curt Johnson, and David L. Bongard. Harper Encyclopedia of Military Biography. New York: HarperCollins, 1992. .
 
 
 
 Hattaway, Herman, and Archer Jones. How the North Won: A Military History of the Civil War. Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1983. .
 
 
 
 
 Long, E. B. The Civil War Day by Day: An Almanac, 1861–1865. Garden City, NY: Doubleday, 1971. .

Further reading

External links

Eliza Johnston, Wife Of Confederate General Albert Sidney Johnston
Albert Sidney Johnston at Handbook of Texas Online
 

1803 births
1862 deaths
 
Confederate States of America military personnel killed in the American Civil War
Deaths from bleeding
Burials at Texas State Cemetery
Confederate States Army full generals
People from Washington, Kentucky
Military personnel from Texas
People of California in the American Civil War
People of Texas in the American Civil War
American people of the Black Hawk War
Transylvania University alumni
United States Army generals
United States Military Academy alumni
People of the Texas Revolution
People of the Utah War
Proslavery activists killed in the American Civil War
Slave owners killed in the American Civil War
United States politicians killed during the Civil War
Preston family of Virginia