[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# List of retronyms

directions – when Newark opened Terminals A and B in the early 1970s, the existing passenger terminal was renamed the "North Terminal".
 Proper names – Detroit Metro Airport only had one passenger terminal until 1966, at which point the existing facility was identified as the "L.C. Smith Terminal".

 Disputed retronyms 
Note: These terms imply age-old concepts, but the terms are usually applied to newer concepts with similar qualities.  Since some of these terms fall under different contexts, that's where the confusion comes in.2.5D : 2.5D generally refers to computer data which uses 2D plane data to render in 3D, and sometimes 2D sprites in that environment too; in which Doom and Duke Nukem 3D famously had this.  However 3D structures in general have existed before computers, but the term 2.5D was coined after computer games (and CAD) fully went 3D.Bose Acoustic Wave System : The Bose Acoustic Wave System was the first Bose product to use the term "Wave System" in its name.  Newcomers to the Bose audio product lineup would think that this was just their top-of-the-line product, but this product was introduced prior to the introduction of Bose's simple Wave Radio (or Wave System) products, in which the simpler Wave Systems were cost-reduced versions of the "Wave" System lineup, but the name "Acoustic Wave System" was used before Wave by itself was used, in which is somewhat arguable to historians.Disney's Aladdin : In the early days of the Disney's Aladdin media franchise, when the 1992 Disney film Aladdin first came out, the media franchise was simply just known as Aladdin.  But other movies and media bearing the name Aladdin existed before this media franchise, so later on the name Disney's Aladdin would come along to clear things up.Expressway : The term expressway often refers to continuous highways with no private driveways but sometimes they have at-grade intersections.  But in some jurisdictions it is synonymous with freeways, which have 100% grade separations.  The term expressway wasn't coined until freeways were built, but the expressway concept itself has existed before freeways, in which because the term is sometimes synonymous with freeway, this is why the term at-grade expressway is sometimes used in reference to expressways with at-grade intersections.Mechless car stereo : Most car stereo had no "moving parts" prior to the introduction of interchangeable media such as vinyl records (Highway Hifi by Chrysler), 8-track cartridges, compact cassettes and CDs, but recent omission of CD players (cassette player omission prior) has left the systems mechless when solid-state means to play audio with MP3 and other file format support such as secure digital, compact flash and USB came along, of which many of these systems have an analog AUX input.  The term mechless usually refers to more recent systems, thus it disputes its status as a "retronym".  Occasionally, many car stereos are AM/FM only without AUX inputs, in which it is possible to use FM transmitters with them.  Another thing that disputes this retronym, is that earlier AM/FM tuners had moving parts of their own just for the adjustment of frequencies (i.e. a string-driven variable capacitor and a static frequency display with a moving needle) prior to the introduction of digital readout with endless loop tuning (and later endless loop seek tuning) in the early 1980s.Nintendo 2DS : Before Nintendo 3DS came out, all Nintendo DSes were 2D to the meatspace level.  However the product officially known as the Nintendo 2DS is simply a console that is capable of running 3DS games but without the parallax effect.  2DS doesn't refer to pre-3DS models, which is why this is a "disputed retronym".
 Solo motorcycle : So called instead of motorcycle when some were being built with a sidecar.  However, this retronym has gone into dispute because the so-called solo motorcycle can accommodate two passengers by itself.
 Push lawn mower : With the introduction of lawn mowers powered by gasoline (petrol or petroleum spirit outside the U.S.) and electricity, the manually propelled lawn mower became known as the push mower.  After self-propelled "riding" mowers became common, the term push mower was also applied to non-riding mowers.
 Sonic 3 & Knuckles :The video game Sonic the Hedgehog 3 was supposed to have featured more stages, most which ended up being included in the later released Sonic & Knuckles.  However, time and cost constraints forced the game cartridge to be "two interlocking pieces" since Sega, back in late 1993 had to make a big compromise in order to ensure a fair cost for a stand-alone cartridge for the Mega Drive/Genesis.  Having a cartridge with enough capacity for both games on its own as "one giant game" could have meant pushing the cost up too high for an integrated product, so the game resulted in having Sonic & Knuckles exist as its own cartridge which had a "lock on" cartridge port in order to include Sonic 3 levels.  Sonic 3 itself wasn'