[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Partition of the Ottoman Empire

iberation of a portion of the Armenian vilayets, and where, under the command of their leaders, Antranik and Nazerbekoff, they, alone among the peoples of the Caucasus, offered resistance to the Turkish armies, from the beginning of the Bolshevist withdrawal right up to the signing of an armistice."

President Wilson accepted the Armenian arguments for drawing the frontier and wrote: "The world expects of them (the Armenians), that they give every encouragement and help within their power to those Turkish refugees who may desire to return to their former homes in the districts of Trebizond, Erzerum, Van and Bitlis remembering that these peoples, too, have suffered greatly." The conference agreed with his suggestion that the Democratic Republic of Armenia should expand into present-day eastern Turkey.

Georgia 

After the fall of the Russian Empire, Georgia became an independent republic and sought to maintain control of Batumi as well as Ardahan, Artvin, and Oltu, the areas with Muslim Georgian elements, which had been acquired by Russia from the Ottomans in 1878. The Ottoman forces occupied the disputed territories by June 1918, forcing Georgia to sign the Treaty of Batum. After the demise of the Ottoman power, Georgia regained Ardahan and Artvin from local Muslim militias in 1919 and Batum from the British administration of that maritime city in 1920. It claimed but never attempted to control Oltu, which was also contested by Armenia. Soviet Russia and Turkey launched a near-simultaneous attack on Georgia in February–March 1921, leading to new territorial rearrangements finalized in the Treaty of Kars, by which Batumi remained within the borders of now-Soviet Georgia, while Ardahan and Artvin were recognized as parts of Turkey.

Republic of Turkey 

Between 1918 and 1923, Turkish resistance movements led by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk forced the Greeks, Armenians, and Italy out of Anatolia. The Turkish revolutionaries also suppressed Kurdish attempts to become independent in the 1920s. After the Turkish resistance gained control over Anatolia, there was no hope of meeting the conditions of the Treaty of Sèvres.

Before joining the Soviet Union, the Democratic Republic of Armenia signed the Treaty of Alexandropol, on 3 December 1920, agreeing to the current border between the two countries, though the Armenian government had already collapsed due to a concurrent Soviet invasion on 2 December. Afterwards Armenia became an integral part of the Soviet Union. This border was ratified again with the Treaty of Moscow (1921), in which the Bolsheviks ceded the already Turkish-occupied provinces of Kars, Iğdır, Ardahan, and Artvin to Turkey in exchange for the Adjara region with its capital city of Batumi.

Turkey and the newly formed Soviet Union, along with the Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic and Georgian Soviet Socialist Republic, ratified the Treaty of Kars on 11 September 1922, establishing the north-eastern border of Turkey and bringing peace to the region, despite none of them being internationally recognized at the time. Finally, the Treaty of Lausanne, signed in 1923, formally ended all hostilities and led to the creation of the modern Turkish Republic.

See also 

 Abolition of the Ottoman sultanate
 Dissolution of the Ottoman Empire

Notes

Bibliography 
 Fromkin, David. A Peace to End All Peace: Creating the Modern Middle East. New York: Henry Holt and Company, 1989. 
 Quilliam, Neil. Syria and the New World Order. Reading, UK: Ithaca Press (Garnet), 1999.

External links 
Criss, Nur Bilge: Occupation during and after the War (Ottoman Empire), in: 1914-1918-online. International Encyclopedia of the First World War.
 Smith, Leonard V.: Post-war Treaties (Ottoman Empire/ Middle East), in: 1914-1918-online. International Encyclopedia of the First World War.

History of Greece (1909–1924)
Modern history of Turkey
20th century in Iraq
Ottoman Syria
Ottoman Greece
Partition (politics)
20th century in Armenia
Aftermath of World War I in Turkey
Turkey–United Kingdom relations
Ottoman Empire–United Kingdom relations
20th century in Syria
Ottoman period in Armenia
Iraq–Turkey relations
Dissolution of the Ottoman Empire
1920s in Islam