[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Wood Green ricin plot

her to justify the invasion of Iraq or the introduction of new legislation to restrict civil liberties?

A key unexplained issue is why the Porton Down laboratory, which analysed the material and equipment seized from a flat in Wood Green, said that a residue of ricin had been found when it had not.

On 11 April 2005, George Smith, of GlobalSecurity.org summed up:
It is no longer a surprise when one finds that many claims from the alleged best of American government intelligence in the war on terror are bogus. It is still dismaying, though, to see intelligence derived from materials submitted in the alleged trial of the "UK poison cell" that is so patently rotten. Who was informing Colin Powell on the nonsense before his date with the UN Security Council?

There was no UK poison cell linked to al Qaida or Muhamad al Zarqawi. There was no ricin with which to poison London, only notes and 22 castor seeds . There was no one who even knew how to purify ricin.

On 17 August 2006, former British ambassador to Uzbekistan Craig Murray summed up:
I spoke at the annual Stop the War conference a couple of months ago [and] referred to the famous ricin plot... It was alleged that a flat in North London inhabited by Muslims was a "Ricin" factory, manufacturing the deadly toxin which could kill "hundreds of thousands of people". Police tipped off the authorities that traces of ricin had been discovered. In the end, all those accused were found not guilty by the court. The "traces of ricin" were revealed to be the atmospheric norm.

The "intelligence" on that plot had been extracted under torture in Algeria. Another police tip-off to the media was that the intelligence said that the ricin had been stored in plastic jars, and they had indeed found plastic jars containing a suspicious substance. It turned out the containers in question were two Brylcreem tubs. What was in them? In the first, paper clips. In the second, Brylcreem.

The Wood Green conspiracy allegations were also depicted critically in the 2007 documentary Taking Liberties.

In 2023, Julian Hayes, a barrister who represented one of the acquitted defendants, said the plot investigation stemmed from Algerian intelligence given to Britain about an alleged UK mass poisoning plot, from information obtained from Mohamed Meguerber which Hayes believes was obtained through torture.

See also
 2003 ricin letters
 List of terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom
 Casey Cutler

References

Further reading

External links
Dispatches: Spinning Terror The 'ricin plot'
List of suspects involved from the BBC
Ricin case timeline from the BBC
Critical view from The Register
GlobalSecurity.org report assesses the entire case and all the allegations

 

2003 in London
Bioterrorism
Ricin
Failed terrorist attempts in the United Kingdom
Causes and prelude of the Iraq War
History of the London Underground
Islamic terrorism in London
Terrorist incidents in London in the 2000s
Terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom in 2003