[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chasseur (1812 clipper)

atched the frigate  to chase Chasseur. Later the Admiralty called vessels home from the American war to guard merchant ships, which had to sail in convoys.

Chasseur returned from her famous 3-month European cruise to New York on 24 or 29 October 1814. George R. Roberts was a gunner of the schooner.

Second West Indies Cruise and Capture of HMS St Lawrence 
In the winter of 1814 and 1815 Chasseur  returned to the West Indies. On February 26, 1815, just off Havana, Chasseur met an unidentified ship, which was the English, but American-built, schooner . Chasseur fired a gun and showed her colors while still about three miles away; when the other ship did not show her colours Chasseur started the chase. She carried 14 guns and 102 men, while St Lawrence carried 13 guns and 75 men, including officers, soldiers, and civilians bound to the British squadron off New Orleans. At about 1:26pm, when the schooners were close to each other, St Lawrence revealed her armament and uniformed sailors and opened fire, catching Chasseur off guard. Chasseur was able to  close St Lawrence and a number of Americans, led by the prize master N. W. Christie, jumped aboard St Lawrence. The intense action that followed lasted only about 15 minutes during which St Lawrence suffered six men killed and 17 wounded, several of them mortally. (According to American accounts, the English had 15 killed and 25 wounded.) Chasseur had five killed and eight wounded; Boyle was among the wounded. Both vessels were badly damaged. Captain Boyle made a cartel of St Lawrence and sent her and her crew into Havana as his prize.

Impact 
During the cruise to the British Isles and the winter of 1814/1815 Chasseur captured eighteen valuable merchant ships, carrying wine, brandy, dry goods, cotton, cocoa, etc. Nine of those ships were sent to the United States. One source estimated a total damage to the Royal Navy from Chasseurs 1813-1815 activities at one and a half million dollars. The captured goods from  alone were valued at $50,000. However, it is important to notice that the Royal Navy recaptured many of the Chasseur's prizes, making it harder to estimate the actual loss to British commerce.

Prizes 
List of some of the prizes that Chasseur captured during the War of 1812:

 Adventure, ship, divested off cargo, sent to Charleston, South Carolina, but recaptured there 
 Alert, brig, divested and burned 
 American, schooner, divested and burned 
 Ann Maria, schooner, divested and burned 
 Britannia, brig, sent to Beaufort 
 Carlebury, ship, valued at $50,000, ordered in 
 Christianna of Scotland, sloop 
 Commerce, brig, sent to Charleston, South Carolina  
 Eclipse, brig, bound to Liverpool from Buenos Aires, captured and sent it to New York.  
 Favorite, sloop, divested and burned 
 Joanna of Malta, divested and burned 
 Harmony, brig, converted into a cartel  
 Martha, sloop, converted into a cartel 
 , brig, converted into a cartel
 Melpomene, brig, six guns, sent to Newport
 Miranda, schooner, divested and burned 
 Prudence, brig, converted into a cartel  
 HMS St. Lawrence, schooner, see above

On 7 August 1814, Chasseur captured the brig .  recaptured Antelope on 26 September.

Career after the War of 1812 
On Chasseurs return to Baltimore on 15 April 1815, Niles' Register called the ship the "Pride of Baltimore". She resumed her merchant career in the China trade. In 1816, she was sold to foreign investors and thereafter disappears from records.

"Pride of Baltimore"

Two replica ships were modeled after Chasseur and both were named Pride of Baltimore.

Paintings 
Not many paintings of the Chasseur exist. One of them is "Chasseur capturing HMS St Lawrence" by Adam Weingartner of unknown date. The other is a painting of her by Danish-American artist Torsten Kruse that appeared in a book about Fell's Point.

Citations

References

Further reading
 

1812 ships
Baltimore Clipper
Individual sailing vessels
Privateer ships of the United States
Schooners of the United States
Ships built in Baltimore