[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Dan Cronin

r the year following the election, Cronin lamented increased partisan fighting within the board. Democratic and Republican members fought over appointments and committee assignments, whether to have invocations at the beginning of board meetings, consolidation proposals, and accusations of bullying.

In June 2019, Cronin submitted a proposal to divide the responsibilities of the outgoing county administrator among three executives, which was approved by a 14–3 vote despite accusations that Cronin's plans had not been transparent. In September, Cronin presented his proposed budget for the following fiscal year, but was later criticized by Democrats for not holding workshop meetings or sharing public feedback with the board. He also resisted a request from Kaczmarek and several local chapters of the League of Women Voters to increase the budget for the clerk's office to $9 million. Kaczmarek had requested additional funding to address anticipated record turnout in the 2020 elections, but Cronin still considered it a "dramatic increase". The board approved the budget in November with an 11–6 vote. In October 2019, the board approved a 3% tax on cannabis sales in DuPage. However, the county did not receive tax revenue for 18 months of sales, estimated to be $4 million, after discovering in fall 2021 that the Illinois Department of Revenue had not received the required paperwork from the county clerk's office, run by Kaczmarek. Cronin and Kaczmarek blamed each other for apparent errors in their respective processes.

In July 2020, Democrats on the board criticized Cronin for appointing Republican Sam Tornatore as the chair of the board's health and human services committee, passing over Democrat and committee vice-chair Julie Renehan. During the 2020 elections, Democrats won additional races for the county board, enough to give them a majority for the first time since the 1930s. Democrats in DuPage also prevailed in every federal election and several races at the state and county level.

In early 2021, amidst the COVID-19 pandemic, Cronin criticized the state Department of Public Health for providing inadequate vaccine doses to DuPage. For fiscal year 2022, Cronin drafted a budget that took advantage of rising sales tax revenues while keeping the property tax rate unchanged. With sales tax revenues exceeding expectations by $24 million, the budget included funding to replace aging vehicles, support infrastructure projects, and pay down debt issued for draining projects. In August 2022, Cronin drew controversy for appointing LaPlante, who by then had been elected as a county board member, to the county's board of health, declining to reappoint an incumbent Democrat, Paula Deacon Garcia. Garcia's allies on the county board contended that Cronin's successor should make the appointment, but ultimately the board approved LaPlante's appointment. Several Democrats also unsuccessfully opposed Cronin's appointment of Noreen Ligino-Kubinski, former alderman of West Chicago, to the board of the DuPage Airport Authority. In September, Cronin appointed Amy Phillips, a sustainability consultant from Naperville, to fill a vacancy on the county board left by the resignation of Democratic member Amy Chavez. By the end of fiscal year 2022, there was a $40 million surplus. The surplus was driven by sales tax revenues exceeding the county's initial expectations, especially taxes on internet sales, a relatively new source of revenue. Cronin then submitted a budget for fiscal year 2023, his final budget as board chairman. He again kept the property tax rate unchanged, despite local governments being allowed a maximum 5% increase due to high inflation. The surplus from 2022 was allocated towards new projects and employee pay raises.

Succession 
In September 2021, Cronin announced that he would not run for re-election at the end of his term in 2022. At the time, his campaign fund held over $400,000. Though he stated that he was not leaving because of the Democratic majority on the board, he continued to express frustration with the partisan disputes. Supporters have encouraged him to run for statewide or federal office in the future. Cronin was mentioned as a potential challenger to incumbent J. B. Pritzker in the 2022 race for governor, but he dismissed such speculation. He supported Irvin, a candidate in the Republican primary, as a member of Irvin's law enforcement advisory council.