[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# List of birds of the Bahamas

owl, Athene cunicularia
Short-eared owl, Asio flammeus (A)
Northern saw-whet owl, Aegolius acadicus (A)

Kingfishers
Order: CoraciiformesFamily: Alcedinidae

Kingfishers are medium-sized birds with large heads, long, pointed bills, short legs, and stubby tails.

Belted kingfisher, Megaceryle alcyon

Woodpeckers
Order: PiciformesFamily: Picidae

Woodpeckers are small to medium-sized birds with chisel-like beaks, short legs, stiff tails, and long tongues used for capturing insects. Some species have feet with two toes pointing forward and two backward, while several species have only three toes. Many woodpeckers have the habit of tapping noisily on tree trunks with their beaks.

West Indian woodpecker, Melanerpes superciliaris
Yellow-bellied sapsucker, Sphyrapicus varius
Hairy woodpecker, Dryobates villosus
Northern flicker, Colaptes auratus (A)
Fernandina's flicker, Colaptes fernandinae (A)

Falcons and caracaras
Order: FalconiformesFamily: Falconidae

Falconidae is a family of diurnal birds of prey. They differ from hawks, eagles, and kites in that they kill with their beaks instead of their talons.

American kestrel, Falco sparverius
Merlin, Falco columbarius
Peregrine falcon, Falco peregrinus

Cockatoos
Order: PsittaciformesFamily: Cacatuidae

The cockatoos share many features with other parrots including the characteristic curved beak shape and a zygodactyl foot, with two forward toes and two backwards toes. They differ, however in a number of characteristics, including the often spectacular movable headcrest.

Sulphur-crested cockatoo, Cacatua galerita (I)

New World and African parrots
Order: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittacidae

Parrots are small to large birds with a characteristic curved beak. Their upper mandibles have slight mobility in the joint with the skull and they have a generally erect stance. All parrots are zygodactyl, having the four toes on each foot placed two at the front and two to the back.

Monk parakeet, Myiopsitta monachus (I) (Er)
Blue-and-yellow macaw, Ara ararauna (I)
White-winged parakeet, Brotogeris versicolurus (A)
Yellow-chevroned parakeet, Brotogeris chiriri (A)
Cuban parrot, Amazona leucocephala

Old World parrots
Order: PsittaciformesFamily: Psittaculidae

Characteristic features of parrots include a strong curved bill, an upright stance, strong legs, and clawed zygodactyl feet. Many parrots are vividly coloured, and some are multi-coloured. Old World parrots are found from Africa east across south and southeast Asia and Oceania to Australia and New Zealand.

Rosy-faced lovebird, Agapornis roseicollis (I) (A)

Tyrant flycatchers
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Tyrannidae

Tyrant flycatchers are passerine birds which occur throughout North and South America. They superficially resemble the Old World flycatchers, but are more robust and have stronger bills. They do not have the sophisticated vocal capabilities of the songbirds. Most, but not all, have plain colouring. As the name implies, most are insectivorous.

Ash-throated flycatcher, Myiarchus cinerascens (A)
Great crested flycatcher, Myiarchus crinitus (A)
Brown-crested flycatcher, Myiarchus tyrannulus (A)
La Sagra's flycatcher, Myiarchus sagrae
Stolid flycatcher, Myiarchus stolidus
Western kingbird, Tyrannus verticalis (A)
Eastern kingbird, Tyrannus tyrannus (A)
Gray kingbird, Tyrannus dominicensis
Loggerhead kingbird, Tyrannus caudifasciatus
Giant kingbird, Tyrannus cubensis (Er)
Scissor-tailed flycatcher, Tyrannus forficatus (A)
Fork-tailed flycatcher, Tyrannus savana (A)
Olive-sided flycatcher, Contopus cooperi (A)
Eastern wood-pewee, Contopus virens (A)
Cuban pewee, Contopus caribaeus
Hispaniolan pewee, Contopus hispaniolensis (A)
Acadian flycatcher, Empidonax virescens (A)
Alder flycatcher, Empidonax alnorum (A)
Willow flycatcher, Empidonax traillii (A)
Least flycatcher, Empidonax minimus (A)
Eastern phoebe, Sayornis phoebe (A)

Vireos, shrike-babblers, and erpornis
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Vireonidae

The vireos are a group of small to medium-sized passerine birds. They are typically greenish in colour and resemble New World warblers apart from their heavier bills.

White-eyed vireo, Vireo griseus (A)
Thick-billed vireo, Vireo crassirostris
Bell's vireo, Vireo bellii (A)
Yellow-throated vireo, Vireo flavifrons (A)
Blue-headed vireo, Vireo solitarius (A)
Philadelphia vireo, Vireo philadelphicus (A)
Warbling vireo, Vireo gilvus (A)
Red-eyed vireo, Vireo olivaceus
Black-whiskered vireo, Vireo altiloquus

Shrikes
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Laniidae

Shrikes are passerine birds known for their habit of catching other birds and small animals and impaling the uneaten portions of their bodies on thorns. A shrike's beak is hooked, like that of a typical bird of prey.

Loggerhead shrike, Lanius ludovicianus

Crows, jays, and magpies
Order: PasseriformesFamily: Corvidae