[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Traitor and the Jew

The Traitor and the Jew (full title: The Traitor and the Jew: Anti-Semitism and the Delirium of Extremist Right-Wing Nationalism in French Canada from 1929–1939), a history by Esther Delisle, was published in French in 1992. She documented the history of antisemitism and support of fascism among Quebec nationalists and intellectuals during the 1930s and '40s.

The book was first published in French by L'Étincelle as Le traître et le Juif: Lionel Groulx, le Devoir et le délire du nationalisme d'extrême droite dans la province de Québec, 1929–1939. In 1993, it was published in English by Robert Davies Publishing of Montreal. Delisle is a political scientist based in Quebec.

Delisle alleged that Lionel Groulx, a Canadian intellectual and a father of Quebec nationalism, had published anti-Semitic articles under pseudonyms. Her criticism of Groulx generated considerable debate. In addition to contesting her conclusions about Groulx, some critics said that her methodology was inaccurate and that her conclusions could not be supported. Other historians supported her work as part of a revision of thought on Quebec nationalism and Canadian thought before World War II. She was quoted favourably by the author Mordecai Richler in his collection of essays, Oh Canada! Oh Quebec! (1992), which generated its own controversy.

Je me souviens is a documentary based on her book made by Eric R. Scott. It was shown on Canal D in 2002 and premiered in the United States in 2003 at the New York Jewish Film Festival.

Summary
Delisle assessed the content of articles published in the nationalist review L'Action nationale and the Montreal newspaper Le Devoir to evaluate the attitudes among French Canadians and to show the connection between nationalistic and fascist thought. She also linked Canadian attitudes to those of the Roman Catholic Church in Quebec and to Catholics in Europe and the United States.

Specifically, she alleged Lionel Groulx (1878–1967), a Roman Catholic priest and leading Quebec intellectual, had been anti-Semitic and noted hundreds of anti-Semitic quotations that were by or attributed to him. She alleged that Groulx had published anti-Semitic articles under pseudonyms and had been an active fascist sympathizer. This assertion generated great controversy, alongside her reporting numerous anti-Semitic opinion pieces and articles that had been published in the respected intellectual Quebec newspaper Le Devoir in the 1930s.

Delisle did not argue that residents of Quebec were uniformly anti-Semitic. She felt that it was more characteristic of Quebec intellectuals of the time rather than that of the common people and that it was part of their condemnation of liberalism, modernity and urbanism, not to mention movies, jazz music and other aspects of American culture, all of which they saw as dangers to their conception of the ideal Quebec society. She notes that the mass-circulation newspaper La Presse, as one example, did not publish as much anti-Semitic content as the intellectually-influential but less read Le Devoir.

She argued against what she calls the myth, as recounted by historians such as Groulx, that the Québécois are a racially and ethnically homogeneous group of pure descent (pure laine in French, meaning "pure wool") from French-speaking Catholic immigrants to New France. She said that the Quebec intellectuals in the 1930s and 1940s were less isolated from and more deeply influenced by intellectual currents in Europe, particularly the nationalism of the extreme right than is described in most Quebec histories of the period.

Reception
Delisle's book was based on her doctoral dissertation. Her conclusions generated such strong disagreement among her thesis committee at the Université Laval that they did not approve it for two years.

Delisle's analysis of Groulx and Le Devoir was covered sympathetically in a 1991 article about the young scholar in L'Actualité, the Quebec news magazine.

On March 1, 1997, L'Actualité revisited the controversy about Delisle's doctoral thesis and book in a cover story, Le mythe du Québec fasciste ("The Myth of a Fascist Quebec"). In the same issue, it featured a profile of Groulx. Both articles acknowledged Groulx's anti-Semitism and the generally-favourable attitude of the Roman Catholic Church to fascism in the 1930s. Pierre Lemieux, an economist and author, responded to the magazine by writing: "The magazine's attack is much weakened by Claude Ryan, editor of Le Devoir in the 1970s, declaring that he has changed his mind and come close to Delisle's interpretation after reading her book."