[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute

The Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute or Swiss TPH (formerly known as the Swiss Tropical Institute) is an international global health institute working in various disciplines with a particular focus on low- and middle-income countries. It was founded in 1943 through the initiative of Rudolf Geigy. Swiss TPH endeavors to the improve the health of people in Switzerland and worldwide through research, education and services.

In 2009, the Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine of the University of Basel was integrated into the Swiss Tropical Institute, and in January 2010 the Swiss Tropical Institute changed its name to the Swiss Tropical and Public Health Institute (Swiss TPH). In April 2022, Swiss TPH moved its headquartes from Basel to Allschwil (Canton of Basel-Landschaft).

Swiss TPH is an associated institute of the University of Basel, and as a public organization it is partially supported by the State Secretariat for Education, Research and Innovation, the Canton of Basel-Stadt and the Canton of Basel-Landschaft. The greater part of its funding comes from competitively acquired research and project funds.

Research
Swiss TPH's researchers focus on various topics including parasitology, infection biology, epidemiology, public health, health systems and economics. Swiss TPH works along a value-chain from innovation and validation to application and scientists work both in the lab and the field.

Education and training
As an associated institute of the University of Basel, Swiss TPH conducts programs and courses in international health, epidemiology, public health, infection biology, clinical practice, and management. Swiss TPH offers undergraduate and master's as well as doctoral and PhD programs. Swiss TPH also conducts numerous postgraduate courses including a Master in International Health and an MBA in International Health Management.

Services
Swiss TPH offers consultancy and project implementation services, medical consultations (travel and tropical medicine), clinical trials services as well as diagnostic services. The Swiss Centre for International Health, a department of Swiss TPH, provides policy, strategic and operational advice as well as project design and management in the area of public and global health. Through its Department of Medicine, Swiss TPH conducts clinical trials for new drugs, diagnostics and vaccines. The Swiss TPH Diagnostic Centre is specialised in diagnosing infectious tropical diseases. 

Swiss TPH's Centre for Tropical and Travel Medicine in Basel advises travellers in Switzerland and diagnoses and treats patients after travelling.

See also 
 University of Basel
 Science and technology in Switzerland

References

External links
 Swiss TPH

Medical research institutes in Switzerland
International development organizations
Public health organizations
Tropical medicine organizations
University of Basel
2009 establishments in Switzerland