[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Richard Misrach

cluded handcrafted elegy books in which visitors shared their recollections, a video story booth for recording memories, and an open-microphone meetings. The collected responses from local residents, as well as the prints — sets of which Misrach donated to the museums — were kept in the collections.

To date, the majority of Misrach's large-format documentary images of New Orleans and the Gulf Coast taken immediately after Hurricane Katrina have not been shown, with the exception of Destroy this Memory, a book published five years after the disaster, consisting entirely of pocket-camera pictures of messages left on houses, cars, and trees by survivors of the hurricane. A Los Angeles Times review called the book "a raw testament, shot between October and December 2005, just after the waters began to recede but the emotions had certainly not. Without captions or a contextual introduction to detract from the potency of the photographs themselves, the book is a powerful document allowing survivors to speak eloquently for themselves — even in absentia." Proceeds from Destroy this Memory were donated to the Make It Right Foundation to help rebuild the city's Lower Ninth Ward. Complete sets of the photographs were also donated to five museums—the Museum of Modern Art, the National Gallery of Art, the New Orleans Museum of Art, the Houston Museum of Fine Arts and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.

Golden Gate Bridge and Petrochemical America
When Misrach moved to a house in the Berkeley hills in 1997, he was inspired by the spectacle of weather and light surrounding the Golden Gate Bridge, which sat only seven miles from his front porch. For four years he photographed the bridge from the same location and with the same vantage point under different climate conditions.

Concurrently, Misrach was working in Louisiana, following a commission he received from the High Museum of Art in Atlanta. In 1998, he began documenting "Cancer Alley," a stretch along the Mississippi River between Baton Rouge and New Orleans that is home to over 135 manufacturing plants and refineries. The resulting images were exhibited as part of the "Picturing the South" series at the High Museum. He resumed photographing the area in 2010 and completed the series in 2012 with another exhibition at the High Museum, "Revisiting the South," and the publication of Petrochemical America, a book pairing Misrach's images with an "ecological atlas" by architect and Columbia University professor Kate Orff. Orff's writing and infographic-style work in the book articulate the complex industrial, economic, ecological, and historical problems that inevitably gave rise to the places featured in Misrach's photographs. A wall-sized image of contaminated wasteland depicting "Cancer Alley" was featured in "Picturing the South: 25 Years", on view at the High Museum of Art in 2021.

On the Beach and On the Beach 2.0
In January 2002, following an exploratory trip in November 2001, Misrach started his On the Beach project, consisting of serial photographs taken from the same building overlooking a beach in Hawaii. The project's title refers to the Cold War-era Nevil Shute book and subsequent 1959 sci-fi movie, On the Beach, in which survivors in Australia await an oncoming nuclear fallout. According to Smithsonian magazine, the series was "deeply influenced by the events of September 11, 2001;" the aerial perspectives of figures suspended in the ocean or on the beach reminded Misrach of news photographs of people falling from the twin towers.

The resulting photographs were very large: Smithsonian reports that "the largest measure six by ten feet and are so detailed you can read the headlines on a beachgoer's newspaper." The beach images "seem much more beautiful, almost in a way more soft than some of his other work," writes Sarah Greenough, photography curator at the National Gallery of Art: "After you look at them for a while, though, they are hardly soft at all. There really is something very ominous going on." Misrach also captured people in action – a man tossing a woman through the air or someone doing a headstand in the water – which was especially noteworthy given the time-consuming and cumbersome view camera used. The photographer has said that the work is of a piece with his usual focus on humanity and the environment, but "it is much more about our relationship to the bigger, sublime picture of things."

Misrach completed the series in 2005 and went on to publish a large-format book called On the Beach in 2007, voted by Photo District News readers as one of the most influential books of the decade.