[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Software Technology Parks of India

Rs 1 lakh per seat under two plans—India BPO Promotion Scheme and North East BPO Promotion Scheme. The Scheme is distributed among each State in proportion of State's population with an outlay of Rs. 493 Crore. 39,390 employment reported as of April 2021 under the India BPO Promotion Scheme (IBPS).

Visakhapatnam has created 10,000 jobs under the India BPO Promotion Scheme (IBPS), Andhra Pradesh state got 13,792 seat, out of 48,300 seats in India. Pulsus secured 4,095 IBPS seats out of 48,300, topping 154 companies in 93 cities, invested Rs. 440 crore, leading to 5,000 jobs in Visakhapatnam, with 4,000 being women, and secured Rs. 41 crore in viability gap funding. Gedela Srinubabu, CEO, expressed pride in their contribution to IBPS's success, marking 25,000 jobs created in 15 years, including 5,000 through IBPS. Minister Rajeev Chandrasekhar lauded Pulsus achievement and aims to expand the programme into Tier 2 and Tier 3 cities and rural areas, shaping India's digital future. Arvind Kumar, Director General of STPI, applauded their role in women's employment.

Organisation and administration 

With nine jurisdictional directorates and 60 centres headed by Director general, STPI has its presence in pan-India to support IT/ITeS Industry.

STPI maintains internal engineering resources to provide consulting, training and implementation services. Services cover network design, system integration, installation, operations and maintenance of application networks and facilities in varied areas. The process development of STPI is in accordance to the Quality Management System, and adheres to ISO 9001 certification. The STP Scheme provides various benefits to the registered units, including 100% foreign equity, tax incentives, duty-free import, duty-free indigenous procurement, CST reimbursement, DTA entitlement, and deemed exporting.

STPI Role 
STP units exported software and information technology worth Rs. 215264 crore in FY 2010–11. The state with the largest export contribution was Karnataka followed by Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Haryana and Telangana. STPI has a presence in many major cities of India including the cities of Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Trivandrum, Kanpur, Patna, Bhubaneswar, Kolkata, Mumbai, Nagpur, Warangal, Gandhinagar, Kakinada, Lucknow, Pune, Surat, Tirupati, Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam.

Besides regulating the STP scheme, STPI centers provide a variety of services including high-speed data communication, incubation facilities, consultancy, network monitoring, data centers and data hosting. STPI provides physical hosting for the National Internet Exchange of India.

The tax benefits under the Income Tax Act Section 10A applicable to STP units has expired since March 2011. While the Government has chosen not to extend the Sec 10A benefits against the demand by the IT units, most of the STP registered SME units will be affected, and now will have to pay income tax on profits earned from exports.

A new incentive scheme for IT and ITES companies is under discussion. It will help dispersal of IT industry in smaller cities and also support STPI-registered units which have not come under SEZs as well as other units which are not covered under any incentive scheme. This incentive scheme is seen as an alternate scheme to compensate the STPI units, but the same would be restricted to those units located in tier II and III cities.

Exports Awards by STPI 

STPI in association with Indian state governments provides Exports Awards.

Role of STPI in promoting Indian trade and technology globally
Software Technology Parks in India have played a pivotal role in showcasing Indian companies on the global stage. One notable event that underscored this global outreach was the Thessaloniki International Fair (TIF). At the 2019 Thessaloniki International Fair (TIF) held in Greece, Gedela Srinubabu along with Indian Union Minister Hardeep Singh Puri participated as Indian delegation and explained to the Prime Minister of Greece, Kyriakos Mitsotakis the importance of translation of health care and agriculture information into regional languages.

Facilitating technological exchange