[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Committee for the Relief of the Black Poor

that managed to survive the voyage arrived on the shore of Sierra Leone on 15 May 1787, and established a town they called Granville Town. When the ships left them in September, their numbers had been reduced to “to 276 persons, namely 212 black men, 30 black women, 5 white men and 29 white women.” 

The settlers that remained forcibly captured land from a local African chieftain, but he retaliated, attacking the settlement, which was reduced to a mere 64 settlers  comprising 39 black men, 19 black women, and six white women. Black settlers were captured by unscrupulous traders and sold as slaves, and the remaining colonists were forced to arm themselves for their own protection. 

Eventually, the organisers of the Sierra Leone Resettlement Scheme turned to Nova Scotia, and recruited Black Pioneers there to repopulate the colony. John Clarkson, who led that new settlement drive, initially banned the survivors of Granville Town from joining the new settlement, blaming them for the demise of Granville Town. 

In 1792, in a move that pre-figured the women's suffrage movements in Britain, the heads of all households, of which a third were women, were given the right to vote.

Aftermath
Today the descendants of the Black Poor form part of the Sierra Leone Creole people.

References

Further reading
 
 Simon Schama, Rough Crossings: Britain, the Slaves and the American Revolution, BBC Books, 2005 ()
Sivapragasam, Michael, "Why Did Black Londoners not join the Sierra Leone Resettlement Scheme 1783–1815?" Unpublished Masters dissertation (London: Open University, 2013).

External links
 "Committee for the Relief of Poor Blacks and their emigration to Sierra Leone", Your Archives, National Archives, UK 
 Cassandra Pybus, Black Founders: The Unknown Story of Australia's First Black Settlers, UNSW Press, 2006.

African diaspora history
Sierra Leone Creole organisations
Black British history
British Indian history
Poverty in England
1786 establishments in England
Sierra Leone–United Kingdom relations
British West Africa
Philanthropic organisations based in England