[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

ounding congress to repudiate all forms of Zionism—though he also formally rejected any notion that the CDE was a communist front. Zissu considered letting the PER be absorbed into the CDE, sending Ebercohn and Iakerkaner to negotiate. He then realized that the Committee was not politically neutral.

In 1945, Romanian Police had continued to keep tabs on the Zionist movement, including its Betar right, with its informants noting: "for all their mask as anticommunists, we are not ashamed to say that these Betarist Jews are still Jews". The same report concluded: "As luck would have it, the Jews can't seem to agree with each other, or otherwise we'd be seeing battalions of armed Jews in our country, if not indeed a mass revolt, whether theirs, on the offensive, or of the right-wing [Romanian] parties, against them." A "Jewish left" was on the rise, with the Ihud party at its forefront; it absorbed the older Gordonia movement, and reported some 25,000 members. Smaller groups in this ideological field included Miflaga, Mișmar, and a Bukovina section of the Poale Zion, called Ahdut HaAvoda. "Centrism" was embraced by the Klal-Zionist Party of Romania, successor to the HH and the home of two other smaller groups—Dor Hadash and Hașmonea. The latter two would later form another group, the HaOved HaTzioni. Independent Revisionist groups also appeared, in particular Hatzahar and Transylvania's Brit Yesorun. Religious Zionism had by then similarly parted with the PER, and coalesced into the Tnuat HaMizrahi. Jean Cohen recounts that the WJC and the Ihud wanted the UER and the PER to merge under Filderman's chairmanship, with Zissu only serving as honorary president; Tivadar Fischer would make his return to Romanian Jewish politics by steering the local WJC chapter from his home in Geneva. The plan was never carried out, largely due to Zissu and Cohen's opposition.

Zissu still "hoped for a truly democratic change in Romania, as the one chance for Jews to obtain citizenship rights". Cohen explained at the time that the PER stood for "national autonomy", which also allowed for Jewish proportional representation and even participation in government. According to him, those who understood this call also knew that "there is no means of political representation more prestigious and more efficient, precisely because it is independent, than the Jewish Party of Romania." As reported by Cohen, the traditional PNȚ–PER relationship was tested when the former's leader, Iuliu Maniu, refused to pledge his support for the restoration of Jewish assets and political liberties. Confronted with communization from 1945, Zissu sketched out a two-stage plan for the Jewish community: a short-term recognition for the Jews as a distinct ethnic minority; later, its mass emigration to Palestine. This policy was rejected outright by Gheorghe Vlădescu-Răcoasa, the Minister for Minorities, who refused to award ethnic recognition to the Jews and, the PER suspected, blocked out pledges of financial support for Holocaust survivors.

While Zissu was being denigrated in the PCR and CDE press, the PER had developed its own moderate wing, led by Benvenisti. The latter once defined himself as having had a "left-wing orientation [...] from back during the war", including support for a "people's democracy". In March 1945, Benvenisti had attended a Dor Hadash congress, where he noted that Zionism enjoyed support from the world's "most radically progressive circles", variously including the Communist Party USA and the Soviet trade unions. According to Benvenisti, once Zionism would have solved the "Jewish Question", "fascist circles will have revealed themselves for their true, unmasked, self: enemies of democracy, proving that we Jews were but their mere pretext."

Disintegration
Both Cohen and Itzacar had defected earlier in 1946 to join the Klal, which eventually took control of Zissu's political journal, called Mântuirea. At a general meeting called by Benvenisti on July 7, 1946, the reformed PER voted a new leadership committee, comprising Ebercohn, Wilhelm Fischer, Doctor Harschfeld, Iancu, Itzacar, Iakerkaner, Kanner, M. Rapaport, Rohrlich, Leon Rozenberg, Rosenthal, and Tumarkin. Also then, the PER announced that it would present an independent list for the general election of November, this being the wish expressed by a "near-unanimity of its members". Ten days later, it delegated Tumarkin to sign a pact with the CDE. This also implied congregating with the PCR's Bloc of Democratic Parties (BPD). On July 14, the TPE in Hunedoara County, represented by "Comrade Abraham", attended a rally of the BPD's Union of Progressive Youth. On July 21, Zissu accepted his defeat and resigned from the PER presidency (being followed shortly after by general secretary Moscovici); he was later forced out from the Zionist Executive by a cartel of CDE and Ihud members.