[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Buck Danny

omplete' album 16 covering the 'loose' albums 49, 50 and 51, the 'complete' books have caught up with the loose album series. 
La Guerre du Pacifique, première partie (War in the Pacific, Part 1).
Covers the albums 1) 2) and 3) and Charlier and Hubinon's first collaboration: The Agony of the Bismark

After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Buck Danny enters the Navy and becomes an aviator. He participates in several naval engagements, rises to the rank of Commander, and is eventually transferred to the Flying Tigers, where he encounters Jerry Tumbler and Sonny Tuckson.
La Guerre du Pacifique, seconde partie (War in the Pacific, Part 2).
Covers the albums 4) 5) and 6)

Danny and Tuckson are ordered to fly to the Allied headquarters in Rangoon and bring back the plans for the upcoming offensive into Burma. When the mission goes wrong, they are trapped in the middle of the jungle and must dodge Japanese troops, hostile natives, Chinese pirates and various traitors to bring the plans back to the Flying Tigers.
Les Aviateurs Démobilisés (Pilots Demobilized).
Covers the albums 7) 8) and 9)
Unemployed after the end of the war, Danny, Tumbler and Tuckson are hired by a shady airline company operating in the Middle-East, and find themselves swept up in a nest of intrigue involving Arab tribal politics, smuggle and the rush for oil.
La Guerre de Corée (The Korean War).
Covers the albums 10) 11) and 12) plus three short stories written for the magazine Sprint

Danny, Tumbler and Tuckson are persuaded by their old CO to return to the military as test pilots, and are eventually transferred to a fighter unit in Korea. There, they encounter not only Communist pilots but also drones against which Danny is ordered to find a response.
Pilotes de Porte-avions (Aircraft carrier pilots).
Covers the albums 13) 14) and 15)

Danny, Tumbler and Tuckson are transferred to the U.S. Navy, where their adventures continue in three stand-alone novels. In the first, they train a squadron of new recruits to work as a team. In the second, they are racing against a group of ex-Nazis to uncover a treasure from a sunken U-boat. In the third, they take down a group of pirates disrupting air traffic over the Arctic.
De l'Extrême-Nord a l'Extrême-Orient (From the Far North to the Far East).
Covers the albums 16) 17) 18) and 19) plus three parodies by Hubinon

Two story arcs. In the first, Danny and his wingmen provide defensive patrols over the military's newest ICBM test base in Alaska, and find themselves facing the spies of the mysterious Lady X. In the second, they return to the Navy, this time on a mission against pirates in the South China Seas, who are using weapons and bases abandoned by the Japanese to become a near-military force.
Vols Vers l'Inconnu (Flights into the Unknown).
Covers the albums 20) 21) 22) and 23) plus a previously unpublished short story

Two story arcs. In the first, Danny and his wingmen are testing new prototypes with VTOL technology for the Navy. In the second, they are sent to Tibet to retrieve a German rocket scientist vital to the U.S. space program before the Soviets do.
Pilotes de Prototypes (Prototype pilots).
Covers the albums 24) 25) and 31) plus a previously unpublished short story
Danny and his wingmen test two new aircraft for the Navy, first the brand-new X-13 (based on the A-5 Vigilante), then the X-15. They must overcome rivalries within their own squadron, and root out several saboteurs hired by foreign powers and disgruntled aircraft constructors.
Le Retour des Tigres Volants (Return of the Flying Tigers).
Covers the albums 26) 27) and 28) plus a short parody

When a revolution begins in the Southeast Asian nation of Vien-tan, the U.S. finds itself unable to intervene officially. Instead, Danny and thirty Navy pilots are retired from the service and sent to fight in Vien-tan, under the flag of the newly reconstituted Flying Tigers.
Missions Top-Secret (Top secret missions).
Covers the albums 29) 30) 32) and 33)

One story arc and two stand-alone novels. In the story arc, Danny and his wingmen try to recover a Mercury space capsule lost at sea. In the first novel, he must defuse the threats of a Caribbean dictator bent on causing a nuclear war between East and West. In the second, he and his wingmen investigate the sightings of unidentified aircraft over the Arctic.
Missions a Très Haut Risque (High-risk missions).
Covers the albums 34) 35) 36) and 37) plus a previously unpublished short story