[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Due South characters

Due South is a Canadian crime series with elements of comedy. The series was created by Paul Haggis, produced by Alliance Communications, and stars Paul Gross, David Marciano (seasons 1–2), Gordon Pinsent, Beau Starr, Catherine Bruhier, Camilla Scott, Ramona Milano, and later Callum Keith Rennie (seasons 2–4). It ran for 67 episodes over four seasons, from 1994 to 1999.

Characters

Sergeant Robert Fraser

Robert J. Fraser, often called Bob Fraser and referred to as Fraser Sr. to distinguish from his son, is a fictional character in the television series Due South portrayed by Canadian actor Gordon Pinsent.

Robert Fraser was a sergeant of the Royal Canadian Mounted Police. Fraser Sr. was 57 years old in April 1994. The pilot episode of Due South focuses on Fraser Sr.'s murder and his son's attempt to solve the case. His last words before he was shot were; "You're going to shoot a Mountie? They'll hunt you to the end of the Earth!"  Robert Fraser was betrayed by, and his murder orchestrated by Gerrard (Ken Pogue), his friend of some 30 years, who was highly ranked within the RCMP and involved with illegal activity, in-order to cover-up the truth about flaws in a dam.

Fraser Sr. was a legend in his lifetime. He had a strong sense of justice and believed in the letter of the law. He was known for his ability to track criminals, especially in the expanse of wilderness.  For over 20-years, the name "Bob Fraser" was spoken with awe among the ranks of the RCMP.  In his Eulogy, it was said that he 'could track a ghost across sheer ice', and that a young officer would have to move fast and drive hard 'just to catch his shadow'.  He was considered to be a few mounties who embodied the spirit and traditions of the RCMP.  A toast to Robert Fraser after his funeral said, "may he not give the Angels a moment's Peace".  It's also said that his son "didn't fall far from the tree."

Fraser Sr. appears in later episodes, starting with The Gift of the Wheelman, as a ghost to give his son, Benton, advice. Fraser Sr. also features in the series in voice-overs of sections from his diaries. In "Asylum", in season 3, Bob tells his son the story where he helped a group of Inuit being forcefully relocated to establish a fictitious town, called Elsmare, and over the course of a year used their accumulated relocation cheques to hire a Lawyer to fight and win their case against their relocation in court; Bob mentions that Elsmare was during that time was listed as having the lowest crime rate in North America that year.

Bob Fraser was married to Caroline Fraser, (née Pinsent). He had two children: son Benton Fraser, and, after the death of his wife, a daughter Maggie Mackenzie by his friend Ellan Mackenzie, a trapper. The latter was only brought to light after his death. #Sergeant Buck Frobisher was one of his closest friends.

Fraser Sr. and his wife lived in an igloo for four months (where their son Benton was conceived). They also lived in Fort Nelson for a while  and at "The Rat", near a strip mine. His final home was a log cabin in the Yukon. He built the cabin himself.

Fraser Sr.'s ghost at first only allowed himself to appear to his son but it was soon revealed he could make himself be seen by anybody he chose to. He's allowed his daughter, Maggie Mackenzie, and best friend Sergeant Buck Frobisher to see him as well.  On two occasions he has allowed non-family/friends to see him: once to one of the men who was responsible for his death, and to a former friend was being attacked after he offered to turn in evidence against his former partners-in-crime. Fraser Sr. offered to give his former friend a hand up when he was pursued by a car trying to run him down. When Fraser Sr.'s former friend tried to grabbed Fraser Sr.'s hand, it passed right through. The former friend fell several stories. Although severely injured, the former friend survived. The second time that Fraser Sr. appeared to another person was to a criminal name Muldoon, whom Fraser Sr. had pursued and captured years before. But Muldoon escaped from prison and was pursued by Fraser Jr. and "Ray Vecchio" (name then being used by #Detective Stanley Kowalski). "Vecchio" did not see Fraser Sr. though. Fraser Sr. appears in time to stop Muldoon from escaping, with Muldoon surprised to see his old nemesis having heard Fraser Sr. had died. Muldoon was returned to prison, making no mention of seeing Fraser Sr.'s ghost because people would most likely not believe him.

Sergeant Buck Frobisher

Sergeant Duncan "Buck" Frobisher is a fictional character in the television series Due South. Portrayed by Leslie Nielsen, he appears in the episodes "Manhunt", "All The Queens's Horses", "Call of the Wild (pt 1)" and "Call of the Wild (pt 2)".