[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Catherine Filloux

he Vienna State Opera’s 150-year history – which had its world premiere last weekend…a solid 10 minutes of cheering at the end…The composer and her librettist, the French-American writer Catherine Filloux, have added their own appendix to Woolf.” [Orlando is the winner of the 2022 Grawemeyer Award.]

Immigrant Report, Matt Barbot, Being from Elsewhere “Catherine Filloux’s plays are more than just stories, they’re catalysts; they aim to send you forth from the theater not just satisfied and thinking but to make change in the world. She tackles the underpinnings of the Civil Rights movement, prison reform, the Khmer Rouge, even the mental health of Mary Todd Lincoln. Her latest piece, turning your body into a compass…was an experiment in form: not just a live performance, but a livestream created in collaboration with Culturehub, a blending of mediums that will reach an even wider audience than might typically be possible with a play. It’s an exciting opportunity for a playwright who strives, above all, to connect.”

StageBuddy Review, Navida Stein “Not only is Ms. Filloux’s play gut-wrenching theater, it is also rooted in several years of research…all under the umbrella of compelling storytelling…Ms. Filloux’s anguished and at times poetic dialogue flows effortlessly in Ms. Strum’s interpretation…whatdoesfreemean? is at times uncomfortable viewing and Ms. Filloux is to be commended for stunningly weaving together unsparing scenes and theatrically fantastical elements with Mary’s straightforward story.  The play educates us about women’s incarceration never veering into sentimentality or a movie of the week mentality. Through the beautiful, multi-facted character of Mary, Ms. Filloux’s whatdoesfreemean? offers a road map to finding freedom and hope even in the most despairing of circumstances.”

Onstage Blog Review, Tara Kennedy, “whatdoesfreemean? Nora’s Playhouse “With the pizazz of NYC’s high-end shows, audiences are dazzled into forgetting the quality of the script. With the black box presentation of whatdoesfreemean? one only has the actors and the words to focus on…Ms. Filloux’s text does a wonderful job of creating a fully-developed, likable, flawed character that the audience cares about… a woman in the audience spoke up about being a former inmate and how the play felt much like her experience ‘on the inside;’ at times, the play was difficult for her to watch. And it’s this woman’s reaction that is confirmation of the faithfulness of Ms. Filloux’s play to the experience of prison. But don’t take our word for it: come downtown and experience.”

TheaterScene Off-Broadway Review, Darryl Reilly, The heartbreaking saga of an African-American woman incarcerated for drug dealing is theatrically told through flashbacks, fantasy interludes and realism.  “Documentary detail is blended with theatricality in playwright Catherine Filloux’s heartbreaking drama whatdoesfreemean? Ms. Filloux combines the unraveling Mary’s redemptive journey with the suspense of whether she can mentally keep it together in order to obtain an early release…a searing and poignant narrative containing absurdist flourishes that include a talking laboratory mouse. The play is structured as a series of short pungent scenes. Filloux’s dialogue poetically conveys the harsh realities the underprivileged face.”

Exeunt NYC Off-Broadway Review, Ran Xia, whatdoesfreemean? at The Tank “The piece beautifully dissects a complex character whose criminality and morality should not be viewed as simply black and white and puts the effectiveness, as well as the inhumanity of our prison system under scrutiny…A contrast to the dark subject matter and graphic depiction of prison violence is a particularly brilliant and comedic scene where Mary converses with a mouse…Filloux’s play illuminates a crucial social issue. This is the second play I’ve seen in the past year or so by the human rights playwright about a woman in captivity, the previous one being Kidnap Road at La Mama. A woman lying in a cage has become a haunting, recurring image that I now associate with Filloux…Filloux’s play opens another window to a large-scale issue that deserves more attention.”

Theatre Is Easy, Ran Xia, Kidnap Road  “Catherine Filloux’s emotionally and psychologically charged play…offers a poignant anatomy of Betancourt’s psyche as a woman, a politician, and a victim of different ideologies in the crossfire. But more importantly, this shocking story holds a mirror up to how female politicians are treated in the U.S. as well.” 

Exeunt Magazine, Molly Grogan “…Kidnap Road while satisfying enough as a theater object in the existential two-hander genre, takes us into disorienting territory.”

Show-Score, Kidnap Road “Intelligent, Intense, Edgy, Dizzying, Thought-provoking, Relevant, Great Staging. This is poetic and fluid in its approach to storytelling, often imaginative, beautiful yet jarring."