[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Charles Vane

prisoned by Rogers.

Vane returned to Nassau in September to marry, threatening to retake the city. In October, Vane sailed to Ocracoke Inlet and met with Blackbeard, perhaps attempting to convince Blackbeard to join forces with him. The two crews celebrated for several days but split up afterwards.

In October, Vane raided Eleuthera, carrying away liquor and livestock. On 23 November, Vane spotted a large frigate but when he hoisted the Jolly Roger the frigate replied by raising a French naval ensign and opening fire. Vane's brigantine and sloop were outgunned and he ordered a retreat. Vane's crew saw this as an act of cowardice. He was voted out of command in favor of Calico Jack Rackham. Vane and 16 others who supported him, including his first mate Robert Deal, were put on the sloop.

Vane sailed to the Bay Islands, capturing sloops along the way, one of which Deal took command of. In February 1719, Vane and Deal were caught in a hurricane and separated. Vane was wrecked on an uninhabited island. When English ships arrived to collect water near the island, Vane tried to join one of the crews under a false name. He was recognized by an old acquaintance and arrested.

Vane was taken to Spanish Town, Jamaica and held in prison for some time. On 22 March 1721 he was tried for piracy and found guilty. Vane learned that Deal had been tried, convicted, and hanged some time earlier. Vane was sentenced to death, and on 29 March he was hanged at Gallows Point in Port Royal. His corpse was hung in chains at Gun Cay.

In popular culture
W. Morgan Sheppard portrayed Vane in the 1999 family film Treasure of Pirate's Point.

Vane appears as a side character and minor antagonist in the 2013 video game Assassin's Creed IV: Black Flag, in which he was voiced by Ralph Ineson. 

Zach McGowan portrayed Charles Vane in the Starz television series Black Sails (2014–2017).

Tom Padley plays Vane in six episodes of the 2021 Netflix docuseries The Lost Pirate Kingdom.

Footnotes

References 

 
 Menefee, S.P. "Vane, Charles," in Oxford Dictionary of National Biography, vol. 56 (2004): pp. 94–95.
 Pickering, David. Pirates. CollinsGem. HarperCollins Publishers, New York, NY. (2006):p-75.
 

1680 births
1721 deaths
British pirates
People executed for piracy
English Jacobites