[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Ontario Youth Parliament

delegates varied from boys running in elections to being hand-picked from denominational groups. As well as providing leadership training and a chance to look at issues from a Christian point of view, these mock parliaments gave youth a chance to see other parts of their province and their country.

The first parliamentary session in Ontario was the TUXIS Boys' Parliament held in 1917. In the following decades, the movement grew to include eight organizations across the country. In 1924 the Ontario Older Boys' Parliament opposed a suggestion that a national Boys' Parliament be convened because of expenses and the difficulty of getting representation from all over Canada.

The Older Boys' Parliaments were very much part of a Christian milieu. Sessions included boys from Anglican, Baptist, Presbyterian and United Churches, and a significant portion of debate focused on church programs. They drew criticism for purporting to represent an entire province, using legislative and administrative buildings for annual sessions, and then excluding boys whose religious scruples made it impossible to participate.

By the 1930s, Older Boys' Parliaments had loosened their ties with TUXIS and young men from outside the United Church began to attend, although funding continued to come from Christian sources such as the United Church and The Salvation Army. In 1958 the Ontario Older Boys' Parliament began to work amongst boys outside of the church groups to which it had previously confined its activities.

More than just a governing body for the CSET program, the Older Boys' Parliament became regarded as an organization that facilitated "a real understanding of the meaning of democracy," teaching a respect for democratic values such as tolerance for dissent and the protection of the individual. For example, the Saskatchewan Older Boys' Parliament urged members to participate actively in politics as informed and open-minded voters.

The leaders of the Older Boys' Parliament movement saw themselves as training "the leaders of tomorrow." Alumni from the 1960s cited their involvement with the organization as the spark for an interest in world issues, as well as the foundation of their communication skills.

Ontario Youth Parliament 
By the 1950s, the idea of cooperating with girls' groups such as Canadian Girls in Training or allowing girls to join the organization began to emerge. In 1968, the decision was made to open the Ontario Older Boys' Parliament to both boys and girls. This was a contentious issue at the time. In that same year, delegates of the Saskatchewan Older Boys' Parliament argued both for and against the involvement of women in parliament, defeating a resolution to include girls for a one-year trial basis. The same debate was occurring in the British Columbia and Alberta Older Boys' Parliaments as they sought to meet societal changes.

OYP became known for building leadership skills, teaching parliamentary procedure and exposing young people to new ideas. OYP continues challenged delegates to debate ethical and moral issues that they had previously not considered.

Before the introduction of Family Day as a provincial holiday in 2008, OYP was held on the first weekend of March break. In the late 20th century attendance was around 150 delegates, and remained at that level until decreasing abruptly in the years preceding 2006.

Regional parliaments 
Between 1980 and 2006, OYP held five regional parliaments across Ontario each year. Though each regional parliament was distinct in its traditions, the Ontario Youth Parliament Association regulated each parliament through the Regionals Act. The original five regionals were: South Western Ontario Regional Parliament (SWORP); South Central Ontario Parliament for Youth (SCOPY); Central Ontario Regional Parliament (CORP); Eastern Ontario Regional Youth Parliament (EORYP); and, Northern Ontario Regional Parliament (NORP). Due to low registration, SCOPY and CORP planned to hold their 2005 session jointly as South Central Ontario Regional Parliament for Youth (SCORPY), however, the session never occurred. EORYP was the only regional to occur in 2006 and became OYP's last regional parliament.

See also 
 Youth Parliament of Canada/Parlement jeunesse du Canada

External links 
 Ontario Youth Parliament website

Notes

References 

Canadian youth parliaments
Youth Parliament, Ontario
Educational organizations based in Ontario