[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Northern (genre)

The Northern or Northwestern is a genre in various arts that tell stories set primarily in the late 19th or early 20th century in the north of North America, primarily in western Canada but also in Alaska. It is similar to the Western genre, but many elements are different, as appropriate to its setting. It is common for the central character to be a Mountie instead of a cowboy or sheriff. Other common characters include fur trappers and traders, lumberjacks, prospectors, First Nations people, settlers, and townsfolk.

International interest in the region and the genre was fuelled by the Klondike Gold Rush (1896–99) and subsequent works surrounding it, fiction and non-fiction. The genre was extremely popular in the interwar period of the 20th century. Northerns are still produced, but their popularity waned in the late 1950s.

Characteristics

Northerns are similar to Westerns but are set in the frozen north of North America; that is, Canada or Alaska.  Of the two, Canada was the more common setting, although many tropes could apply to both.  Popular locations within Canada are the Yukon, the Barren Grounds, and area around Hudson Bay.  Generic names used for this general setting included the "Far North", the "Northlands", the "North Woods", and the "Great Woods".

Common settings include boreal forests, isolated cabins, and mining towns. Snow featured to such an extent that Northern films were sometimes termed "snow pictures".  Animals were a common feature too.  Dogs and dog sleds were popularized by The Call of the Wild and White Fang.  Scenes involving attacks by bears date back to The Klondyke Nugget.

The primary antagonist in a Northern can be the wilderness, the weather and other natural elements, which the protagonists must endure, overcome and survive.

Northerns often explore the 'Matter of Canada' (the national mythos of Canada, after the Matter of Rome).  Common elements of which are the Black Donnelly murders (February 1880), the North-West Rebellion (1885), the Klondike Gold Rush (1896–99), the pursuit of Albert Johnson (January 1932), the October Crisis (October 1970), and persistent national anxiety about potential annexation by the United States.

The Western idea of lawlessness set in American towns was not a part of the Canadian Northern, though individual lawbreakers or uprisings by Canadians feature in works such as Quebec (1951), Riel (1979), and Northwest Mounted Police (1940).  In Northerns and wider crime fiction, the general Canadian preference is for law enforcement to be performed by the state rather than vigilantes or private investigators.  Likewise, Northerns rarely feature the heroic outlaws often found in Westerns.  On the subject, David Skene-Melvin writes "Canada never had a Wild West because the Mounties got there first," while Margaret Atwood writes "No outlaws or lawless men for Canada; if one appears, the Mounties always get their man."

Law and order in Northerns set in Canada is most often represented by the Mounties, either the North-West Mounted Police or Royal Canadian Mounted Police depending on era.  Like snow, Mounties are a common enough feature to become a synonym for the genre, with Northern films sometimes called "Mountie films".  Their popularity was not confined to film; by 1930, 75 volumes of written Mountie fiction had been published, not including juvenile fiction and material published in magazines. Where a protagonist in a Western is often part of both civilization and the wild (whether native or criminal), Mounties in Northerns are entirely a part of civilization.  The nature of fictional Mounties can vary depending on the nationality of the author.  Mounties as written by British authors are often younger members of upper class British families serving the British Empire in the colonies.  American-authored Mounties are often little different from US Marshalls and project the values of Westerns in that they place their individual sense of justice and conscience above their duty to the law. Canadian-authored Mounties represent, and are self-abnegating champions of, the Canadian establishment and its laws.  Further, their authority does not come from either their social class or physical abilities; such a Mountie "upholds the law by moral rather than physical force".  A common story outline for Northerns involving Mounties is a pursuit, confrontation and capture: the Mountie's pursuit of a fugitive takes place across the Canadian wilderness and may be resolved non-violently.