[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# African Union of Railways

The African Union of Railways is an organisation under the auspices of the new African Union dealing with railways.  It is similar to the International Union of Railways (UIC).

Overview 
Africa's railways are disjointed and disconnected.  The AUR hopes to rectify things. By 2012 a number of railway projects had been proposed to rectify this, some of which would make connections between international railway systems.  This interconnectivity would require the development of more standardised systems.

Standards

Gauge 
The AUR sees that conversion to a common gauge is too difficult and expensive due to the gauge muddle, but based on reports from the World Bank, does see the following gauges as preferred in the following regions:

 North - 
 South -  mostly connected and quite strong.  
 East -  (but Tanzania, Kenya, Uganda and isolated Ethiopia are  ).
 West -  (but Sierra Leone and Nigeria  are isolated).
 Other
  South Africa NG
  Eritrea NG
  Algeria NG - isolated systems
 Scattered mining railways -  plus Gabon.

Several railways such as Senegal, Guinea and Tanzania have talked about conversion to standard gauge, though it remains to be seen if talk develops into action.  Guinea built one new branch as standard gauge even though metre gauge is needed to take the ore to the port.  Nigeria has built one short branch with dual gauge sleepers, and a network aiming to serve the port of Warri is also standard gauge.  An extension from Tanzania into Rwanda is proposed as standard gauge, though it starts at a station that is already a container transhipment dry port.  Mining railways that carry very large tonnages (> 10,000 metric tonnes per year) are generally standard gauge.

However, conspicuous by their absence, is the possibility of dual gauge, containerisation, variable gauge axles, bogie exchange, piggy back operation and even triple gauge.

However the African Union now supports the 50-year plan to build the African Integrated High Speed Railway Network.

Timeline

2014 

Construction of standard gauge lines is being progressed in
 Ethiopia and Eritrea
 Kenya
 Tanzania
 Nigeria
 Ghana
 Cameroon - Kribi-Mbalam (2023 now under construction)

Break of gauge 

Because the mainlines of different countries of different gauges rarely meet, except Kidatu, break of gauge is paradoxically  not a problem at the moment.

Couplings 
Couplings in use include:

 European style buffers and chain couplers, the spacing and height of the buffers varying with the gauge;
 Norwegian chopper couplings of various kinds, which are low in strength and obsolete.
 AAR coupler - an automatic type used throughout the contiguous Southern African network.
 SA3 coupler - an automatic type used in the former Soviet Union.
 Digital automatic coupling - proposal
 More than one of the above, such as buffers and AAR coupler.
 There are a few other uncommon and obsolete types, such as those used in Benin. 

The American AAR coupler is the most widely used of the modern types, and is usable with the heaviest trains of regularly .

Whatever the advantages of the modern SA3 coupler, it is not as widely used as the AAR and is in the minority.  The SA3 coupler has been used in a train of , thus either matching or surpassing the strength of the AAR coupler.

Match wagons can overcome incompatibilities at the price of extra deadweight. Similarly with coupling adapters.

The type of coupling is less important when trains travel in fixed block loads.

Modern wagons are usually built with draw-gear designed for easy conversion to some kind of centre coupling such as the AAR or SA3.

Brakes 
Westinghouse air brakes and vacuum brakes (or no continuous brakes at all) are usually fitted.  Dual brakes or piped only can overcome incompatibilities.  Vacuum brakes are considered to be obsolete.  Electronically controlled pneumatic brakes (ECP) are starting to be fitted on faster, heavy-duty trains for higher performance, and the two ECP systems are compatible.  Air brakes are to be preferred to vacuum brakes because of their greater power.

Electrification 
Most railways in Africa are diesel-operated, but electrification where it exists it mostly conforms to the modern standard of 25 kV AC, with some obsolete systems using the older 3 kV DC.  Trams in cities are usually low voltage such as 750 VDC. Dual and multi voltage locomotives and electric multiple units (EMUs) are proven technology.  Africa has great hydro-electric potential to run electric trains with, though this would not happen overnight.

Loading gauge 
Loading gauges vary considerably, and through trains would be forced to use the most restrictive loading gauge along its route. The structure gauge of tunnels and bridges needs to be about  taller to allow for piggy back operation of trains of one gauge on the wagons of another gauge.