[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Canadian Tribute to Human Rights

The Canadian Tribute to Human Rights, also known as the Human Rights Monument, is a monumental sculpture located at the corner of Lisgar and Elgin streets in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. It was designed by Montreal artist and architect Melvin Charney and unveiled by Tenzin Gyatso, the fourteenth Dalai Lama, on September 30, 1990.

Location 

The location of the Monument, immediately adjacent to Ottawa City Hall and close to the Parliamentary precinct, combined with its dedication to human rights, has led to it becoming the focus for a wide range of demonstrations by groups including anti-racism and anti-poverty activists, as well as those protesting international human rights issues.

Appearance 

Standing over thirty feet high and constructed of red granite and concrete, the Monument's red granite facade bears the text of the first sentence of Article One of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights: "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights - Tous les êtres humains naissent libres et egaux en dignité et en droits." The words "Equality," "Dignity," and "Rights" - in English and French – are etched on granite plaques and carried by anthropomorphic figures behind the façade. They also appear on granite plaques within the Monument, known as the House of Canada, in 73 Indigenous languages found in Canada.

Design and construction 

Drawing on the inspiration of the solidarity trade union struggles in Poland in the 1980s, a group of Canadians joined together on December 10, 1983 - International Human Rights Day - to create a permanent artistic symbol of historic and ongoing struggles for fundamental human rights. Seven months later, the Canadian Tribute to Human Rights Inc., a community-based charitable organization, was formed to oversee the construction.
A volunteer-based Board of Directors was soon created and assisted by a small staff.  This group was supported by 36 patrons and nearly 400 local and national groups from all sectors of Canadian society, including Federal, Provincial, and Municipal governments and numerous businesses.

The Regional Municipality of Ottawa-Carleton donated the Elgin Street site in 1984, and a widely publicized, two-stage national competition was subsequently launched in 1985 to find someone to design the Monument.  
One hundred and twenty-nine artists and architects from across Canada entered the competition.   The jury included many eminent Canadians from all regions of the country including representatives from the University of Winnipeg, the University of Ottawa, the University of Waterloo, Canadian Centre for Architecture, the Vancouver School of Art, and the Montréal Museum of Fine Arts.
  
In September 1986 – after having narrowed the competition down to ten finalists – the jury unanimously selected the entry of Melvin Charney.  Charney was awarded the $10,000 prize for an impressive sculpture which narrates the struggle for human rights in granite and concrete. The jury noted the dignity and permanence of his design, specifically its integration with buildings adjacent to the site, and commended Charney for his rich use of symbolism. The design subsequently received the unanimous approval of the council of the Regional Municipality of Ottawa-Carleton.

The site for the Canadian Tribute to Human Rights was officially dedicated on April 17, 1985 – Equality Day – in the presence of the Honourable Walter McLean, a Progressive Conservative critic who was responsible for the Status of Women portfolio and who later served as a Member on the Standing Committee on Human Rights and the Status of Disabled Persons. In November 1988, the ground on which the Monument stands was ceremoniously broken by two young people: Cheryl Tooshkenig and Megan Balciunas. The ceremony was attended by then Ottawa Mayor Jim Durrell and then Town Cryer Daniel Richer. The Lisgar Collegiate Brass Band and the Red Road Singers added to the spirit of the celebration. The Monument's award-winning artist, Melvin Charney, was also present at the event.

Symbolism 

The Canadian Tribute to Human Rights was created in the belief that public art can make a social statement and play a role in mobilizing citizens to awareness and action. The Monument marks in public space the importance of human rights in our society, based on the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms and the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

Work is essential for social change, but so too are powerful symbols that can transform people's hearts. They point to the changes needed in the world around us. For example, in 1980 as one of its first actions, the newly formed Polish trade union Solidarność erected a commemorative monument in Gdansk which embodies that society's sacrifices and aspirations.