[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# November 1976

rst publicly-displayed mobile, Le Cirque Calder, was created in Paris in 1956 with images of circus acrobats and animals suspended from wire.
Narasingha Malla Deb, 69, the last ruler of the Indian princely state of Jhargram from 1916 until 1954 when the area was made part of the state of West Bengal

Friday, November 12, 1976
 Britain's longest-running missing persons case began when Renee MacRae and her 3-year-old son Andrew disappeared from Inverness in Scotland.  William MacDowell would be arrested for the crime more than 42 years later on September 11, 2019 and found fit to stand trial in 2021.
The first mention of Star Wars came more than six months before the May 25, 1977 debut of the film, as Ballantine Books published the book Star Wars: From the Adventures of Luke Skywalker, a novelization adapted from the film script.  Although authorship was credited to Star Wars creator George Lucas (who wrote the screenplay), the book itself was ghostwritten by Alan Dean Foster based upon the Lucas script.
Born:  Tevin Campbell, American singer and actor; in Waxahachie, Texas
Died: 
Walter Piston, 82, American classical music composer
Pedro Dot, 91, Spanish horticulturist and rose breeder known for creating the "Nevada" rose

Saturday, November 13, 1976
A second earthquake struck the Chinese city of Tangshan, which had been destroyed by an earthquake on July 28.
Lieutenant Colonel Edouard Nzambimana was named as the new Prime Minister of Burundi.
Angola's National Museum of Anthropology was opened in Luanda to preserve Angola's heritage.
The first of 18 editions of the celebrity sporting competition Battle of the Network Stars premiered on the U.S. television network ABC with 10 TV stars apiece (six actors and four actresses) from the three television networks that existed in the United States at that time (ABC, CBS and NBC) in various sports (tennis, golf, volleyball), racing in running, swimming and bicycling; and a tug-of-war competition at the end between the two network teams that had done the best.  The show, hated by TV critics, "drew a surprisingly large audience" as the 12th highest rated program of the week.

Sunday, November 14, 1976
Members of the church of which U.S. President-Elect Jimmy Carter was a member, the Plains Baptist Church of Plains, Georgia, voted to drop a ban that the church had maintained since 1965 against attendance by non-white people, after Carter spoke to the congregation prior to the evening's vote.  In 1965, the church had voted to ban attendance by African-Americans.  By a vote of 120 to 66, the church members amended the bylaws with a statement of purpose "to open the doors to all who want to worship Jesus Christ."

Monday, November 15, 1976

The first megamouth shark (Megachasma pelagios) was discovered off the island of Oahu at Hawaii, when it became entangled in the anchor cable of a United States Navy ship, AFB-14, at a depth of about .
 
The Parti Québécois, a separatist party advocating the independence of the Canadian province of Quebec as a separate nation, won 71 of the 110 seats in elections for the provincial legislature, overwhelmingly defeating the Quebec Liberal Party, which lost all but 26 of the 102 seats it had held before the vote.   Rene Levesque became the new Premier of Quebec, replacing the QLP's Robert Bourassa. 
Japan began the return of the Soviet Union's stolen MiG-25 jet fighter to the Soviets.  Thirty crates, each filled with parts from the advanced jet fighter (which had been disassembled for study after Russian pilot Viktor Belenko defected to Japan) had been loaded onto the Russian freighter Taigonos on November 12 at the port of Hitachi and would arrive on November 18.
Britain's parliament passed an act amending the Motorcycle Crash Helmet Act of 1972 to permit Sikh wearers of turbans to be exempt from the requirement of wearing a helmet. The legislation followed a four year campaign by Manchester resident Gyani Sundar Singh Sagar, popularly known as Gyan Ji, who had been repeatedly arrested by defying the law in the name of his religious faith.
Multiparty elections were allowed in Brazil for the first time in over a decade as part of a gradual reform promised by the right-wing military government of General Ernesto Geisel, with voting for aldermen and mayors in the South American nations 3,789 municipalities.  Although the government's Alliance for National Renewal was unopposed in 1,789 locations, the opposition Brazilian Democratic Movement had candidates in the other 2,000.  An accident killed 38 people who were being transported to the polling location, when the driver of a bus failed to stop at a ferry crossing and fell into the Urubu River.
Born: Claudia Llosa, Peruvian film director; in Lima
Died: Jean Gabin (stage name for Jean-Alexis Moncorgé), 72, French film actor