[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of The Sarah Jane Adventures minor characters

This is a list of minor characters from the television series The Sarah Jane Adventures.

A

Androvax 
Androvax, also known as Androvax the Veil, was an alien criminal first appearing in "Prisoner of the Judoon" who was wanted for twelve counts of global genocide by the Judoon after having begun a campaign of extermination when his species was wiped out by their dying star. Captured by Captain Tybo of the Judoon, Androvax escaped upon the Earth when the prison ship crashed and was chased by Tybo, Sarah Jane and her friends. Using nanotechnology, Androvax built a replica of the ship from the Roswell crash in 1947 to escape but was defeated and captured.

In "The Vault of Secrets", an escaped Androvax returns to Earth after learning during his trial that a hundred members of his species escaped the destruction of their world and survive in cryogenic sleep on a ship in a hyperdimensional vault on Earth. Running afoul of Sarah Jane's team again, Androvax, dying after being fatally poisoned during his escape, earns their sympathy and help. Androvax succeeds in recovering the ship containing the survivors of his race, but his attempt to launch the ship from inside the vault puts the Earth into danger. Sarah Jane manages to get Mister Dread to safely teleport the ship into outer space where Androvax departs to find a new home for his species.

In Doctor Who series 8's "Time Heist", the bank robber Psi displays images of the universe's most wanted criminals to distract the alien Teller. Androvax is one of the criminals he displays.

B

Bane Mother 
The Bane Mother, seen in "Invasion of the Bane", is a very large Bane hidden in the roof of the Bubble Shock! factory controlling the Bane invasion of Earth. She is disturbed by Kelsey Hooper's mobile phone and eventually destroyed in the explosion caused by Luke Smith's activation of the Arcateen 5 alien's summoning device.

C

Gita Chandra 
Gita Chandra, played by Mina Anwar, is the mother of Rani Chandra (Anjili Mohindra). In The Day of the Clown, along with her husband, Haresh Chandra and daughter, Rani, Gita moves into the Jacksons' old house on Bannerman Road opposite Sarah Jane and Luke Smith's house. Gita Chandra replaces the character Chrissie Jackson who leaves with Alan Jackson and Maria Jackson.

Haresh Chandra 
Haresh Chandra, played by Ace Bhatti, is the father of Rani Chandra. In The Day of the Clown, along with his wife, Gita Chandra (Mina Anwar) and daughter, Rani, Haresh moves into the Jacksons' old house on Bannerman Road opposite Sarah Jane and Luke Smith's house. Haresh Chandra replaces the character Alan Jackson who leaves with Chrissie Jackson and Maria Jackson. He is also the new headmaster of Park Vale High School, and in the position he quickly forms an antagonistic relationship with Clyde Langer.

D

The Doctor

Davey 
Davey, played by Jamie Davis, and referred to as 'the muffin' by Kelsey Hooper, was first seen in "Invasion of the Bane". He is really a Bane who poses as a PR officer for Bubble Shock! and gives tours of the Bubble Shock! factory. He is also responsible for security and scanning the visitors to provide modelling information for the Bubble Shock! scientists developing the Archetype. He is young and somewhat cocky as well as slightly naïve; his training on human culture led him to believe that a male entering a female-use bathroom was an unforgivable taboo of the culture. Mrs Wormwood assigns Davey to assassinate Sarah Jane Smith but he was beaten back by a special repellant spray which Sarah uses against him. When he fails, Mrs Wormwood informs him that he will become food for the Bane Mother.

H

Kelsey Hooper 
Kelsey Hooper, played by Porsha Lawrence-Mavour, is a resident of Bannerman Road who befriends Maria Jackson shortly after Maria and her father Alan move in down the road in the introductory episode, "Invasion of the Bane".

One of the 98% of the population addicted to the soft drink Bubble Shock!, Kelsey took Maria to see the Bubble Shock! factory, where she became embroiled in Sarah Jane Smith's attempt to fight off the invading aliens, the Bane. However, Kelsey fell under the Bane's control owing to her addiction. When Sarah Jane, Maria and Luke Smith defeated the Bane, Kelsey had reportedly recovered, but was denying the existence of aliens.

She is attracted to the human form of Davey and to Luke and likes Hollyoaks. She wonders if she is fat, and if she will ever be kissed.

The character was dropped from the series following the "Invasion of the Bane", possibly because she received poor reception from fans, and was replaced by the more easy-going Clyde Langer played by Daniel Anthony in the first series.

J

Alan Jackson