[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Električni Orgazam

Električni Orgazam () is a Serbian rock band from Belgrade. Originally starting as a combination of new wave, punk rock and post-punk, the band later slowly changed their style, becoming a mainstream rock act. They were one of the most notable acts of the former Yugoslav rock scene.

History

New wave years (1980–1983) 
The melodic hard rock band Hipnotisano Pile (Hypnotized Chicken), formed in 1979, which got the name by the line from the Iggy Pop song "Lust For Life", consisted of Srđan Gojković "Gile" (drums), Ljubomir Jovanović "Jovec" (guitar), Bojan Banović (vocals), Vladan Stepanović (guitar), "Džo" Otašević (keyboards). The band performed their own material, mainly written by Banović, on Guitar festivals in Belgrade.

In mid-January 1980, at the Mornar bistro, after a Leb i Sol concert held at the Belgrade Dom Sindikata, Hipnotisano Pile members, drummer Gojković and guitarist Jovanović, were sitting with organ player Ljubomir Đukić "Ljuba", and planning to form an ad hoc punk rock group, in which Gojković was to play guitar and sing lead vocals, and Jovanović to switch to playing drums. The band was to play as an opening act for Hipnotisano Pile. The idea for the band name came from Gojković, and, while they were waiting for the waiter, Đukić wrote the lyrics for the song "Konobar" ("The Waiter"). Soon after, Gojković wrote a few more songs, "Krokodili dolaze" ("Crocodiles Are Coming"), "Zlatni papagaj" ("Golden Parrotbill"), and "Vi" ("You"). The band was officially formed on 13 January 1980 and was completed with guitarist Goran Sinadinović and bassist Marina Vulić.

The band members then went to Momčilo Rajin and Nebojša Pajkić, both of them in charge of the SKC program, asking for the rehearsal room and booking their first live appearance. In June 1980, the band played as an opening act for Hipnotisano Pile in front of the crowd of about 300 people. Dissatisfied with the Hipnotisano Pile performance, more than half of the audience left the hall. After the performance, Hipnotisano Pile disbanded. Sinadinović also left Električni Orgazam, and with Bojan Banović formed the band Petar i Zli Vuci. Jovanović returned to playing guitar, and the drummer became former Butik drummer Goran Čavajda "Čavke", whom Gojković asked on several occasions to join the band.

The lineup had their first live appearance at a local party, and, soon after, at the Palilula Culture Olympics, where they stopped the performance due to the unsatisfactory amplification. In autumn the same year, the band performed at the Festival Omladina, which was arranged by Riblja Čorba leader Bora Đorđević. Before the performance, the band was warned not to move too much on the stage which had several levels and was unstable. The reaction of the band was quite the opposite, breaking microphones, cymbals, and kitschy stage decorations, eventually getting disqualified. The festival was the place where new wave bands from Belgrade and Zagreb had met for the first time, and the Zagreb band Film won the festival.

The following year, the band had their first recordings, the songs "Krokodili dolaze", "Zlatni papagaj"  and "Vi", released by Jugoton on the Paket aranžman (Package deal), three way split album, with the recordings of Idoli and Šarlo Akrobata. The compilation was to feature two more bands, Tunel, and the embryonic Bajaga i Instruktori called Fleke, but were eventually turned down. The success of Paket aranžman provided the band an opportunity to record and release their debut album under the same label. The band was previously turned down by RTV Ljubljana, stating that the album lacked originality, and PGP-RTB, which had problems with the song lyrics for "Krokodili dolaze" and "Nebo" ("The Sky").

Električni orgazam, produced by Ivan Stančić "Piko", featured the band's authentic sound, found in the songs "Nebo", "Konobar", "I've Got a Feeling", both released on the band first single, and new versions of "Krokodili dolaze" and "Vi". The album did not feature the band drummer Čavajda, who was at the time serving the Yugoslav People's Army, being temporarily replaced by Grupa I member Branko Kuštrin "Mango". The album, for which the album cover and design was done by Gojković, had positive reactions by both the audience and the critics, including a review of the album by the NME journalist Kris Bohn, who stated that the band was one of the most exciting non-British acts. Since Gojković was spending time in London, he provided the New Musical Express with a few copies of the album, resulting in the band signing with Rough Trade Records for distributing the copies of the album to England.  After the album release, in autumn 1981, Marina Vulić left the band, being replaced by Jovan Jovanović "Grof", and Čavajda returned to the group.