[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Human rights in the Middle East

ed from attending the interrogations and as of 5 August 2021, he was not provided the urgent medical treatment required to stabilize his worsening condition at the time.

Regional human rights initiatives
Several cross-regional programmes and initiatives are supporting Human Rights today, including:

 The Arab Commission for Human Rights (unrelated to the inter-governmental Arab Commission on Human Rights) was created in 1998 by 15 human rights activists, including Haytham Manna from Syria, Moncef Marzouki from Tunisia, and others from Egypt and other Arab world countries.
 The Coalition of Arab Cities against Racism, Discrimination, Xenophobia and Intolerance was launched in 2008, in Casablanca, Morocco. It is part of the International Coalition of Inclusive and Sustainable Cities (ICCAR), an initiative launched by UNESCO in March 2004. These regional coalitions seek to establish a network of cities interested in sharing experiences in order to improve their policies to fight racism, discrimination, xenophobia and exclusion.
 The Arabic Network for Human Rights Information, an NGO based in Egypt that collects publications, campaigns, reports, and statements from almost 140 Arabic human rights organizations across the region and republishes them in a daily digest. 
 The Arab Master's in Democracy and Human Rights was created in 2015 with the support of the European Union. It groups together several universities from across the Arab Region (Jordan, Lebanon, Palestine, Morocco, and Tunisia) in joint activities, including a specialised master's programme with theoretical, practical and critical features.

By country
See the following for more details on each country:

See also
Human rights in Africa
Human rights in East Asia
Human rights in Central Asia
Human rights in Europe
Human rights in China
Human rights in the United States
Human rights in Muslim-majority countries 
Timeline of first women's suffrage in majority-Muslim countries
Human trafficking in the Middle East
Democracy in the Middle East
LGBT in the Middle East
Sexual taboo in the Middle East

References

Citations

Other sources

• Farshad Rahimi Dizgovin, Enforcement of International Treaties by Domestic Courts of Iran, 58 Virginia Journal of International Law (2018).

• Farshad Rahimi Dizgovin, The Scope of the Right to Education, 23 American Society of International Law Insights (2019).

External links 
 Human Rights Watch
 UN Human Rights Office of the High Commissioner
 Amnesty International

 
Human rights by region
Middle Eastern culture