[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# UK Government Decontamination Service

government bodies) have access to the specialist knowledge, skills and equipment they may need to carry out such work. They assess the ability of such specialist private sector companies to carry out decontamination operations and are also available to co-ordinate all parties concerned in the event.

The agency regularly validate and test the contingency arrangements which are in place with local authorities. Through this work, they are able to act as the Government's advisor on the state of readiness of the country to face such accidents. They also regularly review gaps in the UK's national capability to respond to them.

The agency exists as a central portal for local authorities and central government, connecting those needing information with those organisations best able to provide it. In general, advice is given by specialist, third-party companies rather than the agency itself.

Despite its name, the GDS is keen to point out that, while recovery and re-occupation of buildings and environments after incidents is part of its responsibility, the more immediate concerns of human decontamination is the remit of the Department of Health and the national health services.

GDS state that one reason they have been set up is that Government has recognised it would not be cost effective to have all local authorities research and maintain the level of expertise required to efficiently respond to a CBRN threat. They state this is also the reason why the service is UK-wide, rather than having the home countries maintain separate services.

See also

 Civil Contingencies Committee
 List of terrorist incidents in the United Kingdom
 Mass decontamination

References

External links
 GDS's official web site
 The CBRN page of UK Resilience, a service of the Cabinet Office

Emergency management in the United Kingdom
Organizations established in 2005
Defunct executive agencies of the United Kingdom government
2005 establishments in the United Kingdom