[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Salfit

population. The age distribution was 48.9% below the age of 20, 46.6% between ages 20–65 and 4.1% over the age of 65. Over 48% of residents over the age of 12 were married, 3.6% were widowed and less than 1% were divorced.
According to the (PCBS) 2017 census, the population grew to 10,911.

Economy

Salfit is a major administrative and commercial center for the dozens of villages surrounding it. However, the route for Palestinians from Salfit's northern dependencies has been sealed off by the Israel Defense Forces because of a bypass road for the settlement of Ariel crossing the main road. There are several governmental offices and institutions in the city. Education services in Salfit are provided by four modern schools in addition to the Al-Quds Open University campus. The Salfit Governorate is also an area that is well known in the field of stone cutting and marble. An industrial zone was established on 200 dunams of land at the east end of Salfit.

The Salfit Governorate is the largest olive oil producer in the Palestinian territories, producing 1,500 tons annually. Zaytoun, the Palestinian Olive Tree Association, is active with Palestinian Agricultural Relief Committees (PARC) in Salfit to improve the quality and sales of Palestinian Olive oil. Salfit is located just across a valley to the south of the Israeli settlement of Ariel and around 1/3 the population of Ariel, about midway between Nablus and Ramallah.

On 30 May 2008 the US Consulate General in Jerusalem presented 700 books and 100 magazines for a new library at the Community-Based Learning Center in Salfit and the ceremony was attended by the PA Ministry of Youth and Sports official, Hussein Azzam, Deputy Governor of Salfit, Nawaf Souf. The Community Center is located on al-Madares Street in Salfit and was established by the Relief International Schools Online (RISOL) in 2007.

The Salfit Hospital was completed in 2006. Before the closest government hospitals were in Nablus, Tulkarm and Ramallah, all more than a one-hour's drive away.

Water treatment plant
There are a large number of water springs in and around the city but they unable to cope with the growing demand of the city. For the past nine years, the municipality has been trying to build a waste-water treatment plant to service the residents of Salfit town. In July 2007, the House of Water and Environment (HWE) of Ramallah produced a report the “Assessment of the Impact of Pollution Sources on the Water Environment and the Lives of the Residents in the Northern West Bank, Palestine”.

The plant was supposed to be built on Salfit Governorate land  from the town of Salfit. The municipality received a grant of 22 million euros from the German government to build the plant and a mainline pipe to the town but the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) stopped the construction of the building and seized all the equipment because it allegedly would interfere with the nearby Israeli settlements. The equipment was returned only 18 months later. As a result, the town had to take out a loan to buy a new piece of land eight kilometers closer to its outskirts and another loan of 2 million euros to move the pipes and the electricity cables. Although Israel approved the new site of the plant, the planned West Bank Barrier will now separate Salfit from the sewage plant.

In May 2006, international human rights organizations were called to witness sewage of Ariel settlement running into the agriculture valleys north of the city and damaging the surrounding agriculture and environment.

In June, 2016, Salfit  and other towns in the area had to go without running water for weeks, as the Israeli Mekorot reduced the amount of water it sold to the Palestinians.

References

Bibliography

External links
 Official Municipality Website
 Salfit Chambers Of Commerce
 Salfit City Website
Welcome To The City of Salfit
Salfit City, Welcome to Palestine
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 14:    IAA, Wikimedia commons 
Salfit Municipality (including Khirbet Qeis Locality) (Fact Sheet),   Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem (ARIJ)
Salfit City Profile (including Khirbet Qeis Locality), ARIJ
Salfit, aerial photo, ARIJ
Development Priorities and Needs in Salfit, ARIJ

 
Cities in the West Bank
Municipalities of West Bank