[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Norwegian language conflict

dren's native language.

The Labour Party and the reforms of 1938

The ascent of the Norwegian Labour Party turned out to be decisive in passing the 1917 reforms, and one Labour politician—Halvdan Koht—was in the early 1920s asked to develop the party's political platform for the Norwegian language.

Koht was for some years both the chairman of Noregs Mållag and  and immersed on the issue of language. He published his findings in 1921 and framed them in a decidedly political context.

His view, which was to gain currency among his fellow Labourites, was that the urban working class and rural farming class had a convergence of interests in language, giving rise to the emergent "people's language" (). He wrote that "The struggle for the people's language is the cultural side of the labor movement." This notion of convergence led the Labour Party to embrace the ideal of a synthesis of the two main languages into one language, built on the spoken forms of the "common person", or Samnorsk.Having already changed the names of the languages—Riksmål became Bokmål and Landsmål Nynorsk—by parliamentary resolution of 1929, the Labour party made Koht their thought leader and spokesperson on these issues, formalizing his views into their platform.

The 1938 reforms, proposed under the first durable Labour cabinet of Johan Nygaardsvold, represented a radical departure from previous reforms.

 Bokmål
 The forms common in cultivated daily speech () lost their normative status in Bokmål and instead became one of several factors.
 A new distinction was made: between primary and secondary forms, in which preference would be given to primary forms, which usually were more "radical."
 Some forms found in conservative Riksmål/Bokmål were outright rejected. For examples, diphthong spelling became mandatory; and a number of feminine words had to be declined with an -a rather than -en.
 Nynorsk
 Preference was given to "broad" rather than "narrow" root vowels, e.g.,  rather than .
 The -i suffix was set aside for the -a suffix in most cases, removing a form many found idiosyncratic to Western Norway.

The reforms clearly aspired to bring the two languages closer together and predictably angered advocates in each camp. In particular, the proponents of Riksmål felt the reforms were a frontal assault on their written language and sensibilities, since many elements of their previous norm——were deprecated. However, purists in the Landsmål camp were also unhappy, feeling that the reforms gutted their language.

World War II
The occupation of Norway by Nazi Germany from 1940 to 1945 took the language issue off the national political scene. The Quisling government rescinded the 1938 reforms and made some changes of its own, but as with virtually everything Quisling did, this was rendered null and void by the post-war Norwegian government.

Liberation, and the debate intensifies
As it turned out, the war set the Nynorsk movement back substantially. The momentum gained by the Labour party's activism for Nynorsk was lost during the war, and Noregs Mållag's entire archive was lost in 1944. An opinion poll in 1946 showed that 79% of all Norwegians favored the formation of Samnorsk, setting further back the cause of the purists who favored the traditional Landsmål forms.

On the other side of the issue, the poet Arnulf Øverland galvanized Riksmålsforbundet in opposition not to Nynorsk, which he respected, but against the radical Bokmål recommended by the 1938 reforms. Their efforts were particularly noted in Oslo, where the school board had decided to make radical forms of Bokmål the norm in 1939 (). In 1951, concerned parents primarily from the affluent western neighborhoods of Oslo organized the "parents' campaign against Samnorsk" (), which in 1953 included "correcting" textbooks.

In 1952, Øverland and Riksmålsforbundet published the so-called "blue list" that recommended more conservative orthography and forms than most of the 1938 reforms. This book established for the first time a real alternative standard in Riksmål to legislated Bokmål. It set the standard for two of the capital's main daily newspapers, Aftenposten and Morgenbladet. It also contributed to the reversal of the "Oslo decision" in 1954.

In 1951, the Norwegian parliament established by law , which later was renamed Norsk språkråd (Norwegian Language Council). Riksmålsforeningen disagreed with the premises of the council's mandate, namely that Norwegian was to be built on the basis of the "people's language". The council was convened with 30 representatives, 15 from each of the main languages. However, most of them supported Samnorsk.

In 1952, a minor reform passed with little fanfare and controversy: in spoken official Norwegian, numbers over 20 were to be articulated with the tens first, e.g., "twenty-one" as is the Swedish and English practice rather than "one-and-twenty", the previous practice also found in Danish and German.