[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sergey Lazarev

e of the album.

On 31 March 2010 Electric Touch was released in Russian music stores. The video for "Alarm" was released on 10 May and on 26 June it was confirmed the song "Feeling High" was the new single from Electric Touch.

In 2012, Lazarev released another English-language song, "Take It Off".

On 10 December 2015, it was announced that Lazarev would represent Russia at the Eurovision Song Contest 2016 in Stockholm. In the final, he reached third place with his song "You Are the Only One", Lazarev won the televote with 361 points, and came fifth with the national jury scoring 130 points. 

On February 7, Lazarev announced that he would represent Russia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2019 in Tel Aviv, Israel with the song "Scream". He again finished third in the final.

 Other appearances 

In 2021 he placed first in the competition show Tantsy so zvyozdami (Tанцы со звёздами), the Russian version of Dancing with the Stars''.

Political views 
In 2014, following Russia's annexation of Crimea and during his stay in Ukraine, Lazarev stated to Ukrainian television, "Maybe my own Russian fans will throw tomatoes at me, but this is the way it is for me. When I travel to Yalta, for me it's Ukraine." However, in his later comments on Ukrainian television the singer said that his words had been taken out of context. Lazarev explained that in fact he meant that the territorial change was so instant that he could not get used to the idea that Crimea was part of Russia again and "need[ed] time to realize it"; the singer compared it to the feeling of those who remember the transfer of Crimea from Russia to Ukraine in 1954: "I perfectly understand those who, in 1954, suddenly woke up in Ukraine, and who wanted Crimea to return to Russia. I know, many are happy with that. But I need time to realize that". Lazarev claimed the recording of his speech was shortened and edited by the Ukrainian TV crew for use in an "anti-Russian" an information war.

In January 2023, Ukraine imposed sanctions on Lazarev for his support of the Russian invasion of Ukraine.

Personal life 
In December 2016, he announced that he has a two-year-old son, Nikita, after pictures of both attending church were captured by paparazzi. Nikita was later featured in Lazarev's music video for "Так красиво" in 2017. In September 2019, during an interview with Lera Kudryavtseva, Sergey disclosed having a one-year-old daughter, Anya, with the same biological mother as Nikita but born from a different surrogate mother. This was also the first confirmation of Nikita having been born via surrogate.

Discography

Studio albums

Extended plays

Compilation albums

Live albums

Remix albums

Singles

Tours
 Don't Be Fake Tour 
 TV Show Tour 
 Lazerboy Live 
 Heartbeat Tour 
 Lazarev Live 
 The Best Tour 
 N Tour 
 Я не боюсь! Live

References

External links 

  

1983 births
English-language singers from Russia
Eurovision Song Contest entrants of 2016
Eurovision Song Contest entrants of 2019
Living people
Musicians from Moscow
Eurovision Song Contest entrants for Russia
Russian nationalists
Anti-Ukrainian sentiment in Russia
Russian pop singers
Russian child singers
21st-century Russian male singers
Russian National Music Award winners
Moscow Art Theatre School alumni
Winners of the Golden Gramophone Award