[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sino-Soviet relations

so wished to improve relations. At the Li–Gorbachev meetings, the two sides began again to refer to each other as "comrades" and Li congratulated the Soviet Union for its "socialist course". Despite the reconciliation, China made clear that it would continue to develop an independent foreign policy.

China's reform and opening up and the Soviet Union's perestroika raised similar challenges for both countries. Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping wanted to reduce tensions with the Soviet Union to facilitate focusing resources on economic development. Gorbachev likewise sought a more peaceful bilateral relationship in order to reduce military expenditures. Intrigued by reform and opening up, Gorbachev told a Chinese magazine, "We take special interest in China's ongoing economic and political reforms. Our two countries are now faced with similar problems. This will open a broad horizon for useful mutual exchange of experiences."

The September 1989 withdrawal of Vietnam's forces from Cambodia further reduced Sino-Soviet tension. Gorbachev visited Beijing in May 1989 for the first summit between the two nations in thirty years.

Dissolution of the Soviet Union

Unlike that of the PRC, this was a much more extreme, highly unregulated form of privatization which resulted in massive losses to foreign speculators, near-anarchical conditions and economic collapse. Thus, in the post–Cold War period, while the Soviet Union remained vastly more developed (economically and militarily), in a systemic and deep way (i.e., the PRC in 1949 was less industrialized than Russia in 1914), the PRC emerged in a far more favourable and stable financial position. While the severe Soviet shortage of capital was new, Chinese economic and military underdevelopment was not. Nor was the PRC's desperate and ever-growing need for mineral resources, especially petroleum fuel, which the Soviet Union held in abundance in such Asiatic regions as Western Siberia.

See also
 History of Sino-Russian relations
 History of foreign relations of the People's Republic of China
 Sino-Soviet Treaty of Friendship and Alliance
 China and Russia: Four Centuries of Conflict and Concord (book)

References

Further reading 
 
 
 
 
 
 Garver, John W. China's quest: the history of the foreign relations of the people's Republic of China (Oxford University Press, 2015).

External links
 Agreement from 1924 on the establishment of diplomatic relations

 
Soviet Union
Bilateral relations of the Soviet Union
China–Russia relations