[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Politics of Pennsylvania

ats. Also in the 2018 midterm elections, Governor Tom Wolf won reelection by a margin of 17 percent, Bob Casey Jr. was reelected to a third term in the U.S. Senate, John Fetterman unseated incumbent lieutenant governor Mike Stack, and the Republican Party maintained control of the state legislature.

Federal relations
During the Tom Ridge administration, the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania maintained a permanent in-house lobbying office in Washington, D.C., to lobby the federal government of the United States. During the Ed Rendell administration, the Commonwealth closed that office and entered into a $720,000 annual contract with Blank Rome to lobby the federal government. The Rendell administration says that the contract with Blank Rome was $140,000 less per year than maintaining a permanent state office in Washington.

Federal representation
Pennsylvania currently has 17 House districts In the 118th Congress, 9 are held by Democrats and 8 are held by Republicans. There are as follows:

Pennsylvania's 1st congressional district represented by Brian Fitzpatrick (R)
Pennsylvania's 2nd congressional district represented by Brendan Boyle (D)
Pennsylvania's 3rd congressional district represented by Dwight Evans (D)
Pennsylvania's 4th congressional district represented by Madeleine Dean (D)
Pennsylvania's 5th congressional district represented by Mary Gay Scanlon (D)
Pennsylvania's 6th congressional district represented by Chrissy Houlahan (D)
Pennsylvania's 7th congressional district represented by Susan Wild (D)
Pennsylvania's 8th congressional district represented by Matt Cartwright (D)
Pennsylvania's 9th congressional district represented by Dan Meuser (R)
Pennsylvania's 10th congressional district represented by Scott Perry (R)
Pennsylvania's 11th congressional district represented by Lloyd Smucker (R)
Pennsylvania's 12th congressional district represented by Summer Lee (D)
Pennsylvania's 13th congressional district represented by John Joyce (R)
Pennsylvania's 14th congressional district represented by Guy Reschenthaler (R)
Pennsylvania's 15th congressional district represented by Glenn Thompson (R)
Pennsylvania's 16th congressional district represented by Mike Kelly (R)
Pennsylvania's 17th congressional district represented by Chris Deluzio (D)

Pennsylvania's two United States Senators are Democrats Bob Casey Jr. and John Fetterman, serving since 2007 and 2023, respectively. 

Pennsylvania is part of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, United States District Court for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, and United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania in the federal judiciary. The district's cases are appealed to the Philadelphia-based United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

See also
Government of Pennsylvania
Elections in Pennsylvania
Political party strength in Pennsylvania

References

3.^ "Correbett Could be the First Governor to lose Re-election in PA History" [Michael LaRosa, http://www.msnbc.com/hardball/corbett-could-be-first-governor-lose-re-el]

4.^ "Pennsylvania Governor Tom Corrbett loses Election" , Reid Wilson

External links