[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mud March (American Civil War)

The Mud March was an abortive offensive in January 1863 by Union Army Major General Ambrose Burnside in the American Civil War. 

Burnside had been repulsed by Robert E. Lee's troops in the Army of the Potomac's first attempt to cross the Rappahannock River in an attempt to take the Confederate capitol of Richmond, VA. The Mud March was Burnside's second attempt at crossing the Rappahannock. 

The strategy was sound in theory, but it failed because of dissension among generals in the Army of the Potomac, compounded by severe winter storms.

History
Following his defeat in the disastrous Battle of Fredericksburg in December 1862, Burnside was desperate to restore his reputation and the morale of his Army of the Potomac. The day after Christmas, he began making preparations for a new offensive. This would involve feints at the fords upstream of Fredericksburg to distract the Confederates while he took the bulk of the Army across the Rappahannock River seven miles south of town. Finally, he planned for a cavalry operation on a grand scale, something that had never been done so far in the Eastern Theater, where so far Union horsemen had performed poorly and suffered repeated embarrassments at the hands of their Confederate foes.

Burnside detailed 1500 troopers for this planned operation. Five hundred of them would create a distracting feint in the Warrenton-Culpeper direction and then withdraw back to Falmouth. Meanwhile, the main force was to cross at Kelly's Ford and swing south and west in a wide arc, all the way around and south of Richmond and ultimately arriving at Suffolk on the coast where a Union force under Brigadier General John J. Peck was based. Then transport ships would take them back to Falmouth.

It was an imaginative and inspired plan, but once again doomed to failure. The cavalry set off on their journey, but almost as soon as they reached Kelly's Ford, Burnside received a telegram from President Abraham Lincoln, stating flatly "No major army movements are to be made without first informing the White House." He was left bewildered at how the President had found out, since he had told no one except a few intimates about his plans, and even most of the army's high-ranking officers didn't know about it.

Burnside had been betrayed by conspirators in his own camp, specifically Brigadier General John Newton and Brigadier General John Cochrane, division and brigade commanders in the VI Corps. The day after New Year's Day, the two took a leave of absence and headed up to Washington D.C., with the intention of meeting with Senator Henry Wilson and Congressman Moses Odell of New York, both important heads of both Senate and House of Representatives Congressional defense committees. The generals forgot that Congress was in recess for the holidays and neither representative was in town.

As Cochrane himself had been a congressman at the start of the war, he had political connections and thus got in a meeting with Secretary of State William H. Seward, who then arranged for them to meet the president. As the senior of the two officers, Newton spoke first. He told Lincoln that the Army of the Potomac was in terrible shape now, such that it would likely fall apart if Burnside tried to start another campaign. However, his choice of wording was vague and he failed to properly explain what he meant. Later on, Newton would argue "I could not have told the president that none of the privates had any confidence in General Burnside," even though that was the principal reason he'd come to Washington.

Lincoln assumed he was simply meeting with two scheming officers who were out to take their superior's job, something he'd already seen all too often. Cochrane assured that neither of them had any ulterior motives and simply wished to keep the president informed on developments he needed to know. Newton then repeated his warning that conditions had gotten to the point where the army would disintegrate in the event Burnside lost another battle along the Rappahannock. The two left, suggesting that Lincoln ought to look into things himself.

After receiving Lincoln's telegram, Burnside headed to the White House himself to investigate. The president told him that two generals who would remain anonymous had told him about his plans and the army's deteriorating condition. Burnside angrily protested that these officers, whoever they were, deserved to be court-martialed. General-in-Chief Henry Halleck (who was in the room just then) agreed. More importantly, Lincoln argued that there seemed to be a considerable disconnect between the commanding general and his subordinates.