[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wood Green ricin plot

retary of State Colin Powell's 5 February 2003 speech to the UN to build the case for the 2003 invasion of Iraq, as part of the alleged Abu Musab al-Zarqawi global terrorist network. As late as February 2006, Chancellor Gordon Brown described it as a significant terrorism plot spanning 26 countries.

Timeline of arrests and announcements
 5 January 2003 – Police raided a flat above a pharmacy at 352 High Road, Wood Green, north London, and arrested six men on suspicion of manufacturing ricin intended for use in a terrorist poison attack on the London Underground.
 7 January — A seventh man was arrested.
 12 January — Five men and a woman were arrested in the Bournemouth area for terrorism involving ricin, but released without charge several days later.
 14 January — Three men were arrested in Crumpsall, north Manchester, in a raid to detain a man who had been certified under part 4 of the Anti-terrorism, Crime and Security Act 2001. Detective Constable Stephen Oake died after being stabbed eight times with a kitchen knife by Kamel Bourgass who was also there.
 20 January — Police raided and closed the Finsbury Park mosque for several days as part of the investigation. Seven men were arrested; another was arrested in London the next day.
 5 February – Colin Powell, the United States Secretary of State, referred to those arrested as the "UK poison cell" of a global terrorist network in making a case for military intervention in Iraq to the United Nations Security Council. A week later he testified to the Committee on International Relations of the United States House of Representatives that this ricin had originated in Iraq, though this was disputed immediately.
 11 March — The Home Secretary issued control orders against ten terrorist suspects just released from detention connecting them to the ricin plot, even though it was alleged to have occurred while they were in custody. Letters of apology were sent two weeks later explaining that it was a "clerical error", but that they were still terrorist suspects.
 21 March — Two vials falsely testing positive as ricin are found in a train station in Paris. These were said to be connected to an attack on the Russian embassy, until further tests proved that they were jars of wheat germ.
 16 September — Several of the men were re-arrested to face deportation on terrorism charges based on information from a prisoner in Algeria. One of them, who in 1997 was sentenced to death in absentia by an Algerian court, continued to fight his deportation. Two of the jurors who found him not guilty at his trial expressed their sense of anger and betrayal at his subsequent treatment.

Trials
On 30 June 2004, Kamel Bourgass was convicted for the murder of DC Stephen Oake during his arrest and was jailed for life with a minimum tariff of 22 years. During periods of his imprisonment, Bourgass has been placed in segregation after he was accused by prison authorities of involvement in attacks on other prisoners and attempts to force other inmates to convert to Islam.

The trials of five defendants, including Bourgass, for conspiracy to commit murder and as part of a ricin plot, began in September and lasted until 8 April 2005. Bourgass alone was convicted and sentenced to 17 years for conspiring to cause a public nuisance by "plotting to spread ricin and other poisons on the UK's streets". Mouloud Sihali and David Khalef are convicted of possessing false passports.

On 12 April 2005 the jury was dismissed after failing to reach a verdict on the charge of conspiring to commit murder, and a second trial of four further defendants was abandoned before it started.

There had been a blanket ban on the media reporting on anything involving the Bourgass case for two years until the trial had ended. In October 2005, Eliza Manningham-Buller, the Director General of MI5, revealed that the evidence which uncovered the so-called ricin plot came from Mohamed Meguerba, a man who jumped bail and fled to Algeria where he was detained and probably subjected to torture.

In the investigation spurred by the plot, dozens of houses raided and over 100 people were arrested.

Criticisms

On 13 April 2005, Jon Silverman, a legal affairs correspondent for the BBC wrote:
[I]s this case... notable for the way in which criminal investigations are shamelessly exploited for political purposes by governments in the UK and United States, whether to justify the invasion of Iraq or the introduction of new legislation to restrict civil liberties?

A key unexplained issue is why the Porton Down laboratory, which analysed the material and equipment seized from a flat in Wood Green, said that a residue of ricin had been found when it had not.