[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sal Rinauro

Salvatore Rinauro (born September 12, 1982) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his work in Ring of Honor, Full Impact Pro and National Wrestling Alliance in addition to being a member of The Embassy. He currently wrestles for WrestleMerica NWA Power, Southern Fried Championship Wrestling, Anarchy Wrestling and others.

Profressional Wrestling Career

Ring of Honor (2005–2006)
After honing his skills at NWA Wildside as well as winning the promotion's Junior Heavyweight Championship, Rinauro debuted under the name "Mellow" as a member of Special K in Ring of Honor. After beating Antonio Blanca earlier in the show, Rinauro (now using his real name) competed for and won a Ring of Honor Contract by defeating Steve Madison, Claudio Castagnoli, and Jerrelle Clark at Do or Die 5 on August 20, 2005. Rinauro, along with Tony Mamaluke, won the ROH World Tag Team Championship at the show Joe vs. Kobashi on October 1, 2005, by defeating B. J. Whitmer and Jimmy Jacobs. During their reign, they successfully defended against teams such as Whitmer and Jacobs, Homicide and Ricky Reyes, and Colt Cabana and Milano Collection A.T. They lost the title to Austin Aries and Roderick Strong of Generation Next at Final Battle 2005 on December 17, 2005. Rinauro also appeared at Total Nonstop Action Wrestling's Slammiversary event in 2005, as a fan who was attacked by Jeff Jarrett before the King of the Mountain match, causing Jarrett to be (storyline) arrested.

After losing the title, Rinauro competed in the 2006 Trios Tournament at Tag Wars 2006 with Tony Mamaluke and Jay Fury, competing against the likes of The Briscoe Brothers. In 2006, Rinauro's partner Tony Mamaluke signed with World Wrestling Entertainment to be a part of the new ECW brand, leaving Rinauro to start a singles career once more. At Death Before Dishonor IV, it was revealed that Rinauro was the newest member of The Embassy. That night, he teamed with fellow Embassy member Jimmy Rave and they successfully defeated Colt Cabana and Jay Lethal.

The two continued teaming for a few months, but after the Embassy disbanded, the team suffered a roadblock. On October 28, 2006, Rave split the team up. Since then, Rinauro makes occasional appearances in ROH.

Full Impact Pro (2005–2008)
Rinauro also works for ROH's sister promotion Full Impact Pro. He achieved tag team success in FIP after winning the Tag Team Championship once with Spanky by defeating Jimmy Rave and "Fast" Eddie Vegas on August 6, 2005. After a singular title defense against Rave and his new tag partner Jay Lethal on September 2, they lost the title to The Heartbreak Express that same night. He also won the Florida Heritage Championship by defeating Erick Stevens on November 9, 2007. After successful title defenses against Tyler Black, Delirious, and Joey Ryan, he dropped the title to Chris Jones on October 11, 2008.

Deep South Wrestling (2007)
On July 26, 2007, Rinauro and Caleb Konley defeated Simon Sermon and "Pretty Boy" Floyd to win the vacant Tag Team Championship. Rinauro and Konely would end up being the final DSW Tag Team Champions after DSW closed down on October 11, 2007.

Independent circuit
Currently, Rinauro can be found wrestling throughout the Georgia independent circuit, including Rampage Pro Wrestling, Great Championship Wrestling, NWA Anarchy, Independent Wrestling Network and Southern Extreme Championship Wrestling.

He appeared as an enhancement talent on the November 18, 2008 edition of ECW where he was defeated by the debuting DJ Gabriel.

In October 2009, Rinauro wrestled on two shows for Chikara, being defeated by Mike Quackenbush and Claudio Castagnoli.

Sal Rinauro made a volunteer appearance for Great Championship Wrestling in Phenix City on February 12, 2009, as part of the Miracle of Maegan event to benefit Maegan Johnson, a local girl who suffered a brain trama just several weeks prior. Rinauro teamed with another volunteer, Austin "Consequences" Creed as part of the Road to Goad Tournament, defeating John Bogie & Kareem Abdul Jamar (now Chikara's Sugar Dunkerton) before falling to the Southside Trash.

Rinauro became a permanent fixture in Great Championship Wrestling based on his initial appearance, and now wrestles weekly for the promotion. Currently the GCW Interstate Champion, Rinauro has embroiled in several feuds, with "Suicidal All Star" Mike Kross, "The Urban Legend" Murder One, and former Embassy associate and tag team partner in ROH, Jimmy Rave.  Recently GCW secured a television deal to broadcast on cable 24 in Atlanta Georgia; the Pilot broadcast featured the main event of Sal Rinauro vs. Murder One, and the second broadcast featured a main event of him vs. Mike Kross.