[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bill Bradley (American football)

r an interception with 248. These achievements did not draw widespread attention, though, as the Eagles' record for those 2 years was 6–7–1 and 2–11–1; and the Eagles never made the playoffs during Bradley's tenure. He played his final year as the Eagle free safety in 1976, replaced by John Sanders.

Bradley would later recount that during his years with the Eagles, he would spend nights out on dates with members of the Philadelphia Phillies usherettes. 

In 1977, Philadelphia traded Bradley to the Minnesota Vikings for a 7th round draft pick, but the Vikings cut him in training camp in favor of Paul Krause. Bradley went into retirement, working in his family's restaurant in Palestine, but in November of that year he was signed by the St. Louis Cardinals when Mike Sensibaugh broke his leg.  He had been asked to come back by other teams – including Houston, Oakland and Pittsburgh, but only accepted with St. Louis because they looked to be playoff-bound. But they lost all their remaining games that season and stayed home. Bradley played four games as a defensive back with the Cardinals and then retired for good.

Bradley is a member of the Texas High School, University of Texas, Philadelphia Eagles and Texas Sports Halls of Fame.

Records
 Eagles – Interceptions, season (11)
 Eagles – Interceptions, career (34), tied by Brian Dawkins and Eric Allen
 Eagles – Interception return yards, season (249)
 Eagles – Interception return yards, career (536)

Coaching career
After retiring from the NFL, Bradley worked an assortment of jobs. He had invested in a sports management company based in Philadelphia, but sold his shares in 1980 and went back to Palestine where he bought a farm and ran a gas station he owned. He also worked as a host on Norwegian Cruise lines in the 1980s and '90s.

Bradley's first coaching assignment was as defensive backs coach for the San Antonio Gunslingers of the fledgling USFL in 1983–1984. From there he moved on to the Memphis Showboats with head coach Pepper Rodgers in 1985. When the USFL folded, Bradley went back to The University of Texas as a voluntary assistant coach in 1987 for new head coach David McWilliams. He was then hired by head coach Wally Buono as the defensive back coach and defensive coordinator for the Calgary Stampeders of the Canadian Football League from 1988 to 1990.

Coach Mike Riley asked Bradley to coach the secondary for him in the World League of American Football (WLAF) as his defensive back coach from 1991 to 1993. Bradley then went back to the CFL and coached with Kay Stephenson for the Sacramento Gold Miners/San Antonio Texans in 1994–1995 as defensive coordinator before moving back to Canada with the Toronto Argonauts. There he helped win two Grey Cups in 1996 and 1997.

Success in Canada gave Bradley his first chance to coach in the NFL. From 1998 to 2000, he served as defensive backs coach for Wade Phillips, Ted Cottrell and the Buffalo Bills before moving to the same position with the New York Jets from 2001 to 2003.

Bradley returned to college coaching when his former Eagle teammate Guy Morriss hired him to be defensive coordinator for 2004–2006 at Baylor University. He then returned to the NFL to reunite with Defensive Coordinator Ted Cottrell as the San Diego Chargers secondary coach from 2006 to 2008. In early 2009, Bradley and three other assistants were fired.

During 2009 and 2010, he was the secondary coach for the Florida Tuskers of the United Football League. Bradley was hired to be the secondary coach of the Hartford Colonials in the UFL but the league pulled the plug on the team for lack of funds before he could coach a game.

In 2012, Bradley was hired by Ray Woodard as the defensive coordinator of the Lamar Cardinals football team. He retired from Lamar, and from coaching, in 2014, in part to help take care of his stepson who had suffered brain trauma as the result of a violent attack.

In 2018, Bradley was named the defensive backs coach of the San Antonio Commanders of the AAF.

References

External links
 Baylor profile 
 Lamar profile
 Texas stats

1947 births
Living people
American football quarterbacks
American football punters
American football safeties
New York Jets coaches
Baylor Bears football coaches
Buffalo Bills coaches
Calgary Stampeders coaches
Florida Tuskers coaches
Hartford Colonials coaches
Lamar Cardinals football coaches
Philadelphia Eagles players
Sacramento Gold Miners coaches
San Antonio Commanders coaches
San Antonio Riders coaches
San Antonio Texans coaches
San Diego Chargers coaches
St. Louis Cardinals (football) players
Texas Longhorns football coaches
Texas Longhorns football players
Toronto Argonauts coaches
United States Football League coaches
National Conference Pro Bowl players
People from Palestine, Texas
Players of American football from Texas