[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 176]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

rom their sins, and bring them into
his Everlasting Kingdome, to be saved for evermore. Of which we are to
speak in the Chapter following.



CHAPTER XLI. OF THE OFFICE OF OUR BLESSED SAVIOUR




Three Parts Of The Office Of Christ

We find in Holy Scripture three parts of the Office of the Messiah: the
first of a Redeemer, or Saviour: The second of a Pastor, Counsellour,
or Teacher, that is, of a Prophet sent from God, to convert such as God
hath elected to Salvation; The third of a King, and Eternall King, but
under his Father, as Moses and the High Priests were in their severall
times. And to these three parts are corespondent three times. For our
Redemption he wrought at his first coming, by the Sacrifice, wherein
he offered up himself for our sinnes upon the Crosse: our conversion
he wrought partly then in his own Person; and partly worketh now by his
Ministers; and will continue to work till his coming again. And after
his coming again, shall begin that his glorious Reign over his elect,
which is to last eternally.




His Office As A Redeemer

To the Office of a Redeemer, that is, of one that payeth the Ransome of
Sin, (which Ransome is Death,) it appertaineth, that he was Sacrificed,
and thereby bare upon his own head, and carryed away from us our
iniquities, in such sort as God had required. Not that the death of one
man, though without sinne, can satisfie for the offences of all men,
in the rigour of Justice, but in the Mercy of God, that ordained such
Sacrifices for sin, as he was pleased in his mercy to accept. In the old
Law (as we may read, Leviticus the 16.) the Lord required, that there
should every year once, bee made an Atonement for the Sins of all
Israel, both Priests, and others; for the doing whereof, Aaron alone was
to sacrifice for himself and the Priests a young Bullock; and for the
rest of the people, he was to receive from them two young Goates, of
which he was to Sacrifice one; but as for the other, which was the Scape
Goat, he was to lay his hands on the head thereof, and by a confession
of the iniquities of the people, to lay them all on that head, and then
by some opportune man, to cause the Goat to be led into the wildernesse,
and there to Escape, and carry away with him the iniquities of the
people. As the Sacrifice of the one Goat was a sufficient (because an
acceptable) price for the Ransome of all Israel; so the death of the
Messiah, is a sufficient price, for the Sins of all mankind, because
there was no more required. Our Saviour Christs sufferings seem to be
here figured, as cleerly, as in the oblation of Isaac, or in any other
type of him in the Old Testament: He was both the sacrificed Goat, and
the Scape Goat; "Hee was oppressed, and he was afflicted (Isa. 53.7.);
he opened not his mouth; he brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a
sheep is dumbe before the shearer, so opened he not his mouth:" Here he
is the Sacrificed Goat. "He hath born our Griefs, (ver.4.) and carried
our sorrows;" And again, (ver. 6.) "the Lord hath laid upon him the
iniquities of us all:" And so he is the Scape Goat. "He was cut off from
the land of the living (ver. 8.) for the transgression of my People:"
There again he is the Sacrificed Goat. And again (ver. 11.) "he shall
bear their sins:" Hee is the Scape Goat. Thus is the Lamb of God
equivalent to both those Goates; sacrificed, in that he dyed; and
escaping, in his Resurrection; being raised opportunely by his Father,
and removed from the habitation of men in his Ascension.




Christs Kingdome Not Of This World

For as much therefore, as he that Redeemeth, hath no title to the Thing
Redeemed, before the Redemption, and Ransome paid; and this Ransome was
the Death of the Redeemer; it is manifest, that our Saviour (as man) was
not King of those that he Redeemed, before hee suffered death; that is,
during that time hee conversed bodily on the Earth. I say, he was not
then King in present, by vertue of the Pact, which the faithfull make
with him in Baptisme; Neverthelesse, by the renewing of their Pact with
God in Baptisme, they were obliged to obey him for King, (under his
Father) whensoever he should be pleased to take the Kingdome upon him.
According whereunto, our Saviour himself expressely saith, (John 18.36.)
"My Kingdome is not of this world." Now seeing the Scripture maketh
mention but of two worlds; this that is now, and shall remain to the day
of Judgment, (which is therefore also called, The Last Day;) and that
which shall bee a new Heaven, and a new Earth; the Kingdome of Christ
is not to begin till the general Resurrection. And that is it which our
Saviour saith, (Mat. 16.27.) "The Son of man shall come in the glory
of his Father, with his Angels; and then he shall reward every man
according to his works." To reward every man according to his works, is
to execute the Office of a King; and this is not to be till he come in
the glory of