[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Daniel M. Frost

rmy of Gen. Braxton Bragg, and then in October was assigned to the Trans-Mississippi Department. Frost led a division into action at the Battle of Prairie Grove in the corps of Maj. Gen. Thomas C. Hindman. On March 2, 1863, Hindman was relieved of duty and replaced by Frost in Little Rock, Arkansas.

In August 1863, Frost's wife was forced from their home in St. Louis because of the family's ardent Confederate sympathies and had taken the children and moved to Canada for safety and refuge. Frost reacted quickly upon hearing the news. He left the army, without first obtaining any official approval or permission, and traveled to Canada to join his family. Frost was listed as a deserter by the Confederate Army, and in December the Confederate War Department officially dropped Frost from the muster rolls. Frost stayed in Canada for the rest of the war and did not return to Missouri until late 1865.

Later life

Following the war, Frost became a farmer on his land near St. Louis. His second wife died in the early 1870s and Frost later married a third time in 1880, this time to a young widow Catherine Cates (1840-1900) with two children. The couple had two children of their own. In 1875, Frost's daughter Jane Graham married Sir Lewis Molesworth, 11th Baronet.

General Frost spend much of his time in his later years simultaneously explaining: to Unionists that in May 1861 he had not engaged in pro-Confederate plotting, and to ex-Confederates that he had not deserted from the Confederate States Army in 1863. While Frost wrote many post-war articles attempting to explain his contradictory actions during the American Civil War, his memoirs do not address the Civil War period. From 1891 to 1892 he was president of the Aztec Club of 1847.

Death and legacy

At the age of 77, Frost died at Hazelwood, his estate in what is now Berkeley, Missouri (suburban St. Louis). He is interred at Calvary Cemetery, Section 18.

Saint Louis University named its main campus "The Frost Campus" to honor the General after his daughter Mrs. Harriet Frost Fordyce contributed $1,000,000 to the University in 1962. Ironically, part of the Frost Campus covers the former "Camp Jackson" militia encampment site.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

References

Further reading
 .
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Miller, Robert E., "Daniel Marsh Frost, C.S.A." Missouri Historical Review #85 (July 1991).
 .
 . See also Official Records of the American Civil War
.

External links
 
 
   
 

1823 births
1900 deaths
American proslavery activists
19th-century American politicians
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Burials at Calvary Cemetery (St. Louis)
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
Confederate militia generals
Members of the Aztec Club of 1847
Missouri State Guard
Missouri state senators
People from Duanesburg, New York
People of Missouri in the American Civil War
United States Army officers
United States Military Academy alumni
Northern-born Confederates
Winthrop family