[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Economic history of Turkey

xes, and a pledge to accelerate privatization of state economic enterprises (SEEs). Some observers questioned the credibility of these measures, given that the tax measures translated into a revenue increase equivalent to 4 percent of GDP and the expenditure cuts were equivalent to 6 percent of GDP.

The government actually succeeded in generating a small surplus in the budget during the second quarter of 1994, mainly as a result of higher taxes, after running a deficit of 17 percent of GDP in the first quarter. The slowdown in government spending, a sharp loss in business confidence, and the resulting decline in economic activity reduced tax revenues, however. The fiscal crisis resulted in a decline in real GDP of 5 percent in 1994 after the economy had grown briskly in 1992 and 1993. Real wages also fell in 1994: average nominal wage increases of 65 percent were about 20 percent below the rate of consumer price inflation.

Analysts pointed out that despite the fragility of the macroeconomic adjustment process and the susceptibility of fiscal policy to political pressures, the government continued to be subject to market checks and balances. Combined with a stronger private sector, particularly on the export front, the economy was expected to bounce back to a pattern of faster growth.

A comprehensive research in Journal of Developing Economies which was authored by Mete Feridun of University of Greenwich Business School, report statistical evidence that currency crises in Turkey during this period are associated with global liquidity conditions, fiscal imbalances, capital outflows, and banking sector weaknesses 

A more recent research by Mete Feridun which was published in Emerging Markets Finance and Trade investigates the hypothesis that there is a causal relation between speculative pressure and real exchange rate overvaluation, banking-sector fragility, and the level of international reserves in Turkey shedding more light on Turkey's economic history of 1990s.

Consequences of the new economic policy 
As a result of the rapid growth of population and the rapid progress of industrialization, Turkey's urbanization has also led to corresponding changes in the social structure, shaping a new social class.

The consequences of the new economic policy are the violent fluctuations in the economic field, the intensification of the polarization between the rich and the poor, which has a wide-ranging social influence and profound political influence. It is the historical background for the emergence of Islamism in the Turkish political arena. The inflation rate was lower than 40% in the early 1980s, 70% in 1987, and 120.1% in 1992. In 1987, 20% of the rich had a 49.8% income; in 1994, 20% of the rich had a 50% income.

On the one hand, modern industrial workers have gradually emerged and become important social forces; on the other hand, the shanty towns where rural immigrants live have expanded year by year, and the urban poor have expanded dramatically. The 1950s was the fastest stage of urbanization. In the 1980s, the number of shanty towns around the city, the number of people living in the city, and the proportion of the urban population showed a significant upward trend. With the expansion of shanty towns around the city and the rapid expansion of the urban poor, the opposition between the rich and the poor in urban society has become increasingly prominent, and the collapse of the traditional order has led to the state of helplessness and serious unemployment in the lower classes moving from rural to urban areas, providing radical forces and soils that are highly inclined to breed.

Early 21st century 

In the 21st century, the economy of Turkey has prospered thanks to a long period of steady economic growth, well above the average of the 1990s. It has become one of the world's emerging economies and one of the fastest growing countries in the world with a strong industrial base caused by an economic boom in the 2000s. In addition, Turkey's economic situation was relatively prosperous during the 2008 global financial crisis. The Turkish government has developed a series of macroeconomic policies in accordance with the new economic plan and the Turkish government has used the new government structure and cooperated with the International Monetary Fund, which has led to some good effects, including reducing the unemployment rate, higher education level, and increasing life expectancy. As a result, real GDP growth made Turkey one of the fastest growing countries in the 2000s. Turkish geopolitical strategy and geography are extremely important as it is the crossroads connecting Europe and Asia. Turkey is a founding member of the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development, a member of the G20 and the NATO, and a candidate for the European Union.