[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rainiai massacre

rs and perpetrators were Jewish, the Nazi German occupying force produced propaganda blaming Jewish Bolshevik activists for the massacre. Perversely, in 1942, Soviet planes dropped propaganda pamphlets in Samogitia asking Who are those "Bolshevik martyrs"? and blaming German forces for the massacre.

The local citizenry were well aware of the Soviet responsibility and in 1942, planned to build a chapel, designed by Jonas Virakas, to honor and remember the victims of the massacre.  However, as the Soviet Union reoccupied the area again in 1944, it was not built. Throughout the Soviet occupation, discussion of the massacre was suppressed, and it was not permitted to hold memorial services commemorating it.  Despite this, local people, under threat of arrest used to build crosses at the site of the Rainiai massacre; the crosses were periodically demolished by the Soviet authorities, only to spring up again.

The political organization Sąjūdis began to discuss the massacre more openly in 1988, during the glasnost policy of Soviet general secretary Mikhail Gorbachev.

After Lithuania regained its independence, a chapel designed by Algirdas Žebrauskas was built in the Telšiai cemetery. Funded by donations, it was built in 1991, and became one of the first memorials to be erected for the people who were killed by the Soviet authorities during the Soviet occupation of Lithuania (1940–1941 and 1944–1991).

Prosecutions

The perpetrators of the massacre continued to hold high positions in the Soviet Union; some were awarded various medals. Pyotr Raslan, for example, was employed as an official in the Soviet Ministry of Religious Affairs.

After the dissolution of the Soviet Union, those perpetrators who had remained in Lithuania, fled to Russia and Israel. Lithuania requested their extradition to put them on trial, which Russia has refused, saying of one he is 'too ill to be tried'. Some of the perpetrators have since died.

In 2001, the Šiauliai Area Court in northwest Lithuania issued a verdict finding a former officer of the NKVD, Pyotr Raslan, guilty of genocide against Lithuanian civilians and sentenced him in absentia, to life in prison.  He remained protected by the Russian authorities and in 2004, Vytautas Landsbergis, urged the Lithuanian President, to boycott the Victory Day celebrations in Moscow, for this reason (among other reasons).

Documentation
The massacre was well documented by both the Lithuanians and the Soviets. Examination of the bodies was done after the exhumation. The full account of the tortures and wounds inflicted on the victims was given by the surgeons who had examined the exhumed bodies, such as Dr. Leonardas Plechavičius and others. After the war Dr. Plechavičius delivered a speech before the US House of Representatives about the massacre. An investigation was carried out. In 1942 the first book about the massacre was published ("Rainių kankiniai"). The Soviet authorities attempted to document the events that took place in the first days after Germany invaded "Soviet" territory. Most of the communists of Lithuania had fled to Russia when the invasion began, some were asked to write their testimonies of the events. The Rainiai massacre was explained in the testimonies of the communists who were based in Telšiai. The leaders of Lithuanian SSR asked the perpetrators of the massacre to write these testimonies after Antanas Bimba, a Lithuanian communist who was living in United States and sending aid to USSR, found out about the massacre and demanded an explanation.

Gallery

References

Further reading 
"Telšiai Region. History and Cultural Heritage" - Adomas Butrimas.
"Telšių ir Kretingos kontrrevoliucionieriai fašistai ir jų siekimai" - A testimony of the events by Domas Rocius, a Lithuanian communist.
"Rainių kankiniai".
"Rainių tragedija" - Arvydas Anušauskas, Birutė Burauskaitė.

Massacres in 1941
Political repression in the Soviet Union
Political and cultural purges
Massacres committed by the Soviet Union
Massacres in the Soviet Union
People's Government of Lithuania
World War II massacres
1941 in Lithuania
Massacres in Lithuania
Soviet World War II crimes
NKVD
1941 in the Soviet Union
June 1941 events
Anti-Lithuanian sentiment