[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Eric Cline

t Prairie drought reduced revenues further, and he needed to access the fund again later in the year (National Post, 28 November 2002).  In December 2002, Cline and his government reduced fees and taxes in the oil industry to encourage further provincial development (Reuters News, 16 December 2003).

Cline endorsed Lorne Nystrom for the leadership of the federal New Democratic Party in September 2002, and was part of Nystrom's campaign team (Canadian Press, 19 September 2002).  At the party's 2003 convention, Cline argued that Nystrom was best positioned to "speak to the realities of the market economy and how to generate wealth" while also affirming the role of public programs "to maximize equality of opportunity" (Canadian Press, 22 January 2003).  Nystrom finished third against Jack Layton.

Cline's third-quarter update in January 2003 showed a surplus of $100,000, maintained by the stabilization fund.  While acknowledging the surplus, the auditor general suggested that the government was concealing some economic difficulties by transferring funds among departments and crown corporations (Canadian Press, 30 January 2003).

After serving as Finance Minister for over five years, Cline was reassigned as Minister of Justice and Attorney-General and as Minister of Industry in February 2003.  He replaced the retiring Chris Axworthy in the former position, and Eldon Laudermilch in the latter. Jim Melenchuk was chosen as Cline's successor in Finance.

Minister of Justice

Cline announced in late February 2003 that the province would hold an inquiry into the death of Neil Stonechild, a seventeen-year-old aboriginal youth who was found frozen to death in 1990.  His death was ruled accidental, but many believe he was abandoned outside of town by members of the police force.  Both the Federation of Saskatchewan Indian Nations and the Saskatoon Police Association welcomed the decision for an inquiry (Canadian Press, 20 February 2003).

Cline also announced that Saskatchewan would become the first province to completely protect Registered Retirement Savings Plans (RRSPs) and related funds from creditors, in the event of bankruptcy (Canadian Press, 25 February 2003).

In June 2003, Cline announced that the Saskatchewan government would charge David Ahenakew with promoting hatred.  Ahenakew, once a respected aboriginal leader, had delivered a speech describing Jews as a "disease" who deserved to be "fried" in The Holocaust.  The Canadian Jewish Congress commended Cline for his courage in bringing the case before the courts (Globe and Mail, 12 June 2003).

In October 2003, Cline announced that the Saskatchewan government would establish a commission to investigate the wrongful conviction of David Milgaard in 1969 (Kitchener-Waterloo Record, 1 October 2003).

Minister of Industry and Resources

In June 2003, Cline led a Saskatchewan trade delegation to an international conference on biotechnology in Washington, D.C.  His intent was to develop international contacts, and specifically to export Saskatchewan's biotechnology expertise to India (Broadcast News, 17 June 2003).  The initiative was reported as a success (Saskatchewan Business, 1 September 2003).

The NDP narrowly recovered their majority government in the 2003 provincial election.  Cline, once again re-elected without difficulty, was appointed to a restructured Ministry of Industry and Resources while yielding the Justice portfolio.  He also became Chair of the Liquor and Gaming Authority, and minister responsible for the Saskatchewan Research Council, Saskatchewan Opportunities Corporation, Tourism Saskatchewan, Information Services Corporation of Saskatchewan, and Investment Saskatchewan (formerly known as Crown Investments Corp.).  In December 2003, he announced that Titanium Corporation Inc. would construct the world's first Mineral Sands Processing Facility at the Regina Research Park (Market News Publishing, 12 December 2003).

As chair of the Liquor and Gaming Authority, Cline approved plans for a new casino on the Whitecap Dakota Sioux reserve in August 2004.  The provincial auditor general had previously raised concerns about the Saskatchewan Indian Gaming Authority's accounting methods.  Cline acknowledged that the SIGA had made significant improvements in recent years, and indicated that the government would hold the casino's profits in trust if further concerns were not resolved (Canadian Press, 7 August 2004).