[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rana Husseini

ranslated to English, Arabic, Dutch, and Finnish.

The book was published in 2009 by Oneworld Publications and is distributed in the United States by Simon & Schuster.

Reviews on the book:

 BBC
 DemocracyNOW
 PBS
 SMH
 HuffingtonPost
 The Guardian

Years of Struggle: The Women's Movement in Jordan

Rana Husseini's second book focuses on the women's movement in Jordan. It begins with a history of the development of women's political activity in the twentieth century from the 1940s to the 1990s. The book includes a discussion of the impact of the Arab Spring on the Jordanian Women's Movement, as well as chapters on disabled women, women's education and the Syrian refugee crisis. The author stated that her book was designed for younger generations because "they need to know our history, told by Jordanians". The publication of the book was supported by the Friedrich-Ebert-Stiftung Jordan Office, and the book is available open access online.

Reviews on the book:

 DAWN MENA
 Alaraby
 JordanTimes
 Albawaba
 Raseef22
 ALGhad
 ALRai
 Petra News

Other publications: 
She contributed chapters in:

 The "Abraham’s Children: Liberty and Tolerance in an Age of Religious Conflict” book.
 The "Honour, Violence, Women and Islam" book.
 The "Freedom House's Survey of Women's Rights in the Middle East and North Africa" report.
 The “A Modern Narrative for Muslim Women in the Middle East.” report.

She was also featured and mentioned in four books:

 “Leap of Faith…Memories of an Unexpected Life,” by Her Majesty Queen Noor.
 “Speak Truth to Power” by Kerry Kennedy.
 “That Takes Ovaries… Bold Females and their Brazen Acts” edited by Rivka Solomon.
 "Notable Muslims: Profiles of Muslim Builders of World Civilization and Culture" by Natana J. Delong-Bas

Recognition 
She has received multiple local and international awards including: a medal from Jordan's King Abdullah II in 2007, the Ida B. Wells award for Bravery in Journalism in 2003, the Human Rights Watch Award in 2000, the Reebok Human Rights Award in 1998, and the MEDNEWS prize award for best article in 1995. She is also featured in Kerry Kennedy's book Speak Truth to Power: Human Rights Defenders Who Are Changing Our World.

Awards: 
 The London Arabia Organisation Arab Women of the Year Awards for Social Impact — 2019
 The Moves Magazine’s Seventh Annual Power Women Award for the dedication, drive in the chosen sphere, and for the inspiration to so many women and making a difference in real lives — 2010
 Al Hussein Decoration for Distinguished Contribution, Second Order, bestowed by His Majesty King Abdullah II for activism in the human rights field and defending women causes in Jordan — 2007
 Distinguished Alumna Award from the Oklahoma City University Alumni Association for the significant contribution made in the profession and community — 2007
 Spanish Ciutat de L'Hospitalet Award for the Defence of Human Rights and Peaceful Coexistence for work on championing women's rights issues in Jordan — 2005
 Marie Claire Top Ten Women of the World Award for bringing attention to honor crimes against women in Jordan — 2004
 The Ida B. Wells Award for Bravery in Journalism – 2003
 Human Rights Watch Award granted for the overall reporting and activism against violence against women in Jordan – 2000
 Reebok Human Rights Award granted for reporting on violence against women in Jordan – 1998
 MEDNEWS (Med-Media Programme, European Union) prize award for best article: "Murder in the name of honour" – 1995

Other recognitions: 

 Chosen as one of 500 most influential Muslims by the Royal Islamic Strategic Studies Centre of Jordan – 2010
 Chosen as one of 50 Visionaries Who are Changing Your World by Utne Reader - 2009
 The Silent Witness Initiative to honor her life’s work of using her voice for others unable to speak out – 2006
 The Roger Williams University Women’s Centre for her outstanding contribution towards raising global awareness of the issue of [so-called] Honour Killings and sharing her message with the Roger Williams University community – 2006
 Equality Now Organization to honor her for being the first journalist to break the silence on so-called crimes of honor – 2005
 One of Women’s eNews 21 Leaders for the 21st Century for her remarkable work and achievements in a variety of ways to improve women’s lives - 2003
 Feminist Majority Foundation for her unique contribution to the historic struggle for women’s equality and human rights - 2000

External links
 Rana Husseini's web site
 PBS Article about Rana Husseini
 Rana Husseini's book on honour crimes
 Rana Husseini on "Murder in the Name of Honor" - video report by Democracy Now!
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bt7UpcAGnSE
 https://twitter.com/AsfariInstitute/status/1484078195762769928
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CuJ2QBA9q9Q
 https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K9S1zySNsAU

Notes