[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Taxonomy of Banksia

curved styles, and Oncostylis for species with hooked styles. These two sections were then divided into nine and three series respectively. The arrangement into series largely followed Bentham, with series Orthostylis remaining somewhat heterogeneous, and Cyrtostylis remaining highly heterogeneous.

This conventional taxonomic arrangement of Banksia, as provided by George and published in the Flora of Australia series, may be summarised as follows:
Genus Banksia
Subgenus Banksia
Section Banksia
Series Salicinae
Subseries Acclives 
B. dentata – B. plagiocarpa – B. oblongifolia – B. robur
Subseries Integrifoliae 
 B. aquilonia – B. integrifolia – B. conferta – B. paludosa – B. marginata – B. canei – B. saxicola
Series Grandes
B. grandis – B. solandri
Series Banksia
Subseries Banksia
B. serrata – B. aemula – B. ornata
Subseries Cratistylis
B. baxteri – B. speciosa – B. menziesii – B. candolleana – B. sceptrum
Series Crocinae
B. prionotes – B. burdettii – B. hookeriana – B. victoriae
Series Prostratae
B. goodii – B. gardneri – B. chamaephyton – B. blechnifolia – B. repens – B. petiolaris
Series Cyrtostylis
B. media – B. praemorsa – B. epica – B. pilostylis – B. attenuata – B. ashbyi – B. benthamiana – B. audax – B. lullfitzii – B. elderiana – B. laevigata – B. elegans – B. lindleyana
Series Tetragonae
B. lemanniana – B. caleyi – B. aculeata
Series Bauerinae
B. baueri
Series Quercinae
B. quercifolia – B. oreophila
Section Coccinea
B. coccinea
Section Oncostylis
Series Spicigerae
Subseries Spinulosae
B. spinulosa
Subseries Ericifoliae
B. ericifolia
 Subseries Occidentales
B. verticillata – B. seminuda – B. littoralis – B. occidentalis – B. brownii
Series Tricuspidae
B. tricuspis
Series Dryandroidae
B. dryandroides
Series Abietinae
Subseries Nutantes
B. nutans
Subseries Sphaerocarpae  
B. sphaerocarpa – B. micrantha – B. grossa
Subseries Leptophyllae
B. telmatiaea – B. leptophylla – B. lanata – B. scabrella
Subseries Longistyles 
B. violacea – B. incana – B. laricina – B. pulchella – B. meisneri
Subgenus Isostylis
B. ilicifolia – B. oligantha – B. cuneata

Cladistic analyses

Thiele and Ladiges

In 1996, Kevin Thiele and Pauline Ladiges published a cladistic analysis of the genus Banksia in the journal Australian Systematic Botany. As their cladogram differed substantially from the current taxonomic arrangement, they published a revised arrangement that accorded better with their results. Four varieties were promoted to species rank: B. conferta var. penicillata to B. penicillata (now B. conferta subsp. penicillata); B. gardneri var. brevidentata to B. brevidentata; B. gardneri var. hiemalis to B. hiemalis; and B. sphaerocarpa var. dolichostyla to B. dolichostyla. Two new series and eleven subseries were introduced; Banksia sect. Oncostylis and Banksia ser. Crocinae were discarded; and Banksia ser. Cyrtostylis was largely redefined. Six species were left incertae sedis.

Most aspects of Thiele and Ladiges' arrangement were not accepted by George in his 1999 revision. He stated that "the infrageneric classification and systematic sequence presented here are modified from that of George (1981) and take into account new data revealed in the work of Thiele & Ladiges (1996)", but none of the four promotions to species rank was accepted, and none of the thirteen infrageneric taxa introduced by Thiele and Ladiges was retained. However, a number of Australian herbaria have continued to follow Thiele and Ladiges on some points, for example by recognising the four species that they promoted.

DNA analysis
Following on from an earlier molecular study, Austin Mast and co-authors published cladistic analyses of genetic data from DNA samples of almost all species of Banksia, along with five Dryandra species, in 2002 and 2005. Their results indicated the presence of two large clades of Banksia, which they named "/Cryptostomata" ("hidden stomates") and "/Phanerostomata" ("visible stomates").

The /Phanerostomata were defined as those taxa in which the leaf stomata occur superficially or in shallow pits. These taxa are typically tall shrubs and trees that occur in moist areas; they have unbeaked follicles and soft, short-lived leaves that are in many cases needle-like. The clade includes all eastern taxa of the series Salicinae and Spicigerae (that is, all taxa except B. serrata, B. aemula and B. ornata) and also the western Spicigerae, Quercinae, Grandes, Abietinae and Dryandroideae.