[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Human rights in Afghanistan

hen in public (either a burqa or an abaya paired with a niqāb, which leaves only the eyes uncovered).

Sexual orientation

Homosexuality and cross-dressing were capital crimes under the Taliban; however, the death sentence of old has been replaced by prison terms of one year.

Persecution of Hazaras

Hazaras are one of the ethnic groups in Afghanistan. After the takeover by Taliban, many hazaras were forcibly evicted from their homes. A report by Amnesty International said that the Taliban are prosecuting, torturing and unlawfully killing hazaras.

See also
 Crime in Afghanistan
 2007 Shinwar shooting
 Revolutionary Association of the Women of Afghanistan
 Sayed Pervez Kambaksh
 Freedom of religion in Afghanistan

References

 Life Under the Taliban, by Stewart, Gail B.

External links

 US State Dept 2021 report
 Review of Afghanistan by the United Nations Human Rights Council's Universal Periodic Review, May 7, 2009. (Scroll down past New Zealand.)
 Afghanistan's MDG - Millennium Development Goals
 Afghanistan Independent Human Rights Commission (AIHRC)
 Afghan Women's Network
 Women's Rights in Afghanistan Fund - funded by Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA)
 World Observes International Mine Awareness and Assistance Day Central Asia Health Review. Apr. 5,2008
 Poor Sanitation Causes Death among Children under Five in Afghanistan Central Asia Health Review. Mar. 14,2008
 Freedom of expression in Afghanistan - IFEX
 Omid Learning Centers- Educating Young Afghan Girls
 HRW - Afghan Election Diary - work on Afghanistan from Human Rights Watch
 BBC News - Afghan women seek death by fire - 15/11/06
 - Jerome Saxby: "Afghan leader accused of bid to legalise rape" Independent 31.03.09.
Human Rights Middle East 
 DIY Creations-Empowering Women in Afghanistan through business startups. 
 Children rights in Afghanistan. Transition Home for Orphan Boys in Afghanistan.

 
Society of Afghanistan
Politics of Afghanistan
Law of Afghanistan