[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Gelson Fernandes

ament. In two of the three group games, he came on from the substitute bench in the remaining ten minutes of the match. In the Round of 16 against Poland, Fernandes came on as a substitute and played the whole match, leading up to the penalty shoot-out, which, as the national side lost on penalties.

Following the end of the UEFA Euro 2016 tournament, he was featured in five matches for the next two years. Despite missing out in play-offs, Switzerland went on to qualify for the World Cup after beating Northern Ireland 1–0 on aggragate. Fernandes was included in the Switzerland national football team 23 man squad for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. However, he was featured as an unused substitute, as the national side was eliminated from the tournament, losing 1–0 against Sweden in the last 16. Following this, Fernandes announced his retirement from international football.

Post-playing career 
After retiring Fernandes went into football administration. From July 2021 to July 2022, he served as the Vice-president of his former club FC Sion.

In April 2022, FIFA announced the appointment of Fernandes as Director Member Associations Africa effective 1 August 2022. In his role as director, his responsibility is to oversee the services to strengthen the growth and development of the African member associations through the FIFA Forward Programme. In March 2023, in his capacity as Director, he took a two-day working visit to Ghana, where he engaged the Ghana Football Association and its stakeholders including the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the Parliament of Ghana Select Committee on Youth, Sports and Culture.

Personal life
Fernandes arrived in Switzerland with his mother at the age of five from the Cape Verde islands, the family settling in Sion, as his father, Jose, works for FC Sion as a groundskeeper. Regarding on his nationality, he said: "That is important to me. Look at me, you know immediately where I come from. This is my culture, this is where my roots are. By the way, there is not a single day that I am not on the other side of the ocean for a few moments travel. A little Zouc or Funana, and I'll take off. In moments like this, nothing can disturb me."

Fernandes natively speaks Portuguese, the official language of his birthplace, Cape Verde. In addition to speaking Portuguese, Fernandes also speaks Creole, French,  German, Italian, Spanish and English. He's currently learning Chinese, stating it's “for fun”. Fernandes also the cousin of the footballers Manuel Fernandes, Adilson Cabral, Edimilson Fernandes, Elton Monteiro and Ulisses Garcia.

Fernandes is married to his wife, Tiffany, and they have a daughter, Sienna. He has another daughter in a previous relationship.

Career statistics

Scores and results list Switzerland's goal tally first, score column indicates score after each Fernandes goal.

Honours
FC Sion
Swiss Cup: 2005–06

Eintracht Frankfurt
DFB-Pokal: 2017–18

References

External links

1986 births
Living people
Footballers from Praia
Footballers from Valais
People from Santiago, Cape Verde
Swiss men's footballers
Switzerland men's international footballers
Cape Verdean men's footballers
Cape Verdean emigrants to Switzerland
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in France
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in Portugal
Expatriate men's footballers in Germany
Swiss expatriate men's footballers
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in England
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in France
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in Portugal
Swiss expatriate sportspeople in Germany
Men's association football midfielders
FC Sion players
Manchester City F.C. players
AS Saint-Étienne players
AC ChievoVerona players
Leicester City F.C. players
Udinese Calcio players
Sporting CP footballers
SC Freiburg players
Stade Rennais F.C. players
Eintracht Frankfurt players
Swiss Super League players
Premier League players
English Football League players
Ligue 1 players
Serie A players
Primeira Liga players
Bundesliga players
UEFA Euro 2008 players
2010 FIFA World Cup players
2014 FIFA World Cup players
UEFA Euro 2016 players
2018 FIFA World Cup players
Swiss people of Cape Verdean descent