[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Thiago Silva

nd consecutive league title, and their first double. Silva again was shortlisted for Ligue 1 Player of the Year, and named in the Ligue 1 Team of the Year for the second consecutive season. Silva was rated by France Football as the league's fifth-best player, as well as the best defender in Ligue 1.

2014–15: Domestic quadruple
Silva's season began poorly in PSG's 2–2 draw with Reims; he was rated as one of PSG's worst players in his first match back from the 2014 World Cup. In his post-match interview, Silva mentioned how he was not fully fit and that he was finding it difficult to forget Brazil's embarrassing loss to Germany, where Brazil capitulated without him. Only three days after the match against Reims, Silva's rush to get back to full fitness was halted as he suffered a serious thigh injury in a friendly against Napoli on 11 August; he only lasted 13 minutes before being carried off the pitch. After nine weeks, Silva was finally pronounced fit on 16 October by manager Laurent Blanc, who also said that Silva would be able to start the next league match against Bordeaux. In his return, he had an excellent display alongside fellow countryman David Luiz as PSG dominated Bordeaux, winning 3–0. A third of the way into the season, it was observed that Silva's performances were marked with inconsistency, especially throughout November and December. After PSG's 1–3 loss to Barcelona in December, he was criticised by former PSG player Pierre Ducrocq, who argued that Silva did not have any physical or technical problems, but instead a mentality issue. Despite his struggles, Silva was recognised by his peers as being one of the two best central defenders in the world, as he was voted into the 2015 FIFPro World XI for the second consecutive year.

The 2015 calendar year began extremely well for Silva, with a man of the match display against Saint-Étienne in a 1–0 victory. It was followed by another man of the match performance, this time in a 1–0 win against Rennes. After the match, Rennes captain Sylvain Armand had nothing but praise for Silva, saying "he [Silva] is a monster and a phenomenon". Four days later, Silva was voted as man of the match in PSG's 1–0 Coupe de la Ligue win against Lille. Silva's return to form was evident and it met praise from across the country — Pierre Ménès of L'Équipe offered his praise, while Alain Roche of Le Parisien stated that he was back to his best. After PSG's 1–1 draw with Chelsea in the first leg of the 2014–15 Champions League Round of 16, Silva was unanimously praised by the French press for his outstanding defensive showing as he marked-out striker Diego Costa. Three days later, he was voted man of the match as he scored his first goal of the season in a 3–1 victory over Toulouse.

L'Équipe recognised Silva's incredible performances in January and February with a detailed analysis of his performances — in 2015, Silva was winning 89% of his duels, best in Ligue 1; Silva had 2.9 interceptions, 3.4 tackles, and 7.6 clearances per match, best in Ligue 1; lastly, Silva had committed a remarkable 0 fouls in 630 minutes of play. In a 2–0 win against Monaco in the Coupe de France quarterfinal, Silva was praised for his dominance: one publication noted, "if you thought Dimitar Berbatov [of Monaco] was silent and invisible throughout the match, it was only due to the work of the Monster". In the second leg of the 2014–15 Champions League Round of 16, Silva conceded a controversial penalty in the 96th minute. PSG were poised to be eliminated from the Champions League but in the 114th minute, Silva atoned for his error with a towering header to beat Thibaut Courtois to help PSG advance to the next stage. Silva was voted by several media sources as the best player in the match as he produced an extraordinary performance.