[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Brian Howard (English footballer)

Brian Richard William Brotherton Howard (born 23 January 1983) is an English footballer who last played as a midfielder for Whitehawk. He made more than 300 appearances in the Football League, and also played for Bulgarian club CSKA Sofia. Internationally, he represented England from under-16 to under-20 level.

Club career

Southampton and Swindon Town
Howard started his career as a trainee with Premier League club Southampton, but he was released in 2003 without making a first-team appearance. He trained with Chelsea, who offered him a contract, but while he was away with the England under-20 team, the club was taken over by Roman Abramovich and several top players were signed. Howard chose to turn down Chelsea's offer, preferring the prospect of playing regularly in a lower division, and signed a one-year deal with Division Two (third-tier) club Swindon Town. Howard made his Football League debut on 9 August in a 3–2 home defeat against Sheffield Wednesday, and scored his first Swindon goal on 1 October, an 89th-minute equaliser against Luton Town. In his first season, Howard scored four goals from 41 appearances in all competitions as Swindon lost to Brighton & Hove Albion in the play-off semifinals.

Howard's contract was extended for a further year ahead of the 2004–05 season. He was used in a more central role in midfield rather than on the wing, a change which pleased the player. As Swindon finished in mid-table, Howard finished the season with six goals from 42 appearances, having missed the last three games of the season with a broken bone in his foot. Budget restrictions meant manager Andy King chose not to offer Howard a new contract; he expressed his disappointment that a team with potential was being broken up because of finance.

Barnsley
Howard had talks with AFC Bournemouth, but signed a two-year contract with fellow League One club Barnsley. He missed the first two months of the season with a broken bone in the foot. After this, Howard became an important member of the promotion-winning team alongside Stephen McPhail in midfield. The pair played in all three play-off games, and Daniel Nardiello's equalising free kick, that took the final against Swansea City into extra time, resulted from a foul on Howard.

In March 2007, Howard was one of three Barnsley players released without charge following arrest in connection with an alleged racially motivated assault. He was named Barnsley's player of the year for the 2006–07 season, as the team successfully avoided relegation, and signed a new two-year contract.

Having acted as captain of Barnsley during much of the 2007–08 season when Paul Reid was out of the team, manager Simon Davey appointed Howard captain on a permanent basis in January 2008. He said it was a "massive honour" to captain a top-half Championship team, and appreciated the trust Davey and the club had in him. That season, Barnsley reached the semifinals of the FA Cup. In the fifth round, Howard scored a 93rd-minute winner to beat Liverpool 2–1 at Anfield. Barnsley eliminated Chelsea in the next round to progress to the semifinal, which they lost to Cardiff City. Howard was named in the PFA Championship Team of the Year.

After reported interest from clubs including Aston Villa, Middlesbrough, Everton, and Sheffield United, the club's owner, Patrick Cryne, suggested Howard was a better player than Sheffield United's Michael Tonge, and if Tonge were valued at , then Howard would be worth £10m. United manager Kevin Blackwell denied any interest in signing Howard, Davey confirmed no bid had been received from the club, and Sky Sports quoted Howard as saying "I feel I have given great service to this club, and I would like them to recognise that by doing one of two things – either give me the contract I am worth or sell me. And by that, I mean doing me the courtesy of selling me at a realistic price."

Sheffield United
At the end of September, Howard was left out of Barnsley's squad ahead of an expected loan move to Sheffield United, completed on 2 October. He signed on loan until January 2009, with an option to purchase at that time. He made his debut a couple of days later, appearing as a second-half substitute in a 3–0 home victory over Bristol City.

Howard played regularly in the Blades midfield from that point but had to wait until 9 December before he scored his first goal, netting the winner in a 1–0 away win over Nottingham Forest. He joined United permanently on 7 January 2009. He contributed to the club reaching the play-offs, and scored in the semifinal against Preston North End, but was "largely anonymous" in the final as United lost 1–0 to Burnley.

Reading

Howard began the 2009–10 season in Sheffield United's starting eleven, but on 2 September 2009, he signed for Championship rivals Reading on a three-year contract for a fee of £500,000; James Harper went the other way on loan.