[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 24]
# Constructive set theory

just to avoid conflation of cardinal- with ordinal exponentiation.) Without further axioms, intuitionistic mathematics has models in recursive functions but also forms of hypercomputation. Such a theory does not prove a function space like  to be not enumerable, in the sense of injections out of it.

Roughly, classically uncountable sets tend to not have computably decidable equality.

On countable sets 
With Exponentiation, the union of all finite sequences over a countable set is now a countable set. For any countable family of counting functions together with their ranges, the theory proves the union of those ranges to be countable. In contrast, not assuming countable choice, even  is consistent with the uncountable set  being the union of a countable set of countable sets.

At last, any finitely indexed union of a family of subfinitely indexed resp. subcountable sets is itself subfinitely indexed resp. subcountable as well. Of course, many other theorems about the various function existence predicates hold, especially when assuming countable choice.

The set theory now proves the existence of any primitive recursive function in , and in particular in the uncountable function spaces out of . Indeed, with function spaces and the finite von Neumann ordinals as domains, we can model  as discussed, and thus encode ordinals in the arithmetic. One then furthermore obtains the ordinal-exponentiated number  as a set, which may be characterized as , the counted set of words over an infinite alphabet.

As far as comprehension goes, the dependent or indexed products  are now sets. The theory now proves the collection of all the countable subsets of any set (the collection is a subclass of the powerclass) to be a set.

The class of subsets of a set 
The characterization of the class  of all subsets of a set  involves unbounded universal quantification, namely . Here  has been defined in terms of the membership predicate  above. So in a mathematical set theory framework, the power class is defined not in a bottom-up construction from its constituents (like an algorithm on a list, that e.g. maps ) but via a comprehension over all sets. If  is a set, that defining quantification even ranges over , which makes the axiom of powerset impredicative. The statement  itself is .

The richness of the powerclass in a theory without excluded middle can best be understood by considering small classically finite sets. For any proposition , consider the subclass  of  (i.e.  or ). It equals  when  can be rejected and it equals  (i.e. ), when  can be proven. But  may also not be decidable at all. Consider three different undecidable proposition, none of which provenly imply another. They can ben used to define three subclasses of the singleton , none of which are provenly the same. In this view, the powerclass  of the singleton, usually denoted by , is called the truth value algebra and does not necessarily provenly have only two elements.

With Exponentiation,  being a set already implies Powerset for sets in general. The proof is via replacement for the association of  to , and an argument why all subsets are covered.

The set , of functions taking values in  (i.e. ) on a set , injects into the function space  and corresponds to just the decidable subsets of . 
If the theory proves  above a set (as for example  unconditionally does), then the subset  of  is a function  with . To claim that  is to claim that excluded middle holds for .

It has been pointed out that the empty set  and the set  itself are of course two subsets of . Whether also  is true in a theory is contingent on a simple disjunction:
.
So assuming  for just bounded formulas, predicative Separation then lets one demonstrate that the powerclass  is a set. And so in this context, also full Choice proves Powerset.
Moreover, with bounded excluded middle,  is in bijection with . See also the discussion of  below.
Note that cardinal relations involving uncountable sets are also elusive in , where the characterization of uncountability simplifies to . For example, it is independent whether all such  have , nor does it prove that , see continuum hypothesis and the related Easton's theorem.

Full Separation is equivalent to just assuming that each individual subclass of  is a set. Assuming full Separation, both full Choice and Regularity prove .

Assuming  in this theory, Set induction becomes equivalent to Regularity and Replacement becomes capable of proving full Separation.

Metalogic
While the theory  does not exceed the consistency strength of Heyting arithmetic, adding Excluded Middle gives a theory proving the same theorems as classical  minus Regularity!
Thus, adding Regularity as well as either  or full Separation to  gives full classical .
Adding full Choice and full Separation gives  minus Regularity.

So this would thus lead to a theory beyond the strength of typical type theory.