[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 33]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

T._--Really I do not know. _Mr B._--What! does
the sun shine every night? _T._--No, sir, certainly not. _Mr B._--Then
it only shines on some nights, and not on others. _T._--It never shines
at all in the night. _Mr B._--And does it in the day? _T._--Yes, sir.
_Mr B._--Every day? _T._--Every day, I believe, only sometimes the
clouds prevent you from seeing it. _Mr B._--And what becomes of it in
the night? _T._--It goes away, so that we cannot see it. _Mr B._--So,
then, when you can see the sun, it is never night. _T._--No, sir. _Mr
B._--But when the sun goes away the night comes on. _T._--Yes, sir. _Mr
B._--And when the sun comes again what happens? _T._--Then it is day
again; for I have seen the day break, and the sun always rises presently
after. _Mr B._--Then if the sun were not to rise for several months
together, what would happen? _T._--Sure, it would always remain night,
and be dark. _Mr B._--That is exactly the case with the countries we
are reading about.

"Having therefore fashioned a kind of lamp, they filled it with
reindeer's fat, and stuck into it some twisted linen shaped into a wick;
but they had the mortification to find that, as soon as the fat melted,
it not only soaked into the clay but fairly ran out of it on all sides.
The thing, therefore, was to devise some means of preventing this
inconvenience, not arising from cracks, but from the substance of which
the lamp was made being too porous. They made, therefore, a new one,
dried it thoroughly in the air, then heated it red-hot, and afterwards
quenched it in their kettle, wherein they had boiled a quantity of flour
down to the consistence of thin starch. The lamp being thus dried and
filled with melted fat, they now found, to their great joy, that it did
not leak; but for greater security they dipped linen rags in their
paste, and with them covered all its outside. Succeeding in this
attempt, they immediately made another lamp for fear of an accident,
that at all events they might not be destitute of light; and, when they
had done so much, they thought proper to save the remainder of their
flour for similar purposes. As they had carefully collected whatever
happened to be cast on shore, to supply them with fuel, they had found
amongst the wrecks of vessels some cordage and a small quantity of oakum
(a kind of hemp used for caulking ships), which served them to make
wicks for their lamps. When these stores began to fail, their shirts and
their drawers (which are worn by almost all the Russian peasants) were
employed to make good the deficiency. By these means they kept their
lamp burning without intermission, from the day they first made it (a
work they set about soon after their arrival on the island) until that
of their embarkation for their native country.

"The necessity of converting the most essential part of their clothing,
such as their shirts and drawers, to the use above specified, exposed
them the more to the rigour of the climate. They also found themselves
in want of shoes, boots, and other articles of dress; and as winter was
approaching, they were again obliged to have recourse to that ingenuity
which necessity suggests, and which seldom fails in the trying hour of
distress. They had skins of reindeer and foxes in plenty, that had
hitherto served them for bedding, and which they now thought of
employing in some more essential service; but the question was how to
tan them. After deliberating on this subject, they took to the following
method: they soaked the skins for several days in fresh water till they
could pull off the hair very easily; they then rubbed the wet leather
with their hands till it was nearly dry, when they spread some melted
reindeer fat over it, and again rubbed it well. By this process the
leather became soft, pliant, and supple--proper for answering every
purpose they wanted it for. Those skins which they designed for furs
they only soaked one day, to prepare them for being wrought, and then
proceeded in the manner before-mentioned, except only that they did not
remove the hair. Thus they soon provided themselves with the necessary
materials for all the parts of dress they wanted. But here another
difficulty occurred; they had neither awls for making shoes or boots,
nor needles for sewing their garments. This want, however, they soon
supplied by means of the pieces of iron they had occasionally collected.
Out of these they made both, and by their industry even brought them to
a certain degree of perfection. The making eyes to their needles gave
them indeed no little trouble, but this they also performed with the
assistance of their knife; for, having ground it to a very sharp point,
and heated red-hot a kind of wire forged for that purpose, they pierced
a hole through one end; and by whetting and smoothing it on stones,
brought the other to a point, and thus gave the whole needle a very
tolerable form. Scissors to cut out the skin we