[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Betzefer

Betzefer () is an Israeli groove metal band originating from the community settlement Maccabim-Re'ut. The band was formed up in 1998 and was signed to Roadrunner Records from 2005 to 2007. Betzefer is notable for becoming Israel's first heavy metal band to have released its debut album on a major heavy metal label.

Betzefer's biggest influence is Slayer, while Pantera and Sepultura are also credited as being major influences. The band's second album was produced by Down producer Warren Riker.

History

Early years (1998–2004) 
Betzefer was formed in 1998 for a one-off high school gig. This fact is the origin of the band's name, which is an ad lib translation of the Hebrew term "Beit Sefer", meaning "school". The original lineup included singer Avital Tamir, guitarist Matan Cohen, drummer Roey Berman and bassist Menashe "Mashy" Hazan. Following the usual gigs as a cover band and several replacements of the bass players, Betzefer started their own songwriting. 1999 saw the release of their first demo followed in 2000 by the EP, Pitz Aachabar ("Pitz the Mouse"), a parody on a popular Hebrew children song. In 2001 they released the EP Some Tits, but No Bush and later in 2003 the EP New Hate with new bass player Evil Haim (Haim Binyami), all self-financed and self-released.

Not long after the release of the EP, Evil Haim left the band, and stayed only to work as the band's soundman, additionally for the new band he formed after the departure from Betzefer, Whorecore. Rotem Inbar replaced him as the bassist.

Down Low, signing and departure from Roadrunner (2004–2007) 
In June 2004 the band took off to Belgium to record their first full-length album, Down Low, with producer Kris Belaen to whom they were introduced by Sven De Caluwe of Aborted and Whorecore. They eventually recorded the album with Belaen, while the final mixing and mastering was done by Danish producer Tue Madsen. During the recordings, the band was offered by Fear Factory to tour with them as their supporting act. During their performances the band was noticed by the major label Roadrunner Records who signed the band to a 4-album contract. After the signing, the band came back to the studio to finish the recording.

On 19 May 2005, Down Low was released independently in Israel, and then on 6 June 2005 it was released internationally by Roadrunner Records, after which the band toured Europe intensively to promote it.

Beginning March 2007, They toured with Sepultura supporting their Dante XXI tour, supporting Lamb of God and Soulfly on their German tours and Chimaira on their UK tour, and through 2007 performed in such events as With Full Force festival in Germany and Planet Music in Austria. They were joined by Sepultura guitarist Andreas Kisser a few times for a performance of "Thunderstruck" by AC/DC. On 2 July 2007, Betzefer opened for Megadeth at the Hangar 11 in Tel Aviv, Israel.

In December 2007, Betzefer parted ways with Roadrunner Records, stating that the record label did not fit anymore for what the band was looking for, although various sources stated that the band was dropped by the label due to personal issues with the band. At the time, the band also stated they have already written most of the material for the upcoming album, which will not be released by Roadrunner.

Freedom to the Slave Makers (2008–2011) 
On 10 March 2008, Betzefer opened for Machine Head at the Theater Club in Tel Aviv. At the show, the band performed all the songs from their upcoming second album. A few days later, the band entered the studio to start recording the new album.

On 21 May 2008, it was announced that Betzefer's upcoming second studio album would not be mixed and produced by Tue Madsen after all as previously announced, and that it will be instead mixed and produced by Grammy Award winner Warren Riker, who has produced albums for Down, Santana, Lauryn Hill and more. The band has commented that as much as they liked working with Madsen, they decided to work with Riker instead, since they have the option, because they do not want the new album to sound like the latest one, and they hope Riker will bring the new sound they look for. The band stated that their new songs will combine the old elements of the band's music along with new experimental material.