[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Erzgebirgisch

e used to highlight a participant. They are free words, whereas the atonal forms are phonologically reduced clitics.

There is no emphatic form for third person personal pronouns. The emphatic forms of the definite article have to be used instead. To outsiders this may often come across as impolite.

Unlike nouns, personal pronouns distinguish both number and case.

Pronouns with ch have sch in the Northwestern dialect.
The atonal second person singular pronoun is de when it precedes a verb, and du  when following. There are extra pronouns to express politeness, unlike German, which uses third person plural for this function.

Examples:

Possessive pronouns 
Possessive pronouns agree in case, number and gender with their head noun.

singular pronouns lose the n before another n or a -Ø-suffix.

First person plural loses the s everywhere but in the North Western dialect. First and second person plural lose the e before a suffix starting with a vowel.

This paradigm makes use of only three letters e, n and r.

examples:

Third person pronouns make heavy use of the dative construction (see above), just like nouns.

vgl.:

Prepositions 
The following construction is found mainly in Western dialects, but also in Lichtenstein:

The canonic preposition n (in) is never deleted in Lichtenstein, but almost always in the western dialects due to the more widespread dropping of n. This leads to the impression that nei is the preposition. One should also notice that goal of motion is encoded by the dative, and not by the accusative as in Standard German. The motion component is expressed by nei. This construction is also found with many other prepositions: dràà der kèrch ("an der Kirche", "bei der Kirche" at the church).

Adjectives

Agreement 
Adjectives agree with their head word in case, number, gender and definiteness.
A difference to Standard German is the non-distinction of forms with indefinite article and forms without any article.

The following table lists all agreement suffixes for adjectives:

More examples

Comparison 
The comparative is formed with the suffix -er.
The standard of comparison is marked with the preposition wii (wie). The superlative is obtained by adding . Agreement suffixes come after these suffixes.

examples:

Verbs 
The verb agrees in person and number with the subject of the sentence. This is true of both full verbs and auxiliaries.

Two tense/aspects are morphologically distinguished, present tense and preterite. Use of the preterite is found almost exclusively with strong verbs, i.e. verbs involving ablaut.

The other tenses are formed with auxiliaries: Perfect, Pluperfect, Futur I and Futur II. Perfect and preterite are used interchangeably.
Pluperfect expresses anteriority in the past. Futur II is mainly used for epistemic statements about past events (cf. German: Er wird wohl wieder nicht da gewesen sein. He has probably not attended again.)

Infinitive and participles 
The infinitive and the present participle and the past participle are formed with the following affixes:

Present tense 
Erzgebirgisch distinguishes strong verbs, involving ablaut, and weak verbs, without ablaut. Both classes take the same suffixes. The present tense can be used to refer to events in the present or future.

The suffixes are sometimes assimilated to the stem, as can be seen from hàm, `to have'.

Preterite 
As mentioned above, the preterite form is only used with strong verbs. Weak verbs use the perfect instead. This is also gaining ground with strong verbs. Formation of the preterite does not always follow the same pattern as in Standard German e.g. schmecken `to taste' is a weak verb in Standard German (preterit schmeckte), but a strong verb is Erzgebirgisch (present tense: schmègng preterite:  with ablaut. Another verb which is weak in Standard German but strong in Erzgebirgisch is frààn (Standard German fragen to ask), preterite  (Standard German fragte, asked).

Agreement with the subject is indicated as follows:

Perfect, pluperfect 
Perfect and pluperfect are construed with a finite form of the auxiliaries sei- and hàb- and the past participle of the full verb.

Examples:

Future 
Two future tenses are distinguished. Future I is used for any reference time in the future, Future II has the meaning of future anterior.
Future is formed with the auxiliary wèèr- (Standard German werden). Future I adds the infinitive of the full verb, future II the auxiliary sei or hab in the infinitive and the past participle of the full verb.

Examples:

Subjunctive 
Erzgebirgisch has a productive subjunctive for most of the auxiliaries and some other frequently used verbs. The form is derived from the preterite by ablaut. Other verbs have to use duun support in order to appear in the subjunctive.

Imperative 
The imperative is identical to first person present tense indicative. In order to obtain the plural imperative, -d is suffixed to the singular form.

example: