[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Cinema of Lebanon

val.

Also in 2003, Georges Schoucair returned to Lebanon after studying film in France and established Abbout Productions, the country's first post-war production house, which has become Lebanon's "foremost production house and one of the most prominent companies for art-house films in the region".

By 2004, film production was on the increase with four fiction and two documentaries produced. Joana Hadjithomas and Khalil Joreige's The Perfect Day (2005) examined the social implications of political kidnappings that happened during the war. Ghassan Salhab's The Last Man (2006) represented the cultural memory of the war from the eyes of a vampire protagonist caught in limbo between life and death. Zozo (2005) by Josef Fares follows the life of a young boy and his journey to flee the war to Sweden. New themes that did not necessary deal with the issue of war emerged, like Danielle Arbid's In the Battlefields (2005) that critiqued patriarchal society. Filmmakers began to examine the postwar context rather than living in or surviving the war. Michel Kammoun's Falafel (2005) about disillusioned youth in post-war Beirut premiered in 2006 at Cinema Days of Beirut, a festival which was not cancelled despite the Israeli bombardment of the capital as a sign of "cultural resistance".

Short film production, especially by the graduates of the film schools in Lebanon, was also on the increase and receiving local and international attention. Hany Tamba's After Shave won the César Award for best short film in 2006.

2007 was an important year for Lebanese filmmaking when two female directors, Nadine Labaki and Danielle Arbid presented their films at the Cannes Film Festival. Labaki presented Caramel while Arbid presented A Lost Man. A Lost Man is possibly the most sexually graphic film ever made by an Arab director. Caramel enjoyed an international release, including in the United States, United Kingdom, France, and Argentina.

2010s
According to research conducted by Fondation Liban Cinema, "The film industry in Lebanon has seen a significant growth over the last four years, with 31 movies produced in 2014, compared to just four a decade ago." Ghassan Salhab's The Mountain, which was produced by Abbout Productions, had its international premiere during the Doha-Tribeca Film Festival.

2010
In 2010, 11 films were produced in Lebanon. Muriel Abourouss won the best director of photography award for Georges Hachem's Stray Bullet at the Festival international du film Francophone de Namur in Belgium. Vatche Boulghourjian filmed on location in Bourj Hammoud, The Fifth Column a short film in Western Armenian dialect that won the third place Cinéfondation Prize at the Cannes Film Festival.

Ok, Enough, Goodbye by Rania Attieh and Daniel Garcia was shot on location in Tripoli, Lebanon in 2010.  The film tied with Delphine and Muriel Coulin's Ragazze for the Special Jury Award ex-aequo at the Torino Film Festival in 2011.

Also in 2010, Carlos, a Canal+ production that starred Édgar Ramírez as well as a handful of Lebanese stars such as Razane Jammal, Rodney El Haddad, Antoine Balabane, Ahmad Kaabour, Talal El-Jordi and Badih Abou Chakra was shot on location in Lebanon. Carlos, which screened out of competition at the 2010 Cannes Film Festival won the 2010 Golden Globe award for the Best Miniseries or Motion Picture Made for Television.

2011
Increase in film production was evident in 2011 with 24 movies produced. Nadine Labaki's Where Do We Go Now? won the Prix Francois Chalais at Cannes. The film also won the people's choice award at the Toronto International Film Festival as well as the audience award at the Films from the South Festival in Oslo, Norway. Sony Pictures Classics acquired the American rights to the film. The film was Lebanon's choice to compete in the Academy Award's "Best Foreign-Language Film" category. The film also won the Byarad d'Or at the Festival international du film Francophone de Namur in Belgium and the Doha Tribeca Film Festival's Best Narrative Film award.

Circumstance, a film by Maryam Keshavarz that explored homosexuality in modern Iran, was filmed entirely on location in Beirut.

In the summer of 2011, the city of Beirut participated in the 48 Hour Film Project for the first time where 24 teams competed. Cyril Aris won the Best Film category for his short, "Anoesis," which will be Beirut's entry in Filmapalooza 2012, the final festival for the 2011 48 Hour Film Project.

Danielle Arbid's filmed her third feature, Beirut Hotel, which had a world premiere at the 64th Locarno Film Festival in August 2011.

Mounir Maasri's Rue Huvelin, which was set in 1990, told the story of seven Saint Joseph University students from Beirut's Rue Huvelin during the Syrian occupation of Lebanon. Né à Beyrouth produced the film.

Jean-Claude Codsi filmed his second feature, A Man of Honor, which was produced by Michel Ghosn and premiered at the Doha Tribeca Film Festival on 28 October 2011.