[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Afshin Ellian

of international respect. In 2003 he became an associated professor of jurisprudence, and since 2005 he is a full professor at the law faculty of the University of Leiden. Since 2012 he is the academic director of the Institute for the Interdisciplinary Study of the Law at the law faculty of Leiden.

Ellian was a regular columnist for NRC Handelsblad, and makes appearances on political discussion programs on Dutch television. Ellian writes articles for the magazine Elsevier but also for international magazines and newspapers such as The Wall Street Journal, Le Monde, and Le Figaro.

Following the 2009 Iranian presidential election, Ellian wrote an open letter to Ali Khamenei, the Supreme Leader of Iran. The letter was published by German magazine Der Spiegel, Le Monde, The Wall Street Journal, and Dutch newspaper NRC Handelsblad. Der Spiegel subtitled the letter "Your Regime Is Finished" (not a direct quote from Ellian), while NRC Handelsblad subtitled it "The children of the revolution will accept the ayatollah's rule no more".
It is inevitable to bear in mind that Afshin Ellian is also a prominent defender of the Freedom of Speech. For the most recent publication reference can be made to the book “The State of Exception and Militant Democracy in a Time of Terror”.

Quotes

"The extremists are afraid that if Dutch society becomes a safe haven for an intellectual discussion of political Islam, it will be very dangerous for them" 
"Free speech is in danger of being increasingly restricted by invoking “Islamophobia” and “racism”. And some intellectuals have already capitulated. For example, the opera Aisha was called off in Rotterdam in 2001, because the wife of the Prophet was depicted on stage. The production had to be cancelled because a number of actresses felt threatened. Recently a columnist on the national daily NRC Handelsblad, Hasna el Maroudi was forced to abandon her column because of threats of violence from the Moroccan community. What has happened to civil courage? Why do we hear nothing from the publishers, artists, media and colleagues of people who have capitulated about the consequences of this voluntary capitulation? We should expect civil courage not only from those who are threatened, but also from those around them, their publishers, producers, colleagues, etc."
"Five years ago, my Afghan sister-in-law emigrated to the United States, where she now works, pays taxes and takes part in public life. If she had turned up in Europe, she would still be undergoing treatment from social workers for her trauma—and she still wouldn't have got a job or won acceptance as a citizen." 
In an open letter to Ali Khamenei, the Supreme Leader of Iran:
"Excellency, the demonstrations attest that the people of Iran, the children of the revolution, will accept your rule no more. Your regime is no longer able to exercise sovereignty over the Iranian people without the recourse to violence -- extreme violence. I urge you to recognize that Iran is now undeniably at a crossroads: Either the will of the people is accepted and a peaceful transition to democracy is achieved or you plan to respond to these protests by launching a bloodbath, which will cause unprecedented chaos in Iran. Ask yourself: Can a regime, hated and rejected by a huge majority of the population, transform itself into a democratic administration that recognizes the rule of law? Has it ever in history been possible for a political transition to take place peacefully and without the shedding of blood?"

Bibliography
 Brieven van een Pers ()
 Allah Weet het Niet Beter ()
 Media en Strafrecht (co-author)
 Verrijzenis van woorden (poetry)
 Mensenherfst (poetry)
 “Political Islam and the Attack on Religious Freedom”. Telos 145 (Winter 2008). New York: Telos Press.

References

External links

 Elsevier, host of the duo-blog of Ellian and De Winter.
 

1966 births
Former Muslim critics of Islam
Academic staff of the University of Amsterdam
Dutch atheists
Dutch former Shia Muslims
Dutch male poets
20th-century Dutch philosophers
21st-century Dutch philosophers
Iranian atheists
Iranian emigrants to the Netherlands
Iranian former Shia Muslims
20th-century Iranian poets
Living people
Writers from Tehran
Former Muslims turned agnostics or atheists
Dutch critics of Islam
Tilburg University alumni
21st-century Iranian poets