[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Habropoda laboriosa

Habropoda laboriosa, the southeastern blueberry bee, is a bee in the family Apidae. It is native to the eastern United States. It is regarded as the most efficient pollinator of southern rabbiteye blueberries, because the flowers require buzz pollination, and H. laboriosa is one of the few bees that exhibit this behavior. It is active for only a few weeks of the year, while the blueberries are in flower during early spring, when the temperature is warm and humid. H. laboriosa are solitary bees that live alone but nest in close proximity with other nests of their species. They have similar features to bumble bees, but they are smaller in size compared to them. H. laboriosa are arthropods so they have segmented bodies that are composed of the head, thorax, and abdomen.

Taxonomy 
The southeastern blueberry bee was classified by Fabricius in 1804, the species name for it is Habropoda laboriosa, and it is an invertebrate belonging to the Kingdom of Animalia. It belongs to the phylum Arthropoda which are characterized to have segmented bodies, and each segment is called tagma which are composed of the head, thorax, and abdomen. The subphylum in which it belongs to is Hexapoda; these organisms have the ability to fly with wings starting at the thorax and have 3 pairs of legs. The Class it belongs to is Insecta, and the Order is Hymenoptera, which includes the ants, bees, wasps, and sawflies. The Family is Apidae which are related to Cuckoo, Carpenter, Digger, Bumble, and Honey Bees. The Subfamily is Apinae which includes Honey, Bumble, Longhorn, Orchid, and Digger Bees. Southeastern blueberry bees are considered mountain-digger bees which can be characterized into the Genus Habropoda; the major plant that it pollinates are blueberry plants (Vaccinium), so the species name, laboriosa, is derived from that characteristic.

Description 
H. laboriosa are solitary bees so they prefer to live alone but may be in close proximity to other nests. They dig their own tunnels in the ground that is a little wider than their bodies, and they may do it with the company of their own species.Usually, they choose spots where there is direct sunlight and low chances of flooding. Since they are solitary bees, the mother bee only provides food and nutrients to their own brood. Blueberry bees are only active 3-5 weeks of the year and only produce one generation of offspring per year. 

They often resemble bumble bees, but are smaller in size. There are differences body size of the female versus male H. laboriosa.  Females range from the lengths of 15.5 mm to 16mm whereas males are 13mm to 14mm in length. Females have a completely black head; in contrary, males are black but with a yellow clypeus.

Body Plan and anatomy 
H. laboriosa is composed of three major segments. The head, thorax, and abdomen each have additional segmentation as do all members of the family Apidae.  The head contains the sensory organs that include the antennae, eyes, mouth, and other internal structures that help respond to their surroundings. The thorax contains the muscles and wings that help it travel and allow it to fly. They have two pairs of wings and three pairs of legs. Each pair of legs has a special function, so they are able to adapt and be versatile. On one pair of legs, there are claws at the end that help the them latch on to rough surfaces such as tree trunks. Another pair of legs have arolium, which are soft pads that allow bees to walk on smooth surfaces such as grass and flower pedals. On the tibia of the hind leg, there is a corbicula, which can be referred to as a pollen basket that is concave to allow it carry pollen grains while in flight. There are two sets of flight muscles that the bee uses to navigate through flight, and they are referred to as the longitudinal and vertical flight muscles. The abdomen contains the wax scales, digestive tract, reproductive system and the sting.

Bees also have an exoskeleton which is composed of chitin that helps protect the internal organs, provide structure, and stops the organism from losing water or desiccation. This is possible because of the waxy layer the bee has that keeps the water from leaving their bodies. This exoskeleton also prevents the bees from growing continuously. In order for bees to grow, they need to shed or molt their exoskeleton. Bees in the larval stages shed their exoskeleton and increases in size periodically. However, bees in the adult stage stay the same size and do not grow any bigger.