[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Bessarabian Peasants' Party

pulace. That text also argued that Bessarabians had come to resent Romanians as a whole, disparagingly referring to them as "Gypsies". As noted by academic Iulian Chifu, Mîță's appeal was much quoted in later autonomist and Moldovenist literature, but does not appear at all in parliamentary records.

Despite Iorga's repeated efforts to enact the land reform on the coalition's own terms, the Vaida government was ordered to step down by King Ferdinand I, who assigned the premiership to Alexandru Averescu (March 1920). Internal divisions caused the PȚB to split weeks before the May elections. Averescu's People's Party (PP) extended an offer for merger. Inculeț accepted it, but was threatened by his colleagues with expulsion. On April 21, a PȚB Congress forced him to renounce his position as Minister for Bessarabia, which he had maintained under six consecutive regimes. A small faction, led by Sergiu Niță, broke out of the PȚB and joined Averescu. Dissatisfied with work in the opposition, Ciugureanu and his followers also separated and ran as a "Democratic Union Party of Bessarabia", but, failing to win any seats, went over to the PNL. Inculeț later claimed that he had sidelined Ciugureanu, whom he accused of carrying out "personal business" from within the party.

Move toward autonomism
The party, which set up other local newspapers, including Viața Basarabiei of Chișinău (founded 1921) and Secera of Ismail city (1922), adhered to the PȚ-led Federation of National Social Democracy (FDNS), comprising the bulk of opposition forces. Meanwhile, Niță was rewarded with the office of Minister for Bessarabia, and his centralizing campaign pitted him against his former colleagues. Bârcă (himself a former member of the PP), accused Niță of having purged the administration of its PȚB cadres. In another confrontation, Crihan, the PȚB deputy for Bălți County, expressed his dissatisfaction: "We did not conceive of Bessarabia's union with Romania as where we give it to you for exploitation." The same was argued by Pelivan, according to whom a "truly democratic state" required "full decentralization of the administrative and economic life." In turn, the PP's Vladimir Chiorescu accused Ciugureanu and Inculeț of having "monopolized" regional power, "pushing out of their way each and all valuable Bessarabian element". He also denied that the PȚB had played any part in securing the union.

The Congress also adopted a new program, comprising radical, "at times socialistic", demands, and acquiring "a radical leftist orientation". It restated the need for a universal land reform, while adding new demands: a non-political form of self-government, the minimum wage, workers' participation in management, and the dismantling of the Gendarmerie—to be replaced with "preferably locally recruited" peace officers. Some of the party's deputies became noted within the FDNS for their radicalism, embracing separatism; the moderates, under Pelivan, were inclined toward the PNL, which promised them limited autonomy. Pelivan was critical of the government's decision to disestablish the regional Directorate, which had handled executive power in Bessarabia, noting that "many [Russian] civil servants are now going hungry", and alleging that a spoils system was being set up by Romanian administrators in "Romania's California". He also pleaded for the reintroduction of the zemstva, and proposed that they be adopted in the Old Kingdom as well. An appeasement of the party came in April 1920, when Averescu reintroduced Bessarabian ideas in his own land reform law, reducing the sum owed in compensation to the dispossessed landowners.

The elections themselves were noted for their physical confrontations between government and opposition. Inculeț was arrested while campaigning in Comrat; in Cornești, a Gendarme shot and killed two peasants, trying to quell agitation by a PȚB candidate. As noted in administrative reports of the era, the public itself was voting against centralism, for the party that promised them to disband the Gendarmerie. Despite its weakening splits and the violent incidents on the campaign trail, the PȚB was able to win 23 (or 25) mandates in the Assembly and 6 in the Senate, with a plurality of the regional vote (48%), just ahead of the PP (at 46%). Its fief was a tri-county area comprising Bălți, Tighina and Soroca, where it won an absolute victory; it lost Ismail County (Avrescu's birthplace), taken by the PP in a landslide.