[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2007 New Year Honours

ort (516720), late Army Air Corps.
Group Captain Simon Owen Falla, D.S.O. (8027341P), Royal Air Force.
Group Captain Russell John Torbet (8141177G), Royal Air Force.
Air Commodore Peter Whalley, A.D.C. (8022833B), Royal Air Force.
Air Commodore Graham Alan Wright, O.B.E. (5203227X), Royal Air Force.

Civil Division
Norman Ackroyd. For services to Engraving and to Printing.
Ms Nina Lizette Barough, Founder and Chief Executive, Walk the Walk Worldwide (Breast Cancer Charity). For services to Healthcare.
Ms Susan Barratt, Headteacher, Bournville Junior School, Birmingham. For services to Education.
Mary Helen, Mrs. Bayne, C.V.O., Grade 5, Home Office.
Clive Ronald Reath Bennett, Chief Executive, Driver & Vehicle Licensing Agency, Department for Transport.
Dr. George Berwick, Headteacher, Ravens Wood School, Bromley, London. For services to Education.
John Boyington, Deputy Director General, Health and Care Partnerships and Programme Director, Health and Offender Partnerships, Department of Health.
Andrew Michael Bridges, HM Chief Inspector of Probation. For services to the Criminal Justice System.
Professor Norma Brook, lately President, Health Professions Council. For services to Healthcare.
Professor Allan Burns, lately Director, Diageo Scotland. For services to Business in Scotland.
Kevin James Patrick Cahill, Chief Executive, Comic Relief. For charitable services.
Bryan Carr, Chair and Chief Executive, Lincolnshire Electronics Company. For services to Business in the East Midlands.
Stephen Carter, Chief Executive, Ofcom. For services to the Communications Industry.
Roger Ralph Chapman, Vice-Chair, James Fisher Defence. For services to the Shipping Industry.
The Right Reverend Alan Chesters, lately Chair, North West Rural Affairs Forum. For services to the community in the North West.
Ms Imogen Cooper, Pianist. For services to Music.
Margaret Rosemary, Mrs. Cooper, Chair, Independent Living Funds. For services to disabled people.
Miss Charlotte Copeland, Chief Executive, The Rent Service, Department for Work and Pensions.
Colin Ralph Cramphorn, Q.P.M., D.L., lately Chief Constable, West Yorkshire Police. For services to the Police. (To be dated 28 November 2006.)
Ms Mabel Davis, Headteacher, Heathlands Special School, Hertfordshire. For services to Special Needs Education.
Professor Richard Demarco, O.B.E. For services to the Arts.
Dr. Robert Royds Dickson, Oceanographic and Climate Scientist, Centre for Environment, Fisheries and Aquaculture Science, Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
Wilma, Mrs. Dickson, Head of Division, Justice Department, Scottish Executive.
Barry Dixon, Q.F.S.M., chief fire officer, Greater Manchester County Fire Service. For services to the Fire and Rescue Service.
Professor Jonathan Drori, lately Director, Culture Online, Department for Culture, Media and Sport.
Sheila, Mrs. Drury, O.B.E., lately Chair, Education and Learning Wales. For services to Industry, Education and Training in Wales.
George Gordon Edington, Chair, NCH. For services to Children.
Gareth Owen Edwards, M.B.E. For services to Sport, in particular to Rugby.
Professor William James Feast, Emeritus Professor, University of Durham. For services to Polymer Chemistry.
David Fish, director, Africa, Department for International Development.
Dr. Neil Goodwin, Chief Executive, former Greater Manchester Strategic Health Authority. For services to the NHS.
Michael David William Gooley, Chair, Trailfinders Travel Agency. For services to the Travel Industry and to Charity.
Ms Susan Ann Gray, director, Propriety and Ethics, and Head of Management Unit for Private Offices, Cabinet Office.
Peter Greenaway, director, Painter and Writer. For services to the Film Industry.
Professor Kenneth John Gregory, Vice-Chair, University of Southampton Solent Governing Body. For services to Geography and to Higher Education.
Professor Haig Gulvanessian, lately Director, Construction Division, Building Research Establishment. For services to the Construction Industry.
Ms Roswyn Hakesley-Brown, President, Royal College of Nursing. For services to Healthcare.
Terence David Hands, Director. For services to Drama.
Dr. James Maurice Hart, Q.P.M., lately Commissioner, City of London Police. For services to the Police.
Professor Sheila Glennis Haworth, Professor of Developmental Cardiology; Head, Cardiovascular and Respiratory Sciences, Institute of Child Health, University College London. For services to the NHS.
Councillor Michael Francis Henry, leader, Gateshead Metropolitan Borough Council. For services to Local Government.
Professor Gordon Hewitt, Professor of International Business and Corporate Strategy, University of Michigan. For services to Business.
Larry Hirst, Country General Manager, IBM UK. For services to the IT Industry.
Professor Andrew Hopper, Professor of Computer Technology, University of Cambridge. For services to the Computer Industry.
Ms Margaret Howell, Fashion Designer. For services to the Retail Industry.
Ms