[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Wang Xiu (Han dynasty)

Minister of Agriculture (), one of the Nine Ministers, among the highest civil positions in the bureaucracy. Following an exhortation against the establishment of corporal punishment, Wang Xiu moved laterally to the post of Minister of Imperial Ancestral Ceremonies (), another of the Nine Ministers.

Not long after, Yan Cai () led a palace revolt against Cao Cao in 216, attacking the inner gates with a force of some scores of men. Wang Xiu heard the commotion, and before his horse and carriage could be fetched led his subordinates on foot to the palace gates in great haste to assist. After the revolt was suppressed, Zhong Yao mildly chastised Wang Xiu, reminding him that it was customary for the Nine Ministers to remain in their offices whenever there was trouble in the capital. Wang Xiu replied that it may be customary, but lacked the righteous dignity of assisting those in danger. Wang Xiu died soon after, leaving behind works of literature and scholarship.

Family
 Wang Zhong (), son. Superintendent of Donglai (東萊; on the tip of the Shandong peninsula) and Cavalier Attendant-in-ordinary, an honorific title indicating favour and companionship of the ruler.
 Wang Yi (), courtesy name Zhubiao (), son, d. 252. colonel in Sima Zhao's army, executed by same for criticism following the Battle of Dongxing.
 Wang Pou (), courtesy name Weiyuan (), grandson, died 311. Never took government office under the Jin dynasty due to his father's unfair execution. Became a famous recluse due to his steadfast refusal to enter service. Never married, and slain by Former Zhao invaders, both because he could not bear to part with the ancestral tombs of his native soil.

See also
 Lists of people of the Three Kingdoms

References

Bibliography
  5 vols.
 
 
  10 vols.
 
 
  8 vols.

2nd-century births
3rd-century deaths
Government officials under Cao Cao
Government officials under Yuan Shao
Political office-holders in Hebei
Politicians from Weifang