[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Louise Richardson

Edinburgh (FRSE), In 2016, named an honorary member of the Royal Irish Academy. In 2016 she was also elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and also named a fellow of the National Academy of Social Sciences. In 2017, Richardson was elected member of the American Philosophical Society.

Nonprofit boards and government appointments
In 2014, Richardson joined the board of trustees of the Booker Prize Foundation, and in 2019, she joined the board of The Sutton Trust. Richardson has been on the boards of a number of other non-profit groups including the Central European University, Carnegie Corporation of New York and the EastWest Institute (to October 2015). She was on the editorial boards of a number of journals and presses, including the Oxford University Press. 
Among her roles on advisory boards, in 2023 Richardson accepted positions with the Blavatnik School of Government at University of Oxford and the Weatherhead Center for International Affairs at Harvard University.

In 2011 Richardson was appointed to the Scottish Government's Council of Economic Advisers. In 2012, ahead of the centenary in 2014 of the outbreak of World War One, she was appointed to the Scottish Commemorations Panel. In 2023, Richardson was named the independent chair of the Consultative Forum on International Security Policy in Ireland.

References

1958 births
Living people
Alumni of Trinity College Dublin
University of California, Los Angeles alumni
Harvard University alumni
Harvard University faculty
Academics of the University of St Andrews
Honorary Fellows of Trinity College Dublin
International relations scholars
Irish political scientists
Principals of the University of St Andrews
People from Tramore
Fellows of the Royal Society of Edinburgh
Terrorism theorists
Vice-Chancellors of the University of Oxford
Members of the American Philosophical Society
Fellows of the Academy of Social Sciences
Women heads of universities and colleges
Women political scientists
Dames Commander of the Order of the British Empire