[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mesão Frio

Real (the district capital) and 12 kilometres from Peso da Régua (its closest neighbour). It is limited in the north and east by the municipality of Peso da Régua, south by Resende and Lamego (along their Douro River frontier)  and in the west by the municipality of Baião, in the district of Porto.

From the “Estudos de Caracterização do Território Municipal do PDM”, the municipality is identified by three geological areas: one associated with the Douro region, another that includes the sierra of Marão and farther east, an area of granite that extends to the west of the municipality. The ancient deposition of sedimentary layers that were later transformed resulting in a dominant formation of pre-Cambrian and Cambrian sediments. It was these structures that developed into the metamorphic rocks of the Douro Group, consisting of schists and greywackes. The schists, which include layers of faulted rocks (formations created during the Ordovician-Silurian periods) consist of an inferior layer of conglomerate Ordovician sediments of schists and metamorphic greywackes, as well as a layer of quartzite and schists with magnetic layering.

In the area of Barqueiros, there are derivative metamorphic rocks (clays, chiastolitic and interspersed schists) which resulted from granitic intrusions in the past. These granites pertain to the larger granitic region, consisting of granite or silicate cliffs with crystals of feldspar of a medium to fine quality.< Sedimentary formations, refer to primarily the modern deposits along the margins of the Douro, creating terraces, sands and other alluvial deposits.

The region is bisected by a fault that cuts the municipality along a northwest by southeast alignment, in addition to a direction north-northeast by south-southeast.

The regions relief is primarily motivated by the Serra do Marão which is subdivided by the Douro River valley, forming linear hilltops where many of the principal settlements exist. Many of the watersheds are drained by tributaries of the Douro that have, although a low intensity flow, carved out deep valleys (such as the Teixeira and Semenha River).  Monte de São Silvestre, in the parish of Vila Jusã, is the highest point in the municipality (located at 531 metres above sea level), while the lowest point is in the Porto de Rei, in Barqueiros (50 metre above the river).

Climate
Located in the southern flank of the Serra do Marão and on the right margin of the Douro, the region is marked by distinct climatic regions. The northern zone, owing to the mountainous Serra do Marão, has a climate characteristic of the Terras Frias Transmontanas (Trás-os-Montes Cold Lands): temperatures are relatively low (annual means between 10 °C and 12.5 °C) and exposed to colder winds and precipitation (annually in excess of 1600 millimetres). The southeastern zone, with minor humidity and reduced altitudes, has less precipitation. The localities here are between 400 and 700 metres in altitude (such as Vila Marim and Brunhais), and although the winters continue to be cold, they are less sevre, and the summers are shorter and warmer (with temperatures between 12.5 °C and 14 °C). In the valleys of the Douro, Teixeira and Sermenha (areas of 400 metres and less in altitude) the temperatures and climate are almost Mediterranean. These areas have annual temperatures of 14 °C and area commonly referred to as part of the Terras Quentes Transmontanas (Trás-os-Montes Warm Lands).

Human geography
The evolution of the resident population of Mesão Frio has diminished recent years; between 1991 and 2001, the population in the municipality decreased from 5519 to 4926. Similar decreases occurred between the period 1960 and 2001 where the resident population dropped by 2498 inhabitants. The only exception occurring after the return of colonial immigrants and military after the independence of many of the Portuguese Colonial dependencies.

Although the primary level of government is the municipal authority, the local administration is operated by civil parish boards (). The municipality is divided into 5 civil parishes (freguesias):
 Barqueiros
 Cidadelhe
 Oliveira
 Mesão Frio (Santo André)
 Vila Marim

Notable citizens

 José Maria de Alpoim Cerqueira Borges Cabral (Santa Cristina; 2 June 1858 - Lisbon, 12 December 1916) was a politician, member of the Progressive Party of Portugal, and later the Republican Party of Portugal, who held various roles during the last years of the constitutional monarchy in Portugal, and was responsible for providing bombs, arms and money to republican conspirators involved in the Lisbon Regicide. Later, as well as holding positions in the Ministry of Justice after his exile in Salamanca, he held minor roles in the First Portuguese Republic.  The public garden in Mesão Frio, along with an avenue that bears his name (Avenida Conselheiro José Maria Alpoim) and, in front of the municipal grounds, a bust of José Maria de Alpoim was erected in 1923.

References
Notes