[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ed van Thijn

er Instituut, Institute for Multiparty Democracy, Wiardi Beckman Foundation, and the Royal Academy of Arts and Sciences) and served as a distinguished professor of Sociology, Governmental Studies, and the History of socialism at the University of Amsterdam from 1 December 1995 until 1 December 2003.

Senate
Van Thijn was elected as a Member of the Senate after the Senate election of 1999, taking office on 8 June 1999 serving as a frontbencher chairing several parliamentary committees. In February 2007 van Thijn announced his retirement from national politics and that he wouldn't stand for the Senate election of 2007 and continued to serve until the end of the parliamentary term on 12 June 2007.

Personal life
Van Thijn had two ex-wives and a domestic partner. In 1992, van Thijn married Odette Taminiau. Van Thijn's children are Carla van Thijn (born 1965) and Marion van Thijn (born 1968). Although not raised religiously observant, in later years he aligned himself with Progressive Judaism.

He died on 19 December 2021, at the age of 87.

Decorations

Notes

References

External links

Official
  Drs. E. (Ed) van Thijn  Parlement & Politiek
  Drs. E. van Thijn (PvdA) Eerste Kamer der Staten-Generaal

1934 births
2021 deaths
Commanders of the Legion of Honour
Dutch autobiographers
Dutch corporate directors
Dutch humanists
Dutch Reform Jews
Dutch magazine editors
Dutch management consultants
Dutch nonprofit directors
Dutch nonprofit executives
Dutch people of World War II
Dutch political scientists
Dutch prisoners of war in World War II
Dutch sociologists
Grand Officers of the Order of Orange-Nassau
Historians of World War II
Humanistic Jews
Knights of the Order of the Netherlands Lion
Labour Party (Netherlands) politicians
Dutch Marxist historians
Mayors of Amsterdam
Members of the House of Representatives (Netherlands)
Members of the Senate (Netherlands)
Ministers of the Interior of the Netherlands
Municipal councillors of Amsterdam
Westerbork transit camp survivors
Jewish concentration camp survivors
Jewish Dutch politicians
Jewish Dutch writers
Jewish humanists
Jewish mayors of places in the Netherlands
Jewish socialists
Recipients of the Grand Cross of the Order of Leopold II
University of Amsterdam alumni
Academic staff of the University of Amsterdam
World War II civilian prisoners
World War II prisoners of war held by Germany
Writers about activism and social change
Writers from Amsterdam
20th-century Dutch businesspeople
20th-century Dutch educators
20th-century Dutch historians
20th-century Dutch male writers
20th-century Dutch politicians
21st-century Dutch businesspeople
21st-century Dutch educators
21st-century Dutch historians
21st-century Dutch male writers
21st-century Dutch politicians