[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Bedlam (1946 film)

Bedlam is a 1946 American  horror film directed by Mark Robson and starring Boris Karloff, Anna Lee and Richard Fraser, and was the last in a series of stylish horror B films produced by Val Lewton for RKO Radio Pictures. The film was inspired by William Hogarth's 1732–1734 painting series A Rake's Progress, and Hogarth was given a writing credit.

Plot
It is 1761 in London at an asylum for the mentally ill and an acquaintance of Lord Mortimer dies in an attempt to escape from the asylum. Master George Sims appeases Mortimer by having his "loonies" put on a show for him. Mortified by the treatment of the patients, Mortimer's protégée Nell Bowen seeks his aid, then seeks the help of Whig politician John Wilkes to reform the asylum, threatening Sim's corrupt practices.

Mortimer and Sims conspire to commit Nell to the asylum, where her initial fears of the fellow inmates do not alter her sympathetic commitment to improving their conditions as she tends to the comfort of her fellow inmates. Alarmed by Bowen's imminent release, following legal pressure from Wilkes, Sims plans to apply his most drastic "cure" to her, but his attempt is thwarted by the inmates whom Nell has helped.

Sidney Long, an inmate who used to be a lawyer, insists on a fair trial for Sims. Sims' "defense" reveals his own mental instability. An inmate stabs Sims from behind with a trowel that Nell had obtained from her Quaker friend Hannay, a mason by trade. Believing Sims
to be dead, the inmates bury him inside the walls. At the last minute one of Sims' eyes open and he realizes he is being buried alive.

Nell is rescued by Hannay. They decide that Sims' fate should remain a mystery to the outside world. The
"insane" inmates could not be held legally responsible under the law in any event. She addresses Hannay with the archaic familiar pronouns thee and thou, suggesting that they have formed a closer relationship.

Cast

Release

Theatrical release
The movie recorded a loss of $40,000.

Home media
The film has been released on DVD by Warner Bros. as part of a double release with Isle Of The Dead and as part of the Val Lewton Horror Collection, and features a commentary by film historian Tom Weaver.
A Warner Bros “Archive Collection” blu-ray double bill with Lewton’s The Ghost Ship was released in the US and UK in 2023 (also directed by Mark Robson), retaining the Tom Weaver commentary.

Reception

Initial reception

Later reception
On Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 89% based on , with a weighted average rating of 6.4/10.
Film critic Leonard Maltin awarded the film three out of a possible four stars, commending the film's atmosphere.

See also
 Boris Karloff filmography

References

External links

 
 
 
 
 

1940s horror thriller films
1946 films
American horror thriller films
American black-and-white films
Films scored by Roy Webb
Films directed by Mark Robson
Films produced by Val Lewton
RKO Pictures films
Films set in London
Films set in psychiatric hospitals
Films set in 1761
Works based on art
1946 horror films
1940s English-language films
1940s American films
English-language horror thriller films
American historical films
1940s historical films