[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# John Comyn, Earl of Buchan

John Comyn, 3rd Earl of Buchan (circa 1260 – 1308) was a chief opponent of Robert the Bruce in the civil war that paralleled the War of Scottish Independence. He should not be confused with the better known John III Comyn, Lord of Badenoch, who was his cousin, and who was killed by Bruce in Dumfries in March 1306. Confusion between the two men has affected the study of this period of history.

Buchan was the representative of a family that had long dominated the politics of Scotland. He was defeated by Bruce at the Battle of Barra and was subsequently forced to flee to England. Bruce's Harrying of Buchan destroyed support for the Comyns in northern Scotland. This defeat, together with Comyn's death that year, produced a significant and lasting shift in the balance of power in Scotland.

Comyns of Buchan
The Comyns, a family of Norman origin, first made their appearance in Scotland during the reign of David I. In 1136 William Comyn, who had formerly been in the service of Henry I of England, became Chancellor of Scotland. William Comyn was part of a new class of French-speaking foreigners whose power and status in Scotland was entirely dependent on their service to the king.  They were to be used by David and his successors in extending royal authority to the semi-independent fringes of the kingdom.   The Comyns first grants of land were in the south of Scotland. In 1212 they made their most significant advance when William Comyn, Justiciar of Scotia, married Marjory, the only child and heir of Fergus, the "earl" or mormaer of Buchan. The lordship encompassed a large area in the north-east of Scotland. When their son Alexander succeeded them, the Comyns became the first family of Norman origin to acquire comital status in Scotland . This allowed Comyns to  gain a head start on the Bruces, also of Norman-French origin, who did not acquire the earldom of Carrick until the later thirteenth century. William also advanced Comyn power by acquiring for his son, Walter Comyn, the southern section of the old earldom of Moray, the Lordship of Badenoch, which also included the more westerly district of Lochaber.  By the middle of the thirteenth century Comyn leadership thus extended from the shores of Aberdeenshire westwards all the way to Loch Linnhe.  The family remained in power through the successive reigns of Alexander II and Alexander III; but they might be said to have reached the heights of their power and influence during the reign of John Balliol .

Competitors and kings
In 1290 Margaret, Maid of Norway, the last direct descendant of the Canmore dynasty, died, leaving the Scottish throne with no clear successor. Thirteen competitors came forward, including Robert Bruce of Annandale, grandfather of the future king, and John Balliol. Although John Comyn, Lord of Badenoch, sometimes known as the Black Comyn, was one of the minor competitors,  the weight of the family was behind the claim of Balliol, Badenoch's brother-in-law.  Following the intervention of Edward I, Balliol finally emerged in 1292 as the strongest claimant in terms of feudal law, though the Bruce family was not reconciled to this outcome. Any successful future bid for the crown could only proceed with the co-operation, or by the destruction, of the house of Comyn.  By 1292 the great division which was to dominate Scottish politics on and off for over fifty years had taken definite shape.

John of Buchan

John Comyn became third earl of Buchan following the death of his father, Alexander, in 1289. Comyn was some 30 years of age at the time. He was prominent in John Balliol's administration, emerging as Constable of Scotland by 1293. He was one of those summoned by Edward I, in his capacity as the Feudal overlord of Scotland, to serve in the wars in France. When King John agreed to the demands of the English king for Scottish participation in the war, Buchan and others, took management of the kingdom into their own hands.  The new government concluded an alliance with France and prepared for war with England. In the first act of that war Buchan, along with his cousin, John, the Red Comyn, son of the Black Comyn and nephew of King John, led an attack on Carlisle.  This attack was against Robert Bruce, Earl of Carrick, son of the competitor. Thus it might be said that what was to become the War of Scottish Independence opened with a clash between the Comyns and the Bruces.