[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 26]
# Va'etchanan

inners, are said to tempt God, that is, to make a trial of God, whether he be so wise as to see their sins, [or] so just and true and powerful as to take vengeance on them, concerning which they are very apt to doubt because of the present impunity and prosperity of many such persons."

Commandments

According to Maimonides
Maimonides cited verses in the parashah for 11 positive and 15 negative commandments:
That warriors shall not fear their enemies nor be frightened of them in battle
To know that there exists God
Not to entertain the thought that there is any god but the Lord
Not to make a graven image, neither to make oneself nor to have made for oneself by others
Not to bow down to an object of idolatry, even if that is not its normal way of worship
Not to worship an object of idolatry in its normal ways of worship
Not to take an oath in vain
Not to do work on the Sabbath
To honor one's father and mother
Not to kill an innocent person
Not to kidnap any person of Israel; this is theft of a person.
Not to covet
 
Not to desire."
To acknowledge God's Oneness
To love God
To read the Shema twice daily
To learn Torah and teach it
To bind tefillin on the head
To bind tefillin on the arm
To fasten a mezuzah
To fear God
To swear by God's Name
Not to test the word of God
Not to make a covenant with the seven Canaanite nations
Not to have mercy on idolaters
Not to intermarry with idolaters

According to Sefer ha-Chinuch
According to Sefer ha-Chinuch, there are 8 positive and 4 negative commandments in the parashah.
Not to desire another's possession
To know that God is one
To love God
To study Torah
To say the Shema twice daily
To bind tefillin on the arm
To wear tefillin on the head
To put a mezuzah on each door post
Not to test the prophet unduly
Not to make a covenant with idolaters
Not to show favor to them
Not to marry idolaters

In the liturgy
The Torah reader and the congregation recite  immediately before the Torah reading, signifying how learning the Torah embodies remaining steadfast to God.

The Passover Haggadah, in the magid section of the Seder, quotes  to elucidate the term "great terribleness" in , interpreting the "great terribleness" to mean the revelation of the Shechinah or Divine Presence.

It is customary for listeners to stand while the reader chants the Ten Commandments in the synagogue, as if the listeners were themselves receiving the revelation at Sinai.

The Lekhah Dodi liturgical poem of the Kabbalat Shabbat prayer service quotes both the commandment of  to "remember" the Sabbath and the commandment of  to "keep" or "observe" the Sabbath, saying that they "were uttered as one by our Creator."

The verses of the Shema and V'ahavta in  constitute a central prayer in Jewish prayer services. Jews combine  along with , and  to form the core of K'riat Shema, recited in the evening (Ma'ariv) and morning (Shacharit) prayer services. A shorter version of the Shema, composed of simply , appears in the Torah service (Seder K'riat HaTorah) and the Kedushah of the Musaf service for Shabbat. And the Shema and for some the V'ahavta, , are among the first prayers said upon arising and form the central prayer of the bedtime Shema, said just before retiring for sleep.

Reuven Hammer noted that Mishnah Tamid 5:1 recorded what was in effect the first siddur, as a part of which priests daily recited the Ten Commandments and .

The commandment to love God in  is reflected in , which is in turn one of the six Psalms recited at the beginning of the Kabbalat Shabbat prayer service.

The "love" of God that  urges finds reflection in the characterization of God as the "Beloved" in the Lekhah Dodi liturgical poem of the Kabbalat Shabbat prayer service.

And the leshem yihud prayer before putting on tefillin quotes the commandment of .

In the magid section, the Haggadah combines  and  in the first answer to the Four Questions (Ma Nishtana) in the magid section of the Seder. And shortly thereafter, the Haggadah quotes  to provide the question of the wise son, also in the magid section.

Also in the magid section, the Haggadah quotes —emphasizing the word "us" (otanu)—for the proposition that God did not redeem the ancestral Israelites alone, but also the current generation of Jews with them.

The Weekly Maqam
In the Weekly Maqam, Sephardi Jews each week base the songs of the services on the content of that week's parashah. For Parashah Va'etchanan, Sephardi Jews apply Maqam Hoseni, the maqam that expresses beauty, because this is the parashah where Moses repeats to the Israelites their history of receiving the Ten Commandments.