[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Seven Days to Noon

at it is "Too late", Willingdon breaks free, runs from the church, and is killed by a nervous soldier. As the clock strikes twelve, Lane finishes disarming the UR12. Goldie, who is on Westminster Bridge attempting to hitch a ride to Aldershot hears the all-clear sirens and heads for home.

Main cast

Barry Jones as Professor John Willingdon
Olive Sloane as Goldie Phillips
André Morell as Superintendent Folland
Sheila Manahan as Ann Willingdon, Professor Willingdon's daughter
Hugh Cross as Stephen 'Steve' Lane
Joan Hickson as Mrs Emily Georgina Peckett, a landlady
Ronald Adam as Honorable Arthur Lytton, the Prime Minister
Marie Ney as Mrs Willingdon, Professor Willingdon's wife
Wyndham Goldie as Reverend Burgess, the vicar of Wallingford
Russell Waters as Detective Davis
Martin Boddey as General Willoughby
Frederick Allen as himself, a BBC radio announcer
Victor Maddern as Private Jackson
Geoffrey Keen as Alf, the loudmouth in the pub
Merrill Mueller as himself, the American NBC radio commentator in London
Joss Ackland as Young Policeman at the Police Station (uncredited)
Jean Anderson as Mother at Railway Station (uncredited)
Ernest Clark as Barber (uncredited)
Colin Douglas as Soldier in House Search (uncredited)
Sam Kydd as Soldier in House Search (uncredited)
Bruce Seton as Brigadier Grant (uncredited)
Marianne Stone as Woman in Phone Box (uncredited)
Ian Wilson as Sandwich-Board Man (uncredited)

Production
The film was based on a story by journalist Paul Dehn and musician James Benard, neither of whom was a screenwriter at the time. Roy Boulting produced and edited, and John Boulting directed (although in the credits, both brothers are credited with performing all three tasks). The brothers described the story as "Guy Fawkes in modern dress", and deliberately did not cast any stars in the leads, as they felt the story would be more believable that way. During filming, John Boulting said: "We don't want any stars. They would be a positive hindrance. Those old familiar faces, and old familiar tricks and gestures, would entirely destroy the illusion we have created. Only my brother and I know the full story of Seven Days to Noon. Even our players haven't seen the entire script. We're keeping it secret until it's ready for sale."

Production began in July 1949, with the cooperation of the War Office and the police. Location filming took place in London over several weeks, including at Westminster Bridge, Lambeth Grove, and Trafalgar Square Underground station; walkie-talkies were used to help control traffic on the bridge. For the film, Gilbert Taylor was influenced by the photography of The Naked City.

In a sequel to the film André Morell again portrayed Superintendent Folland in High Treason (1951).

Critical reception 
The film performed reasonably well at the box office. It was one of a string of financially successful films from Alexander Korda's production and distribution companies following a series of flops.

Variety said: "Barry Jones’ interpretation of the scientist is intelligent. His clearly defined portrait of the man no one understands is a moving piece of acting. [...] The actors are aided by a first-rate script. Dialog is consistently pithy, with few chances for laughs overlooked, despite the seriousness of the theme"

Monthly Film Bulletin wrote: "Seven Days to Noon is a first class thriller with a theme of alarming topicality. The script does not make the mistake of opening on too high a note of excitement, and the transition from the common sense routine work of the opening scenes to the high tension of the last day of the hunt is admirably achieved."

In The Spectator Virginia Graham said: "Mr Barry Jones and Miss Olive Sloane give outstanding performances, the script is both witty and wise, and if, perhaps, the London Police do not emerge with flying colours, flags can be run up for all other participants in this giant game of hide and seek".

Awards 
The film received the Academy Award for Best Story (Paul Dehn and James Bernard) at the 24th Academy Awards (1952).

DVD release
The film was released on DVD in 2008.

References

External links
 Seven Days to Noon at the British Film Institute
 
 
 
Seven Days at Noon at BFI Screenonline

1950 films
1950 drama films
1950s psychological thriller films
British black-and-white films
Apocalyptic films
1950s English-language films
British political thriller films
Films directed by John Boulting
Films directed by Roy Boulting
Films about nuclear war and weapons
Films based on books
Films scored by John Addison
Films set in the 1950s
Films set in London
Films that won the Academy Award for Best Story
Films with screenplays by Paul Dehn
1950s British films