[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Huamachuco

io Prado, due to failing  to keep his word to stay out of the war. General Cáceres, injured, was able to escape and evade capture. The battle effectively ended all further Peruvian resistance and the Treaty of Ancón, putting an end to the war, was signed just three months later, on October 20, 1883.

Order of battle 
Peruvian Army
 Commanding General: General Andres Avelino Cáceres
 Northern Detachment Commander: Colonel Issac Recavarren
 1st Division (Col. Aragones)
 4th Infantry Battalion Pucara
 5th Infantry Battalion Pisagua
 2nd Division (Col. Salazar)
 11th Infantry Battalion Tarma
 12th Infantry Battalion Huallaga
 Army of the Center Commander: Colonel Francisco de Paula Secada
 1st Division (Col. Manuel Cáceres)
 1st Infantry Battalion Tarapaca
 2nd Infantry Battalion Zepita
 2nd Division (Col. Juan Gasto)
 6th Infantry Battalion Marcavalle
 7th Infantry Battalion Concepcion
 3rd Division (Col. Maximo Tafur)
 3rd Infantry Battalion Junin
 9th Infantry Battalion Jauja
 4th Division (Cpt. Luis Germán Astete)
 8th Infantry Battalion Apata
 10th Infantry Battalion San Jeronimo
 Cavalry
 Peruvian Horse Rifles Squadron (Sgt. Maj. Zavala)
 Tarma Escort Squadron (Sgt. Maj. Zapatel)
 Artillery Brigade (Col. of Artillery Rios)

Chilean Army
 Commander in Chief: Colonel Alejandro Gorostiaga
 Concepcion Infantry Battalion (Lt. Col. Herminio Gonzalez)
 Talca Infantry Battalion (Lt. Col. Alejandro Cruz)
 Zapadores Infantry Battalion Companies (Captain Canales)
 Piquete del Victoria Artillery Park (Lt. Col. Garcia)
 Mounted Hunters Squadron (Lt. Col. Novoa)
 Artillery Brigade (Sgt. Major Fontecilla)

Additional information

References

Bibliography

(1883). "A Great Chilian Victory." The New York Times August 14.
Markham, C. R. (1892). A History of Peru. Chicago: Sergel.
Scheina, Robert (2003). Latin America's Wars: The Age of the Caudillo. Dulles, VA: Brasseys.
Thurner, Mark (1997). From Two Republics to One Divided. Durham: Duke University Press.

Battles involving Chile
Battles involving Peru
Battles of the War of the Pacific
History of La Libertad Region
Conflicts in 1883
1883 in Chile
1883 in Peru
July 1883 events