[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Energy Northwest

ergy sources instead of participation in the nuclear plants.

Managing director Neil Strand resigned in February 1980, after being under fire for several months due to the cost overruns and construction delays at the five nuclear power plants. He had been in the lead position for nearly three years.

Default
In January 1982, cost overruns and delays, along with a slowing of electricity demand growth, led to cancellation of two WPPSS plants and a construction halt on the two-reactor Satsop Nuclear Power Plant which was 75% complete. Seventeen months later in June 1983, the Washington State Supreme Court ruled the long-term take-or-pay contracts to buy the power produced by the project were illegal. The next month, in July 1983, WPPSS defaulted on $2.25 billion of municipal bonds, which is the second largest municipal bond default in U.S. history. The court case that followed took nearly a decade to resolve, and WPPSS acquired the nickname "Whoops" in the media.

After default
Fuel loading at Columbia Generating Station began on December 25, 1983, and proceeded at a rate of 50 fuel assemblies per day. The process was completed January 12, 1984, and Columbia was declared in commercial operation December 13, 1984. On January 19, 2010, Energy Northwest submitted an application to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission for a 20-year license renewal of Columbia Generating Station. This renewal was granted in May 2012 and the 1116 megawatt plant is currently licensed for operation to December 20, 2043.

The agency built and continues to operate White Bluffs Solar Station demonstration project, which was dedicated in May 2002. The low-maintenance, environmentally friendly project uses 242 photovoltaic panels to reach a production capacity of 38.7 kilowatts DC.

Energy Northwest next built and continues to operate the region's first public power wind project – Nine Canyon Wind Project. It was dedicated in October 2002, with a second phase going online in December 2003, and the third and final phase in service in May 2008, bringing the total capacity to 95.9 megawatts.

Energy Northwest's latest development is the Horn Rapids Solar, Storage and Training project which went online in November 2020. The project is a 4-megawatt direct current solar generating array of photovoltaic panels, owned and operated by Tucci Energy Services. Energy Northwest owns and operates the co-located 1-MW/4MWh battery energy storage system.

Members

 Asotin County PUD
 Benton County PUD
 Centralia City Light
 Chelan County PUD
 City of Port Angeles
 City of Richland
 Clallam County PUD
 Clark Public Utilities
 Cowlitz County PUD
 Ferry County PUD
 Franklin County PUD
 Grant County PUD
 Grays Harbor County PUD
 Jefferson County PUD
 Kittitas County PUD
 Klickitat County PUD
 Lewis County PUD
 Mason County PUD 1
 Mason County PUD 3
 Okanogan County PUD
 Pacific County PUD 2
 Pend Oreille PUD
 Seattle City Light
 Skamania County PUD
 Snohomish County PUD
 Tacoma Public Utilities
 Wahkiakum County PUD
 Whatcom County PUD

See also
 Nuclear Implosions: The Rise and Fall of the Washington Public Power Supply System

References

External links
 
 "Nuclear energy industry angles for bigger role in Washington and U.S. as climate change accelerates". The Seattle Times. October 31, 2021.
 Investomedia
 The Cato Institute
 Los Angeles Times October 9, 1987, article
 HistoryLink.org – WPPSS – July 10, 2003 – (Essay 5482, David Wilma) 

Government of Washington (state)
Nuclear power companies of the United States
Municipal electric utilities of the United States
Electric generation and transmission cooperatives in the United States
Government units that have filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy
1957 establishments in Washington (state)
Energy in Washington (state)