[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# An Autumn's Tale

s. Pang gave the beautiful watch band while Jennifer gave him her grandfather's watch. This was based on  
The Gift of the Magi by American short story writer O. Henry.

At the end of the film, a sign on the right of Samuel Pang's restaurant, "Sampan", is mislabelled as "Sampman".

Filming locations

 Williamsburg Bridge - bridge where Pang and Lee drive over as well as passing shots during film
 Brooklyn Bridge - bridge where Pang runs to chase after car with Jennifer and Vincent
 Manhattan Bridge - night view from archways at Adam Street and Monroe Street
 John V. Lindsay East River Park and/or Brooklyn Bridge Park - park scenes involving Pang, Lee
 Hoboken Terminal - train station Vincent arrives with Peggy
 New York Public Library Main Branch - location where Pang and Lee sell the hand made dolls
 Newark Airport - pickup area where Pang parks his car
 New York City Chinatown - various restaurant scenes (inside and out)
 Lower East Side (73 Monroe St) - location of Samuel Pang's home
 Greenwich Street - where Big Panda was located and scenes facing then World Trade Centre
 Metropolitan Opera House - passing shot
 Ocean Grove Pier, New Jersey - SAMPAN restaurant.
 East River Promenade, New York - Flower for Jennifer by old man.

Cars

The first car driven by Pang is a two door Pontiac Ventura Spirit, followed by a larger Cadillac convertible.

Box office
The film grossed HK$25,546,552 at the Hong Kong box office during its theatrical run from 16 July to 25 August 1987.

Awards and nominations

See also
 List of Hong Kong films

Literature

Footnotes

References

External links
 
 
 
 
An Autumn's Tale at the Hong Kong Cinemagic
 Movie stills from Japan version, 2010 

1987 films
Hong Kong romantic drama films
1987 romantic drama films
1980s Cantonese-language films
Best Film HKFA
Films set in New York City
Films shot in New York City
Films directed by Mabel Cheung
1980s Hong Kong films
Foreign films set in the United States