[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sharif Sheikh Ahmed

Hassan Sheikh Mohamud. The FNP alliance has united the leadership of the country to work together toward resolving Somalia's political and security issues.

Since it was formed, the FNP has campaigned on various issues which include humanitarian aid, dialogue with FGS, and the Somali election model.

Council of Presidential Candidates 

In November 2020 Sharif was elected as chairman of the Council of Presidential Candidates, which has been active in holding the Somali government to account on the procedures concerning of the upcoming elections. The CPC has worked on resolving issues such as security issues and the election impasse in the 2021 elections.

2022 presidential elections

In January 2019 Sharif announced his intention to stand for the 2021 presidential election on the ticket of his political party Himilo Qaran, citing the "inability of the current leadership to restore peace and security" against al-Shabaab militants who still control large rural regions of the country. As a group of 14 presidential candidates met in Mogadishu for a six day conference in November 2020 the Council of Presidential Candidates was formed and Sharif was nominated as chairman.

On 15 May 2022, Sharif received 39 of 328 parliamentary votes cast in the first round of voting, placing him in fifth place and not proceeding to the second round. Hassan Sheikh Mohamud was the winner.

Awards and honours

Fellowship, Boston University
Sharif is beneficiary of the former-Presidents-In-Residence fellowship initiated by Boston University in Massachusetts, USA. The scholarship is administered by the African Presidential Archives and Research Center (APARC). It hosts programs including debates on public policy to extend knowledge of the complexities and resources in Africa.

References

External links
Sharif Sheikh Ahmed official Twitter account
 Sharif Sheikh Ahmed on Facebook
 Djibouti Agreement
 Kampala Accord

|-

1966 births
Living people
Alliance for the Re-liberation of Somalia politicians
People from Middle Shabelle
Presidents of Somalia
University of Kordofan alumni
People of the Somali Civil War
Somalian Sunni Muslim scholars of Islam