[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# American English

become  ("long ee") before the underlying  is converted to , so that coding, for example, is pronounced , homophonous with codeine.
 Conditioned /æ/ raising (especially before  and ): The raising of the  or  vowel occurs in specific environments that vary widely from region to region but most commonly before  and . With most American speakers for whom the phoneme  operates under a somewhat-continuous system,  has both a tense and a lax allophone (with a kind of "continuum" of possible sounds between both extremes, rather than a definitive split). In those accents,  is overall realized before nasal stops as tenser (approximately ), while other environments are laxer (approximately the standard ); for example, note the vowel sound in  for mass, but  for man). In the following audio clip, the first pronunciation is the tensed one for the word camp, much more common in American English than the second . 
In some American accents, however, specifically those from Baltimore, Philadelphia, and New York City,  and  are indeed entirely separate (or "split") phonemes, for example, in planet  vs. plan it . They are called Mid-Atlantic split-a systems. The vowels move in the opposite direction (high and forward) in the mouth compared to the backed Standard British "broad a", but both a systems are probably related phonologically, if not phonetically since a British-like phenomenon occurs among some older speakers of the eastern New England (Boston) area for whom  changes to  before  alone or when preceded by a homorganic nasal.

 "Short o" before r before a vowel: In typical North American accents (both U.S. and Canada), the historical sequence  (a short o sound followed by r and then another vowel, as in orange, forest, moral, and warrant) is realized as , thus further merging with the already-merged  (horse–hoarse) set. In the U.S., a small number of words (namely, tomow, sy, sow, bow, and mow) usually contain the sound  instead and thus merge with the  set (thus, sorry and sari become homophones, both rhyming with starry).

Some mergers found in most varieties of both American and British English include the following:
 Horse–hoarse merger: This merger makes the vowels  and  before  homophones, with homophonous pairs like horse/hoarse, corps/core, for/four, morning/mourning, war/wore, etc. homophones. Many older varieties of American English still keep the sets of words distinct, particularly in the extreme Northeast, the South (especially along the Gulf Coast), and the central Midlands, but the merger is evidently spreading and younger Americans rarely show the distinction.
 Wine–whine merger: This produces pairs like wine/whine, wet/whet, Wales/whales, wear/where, etc. homophones, in most cases eliminating , also transcribed , the voiceless labiovelar fricative. However, scatterings of older speakers who do not merge these pairs still exist nationwide, perhaps most strongly in the South.

Vocabulary

The process of coining new lexical items started as soon as English-speaking British-American colonists began borrowing names for unfamiliar flora, fauna, and topography from the Native American languages. Examples of such names are opossum, raccoon, squash, moose (from Algonquian), wigwam, and moccasin. American English speakers have integrated traditionally non-English terms and expressions into the mainstream cultural lexicon; for instance, en masse, from French; cookie, from Dutch; kindergarten from German, and rodeo from Spanish. Landscape features are often loanwords from French or Spanish, and the word corn, used in England to refer to wheat (or any cereal), came to denote the maize plant, the most important crop in the U.S.