[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Manuel Casanova

t than MRI scans.

Recognition
His expertise in the field of postmortem techniques was recognized by honorary appointments as a Scientific Expert for the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology and as a Professorial Lecturer for the Department of Forensic Science at George Washington University.

Awards

 Presidential Award of the American Medical Association, Puerto Rico Chapter (1981) 
 Physician's Recognition Award by the American Medical Association (1982-5)
 National Research Service Award (1984-6)
 Stanley Scholar (1994)
 Distinguished Faculty, The Medical College of Georgia (1995)
 Scientific Advisory Board, National Alliance for Autism Research (1996)
 Tissue Advisory Board, Autism Tissue Board (1999-2000)
 Senior Scientist Award, 11th Biennial Winter Workshop on Schizophrenia (2002)
 Distinguished Clinical Research Award, Medical College of Georgia (2003)
 Gottfried and Gisela Kolb Endowed Chair in Psychiatry (2003)
 Chairperson, NIH-CSR Developmental Brain Disorders Study Section (2007-9)
 Magisterial Presentation. Third World Congress of Autism (2010)
 Contributing Piece Award presented by Families for Effective Autism Treatment (FEAT) (2011)
 Opening Speaker for the International Symposium 2012 of the FRA/CIBERER on Advances in the Biomedical Research of Autism Spectrum Disorders (2012)
 Member of the Scientific Advisory Committee for Generation Rescue (2013)
 Magisterial presentation. XV Simposio de investigaciones en salud: discapacidad y ciclo vital (2013)
 Honorary Professor the International Autism Institute (2013)
 Scientific Advisory Board, Clearly Present Foundation (2013)
 Scientific Advisory Board, Center for Advanced Diagnostics, Evaluation, and Therapeutics, LLC (2013)
 Miembro equipo fundador: Autismo Colombia (2014)
 Scientific Advisory Board, Autism Research Institute, San Diego CA (2015)
 Honorary Doctor of Krasnoyarsk State Pedagogical University (2015)
 Visiting Professor of the Krasnoyarsk State Medical University (2015)
 President elect, International Consortium of Autism Institutes (2016)
 Special Recognition, Distinguished Seminar Series, University of Louisville (2016)
 Advisory Board, Our Sunny World, Russia (2017)
 Member of the Irlen International Professional Advisory Board (2017)
 The Outstanding Scholar Award (2017)
 Frontiers Spotlight Award (2017)

Views on neurodiversity

Casanova has stated that most of the neurodiversity movement is based on the good intention to destigmatize autism, but some of their scientific arguments are questionable.  He sees many other positives in the movement, such as the desire for acceptance and accommodations.  Casanova states that the concepts behind neurodiversity originated in ancient Greek times, when Socrates attempted to determine which behaviors were a disorder and which ones were simply differences.  According to him, those ideas were also seen in the Renaissance, the Romantic era, and the antipsychiatry movement.  He further claims that Leo Kanner originated the modern version of the neurodiversity movement through studying autistic individuals.

However, he says that the loudest voices in the neurodiversity camp are disruptive.  Casanova claimed about their views that “They see the world in black and white, and either you are with them or against them” and “it might end up hurting research, and hurting the delivery of services to those people who most need them.”  Additionally, he said  “It’s not a blessing to have head-banging, eye-gouging or self-biting; those have serious side effects, including retinal detachment, cauliflower ears, they can get brain trauma, contusions.  Those people need to be treated,” but made no suggestions as to what that treatment might be.

In response to neurodiversity's statement that autism does not need medical treatment, Casanova points out that parents that support therapy or treatment for autistic children say that it will reduce their suffering and give them the best chance to succeed in adulthood, disregarding the fact that conditions such as epilepsy are not part of autism, and those that are, such as sensory distress, can be successfully treated through interventions such as sensory integration therapy without attempting to eliminate the underlying autism.  Casanova additionally claimed that until recently, the neurodiversity movement wilfully neglected the roles of Leo Kanner and Bernard Rimland in advocating for accommodations, claiming that they were ignored because those individuals also wanted medical treatments for autism.

Casanova has also claimed that Neurotribes by Steve Silberman was unfairly weighted against Leo Kanner.  Casanova has also written against Silberman's perspective that Hans Asperger, one of the first autism researchers, should be forgiven for his involvement in the Nazi regime.  "Contrary to Mr. Silberman," Casanova wrote in response, "I do not defend or condone [Asperger’s] murderous actions."