[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# History of the North Sea

cluding war materials and to guarantee the undisturbed ferrying of British troops.  Because of the strong defensive fortress of Heligoland, the Germans controlled the German Bight, while the rest of the North Sea and the English Channel were controlled by the Royal Navy for the duration of the war. 

6 August 1914 saw the start of the German U-boat Campaign – two days after the United Kingdom declared war on Germany over the German invasion of Belgium, ten German U-boats left their base in Heligoland to attack Royal Navy warships in the North Sea.

The first sea battle, the Battle of Heligoland Bight took place on 28 August 1914 and ended in a clear British victory.  Because of British surface naval superiority, the Germans initiated submarine warfare.  After several failures, the German submarine  succeeded in sinking three British armored cruisers about  north of Hook of Holland, near the North Sea entrance to the English Channel.

This ended British complacency about submarines.
In November 1914, the British declared the entire North Sea a war zone and from there on out it was mined as part of the blockade of Germany. Ships that sailed the North Sea under the flags of neutral countries without giving the British prior warning could be the target of British attack. 

In the Battle of Dogger Bank, the Germans suffered another defeat on the 24 January 1915 and in the aftermath, all attempts to break the allied blockade failed.  Due to these failures, on 4 February 1915, the Germans initiated unrestricted submarine warfare, in which, in addition to enemy ships, all neutral ships could be attacked.

On 31 May and 1 June 1916, the Battle of Jutland, if measured by the number of participating ships (238), the largest naval battle in world history took place.  The German goal of significantly weakening the British Navy by sinking a large part of it and ending the blockade was not achieved.  Although the Germans won a tactical victory, their main fleet narrowly escaped destruction and they once again laid their hopes on the unrestricted submarine warfare.

As the war was ending and contrary to the wishes of the new German regime, a final attack on the British Navy on 28 October 1918 was ordered. However, the outbreak of the Wilhelmshaven mutiny in Kiel ended the naval war.  The mutiny was also a crucial step in the initiation of the German Revolution of 1918–1919.

The Second World War

The Second World War was, in terms of naval warfare, again mostly a submarine war on the German side.  However, this time the main action was not in the North Sea but rather the Atlantic.  Also different from the first war, the North Sea was no longer the exclusive territory of the Allies.  Rather, it was, above all in the first years of the war, the stage for an intensive coastal war, featuring mainly small vessels like submarines, minesweepers, and Fast Attack Craft.  However, despite early successes, which brought about a supply crisis in Britain, the Germans did not succeed in breaking the British resistance. Like in the first war, the allies soon controlled the seas, especially due to air superiority and cut Germany off from supplies coming overseas.

On 14 October 1939, Korvettenkapitän Günther Prien of  managed to sink the warship  in the Scapa Flow with 1400 men aboard.

On 9 April 1940 the Germans initiated Operation Weserübung in which almost the entire German Kriegsmarine fleet was focused north toward Scandinavia. The military objectives of the operation were soon achieved (occupation of Norwegian ports, securing of iron supply, and the prevention of a northern front) and Norway and Denmark surrendered. Throughout the German occupation of Norway, the Shetland Bus operation ran secretly across the North Sea from Great Britain to Norway. Initially, Norwegian fishing boats were used. In the autumn of 1943 America supplied three  submarine chasers named ,  and . They were fast and efficient, carrying out 114 missions to Norway without loss.

Because of the inferiority of the large battleships, especially after early losses (1939 , 1940 , and 1941 ), the German Kriegsmarine resorted more and more to small units with the remaining large ships almost dormant in the Norwegian fjords.

In the last years of the war and the first years thereafter under allied control, an abundance of weapons were dumped into the sea.  While chemical weapons were mostly dumped in the Skagerrak and the Baltic, conventional weapons (grenades, mines, bazookas, and cartridges) were sunk in the German Bight.  The estimates vary widely but it seems to be clear that more than a hundred thousand tons of munitions were sunk.

The Maunsell Sea Forts were small fortified towers built in the Thames and Mersey estuaries during the Second World War to help defend the United Kingdom. One of which on HM Fort Roughs is now occupied by the controversial Principality of Sealand.