[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# TT1

ugh the soil, and plant and harvest crops, surrounded by a familiar Nile environment of palm trees and sycomores, flowers such as cornflowers and poppies and irrigation canals. On the right side, Sennedjem receives food offerings. The barque of Ra-Harakhty is docked at an island on the bottom right.

The ceiling is divided in half lengthwise and separated into four scenes on each side. The westernmost scene of the southern side depicts dawn, with the sun rising between turquoise trees and the star Sirius carried by a solar bull and accompanied by Ra-Horakhty-Atum. The next two scenes show Sennedjem adoring gods of truth, gods of the earth, and concluding with Sennedjem before a triad headed by Thoth. The northern side depicts from west to east Sennedjem's journey to the afterlife. In the first scene he opens the "Secret Door of the Duat". The second scene is the nighttime journey of the sun, whose soul as the Bennu-bird sails in a boat accompanied by Ra-Harakhty-Atum. In the third scene, Sennedjem and Iyneferti worship five kneeling underworld gods. The fourth scene depicts the goddess Nut as a sycamore tree offering food and drink to Sennedjem and Iyneferti who kneel in adoration of her. The layout of the scenes on the ceiling is similar to that seen on coffins, with transverse and vertical bands of text addressing funerary gods in the same order.

The painting of the burial chamber was likely completed before the fifth year of Ramesses II's reign. The hieroglyphic inscriptions are uniformly written, indicating the work was done by a single artist. However, Gema Menéndez suggests the decoration was done by two artists with very similar styles, presumably a master who did the bulk of the work, and an apprentice who painted parts of the ceiling. Menéndez suggests the artist responsible is Pashed, the chief draughtsman active during the reigns of Seti I and Ramesses II who worked on the tomb of Seti I and in the Valley of the Queens.

Contents
TT1 is "one of the few tombs of the New Kingdom discovered intact in modern times." However, little is known about the exact positions of the objects and burials within the burial chamber as no plan was made and few "useful" photographs were taken. Toda describes the room as "covered with bodies and masses of ceramics, bread, fruit, furniture and bouquets at the corners". The coffined burials were clustered at the western end of the chamber and the bodies without coffins were placed on the floor.

The largest pieces of furniture in the tomb were funerary in nature. These are Sennedjem's funerary bed and his funerary chair dedicated by his son Khabekhnet, and an uninscribed offering table. Eight stools were placed in the tomb. Five are everyday examples used by the occupants in life and three are considered to be funerary; two are inscribed for Iyneferti and one for Mose. All forty boxes and chests in the tomb were found empty. Cooney suggests the family may have reentered the tomb as late as the Twentieth Dynasty to remove recyclable items. The only jewellery found in the tomb comes from the bodies of Sennedjem, Iyneferti and Khonsu; the nine boxes thought to have held jewellery were likely emptied by family members in antiquity. Remaining personal possessions included Sennedjem's work tools, among which were a right-angle level and a cubit rod, and nine inscribed walking sticks. Funerary provisions included bread, fruit, and painted vases of wine.

One of the largest known ostraca was placed near the coffin set of Sennedjem. It is inscribed with the start of the Story of Sinuhe in hieratic text. The upper surface was polished and it was shaped to mimic a wooden writing tablet, although at  it is larger than its wooden counterparts. It was placed in the tomb as a burial gift; possibly the text was a favourite of Sennedjem.

Burials
The tomb contained the burials of at least 20 people. According to Maspero, the burials in coffins were stacked atop each other at the western end of the chamber, with the exception of Khonsu who was placed on a bed, and the bodies without coffins were placed on the floor. The pieces of the disassembled sarcophagi were placed at the other end of the room, against the western end of the south wall. Those interred in the tomb included Sennedjem, his wife Iyneferti, and some of their children including Khonsu and his wife Tamaket, Parahotep, Taashen, Ramose, and Hathor, and grandchildren such as Isis, daughter of Khonsu. Two foetuses or infants were buried in yellow-painted wooden boxes. Nine burials were in coffins (eight adults, one child), and 11 individuals were buried without coffins. The bodies of the child and the two foetuses were given floral garlands.

Coffins and mummies