[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# World War Z

rove futile against the overwhelming horde of zombies, and the military is routed on live television. The catastrophe causes the US president to suffer a nervous breakdown, resulting in the Vice President and his cabinet invoking Section 4 of the 25th Amendment and forcibly removing him from office.

The US government evacuates west of the Rocky Mountains and establishes a new capital in Honolulu, Hawaii. The ISS remains crewed by three astronauts who volunteer to not return to Earth; its commander observes miles-wide "mega swarms" of zombies stretching across Central Asia and the Great Plains. The fallout from the Iran–Pakistan War, as well as the millions of global fires sparked by the crisis, creates a nuclear winter. Knowing that zombies freeze solid in extreme cold, many ill-prepared North American civilians flee into the wilderness of northern Canada, where an estimated eleven million people die of disease, hypothermia, starvation, and cannibalism. Paul Redeker, a former intelligence consultant for the apartheid-era South African government, develops a drastic survival strategy that designates large groups of humans as unwitting bait, distracting the undead to give safe zones time to fortify themselves and build up resources; most countries go on to adopt the controversial plan.

Four years later, during a United Nations conference held off the coast of Honolulu aboard the recommissioned USS Saratoga, the United States declares its intention to go on the offensive against the undead, inspiring other countries to follow suit. Determined to lead by example, the US military reinvents itself to more effectively combat zombies as, without a vaccine, every last one must be destroyed to end the pandemic—automatic weapons and mechanized infantry are replaced by semi-automatic rifles and volley firing, soldiers are retrained to target the head over the torso and maintain steady rates of fire, and troops are equipped with body armor designed to protect from infection via zombie bites or bodily fluids. The United Kingdom constructs fortified, elevated motorways to enable easier travel throughout Great Britain while the hordes of undead are being cleared. A new martial art known as Mkunga Lalem, translating to "the Eel and the Sword", is invented specifically to fight zombies.

The contiguous United States is liberated three years after the Honolulu Conference, and global victory is declared after another two years upon the liberation of China, although the British military does not fully liberate London until three years after "Victory in China Day" due to its prioritization of low casualties. Russia, its armories badly depleted, is forced to heavily employ the use of outdated Great Patriotic War-era equipment while waging a costly, brute-force two-front war. France, desiring to restore its national pride and reputation after its humiliating defeats in the Battle of France, Battle of Điện Biên Phủ, and Algerian War, prosecutes its campaign of the war more aggressively than its Western allies. The US president dies, most likely from heart failure caused by extreme stress, toward the end of the war.

Ten years after Victory in China Day, the world is still heavily damaged, but slowly on the road to recovery. Tens of millions of zombies remain active, mainly on the ocean floor, mountains above the snow line, and in arctic areas; the United Nations fields a large force to eliminate them. Iceland remains completely zombified, as its cold weather and lack of military made it the most vulnerable country to the undead. Following a religious revolution sparked by rampant suicide within the Russian military during the war, Russia has become an expansionist theonomy intent on annexing the former Soviet republics, and has adopted a repopulation program under which the nation's few remaining fertile women are used as state broodmares.

North Korea remains quarantined as its entire population mysteriously vanished at the beginning of the pandemic, presumed to have fled into vast underground fallout shelters while remaining ignorant to the end of the zombie threat; fears that the population are now zombified have so far prevented reunification. Cuba has become a capitalist democracy possessing the world's largest GDP. Tibet has become independent from China and hosts Lhasa as the world's most populous city, and China has democratized following a second civil war sparked by the collapse of the Three Gorges Dam. Several new, unnamed countries have emerged due to wartime governments expelling convicts into infested zones, with many of these criminals surviving and going on to establish their own independent "fiefdoms."