[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race

"This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race" is a song by American rock band Fall Out Boy and the second single from their commercially successful third studio album Infinity on High (2007). The song officially debuted on November 21 at the American Music Awards and impacted US radio on December 5. The music was composed by vocalist and guitarist Patrick Stump and the lyrics were penned by bassist Pete Wentz, following the band's songwriting approach which first began with some songs on their 2003 album Take This to Your Grave. Production was handled by Neal Avron, who also produced the band's previous From Under the Cork Tree album. Commenting on the band's decision to pick the track as the first single, Wentz said "There may be other songs on the record that would be bigger radio hits, but this one had the right message."

The track was a commercial success and the band's major international breakthrough. "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race" debuted and peaked at No. 2 on the US Billboard Hot 100 with 162,000 first week sales and broke various records, along with being the band’s highest charting single to date. It is the group's first single to chart worldwide in countries including Australia, New Zealand and most of the European nations, where it reached the top five in many. After its Platinum RIAA and ARIA certifications in 2007, in 2013 it was certified Silver by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI) for 200,000 sales. In Australia, it spent nine consecutive weeks at either No. 4 or No. 5.
 
The song was released as a downloadable track for the video game Rock Band on May 6, 2008, and is also on Rock Band Track Pack Volume 2. The January 2009 issue of PlayStation: The Official Magazine lists Fall Out Boy's "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race" as second on its list of Rock Bands Five Most Unexpectedly Rockin' Downloadable Songs. The song is also available as downloadable content for Guitar Hero 5.

Release
The song was first made available for streaming on November 17, 2006. The single was released as a CD single, digital download and also as a 7-inch blue vinyl and 7-inch purple vinyl. The vinyls' B-sides, "G.I.N.A.S.F.S." and "It's Hard to Say "I Do", When I Don't", were released as bonus tracks from Infinity on High in certain countries, with both included as bonus tracks on the deluxe editions of the album.

Censorship
In most public performances of the song, as well as in radio edits, and the music video on YouTube, the word "God" is removed from the song, to avoid using the profanity "Goddamn", although "damn" is simultaneously removed in some other versions. This censor was also kept on the Rock Band downloadable track of the song, though it was not censored in the United Kingdom, on United States Rock radio, or in Guitar Hero 5.

Composition

Music
Vocalist and guitarist Patrick Stump called "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race" the "funkiest thing we've ever done", and attributed the change in musical style to his love of soul music, which he acquired by listening to oldies stations as a child. Bassist Pete Wentz described the song "a bit of '70s funk mixed with [the band’s 2003 album] Take This to Your Grave with tight verses and big, fat choruses".  The song closing sing-along was influenced by Justin Timberlake's "Señorita".

Lyrics
On "This Ain't a Scene, It's an Arms Race", Wentz uses wartime-inspired metaphors to discuss the band's newfound popularity; he called the song "kind of a tongue-in-cheek look at the way we are so addicted and obsessed with new arts, cultures and loves — to the point where it just becomes oversaturated." He commented, "I think people are gonna read into it what they will. In the back of my head it's a call to arms, but not [in the traditional sense] — more in the way that you sometimes need to just talk to yourself in the mirror." Slant Magazine called it "an unexpectedly funky battle cry that likens the quest for respect and fame to a combat situation."

The song is reportedly about Wentz's frustration with the ever-growing "emo scene". As he told Rolling Stone, "There may be other songs on the record that would be bigger radio hits, but this one had the right message." Wentz's inspiration for the "arms-dealer" metaphor came from the movie Lord of War. The song has also been interpreted to be a critique on artists making music just for the money and fame, an "arms race", instead of music for the fun of it.

Remix
Fall Out Boy tried to rush the remix for the song featuring Kanye West onto Infinity on High, but it was not ready in time. A remix to this remix leaked on FriendsorEnemies.com featuring Kanye West, Paul Wall, Skinhead Rob, Lupe Fiasco, Tyga, Travis McCoy, and Lil Wayne. This remix was performed at the 2007 MTV Video Music Awards, along with Brendon Urie (of Panic! at the Disco).