[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Siege of Namur (1692)

om that direction. In his memoirs, Jean Martin de la Colonie, a participant of the siege wrote, "It was through ignorance of the true state of the fortifications that these articles were agreed to, as it is only from the town side that the fortress could be taken, the rest being almost impregnable".

Fall of citadel
The River Sambre separates the citadel and the town; the weakest side of the citadel lies along the river, but the terms of the truce signed at the surrender of the town prevented the French from attacking from this direction. The section of the citadel overlooking the Meuse is on a rocky height that is inaccessible and impossible to attack. The key to the citadel, therefore, was Fort William (named after William of Orange, who had built it), positioned to the west of the other main strongpoints. It was in that direction that the French were obliged to attack (see map).

The first task for the attackers was to take the outlying redoubt of La Cachotte, which covered the approaches to Fort William. The trench was opened on 8 June; a major assault – consisting of seven battalions, accompanied by the King's Musketeers – followed on 12 June. La Cachotte fell, and Vauban turned to seizing Fort William, which was personally defended by Coehoorn. The fort was well sited, just over the crest of the rise, obscuring the stronghold from the attackers until they were almost upon it and masking its walls from artillery fire. French sappers approached from two directions, but the recent heavy rain had made the whole operation extremely difficult. In a dramatic gesture, Coehoorn ordered his own grave dug to symbolise his commitment to defend the position to the end, but although his grave was not needed, the Dutch engineer was wounded in the head by a shell that killed his valet. The final assault on Fort William came on 22 June. Despite Coehoorn's resolute defence, he and the 200 men who had garrisoned the fort, capitulated. Vauban greeted his rival the next day and consoled him that at least he had "the honour of being attacked by the greatest king in the world". Coehoorn replied that his real consolation was in the fact that he had forced his great rival to move his siege batteries seven times during the assault.

The heavy rain had made the roads become virtually impassable, which greatly restricted the supply of ammunition to the French gun batteries. Saint-Simon wrote, "It sometimes took as much as three days to move a cannon from one battery to another. The wagons were unusable, and shells, cannon-balls, etc., had to be transported on mules and horses.... Without them nothing would have been possible". However, the surrounding country, much of it woodland, provided so little forage that the French were forced to feed their animals on leaves and branches, which resulted in many losses.

Hampered in this way and lacking ammunition, Vauban had sought permission from the King to renege on their earlier treaty and to attack the citadel from the side of the town: an act that, in Vauban's opinion, would be less disgraceful than raising the siege. However, after Fort William fell, the other works did not hold out long. The final capitulation came on 30 June; the remainder of the garrison left on 1 July. To Saint-Simon, who was at the siege, that came none too soon for the besiegers, "whose strength and provisions were nearly exhausted on account of the continual rain that had turned everything to a quagmire".

Aftermath
Louis and his entourage left Namur on 2 July and reached Versailles two weeks later. The King ordered Te Deums of thanksgiving for the victory, but in the words of the historian John Wolf, he may have neglected the work of his engineers when he wrote that "the gloire of so great a victory belong to God alone …" Although Louis had secured a great victory at Namur, the proposed descent on England was, however, a failure. Defeat at the Battle of La Hogue in early June had denied the French naval superiority in the English Channel, thus ending any hopes of a landing. The Irish troops destined for England marched off to the Rhineland; the French troops joined the army in Flanders or were deployed to coastal defence.