[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# August 1976

Benitz), 74, American film actor and stuntman known for the "Tucson Smith" and "Crash Corrigan" series of B-movie westerns 
Karl Schmidt-Rottluff, 91, German expressionist painter
Jimmy Casella, 52, American gambler and primary money-winner of the 1974 World Series of Poker, died of a drug overdose.

August 11, 1976 (Wednesday)
Thirteen people were killed and 7 injured as a fire swept through the six-floor Hotel d'Amerique in Paris.  Most of the victims were immigrant workers from Morocco and Algeria.  As with most hotels in France at the time, the hotel had no fire escape; nine people died in their rooms or in hallways while two others die after jumping from their rooms.  The blaze was the most deadly of five low-rate hotel fires that had been deliberately set since June.
A pair of terrorists attacked a group of airline passengers waiting to board El Al Flight 582 at Istanbul's Yesilkoy Airport, where they were planning to fly to Tel Aviv in Israel.  Four passengers— two Israelis, one Japanese and one Spaniard— were killed and 20 others wounded when the guerrillas threw hand grenades and fired submachine guns.
A sniper entered the downtown Holiday Inn in Wichita, Kansas (at the time the tallest building in the U.S. state of Kansas), carried two rifles and ammunition in an elevator to the 26th floor, walked into an unlocked empty room and fired from a balcony.  During an 11-minute rampage that began at 2:54 in the afternoon, the 19-year-old gunman shot nine people, killing three and wounding six others before police shot and wounded him.  One of the dead was a freelance photographer who was driving to the scene after hearing that a crime was in progress.
The fall of a meteor was observed at 11:00 in the morning in Mexico, north of Acapulco and a  meteorite was recovered 15 minutes later by witness Leodegario Cardenas.  Examples of the acapulcoite, whose mineral composition is primarily olivine, orthopyroxene, plagioclase, meteoric iron, and troilite, would be found later in 86 other specimens whose fall to Earth was not observed.
David Jimenez Sarmiento, alias "El Chano", leader of the Liga Comunista 23 de Septiembre rebels in Mexico, was shot and killed while he and three other members attempted to kidnap the sister of Mexico's President.  Margarita López Portillo, sister of outgoing President José López Portillo, was being driven through Mexico City when three men and a woman emerged from a taxicab ahead of them and fired on the car, which crashed into a drug store.  Jimenez Sarmiento was killed in the gunbattle that followed, along with one of Margarita López's bodyguards.
Born: 
Ben Gibbard, American musician (Death Cab for Cutie, The Postal Service)
Will Friedle, American TV actor known for Boy Meets World and as a voice actor on animation; in Hartford, Connecticut
Tinsley Mortimer, American socialite and reality TV personality known for High Society and The Real Housewives of New York City; in Richmond, Virginia
Died: Robert L. May, 71, American advertising copywriter who created the character of Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer as a giveaway book for the Montgomery Ward department store chain in 1939; May's brother-in-law, Johnny Marks, later adapted the story to a successful Christmas song.