[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Flem D. Sampson

cted to this post in 1916, but later that year, he was elected to the Kentucky Court of Appeals, which was then the court of last resort in Kentucky. He represented Kentucky's Seventh Appellate District, and he was elevated to chief justice on January 1, 1923. He was re-elected to the court in 1924.

Elected governor of Kentucky
Sampson and US Representative John M. Robsion organized a formidable Republican faction in the eastern part of Kentucky. In 1927, Sampson was a candidate for the Republican gubernatorial nomination. His opponent was Robert H. Lucas, a tax collector for the Internal Revenue Service. Lucas secured the support of Kentucky Senators Frederic M. Sackett and Richard P. Ernst, and Sampson was backed by longtime supporter John M. Robsion and the Jockey Club, a coalition of leaders who supported parimutuel betting on horse races. Sampson won the primary by a margin of 39,375.

The Democratic Party was badly divided over the parimutuel betting issue as well as Prohibition, and a severance tax on coal. The prohibitionist and anti-gambling faction of the Democratic Party, with the help of Louisville Courier-Journal editor Robert Worth Bingham, united to make former governor and US Senator J. C. W. Beckham the party's gubernatorial nominee. After Beckham's nomination, many pro-gambling and anti-prohibition Democrats hurried to the support of Sampson.

The sitting Democratic governor William J. Fields, who had been elected with help from the Jockey Club, was very passive in the campaign and refused to support Beckham.

The campaign was particularly contentious. Sampson contrasted his humble roots with Beckham's aristocratic ones by declaring, "I'm just plain old Flem. When I'm elected governor of Kentucky, come into my office and sit down and say 'Howdy Flem'." He also trumpeted his own moral purity, claiming he "never smoked, chewed, drank, gamblednot even bet on an election." He promised, however, to protect horse-racing in the Commonwealth. In response, Sampson's opponents dubbed him "Flem-Flam Flem."

Sampson won the election by a majority of over 32,000 votes although every other Republican candidate lost by small margins. In the lieutenant governor's race, Democrat James Breathitt Jr. defeated Sampson's running mate, E. E. Nelson, by 159 votes out of more than 700,000 cast. It was estimated that the Jockey Club spent half-a-million dollars to defeat Beckham, and the large majority for Sampson versus the close defeat of all other Republican candidates suggested some type of electoral fraud, but none was ever proved.

Governor

During the 1928 legislative session, it became clear that the bipartisan support shown for Sampson had been one of political convenience rather than true conviction. Among the minor accomplishments of the session were the creation of the Kentucky Progress Commission, the forerunner of the State Department of Commerce, as well as the adoption of "My Old Kentucky Home" as the state song. The Democratic General Assembly sanctioned Sampson's plan for free textbooks but did not fund it. Proposals to ban parimutuel betting and the teaching of evolution in the state's schools were both defeated. Kentucky historian James C. Klotter called the 1928 legislative session "almost a 'do-nothing' session." Following the session, a grand jury indicted Sampson for accepting gifts from the textbook companies, but the indictment was eventually dismissed.

The first major controversy of Sampson's administration was over the selection of the state's highway commissioner. The Highway Department employed over 10,000 people and spent nearly 45% of the state's budget. Legislators' votes could often be bought with promises of new roads for their districts. Thus, the department became a primary vehicle for dispensing patronage to political supporters.

Sampson's predecessor, Governor Fields, had chosen a retired US representative and Democratic political boss, Ben Johnson, to head the department, and Sampson had agreed to retain him in exchange for his support against Beckham. However, Sampson felt that such a powerful position could not be left in the hands of a Democrat, and he removed Johnson from office in December 1929.

Democrats in the General Assembly were outraged. When the 1930 legislative session convened, they immediately passed a bill that stripped Sampson of his power to appoint a highway commissioner, giving it to a three-person commission, composed of the governor, lieutenant governor, and attorney general. The Republican Sampson would then be outnumbered and outvoted. Confident that the Democrats would not lose another gubernatorial election, Democratic legislators stipulated in the bill that the appointment power would return to the governor in 1931, which was the end of Sampson's term. The law passed the House of Representatives 53—42 and the Senate 22–15. Sampson vetoed the bill, but the veto was overridden, and Johnson was returned to his former position.