[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Multi-National Force – Iraq

orgia 
Georgia, is believed to have sent soldiers to Iraq as an act of repayment for U.S. training of security forces that could potentially be deployed to the break-away regions of South Ossetia and Abkhazia. Indeed, Georgian troops that were sent to Iraq have all undergone these training programs.

Turkey 
Turkey was offered approximately $8.5 billion in loans in exchange for sending 10,000 peacekeeping troops in 2003. Even though the United States did say the loans and the sending of troops to Iraq were not directly linked, it also said the loans are contingent upon "cooperation" on Iraq. The Turkish government swiftly rejected all offers of financial aid, and on March 1, 2003, the Turkish Grand National Assembly rejected sending military forces to help participate in the 2003 invasion of Iraq. The decision of the Turkish parliament to do so, at the time, was seen as both a response against American interests in the Middle East, and a desire to keep Turkey out of the Iraq War. The Turkish government, however, allowed all humanitarian flights into and out of Turkey, such as the airlifting of wounded coalition forces.

United Kingdom 
In March 2006, British newspaper, The Independent, reported that companies based within the United Kingdom had received at least £1.1bn in contracts for reconstruction work in post-invasion Iraq.

Deaths 
When U.S. forces withdrew in December 2011, 4,804 coalition military personnel had been killed in Iraq. This list, which includes withdrawn countries, lists those deaths.

See also 
Coalition of the willing
Combined Joint Task Force – Operation Inherent Resolve
Coalition of the Gulf War

References

Further reading

External links 

 MNFI's official Flickr Photostream
 Top UN envoy Sergio Vieira de Mello killed in terrorist blast in Baghdad – UN News Centre
 Multi-national troop deployments: Raw data, graphs and rankings, Collected from various news sources.

21st-century military alliances
Iraq–United States relations
Military units and formations established in 2004
Military units and formations disestablished in 2009

Occupation of Iraq
United States Marine Corps in the Iraq War

de:Multi-National Force Iraq