[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kayode Fayemi

e duly elected Governor of Ekiti State, and marked the end of Olusegun Oni's administration as the then Governor of the state Daily Trust, a national daily, captured the electoral journey in its editorial, published on Friday, 22 October 2010 under the title, Closure to Ekiti 2007 Governorship Saga.

Governor of Ekiti State 
In April 2014, Fayemi was endorsed as the governorship candidates of the All Progressives Congress in the state's gubernatorial elections slated for 21 June 2014. The emergence of Fayemi was preceded by congress held before the governor who had no contestant was endorsed as the flag bearers of their state in the governorship elections. Kayode Fayemi was defeated at the polls on 21 June 2014 by previous governor Ayodele Fayose.

Fayemi recontested for second term as Ekiti state governor under the platform of the All Progressive Congress in the 14 July 2018 governorship election after resigning as the Minister of Solid Minerals Development. He was officially declared the winner of the 2018 Ekiti State gubernatorial election by the Independent National Electoral Commission on 15 July 2018. He won by 19,345 votes against the Peoples Democratic Party's Kolapo Olusola Eleka who was second.

In October 2018, Fayemi was sworn in as Ekiti State governor for the second time. Fayemi was elected chairman of the Nigeria Governors’ Forum. This announcement was made by the immediate past chairman, Abdulaziz Yari on Wednesday evening. He said Fayemi was unanimously elected by the governors to lead the forum till 2021.

Controversies

Anti-corruption petition 
The Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) in 2016 investigated Fayemi's tenure as Governor of Ekiti State from 2010 to 2014, for an alleged misappropriation of over N25 billion infrastructure bond by his government. The outcome of the investigation showed that Fayemi was innocent. In July 2020, he was accused of "financial impropriety" relating to the Ajaokuta Steel Mill during his tenure as Minister of Solid Minerals from 2015 to 2018. All charges were later dropped and he was found innocent.

Succession tussle 
In January 2022, Fayemi was accused of bribery and electoral fraud surrounding the 2022 Ekiti APC gubernatorial primary. Reports that Fayemi had bribed the APC primary committee and INEC officials in the days before the primary led to the withdrawal of all candidates aside from the Fayemi-supported Abiodun Oyebanji. Such extreme efforts were speculated to be connected to Fayemi's desire to have an ally as his successor to give a boost to his likely 2022 presidential candidacy. This allegation was dismissed by Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State, who chaired the panel that conducted the primary election and maintained that the outcome of the exercise was a reflection of the wishes of supporters of the party in the state. Oyebanji emerged victorious from the primary, receiving nearly 97% of the vote with a margin of over 100,000 votes. The Independent National Electoral Commission also informed the court that the January 27 governorship primary election of the Ekiti All Progressives Congress (APC), which it monitored, was free, fair and credible. In its ruling, the Federal High Court found the allegation of electoral manipulation to be baseless and unfounded, and it threw out the suit filed by a contestant in the January 27, 2022 Ekiti All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primaries, Kayode Ojo, challenging the victory of the Governor-elect, Biodun Oyebanji.

End SARS protest 
In October 2020 during the nationwide #EndSARS protest he joined the protesters at the protest grounds to express his support for their demand but advised on the need for them to have an exit strategy and on the need to create a window of dialogue with the Federal Government on their demands before the protest was hijacked. He narrated his experience as one of the notable faces of the anti-military and protesters that facilitated the current democratic order. He said his group knew when to pause to negotiate with the government and that made them successful. He said this at The Africa Policy Dialogue Series virtual symposium held by the Harvard Kenny Alumni Association of Nigeria with the theme: Harnessing Africa's Demographic Dividend for Peace, Security and Productivity through Investments in Youth. He admitted that the youths, who were actively participating in the #EndSARS protest at the time, had a right to demand for good governance and an end to police brutality, saying the government owes that to them.