[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Modi'in-Maccabim-Re'ut

ideration from the early design stages. Large greenspaces were incorporated into the city's layout and comprise 50% of the area within the city limits. The city was opened for residency in 1996.

In 2003, the Israeli Interior Ministry unified Modi'in and Maccabim-Reut into a single city.

Demography

Modi'in has become a magnet for Jerusalem residents displeased with the capital's growing Haredi character. Thousands of residents of Rosh HaAyin, Lod, and Ramla have also relocated to Modi'in. In 2008, it was decided to cap the growth of Modi'in to allow for the development of Lod and Ramla. The city was planned by the well-known architect Moshe Safdie.According to the Israel Central Bureau of Statistics, the city is rated at level 8 out of 10 on the scale of socio-economic development, with a high proportion of high school graduation, 76.5% (2006–07), and an average monthly income of 9,659 NIS, compared to a national average of 7,466 (2006). Modi'in has attracted a large community of olim (Jewish immigrants) from English-speaking countries.

Controversy
In 2012, the European Union reclassified the small part of Modi'in originally founded as the community of Maccabim as a West Bank settlement since it had been established in the no man's land according to the 1949 Armistice agreements. The effect of this redefinition was to deny the affected area (which is exclusively green-leaf residential) a range of preferential tax benefits that would normally be conceded on Israeli products exported to Europe. The decision was made to implement a 2010 ruling of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The move sparked a diplomatic controversy.

City plan

The original city of Modi'in is laid out around a central hub, with the main arterial spokes organized as dual carriageways. Each side of the artery is a one-way street, and in between is a wide green space, with linear parks, playgrounds, schools, and some small commercial centers. Short lateral stubs fed by continuous-flow intersection turn lanes allow drivers to traverse the green spaces and effect a U-turn onto the artery's opposite direction lanes. These stubs also serve as the entranceways for the schools and mini-malls, preventing parking traffic from blocking the high-speed, left lanes of the arteries. The right shoulders of most arteries do, however, allow parking, except in the pullouts for bus stops, next to fire hydrants, etc.

The city center is a large traffic circle punctuated by traffic lights. On the north side of the circle is the central train station, to the northeast is the Azrieli shopping mall (pictured), and to the west and south is the Anaba park (also pictured), which contains a small  artificial lake  used for recreational boating. The traffic circle straddles a major northeast–southwest artery, HaHashmona'im Blvd., that connects to the southwest with route 431 (which has its eastern terminus in south Modi'in and extends west to Rishon LeZion), and to the northeast with route 443 (at Shilat Junction) providing connectivity to Jerusalem (southeast) and Lod (northwest).

Approximately  west-northwest of the city center is an industrial zone, and to the west (on route 431) is the Yishpro commercial center. The latter is also accessible via an additional Modi'in train station, Paatei Modi'in (, "Modi'in outskirts"). The industrial zone is also linked to route 443 via its own interchange, between Shilat Junction and the Maccabim Junction at the eastern side of the Ben Shemen JNF forest. This keeps most of the commercial traffic out of the city proper, so that the two arteries between the city and its industrial zone (Emek HaEla and HaShdera Hamerkazit) carry primarily commuters rather than trucks.

The long-term projection of the Ministry of Housing is for the city to be home to 240,000 residents. However, plans approved thus far are for 120,000 residents.

Neighborhoods

השבטים HaShvatim – The Tribes (North Buchman/Buchman) and מוריה Moriah (South Buchman) are the most southern neighborhoods in the city. Most of the buildings in this neighborhood are ground-level private homes and condos. The streets of Shvatim are named after the tribes of Israel, and the streets of Moriah are named after ancient historical Jewish figures. Moriah, the name of the southern neighborhood, is also a feminine name representing these women.

הפרחים HaPrachim – The Flowers (Miromi) is a small neighborhood in the city center. Located in HaPrachim is a commercial center, two primary schools and a secondary school. The neighborhood's streets are named after trees, flowers, and plants. At the northern part of the neighborhood there is a small compound where the streets are named after phrases from the Song of Songs.