[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Canal Street station (New York City Subway)

ished by mid-1915. The Manhattan Bridge line was less than half completed by January 1916, and it was 80 percent finished by that October. The Manhattan Bridge line platforms opened on September 4, 1917, as part of the first section of the Broadway Line from Canal Street to 14th Street–Union Square.

Broadway main line 
The New York Public Service Commission also adopted plans for what was known as the Broadway–Lexington Avenue route (later the Broadway main line) on December 31, 1907. A list of stations on the Broadway–Lexington Avenue line were announced in 1909; the plans tentatively called for an express station at Canal Street in Lower Manhattan. Two segments of the Broadway Line around Canal Street were placed under contract early in 1912. The contract for Section 2, between Murray Street and Canal Street, was awarded to the Degnon Contracting Company that January. Two months later, the contract for Section 2A, which stretched between Canal and Howard Streets and included the Canal Street station, was awarded to the O'Rourke Engineering Construction Company. Section 2A was twelve percent completed by early 1913. Work on section 2 was further advanced, being 60 percent done by June of that year.

The design of the Broadway main line's station was changed midway through construction when the track connection to the Manhattan Bridge line was added. In the original plan for the station, the main line's center tracks were to have continued up Broadway, fed by traffic from Brooklyn and the Montague Street Tunnel. Local service was to have terminated at the upper level of the Broadway Line's City Hall station, with express service using City Hall's upper level. The new plan favored local service via City Hall's upper level and express service via the Manhattan Bridge; the center tracks of the Main Line station were abandoned, as they would feed into the unused lower-level platforms at City Hall.

The Broadway Line south of 14th Street was substantially complete by February 1916. The same month, the Public Service Commission began accepting bids for the installation of finishes at seven stations on the Broadway Line from Rector Street to 14th Street, including Canal Street. D. C. Gerber submitted a $346,000 low bid for the finishes and was 35 percent completed with the finishes by October 1916. The main line platforms opened on January 5, 1918, when the Broadway Line was extended north to Times Square–42nd Street and south to Rector Street. From the outset, the main line station served local trains, while the Manhattan Bridge line station began serving express trains.

1910s to 1930s

Leaks and platform extensions 

The Manhattan Bridge line station had begun to leak noticeably by April 1918, in large part because of the high amount of groundwater in the area. Although the station had been built with a waterproof asphalt-and-brick membrane, there were still large amounts of groundwater in the area, and pressure from the groundwater had caused the membrane to crack. The leaks became so severe that up to  per minute leaked into the station. In late 1918, the Underpinning and Foundation Company was hired to grout the station for $20,000 to stop the leaks. To allow workers to repair the station, the BRT operated a shuttle service from Canal Street to Pacific Street on a single track during late nights. The work was completed by April 1919, after which the leaks almost completely stopped. As a side effect of the grouting work, the settlement of the IRT station was corrected.

In 1922, the Rapid Transit Commission awarded a contract to the Wagner Engineering Company for the installation of navigational signs at the Canal Street station and several other major subway stations. The IRT platforms received blue-and-white signs, while the BMT platforms received red-white-and-green navigational signs. That December, the commission approved a $3 million project to lengthen platforms at 14 local stations along the original IRT line, including Canal Street and seven other stations on the Lexington Avenue Line. Platform lengths at these stations would be increased from . The commission postponed the platform-lengthening project in September 1923, at which point the cost had risen to $5.6 million. The mainline Broadway Line station's platforms originally could only fit six  cars. In 1926, the New York City Board of Transportation received bids for the lengthening of platforms at nine stations on the Broadway Line, including the mainline station at Canal Street, to accommodate eight-car trains. Edwards & Flood submitted a low bid of $101,775 for the project. The BMT platform-lengthening project was completed in 1927, bringing the length of the platforms to . The commission ordered the BMT to install additional signs at the Canal Street BMT stations in mid-1930.