[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Ethnic groups of Argentina

rthwestern Argentina. According to the 2010 census there are 67,410 self-identified Diaguita descendants in Argentina.

Qulla

They are a people who live in countries such as Argentina, Bolivia and Chile. In Argentina they are mostly located in the Corrientes, Jujuy and Catamarca provinces.

Quechua

The Quechua people have historically inhabited from Ecuador to Argentina. The Quechua languages have and had a great impact on the Spanish dialects of the region. Words like "Cancha" (Stadium) or "Palta" (avocado) have their origin in Quechuan languages. 
According to the 2010 census, the Quecha People would be composed of 55,493 people only in Argentina. The 2010 National Population Census in Argentina also revealed that there are self-identified Quechua people all over the country.

Wichí

They are a people who have historically inhabited Argentina, Bolivia and Paraguay. In Argentina approximately fifty thousand people have identified themselves as Whichís.

Comechingón

Comechingón is the common name for a group of people indigenous to the Argentine provinces of Córdoba and San Luis. They were thoroughly displaced or exterminated by the Spanish conquistadores by the end of the 17th century. According to the 2010 census there are 34,546 self-identified Comechingón descendants in Argentina.

Tehuelche

The Aónikenk people, also referred to by the exonym Tehuelche, are an indigenous people from Patagonia in South America, with existing members of the group currently residing in the southern Argentina-Chile borders. The 2010 National Population Census in Argentina revealed the existence of 27,813 people who considered themselves Tehuelche throughout the country, 7924 in the Chubut Province, 4570 in the interior of the Buenos Aires Province, 2615 in the Santa Cruz Province, 2269 in the Río Negro Province, 1702 in the city of Buenos Aires, 844 in the Mendoza Province, 738 in the Neuquén Province and 625 in the La Pampa Province.

Mocoví

The Mocoví are an indigenous tribe of the Gran Chaco region of South America. They speak the Mocoví language and are one of the ethnic groups belonging to the Guaycuru peoples. In the 2010 Argentine census, 22,439 people self-identified as Mocoví.

Aymara

In the 2010 Argentine census, 20,822 people self-identified as Aymara.
 
The Aymara people are an indigenous people in the Andes and Altiplano regions of South America; about 2.3 million live in Bolivia, Peru, Chile and Argentina. Their ancestors lived in the region for many centuries before becoming a subject people of the Inca in the late 15th or early 16th century, and later of the Spanish in the 16th century.

Beginning with Spanish missionary efforts, there have been many attempts to create a writing system for Aymara. The colonial sources employed a variety of writing systems heavily influenced by Spanish, the most widespread one being that of Bertonio.

Querandí

According to the 2010 census there are 3,658 self-identified Querandí in Argentina.

Mbayá

According to the 2010 census there are 7,379 self-identified Mbayá in Argentina.

Rankülche

The Ranquel or Rankülche are an indigenous tribe from the northern part of La Pampa Province, Argentina, in South America.
According to the 2010 census there are 14,860 self-identified Ranquel in Argentina.

Selk'nam

The Selk'nam, also known as the Onawo or Ona people, are an indigenous people in the Patagonian region of southern Argentina and Chile. They were one of the last native groups in South America to be encountered by Europeans in the late 19th century. In the mid-19th century, there were about 4000 Selk'nam; by 1919 there were 297, and by 1930 just over 100.

The exploration of gold and the introduction of farming in the region of Tierra del Fuego led to genocide of the Selk'nam perpetrated by the regimes of both states (Argentina and Chile). Joubert Yanten Gomez, a Chilean mestizo, has taught himself the language and is considered the only speaker; he uses the name Keyuk.

According to Argentina's 2010 census, 696 people recognise themselves as descendants of the Selk'nam people, but they are mestizos and do not speak the Selk'nam language.

Charrúa

The Charrúa were an Indigenous Southern Cone people in present-day Argentina (Entre Ríos), Uruguay and Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul). They were a semi-nomadic people who sustained themselves mainly through hunting and gathering. Since resources were not permanent in every region, they would constantly be on the move. Rain, drought, and other environmental factors determined their movement. For this reason they are often classified as seasonal nomads.

In Argentina 14,649 people identify themselves as Charrúa.

Toconoté

The Tonocotés or Tonokotés are an aboriginal people inhabiting the provinces of Santiago del Estero and Tucumán in Argentina.