[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Michael Leiter

or all planning activities associated with the transaction to combine Leidos and Lockheed Martin's Information Systems and Global Solutions (IS&GS) business. The merger is expected to close in late 2016. Leiter rose to president of the Leidos defense group before leaving the company in January 2017.

In September 2017, Leiter joined international law firm Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom in Washington, D.C. as a partner in its national security practice.

In 2020, Leiter, along with over 130 other former Republican national security officials, signed a statement that asserted that President Trump was unfit to serve another term, and "To that end, we are firmly convinced that it is in the best interest of our nation that Vice President Joe Biden be elected as the next President of the United States, and we will vote for him."

Controversy

Under Leiter's service, the NCTC was publicly criticized for failing to identify the threat posed by a known extremist, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, who on Christmas Day 2009 succeeded in boarding a Delta airplane in Amsterdam rigged with an explosive device that failed to detonate over Detroit, Michigan. Abdulmutallab was wrestled down by a passenger amidst a smokey fire which put an end to the incident.

In an article printed by The New York Times on December 31, 2009, the agency, which was stood up specifically to coordinate counterterrorism information, was said to have failed to accomplish its mission, even where several valid leads were available and known among multiple intelligence agencies, including information directly communicated to the CIA by the Abdulmatallab's father who feared his son had been radicalized. Though Michael Leiter was not himself mentioned, the New York Times piece described the NCTC as the weak link in the series of significant intelligence operations.

On January 2, 2010, Leiter issued the following statement.  "The failed attempt to destroy Northwest Flight 253 is the starkest of reminders of the insidious terrorist threats we face.  While this attempt ended in failure we know with absolute certainty that Al-Qaeda and those who support its ideology continue to refine their methods to test our defenses and pursue an attack on the Homeland.  Our most sacred responsibility is to be focused on our mission—detecting and preventing terrorist attacks from happening on our soil and against U.S. interests. The American people expect and deserve nothing less."

James Gordon Meek of New York's Daily News issued a story on January 7 stating that Leiter remained on a ski holiday until "several days after Christmas" quoting two U.S. Officials. The article reported that "people have been grumbling that he didn't let a little terrorism interrupt his vacation".  On balance, it was stated that "Leiter has long been well-regarded" and "President Obama, himself, stayed in Hawaii [on vacation] until January 4". There was no reference to Leiter conducting investigation or evaluation from his remote vacation site.

The Daily News story by Meek was inaccurate and was updated in the Daily News the next day, ABC news Senior White House Correspondent Jake Tapper reported that Leiter was indeed at his post at the NCTC during the events of December 25, 2009.  In the report, Denis McDonough, National Security Staff Chief of Staff, said that "Leiter was -- throughout the events of December 25, 2009 -- indeed at the National Counterterrorism Center in McLean, Virginia, and intimately involved in all aspects of the nation's response to the attempted terrorist attack -- to include coordinating intelligence, examining terrorist watch-listing, and briefing Members of Congress." He Continued, "Director Leiter engaged in regular, repeated, and extended classified discussions with the White House, the President's National Security Staff located in Hawaii, the Director of National Intelligence, the Department of Homeland Security, various members of Congress and their staffs, and of course the National Counterterrorism Center."

See also 
 List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Seat 2)

References

External links

NCTC News Story on Appointment of Michael Leiter and retirement of Kevin Brock
News about new NCTC on FBI website
BBC News article with internal photograph

 npr.org

American civil servants
Columbia College (New York) alumni
Dwight-Englewood School alumni
Harvard Law School alumni
Law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States
Living people
People from Englewood, New Jersey
United States Navy officers
Year of birth missing (living people)
Military personnel from New Jersey