[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Membership levels of the Girl Scouts of the USA

on events. They may also earn the Cadette Program Aide award, the Cadette Community Service Bar, the Cadette Service to Girl Scouting Bar, the Cadette Safety Award and the Bridge to Senior Award. They are eligible to earn the Silver Award, which is the highest award available to girls at this level.

Seniors
Seniors are Girl Scouts who are in ninth and tenth grade (around ages 14–16). They wear the same uniform as Cadettes—however, the disks for their membership stars are red and their badges are a rectangular shape.

 Seniors use the Girl's Guide to Girl Scouting for Seniors  and the National Leadership Journeys  to earn badges. They are typically encouraged to create and lead activities for the younger Girl Scouts, and to take a leadership role in organizing and assisting with Council and service unit/association events and activities.  They may earn the Counselor-in-Training (CIT), the Volunteer-in-Training (VIT), the Girl Scout Senior Safety Award, the Gold Torch Award, the Senior Community Service Bar, the Senior Service to Girl Scouting Bar and the Bridge to Girl Scout Ambassador award.

Seniors are eligible to earn the Gold Award.

Ambassadors
Ambassadors are Girl Scouts who are in eleventh and twelfth grade (around ages 16-18). They wear the same khaki-colored vest or sash as Cadettes and Seniors. The Girl Scout Membership Star is worn with navy membership disks.

Ambassadors use the Girl's Guide to Girl Scouting for Ambassadors  and the National Leadership Journeys  to earn badges that are shaped like an octagon.  They may earn the Counselor-in-Training (CIT), the Counselor-in-Training (CIT) II, the Volunteer-in-Training (VIT), the Ambassador Community Service Bar, the Ambassador Service to Girl Scouting Bar, the Gold Torch Award, the Ambassador Safety Award, and the Bridge to Adult Award.

Ambassadors are eligible to earn the Gold Award.

Adults

Adults, both men and women, can join Girl Scouts and participate as leaders or in other volunteer roles. They do not need to have a child in the program in order to volunteer with Girl Scouts.

History

Initially the United States Girl Scout program, started in 1912, had one level for girls ages ten through seventeen, but it soon added two more levels. Brownies for younger girls was officially recognized in the mid-1920s though it had existed earlier.  At the same time older girls (over eighteen or over sixteen if First Class Scouts) became known as Senior Scouts.

In 1938 age divisions were set as
 Brownies (ages seven through nine)
 Intermediates (ages ten through thirteen)
 Seniors (ages fourteen through seventeen)

In 1963 this was rearranged to
 Brownies (ages seven through nine)
 Juniors (ages nine through eleven)
 Cadettes (ages eleven through fourteen)
 Seniors (ages fourteen through seventeen)

In the 1970s the age divisions were
 Pixies (ages five through six) Pixies was a pilot program, available only in limited areas.
 Brownies (ages seven through nine)
 Juniors (ages nine through eleven)
 Cadettes (ages eleven through fourteen)
 Seniors (ages fourteen through seventeen)

In 1984, the Daisy program for kindergartners (age five) was introduced, and around 2003 the Studio 2B program for girls eleven through seventeen was introduced as a way to give older girls more options in Girl Scouts, although many girls still called themselves Cadettes and Seniors. STUDIO 2B was discontinued as a program option in 2007.
 Daisies (5-6 years old or in kindergarten)
 Brownies (6–8 years old or in grades 1–3)
 Juniors (8–12 years old or in grades 4–6. In some situations, girls age eight and in third grade may be Juniors.)
 Cadettes (12–14 years old or in grades 7–9. In some situations, girls age eleven and in sixth grade may be Cadettes.)
 Seniors (14–17 years old or in grades 9–12)

In 2008 another reorganization took place. All levels were changed to have Girl Scouts at the start of their name, e.g. "Girl Scout Brownies" instead of "Brownie Girl Scouts", and levels were changed to be by grade only instead of by age or grade. Daisies were expanded to first grade, Brownies were moved up to second grade and Ambassadors were added.
 Daisies (grades K–1)
 Brownies (grades 2–3)
 Juniors (grades 4–5)
 Cadettes (grades 6–8) 
 Seniors (grades 9–10)
 Ambassadors (grades 11–12)

Outside the age level programs, there have been somewhat separate programs for Mariner Scouts (1934–present) and Wing Scouts (1941–1970s).