[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# The Man Who Fell to Earth

ritics' consensus states: "Filled with stunning imagery, The Man Who Fell to Earth is a calm, meditative film that profoundly explores our culture's values and desires." On Metacritic, the film has achieved a weighted average rating of 81 out of 100 from 9 critic reviews, citing "universal acclaim".

Legacy 
Since its original 1976 release, The Man Who Fell to Earth has achieved cult status. This status has been echoed by critics, especially as it was a popular hit with midnight movie audiences years after it was released. Joshua Rothkopf of Time Out believed that the cult classic status, which he described as a "vaguely demeaning term", does the film a disservice. He labeled the film as "the most intellectually provocative genre film of the 1970s." When re-released in 2011, Ebert gave the film three stars, stating that readers should "consider this just a quiet protest vote against the way projects this ambitious are no longer possible in the mainstream movie industry." The movie has been applauded for its experimental approach and compared to more recent sci-fi films such as Under the Skin. Rolling Stone ranked it second on its 50 best sci-fi movies of the 1970s, Timeout ranked it 35th on its 100 best sci-fi movies, it is 61st on the Online Film Critics Society list of "greatest science fiction films of all time". Empire placed it 42nd on its list of 100 best British films. British Film Institute included it on its list of "50 late night classics", demonstrating its popularity as a midnight movie.

Bowie's role in the film led to his casting as Nikola Tesla in The Prestige, with director Christopher Nolan stating "Tesla was this other-worldly, ahead-of-his-time figure, and at some point it occurred to me he was the original Man Who Fell to Earth. As someone who was the biggest Bowie fan in the world, once I made that connection, he seemed to be the only actor capable of playing the part." It also led to Bowie being cast by Jack Hofsiss in the play The Elephant Man - "The piece of work he did that was most helpful in making the decision was The Man Who Fell To Earth, in which I thought he was wonderful, and in which the character he played had an isolation similar to the Elephant Man's".

Accolades

In popular culture 
 Iron Maiden's founder Steve Harris used the font in the film poster to come up with the band's iconic name design. 
 In Philip K. Dick's science fiction novel VALIS, fictionalised versions of Dick and K. W. Jeter become obsessed with Valis, a film starring musician Eric Lampton. Dick based the novel's story on his and Jeter's real obsession with The Man Who Fell to Earth; Lampton is a fictionalised stand-in for Bowie.
 The music video to Guns N' Roses's 1987 "Welcome to the Jungle" was partially based on The Man Who Fell to Earth.
 The music video to Scott Weiland's 1998 song "Barbarella" uses themes from The Man Who Fell to Earth.
 Dr. Manhattan's apartment and Ozymandias' Antarctic retreat in the 2009 film Watchmen were mainly based on the set of The Man Who Fell to Earth.
 The 2009 song "ATX" by Alberta Cross is based on Bowie's character in The Man Who Fell to Earth.
 Michael Fassbender has said he used Bowie's performance as an inspiration for the android David in Ridley Scott's 2012 science fiction film Prometheus.
 In Bret Easton Ellis's 2010 novel Imperial Bedrooms, the main character mentions that he is involved with writing the script for a remake of The Man Who Fell to Earth.
 The musical Lazarus, which premiered off-Broadway in 2015, with music and lyrics by David Bowie and book by Enda Walsh, is based on the novel and the film. While the music video for the 2013 Bowie song "The Stars (Are Out Tonight)" references the film with a picture of alien Bowie, as he appears in the film, on a magazine.
 The title of the Doctor Who episode "The Woman Who Fell to Earth" is a reference to the book and film.
 A character by the name Thomas Jerome Newton appears in the TV series Fringe, as does David Robert Jones, which is David Bowie's birth name.

References

External links 
 
 
 The Man Who Fell to Earth at the British Film Institute
 
 
 
The Man Who Fell to Earth: Loving the Alien an essay by Graham Fuller at the Criterion Collection
 Brows Held High's take on the 1976 classic

1976 films
1976 drama films
1970s avant-garde and experimental films
1970s dystopian films
1970s English-language films
1970s science fiction drama films
British avant-garde and experimental films
British Lion Films films
British science fiction drama films
Films about extraterrestrial life
Films based on American novels
Films based on science fiction novels
Films directed by Nicolas Roeg
Films set in New Mexico
Films set in New York (state)
Films shot in New Mexico
Films with screenplays by Paul Mayersberg
1970s British films