[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# List of South African slang words

ys intact.
 snotklap – "i'll slap you so hard the snot will fly". Usually used to discipline a child.
 sel – lit."cell" in all definitions of the word, i.e.: selfoon (cellphone); tronk sel (jail sel); plant sel (plant cell)
 soek – to look for trouble with someone/to antagonise/to stir up trouble = "you soeking with me?" – Afrikaans: "to seek or look for".
 sommer – for no particular reason, "just because"
 sopdrol – diarrhea, someone with a weak constitution, literally soup poo
 soutpiel/soutie – derogatory term for English person, literally salty penis. Someone with one foot in England, the other in South Africa and their penis hanging in the Atlantic Ocean.
 soutpilaar – lit. "salt pillar". Refers to anyone who is standing and staring unnecessarily at something (whether it is at an object or into blank space, i.e. daydreaming) and isn't paying attention to his/her surroundings. Based on the biblical figure Lot's wife, who turned into a pillar of salt after disobeying God's command by looking back at the Destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah.
 spaarbussie/spaarbus – lit. "save-bus". Refers to a piggy bank.
 spookasem – lit. "ghost-breath". Refers to candy floss.
 springbok – lit. "springbok". As the antelope is the national animal of South Africa, its name has been used in several specialized fields to indicate a "belonging" to the country, incl: the former Springbok Radio (operated by the SABC), the South Africa national cricket team (was originally called the Sprinkboks, now called the Proteas due to disassociation with the Apartheid regime and the Springbok-emblem), the South Africa National Rugby Union Team (commonly called "the Springboks, or Bokke") and the call sign of South African Airways.
 spuitpoep – lit. "Diarrhea"
 spyker  – lit. "a nail". Can also refer to rough sex, similar to "naai".
 steek – stab, poke (with a knife). "He/she steeked her/him" = "He/she poked her/him". Also see "naai" = Nick steeked me stukkend.
 stoepkakker – a dismissive term for a small, yappy dog, usually of mixed breed and with white curly fur. While putting on a big show of barking, this dog is actually too afraid to leave the porch (stoep) and so ends up having to defecate (kak) there.
 stukkie, stekkie – a woman (from the Afrikaans meaning "a piece") – mostly used when referring to a woman that you have/have casual encounters with, girlfriend.
 stok sweet, lit. "a stick sweet", combination of Afrikaans word for stick (stok) and sweet. A lollipop.
 stompie – a cigarette butt, a short person or impolite term to refer to the remaining arm/leg/finger after an amputation.
 stukkend – (Afrikaans) broken, a lot.  Also commonly used when someone is hungover. For example, "I am so stukkend".
 Stuur Groete aan Mannetjies Roux – lit. "Send greetings to Mannetjies Roux" a popular folk song by Laurika Rauch about the titular Springbok Rugby Player. The song describes a young girl going to live on a farm with her aunt and uncle, who are avid supporters of South African Rugby Union player Mannetjies Roux (pronounced Munne-keys (in Afrikaans) Roux (as in French)). A film based on the song was eventually released in 2013.
 suig 'n duik in my kop – lit. "sucking a dent in my skull". Refers to a very strong sucking sensation caused by a thick viscous drink when drinking it through a straw, especially a McDonald's milkshake, which is famous for the sensation.
 swak – broke. Original Afrikaans: weak. "I'm swak, ek sê". Also used to suggest that someone's behaviour was harsh (with varying degrees of seriousness, depending on tone and context), for example: "It's swak that I failed the test."
 sy naam is Kom Terug en sy van is Bloedbek/Bloedneus – lit. "its first name is Come Back, and its last name is Bloody-mouth/nose/Or Else". A verbal warning given to a person who wants to borrow something.
te-moer-en-gone - an expression that comically states the levels of being lost. Can refer to either an object that is thrown out-of-bounds and is therefore lost, or more specifically getting lost in an area that is far from the nearest civilization. The closest English equivalent is "in the middle of nowhere".
 tekkies – running shoes. (The Anglicized pronunciation tackies has become mainstream in South African English.) Sports shoes that are specifically designed for running and often used for comfort.
 tiet – English equivalent "boob" or "breast" (from "teat"); tiete (plural); tietie (diminutive) and tieties (plural diminutive)
 tietie bottel – lit. "baby bottle".
 tet – breast or boob
 tjor/tjorretjie/tjorrie – diminutive description of a car, especially one that's being admired: This is a nice tjorretjie you got here!. (The "tj" is pronounced as the "ch" in chat.)
 tjorts – defecation, can also refer to the sound droplets of liquid make, often referring to a very minimal amount of a liquid ingredient, similar to "kat spoegie".
 toppie, ou toppie – father – see ouballie
 tos – lit. to masturbate
 trek – to move or pull. (The word has become interna