[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ivo Pilar

the military and political circles of the embattled Monarchy.

In The South Slav Question Pilar placed great emphasis on racial determinism arguing that Croats had been defined by the so-called "Nordic-Aryan" racial and cultural heritage, while Serbs had "interbred" with the "Balkan-Romanic Vlachs."

Book's reception 
The interest for the book was below expectations, however. Still, for prevention's sake, as Pucek said, it was being confiscated. The Croatian politicians and intellectuals showed even less interest, since they were intent on the future union with the Serbs. At first, the book could not promote the mission of its author.

But this work in the area of South Slav issues was immediately recognized by Serbs and other promoters of a South Slavic Union, since the book warned Croats not to enter into states that would cause their ruin. They were buying its copies in Vienna and other cities of the Monarchy to destroy them. For this reason, it became a bibliographic rarity soon after its publication.

Dubravko Jelčić, writer, historian and academician, an expert on Pilar, wrote: Over many years, Pilar's book was the only systematic and clear, historically objective analysis of the Greater Serbian imperialistic idea, its genesis, goals and method (…) At the time of WWI, when the Croatian people's destiny was being decided, Pilar alias Sudland promoted mature political concepts that opposed the tragic defeatism of Trumbić and Supilo.

Croatian translation 
When the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes was created, any book's new edition became a problem. The first two parts of Pucek's Croatian translation were published in the youth magazine Hrvatska mladica, edited by Mile Starčević and Rikard Flogel, in 1928, but as the translator said, "the dictatorship of 6 January terminated Hrvatska mladica and this translation".

The third German edition of the book was printed in Zagreb in 1944, with all the faults of the censored second edition. It was finally translated to Croatian in 1943, a year before the third German edition, also with all the mentioned faults. It was translated, arranged and commented by the industrious South Slav expert Fedor Pucek and published by Matica hrvatska. Two years later, in 1945, Pucek was summarily executed by the communist regime. The second Croatian edition (1990) is just a reprint of the first.

Quotations 
Hrvatima oteše današnju zapadnu Srbiju, nekadašnju Duklju, a jedna od glavnih sila koja je dovela do današnjeg rata (Prvi svjetski rat - S.T.), jest zagriženo nastojanje Srba, da Hrvatima konačno otmu i Bosnu i Hercegovinu

[The Serbs] took from the Croats modern-day western Serbia, that is ancient Doclea, and one the main forces that brought to today's war [First World War] , is the continuous seeking of the Serbs, to finally snatch away both Bosnia and Herzegovina too from the Croats.

Later years and death 
Pilar moved to Zagreb in 1920. He was not actively engaged in politics any more. While working as a lawyer, he continued writing. In 1921, he was tried together with Milan Šufflay and other members of the Party of Rights in a fake political trial for high treason, for their alleged contacts with the Croatian Committee, a Croatian nationalist organization that was based in Hungary at the time. He was brought to court, and despite the lack of evidence of wrongdoing, Pilar was given a two-month prison sentence and a one year of probation.

He published expert and scientific works about philosophy and history (e.g. about the Bogumils). In 1933, he published the essay Serbia Again and Again in German, under the pseudonym of Florian Lichttrager, since he feared for his life.

Soon after that essay was published, Pilar was found killed in his apartment. The press in Belgrade claimed it was a suicide, but the open window of his apartment and the fact that Pilar never owned a weapon make his death suspicious.
Even today, there are two theories about his death: the first, that Pilar was so depressed by the Yugoslav dictatorship that he killed himself; the second, that he was killed by Serbian secret agents like other Croatian patriots such as Milan Šufflay in 1931.

Pilar is buried in Mirogoj Cemetery.

The Institute for Social Sciences in Zagreb was named after him in 1997.

See also
List of unsolved deaths