[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New South Wales Suburban Rugby Union

to be successfully revived in 1946.

After the war, Subbies rugby grew strongly. In 1966 Petersham made history as being the first club to circle the world on a rugby tour. The Sydney Sub-Districts Rugby Union was established in 1971, and the Subbies competition was rearranged into three divisions.

New South Wales Suburban Rugby Union
In 1990, the Subbies became known as the New South Wales Suburban Rugby Union. The second division of the Sydney district competition was absorbed into Subbies in 1993 and 18 clubs contested the Kentwell Cup in that year. Drummoyne, Mosman, University of NSW and Hornsby, Hawkesbury Agricultural College, Canterbury, Dundas Valley, Hawkesbury Valley are former district clubs that moved to Subbies.

Most current clubs are based on a local community, links with schools, or voluntary groups. Old Ignatians, St Patricks, Barker Old Boys, Knox Rugby Club, Waverley, Kings Old Boys, and Oakhill are or were formed from ex-students of schools. The Bronte and Manly Savers clubs are composed of members of surf lifesaving clubs.

Promotion and relegation is based on club championship results down to third division.

Recent events
There have been problems in recent years fielding a 4th Division competition (clubs with 3 grade teams).  4th Division was disbanded after the 2008 season, where only six clubs participated, and was further weakened with the withdrawal of two of the 3rd grade teams. The 4th Division was resurrected in 2011, again with six clubs, but again was afflicted with the withdrawal of two 3rd grade teams, although a Halligan Cup team – Colleagues Convicts – stepped up into the grade. In 2012 the season was played without a 4th division competition again.

The 4th Division competition was revived in 2014, but with it came the demise of the 5th Division (clubs with 2 teams). This means that clubs who were hoping to have 2 teams this year must either downsize to one team (Division 6) or hope for a 3rd grade team and push for the revived Division 4, making clubs either make players miss out on playing if unable to find a Halligan Cup fixture (lack of a 2nd grade) or trying to create a 3rd grade (possibly making players play 2 or more games of rugby).

Trophies
Cross Divisional
Champion Club – Cowboy Cup
Cowboy Cup is competed by every team in Suburban Rugby.  Each team, including Halligan Cup and Radford Cup competitions which are not included within divisional club championship competitions, earns points for the club.  The winner of the Cowboy Cup is the club across all divisions who earn the most points throughout the season.

First Division
Club Champion – Bruce Graham Shield
1st grade – Kentwell Cup
2nd grade – Burke Cup
3rd grade – Whiddon Cup
4th grade – Judd Cup
5th grade – Sutherland Cup 
Colts – Barbour Cup

Second Division
Club Champion – Reliance Shield
1st grade – Barraclough Cup
2nd grade – Stockdale Cup
3rd grade – Blunt Cup
4th grade – Richardson Cup
Colts – Robertson Cup

Third Division
Club Champion – Harris Shield
1st grade – Clark Cup
2nd grade – Farrant Cup
3rd grade – Campbell Cup
Colts – Nicholson Cup (prior to 2017, Nicholson Cup was contested by 3rd Division 4th Grade)

Fourth Division
Club Champion – Herlihy Shield
1st grade – McLean Cup
2nd grade – Grose Cup 

Fifth Division – reinstated 2017 after a four season absence 
1st grade – Jeffrey Cup 

Sixth Division – not contested in 2023
1st grade – Meldrum Cup

Additional Cups
Halligan Cup – contested between extra teams (e.g. 2nd or 3rd Division 5th grade), organised by the clubs themselves.  The winner is the leading team after the final round of Division 1.  During 2012, 19 clubs took part in Halligan Cup fixtures.
Radford Cup – contested by 1st grade colts teams from 4th division and below, but is open to second grade colts teams from 1st and 2nd division clubs.  In addition, it is open to Premiership clubs who have additional colts.
Under 85 kg Cup – mid-week competition played between teams where all players are 85 kg or less.  The competition was played between 6 teams in 2012, but has not been contested since then.
Rugby Club Cup – contested between Under 19's teams associated with Suburban and Premiership clubs. Has not been played since 2007.

Clubs
For the 2023 season, clubs compete in the following divisions:

First Division (9)

Second Division (7)

Third Division (7)

Fourth Division (10)

Fifth Division (12)
 

Halligan Cup
 

Notes:

Representative team

A representative NSW Suburban team is selected from players within the competition to play against other amateur representative sides. The Maher-Ross Cup is contested by NSW Suburban and NSW Country, and the Barraclough Shield is awarded to the winner of the interstate match between the NSW Suburban and Queensland Suburban teams. The Barraclough Shield was contested annually from 1966, until 2016.

See also

Rugby union in New South Wales
List of Australian club rugby union competitions

Notes

Bibliography