[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carlo Giovanardi

itiatives, we are committed to find the most appropriate regulatory tools aimed to avoid that propaganda events, such as three days in Bologna on hemp can be held freely."

LGBT rights
Carlo Giovanardi has become famous for his positions against LGBT people; he has been accused of being a homophobe.

On 20 September 2010, Giovanardi stated that countries that have legalized adoptions of children by gay couples have "exploded the sale of boys and girls".

On 23 April 2011, Giovanardi argued against gay-friendly advertising by the Swedish company IKEA, declaring: "The term 'family' is used by multinational detrimental to the Italian Constitution, because it is meant only one formed by the marriage between man and woman." Ikea replies: "That founded on marriage is one of the families. We appeal to all types."

In February 2012, during an interview with Radio 24, he likened a kiss between women in the audience to a person who "pees on the street". This elicited immediate reactions by some politicians, such as Rosy Bindi, who said "Giovanardi never ceases to amaze for his lack of modesty and balance and for its smallness" and Paola Concia, who launched a mail bomb, suggesting: "Write to him that homophobia is a disease."

Giovanardi say in a 25 January 2013 interview that during World War II there were a few discriminations against gay people, not a real Holocaust".

On 21 January 2014, he introduced an amendment to protect any sexual orientation, not only homosexual and bisexual but also heterosexual, and also included pedophilia. The Five Star Movement announced its intention to report the matter to the Council of Europe. He later said that he mistakenly entered the term "pedophilia" in the text, and meant to use "pedofobia."

In an episode of Porta a Porta on 25 January 2014, in response to a request made to him by Bruno Vespa, he tells how his daughter went to South Africa and became engaged to a black man, a rasta, perhaps gay, and in addition, married to another man. Giovanardi says he was shocked by this news from his daughter.

Giovanardi in judgement
On 10 April 2017, Giovanardi was investigated "for revelation and use of official secrets and threat or violence to a political, administrative or judicial body of the State. With the aggravation of having strengthened the mafia association, facilitating it".

Dutch euthanasia laws
In a radio program aired on Rai Radio 1 on 17 March 2006, he said: "Nazi legislation and Hitler's ideas are re-emerging in Europe via Dutch euthanasia laws and the debate on how to kill ill children". He added that it is eugenics to debate killing children "who are ill or have Down Syndrome", and that "we could just as easily apply this to senior citizens". The Dutch prime minister called Giovanardi's comments "scandalous and unacceptable".

References

External links

Scheda alla Camera
Giunta per le autorizzazioni
Comitato parlamentare per i procedimenti d'accusa
Commissione affari costituzionali alla Camera
Sito dell'UDC
Registrazione intervista Radio24 (in formato mp3)
Articolo di Repubblica.it sul DDL locali notturni
Articolo di Beppe Grillo sull'intervista a Radio24
ANSA 2007-04-15 20:35 – UDC: Cesa confermato segretario, Giovanardi 13,8%
White List: il caso Giovanardi

1950 births
Living people
Politicians from Modena
Christian Democracy (Italy) politicians
Christian Democratic Centre politicians
Union of the Centre (2002) politicians
The People of Freedom politicians
New Centre-Right politicians
Identity and Action politicians
Government ministers of Italy
Deputies of Legislature XI of Italy
Deputies of Legislature XII of Italy
Deputies of Legislature XIII of Italy
Deputies of Legislature XIV of Italy
Deputies of Legislature XV of Italy
Senators of Legislature XVI of Italy
Senators of Legislature XVII of Italy
Carabinieri