[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kumarapuram massacre

she was gang-raped by the soldiers before being shot dead. Anthony Joseph, a 10-year-old boy, who tried to stop the soldiers from dragging her away, was shot between his legs. There were reports of one more rape and murder as well. In total two girls were raped and murdered as part of the massacre.

Investigation and trial
In March 1996, the Muttur Magistrate Court called on the witnesses from Kumarapuram to identify the perpetrators and 24 witnesses were able to identify 8 soldiers from the 58th Mile Post and Dehiwatta army camps and the Killiveddy check point from a group of 95 soldiers in the three-day long identification parade of over 500 soldiers. The accused were arrested and were promptly released. On November 4, 1998, the Muttur Magistrate committed the case for the Trincomalee High Court, with 120 charges listed against each of eight soldiers. On June 3, 2002, after nearly four years of taking no action to indict the accused, the Attorney General’s department indicted the six accused soldiers on 101 charges each: Corporals SG Nishantha, NM Ajith Sisira Kumara, MP Kapila Darshana, HM Abeysinghe, PP Upasena and HM Abeyratne. Two of the eight accused had died while out on bail. The Attorney General’s department didn't indict any commanding officer in the area who had allegedly directed the massacre, indicating a lack of will to prosecute higher-ranked military personnel.

On June 14, 2005, when the case was taken up for inquiry, the State Counsel Mr. S. Halimdeen told the Trincomalee High Court Judge Mr. Anton Balasingham that all material evidence, including weapons used in the massacre, had been destroyed in 2004 when the office of the Government Analyst in Colombo was gutted by fire. Survivors and witnesses were also subjected to continuous intimidation and harassment from local military personnel, such as when the villagers tried to commemorate the massacre in 2006. After being repeatedly postponed for four years, in October 2006 the Court of Appeal ordered the case to be transferred from the Trincomalee High Court to the Sinhalese-dominated Anuradhapura High Court at the request of the accused (apparently to avoid a Tamil judge in Trincomalee), without giving an opportunity for the counsel of victims to object.

After being dragged on for 20 years, the jury trial began on June 27, 2016. 120 witnesses were notified and 40 of them gave evidence. On July 27, 2016, an all-Sinhalese jury of the Anuradhapura High Court acquitted the six accused former soldiers of all 606 charges against them. Following the acquittal, the victims' families appealed to the President to direct the Attorney General to appeal against the judgement and re-try the accused. In the appeal submitted to the Court of Appeal against the Anuradhapura High Court's decision, the Attorney General stated:While the plaintiff has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the Defendants were guilty of the accusations against them, the Anuradhapura High Court Jury verdict, exonerating them of all wrongdoing and releasing them, is complete injustice to the victims.

Notes
According to University Teachers for Human Rights (UTHR), there was another notable massacre in the same vicinity in 1985 and it is known as the Killiveddy massacre. Sometimes the Kumamarapuram massacre of 1996 is also referred to as Killiveddy massacre.

See also 
 List of attacks on civilians attributed to Sri Lankan government forces

References

External links
UTHR Bulletin #10, details about the background and massacres in the region
AI report on Sri Lanka 1997
Land grievances in the massacre area

1996 crimes in Sri Lanka
February 1996 crimes
February 1996 events in Asia
Massacres in 1996
Attacks on civilians attributed to the Sri Lanka Army
Massacres in Sri Lanka
Mass murder in 1996
Mass murder of Sri Lankan Tamils
Sri Lankan government forces attacks in Eelam War III
Terrorist incidents in Sri Lanka in 1996