[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Constitution of Belize

The Constitution of Belize is the supreme law of the nation of Belize. It was signed on September 1981 with effect from that date.

Structure 
The Constitution of Belize, Chapter 4 of the Laws of Belize, is divided into a preamble, 13 parts and four schedules. They are set out as below.

Preamble 
According to the Constitution, the people of Belize:
  affirm that the Nation of Belize shall be founded upon principles which acknowledge the supremacy of God, faith in human rights and fundamental freedoms, the position of the family in a society of free men and free institutions, the dignity of the human person and the equal and inalienable rights with which all members of the human family are endowed by their Creator;
 respect the principles of social justice and therefore believe that the operation of the economic system must result in the material resources of the community being so distributed as to subserve the common good, that there should be adequate means of livelihood for all, that labour should not be exploited or forced by economic necessity to operate in inhumane conditions but that there should be opportunity for advancement on the basis of recognition of merit, ability and integrity, that equal protection should be given to children regardless of their social status, and that a just system should be ensured to provide for education and health on the basis of equality;
 believe that the will of the people shall form the basis of government in a democratic society in which the government is freely elected by universal adult suffrage and in which all persons may, to the extent of their capacity, play some part in the institutions of national life and thus develop and maintain due respect for lawfully constituted authority;
 recognise that men and institutions remain free only when freedom is founded upon respect for moral and spiritual values and upon the rule of law;require policies of state which protect and safeguard the unity, freedom, sovereignty and territorial integrity of Belize; which eliminate economic and social privilege and disparity among the citizens of Belize whether by race, ethnicity, colour, creed, disability or sex; which ensures gender equality; which protect the rights and opinions of the individual to life, liberty, basic education, basic health, the right to vote in elections, the right to work and the pursuit of happiness; which protect the identity of one individual, dignity and social and cultural values of Belizeans, including Belize’s indigenous peoples; which preserve the right of the individual to the ownership of private property and the right to operate private businesses; which prohibit the exploitation of man by man or by the state; which ensure a just system of social security and welfare; which protect the environment; which promote international peace, security and co-operation among nations, the establishment of a just and equitable international economic and social order in the world with respect for international law and treaty obligations in the dealings among nations;
 desire that their society shall reflect and enjoy the above-mentioned principles, beliefs and needs and that their Constitution should therefore enshrine and make provisions for ensuring the achievement of the same in Belize;

and say that the following shall have effect as the Constitution of Belize.

Part 1: The State and the Constitution 
 What Belize is and its boundaries; Constitution established as supreme law.
Comprises sections 1 and 2.

Part 2: Protection of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms 
Comprises sections 3-22.
 Fundamental rights and freedoms; rights to life, personal liberty, law, inhuman treatment, slavery and forced labour, arbitrary search and entry; freedom of movement, conscience, expression, assembly and association; privacy, work, racial discrimination, deprivation of property. Provisions for public emergencies, protection of detained persons under emergency laws. Enforcement. Existing laws. Interpretation and savings.

Part 3: Citizenship 
Comprises sections 23-29
 Becoming a citizen on Independence day (September 21). Born in Belize on or after. Born outside Belize on or after. Registration. Dual nationality. Legislation. Interpretation.

Part 4: The Governor-General 
Sections 30-35.
 Establishment. Acting Governor-General. Oath. Deputy's functions. Exercise. Information on matters of government.

Part 5: The Executive 
Sections 36-54.
 Executive authority. Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Performance of functions during absence or illness. Ministers of Government and portfolio allocation. Attorney General. Performance of ministerial functions. Cabinet. Ministers of State. Oath taken by Ministers, etc. Leader of the Opposition. Permanent Secretaries and Cabinet Secretary. Control of public prosecutions. Constitution of offices, etc. Prerogative of mercy. Procedure in capital cases. Belize Advisory Council.