[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Loughborough Students' Union

s consisted of five Executive Officers. 'Exec Elections' occur each year in February and March, whereby a new Executive Team is voted in by the students. Candidates release manifestos, get interviewed in 'The Soapbox' and promote themselves across campus and on social media in hope of being elected.

The current Executive Officer Team is made up of the following positions:
President (Molly Page) is responsible for leading the Executive, and upholding the reputational management of the organisation, as well as develop the strategic plan.
Democracy and Community Executive Officer (Georgia Whelan) is responsible for promoting the union and a democratic system within it. Working alongside the Democracy and Representation Committee, they are to encourage accountability within the Union and develop the strategic plan.
Academic Experience Executive Officer (Lot Burgstra) is responsible for supporting and improving academic representation for all students represented by LSU.
Sport Executive Officer (Elizabeth Adamson) leads the Athletic Union, and represents all students within all sport at Loughborough.
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Executive Officer (Rachel Wan) concentrates on educating Loughborough Students on Welfare and Equity, Diversity and Inclusion issues, and leads multiple campaigns to develop this awareness.

Sections and student involvement
The students' union is a constant hive of activity. Along with Loughborough University's numerous sports clubs the union hosts and organises many other activities, clubs and societies catering for a wide range of interests. At the beginning of each academic year the Union Bazaar is held to allow students, especially new arrivals, to talk to existing members of these clubs and societies and to provide an early opportunity to sign up.

Loughborough Students' Athletic Union
See also Loughborough Students RUFC, Loughborough Students' Hockey Club.

Loughborough Students Athletic Union is steeped in history and has a tradition of sporting excellence, exhibiting a history of dominance across a number of specific sports such as rugby union. Loughborough has dominated University sport for 30 years, having won the British Universities and Colleges Sport championships for the last 40 consecutive years.

This success is celebrated through a number of channels, not least the weekly Wednesday Hey Ewe event and WOW Magazine (Walk On Water) which is a quarterly sports publication documents Loughborough's sporting success.  The Athletic Union has full-time staff members and one sabbatical officer (Sport Executive Officer).

Loughborough Students' Action
Action is the main volunteering section of the Union and is a vital in improving the relationships with the local community. Approximately there are 2,000 active volunteers a year, undertaking a wide range of activities, such as going away to a Kids Camp for a week, assisting in special needs schools, running one day sports events for 200 children and helping conserve Outwoods, the local forest, by chopping down trees.

Loughborough Students' Rag
The Rag office is responsible for organising, encouraging and supporting charity fund-raising amongst the union's members, and is the largest of such organisations in Europe, raising over £1,000,000 each year for a variety of charities. In 2013–14, Rag raised £1,411,510. The chairperson of the organisation is elected via a campus-wide ballot as part of LSU's Spring Term exec elections. They are tasked with co-ordinating the busy Rag calendar, which includes Rag Raids, Annual Events and Challenge Events; activities every weekend.

"Choose a Charity Challenge" evening, in LSU building, offers students a chance to sign up to charitable events, including a Sky Dive, A trek to Morocco, London to Paris Cycle, Istanbul Marathon and Rag Raids - bucket shaking in different parts of the country. The current Rag Chair being Jasmine Swanston.

Loughborough Students' Media

The students' union has its own purpose-built multi-media centre, opened in 1999, it is home to union's media activities which are coordinated by an annually elected sabbatical officer. Previously to this £1.4m development Media was spread in various locations across the campus, including LCR which was for almost 30 years based in a small set of studios in the Student Village. The Media section provides a number of services for the students on the campus and gives volunteers the chance to experience media work. Since the role's creation in 2007, the Media Section Chair's (originally Head of Media) responsibilities are aiding the Station Managers of LSUTV and LCR, providing support to the Head of Lens, and being Editor in Chief of Label. There are four production outlets (sections), each which operate semi-autonomously, with their own committees and leadership.