[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Paul Durand-Ruel

Germany came through the help of the German art critique Emil Heilbut, who purchased and sold many paintings between 1880 and 1896. His connection with German painter Max Liebermann led to exhibitions in Dresden, Berlin, and Hamburg of both French Impressionism and later work by Liebermann himself.

From 1899, Durand-Ruel's business in Germany was focused in Berlin, through a collaboration with German art dealer Paul Cassirer, who operated a permanent art gallery there.

Art markets 
His strategy followed seven innovative principles:

 Protect and defend art above all else
 The exclusivity of the artists' production
 Individual exhibitions
 A network of international galleries
 Free access to his galleries and to his apartment
 Promote the artists' work via the press
 Associate the art world with the finance world

Through these principles, Durand-Ruel transformed art markets into a system where artists are monetarily supported by financiers impressed by their work. Between 1891 and 1922, Durand-Ruel purchased nearly 12,000 paintings. In 1920, at the age of 89, he declared:
"At last the Impressionist masters triumphed just as the generation of 1830 had. My madness had been wisdom. To think that, had I passed away at sixty, I would have died debt-ridden and bankrupt, surrounded by a wealth of underrated treasures…"

Artists

Legacy 
While Paul Durand-Ruel has the legacy of bringing art to the free market, he viewed the pursuit of art as an end in itself. By seeking out the most authentic art, and investing in artists that he believed showed talent above all else, Durand-Ruel pioneered what it meant to be a modern art dealer. Furthermore, both Paul Durand-Ruel and his father attempted to separate their own political views from the subject matter of the art they supported; despite being conservatives, the Durand-Ruels invested in the progressive École de 1830. As a result of his approach to art-dealing, Durand-Ruel is considered as the first dealer to show an appreciation for Impressionist art.

Durand-Ruel was the subject of a major temporary exhibition titled "Inventing Impressionism" held at the National Gallery in London in 2015.

Durand-Ruel owned a violin made by Francois Lupot in 1810 until his death. He bought the violin from Albert Caressa as stated on the certificate issued by Jacques Francais in 1955. The violin is offered on sale at 2023 October Auction of Ingles and Hayday.

References and sources

External links
 Biography of Paul-Luis Durand-Ruel and timeline of important dates at Durand-Ruel & Cie
 Biography of Paul-Louis Durand-Ruel at National Gallery of Art
 
Degas: The Artist's Mind, exhibition catalog from The Metropolitan Museum of Art fully available online as PDF, which contains material on Paul Durand-Ruel (see index)
Documenting the Gilded Age: New York City Exhibitions at the turn of the 20th Century A New York Art Resources Consortium project. Two exhibition catalogs from the Durand-Ruel Galleries.
Inventing Impressionism. National Gallery exhibition devoted to Durand-Ruel 4 March – 31 May 2015.

1831 births
1922 deaths
Businesspeople from Paris
French art dealers
Impressionism