[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 123]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ything but the joy of his miraculous preservation.

At length, however, she became more composed, and observing that all the
company were present, except Harry Sandford, she exclaimed, with sudden
indignation, "So I see that little abominable wretch has not had the
impudence to follow you in; and I almost wish that the bull had gored
him, as he deserved." "What little wretch do you mean, mamma?" said
Tommy. "Whom can I mean," cried Mrs Merton, "but that vile Harry
Sandford, whom your father is so fond of, and who had nearly cost you
your life, by leading you into danger?" "He! mamma," said Tommy; "he
lead me into danger! He did all he could to persuade me not to go, and I
was a very naughty boy, indeed, not to take his advice."

Mrs Merton stood amazed at this information, for her prejudices had
operated so powerfully upon her mind, that she had implicitly believed
the guilt of Harry upon the imperfect evidence of the maid. "Who was it,
then," said Mr Merton, "could be so imprudent?" "Indeed, papa," answered
Tommy, "we were all to blame, all but Harry, who advised and begged us
not to go, and particularly me, because he said it would give you so
much uneasiness when you knew it, and that it was so dangerous a
diversion."

Mrs Merton looked confused at her mistake, but Mrs Compton observed,
that she supposed "Harry was afraid of the danger, and therefore, had
wisely kept out of the way." "Oh, no, indeed, madam," answered one of
the little boys, "Harry is no coward, though we thought him so at first,
when he let Master Tommy strike him, but he fought Master Mash in the
bravest manner I ever saw; and though Master Mash fought very well, yet
Harry had the advantage; and I saw him follow us at a little distance,
and keep his eye upon Master Merton all the time, till the bull broke
loose, and then I was so frightened that I do not know what became of
him." "So this is the little boy," said Mr Merton, "whom you were for
driving from the society of your children. But let us hear more of this
story, for as yet I know neither the particulars of his danger nor his
escape." Upon this one of the servants, who, from some little distance,
had seen the whole affair, was called in and examined. He gave them an
exact account of all of Tommy's misfortune; of Harry's bravery; of the
unexpected succour of the poor Black; and filled the whole room with
admiration, that such an action, so noble, so intrepid, so fortunate,
should have been achieved by such a child.

Mrs Merton was now silent with shame at reflecting upon her own unjust
prejudices, and the ease with which she had become the enemy of a boy
who had saved the life of her darling son, and who appeared as much
superior in character to all the young gentlemen at her house as they
exceeded him in rank and fortune. The young ladies now forgot their
former objections to his person and manners, and--such is the effect of
genuine virtue--all the company conspired to extol the conduct of Harry
to the skies.

But Mr Merton, who had appeared more delighted than all the rest with
the relations of Harry's intrepidity, now cast his eyes round the room
and seemed to be looking for his little friend; but when he could not
find him, he said, with some concern, "Where can be our little
deliverer? Sure he can have met with no accident, that he has not
returned with the rest!" "No," said one of the servants; "as to that,
Harry Sandford is safe enough, for I saw him go towards his own home in
company with the Black." "Alas!" answered Mr Merton, "surely he must
have received some unworthy treatment, that could make him thus abruptly
desert us all. And now I recollect I heard one of the young gentlemen
mention a blow that Harry had received. Surely, Tommy, you could not
have been so basely ungrateful as to strike the best and noblest of your
friends!" Tommy, at this, hung down his head, his face was covered with
a burning blush, and the tears began silently to trickle down his
cheeks.

Mrs Merton remarked the anguish and confusion of her child, and catching
him in her arms, was going to clasp him to her bosom, with the most
endearing expressions, but Mr Merton, hastily interrupting her, said,
"It is not now a time to give way to fondness for a child, who, I fear,
has acted the basest and vilest part that can disgrace a human being,
and who, if what I suspect be true, can be only a dishonour to his
parents." At this, Tommy could no longer contain himself, but burst into
such a violent transport of crying, that Mrs Merton, who seemed to feel
the severity of Mr Merton's conduct with still more poignancy than her
son, caught her darling up in her arms and carried him abruptly out of
the room, accompanied by most of the ladies, who pitied Tommy's
abasement, and agreed that there was no crime he could have been guilty
of which was not amply atoned for by such charming sensibility.

But Mr Merton, who now felt all the