[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Julius Thomas Fraser

Julius Thomas Fraser (May 7, 1923 – November 20, 2010) was a Hungarian-born American author who made important scholarly contributions to the interdisciplinary Study of Time and was a founding member of the International Society for the Study of Time (ISST). He was the editor of the seminal volume Voices of Time - A Cooperative Survey of Man's Views of Time as Expressed by the Sciences and by the Humanities (1966) and founding editor of KronoScope Journal in the Study of Time. His work has strongly influenced thinking about the nature of time across the disciplines from physics to sociology, biology to comparative religion, and he was a seminal figure in the general interdisciplinary study of temporality. His work has influenced the work of poet Frederick Turner and author David Mitchell.

Biography
Born and raised in Hungary, Fraser was not drafted into the military on account of his partial Jewish heritage.  Following the Second World War, he emigrated to the United States.  Working as an engineer and an inventor for several years, he registered at least seven US patents between 1958 and 1963.  However, he already began to think about the nature of time much earlier, as early as 1945.  His early training had been in physics, but he completed his Ph.D. in 1969 in the Fakultät für Geistes- und Staatswissenschaften (Faculty of Social and Political Sciences) at the University of Hannover, and his dissertation was entitled: Time as a Hierarchy of Creative Conflicts.  Although this work provided a template for many of his later investigations, he had already touched on many of the core ideas in his first articles in 1966, the same year that he founded the International Society for the Study of Time.

Fraser authored and edited many papers over the next several decades, but following the success of his 1966 edited volume of interdisciplinary articles, The Voices of Time, which remains a regularly cited classic of time studies, he oversaw editing and publication of the first ten volumes of "The Study of Time" series through the International Society for the Study of Time.  Subsequent contributions include his role as a founding editor of the interdisciplinary Journal KronoScope.

Fraser died on November 20, 2010 in his home in Westport, Connecticut, which he shared with his wife, Jane, his five children and six grandchildren.

Central themes in his writings
Throughout his many works, two themes stand out centrally:
 The Hierarchical Theory of Time
 The Theory of Time as Conflict
Much of his work is an interplay between these themes, whether played out in disciplinary theatres of the sciences, the arts, the humanities, and history, or as a bridging principle between fields of enquiry themselves.  Arguably, the distinction between disciplines as diverse as those that epistemically belong in the natural and human spheres of knowledge find their methodological and definitional norms informed by his hierarchical theory of time. Indeed, his work fits into the emerging cosmic evolution paradigm, describing as it does how each level of reality emerges, and how that newly emergent level experiences time.

Fraser posits that the universe has emerged into levels of temporality, beginning with the pure energy of the Big Bang, which he terms atemporality (without-time). As the universe cooled, the quantum physical universe emerged, giving rise to probabilistic prototemporality. With the emergence of molecules and macrophysical objects, we get deterministic eotemporality. The emergence of living things gives rise to a more forward direction of time experience, or biotemporality, which is followed by the strongly directional time experience of human beings, or nootemporality. Fraser then goes on to posit that a sociotemporality has since emerged. Fraser posits that as each level of complexity in the universe encounters unresolvable paradoxes, a new level of complexity emerges, with its own paradoxes.

These nested levels (umwelts) represent qualitatively different temporalities, for both time and the perception of time have evolved. In one sense, time is physically different from what it was when the universe first came into being. As the universe continues to change, so too does time change. In the humanistic sense, it is the perception of time that has changed, as humans have biologically evolved with different concepts of the world to those of our ancestral species.