[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Malbazar

1,101 were females. Decadal growth for the period 1991–2001 was 13.81% for Malbazar, against 21.52% in Jalpaiguri district. Decadal growth in West Bengal was 17.84%.

Government and politics
The chairperson of Mal Municipality is Swapan Saha and vice chairperson is Utpal Bhaduri.

Transport

Railway

There are two Railway Stations which serves Malbazar, they are Malbazar Railway Station (station code MLBZ) and New Mal Junction (station code NMZ).Malbazar railway station (MLBZ) is a small station where only local and DEMU trains are available whereas New Mal Junction is the major junction from where many Express trains, Intercity trains, and local trains are available. New Mal Junction is connected by the newly converted Broad Gauge of the New Jalpaiguri–Alipurduar–Samuktala line, whereas Malbazar Railway Station lies on New Mal–Changrabandha–New Cooch Behar line. The 1st railway line leads from the forests of North Bengal to the foothills near the India - Bhutan border, whereas the 2nd railway line originates from Malbazar and terminates in Changrabandha, which lies in India - Bangladesh border.

Roadways
Malbazar is well connected by road with cities like Siliguri and Jalpaiguri. Since it lies on the route towards Jaigaon, so Jeep/Taxi services are available towards Jaigaon, Hasimara, Birpara, Binnaguri,  Gangtok, Kalimpong, Rangpo, Singtam, Jorethang, Pakyong, Namchi, Pelling, Darjeeling, Panitanki, Bagdogra, Mainaguri, Dhupguri, Falakata, Jalpaiguri, Alipurduar, Cooch Behar etc. Some long distance buses connecting Siliguri to Guwahati, Shillong, Jorhat etc also runs via Malbazar. Malbazar became popular to tourists as a gateway to many more spots like Gorumara, Chapramari and Chalsa. There is a short route between Malbazar to hill stations like Labha, Algarah, Pedong, Kalimpong, Mansong, Aritar via Gorubathan by  State Highway 12 and National Highway 717A.

Frequent Bus services are available from Malbazar to P.C. Mittal Memorial Bus Terminus, Siliguri.

Also many buses are available from the town to Birpara, Hasimara, Jaigaon, Cooch Behar, Alipurduar, Dhupguri, Jalpaiguri etc.

Airways
The nearest airport is Bagdogra International Airport 74 kilometres away. Vistara, IndiGo, Go First, Akasa Air, AIX Connect, Air India, SpiceJet and Druk Air (Bhutan) are the major carriers that connects Bagdogra Airport to Chennai, Bangalore, Ahmedabad, Hyderabad,  Mumbai, Delhi, Paro (Bhutan), Guwahati, Kolkata, Dibrugarh and Bangkok (Thailand).

Education
 Caesar School (CBSE, English)(H.S.)
 Mal Adarsha Bidya Bhaban (WBCHSE, Bengali)(H.S.)
 Parimal Mitra Smriti Mahavidyalaya

References

Cities and towns in Jalpaiguri district