[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Christian nationalism

Christian nationalism is a type of religious nationalism that is affiliated with Christianity, in which the end goal is to achieve a Christian theocracy within a society. It primarily focuses on the internal politics of society, such as legislating civil and criminal laws that reflect their view of Christianity and the role of religion in political and social life.

In countries with a state church, Christian nationalists seek to preserve the status of a Christian state by holding an antidisestablishmentarian position to perpetuate the Church in national politics.

Christian nationalism supports the presence of Christian symbols in the public square, and state patronage for the practice and display of religion, such as school prayer and the exhibition of nativity scenes during Christmastide, and the Christian Cross on Good Friday. Christian nationalism draws political support from the broader Christian right of the political spectrum of a country.

By country

Canada 
The COVID-19 pandemic saw a rise in Christian nationalist activity with many groups using anti-lockdown sentiments to expand their reach to more people. The group Liberty Coalition Canada has garnered support from many elected politicians across Canada. In their founding documents they argue that "it is only in Christianized nations that religious freedom has ever flourished." This group has garnered support from various groups, including supporters of far-right hate groups. Their rallies have attracted the support of Alex Jones and Canada First, a spin-off of Nick Fuentes' group America First. Many of Liberty Coalition Canada's leaders are pastors who have racked up millions in potential fines for violating COVID protocols and in many cases express ultra-conservative views.

Russia 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin has been described as a global leader of the Christian nationalist and Christian right movements. As President, Putin has increased the power of the Russian Orthodox Church and proclaimed his staunch belief in Eastern Orthodoxy, as well as maintaining close contacts with Patriarchs of Moscow and all Rus' Alexy II and Kirill.

The Russian Imperial Movement is a prominent neo-Nazi Christian nationalist group that trains militants all over Europe and has recruited thousands of fighters for its paramilitary group, the Imperial Legion, which is participating in the war in Ukraine. The group also works with the Atomwaffen Division in order to network with and recruit extremists from the United States.

Scotland 
In Scotland UK, the Scottish Family Party has been described as Christian nationalist. The party was formed as a push back movement, based on a rejection of LGBT+ topics being taught in schools, with the political party claiming it to be an overly sexualized topic and ideology. They believe it to be an attack on traditional Christian family values, promoted by the current Scottish government.

South Africa 
The future leader of the National Party and Apartheid Prime Minister of South Africa, BJ Vorster in 1942 declared: "We stand for Christian Nationalism which is an ally of National Socialism. You can call this anti-democratic principle dictatorship if you wish. In Italy, it is called Fascism; in Germany, National Socialism and in South Africa, Christian Nationalism."

While the National Party was primarily concerned about the nationalist interest of Afrikaners, there was a strong adherence to Calvinist interpretations of Christianity as the bedrock of the state. Moreover, by advancing ideas of Christian Nationalism, the National Party could incorporate other "nations" in their programme of racial hierarchies and segregation. The Dutch Reformed Church in South Africa provided much of the theological and moral justification for Apartheid and the basis for racial hierarchy.

The adjective commonly used in South Africa is "Christian national", without the "ist", e.g. Christian national education. The term may be applied to any activity that combines Christian values with traditional values of Southern African Afrikaans speakers, although it is most commonly used to refer to a type of K12 education, and in modern usage it rarely refers to a governmental political view.  The term is viewed positively by Afrikaans people, even those who strongly oppose Apartheid and fascism, although far-left and far-right non-Afrikaans political parties often use the term as a slur.

United States 

The Christian Liberty Party and the American Redoubt movement ― both organized and inspired by members of the Constitution Party ― are early 21st century examples of political tendencies which are rooted in Christian nationalism, with the latter advocating a degree of separatism. The New Columbia Movement is an organization in the United States that identifies as being aligned with Christian nationalism. Christian nationalists believe that the US is meant to be a Christian nation and want to "take back" the US for God.