[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alex Arthur

ine in his next fight against fellow Scot Ricky Burns winning another 12 round decision. It was however the only time he would defend all three at once, his next two fights saw him only defend the European title against mandatory challenger Sergey Gulyakevich and Spain's Sergio Palomo.

WBO Champion

On 21 July 2007, he stopped Koba Gogoladze in the tenth round to win the interim WBO super-featherweight title. He made his first defence on 15 December 2007 against fellow Brit Steve Foster Jr. In what was supposed to be an easy tune up fight, Arthur struggled to win a close unanimous decision. It was a terrible start from the champion, for the first four rounds he was getting beaten to the punch and taking heavy blows from Foster. He regained his composure in the middle rounds and even knocked down his opponent in the 9th with a body shot. However two rounds later in round 11 Arthur got floored himself after taking a right hand that knocked him straight through the ropes. He managed to regain his composure and won a close decision.

Following the Foster win Arthur geared himself up to take on Dominican Joan Guzmán who held the full version of the title. However, Guzmán decided that he wanted to move up a weight division and chose not to compete against Arthur.  This decision by Guzmán meant that the interim titleholder was now recognised as the organisation's world champion.

Arthur however surrendered the title in his very next fight, losing a unanimous points decision to England's Nicky Cook at the MEN Arena in Manchester on 9 September 2008.  Arthur claimed that he had been "robbed" he also added "It was three English judges – in England. A fighter knows in his heart if he has won or lost a fight and I really thought I had won", Other observers however thought that the decision was fair and that Cook fully deserved his win.

Second comeback
Since losing to Nicky Cook in 2008 Arthur went on to win against Mohamed Benbiou on 19 June 2009 via TKO in Round 1 at the Bellahouston Sports Centre in Glasgow, Arthur then lost on points to Nigel Wright on 5 December 2009 at the Metro Radio Arena, Newcastle. In 2010 Arthur had 2 back to back wins against Peter McDonagh on 4 September 2010 and Jay Morris on 4 December 2010 both in Glasgow.

Arthur was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2012 Birthday Honours for services to boxing.

Amazing Alex Arthur Promotions and Retirement
In 2011 Arthur went into promoting with his own AAA Promotions. His first event took place at the Meadowbank Stadium in Edinburgh on 27 August 2011 where Arthur fought Aleksander Vakhtangashvili and won via TKO in the fourth round. On 14 April 2012 AAA Promotions staged their second and final event again at the Meadowbank Stadium where Arthur faced Michael Frontin and won via points after 8 rounds.

On 26 June 2013 Arthur officially retired from boxing after 14 months without a fight.

Political career 
On 29 March 2021, Arthur was announced as a regional candidate for the Alba Party in the 2021 Scottish Parliament election. Shortly after the announcement, controversy emerged over his previous comments on social media, where he compared Romanian beggars to "juicy overfed pigs", openly mocked an AIDS survivor, and spread misinformation on COVID-19 vaccination. After issuing an apology, where he explained that his comments were a product of his working class upbringing, Arthur continued to retweet anti-immigrant content and bragged that members of his family could out-fight commenters who criticised him.

Following Alba's disappointing results, where they failed to win any constituency or regional seats, Arthur stated that he remained proud to be an Alba candidate and suggested his party had achieved more in the fight for Scottish independence than the 1320 Declaration of Arbroath. In response to further criticism of his political achievements he told a member of the public "Shut up you clown you don't know me", before stating "my 'genes' are very powerful!".

Since the 2021 Scottish Parliament election, Arthur has continued sharing his views online. In response to renewed calls for Scottish students to get vaccinated against Covid-19 in September 2021, Arthur publicly mocked an overweight Scottish government spokesperson, saying he should "Maybe lose some weight. Protect yourself from the bigger killers, Heart disease & obesity". New measures for children with gender dysphoria prompted a backlash, with Arthur stating "Kids at that age don't know if they're going for a shite or a haircut". When accused of being anti-English, Arthur stated "I'd rather suck Boris Johnson's big toe than Nicola's tits". He has also suggested that Scotland's Olympic prospects would improve by copying the strategies of the Russian committee involved in the doping scandal, stating "We need a bit of Putin in Scotland!".

Professional boxing record

References