[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Finlay Macdonald (minister)

Finlay A. J. Macdonald is a retired minister of the Church of Scotland. He was Principal Clerk to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland from 1996 until 2010. In addition to his rapid rise up the ranks of the Church of Scotland, Macdonald is known for fostering co-operation between the various boards and committees which administer the Church and for steering the Church smoothly through its annual business meetings.

Biography

Early life
Born in 1945 in Watford, England, his family returned to Scotland in 1949, settling in Dundee. His father, John  - from the Hebrides - was also a Church of Scotland minister and his grandfather, also John, was a missionary. Finlay Macdonald attended the High School of Dundee, one of Scotland's leading independent schools (and the only such school in Dundee). At age 16, Macdonald began his lifelong career in the ministry when he joined Camperdown Parish Church as an organist. At age 18, Macdonald left the High School of Dundee with the intention of becoming a lawyer.

Education
In 1963, Macdonald matriculated at the University of St Andrews, the oldest university in Scotland and third oldest in the English-speaking world. In his first year of university, Macdonald combined law studies at the city's Queen's College (then part of St Andrews University) with arts subjects in St Andrews. Macdonald subsequently took up the study of philosophy and received his Master of Arts (M.A.) degree in philosophy in 1968. At some point during Macdonald's questioning and creation of theories about the nature of reality, the call to be a lawyer for God had taken hold and Macdonald entered St Mary's College in 1968 with the goal of becoming a minister.

He graduated with a Bachelor of Divinity (Hons) degree in 1970. Macdonald married Elma, a primary school teacher, and produced two sons, one a doctor in Perth, Western Australia, the other an architect in Edinburgh.

Career
After finishing his studies, Macdonald became assistant minister at Bo'ness Old Kirk, but within two months he found himself in sole charge. At age 26 in 1971, Macdonald was ordained and inducted at Menstrie Parish Church in Menstrie, Clackmannanshire by the presbytery of Stirling and Dunblane. It was at Menstrie Parish Church where Macdonald began serving his first charge as minister Macdonald became involved in the administration of the presbytery, serving for four years as junior clerk and treasurer.

In 1977, Macdonald moved to Jordanhill Parish Church, in the west end of Glasgow, where served as minister for nineteen years, from 1977 to 1996. In 1988, Macdonald was elevated to governor of Jordanhill College of Education. In that same year, the demonstration school attached to the teacher training college, known as Jordanhill College School, separated from the college to form Jordanhill School. At Jordanhill College, Macdonald chaired the PTA Action Committee, which campaigned successfully for the school's survival as a local primary and secondary within the public sector. In 1993 the college itself merged into the University of Strathclyde with the Jordanhill campus subsequently serving as home of the Education Faculty. With the merger, Macdonald left his position as president.

During this same period of time (1988 to 1992), Macdonald was convener of the General Assembly's Board of Practice and Procedure and of the Assembly's Business Committee.

In 1983 he completed his PhD thesis entitled "Law and Doctrine in the Church of Scotland with particular reference to Confessions of Faith".

From 1993 until 1996, Macdonald was a lay member of Strathclyde University Court, chairing the education faculty advisory committee. During this same period (1993 to 1996), Macdonald combined his ministry at Jordanhill with the role of Depute Clerk to the General Assembly.

In 1996, Macdonald succeeded the Very Rev Dr James Weatherhead as the Principal Clerk to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. As Principal Clerk, Macdonald helped bring about the culture of change which produced the Church Without Walls report.

Moderator of the General Assembly
In September 2001, four ministers were shortlisted as moderator: Macdonald, Peter Neilson of St Cuthbert's Church in Edinburgh, Sheila Blount of Falkirk, and Margaret Forrester of St Michael's Church in Edinburgh. The Glasgow was well represented by this nomination as Macdonald, Neilson and Blount all had ties to Glasgow. Moreover, the outgoing moderator John Miller was from Glasgow.

Macdonald had an advantage over the other three candidates. In general, most holders of the office of Principal Clerk have become Moderator.  Macdonald had become well-known and widely respected in the Church of Scotland.  Noted commentator Stewart Lamont wrote about Macdonald's nomination: