[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Confederate Monument in Louisville

ags, even the flag of the fictional Kekistan.

Historic status

A 2002 act of the General Assembly created the Kentucky Military Heritage Commission. The Commission oversees the protection of monuments and memorials in their registry. The Confederate monument is currently listed as a potential site.

The monument was placed on the National Register of Historic Places on July 17, 1997, one of sixty-one different Civil War-related sites in Kentucky so honored on the same day.  Four other monuments are in Louisville/Jefferson County.  The 32nd Indiana Monument and the Union Monument in Louisville were both in Cave Hill Cemetery, although the first is now at Louisville's Frazier History Museum to preserve it. John B. Castleman Monument is on Cherokee Circle in the Highlands, a block from Bardstown Road.  The other, Confederate Martyrs Monument in Jeffersontown, is in Jeffersontown City Cemetery in Jeffersontown, Kentucky.

In supplemental material collected for the 1997 nomination, Joseph E. Brent of the Kentucky Heritage Council argued Gaines Foster's three phases of the Lost Cause does not fit well with the Kentucky experience. Brent suggests two periods divided by the 19th and 20th centuries. Brent paraphrases the NRHP guidelines for eligibility to say that monuments moved out of their integrity of location, e.g. a monument moved from a cemetery to a public space, are not eligible for inclusion in the registry.

Description

At 70-foot-tall, the Louisville Confederate Monument is the second largest in the state of Kentucky and one of the most ornate. The monument was previously located at the intersection of 2nd and 3rd Streets, immediately south of West Brandeis Avenue in Louisville.  It is built of granite, constructed by the Muldoon Monument Company, and includes three bronze Confederate soldiers designed by the sculptor Ferdinand von Miller II of Munich, Germany.

The infantryman located at the top of the column is 95-inches-tall and in a relaxed position with his rifle. The figure was facing north in the Louisville location. The two side figures near the base of the monument are 70-inches-tall. The east side artillerist is holding a ramrod with swab, and the west side cavalryman holds a partially unsheathed sword. "Our Confederate Dead, 1861–1865" and "Tribute to the Rank and File of the Armies of the South" are inscribed on the north and south face respectively. On the north face is a bronze medallion of the Seal of the Confederate States. At the top of the column are raised relief crossed swords on all four sides. Above the side figures on the east and west and on the south side are stylized raised relief lettering "CSA". The structure weighs about 140,000 pounds.

The monument base had a diameter of 48 feet in the early 20th century. A National Register of Historic Places nomination from 1990 describes four elaborate lamp standards that were placed at compass points as a part of a stone fence that once encircled the monument. In an early mention, the monument committee in 1897 proposed to write Frederick Law Olmsted, the park architect, to draw up plans for the structure. Early 20th century reports claim the perimeter lamps were designed by Louisville sculptor Enid Yandell. By 1921, the perimeter of the monument had suffered considerable damage from automobile accidents and the original lamps were changed out after two were knocked down. Both the fence and lamps were removed for traffic considerations in 1957.

A 1991 Louisville public art survey estimated cost of repairs to the monument between $20,000-$50,000 dollars including repair of the deteriorating bronze portions. The length of the sheath belonging to the cavalryman at the Raleigh site indicates contemporary damage to the Louisville cast.

Bessie Laub, art critic for The Courier-Journal in 1917, summarized the Confederate Monument in Louisville at the time:

The monument was used widely in advertisements for the Muldoon Monument Company. The company is still operating today as Muldoon Memorials.

Monument images

See also
 John B. Castleman Monument
 Union Monument in Louisville
 32nd Indiana Monument
 List of American Civil War monuments in Kentucky
 Louisville, Kentucky, in the American Civil War
 History of Louisville, Kentucky
 List of Confederate monuments and memorials
 Removal of Confederate monuments and memorials

References

External links

Vintage Postcards depicting the Monument
Drawing, circa 1900, of Industrial School of Reform with monument in foreground
Video: Press Conference, April 29, 2016
Video: Freedom Park renaming, Sep, 2015
Photograph of Judge Reginald H Thompson, model for infantryman (top figure) on monument
Photograph of monument, published circa 1906