[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Moroccan Association for Human Rights

s of the organization to the extent that in the National Congress of 2010 some challenged the association decision to use the term Western Sahara instead of Moroccan Sahara. Critics also came from official positions. The Prime Minister at the time, Abbas Al-Fassi, accused the AMDH to be un-Moroccan.

Government's repression 
The Moroccan authorities have been repressing human rights organizations like the AMDH since 2014, being the last known claim in 2017. They have been obstructing and prohibiting AMDH's activities, such as meetings, conferences or workshops, directly and indirectly. For example, by pressuring the managers of the venues where their events were going to be hold or by padlocking the doors. According to AMDH 104 of its events were banned or obstructed in the period between July 2014 and May 2016, 26 in total during 2016. The authorities have also been blocking the registration of 47 local branches and the head office of the AMDH by refusing to extend the corresponding receipt after the branches had presented the documents that they are periodically required to submit. Without such receipt they encounter difficulties in carrying out activities like opening a bank account. As a response the Moroccan Association for Human Rights and some of its branches have brought the government to court achieving administrative appeals court rulings in their favor. For instance, a 2015 ruling declared that the Ministry of Interior should not have declined the petition of the AMDH to permit the operation of the local branch in Temara. Despite these rulings, the organization continued to encounter obstacles. Furthermore, the government has not yet implemented the courts decisions.  For example, a 2015 administrative court decision ruled against the Ministry of Youth and Sports by not allowing AMDH to use one of its facilities for an event and imposed the Ministry the payment of damages to the organization. The Ministry appealed and lost but by 2017 it had not yet met the court's judgment.  The Moroccan Association for Human Rights stated that restrictions were unusual before 2014 and claims that all changed in July 2014 when Mohamed Hassad, Interior Minister, accused human rights groups of being an obstacle to the government's agenda on counter-terrorism.

See also 

 Human rights in Morocco
 Amal Women's Training Center and Moroccan Restaurant
 Conseil Consultatif des Droits de l'Homme

References

External links
  
 archive at old domain mid-2018  
 AMDH statutes
 AMDH Madrid official webpage
 AMDH Brussels official webpage

1979 establishments in Morocco
Organizations established in 1979
Human rights organizations based in Morocco
International Federation for Human Rights member organizations
Non-profit organizations based in Morocco