[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 36th Iowa Infantry Regiment

ed a permanent camp for winter quarters and endured a bitterly cold winter. Meanwhile, Price and Marmaduke escaped toward Camden, Washington and Murfreesboro to winter while Arkansas state officials moved their capital to the county courthouse at Washington, Arkansas near the Texas-Louisiana border.

The Dodd Affair 
On 8 January 1964, an 80-man detachment from the 36th Iowa and similar detachments from all of the Union regiments encamped near the arsenal formed on the parade ground to witness the execution of 17-year-old David Dodd, a Confederate spy.  Dodd had attended nearby St. John College—a private secondary academy—but dropped out after a few months and relocated with his parents to Texas when the Union Army occupied Little Rock. He became a telegraph clerk and learned Morse Code and next joined his father who was a civilian sutler for a Confederate regiment stationed in Mississippi. Returning to Camden Arkansas, Dodd intended to return to Little Rock, ostensibly to visit former classmates and an older sister still enrolled there. He obtained a pass to depart Confederate lines from General James Fagan, who allegedly told young Dodd, "I expect a full report upon your return." Approaching Union lines he obtained a legitimate US Army pass and continued into the city where he spent three days. As Dodd departed Little Rock on the afternoon of the third day, he headed down the Benton road southwest of the city and passed through a federal picket line, where he surrendered his pass, believing he had exited federal lines. Two miles further, however, Dodd encountered a second Union picket line and, having no pass, was arrested by federal troopers of the 8th Missouri Cavalry. Taken before an officer, Dodd was interrogated and could not provide a satisfactory explanation for wandering through the neighborhood at that hour. A notebook taken from him contained notes in Morse Code that, when translated by the assistant army telegrapher, described accurately much of the federal Order of Battle in Little Rock and the disposition of infantry regiments and artillery batteries. With this incriminating evidence in hand, Dodd was taken before a senior officer of the 8th Missouri and further interrogated. It was at this point the prisoner was body-searched, and additional papers and a loaded Derringer pistol were found in his coat. A full investigation revealed that Dodd was almost certainly assisted by a local female accomplice, who was also brought before military authorities and interrogated. Dodd was sentenced to death by a specially appointed Military Commission on a 4 to 2 vote on 5 January 1864. An execution date was set for 8 January. Steele did not bring charges against the female—a close friend of Dodd's and a vocal secessionist whose father quartered Union officers in his home. Instead of charging the daughter and son, Steele had them removed from the Department of Arkansas and deported to Vermont, their native state. There they were essentially placed on house arrest for the duration of the war.

Dodd's case drew the attention of thousands of Arkansans who sought clemency. Steele offered clemency to Dodd if the youngster would reveal who his accomplices were, which offer Dodd refused.  The morning of Dodd's execution he was placed on the end-gate of an army ambulance wagon that had been driven beneath a scaffold.  Bound hand and foot, Dodd was made to step out onto the wagon tailgate which was propped up by a stout wooden post.  The noose was placed around his neck and the post was knocked out from beneath the tail-gate causing the teenager to fall straight down. Unfortunately, the rope stretched, and the fall did not break Dodd's neck; he struggled for several minutes as he slowly strangled to death.  After nearly 10 minutes a Union surgeon pronounced him dead. Some federal soldiers who witnessed the execution described it as a "sickening" and "ghastly" affair. but evidence from diaries and letters indicates most felt no remorse or were disturbed by Dodd's execution.