[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of military equipment manufactured in Iran

er)
 Tondar (missile)
 Sadid-365 - top attack anti-tank missile with a range of 8 kilometers

Recoilless rifles
 SPG-9 – reverse engineered version of 73 mm SPG-9 recoilless rifle
 106mm Recoilless rifle – Iranian version of M40 A2 recoilless rifle
 Nafez-2 – anti-armor launcher

Air defense weapons

 Khordad 15 – Surface-to-air missile (SAM) system
 Qaem – anti-helicopter, lightweight, laser-guided missile
 Raad – anti-helicopter system.
 Misagh-1 – copy of Chinese QW-1 Vanguard with upgrades
 Misagh-2 – copy of Chinese QW-2 Vanguard
 Misagh-3
 23mm Anti-Aircraft Gun – Iranian version of ZU-23 which comes in one or two barrel configurations
 Samavat 35 mm Anti-Aircraft Guns – Copy of Oerlikon 35 mm twin cannon skyguard
 Sa'ir 100 mm Anti-Aircraft Guns – Upgraded automatic version of KS-19 100 m gun, it can detect and intercept targets automatically through radar or optical systems at low and medium altitude
 Shahab-e-Saqeb (missile) – copy of the Chinese HQ-7 (FM-80)
 SM-1 copy of RIM-66 Standard.
 Sayyad-1 / Sayyad-1A – upgraded copy of Chinese HQ-2, Sayyad-1A has IR tracking.
 Sayyad-2 (Hunter II). Upgraded version of the Sayyad-1 system with higher precision, range and defensive power. It is equipped with a 200-kilogram warhead and has a speed of 1,200 meters per second. The Sayyad-1 missile defense system is composed of two-stage missiles that can target all kinds of aircraft, including bombers, at medium and high altitudes.
 Fajr-8 – upgrade of S-200
 Fajr-27 – advanced sea rapid fire cannon
 Fath (victory) – the 40-millimeter naval cannon's range is 12 km and shoots 300 projectiles per minute.
 Mersad – Iran's first advanced air defense system based on the US MIM-23 Hawk. It is capable of hitting modern aircraft flying at low and medium altitudes. The Mersad system is equipped with sophisticated radar signal processing technology, an advanced launcher, and electronic equipment for guidance and target acquisition. Mersad uses domestically manufactured Shahin missiles.
 Mesbah 1 air defense system – can target and destroy fighters, helicopters, cruise missiles and other objects flying at low altitude. Mesbah 1 is equipped with a three-dimensional interception radar and an optical guidance system. Mesbah 1 can fire four thousand rounds per minute.
 Mehrab (altar) – surface-to-air medium-range smart missile. The Mehrab missile is equipped with anti-radar and anti-jamming systems, and if the enemy tries to jam the guidance system of the missile, it immediately identifies the source of the interference and changes its course toward the source and destroys the jammer.
 Raad – Air defence system with a range of 50 kilometers and engagement altitude of 25 to 27 kilometers
 Bavar-373 – Iran-made air defense system carrying surface-to-air Sayyad-4 (missile)), which uses two or three types of missiles to confront aerial targets in different layers.
 Ya Zahra – Low-altitude mobile air defense system.
 Soheil – Quadruped- MANPADS missile launcher, which can detect and intercept aerial targets.
 Herz-9 – Passive low-altitude mobile air defense system with an operating range of 10 km and operating altitude of 5 km.
 Talaash - A mid-range, high-altitude missile mobile air defense missile system which uses an upgraded copy of SM-1 (RIM-66) missile called Sayyad-2, in November 2013 Iran launched the production line of Sayyad-2 missile. It can also use Sayyad-3 missiles.
 Asefeh – Asefeh is three-barrelled 23 mm Gatling gun that is reportedly capable of firing up to 900 rounds a minute, it is currently under development by IRGC ground force and will be used as a close in weapon system to defend against cruise missiles.
 3rd Khordad – missile system with a range of 75 kilometers and an altitude of 30 kilometers
 Tabas – missile system with a range of 60 kilometers and an altitude of 30 kilometers
 Damavand - A long-range missile system
 Zolfaqar - A low-altitude missile system
 Majid
 9 of Dey - A missile system which is capable of engaging and destroying cruise missiles and drones.
 Tactical Sayyad - Towed system with 3 120-km range missiles and a phased-array radar
 Lt. General Qassem Soleimani - Ship point air defense missile/gun system
 Navvab
 Khatam 5 - missile system
Khatam 7 - missile system