[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mansoor al-Jamri

his village Bani Jamra much more "open" than Najaf. In 1973, al-Jamri returned to Bahrain with his family, spending 11 years of his life in Iraq. He said his father's decision to return to Bahrain was the "best news I have ever received" and that to him Bahrain represented "freedom and eternal joy".

In 1978, al-Jamri graduated from high school, technical sector. In 1979, he traveled to the United Kingdom to continue his higher education after receiving a scholarship from Ministry of Education. He studied mechanical engineering at the University of the West of Scotland (Paisley University) of which he holds the doctorate degree. Trouble followed al-Jamri during his visits to Bahrain as he was questioned by security forces in 1980, his passport withdrawn for a year in 1982 and in 1987 he was not able to find a job. In 1987, al-Jamri immigrated to Britain which he held its citizenship. He lived in self-imposed exile for 14 years during which he continued his studies and became the spokesman of the London-based opposition group. He was also a "frequent guest on international news outlets such as the BBC."

Al-Jamri is married to Reem Khalifa, a columnist and reporter working for Al-Wasat and the Associated Press. Unlike Mansoor, she follows the Sunni branch of Islam. She was described by the New York Times as a "woman of Western tastes". Khalifa comes from a leftist family.

Founding of Al-Wasat

In 1999, then-Emir (now King) Hamad bin Isa Al Khalifa began a reform process and in 2001 exiles were told they could come back. Rejecting an offer to become a cabinet minister and leaving his leading position in the opposition, al-Jamri returned from the United Kingdom in December 2001, eight months after his father had obtained a consent from the Emir to establish two newspapers. Initially, he was sceptical about the king's reform plan, but al-Jamri received a personal invitation by the king and was given a large margin of freedom of expression. Al-Jamri, backed by 39 other private investors (US$5.3 million capital) had initially planned to establish two independent newspapers, Al-Wasat in Arabic and Gulf Observer in English.

Al-Wasat (literally, "The Center") was founded in September 2002 and its co-founder al-Jamri became its editor-in-chief. By 2011 it had become the country's most popular newspaper with a daily circulation of 15,000 and readership of 45,000 to 60,000. It employed 200 individuals, a quarter of them worked as reporters or editors. Its coverage was described by Committee to Protect Journalists as independent and non-sectarian, however this did not spare it from occasional harassment and political pressure. Al-Wasat is the only independent and non-sectarian newspaper in the county and is also "widely credited with being the first Bahraini newspaper to voice opposition views". Although it also covers the government point of view, the newspaper is sometimes classified as siding with opposition. According to Margaret Warner of PBS NewsHour, Al-Wasat is the "most popular and profitable newspaper" in Bahrain and al-Jamri's column is a "voice for non-sectarian moderation".

Bahraini uprising

Background

Beginning in February 2011, Bahrain saw sustained pro-democracy protests, centered at Pearl Roundabout in the capital of Manama, as part of the wider Arab Spring. Authorities responded with a night raid on 17 February (later referred to by protesters as Bloody Thursday), which left four protesters dead and more than 300 injured. In March, martial law was declared and Saudi troops were called in. Despite the hard crackdown and official ban, the protests continued.

Role of al-Jamri and Al-Wasat

During the uprising, Al Wasat was a voice for "moderation and prudence" that urged compromise from both sides and its popularity reportedly increased by 30 percent. In his columns, al-Jamri criticized the government for its repression and protesters for blocking a main highway. Al-Jamri said he was involved in meditation efforts between the two sides of the conflict until 15 March after Saudi troops had entered Bahrain. He added that he refused to be hosted on Al-Manar and Al-Alam News Network, because "their rhetoric is not in accordance with Al-Wasats". This however, did not spare Al-Wasat from the effects of the unrest as its printing facility was surrounded by youths who harassed employees since 12 March.