[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 13]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

he grew very proud, insolent, and capricious, imagining that he
had a right to command all the world, and that the poor were only born
to serve and obey him.

"Near this rich man's house there lived an honest and industrious poor
man, who gained his livelihood by making little baskets out of dried
reeds, which grew upon a piece of marshy ground close to his cottage.
But though he was obliged to labour from morning to night, to earn food
enough to support him, and though he seldom fared better than upon dry
bread, or rice, or pulse, and had no other bed than the remains of the
rushes of which he made baskets, yet was he always happy, cheerful, and
contented; for his labour gave him so good an appetite, that the
coarsest fare appeared to him delicious; and he went to bed so tired
that he would have slept soundly even upon the ground. Besides this, he
was a good and virtuous man, humane to everybody, honest in his
dealings, always accustomed to speak the truth, and therefore beloved
and respected by all his neighbours.

"The rich man, on the contrary, though he lay upon the softest bed, yet
could not sleep, because he had passed the day in idleness; and though
the nicest dishes were presented to him, yet could he not eat with any
pleasure, because he did not wait till nature gave him an appetite, nor
use exercise, nor go into the open air. Besides this, as he was a great
sluggard and glutton, he was almost always ill; and, as he did good to
nobody, he had no friends; and even his servants spoke ill of him behind
his back, and all his neighbours, whom he oppressed, hated him. For
these reasons he was sullen, melancholy, and unhappy, and became
displeased with all who appeared more cheerful than himself. When he was
carried out in his palanquin (a kind of bed, borne upon the shoulders of
men) he frequently passed by the cottage of the poor basket-maker, who
was always sitting at the door, and singing as he wove the baskets. The
rich man could not behold this without anger. 'What!' said he, 'shall a
wretch, a peasant, a low-born fellow, that weaves bulrushes for a scanty
subsistence, be always happy and pleased, while I, that am a gentleman,
possessed of riches and power, and of more consequence than a million of
reptiles like him, am always melancholy and discontented!' This
reflection arose so often in his mind, that at last he began to feel the
greatest degree of hatred towards the poor man; and, as he had never
been accustomed to conquer his own passions, however improper or unjust
they might be, he at last determined to punish the basket-maker for
being happier than himself.

"With this wicked design, he one night gave orders to his servants (who
did not dare to disobey him) to set fire to the rushes which surrounded
the poor man's house. As it was summer, and the weather in that country
extremely hot, the fire soon spread over the whole marsh, and not only
consumed all the rushes, but soon extended to the cottage itself, and
the poor basket-maker was obliged to run out almost naked to save his
life.

"You may judge of the surprise and grief of the poor man, when he found
himself entirely deprived of his subsistence by the wickedness of his
rich neighbour, whom he had never offended; but, as he was unable to
punish him for this injustice, he set out and walked on foot to the
chief magistrate of that country, to whom, with many tears, he told his
pitiful case. The magistrate, who was a good and just man, immediately
ordered the rich man to be brought before him; and when he found that he
could not deny the wickedness, of which he was accused, he thus spoke to
the poor man:--'As this proud and wicked man has been puffed up with the
opinion of his own importance, and attempted to commit the most
scandalous injustice from his contempt of the poor, I am willing to
teach him of how little value he is to anybody, and how vile and
contemptible a creature he really is; but, for this purpose, it is
necessary that you should consent to the plan I have formed, and go
along with him to the place whither I intend to send you both.'

"The poor man replied, 'I never had much; but the little I once had is
now lost by the mischievous disposition of this proud and oppressive
man. I am entirely ruined; I have no means left in the world of
procuring myself a morsel of bread the next time I am hungry; therefore
I am ready to go wherever you please to send me; and, though I would not
treat this man as he has treated me, yet should I rejoice to teach him
more justice and humanity, and to prevent his injuring the poor a second
time.'

"The magistrate then ordered them both to be put on board a ship, and
carried to a distant country, which was inhabited by a rude and savage
kind of men, who lived in huts, were strangers to riches, and got their
living by fishing.

"As soon as they were set on shore, the sailors left them as they had
been ordered, and th