[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Rajanpur District

ton for textile mills. However, some of the people also do agricultural work, which is a leading business of Rajanpur.

Irrigation system

Canal irrigation 
The agriculture of Rajanpur depends upon canal irrigation in some areas of Rajanpur peoples drinking canal water in these areas Pachad include:

Rod-Kohi (Hill Torrents) 
Major Rod-Kohi areas traversed by hill torrents constitute nearly 65 percent of the total area of Pakistan and encompass entire Balochistan, i.e. (Makran coastal Basin and Kharan closed Desert Basin). The other major hill torrent areas include D.G.Khan and D.I.Khan, FATA, and Azad Jammu and Kashmir. In Sindh province, the systems are spread in the Dadu district (Kirthar range). There are around  as the potential area underhill torrent / Rod-Kohi / Sailaba fanning excluding riverine areas.
Indigenous Spate Irrigation/ hill torrent-irrigation systems traditionally called Rod-Kohi. Rod means water channel, and Kohi pertains to mountains. In these areas, the major constraint is the use of flood flow, which is highly variable in quantity and distribution, both in time and space. Annual rainfall is low, uncertain, and patchy. Flow is laden with high silt in each flood. It is unfortunate that in spite of the scarcity of water, the major part of flood flows is lost due to mismanagement. Spate irrigation often takes place in environments that are arid and remote. Poverty in these areas is a significant issue. There are very few options for generating income and improvement of livelihood. Abject poverty in the areas affected by the Rod-Kohi water calls for rational and scientific management of flood flows.

Rod-Kohi or hill torrent cultivation is a unique system of agriculture being practiced in all the four provinces. In NWFP, D.I.Khan tract represents the major part of the system fed by five large tributaries locally named as "Zams." In Punjab, a significant portion of the system falls in the districts of D.G.Khan, Rajanpur, and Jampur. In Balochistan, this system falls in the areas of Barkhan, Musakhail, Loralai, Zhob, Bolan, and Lasbella. In Sindh province, the system is spread in Dadu & Larkana district (Kirthar range). The largest area under the regime of agriculture lies in Balochistan.

Spate Irrigation is a traditionally used system for diverting hill torrents into cultivable command areas for growing seasonal crops. Extreme events of floods and droughts characterize the farming system. It usually entails the construction of an earthen diversion weir across the torrent with an extensive channel on one or both sides of the river to convey floodwater across vast distances. These earthen diversion structures and water conveyance system has traditionally been constructed by the beneficiaries/communities themselves, making use of traditional technology. Farmers construct field by making embankments from 3 to  high to store the water depending upon the soil type, share in water, and various other factors. Upon drying, crops are sown, which thrive on the moisture stored in the soil. There is no further irrigation except rains if any occurs. The economic significance of Rod-Kohi Irrigation agriculture is centered on subsistence agriculture and livestock raising, which are the primary sources of income.
Another aspect of the Spate Irrigation System of Rod-Kohi areas is the occurrence of the perennial water (known as Kalapani), which is available throughout the year in the upper reaches. It contributes significantly to sustainable farming in the area and used for high-value crops like fodder, fruits, and vegetables. The development potential in Rod-Kohi Hill torrent areas is listed below.

Floods
In July 2015, due to the heavy rains caused floods in the town. Rajanpur district was badly affected by these flash floods. In Rajanpur, flood water came from Koh Sultan and Shacher torrent (rivulet). This floodwater hit the different union councils of Rajanpur. Hundreds of houses were damaged fully and partially, and inhabitants had to spend time under the open sky. The displaced people have sought shelter in streets and other public buildings and around their chaks (villages).

Table of affected union councils (UCs) with current population and damage caused by the 2015 flood.

Analysis
In assessment and initial findings from the flood-affected district Rajan Pur show that 04 union councils were destroyed U/C Jahan Pur, U/C Fatih Pur, U/C Hajji Pur, and Umer Kot U/C. There was an urgent need for non-food items (NFIs), including mattresses, mosquito nets, kitchen utensils, fuel for daily cooking, and hygiene kits. Yearly food stock was almost washed away, while livestock suffered considerable loss. Affected people faced critical conditions and had suffered economically for at least one whole year as their crops were damaged on a large scale. According to the effects, flood was more massive than the one, some 40 years ago.