[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Refugees in India

llion Hindus and Sikhs moved from Pakistan to East Punjab in India. Elsewhere in the west, 1.2 million moved in each direction to and from Sind. The initial population transfer on the east involved 3.5 million Hindus moving from East Bengal to India and only 0.7 million Muslims moving the other way.

Recent arrivals
Non-Muslims face constitutional and legal discrimination in Pakistan. Consequently, Hindus and Sikhs from Pakistan have sought asylum in India; many have arrived in the 21st century. There are almost 400 Pakistani Hindu refugees settlements in Indian cities.

Tibet

Many religious refugees come from Tibet. The 14th Dalai Lama, a leader of the Tibetan migration movement, left Tibet for India after the 1959 Tibetan uprising. He was followed by about 80,000 Tibetan refugees. Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru agreed to allow Tibetan refugees to settle in India until their eventual return to Tibet. The Tibetan diaspora maintains the Central Tibetan Administration, a government-in-exile, in McLeod Ganj, a suburb of Dharamshala, Kangra district, Himachal Pradesh. The organisation coordinates political activities for Tibetans in India.

In 1960, the government of Mysore State (now Karnataka) allotted nearly  of land at Bylakuppe in Mysore district. In 1961, Lugsung Samdupling, the first Tibetan exile settlement in India, was formed. A few years later, another settlement, Tibetan Dickey Larsoe (TDL), was established. Three more settlements were built in Karnataka: Rabgayling in Gurupura village near Hunsur, Dhondenling at Oderapalya near Kollegal, and Doeguling at Mundgod in Uttara Kannada. With the settlements, the state acquired the largest Tibetan refugee population out of every Indian state. , Karnataka has 12 schools run by and for the Tibetan community.

Other states have provided land for Tibetans. Bir Tibetan Colony is a settlement in Bir, Himachal Pradesh. Jeerango in Gajapati district, Odisha, has a large Tibetan community and South Asia's largest Buddhist monastery.

The government of India has built special schools for Tibetans, providing free education, healthcare, and scholarships for students who excel in school. A few medical and civil engineering seats at universities are reserved for Tibetans.

A document called the Registration Certificate (RC) is a permit for Tibetans to stay in India, renewed every year or half-year depending on the area. Every Tibetan refugee above the age of 16 must register for it, and RCs are not issued to refugees who have newly arrived. Another official document, the Indian Identity Certificate, nicknamed "Yellow Books", allows Tibetans to travel abroad. It is issued one year after an RC is given.

Citizenship Amendment Act 2019

The Citizenship Amendment Act of 2019 (passed on the 11 December 2019) gives a path to Indian citizenship for Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Jain, Parsi, and Christian religious minorities from Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan that have suffered religious persecution (provided they arrived in India before December 31, 2014). Any refugees from these groups that arrived after the cutoff must reside in India for at least 5 years before they can gain citizenship.

The Citizenship Amendment Act 2019 went into force on January 10, 2020, though the exact rules have not yet been set as of January 11, 2020.

Refugees facing ethnic persecution

Ugandans of Indian-origin expelled in 1972

In 1972, the majority ethnic population expelled Asians from Uganda, including those of Indian origin. Many Indians had settled in Uganda, fleeing from the 1947 riots in Pakistan and the 1971 Bangladesh genocide. The practitioners of Indic religions (Buddhists, Hindus, Jains and Sikhs) who are persecuted in other countries are generally accepted as refugees in India.

In early August 1972, the president of Uganda, Idi Amin, ordered nearly 80,000 Indians in Uganda, mostly Gujaratis, to leave the country within 90 days. The expelled included 23,000 Indians who were Ugandan citizens. Although Ugandan  of Indian origin were later exempted from the expulsion, many chose to leave voluntarily. At the time, anti-Indian sentiment in Uganda was prominent. 4,500 refugees from Uganda ended up in India. A total of 5,655 firms, ranches, farms, and agricultural estates were reallocated; cars, homes, and other household goods were also seized.

Sri Lankan Tamils

More than 100,000 Sri Lankan Tamils live in India, most of whom migrated during the rise of militancy in Sri Lanka, in particular during the Sri Lankan Civil War, which lasted from 1983 to 2009. Most Sri Lankans are settled in the southern states of Tamil Nadu (in the cities of Chennai, Madurai, Tiruchirappalli, and Coimbatore), Karnataka (in Bengaluru), and Kerala.

Demography

Immigration of Afghan, Bangladeshi and Pakistani, Hindus and Sikhs into India