[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Husain Haqqani

aqqani, calling him "The Hardest Working Man in Washington" and criticising Pakistan's military and security services. Simon Tisdall of The Guardian called Haqqani "an instinctive ally of the west" and attributed Memogate to the ambassador's difficult relationship with Pakistan intelligence service.

In 2017, Pakistan's Foreign Minister alleged that Haqqani had authored US President Donald Trump's South Asia policy. Earlier that year, Haqqani co-authored a report on Pakistan with Lisa Curtis, who would go on to become Senior Director for South and Central Asia at the National Security Council. His critics in Pakistan describe him as a sympathizer of the Indian lobby in the US. Haqqani has been vocal against the sale of F-16 fighter jets and AH-1Z Viper helicopters to Pakistan. He testified in the US Congress in December 2015 stating that the sale of F-16s to Pakistan would only lead to their usage against India, The Indian government also opposed and protested against the proposed sale of 8 F-16s to Pakistan. Pakistan's Senate Defense Committee blamed him for working with pro-Indian lobbyists in Washington.

Haqqani has called on the Pakistani people to push the government of Pakistan to issue an official apology to Bangladesh for the 1971 genocide.

Personal life
Haqqani is a citizen of Pakistan and he stated in 2019 that he currently holds a Pakistani passport. In March 2000, Haqqani married Farahnaz Ispahani, a former producer at CNN and MSNBC, member of the Pakistani National Assembly, and the granddaughter of Mirza Abol Hassan Ispahani, Pakistan's first ambassador to Washington. The Pakistan Ambassador's residence in Washington was purchased and donated by her grandfather. Haqqani has lived in the United States since 2002.

References

Bibliography

External links

 
 
 
 

1956 births
Living people
Pakistani Muslims
High Commissioners of Pakistan to Sri Lanka
University of Karachi alumni
Ispahani family
Ambassadors of Pakistan to the United States
People from Karachi
Pakistani scholars of Pakistan studies
Hudson Institute
Pakistani democracy activists
Pakistani emigrants to the United States