[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Klüver–Bucy syndrome

ly frighten members of their species; they displayed an appetite for improper foods such as rocks or live rats and sought intercourse with unusual partners, including members of other species. They became extremely interested in exploring items in their environment and became placid when approached.

In humans
Klüver–Bucy syndrome was first documented among certain humans who had experienced temporal lobectomy in 1955 by H. Terzian and G.D. Ore. It was first noted in a human with meningoencephalitis in 1975 by Marlowe et al. Klüver–Bucy syndrome can manifest after either of these (lobectomies can be medically required by such reasons as accidents or tumors), but may also appear in humans with acute herpes simplex encephalitis or following a stroke. Other conditions may also contribute to a diagnosis of Klüver–Bucy syndrome, including Pick's disease, Alzheimer's disease, ischemia, anoxia, progressive subcortical gliosis, Rett syndrome, porphyria and carbon monoxide poisoning, among others.

It is rare for humans to manifest all of the identified symptoms of the syndrome; three or more are required for diagnosis. Among humans, the most common symptoms include placidity, hyperorality and dietary changes. They may also present with an inability to recognize objects or inability to recognize faces or other memory disorders. Social neurosciences research shows that changes in temporal lobe is identified as a cause for aberrant sexual and hyper-sexual behaviors.

In children 
Klüver–Bucy syndrome has been shown to occur more in adults than in children. In children certain conditions such as herpes simplex encephalitis has the potential to manifest the syndrome. Children exhibit many of the same symptoms as adults with Klüver–Bucy syndrome, however they display these symptoms in different ways than adults. Hypersexuality, as a symptom of Klüver–Bucy syndrome in children is characterized by "frequent touching of genitals, intermittent pelvic thrusting movements, and rubbing of genitals on the bed while lying prone". Observations of hypersexuality in children were recorded  from children primarily under the age of 4.  It is thought that since these behaviors have yet to be learned by children that they display themselves in more ambiguous ways. The underlying conditions that lead to Klüver–Bucy syndrome can have an effect on the pattern of symptoms observed.

Treatment/management 
Treatment for Klüver–Bucy syndrome focuses on controlling the present symptoms because no current intervention will cure the condition. Medications used to treat the symptoms include carbamazepines and leuprolide, which help reduce sexual behavior associated with Klüver–Bucy syndrome. For carbamazepines it has been shown to have the greatest effect when treating traumatic brain injury-derived Klüver–Bucy syndrome. Other medications commonly utilized are mood stabilizers, antidepressants, and various antipsychotic drugs.

In popular culture
Klüver–Bucy syndrome was featured in the Radiolab episode, "Blame". The lead story featured a man who developed Klüver–Bucy syndrome after his second neurosurgery for epilepsy. The story was revisited by Radiolab in June 2017 (following parodious homage in Mac's turn when "The Gang Gets Analyzed" in season 8, episode 5 of It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia), augmented with further discussion with neurologist Dr. Robert Sapolsky, who addresses the syndrome and the associated legal significance of neurological defenses.  Klüver–Bucy syndrome was featured in the Black Box episode, "The Fear", the episode "Taboo" of the TV series Criminal Minds, the episode "Whistleblowers" of the TV series Blue Bloods, and the episode "Comfort's Overrated" of the TV series Royal Pains.

See also
 Frontal lobe disorder
 Lawrence Weiskrantz
 Urbach–Wiethe disease

References

Sources

External links 

 The National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke – Kluver-Bucy Syndrome
 Anatomic Basis of Klüver-Bucy Syndrome
 Monkeys With Amygdala Lesions
 Six distinct case studies of KBS in India

Sexual arousal
Syndromes affecting the nervous system
Amygdala
Psychopathological syndromes
Rare syndromes