[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 122]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

nly have proved so, had
not Harry, with a courage and presence of mind above his years, suddenly
seized a prong which one of the fugitives had dropped, and at the very
moment when the bull was stooping to gore his defenceless friend,
advanced and wounded him in the flank. The bull in an instant turned
short, and with redoubled rage made at his new assailant; and it is
probable that, notwithstanding his intrepidity, Harry would have paid
the price of his assistance to his friend with his own life, had not an
unexpected succour arrived; for in that instant the grateful Black
rushed on like lightning to assist him, and assailing the bull with a
weighty stick that he held in his hand, compelled him to turn his rage
upon a new object. The bull, indeed, attacked him with all the
impetuosity of revenge; but the Black jumped nimbly aside and eluded his
fury. Not contented with this, he wheeled round his fierce antagonist,
and seizing him by the tail, began to batter his sides with an
unexpected storm of blows. In vain did the enraged animal bellow and
writhe himself about in all the convulsions of madness; his intrepid
foe, without ever quitting his hold, suffered himself to be dragged
about the field, still continuing his discipline, till the creature was
almost spent with the fatigue of his own violent agitations. And now
some of the boldest of the spectators, taking courage, approached to his
assistance, and throwing a well-twisted rope over his head, they at
length, by the dint of superior numbers, completely mastered the furious
animal, and bound him to a tree.

In the meanwhile, several of Mr Merton's servants, who had been sent out
after the young gentlemen, approached and took up their young master,
who, though without a wound, was almost dead with fear and agitation.
But Harry, after seeing that his friend was perfectly safe, and in the
hands of his own family, invited the Black to accompany him, and instead
of returning to Mr Merton's, took the way which led to his father's
house.

While these scenes were passing, Mrs Merton, though ignorant of the
danger of her son, was not undisturbed at home. Some accounts had been
brought of Harry's combat, which served to make her uneasy, and to
influence her still more against him. Mrs Compton too, and Miss Matilda,
who had conceived a violent dislike to Harry, were busy to inflame her
by their malicious representations.

While she was in these dispositions, Mr Merton happened to enter, and
was at once attacked by all the ladies upon the subject of this improper
connection. He endeavoured for a long time to remove their prejudices by
reason; but when he found that to be impossible, he contented himself
with telling his wife, that a little time would perhaps decide which
were the most proper companions for their son; and that till Harry had
done something to render himself unworthy of their notice, he never
could consent to their treating him with coldness or neglect.

At this moment, a female servant burst into the room, with all the
wildness of affright, and cried out with a voice that was scarcely
articulate, "Oh, madam, madam; such an accident! poor dear Master
Tommy."

"What of him, for pity's sake?" cried out Mrs Merton, with an impatience
and concern that sufficiently marked her feelings. "Nay, madam,"
answered the servant, "he is not much hurt, they say; but little
Sandford has taken him to a bull-baiting, and the bull has gored him,
and William and John are bringing him home in their arms."

These words were scarcely delivered when Mrs Merton uttered a violent
shriek, and was instantly seized with an hysteric fit; and while the
ladies were all employed in assisting her, and restoring her senses, Mr
Merton, who, though much alarmed, was more composed, walked
precipitately out to learn the truth of this imperfect narration.

He had not proceeded far before he met the crowd of children and
servants, one of whom carried Tommy Merton in his arms. As soon as he
was convinced that his son had received no other damage than a violent
fright, he began to inquire into the circumstances of the affair; but
before he had time to receive any information, Mrs Merton, who had
recovered from her fainting, came running wildly from the house. When
she saw that her son was safe, she caught him in her arms, and began to
utter all the incoherent expressions of a mother's fondness. It was with
difficulty that her husband could prevail upon her to moderate her
transports till they were within. Then she gave a loose to her feelings
in all their violence, and for a considerable time was incapable of
attending to anything but the joy of his miraculous preservation.

At length, however, she became more composed, and observing that all the
company were present, except Harry Sandford, she exclaimed, with sudden
indignation, "So I see that little abominable wretch has not had the
impudence to follow you in; a