[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Canadian Special Operations Forces Command

Canadian Special Operations Forces Command (CANSOFCOM; ) is a command of the Canadian Armed Forces. It is responsible for all special forces operations that respond to terrorism and threats to Canadians and Canadian interests around the world.

CANSOFCOM's primary mission is counter-terrorism, which involves conducting rigorous and specialized training and working with local law enforcement agencies, as required, to protect Canadians from the threat of terrorism.

Commander CANSOFCOM reports directly to the Chief of the Defence Staff. The leadership of the CAF and the Department of National Defence maintain full oversight on all CANSOFCOM operations.

Composition
CANSOFCOM is organized into a headquarters element and five units:
 
Joint Task Force 2 (JTF 2); 
Canadian Special Operations Regiment (CSOR); 
427 Special Operations Aviation Squadron (SOAS); 
Canadian Joint Incident Response Unit (CJIRU); 
Canadian Special Operations Training Centre (CSOTC).

Operational tasks

CANSOFCOM has five strategic tasks:

 Provide advice on special operations to the chief of the defence staff (CDS) and other CAF operational commanders
 Generate deployable, high-readiness special operations forces (SOF) capable of deploying as part of a broader CAF operation, or independently
 Conduct and command SOF operations on behalf of the CDS
 Continuously develop SOF capabilities and tactics
 Maintain and promote relationships with Canadian security partners and allied special operations forces

In support of these strategic tasks, CANSOFCOM personnel are organized, trained, equipped, and always ready to conduct operational tasks. 

These tasks include:
 Hostage rescue
 Direct action
 Chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) crisis response
 Sensitive site exploitation
 Combating weapons of mass destruction
 Maritime special operations
 Support to non-combatant evacuation operations
 Special protection operations
 Defence, diplomacy and military assistance

Special operations task forces

CANSOFCOM employs an integrated operating concept that combines the capabilities of all units in a special operations task force (SOTF) capable of completing assigned missions and tasks. Therefore, depending on the tasks at hand, various combinations of personnel from JTF2, CSOR, 427 SOAS and CJIRU are assembled into a SOTF, as appropriate, to accomplish assigned missions.

The commander selects which task force or team will be deployed based on several criteria, including:
 The scope of the problem; 
 The required response time; 
 What effect needs to be achieved; and 
 The level of precision required.