[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 21]
# Desmond Tutu

of Hope for Our Time, Doubleday, 2004. 
 Desmond and the Very Mean Word, Candlewick, 2012. 
 The Book of Forgiving: The Fourfold Path for Healing Ourselves and Our World, HarperOne, 2015. 
 The Book of Joy: Lasting Happiness in a Changing World, coauthored by His Holiness the 14th Dalai Lama, 2016,

See also
 List of black Nobel laureates
 List of civil rights leaders
 List of peace activists
 Political theology in Sub-Saharan Africa
 Reconciliation theology

References

Footnotes

Bibliography

 
 
 
 
 
 Tlhagale, Buti, and Itumeleng Mosala, eds. Hammering Swords into Ploughshares: Essays in Honor of Archbishop Mpilo Desmond Tutu (Eerdmans, 1987).
 "Desmond Tutu". in Gale Literature: Contemporary Authors (Gale, 2013) online
 "Desmond Mpilo Tutu". in Contemporary Black Biography (44, Gale, 2004) online
 "Bishop Tutu's Christology." Cross Currents 34 (1984): 492–99.

Further reading
 Battle, Michael. Desmond Tutu: A Spiritual Biography of South Africa's Confessor (Westminster John Knox Press, 2021).
 Kokobili, Alexander. "An insight on Archbishop Desmond Tutu's struggle against apartheid in South Africa." Kairos: Evangelical Journal of Theology 13.1 (2019): 115-126. online
 Maluleke, Tinyiko. "Forgiveness and Reconciliation in the Life and Work of Desmond Tutu." International Review of Mission 109.2 (2020): 210-221. online
 Maluleke, Tinyiko. "The Liberating Humour of Desmond Tutu." International Review of Mission 110.2 (2021): 327-340. online
 Nadar, Sarojini. "Beyond a "Political Priest": Exploring Desmond Tutu as a 'Freedom-Fighter Mystic'." Black Theology (2021): 1-8.
 Pali, K. J. "The leadership role of emeritus Archbishop Desmond Tutu in the social development of the South African society." Stellenbosch Theological Journal 5.1 (2019): 263-297. online

External links
 The Desmond & Leah Tutu Legacy Foundation SA
 Desmond Tutu Peace Foundation USA
 Tutu Foundation UK
 
 Archbishop Desmond Tutu Biography and Interview with American Academy of Achievement
 
 
 

 
1931 births
2021 deaths
20th-century South African male writers
21st-century South African male writers
20th-century Anglican Church of Southern Africa bishops
20th-century Anglican archbishops
African democratic socialists
Alumni of King's College London
Alumni of the University of London
Anglican anti-apartheid activists
Anglican archbishops of Cape Town
Anglican bishops of Johannesburg
Anglican bishops of Lesotho
Anglican socialists
Anglican writers
South African anti-poverty advocates
Bates College alumni
Commanders of the Order of Orange-Nassau
Commanders of the Order of St John
Deans of Johannesburg
Deaths from cancer in South Africa
Deaths from prostate cancer
Euthanasia activists
Fellows of King's College London
Grand Crosses 1st class of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany
Grand Officers of the Legion of Honour
HIV/AIDS activists
Hamilton College (New York) alumni
Hamilton College (New York) faculty
Honorary Members of the Order of the Companions of Honour
South African LGBT rights activists
Academic staff of the National University of Lesotho
Nautilus Book Award winners
Nobel Peace Prize laureates
Nonviolence advocates
People from Klerksdorp
Presidential Medal of Freedom recipients
Recipients of the Four Freedoms Award
Recipients of the Gandhi Peace Prize
Sotho-Tswana people
South African Anglicans
South African Nobel laureates
South African Sotho people
South African Tswana people
South African anti-communists
South African democracy activists
South African humanitarians
South African male non-fiction writers
South African revolutionaries
South African socialists
Sustainability advocates
Templeton Prize laureates
Truth and Reconciliation Commission (South Africa) people
University of South Africa alumni
Fellows of the African Academy of Sciences
Palestinian solidarity activists