[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Gear Fighter Dendoh

Appears in episode 7. Powers include floating on top of water, missile pods on the top side, purple lasers from the many eyes on top of the bow and sides,
Zonbel: Appears in episode 8. Powers include a pair of spiked discs that act like saws on its shovel claw and twin triple barreled machine guns.

Professional Machines
Virus: Appears in episodes 9, 10, and 11. Powers include swimming, flight, very powerful red energy balls from the torso, can morph into a fighter that flies at super sonic speeds, and an energy bladed green laser gun with shots that rival napalm. In episode 37 it is depicted that Virus was one of Emperor Galfa's earliest minions.
Lock: Appears in episodes 9, 10, and 11. Powers include flight, a large chest harpoon, swimming, and an extremely high body temperature.
Error: Appears in episodes 9, 10, and 11. Powers include flight, extendable arms, pincer claw hands, and swimming.
Bug: Appears in episodes 9, 10, and 11. Powers include flight, twin energy swords, swimming, a rainbow beam from its head cone, and emitting lightning pillars that can go on for several miles. In episode 37 it is depicted that Bug was one of Emperor Galfa's earliest minions.
Crash: Appears in episodes 9 and 10.Powers include flight, strength, arm missiles, and dual shoulder energy cannons strong enough to destroy small islands. Although it was destroyed before pursuing Dendoh underwater, it is assumed it has the ability to swim like the other five members of Altair's platoon.
Hang: Appears in episodes 9, 10, and 11. Powers include flight, a sword, a red club, a javelin, and swimming.  In episode 37 it is depicted that Hang was one of Emperor Galfa's earliest minions. In the game it was also armed with floating mines orbiting it.
Rom: Appears in episodes 21 and 22. Powers include flight, double sided spear that fires pink energy bolts, white energy nets, and a blue forehead beam that amplifies gear commanders.
Ram: Appears in episodes 21 and 22. Powers include flight, a spike ended hammer that fires pink energy bolts, white energy nets, and a red forehead beam that amplifies gear commanders.
Red Bit: Appears in episode 27. Powers include flight, a capsule form armed with a green laser at the top, a purple head laser, an ax tail, and light bending speed.
Black Bit: Appears in episode 27. Powers include flight, a capsule form armed with a green laser at the top, a pink head laser, an ax tail, and light bending speed.
Jel: Appears in episode 28. Powers include flight and a sphered transparent energy field that fires pink lasers and can fuse with pieces of destroyed machine professionals.
Jam: Appears in episode 28. Powers include flight, four extendable arms with pincer claws, two launchable chest harpoons, arm missiles, and can morph into a fighter armed with pink energy balls fired from the wings. It is actually Jel after combining with the remains of Virus, Lock, Error, Bug, Crash, and Hang in Siberia.
Trag: Appears in episode 29. Powers include flight, an energy beam from the chest, a green rapid-fire head laser, and can make its body tough enough to withstand a single final attack.
Fritz: Appears in episode 29. Powers include swimming, flight, elephant tusks, and green explosive acid from its elephant-like trunk that can morph into energy balls while underwater.
Diles: Appears in episode 31. Powers include disguising itself as a rock, swimming, flight, an extendable blade-like whip tail, and a sickle for each arm.
Jack: Appears in episode 32. Powers include flight and twin red boomerangs.
Legacy: Appears in episode 32. Powers include flight, head horn lightning, can morph its right hand into a sword by retracting the fingers, and a self-destruct system armed with a pair of restrainer belts in the sides that explodes at 20 kilometers above sea level.
Bias: Appears in episodes 33 and 34. Powers include flight, a 14-tube rocket pod in each pectoral, a pink laser cannon on each hip, speed, and a resistance to energy based attacks.
Worm: Appears in episodes 33 and 34. Powers include burrowing, whip-like arms when not in drill mode, and flight.
Lance: Appears in episode 36. Powers include zweihander sword, and shield, and flight.
Mace: Appears in episode 36. Powers include a long ax, a shield, and flight.