[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# New College Worcester

ry.

A large staff enables a teacher:student ratio of between 3 and 4 students per teacher. Among the teaching aids in use at the school is a series of MP3 recordings of core textbook material. The MP3s were developed by the schools science department and they are available on the school's Intranet.

Accommodation 
Boarding accommodation is provided at the school, in four main houses for the lower school, with a house and hostel for the Sixth Form. The four lower school houses (Brown, Bradnack, Peggy Markes and Dorothy McHugh), the Sixth Form buildings (the Phyllis Monk House and the Phyllis Monk Hostel) and school guest house (Fletcher) are named after former headmasters of New College.

Affiliations
New College has two 'sister schools'. One, in France, is the Royal Institution for Blind Youth in Paris, where Braille inventor Louis Braille was a student, and a school for the blind in Marburg, Germany. Exchanges and trips are arranged between the three. New College also enjoys close relations with Malvern Girls College.

Media
NCW was featured in an episode of Challenge Anneka. In the show, presenter Anneka Rice's team produced the world's first multi-sensory maze for mobility training. The maze involved a series of environments and challenges for blind and partially sighted people. They included a "Pelican crossing", bridges, an observation tower with a spiral staircase, concrete pipe and corrugated iron tunnels, a scaffolding alley, a telephone box and post box, half a car fixed to a wall (giving an impression of a parked car) and a space exploration sculpture created by visually impaired artist Peter Tait. The programme was broadcast in the popular television series during RNIB Week on 18 September 1993.

Associated people and alumni

Reginald Walter Bonham, most famous British blind chess player ever and six times world champion
David Clarke (Paralympic footballer), Paralympian Blind Football
Rupert Cross, former Vinerian Professor of English Law, University of Oxford
Gary O'Donoghue, political reporter for BBC News
Edward Elgar, composer, held professorial posts at Worcester in an early period of his career
Colin Low, Chairman of the RNIB and member of the House of Lords
John Wall, first visually impaired judge of the High Court of Justice
Peter White, BBC Radio presenter
John Foster Wilson, founder of the Royal Commonwealth Society for the Blind
 William Wolstenholme, blind organist and composer, encouraged by Elgar

According to a biography written by Stephen Pollard, former blind British Cabinet Minister David Blunkett MP failed on his assessment to enter the school as a student.

See also 
 Exhall Grange School
 Jordanstown Schools
 Royal Blind School

References

Further reading 
Bell, Donald An experiment in education: The history of Worcester College for the Blind, 1866-1966 (ASIN B0000CNE5K)
Fletcher, Richard C., The College on the Ridge ()
British Journal of Visual Impairment (Vol. 9, No. 3, 83-85 (1991)

External links
New College's official site
OFSTED site for RNIB New College
Details New College's earlier time at the Commandery
Prisoner 4099 - an example of student activities at New College
isbiSchools New College Worcester page
Emotional return for Chorleywood college pupils, Watford Observer, 10 July 2012, Adam Binnie
Viewpoint: Life in a blind boarding school, BBC Magazine, 14 November 2012, Peter White

Educational institutions established in 1866
Schools for the blind in the United Kingdom
Special schools in Worcestershire
1866 establishments in England
Private schools in Worcestershire
Special secondary schools in England