[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Raghuram Rajan

hile preventing it from going off track. In southern Europe, by contrast, it means removing the regulations that protect firms and workers from competition and shrinking the government's presence in a number of areas, in the process eliminating unnecessary, unproductive jobs."

Austerity vs stimulus

During May 2012, Rajan and Paul Krugman expressed differing views on how to reinvigorate the economies in the US and Europe, with Krugman mentioning Rajan by name in an opinion editorial. This debate occurred against the backdrop of a significant "austerity vs stimulus" debate occurring at the time, with some economists arguing one side or the other or a combination of both strategies. In an article in Foreign Affairs magazine, Rajan advocated structural or supply-side reforms to improve competitiveness of the workforce to better adapt to globalisation, while also supporting fiscal austerity measures (E.g., raising taxes and cutting spending), although he conceded that austerity could slow economies in the short-run and cause significant "pain" for certain constituencies. Krugman rejected this focus on structural reforms combined with fiscal austerity. Instead he advocated traditional Keynesian fiscal (government spending and investment) and monetary stimulus, arguing that the primary factor slowing the developed economies at that time was a general shortfall in demand across all sectors of the economy, not structural or supply-side factors that affected particular sectors.

As far as his position on India is concerned, Rajan stayed away from the Bhagwati vs. Sen debate, and has tended to sympathize with both sides of the so-called "growth vs. welfare" argument. While Rajan's views in general align with Bhagwati's (with respect to how growth is seen as the main source of development), he has also argued for government involvement in health and education like Sen, and has pointed to the resultant threat of oligarchy or alienation of the poor.

In 2019, Rajan said that, following the financial crisis of 2007–2008 and the imposition of austerity, contemporary capitalism "is under serious threat" because it has stopped providing opportunities for the many and is now facing a possible revolt from the masses.

Demonetization in India

In interviews in September 2017, Rajan said the Government of India had consulted the Reserve Bank of India, during his Governorship, on the issue of demonetization but never asked to take a decision. He said the RBI was against the move and warned the government of the potential negative effects. Rajan also termed the currency notes ban exercise as, "One cannot in any way say it has been an economic success". In addition to his work at the University of Chicago and RBI, Raghuram is also a member of the Berggruen Institute's 21st Century Council.

Bharat Jodo Yatra 
A longtime critic of Modi's government, Rajan was criticized by BJP leaders after attending the Rahul Gandhi-led Bharat Jodo Yatra.

Awards
 In 2003, Rajan won the inaugural Fischer Black Prize awarded by the American Finance Association for contributions to the theory and practice of finance by an economist under age 40.
 In February 2010 NASSCOM named him Global Indian at its 7th annual global leadership awards.
 In 2010, he was awarded the Financial Times and McKinsey Business Book of the Year Award, Fault Lines: How Hidden Fractures Still Threaten the World Economy.
 In November 2011 he received the Infosys Prize for Social Sciences – Economics for his work in analyzing the contribution of financial development to economic growth, as well as the potentially harmful effects of dysfunctional incentives that lead to excessive risk-taking.
 In 2013, he was awarded the fifth Deutsche Bank Prize in Financial Economics for his "ground-breaking research work which influenced financial and macro-economic policies around the world".
 In 2014 he was conferred with the "Governor of the Year Award 2014" from London-based financial journal Central Banking.
 In March 2019, he was awarded "Yashwantrao Chavan National Award 2018" for his contribution to economic development.
 In May 2023 he was awarded an honorary doctorate by the London School of Economics.

Bibliography
 Saving Capitalism from the Capitalists (2004), Random House. Co-authored with fellow Chicago Booth professor Luigi Zingales.
 Fault Lines: How Hidden Fractures Still Threaten the World Economy (2010),  Princeton University Press. Financial Times and Goldman Sachs Business Book of the Year Award for 2010.
 I Do What I Do (2017), Harper Collins. A collection of speeches delivered during his stint as the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India
 The Third Pillar: How the State and Markets are leaving Communities Behind (2019), Penguin Press.
What the Economy Needs Now (2019), Juggernaut Books. Co-authored.