[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# James F. Amos

than 40-year-old LSD amphibious ships with the new, and proven, San Antonio Class hull design.  This single agreement alone will result in millions of dollars saved over the lifetime of the LSD replacement effort, and will accelerate the completion and delivery of the ships years ahead of schedule.

Montford Point Marines and the Congressional Gold Medal
In 2012, Amos partnered with key legislators In the US House and US Senate to bring national recognition to the service and sacrifices of the corps' African American Montford Point Marines with the awarding of the Congressional Gold Medal. African-American men were recruited into the Marine Corps under President Roosevelt's orders beginning in 1942.  Establishing a segregated boot camp on a swampy point of land in Jacksonville, North Carolina known as Montford Point, the Marine Corps trained some 20,000 African American men between 1942 and 1949.  Commandant of the Marine Corps, General Alexander Vandegrift, closed down the segregated training in 1949, stating "The experiment with the negro Marines is over. They are Marines …Period!" The Montford Point Marines served in the Pacific during WWII, and again in 1951 during the Korean War.  Their unique service to the United States had never been recognized at the national level until Amos initiated efforts to have them awarded the Congressional Gold Medal.  Final authorization was signed and the medal struck on November 23, 2011, recognizing the Montford Point Marines.

Revising Marine Corps ethics
Sensing that 10 years of sustained combat may have begun fraying the edges of the corps' moral fabric, Amos initiated an effort to morally and ethically "reground the corps."  The effort, named the "Reawakening", targeted the corps' central leadership cadre, the Non-Commissioned Officer (NCO). Amos and Sergeant Major Micheal Barrett, the Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps, spent the better part of 2013 traveling to most every Marine base to personally challenge the corps' NCO leadership with getting back to the basics.  The sole focus of the Reawakening was simply to remind marines of their higher calling. Amos reinforced "who they were" as marines, "what they did for the nation", and "who they were not".

Repeal of don't ask, don't tell
As commandant, Amos opposed the repeal of the "don't ask, don't tell" policy regarding homosexuals openly serving in the U.S. military. After President Obama signed the legislation setting the conditions for repeal, Amos led the Department of Defense in carrying out the will of the nation's civilian leadership.  In late November 2011, Amos stated that his opposition to gays openly serving in the military has proven unfounded and said that Marines have embraced the change, describing the repeal as a "non-event."

Personal life

Since retiring from the Marine Corps, Amos has joined the board of directors of the Lord Corporation, a defense contractor. He currently serves as chairman of the board of the Semper Fi Fund.

Awards and decorations
Amos holds the rifle sharpshooter and several awards of the pistol expert marksmanship badges.

See also

List of United States Marine Corps four-star generals

Notes

References

External links

1946 births
United States Marine Corps personnel of the Iraq War
Living people
Recipients of the Navy Distinguished Service Medal
Recipients of the Legion of Merit
United States Marine Corps generals
University of Idaho alumni
People from Wendell, Idaho
Military personnel from Idaho
Recipients of the Defense Superior Service Medal
Assistant Commandants of the United States Marine Corps
United States Marine Corps Commandants
Recipients of the Order of the Golden Fleece (Georgia)
Commercial aviators