[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 155]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

oking out over a wide distance of plain and
far-off ranges. Here, as Claude Moreton remarked, they were to spoil the
landscape, by taking their luncheon.

"Or what is worse, by giving ourselves rheumatism," added Lord
Engleton.

"What grumbling creatures men are!" exclaimed his wife, "and what
pleasures they lose for themselves and make impossible for others, by
this stupid habit of dwelling upon the disadvantages of a situation,
instead of on its charms."

"We ought to dwell upon the fowl and the magnificent prospect, and
ignore the avenging rheumatism," said Claude Moreton.

"Oh no, guard against it," advised Algitha, with characteristic common
sense. "Sit on this waterproof, for instance."

"Ah, there you have the true philosophy!" cried Professor Theobald.
"Contentment and forethought. Observe the symbol of forethought." He
spread the waterproof to the wind.

"There is nothing like a contented spirit!" cried Lady Engleton.

"Who is it that says you knock a man into a ditch, and then you tell him
to remain content in the position in which Providence has placed him?"
asked Hadria.

"Even contentment has its dangers," said Claude Moreton, dreamily.

At the end of the meal, Hadria rose from the rug where she had been
reclining, with the final assertion, that she thought the man who was
knocked into the ditch and told to do his duty there, would do the best
service to mankind, as well as to himself, by making a horrid clamour
and trying to get out again. A group collected round her, almost
immediately.

"Mrs. Fenwick, won't you give us a song!" cried Madame Bertaux. "I see
you have been kind enough to bring your guitar."

Marion was enthroned upon the picnic-basket, with much pomp, and her
guitar placed in her hand by Claude Moreton. Her figure, in her white
gown and large straw hat, had for background the shadows of thick woods.

Professor Theobald sank down on the grass at Hadria's side. She felt
that his mood was agitated. She could not be in much doubt as to its
cause. The reckless _rôle_ that she had been playing was bringing its
result. Hadria was half alarmed, half exultant. She had a strange, vague
notion of selling her life dearly, to the enemy. Only, of late, this
feeling had been mixed with another, of which she was scarcely
conscious. The subtle fascination which the Professor exercised over her
had taken a stronger hold, far stronger than she knew.

She was sitting on a little knoll, her arm resting on her knee, and her
cheek in her hand. In the exquisitely graceful attitude, was an element
of self-abandonment. It seemed as if she had grown tired of guiding and
directing herself, and were now commending herself to fate or fortune,
to do with her as they would, or must.

Marion struck a quiet chord. Her voice was sweet and tender and full,
admirably suited to the song. Every nerve in Hadria answered to her
tones.

          "Oh, gather me the rose, the rose
           While yet in flower we find it;
           For summer smiles, but summer goes,
           And winter waits behind it.

          "For with the dream foregone, foregone,
           The deed foreborne for ever,
           The worm regret will canker on,
           And time will turn him never."

Professor Theobald shifted his position slightly.

          "Ah, well it were to love, my love,
           And cheat of any laughter
           The fate beneath us and above,
           The dark before and after.

          "The myrtle and the rose, the rose,
           The sunlight and the swallow,
           The dream that comes, the dream that goes,
           The memories that follow."

The song was greeted with a vague stir among the silent audience. A
little breeze gave a deep satisfied sigh, among the trees.

Several other songs followed, and then the party broke up. They were to
amuse themselves as they pleased during the afternoon, and to meet on
the same spot for five o'clock tea.

"I _wish_ Hadria would not be so reckless!" cried Algitha anxiously.
"Have you seen her lately?"

"When last I saw her," said Valeria, "she had strolled off with the
Professor and Mr. Moreton. Mr. Fleming and Lord Engleton were following
with Mrs. Fenwick."

"There is safety in numbers, at any rate, but I am distressed about her.
It is all very well what she says, about not allowing her woman's sole
weapon to be wrenched from her, but she can't use it in this way,
safely. One can't play with human emotions without coming to grief."

"A man, at any rate, has no idea of being led an emotional dance," said
Miss Du Prel.

"Hadria has, I believe, at the bottom of her heart, a lurking desire to
hurt men, because they have hurt women so terribly," said Algitha.

"One can understand the impulse, but the worst of it is, that one is
certain to pay back the score on the good man, and let the other go
free."

Algitha shook her head, regretfully.

"Did H