[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mikhail Artemyevich Muravyov

rict, and then appointed commander of the troops operating against the forces of Kerensky-Krasnov. But on November 8 he announced his resignation from these positions, in connection with the withdrawal of the Left Socialist Revolutionaries from government posts.

In Ukraine and on the Romanian front

On December 6, 1917, the Council of People's Commissars formed the Southern Front to combat counter-revolution and Vladimir Antonov-Ovseyenko was appointed to be its commander in chief. Muravyov was appointed Antonov-Ovseenko's chief of staff. Together with the commander of the troops of the Moscow military district, Nikolay Muralov, he formed Moscow Red Guard detachments to send against the troops of Alexey Kaledin One of the inventors of the "echelon war" tactics. After the Southern Front entered Kharkiv, where the Congress of Soviets proclaimed Soviet power in Ukraine, Antonov-Ovseenko transferred the command of the troops operating in Ukraine to Muravyov, and he himself led the fight against the Don Cossack troops.

On January 4, 1918, the Soviet government of Ukraine officially declared war on the Central Council of Ukraine. General management of the operation was assigned to Muravyov. On January 6, Muravyov’s troops entered Poltava. During the occupation of Poltava, Muravyov ordered the execution of 98 cadets and officers.

Four days after the troops of the Central Council suppressed the January uprising in Kyiv, Muravyov’s troops entered the city, where a regime of Red Terror was established. During the storming of the city, a massive shelling was carried out, as a result of which the Grushevsky apartment building was destroyed. Before the assault itself, on February 4, Muravyov ordered his troops: "to mercilessly destroy all officers, cadets, Haidamakas, monarchists and enemies of the revolution in Kiev".

Muravyov himself imposed an indemnity of five million rubles on the Kievan "bourgeoisie" for the maintenance of Soviet troops. According to the Ukrainian Red Cross, in the first days after the establishment of Muravyov’s power in Kiev, up to five thousand people were killed, of which up to three thousand were officers. It was one of the largest, if not the largest, massacres of Russian officers in the entire Civil War.

On January 27, Muravyov sent a report to Antonov-Ovseenko and Lenin on the capture of Kiev:

Victor A. Savchenko accompanied this statement by Muravyov with the following remark:

Muravyov was a staunch opponent of "Ukrainization" and his troops carried out mass repressions against the Ukrainian intelligentsia, officers, and the bourgeoisie, to the point that it even became dangerous to speak Ukrainian in the streets. The People's Secretariat of Ukraine, which had moved to Kyiv from Kharkiv, demanded the removal of Muravyov from the city, calling him “the leader of the bandits”.

On February 14, Muravyov was appointed commander of the front, having received the task of opposing the Romanian forces, who sought to seize Bessarabia and Transnistria. In his telegram, Lenin demanded from Muravyov: "Act as energetically as possible on the Romanian front". In response, Muravyov reported:

On March 9, he established military revolutionary tribunals in the controlled territory. Muravyov commanded the troops of the Odessa Soviet Republic until March 12, but could not hold the city. After leaving Odessa on March 11–12, he ordered the ground units and ships of the navy of the Odessa Soviet Republic "to open fire with all guns at the bourgeois and nationalist parts of the city and destroy it."

On April 1, having abandoned his troops, Muravyov arrived in Moscow. Lenin, on the initiative of Antonov-Ovseenko, offered him the post of commander of the Caucasian Soviet Army, but the local Bolsheviks, headed by the chairman of the Baku Council of People's Commissars Stepan Shaumian, very sharply opposed such a candidate.

In mid-April, in parallel with the suppression of the anarchists in Moscow, Muravyov was arrested on charges of abuse of power and connections with the anarchists; the commission of inquiry did not confirm the charge, and by a decree of the Presidium of the All-Russian Central Executive Committee, the case "for the lack of corpus delicti" was dismissed. Muravyov himself, being in Odessa, described his "exploits" in Kyiv as follows:

Rebellion and Death
On June 13, Muravyov was appointed commander of the Eastern Front. The German ambassador Wilhelm von Mirbach, wanting to motivate Muravyov to join the Bolsheviks in the fight against the Czechoslovak Legion, handed him a bribe. However, this did not prevent him from rebelling against the Bolsheviks.