[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of Irgun members

the Rudolf Kastner case. He was also a Knesset member (1965–80), and Minister of Justice in the Begin government (1977–80)
 Tavin, Eliezer-Yaakov (1919–1994), senior intelligence officer in the Irgun, abducted by the Haganah during the Hunting Season and later released. He was sent to Europe to create Irgun cells in Europe, and was in charge of the Irgun's 1946 bombing of the British Embassy in Rome.
 Verner-Vered, Shalom ("Shimshon", "Giora")
 Virnick, Yisrael ("Zvi") (1921–1948)
 Zeroni, Benyamin (1914–2008)

Other members 
The Irgun's exact membership roster is not known, and like many paramilitary and clandestine organizations, was somewhat nebulous; and in any case certain highly notable early Irgun members (such as Yitzhak Shamir) simply are not listed on the Irgun website.  The following persons have been attributed by reputable sources as having significant roles, either as bona fide IZL members, assets or close affiliates.
 Yitzhak Shamir, joined the Irgun in 1937; joined the Stern faction in 1940; was a senior commander in  Lehi after Stern's assassination.
 Uri Avnery, joined as a teenager (1938–1942); later became a radical socialist activist.  In 1945 he would publish a pamphlet, "Terrorism: the infantile disease of the Hebrew revolution".
 Yosef Meller (1927–2010), participated in the Sergeants affair. Drove the vehicle during the abduction, attended the hangings, and the re-hangings of the bodies in the orange grove. Later owned a popular gift shop in Netanya. At the time of his death, he was the last surviving participant in the Sergeants affair.
 Benjamin M. Emanuel, passed "secret codes" to Menachem Begin. A Chicago pediatrician, he is father to Rahm Emanuel, Ari Emanuel and Ezekiel J. Emanuel.
 Natan Yellin-Mor (1913–1980), co-editor of the Irgun's newspaper in Poland from 1938–39. Illegally immigrated to Palestine and joined Lehi, where he became a member of its high command. Was one of the planners of Lord Moyne's assassination. Later became an Israeli politician and pacifist.
 Sarah Agassi, b. 1926, who reminisced about her experiences scouting the King David Hotel in preparation for the bombing attack, at a 2006 commemoration of the event.
 Kalman Magen (1929–1974), Israeli general.
 Maks Birnbach (1920–2007), participated in raising funds and support in America.
 Zippora Levi-Kessel, staff secretary at the time of the Altalena affair
 Moshe Hason, also listed by Lapidot as a High Commander during the Altalena Affair.
 Abraham Stavsky, who procured the Altalena for the Irgun (though not a member); also said to be active in the so-called Bergson Group (the Irgun delegation to the U.S.)
 Victor Ben-Nahum, also part of the Bergson Group.
 Mordechai Olmert (1908–1998), among the founders of the Irgun, later an Israeli politician and father of Prime Minister Ehud Olmert
 Uzzi Ornan, bomb-maker, detained by the British in 1944 and exiled in Africa.  Later became a linguist and a political activist
 Elie Wiesel. As a student in Sorbonne, Wiesel translated from Hebrew to Yiddish for the Irgun newspaper Zion in Kamf (November 1947 – January 1949). He later was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in appreciation for his lifelong activities on behalf of persecuted peoples of the world as well as for his educational activities regarding the Holocaust, of which he himself was a survivor.
 Zvee Aroni, internationally renowned cantor, recounts his time with the Irgun here.
 Shmuel Krauskopf (1917–2006), covert operations (Political Assassinations by Jews: A Rhetorical Device for Justice, By Nachman Ben-Yehuda). Shmuel was also a member of the Jewish Brigade.

Contract affiliates 
Persons of notable affiliation to the Irgun, but who were probably not members in any formal sense.
 Lt. Monroe Fein, the U.S. naval officer who captained the Altalena.

ZZW / IZL issues 
The whole issue of the Żydowski Związek Wojskowy (known in Hebrew as Irgun Zvai Leumi and in English as the National Military Organization), the Revisionist Zionist resistance organization in Warsaw under the time of the German occupation, is rather complicated due to the ZZW's being largely ignored by the "mainstream" Irgun in Israel, while all the same there are ZZW members such as Dawid Wdowinski who pointedly describe theirs as a bonafide IZL faction.

References