[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Nuclear War Survival Skills

Complete set for constructing a Kearny Fallout Meter, with an extra set of critical patterns and detailed instructions for quick and correct mass reproduction.
 Appendix D: Expedient Blast Shelters
 Appendix E: How to Make a Homemade Piston Pump
 Appendix F: Providing Improved Ventilation and Light

Reception
In an article sharply critical of the whole genre, the Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists (Vol 39, 1983) characterizes the volume as being one of the two more "substantial" books on surviving nuclear war out of the four reviewed.  The other "substantial" book, Life After Doomsday: A Survivalist Guide to Nuclear War and Other Major Disasters by Bruce D. Clayton, itself is stated to praise and borrow from Nuclear War Survival Skills. The BAS article backhandedly compliments NWSS on its inclusion of features such as "elaborate diagrams for building shelter; testing for radiation with homemade meters; providing for ventilation; filtration of water and sanitation," but goes on to say that the basic flaw with NWSS and the other books reviewed is that they deal only with short-term survival, and sidestep putting heavy thought into the long-term ramifications of nuclear conflict for the continued survival of both their assiduous readers and the balance of the human race.

Publication history
Nuclear War Survival Skills was released into the public domain by the author, and is available in digital format for free from several sources online. In the printed form, a modest charge will generally be incurred.

Originally released September 1979, it was updated and published in May 1987 with a significant addition on nuclear winter, consisting largely of detailing the shaky assumptions used by nuclear winter models. In 1999 a one-page addendum on radiation hormesis was added. In 2022 the book was updated by Steven Harris, who was mentored by Cresson Kearny. He did not change the original text but put update pages next to the relevant pages with newer 2022 tools and methods that did not exist in 1987 to give the reader more options especially in pre-crisis preparation.

See also

 Bug-out bag
 Civil defense by country
 Duck-and-cover
 Effects of nuclear explosions on human health
 Fallout Protection
 Mutual assured destruction
 Protect and Survive
 Survival Under Atomic Attack
 Survivalism

References 

Citations

Sources

External links

Full text
 Google Books (Original 1979 ORNL Publication)
 Oregon Institute of Science and Medicine Online Edition (1999 Update 2001 Publication)
 Free PDF downloadable version from publisher (1999 Update 2001 Publication)
 Free PDF High Speed downloadable (1999 Update 2022 Publication)
 Another online version of NWSS 1999 Update 2001 Publication

Similar publications
 Planning Guidance for Response to a Nuclear Detonation 
 FEMA Nuclear War Survival
 Nuclear Detonation Preparedness from REMM.gov

Disaster preparedness in the United States
Publications of the United States government
Cold War
Nuclear warfare
Survival manuals
United States civil defense
Books about nuclear issues