[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Iron Spider

r identity in an unidentified alternate reality where Iron Man used the Reality Gem to rig the Civil War in his favor where he later became President of the United States. She inherited it after Peter defected to Captain America's side and later became a member of the Civil Warriors.

In other media

Television
 The Iron Spider armor appears in Ultimate Spider-Man. This version includes repulsors on the palms and feet, similar to those of Iron Man. It is initially used by Peter Parker before Amadeus Cho takes up the Iron Spider mantle. Additionally, the episode "Rampaging Rhino" features a "Iron Spider Hulkbuster" variant created by Dr. Curt Connors.
 The Amadeus Cho incarnation of Iron Spider appears in Lego Marvel Super Heroes: Avengers Reassembled.

Film
 The Iron Spider armor appears in films set in the Marvel Cinematic Universe (MCU). This version's appearance sports a more "classic" look than that of the comics, with dark red and blue tones throughout, as well as gold highlights. Additionally, the armor uses nanotechnology that allows Peter Parker / Spider-Man to survive at high altitudes and on alien worlds and features a set of four mechanical legs that sprout from the back.
 It first appears briefly in Spider-Man: Homecoming (2017), wherein Tony Stark offers Parker the suit and membership into the Avengers, though Parker declines both. 
 The armor returns in Avengers: Infinity War (2018), wherein Stark uses it to save Parker after he falls from Ebony Maw's Q-ship and into Earth's atmosphere. Parker uses the suit for the rest of the film while helping Stark, Doctor Strange, and the Guardians of the Galaxy fight Thanos until most of the heroes become victims of the Blip. 
 The armor returns in Avengers: Endgame (2019) when Parker and the Blip's other victims are resurrected and join the Avengers' battle against an alternate timeline version of Thanos.
 The armor briefly returns in the opening of Spider-Man: Far From Home (2019), though Parker leaves it at home in favor of focusing on his social life and going on a European school trip.
 The armor returns in Spider-Man: No Way Home, during which Parker uses it to fight Otto Octavius, who tears a chunk of the suit's nanotechnology off of Parker and merges it with his mechanical tentacles. However, Spider-Man uses this to remotely subdue him. After Octavius receives a new inhibitor chip for his tentacles, he returns the stolen nanotechnology to Parker.
 An unidentified Iron Spider makes a non-speaking cameo appearance in Spider-Man: Across the Spider-Verse as a member of Miguel O'Hara's Spider-Society.

Video games
 The Iron Spider suit appears as an unlockable costume in the Wii version of Spider-Man: Web of Shadows.
 The Iron Spider suit appears as an alternate costume for Peter Parker / Spider-Man in Marvel Ultimate Alliance.
 The Iron Spider suit appears as an unlockable alternate costume for Peter Parker / Spider-Man in Marvel Ultimate Alliance 2.
 The Iron Spider suit appears as an alternate costume for Spider-Man 2099 in Spider-Man: Shattered Dimensions and Spider-Man: Edge of Time.
 The Iron Spider suit appears as an alternate costume for Peter Parker / Spider-Man in Marvel vs. Capcom 3: Fate of Two Worlds.
 The Iron Spider suit appears as an alternate costume for Peter Parker / Spider-Man in Marvel: Avengers Alliance.
 The Iron Spider suit appears in Spider-Man Unlimited, with the MCU version and Mary Jane Watson incarnation appearing in later updates.
 The Amadeus Cho incarnation of Iron Spider appears as a DLC character in Lego Marvel's Avengers.
 The Mary Jane Watson incarnation of Iron Spider appears in Marvel Avengers Academy.
 The Iron Spider suit appears as an alternate costume for Peter Parker / Spider-Man in Marvel vs. Capcom: Infinite.
 The MCU Iron Spider suit appears as an unlockable alternate costume for Peter Parker / Spider-Man in Marvel's Spider-Man, with the comics' version of the suit being released later as part of the "Turf Wars" DLC.
 The comics and MCU Iron Spider suits appear as alternate costumes for Peter Parker / Spider-Man in Marvel's Spider-Man 2.

References

External links
 Iron Spider Armor at Marvel Wiki

Marvel Comics superheroes
Spider-Man
Fictional armour