[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Ștefan Voitec

manian Communist Party—as the Politburo and the PMR had been renamed. Like some of his colleagues there (including Răutu, Paul Niculescu-Mizil, Gogu Rădulescu, and Leontin Sălăjan), he had the distinction of not having served on the last Politburo. He maintained this office to the day of his death. 

Voitec presided upon the MAN session of August 21, 1965, which passed a new constitution, enshrining Romania's claim to have achieved real socialism. In his closing speech, he referred to this as a "historic session", and argued that the new organic law had increased the political and social profiles of MAN deputies. On August 29 of the following year, he was assigned to the honor guard overseeing Sălăjan's funeral. Also in 1966, Voitec received the Order of Tudor Vladimirescu, 1st Class, followed in 1971 by the Order of Socialist Victory, and in 1974 by his recognition as a Hero of Socialist Labor. During November 1967, he led a MAN delegation to Iran, invited there by the Imperial Senate. In May 1968, he welcomed at the MAN the French President Charles de Gaulle, and gave the introductory speech. During March 1972, he was in Slovakia, at Zvolen, where he and other MAN delegates honored the memory of Romanian soldiers fallen in the battles of 1945. This was followed in October 1972 by another visit to the Soviet Union, where he met high-ranking members of the Supreme Soviet, including Vasily Konotop and Alexey Shitikov.

Other structural shifts came during those years. On March 28, 1974, following election by the Assembly, Voitec invested Ceaușescu as the first President of Romania. This included a ceremony during which the outgoing Assembly President handed a scepter to the executive leader. As noted by Larousse's Journal de l'année, Voitec may have been pressured into relinquishing his leadership of the MAN, so as to "further consolidate [Ceaușescu's] position." The renunciation closely followed Maurer's retirement, which was officially attributed to health complications from an earlier car crash. In 1969, Voitec himself had survived a collision between his car and a Ford Taunus, which, as he put it, "nearly killed me". Upon discovering that the offending driver was a food retailer who could afford luxuries, Voitec openly criticized market socialism as still applied in that industry.

Old age and death
During the reshuffle, Voitec returned to the Council of State as a Vice President, and continued to serve in that capacity until his death. This position was by then largely ceremonial, as was his election to the Superior Council for Education in February 1980. Voitec was also assigned to Ceaușescu's new mass organization, the Front of Socialist Unity and Democracy. He represented this body on an official visit to the German Democratic Republic, celebrating that regime's silver jubilee (October 1974). In April 1976, he reported to the Assembly on the institution of a Legislative Chamber of the People's Councils, which, Ceaușescu argued, was meant to democratize decision-making in the field of economy, particularly by vetting the Five-Year Plan. During the 34th anniversary of the coup against Antonescu in August 1978, Voitec chaired a meeting of communist delegates from various countries (including Luigi Longo and Giancarlo Pajetta). He spoke to them about establishing a new type of communist unity, around "independence, full equality, and respect for each party's right to autonomously enshrine its own general political line, strategy, and revolutionary tactic"; he also highlighted the importance of cooperation with social democratic and progressive groups. 

In 1975, anti-communist intellectual Noël Bernard suggested that Voitec still had no real power "in today's Romania." Four years later, Bernard observed that the MAN had "approved everything that the party has submitted to a vote". During that interval, Voitec had turned to scholarly pursuits. He and Ion Popescu-Puțuri, alongside manuscript editor Augustin Deac, curated the complete works of Marxist doctrinaire Constantin Dobrogeanu-Gherea, appearing at Editura Politică between 1976 and 1983. From 1977, Voitec, Niculescu-Mizil, Răutu and Rădulescu were assigned to a preparatory committee for the 15th International Congress of Historical Sciences, which was held in Bucharest in 1980—and which Ceaușescu ultimately used for broadcasting Dacianist theories. Voitec also appeared at the Dolj Communist Party conference on November 8, 1979, reading out Ceaușescu's "congratulations for [Dolj's] successes in fulfilling the objectives of the five-year plan".