[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# German submarine U-17 (1935)

German submarine U-17 was a Type IIB U-boat of Nazi Germany's Kriegsmarine. It was built in Germaniawerft, Kiel, where it was laid down on 1 July 1935 and commissioned on 3 December 1935, under the command of Werner Fresdorf.

Design
German Type IIB submarines were enlarged versions of the original Type IIs. U-17 had a displacement of  when at the surface and  while submerged. Officially, the standard tonnage was , however. The U-boat had a total length of , a pressure hull length of , a beam of , a height of , and a draught of . The submarine was powered by two MWM RS 127 S four-stroke, six-cylinder diesel engines of  for cruising, two Siemens-Schuckert PG VV 322/36 double-acting electric motors producing a total of  for use while submerged. She had two shafts and two  propellers. The boat was capable of operating at depths of up to .

The submarine had a maximum surface speed of  and a maximum submerged speed of . When submerged, the boat could operate for  at ; when surfaced, she could travel  at . U-17 was fitted with three  torpedo tubes at the bow, five torpedoes or up to twelve Type A torpedo mines, and a  anti-aircraft gun. The boat had a complement of twentyfive.

Service history
Its career consisted of four patrols, all served while under the 1st U-boat Flotilla where it sank three ships for a total of . Later in the war it served under the 22nd U-boat Flotilla as a training boat, including Oberleutnant zur See Walter Sitek as an instructor. Sitek had previously escaped imprisonment after the disabling and sinking of  by  in February 1942. He swam  to Pico Island in the Azores, made his way through neutral Spain and returned to the Kriegsmarine to serve as an instructor on U-17, , and .

Fate
On 5 May 1945 U-17 was scuttled at Wilhelmshaven at the western entrance of the Raeder lock.

Summary of raiding history

References

Bibliography

External links
 
 

German Type II submarines
U-boats commissioned in 1935
World War II submarines of Germany
World War II shipwrecks in the North Sea
1935 ships
Ships built in Kiel
Operation Regenbogen (U-boat)
Maritime incidents in May 1945