[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 17]
# List of smoking bans

er of the premises to create a designated smoking area within the premises. Designated smoking areas must meet certain technical requirements, including separate ventilation. Starting Friday 15th of December 2024, Rwanda banned the smoking of water-pipe tobacco popularly known as shisha countrywide.

Saudi Arabia
Saudi Arabia had almost no restrictions against smoking until 2010 when the Council of Ministers urged the General Authority of Civil Aviation (GACA) to restrict smoking at all airports and their facilities in the Kingdom, and strict rules were imposed. It also advised GACA to impose a fine of SR200 (US$53) on people who violate the new regulations. Many commercial buildings and work places banned smoking at offices in an attempt to stop smoking in public places. In addition, King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in Dhahran, for instance, launched a program in 2010 to make their university smoke-free, and Umm al-Qura University in Mecca launched a campaign with the same title in 2011. In May 2012, King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre in Riyadh banned people from smoking in and around its buildings, the first such move in the country. The hospital implemented fines of SR200 for violations.

On 30 July 2012, Interior Minister Prince Ahmed bin Abdulaziz ordered the implementation of a royal ban on smoking in all government facilities (ministries, buildings, institutions, offices etc.) and most indoor public places. The ban also prohibits smoking of hookahs in public places, and prohibits selling tobacco to anyone under 18. On 1 December 2012, the Saudi Commission for Tourism & Antiquities (SCTA) imposed a ban on smoking in all tourism facilities.

From 6 June 2016, smoking is prohibited in the vicinity of religious, educational, health, sport and cultural institutions, social and charity institutions. Smoking is also prohibited at private and government offices, factories, banks, public transport facilities, in areas for manufacturing and processing food products and drinks, petrol, gas and fuel distribution systems, warehouses, elevators and restrooms, in addition to several other public places. Violating the law is punishable by a fine of SAR 200, which increases for repeat violations.

Serbia
The Serbian Parliament passed a new law on public smoking in November 2010. It forbids smoking in every indoor working or public space, and any outdoor space that is a functional part of a facility connected with health care, education, or child care. This law prescribes very high fines for employers and restaurant owners who do not post smoking ban notifications. Outlets (bars, cafés, restaurants, night clubs etc.) smaller than 80 sq m can choose whether to ban smoking or not, and outlets larger than this margin have to have divided areas for smokers and non-smokers.

Singapore

Smoking was restricted in hawker centres, coffee-shops, cafes and fast-food outlets beginning 1 July 2006. For establishments with an outdoor area, 10–20% of the area can be set aside for smoking, although they would have to be clearly marked to avoid confusion. Gradually, the regulations have been extended to bus interchanges and shelters, public toilets and public swimming complexes.

On 1 July 2007, the regulations were extended to entertainment nightspots. The rule allows for construction of designated smoking rooms that can take up to 10% of the total indoor space.

On 1 January 2009, the regulations were extended to all children's playgrounds, exercise areas, markets, underground and multi-storey carparks, ferry terminals and jetties. Coverage was also extended to non-air conditioned areas in offices, factories, shops, shopping complexes and lift lobbies.

Smokers found flouting the rules are fined S$200 while the owners of the establishments are fined S$200 and S$500 for a subsequent offence.

On 22 November 2010, the Towards Tobacco-Free Singapore online campaign was launched to support the initiative to phase out tobacco in Singapore by preventing the supply of tobacco to Singaporeans born from the year 2000. Social movements such as Tobacco Free Generation also exist on the island.

Slovakia

Since November 2019, Slovakia is the last EU country to still allow smoking in bars and clubs. Smoking is prohibited in most indoor places. Since 2004, employers have been obliged to provide separate smoking rooms or a designated outdoor smoking place if smoking is allowed at work. Smoking is also prohibited in the majority of indoor public places. The regulations currently exempt bars that do not serve food. Restaurants are also excepted from indoor smoking restrictions. Since 2010 there has been no requirement for restaurants to have separate smoking and non-smoking areas. Smoking is also prohibited in shopping centres but a loop-hole in the law allows smoking on the balconies of cafeterias in shopping centres. Enforcement of this law is the responsibility of the Slovak Business Inspection (SOI) service.