[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Wehrmacht War Crimes Bureau, 1939–1945

the study of the war crimes committed during World War II. It should generate much discussion and encourage other students of that period to further research, not only into the legal and historical, but also into the sociological and psychological aspects of this facet of that conflict."

Aftermath

In the 1990s, the book became controversial in the context of a debate on war crimes committed by the Wehrmacht. While the book mentions investigations of German war crimes in Poland, the Soviet Union and elsewhere, about half of the archival records of the Wehrmacht War Crimes Bureau are missing, according to de Zayas, and those extant files concern primarily Soviet war crimes.

De Zayas lectured at All Souls' College, Oxford on 17 May 1990 on the Wehrmacht Bureau and published a summary article on the book.

The book has also delivered material for novels.  In 2013 the best-selling British novelist Philip Kerr published a thriller under the title A Man without Breath—unfolding before, during and after World War II, using real-life historical figures including the old Berlin judge Johannes Goldsche, head of the Wehrmacht War Crimes Bureau.  Kerr notes at the end of the book: "The Wehrmacht War Crimes Bureau continued to exist until 1945.  Anyone who wishes to know more about its work should consult the excellent book of the same name by Alfred M. de Zayas, published by the University of Nebraska Press in 1989." Philip Kerr also mentions the War Crimes Bureau in his third book (chapter 10) about the German detective: A German Requiem.

Reviews

In his review in the American Journal of International Law, Benjamin B. Ferencz, an American prosecutor at Nuremberg wrote:

A review by Professor Christopher Greenwood in the Cambridge Law Journal notes:

Concerning the methodology of this book, Max E. Riedlsperger wrote:

The book was positively reviewed in the German Press, including by Andreas Hillgruber in the Historische Zeitschrift, in the leading weekly DIE ZEIT and in the SPIEGEL.

In the Preface to the first German edition of the book, the Director of the Institute of International Law of the University of Göttingen, Dietrich Rauschning (subsequently a judge in the Human Rights Chamber of Bosnia and Herzegovina under the Dayton Accords) wrote about the close supervision of the project by the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft and the experts of the five principal archives where the research was conducted, and about the distance and care taken by de Zayas and the members of his team in evaluating the records of the Wehrmacht-Untersuchungsstelle.

Notes

References
The Wehrmacht War Crimes Bureau, 1939-1945. (With Walter Rabus) Preface by Professor Howard Levie. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1989.  (paperback edition). New revised edition with Picton Press, Rockland, Maine, . The author was interviewed by CNN regarding this book on April 4, 1990. It was critically acclaimed in the American Journal of International Law, Cambridge Law Journal, Archiv des Völkerrechts. Parts of the book are reproduced for study purposes in the Red Cross Handbook "How does Law Protect in War?" edited by Marco Sassoli and Antoine Bouvier, ICRC, Geneva 1999., second revised edition, Geneva 2006, third revised edition 2011. The revised 7th edition of Die Wehrmacht Untersuchungsstelle (in German) was published 2001 by Universitas, München, .

Further reading
 
 

1979 non-fiction books
History books about Nazi Germany
World War II crimes
History books about World War II
Books by Alfred-Maurice de Zayas