[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# German occupation of Latvia during World War II

supporting partisans, many of whom were actually Soviet soldiers operating behind the lines, sent messages to Moscow making wild claims of success, for instance claims that 364 trains were destroyed, which bear no resemblance to German reports. These "reports" were used as propaganda by the Soviets.

Resistance continued at an increased level after the return of the Red Army in July 1944, with perhaps 40,000 Latvians involved and around 10,000 active at any point in time.

Latvians in the Soviet army
The Soviet Union conscripted into its army sections of independent Latvia's military units, as well as those Latvians who were in Russia as a result of previous wars or who originally lived there. Many Latvian soldiers deserted when Germany attacked Latvia. A few, especially Jews, continued to serve  with the Soviet forces.

130th Latvian Rifle Corps of the Order of Suvorov. This Red Army national formation was formed, for the third time, on June 5, 1944, shortly before the Red Army attacked Latvia. Their strength was about 15,000 men, which consisted three divisions – 43rd Guards, 308th Latvian Rifle Division and a Soviet division. The Corps units fought against the Latvian Legion's 19th Division units. The unit contained few Latvian soldiers, but was important for propaganda purposes.

Latvians in the German army

Nazi Germany, on arrival in Latvia looked to recruit Latvian units to act in accordance with the Nazi Generalplan Ost, which required the population of Latvia to be cut by 50%, they quickly located Viktors Arājs who was leading a unit that became known as the Arajs Kommando. It became infamous for its actions against the Jewish population, such as the burning of the Riga synagogues with people still inside and being active in the Rumbula massacre the 500 men executing an estimated 26,000 Jews, Gypsies and others deemed undesirable.

Latvian Auxiliary Police battalions were raised from volunteers, the first sent to the front was involved in heavy fighting in June 1942 and acquitted itself well. Latvians however wanted to raise a Latvian Legion, under the command of Latvian officers, offering to raise an army of 100,000. In January 1943, becoming short of troops, Hitler agreed. This took away the need to conscript Latvian men, which would have been an illegal act.  So was born the 15th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (1st Latvian).

Two police battalions fighting near Leningrad with Dutch and Flemish soldiers were pulled back in May 1943 and with reinforcements from Latvia and a change of uniform, transformed into the 2nd Latvian SS Volunteer Brigade and made part of 2nd SS Infantry Brigade. The senior Latvian commander Lt Col Voldemārs Veiss being awarded the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross in January 1944. The brigade was expanded into the 19th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (2nd Latvian) in January 1944.

Defeat and retreat of Nazi forces
On 12 January 1944, the latest Red Army assault managed to lift the 900-day Siege of Leningrad, during which over 1 million people had died, and on 20 January, German troops started to retreat.

The re-conquering of the Baltic area was undertaken as a direct follow through of the assault that started in Leningrad, entering Estonia in early February, along with much of Ukraine and Belarus. Nazi Germany began to suffer regular defeats on the eastern front and was pushed back to the west.

The 2nd Latvian SS Brigade, which was now upgraded to the 19th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (2nd Latvian), was among those fighting before the spring thaw slowed the attacks. On 22 June, the third anniversary of the German invasion was chosen as the start date for Operation Bagration. The massive Soviet attack was catastrophic for the German armies who fell back before the onslaught. It was mid-July 1944 before the Soviet Army once again crossed Latvia's pre-war eastern border, the Soviet armies continued westward leaving sufficient troops to block in the remaining German forces until they attacked on 11 September as a diversion for an attack in Estonia. On 9 October. Riga was in artillery range of the Red Army. German troops, including the 19th Waffen Grenadier Division of the SS (2nd Latvian) under the code name Donner (Thunder), withdrew from Riga, destroying bridges as they went. Battles were quite bloody but by 13 October 1944 the Soviets had re-captured Riga. By mid October, the German Army, which partly included the "Latvian Legion", was besieged in Kurzeme, in the "Courland Pocket".