[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of fictional anarchists

This is a list of fictional anarchists, including the source material in which they are found, their creators, the individuals who interpreted them as anarchists during development (if not originally created as such), and short descriptions of each.

An anarchist is a person who rejects any form of compulsory government (cf. "state") and supports its elimination. Anarchism is a political philosophy encompassing theories and attitudes which reject compulsory government (the state) and support its elimination, often due to a wider rejection of involuntary or permanent authority. Anarchism is defined by The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Politics as "the view that society can and should be organized without a coercive state."

However, fictional anarchists are subject to the personal interpretations and opinions of Anarchism held by the creator, and as such may imbue negative anarchist stereotypes. Further, characters may be interpreted as anarchists by second parties involved in their development. The inclusion of these characters may be controversial, but is necessary for purposes of objectivity. This provides a means by which social attitudes regarding anarchism and anarchists may be studied and compared to those of other eras and cultures.

Characters who are popularly considered "anarchic", but who are not specifically identified as anarchists by their source material, are excluded.

Comics/sequential art
 Anarchik A parody of the "bomb wielding, bearded anarchist" stereotype. He appeared in Rivista Anarchica, by Roberto Ambrosoli,  1970, and is often reprinted in contemporary anarchist pamphlets.

 Anarky A comic book character appearing in various DC Comics publications as an antagonist of Batman. He was created and co-developed by Alan Grant and Norm Breyfogle in 1989.

Boy A martial artist, former New York City Police Department officer, and member of an anarchist secret society in The Invisibles (1994) by Grant Morrison.

 Evey Hammond A protégé of V, an anarchist terrorist in V for Vendetta, by Alan Moore and David Lloyd in 1982. Evey eventually adopts V's role.

 Green Arrow A superhero known for his liberal progressive characterization. Appearing in Green Arrow and various other comic books published by DC Comics, he was created by Mort Weisinger and George Papp in 1941. He was revamped in 1969 by Dennis O'Neil, who characterized him as a political progressive and dubbed him an "anarchist".

 Jack Frost A young hooligan, possibly a future Buddha, and member of an anarchic secret society in The Invisibles (1994) by Grant Morrison.

 King Mob A magician, assassin, terrorist, and member of an anarchist secret society in The Invisibles (1994) by Grant Morrison.

 Lord Fanny A transgender Brazilian shaman, and member of an anarchist secret society in The Invisibles (1994) by Grant Morrison.

 Pillock An intellectual pelican, in Donald Rooum's Wildcat (1985). Pillock is often used to present complex social ideas and anarchist philosophy.

Ragged Robin A time traveling, cybernetically enhanced telepath, and member of an anarchist secret society in The Invisibles (1994) by Grant Morrison.

Tank Girl A violent punk, wanted criminal, and tank commander. She was created in 1988 by Jamie Hewlett & Alan Martin for their independent comic series, Tank Girl.

V An anonymous, English terrorist with enhanced strength, reflexes, and mental capacity. He is perhaps a genius or merely insane, and acts as an allegorical force for anarchy. He was created by Alan Moore and David Lloyd for their 1982 comic series, V for Vendetta.

 Wild Cat An anarcho-punk cat created by Donald Rooum in 1985 as the lead character in his comic strip, Wildcat.

Literature
 Captain Raymond A secondary character, and anarchistic leader of a band of thieves in Things as They Are; or, The Adventures of Caleb Williams, by William Godwin.

 Clay A main character encountered by the protagonists of The Oregon Experiment, by Keith Scribner.  The character was based on anarchists the author met.

 Professor Bernardo de la Paz An intellectual subversive, who self-identifies as a "Rational Anarchist", in The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress (1966), by Robert A. Heinlein

 Edward Tolby An agent of the Anarchist League, in The Last of the Masters (1954), by Philip K. Dick. Edward Tolby is among a trio of anarchists tasked with investigating rumors of a government in hiding near a remote mountain valley. His daughter and comrade, Silvia Tolby, is kidnapped by a military scouts. After infiltrating the state, Edward assassinates the head of state, the last "government robot", and rescues his daughter.

Corky Laputa An avowed anarchist who sows chaos in various ways in The Face by Dean Koontz.

 Freddie "Stubby" Lynch A poor paperboy, in The Anarchist: His Dog (1912), by Susan Glaspell.

 Valentin Michael Karstev A Russian revolutionary, terrorist, and author of an anarchist treatise, The Laws of Human History, in Protect and Defend (1999), by Eric L. Harry.