[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mamoru Shinozaki

was a journalist for Dentsu (later Dōmei) and spy for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in pre-war years, a military executive in Japanese-occupied Singapore, and a businessman and writer in post-war years. He is known for the  in 1940, and for his testimony in the war crimes trial in 1947 for the Sook Ching massacre.

He was also known for his autobiography, which related the history of Japanese-occupied Singapore and was criticized by many researchers and Singaporean residents for his self-praise and for alleged lies and distortions of many historical facts.

Early life
Shinozaki was born in Fukuoka Prefecture in February 1908.

According to his autobiography, his father owned a coal mine in Fukuoka and was often away on business. He was raised mainly by his grandmother, who wanted him to become a monk, but his father opposed the idea. She sent him to a Buddhist temple for a year at the age of six. As a student, he was interested in socialism, secretly reading the works of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, a serious offense which got him expelled from his high school in Kyoto. 

He studied journalism at Meiji University.

Pre-war activity
After dropping out of university in 1931 or 1932, he worked as a reporter at Denpo Tsushinsha (Nippon Telegraph News Agency). In 1934 he was posted to Shanghai, and later to Nanking and Hankou. 

In December 1936, he was recalled to Japan, and he became a spy for the Japanese Foreign Ministry. He was soon posted to Berlin as "assistant press attache" at the Japanese Embassy. His relationship with a German woman resulted in his reassignment to Singapore in October 1938.

While in Singapore, superficially as "press attache" to the Japanese consul-general or a member of the staff of the Eastern News Agency, he provided "fresh and undistorted news" (i.e. propaganda) about The Empire of Japan's movement which ran from Domei News to the Singapore Herald, The Singapore Free Press and Mercantile Advertiser or such English-language newspapers published in Singapore. At the same time, he collected intelligence both on the Chinese community of Singapore by using Chinese informers, and also on the defence of Singapore by hosting parties to make connections with British Servicemen of Singapore.

On 21 September 1940, Shinozaki was arrested by the British Special Branch detectives and was subsequently charged with obtaining military intelligence from Frank Gardner, a British Serviceman. He was tried and sentenced to three years' rigorous imprisonment and a fine of $1,000, or an extra six months' simple imprisonment. Frank Gardner was sentenced to five years penal servitude and was dismissed from the service with ignominy. Kitsuji Kashiwabara, Shinozaki's cooperator, was sentenced to two months of rigorous imprisonment and was deported from Singapore.
In his autobiography, Shinozaki wrote that he had taken Colonel T. Tanikawa, the planning chief of Japan's Imperial Army Headquarters in Tokyo, and Major Teruhito Kunitake, who was later on Tsuji Masanobu's Malaya Campaign planning staff, to locations in Singapore, Malacca and Johor to survey military installations and study the British defence capability, and that was his suspicion on his trial.

But contemporary newspapers had not mentioned to such suspicion. Furthermore, Major Kunitake in his memoir wrote that he visited Singapore to scout geopolitical situations for the first time in early 1941, when Shinozaki was already in jail.

Second World War

Special adviser of Kempeitai

Upon the British surrender of Singapore on 15 February 1942, Shinozaki was "released" by the Twenty-Fifth Army from Changi Prison and went on to become "special adviser" or an interpreter for the Twenty-Fifth Army's Kempeitai in Syonan and supported their actions. After the Pacific War began on 7/8 December 1941, Japanese residents of pre-war Malaya had moved to the Purana Qila internment camp. Among 32 Japanese prisoners of Changi, Shinozaki was the only person familiar with Singapore's political circumstances, so his knowledge was crucial to occupying Japanese forces.

He participated in the Sook Ching Massacre as one of the staff who tempted English-speaking Chinese leaders such as Lim Boon Keng, who was captured during the "great inspection", to cooperate with the Japanese Military Administration (JMA).
In his autobiography, Shinozaki wrote that he voluntarily saved the Chinese leaders, but that is inconsistent with the record that Kempeitai had held 20 or more Chinese leaders to persuade them to cooperate with JMA.
Shinozaki got Lim Boon Keng drunk with beer and made him promise to cooperate with JMA, which was the same method that was used on Frank Gardner in 1940.
He might have been engaged in the task of checking the list of people who promoted the China Relief Fund and thus who became the target of Kempeitai.