[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mixed-use development

s working in public services, trades, cultural, sales and service, and manufacturing occupations from living in amenity-rich city centers. Despite incentives like density bonuses, municipalities and developers rarely put a significant focus on affordable housing provisions in these plans.

Financing

Mixed-use buildings can be risky given that there are multiple tenants residing in one development. Mega-mixed-use projects, like Hudson Yards, are also extremely expensive. This development has cost the City of New York over 2.2 billion dollars. Critics argue that taxpayer dollars could better serve the general public if spent elsewhere. Additionally, mixed-use developments, as a catalyst for economic growth, may not serve their intended purpose if they simply shift economic activity, rather than create it. A study done by Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated (JLL) found that "90 percent of Hudson Yards' new office tenants relocated from Midtown."

Types of contemporary mixed-use zoning
Some of the more frequent mixed-use scenarios in the United States are:
 Neighborhood commercial zoning – convenience goods and services, such as convenience stores, permitted in otherwise strictly residential areas
 Main Street residential/commercial – two to three-story buildings with residential units above and commercial units on the ground floor facing the street
 Urban residential/commercial – multi-story residential buildings with commercial and civic uses on ground floor
 Office convenience – office buildings with small retail and service uses oriented to the office workers
 Office/residential – multi-family residential units within office building(s)
 Shopping mall conversion – residential and/or office units added (adjacent) to an existing standalone shopping mall
 Retail district retrofit – retrofitting of a suburban retail area to a more village-like appearance and mix of uses
 Live/work – residents can operate small businesses on the ground floor of the building where they live
 Studio/light industrial – residents may operate studios or small workshops in the building where they live
 Hotel/residence – mix hotel space and high-end multi-family residential
 Parking structure with ground-floor retail
 Single-family detached home district with standalone shopping center

Examples of cities' mixed-use planning policies

Canada 
One of the first cities to adopt a policy on mixed-use development is Toronto. The local government first played a role in 1986 with a zoning bylaw that allowed for commercial and residential units to be mixed. At the time, Toronto was in the beginning stages of planning a focus on developing mixed-use development due to the growing popularity of more social housing. The law has since been updated as recently as 2013, shifting much of its focus outside the downtown area which has been a part of the main city since 1998. With the regulations in place, the city has overseen the development of high-rise condominiums throughout the city with amenities and transit stops nearby. Toronto's policies of mixed-use development have inspired other North American cities in Canada and the United States to bring about similar changes.

One example of a Toronto mixed-use development is Mirvish Village by architect Gregory Henriquez. Located at Bloor and Bathurst Street, a significant intersection in Toronto, portions of the Mirvish Village project site are zoned as "commercial residential" and others as "mixed commercial residential." Within the City of Toronto's zoning by-laws, commercial residential includes "a range of commercial, residential and institutional uses, as well as parks." Mirvish Village's programmatic uses include rental apartments, a public market, and small-unit retail, while also preserving 23 of 27 heritage houses on site. The project is notable for its public consultation process, which was lauded by Toronto city officials. Architect Henriquez and the developer had previously collaborated on mixed-use projects in Vancouver, British Columbia, including the successful Woodward's Redevelopment.

United States