[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ireland in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006

iamh Kavanagh, Paul Harrington and Charlie McGettigan as well as commentary from a panel that consisted of Martin, commentator Marty Whelan and music manager Louis Walsh. "Every Song Is a Cry for Love" was later released on 21 April 2006, and eventually peaked at Number 4 on the Irish Singles Chart.

Controversy 
The selection of "Every Song Is a Cry for Love" as the Irish entry provoked controversy after it was revealed that the song was submitted by Kennedy himself after the song submission deadline. IMRO publisher Johnny Lappin claimed that the jury responsible for choosing the four finalist songs had only reviewed less than 4% of all the song submissions as they were "overwhelmed with the volume of entries", and that RTÉ had influenced the final result by inviting the panellists to reveal their favorite song before the public were allowed to vote; all four panellists had tipped "Every Song Is a Cry for Love" to win. The broadcaster also offered those that voted for the winning song to enter a draw for a car, which Lappin believed might "prejudice the viewers into voting, not for the song they personally felt was the best but for the song most likely to win".

At Eurovision 
According to Eurovision rules, all nations with the exceptions of the host country, the "Big Four" (France, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom) and the ten highest placed finishers in the 2005 contest are required to qualify from the semi-final in order to compete for the final; the top ten countries from the semi-final progress to the final. On 21 March 2006, a special allocation draw was held which determined the running order for the semi-final, to be held on 18 May 2006, and the final, to be held on 20 May 2006. Ireland was drawn to perform in position 8, following the entry from Belgium and before the entry from Cyprus.

In Ireland, the semi-final and the final were broadcast on RTÉ One with commentary by Marty Whelan. The two shows were also broadcast via radio on RTÉ Radio 1 with commentary by Larry Gogan. The Irish spokesperson, who announced the Irish votes during the final, was former contest winner Eimear Quinn.

Semi-final 
Brian Kennedy took part in technical rehearsals on 11 and 13 May, followed by dress rehearsals on 17 and 18 May. The Irish performance, which was also the 1000th song performed in Eurovision history, featured Brian Kennedy dressed in a black suit and joined on stage by four backing vocalists, three of them located at the right side of the stage with the remaining one located at the left side of the stage and also played the guitar: Calum McColl, Fran King, Paula Gilbert and Una Healy.

At the end of the show, Ireland was announced as having finished in the top 10 and consequently qualifying for the grand final. It was later revealed that Ireland placed ninth in the semi-final, receiving a total of 79 points.

Final 
Shortly after the semi-final, a winners' press conference was held for the ten qualifying countries. As part of this press conference, the qualifying artists took part in a draw to determine the running order for the final and Ireland was drawn to perform in position 21, following the entry from Croatia and before the entry from Sweden.

Brian Kennedy once again took part in dress rehearsals on 19 and 20 May before the final. Brian Kennedy performed a repeat of his semi-final performance during the final on 20 May. Ireland placed tenth in the final, scoring 93 points.

Voting 
Below is a breakdown of points awarded to Ireland and awarded by Ireland in the semi-final and grand final of the contest. The nation awarded its 12 points to Lithuania in the semi-final and the final of the contest.

Points awarded to Ireland

Points awarded by Ireland

References

2006
Countries in the Eurovision Song Contest 2006
Eurovision
Eurovision