[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Gratiot Light

in active service.

Current status

The light is listed on the National Historic Register, Reference #76001975.  In 1971, the Michigan Historical Commission named Fort Gratiot Light a historic site

In 2004, the Port Huron U.S. Coast Guard station moved into a new headquarters adjacent to the light.

The Coast Guard closed the lighthouse to visitors in August 2008 due to deteriorating brickwork and falling debris. A structural assessment and repairs will take place before the tower can reopen to the public.  Architects reported that almost $4 million would be required for a complete restoration. In 2009, these plans were jeopardized, when city council rejected a deed offered by the federal government because it found the financial requirements too burdensome. The St. Clair County Parks and Recreation department took over the lighthouse and grounds in September 2010 and reopened guided tours of the lighthouse in summer of 2012.

Getting there
The Park is open daily from 7:00am to 10:00pm. Admission to the park grounds is free. Admission tickets are sold in the gift shop for tours of the station and tower. The park is located at 2800 Omar Street, in Port Huron.

When the grounds are closed to the public, there is a city park just north of the light with an excellent view from the beach. Returning from Canada to Port Huron on the Blue Water Bridge, this light can be seen on the righthand side of one's motor vehicle.

See also
Point Gratiot Light

References

External links
 
 
 St. Clair County Parks and Recreation - Fort Gratiot Lighthouse Restoration
 Aerial photos, Fort Gratiot Light, marinas.com.
 Pure Michigan Travel - Fort Gratiot Lighthouse
 Tripadvisor - Fort Gratiot Lighthouse

Lighthouse museums in Michigan
Museums in St. Clair County, Michigan
Port Huron, Michigan
St. Clair River
Lighthouses completed in 1825
Lighthouses completed in 1829
Lighthouses completed in 1862
Buildings and structures in St. Clair County, Michigan
Lighthouses on the National Register of Historic Places in Michigan
National Register of Historic Places in St. Clair County, Michigan
1825 establishments in Michigan Territory
1862 establishments in Michigan
Michigan State Historic Sites in St. Clair County