[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Sahrawi Association of Victims of Grave Human Rights Violations Committed by the Moroccan State

The Sahrawi Association of Victims of Grave Violations of Human Rights Committed by the Moroccan State (; ; ), or ASVDH, is a Sahrawi human rights organization in the Moroccan-occupied areas of Western Sahara (considered the Southern Provinces by Morocco).

Objectives
Objectives of the ASVDH are:
To respect and defend human rights
To uncover the truth about grave human-rights violations
To find unaccounted victims of forced disappearance in Morocco
To return to their families the remains of Sahrawis who died in secret Moroccan prisons 
To press for the release of Sahrawi political prisoners and the right to material and moral compensation and physical rehabilitation for victims and relatives in accordance with international human-rights law and international jurisprudence
To end impunity and urge the prosecution of violations of crimes against humanity related to the Moroccan occupation in Western Sahara
To protect the community against arbitrary arrest and detention, forced disappearance, torture, murder and other forms of degradation, and attacks on human dignity
To establish a culture of peaceful respect for human rights in Western Sahara, based on the principles of international human-rights agreements

History
ASVDH was founded in El Aaiun on May 7, 2005 by Sahrawi activists, including its president Brahim Dahane (a former prisoner of conscience). Although the association has complied with the Moroccan Law of Public Associations, it has been refused permission to operate by the Moroccan authorities and operates illegally with limited means. Its activities consist of researching and recording abuses by interviewing alleged victims of persecution and posting documentation (including photographs) of demonstrations, police interventions and torture on the Internet.

ASVDH has been outspoken in its defense of jailed Sahrawi human-rights and independence activists, such as Aminatou Haidar and Ali Salem Tamek.  They were arrested during the Second Sahrawi Intifada, an activist term for May 2005 anti-occupation protests in El Aaiun.

As a result of this, the organization has been the subject of harassment and police action. President Brahim Dahane was detained on October 30, 2005, and charged with "belonging to an illegal organization" (ASVDH). The charge was condemned by Amnesty International and other international human-rights organizations, which campaigned for Dahane's release. As part of a general royal pardon, Dahane and other members of ASVDH were freed on April 22, 2006.

ASVDH applied for government recognition in 2006, and the following year a court ruled that the organization needed to be recognized by the government. It received government recognition in 2015, but Moroccan authorities continue to interfere with ASVDH's monitoring of human-rights abuses. The Moroccan government has called independence movements such as ASVDH a threat to regional security. The organization's work has been cited by Amnesty International, Human Rights Watch, the House Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.

See also
 Association of the Families of Sahrawi Prisoners and Disappeared 
 International Bureau for the Respect of Human Rights in Western Sahara 
 History of Western Sahara
 Human rights in Western Sahara

References

External links
   
تقرير أحداث اقتحام وتفكيك مخيم النازحين الصحراويين بأكديم ازيك مخيم أكديم ازيك أسباب النشأة وتداعيات التفكيك (PDF). ASVDH, 4 January 2011 
Rapport de l’ASVDH sur le campement de Gdeim Izik et les événements qui ont suivi son démantèlement (PDF) ASVDH, 4 January 2011 
Informe ASVDH sobre el campamento de Gdeim Izik y los acontecimientos que siguieron a su desmantelamiento Scribd 

2005 establishments in Western Sahara
Human rights organizations based in Western Sahara