[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hispanic Admirals in the United States Navy

t.) Herrera was born in Miami Springs, Florida, is the president of the Board of Inspection and Survey, the commander of Submarine Group NINE, and the director of C41 Systems (J-6), U.S. Strategic Command. He had previously, served as the commanding officer of two fleet ballistic missile submarines.

Rear Admiral Marc Y.E. Pelaez, USN – USNA Class of 1968 (Ret.). Pelaez served in various positions in the Navy during his career, among them commanding officer of nuclear-powered attack submarine . From 1990 to 1993 he served as the executive assistant to the Assistant Secretary of the Navy, and from 1993 to 1996 as director of submarine technology at the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA), and chief of the Office of Naval Research. As a civilian he serves as director of Technology / Scientific and Technical Instruments at II-VI Incorporated, Saxonburg, Pennsylvania.

Rear Admiral George "Rico" Mayer, USN – USNA Class of 1975. Born and raised in Puerto Rico, became a naval aviator and assumed his current assignment as commander of the Naval Safety Center, in August 2005. Mayer earned a master's degree from the U.S. Naval War College.

Rear Admiral Jay A. DeLoach, USN – USNA Class of 1978. Born in San Diego, California, His academic background includes a Bachelor of Science degree in marine engineering and two master's degrees; Master of Arts in Management & Supervision and Masters of Engineering in Nuclear Engineering. DeLoach is the assistant deputy chief of naval operations for resources, requirements and assessments. DeLoach played an instrumental role in implementing a visionary "Memorandum of Understanding" between the Submarine Force Active component and the Reserve component. He helped pioneer many key initiatives that have since been adopted Navy-wide.
Rear Admiral Patrick H. Brady, USN – USNA Class of 1981. Born in Camp Springs, Maryland, is the deputy director of the Submarine Warfare Division (N87B). Brady, who is of Irish and Hispanic descent graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1981 with a Bachelor of Science in Ocean Engineering. Brady's academic accomplishments also include a Master of Arts in National Security Affairs from the Naval Postgraduate School. He attended the Air Force Command and Staff College, and completed Navy Nuclear Power training and Level Three acquisition training. Prior to his current position, Brady was the commander of the Naval Undersea Warfare Center.
Rear Admiral Yvette M. Davids, USN – USNA Class of 1989. From San Antonio, Texas, is senior military advisor to the Assistant Secretary of State for Political-Military Affairs. She became the first Hispanic woman to command a Navy warship when she assumed command of the frigate  in April 2007. During a later assignment she also commanded the cruiser . She has earned master's degrees from the Naval War College and the Industrial College of the Armed Forces.

Other Hispanic admirals

There are also some members of the Navy who reached the rank of admiral and who were not graduates of the Naval Academy. These were men who had earned specialized degrees and then chose to serve in the Navy. The following are the Hispanic admirals who are not alumni of the Academy.

Rear Admiral Jose Luis Betancourt, Jr. (Surface Warfare) (Ret.), was commander of the Mine Warfare Command, headquartered at Naval Air Station (NAS) Corpus Christi, Texas. Betancourt, who was born in Mexico, had previously served aboard the LST , destroyer , frigate , and as executive officer of the cruiser . He served as commanding officer of the destroyer , during its deployment to the Persian Gulf during Operation Desert Storm, where during extensive mine clearance operations his ship served as flagship. Betancourt, served in various positions, among them commanding officer of the amphibious assault ship , special assistant for Officer Accession Programs, Office of the Chief of Naval Personnel at Washington, D.C., and in the International Military Staff at NATO Headquarters in Brussels, Belgium before being named commander of the Mine Warfare Command. In this position he was responsible for the development of the Navy's mining strategy and the Navy's inventory of underwater mines among other tasks.

Rear Admiral Alberto Díaz, Jr. (Medical Corps) (Ret.), born in San Juan, Puerto Rico, earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from George Washington University and a master's degree in psychology from Butler University. He earned his medical degree from the University of Barcelona Medical School in Barcelona, Spain. Diaz was the first Hispanic to become the director of the San Diego Naval District and Balboa Naval Hospital.