[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# John P. McCown

on from duty for a period of six months. McCown declared the Confederacy was nothing more than "a damned stinking cotton oligarchy... gotten up for the benefit of Isham G. Harris and Jefferson Davis and their damned corrupt cliques."  That May, most of his command was sent for service in Starkville.

By 1865 McCown was in North Carolina. In April he defended a Catawba River crossing near Morganton. McCown held the crossing against the Union cavalry division of Brig. Gen. Alvan C. Gillem with about 300 soldiers and one artillery piece. After the war he was paroled from Salisbury on May 12.

Postbellum
Following the war, McCown became a teacher in Knoxville, Tennessee. Later he moved to Magnolia, Arkansas, and took up farming. In 1870 he moved to Little Rock, again engaged in farming. McCown died in Little Rock in 1879 and was buried in City Cemetery in Magnolia.

A bird, McCown's longspur (Rhynchophanes mccownii), was named in his honor in 1851, after he collected the type specimen. In 2020, it was renamed "thick-billed longspur" by the American Ornithological Society, due to his Confederate associations.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)
McCown Guards: A Confederate Army artillery battery during the American Civil War.

Notes

References
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Wakelyn, Jon L., Biographical Dictionary of the Confederacy, Greenwood Press, 1977, .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

1815 births
1879 deaths
People from Sevier County, Tennessee
Confederate States Army major generals
United States Military Academy alumni
United States Army officers
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Military personnel from Tennessee