[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Black Brigade of Cincinnati

eport the next day. In the meantime, the police were relieved of provost guard duty and promised not to arrest any more black men, except for criminal activity. Black men who had escaped to the country or were securely hidden to avoid coming under control of the provost guards, returned to the city.

At 5 a.m. on September 5, 706 volunteers reported for duty and were put to work. The officers of the brigade as of September 6, 1862 were all white and included: commander, William M. Dickson; Adjutant-General, T. C. Day; Commissary, H. McBurney; Quartermaster, J. S. Hill; Assistant Adjutant-General, Jacob Reior. With Dickson in charge, the soldiers of the Black Brigade received their own military unit flag and $13 a month—a Union Army private's pay—along with various privileges, including the right to visit their families.

Put "far in advance of the Union lines" and without weapons, a pontoon bridge was built to bring the Black Brigade into Northern Kentucky. The Black Brigade commenced work that consisted of digging rifle pits, clearing trees as well as building forts, magazines, and roads. They often conducted work almost a mile in front of the front lines, with only a few cavalry scouts between them and Confederate forces. They were nearly mistaken for Confederate soldiers due to how far they were from Union troops.

Confederate General Henry Heth led 8,000 soldiers from Louisville, Kentucky to the area by September 11. They reconnoitered for two days and then withdrew, believing that they would not be successful there in a battle with a volunteer force of 76,000 "Squirrel Hunters" who had assembled in the Defense of Cincinnati.

The brigade continued to work until September 20, when there was no longer a threat to Cincinnati. When they were done, hundreds of acres of forests had been cleared and miles of rifle pits were dug.  They had built forts, magazines, and miles of military roads and breastworks along the border with Northern Kentucky between Fort Thomas and Bromley. The fortifications were built far enough away from Cincinnati that they could not shell the city.

There were a total of 1,000 black men who served in defence of the city. There were the 700 men who built the fortifications and another 300 men who performed work in military camps, in the city, and on gun boats. The Brigade had one fatality: Joseph Johns who was killed when a tree fell on him accident on September 17, 1862.

Dickson was presented with an engraved sword by the members of the brigade. He thanked them by stating, "...you have labored cheerfully and effectively. Go to your homes with the consciousness of having performed your duty.....and bearing with you the gratitude and respect of all honorable men." The most significant threat to Cincinnati from the Confederates during the Civil War occurred in 1862 and the fortifications built by the Black Brigade are credited with thwarting that threat.	

Because of racial segregation, the city would not allow black men to join the all-white volunteer militia. The Black Brigade was never intended to serve as armed soldiers, and saw no combat during the war. There were some men, though, who enlisted in the 54th Massachusetts Infantry Regiment  or in other regiments of the Union Army, like the Corps d'Afrique and 75th Regiment Infantry U.S. Colored Troops in the Mississippi Valley.

Legacy

The Black Brigade of Cincinnati was the first organization of African Americans to be used for military purposes by the North during the American Civil War.

In 2012, a resolution was passed within the U.S. Senate recognizing members of Cincinnati Black Brigade as veterans.

Memorial monument

During the 150th anniversary of the 1862 defense of Cincinnati, a memorial monument to the Black Brigade was dedicated in Smale Riverfront Park in Cincinnati on September 9, 2012. Designed by Jan Brown Checco and Sasaki Associates, sculptors John Hebenstreit and Carolyn Manto created three life-size bronze figures, relief panels, while Tyrone Williams composed poetry to express the soldiers inner thoughts, and Erik Brown established the application of texts. The names of all 700 soldiers in the Black Brigade are etched in stone.

Soldiers
 Captain Peter Fossett of Second Regiment, Company F
 Powhatan Beaty of Third Regiment, Company 1

See also

 Contraband (American Civil War)
 Military history of African Americans in the American Civil War
 List of Ohio Civil War units
 James A. Ramage Civil War Museum § The Black Brigade of Cincinnati

Notes

References