[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joint Force Headquarters National Capital Region

ed into the secure NORTHCOM communications system.  In addition to the ability to communicate with various civilian and military units within the NCR, satellites provide the JOC with secure communication links to the Mobile Command Center and its smaller mobile cousin, "Dagger."

Mobile Command Post

The Mobile Command Post (MCP), like the JOC, was instituted as a direct result of failures in communication capabilities at the time of the September 11th attacks.  MG James Jackson needed to be in two places at once much of the time to coordinate recovery efforts at the Pentagon; however, "We had no vehicle then that was capable of anything more than a non-secure telephone connection.  The EOC was basically an unclassified environment. (Jackson) made the commitment to secure a modern mobile command center and to fund it from the MDW budget," said Col. Egon Hawrylak (USA-Ret.), a civilian deputy operations officer who previously worked in the MDW operations center.

The MCP, a mobile, smaller version of the JOC, is situated on a 41-foot, 10-wheeled, truck chassis.  The MCP was custom built for its mission of providing mobile support to the JFHQ commander and the JOC and, like the JOC, is complete with the latest in computer, technological, and communication advances.

Joint Service Honor Guard
The Joint Service Honor Guard is composed of personnel from the official honour guard units of each uniformed branch in the United States Armed Forces. The honour guard units of each of the services is located in or near Washington D. C., and form the ad-hoc battalion sized unit to represent the entire armed forces at numerous ceremonies of state, mostly State visits to the United States and the Armed Forces Farewell ceremony to the outgoing President before the United States presidential inauguration in January.

The following units make up the battalion:

 Echo Company, 4th Battalion, 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard) 
 Ceremonial Company A, Marine Barracks Washington
 United States Navy Ceremonial Guard
 United States Air Force Honor Guard
 United States Coast Guard Ceremonial Honor Guard

Since the early 1940s, the 3rd United States Infantry Regiment (The Old Guard) has served as the official escort to the President, additionally providing security for the National Capital Region during national/local emergencies.

Operationally attached to the ad-hoc battalion are five of the military bands and two field music formations designated as premier ensembles of the entire Armed Forces:

 United States Marine Band
 United States Marine Drum and Bugle Corps
 United States Navy Band
 The United States Army Band
 Old Guard Fife and Drum Corps
 United States Air Force Band
 United States Coast Guard Band

These bands take turns whenever they are assigned to perform in state ceremonies with the exception of the USMDBC, which, given that it reports directly to the office of the Commandant of the Marine Corps, can only be assigned on similar events upon his discretion. The 257th Army Band of the District of Columbia National Guard is occasionally attached if any of the bands are absent.

Organization

Command of the JFHQ-NCR

The commanding officer of the JFHQ-NCR is also the Commanding General of the Army's MDW.  This general officer, who represents the US Army within JFHQ-NCR through the MDW, is aided by a deputy commanding officer who is not associated with the MDW; he or she is a commanding officer of one of the military component-partners within JFHQ-NCR.  The commander of JFHQ-NCR, like all JTFs in the U.S., must answer to USNORTHCOM and its commanding general.

The Command Sergeant Major of the MDW, Command Sgt. Maj. Veronica Knapp, fills the same position within the JFHQ-NCR.  Because of the double-role of the MDW/JFHQ-NCR Commander, both commands are headquartered out of the same address at Fort Lesley J. McNair, Washington, D.C.

Interagency and community cooperation
When called upon for assistance by the civilian sector of the National Capital Region, the JFHQ-directed-JTF acts as a single cooperative point of contact for a wide range of military units, civilian units, and government agencies throughout the Washington, D.C. area.