[Source: PubMed]

83. Health Hum Rights. 2021 Dec;23(2):139-151.

Health Care in a Changing Climate: A Review of Climate Change Laws and National 
Adaptation Plans in Latin America.

Viveros-Uehara T(1).

Author information:
(1)PhD student at the School for Global Inclusion and Social Development at the 
University of Massachusetts Boston, USA.

Given that the health-related impacts of climate change in Latin America 
disproportionately affect the most marginalized sections of the population, 
there is a need to enhance countries' adaptive capacity through improved health 
systems. Though public health institutions have delineated guidelines to enhance 
health care systems' preparedness for climate change, embedding a human rights 
perspective in their translation into laws and policies further adds important 
value. Crucially, a rights-based approach strengthens health responses to 
climate change by calling attention to how climate law and policy fail to 
account for persistent and interlocking socioeconomic inequalities. This is an 
area that has not been fully present in the provision of health services in 
Latin America, which rely almost exclusively on a conventional epidemiological 
perspective and do not consider the historical and sociocultural nature of 
health challenges. Hence, this paper draws on two case studies-Brazil and 
Colombia-to identify the extent to which their national climate change laws and 
adaptation plans incorporate a human rights-based approach in their tasks to 
enhance their adaptive capacity through the expansion of affordable and quality 
health care. With respect to the countries' laws, the absence of explicit 
references to the right to health exemplifies the fragmentation between the 
international human rights framework and international climate change law. 
Further, both countries' adaptation plans hold considerable room for improving 
their engagement with the human rights framework, particularly by establishing 
mechanisms to promote transparency, monitoring, and the participation of 
marginalized groups.

Copyright © 2021 Viveros-Uehara.

PMCID: PMC8694288
PMID: 34966231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None declared.