[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# LGBT rights in Ethiopia

ls were arrested simply for their perceived appearance or "looking gay." They were subjected to beatings while in detention. In one tragic case, two men detained in January 2021 were later released but were then outed by the police to their families, leading to the suicide of one of the individuals.

A trans woman, originally from Qatar but with Ethiopian citizenship, faced deportation from Germany to Ethiopia in July 2021 despite her claims of criminal enforcement against her. She was exposed when someone discovered her male identity in her passport, leading to blackmail and subsequent reporting to authorities. After paying to keep the situation quiet, she was imprisoned in an Ethiopian men's prison for around a year, enduring physical and sexual violence from both staff and inmates. Her lawyer distanced himself from the case, possibly fearing accusations of homosexuality and legal consequences. German officials argued that she would be safe in Ethiopia as she could "pass" as cisgender, using the lack of explicit criminalization of diverse gender identities as justification for deportation.

Zim Anlem anti-gay campaign
Zim Anlem (Amharic: ዝም አንልም) is an anti-gay organisation which campaigns the government's efforts to decriminalize homosexual acts. The campaign was originally founded around 2014 by Dereje Negash, who is affiliated with the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church.  The movement gained publicity in 2019 after telecasting incidents of child-rape.

Public Opinion 
Traditional attitudes around sex and sexuality are prevalent in Ethiopia, with many Ethiopians holding that homosexuality is a choice and not innate. Arguments are made of it being an import from the West and that Ethiopian society should not accept it as a legitimate orientation. A 2007 Pew Global Attitudes Project found 97% of Ethiopian residents said that homosexuality should be rejected by society. This was the second-highest percentage among the countries surveyed, exceeded only by Mali.

Ethiopians tend to be disapproving of homosexuality, but attitudes vary by regions depending on the local cultural norms. Opposition is generally greater in predominantly Christian regions such as among the Habesha people of the Ethiopian highlands. This is because of the historical influence of the Ethiopian Orthodox Church and its teachings. Ethiopian Muslims such as the Harari, Afars and Somalis are also generally hostile to the LGBT community.

The US Department of State's 2011 Human Rights Report found that,
There were some reports of violence against lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) individuals; however, reporting was limited due to fears of retribution, discrimination, or stigmatization. Persons did not identify themselves as LGBT due to severe societal stigma and the illegality of consensual same-sex sexual activity. In early December 2011, Christian and Muslim religious leaders attempted to derail a seminar on sexual health that was targeted at men who have sex with men. The government intervened, and the seminar went ahead, although at a different location. The AIDS Resource Center in Addis Ababa reported that the majority of self-identified gay and lesbian callers, the majority of whom were male, requested assistance in changing their behavior in order to avoid discrimination. Many gay men reported anxiety, confusion, identity crises, depression, self-ostracism, religious conflict, and suicide attempts.
The same report found that stigma and discrimination toward persons living with HIV/AIDS impacted residents' ability to receive an education, find employment and integrate into the community. In 2017, the US Department of State reported that there were certain violence toward LGBT people across the community, but unable to conduct deep research due to feared discrimination and retribution.

Living conditions

Since 2008, human rights campaigners have increasingly shown concern for the wellbeing of LGBT people in Ethiopia. According to a 2008 Human Rights Watch report, there was widespread violence against people who identified as gay, lesbian or bisexual. The US Department of State accused the Ethiopian government of unlawfully killing citizens, as well as carrying out acts of torture and arbitrary detention. According to several surveys and reports, homosexuality caused a moral panic in Ethiopian society and many Ethiopians felt "it was brought by the West to pervert society". Ethiopians who hold traditional views or are religious devotees, especially Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo followers and Muslims, are generally intolerant of LGBT people. This leads LGBT people to face social stigma among the broader population. Internet censorhip has limited the ability of LGBT people and their allies to organize campaigns and petitions.