[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Israel Fire and Rescue Services

ials response and handling, many of whom are trained in the world class Hazmat facilities in the Netherlands, and all have certifications in extrication, heavy rescue, heavy apparatus operation, wildland interface suppression, structure fire suppression and ventilation, as well as search and rescue.

A typical engine crew consists of two firefighters for an automatic fire alarm and other non-structure fire calls, and most structure fire responses consists of two engine crews, a truck company, and a medium-duty rescue/suppression truck that also doubles as a commander's vehicle. Larger incidents may also require a communications vehicle, heavy rescue apparatus, and additional support/command units.

Their radio systems operate on a Motorola Conventional Wide Band System and most firefighters also have beepers and/or motorola walkie-talkie phones.

History

After a fire in Zikhron Ya'akov in 1897, the first firefighting company was established by the Baron Rothschild. The company had 32 members, and  equipment was brought from Paris, including pumps, hoses, ladders, axes and uniforms with shiny copper helmets and leather belts.

Another company was formed in Tel Aviv in 1925 following a flood in the Brenner neighbourhood, and was based in the first dedicated fire station in the country, a shed near the police station. Throughout the following years, more firefighting companies and fire stations were established throughout the Yishuv. By Israeli independence in 1948 there were fire stations in most Jewish settlements; Petah Tikva, Jerusalem, Haifa, Hadera, Rehovot, Nahariya, Bnei Brak, Ramat Gan, Givatayim, Afula, Herzliya, Kfar Saba, Holon, Netanya and Rishon LeZion.

After Israeli independence, fire stations were built in several other cities, including Acre and Beersheba, at Lod Airport, the oil refineries in Haifa and at the Port of Haifa and Port of Ashdod.

The Firefighting Services Law was passed in 1959 and took effect in 1960. It established a fully professional firefighting force, as until then, firefighters had previously been volunteers.

Israel Fire and Rescue Services operates 5 fire stations in Jerusalem. The main station is in Givat Mordechai, with branches in Romema, Wadi al-Joz, Givat Ram and Neve Ya'akov.

After the 2010 Mount Carmel forest fire, Israel's fire and rescue services have been transformed and upgraded from a municipal-based structure into a national force. The Israeli government nationalized the Fire and Rescue Services. Until then, the fire services had been operated by local authorities, which billed citizens for their services. Following the reform, the state finances the service as part of the government budget. It was announced that the reform would streamline efficiency and upgrade services. As a result of the reform, the fire service purchased dozens of new fire engines and new equipment, and an eight-aircraft strong firefighting squadron (expected to grow to 14) was established. All firefighters and rescue personnel became government employees under the Ministry Of Public Security.

The reform is described on the National Firefighting Authority's homepage as follows:

The Fire Reform – Creating a National Fire Authority
On July 25, 2012, the Knesset approved a law establishing a National Fire Authority. The law entails dismantling the local fire authorities and creating 7 districts under the control of the Fire Commission, within the Ministry of Public Security.

Fire and Rescue Services
National Fire Authority

The law followed a government decision from January 2011, which, in light of the Mt. Carmel forest fire, called for the establishment of a National Fire Authority under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public Security.
 
Main Points of the Law:

The law changes the structure of the fire service from a municipality-based, divided force, into a single, unified, national force. The law also broadens the authority of the Fire Commissioner, who will now command over the force, determine the number and location of fire stations, and decide on the size of the force. As a result of the move to the Ministry of Public Security, all firefighters will now become government employees. In addition, the jurisdiction over hazardous materials will be transferred from the Environmental Protection Ministry to the Fire Commission. According to the government decision, the law must be implemented by February 1, 2013.
 
Making Changes: