[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Wheat Field

The Wheat Field is a series of oil paintings executed by Vincent van Gogh in Saint-Rémy-de-Provence. All of them depict the view Van Gogh had from the window of his bedroom on the top floor of the asylum: a field enclosed by stone walls just beneath his window and excluded from normal life by the rear wall of the asylum grounds; beyond this enclosure farm land, accompanied by olive groves and vineyards, ran up to the hills at the foot of the mountain range called Les Alpilles.

From May 1889 to May 1890, Van Gogh recorded this view in changing settings: after a storm, with a reaper in the field, with fresh wheat raising in autumn and with flowers in the spring. This is one of Van Gogh's major series from Saint-Rémy, comprising works such as the Wheat Field at Sunrise in the Kröller-Müller Museum.  Van Gogh included the Enclosed Field with Rising Sun (F737) made in December 1889 in his Display at Les XX 1890 in Brussels.

Van Gogh worked on a group of paintings "The Wheat Field" that he could see from his cell at Saint-Paul Hospital.  From the studio room he could see a field of wheat, enclosed by a wall.  Beyond that were the mountains from Arles.  During his stay at the asylum he made about twelve paintings of the view of the enclosed wheat field and distant mountains.  In May Van Gogh wrote to Theo, "Through the iron-barred window I see a square field of wheat in an enclosure, a perspective like Van Goyen, above which I see the morning sun rising in all its glory."  The stone wall, like a picture frame, helped to display the changing colors of the wheat field.

Spring and summer, 1889
The Kröller-Müller Museum's Enclosed Wheat Field with Rising Sun was painted in May 1889. Van Gogh used the rising sun above fields of wheat to represent its life giving energy.

Green Wheat Field was painted in June 1889. Van Gogh had a tender feeling about green wheat, likening it to that of a baby:  "Young wheat has something inexpressibly pure and tender about it, which awakens the same emotion as the expression of a sleeping baby."  Towards the end of his life he regarded his most delicate works, a young wheat field with the rising sun or a blooming orchard, as his "babies".

Van Gogh describes Mountainous Landscape Behind Saint-Rémy, also made in June, as a view taken in the hills seen from his bedroom window: "In the foreground, a field of wheat ruined and hurled to the ground by a storm. A boundary wall and beyond the grey foliage of a few olive trees, some huts and the hills. Then at the top of the canvas a great white and grey cloud floating in the azure."

In late June Van Gogh painted Wheat Field with Reaper and Sun which he described as "a wheat field, very yellow and very light, perhaps the lightest canvas I have done".

In July he painted Kröller-Müller Museum's Landscape with Wheat Sheaves and Rising Moon which he describes as "a moonrise over the same field as the sketch in Gauguin's letter, but in it some stacks take the place of the wheat. It is dull yellow-ochre and violet."

Enclosed Field with Ploughman was made in August 1889, which is held in a private collection (F625).

Two complementary fall paintings

The Wheat Field with a Reaper was started in the summer before a bout of illness and completed in September. Here Van Gogh depicts a reaper in a sun-drenched wheat field. Referring to a Biblical metaphor, Van Gogh wrote of the meaning of this painting, "In this reaper – a vague figure laboring like the devil in the terrible heat to finish his task – I saw an image of death, in the sense that the wheat being reaped represented mankind... But there is nothing sad in this death, it takes place in broad daylight, under a sun that bathes everything in a fine, golden light."

Enclosed Field with Peasant was painted over several days in October, working just outside the hospital. It accurately reflects the topography of the walled wheat field with the peaks of the Alpilles in the background.  Van Gogh's brushwork brings life to this picture of furrowed soil and craggy mountains.  At the center, a peasant carries a bundle of straw, a symbol of the cycles of life.  Van Gogh described this painting as a pendant to The Reaper, which resides at the Van Gogh Museum in Amsterdam, both in vivid complementary colors of yellow and blue-violet.  Both he considers harsh studies, but instead of being almost entirely yellow like The Reaper, the "picture is almost entirely violet. Broken violet and neutral tints."

Fall and winter, 1889