[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Domenico Morfeo

youth coach, Prandelli. In the second half of the 1999–2000 season, despite another injury, his performances improved drastically, and he scored five goals in ten appearances playing as a second striker, as well as providing several decisive assists, which ultimately helped Verona avoid relegation. 

After being sidelined through injury for the first half of the 2000–01 season with Fiorentina, Morfeo briefly returned to Atalanta on loan the following January; during this time, however, he struggled with injuries and due to his character, and ultimately failed to consistently replicate the quality performances he had managed during his first spell with Atalanta, despite some promising performances, and a respectable tally of five goals in 17 appearances. After Fiorentina's financial difficulties had forced the club to sell several key players, Morfeo returned to the side for the 2001–02 season, and was now expected to be a central figure for the club; however, Fiorentina endured a difficult season, which ultimately ended with relegation to Serie B and bankruptcy, while Morfeo was limited to just two goals in 18 appearances, once again  due to injury troubles.

Inter, Parma, and later career
The following season, Morfeo was signed by Inter on a free transfer; however, he once again struggled at the club, due to several clashes with teammates, and manager Héctor Cúper, who frequently deployed Morfeo on the wing, and was eventually benched. Inter narrowly missed out on the 2002–03 Serie A title, and also reached the Champions League semi-finals, while Morfeo only scored one goal in 17 appearances. Morfeo later spent five seasons with Parma, from 2003 to 2008, where he was initially once again re-united with Prandelli, whose decision to field the playmaker in his favoured number 10 role was met with notable success and a great improvement in form. In later seasons, however, Morfeo once again clashed with his managers, and was often left out of the starting eleven; in total, Morfeo managed 16 goals in 101 Serie A appearances for the Emilian side. 

At the age of 32, he then agreed to start the 2008–09 season with Serie B club Brescia Calcio, but in October 2008 he ultimately decided to retire from football citing lack of motivation, and did not appear for the club in league, making his only appearance for Brescia in the Coppa Italia. 

In January 2009 he stepped back on his decision and returned to play football for the second half of the season with Cremonese, in the lower divisions, where he was re-united with coach Mondonico once again. Following a lengthy ban, he fully retired from football in February 2011, after a season with San Benedetto dei Marsi in the Seconda Categoria division. In total he scored 56 goals in 300 professional appearances throughout his career, scoring 54 goals in Serie A; 14 of these were scored from outside the area, with 8 of them coming from free-kicks, while only three were scored with his head, and ten with his right foot.

International career
Morfeo was never capped by the Italy national football team at senior level, although in February 1996, he was called up by Arrigo Sacchi along with several other young, promising Italian players to an Italy training camp. Between 1991 and 1992, Morfeo represented the Italy Under-15 and Under-16 side, collecting 7 appearances and scoring two goals for the team. In 1993, he was called up to the Italy Under-18 side, with which he scored six goals in as many appearances. At Under-21 level, he was first called up under Cesare Maldini in 1995, and he was later one of the key players in Italy's victorious 1996 UEFA European Under-21 Championship campaign, scoring the decisive penalty in the final shoot-out victory against Spain following a 1–1 draw, after coming on as a substitute for goalscorer Francesco Totti in the second half; that same year, he represented the youth side at the 1996 Olympics. In total, he managed 7 appearances with the under-21 side between 1995 and 1997, scoring 1 goal for the Azzurrini.