[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Shanghai Ghetto

re many lived in group homes called "Heime" or "Little Vienna".

The English version of the order read:

While this area was not walled or surrounded with barbed wire, it was patrolled and a curfew enforced in its precincts. Food was rationed, and everyone needed passes to enter or leave the ghetto.

According to Dr. David Kranzler,
Thus, about half of the approximately 16,000 refugees, who had overcome great obstacles and had found a means of livelihood and residence outside the 'designated area' were forced to leave their homes and businesses for a second time and to relocate into a crowded, squalid area of less than one square mile with its own population of an estimated 100,000 Chinese and 8,000 refugees.

The US air raids on Shanghai began in 1944. There were no bomb shelters in Hongkou because the water table was close to the surface.  The most devastating raid started on July 17, 1945, and was the first attack that hit Hongkou. Thirty-eight refugees and hundreds of Chinese were killed in the 17 July raid.

The bombings by the US 7th Air Force continued daily until early August, when the atomic bomb was dropped on Hiroshima and the Japanese government surrendered shortly thereafter. Refugees in the ghetto improvised their own shelters, with one family surviving the bombing under a bed with a second mattress on top, mounted on two desks.

Some Jews of the Shanghai ghetto took part in the resistance movement. They participated in an underground network to obtain and circulate information and were involved in some minor sabotage and in providing assistance to downed Allied aircrews.

After liberation 
The ghetto was officially liberated on September 3, 1945. The Government of Israel bestowed the honor of the Righteous Among the Nations to Chiune Sugihara in 1985 and to Ho Feng Shan in 2001.

Since the establishment of diplomatic relations between Israel and China in 1992, the connection between the Jewish people and Shanghai has been recognised in various ways. In 2007, the Israeli consulate-general in Shanghai donated 660,000 Yuan, provided by 26 Israeli companies, to community projects in Hongkou District in recognition of the safe harbour provided by the ghetto. The only Jewish monument in Shanghai is located at Huoshan Park (formerly Rabin Park) in Hongkou District.

Partial list of notable refugees in the Restricted Sector for Stateless Refugees 

 Walter Abish, Austrian-born American author of experimental novels and short stories.
 Aaron Avshalomov, Russian composer.
 Abba Berman, Haredi rabbi, Rosh yeshiva.
 Charles K. Bliss, whose Chinese experience inspired him to create Blissymbols.
 W. Michael Blumenthal, served as the U.S. Treasury Secretary.
 Morris Cohen, known by his nickname Two-Gun Cohen, he served as bodyguard and aide-de-camp to Sun Yat-sen, eventually becoming a Chinese general.
 Shaul Eisenberg, who founded and ran the Eisenberg Group of Companies in Israel.
 Kurt Rudolf Fischer, professor at University of Pennsylvania and University of Vienna.
 Eduard Glass, Austrian chess master.
 Leo Hanin, leader of Shanghai Betar.
 Otto Joachim, German composer.
 Shimon Sholom Kalish, Hasidic rebbe of Amshinov–Otvotsk.
 Yisrael Mendel Kaplan, Haredi rabbi, served as Reb Mendel.
 Yechezkel Levenstein, Haredi rabbi, served as Mashgiach Ruchani.
 Francis Mankiewicz, Canadian film director, screenwriter and producer.
 Peter Max, American pop artist.
 Michael Medavoy, a Hollywood executive at Columbia, Orion and TriStar Pictures.
 Rene Rivkin, Australian financier.
 Jakob Rosenfeld, more commonly known as General Luo, who spent nine years overseeing health care and who served as the Minister of Health in the 1947 Provisional Communist Military Government of China under Mao Zedong.
 Hermann Schieberth, a Society photographer in Vienna 
 Otto Schnepp, professor at University of Southern California
 Chaim Leib Shmuelevitz, Haredi rabbi, served as Rosh yeshiva of the Mirrer Yeshiva in Shanghai (1941–1947), and in Jerusalem (1965–1979).
 John G. Stoessinger, Distinguished Professor of Global Diplomacy at the University of San Diego
 George Szekeres, professor of mathematics, University of New South Wales.
 Sigmund Tobias, professor City University of New York, Fordham University, studied in Mir Yeshiva in Shanghai, President of Northeastern Educational Research Association 1975, President Division of Educational Psychology, American Psychological Association 1987, Distinguished Faculty Fellow US Navy R&D Center San Diego summers 1991–1997, published extensively in professional outlets.
 Laurence Tribe, professor, Harvard Law School,  Carl M. LoeDb University Professor 
 George Zames, a control theorist and professor at McGill University, Montreal, Quebec.

See also