[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 1956 in the United Kingdom

nt of Northern Ireland under Basil Brooke uses the Special Powers Act to intern several hundred republican suspects without trial.
 23 December – British and French troops withdraw from Suez under United Nations and United States pressure.
 25 December – PG Tips launches its long-running ITV advertising campaign using a chimpanzees' tea party (with voices provided by Peter Sellers).
 31 December – The Flanders and Swann revue At the Drop of a Hat opens in London.

Undated
 Opening of the first Jewish seminary for Liberal and Reform Judaism in England – Leo Baeck College, as the Jewish Theological College of London at West London Synagogue; its first two students are Lionel Blue and Michael Leigh.
 Tesco opens its first self-service stores in St Albans and Maldon.
 The Collared dove first breeds in the UK.
 Death of the last Agapemonite.

Publications
 Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot novel Dead Man's Folly.
 Anthony Crosland's book The Future of Socialism.
 Gerald Durrell's memoir My Family and Other Animals.
 Ian Fleming's James Bond novel Diamonds Are Forever.
 William Golding's novel Pincher Martin.
 C. S. Lewis' novel The Last Battle.
 Rose Macaulay's novel The Towers of Trebizond.
 Nancy Mitford's book Noblesse Oblige: an Enquiry into the Identifiable Characteristics of the English Aristocracy, illustrated by Osbert Lancaster.
 Samuel Selvon's novel The Lonely Londoners.
 Dodie Smith's children's novel The Hundred and One Dalmatians.
 Angus Wilson's novel Anglo-Saxon Attitudes.
 Colin Wilson's study The Outsider.
 The Movement's poetry anthology New Lines edited by Robert Conquest.

Births

 2 January – Storm Constantine, science fiction and fantasy author
 4 January – Bernard Sumner, guitarist (Joy Division and New Order)
 6 January 
 Angus Deayton, actor and television presenter
 Justin Welby, Archbishop of Canterbury
 7 January – Johnny Owen, né Owens, Welsh bantamweight boxer (died 1980)
 9 January – Imelda Staunton, English actress
 14 January – Ronan Bennett, Northern Irish writer
 17 January – Paul Young, pop singer and guitarist
 21 January – Ian McMillan, poet
 29 January – Anton Otulakowski, footballer
 31 January – John Lydon (Johnny Rotten), punk rock singer-songwriter (Sex Pistols)
 2 February – Philip Franks, actor and director
 4 February – Jon Walmsley, television actor and guitarist
 8 February – Richard Sharp, banker and Chairman of the BBC
 12 February – Joe Dever, fantasy author (died 2016)
 13 February – Peter Hook, bass guitar player (Joy Division and New Order)
 16 February – Paul Gilroy, academic
 19 February – Dave Wakeling, rock singer-songwriter
 22 February – Stuart Peach, Air Chief Marshal
 24 February – Fiona Graham-Mackay, née Bain, portrait painter
 25 February – Davie Cooper, Scottish footballer (died 1995)
 28 February – Terry Leahy, businessman
 7 March – Andrea Levy, novelist (died 2019)
 8 March – Lesley Regan, gynaecologist
 11 March – Helen Rollason, television sports presenter (died 1999)
 12 March
 Steve Harris, bass guitar player, founding member of Iron Maiden
 Lesley Manville, actress
 17 March – Frank McGarvey, footballer (died 2023)
 20 March – Catherine Ashton, Baroness Ashton of Upholland, politician
 23 March
 Rosa Beddington, biologist (died 2001)
 Andrew Mitchell, soldier and politician, Secretary of State for International Development
 Jeremy Wade, biologist and author
 19 April
 Sue Barker, tennis player and television presenter
 Anne Glover, Scottish biologist
 25 April – Greg Richards, decathlete
 26 April – Koo Stark, actress
 13 May – Richard Madeley, television presenter
 14 May – Hazel Blears, politician
 15 May – Kjartan Poskitt, author
 18 May – John Godber, dramatist
 24 May – Joe Casely-Hayford, fashion designer (died 2019)
 26 May 
 Neil Parish, politician
 Fiona Shackleton, lawyer 
 6 June – Christopher Adamson, film actor
 20 June – Simon Bryant, air marshal
 5 July – Terry Chimes, rock drummer (The Clash)
 15 July – Ian Curtis, post-punk singer-songwriter (Joy Division) (died 1980)
 19 July – Nikki Sudden, guitarist and singer-songwriter (Swell Maps) (died 2006)
 26 July – Andy Goldsworthy, sculptor and photographer
 29 July – Viv Anderson, footballer
 8 August – Chris Foreman, rock guitarist
 17 August – Dave Jones, footballer and manager
 21 August – Kim Cattrall, screen actress
 7 September – Robert Reed, Baron Reed of Allermuir, Scottish judge, President of the Supreme Court of the UK
 14 September – Ray Wilkins, footballer and coach (died 2018)
 18 September – Tim McInnerny, actor
 29 September – Sebastian Coe, athlete, co-ordinator of London 2012 Olympic Games
 1 October – Theresa May, Prime Minister, Conservative Party leader, MP for Maidenhead 
 20 October – Danny Boyle, film director
 27 October – Hazell Dean, singer
 30 October – Juliet Stevenson, actress
 November – Teresa Borsuk, architect
 5 November – Rob Fisher, keyboardist and songwriter (Climie Fisher) (died 1999)
 8 November – Richard Curtis, screenwriter
 23 November