[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Karen Narasaki

is a past board member of the Independent Sector.

Narasaki also serves on the National Commission on Adult Literacy, a national project of the Council for Advancement of Adult Literacy which promotes adult literacy and is the immediate past chair of the National Council of Asian Pacific Americans.

A nationally recognized expert on affirmative action and immigrant, civil and voting rights Narasaki has appeared on The Newshour with Jim Lehrer, ABC and CBS News, Hardball with Chris Matthews and has been quoted in many major American newspapers. During the Clinton administration, Narasaki was invited to the White House on several occasions to advise the president on civil rights issues.  On April 22, 2009 she was named to the Advisory Committee on Diversity for Communications in the Digital Age of the Federal Communications Commission.

Awards
Recognized by Washingtonian Magazine in 2001, 2006, 2009 and 2011 as one of the "100 most powerful women in Washington, D.C.," Narasaki has received numerous awards and accolades. In 2005, she was the recipient of the American Bar Association Spirit of Excellence Award, and has received the Congressional Black Caucus Chair's Award, International Channel We the People Award, and was named one of the 100 Most Influential Asian Americans of the Decade by A. Magazine. Along with numerous other awards, she is also the 2004 recipient of the Greater Sacramento Urban League Ruth Standish Baldwin Award, the 2000 U.S. Department of Justice Citizen Volunteer Service Award, the 1999 Asian Pacific American Labor Alliance Community Award, and the 1994 National Asian Pacific American Bar Association Trailblazer Award.

Bibliography

References

Further reading

External links

 AAJC Biography
 

1958 births
Activists from Seattle
American people of Japanese descent
Japanese-American civil rights activists
Living people
American twins
United States Commission on Civil Rights members
University of California, Los Angeles alumni
Yale University alumni
People associated with Perkins Coie
Women civil rights activists
21st-century American women