[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of the Barracks

The JNA barracks in Našice surrendered on 21 September. The JNA Varaždin Corps surrendered the next day, providing the ZNG with a major cache of weapons. In the first few days of the blockade, the Croatian forces also captured several small JNA posts in Split, but no large JNA facility in the city.

In mid-September, seven JNA facilities in Zadar, including three barracks, were captured. The most significant  captured facility was the "Turske kuće" barracks, which contained a large cache of small arms and ammunition. The Yugoslav Air Force carried out air strikes against the facility the next day—following a pattern that was established at the time—to hinder the removal of weapons from captured JNA facilities. On 23 September, a ZNG assault on a large JNA weapons storage site in Sveti Roklocated between Gospić and Zadarfailed. The two remaining JNA barracks under Croatian blockade—in Vinkovci and Osijek—were abandoned by the JNA by 26 September. The Osijek garrison managed to break out from its besieged barracks and joined the JNA troops south and east of the city, while the evacuation of the Vinkovci barracks was negotiated between Croatian authorities and the JNA. The negotiations were initiated after the JNA 1st Guards Mechanised Division reached Vinkovci on 25 September, forcing the ZNG to accept the evacuation. A JNA facility on the island of Korčula surrendered its equipment to the ZNG on 26 September.

On 29 September, Croatian forces captured two barracks and three storage depots in and around Bjelovar after a day-long battle, while the fourth storage facility was blown up by its commanding officer, JNA Major Milan Tepić. The explosion killed Tepić and eleven members of the besieging force. It was heard  away and caused damage in nearby villages. The same day, a weapons storage facility in Koprivnica and a border post near Virovitica were captured by the ZNG and the Croatian police. The JNA 73rd Motorized Brigade surrendered in Koprivnica the next day.

On 14/15 September, Croatian forces seized a DJČ-612 landing craft from the Yugoslav Navy while it was undergoing repairs in Vela Luka shipyard; they sailed the vessel the same night into the Cetina River. Between 16 and 22 September, Croatian forces captured the Kuline barracks in Šibenik and the 15 Yugoslav Navy vessels based there, as well as a further 19 vessels that were being overhauled in the "Velimir Škorpik" shipyard. The vessels, comprising approximately one-quarter of the Yugoslav Navy's assets, included: the Vlado Ćetković (RTOP-402) Končar-class fast attack craft (renamed  later on), the Velimir Škorpik (RČ-310) Osa-class missile boat, the Partizan II (TČ-222) Shershen-class torpedo boat and the Biokovo (PČ-171), Cer (PČ-180) and Durmitor (PČ-181) Mirna-class patrol boats. Also, a ship in the final stages of construction was captured in the Kraljevica Shipyard the same month. She was launched in 1992 as  missile boat. In September, seven coastal artillery bases near Šibenik and on the islands of Šolta, Brač and Korčula were captured.

October

On 3 October, Croatian forces captured the "Joža Vlahović" JNA barracks in Koprivnica, and a communications post and a border post near the city. The next day, the JNA barracks in Sinj and its nearby land mine storage facility were abandoned after a negotiated agreement. In early October, two JNA artillery regiments based in the "Šepurine" barracks near Zadar broke through a siege of their base and joined the JNA attack on the city. By 5 October, Zadar was completely surrounded by the JNA and the situation prompted Croatian authorities in the city to seek a ceasefire and negotiations. The ceasefire was arranged the same day, while the negotiations, held on 7–9 October, brought about the lifting of the JNA siege of Zadar and the evacuation of the remaining JNA garrison and its equipment from the city. The evacuation, involving seven JNA facilities, started on 11 October and took 15 days. The agreement stipulated that the evacuated units would leave Croatian soil and the JNA generally respected the obligation, even though twenty truckloads of weapons were left to the Serbian population in the hinterland around Zadar.

In the wake of the bombing of Banski dvori of 7 October, Croatian authorities instructed the ZNG to assault and capture JNA barracks in the Zagreb area if commanders considered it possible. The instructions did not result in attacks in Zagreb itself, but JNA barracks in Samobor were captured by Croatian forces on the day of the bombing. The declaration of the independence of Croatia came into force the next day.