[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# December 1919

the Vickers Viking aircraft he was flying in heavy fog during a test flight at Cottévrard, France.
 Cole Porter married Linda Lee Thomas in a civil ceremony at Paris city hall. Despite Porter being gay, the two had a loving marriage that lasted until Lee's death in 1954.

December 19, 1919 (Friday) 

 Incumbent Billy Hughes of the Nationalist Party defeated Frank Tudor of the Australian Labor Party in the Australian federal election despite it being a close race and his party dropping from 53 to 37 parliament seats.
 A train collision in Onawa, Maine killed 23 people.
 A British convoy escorting Lord Lieutenant of Ireland John French was ambushed by Irish Republican Army near Frenchpark, County Roscommon, Ireland. The first vehicle in the convoy carrying French broke through the blockade before the Irish volunteers could react, allowing the armed escort to return fire. Irish officer Martin Savage was killed in the firefight while compatriot Dan Breen was wounded.
 The Yucca House National Monument was established in Montezuma County, Colorado.
 The finance and insurance company American International Group (AIG) was established by Cornelius Vander Starr as American Asiatic Underwriters in Shanghai. It would expand over the next five years throughout Southeast Asia before opening a branch in the United States in 1926.
 The American Meteorological Society was established in Boston.
 The fraternity Alpha Zeta Omega was established at the Philadelphia College of Pharmacy and Science.
 The honor society Gamma Sigma Epsilon was established at Davidson College. It now has 16,000 members in about 80 chapters across the United States.
 The fictional characters Harold Hamgravy and Olive Oyl made their first appearance in the Thimble Theatre comic strip by E. C. Segar. The strip evolved into Popeye when Segar debuted the super-powered sailor in 1929.

December 20, 1919 (Saturday) 
 The Royal Australian Navy released five sailors from imprisonment who were convicted of mutiny while serving on the battlecruiser  in June following months of public and government pressure to commute their sentences.
 The Polish Football Association was established in Warsaw.
 Finnish filmmaker Erkki Karu established his production company Suomi-Filmi, leading to the start of the Golden Age of Finnish cinema.
 The Shire of Barron in  Queensland, Australia was dissolved and split between the Shires of Cairns and Woothakata.
 The borough of Castle Shannon, Pennsylvania was established.
 Died: Philip Fysh, Australian politician, 12th Premier of Tasmania (b. 1835)

December 21, 1919 (Sunday) 
 The United States deported 249 people deemed a security threat for their sympathetic communist or anarchist view to Russia on the USAT Buford, including Emma Goldman and Alexander Berkman.

December 22, 1919 (Monday) 
 A bill to reform governance in Ireland was introduced into the British House of Commons, with a proposal from the cabinet Irish committee to form two separate Irish parliaments in Dublin and Belfast respectively.
 The Toronto Arenas hockey club was renamed the Toronto St. Patricks, the precursor to the Toronto Maple Leafs.
 The honor society Theta Alpha Phi was established at Oklahoma A&M College.
 Died: Sarah Morgan Bryan Piatt, American poet, known for her poetry collections including A Woman's Poems (b. 1836)

December 23, 1919 (Tuesday) 
Royal assent was given by King George to the following legislation passed by the Parliament of the United Kingdom:
 Government of India Act, which allowed British India to move closer to responsible government and eventual independence.
 Aliens Restriction Act, which extended 1914 guidelines on dealing with enemy aliens following the end of World War I.
 Church of England Assembly Act, which allowed the Church of England to submit legislation in the form of measures to Parliament.
 Sex Disqualification Act which removed legal barriers for women entering secular public professions.
 The Central Armed Forces Museum opened in Moscow to commemorate the accomplishments of the Red Army.
 Born: 
Kenneth M. Taylor, American air force officer, member of the 47th Fighter Squadron during the attack on Pearl Harbor, one of the two pilots (the other being George Welch) to get their planes in the air to fight off Japanese aircraft, recipient of the Distinguished Service Cross, Distinguished Service Medal, Air Medal and Legion of Merit; in Enid, Oklahoma (d. 2006)
Peggy Fortnum, English artist, best known for her illustrations for the children's book series Paddington Bear, in Harrow, London (d. 2016)

December 24, 1919 (Wednesday) 
 Alice H. Parker formally filed a patent for the modern central heating gas furnace, the first African-American woman to do so.
 The Osaka North Harbour Company was established in Osaka to manage the lands and ports around the city's harbor, eventually evolving into the Sumitomo Corporation.