[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# 2006 Georgian–Russian espionage controversy

towards ethnic Georgian immigrants through pinning a badge saying "I am Georgian":

On October 7, a minor unsanctioned rally organized by opposition youth activists in support of the Georgians was dispersed and more than a dozen of its participants detained by Moscow police.

Background information

 Around  Georgians reside in Russia as foreign workers. Georgia gets warning on 'anti-Russia' stance, International Herald Tribune, October 5, 2006
 According to the 2002 All-Russia Population Census,  Georgians have Russian citizenship.
 According to the director of Russian Migration Service, annual remittances (monetary transfers) of Georgian foreign workers from Russia to Georgia constitute 20% of Georgia's GDP — over 1 billion dollars a year.
 Russia is one of the most important Georgian trade partners, responsible for around 15% of total Georgian foreign trade.
 The Georgian share of Russian foreign trade makes up 0.5%.
 Russia's role in the Georgian-Abkhaz conflict, siding with the Abkhaz separatists, has been a cause for resentment in Georgia.  The conflict resulted in the ethnic cleansing of Georgians from the province of Abkhazia, with the death of an estimated  to  Georgians and the displacement of over  Georgian refugees, who had to be redistributed throughout Georgia, which has a population of only 4 million people.  Weakened by the war, Georgia was forced to join the Commonwealth of Independent States and remain under the political influence of Russia.
 Russia still maintains two Russian military bases in Georgia (the 62nd Base in Akhalkalaki and the 12th in Batumi), remnants of the Soviet era, but the bases are in the process of being withdrawn. The process is scheduled to finish in 2007 for the Akhalkalaki base and in 2008 for the Batumi base. The headquarters of the Russian military forces in the Caucasus is located in Tbilisi. Due to the espionage conflict, the headquarters was closed down ahead of schedule: 287 Russian servicemen have left Georgia around December 31, 2006.

References

External links
Context of Georgian-Russian spy rift
Russia-Georgia spying row (RIA Novosti)
Q&A: Russian-Georgian ties (BBC)
In pictures: Russia-Georgia row (BBC)
Georgian Ministry of Internal Affairs press release, 27 September 2006.
Lithuanian, Polish and Ukrainian support for Georgia
Russia | The hardest word, The Economist'', 16 October 2006
Interview with Kakha Bendukidze 

Georgian-Russian espionage controversy
Espionage controversy
Espionage controversy
Espionage controversy
Georgia (country)–Russia relations
Georgian-Russian espionage controversy
Georgian-Russian Espionage Controversy, 2006
Political controversies in Russia