[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Western corella

vided as a result of agricultural activities, however, the exploitation of these food supplies has led to their persecution, which has had detrimental effects on their population. As with all parrots, Corellas are mostly seed eaters but can vary their diet depending on habitat and food availability.

Cacatua pastinator eats wheat grain and native seeds during December to April; bulbs and corms which are dug out of the ground with the long-tipped bill, most commonly Romulea rosea (Onion Grass), are the most common diet item during May to November. During late winter and spring insect larvae form an important part of the diet for Corellas, both for adults and nestlings, with the exoskeleton being discarded and the larvae gutted before it is fed to the young. Most feeding occurs in large open areas such as pasture and crops but Corellas have been known to feed in cattle feedlots. Corellas have been observed feeding on marri (Corymbia calophylla) seeds by holding the capsule and tipping the seed into their mouth, and feeding on wheat by bending the seed heads down to pluck out the grains.

Aviculture
This species has the ability to mimic clearly and, like other cockatoos, bonds strongly to its owner. The western corella may show aggression to other birds in the aviary. It is not as common in aviculture as the little corella or long-billed corella.

The Noongar peoples have used the feathers of this species as an adornment for a headband or placed in their hair. Consumption of this corella by the Indigenous inhabitants of Southwest Australia is undocumented, but assumed from methods that could be employed, using a wounded bird near a pool of water as a decoy, and the reports of English colonists that it was a wholesome and good tasting meal.

Status and conservation
While generally uncommon, it has expanded its range in recent decades, and is therefore listed as of least concern by BirdLife International.  However, the nominate subspecies, Muir's corella, is relatively rare, with a population of around 3000 individuals, and is considered to be nationally Vulnerable.

References

External links

BirdLife Species Factsheet.
Information about Muir's corella (Cacatua pastinator pastinator)
Western Corella

western corella
Talking birds
Endemic birds of Southwest Australia
western corella