[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Bill Hickman

man on his way to work who wandered into the scene. This scene was kept in the film by Friedkin as it added reality to the whole sequence, however, the scene where the woman steps out into the street with a baby carriage was staged. Hickman also had a supporting role in the film as federal agent ).

The Seven-Ups
Hickman performed a chase sequence for the 1973 film The Seven-Ups (in which Hickman again worked with Philip D'Antoni, who had also produced Bullitt and The French Connection). In The Seven-Ups, Hickman drove the car being chased by the star of the film, Roy Scheider, who is doubled by Hickman's friend and fellow stuntman, Jerry Summers. The chase itself leans heavily on the Bullitt chase, with the two cars bouncing down the gradients of uptown New York (à la San Francisco's steep hills) with Hickman's large 1973 Pontiac Grand Ville four door sedan pursued by Scheider's Pontiac Ventura.

In the accompanying behind-the-scenes featurette of the 2006 DVD, Hickman can be seen co-ordinating the chase from the street, where it can be seen how dangerous these sequences were: on cue, a stuntman in a parked car opens his door, only to have Hickman's vehicle take it completely off its hinges, where (from the behind-the-scenes footage) we see the door fly off at force, missing only by chance the close-quarter camera team set-up only yards away. The end of the chase was Bill's own idea, a 'homage' to the death of Jayne Mansfield, where one of the cars smashes into the back of an eighteen-wheel truck, peeling off its roof like a can of sardines.

Other work
Hickman had many bit parts in classic television series of the 1950s and 1960s, such as Bat Masterson, The Man from UNCLE and Batman. In one year (1957), he had the rare distinction of being cast as the assailant who slices Frank Sinatra's vocal chords in  The Joker Is Wild  and whips Elvis Presley in Jailhouse Rock.

Hickman performed the stunt where James Bond driving a Mustang Mach 1 escapes a police hot pursuit in a Las Vegas parking lot by jumping over parked cars in Diamonds Are Forever (1971). Hickman was brought in to perform the stunt when the stunt driver hired for the gig failed to make the jump. The Ford Motor Co. had provided a limited number of Mustangs and the producers could not afford to lose another one, so they hired Hickman. He performed the stunt successfully on the first take. 

He moved on to more stunt coordination work in films as the 1970s wound down, notably The Hindenburg and Capricorn One. He staged the motorcycle chase in Electra Glide In Blue, starring Robert Blake, and also appeared as a driver in the 1969 Disney film The Love Bug and as the military driver for George C. Scott in the Academy Award-winning movie Patton.

Personal life
In 1963, Hickman and fellow stuntman Alex Sharp witnessed a bank robber, Carl Follette, speed by them on the Ventura Freeway near the Laurel Canyon off-ramp. After Hickman saw the suspect shoot police Officer Alphonso Begue in the chest, he used his stunt driver skills to chase him down on Laurel Canyon Road until law enforcement officers could catch up. The car chase eventually ended in a North Hollywood parking lot where Follette was shot and killed in an exchange of gunfire with the police.

Death
Bill Hickman died of cancer in 1986 at the age of 65 in Indio, California.

Credited acting roles