[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Old New Land

the aggressive rise of anti-Semitism in Europe, the unifying sense of Jewish identity and solidarity that followed, and the desire for a homeland where Jews could live free from persecution and not be a minority in their society inspired a new wave of Zionism led by individuals like Theodore Hertzl.

The novel directly reflected Herzl's political philosophy represented through a new form, literature. The novel presented a modern, democratic, and multicultural Jewish state, which was a departure from the traditional religious and cultural identity of the Jewish people. Herzl emphasized the importance of Jewish self-determination and the need for a Jewish state to ensure the safety of the Jewish people. Herzl believed that the Jewish community was a nation and needed a state of its own to survive in the modern world. This idea became a pillar of Zionism and was later instrumental in the need for the establishment of the State of Israel.

Legacy

The book was immediately translated into Hebrew by Nahum Sokolow, who gave it the poetic title "Tel Aviv", using tel ('ancient mound') for 'old' and aviv ('spring') for 'new'. The name as such appears in the Book of Ezekiel, where it is used for a place in Babylonia to which the Israelites had been exiled (). The Hebrew title of the book was chosen as the name for a new neighbourhood of Jaffa, established in 1909 under the uninspired name of "Ahuzat Bayit", lit. "Homestead". The new name, Tel Aviv, replaced the original one only a year later, in 1910, and was used for the expanded settlement, now comprising two more adjacent neighbourhoods. Eventually Tel Aviv would become known as "the first [modern] Hebrew city" and a central economic and cultural hub of Israel.

Additionally, the first Hebrew edition of the Herzl biography that was written after 1948, and published by Alex Bein in 1960, reflected historical viewpoint changes based on the summary of The Old New Land. In the summary, the outline of Altneuland was significantly shorter than that of the previously published 1938 copy. The shortened summary did not include details of the interaction between Herzl's Altneuland Palestine and the ruling Ottoman empire. However it is important to note that many other references to Herzl's Altneuland Palestine following the establishment of a Jewish state do not include this information as well.

Herzl's friend Felix Salten visited Palestine in 1924 and saw how Herzl's dream was coming true. Next year, Salten gave his travel book the title Neue Menschen auf alter Erde (“New People on Old Soil”), and both the title of this book and its contents allude to Herzl's Altneuland.

Publication details
1902, Germany, Hermann Seemann Nachfolger, Leipzig, hardback (First edition) (as Altneuland in German)
1941, US, Bloch Publishing, hardback (translated by Lotta Levensohn)
1961, Israel, Haifa Publishing, paperback (as Altneuland in German)
1987, US, Random House (), paperback
1997, US, Wiener (Markus) Publishing (), paperback

References

External links
 
 Full text translation at Jewish Virtual Library
 Dreaming of Altneuland. The Economist, December 21, 2000.
 The Herzl Museum in Jerusalem

1902 science fiction novels
Austrian novels
Utopian novels
Books about Zionism
Novels set in Israel
20th-century Austrian novels
1902 German-language novels
Fiction set in 1923
Novels set in the future
Theodor Herzl