[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Artistic depictions of the Partition of India

cutta, and concerns an impoverished genteel Hindu bhadralok family and the problems they face because of Partition. 

Komal Gandhar (E Flat)
Directed by Ritwik Ghatak Komal Gandhar (1961), the protagonists suffer from the same anguish: the separation from their home, on the other side of the border.

Dharmputra
It was first Hindi film to depict the partition of India, and Hindu fundamentalism, Dharmputra (1961) directed by Yash Chopra, two years after he made his debut with Dhool Ka Phool (1959), steeped in Nehruvian secularism, wherein a Muslim brings up an 'illegitimate' Hindu child and featured classic song, Tu Hindu banega na Musalman banega, insaan ki aulaad hai, insaan banega, the theme was reverse in this film as herein a Hindu family brings an illegitimate Muslim child, who grows up to become a Hindu fundamentalist. The film was critically acclaimed, and won the 9th National Film Award for Best Feature Film in Hindi., however its release saw near riots at the theatre, discouraging other Hindi film directors from approaching the theme for another decade, although subtly.

Earth
Directed by Deepa Mehta, Earth (1998), an India/Canada co-production, is a thoughtful examination of a circle of friends and acquaintances affected by the Partition. A scoundrel uses communal violence as an excuse for retaliation against a romantic rival. The film is based on Bapsi Sidhwa's Cracking India; Sidhwa co-wrote the screenplay with Mehta. Contains brutal scenes of communal carnage.

Hey Ram

Kamal Haasan wrote, directed, and starred in Hey Ram (2000) film about the Partition and the assassination of Gandhi. The story follows the life of a south Indian Brahmin man caught up in the madness surrounding the direct action day in Calcutta and the subsequent events culminating in the assassination of Gandhi. It portrays the greatness of M.K. Gandhi in a telling way and also shows how even educated men acted mad out of grief and rage during the partition. The screenplay touches on many things that are common to the modern nations of India and Pakistan, starting from the Indus valley civilisation.

Gadar: Ek Prem Katha
Directed by Anil Sharma, Gadar: Ek Prem Katha (2001), is an Indian movie about the Partition; notable for shocking scenes of riot and massacre of Hindus and Sikhs being killed in the famous scene of train full of dead bodies of Hindu and Sikh people escaping from Pakistan. The train was marked by Pakistani mobs by writing "Ajadi Ka Tohfa," that translates as "Gift of Independence" on it. In the movie the trains that came from Pakistan had another sentence written on them, which translates as "Indians! learn cutting from us." It was a major hit.

Khamosh Paani (Silent Waters)
Directed by Sabiha Sumar, Khamosh Pani (Silent Waters) (2003), depicts the partition ironically and shows the situation of Jihadis in 1979 Pakistan.

 Pinjar Pinjar was a 2003 film, adapted from the novel by same name by Amrita Pritam, and had Urmila Matondkar in the role of the protagonist, Puro.

Partition
Directed by Vic Sarin Partition, is a Canada/UK/South Africa co-production. A retired Sikh military officer (played by Jimi Mistry) helps and falls in love with a Muslim teenaged girl (played by Kristin Kreuk).

Tamas
Based on author, Bhisham Sahni's acclaimed Hindi novel, Tamas (1987) depicted the makings of riots in a small Indian town, and its aftermath, first shown adapted into a TV series by Govind Nihalani for Doordarshan, and later shown as a one-off four-hour feature film.

Gandhi
Richard Attenborough's film on Gandhi's life has several scenes dealing with the lead up to partition, the violence, and Gandhi's reaction. The movie won 8 Academy Awards

Jinnah
Jamil Dehlavi's film on Jinnah's life has several scenes dealing with the lead up to partition, the violence, and Jinnah's reaction.

The Sky Below
A feature-length award-winning documentary by Sarah Singh which explores the history and current climate on both sides of the Indo-Pakistani divide (2007).

 Art 
The early members of the Bombay Progressive Artist's Group cite the Partition of India as a key reason for its founding in December 1947. Those members included F. N. Souza, M. F. Husain, S. H. Raza, S. K. Bakre, H. A. Gade, and K. H. Ara, who went on to become some of the most important and influential Indian artists of the 20th century.

Contemporary Indian artists that have made significant artworks about the Partition are Nalini Malani, Anjolie Ela Menon, Satish Gujral, Nilima Sheikh, Arpita Singh, Krishen Khanna, Pran Nath Mago, S. L. Parasher, Arpana Caur, Tayeba Begum Lipi, Mahbubur Rahman, Promotesh D Pulak, and Pritika Chowdhry.

Project Dastaan is a peace-building initiative that reconnects displaced refugees of the 1947 Partition of India, Pakistan and Bangladesh with their childhood communities and villages through virtual reality digital experiences.