[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# C.D. Cobresal

of the tournament of notable form not losing any match in the 1997 season, but again lost the category of be defeated 7–5 by Provincial Osorno in the aggregate result, via the Promotion play-offs. Finally, in 2001, thanks to the coach Jorge Socías, the club returned to the Chilean Primera División.

Successful seasons in the Primera División
With Socías at the bench for the 2002 Apertura Tournament, Cobresal won his first match since his return to the first division, 2–1 to Santiago Morning as visitor with goals of André Gómez and Jorge Baeza, receiving a goal of Carlos Cáceres from the other side. After a game win to Rangers, the club lost 4–1 their first game in the tournament against Unión San Felipe with a hat-trick of Francis Ferrero and a goal Cristian Leiva, and a goal of Jorge Baeza for Cobresal. The club began to lose the games that disputed and made a poor season finishing last of his group in the fifth place with 12 points. After the bad season in the Apertura, in the next tournament still with Socías as coach, Cobresal reached the play-offs quarter-finals, being eliminated by Colo-Colo, who finished be the champion of the Clausura.

After the departure of Jorge Socías, because the directive not renewed his contract, arrived Gustavo Huerta as coach, a former footballer of the club that played at Cobresal during the 1980s. After two defeats in the tournament, against Unión Española reached its first victory in the 2003 Apertura Tournament. They won 5–1 in home condition with goals of Juan Silva, Pedro Rivera, the Uruguayan centre back Alejandro Acosta, Damián Araya and Víctor González at El Cobre Stadium. The next week, Cobresal achieved an important 0–0 away draw with Universidad Católica at San Carlos. After the draw with Católica in Santiago, the club did not lose several matches, in where the most important results were a 4–0 home win over Coquimbo Unido and a 3–3 draw in the same condition with Universidad de Chile, that had good players like Mauricio Pinilla, Faustino Asprilla, Waldo Ponce and Marcos González. On 23 May, Cobresal achieved a very important victory 1–0 to Colo-Colo, who had as a key player to the former player of the club Iván Zamorano (aged 35 in 2003), who was an historic footballer in the club's short history at the moment. The club made a good campaign in the Apertura, qualifying in the 7th place of the table to the play-offs, winning in the first round to Colo-Colo, qualifying of rare form both teams, because the adversary of Cobresal qualified as best loser along with Huachipato, but in the next round the team was eliminated of the contest after a 7–1 loss with Universidad de Concepción. After the Huerta's departure of Cobresal, who accepted a bid of the Bolivian side Bolívar, arrived the coach Julio Acuña on his replace. Acuña reached the Clausura Tournament's semi-finals, being eliminated by Colo-Colo at the Estadio Monumental with goals of Silvio Fernández Dos Santos in the 81st minute and in the 83rd minute. If Cobresal won the semi-finals key, could have faced to his rival Cobreloa in the Clausura's tournament. In the 2004 season, after the bad results of Acuña, for the Clausura Tournament, the club re–signed to Huerta and achieved that Cobresal finished in the fourth place of the aggregate table.