[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nevada Senate

slie, in February 2012, and she announced her intention to run against Sen. Greg Brower in 2012.  Later in February 2012, citing personal reasons, Senator Elizabeth Halseth resigned her suburban/rural Clark County seat.

Legislative sessions

Current session

Historical activity of political parties

    Democratic Party (1864–Present)
  National Union Party (1864–1869)
    Republican Party (1871–present)
  Citizen's Party (1879–1881)
    People's Party (1893–1899)
  Silver Party (1893–1907)
  Silver-Democrat Party (1899–1909)
    Socialist Party (1913–1915)
 Independent candidates have been elected to the Senate sporadically from 1863 through 1965

Composition and leadership of the 82nd Legislative session

Presiding over the Senate

The President of the Senate is the body's highest officer, although they only vote in the case of a tie, and only on procedural matters. Per Article 5, Section 17 of the Nevada Constitution, the Lieutenant Governor of Nevada serves as Senate President. In their absence, the President Pro Tempore presides and has the power to make commission and committee appointments. The President Pro Tempore is elected to the position by the majority party. The other partisan Senate leadership positions, such as the Leader of the Senate and Minority Leader, are elected by their respective party caucuses to head their parties in the chamber. The current President of the Senate is Nevada Lieutenant Governor Stavros Anthony of the Republican Party.

Non-member officers

On the first day of a regular session, the Senate elects the non-member, nonpartisan administrative officers including the Secretary of the Senate and the Senate Sergeant at Arms. The Secretary of the Senate serves as the Parliamentarian and Chief Administrative Officer of the Senate and the Sergeant at Arms is chief of decorum and order for the Senate floor, galleries, and committee rooms. Claire J. Clift was originally appointed by then Republican Senate Majority Leader William Raggio. The Democratic Party took the Majority in 2008 and she was retained until 2010. In August 2010, then Senate Majority Leader Steven Horsford appointed David Byerman as the 41st Secretary of the Senate. The day after the 2014 General Election, David Byerman was removed from his position and the previous Secretary, Claire J. Clift was re-appointed. Retired Chief of Police, Robert G. Milby was chosen as the Senate Sergeant at Arms for the 78th Legislative by the Republican Majority Leader.  Both of the elected non-member officers serve at the pleasure of the Senate, thus they have a two-year term until the succeeding session. The Senate also approves by resolution the remainder of the nonpartisan Senate Session staff to work until the remainder of the 120 calendar day session.

82nd Session leadership

Leadership

Majority leadership

Minority leadership

Members of the 82nd Senate
Districts of the Nevada Assembly are nested inside the Senate districts, two per Senate district. The final Legislative redistricting plans as created by the Special Masters in 2011 and approved by District Court Judge James Todd Russell represent the first time since statehood Nevada's Assembly districts are wholly nested inside of a Senate district. Each Assembly district represents 1/42nd of Nevada's population and there are two Assembly districts per Senate district which represents 1/21st of Nevada's population.

1 Senator was originally appointed.
2 Due to term limits in the Nevada Constitution this individual is not eligible for re-election or appointment to the Nevada Senate

Senate standing committees of the 80th Session

Standing committees in the Senate have their jurisdiction set by the Senate Rules as adopted through Senate Resolution 1.  To see an overview of the jurisdictions of standing committees in the Senate, see Standing Rules of the Senate, Section V, Rule 40.

Past composition of the Senate

See also
Nevada State Capitol
Nevada Legislature
Nevada Assembly

References

External links
Nevada Senate official government website
Project Vote Smart – State Senate of Nevada

Senate
State upper houses in the United States