[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Newhouse

uru to Australia for a safe and lawful termination. His success in the Plaintiff s99 Case affirmed that the Minister for Immigration had a duty of care to asylum seekers offshore as well as in Australia.

As a result of that action Newhouse was able to bring other women to Australia throughout 2017.

In February 2017 the National Justice Project, under the direction of Newhouse, was successful, in obtaining an injunction to stop the Minister for Immigration from implementing a blanket policy to remove the mobile phones of all detainees in Immigration Detention.

In December 2017 Newhouse and the National Justice Project team commenced legal proceedings for a 12-year-old girl (known by the pseudonym FRX17) on Nauru who required urgent medical treatment which was not available on Nauru that case was successful and they followed up that case with legal action for 46 other refugee children on Nauru. Those cases and the Nauru Government's decision to deport Medecins Sans Frontieres medical staff  led to the #kidsoffnauru campaign  and ultimately to legislation, known as the "Medevac bill" to ensure the medical evacuation of refugees in need of care. His work in this area has been documented in an academic article published in the Court of Conscience.

First Nations Peoples
In 2006 Newhouse worked with the Mutitjulu Aboriginal Community to overturn the decision of the Howard Government to impose an Administrator over the Mutitjulu Community Aboriginal Corporation on the basis that the decision was ultra vires, or beyond the power of the decision maker. In January 2009 Newhouse advised Barbara Shaw and the Prescribed Areas Peoples Alliance on their complaint about the Commonwealth Government's Northern Territory Intervention Laws to the United Nations Committee for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination.

In August 2009 Newhouse, on behalf of Barbara Shaw and other town camp residents, gathered a team of lawyers led by Ron Merkel  to stop the Minister for Aboriginal Affairs, Jenny Macklin from proceeding with her takeover of the Alice Springs Town Camps and entering into a 40-year lease with the town camp associations.

In January 2010 he took on "cyber racists" who published material vilifying Indigenous Australians and succeeded in having Google remove search results and links to two racially offensive web pages based outside of Australia. During 2010 Newhouse worked with the Aboriginal Communities in the Northern Territory to fight for a fair rent to be paid by the Commonwealth Government for leases which the Commonwealth had taken over Aboriginal land which were compulsorily acquired under the Northern Territory Intervention legislation. In May 2010 Newhouse assisted traditional owners of Muckaty Station (Warlmanpa) to commence legal action against the Northern Land Council and the Commonwealth to overturn the nomination of their land as the site of Australia's first radioactive waste storage facility.

In January 2011 Newhouse successfully represented the Hermannsburg Bulldogs, an Indigenous Australian rules football team from , in the Northern Territory and had them reinstated into the Central Australian Football League competition after they were suspended from the competition without due process. In 2013 and 2014 Newhouse acted for several Aboriginal Australian women who had their children removed by child protection agencies.

In 2014 Newhouse acted for the family of Andrea Pickett, an Aboriginal woman who was brutally murdered by her husband. The family took action against the Western Australian Police and the WA Department of Child Protection.

Newhouse has acted in many inquests for Aboriginal Australians who died in custody. In 2015-6 he acted for the Deaths in Custody Watch Committee of WA in the inquest into the death of Ms Dhu in police custody. He also acts for the family of David Dungay Jr who died in Long Bay Correctional Centre in December 2015.  he was assisting the family of the late Wayne Fella Morrison, who died in Yatala Prison in September 2016.

Newhouse has acted for Aboriginal Communities in WA and the Northern Territory, participated in many rallies and spoken at different events defending the rights of Indigenous Australians, refugees, ethnic minority groups and genocide survivors and denouncing all forms of racism and anti-Semitism and human rights abuse.