[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Johns Hopkins University SAIS Europe

s, and the University of Bologna campus, the oldest university in Europe. The SAIS Europe campus has previously been featured in popular media: in 2012, HGTV House Hunters International (HHI!) Season 32 Episode 6 "Hitting the Books in Bologna, Italy" filmed MAGR candidate Kevin Rejent at the campus.

Degree Programs Offered
 Master of Arts in International Relations - MAIR: The MAIR is a two-year program that explores the links between economics, geopolitics, security, and the environment. The first year is in Bologna and the second year at the SAIS Washington DC campus. Candidates are required to specialize in one functional area and one regional area during their degree.
 Master of Arts in International Affairs - MAIA: The MAIA is a two-year research-focused degree where students have the flexibility to pursue a personalized curriculum. Candidates can opt to spend both years in Bologna or spend one of two years at one of the cooperative degree partners, such as the Hopkins Nanjing Center, Sciences Po Lille, Diplomatic Academy of Vienna, McGill University, SOAS University of London, Tel Aviv University, Leiden University, and the University of Bologna.
 Master of International Public Policy - MIPP: The MIPP is a one-year degree course   for experienced professionals with at least seven years of experience, who wish to develop advanced analytical and leadership skills. Candidates can complete the degree full-time in one academic year, or part-time in two to three years through evening courses.
 Master of Arts in Global Risk - MAGR: The MAGR program is a one-year, cohort-based program aimed at equipping candidates with the skills, concepts, and analytical techniques necessary to tackle complex political and economic risk analysis. The program is selective and admits around 10 student a year.
 Master of Arts in European Public Policy - MEPP: The MEPP is a one-year degree that provides a working knowledge of how Europe functions in a globalized world. It covers issues including climate and sustainability, energy security, public health, data protection and digitization, as well as trade, finance, foreign affairs, and security policy, with a focus on EU decision-making.
 Dual Degree (with MAIR): Candidates can typically complete both degrees up to one year faster. These include MAIR-MBA with the Johns Hopkins Carey Business School, INSEAD, University of Virginia Darden School of Business, Dartmouth College Tuck School of Business, and the University of Pennsylvania Wharton School; MAIR-Master of Law with Tsinghua University; MAIR-MPA with Syracuse University; MAIR-MSPH with the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health; MAIR-JD with Stanford Law School, and the University of Virginia School of Law; as well as the MAIR-MIEF with the National University of Singapore. Candidates can request to pursue a dual degree with institutions other than the listed partner schools.
 Exchange Programs: MAIR candidates entering their third semester can participate in exchange programs with the Hertie School of Governance, National University of Singapore, Tsinghua University, and Sciences Po.
 Diploma in International Studies: The SAIS Europe Diploma is a one-year sequence where candidates can pursue a personalized curriculum.
 Johns Hopkins University BA/MA Program: The five-year BA/MA program with SAIS in Washington, D.C., allows select undergraduate students to pursue an intensive program in international studies and also obtain a Master of Arts in International Relations (MAIR) from SAIS. All students may apply to spend their first year of SAIS at the Bologna campus.
 Johns Hopkins University Junior Year Study Abroad: Undergraduate students pursuing the International Studies Program can apply to spend their junior year or one semester at SAIS Europe.

Research Institutions and Publications