[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# National Black Chamber of Commerce

Tour. The American Chemistry Council has also funded NBCC.

In 2015, Florida Congressman Alcee Hastings urged NBCC to cut ties with industry groups that spread misinformation on air pollution.

Positions

The NBCC takes positions on federal and state legislation and issues that may affect its goals.

The NBCC "has been a staunch ally of utility and fossil fuel companies for nearly a quarter century," according to the Florida Center for Investigative Reporting.

 In 1998, Alford testified before the United States Congress that the Kyoto Protocol would harm minority-owned small businesses.
 In testimony submitted to the Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions regarding Senate Bill S.625, the NBCC stated that it opposes increased the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regulation of tobacco.  The reason for its opposition is that the regulation would impose fees affecting small tobacco retailing and distribution businesses in the U.S., many of which are owned by Black Americans.  
In public comments regarding the Microsoft antitrust case, the NBCC along with the Telecommunications Research and Action Center and the National Native American Chamber of Commerce indicated that the case settlement was inadequate in terms of consumer protection and that additional remedies were required.
The NBCC denies the scientific consensus on climate change, stating on their website that "...there is no sound science to support the claims of Global Warming." In 2009, NBCC opposed the American Clean Energy and Security Act, a proposed emissions trading plan.
The NBCC supports the Keystone XL Pipeline.
In 2015 the NBCC opposed the Environmental Protection Agency's Clean Power Plan. In June 2015 NBCC released a report entitled Potential Impact of Proposed EPA Regulations on Low Income Groups and Minorities; the Union of Concerned Scientists said the report "relies on misleading claims cut-and-pasted from several previously debunked reports." Seven newspapers published op-eds from the NBCC saying that the Plan will impose "economic hardship" on blacks and Hispanics; none of the newspapers disclosed NBCC's funding from the Exxon Mobil Foundation.

References

Citations

Chambers of commerce
African-American professional organizations