[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gary Sturgess

leading role in the establishment of the Public Services Strategy Board, the UK's first industry association representing the public service industry, underneath the umbrella of the Confederation of British Industry. He continued to serve as adviser to the Public Services Strategy Board until 2011.

He resigned from the Serco Institute in April 2011 and returned to Australia to take up the New South Wales Premier's ANZSOG Chair in Public Service Delivery at the University of New South Wales, a research position based in the government precinct in Sydney and studying the challenges involved in front-line service delivery. In 2014, he was also appointed as Professor of Public Service Innovation at Griffith University in Brisbane, Australia.

In 2015, he was appointed by the NSW government to chair an inquiry into 'point-to-point transportation', which resulted in the legalisation of ride-sharing and a substantial reconstruction of the regulations governing the taxi industry to enable them to compete.

From 2016 to 2019, he served on the Heritage Council of New South Wales

Research interests 
On taking up the chair with ANZSOG in 2011, Sturgess specialised in studying the relationship between policy/funding and delivery, with a particular focus on the discipline of commissioning. As part of that research agenda, he developed a contestability framework for public services—"benchmarking with consequences"—building on the work of the British health economist Chris Ham. He has been actively involved in the application of these principles in the real world, and in 2015, he was appointed by New South Wales Cabinet to chair a Commissioning and Contestability Advisory Board, advising the NSW Minister for Corrections. In 2016, the NSW government established a Commissioning and Contestability Unit in Treasury, based on his work.

Sturgess has advised a number of government inquiries on commissioning - the Victorian and Queensland Commissions of Audit (2012 and 2013), the National Commission of Audit (2014), the Harper Review of Competition Policy, the New Zealand Productivity Commission's review of social services (2015) and more recently the Australian Productivity Commission's review of human services (2016). He has also advised numerous central and line departments and agencies in Australia, New Zealand, the UK and Canada. He lectured at the UK government's Commissioning Academy from 2013 to 2016, and has taught a three-day Commissioning Academy in Ontario, Canada from 2015 to 2018, and in Ottawa.

In March 2017, Sturgess published a study of public service contracting in the UK, for the Business Services Association, entitled Just Another Paperclip?. He was highly critical of the way in which public service contracting has developed in recent years, and laid the primary responsibility on government, arguing that public service markets are not like commodity markets, but rather are government's supply chain.

Since 2000, he has also undertaken detailed primary research into the contractual system used for transporting convicts to Australia in the early years of European settlement, and has delivered a number of academic papers and published articles in peer-reviewed journals on the operation of this system.

In 2012, he started detailed research to identify the site where the founding Governor of Australia, Arthur Phillip, came ashore in Sydney Cove on 26 January 1788 - based on new documents, maps and drawings that had come to light in the more than 50 years since the question was last considered. The research he undertook with a colleague, Michael Flynn, has generally been accepted. He also led a media campaign, which resulted in the port-a-loo that had been erected on the landing site being removed.

Honours

Sturgess was awarded membership of the Order of Australia in January 2005, for services to government.

In 2022, he was appointed as a Distinguished Fellow with the Australia and New Zealand School of Government.

Personal 

Until 2022 he remained a director of his late father's business, Engine Australia, an Australian after-market diesel engine parts supplier.

He married his wife Helen, an artist, in Brisbane in 1976, and they are the parents of four children and three grandchildren.

References

External links
 Engine Australia

Australian businesspeople
Australian public servants
People from Dalby, Queensland
Living people
Members of the Order of Australia
1953 births
Academic staff of the University of New South Wales
University of Queensland alumni
21st-century Australian historians