[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sleepthief

music video was released with the single. It was shot in the Goblin Valley State Park in Utah and features Jody Quine and Justin Curtis, Elswick himself in what can be defined a metaphor of the search for love. "a search that not always is happy". Jody Quine had a short insight on the song concept:

Another new single, "This Means War", was recorded in June 2013 with Joanna Stevens and released as an EP on November 12, 2013, along with a science fiction-themed music video. The track list is as follows:

The music video for "Dust & Cloud" was released on July 21, 2014, and the single itself was released on July 28, 2014. The track list is as follows:

The music video for "The Sandshaper" was released on August 17, 2018.

Other projects
After releasing Labyrinthine Heart, Elswick released two new tracks included in the compilation Beauty 2 - Music That Touches The Soul, which was released on October 25, 2010. The first track, "Another Day", was sung by Kyoko Baertsoen and is a cover of the original song by This Mortal Coil. The second track, "Empyrean", was sung by Suzanne Perry and was performed with the glossolalia technique.

Sleepthief's website site was launched on June 11. He is also working on a remix and a song for Nicola Hitchcock's solo album. Another cover version of "Send Me an Angel" has been released in December 2012, featuring strings by Caroline Lavelle. Both of Sleepthief's albums have been available on iTunes since April 12, 2013.

He is currently busy with a side project with Caroline Lavelle and Israel Curtis called "Spythriller", and the first video and related single, a cover of Nightwish's "Nemo", was released on November 15, 2011 with remixes of the song from Jamie Myerson and Treatise. Two more tracks for the album, "Cold War Kisses" and "Aftermath", can be found on the Spythriller official website and official YouTube channel. The next single will be "Asleep in Metropolis", and will feature a video shot by Hugh Marsh.

Curtis is also working with Roberta Carter-Harrison on her solo album and with Carla Werner on her own solo dance album.

Sleepthief also releases spiritual and Christmas songs on his SoundCloud page. The songs, listed by date released, are:

 "O Come, O Come Emmanuel" (feat. Kristy Hawkshaw, Coury Palermo and Zoë Johnston)
 "Veni Redemptor, Solamen Gentium" (feat. Jana Thompson Ellsworth)
 "Snow" (feat. Zoë Johnston)
 "Tollite Hostias" (feat. Lauralyn Curtis)
 "Ubi Caritas [Altius Mix]" (feat. Kristy Thirsk)
 "What Child Is This?" (feat. Jody Quine)
 "Deus Meus" (feat. Amanda Elswick)

These songs, excluding "Ubi Caritas [Altius Mix]", form the Christmas album Echoes of Winter, which was released on SoundCloud on November 30, 2016.

Remixes 
 Blue Stone – "Bridges" (Sleepthief Remix)
 Balligomingo – "Invitation" (Sleepthief Remix)
 Coury Palermo – "Hush" (Sleepthief Remix)
 Delerium – "Chrysalis Heart" (Sleepthief Remix)
 Eireann Wax – "Here Tonight" (Sleepthief Remix)
 Mirabilis – "Sanctuary of Mind" (Sleepthief Remix)
 Vanessa Daou – "Black & White" (Sleepthief's L'Eroica Mix)

Notes and references

External links
 Official Site

American electronic musicians
Electronic music groups from Utah
Musical groups established in 2006
2006 establishments in Utah