[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Prehistoric Wales

orth-west Wales. In the south-west, by contrast, hillforts are very numerous but mainly small, with an area of under 1.2 hectares.  An example on Anglesey is Arthur's Table ( / Din Sylwy) hillfort, it's an Iron Age settlement that was inhabited for a millennum until after the Roman period (c. 4 AD).

Some Celtic tribes originated in Germany and migrated throughout Western Europe, also to Britain and Ireland. These western European Iron Age tribes in Britain were established in the late Iron Age between c. 500 BC - 200 BC. Later in the Iron Age, stone roundhouses were being built from  (earliest). Hut circles were found throughout Wales and Celtic Europe. These stone-built roundhouses were occupied for nearly a thousand years and were used until the end of the Roman occupation of Great Britain during the 5th century. A well-preserved hut circle on Anglesey is Din Lligwy, the small village was dated from the Iron Age to Roman occupation. A hoard of Roman era pottery and coins were discovered in the 1905-07 archaeological excavation of Din Lligwy.

A particularly significant find from this period was made in 1943 at Llyn Cerrig Bach on Anglesey, when the ground was being prepared for the construction of a Royal Air Force base. The cache included weapons, shields, chariots along with their fittings and harnesses, and slave chains and tools. Many had been deliberately broken and seem to have been votive offerings. These finds are considered to be one of the most important collections of La Tène metalwork discovered in Britain. Pottery on the other hand is fairly rare in Wales during this period and most of what has been found appears to be imported.

The La Tène culture is traditionally associated with the Celts, and the general view until fairly recently was that the appearance of this culture indicated a large-scale invasion by peoples who also brought a Celtic language which later developed into Welsh. The currently more popular view is that any movement of peoples was on a smaller scale, with cultural diffusion responsible for most of the changes. There is some evidence to support the latter model, such as burials associated with earlier religious sites. It has been suggested that a Celtic language was being spoken in Wales by about 700 BC. 

The prehistoric period ended with the arrival of the Roman army, who began their campaigns against the Welsh tribes in 48 AD with an attack on the Deceangli in north-east Wales. Wales was divided between a number of tribes, of which the Silures and the Ordovices put up the most stubborn resistance. The Roman conquest of Wales was complete by 79 AD. The reports of Roman historians such as Tacitus give a little more information about Wales in this period, such as that the island of Anglesey was apparently a stronghold of the Druids. The impact of the arrival of the Romans may have varied from one part of Wales to another; for example there is evidence that some hillforts, such as Tre'r Ceiri, continued to be occupied during the Roman period.

Notes

See also
List of Cadw properties
Archaeology of Wales
Early history of Ireland
Prehistoric Britain
Prehistoric Scotland
Prehistoric Europe

Bibliography

External links

Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Wales
Artifacts from Pontnewydd Cave held on Gathering the Jewels
Artifacts from Coygan Cave held on Gathering the Jewels
Artifacts from Paviland Cave held on Gathering the Jewels
Mesolithic stone beads from Nabs Head, Pembrokeshire, held on Gathering the Jewels
Mesolithic fins from Rhuddlan held on Gathering the Jewels
Pentre Ifan Cromlech/Dolmen in Pembrokeshire, Wales
Carreg Coetan Arthur Cromlech/Dolmen in Pembrokeshire, Wales
The Prehistoric Monuments in Wales, Herbert E. Roese

 
 Prehistoric Wales
 Prehistoric Wales
 Prehistoric Wales
Wales