[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thongloun Sisoulith

re he spoke on the success of ASEAN during the COVID-19 pandemic. On 10 June, he praised the National Taskforce Committee for its handling of the COVID-19 pandemic in Laos following 59 days of no new cases of COVID-19, as well as support from other countries such as China, United States and Vietnam.

In August 2020, he urged the media to continue "defeating the fake, deceptive, and harmful news" on social media sites. This was interpreted by international media as a way to tell the media in Laos to not report negatively on the government. On 13 December 2020, Thongloun spoke to the United Nations on how Laos continues to follow the Paris Agreement, as well as other policies which aim to reduce carbon emissons. He also asked for support from other nations to assist Laos reach these targets. 

At the 11th National Congress of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party on 15 February 2021, he was elected the party's general secretary, and hence the de facto leader of Laos, becoming the first civilian with no military background to be general secretary. Thongloun was sworn into office on 22 March 2021, replacing previous leader Bounnhang Vorachith after he retired. Phankham Viphavanh replaced Thongloun as Prime-minister.

Leadership 
Following his swearing in as General Secretary and President, Thongloun vowed to create economic growth and reduce poverty in Laos by working with the Lao People's Revolutionary Party (LPRP).  After his swearing into the role, he enjoyed popular support due to his handling of the COVID-19 pandemic and his anti-corruption initiatives. In March 2021, Laos began using the Russian Sputnik V COVID-19 vaccine as the main vaccine during its vaccination programmes.

On 3 December 2021, he and President of China Xi Jinping opened the new Boten–Vientiane section of the Lao-China railway. Laos however faces rising debt to China, with half of Laos' external debt being owned to China. At the 27th Future of Asia conference in Tokyo on 27 May 2022, Thongloun downplayed concerns over a Chinese debt-trap.

Foreign policy 
Under Thongloun, Laos found itself balancing its relationships between China and Vietnam. On 26 May 2023, following the Russian invasion of Ukraine as well as tensions between China and Taiwan, Thongloun warned that they had the chance to escalate into larger scale wars.

Awards 
 Gold Star Order (2017, Vietnam)
 Knight of the Great Ribbon of the Order of the White Elephant (Thailand)
 Gold Medal of the Russian Peace Foundation "For Peacekeeping and Charitable Activities" (5 October 2015, Russia)
 Order of Friendship (20 October 2015, Russia)

References

External links

World Economic forum biography
United Nations biography

|-

|-

1945 births
Living people
Heads of the Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 4th Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 5th Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 6th Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 7th Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 8th Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 9th Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 10th Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 11th Central Committee of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 7th Politburo of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 8th Politburo of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 9th Politburo of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 10th Politburo of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 11th Politburo of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Members of the 11th Secretariat of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party
Lao People's Revolutionary Party politicians
Members of the National Assembly of Laos
People from Houaphanh province
Deputy Prime Ministers of Laos
Prime Ministers of Laos
Foreign ministers of Laos
Labor ministers of Laos
Social affairs ministers of Laos
Herzen University alumni