[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Alan Steelman

Alan Watson Steelman (born March 15, 1942) is an American businessman from Dallas who served as a Republican congressman from Texas between 1973 and 1977.

Political career

U.S. Representative
Steelman served on two committees: Government Operations and Interior and Insular Affairs. He focused on environmental issues, namely the fight against the Trinity River Canal and for Big Thicket National Preserve. Additional priorities included energy, transportation, veterans, wage and price controls, and Social Security.

Personal life
In 1977, he began work with Alexander Proudfoot, a listed company on the London Stock Exchange, and is Vice Chairman. He has served as Group President for the Asia-Pacific region of Proudfoot and lived in Singapore for eight years to build the start-up there. In 1978, he was elected to the Common Cause National Governing Board. He was appointed by Governor George W. Bush to the Texas Growth Fund Board, a $600 million venture capital fund run by the State of Texas. He has also served as Vice Chairman of the Board at the John Tower Center for Political Studies at SMU and the Trinity Foundation, Chairman of the Dallas Council on World Affairs, and former President of Maxager Technology, Inc. (Profit Velocity Solutions).

In August 2020, Steelman endorsed Joe Biden for president. He was a member of the steering committee of Republicans and Independents for Biden.

Following the 2021 storming of the United States Capitol, Steelman signed a letter supporting the impeachment of Donald Trump.

References

Official Website
Congressional Quarterly's Guide to U.S. Elections, House and Senate

1942 births
Living people
Baylor University alumni
Southern Methodist University alumni
Politicians from Dallas
Businesspeople from Dallas
Politicians from Little Rock, Arkansas
Candidates in the 1976 United States elections
20th-century American politicians
Republican Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Texas