[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Lucy (novel)

sees that not everyone is lives the same life. In the U.S Lucy feels like no one could relate to her since the way she was raised was different. Everything that she saw when she first entered America seem privileged to her, so she became stubborn that everyone that she encounters has a perfect life.

Lucy struggles to define who she is as a person since she is constantly trying to fit in. Black racial identity becomes problematic because the expectations of being a black woman are purposely imposed to her. She was already expected to be pursued a certain way with the White American women. When arriving to New York she did her best to adopt as a nanny, but in a way, this allowed to slowly lose herself.   Although she does bring out positive aspects to it. As a nanny she is allowed to bring a motherly side out of her that her mom gave to her. This was a confusing feeling to Lucy, for her mother did cause a lot of traumas towards her life. Yet she still managed to get positive qualities from her mother and use them during her job. The nurture she remembered that was given to her back home allowed her to naturally be motherly to the kids. This allowed Lucy to gain a positive and comforting trait that can stick with her.

Caribbean heritage

Lucy is from the West Indies. Jamaica Kincaid is from Antigua and it can be safely assumed that Lucy's character shares the same birthplace. Though this is not stated explicitly, Lucy does make a reference to her home having been named by Christopher Columbus (who "never set foot there") after a church in Spain. Other evidence includes the similarity of Kincaid's upbringing along with that of Lucy's character and the references to Antigua being a colony despite the increase in decolonization.

Critical response

Lucy has often been interpreted through the dual lenses of postcolonial and feminist criticism. Gary E. Holcomb, for example, sees the novel as endorsing a black transnationalism view, as Lucy refuses to be constrained by "colonial, racist, and transnational values" of either Antigua or the United States. Edyta Oczkowicz similarly describes Lucy's learning to tell her own story as an act of self-translation, in which she must create "a new personal 'space'" in which her identity "does not have to be defined by the roles of either colonized or colonizer."

Critics have also focused on the many intertexts on which the novel draws. Diane Simmons details the way in which the novel draws on John Milton's Paradise Lost and Charlotte Brontë's Jane Eyre, noting that Brontë was Kincaid's favorite author. David Yost observes that Lucy contains many correspondences to another Brontë novel, Villette—including the names of its primary couple (Lucy and Paul), its plot (an au pair adjusting to a foreign culture), its themes (sexual repression of women and self-recreation through art), and its setting (Villette'''s Paul dies returning from his Caribbean slave plantation)--arguing that Lucy'' acts a postcolonial reworking of this earlier text. Ian Smith focuses on the scene in which Lucy must memorize Wordsworth's "I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud" at her boarding school, despite having never seen a daffodil in Antigua. Noting that this episode recurs throughout Kincaid's work, Smith asserts that the act here of transcending an oppressive and often-nonsensical colonial education is emblematic of Kincaid's oeuvre as a whole.

References

External links
SparkNotes entry for Lucy
Interview with Jamaica Kincaid about the novel

1990 American novels
Antigua and Barbuda novels
American novellas
Novels by Jamaica Kincaid
African-American novels
Works about sexual repression