[Source: PubMed]

53. Environ Int. 2023 Mar;173:107837. doi: 10.1016/j.envint.2023.107837. Epub
2023  Feb 18.

Factors influencing vulnerability to climate change-related health impacts in 
cities - A conceptual framework.

Jurgilevich A(1), Käyhkö J(2), Räsänen A(3), Pörsti S(4), Lagström H(5), Käyhkö 
J(6), Juhola S(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Helsinki, Environment and Ecosystems Research Programme, 
Finland. Electronic address: alexandra.jurgilevich@helsinki.fi.
(2)University of Helsinki, Environment and Ecosystems Research Programme, 
Finland.
(3)Natural Resources Institute Finland, Finland.
(4)University of Helsinki, Finland.
(5)University of Turku, Centre for Population Health Research and Turku 
University Hospital, Finland.
(6)University of Turku, Department of Geography and Geology, Finland.

Climate change will have adverse impacts on human health, which are amplified in 
cities. For these impacts, there are direct, indirect, and deferred pathways. 
The first category is well-studied, while indirect and deferred impacts are not 
well-understood. Moreover, the factors moderating the impacts have received 
little attention, although understanding these factors is critical for 
adaptation. We developed a conceptual framework that shows the pathways of 
climate impacts on human health, focusing specifically on the factors of urban 
environment moderating the emergence and severity of these health impacts. Based 
on the framework and literature review, we illustrate the mechanisms of direct, 
indirect, and deferred health impact occurrence and the factors that exacerbate 
or alleviate the severity of these impacts, thus presenting valuable insights 
for anticipatory adaptation. We conclude that an integrated systemic approach to 
preventing health risks from climate change can provide co-benefits for 
adaptation and address multiple health risks. Such an approach should be 
mainstreamed horizontally to all sectors of urban planning and should account 
for the spatiotemporal aspects of policy and planning decisions and city 
complexity.

Copyright © 2023 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envint.2023.107837
PMID: 36921561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.