[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Soul of Man Under Socialism

ng a more libertarian approach,  "What is needed is Individualism. If the Socialism is Authoritarian; if there are Governments armed with economic power as they are now with political power; if, in a word, we are to have Industrial Tyrannies, then the last state of man will be worse than the first."

In a socialist society, people will have the possibility to realise their talents; "each member of the society will share in the general prosperity and happiness of the society." Wilde added that "upon the other hand, Socialism itself will be of value simply because it will lead to individualism" since individuals will no longer need to fear poverty or starvation. This individualism would, in turn, protect against governments leveraging their power over their citizens. However, Wilde advocated non-capitalist individualism: "of course, it might be said that the Individualism generated under conditions of private property is not always, or even as a rule, of a fine or wonderful type" a critique which is "quite true." In this way socialism, in Wilde's imagination, would free men from manual labour and allow them to devote their time to creative pursuits, thus developing their soul. He ended by declaring "The new individualism is the new hellenism". Jacques has argued that Wilde's critique of capitalism is primarily focused on its inhibition of creativity rather than its exacerbation of inequality, and that as such it is part of a strain of socialist thought which can be extended back to the utopian socialist Charles Fourier and forward to the Situationists.

Wilde showed a strong libertarian streak as shown in his poem "Sonnet to Liberty" and, subsequent to reading the works of the anarchist communist Peter Kropotkin (whom he described as "a man with a soul of that beautiful white Christ which seems coming out of Russia") he declared himself an anarchist. Kropotkin in turn was an admirer of Wilde's work: in correspondence with Robbie Ross, he wrote of the "deepest interest and sympathy" in the anarchist movement for Wilde, and stated that "The Soul of Man Under Socialism" included words "worth being engraved".

For anarchist historian George Woodcock "Wilde's aim in "The Soul of Man Under Socialism" is to seek the society most favorable to the artist. ... for Wilde art is the supreme end, containing within itself enlightenment and regeneration, to which all else in society must be subordinated. ... Wilde represents the anarchist as aesthete." Woodcock called the essay, "The most ambitious contribution to literary anarchism during the 1890s" and finds that it is influenced mainly by the thought of William Godwin.

Political philosopher Slavoj Žižek shares Wildean sentiments and intellectual contempt for charity, noting that the problem of poverty will never be solved simply by keeping poor people alive, quoting the relevant passages from Wilde's essay in his lectures and book.

Editions
 Oscar Wilde, Complete Works of Oscar Wilde, 5th ed, (London: Collins, 2003), , pages 1174–1197. (The fifth edition is the current corrected version of the "Centenary Edition" [fourth edition] of the Collins Complete Works; for the first time in 1999, the Centenary Edition corrected the position of a fairly long paragraph that was out of place; the paragraph is misplaced in most modern editions before the year 2000).
 Oscar Wilde, The Complete Works of Oscar Wilde. Volume IV: Criticism: Historical Criticism, Intentions, The Soul of Man, Josephine M. Guy, ed. (Oxford: Oxford University Press, 2007), , pages 231-268. (The OUP's variorum edition retains the misplaced paragraph in its original position, however).

See also
Anarchism and the arts

References

External links

Full text from Libcom.org in HTML
Full text based on the Arthur L. Humphreys edition (1909) available in HTML, EPUB, Kindle and TXT] from Project Gutenberg
Full text based on the authoritative Richard Ellman edition (1969) (with one paragraph moved as per Complete Works of Oscar Wilde, HarperCollins 1999 ed.), available in HTML, PDF and EPUB from Edwardviesel.eu
 
An anarchist review on the context and the implications of The soul of man under socialism

1891 essays
1904 non-fiction books
Essays about anarchism
Libertarian socialism
Self-published books
Works by Oscar Wilde