[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Centrists

, it supports social welfare and a competitive market economy. It also supports a looser application of the French 35-hour workweek, a reduction in the payroll tax, a French equivalent to the American Small Business Administration and a reduction of the government debt and more budgetary regulation.

The Centrists supports a diversification of energy sources to cut by four greenhouse gas emissions by 2050. In this regard, it supports the development of public transit and further development of fluvial and railway transportation of goods and people.

It supports a greater role for the French Parliament and some in the party favour the introduction of a German-style mixed member proportional (MMP) system for parliamentary elections. Like many French centrist parties descended from the centrist Christian democratic ideals, it is strongly Europhilic and supports increased European control over the economy, environment, immigration, energy and research.

Elected officials
Ministers: Maurice Leroy
Deputies: Jean-Pierre Abelin, Thierry Benoit (AC), Christian Blanc, Pascal Brindeau, Hervé de Charette, Charles de Courson, Stéphane Demilly, Jean Dionis du Séjour, Raymond Durand, Philippe Folliot (AC), Francis Hillmeyer, Michel Hunault, Olivier Jardé, Yvan Lachaud, Jean-Christophe Lagarde, Claude Leteurtre, Hervé Morin, Nicolas Perruchot, Jean-Luc Préel, François Rochebloine, Rudy Salles, André Santini, François Sauvadet, Francis Vercamer, Philippe Vigier
Senators: Jean-Paul Amoudry, Claude Biwer, Jean Boyer, Daniel Dubois, Jean-Léonce Dupont, Hervé Maurey, Catherine Morin-Desailly, Jean-Jacques Pignard, Yves Pozzo di Borgo, André Villiers
MEPs: Damien Abad, Sophie Briard-Auconie, Jean-Marie Cavada (AC)

Leaders

Popular support
It is hard to pinpoint the geographic distribution of the LC's vote since most of its candidates run without UMP opposition. The party is strong institutionally in the Loir-et-Cher, where it holds two of the department's three seats and the presidency of the general council.

Departmental Council

National Assembly

European Parliament

Financing
In order to obtain public financing, The Centrists have signed a convention with Fetia Api, a very small party in French Polynesia. 23 parliamentarians (18 of the French National Assembly and 5 from the Senate) declared they belong to Fetia Api for this reason.

See also 
:Category:The Centrists politicians

References

External links
Official website

2007 establishments in France
Centrist parties in France
Centre-right parties in Europe
Conservative liberal parties
Liberal parties in France
Political parties established in 2007
The Centrists