[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# The Bilingual Lover

ic should have established between English and Spanish, which would have made the film more universal. The plot could have remained the same, just changing the scenery from Barcelona to Los Angeles or New York City and, instead of a xarnego, some other type of foreigner — the rest working the same.'

El Amante Bilingüe and other Films
Aranda often encodes his films with literary references rather than cinematic ones. He explained: 'I wanted to make cinematographic references to The Invisible Man and The Phantom of the Opera, with more subtle quotations of those film through the use of the right photography in an expressionist style, but that idea had to be sacrificed to photograph Ornella Muti beautifully.'  Nevertheless, he went on to recall: 'My intention was to make a contemporary film, but with Ramón del Valle-Inclán in mind, and I almost made it. I should have taken things more to the extreme, but I have a tendency to moderation.'

In its baroque and twisted elements, El Amante Bilingüe is similar to the adaptations Aranda made of two of Marsé’s novels, La Muchacha de las Bragas de Oro and Si Te Dicen Que Caí. In its pattern of double identities, El Amante Bilingüe resembles two other films by Aranda, Cambio de Sexo and La Pasión Turca: in Cambio de Sexo, a young man with gender dysphoria is driven by his desire to become a woman; in La Pasión Turca, a housewife with a placid life leaves her former identity behind in pursuit of a new persona with a Turkish lover.

Awards and nominations
The film was nominated for, but did not win, the 1994 Goya Award, for Best Adapted Screenplay.

Home media release
 El Amante Bilingüe  is available on a Region 2 DVD. The film is in Spanish with English subtitles. Extra items on the DVD include a press conference at the Montreal World Film Festival, a making-of documentary and cast and crew galleries.

Notes

Bibliography
 Cánovás Belchí, Joaquín (ed.), Varios Autores (2000). Miradas sobre el cine de Vicente Aranda. Murcia: Universidad de Murcia. 
 Colmena, Enrique (1996). Vicente Aranda. Madrid: Cátedra. 
 Perriam, Christopher (2003). Stars and Masculinities in Spanish Cinema: From Banderas to Bardem. Oxford; New York: Oxford University Press.

External links
 Vicente Aranda at IMDB
 Web Oficial de Vicente Aranda
 
 

Spanish drama films
1993 films
1990s Spanish-language films
Catalan-language films
Films based on Spanish novels
1993 drama films
Films set in Barcelona
Films set in the 1980s
Films directed by Vicente Aranda
Films about immigration
LolaFilms films
1990s Spanish films