[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# Cindy McCain

on women's and children's issues. She was named to the board in September 2020, when the campaign was still underway. Nonetheless, she has said that she is still a registered Republican, intends to stay that way, and hopes that the Republican Party returns to stances that she can once again support.

In January 2021, McCain was censured by the Maricopa County Republican Party by a 4–1 margin in response to her support for Biden. In response, McCain tweeted that she would "continue to support candidates who put country over party and stand for the rule of law." Later that month, on a resolution that passed by a wide margin, McCain was censured by the Arizona Republican Party for her support of Biden and for "leftist causes such as gay marriage and growth of the administrative state". Making reference to the fact that the state party was in the habit of censuring other members deemed insufficiently conservative, including her husband several years prior, she replied, "It is a high honor to be included in a group of Arizonans who have served our state and our nation so well ... and who, like my late husband John, have been censured by the AZGOP. I'll wear this as a badge of honor."
 
McCain's account of her life with, and final days of, John McCain was published in April 2021. Entitled Stronger: Courage, Hope, and Humor in My Life with John McCain and published by Crown Forum, it also contained material on the struggles she faced in her own life.

United States Ambassador

McCain was seen by the Biden administration as a likely, or even a "must do", for an ambassadorship nomination. In late November 2020, the possible post of United States Ambassador to the United Kingdom was mentioned in connection to her. She responded to the notion of any potential nomination by saying, "In whatever way he sees fit, I would be proud and honored to serve".

In late May 2021, it was reported that President Biden would nominate McCain to serve as the Ambassador to the United Nations Agencies for Food and Agriculture. While McCain had a long record of work in other humanitarian activities, this was her first involvement with the issues surrounding food policy. The White House officially announced her nomination on June 23, 2021. On August 9, 2021, her nomination was sent to the United States Senate. On September 28, 2021, her confirmation hearing was held by the Senate Foreign Relations Committee; she faced largely friendly questions mixed in with personal reminiscences from the committee members regarding times spent with either McCain or her husband. The committee favorably reported her nomination on October 19, 2021. The full Senate confirmed her by voice vote on October 26, 2021. 

She was sworn in as ambassador on November 5, 2021. She presented her credentials to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization on January 18, 2022, to the International Fund for Agricultural Development on January 25, 2022, and to the UN World Food Programme on January 28, 2022. 

A main focus of her time as ambassador was dealing with the 2022–2023 food crises. Much of the emergency stemmed from the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, including the factor that about half of all grains delivered to the UN World Food Programme came from the Ukraine. The invasion took place shortly after her tenure began, and she was part of a group of administration officials, include U.S. Secretary of State Tony Blinken, that met regularly to discuss how to keep the emergency from destabilizing areas of the world already on the edge of famine. In late March 2022, she traveled to the Poland–Ukraine border to witness first-hand the refugee situation as well as to visit a food warehouse in Rzeszów.

In January 2023, McCain said that the crisis continued to be enormous, especially in Africa, and overall represented "the worst food crisis, the worst humanitarian crisis since World War II." She placed much of the blame on Russia, but also pointed to there still being effects on food from the COVID-19 pandemic as well as from food speculators and the effects of climate change on agriculture.

Executive Director of the World Food Programme
Cindy McCain was appointed on March 2, 2023 as the new Executive Director of the U.N. World Food Programme by United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres and Food and Agriculture Organization Director-General Qu Dongyu. McCain succeeded David Beasley, who had served six years as executive director when his term ended on April 4, 2023.

On October 22, 2023, McCain warned that the 2023 Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip could cause a humanitarian catastrophe.

Awards and honors
McCain was inducted into the Arizona Women's Hall of Fame in 2019. She also received the 2020 Heritage Award from the Arizona Chamber of Commerce and Industry. McCain received two honorary degrees in May 2019. One was from her alma mater, USC, while the other was from George Washington University.

References

External links

|-