[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Architecture of Hungary

has long lived with the late Renaissance. It came in with European currents and was first established in literature following the Péter Pázmány's work. It has a tendency to spread from the west to the east and has been established throughout the country after the expulsion of Turkey.

Early Baroque

The intellectual background of the architecture of the 17th century was the Counter-Reformation. Work to meet the needs of the Catholic High Priest and the aristocracy started in the 1620s. The first memory of Baroque architecture in the Kingdom of Hungary was the Jesuit Trnava Cathedral (current Slovakia) designed by Pietro Spazzi. In its arrangement it follows the main church of the Jesuits, the Church of the Gesù of Rome. The monuments of the construction that started in the wake of the Jesuits include the Benedictine Church of St. Ignatius of Loyola, in Győr and the Cathedral Basilica of Győr, the reconstruction of Church of St. George in Sopron and the former Jesuit church in Košice (Slovakia). The architects of the era were usually Italian masters, such as Carlone (1616-1667), Martinelli (1684-1747). The Hungarian Baroque church architecture is characterised by prominent towers and gates, with windows lit by side nave.

The castle architecture followed the traditions of the previous century (Markušovce, Rechnitz, Deutschkreutz). The first Baroque castle was built for Paul I, Prince Esterházy in Eisenstadt (current Austria) by Italian architect Carlone. The castle architecture, however, only emerged after the Turkish fighting. The Savoy Castle in Ráckeve (1700-1702) was first built according to the plans of Johann Lukas von Hildebrandt. Its U-shaped plan, which will be the center of the castle (cour d'honneur), is completely different from the former castle types. The main line of the castle architecture followed this, but the French pattern was followed from the twenties to the thirties of the 18th century.

18th century Baroque

In the beginning, secular architecture was oppressed by church construction, such as the Carmelite Church in Győr, the Jesuit church of Trenčín (current Slovakia), the University Church in Pest, etc. In addition, most of the churches of the Great Hungarian Plain were built on the remains of earlier churches (Kiskunfélegyháza, Kecskemét). The peak of the Baroque secular architecture, took place in the second half of the 18th century. At the request of Queen Maria Theresa, the reconstruction of the Royal palace of Buda began with the assistance of Jadot (1710-1797), Ignác Oracsek (1750-1770) and Franz Anton Hillebrandt (1719-1797). The Bishop's palaces were built with church money, including in Oradea (Romania), Vác, Szombathely, Székesfehérvár and Kalocsa.

Among the most well-known churches built under the mature Baroque include the Franz Anton Pilgrim's Church designed by Jászó, the Minorite Church in Eger and the Parish of Saint Anne in Buda. The Cistercian church of Székesfehérvár was built by 1756, with the most valuable Rococo furniture in Hungary in the sacristy. At the same time, the very rich Basilica of St. Stephen, rebuilt by Queen Maria Theresa, was completed by 1771, which became the Cathedral of the Diocese of Székesfehérvár from 1777. In the construction of the church, there is mainly a Southern influence, while in secular architecture the French influence has increased, this can be seen in the Eszterháza in Fertőd, which is the splendour of the palace of Versailles, where the Rococo is already present. One of the most outstanding and beautiful examples of late Baroque castle architecture in Hungary is the Royal Palace of Gödöllő. The effect of the castle is well illustrated by the fact that the Royal Palace of Gödöllő style has also been talked about since then, which has affected, among other things, the city lord palaces. Baroque houses remains in Eger, Buda Quarter, Sopron and Veszprém. At this time, the builders were mostly Hungarian masters. The Baroque began to affect village architecture, and the folk-style peasant Baroque was formed. The late Baroque Ponytail style is reflected in the works of Melchior Hefele and Jakab Fellner, such as the Archbishop's Palace of Veszprém, the Cathedral and Bishop's palace of Szombathely, the Bishop's palace of Székesfehérvár, the Church of St. Stephen in Pápa or the Líceum of Eger. Classical elements such as the tympanum and the Ionic column began to spread.

In the 19th century