[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Momčilo Đujić

. Nevertheless, he remained strongly opposed to Yugoslavia's communist government. Đujić retired to San Marcos, California. In 1988, the Yugoslav authorities unsuccessfully sought Đujić's extradition from the United States. By this time, Đujić was the oldest surviving leader of the wartime Chetniks.

On 28 June 1989, the 600th anniversary of the Battle of Kosovo, Đujić granted the title of vojvoda to Vojislav Šešelj. He further ordered him "to expel all Croats, Albanians, and other foreign elements from holy Serbian soil", stating he would return only when Serbia was cleansed of "the last Jew, Albanian, and Croat". Šešelj was at the time an anti-communist dissident. The writer and political analyst Paul Hockenos subsequently described Šešelj's activities in the Yugoslav Wars as those of "a man whose killer commando units operating in Croatia and Bosnia carried on the very worst of the Chetnik tradition." Šešelj later became the leader of the Serbian Radical Party, a government coalition partner of Serbian President Slobodan Milošević. In 1993, Đujić remarked: "[I condemn] Vojislav Šešelj who, by openly siding with the Socialist Party of Serbia, who are Communists who have only changed their name, has sullied the name of Chetnikdom and Serbian nationalism." In 1998, Đujić publicly stated that he regretted awarding the title to Šešelj. "I was naïve when I nominated Šešelj [as] vojvoda; I ask my people to forgive me," Đujić remarked. "The greatest gravedigger of Serbdom is Slobodan Milošević." Đujić considered Milošević the successor to Tito, and that he had compromised Serbian national rights within Yugoslavia.

According to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) testimony of Croatian Serb leader Milan Babić, Đujić financially supported the Republic of Serbian Krajina in the 1990s with a donation of . Đujić's wife died in 1995. In 1998, Biljana Plavšić, then President of Republika Srpska, presented an honorary award to Đujić. Plavšić was later indicted by the ICTY and convicted of crimes against humanity.

Death and legacy
Đujić died on 11 September 1999 at a hospice in San Diego, California at the age of 92. A New York Times obituary by the journalist David Binder stated that Đujić participated in "epic World War II battles" and carried out many "acts of wartime bravery." Editorial writer for The Washington Post, Benjamin Wittes, observed that the obituary only mentioned "in passing" the war crimes and collaboration accusations against Đujić, as well as his influence in the Yugoslav Wars. He concludes that Đujić "was no anti-fascist hero," and that he was an example of the dangers inherent in ultranationalism. The historian Marko Attila Hoare stated that Binder was known for his "admiration of Serb Nazi-collaborator Momčilo Đujić."

A commemoration marking six months since Đujić's death, organised by the Vojvoda Momčilo Đujić Dinara Chetnik Movement, was celebrated at St. Mark's Church in Belgrade in March 2000, and his death was commemorated again at the same church in 2012. The latter service was attended by Mladen Obradović, the leader of the far-right Serbian ultra-nationalist political party, Obraz. The Serbian diaspora in the United States set up a monument dedicated to Đujić at the Serbian cemetery in Libertyville, Illinois. The management and players of the football club Red Star Belgrade visited the monument on 23 May 2010. Darko Miličića former Serbian national basketball player who played in the NBA for ten yearshas a tattoo of Đujić on his body.

Commemorations of the Gata massacre committed by Đujić's Chetniks on 1 October 1942 have been conducted in the recent past, including on the 75th anniversary in 2017, at which Blaženko Boban, a prefect of Split-Dalmatia County, represented the president of Croatia, Kolinda Grabar-Kitarović. A survivor of the massacre, Andrija Pivčević, who was eight years old at the time and was stabbed nine times by Chetniks, placed a wreath and a candle during the 2017 commemorative service. Pivčević testified about the massacre at Mihailović's trial in 1946. Several of those who spoke at the service decried the rehabilitation of Chetnik collaborators and war criminals in Serbia.    

In 2021, Prvomajska (1st of May) Street, a busy thoroughfare in the Belgrade district of Zemun was renamed Father Momčilo Đujić Street. This action was condemned by Tomislav Žigmanov, the leader of the Democratic Alliance of Croats in Vojvodinaa political party in Serbia, and by the Serbian journalist Tomislav Marković in an opinion piece for Al Jazeera Balkans. Both decried the move as a continuation of the official rehabilitation of Serb World War II collaborators by Serbian authorities since 2004 via historical revisionism and falsification of history, which has even spread into school textbooks.

Notes

Footnotes

References