[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Herbert Pratten

no overtures had been made to him. The following week, Melbourne's Herald reported that Pratten would likely become deputy prime minister in a government led by Page, while The Sydney Morning Herald reported that Bruce would become prime minister and Pratten would be his deputy.

Government minister

It had been expected that Pratten would take the trade and customs portfolio in the Bruce–Page Ministry, but he was unexpectedly omitted. The Age reported that he had been "accepted by every member in the House as a certainty in whatever Cabinet might be constituted". Pratten was eventually elevated to cabinet in June 1924, following Austin Chapman's resignation. He was appointed Minister for Trade and Customs and Minister for Health; he relinquished the latter portfolio to Neville Howse in January 1925. As trade minister, Pratten was considered a strong protectionist, believing Australia needed a high-tariff policy in order to protect its local industry from currency depreciation and dumping. However, he also supported Imperial Preference. He introduced legislation to establish the Tariff Board on a permanent basis, and introduced major amendments to the Customs Tariff Act – in 1925 to increase duties on imported textiles and in 1926 to increase duties on imported iron and steel.

Personal life
Pratten married Agnes Wright, the daughter of a business partner, on 29 May 1891. The couple had two sons and three daughters together, including Herbert Graham Pratten who played first-class cricket for New South Wales. Pratten died in May 1928 on his 63rd birthday, suffering a cerebral haemorrhage while addressing a Nationalist women's meeting in Turramurra. He was succeeded in federal parliament by his nephew Frederick Graham Pratten, who won the 1928 Martin by-election.

References

 

Members of the Cabinet of Australia
Members of the Australian House of Representatives
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Martin
Members of the Australian House of Representatives for Parramatta
Members of the Australian Senate
Members of the Australian Senate for New South Wales
Australian jam and preserved fruit makers
1865 births
1928 deaths
People from Mangotsfield
Nationalist Party of Australia members of the Parliament of Australia
20th-century Australian politicians
Australian Ministers for Health
Mayors of Ashfield
British emigrants to Australia