[Source: Gutenberg#1404 | Part 224]
# The Federalist Papers — Hamilton, Madison, Jay

of that institution in appeasing the disorders and
establishing the tranquillity of the empire. This was a court invested
with authority to decide finally all differences among the members of
the Germanic body.

A method of terminating territorial disputes between the States, under
the authority of the federal head, was not unattended to, even in the
imperfect system by which they have been hitherto held together. But
there are many other sources, besides interfering claims of boundary,
from which bickerings and animosities may spring up among the members of
the Union. To some of these we have been witnesses in the course of our
past experience. It will readily be conjectured that I allude to the
fraudulent laws which have been passed in too many of the States. And
though the proposed Constitution establishes particular guards against
the repetition of those instances which have heretofore made their
appearance, yet it is warrantable to apprehend that the spirit which
produced them will assume new shapes, that could not be foreseen nor
specifically provided against. Whatever practices may have a tendency
to disturb the harmony between the States, are proper objects of federal
superintendence and control.

It may be esteemed the basis of the Union, that "the citizens of each
State shall be entitled to all the privileges and immunities of citizens
of the several States." And if it be a just principle that every
government ought to possess the means of executing its own provisions
by its own authority, it will follow, that in order to the inviolable
maintenance of that equality of privileges and immunities to which the
citizens of the Union will be entitled, the national judiciary ought to
preside in all cases in which one State or its citizens are opposed
to another State or its citizens. To secure the full effect of so
fundamental a provision against all evasion and subterfuge, it is
necessary that its construction should be committed to that tribunal
which, having no local attachments, will be likely to be impartial
between the different States and their citizens, and which, owing its
official existence to the Union, will never be likely to feel any bias
inauspicious to the principles on which it is founded.

The fifth point will demand little animadversion. The most bigoted
idolizers of State authority have not thus far shown a disposition to
deny the national judiciary the cognizances of maritime causes. These
so generally depend on the laws of nations, and so commonly affect the
rights of foreigners, that they fall within the considerations which are
relative to the public peace. The most important part of them are, by
the present Confederation, submitted to federal jurisdiction.

The reasonableness of the agency of the national courts in cases in
which the State tribunals cannot be supposed to be impartial, speaks for
itself. No man ought certainly to be a judge in his own cause, or in
any cause in respect to which he has the least interest or bias. This
principle has no inconsiderable weight in designating the federal courts
as the proper tribunals for the determination of controversies between
different States and their citizens. And it ought to have the same
operation in regard to some cases between citizens of the same State.
Claims to land under grants of different States, founded upon adverse
pretensions of boundary, are of this description. The courts of neither
of the granting States could be expected to be unbiased. The laws may
have even prejudged the question, and tied the courts down to decisions
in favor of the grants of the State to which they belonged. And even
where this had not been done, it would be natural that the judges,
as men, should feel a strong predilection to the claims of their own
government.

Having thus laid down and discussed the principles which ought to
regulate the constitution of the federal judiciary, we will proceed to
test, by these principles, the particular powers of which, according to
the plan of the convention, it is to be composed. It is to comprehend
"all cases in law and equity arising under the Constitution, the laws
of the United States, and treaties made, or which shall be made, under
their authority; to all cases affecting ambassadors, other public
ministers, and consuls; to all cases of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction; to controversies to which the United States shall be a
party; to controversies between two or more States; between a State and
citizens of another State; between citizens of different States; between
citizens of the same State claiming lands and grants of different
States; and between a State or the citizens thereof and foreign states,
citizens, and subjects." This constitutes the entire mass of the
judicial authority of the Union. Let us now review it in detail. It is,
then, to extend:

First. To all cases in law and equity, arising under the Constitution