[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Air transports of heads of state and government

sons.  This aircraft flies under the callsign "9ACRO". Additionally, Mil Mi-8-1 twin-turbine helicopter is occasionally used for the short-range travel within the country. Directorate for the Use of Official Aircraft is an expert service of the Government that operates the aircraft.

Czech Republic 

The Czech Air Force operates two Airbus A319CJs, and Mil Mi-8 helicopters for VIP transport, primarily that of the President, Prime Minister, and members of Government and Parliament of the Czech Republic.

Any aircraft carrying the president usually flies under the callsign "CEF1".

Denmark 

The Royal Danish Air Force operates four Bombardier Challenger 604s for VIP transport, primarily that of the government and The Danish Royal Family. These aircraft are also used for environmental control and fishery control around Greenland and the North Sea. Furthermore, the Danish Royal Family have one AgustaWestland EH101 Merlin at their disposal. Ministers also fly on commercial airlines, such as Scandinavian Airlines. The planes usually fly under the callsign "DAF001/002".

Estonia
The government of Estonia use private jets or commercial aircraft for travel. Current Prime Minister Kaja Kallas was also spotted using a British A321 for use, along with the British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak.

Finland

Finnish officials do not have individually allotted aircraft. The president and cabinet ministers usually travel on commercial flights for international travel. However, the Finnish Air Force operates three Learjet 35 aircraft with limited transport capability for use by senior government and military officials, and other aircraft from the Finnish Air Force can also be used. Helicopters of the Finnish Army or Coast Guard are utilized to provide transport to senior officials on some domestic trips.

Former prime minister Juha Sipilä, an avid aviator, has also made official trips with aircraft that he has personally flown and paid for, such as a Cessna CitationJet/M2 525 and a Scanwings Cessna 525 (OH-SWI). The longest trip was to Ulaan Baatar in 2016. The government leases private jets from companies such as Jetflite.

France 

The Escadron de Transport 60, formerly Escadron de transport, d'entrainement et de calibration 00.065 (ETEC 65, "Transportation, training and calibration squadron"), is the unit of the French Air Force, under direct command of the Minister of Defence, in charge of the transportation of the President, the Prime Minister and other French government officials.

The squadron operates four Dassault Falcon 50s, two Dassault Falcon 900s, two Dassault Falcon 7Xs and four Airbus A330-200. Additionally, the unit operates three VIP-configured Super Puma helicopters.

French officials also use the aircraft of the Escadron de transport 3/60 Esterel, which operates three Airbus A310-304 and two Airbus A340-200s.

Both Airbus A340-200 aircraft have been sold to Kenya for AMREF Flying Doctors. Finally, the French Air Force use 8 A330 MRTT for military purposes.

Any aircraft carrying the President usually flies under the callsign CTM1.

Germany 

The fleet used by Germany's senior government officials consists of 15 aircraft:
They use two Airbus A340-313X VIP aircraft, previously of Germany's Lufthansa, redesigned by Lufthansa Technik in a VIP configuration, including sleeping rooms and an anti-missile system. The aircraft are named after Konrad Adenauer, the first chancellor of (West) Germany, and Theodor Heuss, its first President. Until 2011 Germany's government officials used two Airbus A310-304 VIP carrying the same names, previously of East Germany's Interflug. In April 2019, Germany's "Luftwaffe" ordered three Airbus A350-900 as their new government planes and as a replacement for the aging A340s.

In Summer 2019, the Luftwaffe also ordered three Bombardier Global 6000 as an addition to the existing fleet.

The planes fly under German Air Force callsigns.

Greece 
Greece's prime minister has a Gulfstream V at his disposal, which is under the operational command of the Hellenic Air Force. The aircraft was bought by the government of Costas Simitis for the needs of Greece's 2003 EU presidency and the preparations of the 2004 Olympic Games. The VIP transport squadron (112 Combat Wing at the Elefsis Air Force Base) of the Hellenic Air Force also operates two Embraer business jets. For long haul flights the Prime Minister and other officials used one of the Airbus A340-300s of the government owned Olympic Airlines when they were still in service. The A340 aircraft were used for the official visit of the Greek Prime Minister to Australia in 2007.