[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Testament of Abraham

sh cultural center could therefore be a possibility for its origin.

Content
This testament deals with Abraham's reluctance to die and the means by which his death was brought about.  Overall, the long recension is about twice as long as the short recension, though both relate the same overall plot.

 Chapter 1 (long recension/short recension): God tells the angel Michael to "Go down … to my friend Abraham and speak to him concerning death, so that he might put his affairs in order."  This exact phrasing comes from the long recension, though the short recension has a similar wording.  The long recension also includes a list of Abraham's virtues, particularly highlighting his hospitality, and it mentions that he was at the "Oak of Mamre".  The conversation between God and Michael is also longer than in the short recension.
 Chapter 2 (long recension/short recension): Michael comes down to earth and finds Abraham in a field.  They greet each other, and Michael dodges a few questions about his origins, causing Abraham to treat Michael as an ordinary man.  Then Abraham invites Michael to his home and offers Michael the use of a horse to get there, which Michael refuses.  The precise phrasing and order of the conversation changes between the recensions, but the overall effect of the conversations is very similar between the two recensions.  Perhaps the biggest difference is that in the short recension, Abraham speaks about how he was named, while in the long recension, the question dodging is longer.  Additionally, the long recension mentions again that Abraham is near the Oak of Mamre.
 Chapter 3 (long recension/short recension): On the way back to the house, a tree (specified as a cypress tree in the long recension) speaks to Abraham, though Abraham does not draw attention to the tree.  When they get to the house, Abraham tells Isaac to wash Michael's feet.  This causes Michael to cry, and his tears become precious stones.  In the long recension, Isaac recognizes that Michael is not human.  Additionally, Abraham takes Michael's tears (that were turned into precious stones).  They appear again in the long recension, but are forgotten in the short recension.  In the short recension, Abraham starts the preparations for dinner.
 Chapter 4 (long recension/short recension): Michael returns to Heaven and tells God that Abraham is too nice—Michael is unable to tell Abraham of his death.  God promises to send a dream to Isaac that will show Abraham's death.  In the long recension, the dinner preparations start in this chapter, and God says that Michael will have to interpret the dream.  The short recension mentions that all angels worship God at sunset (which explains how Michael went back to heaven), while the long recension leaves this unexplained.
 Chapter 5 (long recension)/Chapter 5-6:6 (short recension): Michael comes back down to Earth and eats dinner with Abraham.  Isaac then goes to sleep and dreams of Abraham's death, though the contents of the dream are not discussed yet.  This causes Isaac to run over to Abraham and hug him while crying, which in turn causes Abraham and Michael to start crying as well.  Sarah then enters and asks whether all of the weeping is because Michael said that Lot died.  There is little difference between the two recensions in this section.
 Chapter 6 (long recension)/Chapter 6:6-6:13 (short recension): Sarah recognizes Michael as one of the angels in Genesis 18, and Abraham confirms this by remembering that Michael has the same feet (Abraham washed Michael's feet and those of the three visitors in Genesis 18).  In the long recension, Michael's tears (which turned into precious stones) are mentioned as further proof of Michael's identity.
 Chapter 7 (long recension)/Chapter 7:1-18 (short recension): Isaac explains his dream.  In it, a "glorious man" took the sun and the moon from Isaac.  Michael reveals his full identity and states that the sun is Abraham, the moon is Sarah, and the glorious man taking away both the sun and the moon represents Abraham and Sarah dying.  Michael then orders Abraham to put his affairs in order.  In the long recension, Abraham refuses to come.
 Chapter 8 (long recension): In the long recension, Michael runs back to heaven and relates Abraham's refusal.  God gives a speech (that Michael is supposed to relate to Abraham later on) about how He blessed Abraham, so Abraham should not refuse His will.  There is no analogue of this scene in the short recension (Abraham does not directly refuse to go with Michael).
 Chapter 9 (long recension)/Chapter 7:19-8:2 (short recension): Abraham requests that he be shown the entire world before he dies, Michael relays that request to God, and God accepts it.  The long recension also includes Michael relaying God's speech and Abraham repenting his earlier words before making his request.
 Chapter 10 (long recension)/Chapter 12 (short recension): In the long recension, the next event is when Michael takes Abraham on the "C