[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Washington Cullum

isoners. The army was unprepared to handle this many prisoners and scrambled to find places to house them. Cullum sent many prisoners to St. Louis before he received War Department instructions to direct 7,000 prisoners to Camp Douglas near Chicago. Cullum was chief engineer at the Siege of Corinth.

For the rest of the Civil War, Cullum inspected or built defenses at: Cairo, Illinois; Bird's Point, Missouri; Fort Holt, Kentucky; Columbus, Kentucky; Island Number Ten; New Madrid, Missouri; Corinth, Mississippi; Harpers Ferry, West Virginia; Winchester, Virginia; Martinsburg, West Virginia; Boston Harbor; Nashville, Tennessee; the Potomac aqueduct; Baltimore; and Washington, D.C. He served on boards concerning Timby's Revolving Iron Tower, proposed military bridges, and Army Corps of Engineers officers being considered for promotion. In 1862, Cullum was appointed Chief Engineer of Halleck's armies in the Department of the Missouri.

He was Superintendent of West Point from 1864 to 1866. On 8 March 1866, President Andrew Johnson nominated Cullum to be appointed to the grade of brevet major general, USA, to rank from 13 March 1865. He was mustered out of the volunteers on 1 September 1866. In 1867, Cullum published the first edition of his Biographical Register of the Officers and Graduates of the United States Military Academy, covering all graduates from the founding of West Point to the class of 1840. The New York Times wrote that "We know of no single contribution to the military history of the Nation so rich in invaluable data and so essential to the future historian or student of American history."

Later life and death 

Cullum retired from active service 13 January 1874, with the permanent rank of colonel and the brevet rank of major general, and returned to New York City. Following his retirement, he married Elizabeth Hamilton, sister of Major General Schuyler Hamilton and the wealthy widow of Major General Henry W. Halleck.

Cullum was vice-president of the American Geographical Society, president of the Geographical Library Society of New York and a member of the board of managers of the Association for Improving the Condition of the Poor. He was also a member of the Farragut Monument Association, a delegate to the 1881 conferences of the Association for the Reform and Codification of the Law of Nations and of the International Geographical Conference, a corresponding member of the Massachusetts Historical Society, and a member of the American Historical Society and the American Academy. Cullum died on 28 February 1892 in New York City, of pneumonia. He is interred at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn.

Cullum left part of his fortune for the continuance of his Biographical Register and for an award of the American Geographical Society "to those who distinguish themselves by geographical discoveries or in the advancement of geographical science", known as the Cullum Geographical Medal. He also left $250,000 to West Point, "to be used for construction and maintenance of a memorial hall at West Point to be dedicated to the officers and graduates of the U.S. Military Academy". The building is now known as Cullum Hall. Cullum also left $100,000 for a hall for the American Geographical Society.

Dates of rank

Publications 

Description of a System of Military Bridges, With India-Rubber Pontons (1849)
Systems of Military Bridges (1863)
Biographical Register of the Officers and Graduates of the United States Military Academy (1867; third edition, 1891–1910)
Campaigns and Engineers of the War of 1812–15 (1879)
Struggle for the Hudson (in the Narrative and Critical History of America, 1887)
Fortification and Defenses of Narragansett Bay (1888)
Feudal Castles of France and Spain

See also 

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)
 Cullum Number (U.S. Military Academy)
 List of Superintendents of West Point

References

Notes

Sources

Bibliography 

 
 
 

 Levy, George, To Die in Chicago: Confederate Prisoners at Camp Douglas 1862–1865. Gretna, Louisiana: Pelican Publishing Company, revised edition 1999, original edition 1994. .

External links 

 
 Green-Wood Cemetery Burial Search
 Online version of Cullum's Register of Graduates of the United States Military Academy

American male biographers
Union Army generals
United States Army colonels
United States Military Academy alumni
Superintendents of the United States Military Academy
People of New York (state) in the American Civil War
Burials at Green-Wood Cemetery
1809 births
1892 deaths
Military personnel from New York City