[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hazel Ying Lee

y funerals were allowed. The WASPs were often assigned the least desirable missions, such as winter trips in open cockpit airplanes. Commanding officers were initially reluctant to give women any flying deliveries. It took an order from the head of the Air Transport Command to improve the situation.

Upon graduation, Lee was assigned to the Third Ferrying Group at Romulus, Michigan. Their assignment was critical to the war effort. They delivered aircraft, which were being manufactured in large numbers in converted automobile factories, to points of embarkation, where they would then be shipped to the European and Pacific War fronts. In a letter to her sister, Lee described Romulus as "a 7-day workweek, with little time off."

Lee quickly emerged as a leader among the WASPs. A fellow pilot summed up Lee's attitude in her own words: "I'll take and deliver anything." Lee was described by her fellow pilots as "calm and fearless" even during forced landings. One emergency landing took place at a wheat field in Kansas. A farmer, armed with a pitchfork, chased Lee around her plane as he was shouting to his neighbors that the Japanese had invaded Kansas. Evading his attack, Lee told the farmer who she was and demanded he stop. She was a favorite with her fellow pilots, known for her sense of humor and being mischievous. Lee often used her lipstick to inscribe Chinese characters on the tail of her plane and the planes of her fellow pilots.  

Lee was known as a great cook and used Chinese cuisine as a way to introduce WASP pilots to Chinese culture. Fellow WASP pilot Sylvia Dahmes Clayton recalled: "Hazel provided me with an opportunity to learn about a different culture at a time when I did not know anything else. She expanded my world and my outlook on life."

In September 1944, Lee was sent to Pursuit School at Brownsville, Texas for intensive training. She was part of Class 44-18 Flight B and went on to be among the 134 women pilots who flew "Pursuit," that is faster, high powered fighters such as the P-63 Kingcobra, P-51 Mustang and P-39 Airacobra. Lee's favorite aircraft was the Mustang. Lee and these others were the first women to pilot fighter aircraft for the United States military.

Death
On November 10, 1944, Lee received orders to go to the Bell Aircraft factory at Niagara Falls, New York, where she was to fly a P-63 Kingcobra aircraft to Great Falls, Montana. During the war Lee and the other Pursuit pilots delivered over 5,000 fighters to Great Falls, which was a link in supplying Soviet allies fighting the Nazi forces with planes under the Lend-Lease program. From there, male pilots flew the fighters on to Alaska, where Soviet pilots waited to fly the planes to their home bases.

Bad weather delayed the mission at Fargo, North Dakota and on the morning of November 23, the weather cleared, allowing Lee to leave Fargo. Shortly after 2 p.m., Lee was cleared to land in Great Falls with a large number of P-63's approaching the airport at the same time. There was confusion on the part of the control tower, resulting in Lee's plane and another P-63 colliding. The aircraft were engulfed in flames and Lee was pulled from the burning wreckage of her airplane with her flight jacket still smoldering. Two days later, on November 25, 1944, Lee died from the severe burns she received in the accident.

Only three days after learning of her death, the Lee family in Portland received another telegram informing them that Hazel's brother Victor, who was serving with the U.S. Tank Corps, had been killed in combat in France. As they prepared to bury Hazel and Victor, the family picked out a burial site in a Portland cemetery. The cemetery refused to allow the family to bury Hazel and Victor in the chosen spot, citing cemetery policy that did not allow Asians to be buried "in the White section." After a lengthy battle, the Lee family prevailed. Hazel Lee was laid to rest in a non-military funeral and buried alongside her brother on a sloping hill in River View Cemetery, overlooking the Willamette River.

Legacy
For over three decades after the war, members of the WASP and their supporters attempted to secure military status for the women pilots. In March 1977, following United States Congressional approval of Public Law 95-202, the efforts of the Women Airforce Service pilots were finally recognized, and military status was finally granted. Thirty-eight WASP pilots died while in service during the years of World War II, and Lee was the last to die during the program. In 2010, she and all other WASP pilots, whether living, deceased, or killed during the war, received the Congressional Gold Medal.

In 2004, Hazel Ying Lee was inducted into Oregon's Aviation Hall of Honor, a fraternity of native Oregonians who made historic contributions to aviation.