[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roger L. Green

e trained more than 1,000 high school and college students through its Ella Baker Academy. Students participating in this program learned the theory and practice of non-violent conflict resolution. Students were also provided with an opportunity to study civil rights and human rights social history.

South Africa and Rwanda  
From 1982 to 1992, Green was actively involved in the global struggle to dismantle apartheid and to establish a free democratic South Africa. Green served as co-sponsor of the State Divestiture Bill, which was authored by Albert Vann. Green also served as political coordinator for the June 14 March Against Apartheid. It was the largest anti-apartheid demonstration in the history of the U.S. After the march, the U.N. Special Commission on Human Rights appointed Green as one of eight U.S. delegates to the World Conference Against Apartheid in Paris, which was organized to develop strategies to eliminate this injustice. After Nelson Mandela was released, Green worked directly with the leadership of the African National Congress, Harry Belafonte, and labor leaders Cleveland Robinson and Jim Bell to formulate the Nelson Mandela Welcoming Committee involved in Mandela’s historic visit to the U.S.

From 1989 to 2005, Green served with distinction as the chair of the Standing Committee on Children and Families in the New York State Legislature. During his tenure, Green authored numerous groundbreaking laws dedicated to protecting the rights of children. During the height of the genocidal conflict within Rwanda, Dr. Vera Makonde, representing survivors of this tragedy who lived in the U.S., urged Green to serve as the chair of the Rwanda Children's Aid Committee. He accepted this responsibility.  As chair of the Committee, he raised moral and material support for the children who were orphaned or made refugees as a result of this crisis.

Resignation
Green resigned his seat on June 1, 2004, after pleading guilty to petty larceny in connection with $3,000 in false travel reimbursement claims. As part of a plea deal, he served three years' probation, was fined $2,000, and had to pay $3,000 in restitution.

Later that year, he ran for the Assembly and was re-elected to the same seat he had held.

2006 Congressional campaign
In 2006, Green campaigned to unseat 10th congressional district Representative Edolphus Towns On September 12, 2006, Green came in third, losing to both incumbent Ed Towns and City Councilman Charles Barron. On the same day, Hakeem Jeffries, Green's long-time political opponent, was elected to succeed him in the Assembly district which he had retired from to launch his unsuccessful bid for Congress.

Medgar Evers College
In 2007, shortly after the end of Green's term in the State Legislature, the chancellor of the City University of New York and the president of Medgar Evers College, appointed him as a distinguished lecturer. Green taught a course exploring the historical significance of the freedom amendments — the U.S. Constitution’s 13th, 14th, 15th and 19th — and their influence on state and local government. Green is also the director of the Dubois-Bunche Center on Public Policy, a think tank dedicated to advancing best practices in law, policy, and community covenants for urban justice within the U.S. and throughout the African Diaspora.

Family
Roger Green is married to labor rights and human rights advocate, Coraminita Mahr; is the father of three children, Corlita, Khalid and Imani; and has one grandchild, Belle. He spends time writing poetry and essays that explore, among other things, the commonalities between diverse people and cultures and the physical, mental, and spiritual well being of the world's children.

References

External links 
New York State Assembly Website
Hope For The Good Guys
Medgar Evers College

1949 births
Living people
African-American state legislators in New York (state)
Politicians from Brooklyn
Democratic Party members of the New York State Assembly
Southern Illinois University alumni
New York (state) politicians convicted of crimes
New York (state) politicians convicted of corruption
African-American Muslims
21st-century African-American people
20th-century African-American people