[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Bradford Bypass

The Bradford Bypass, also known as the Highway 400–404 Link is a proposed east–west 400-series highway in the northern Greater Toronto Area of the Canadian province of Ontario. The approximately  route is currently undergoing planning and analysis under an environmental impact assessment (EA) by the Ministry of Transportation of Ontario (MTO) and the Government of Ontario. If approved, a new four-lane controlled-access highway would be built between Highway 400 near Bradford in Simcoe County, and Highway 404 near Queensville in York Region.  It would serve as a bypass to the north side of Bradford. 

The corridor originated in 1978 as an eastern extension of Highway 89 along Ravenshoe Road. This proposal was cancelled in 1986 and collaborative studies were undertaken between the province and affected municipalities over the next several years. A refined proposal for a freeway along a more southerly route, referred to as the Bradford Bypass, was released in 1989, after which an  began in 1993. The assessment was completed in 1997 and approved in 2002, after which it was announced that construction would begin by 2006 and be completed by 2010. However, following the 2003 Ontario general election, the Liberal government of Dalton McGuinty shelved several highway proposals — including the Bradford Bypass — to the "beyond 2031" timeframe. After the 2018 Ontario general election, the new Progressive Conservative (PC) government of Doug Ford announced that the  would be reviewed and updated. Funding was committed to the project in the 2021 budget, with early works construction scheduled to begin in early 2022. The highway is currently estimated to cost C$800 million.

The Bradford Bypass has been criticized for its potential environmental impacts, particularly to the Holland Marsh and surrounding wetlands draining into Lake Simcoe. While the route is endorsed by the municipalities surrounding it and through which it passes, critics note that the  is outdated and that the highway would result in induced demand and encourage further reliance on personal vehicle usage.

Route description 
The proposed route of the Bradford Bypass was established in the 1997 , including the location and design of interchanges.
If built, the approximately  corridor would consist of a four-lane rural freeway situated within a -wide right-of-way. It would feature a  grass median, except at the two Holland River crossings, where the median would narrow to  with a central concrete barrier.

The proposed route of the Bradford Bypass would have it begin in the west at a freeway-to-freeway interchange with Highway400, midway between the 8th Line and 9th Line of Bradford West Gwillimbury. From there the four-lane rural highway would proceed east, crossing the 10th Sideroad and encountering an interchange with the northern section of Yonge Street (formerly Highway11 and presently Simcoe County Road 4) immediately north of the town of Bradford. It would then curve southeast to cross the West Holland River into the municipality of East Gwillimbury in York Region, after which it would encounter an interchange with Bathurst Street and straighten out towards the east.

The highway would cross the East Holland River and pass immediately south of the Silver Lakes Golf and Country Club. It would cross the southern section of Yonge Street (thus resulting in an unusual crossing of both offset legs of the street) then cut through farmland, parallel with Queensville Sideroad. At Leslie Street (York Regional Road 12), immediately north of the community of Queensville, a partial interchange would provide westbound access to and eastbound access from the highway. It would end shortly thereafter at a freeway-to-freeway interchange Highway404.

The Holland Marsh is a Provincially Significant Wetland,
portions of which are also designated as a Life Science Area of Natural and Scientific Interest (ANSI) and the remainder under the Natural Heritage System (NHS) of the Greenbelt.
The proposed route of the Bradford Bypass crosses the Holland Marsh between Yonge Street and Bathurst Street,
and would require  of land within the NHS portion; it will not cross any wetlands.
Bridges of approximately 400and 600metres (1300and 2000feet) will cross the two branches of the Holland River.

History

Highway 89 extension 
Proposals for a highway corridor south of Lake Simcoe date as far back as the 1960s, but were not formally considered until the late 1970s. On June30, 1978, a  extension of Highway89 east of Highway400 to Highway 12 was announced. It was to follow 11th Line from Highway400 east to the Holland Marsh, where it would cross towards the northeast onto the alignment of Ravenshoe Road (York Road32). The extension would have traversed the length of Ravenshoe Road to Lakeridge Road (Durham Road23), where it would zig-zag onto Concession Road7 and end immediately north of Sunderland.