[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hari Mata Hari

n in 1990, Hari Mata Hari releases another album called Strah me da te volim (I'm afraid to love you). This album sold over 700,000 copies - ("Prsten i zlatni lanac" (Ring and a golden necklace), "Otkud ti k'o sudbina", "Ostavi suze za kraj", "Daj još jednom da čujem ti glas", "Nek' nebo nam sudi").

The collapse of Yugoslavia and the wars that ensued, left a mark in Hari Mata Hari's career. In 1991, Edo Mulahalilović left the group to start his own career. In late 1991, the group releases the album Rođena si samo za mene (You were born only for me) through the recording company Diskoton, located in Sarajevo. Some of the songs from the album are: "Ja ne pijem with" with Haris Džinović, "Nije za te bekrija", "Nije zima što je zima", that had solid sales and success. With that album, most activity stopped, due to the war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. In late 1994, the group released another album, while they were refugees in Germany. The album was called Ostaj mi zbogom ljubavi - "Bilo je lijepo dok je trajalo" (It was beautiful while it lasted), "Ti si mi droga" (You're my drug), "Ja sam kriv što sam živ", and cover version of song "Poletjela golubica" (The dove flew) with Halid Bešlić. This album was made only by Hari and Izo, the rest of the group would not reunite until 1997-1998. The group was composed of (besides Hari and Izo) Karlo Martinović, Miki Bodlović, Adi Mulihalilović, and Emir Mehić. They returned to the music scene with a greatest hits album called Ja nemam snage da te ne volim (I don't have the strength to not love you). It was released in 1998 - ("Ne lomi me", "Emina", "Ja nemam snage da te ne volim" (I don't have the strength to not love you), "Gdje li si sada ljubavi" (Where are you now love?), "Upomoć"). The song "Ja nemam snage da te ne volim" sounds like the Sisters Of Mercy's song "This Corrosion".

In 1999, Varešanović was chosen to represent Bosnia and Herzegovina for Eurovision. However, he was disqualified due to an issue with the song's status. Hari sold the song "Starac i more" (The old man and the sea) to Finland in 1997 and Finnish artist Janne Hurme recorded that song in Finnish, named "Sydänveri" (Finnish for "Heart Blood"). Dino Merlin, who was the runner up, was sent to Eurovision instead and received seventh place. Hari, together with Hanka Paldum, recorded the duet "Crni snijeg" (Black snow) in 2001. That same year (2001) the album Baš ti lijepo stoje suze came out with a few hit songs - ("Kao domine" (Like dominoes), "Zjenico oka moga", "Baš ti lijepo stoje suze"). In 2002 with the song "Ruzmarin" (Rosemary), that became an instant hit. Hari Mata Hari was one of the six finalists in the Croatian Radio Festival and represented Bosnia and Herzegovina for the OGAE in France. Also, in 2002 Hari Mata Hari won the first Davorin song of the year award, for the song "Kao Domine" (Like dominoes). The music for the song was written by Miki Bodlović and Hari Varešanović, with lyrics by Fahrudin Pecikoza. Then in 2003 Hari's song "Idi", brought him to the seventh Croatian Radio Festival with the song "Navodno" with Ivana Banfić. He then went to the Splitski festival. After Hari's small concerts on the Balkans, in Europe, and in Australia, the group began to record a new album. Franjo Valentić, Hari's long time friend joins the group, while Miki Bodlović leaves the group to start his own career in U.S. and he was replaced by Nihad Voloder. At the eighth Hrvatski radiski festival the group competed with the song "Nema čega nema". At the Splitski festival the group entered the competition with the song "Zakon jačega" (Law of the strong) recorded with Bosnian superstar singer Kemal Monteno. Later that year the group released another album under the name of the song "Zakon jačega", for Sarajevo's Diskoton, Zagreb's Croatia Records, and Belgrade's HI-FI Centar.

In 2007 the group released the single: "Zar je to još od nas ostalo".

In 2009 the group released the album Sreća (Luck) and this album came out with a few hit songs: "Azra", "Sreća", "Ne mogu ti reći što je tuga" with Nina Badrić, "Tvoje je samo to što daš" with Eldin Husenbegović.

Nihat Voloder left the group and he was replaced by Željko Zuber.

In 1999, the group played for seven days in Belgrade at the "Sava center".