[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Saurabh Kalia

ull report from the Indian army, while Israel noted it had no diplomatic relations with Pakistan. Germany said it had no response to enquiries made to the Ministry of External Affairs, and Pakistan rejected the allegations.

The father stated in 2009 that he has failed to achieve his goals despite  

An online petition started by the father to highlight the plight of the war victims was pursued by the MP Rajeev Chandrasekhar, who wrote to the External Affairs Minister and raised questions in Parliament as to why the Government had not taken up the case with the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC). In response, Defence Minister A. K. Antony wrote to Kalia's parents in October 2013 that India was bound by the Simla Agreement, and any differences with Pakistan would be settled bilaterally.

"In order to declare a war crime, the Ministry of Defence needs to write to the Ministry of External Affairs, which then takes up the matter with the UNHRC. The council then refers the matter to the General Assembly, which can declare war crime. It then goes to the international court of justice (ICJ). It is the ministry of external affairs that did not follow up the case with the UN" said Colonel S. K. Aggarwal, a former Judge Advocate General officer. An affidavit filed by the External Affairs ministry in November 2013, said that "moving the ICJ is not a legally enforceable right" and that Pakistan may not permit India submitting a proposal to ICJ.

In 2012, Indian Army Chief General Bikram Singh reportedly supported the efforts of Kalia's father by writing to the Ministry of Defence and National Human Rights Commission conveying his concerns.

N. K. Kalia, along with Chandrasekhar, and the Flags of Honour Foundation, (an organisation dedicated to building ceaseless engagement between society and the families of killed soldiers), filed a petition on 7 December 2012 with Juan E. Méndez, UN Special Rapporteur on Torture, of the Office of High Commissioner of Human Rights in Geneva. The Indian External Affairs Ministry said it would look at the nature of the petition, as the UNHRC is an inter-state body and usually acts only in terms of initiatives taken by its member states.

Following the formation of the Narendra Modi ministry, the Supreme Court accepted a public interest litigation (PIL) case in September 2014, filed by N. K. Kalia and Sarwa Mitter, and asked the government to respond within six weeks. The Court wanted to know the stance of the new regime, and wondered why the government had not approached the International Court of Justice. The government's reply listed the actions taken by the previous government but did not state any proposals for the future. Instead, the government challenged the validity of the petition, saying that a PIL cannot seek action against a foreign country and that foreign policy is a government function.

Memorials
In Himachal Pradesh, a memorial park in Palampur is named "Saurabh Van Vihar", a street as "Capt Saurabh Kalia Marg" and the locality as "Saurabh Nagar". A statue in his memory has been erected in Amritsar by Amritsar Working Journalists Association. A liquefied petroleum gas agency has been allotted by the Indian Oil Corporation to his parents.

References

Bibliography 
 
 
 

Indian Army officers
1976 births
1999 deaths
Military personnel from Amritsar
People from Kangra, Himachal Pradesh
Indian prisoners of war
Kendriya Vidyalaya alumni
People of the Kargil War
Prisoners of war held by Pakistan
Indian Hindus
People executed by Pakistan
Military personnel from Himachal Pradesh
Torture victims