[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stillington, County Durham

ton and was used by the iron companies to transport their products as well as for passenger services. A station was built at Stillington in 1838 but it was demolished in 1965 following a fire. The Clarence Railway eventually became part of the London and North Eastern Railway and still exists today.

The village was linked to Stockton-on-Tees and Middlesbrough via the hourly X8 bus service which was operated by Stagecarriage, which provided the village with a direct link to University Hospital of North Tees, Stockton railway station,  Stockton town centre, Teesside Park and Middlesbrough. However this was withdrawn in July 2019 when Stagecarriage ceased trading. One of the  village's previous service was provided by Arriva North East, with certain journeys continuing onto Middlesbrough via Stockton. This service was withdrawn in June 2014. Following the withdrawal of all Leven Valley services on 20 March 2015 route 84 was taken on by Stagecarriage. The village's current services are provided by Stagecoach with their 'Tees Flex' Demand Responsive Transport service. This allows residents to book a bus through a smartphone app or by calling a phone number. This started in early 2020 and is on a three year trial basis from the Tees Valley Combined Authority. This also allows residents to have a wider choice of destinations as the service runs to where the passenger selects on the app. Previously a bus service running to Darlington passed through the village, but this service was withdrawn in late 2012 following the cessation of subsidies provided by Durham County Council.

Education
As of 2011 William Cassidi Church of England Aided Primary School had 204 pupils, aged 3–11. In 2008 Ofsted judged the school to be good and this rating was maintained in the 2011 interim inspection.

Religious sites 
The parish church of St John the Divine was built in 1880.

References

External links
 Stillington & Whitton Village Website
 Stillington & Whitton Parish Council
 William Cassidi Primary School
 Stockton on Tees in the Tees Valley

 
Villages in County Durham
Borough of Stockton-on-Tees
Places in the Tees Valley
Local Nature Reserves in County Durham
Former civil parishes in County Durham