[Source: PubMed]

15. Ethn Health. 2024 Nov;29(8):963-986. doi: 10.1080/13557858.2024.2385112. Epub
 2024 Aug 1.

Embodiment of structural vulnerability: illness experiences among Somali refugee 
women in urban displacement.

Im H(1), Saleh M(1), Khetarpal RM(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA.
(2)Center for Research on Ending Violence, The State University of New Jersey, 
Rutgers, NJ, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Forced migration and its subsequent sequelae have caused refugees to 
face significant adversities throughout the displacement process, making them 
susceptible to significant health issues. Refugees displaced in Africa are a 
group especially vulnerable to poor health outcomes, experiencing a documented 
decline in overall physical and mental health status and rise in mortality from 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Despite the heightened health risks 
experienced by Somali refugees, particularly women, research into their complex 
illness experiences and co-/multimorbid health conditions is scarce, leaving a 
gap in our understanding of the multifaceted health challenges of this 
population.
DESIGN: Using structural vulnerability theory, this study explores how the 
broader host context shapes illness experiences for Somali refugee women in 
Kenya. Specifically, we describe the factors associated with illness experiences 
of urban Somali refugee women and how this compares with women with other 
similarly situated identities, such as Somali Kenyan women, other/non-Somali 
refugees, and Kenyan women. In-depth interviews were conducted with 43 women in 
Eastleigh, Kenya.
RESULTS: Using hybrid thematic analysis, the emergent themes were grouped into 
three distinct domains: (1) multimorbid, complex illness experiences, (2) 
embodiment of structural vulnerability, and (3) distinct/shared vulnerability 
among refugee/non-refugee women. Results suggest that illness experiences of 
displaced refugee women are inextricably linked to traumatic experiences before 
displacement, as well as the experiences of transmigration stressors and the 
hostile socio-legal dynamics encountered post-displacement.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings also have implications for the need to consider 
intersectional identities when examining for differential exposure to structural 
risks and the susceptibility to poor health experiences as well as supports the 
need for urgent change and improvement in systems of social protection and basic 
care for refugees experiencing prolonged displacement.

DOI: 10.1080/13557858.2024.2385112
PMID: 39087316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]