[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# List of streets and squares in Belgrade

There are over 2,500 streets on the territory of the administrative City of Belgrade. Not all of them are located within the borders of the Belgrade city itself, and this list will deal only with those situated in the city.

Introduction 

Some streets were already unofficially named during the Ottoman period, before 1806. They were named after the mosques (Tefderdarska, Bajrak), well-known Ottomans who lived in them (Jaja-Pašina, Eski-Agina, Deli-Ahmetova) or the local artisans (Bitpazarska, Spahijska, Čauška, Delijska). During the 18th century occupation by the Austrians, they renamed some of the streets (Bitpazarska to Dunavska) and named others (Eugena Savojskog [modern Braće Baruh], Carigradska [modern Vasina], Apotekarska, Kamenička, Klosterska, Tri Hana).

After the liberation from the Ottomans in 1806, the streets weren't named, instead the houses were numbered according to which quarter they belong. On 15 March 1847, the city administration asked the Ministry of the Interior to do the numbering of the houses. The ministry decided to divide the entire city into six quarters and to name streets "within the [Laduon's] trench", which divided Belgrade in two. The ministry named 30 streets on 9 February 1848, while 40 alleys remained unnamed as the ministry deemed they didn't need names. None of the streets are named today the way they were in 1848, though some names survived but were later given to other streets.

1848 street names

After the dynastic change in 1858, streets were to be renamed. Prince Mihailo Obrenović formed the commission in 1864. This was also the first municipal Belgrade commission which named the streets. The commission worked for years. After the prince was assassinated in 1868, the commission's first decision was to name Knez Mihailova Street after him. The work was finished in March 1872, when 60 streets were named. Of those, 29 never changed their names. The record is held by the Svetogorska Street which changed its name seven times, while Dečanska Street changed its name six times. Only 6%, or 150, are named after women. New Communist authorities after 1945 changed the names of 160 streets in Belgrade's central area. After democratic change in 2000, 267 names from the Communist period were changed or restored to their original, pre-war names. In total, over 500 streets received new or changed names in the 2004–2008 period.

From 30 named streets in 1848, the number grew to 60 in 1872, 176 in 1882 and 213 in 1895. The first permanent commission for the naming of the streets was founded in 1888 as Odbor za naimenovanje ulica. They initially decided to change previous names as little as possible and name them after the most deserving individuals, Serbian rivers, areas, and mountains. Also, they decided to name streets close to the Belgrade Fortress after the rebels from the First Serbian Uprising, who participated in the liberation of Belgrade in 1806.

Characteristics 

The streets which never changed their names are:

The longest street in the densely urbanized area of the city is the Bulevar kralja Aleksandra with . The longest overall is the Obrenovac Road, with . With only , the Lovačka Street in the outer neighborhood of Žarkovo is officially the shortest street. In downtown, the two shortest streets are the Marka Leka and the Laze Pačua which are  and  long, respectively. They have no numbers as all the buildings located in them are numbered from the neighboring streets.

As of 2017, the busiest street in Belgrade is Bulevar vojvode Mišića: 8,000 vehicles per hour in one direction during the morning rush hour.

List

Major streets

Major squares

Legend

List of streets 

Alphabetical list of streets in Belgrade:

A

C

Č

Ć

DŽ

Đ

E

F

H

I

L

LJ

N

NJ

Š

Z

Ž

List of squares and plateaus

Notes

References 

Streets and squares
Streets and squares

Streets
Belgrade
Belgrade
Streets and squares