[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Carnival in Flanders (film)

Carnival in Flanders is a 1935 French historical romantic comedy film directed by Jacques Feyder, and created during the poetic realism period in 1930s France. It is also widely known under its original title in French,  La Kermesse héroïque. A German-language version of the film was made simultaneously and was released under the title Die klugen Frauen, featuring Ernst Schiffner in one of his early film roles.

Plot
In 1616, when Flanders is part of the Hispanic Monarchy, the town of Boom, in the midst of preparations for its carnival, learns that a Spanish duke with his army is on the way to spend the night there.

Fearing that this will inevitably result in rape and pillage, the mayor — supported by his town council — has the idea of pretending to be newly dead, in order to avoid receiving the soldiers.  But his redoubtable wife Cornelia despises this stratagem and organises the other women to prepare hospitality and to adapt their carnival entertainments for the Spaniards (who insist on entering the town anyway). The men of the town grow increasingly paranoid of Spaniards as the women are free to run the stores and inns. The women from the outset take on a new set of sexual liberation in juxtaposition to the rape and pillaging stewed up from the men at the beginning of the film. 

Such is the warmth of the women's welcome that not only do the Spaniards refrain from misbehaviour, but on their departure the Duke announces a year's remission of taxes for the town.

Cornelia allows her husband to take the credit for their good fortune, but she has in the meantime thwarted his plans for their daughter to marry the town butcher instead of the young painter Brueghel whom she loves.

Cast
Françoise Rosay as Cornelia de Witte, Madame la Bourgmestre/Madame Burgomaster
André Alerme as Korbus de Witte, le bourgmestre/The Burgomaster (as Alerme)
Jean Murat as Le duc d'Olivarès/The Duke
Louis Jouvet as Le chapelain/The Priest
Lyne Clevers as La poissonnière/The Fish-Wife (as Lynne Clevers)
Micheline Cheirel as Siska
Maryse Wendling as La boulangère/The Baker's Wife
Ginette Gaubert as L'aubergiste/The Inn-Keeper's Wife
Marguerite Ducouret as La femme du brasseur/The Brewer's Wife
Bernard Lancret as Julien Breughel, a young painter
Alfred Adam as Josef Van Meulen, le boucher
Pierre Labry as L'aubergiste/The Inn-Keeper
Arthur Devère as Le poissonnier/The Fishmonger (as Arthur Devere)
Marcel Carpentier as Le boulanger/The Baker
Alexander D'Arcy as Le capitaine/The Captain (as Alexandre Darcy)
Claude Sainval as Le lieutenant/The Lieutenant (as Claude Saint Val)
Delphin as Le nain/The Dwarf

Background and production
Carnival in Flanders / La Kermesse héroïque was made by Jacques Feyder immediately after his dark psychological drama Pension Mimosas, and he said that he wanted to relax by making a farce, far removed from the present day.  He turned to a short story written at his suggestion ten years earlier by Charles Spaak, set in 17th century Flanders when it was under Spanish occupation. For the visual style of the film, Feyder wanted to pay tribute to the old masters of his native country — Brueghel, Frans Hals, Pieter de Hoogh — and an elaborate creation of a Flemish town was undertaken (in suburban Paris) by the designer Lazare Meerson.  Sumptuous costumes were provided by Georges K. Benda. The strong cast included Feyder's wife Françoise Rosay and Louis Jouvet.

The film was produced by the French subsidiary of the German firm Tobis, and it was made in two versions, French and German, with alternative casts (apart from Françoise Rosay who appeared in both).