[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alexander Bullock

Alexander Hamilton Bullock (March 2, 1816 – January 17, 1882) was an American lawyer, politician, and businessman from Massachusetts.  First a Whig and then a Republican, he served three terms (1866–69) as the 26th Governor of Massachusetts.  He was actively opposed to the expansion of slavery before the American Civil War, playing a major role in the New England Emigrant Aid Society, founded in 1855 to settle the Kansas Territory with abolitionists.  He was for many years involved in the insurance industry in Worcester, where he also served one term as mayor.

Bullock was educated as a lawyer, and married into the wealthy Hazard family of arms manufacturers, becoming one of the state's wealthiest men.  He served in the state legislature during the war, and was active in recruiting for the war effort.  He was an advocate of temperance, and of the expansion of railroads in the state.

Early years
Alexander Hamilton Bullock was born on March 2, 1816, in Royalston, Massachusetts, the son of Sarah (Davis) and Rufus Bullock.  His father was a merchant and farmer who also owned a small mill and was active in local politics.  He attended the local schools before going to Leicester Academy. Bullock graduated from Amherst College in 1836 and from Harvard Law School in 1840.  He was then admitted to the Massachusetts Bar and joined the law practice of Emory Washburn in Worcester. However, he drifted away from the law, becoming involved in the insurance business as an agent. He eventually joined the State Mutual Life Assurance Company, which had John Davis as its first president.

In 1842 Bullock became active in political and public service.  He served as a military assistant to John Davis, who was Governor of Massachusetts that year, after which he was frequently referred to as "Colonel Bullock". In that year he also became editor of the National Aegis, a Whig newspaper with which he would remain associated for many years.

In 1844 Bullock married Elvira Hazard, daughter of Augustus George Hazard of Enfield, Connecticut; they had three children, including explorer Fanny Bullock Workman. Elvira's father was owner of a major munitions factory, and upon his death in 1868 the Bullocks inherited a significant fortune, becoming one of the wealthiest families in the state.

Massachusetts legislature
Bullock was first elected to the Massachusetts House of Representatives as a Whig in 1844, serving until 1848; for two years he was chairman of the Judiciary Committee.  In 1849 he served in the Massachusetts Senate. In 1854, Bullock became a principal in the New England Emigrant Aid Company, established by Eli Thayer to send anti-slavery settlers to the Kansas Territory after the Kansas-Nebraska Act specified that slavery in the territory was to be determined by popular sovereignty.

Worcester politics
When Worcester was chartered as a city in 1848, Bullock was elected to serve on its inaugural Common Council. He first ran for mayor of Worcester in 1853, but lost the election. In 1859, he was elected mayor of Worcester, narrowly defeating Republican William W. Rice.  During his one-year term he donated his $1,000 salary to the awarding of medals to recognized students in the city's schools. The city authorized the establishment of a public library, and acquired the land for its construction.  He did not stand for reelection in 1860.

Bullock was elected a member of the Worcester-based American Antiquarian Society in 1855. He served as president of the Worcester County Horticultural Society from 1860 to 1863.

Civil War
In 1861 Bullock was again elected to the state legislature, serving until 1866.  Bullock was elected Speaker of the House in January 1862, serving in that role until 1865 with near-unanimous support. He was energetic in recruitment of troops for the Union Army, and was diligent in the oversight of the state's finances during the conflict. He supported labor reforms, in particular legislation limiting the length of the workday, although such legislation would not be enacted in the state until 1874, when a ten-hour workday was mandated (albeit with significant loopholes).