[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pairwise comparison

listic models. However, transitivity will generally hold for a large number of comparisons if models such as the BTL can be effectively applied.

Using a transitivity test one can investigate whether a data set of pairwise comparisons contains a higher degree of transitivity than expected by chance.

Argument for intransitivity of indifference
Some contend that indifference is not transitive.  Consider the following example.  Suppose you like apples and you prefer apples that are larger.  Now suppose there exists an apple A, an apple B, and an apple C which have identical intrinsic characteristics except for the following. Suppose B is larger than A, but it is not discernible without an extremely sensitive scale.  Further suppose C is larger than B, but this also is not discernible without an extremely sensitive scale.  However, the difference in sizes between apples A and C is large enough that you can discern that C is larger than A without a sensitive scale. In psychophysical terms, the size difference between A and C is above the just noticeable difference ('jnd') while the size differences between A and B and B and C are below the jnd.

You are confronted with the three apples in pairs without the benefit of a sensitive scale.  Therefore, when presented A and B alone, you are indifferent between apple A and apple B; and you are indifferent between apple B and apple C when presented B and C alone.  However, when the pair A and C are shown, you prefer C over A.

Preference orders
If pairwise comparisons are in fact transitive in respect to the four mentioned rules, then pairwise comparisons for a list of alternatives (A1, A2, A3, ..., An−1, and An) can take the form:

 A1(>XOR=)A2(>XOR=)A3(>XOR=) ... (>XOR=)An−1(>XOR=)An

For example, if there are three alternatives a, b, and c, then the possible preference orders are:

If the number of alternatives is n, and indifference is not allowed, then the number of possible preference orders for any given n-value is n!.  If indifference is allowed, then the number of possible preference orders is the number of total preorders. It can be expressed as a function of n:

 

where S2(n, k) is the Stirling number of the second kind.

Applications
One important application of pairwise comparisons is the widely used Analytic Hierarchy Process, a structured technique for helping people deal with complex decisions. It uses pairwise comparisons of tangible and intangible factors to construct ratio scales that are useful in making important decisions.

Another important application is the Potentially All Pairwise RanKings of all possible Alternatives (PAPRIKA) method. The method involves the decision-maker repeatedly pairwise comparing and ranking alternatives defined on two criteria or attributes at a time and involving a trade-off, and then, if the decision-maker chooses to continue, pairwise comparisons of alternatives defined on successively more criteria. From the pairwise rankings, the relative importance of the criteria to the decision-maker, represented as weights, is determined.

See also
Analytic Hierarchy Process (AHP)
Law of comparative judgment
Potentially all pairwise rankings of all possible alternatives (PAPRIKA) method
PROMETHEE pairwise comparison method
Preference (economics)
Stochastic Transitivity
Condorcet method

References

 
 
 Y. Chevaleyre, P.E. Dunne, U. Endriss, J. Lang, M. Lemaître, N. Maudet, J. Padget, S. Phelps, J.A. Rodríguez-Aguilar, and P. Sousa. Issues in Multiagent Resource Allocation. Informatica, 30:3–31, 2006.

Further reading
Bradley, R.A. and Terry, M.E. (1952). Rank analysis of incomplete block designs, I. the method of paired comparisons. Biometrika, 39, 324–345.
David, H.A. (1988). The Method of Paired Comparisons. New York: Oxford University Press.
Luce, R.D. (1959). Individual Choice Behaviours: A Theoretical Analysis. New York: J. Wiley.
Thurstone, L.L. (1927).  A law of comparative judgement. Psychological Review, 34, 278–286.
Thurstone, L.L. (1929).  The Measurement of Psychological Value.  In T.V. Smith and W.K. Wright (Eds.), Essays in Philosophy by Seventeen Doctors of Philosophy of the 	University of Chicago.  Chicago: Open Court.
Thurstone, L.L. (1959).  The Measurement of Values.  Chicago: The University of Chicago Press.
Zermelo, E. (1928). Die Berechnung der Turnier-Ergebnisse als ein Maximumproblem der Wahrscheinlichkeitsrechnung, Mathematische Zeitschrift 29, 1929, S. 436–460

Psychometrics