[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# August 1976

trial.  One of the sons, Patrick Hanigan, would be convicted of violating the civil rights of Manuel García Loya, Eleazar Ruelas Zavala, and Bernabe Herrera.
Born: 
Lee Seung-yuop, South Korean baseball star with 467 career home runs in the KBO League, and five-time Most Valuable Player of the league between in the years 1997 to 2003; in Daegu
U.S. Army Captain Kimberly Hampton, the first female pilot to be killed in combat; in Easley, South Carolina.  Captain Hampton was flying a Bell OH-58 Kiowa helicopter in the Iraq War when the aircraft was shot down as she was flying near Fallujah. (d. 2004)
Died: Reverend Roman Kotlarz, 47, Polish Roman Catholic priest in the city of Radom, an opponent of Poland's Communist government, died after being beaten into unconsciousness by agents of Poland's secret police, the Sluzba Bezpieczenstwa (SB)

August 19, 1976 (Thursday)
U.S. President Gerald Ford edged out challenger Ronald Reagan, 1,187 to 1,070 in delegate votes, on the first ballot to win the Republican Party presidential nomination at the Republican National Convention at Kemper Arena in Kansas City.  Ford, the only U.S. president who had never been elected as either the presidential or vice-presidential nominee, had succeeded to the office after initially being confirmed by the U.S. Senate as Vice President of the United States in 1973 to fill the vacancy left by the resignation of Spiro Agnew, and then being sworn in after the resignation of President Richard Nixon.  The balloting was close enough between Ford and Reagan that in an alphabetical roll-call of the U.S. states' delegations, he didn't receive the necessary 1,131 majority until receiving the 20 votes from the West Virginia delegates at 12:29 in the morning local time.  Ford then drove to Reagan's hotel and met with the former California governor for 27 minutes.
Later in the day, President Ford selected Bob Dole, Republican U.S. Senator for Kansas, as his running mate to be the Republican nominee for Vice President of the United States.  In addition, for the first time since 1960, the nominees of the two parties agreed to nationally-televised presidential debates as Ford made the challenge and Democrat nominee Jimmy Carter accepted.
Born: Ucu Agustin, Indonesian journalist and documentary filmmaker; in Sukabumi

August 20, 1976 (Friday)
Federal police in the Argentine town of Fátima, located on the outskirts of Buenos Aires, executed 30 prisoners (10 women and 20 men) by gunshot, and then used dynamite to blow up the pile of corpses.  According to witnesses at a nearby factory who heard the explosion and went to the scene, body parts were scattered over a wide area.  Argentine troops then sealed off the area and the body parts were buried in a nearby cemetery at Pilar, with only five people originally identified.  Another 16 people were killed by machine guns and their bodies dumped in a field near a major highway outside of the southern suburb of Banfield.
For the first time in U.S. history, the two major party candidates for Vice President of the U.S. agreed to debate the national issues, as well as to have the event on live television. Jimmy Carter's running mate Walter Mondale, and Gerald Ford's running mate Bob Dole would each be losing candidates in a U.S. presidential election (in 1980, 1984, 1976 and 1996 respectively).
At an event held at New York's West Side Tennis Club, Australian tennis professional Colin Dibley recorded the fastest tennis serve up to that time, slamming the ball at a speed of  as measured by a radar gun.  The Association of Tennis Professionals official record is  set by John Isner of the U.S. at a Davis Cup match in 2016, while Australia's Sam Groth's serve was measured at  at a tournament in Busan, South Korea, in 2012.
Died: 
Edward Cummiskey, 42, U.S. meat cutter and a mobster and for New York's Irish-American Westies gang who specialized in dismemberment and disposal of bodies, was shot and killed on orders of the Genovese family.
Vladimir Druzhynin, 68, Soviet Ukrainian war hero and Communist Party local leader
Tom Fool, 27, American thoroughbred and 1953 American Horse of the Year