[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ali-Qoli Khan Bakhtiari

on of Karim Khan Bahadur of Boyer Ahmad province, Sardar Assad secured the support of all major tribal leaders in southern Iran in preparation for marching on the capital. Accompanied by Bakhtiari chieftains, he first led a 700-strong cavalry into Esfahan and then advanced towards the Qajar capital.

On 22 July 1909 Sardar Assad’s Bakhtiary cavalry came into contact with the northern insurrectionists led by Sattar Khan and Baqher Khan. After conferring at Badamek, the two armies jointly entered Tehran. On 16 July 1909 resistance ended as loyalists surrendered. The Shah, accompanied with 500 guards and members of his family and relatives, took refuge in the Russian Embassy. With the power of the National Assembly restored, the body called on all groups to lay down their weapons.

When Sattar Khan and Baqher Khan refused to disarm, Sardar Assad sent an ultimatum to Sattar Khan, reminding him of the oath he took at Badamek to uphold the Constitution. Hours later, 1,000 Bakhtiari horsemen under the command of Jafar Gholi Khan, Sardar Assad’s son, surrounded Atabek Park. 150 northerns and 12 Bakhtiari cavalrymen died in the fighting that ensued. Restoring public order on behalf of the National Assembly, Sardar Assad imprisoned around 350 loyalists and insurrectionists. He one of the signatories of Sheikh Fazlullah Nouri’s death – the highest ranking Shia cleric in the country who had allied himself with the Shah in opposition to the Constitutionalists.

Final Years 
On 25 July 1909 Mohammad Ali Shah abdicated and was succeeded by his twelve-year son Ahmad Mirza. Sardar Assad was appointed first Minister of the Interior and then Minister of War in the newly-formed cabinet. In 1910 he resigned from his post and travelled to Europe for an eye operation. During his absence from Iran, Mohammad Ali Shah regained his throne, with Russian assistance, and set about restoring autocracy.

While he was in Paris, members of the National Assembly and the Viceroy, Naser-ol-Molk,  invited Sarsar Assad to return to Iran. Arriving in Tehran in July 1912, he served as an advisor to his brother Samsam al-Saltaneh, who was now prime minister, and was pivotal in maintaining peace between the feuding factions of the Bakhtiari clan over the next year. Thereafter, he retired from public life.

One of the most influential figures of Iranian history at the turn of the 20th century, Sardar Assad died on 1 November 1917 in Tehran. His body was transferred to Esfahan and was buried in the family tomb at Takht-e-Foulad.

See also
 Sepahsalar-e Tonekaboni, similar figure

References

External links
 Bakhtiaris and the Constitution — Photographs
 Genealogy of the Haft Lang branch of the Bakhtiaris
 Lily Sardarian Bakhtiari, Bakhtiaris and the Constitutional Revolution (A Summary)

1850s births
1917 deaths
19th-century Iranian politicians
People of the Persian Constitutional Revolution
Bakhtiari people
20th-century Iranian politicians