[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Beulah (land)

In Biblical Hebrew Beulah means "married to the land" and is applied to the land that the people of Israel will marry. But you will be called Hephzibah and your land Beulah for the Lord delights in you and you will be married to the land. 

The land of Beulah is referred to in various hymns and other works.

Bible
The only known ancient reference to a land called Beulah is in the book of Isaiah, 62:4. In Biblical Hebrew Beulah means "married", and is applied to the land that the people of Israel will marry:

... but thou shalt be called Hephzibah,
and thy land Beulah;
 for the LORD delighteth in thee,
 and thy land shall be married.
 For as a young man marrieth a virgin... (King James Version)

Hephzibah means "my delight is in her".

The context is the Babylonian Exile, in which the land of Israel became holy to the Jews, their land to which they must return.

There is no reference to a hill in this chapter of Isaiah.

All later references to the land of Beulah are derivative of this one mention in the Bible.

Pilgrim's Progress

In the Christian allegory 'Pilgrim's Progress (1678) by John Bunyan, Beulah Land is a place of peace near the end of the Christian life, on the border of the Celestial City. The River of Death separates Beulah from the New Jerusalem, the city on a hill.

Now I saw in my dream, that by this time the pilgrims were got over the Enchanted Ground, and entering into the country of Beulah, whose air was very sweet and pleasant, the way lying directly through it, they solaced themselves there for a season. Yea, here they heard continually the singing of birds, and saw every day the flowers appear in the earth, and heard the voice of the turtle [dove] in the land. In this country the sun shineth night and day: wherefore this was beyond the Valley of the Shadow of Death, and also out of the reach of Giant Despair; neither could they from this place so much as see Doubting Castle. Here they were within sight of the city they were going to...

Music
Hymns
There are several relatively well-known hymns on the land of Beulah, whose similar titles can lead to confusion.

 Beulah Land, 1876, lyrics by Edgar Page Stites (1836–1921) and music by John R. Sweney. First line: "I've reached the land of corn [grain] and wine". In this hymn, several themes from The Pilgrim's Progress are developed. The song talks about the Christian life today as one that borders heaven and from where one can almost see heaven. It speaks of a place of victory and fellowship with God.

Stites explained the hymn's origins:

It was in 1876 that I wrote "Beulah Land". I could write only two verses and the chorus, when I was overcome and fell on my face. That was one Sunday. On the following Sunday I wrote the third and fourth verses, and again I was so influenced by emotion that I could only pray and weep. The first time it was sung was at the regular Monday morning meeting of Methodists in Philadelphia. Bishop McCabe sang it to the assembled ministers. Since then it is known wherever religious people congregate. I have never received a cent for my songs. Perhaps that is why they have had such a wide popularity. I could not do work for the Master and receive pay for it.
 Is Not This the Land of Beulah?, 1882, lyrics by either Harriet W. R. Qua or William Hunter, music by John W. Dadmun, recorded by The Isaacs and other groups. First line: "I am dwelling on the mountain".
There is some uncertainty about the origins of "Is Not This the Land of Beulah." Public domain records show it attributed to William Hunter, somewhere before 1884, yet other records credit William B. Bradbury with the modern arrangement being attributed to John W. Dadman in 1911.
 I Have Entered Beulah Land, 1886, words by Fanny Crosby, music by John Robson Sweney. First line: "Oh my cup is overflowing".
 The Sweet Beulah Land, 1891, words by Rev. H. J. Zelley, music by H. L. Gilmour. First line: "I am walking today in the sweet Beulah land".
 Dwelling in Beulah Land, 1911, by Charles Austen Miles. First line: "Far away the noise of strife upon my ear is falling".
 Sweet Beulah Land, 1979, by Squire Parsons (1948–). First line: "I'm kind of homesick for a country".

 Other songs 
Blues musician Mississippi John Hurt recorded a song for the Library of Congress in 1963, which was entitled "Beulah Land." First line: "I've got a mother in Beulah land".

UK Blues musician Ian Siegal recorded a song called "Beulah Land" on his album The Picnic Sessions. First line: "Riders of the purple sage".

Alternative piano artist Tori Amos wrote a song also entitled "Beulah Land", which was a B-side on her 1998 album From the Choirgirl Hotel. Dennis brown mansions it in the song deliverance the destiny beulaland instead of Babylon

 Mentions in music 
Composer Charles Ives used the hymn tune "Beulah Land" in his "String Quartet No.1" (1896), entitled "Salvation Army", and the second movement of his 4th Symphony.