[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Operational Requirement F.155

(using a drooped nose) it would have been powered by 2 PS.52 jets, a projected development of the Gyron giving 35,000 lb (155.6 kN) of thrust, and 4 Spectre rockets, giving a speed of Mach 2.5 at 76,000 ft (23,165 m). It was judged, at 98,000 lb (3 times the weight of the SR.177) and , as too big. 

Fairey drew on their experience with the Fairey Delta 2 (FD2). Their first proposal was a single-engined fighter development of the existing FD2, which was felt to have good export potential although it did not meet the RAF criteria laid down in O.R. F.155. A larger twin-engined design tailored to the operational requirement followed on from this, which became known simply as the "Delta III". A fighter-bomber derivative of this aircraft was also envisaged, with Bristol Olympus 21R engines coupled with a large ventral drop tank giving a much-improved radius of action at low altitude. Fairey, like some of the other manufacturers, felt that carrying 4 missiles was too onerous especially given the size of the radar guided Red Hebe and provided designs based on a payload of only two missiles. They also took the mixed power route for both the FD2 based and the new 'FD3' designs, with both making provision for the fitting of de Havilland rocket engines.

Going on the basis of the smallest aircraft that could do the job, Hawker's design (the P.1103) used a single, albeit powerful, engine – a 25,000 lb (111.1 kN) development of the Gyron. Alternative engines in the form of the Rolls-Royce RB.122, Armstrong-Siddeley P.173 and the Canadian Orenda PS.13 were also options. Two detachable rocket boosters, to give a 3.7-minute boost, were carried in midwing nacelles.

Armstrong-Whitworth put forward their AW.169. A razor-thin straight wing carried the engines in nacelles – two Gyron Juniors on each side – with a rocket booster under the long narrow fuselage. Two missiles were carried, one on each wingtip.
 
Vickers-Armstrong submitted the Type 559; an unorthodox canard design with a massive chin air intake, split vertically, for two reheated Gyron engines placed, as in the English Electric Lightning, one above the other.  Two Spectre Junior rockets were situated each side of the jets at wing level.  Two Red Hebe or Blue Jay missiles were mounted alongside the upper part of the fuselage between the canard and the mainplane, which had end-plates incorporating twin rudders.

De Havilland submitted a relatively small design when compared to the giants from Fairey and Saunders-Roe. The DH.117 was to be powered by two Gyron Junior turbojets and a Spectre booster rocket in the tail, with a crew of two seated in tandem. Provision was not made for Red Hebe, the de Havilland team preferring the company's own line of missiles that would culminate in Red Top.

English Electric submitted a design based on their successful P.1B short-range interceptor that would become the Lightning. The P.8 was larger overall, carried a crew of two, moved the weapons to the wingtips and undercarriage to the fuselage but featured the same vertically-stacked engine and nose intake layout as the Lightning. The radar package was to be the same AI-23 AIRPASS system as the Lightning but with a larger scanner dish to improve detection range. At the time, English Electric engineers were far from convinced of the ability of fighter aircraft to carry both radar- and infrared-guided weapons, so designed the P.8 to only carry the de Havilland Blue Jay Mk.4, which would enter service as Red Top.

The AW.169 and Fairey's Delta III design were considered to be the best two contenders taking into account the design of the aircraft, the development risks, the capabilities of the design teams and the manufacturers' workloads – Bristol had not been invited to tender because of the importance of the Bristol 188 high speed research plane they were working on. Initially further work was contracted on both designs but by the end of the year the AW.169 was dropped and the Fairey design become a firm choice. However, in April the following year, the 1957 Defence White Paper terminated nearly all crewed fighter development projects.

Proposed specifications

SR.187

AW.169

Fairey 'Delta III'

Notes

References

Bibliography 
 Buttler, Tony. British Secret Projects: Jet Fighters Since 1950. Leicester, UK: Midland Publishing, 2000, .
 Buttler, Tony. "Futile Rivals: F.155T– The Quest for 'An Ultimate in Interceptors'." Air Enthusiast No. 61, January–February 1996.
 Wood, Derek. Project Cancelled: British Aircraft That Never Flew. Indianapolis: The Bobbs-Merrill Company, 1975. .

External links

Fairey Delta 2 and III 

1950s British fighter aircraft
Cancelled military aircraft projects of the United Kingdom