[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Battle of Charleston (1862)

Brigadier General John S. Williams, and he mostly made use of his artillery, the 30th Battalion Virginia Sharpshooters, and the 45th Virginia Infantry. While McCausland was driving back Union pickets, Union infantry tried to cross the Kanawha River and attack Williams, but this was quickly repulsed.

As the fighting escalated, Colonel Gilbert made the Union troop placements, while Colonel Siber positioned the artillery. Confederate artillery fire from both sides of the Kanawha River caused the 47th Ohio to fall back into the middle of town, while Union artillery returned fire. The new Union front line had one company of the 47th Ohio facing the Kanawha River while the remaining portion of the line extended across the streets of the town and ended near the Elk River. At about 1:00pm, Lightburn realized that the Confederates were getting closer, and he gave orders to burn all government buildings containing supplies that could not be removed. By 1:30pm, both sides were making heavy use of their artillery—and buildings were burning. Union wagons were already moving away from town. At 2:00pm the 47th Ohio was surrounded on three sides, and Gilbert brought them away from town across the Elk River bridge. The regiment's Lieutenant Colonel Augustus Parry was involved with the destruction of the Elk River bridge. The bridge was destroyed by setting it on fire and cutting its cables. Any pursuit by McCausland became much more difficult.

Although the destruction of the Elk River bridge formed a barrier between Lightburn and McCausland, an artillery duel continued until 10:00pm. Lightburn's wagon train stopped moving around 3:00pm—and prevented the army's retreat because it blocked the road. Colonel Gilbert rode to the front of the train and discovered that the cause of the stoppage was overloaded wagons and quartermaster's fears that the enemy was in their front. He solved the problem by having Colonel Elliott take control, and Elliott was eventually able to get the wagon train moving. Among the wagons were local families and African Americans who also sought to flee Confederate troops.

Retreat

Lightburn chose to have his supply wagons move northwest down the Ripley Road—not the road along the Kanawha River that ran directly to Point Pleasant. The longer route enabled his force to avoid a possible confrontation with Confederate cavalry (either John B. Floyd or Jenkins) believed to be where the Coal River emptied into the Kanawha River (a.k.a. Coalsmouth). In addition, the route along the Kanawha River would continuously be within the range of William's artillery that could still advance along the south side of the river. Lightburn continued north toward Ripley until he reached Sissonville (Pocatalico), where he camped for the night. The battle was over and Loring possessed Charleston.

On September 14, the Confederates constructed a pontoon bridge over the Elk River and camped on the other side. The pursuit was soon abandoned, since they had left their supply trains behind earlier in their effort to catch the Union army as it retreated from Fayetteville and Gauley Bridge. Loring's report also said that the enemy was getting close to the Ohio River, making it "useless to pursue him farther". Loring's main force settled in at Charleston, and began taking inventory of captured supplies.

Lightburn's men continued their retreat. On September 15, portions of Lightburn's command reached Ripley. On the next day, Union troops moved from Ripley to Ravenswood, and began crossing the Ohio River. The 4th Loyal Virginia, with the artillery, boarded barges destined for Point Pleasant. Other troops crossed the river on steamboats and barges, and began marching to Point Pleasant on the Ohio side of the river. Lightburn's entire Union army did not reach Point Pleasant until the evening of September18. The retreat later became known as "Lightburn's Retreat".

Aftermath
Loring was content to remain in Charleston, and issued a proclamation on September 14 that urged the local population to join him. He had achieved his objective—drive the Union army out of the Kanawha Valley. On September 19, western Virginia was attached to the command of Union Major General Horatio G. Wright, who was headquartered in Cincinnati. Wright ordered Brigadier General Quincy Adams Gillmore to take command at Point Pleasant on September 27, but than changed his mind and sent Brigadier General Robert H. Milroy. In early October, Cox was promoted to major general and sent back to Point Pleasant as commander of western Virginia.