[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Michigan Civil Rights Initiative

in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, urging the court to strike down Michigan's Proposal 2 as unconstitutional.  The brief authors argue that Proposal 2 violates the Equal Protection Clause of the 14th Amendment of the Constitution by creating procedural barriers for people of color.

On 16 November 2012, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals sitting en banc upheld the earlier ruling that the Initiative is unconstitutional. Supporters announced their intention to appeal to the Supreme Court.

On March 25, 2013, the Supreme Court granted a writ of certiorari, agreeing to hear the case.  Arguments were heard during the Supreme Court term beginning in October 2013.

On April 22, 2014, the Supreme Court of the United States upheld the Michigan Civil Rights Initiative as Constitutional.

Effects 
On Friday, February 16, 2007, the University of Michigan released admissions data showing that, in a period that includes the time after Proposal 2 was implemented, minority admissions of primarily lower test scores declined 25% from the same period a year before.  The data also show that in the period immediately before Proposal 2 was implemented, minority admissions was up 55% from the same period in 2006.  A spokeswoman for the university, Julie Peterson, has said that since the numbers aren't final and since so many minority students applied early, the drop cannot necessarily be attributed to the amendment itself.

Notable endorsers 
Notable endorsers of the MCRI include:
 Michigan Association of Scholars
 National Association of Scholars
 Ward Connerly: California businessman who led a similar campaign in California with Proposition 209
 Jennifer Gratz: executive director of the MCRI, plaintiff in the Supreme Court case Gratz v. Bollinger
 Barbara Grutter: plaintiff in Grutter v. Bollinger, co-chair of Towards a Fair Michigan
 Michigan Attorney General Michael (Mike) Cox
 Bill Schuette, Mike Cox's successor as Michigan Attorney General
 Michigan State Representative Leon Drolet: steering committee chair of MCRI
 William B. Allen: Michigan State University political science professor, co-chair of Towards a Fair Michigan
 Dr. Carl Cohen: University of Michigan philosophy professor
 Chetly Zarko : former Treasurer/Director of Media, MCRI, political consultant
 Doug Tietz: MCRI campaign manager, former U-M YAF Chair
 Greg Creswell: Libertarian Candidate for Governor of Michigan
 Scotty Boman: Libertarian Candidate for Lt. Governor of Michigan
 Reverend Jerry Zandstra: Republican primary candidate for US Senate, Michigan
 Howard Schwartz: Professor, Oakland University
 Arthur White: Professor, Western Michigan University
 Council of Conservative Citizens
 Libertarian Party of Michigan

Opposition 
Notable opponents of the MCRI include:
 One United Michigan
 National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP)
 Former Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm
 Former Michigan gubernatorial candidate Dick DeVos
 Former Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick
 Oakland County sheriff and 2006 Republican U.S. Senate candidate Mike Bouchard.
 By Any Means Necessary (BAMN)
 Grand Rapids Mayor George Heartwell
 Jesse Jackson and the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition
 Association of Michigan Universities (AMU)
 Michigan Civil Rights Commission
 Al Sharpton
 Detroit City Council
 American-Arab Anti Discrimination Committee (ADC)
 American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)
 Detroit Federation of Teachers
 Arab American Institute
 Green Party of Michigan (GPMI)
 Socialist Party of Michigan (SPMI)

See also 
 Affirmative action
 Ward Connerly
 Gratz v. Bollinger
 Grutter v. Bollinger

References

External links 
 Michigan Attorney General Bill Schute's press release (Announcing his appeal of the 6th Circuit's ruling to the Supreme Court)
 One United Michigan (opposed to MCRI)
 MCRI proponents
 Equality Talk
 MichiganProposal2.org
 TAFM (Towards a Fair Michigan)
 BAMN
 Zarko Research & Consulting (blog of former Director of Media Relations for MCRI)
 Why Voters Should Approve the Michigan Civil Rights Initiative

History of affirmative action in the United States
Government of Michigan
Opposition to affirmative action