[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1988 executions of Iranian political prisoners

A series of mass executions of political prisoners ordered by Ayatollah Khomeini and carried out by Iranian officials, took place across Iran, starting on 19 July 1988 and continuing for approximately five months.  The killings took place in at least 32 cities across the country, and estimates of the number killed range from 1,000 to 30,000, many of whom were also subject to torture.

The majority of those who were killed were supporters of the People's Mujahedin of Iran (MeK), but supporters of other leftist factions, including the Fedaian and the Tudeh Party of Iran (Communist Party), were also executed.

The killings operated outside legislation and trials were not concerned with establishing the guilt or innocence of defendants. Great care was taken to conceal the killings, and the government of Iran currently denies their occurrence.  The massacres have been called "Iran’s greatest crime against humanity", without precedent in the modern Iranian history both in terms of scope and cover-up, and have been denounced by deputy Supreme Leader of Iran at the time Ayatollah Montazeri, the United Nations Human Rights Council, and number of countries such as Sweden, Canada, and Italy.

Various motives have been offered for the executions of the victims, including that the victims were executed in retaliation for the 1988 attack on the western borders of Iran by the MeK, (although members of other leftist groups which never supported or took part in the Mujahedin's invasion were also targeted for execution). Survivors of the massacre have made numerous calls for redress and they have also called for the prosecution of those who perpetrated the massacre.

Background

The main victims of the 1988 massacre, the Islamist modernist group People's Mujahedin of Iran (or MeK) had a fraught history with the victors of the Iranian Revolution -- Ayatollah Khomeini's clerical network and its supporters. Their guerilla forces (along with other victims the Marxist Fedeyeen) are thought to have provided crucial help in overthrowing the monarchy -- if only by provoking repression and discrediting the shah. (They are also thought to have helped Khomeini by spreading a rumour that he was the awaited 12th Imam returning from occultation.) But they had very different views than Khomeini's group as to what an Islamic political system would look like -- opposing a system of rule by Islamic clerics and claiming to support democracy, freedom, feminism and a classless society. 

As the struggle to create a post-revolutionary society took shape and erstwhile liberal, leftist and moderate allies of Khomeini were physically suppressed, the MeK was both the regimes strongest foe and biggest victim. In 1980, Khomeini began to  attackthe MeK as elteqati (eclectic), contaminated with Gharbzadegi ("the Western plague"), and as monafeqin (hypocrites) and kafer (unbelievers). In February 1980 concentrated attacks by hezbollahi toughs began on the meeting places, bookstores, newsstands of Mujahideen and other leftists. The opposition's bases of support were attacked with  20,000 teachers and nearly 8,000 military officers purged for being too "Westernized".   MeK offices were shut down,  their newspapers outlawed, their demonstrations prohibited, and arrest warrants issued for their leaders. 

The crisis came to a head when an MeK ally, Islamic modernist President Banisadr -- another erstwhile supporter of Khomeini -- was attacked by Khomeini, impeached by the Majlis/parliament and fled the country calling for "resistance to dictatorship".  

In the ensuing fight an "unprecedented reign of terror" was unleashed against the MeK and similar groups. "In less than six months, 2,665 persons, 90 per cent of whom were MeK members, were executed".  The MeK retaliated with "spectacular" attacks, killed around 70 leaders of the Khomeinist Islamic Republic Party in one bombing, and the successor leader of the IRP (Mohammad Javad Bahonar) a couple months later.   

Remnants of the MeK fled across the border to Iraq which was waging war against Iran. About six years later, in July 1988, in an operation known as  Operation Mersad, Iraqis forces and 7,000 militants from the MeEK invaded from Iraq into Iranian Kurdistan, hoping to capture Kermanshah and eventually lead an uprising. The MeK militants were armed, equipped and given air support by the Iraqi military. They were quickly defeated but the fact that this attack came  after Ayatollah Khomeini had officially announced his acceptance of a UN brokered ceasefire resolution between Iraq and Iran and Iran thought the bloody war was all but over, is likely to have greatly angered the Islamic Republican government. It is also thought  not to be a coincidence the killings started about the same time.