[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The White Rose (Cook novel)

ing, the offspring of Old Father Tree.  There, both Bomanz and Raven are revived.  Meanwhile, Toadkiller Dog lurks uncaptured, awaiting his chance to help his master.  While preparations are being made, the Lady, emotionally vulnerable due to her growing fear of the outcome, and Croaker grow closer.

The final battle begins.  The White Rose carefully approaches the burial mounds of each of the lesser minions, one by one, nullifying the spells that bind them.  When they emerge, they are powerless within her zone of influence and relatively easy to kill.  Finally, it is the turn of the Dominator.  Even without his magic, he is practically immortal and immensely powerful, but eventually he is overcome, though at the cost of the Lieutenant and Elmo.  His body is burned, his malevolent spirit infused into a silver spike which is driven into the trunk of the scion of Old Father Tree.

In the aftermath, the Limper tries to utter the Lady's true name, but guesses the wrong one. His head is chopped off by Croaker while he is helpless in the White Rose's vicinity.  Then the Lady speaks the name of the White Rose, depriving her of her unique ability.  Finally, Silent, of all people, speaking for the first time in Croaker's memory, truly names the Lady, rendering her powerless.  Because the Lady had tied the Taken to her fate, the Taken are destroyed.  The remnants of the Company, now led by Croaker as the highest ranked surviving officer, sneak away, taking the not-unwilling Lady with them.

Characters in The White Rose

The Black Company
Croaker - the Company's doctor and historian
The Lieutenant - leader of the Black Company
Silent, Goblin, One-Eye - moderately talented Company wizards
Elmo - the Sergeant
Otto and Hagop - veteran mercenaries
Darling - believed to be the White Rose reincarnated. When she was a young girl, she had been rescued and adopted by the Company.  She is surrounded by a null, a field in which magic does not work.

The Empire
The Lady
The Taken
Limper - the last of the surviving original Taken who remained in the North
The New Taken - Whisper, Journey, Blister, Scorn, Benefice, Learned, Creeper
Case - a young soldier stationed at the Barrowland

Others
The Dominator 
Old Father Tree - a deity in the form of a tree on the Plain of Fear
Bomanz - the wizard responsible for freeing the Lady from centuries of imprisonment  
Raven - the rescuer of Darling and later deserter from the Company.  He works in the Barrowland under the pseudonym of Corbie, while searching for the information that Bomanz uncovered.
Tracker and Toadkiller Dog - a warrior and his dog, or rather two creatures in the shape of a man and a dog

External links
 
 

Novels by Glen Cook
1985 American novels
American fantasy novels
Tor Books books