[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1948 and After

1948 and After: Israel and the Palestinians is a collection of essays by the Israeli historian Benny Morris. The book was first published in hardcover in 1990. It was revised and expanded, (largely on the basis on newly available material) and published by Clarendon Press, Oxford, in 1994, .

The expanded 1994 edition contained a complete new chapter (ch. 5): Yosef Nahmani and the Arab Question in 1948. Chapters 1 (The new historiography: Israel and its past) and chapter 10 (The Transfer of Al Majdal's Remaining Arabs to Gaza, 1950) were substantially expanded.

Detailed synopsis

The new historiography: Israel and its past
In the first chapter, Morris outlines his refutation of the single-cause thesis to the Palestinian exodus. On p. 31, he writes: "In refuting Teveth's single-cause ("Arab orders") explanation of the exodus up to 15 May, I pointed out that there is simply no evidence to support it, and that the single document Teveth is able to cite, the Haganah report of 24 April, refers explicitly to "rumours" and to an order to "several localities" (rather than a blanket order to "the Arabs of Palestine"). Moreover, neither these "rumours" nor the purported order were referred to again in any subsequent Haganah intelligence report (which surely would have been the case had these "rumours" been confirmed and had an actual order been picked up). The fact is that the opposite occurred: Haganah intelligence and Western diplomatic missions in the Middle East at the time, around 5–6 May 1948, picked up, recorded and quoted from Arab orders and appeals (by King Abdullah I, Arab Liberation Army Commander Fawzi Qawuqji, and Damascus Radio) to the Arabs of Palestine to stay put in their homes or, if already in exile, to return to Palestine. Not evidence of "Arab orders" to flee but of orders to stay put during those crucial pre-invasion weeks. It flies in the face of the chronology, which there is no getting around. There was an almost universal one-to-one correspondence between Jewish attacks in specific localities and on specific towns and Arab flight from these localities and towns;
 Tiberias was attacked by the Golani Brigade on 17 April; its Arab population evacuated on 18 April.
 Arab Haifa was attacked and defeated on 21–22 April; most of its 70,000 Arab inhabitants, evacuated the city over 22 April – 1 May.
 Jaffa was assaulted by the Irgun Zva'i Leumi on 25–27 April; the bulk of its 70,000–80,000 population fled the city between 25 April and 13 May.
 Safad was attacked and conquered by the Palmah on 9–10 May; its Arab population of 10,000 fled the city on 10 May.
 Eastern Galilee was conquered by Palmah units between 2 May and 25 May; the villages in the area decamped during that period. And so on."
(p.32): "What this means is that Haganah / Irgun / IDF attack was usually the principal and final precipitant of Arab flight.... For if the Arab order/orders had been issued on 10 April, why did the inhabitants of Haifa wait a fortnight, and those of Safad or Eastern Galilee a month or more to depart? And if the order was issued, say, on 25 April, why did the inhabitants of Tiberias depart three days before; or those of Safad wait a further fortnight before leaving?"

Mapai, Mapam, and the Arab problem in 1948
Here Morris examines the evolving attitudes to "the Arab problem" as it appeared in the two dominant parties, Mapam and Mapai in 1948. Of the minor parties only the Revisionists spoke with a clear voice. (p. 51:) On 13 May LHI declared: A strong attack on the centres of the Arab population will intensify the movement of refugees and all the roads in the direction of Transjordan and the neighbouring countries will be filled with panic-stricken masses and [this] will hamper the [enemy's] military movement, as happened during the collapse of France [in World War II] ... A great opportunity has been given us.... The whole of this land is ours....

(p. 53:) Mapai
Morris examines the "paper trail" on the "Arab question", and writes that the most striking thing about Mapai is that the party—according to the "paper trail"—hardly ever discussed it.
The first to break the silence was Golda Meir, who, after a visit to the deserted Arab quarters of Haifa argued on 11 May that the party now had to determine Israeli behaviour towards the Arabs that remained. Her calls for a full-scale party debate on the issue was not heeded. Morris writes (p. 55): "It was as if a large stone had been thrown into a pool—but had caused no ripple at all."
The only full-scale Mapai party debate in 1948 took place 24 July. Some quotes from that debate:

(p. 57) According to David Ben-Gurion, two things had surprised him during the war: the Arab flight and Jewish looting. "It emerged that most of the Jews are thieves". Everyone stole and looted, including "the men of the [Jezreel] Valley, the cream of the pioneers, the parents of the Palmah [fighters]".