[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of the Pass of Brander

h the southern slope of Ben Cruachan on its way down from Loch Awe. However, only Barbour's poem "The Brus" (late 14th century) places the battle; it does not mention the pass by name but the description fits. The large number of cairns around the Bridge of Awe may give some support to the location.

John Bacach, who gave as an excuse in a letter to King Edward that he was recovering from an illness, observed his dispositions from a galley on Loch Awe. His men were hidden in the hillside, overlooking the narrow path through the pass. If they looked for a repetition of the Battle of Dalrigh they were to be disappointed, for Bruce had now learned enough of guerrilla warfare and had enough men to sidestep such a trap. A party of loyal Scottish archers commanded by Sir James Douglas climbed even higher up Ben Cruachan and – completely unobserved – positioned themselves in the enemy's rear. As the MacDougalls attacked, they were caught in a vice, with King Robert coming from below and the Black Douglas from above. The men of Argyll wavered and then broke. They were chased westwards across the River Awe all the way back to Dunstaffnage, while John escaped down the Loch in his galley, eventually taking refuge in England, like the Earl of Buchan. The Lord of Argyll surrendered and did homage to Bruce, but the following year he joined his son in exile, dying in 1310 in the service of Edward II.

The campaign of 1307 and 1308 ended the internal threat to the Scottish king. All of his Comyn enemies had been destroyed or exiled and their lands lost. The survivors no longer had a power base in Scotland, and were only able to continue the fight as volunteers in the English army. Nevertheless, a legacy of bitterness remained, eventually to return to Scotland in 1332, under very different circumstances.

Battle of Ben Cruachan?
Like the date there continues to be some uncertainty over the exact location of the Brander battle. R. A. MacDonald in his 1997 book, The Kingdom of the Isles, argued that the traditional site of the battle is wrong, and that it took place further north on the shores of Loch Etive. From this he concludes that the fight should be more correctly known as the Battle of Ben Cruachan. However, a fight by Loch Etive could only have taken place if Bruce, coming from the east, had first cleared the Pass of Brander, although this was the obvious place for an ambush. An advance along the difficult shores of Loch Etive north of Ben Cruachan in the full view of the enemy galleys would have been military suicide. The author further contends that John's escape after the battle would have been possible only on Loch Etive, a sea loch, and not on Loch Awe, an inland loch, which, in any case was controlled by the Campbells, allies of Bruce. As for Loch Awe being "a Campbell lake" the author ignores his earlier point that the Campbells had been eclipsed at this time by the MacDougalls. Even on an inland loch a galley would offer the best mode of escape from slow moving land forces. A glance at the map will show that there could never have been a "Battle of Ben Cruachan".

References

Primary
 Barbour, John, The Bruce, trans. A. A. H. Douglas, 1964.
 Fordun, John of, Chronicles of the Scottish Nation, ed. W. F. Skene, 1872.
 Gray, Thomas, Scalicronica, ed and trans. H. Maxwell, 1913.

Secondary
 Barrow, G. W. S., Robert Bruce and the Commumnity of the Realm of Scotland, 1976.
 Barron, E. M., The Scottish War of Independence, 1934.
 Hailes, Lord (David Dalrymple), The Annals of Scotland, 1776.
 MacDonald, C. M. The History of Argyll, 1950.
 MacDonald, R. A., The Kingdom of the Isles: Scotland's Western Seaboard, 1100-c1336, 1997.

External links
Video footage of 'Bruce's Seat' at Dalmally in Glenorchy

1308 in Scotland
Battles of the Wars of Scottish Independence
History of the Scottish Highlands
Clan MacDougall
Conflicts in 1308
14th-century Scottish clan battles