[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alberto Rodríguez Saá

Alberto José Rodriguez Saá (born August 21, 1949) is an Argentine lawyer and politician. He is the Governor of San Luis Province. He was presidential candidate for the center-right peronism, Federal Peronism, in 2007 and 2011.

The Rodriguez Saá family is well known in the Province of San Luis and can be traced to the nineteenth century and to descendants of the Federalist revolutionary Juan Saá, an important figure in the Argentine Civil Wars of the mid nineteenth century. His brother, Adolfo Rodríguez Saá, was governor of San Luis from 1983 until 2001, when he became interim President of Argentina, resigning after a week.

Biography 
Born in San Luis, Rodriguez Saá completed his undergraduate studies at the University of Buenos Aires, where he earned a law degree in 1974, specializing in Constitutional Guarantees. He married María Antonia Salino, and they had three children; they were later divorced.

He was hired as a legal advisor to the CGT, the nation's largest trade union, in 1980. Between 1983 and 1994, he served as senator for the Province of San Luis. Serving this position in 1986, he voted against the Ley de Punto Final that established the suspension of legal proceedings against the perpetrators of illegal detentions, torture and murder during the military dictatorship. Between 1989 and 1993 he was president of the Justicialist caucus in the Argentine Senate.  With presidential aspirations of his own, in October 1993 he voted against the government project to amend the National Constitution and allow the reelection of the then-President Carlos Menem, known as the "Pacto de Olivos". This has been linked to the kidnapping of his brother shortly afterwards. He resigned from his seat in December 1994.

Rodriguez Saá completed postgraduate programs at the University of Salamanca, Spain, in constitutional law, community law, and in art history. He developed a strong interest in environmental and artistic activities, promoting the development of cultural proposals on a national scale. Subsequent to his various postgraduate studies in Spain, he returned to Argentina in 2000 and was elected again as National Senator, being one of the four senators who voted against the Labor Flexibilization Law (pejoratively called "Ley Banelco" for the cash bribes offered a number of senators for its passage by President Fernando de la Rúa's administration). He resigned for the Senate in 2001, and served as Head of the Cabinet of Ministers Leadership of San Luis Province. He was elected Governor of the Province in 2003, and was re-elected in 2007 with over 80% of the vote; the runner up, with 12.2% of the vote, was Roque Palma of the Popular Socialist Party.

In 2003 he called for mayoral elections in San Luis, although this exceeded his authority.  For a year there were two municipal governments in the city, until the Argentine Supreme Court ruled against Rodriguez Saá and the municipal government his elections had installed was disbanded.

Rodriguez Saa promoted a constitutional amendment blocking indefinite re-election in the Province of San Luis. He ran for president in the 2007 general election, representing the more conservative "internal line" of the Justicialist Party, which opposes Kirchnerism. His coalition won nearly 1.5 million votes in 2007 (7.6%), and earned fourth place in a crowded field.

In 2011, during his second term as Governor of the Province of San Luis, he was distinguished as “Global Ambassador for Peace” by the World Organization for Peace. This award is given to the highest world personalities such as Kofi Annan, former Secretary General of the United Nations. He won the award for his policies in San Luis on "Social Inclusion", "Sustainable Environment", "Health and Work", "Nuclear Nonproliferation," and "General Welfare."  He is known to heavily campaign in areas where he is certain of winning the majority of votes.  His reason for doing so is not to obtain more votes, but to "monitor" local officials to ensure they are responding to the desires of the populace.

 
A friend of former U.S. vice president and Nobel Peace Prize laureate, Al Gore, with whom he has had several meetings in the Province of San Luis, Alberto Rodriguez Saá received several awards from the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), and an official acknowledgment from the Senate of Argentina, both for his environmental policies.

Soon after being nominated as Global Ambassador for Peace, Alberto Rodriguez Saá received the Tiradentes Medal, previous winners of which include former Brazilian President Luis Inacio Lula da Silva and Pope John Paul II. The distinction is in recognition of his humanitarian support including food and aid relief that Rodriguez Saá offered to various Argentine provinces, Brazil, Peru, China, Iran and Haiti; he was also recognized for this by the United States Embassy.