[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Daily Star (Bangladesh)

dia outlet.Aasha Mehreen Amin serves as the Joint Editor and Sushmitha Preetha as head of the Op-Ed section. Amin previously ran the paper's Star magazine supplement. 
Mizanur Rahman, the Head of Operations and Tajdin Hasan, the Chief Business Officer, are the two other key leaders of the newspaper.

Controversy
In recent years, the paper has complained of growing restrictions on press freedom in Bangladesh. It also faced pressure from the government which affected its ad revenues. PEN America strongly criticized the lawsuits filed against Mahfuz Anam, including as many as 83 lawsuits and 30 counts of criminal defamation lodged by members and supporters of the Awami League. During the Bangladesh Nationalist Party government in the 2000s, Anam faced defamation lawsuits from ruling BNP leaders. He was co-accused with Matiur Rahman, editor of the Bengali newspaper Prothom Alo, in defamation cases filed by Salahuddin Quader Chowdhury. Anam was represented in court by Kamal Hossain.

In 2016, speaking at a panel discussion on ATN News, Mahfuz Anam admitted that The Daily Star ran stories fed to the newspaper by military intelligence outfit DGFI during the military-backed state of emergency and caretaker government in 2007 and 2008. The stories accused Awami League and BNP leaders of corruption.

Website blocked
The newspaper's website was briefly blocked on 1 June 2018 after it reported the extrajudicial killing of Ekramul Haque by members of the Rapid Action Battalion. The killing took place while the victim was speaking with his family on the phone. The Bangladesh Telecommunication Regulatory Commission (BTRC) did not give any explanation for the block.

Other publications

Starting in May 1996, The Daily Star published a weekly magazine supplement titled The Star every Friday. Aasha Mehreen Amin was the first editor of the magazine and continued in that capacity for 18 years. The Star became Star Weekend. Elita Karim was the magazine's editor from 2015 to 2017. Star Weekend ceased publication on 29 November 2019, as The Daily Star downsized to adapt to a changing media landscape.

See also
 List of newspapers in Bangladesh

References

External links
 

Newspapers established in 1991
English-language newspapers published in Bangladesh
1991 establishments in Bangladesh
Newspapers published in Dhaka
Daily newspapers published in Bangladesh