[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of critics of Islam

(born 1971, Morocco) is a Moroccan Christian convert from Islam who hosts a weekly call-in show where he criticizes Islam.
 Nabeel Qureshi, Ahmadhia Muslim converted to Christianity. His book Seeking Allah and finding Jesus is famous among Christians and Muslims. He had debated with Muslim scholars.

Ex-Muslim irreligionists
Ahmad Kasravi-was a pre-eminent Iranian linguist, nationalist, religious reformer, historian and former Shia cleric
Ali Dashti-Iranian Senator and critic of Prophet Muhammad in "Twenty Three Years" in Persian.

 Ayaan Hirsi Ali (born 1969), Somali-born Dutch-American writer and politician. She has focused on the rights of Muslim women, saying that "they aspire to live by their faith as best they can, but their faith robs them of their rights."
 Salman Rushdie (born 1947), Indian-British novelist and essayist. His fourth novel, The Satanic Verses (1988), was the centre of a major controversy.
 Taslima Nasrin, Bengali/Bangladeshi ex-physician turned feminist author. She is an atheist and a severe critic of Islam and of religion in general who describes herself as a secular humanist.
 Nyamko Sabuni, Burundian-Swedish atheist, served as the Minister of Integration and Gender Equality (Sweden, 2006–2013) and advocated to ban the veil, as well as establish compulsory gynecological examinations for schoolgirls to guard against female genital mutilation, stating, "I will never accept that women and girls are oppressed in the name of religion", and declaring it is not her intent to reform Islam but only to denounce "unacceptable" practices. She has received death threats, requiring 24-hour police protection, for her views.
 Maryam Namazie, Iranian-born human rights activist, communist, atheist, the leader of the Council of Ex-Muslims of Britain, and a Central Committee member of the Worker-communist Party of Iran, wishing the overthrow of the current Iranian regime.
 Ibn Warraq, secularist British author born in India and raised in Pakistan, intellectual, scholar and founder of the Institute for the Secularisation of Islamic Society and a senior research fellow at the Center for Inquiry specializing in Qur'anic criticism.
 Wafa Sultan, Syrian-American psychiatrist who has pointed out that the Muhammad said: "I was ordered to fight the people until they believe in Allah and his Messenger." Sultan has called on Islamic teachers to review their writings and teachings and remove every call to fight people who do not believe as Muslims. Dr. Sultan is now in hiding as she received threats after appearing on the al-Jazeera TV show.
 Turan Dursun (1934–4 September 1990), Turkish scholar and author. He worked as a Shi'a cleric before becoming an atheist during his study of the history of monotheistic religions. Dursun was assassinated outside his home in Istanbul.
 Mustafa Kemal Atatürk (1881–10 November 1938), Turkish field marshal, revolutionary statesman, author, and founder of the secular Republic of Turkey, serving as its first President from 1923 until his death in 1938. Sources point out that Atatürk was a religious skeptic and a freethinker. He was a non-doctrinaire deist or an atheist, who was antireligious and anti-Islamic in general. According to Atatürk, the Turkish people do not know what Islam really is and do not read the Quran. People are influenced by Arabic sentences that they do not understand, and because of their customs they go to mosques. When the Turks read the Quran and think about it, they will leave Islam. Atatürk described Islam as the religion of the Arabs in his own work titled Vatandaş için Medeni Bilgiler by his own critical and nationalist views.
 Yahya Hassan (born 1995), Danish poet of Palestinian background who has attracted attention and stirred debate about Islam's place in Denmark based on poetry he wrote which was critical of Islam.
 Ehsan Jami (born 1985), Iranian-Dutch socialist politician.
 Yasmine Mohammed, Canadian educator and human rights activist.
 Majid Mohammadi. An Iranian-American sociologist who has published dozens of books on Shi`i Islamism, Islamist states, Islamist propaganda, and Islamist movements.
 Harris Sultan (born 1982),(https://harrissultan.com) (YouTuber) Australian Ex Pakistani,  writer of The Curse of God: Why I Left Islam
 Ghalib Kamal (born 1985), (https://www.youtube.com/c/GhalibKamalFreethinker/about),blogger and YouTuber from Pakistan

Christians

Christians of Mideastern background