[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Iran–Italy relations

Iranian–Italian relations are the diplomatic relations between the Islamic Republic of Iran and the Italian Republic.

Overview
In 2005, Italy was the third largest trading partner of Iran with 7.5% of all exports to Iran. Italy was Iran's largest trading partner in the European Union in 2017.

Italy has maintained active diplomatic channels with Tehran even in periods of heightened tensions between the European Union and the Islamic Republic of Iran. Despite the severity of international sanctions that substantially reduced prospects of trade with Iran, Italian officials retained communication with Iranian counterparts on soft political issues, albeit just at low-level exchanges during the presidency of Mahmoud Ahmadinejad.

After the interim nuclear deal was agreed in 2013, Italy's Emma Bonino became the first European foreign minister to visit Tehran since the tenure of President Mohammad Khatami. In both her capacity as Italian Minister of Foreign Affairs and later as High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Federica Mogherini strongly backed the nuclear negotiations. She also reiterated that a breakthrough in the talks could lead to a new chapter for Iran and the West going beyond non-proliferation issues.

In 2015, during an interview with Italian broadcaster RAI, President Hassan Rouhani said that Italy was the first trade partner among European Union states for several years before the international sanctions and that Iran regards Italy as the most important country for trade and economic cooperation.

Historical relations 
The relations between Iran and Italy have ancient origins. The relationship between the two countries goes back to when the Persian Empire and the Roman Empire were the two major powers in the world. The fall of the western Roman Empire and the end of the Sasanian dynasty affected their connection, however the relationship was able to resist for centuries.

After the unification of Italy in 1861, they signed a friendship agreement and a commercial treaty in 1873. And even if during the Second World War, the alliance was interrupted momentarily, it was picked up again at the end of the conflict. Moreover, part of the Iranian intellectual elite of the late nineteenth century, who were modernist and open to the western world, found refuge in Italy during the political turmoil of the twentieth century until the constitutional revolution of 1906 .

A friendship agreement between Iran and Italy was signed by the Iranian Foreign Minister Mohsen Rais and the Italy's ambassador to Italy Alberto Rossi Longhi in Tehran on 24 September 1950.

In 1977 the President of the Republic, Giovanni Leone made a state trip to Tehran, as the head of a high-level political and economic delegation to normalize the relations between the states, especially in the economic sphere. After the Islamic revolution in 1979, Italian public opinion, led by the leftist parties sustained Iran. Meanwhile, the Italian government was aligned with the American position in favour of economic sanctions against Iran. During the Iran–Iraq War, when Iraq led by Saddam Hussein fought against Iran, Italy declared its neutrality.

Following the war and the election of Mohammad Khatami as president of the Islamic republic, the situation improved. In 1999 Khatami visited Rome to meet with the Italian government, and he remarked on the start of a new phase of reconstruction in which Italian energy companies tried to carve out a role in projects concerning infrastructures, energy, and technology. This was a time of intense commercial and economic cooperation between the countries. In the years of Mahamoud Ahmadinejad's presidency, who belonged to the conservative sphere, the diplomatic relations increased because Iran regarded Italy as one of its major western allies.

Enrico Mattei, the founder of ENI,concluded a favourable agreement in 1957 for the Iranian government, pulling ENI away from the Seven Sisters' influence. Mattei took advantage of the Suez crisis and contacted the Shah of Persia, Mohammad Reza Pahlavi. He proposed an agreement that marked a structural innovation in the world of oil companies. The deal included a company that was 50% owned by the Iranian state. What remained would be divided between Eni and NIOC, granting Iran a total share of 75%. On 14 March 1957 a deal between Eni and NIOC was signed and in the same year, on 8 September the SIRIP, Società Irano-Italienne des Pétroles, was born. The agreement failed and Mattei died in 1962 in an aeroplane crash.