[Source: PubMed]

44. US Army Med Dep J. 2007 Jan-Mar:24-37.

Causes of death in US Special Operations Forces in the global war on terrorism: 
2001-2004.

Holcomb J(1), Caruso J, McMullin N, Wade CE, Pearse L, Oetjen-Gerdes L, Champion 
HR, Lawnick M, Farr W, Rodriguez S, Butler F.

Author information:
(1)US Army Institute of Surgical Research, Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam 
Houston, TX, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Effective combat trauma management strategies depend on an 
understanding of the epidemiology of death on the battlefield, resulting in 
evidence-based equipment, training, and research requirements.
METHODS: All Special Operations Forces (SOF) fatalities (combat and noncombat) 
in Operation Iraqi Freedom/Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF/OIF) from October 
2001 until November 2004 were reviewed. All available autopsy and treatment 
records and photographs were used. In most cases, the immediate tactical 
situation was unknown. The review was performed by a multidisciplinary group 
including forensic pathologists, an SOF combat medic, and trauma surgeons. 
Fatalities were classified as having wounds that were either nonsurvivable or 
potentially survivable with existing training, equipment, and expertise on the 
battlefield. A structured review was performed evaluating the need for new 
equipment, training, or research requirements. Results were compared to autopsy 
data from Vietnam and modern civilian trauma center data. The study was approved 
by the Institutional Review Boards of the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology 
and the US Army Institute of Surgical Research.
RESULTS: During the study period, 82 SOF fatalities were identified. Autopsies 
were performed on 77 Soldiers. Five casualties died secondary to aircraft crash, 
their bodies were not recovered from the ocean. For the purposes of this study 
they were considered nonsurvivable. Eighty-five percent (n = 70) of the 
fatalities sustained wounds that were nonsurvivable, while the remaining 15% (n 
= 12) had wounds that were potentially survivable. Injury Severity Score (ISS) 
was higher in the nonsurvivable group (p < 0.05). Truncal hemorrhage accounted 
for 47% of deaths while extremity hemorrhage accounted for 33%. One casualty was 
noted at autopsy to have a tension pneumothorax as well as multiple sources of 
internal hemorrhage, one suffered an airway death, while another died of sepsis 
56 days after injury. Of those casualties deemed to be nonsurvivable, there were 
31 patients with 40 Abbreviated Injury Score (AIS) 6 injuries (p = .0011), and 
53 patients with 104 AIS 5 injuries. Among the 12 deaths deemed to be 
potentially survivable, there were only 8 AIS 5 injuries. Deaths were largely 
caused by explosions (n = 35), gunshot wounds (n = 23), and aircraft accidents 
(n = 19). No new training or equipment needs were identified for 53% of the 
potentially survivable deaths while improved methods of truncal hemorrhage 
control need to be developed for the remainder. The review panel concluded that 
85% of the deaths would not have been prevented at a civilian Level I facility. 
Available records, in most cases, did not contain information about the use of 
body armor, time to death after injury, or the ongoing tactical situation.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of deaths on the modern battlefield are nonsurvivable. 
Current results are not different from previous conflicts. In Vietnam, reported 
potentially preventable death rates range from 5% to 35% and civilian data 
reports potentially preventable death rates ranging from 12% to 22%. Military 
munitions cause multiple lethal injuries. Current trauma training and equipment 
is sufficient to care for 53% of the potentially survivable deaths. Improved 
methods of intravenous or intracavitary noncompressible hemostasis combined with 
rapid surgery are required for the remaining 47% of the decedents.

PMID: 20084703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]