[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# MV George Prince ferry disaster

tream from the ferry landings—the ferry ceased operations. At the dedication of the bridge, both Governor David C. Treen and Bishop Stanley Ott remembered those killed in the accident.

The asphalt ramps to the tops of the levees still exist, but have fallen into disrepair.

Documentary and memorial

The disaster was all but officially forgotten until 2006, when historian and filmmaker Royd Anderson wrote and directed the documentary The Luling Ferry Disaster for his Master's thesis project in Communication at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. The film was released on the 30th anniversary of the disaster and sparked a movement to bring a memorial for the victims and survivors to St. Charles Parish, Louisiana. Soon after the movie's release, on November 6, 2006, local government officials voted to have 2 memorials constructed, but the issue lost traction after those elected officials were not re-elected the following year. Anderson raised the issue again to the newly elected parish president and officials, bringing a score of relatives of the victims to a council meeting on January 28, 2009. A memorial committee led by St. Charles Parish Councilman Larry Cochran was formed soon afterwards, composed of family members and friends of the deceased, St. Charles Parish Council members, and concerned citizens, including Anderson. The committee met for several months, voting on where the monument should be placed and what it should look like. St. Charles Parish Councilman Paul J. Hogan, an architect, created the design for the monument. Local suppliers, vendors, companies, and individuals donated the equipment, labor, and materials to build it. The memorial was unveiled in a solemn ceremony at the East Bank Bridge Park in Destrehan on October 17, 2009, with over 300 people in attendance. A bell rang as each name was called; a white balloon rose in memory of each of the deceased, and a blue balloon rose in memory of each of the survivors. By the end, 95 balloons were drifting slowly over the Mississippi River near the spot where the accident occurred.

Passengers and crew

Crew of George Prince
From the Coast Guard investigation report:

The entire crew of the ferry died. The pilot was nearly drunk under laws at the time, and it is likely the other crew members were impaired to a degree by alcohol consumption.Egidio Auletta, pilot, Destrehan, Louisiana
Nelson Eugene Sr., deckhand, St. Rose, Louisiana
Douglas Ford, deckhand, Boutte, Louisiana
Jerry Randle, engineer, New Sarpy, Louisiana
Ronald Wolfe, deckhand, St. Rose, Louisiana

Deceased passengers of the George Prince
From the Coast Guard investigation report:

Mark Abadie, LaPlace, Louisiana
Hurest Anderson, LaPlace, Louisiana
Glen Barreca, Norco, Louisiana
John Basso, Independence, Louisiana
Thomas Beasley, Destrehan, Louisiana
Anthony Breaux, LaPlace, Louisiana
Jerry Brown Jr., LaPlace, Louisiana
Martin Campbell, Destrehan, Louisiana
Jim Carter Sr., Ponchatoula, Louisiana
Harry Clement, Tickfaw, Louisiana
Richard Cobb, Hammond, Louisiana
Oscar Dermody, Kenner, Louisiana
Dwight Dobson, Hammond, Louisiana
Melvin Dright Jr., Kenner, Louisiana
Herman Eugene Jr., Garyville, Louisiana
Lenwood Fenroy, LaPlace, Louisiana
Al Fleming, Garyville, Louisiana
Charles Frank Jr., Metairie, Louisiana
Benny Fuller, Metairie, Louisiana
Jimmy Gast, Destrehan, Louisiana
Ervin Gehegan, Hammond, Louisiana
Otis Gehegan, Hammond, Louisiana
John Goldston Jr., Baton Rouge, Louisiana
Oscar Green, Ridgeland, Louisiana(Possible typo in USCG report: there is no Ridgeland, LA,however, there is a Ridgeland, Mississippi)

Ronnie Hall, Destrehan, Louisiana
Joseph Harris, Tallulah, Louisiana
Paul Harris, LaPlace, Louisiana
Willie Harris, Tallulah, Louisiana
Joseph Hastings Jr., Kenner, Louisiana
Henry Hills Jr., Hammond, Louisiana
Larry Hills, Hammond, Louisiana (son of Henry Hills Jr.)
Hollis Hodges, Cocoa, Florida
Edgar 'Joe' Holmes, Ponchatoula, Louisiana
James Hughes, Independence, Louisiana
Timothy Hymel, Reserve, Louisiana
Robert Jones Jr., Metairie, Louisiana
Lindsey LeBlanc, Norco, Louisiana
Mary Lightsey, Destrehan, Louisiana
Lonie Marts, Kenner, Louisiana
Charles McKeithen, Kenner, Louisiana
Joseph Michelli, Hammond, Louisiana
Hubert Minor Jr., Kenner, Louisiana
Roosevelt Mixon, Kenner, Louisiana
Anthony Monistere, Hammond, Louisiana
Barry Moore, Kenner, Louisiana
William Moore, New Sarpy, Louisiana
Robert Newton Sr., Van Cleave, Mississippi