[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Matthew Mbu

s :

Chairman, Alraine (Nigeria) Ltd, PGN Ltd, Wiggins Teape Nigeria Plc, Plessey Company (Nigeria) Ltd, Grindlays Merchant Bank Nigeria Ltd (Now Stanbic IBTC), Vice-President and Chairman, Corporate Affairs Committee, Manufacturer’s Association of Nigeria (MAN)

Membership of International Bodies :

Fellow of the London Institute of World Affairs

Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts

Fellow of the Royal Economic Society

Fellow of the Royal Commonwealth Society

President of the Nigeria Society of International Law, 2001 

Biographical Listings :

Who’s Who in the Commonwealth

Who’s Who in the World

Who’s Who in Nigeria and Africa

Included in American Biography of Men of Distinction in the 20th Century

Elected by Cambridge Biographical Centre, England as an Icon for service to humanity in the field of Diplomacy

Academic,  national and other awards :

LL.D (Honoris Causa) University of Ibadan, 1988

D.Litt (Honoris Causa) University of Cross River (now University of Uyo), 1991

LL.D (Honoris Causa) University of Calabar, 1992
‘
		D. Litt (Honoris Causa) Abia State University, 1996

Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (CFR), 2000

Officer and Knight of St. John International (KSJ)

Certificate of Honour by St. John International for distinguished service to the society and the church

Noble Degree of Knights of St. John International, 2011

Otu Agrinya I of Boki

Ada Idagha Ke Efik Eburutu

In the early hours of 6 February 2012 the living legend, Ambassador Dr. M. T. Mbu, the ‘Star of Ogoja’, the ‘Baby Minister’, the ‘Wonder Boy of the Commonwealth’ slept in the bosom of the Lord. May the Almighty God continue to bless his soul forever more Amen.

Political career
Chief M. T. Mbu’s political career began with his membership of Parliament from 1952 to 1955 .

He has also served his country in various capacities including:
Federal Minister of Labour, 1954
High Commissioner to UK, 1955 to 1959
Representative of Nigeria, Washington DC. 1966.

He holds the distinction of being the youngest Nigerian ever to serve in the federal cabinet. Between 1960 and 1966, Chief Mbu returned to serve again in Parliament. During the latter period in Parliament, he served as Federal Minister of Defense for Naval Affairs.

He was appointed Chairman, Eastern Nigeria Public Service Commission in 1967, and after the declaration of Biafra he was appointed Biafran Minister of Foreign Affairs by the Biafran President Odumegwu Ojukwu and after the civil war he became Member Constituent Assembly from 1977 to 1978. He was the first national vice-chairman of the Nigeria People’s Party from 1979 to 1981 before moving to the National Party of Nigeria from 1981 to 1983.

On several occasions, Chief Mbu has represented his Nation as an ambassador to foreign countries, including a recent appointment as Ambassador to Germany. He has also served as the Pro-Chancellor at Obafemi Awolowo University in Ile-Ife, Nigeria.

He served as his country's Foreign Minister from January to November 1993.

Chief Mbu was the leader of the South-South Peoples Assembly, (SSPA), a non-political organization that was created to help promote the interests of the peoples of the South-South geo-political zone.

His legacy has been continued by his son, Senator Matthew Tawo Mbu (Jr.), who is also a prominent politician.

References

3. Abbas, Jimoh (April 6, 2018).       "Autobiography on M.T. Mbu for Launch April 10". Daily Trust.

External links
https://dailytrust.com/autobiography-on-m-t-mbu-for-launch-april-10/
Interview with Matthew Mbu
Detail on Mbu at the Alex Ekwueme Foundation web site

1929 births
2012 deaths
Alumni of University College London
Alumni of University of London Worldwide
Foreign ministers of Nigeria
Federal ministers of Nigeria
Members of the House of Representatives (Nigeria)
High Commissioners of Nigeria to the United Kingdom
Ambassadors of Nigeria to Germany
People from Cross River State
Fellows of the Royal Commonwealth Society