[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 134]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

e philosophy.

However, if the enemy shewed no signs of hostility, Hadria resolved that
she also would keep the truce.

Miss Temperley had already mentioned that Mrs. Fullerton was now staying
at the Red House, for change of air. She had been far from well, and of
course was worrying very much over these money troubles and perils
ahead, as well as about Hadria's present action. Mrs. Fullerton had
herself suggested that Henriette should go over to Paris to see what
could be done to patch up the quarrel.

"Ah!" exclaimed Hadria, and a cloud settled on her brow. Henriette had
indeed come armed _cap à pie!_

There was a significant pause. "And your mission," said Hadria at
length, "is to recapture the lost bird."

"We are considering your own good," murmured Miss Temperley.

"If I have not always done what I ought to have done in my life, it is
not for want of guidance and advice from others," said Hadria with a
smile and a sigh.

"You are giving everyone so much pain, Hadria. Do you never think of
that?"

There was another long pause. The two women sat opposite one another.
Miss Temperley's eyes were bent on the carpet; Hadria's on a patch of
blue sky that could be seen through a side street, opposite.

"If you would use your ability on behalf of your sex instead of against
it, Henriette, women would have cause to bless you, for all time!"

"Ah! if you did but know it, I _am_ using what ability I have on their
behalf," Miss Temperley replied. "I am trying to keep them true to their
noble mission. But I did not come to discuss general questions. I came
to appeal to your best self, Hadria."

"I am ready," said Hadria. "Only, before you start, I want you to
remember clearly what took place at Dunaghee before my marriage; for I
foresee that our disagreement will chiefly hang upon your lapse of
memory on that point, and upon my perhaps inconveniently distinct
recollection of those events."

"I wish to lay before you certain facts and certain results of your
present conduct," said Henriette.

"Very good. I wish to lay before you certain facts and certain results
of your past conduct."

"Ah! do not let us wrangle, Hadria."

"I don't wish to wrangle, but I must keep hold of these threads that you
seem always to drop. And then there is another point: when I talked of
leaving home, it was not _I_ who suggested that it should be for ever."

"I know, I know," cried Henriette hastily. "I have again and again
pointed out to Hubert how wrong he was in that, and how he gave you a
pretext for what you have done. I admit it and regret it deeply. Hubert
lost his temper; that is the fact of the matter. He thought himself
bitterly wronged by you."

"Quite so; he felt it a bitter wrong that I should claim that liberty of
action which I warned him before our marriage that I _should_ claim. He
made no objection _then_: on the contrary, he professed to agree with
me; and declared that he did not care what I might think; but now he
says that in acting as I have acted, I have forfeited my position, and
need not return to the Red House."

"I know. But he spoke in great haste and anger. He has made me his
_confidante_."

"And his ambassador?"

Henriette shook her head. No; she had acted entirely on her own
responsibility. She could not bear to see her brother suffering. He had
felt the quarrel deeply.

"On account of the stupid talk," said Hadria. "_That_ will soon blow
over."

"On account of the talk partly. You know his sensitiveness about
anything that concerns his domestic life. He acutely feels your leaving
the children, Hadria. Try to put yourself in his place. Would _you_ not
feel it?"

"If I were a man with two children of whom I was extremely fond, I have
no doubt that I should feel it very much indeed if I lost an intelligent
and trustworthy superintendent, whose services assured the children's
welfare, and relieved me of all anxiety on their account."

"If you are going to take this hard tone, Hadria, I fear you will never
listen to reason."

"Henriette, when people look popular sentiments squarely in the face,
they are always called hard, or worse. You have kept yourself thoroughly
informed of our affairs. Whose parental sentiments were gratified by the
advent of those children--Hubert's or mine?"

"But you are a mother."

Hadria laughed. "You play into my hands, Henriette. You tacitly
acknowledge that it was not for _my_ gratification that those children
were brought into the world (a common story, let me observe), and then
you remind me that I am a mother! Your mentor must indeed be slumbering.
You are simply scathing--on my behalf! Have you come all the way from
England for this?"

"You _won't_ understand. I mean that motherhood has duties. You can't
deny that."

"I can and I do."

Miss Temperley stared. "You will find no human being to agree with you,"
she said at length.

"That does not alter my opinion."