[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blue Shield International

Karl von Habsburg and I decided that we had to do it ourselves. We were in Ras-Almergib, a site right next to Leptis Magna, where a radar and air defense station of the Gaddafi troops was destroyed, less than 15 meters away from a Roman fort that remained intact. The ancient site was on our list." 

In terms of cultural property protection, there is therefore intensive cooperation between Blue Shield, the United Nations and UNESCO. The cooperation between UNESCO and Blue Shield International is to be further strengthened, according to the then Director General of UNESCO Irina Bokova. "UNESCO and Blue Shield International share a common goal" and "We seek to protect cultural property, and, by extension, humanity's cultural legacy", said Bokova in October 2017 at a conference of Blue Shield International.

In 2016, ICBS and ANCBS amalgamated to become simply “The Blue Shield”, amending the ANCBS statutes to reflect these changes, and registering the Blue Shield as an Association in the Netherlands. These statutes were formally approved by the Blue Shield General Assembly (2017) in Vienna.

Language preservation is also protection of cultural heritage, as former President Habsburg stated. "Today, on average, we lose one language in the world every six weeks. There are approximately 6800 languages. But four per cent of the population speaks 96 per cent of the languages, and 96 per cent of the population speaks four per cent of the languages. These four per cent are spoken by large language groups and are therefore not at risk. But 96 per cent of the languages we know are more or less at risk. You have to treat them like extinct species."

A special concern of Blue Shield International is the protection of cultural heritage during military peace operations. 40 lecturers and participants from America, Denmark, Lebanon, Italy, Croatia, Slovakia and Austria had the opportunity at the "Blue Helmet Forum 2019" to deal with the topic. Experiences of the US Army, operational experience in Iraq and Afghanistan and the establishment of a separate Italian cultural property unit were also discussed. Karl von Habsburg spoke about the need to protect cultural property not only during and after conflicts, but also outside of armed conflicts.

In 2020, Blue Shield International and the UN peacekeeping forces in Lebanon, in collaboration with the Lebanese armed forces, completed a month-long project to secure and protect the cultural property damaged after the August 4th explosions in Beirut.

Composition

The Blue Shield is formed from national committees around the world, coordinated by an International Board - Blue Shield International (BSI). BSI maintains a list of national committees on their website .

The BSI Board is formed from nine people. There are four nominated representatives from ICA, ICOM, ICOMOS, and IFLA. The General Assembly also votes in four members who have stood for election from national committees. A new board is appointed every three years at the General Assembly. Karl von Habsburg was appointed as the first President of the Blue Shield at the 2017 General Assembly; and Peter Stone was appointed as the Vice-President. In 2020, Habsburg stepped down, having Chaired the organisation since 2008 (initially as President of ANCBS). He was replaced by Stone at the August 2020 General Assembly.

In support of Peter Stone's work in cultural property protection, Newcastle University funded the first full-time Secretariat for the organisation in 2017, consisting of one full time staff member - Dr Emma Cunliffe and one part time member - Dr Paul Fox stepped down the end of December 2019, and was replaced by Dr Michael Delacruz.

Mission and areas of activity

The Blue Shield is a network of committees of dedicated individuals across the world that is:

committed to the protection of the world's cultural property, and is concerned with the protection of cultural and natural heritage, tangible and intangible, in the event of armed conflict, natural- or human-made disaster.

The key goals of the Blue Shield are laid out in Article 2 of the Blue Shield Statutes 2016. They are to:

 protect cultural and natural heritage – tangible and intangible – from the effects of conflict and environmental disaster;
 promote the ratification of, respect for, and implementation of, the 1954 Hague Convention and its two Protocols;
 raise awareness of the importance of protecting heritage in emergency situations;
 promote and provide relevant training (to heritage professionals, the armed forces, other emergency responders, and those involved in preventing the illicit trafficking of looted objects);
 promote community engagement with and participation in protecting cultural property (CP);
 encourage co-operation with, and between, other relevant entities involved in emergency situations.