[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Emperor and the Golem

Russworm
 František Filipovský as Court Astrologer
 František Černý as Alchemist Jeroným Alessandro Scotta
 Václav Trégl as Emperor's personal servant
 Vladimír Leraus as Hungarian Delegate
 Miloš Nedbal as Court Physician
 Bohuš Hradil as Tycho Brahe
 František Holar as Guard Commander

Production

Jan Werich and Jiří Voskovec were trying to make the film based on their play Golem in the 1930s. That film eventually became Le Golem directed by Julien Duvivier, who significantly re-wrote the screenplay and changed it into a horror film. Werich returned to this theme in 1950s and co-wrote a screenplay with Jiří Brdečka. It was originally directed by Jiří Krejčík, but after disputes with the Werich, Krejčík was replaced by Martin Frič. The whole film was shot in Barrandov Studios. It was the third Czechoslovak full-length color film after Warriors of Faith and Temno. It was shot on Eastmancolor and Agfacolor material. Costumes were based on designs by Jiří Trnka.

Release 
The Emperor and the Golem had a premiere on 4 January 1952 as a two-part film, 155 minutes long.

International version
A 112-minute-long one-part international version was prepared, with most propaganda flavoured scenes cut out (e.g., songs). It was successfully distributed in many countries, including Italy, West Germany, East Germany, Sweden, USA, UK, Finland, France, Belgium or Argentina.

References

External links 
 
 

1951 films
1950s historical comedy films
1950s fantasy comedy films
Czechoslovak comedy films
Czech historical films
Czech fantasy films
1950s Czech-language films
Films about lookalikes
Films based on fairy tales
Films directed by Martin Frič
Films with screenplays by Jiří Brdečka
Cultural depictions of Rudolf II, Holy Roman Emperor
Golem films
Films set in Prague
Films set in 16th-century Holy Roman Empire
Tycho Brahe
1952 comedy films
1952 films
1951 comedy films
Czech monster movies
Czech comedy films
Czechoslovak fantasy films