[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yatiri

Strictly speaking,  are , but they are a special class of  who have also experienced the lightning strike and undergone initiation to become .   are never called "" to their face, but rather are referred to as  "someone who chews coca",  "someone who picks up the coca" or  "someone who reads coca."

On becoming Yatiri
There are many factors at play in a person's calling to become a .  Who a person will become is affected by the season in which she is born, by her patron saint, and by her  (a specific kind of godparent).  The confirmation of this calling, however, is marked by the lightning strike, which typically happens to an unmarried Aymara out herding the flocks.  The lightning strike marks her as , "one who is struck."  However, occasionally lightning will strike somebody who is not called, making her a  "one who has been struck mistakenly."  At the lightning strike, the  is said to have died and passed from death to rebirth; in fact if anyone else witnesses this strike it is believed that the  will die.  If a person has the signs of a , and has been struck by lightning, she is a  and cannot refuse the call to become a .  Likewise, a person who does not have the signs and has not been struck, may not seek to become a .  Once a -to-be has aged a few years, she undertakes a journey to find her , the senior  who will train her.  Hilario, the  interviewed by Tomas Huanca in his 1987 thesis traveled three times to his 's homeland, each time as a traveling musician, and once there received tutoring from Hilario, his .  When the candidate is ready to become a , she will ask permission of the  (spiritual ancestor) through her .

The Yatiri's role in healing
A  is a full participant in the Aymara community; her special role does not relieve her from the social and agricultural duties shared by all community members.  She never makes the first move in healing, but always waits for someone who has a complaint or a problem to consult her.  Just as she is obliged to wait for requests, the  is likewise obliged to treat all who do come to her.  She typically exercises her role at home in the presence of either the patient or someone who is acting on the patient's behalf.  Occasionally, the 's ritual helpers will indicate that she must treat the patient in person, or travel to a ritual place in order to give an offering.  She will also practice outside her home if the patient requests such.  The principal helper in the 's curing ceremony is the  or human skull.   are ancestors who have been killed, usually by "robbers," and are seen as an intermediary between the world of humans and that of the dead.  The  is placed together with  bullets (small pieces of metal or stone that have been fused together by lightning), as well as with  llama wool, coca, and sculptures of the saints.  If the  has been asked to discover a lost object or one taken by thieves, she may use candles in her  ceremony.  If she is to heal somebody ill, she may use a piece of cloth-  - that has touched the patient.

Sources

Aymara
Supernatural healing