[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari

Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari (born 3 June 1977) is a Kuwaiti citizen who was held in extrajudicial detention in the United States' Guantanamo Bay detainment camp in Cuba, from 2002 to 2016. He has never been charged with war crimes.

The US Department of Defense reports he was born on 3 June 1977, in Kuwait City.

Kandari was transferred to Kuwait on 8 January 2016.

Detention in Bagram

Combatant Status Review 
His Combatant Status Review Tribunal accused him of the following: "The detainee (Al Kandari) recruited personnel to participate in jihad in Afghanistan … traveled into Afghanistan and received weapons training at the Khaldan training camp. Osama bin Laden personally provided religious instruction and trainee (sic) at this camp."
He has always denied the accusations and said: "I looked at all the unclassified accusations; I was laughing so hard." and "All this happened in a period of three months … I ask, 'Are these accusations against Faiz or against Superman?' It seems to me that whoever wrote these accusations he must (have) been drinking and he must have been drunk when he wrote it."

Scholars at the Brookings Institution, led by Benjamin Wittes, listed the captives still held in Guantanamo in December 2008, according to whether their detention was justified by certain common allegations:

 Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was listed as one of the captives who had faced charges before a military commission.
 Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was listed as one of the captives who "The military alleges ... are members of Al Qaeda."
 Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was listed as one of the captives who "The military alleges ... traveled to Afghanistan for jihad."
 Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was listed as one of the captives who "The military alleges that the following detainees stayed in Al Qaeda, Taliban or other guest- or safehouses."
 Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was listed as one of the captives who "The military alleges ... took military or terrorist training in Afghanistan."
 Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was listed as one of the captives who "The military alleges ... were at Tora Bora."
 Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was listed as one of the captives whose "names or aliases were found on material seized in raids on Al Qaeda safehouses and facilities."
 Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was listed as one of the captives who was a member of the "al Qaeda leadership cadre".
 Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari was listed as one of the captives "currently at Guantánamo who have been charged before military commissions and are alleged Al Qaeda leaders."

Hearsay evidence 
Lawyers for two Guantanamo detainees organized a study entitled, No-hearing hearings, which cited as an example of a detainee for whom all the evidence against him was "hearsay evidence".

The study quoted the Tribunal's legal advisor:

The study commented:

Comment from his lawyer Lieutenant Colonel Barry D. Wingard 

Lieutenant Colonel Barry Wingard lead attorney from the Office of Military Commissions, published an article about citing hearsey evidence against his client. Lieutenant Colonel Wingard said "Vague charges made it difficult to defend his client after he was assigned in October to represent a Kuwaiti named Fayiz". In trying to prepare his case, Lieutenant Colonel Wingard said:

Mistreatment while in detention 
Lieutenant Colonel Barry Wingard and Faiz Mohammed Ahmed Al Kandari, pertaining to the harsh treatment and enhanced interrogation techniques that Faiz was continually subjected to. The abuse included sleep deprivation, physical abuse, being placed in stress position, sexual humiliation, and the use of extreme temperature, loud music and dogs.

Ask about the alleged mistreatment his mother who has not seen her son for 10 years his mother said:

In November 2011 Wingard expressed as well outrage over a propaganda video that the DOD had published. 

Speaking while on a hunger strike in protest against his indefinite detention, Faiz said:

Habeas Corpus 

In a recently conducted interview with TPMmuckraker, Mr. David Cynamon—a lawyer for four Kuwaiti Gitmo detainees who are bringing habeas corpus claims against the government.
 Cynamon's clients were picked up in the Afghanistan-Pakistan region in the period after the 2001 U.S invasion of Afghanistan.  Asked whether he had observed a shift of any kind in the government's approach since the Obama administration came into office, Cynamon flatly replied