[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Zahran tribe

Zahran (), also known as Banū ʿZahrān ibn Kaʿab, is one of the oldest Arabian tribes in the Arabian Peninsula. It is regarded as one of the largest tribes in Al Bahah Province.

Al Baha is the homeland of Zahran and Ghamid. However, many tribes that descend from Zahran and Azd migrated to Oman and Tanukh (Levant) under leadership of Malik bin Fehm in the 3rd century. Oman’s modern royal family, Al Said, is said to descend from Zahran through Malik ibn Fehm. Moreover, many currently live in Mecca, Jeddah, Riyadh, and Dammam due to large migration from villages and small cities during the 1960s and '70s in search of a better life.

Zahran is a well-known tribe before and after Islam. Many of them left their houses, homes and relatives and joined the prophet Mohammed in Medina.
Zahrani is also a leading tribe in Pakistan especially in Punjab and Sindh . They migrated from Iran to Pakistan during golden era of islam.

Name
Zahran (Arabic: زهران) is the name of the shared common ancestor of Zahran. Etymological sources indicate that it is of Arabic Semitic origin, meaning “bright” and “pure”.

Lineage
Al-Zahrani is a nisba to 

Zahran ibn Ka’ab ibn Al-Harith ibn Ka’ab ibn Abdullah Ibn Mālik ibn Nasr ibn Al-Azd, an Azdite offshoot.

Islamic Prophecy
There are Islamic prophecies with regards to 'End-Times' that have quoted the tribe; like the following by Abu Hurairah:Abu Hurairah said, “I heard the Prophet say, The Hour will not come until the buttocks of the women of Daws move (quiver) while going around Dhu l-Khalasah”. Dhu l-Khalasah was an idol worshiped by the tribe of Daws and neighboring clans during the Jahiliyyah. (Hadith from Bukhari.) And Dhu l-Khalasah is named after Khalasah: a valley in Zahran’s homeland, specifically in Daws, one of the biggest clans in Zahran.

Recent History
The author of Kitab Akhbar Makka Lil’Azraqi (Azraqi’s Revisioned Book of Reports about Mecca), mentions that the local clans in the region used to re-honor Dhu l-Khalasah in the early 20th century and slay tributes to it. The prominent Saudi geographic researcher: Rushdi Saleh Malhas, dedicated a section under the title "Security Crisis and Return to Dhu l-Khalasah" to comment on the issue of "Dhu l-Khalasah": “When the security cord in the Arabian Peninsula was dimished in recent times and its residents lacked comfort and tranquility, and poverty and destitution prevailed in the land, souls felt the desire for asceticism and faith, and the need for a refuge to which they dread, so local clans returned to their first Jahiliyyah, by re-honoring Dhu l-Khalasah, clinging to heresies and superstitions.”  

During the emergence of the third/modern Saudi state between 1341- 1344 Hijri / 1921 - 1925 AD, Dhu l-Khalasah was destroyed by order of king Abdulaziz, otherwise known as Ibn Saud. The order was carried in delegation by Abdulaziz Al Ibrahim, who led a campaign that demolished most of the image cult and threw its ruins into a nearby valley. One of those who engaged in the campaign emphasized that the structure of Dhul-Khalasa was immensely strong, stating that the force of dozens of men was required  to move a single stone, and that its durability indicates considerate tactful building skills.

Branches

Banu Daws comprises three divisions: Banu Manhib, Banu Fahm and Banu Ali.
Banu 'Amr includes four divisions: Banu Bashir, Banu Harir, Banu Jundob and Banu 'Adwan (Banu 'Adwan occupied Adwan village in Syria and gave the village its name).
Banu Aws includes five divisions: Banu Hasan, Bal-Khirmar, Banu Kinanah (not to be confused with Banu Kinanah), Banu 'Amir (not to be confused with Banu 'Amir) and Ahl Baydan.