[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# El Tigre: The Adventures of Manny Rivera

El Tigre: The Adventures of Manny Rivera (sometimes shortened to El Tigre) is an American flash-animated television series created by Jorge R. Gutierrez and Sandra Equihua for Nickelodeon. It was the first Nicktoon to be animated with Adobe Flash after O'Grady, which was exclusive to The N. The first screening of the show was on January 19, 2007, in the first-ever Nickelodeon Creative Summit held in San Juan, Puerto Rico, as a special treat for the 60 exclusive attendees. A sneak peek of the series aired on February 19, 2007. The series had two runs on two different networks; Nickelodeon from March 3, 2007, to June 20, 2008, then Nicktoons Network from August 7 to September 13, 2008.

Premise
Set in the fictional crime-ridden Mexican-American metropolis of Miracle City, El Tigre follows the adventures of Manny Rivera, a 13-year-old boy with superpowers trying to choose between being good or evil. Manny's father is a superhero known as White Pantera and wants Manny to grow up to be good and fight evil. Manny's Grandfather is a supervillain known as Puma Loco who thinks Manny should go to the dark side.

Characters

Main Characters
Alanna Ubach as Manny Rivera / El Tigre, the main protagonist who is divided of becoming a hero or villain
Grey DeLisle as Frida Suárez, Manny's troublemaking rockstar friend
Eric Bauza as Rodolfo Rivera / White Pantera, Manny's heroic father who wields his Bronze Boots of Truth
Carlos Alazraqui as Jorge "Grandpapi" Rivera / Puma Loco, Manny's villainous grandfather who wields his Golden Sombrero of Chaos
April Stewart as Maria Rivera, Manny's loving mother and Rodolfo's ex-wife

Villains
Susan Silo as Sartana of the Dead, the skeletal guitarist and most feared villain of Miracle City
Candi Milo as Zoe Aves / Black Cuervo, Frida's archenemy who holds a vendetta on her and has a crush on Manny
Richard Steven Horvitz as Diego Jr. / Dr. Chipotle Jr., a evil child prodigy who specializes on exterimenting with guacamole
Jeff Bennett as Sergio / Señor Siniestro, a exchange student from Italy who pretends to be a robotic cowboy
John DiMaggio as El Oso, a bear-themed villain that usually robs from banks
Grey DeLisle as Carmelita Aves / Voltura, Zoe's mother who holds a grudge on Rodolfo for breaking up with her (which she claims that she broke up with him from that day)
Carlos Alazraqui as Pachita "Grandmami" Aves / Lady Gobbler, Zoe's grandmother who holds a grudge on Grandpapi for leaving her at the altar on their wedding day with another woman named Dora (Rodolfo's mother)
Richard Steven Horvitz as Diego Sr. / Dr. Chipotle Sr., the father of Dr. Chipotle Jr.
Danny Cooksey as Django of the Dead, the grandson of Sartana
John DiMaggio as General Chapuza, the leader of the Calevera Zombies
Grey DeLisle as Che Chapuza, the grandson of General Chapuza
Jon Polito as Don Baffi, the mob boss of the Moustache Mafia
Jack Angel as Comrade Chaos, a Russia-themed villain
Carlos Alazraqui as El Tarántula, a spider-themed villain
Charlie Adler as Mano Negra, a villain whose head is attached to a robotic suit
Danny Trejo as El Mal Verde, a hulking giant who is capable of swallowing heroes whole
Rene Mujica as Titanium Titan, White Pantera's former partner who turns to a life of crime

Recurring Characters
Daran Norris as Chief Emiliano Suárez, Frida's father who is the chief of police that doesn't trust Manny with her
Grey DeLisle as Carmela Suárez, Frida's mother who is the Miracle City judge
Grey DeLisle and April Stewart as Anita & Nikita Suárez, Frida's bossy twin siblings
Carlos Alazraqui as Vice-Principal Chakal, the disciplinary vice-principal who always gets Manny and Frida into detention
Jessica DiCicco as Davi Roccco / Albino Burrito, Manny's biggest fan who wants to be his sidekick
John DiMaggio as Municipal President Rodríguez, the president of the Miracle City municipal council who is arrogant and selfish

Production
El Tigre was created by a husband-and-wife team named Jorge Gutierrez and Sandra Equihua along with others who were employed to make the show. The couple made the project from experiences they had when they were younger. Manny Rivera is based on Jorge's young self. Many things known in the show were based on actual events or parts of Jorge's life. His father was an architect (which was viewed as good) and his grandfather was a general in the military (which was viewed as evil). That idea was exaggerated to the idea of superheroes and supervillains. The city Miracle City is likely based on Tijuana, where Jorge grew up.