[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# List of social nudity places in North America

lothing-optional primitive campground and recreation area called club33naked.Com is a 33-acre Club, nudity is sometimes required in the inner most portion of the club grounds in the pool, hot tub, and sauna area called zorrogarden.Com
It is a Club and not a resort, so you need to request membership.

Nebraska
 Cornhusker Recreation Club near Omaha

Nevada
 Lake Tahoe's Nevada shore has several clothing-optional beaches including
 Secret Cove,
 Chimney Beach,
 Creek Beach also called Secret Creek Beach, or Secret Harbor Creek Beach, in the Washo language it is known as dawmóʔlɨm demšé:gɨl
 Black Sand Beach (named for the black sand from the lower bottom of Lake Tahoe),
 Boaters Beach,
 Whale Beach 1 and 2.
 Black Rock City, in the desert outside of Gerlach, hosts Burning Man where clothing is optional.
 The Mirage's poolside lounge "Bare" in which guests can go topless. This is one of the few hotel pools in Las Vegas that allow female toplessness.
 Blue Moon Resort was a small resort hotel for gay men in Las Vegas. It opened in 2003 with a clothing optional pool compound, steam room and Jacuzzi grotto. the hotel closed permanently as of September 2014.
 Las Vegas Naturists is a private clothing optional resort located in the northwest part of the city.  Only couples are allowed in order to keep the genders balanced, and although is not a swingers resort, children are not allowed due to a city ordinance forbidding naked children in front of adults who are not family or medical personnel.
 Sea Mountain Nude Resort and One Love Temple, located 5 minutes from the Las Vegas Strip, is a lifestyle club and spa for couples only.

New Hampshire
 Cedar Waters Village in Nottingham has operated since 1950. It claims to be the Northeast's largest private nudist park, having a  lake surrounded by over  of heavily wooded, private land with secluded roads and hiking trails. It is a non-secular, heterosexual only park and does not admit single people of any orientation. It is not affiliated with any naturist group.

New Jersey
 Rock Lodge Club is a family-oriented nudist club on  of privately owned land in the Highlands forests of New Jersey, about  from Manhattan.
 Gunnison Beach in Sandy Hook, a part of the National Park Service's multi-state Gateway National Recreation Area, is a clothing-optional beach by custom and is the largest such beach in the Northeastern United States (there are several other public beaches on Sandy Hook where nudity is not tolerated). Gunnison Beach also has a prominent gay nudist area, one of the most popular gay beaches in New Jersey. In 1999, New Jersey passed a law a bill that prohibits all types of nudism on state or municipal beaches, making Gunnison Beach the only legal nude beach in the state, since it is on federal land not subject to state or municipal regulations. Gunnison Beach offers dramatic views of Brooklyn and the Verrazano Narrows Bridge and is officially recognized as clothing-optional with permanent park signs and full lifeguard and police protection. It is the largest clothing-optional beach on the Atlantic coast of the US, and draws more than 5,000 visitors per day on most sunny summer weekends.
 Sunset Beach on the west, bay side of Cape May. This is not a sanctioned nudist area (see previous), but nudity is commonplace here nevertheless.
 Sky Farm Club is a private cooperative in central New Jersey. Situated on  in Somerset County, Sky Farm has promoted family nudism since 1932.
 Goodland Country Club is a nudist club in Hackettstown.

New Mexico
 Ten Thousand Waves, Santa Fe. A family-friendly Japanese-style mountain spa resort offering clothing-optional hot tubs, saunas, cold plunges, and suntanning decks. Note: Effective July 2015, only the private tubs and the women's communal tub are clothing-optional; swimsuit bottoms are required in the grand bath at all times.
 Faywood Hot Springs, located north of Deming, is a camping resort with both clothing and clothing optional pools. RV, camping and cabin accommodations are offered for overnight guests.
 Bare Cottage in Coyote NM, Coyote. A clothing optional retreat in Santa Fe National Forest, 30 mins from beautiful Abiquiu Lake and Georgia O'Keeffe country.

Mi Casa Bed and Breakfast in Albuquerque, NM. Privately owned clothing optional resort that feels like home. Mi Casa is now permanently closed according to their website.