[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 194]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

ere assembled together in Jerusalem about 120 Christians (Acts 1.15.)
These appointed two, Joseph the Just, and Matthias (ver. 23.) and caused
lots to be drawn; "and (ver. 26.) the Lot fell on Matthias and he was
numbred with the Apostles." So that here we see the ordination of this
Apostle, was the act of the Congregation, and not of St. Peter, nor of
the eleven, otherwise then as Members of the Assembly.




Paul And Barnabas Made Apostles By The Church Of Antioch

After him there was never any other Apostle ordained, but Paul and
Barnabas, which was done (as we read Acts 13.1,2,3.) in this manner.
"There were in the Church that was at Antioch, certaine Prophets, and
Teachers; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of
Cyrene, and Manaen; which had been brought up with Herod the Tetrarch,
and Saul. As they ministred unto the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost
said, ‘Separate mee Barnabas, and Saul for the worke whereunto I have
called them.’ And when they had fasted, and prayed, and laid their hands
on them, they sent them away."

By which it is manifest, that though they were called by the Holy Ghost,
their Calling was declared unto them, and their Mission authorized by
the particular Church of Antioch. And that this their calling was to
the Apostleship, is apparent by that, that they are both called (Acts
14.14.) Apostles: And that it was by vertue of this act of the Church of
Antioch, that they were Apostles, S. Paul declareth plainly (Rom. 1.1.)
in that hee useth the word, which the Holy Ghost used at his calling:
For he stileth himself, "An Apostle separated unto the Gospel of God;"
alluding to the words of the Holy Ghost, "Separate me Barnabas and Saul,
&c." But seeing the work of an Apostle, was to be a Witnesse of
the Resurrection of Christ, and man may here aske, how S. Paul that
conversed not with our Saviour before his passion, could know he was
risen. To which it is easily answered, that our Saviour himself appeared
to him in the way to Damascus, from Heaven, after his Ascension; "and
chose him for a vessell to bear his name before the Gentiles, and Kings,
and Children of Israel;" and consequently (having seen the Lord after
his passion) was a competent Witnesse of his Resurrection: And as for
Barnabas, he was a Disciple before the Passion. It is therefore evident
that Paul, and Barnabas were Apostles; and yet chosen, and authorized
(not by the first Apostles alone, but) by the Church of Antioch; as
Matthias was chosen, and authorized by the Church of Jerusalem.




What Offices In The Church Are Magisteriall

Bishop, a word formed in our language, out of the Greek Episcopus,
signifieth an overseer, or Superintendent of any businesse, and
particularly a Pastor or Shepherd; and thence by metaphor was taken, not
only amongst the Jews that were originally Shepherds, but also amongst
the Heathen, to signifie the Office of a King, or any other Ruler,
or Guide of People, whether he ruled by Laws, or Doctrine. And so
the Apostles were the first Christian Bishops, instituted by Christ
himselfe: in which sense the Apostleship of Judas is called (Acts 1.20.)
his Bishoprick. And afterwards, when there were constituted Elders in
the Christian Churches, with charge to guide Christs flock by their
doctrine, and advice; these Elders were also called Bishops. Timothy was
an Elder (which word Elder, in the New Testament is a name of Office, as
well as of Age;) yet he was also a Bishop. And Bishops were then content
with the Title of Elders. Nay S. John himselfe, the Apostle beloved of
our Lord, beginneth his Second Epistle with these words, "The Elder to
the Elect Lady." By which it is evident, that Bishop, Pastor, Elder,
Doctor, that is to say, Teacher, were but so many divers names of
the same Office in the time of the Apostles. For there was then no
government by Coercion, but only by Doctrine, and Perswading. The
Kingdome of God was yet to come, in a new world; so that there could
be no authority to compell in any Church, till the Common-wealth
had embraced the Christian Faith; and consequently no diversity of
Authority, though there were diversity of Employments.

Besides these Magisteriall employments in the Church, namely Apostles,
Bishops, Elders, Pastors, and Doctors, whose calling was to proclaim
Christ to the Jews, and Infidels, and to direct, and teach those that
beleeved we read in the New Testament of no other. For by the names
of Evangelists and Prophets, is not signified any Office, but severall
Gifts, by which severall men were profitable to the Church: as
Evangelists, by writing the life and acts of our Saviour; such as were
S. Matthew and S. John Apostles, and S. Marke and S. Luke Disciples, and
whosoever else wrote of that subject, (as S. Thomas, and S. Barnabas are
said to have done, though the Church have not received the Books
that have gone under their names:) and as Prophets, by the gift