[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# David Reich (geneticist)

us. The second component is more restricted to South Asia and accounts for more than 50% of the ancestry in Indian populations. Haplotype diversity associated with these South Asian ancestry components is significantly higher than that of the components dominating the West Eurasian ancestry palette.

Human genetic map (2011)
Reich was a co-leader, along with statistician Simon Myers, of a team of genetics researchers from Harvard University and the University of Oxford that made the most complete human genetic map then known in July 2011.

Interbreeding of Neanderthals and humans (2010–2012)

Reich's research team significantly contributed to the discovery that Neanderthals and Denisovans interbred with modern human populations as they dispersed from Africa into Eurasia 70,000–30,000 years ago.

Genetic markers for prostate cancer
Reich's lab received media attention following its discovery of a genetic marker which is linked to an increased likelihood of developing prostate cancer.  Reich has also argued that the higher incidence of prostate cancer among African Americans, compared to European Americans, appears to be largely genetic in origin.

Indo-European origins
Reich has suggested that the Indo-European languages may have originated south of the Caucausus, in present day Iran or Armenia: "Ancient DNA available from this time in Anatolia shows no evidence of steppe ancestry similar to that in the Yamnaya (although the evidence here is circumstantial as no ancient DNA from the Hittites themselves has yet been published). This suggests to me that the most likely location of the population that first spoke an Indo-European language was south of the Caucasus Mountains, perhaps in present-day Iran or Armenia, because ancient DNA from people who lived there matches what we would expect for a source population both for the Yamnaya and for ancient Anatolians. If this scenario is right the population sent one branch up into the steppe – mixing with steppe hunter-gatherers in a one-to-one ratio to become the Yamnaya as described earlier – and another to Anatolia to found the ancestors of people there who spoke languages such as Hittite."

Software tools
Reich has developed ADMIXTOOLS 2, an R software package primarily used for analyzing admixture, in collaboration with Nick Patterson.

Books
 Who We Are and How We Got Here, Oxford University Press, 2018

Notes

References

Sources

External links

 How Genetics Is Changing Our Understanding of ‘Race’ by David Reich
 "How Not To Talk About Race And Genetics" – a statement by 67 scholars criticizing Reich's treatment of "race" in his book Who We are and How We Got Here
 Harvard.edu – Dr. Reich's Lab
 David Reich, Who we are how we got there by Jared Diamond

1974 births
Alumni of St Catherine's College, Oxford
American geneticists
Archaeogeneticists
Living people
Genetic epidemiologists
Harvard College alumni
Harvard Medical School faculty
Howard Hughes Medical Investigators
Jewish American scientists
Paleogeneticists
21st-century American Jews