[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# 1st Arkansas Infantry Regiment (Union)

south without them, hoping to contact them soon. On April 9 the two forces met at the Little Missouri River but instead of pushing further south Steele ordered the army to head northeast towards the town of Camden to resupply his large and hungry force, a move supported by his divisional commanders.

Through April 10–12 Steele attacked the confederate forces at Prairie D’ane and successfully pushed them back enough to secure a route to Camden, which he started for on the 12th. Sources vary on whether the 1st Arkansas participated in this Battle, though if they were present they likely weren't engaged. On April 13, the frontier division, serving as the rearguard, had not yet departed the prairie and was attacked. All of the 1st Brigade, which included three loyal Arkansas units, was engaged in the fighting and for the first time, the entire regiment participated in an engagement as a full unit. A war correspondent with the Leavenworth Bulletin would state that “The Enemy threw his shell with great accuracy” and that “several shell fell in the ranks of the 1st Arkansas Infantry”. The division pushed the confederate attackers back around four miles and the skirmish was over, allowing the division to march through the swampy terrain towards Camden. Of the seven Union soldiers killed during the skirmish three belonged to the 1st Arkansas.

By April 18 the regiment had arrived in Camden and proceeded to do reconnaissance around the city following the Battle of Poison Springs. On April 25 the regiment skirmished with confederate forces around Camden. Camden had not been the answer to the army supply issues as General Steele had hoped and decided to abandon the offensive in favor of returning to Little Rock. With confederate forces following close behind, the army left Camden on April 26, leaving behind the sick and wounded. On April 29 the army arrived at Jenkins Ferry located on the swollen Saline River, 50 miles south of Little Rock. The army hastily constructed a pontoon bridge across the River hoping to be north of the it before any substantial rebel attack. On the morning of April 30 the confederates, which had perused the army since the 28th, launched an attack and, while most of the armies cavalry and artillery had crossed, much of the infantry still remained south of the Saline, including the 1st Arkansas.

In the opening hours of the Battle of Jenkins Ferry, the regiment remained north of the fighting but General Thayer later sent them to the action along with the 12th Kansas Infantry. Brigadier General Samuel Rice then sent the two regiments to bolster the Union left flank. As the battle raged the 1st Arkansas mostly maintained a defensive position, re-enforcing the union left against any move on their flank, thus sparing the regiment from any high casualties. During the last major attack of the battle, the union left was charged by two Texas brigades. Major Frank Johnson, then the Captain of Company B, would later report that the regiment helped repulse this move on their flank with “considerable loss to the enemy, and losing no men itself."

Captain John Whiteford  of Company I would later recount the battle in a letter to his wife -

By 2:00 PM the Battle, the largest engagement the regiment would partake in, was over and the 1st Arkansas crossed the Saline River and headed north to Little Rock. In order to quickly cross through the flooding and mud, Steele had ordered that there be only one wagon to each brigade and many army records would be destroyed, including a few personnel records from Company D. The flag of the 1st Arkansas was also nearly ruined but was saved by an African American man named Pete. Pete, who was attached to the regiment, saw the flag and, according to the Fort Smith New Era, “rolled it up and carried it on his back all the way to Little Rock”, thereby saving it from destruction. Similar to their march to Springfield in the spring of 1863, the 1st Arkansas proceeded to Little Rock with only what they could carry on their backs due to a lack of adequate transportation. On May 3 the regiment reached Little Rock where they rested for four days before taking up the line of march again on the 7th towards Fort Smith. Arriving on the 16th they were placed on garrison duty for the remainder of the summer.