[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Political families of Rajasthan

This is the alphabetical categorised list of statewide, regional and local political families involved in the politics and various elections of Rajasthan state of India at state (Rajasthan Legislative Assembly) and National level (Lok sabha).

Families

The Beniwal Family (Jats)
On 29 October 2018, Hanuman Beniwal founded the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, becoming its national convenor in the process. This made Beniwal family as  one of the most influential political families of Rajasthan since Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP) is the only successful party in the state besides Indian National Congress and Bhartiya Janta Party.
 Ramdeo Beniwal, former two term Member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly in 1977 and 1985 from Mundwa constituency.
 Hanuman Beniwal, Member of Lok Sabha from Nagaur, former two term Member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly from Khinvsar, founder and National Convenor of the Rashtriya Loktantrik Party. He is son of Ramdev Beniwal.
 Narayan Beniwal, Member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly from Khinvsar, Nagaur, Rajasthan. He is son of Ramdev Beniwal.
Kamla Beniwal, former Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan in 2003, first women to became minister in Rajasthan at the age of 27 in 1954, former Governor of Tripura, Gujarat and Mizoram between 2009 and 2014. 
Alok Beniwal, Member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly from Shahpura. He is son of Kamla Beniwal.

Manikya Lal Verma Family

 Manikya Lal Verma, Freedom fighter and first Prime Minister of Undivided Rajasthan, Member of Loksabha from Tonk and Chittorgarh, former president, RPCC. 

 Narayani Devi Verma (Wife), Former Member of Parliament, Founder of Mahila Ashram School in Bhilwara for upliftment of Tribal Children's.
 Shri Deen Bandhu Verma (Son), Former Member of Parliament from Udaipur, Former Member of Legislative Assembly from Kapasan. Former Minister of State,Govt of Rajasthan. General Secretary, RPCC.

The Jagan Family ( Sharma's ) 

Banwari Lal Sharma, Former Cabinet Minister and 5 term MLA from Dholpur Constituency
Ashok Sharma, MLA and former Dholpur President of Indian National Congress.

Shilpi Sharma, Indian actress, model and DJ.
Dev Sharma, British food activist, Chair of BiteBack 2030, and a Youth MP in the UK Youth Parliament.

The Pilot Family 
  Rajesh Pilot, Indian politician, former minister in the Government of India and a former Indian Air Force officer.
  Rama Pilot, Wife of Rajesh Pilot, former Member of Parliament.                            
 Sachin Pilot, currently Member of the Legislative Assembly from Tonk. Former Deputy Chief Minister of Rajasthan, former Union Minister in Government of India. He is son of Rajesh Pilot.

The Mirdha Family

Baldev Ram Mirdha, founder of ‘Marwar Kisan Sabha’ and ‘Rajasthan Kisan Sabha’. He is popularly known as Kisan-Kesari.
Ram Niwas Mirdha, son of Baldev Ram Mirdha, former member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly and Lok Sabha, former cabinet minister in Government of India.
Harendra Mirdha, former member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly and cabinet minister in Government of Rajasthan.
Raghuvendra Mirdha, Member of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee.
Nathuram Mirdha, popular freedom fighter, social reformer and farmer leader in Marwar region in Rajasthan.
Bhanu Prakash Mirdha, former member of Lok Sabha, son of Nathuram Mirdha.
Richpal Singh Mirdha,former member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly.
Dr. Jyoti Mirdha, former member of Lok Sabha from Nagaur.

Vishnoi family

Poonam Chand Vishnoi, former speaker Rajasthan Legislative Assembly and cabinet minister in Government of Rajasthan.
Vijay laxmi Bishnoi, Member of PCC, daughter of Poonam Chand Vishnoi.

Ram Singh Bishnoi Family

  Ram Singh Bishnoi, former Cabinet Minister and 7 times member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly.
Malkhan Singh Bishnoi, former member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly, Son of Ram singh Bishnoi.
Mahendra Bishnoi, Son of Malkhan Singh Bishnoi, Member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly from Luni constituency in Jodhpur district.

Singh family

Jaswant Singh, former Finance Minister of India and one of the founding member of Bhartiya Janta Party.
Manvendra Singh, Member of Lok Sabha, son of Jaswant Singh

Gehlot family

  Ashok Gehlot, Chief Minister of Rajasthan, elected 5 times as Member of Parliament and 5 times as Member of Legislative Assembly.
 Vaibhav Gehlot, Chairman, Rajasthan Cricket Association & son of Mr. Ashok Gehlot.

Raje family

Vasundhara Raje, former Chief minister of Rajasthan (two term as CM), former minister in the Union Cabinet of Atal Bihari Vajpayee.
Dushyant Singh, member of Lok Sabha, son of Vasundhara Raje.

Maderna Family
     
  Parasram Maderna, former nine term Member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly, former president of Rajasthan Pradesh Congress Committee.
Mahipal Maderna, former Minister of water resources in Government of Rajasthan.
Divya Maderna, former member of Rajasthan Legislative Assembly in 2018.