[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Displacement ventilation

cooling load is less than about 13 Btu/h-sf or 40 W/m2.

Indoor air quality 
One benefit of displacement ventilation is possibly the superior indoor air quality achieved with exhausting contaminated air out of the room. Better air quality is achieved when the pollution source is also a heat source.

The effectiveness of displacement ventilation at removing particulate contaminants has been investigated recently. Small aqueous droplets containing infectious nuclei are frequently released in hospital rooms and other indoor spaces, and tend to settle through the ambient air at a speed of order 1–10 mm/s typically. In cold climates or seasons, sufficiently small droplets are extracted from the top of a displacement-ventilated space if the mean upward air speed exceeds the particle settling speed. However, laboratory experiments have shown that larger droplets may settle faster than the air moves. In this case, the large droplets are not extracted effectively from a space with upward displacement ventilation, and their concentration increases if the ventilation rate is increased. In warmer climates or seasons, large-scale instabilities in the concentration of contaminants may occur within a space with downward displacement ventilation.

Energy consumption 
Some studies have demonstrated that displacement ventilation may save energy as compared to standard mixing ventilation, depending on the use type of the building, design/massing/orientation, and other factors. However, for the evaluation of energy consumption of displacement ventilation, the numerical simulation is the main method, since yearly measurements are too expensive and time consuming. Hence, whether displacement ventilation could help with saving energy is still debated. In general, displacement ventilation is attractive to the core region in a building since no heating is needed. However, the perimeter zones require high cooling energy.

Design guidelines 
Different guidelines have been published to provide guidance on designing displacement ventilation systems, including:
 Skistad H., Mundt E., Nielsen P.V., Hagstrom K., Railo J. (2002). Displacement ventilation in Non-Industrial Premises. Federation of European Heating and Air-conditioning Associations.
 Skistad, H. (1994). Displacement ventilation. Research Studies Press, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd., west Sussex. UK.
 Chen, Q. and Glicksman, L. (2003). Performance Evaluation and Development of Design Guidelines for Displacement ventilation. Atlanta: ASHRAE.
Among guidelines listed above, the one developed by Chen and Glicksman are aimed specifically at fulfilling U.S. Standard. Below is a brief description of each step of their guideline.

Step 1) Judge the applicability of displacement ventilation

Step 2) Calculate summer design cooling load.

Step 3) Determine the required flow rate of the supply air for summer cooling.

Step 4) Find the required flow rate of fresh air for acceptable indoor air quality.

Step 5) Determine the supply air flow rate.

Step 6) Calculate the supply airflow rate.

Step 7) Determine the ratio of the fresh air to the supply air.

Step 8) Select supply air diffuser size and number.

Step 9) Check the winter heating situation.

Step 10) Estimate the first costs and annual energy consumption.

List of buildings using displacement ventilation

See also
Underfloor air distribution (UFAD)

References 

Ventilation
Sustainable architecture
Environmental design
Low-energy building
Sustainable building