[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 11]
# Stuart London

. Wrestling matches took places in Moorfields or in the Bear Garden on Bankside, and saw some of the largest amounts of gambling outside of horse races. In 1667, a team of West Countrymen won a wrestling competition against a team of northerners in St. James's Park for a cash prize of £1000.

Music 

Most forms of music were forbidden during the Interregnum period, but after Charles II returned to the throne in 1660, church music, cathedral choirs, church organs, and tavern music were reinstated. Nicholas Lanier was the Master of the King's Music for Charles I and Charles II, and was succeeded by Louis Grabu. The public concert was developed in this period, with the first example often cited as John Banister's 1672 violin recital near Temple Church in London. Significant London composers include Matthew Locke, Henry Lawes, Pelham Humfrey, William Turner, John Blow, and most famously, Henry Purcell.

Art 
Grinling Gibbons was a master woodcarver working in London in this period, living in a small thatched cottage in Deptford.

The art-form of portraiture was particularly strong in this period, fuelled by major court painters such as Anthony van Dyck, Peter Lely, and Godfrey Kneller. The court painter John Riley painted full-length portraits of servants at the court of King William and Queen Mary, including one of Bridget Holmes, the woman who emptied the king's chamber pot. London saw its first professional female artists in this period, such as Mary Beale.

Peter Paul Rubens was active in London during this period, painting the ceiling of Banqueting House in the Palace of Whitehall.

Food and drink 
One important feature of London culture were the coffeehouses which opened up from the 1650s onwards. London's first coffeehouse opened in 1652, and by 1663, there were 82 in London. The first coffeehouses were harassed by city authorities as public nuisances, but the 1660s saw their business explode with the restoration of the monarchy and the development of a lively political culture. Coffee and tea were novelty refreshments in England, but the purpose of the coffeehouse expanded well beyond serving exotic drinks to serve as multi-functional venues for socializing, debate, to trade gossip, and conduct business. Coffee houses also functioned as shops where customers could post and receive mail, and buy the latest books, gazettes, and stationery. In London, certain coffeehouses were defined by the professionals who met there to conduct business; some businessmen even maintained regular "office hours" at their coffeehouses of choice. Both Batson's on Cornhill and Garraway's in Change Alley were known for their doctors, surgeons, and apothecaries; the former served as an informal consulting room for doctors and their patients. The Grecian was attended by lawyers, the Jerusalem was a meeting place for West Indian traders, and the Baltic on Threadneedle Street was a meeting place for Russian traders. One such business, Lloyd's Coffee House (established 1686), became an exchange for merchants and shipowners who met there daily to insure ships and cargoes, and to trade intelligence on world trade, shipping disasters, and maritime news. This coffee house would go on to lend its name to the insurance market Lloyd's of London. Other coffeehouses were distinctly political in character: the St. James's on St. James's Street and Old Slaughter's were frequented by Whigs, while the Tories and Jacobites preferred the Coffee-Tree on the corner of St. James's Street and Pall Mall. In 1706, Tom's Coffee House off the Strand was bought by Thomas Twining, who began selling tea there as well as coffee, and later founded the Twinings tea company. 

Besides coffeehouses, the main public eating and meeting areas were alehouses and victualling-houses, of which London had around 1,000 during the Stuart era. The word "restaurant" did not yet exist, but London had many eateries in the form of inns, cookshops, ordinaries, taverns and eating houses. The largest inn in London was the Angel, with 20 rooms. The most exclusive establishments were based on French cooking, like Chatelin's in Covent Garden, and Pontac's Head in Abchurch Lane. The long-standing gentlemen's club White's was founded in 1693 as White's Chocolate House on St. James's Street.

Britain's strengthening connections to the wider world meant that Londoners were able to access and afford foreign foods like coffee, tea, chocolate, and sugar cane more easily.

The Black Eagle Brewery on Brick Lane was founded in 1661.

Science