[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Communist propaganda

a number of polarized dichotomies: virtues of the communist world vs. vices of the capitalist world, such as:
communists are for peace; capitalists are for war
communists are for mutual cooperation; capitalists are for coercive exploitation
communists are for democracy; capitalists are for oligarchy

Still another polarization was focused on the real and alleged essence of various terms, such as "freedom", "democracy", often counterpointing, e.g.,  "bourgeois democracy" vs.  "true democracy" or "people's democracy". The latter term is seen in the expression "countries of people's democracy" as applied to what are called "communist states" in the West.

Self-criticism

According to Jacques Ellul's book Propaganda: The Formation of Men's Attitudes complete propaganda can only be achieved when it is able to win over the adversary, or at least integrate it into the new frame of reference created by propaganda. This was achieved by Soviet propaganda in the self-criticism of its opponents so that the enemy of a regime can be made to declare, while still the enemy, that the regime was right and any opposition was criminal. The enemy accepts their condemnation as just and converts to a supporter of the regime as a result of totalitarian propaganda.

Means

Communist propaganda is circulated in a variety of ways, ranging from the traditional to the contemporary. The most common form of communist propaganda is the use of newspapers, magazines, and books. These are used to spread political messages and ideologies to the public, as well as spread news and information about the state of the country. Communist leaders also often use the power of public speaking to spread their message to the masses. This can be done through rallies and speeches, as well as through television, radio, and other media. In addition to traditional methods, communist propaganda is also circulated through social media. Platforms such as Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, and YouTube are all used to spread political messages and ideologies. This can be done by creating content that supports the party line, or by using the platform to spread news about the party’s successes. Additionally, social media can be used to share images and videos that support the party’s beliefs. Another common method of spreading communist propaganda is through the use of posters, banners, and artwork. These can be placed in public places such as parks, squares, and universities. By doing this, communist messages and ideologies can be seen and spread to a larger audience. Finally, communist propaganda is also spread through the use of films, music, and literature. Films and music are used to create a sense of nostalgia, while literature can be used to spread political messages and ideologies. Additionally, films and music can be used to showcase the party’s successes and encourage people to join the cause.

Communist manuals
During the years 1938–1953 the History of the CPSU(B). Short Course was an obligatory explanation of Soviet ideology. The book was translated into many languages.

Communist periodicals
A number of periodicals were printed by communist states, either exclusively for distribution abroad or with versions tailored for foreign audiences. While the Soviet Union and communist China were the major contributors, other communist states contributed their share as well. The lists below are for early 1960s compiled by J. Clews. The list contains mostly English language titles, but many of these journals were edited in many languages.

Soviet Union

Culture and Life
International Affairs
Moscow News
The New Times
Oeuvres et opinions
Soviet Film
Soviet Literature
Soviet Union
Soviet Woman, in Arabic, Bengali, Chinese, French, German, Hindi, Hungarian, Japanese, Korean and Spanish
Femmes de nous jours
Sputnik - not allowed in GDR and Cuba during glasnost.

People's Republic of China
China Pictorial
China Reconstructs
Peking Review
People's China
China's Sports
Women in China
Evergreen

Other
(Partial list)
 Arabic
People's Republic of Poland
Daily News
Demokratis
Polish Review
 Chile
 Acción Proletaria
 El Siglo
 Remolino Popular
Czechoslovakia
In the Heart of Europe
Czechoslovak Life
Czechoslovak Woman
Bulgaria
Bulgaria Today
New Bulgaria (in English, French, Arabic)
East Germany
Al Najallah (for Arabic-speaking countries)
GDR REview
Democratic German Report
Jena Review
Saut- as-Sadaka (Arabic)
Voix de l'Amitie (French, for Africa)
Picture News (English, for Asia)
Echo d'Allemagne (French)
North Korea
Korea Today

Socialist Republic of Romania
Scînteia

Radio broadcasting