[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Human rights in the Philippines

assistance to rape victims.
 Anti-Child Pornography – The Anti-Child Pornography Act of 2009 (R.A. 9775), designates the Secretary of Justice as member of Inter-Agency Council Against Child Pornography that is tasked to coordinate, monitor and oversee the implementation of Anti-Child Pornography Act

Programs
The Department of Justice heads a number of projects, among others are as follows;
 Child Protection Program
 The Child Protection program implemented the Special Committee for Child Protection which is a body charged with monitoring the implementation of The Special Protection For a Child Against Abuse, Exploitation, and Discrimination Act (R.A. 7610). Which protects a child who is below 18 years of age or one who is over 18 years of age but who cannot take care of himself fully because of a physical or mental disability or condition from abuse.
 Criminal Code Committee
 The purpose of the Criminal Code Committee is to form a new Criminal Code of the Philippines that is updated, modern, simplified, responsive and truly Filipino, in order to improve the administration of justice in the country and enhance access to justice of the poor and other marginalized sectors. It is composed of representatives from the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government.
 DOJ Action Center
 The Department of Justice Action Center acts on complaints, requests for legal assistance and queries of walk-in clients as well as over the telephone. Any caller can talk to a lawyer or paralegal officer who can render him assistance.
 Juvenile Justice and Welfare
 The Secretary of Justice is in charge of supervising the implementation of the Juvenile Justice and Welfare Act of 2006. (R.A. 9344). This act covers the different stages involving children at risk and children in conflict with the law from prevention to rehabilitation and reintegration.
 Office of Cybercrime
 The Office of Cybercrime is in charge of implementing the Cybercrime Prevention Act of 2012 (R.A. 10175).

Department of Labor and Employment

The Department of Labor and Employment (DOLE) concerns itself with the protection and welfare of Filipino workers both in the country as well as abroad, and responds accordingly to socio-political and economic challenges that would affect the workers. DOLE is also mandated to create policies and programs as an arm of the Executive Branch in its field of concern. It has set up a number of offices and agencies: 16 regional offices, 83 field offices, 4 satellite offices, 28 overseas posts, 6 bureaus, 7 staff services, and 11 attached agencies. These subgroups are tasked to closely monitor and coordinate the implementation of policies and programs.

Major final outputs
There are seven major services offered by DOLE, namely:
Job Search Assistance Services to assist jobseekers opting for wage employment. The service aims to provide employment guidance and counseling, job referral and facilitation, and timely and accurate jobs and skills description.
Capacity Building Services for Livelihood and Employability of Workers in the Informal and other Specific Sectors to assist the marginalized and disadvantaged workers—informal sector workers, returning OFWs, indigent students and out-of-school youth—by providing skills and entrepreneurship training; access to livelihood opportunities and development, and employment interventions.
Social Partnership Promotion and Dispute Resolution Services to minimize lost working days of workers in formal employment. These lost working days should be a result of avoidance, settlement, and disposition concerns.
Skills Competency, Productivity Training Tech-Voc Education Services to aid the unemployed and underemployed with vocational and technical skills to adapt to the demands of a fluctuating labor market. They provide training and information on productivity technologies.
Services to Safeguard Fair and Just Terms and Conditions of Employment to effectively enforce standards of labor through education, advocacy, inspection, and verification of all required documents.
Social Protection and Welfare Services for Workers in the Informal and Other Specific Sectors to aid workers not usually covered by the protection of government laws. This is done through DOLE'S Social Protection Program.
Work Accident/Illnesses Prevention, Work Compensation and Rehabilitation Services to reduce the number of accidents, injuries, and illnesses caused by labor. These services provide compensation and rehabilitation for occupationally disabled workers.

DOLE, with the International Labour Organization (ILO), was a major contributor to the adoption of the Convention on Decent Work for Domestic Workers, the Maritime Labour Convention of 2006, and The Kasambahay Law (R.A. 10461).

National Commission on Indigenous Peoples