[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Andrei Pervozvanny-class battleship

thickness. The gun shields for the single guns were  thick. Armour plates protecting the 120 mm guns were  thick. A  centreline bulkhead divided the casemate and the armour protecting the funnel uptakes ranged in thickness from . The greatest thickness of deck armour was .

Ships

Service histories

The sisters conducted their sea trials in September–October 1910. They turned out very "wet" ships even in calm seas because the protruding bow ram forced the bow wave up and over the forecastle. On one high-speed voyage to Reval (modern Tallinn), Estonia, in October during Force 3–4 weather, Imperator Pavel Is captain reported that the forecastle was covered by "a mass of water, in the form of a solid, unbroken rain of spray, flooding not only the upper deck, but also the 12- and 8-inch turrets, the lower bridge, conning tower and it even struck the 120 mm casemate deck". Ivan Bubnov recommended fitting Andreis ram with a scoop-shaped fairing, which was intended to decrease bow-wave height from  to  and eliminate flooding, but the NTC shelved the proposal. The powerplants of both ships performed well at the speed trials, but post-trial examination of Imperator Pavel I revealed unacceptable defects of its boilers, engine cylinders and crankshaft bearings. The NTC had no funds to replace the defective boilers and postponed the repairs until the following year, but this did not happen as the navy committed all available financing to the dreadnought program. Andrei Pervozvanny and Imperator Pavel I were not properly completed until late 1912.

They saw very limited seagoing service in 1910 through 1912; their few voyages within Baltic waters were trials, rather than active duty. Their combat readiness was crippled by shortage of personnel. Absence of proper portholes and the limited capacity of the electrical ventilation fans made living conditions unbearable, thus commissioned officers evaded transfer to the "ugly sisters" at all costs. The NTC seriously considered cutting portholes through the armour, but found it too expensive to be done. The ratings sabotaged the system by jamming the fan switches in "on" position, which caused frequent electrical failures. The Navy "fixed the problem" by building steel lockers around the switches but could not contain the discontent of the sailors.

On  officers of Imperator Pavel I received first warnings of a conspiracy among the ratings, who allegedly planned an open mutiny on the night of July 24–25. In the few days preceding the strike the sailors openly disobeyed and taunted their officers, but refrained from violence. Only a minority of the ratings (around 160) subscribed to the mutiny; the majority remained loyal and kept the officers informed. On July 24 the ringleaders were arrested, more arrests followed throughout July and August. 53 sailors of Imperator Pavel I were sentenced to terms ranging from six months to sixteen years. Attempts to spread the mutiny to Andrei Pervozvanny were foiled at the very beginning. The sisters made a port visit to Copenhagen, Denmark, in September 1912. A year later they made port visits to Portland, England, Cherbourg Naval Base, France, and Stavanger, Norway, in September 1913. At this time the ships still harbored active Bolshevik militants, notably the future Red Army commander Pavel Dybenko, the future chief of the Soviet Black Sea Fleet and naval historian Nikolay Izmaylov and the future chief of the Soviet Navy Ivan Sladkov. Andrei Pervozvanny ran aground on Osmussaar Island off the Estonian coast on  and was under repair for several months afterwards.

World War I
During June–July 1914 the ships represented the Empire in joint naval reviews with friendly British, French and Dutch ships in the Gulf of Finland. Sweden had not yet declared its neutrality, and, on , Imperator Pavel I, the predreadnoughts  and Tsesarevich and the armoured cruiser  sailed out to Stockholm to intimidate the Swedes. The diplomats called the fleet back, and Imperator Pavel I missed her chance to engage a weak German scouting flotilla operating in the same area. In August–September the battleships actively sailed north of the Gulf of Riga, but failed to intercept the German cruisers Augsburg and Blücher that were operating in the area.