[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# List of coups and coup attempts

ly acquitted.
 1966 Laotian coup d'état: General Thao Ma, who wished to reserve the transports Royal Lao Air Force for strictly military use, was forced into exile by fellow generals angling to use the transports for smuggling opium and gold.
 Saudi Arabia: A coup attempt against King Faisal failed.

1967
Coup d'état of 21 April in Greece: A group of colonels overthrew the caretaker government a month before scheduled elections which Georgios Papandreou's Centre Union was favoured to win.
Operation Guitar Boy in Ghana: A coup attempt led by a group of junior officers of the Ghana Armed Forces resulted in the assassination of Lieutenant General Emmanuel Kwasi Kotoka, Ghana's Chief of the Defence Staff. However, the coup itself was unsuccessful.
Togo: In a bloodless coup, Gnassingbé Eyadéma overthrew Nicolas Grunitzky and began a 38-year rule.
1967 coups in Sierra Leone: On 21 March, Brigadier David Lansana led a bloodless military coup against Prime Minister Siaka Stevens, who had taken office hours earlier after a closely contested election. Lansana declared himself interim leader, placing Stevens under house arrest and later releasing him, at which point Stevens went into exile. On 23 March, Brigadier Andrew Juxon-Smith led a group of military officers to seize control of the government, arrest Lansana, and suspend the constitution. They established the National Reformation Council and made Juxon-Smith the chairman.
Biafra: Biafran Army colonel Victor Banjo plotted a coup against Biafran President Odumegwu Ojukwu. The coup plot was uncovered by an informant, and Banjo and two other conspirators were executed on 22 September.
Transition to the New Order in Indonesia: Suharto overthrew Sukarno in a military coup in Indonesia, beginning the New Order and Suharto's 31-year presidency.

1968
1968 Panamanian coup d'état: A military coup overthrew President Arnulfo Arias Madrid.
17 July Revolution in Iraq: A bloodless coup led by Ahmed Hassan al-Bakr, Abd ar-Razzaq an-Naif, and Abd ar-Rahman al-Dawud ousted President Abdul Rahman Arif and Prime Minister Tahir Yahya and brought the Iraqi Regional Branch of the Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party to power. 
1968 Peruvian coup d'état: General Juan Velasco Alvarado led a coup against President Fernando Belaúnde.
Sergeants' Coup in Sierra Leone: A military coup against Brigadier Andrew Juxon-Smith by Brigadier John Amadu Bangura restored Siaka Stevens as Prime Minister.
 1968 Malian coup d'état: Lieutenant Moussa Traore led a bloodless military coup against President Modibo Keita.

1969
1969 Libyan coup d'état (also known as the al-Fateh Revolution or the 1 September Revolution): Muammar al-Gaddafi led a group of military officers to overthrow the monarchy of King Idris, resulting in the abolition of the Libyan monarchy and establishment of the Libyan Arab Republic.
1969 Sudanese coup d'état: Colonel Gaafar Nimeiry led a military coup to overthrow the government of President Ismail al-Azhari.
Brazilian military junta of 1969: Pedro Aleixo, the legal vice president of Brazil, was replaced by a military junta after Artur da Costa e Silva suffered a stroke.
1969 Saudi Arabian coup d'état attempt: A failed coup d'état, planned by numerous high-ranking members of the Royal Saudi Air Force, resulted in King Faisal ordering the arrest of hundreds of military officers.
Bolivia: General Alfredo Ovando Candía overthrew President Luis Adolfo Siles Salinas.
1969 Somali coup d'état: Military officers led by Siad Barre overthrew President Sheikh Mukhtar Mohamed Hussein and Prime Minister Mohammad Egal, leading to Barre's 21-year-long military rule and the imposition of an authoritarian government.

1970–1979