[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Apamea (Phrygia)

in 1080, and from the late 13th century onwards it was always in Muslim hands. For a long period it was one of the greatest cities of Asia Minor, commanding the Maeander road; but when the trade routes were diverted to Constantinople it rapidly declined, and its ruin was completed by an earthquake.

Apamea in Jewish tradition
Apamea is mentioned in the Talmud.  The passages relating to witchcraft in Apamea (Ber. 62a) and to a dream in Apamea (Niddah, 30b) probably refer to the Apamea in Phrygia which was looked upon as a fabulously distant habitation. Similarly the much-discussed passage, Yeb. 115b, which treats of the journey of the exilarch Isaac, should also be interpreted to mean a journey from Corduene to Apamea in Phrygia; for if Apamea in Mesene were meant (Brüll's Jahrb. x. 145) it is quite impossible that the Babylonians should have had any difficulty in identifying the body of such a distinguished personage. The mid third century CE coins of Apamea/Kibotos with scenes of Noah and his ark are among the earliest biblical scenes in Roman art.

Christian Apamea
Apamea Cibotus is enumerated by Hierocles among the episcopal cities of the Roman province of Pisidia. Lequien gives the names of nine of its bishops. The first is a Julianus of Apamea at the Maeander who, Eusebius records, was in about 253 reported by Alexander of Hierapolis (Phrygia) to have joined others in examining the claims of the Montanist Maximilla. The list of bishops from Pisidia who participated in the First Council of Nicaea (325) includes Tharsitius of Apamea. It also gives a Paulus of Apamea, but Lequien considers that in the latter case "Apamea" is a mistake for "Acmonia". A Bishop Theodulus of Apamea (who may, however, have been of Apamea in Bithynia) witnessed a will of Gregory of Nazianzus. Paulinus took part in the Council of Chalcedon (451) and was a signatory of the letter from the bishops of Pisidia to Emperor Leo I the Thracian concerning the killing in 457 of Proterius of Alexandria. In the early 6th century, Conon abandoned his bishopric of Apamea in Phrygia and became a military leader in a rebellion against Emperor Anastasius. The acts of the Second Council of Constantinople (553) were signed by "John by the mercy of God bishop of the city of Apamea in the province of Pisidia". Sisinnius of Apamea was one of the Pisidian bishops at the Second Council of Nicaea (787). The Council held at Constantinople in 879–880 was attended by two bishops of Apamea in Pisidia, one appointed by Patriarch Ignatius of Constantinople the other by Photios I of Constantinople.

Since it is no longer a residential diocese, Apamea Cibotus is today listed by the Catholic Church as a titular see.

See also
 List of ancient Greek cities

References
 W. M. Ramsay, Cities and Bishoprics of Phrygia, vol. ii.
 G. Weber, Dineir-Celènes (1892)
 D. G. Hogarth in Journ, Hell. Studies (1888)
 O. Hirschfeld in Trans. Berlin Academy (1875)
 Richard Talbert, Barrington Atlas of the Greek and Roman World, (), p. 65.
 William Smith, Classical Dictionary, s.v. "Apamea"
 Thonemann, P., The Maeander Valley: A historical geography from Antiquity to Byzantium (Cambridge, 2011) (Greek Culture in the Roman World Series).

Notes

External links
Smith, William (editor); Dictionary of Greek and Roman Geography, "Apameia", London, (1854)
Ancient Coins of Apamea on wildwinds.com
Hazlitt, Classical Gazetteer, "Apamea"

Ancient Greek archaeological sites in Turkey
Archaeological sites in the Aegean Region
Seleucid colonies in Anatolia
Hellenistic Phrygia
Populated places in Phrygia
Populated places established in the 3rd century BC
Talmud places
Twin cities
Former populated places in Turkey
Geography of Afyonkarahisar Province
History of Afyonkarahisar Province
Tourist attractions in Afyonkarahisar Province
3rd-century BC establishments
Catholic titular sees in Asia
Dinar District