[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1993 in New Zealand

The following lists events that happened during 1993 in New Zealand.

Population
 Estimated Population as of 31 December: 3,597,800.
 Increase since 31 December 1992: 45,600 (1.28%).
 Males per 100 Females: 97.1.

Incumbents

Regal and viceregal
Head of State – Elizabeth II
Governor-General – The Hon Dame Catherine Tizard, GCMG, GCVO, DBE, QSO

Government
The 43rd New Zealand Parliament continued. Government was The National Party, led by Jim Bolger. National controlled nearly seventy percent of the seats in Parliament. In the 1993 New Zealand general election National was returned to power with a reduced majority.

Speaker of the House – Robin Gray then Peter Tapsell
Prime Minister – Jim Bolger
Deputy Prime Minister – Don McKinnon
Minister of Finance – Ruth Richardson then Bill Birch
Minister of Foreign Affairs – Don McKinnon
Chief Justice — Sir Thomas Eichelbaum

Parliamentary opposition
 Leader of the Opposition –  Mike Moore (Labour) until 1 December, then Helen Clark (Labour).
NewLabour Party – Jim Anderton until
Alliance – Jim Anderton. (after 6 November general election)
New Zealand First: Winston Peters (after the general election)

Main centre leaders
Mayor of Auckland – Les Mills
Mayor of Hamilton – Margaret Evans
Mayor of Wellington – Fran Wilde
Mayor of Christchurch – Vicki Buck
Mayor of Dunedin – Richard Walls

Events
 17 April – By-election in Tauranga after the National MP Winston Peters resigned from both his party and from Parliament. He recontested the seat as an independent and won it after no major political party stood a candidate.
 26 May – Disappearance from Karangahape Road in Auckland of 17-year-old Jayne Furlong.
 25 August – A concrete mixer truck fails to stop at a railway level crossing in Rolleston and hits the side of a southbound Southerner passenger train, killing three people on board and seriously injuring seven others.
 6 November
 The 1993 general election is held, with National losing its large majority to retain power by one seat.
 The 1993 voting method referendum is held, with a 53.9% majority voting to change to the Mixed Member Proportional (MMP) voting system.
 26 November – Auckland mid-air collision of police Eagle helicopter and a traffic spotting Piper Archer over the Auckland CBD, killing all occupants of both aircraft – two police and two civilians; debris falls on motorway.
 The Tonga Island Marine Reserve is established.

Arts and literature
Stuart Hoare wins the Robert Burns Fellowship.

See 1993 in art, 1993 in literature, :Category:1993 books

Music

New Zealand Music Awards
Winners are shown first with nominees underneath.
Album of the Year: The Mutton Birds – The Mutton Birds
Jan Hellriegel – It's My Sin
Shona Laing – New on Earth
Single of the Year: The Mutton Birds – Nature
Annie Crummer – See What Love Can Do
Greg Johnson Set – Isabelle
Best Male Vocalist: Greg Johnson
Jordan Luck
Paul Ubana Jones
Best Female Vocalist: Annie Crummer
Patsy Riggir
Shona Laing
Best Group: The Mutton Birds
Greg Johnson Set
The Exponents
Most Promising Male Vocalist: Ted Brown
Jay Rei
Kevin Greaves
Most Promising Female Vocalist: Jan Hellriegel
Jules Issa
Maree Sheehan
Most Promising Group: Head Like a Hole
Dead Flowers
Kantuta
Best Producer: Nigel Stone / Annie Crummer – See What Love Can Do
Angus McNaughton – Donde Esta La Pollo
Nick Morgan – It's My Sin
Best Engineer: Nigel Stone – See What Love Can Do (Annie Crummer)
Graeme Myhre – New on Earth
Nick Morgan/ Graeme Myhre/ John Harvey – It's My Sin
Best Video: Kerry Brown / Bruce Sheridan – Four Seasons in One Day (Crowded House)
Fane Flaws & The Mutton Birds/ Sycorax Films – Nature (The Mutton Birds)
Nigel Streeter – Fish Across Face (Head Like A Hole)
Best International Performer: Jenny Morris
Dame Malvina Major
Shona Laing
Best Songwriter: Jan Hellriegel – It's My Sin
David Kilgour – You Forget
Jordan Luck – Something Beginning With C
Best Māori Album: Southside of Bombay – All Across The World
Hinewehi Mohe – Kia U
Te Hei O Tahoka – Ahorangi Genesis
Best Cover: Shaun Pettigrew – Kantuta
David Mitchell – Hellzapoppin
Jan Hellriegel – It's My Sin
Best Country Album: Barry Saunders – Long Shadows
Brendan Dugan – All This Time
Patsy Riggir – Moonlight & Roses
Best Gospel Album: Wanganui Collegiate & South Wairarapa Singers – Faure Requiem
Steve Apirana – No Turning Back
St Paul's Collegiate – School Music
Best Classical Album:  Dame Malvina Major – Dame Malvina in Concert
Dame Malvina Major – I Remember
NZ National Youth Choir – NZ National Youth Choir
Best Folk Album: Claddagh – Continental Drift
Paul Ubana Jones – The Things Which Touch Me So
Rua – Live in the Cathedral
Best Jazz Album: Broadhurst / Hopkins / Haines – Live at the London Bar
The Inner City Jazz Workshop – Live in Concert
Malcolm McNeill – Skylark
Best Polynesian Album: Annie Crummer – Language
Harbour Light Express – Ua Ou Misia Oe
Mere Darling – Rarotonga Waits For Me
Samoan AOG – Foi Maia I Le Alii

See: 1993 in music

Performing arts