[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 7th Special Forces Group (United States)

but at one point, they were confronted by an armed civilian security guard, aiming his weapon at them. Not wishing to kill him, they shot him in the shoulder, then treated the injury and turned him over to Panamanian firefighters responding to the fire. The force then safely returned to hangar 450.

Successful Destruction of pro-Noreiga broadcasts
After the American Special Forces operatives came back to Hangar 450. They deployed again to destroy the FM broadcasts of pro-Noreiga propaganda. The American commandos placed demolition charges which finally and successfully destroyed the remote FM antenna. After successfully destroying the antenna, the broadcasts were finally off the air.

Final Stability Operations

When combat operations ceased, Operational Detachments-A and -B fanned out over the entire country, living in villages with the people.  7th Group soldiers restored public utilities such as water and power while maintaining a watch on the (then) new Panamanian Police Force.  Non-commissioned officers served as temporary judges and mayors gaining enormous support from the populace.

Global War on Terrorism
Since early 2002, the 7th SFG has deployed almost nonstop in support of Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. 7th SFG along with the 3rd Special Forces Group are the two SFGs responsible for conducting operations in Afghanistan. The Group has also deployed in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom numerous times, but not as often as Afghanistan. The 7th SFG has lost more SF soldiers in the Global War on Terrorism than any other SFG.

Relocation
In 2011, 7th SFG(A) relocated from Fort Bragg, North Carolina, to Eglin Air Force Base, Florida, as part of the 2005 Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

Subordinate units

Gallery

Notable soldiers
 Brigadier general Donald Blackburn, early commander of the 7th SFG
 Master Sergeant Tim Kennedy, MMA fighter and former 7th SFG soldier
 Sergeant Major Brendan O'Connor, awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for his actions during Operation Kaika while serving with the 7th SFG.
 Staff Sergeant Barry Sadler, Vietnam veteran and songwriter who served with the 7th Group as a Special Forces Medical Sergeant. Salder is known for his patriotic song, Ballad of the Green Berets.
 Colonel Arthur D. Simons, early officer of the 7th SFG, 1958
 Major Lauri Törni, aka Major Larry Thorne, a former 7th SFG soldier who was killed on a 1965 covert MACV-SOG mission in Vietnam

References

007
Special Forces 007
Military units and formations established in 1960