[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Murder of Jaswinder Kaur Sidhu

the men who was earlier convicted of Jassi's murder but later acquitted in India after an appeal, was given permanent residency in Canada in 2008, having lied about his criminal status on his immigration application. He was later declared inadmissible in Canada after his criminal past was revealed.

Extradition of Badesha and Sidhu
On May 9, 2014, following court proceedings in the Supreme Court of British Columbia, Justice Gregory Finch ordered Surjit Badesha and Malkit Sidhu to be turned over to Indian police to face trial. This motion effectively ended the debate regarding their extradition, which had been stalled by the pair arguing that enough evidence was not present to extradite. Finch justified his decision by showing evidence that India had presented against Badesha, including 266 telephone calls between Badesha and the four men convicted of killing Jassi. Justice Finch also reminded those present at the trial that "it is the Canadian court's role to determine whether a jury could convict based on the evidence, not whether they should convict."

On 24 January 2019, they were both extradited and arrived in Delhi, India to face the charges.

Coverage
The story of Jassi and Sukhwinder is the subject of Murder Unveiled, a made-for-TV movie. A petition website, 'Justice for Jassi,' archiving her story and dedicated to obtaining justice for her has been signed by thousands of people worldwide. A book by the same name, Justice for Jassi, written by Province, from Deputy Editor Fabian Dawson, The Tribune Special Correspondent Jupinderjit Singh  and South Asian Post publisher Harbinder Sewak, was released at the end of 2011, just before her mother and uncle were charged. This murder case was also featured in CBC Television's "Jassi Sidhu murder : Escape from Justice (2012)" on The Fifth Estate. It was covered by an NBC A Dateline Special "Forbidden Love" August 27, 2002.

Present at the final court proceedings of Badesha and Sidhu was Jim Longridge, the former principal of the high school Jassi Sidhu had attended in Pitt Meadows. Remembering Sidhu as a quiet, friendly and studious girl, Longridge was horrified to learn of her murder and had been persistently writing to various Canadian politicians and police over the years, demanding action on her murder overseas. It was also featured on the Global Television Network's news magazine Crime Beat.

Dear Jassi, a film about the incident by Tarsem Singh, premiered and won in the Platform Prize program at the 2023 Toronto International Film Festival.

See also
List of kidnappings
List of solved missing person cases
South Asian Canadians in British Columbia
Surjit Athwal

References

External links
Murder Unveiled The movie based on her life.
"Crusade to Free Innocent Man" Efforts to free Jassi's husband Mithu from jail
Jassi's contract killers seek freedom "Jassi's killers seek freedom" Article in Asian Pacific Post
Escape From Justice CBC documentary originally aired January 6, 2012

1975 births
2000 deaths
2000 murders in India
Allegations of honor killing
Beauticians
Canadian people murdered abroad
Canadian people of Indian descent
Canadian people of Punjabi descent
Canadian Sikhs
Female murder victims
Filicides
Formerly missing people
Honor killing victims
Honour killing in India
Kidnapped Canadian people
People from Maple Ridge, British Columbia
People murdered in Punjab, India
Jack Webster award recipients
Indian diaspora in Canada