[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jacques Desoubrie

o the Gestapo and fled France.      

MI9 agents Albert Ancia and Jean de Blommaert asked the Resistance group French Forces of the Interior (FFI) to assassinate Desoubrie. The FFI reported this done on May 22, 1944, but Desoubrie soon re-appeared, so either the FFI lied or the wrong man was killed.

Later activities
Desoubrie did not cease his activities after being identified as a German agent. Among the airmen later betrayed by Desoubrie was Roy Allen as well as Phil Lamason and his English navigator Ken Chapman. Lamason along with Chapman, was picked up by members of the French Resistance and hidden at various locations for seven weeks. In August 1944, while attempting to reach Spain, Lamason and Chapman were captured by the Gestapo in Paris after they were betrayed by Desoubrie for 10,000 francs each. Lamason, Chapmen, Allen and 165 more airmen were taken to Buchenwald concentration camp in August 1944.

Desoubrie or "Jean Masson" should not be confused with the Jean Masson (1910–1965) who participated in the creation of the traditionalist Catholic Cité catholique group, along with Jean Ousset, in 1946.

Downfall
After the liberation of Paris, Desoubrie fled to Germany. The Allies attempted to track him down in order to prosecute him. Finding him became easier when Michelle Dumon, back in Paris, was asked by an American intelligence officer to look at two photos of a man. She identified the photos as the man she knew as Jean Masson. He had offered his services to the Allied forces. With Desoubrie identified, he was soon found and arrested, after being denounced by his ex-mistress, and executed by firing squad as a collaborationist on 20 December 1949 in the fort of Montrouge, in Arcueil (near Paris) (Some sources say he was executed in 1945.)

See also
 Roy Allen
 KLB Club
 List of people involved with the French Resistance

References

External links
 Book review by 207 Squadron Royal Air Force Association

1922 births
1949 deaths
French spies
Belgian spies
Nazi collaborators shot at the Fort de Montrouge
Executed Belgian collaborators with Nazi Germany
People from Mouscron
People executed by the French Fourth Republic
Belgian people convicted of war crimes
20th-century Belgian criminals
Gestapo personnel
People executed for spying for Nazi Germany