[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Counterpart (TV series)

čić as Lieber, Ian Shaw's right-hand man
 Jacqueline Antaramian as Ava Fancher, Roland's wife
 Ingo Rademacher as Friedrich, Quayle's best friend
 Marco Khan as Raash, Howard Prime's right-hand man, a loyal and reliable operative

Episodes
<onlyinclude>

Season 1 (2017–18)

Season 2 (2018–19)

Notes

Production
The series was ordered in April 2015 with J. K. Simmons announced to star. Production began in December 2016 in Los Angeles. The series would also be filmed in additional locations across the U.S. and Europe in 2017, including Berlin, where the series is set, and in Potsdam at Babelsberg Studio, which co-produced the series. Amy Berg served as showrunner, executive producer, and writer for the first season, but departed before season two. While the reasons for her departure were never publicly stated, Berg implied it was due to conflicts with creator Marks who wanted full control of the series and to be the sole showrunner. Production began on the second season in February 2018 in Berlin. After Starz canceled the series after two seasons, the series' production company, Media Rights Capital, sought another home for the show; however, the effort was not successful. Starz COO Jeffrey Hirsch commented on the cancellation, saying Counterpart was "a very male show" and that "we had picked that show up and made a two-season commitment before we'd honed in on this premium female strategy".

Reception

Critical response
Counterpart was well received by critics. The first season has a "certified fresh" 100% approval rating on Rotten Tomatoes with an average rating of 8.4 out of 10 based on 48 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, "Tense and gripping, Counterpart is an absorbing thrill-fest led by J. K. Simmons' multi-faceted dual lead performance." On Metacritic, the first season has a score of 76 out of 100 based on 15 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews".

The second season also received positive reviews. On Rotten Tomatoes, it has a 100% approval rating with an average rating 8 out of 10 based on 22 reviews. The site's critical consensus reads, "Double the J.K. Simmons brings double the aplomb in the second season of Counterpart, which finds time to deliver relevant societal critiques while deepening its labyrinthine lore." On Metacritic, it has a score of 75 out of 100 based on 7 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". Alan Sepinwall of Rolling Stone was less favorable with the second season and noted how the series had become too convoluted and difficult to follow.

Ratings

Season 1

Season 2

Accolades

Home media
The first season was released on Blu-ray and DVD on July 31, 2018, in region 1. The set includes all 10 episodes plus two behind-the-scenes featurettes.

References

External links
 

2017 American television series debuts
2019 American television series endings
2010s American drama television series
2010s American science fiction television series
American LGBT-related drama television series
American spy thriller television series
English-language television shows
Espionage television series
LGBT-related drama television series
Starz original programming
Television series about parallel universes
Television series by Anonymous Content
Television series by Media Rights Capital
Television series by Sony Pictures Television
Television shows filmed in Los Angeles
Television shows set in Berlin