[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Liu Huan

ent jobs. I can focus on how to make students have more interest in music when I am in class, after that, I do have time to write songs. I am enjoying being a teacher.” His classes are crowded with other students besides his own students, who come to stand in the classroom to listen to his lectures.

"Liu is perfect for us to carry out the plan because he is such an iconic figure in China's music industry," says David Jin, president and country manager of China and Northeast Asia of Harman.  “I am a teacher so I am close to the students and know their desire for music," Liu Huan says. “Unlike our generation, today's students are active and curious about everything. They are not only interested in established musicians, but also new, alternative music."

Personal life
Liu Huan married Lu Lu, a hostess for Hunan TV, in 1988. Their daughter was born in September 1991. Liu underwent hip replacement surgery at the Beijing University Third Hospital in mid-April 2010. The surgery was very successful.

Liu has a round body, round face, and long braids, the image of Liu Huan is generally unchanging. He prefers to wear black to almost all of his performances. He wore a plain black T-shirt when singing at the 2008 Olympic opening ceremonies. Liu Huan had tried many hairstyles until he first opened in a concert overseas, when his hair was very long and he tied his hair back. From that time onwards, he has kept his hairstyle long, and thinks it is more convenient than other hairstyles.

On December 26, 2018, on the same day Liu was announced as one of the contestants who would take part in Singer 2019, Liu founded "The Liu Huan's Foundation of Original Music" (刘欢原创音乐基金) in collaboration with Mango TV and Mango V, the show's sponsors, where every  (approximately ) of the funding would be extracted every January 11 (the date of the show's premiere episode) of the year to sponsor one potential singer of China. Liu was also the series ambassador and promoting the Mango TV app to encourage viewers across the world to watch the series, as shown before each episode begin airing.

On April 3, 2020, Liu was confirmed to have been diagnosed with Avascular Necrosis, also called osteonecrosis or bone infarction.

Foreign language skills
During Liu Huan's lectures, he introduces some foreign words when naming people, schools, and locations. These words are sometimes English, and sometimes French, German, and even Italian. Liu Huan says modestly: “My major is French, and I can speak English, too. With German and Italian, I only know some terms in these languages, but it doesn’t mean I can speak them.”

References

Additional Links
 

1963 births
Living people
Chinese male singer-songwriters
Singers from Tianjin
Yaohua High School alumni
University of International Relations alumni
Academic staff of Beijing University of International Business and Economics