[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mohammed Abdullah Hassan

Section that a few, very old individuals might be left and they would be able to reveal the details of Hassan's grave. Remains were found in a graveyard at Gindhir and the Somali Region of Ethiopia then tried to test the DNA to determine whether they could be those of Sayid Mohammed Abdullah Hassan.

Legacy
Hassan has been seen by some as an icon of Pan-Somalism, and has been considered one of the great revolutionaries of the turn of the 20th century by members of the Pan-Africanist movement.

A Socialist realist statue of Hassan riding his horse Hiin-Faniin (sometimes called Sayidka or Siyadka) was built in central Mogadishu near the Mogadishu Central Mosque in the 1970s or 1980s, but the statue was torn down between 1991 and 1993 and sold as scrap metal. The damaged foundation of the monument was left standing. On 18 October 2019, the monument was restored and unveiled by Somali president Mohamed Abdullahi Mohamed, along with other restored monuments. A similar statue was built in the Ethiopian city of Jijiga in 2013.

In the Haud region, there is a monument marking Hassan's birthplace, called Sacmadeeqa.

Media

In popular culture
 The documentary film The Parching Winds of Somalia includes a section on the Dervish struggle and its leader Mohammed Abdullah Hassan.
 The historic romance novel Ignorance is the Enemy of Love by Farah Mohamed Jama Awl has a Dervish protagonist called Calimaax, who is part of an ill-fated love story and fights against the British, Italians and Ethiopians in the Horn of Africa.
 A 1983, film entitled A Somali Dervish was directed by Abdulkadir Ahmed Said.
 In the Law & Order: Criminal Intent episode "Loyalty", references are made to the Dervishes and their leader. The episode also features a character purported to have been descended from Muhammad Abdullah Hassan.
 In 1985, a 4-hour and 40 minute Indian-produced epic film by filmmaker Salah Ahmed entitled the Somalia Dervishes went into production. With a budget of $1.8 million, it included an actual descendant of Hassan as its star, and featured hundreds of actors and extras.
 In the popular comic book series Corto Maltese, the protagonist travels to the Horn of Africa during the Dervishes' battle against the British, and witnesses the former power storm a British fort. During these travels, he develops a long-term friendship with a Dervish warrior named Cush, who subsequently features in several other of Corto's adventures around the world.

Poems
Some poems by the Sayid include:
Haddaan waayey
Maqashiiya uunka is a religious and nationalist appeal
Afbakayle, which deals with treachery and etiquette 
Mariyama Shiikh, which deals with clemency
Dardaaran, says there is a hidden malicious intent behind stipends paid by colonialists

See also

 Haji Sudi- One of the founding members of the Dervish movement and the chief military commander.
 Abdullahi Sadiq - Governor of Ogaden
 Sultan Nur- Sultan of the Habr Yunis clan and one of the founding members of the Dervish movement and the Dervish Sultan.
 Hasna Doreh – wife of Mohammed Abdullah Hassan.
Ismail Mire -  A soldier and a bard .
 Sheikh Uways Al-Barawi religious rival of the Sayyid and leader of the Benadir revolt
 Bashir Yussuf – Somali religious leader who fought against the British alongside Mohammed Abdullah Hassan.
 Ahmad ibn Ibrihim al-Ghazi – Somali Imam and General of the Sultanate of Adal
 Sheikh Madar leader of the Qadiriyya tariqa and scholarly rival/opponent of the Salihiyya and Dervish 
 John Gough – Awarded a Victoria Cross for his actions as a column commander during the Third Somaliland Expedition against Hassan.
 Alexander Stanhope Cobbe – Awarded a Victoria Cross for his actions at Erego 1902.
 Adrian Carton de Wiart – British army officer who lost an eye attacking a fort at Shimbiris in 1914

Notes