[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

ugh the Dunbar Historic District starting at its unique juncture with one-way LBJ Street. A memorial installation stands at this Crossroads in recognition of the civil rights legislation enacted by LBJ informed by his many interactions with MLK. LBJ is an alumnus of Texas State University, located in San Marcos.  MLK Drive runs through the Dunbar Historic District—an historically African American neighborhood. To be visited on this street are the Historic Calaboose African American History Museum, the Eddie Durham Park, the historic Cephas House and further along is the Paul Laurence Dunbar Center, named for the African American Poet.  At the Dunbar Center are basketball courts dedicated to Olympic Gold Medal Basketball great Lucious Jackson, who was born and raised in San Marcos.
 Texarkana: Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard is a one-way thoroughfare carrying US 67 westbound.  It occupies the position of 8th Street in Texarkana's numbered-street grid. (US 67 eastbound is carried by 7th Street.)  This is one of two streets named after King that crosses a line between two states (The other is in Bristol, Tennessee/Virginia).
 Wichita Falls: In 2006, the city renamed Eastside Drive to Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard from Burkburnett Road to East Scott Avenue. Many businesses along the road have the name Eastside in reference to their location by the street's previous name.

Utah
 Salt Lake City (honorary only): Street signs for 600 South running west to east through Salt Lake City bear the honorary name “Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard”. Postal addresses remain 600 South; “Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard” is not accepted by the USPS.
 Ogden (honorary only): 24th Street between G Avenue and Jefferson Avenue has been designated the honorary name “Martin Luther King Jr. Street”. Postal addresses remain 24th Street; “Martin Luther King Jr. Street” is not accepted by the USPS.

Virginia
Bedford: Martin Luther King Jr. Bypass is the freeway portion of US 460 from its interchange with E Main Street (westbound US 460 Business) to its interchange with Blue Ridge Avenue (eastbound US 460 Business).
Bristol:  See Bristol, Tennessee.
 Hampton: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard runs from Franklin Boulevard north, skirting the grounds of the Hampton VA Medical Center.
 Harrisonburg: Martin Luther King Jr. Way loops around the south side of Harrisonburg, from US 33 on its east end, to Virginia State Route 42 at its western terminus.
 Louisa: Louisa honors King's memory with Martin Luther King Lane, a short cul-de-sac running north off West Street.
Lynchburg: A corridor of VA 163, from the southern end of Memorial Avenue down to the John Lynch Memorial Bridge is signed as Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard.
 Norfolk and Portsmouth: US 58 is designated the Martin Luther King Freeway as it passes through the two-lane Midtown Tunnel, then south through Portsmouth.
 Petersburg: Martin Luther King Drive runs south off East River Road on the west side of Petersburg.
 Spring Grove: Virginia State Route 40 south out of Spring Grove is designated the Martin Luther King Highway.

Washington
 Bainbridge Island: In 2013, the City of Bainbridge Island dedicated Martin Luther King Jr. Lane by the high school.
 Bremerton: Dr. ML King Way is north of and runs parallel to 6th street.
 Seattle: In 1983, an  stretch of State Route 900 between Seattle and Renton was renamed from Empire Way to Martin Luther King Jr. Way. At the time the area was roughly 70 percent black. Seattle is also the seat for King County, whose namesake was switched from William Rufus King to Martin Luther King Jr. in 1986, a decision legally enshrined by the state in 2005.
 Spokane: East Martin Luther King Jr. Way is four blocks long, and runs east and west from North Division Street to North Sherman Street. It is also located one block south of East Main Avenue, and is just east of the downtown corridor.
 Tacoma: The area of K Street, from South 27th to Division Streets, within the neighborhood commonly referred to as "Hilltop", was renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Way in 1993.
 Yakima: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard runs through Downtown Yakima. The western terminus of the boulevard is at North Pierce Avenue. The eastern terminus is at the roundabout with East Lincoln Avenue and B Street.

Washington, D.C.

 Martin Luther King Jr. Avenue (formerly Nichols Avenue SE) in Washington, D.C., is the main commercial street in the part of Southeast Washington east of the Anacostia River. It intersects Malcolm X Avenue SE (formerly Portland Street SE) near Bolling Air Force Base and St. Elizabeths Hospital.  Also very near the street is the home of Frederick Douglass, the famous abolitionist, for whom a major city bridge along South Capitol Street is named. Other streets and bridges named for prominent civil rights figures are Nannie Helen Burroughs Avenue NE and the Whitney Young Bridge along East Capitol Street.