[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Vitla

bruary and lasts until June. Pre-monsoon showers or mango showers are seen from mid-May, and the rainy season usually lasts until September. The area revives an average annual rainfall of 500mm. From November to February is the winter, when temperatures are usually between 21 and 26 degrees Celsius.

Kotikere
Kotikere is swimming pool, which was built and used by the Royal family of Vitla which is now used by the public. Swimming training and competitions are conducted here. The spring water from the quarry and other sources fill the pool and water overflows most of the time, thus the pool is maintained clean naturally.

Education 
Some of schools and colleges in and around Vitla.

 Govt Model Higher Primary School, Vittal
 Vittal Pre-University College
 Vittal Girls' High School, Vittal
 Vittal Jaycees English Medium School, Basavanagudi, Vitla
 St. Rita Higher Prymary School Church Road, Vittal
 Horizon Public School Meginapete Vittal
 Sri Sathya Sai Primary School-Vidya Kuteera Alike
 Sri Sathya Sai Loka Seva High School-Bala Kuteera Alike
 Sri Sathya Sai Loka Seva Vidya Kendra Alike
 Sri Sathya Sai Loka Seva PU College-Sathya Sai Vihara Alike
 Govt. Pre-University College Kanyana
 Sri Devi High School Punacha – 574243
 Sri Rama High School Kalladka
 Sri Krishna Vidyodhaya Higher Primary School – Kanathadka
 Govt Arts and Commerce degree college, Vittal
 Ukkuda Public School, Ukkuda, Vitla

Demographics & People of Vitla 
According to the 2011 census report, Hindus form the largest religious group in Vittla (11220 that is 63.69% of the town population). The number of Muslims is 5555 (31.53% of the taluk population) and the number of Christians in the taluk is 828 (4.70%) The people of Vitla are known for their hospitality & generosity.

Transportation 
There is a separate KSRTC bus stand and private bus stand. Vittal is directly connected through bus to Manglore, Puttur, Kasargod, Manjeshwar, Uppala, Hosangady, Salethur, B C Road, Kalladka, Kabaka, Kanyana, Perla, Badiadka, Panaje, Odiyoor, Anekal, Mudipu, Thokkotu, Derlakatte, Adyanadka, Saradka, Boluvar and many other small places. It is the biggest town in Bantwal Taluk, next to Kalladka. And MALABAR buses go through the city Vittal towards Kasaragod to Puttur.

Landmarks 
The institutions of Sri Satya Sai Baba such as SSSLSVK, PU college and Balakuteera are located in Alike, around 7 km from Vittal. There is a KSRTC Rajahamsa bus from Alike to Bangalore via Vittal. Central Plantation Corps Research Institute (CPCRI) Regional Station is located in Vittal-Puttur Road around 3 km from Vittal Bus Stand.

Nearby places 
 Anvy zac
 Manila
 Mangalore
 Kasaragod
 Uppala
 Puttur
 Bantwal
 Alike
 Perla
 Badiyadka
 Kanyana
 Anekallu
 Manjeswar
 Sodankoor

References 

Villages in Dakshina Kannada district