[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Placemaking

e field of Sports Management and the sports industry.  Often times, the idea of placemaking centers around urban real estate development, centralized around a stadium or sports district.

Principles 

According to Project for Public Spaces, successful placemaking is based on eleven basic principles:

The Community Knows Best An important aspect of placemaking is taking into account inputs of the people who will be using the public space most.  That is, to say, the community for which the public space is intended.  This is important because members of the community are likely to have useful insights into how the space does - or should - function, as well as a historical perspective of the area, and an understanding of what does and does not matter to other members of the community.
Places, Not Designs Placemaking is not just about designing a park or plaza with efficient pedestrian circulation.  It involves taking into account the interrelations between surrounding retailers, vendors, amenities provided, and activities taking place in the space, then fine-tuning the space with landscape changes, additions of seating, etc., to make all of those elements mesh.  The end result should be a cohesive unit that creates greater value for the community than just the sum of its parts.
Placemaking is a Group Effort Partners for political, financial, and intellectual backing are crucial to getting a public space improvement project off the ground.  These partners can range from individuals, to private or municipal institutions, to museums, to schools.
Make and Act on Observations By observing how a public space is used, it is possible to gain an understanding of what the community does and does not like about it.  This understanding can be used to assess what activities and amenities may be missing from the space.  Even after a public space has been built, observation is key to properly managing it, and evolving it to better suit the community's needs over time.
Requires Vision As with many other types of project, a placemaking project needs a vision to succeed.  This vision should not be the grand design of a single person, but the aggregate conception of the entire community.
Requires Patience A placemaking project does not happen overnight.  Do not be discouraged if things do not go exactly as planned at first, or if progress seems slow.
Triangulate  Triangulation, simply put, is the strategic placement of amenities, such that they encourage social interaction, and are used more frequently.  For example, "if a children's reading room in a new library is located so that it is next to a children's playground in a park and a food kiosk is added, more activity will occur than if these facilities were located separately."
Ignore Naysayers Just because it hasn't been done doesn't mean it can't be done.  What it does mean is that there are few people, in either the private or public sectors, who have the job of creating places.
Form Supports Function A public space's form factor should be formulated with its intended function(s) in mind.
Money Should Not Be an Issue If networking and team building have been executed correctly, public sentiment towards the project should be positive enough to overlook its monetary cost.
Placemaking is an Ongoing Process Placemaking is never "done".  Minor tweaks can be made to improve the space's usefulness to its community over time, and regular maintenance/upkeep of facilities and amenities is a fact of life.

Healthy placemaking 
Both the opportunities available to individuals and the choices made based on those opportunities impact individual, family, and community health. The World Health Organization's definition of health provides an appropriate, broad-reaching understanding of health as a "resource for everyday life, not the object of living" and an important frame for discussing the interconnections between Place and Health.  A 2016 report The Case for Healthy Places, from Project for Public Spaces and the Assembly Project, funded by the Knight Foundation and focusing on research related to Shaping Space for Civic Life both offer insight into the current evidence base showing how health and wellbeing are impacted by where you live and the opportunities available to you.

There is an increasing focus on using placemaking as a way to "connect blueways and greenways" - to address the physical disconnect between the urban streams and greenways through placemaking.

The arts 
While the arts and creative expression play a substantial part in establishing a sense of place, economic growth and production must also play an equally large role in creating a successful place. These two factors are not mutually exclusive, as the arts and cultural economic activity made up $729.6 billion (or 4.2%) of the United States GDP in 2014, and employed 4.7 million workers in 2012. This means that the arts can be deployed as a powerful tool in the creation or rehabilitation of urban spaces.