[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Guy Môquet

tre ("The letter"), released in 2007, with the title role played by Jean-Baptiste Maunier. Môquet is also one of the principal characters in the 2011 film Calm at Sea, which depicts the events that culminated in the execution of the hostages. Môquet is portrayed by Léo-Paul Salmain.

The last letter

" My darling Mummy, my adored brother, my much loved Daddy, I am going to die! What I ask of you, especially you Mummy, is to be brave. I am, and I want to be, as brave as all those who have gone before me. Of course, I would have preferred to live. But what I wish with all my heart is that my death serves a purpose. I didn’t have time to embrace Jean. I embraced my two brothers Roger and Rino (1). As for my real brother, I cannot embrace him, alas! I hope all my clothes will be sent back to you. They might be of use to Serge, I trust he will be proud to wear them one day. To you, my Daddy to whom I have given many worries, as well as to my Mummy, I say goodbye for the last time. Know that I did my best to follow the path that you laid out for me. A last adieu to all my friends, to my brother whom I love very much. May he study hard to become a man later on. Seventeen and a half years, my life has been short, I have no regrets, if only that of leaving you all. I am going to die with Tintin, Michels. Mummy, what I ask you, what I want you to promise me, is to be brave and to overcome your sorrow. I cannot put any more. I am leaving you all, Mummy, Serge, Daddy, I embrace you with all my child’s heart. Be brave! Your Guy who loves you. "

(1) His brothers in arms

2007 controversy

Following the release of the film, French President Nicolas Sarkozy requested Moquet's final letter to be read in every high school in France on the anniversary of his death.
This raised controversy for two distinct reasons : 
 Ideological reason: Nicolas Sarkozy, president of the French right-wing UMP party, was seen by many as the exact embodiment of the values Guy Môquet had been fighting at the cost of his life. The same commentators argued this was a very cynical attempt by Sarkozy to move his political agenda forward, and to use the legacy of his direct political enemies (the French Communist Party) as his own.
 Administrative reasons: During his mandate, president Sarkozy repeatedly caused a lot of frustration by often bypassing administrative rules of the French Republic and interfering in domains that were normally not those of the President of the French Republic. Some commentators disliked this example of political micromanagement and some high schools resisted it.

2009 controversy
A 2009 circular to lycées from the Ministry of Education was widely interpreted as meaning that the formal reading of his letter at school was no longer a compulsory part of the curriculum. It called for "teaching time devoted to" bringing pupils and former resistants together, as well as the reading of texts: Guy Môquet's last letter to his family, letters of young condemned men or other texts demonstrating the participation of young people during those dark years in Europe. These readings were "left to the discretion of each [headteacher]". However, on 19 October 2009, the Ministry of Education clarified in the media that the later circular had not been intended to make reading the letter optional. It controversially said that the teaching profession did not have a free hand in teaching what it wanted but were civil servants who must follow directives.

Bibliography 
 Albert Ouzoulias, Les Bataillons de la Jeunesse, Éditions Sociales, 1972, ;
 Pierre-Louis Basse, Guy Môquet, une enfance fusillée, Stock, 2000; ;
 Articles Prosper Moquet, Henri Môquet, Charles Michels, Jean-Pierre Timbaud; from Dictionnaire biographique du mouvement ouvrier français (le Maitron), Éditions Ouvrières.
 Lettres des fusillés de Châteaubriant, Amicale de Châteaubriand Voves-Rouillé, 1989.

References

External links 

 
  and English
 the 2007 circular from the Ministry of Education to lycées 
 Biography 
 
 

1924 births
1941 deaths
French civilians killed in World War II
French communists
People executed by Nazi Germany by firing squad
People from Paris
Lycée Carnot alumni
Executed people from Île-de-France
Burials at Père Lachaise Cemetery
French people executed by Nazi Germany
Communist members of the French Resistance