[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Murder of John Hron

ctively.

The case received nationwide attention within Sweden. The public was shocked by the news of such violence and a wave of huge anti-racist manifestations took place to honour Hron's memory. In 1996, Hron posthumously received the inaugural Stig Dagerman Prize for free speech and world peace.

Hron's grave has since been desecrated several times by neo-Nazis.
Murderer Daniel Hansson had previously stabbed a man in an earlier crime as a juvenile offender and was a teenage alcoholic, and at least two of the young murderers were suspected of having severe untreated mental instability and violent behaviour in their childhoods. Another one of the gang was part of a plot to violently attack a sports event. All of them were active neo-Nazis, some of them involved in the violent organization Vitt Ariskt Motstånd (VAM), which translates to "White Aryan Resistance." Racist flyers and propaganda were found in their homes. During the murder they wore t-shirts with Adolf Hitler and other Nazi prints on and bomber jackets. In prison one of them was part in forming the criminal prison gang "Ariska Brödraskapet" (a Swedish version of the "Aryan Brotherhood" but no ties or connections to the US gang has been made officially except inspiration). Mikael Fjällholm was later stabbed in the eye with a screwdriver during his prison sentence by another neo-Nazi, damaging him for life. Daniel Hansson was sentenced after his release for more crimes, including abusing and beating his then-girlfriend.

References

External links 
Nizkor.org memorial
regeringen.se Speech by Prime Minister Göran Persson at the Memorial Service for the Victims of the Holocaust, Stockholm Synagogue, 27 January 2004
 Nizkor.org  Trial
 Nizkor.org  Appeal

Child murder in Sweden
1995 deaths
1981 births
Hate crimes
Swedish male canoeists
Swedish people of Czech descent
People murdered in Sweden
People from Kungälv Municipality
Deaths by drowning
1995 in Sweden
1995 murders in Sweden 
Sportspeople from Västra Götaland County
Incidents of violence against boys
Neo-Nazism in Sweden