[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Abdulhadi al-Khawaja

ation, corruption, plunder of public funds and land, arbitrary arrests, regular use of torture, unjust trials, denial of the rights of assembly and expression, and the prosecution of human rights defenders. He also called for peaceful resistance to abuses by the ruling regime and civil disobedience.

On 21 January, the office of the Attorney General ordered al-Khawaja's prosecution under articles 29(2), 160, 165, and 168(1) of the Penal Code. He was charged with "propaganda to overthrow or change the political system by force," "publicly instigating hatred and disrespect against the ruling regime," and "willfully broadcasting false and malicious news, statements or rumors and spreading provocative propaganda related to the internal affairs of the country that could disturb public security and cause damage to the public interest." On 9 February, he was not allowed to leave Bahrain for a visit to Iraq on behalf of Front Line.

Threats and harassment

Al-Khawaja has been the subject of ongoing harassment including physical attacks and smear campaigns in the media.

On 19 September 2007, al-Khawaja was the principal target of a defamation campaign by the Bahraini authorities aimed at discrediting the BCHR. He was accused of being connected with acts of violence in Bahrain during the 1980s and 1990s, of sympathizing with Iran, and of coordinating with neo-conservatives in the United States. (The Bahraini authorities have a history of defaming activists who report on or publicly criticize high-ranking officials and official policies, particularly when western media and international human rights organizations are involved. Allegations are published in the national public media to which activists are refused access to defend themselves.)

On 9 February 2010, al-Khawaja was removed from a Turkish Airlines flight at Bahrain International Airport, as he was about to leave for Istanbul to attend a human rights conference. Following a subsequent alleged altercation with an airport official he was arrested and charged with "insulting" the official. Front Line believes that al-Khawaja has been targeted solely as a result of his legitimate work in defending human rights.

Since 10 March 2011, messages have been circulated via SMS and social networking sites calling for killing al-Khawaja, Mohammed Al-Maskati, and Naji Fateel because of their involvement in explicitly peaceful protests calling for democratic and human rights reforms in Bahrain.

Involvement in the Bahraini uprising 

In the early days of the Arab Spring Revolutions of 2011, al-Khawaja led peaceful pro-democracy protests across the country and organized peaceful awareness-raising and human rights education activities for protesters.

In the period following attacks by Bahraini troops on protesters on 14 February 2011, the government allowed the protesters to continue a "festival-like" event at the Pearl Roundabout where a variety of groups came and shared their views. The Crown Prince promised to start a dialogue with the opposition following a visit to Bahrain by Robert Gates, Defense Secretary of the United States, to discuss the situation.

After protesters entered the Financial Harbour, an area filled with financial exchanges and banks on 13 March 2011, the government began a violent crackdown in retaliation. A few days later, prominent opposition leader Hasan Mushaima and six other opposition activists were arrested.

Arrest 
On 9 April 2011, al-Khawaja was arrested. His daughter reported how up to 20 armed and masked policemen broke into their apartment in the middle of the night and attacked her father. They dragged him downstairs by the neck, leaving a trail of blood from injuries inflicted by five officers who refused to stop beating him despite his claims that he was unable to breathe. He was taken away unconscious. al-Khawaja's two sons-in-law were detained as well. Mohammed Al-Maskati, President of the Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights (BYHRS), who had been monitoring human rights violations during the protests and was present in the house, was severely beaten during the raid but not arrested. al-Khawaja's daughter, Zainab, was assaulted when she attempted to intervene. The women present in the house were locked in a room and prevented from leaving. The family were not told where al-Khawaja had been taken, or what he was accused of.

Torture 
  Al-Khawaja has been detained since 9 April 2011 and has reportedly been subjected to physical and sexual torture. He required a four-hour operation in a military hospital following injuries to his head. Nabeel Rajab, current president of Bahrain Centre for Human Rights reported that al-Khawaja's jawbones had been smashed, and he had four fractures in his face; he was due to undergo a mandibular bone graft (using bone from his skull).