[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Asylum in the United States

ndividuals with post-traumatic stress disorder struggle with retrieving certain memories in detail, particularly in high stress inducing situations. Legal and medical scholars have begun arguing for the incorporation of mental health professionals into the asylum process as a form of harm reduction.

Certain other policies meant to lower the number of refugees entering the country have also received criticism for their role in creating trauma and for violating asylum seekers' human rights. Detention centers, extremely common in the United States under the Trump administration, are particularly controversial and remain a prominent aspect of US immigration policy. Studies from Australia have proven that detention policies have a long-term negative impact on asylum seekers mental health. Other policies such as forced separations and community dispersions, precise and difficult to meet standards to qualify for asylum, and restricted access to basic needs during the process have also been pointed to as unnecessary and damaging.

The process has also received criticism for playing into a substantial power imbalance between the asylum-seeker and the legal professionals involved in their cases. Issues with translation, especially those created through cultural and linguistic differences, often lead to confusion and disadvantage the asylum seeker. This can be due to a lack of understanding on the refugees' end as to what they are supposed to discuss or a misinterpretation of the refugees' discourse by the legal professional working with them.

Film 
The 2001 documentary film Well-Founded Fear, from filmmakers Shari Robertson and Michael Camerini marked the first time that a film crew was privy to the private proceedings at the U.S. Immigration and Naturalization Services (INS), where individual asylum officers ponder the often life-or-death fate of the majority of immigrants seeking asylum. The film analyzes the US asylum application process by following several asylum applicants and asylum officers.

See also
 Sanctuary city
 Negusie v. Holder (2009)
 Boika v. Holder (2013)

Notes and references 
This article is partially based on law of the United States, including statutory and latest published case law.

External links 
 Obtaining Asylum in the United States (USCIS, Sept. 16, 2021)
 Asylum in the United States (American Immigration Council, June 11, 2020)
 Refugees and Asylees in the United States (Migration Policy Institute, May 13, 2021)
 Mexico to Allow U.S. ‘Remain in Mexico’ Asylum Policy to Resume (New York Times, Dec. 2, 2021)

 
Immigration to the United States
Forced migration

sv:Asylsökande#USA