[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# National emblem of East Timor

The national emblem of East Timor (officially: Timor-Leste) is one of the national symbols of East Timor.

Current emblem

The emblem, also known as Belak (Tetum for "Disk"), was introduced on 18 January 2007 by Law 2/2007, replacing the coat of arms based on the shield of the National Council of Timorese Resistance (CNRT), which had been used since independence in 2002. The current coat of arms is a variant of the emblem used by East Timorese representatives during Indonesian occupation. It is based on a design first used when the country unilaterally declared independence on 28 November 1975.

Design

The center of the coat of arms shows the outline of the highest mountain in East Timor, the Tatamailau (Foho Ramelau), on a white background in the national colors "ruby red" on the outside, black on the inside with a thin golden-yellow border. It is shaped like a square pyramid with three corners pointing down and one pointing up. The edges are arched.

In the center of the top corner of the mountain is a five-pointed white star. One of the points of the star, without touching it, points to the top corner of the mountain. Out of the star come five white, pyramidal rays, ending at the top of an open book located in the upper part of the black part of the mountain.

The book has a ruby red cover, the edges are golden yellow. There are four black lines on the right side of the book and five on the left. There is a golden yellow band at the bottom of the pages. The book is in front of a golden yellow cog wheel standing on a golden yellow pedestal. To the right of the gear wheel and book is an ear of rice with two leaves and eleven grains, to the left is a corncob, also with two leaves. Both are golden yellow and turned tip down.

Below the gear and book is a white-rimmed Kalashnikov with butt to the left and barrel to the right. The barrel is slightly higher than the butt, but does not touch the gear. A golden-yellow, Timorese spear (diman) lies behind the weapon, the tip of which points to the left.

Below the rifle, in the middle of the black part of the mountain, is a yellow-gold, Timorese bow (Rama-inan), the string of which points upwards.

Below the outline of the mountain is a wavy, "light red" framed, white banner on which the new national motto is written in ruby red in Portuguese: "Unidade, Acção, Progresso". This band runs in waves parallel to the edge of the mountain outline.

The mountain and banner are surrounded by two thin dark red rings. Between the circles is the official country name in Portuguese, República Democrática de Timor-Leste, on a white background with ruby red writing in the upper part . The inscription runs on the ring from the level of the lower left corner of Mount Tatamailau to the level of the lower right corner. In the lower part of the ring is the abbreviation of the country name RDTL.

Meaning
The coat of arms symbolizes the globe with the country of East Timor and at the same time stands for national unity. The white background color within the ring, star and rays symbolizes peace. The yellow in the coat of arms signifies wealth, black symbolizes the eclipse that must be conquered, and red represents love of homeland and the struggle for national liberation.

The five points of the star symbolize the light of generosity and honesty leading the people to peace. Its rays represent the light of solidarity and the will to bring peace to the whole world.

The four corners of the outline of Mount Tatamailau represent the principle of the separation of powers (president, parliament, government, and judiciary) and the independence of state organs.

The open book, cogwheel, ear of rice and corncob symbolize wisdom and the people's ability to advance in the fields of education, culture, social justice, agriculture and industry.

The rifle, spear and bow represent the values of the people's centuries-long struggle for national liberation and self-defense for the honor and dignity of East Timor's sovereignty. The rifle may be a homage to the emblem of Mozambique. The FALINTIL East Timor did not use a Kalashnikov in the liberation struggle.

The motto in Portuguese, "Unidade, Acção, Progresso" ("Unity, Action, Progress"), states the basic values of politics and ethics that govern the life of the nation and the people.

Previous emblems

Under Majapahit Empire (1293–1527) 
During The Time Timor was a Majapahit Tributary, the Surya Majapahit was officially assigned.

Portuguese colonial era (1935–1975)