[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Donji Humac

Donji Humac is one of the oldest settlements on the Croatian island of Brač, located on an inland hill. The top of the hill is marked by a widely visible baroque bell-tower. The nearby Kopačina cave has been inhabited more than 13,200 years ago. As of the 2011 census, Donji Humac has a population of 177 - far below its largest extent at the beginning of the 20th century with more than 500 people, before several waves of emigration depopulated the settlement.

The village is about one kilometre north-west of Nerežišća, and linked to Supetar, the largest city of Brač and its frequent ferries to Split, through a paved 6 km road northwards, mostly following state road D113. A county road (Ž6188) leads westwards to Dračevica, about 2.4 kilometres away.

To the south and west of the settlement are fertile fields, where traces of pre-Croatian habitation have been found. Some of these traces, such as Roman ornaments, have been incorporated into the houses of the settlement, such as the homes of the Dragičević and Laurić families.

Donji Humac is surrounded by a number of quarries. The local stone has given the settlement its distinct look very early on, and many of the old elements of the settlement are still preserved. The closeness to the quarries had also led to a tradition of artistic stonemasons in the village, which is carried on until present. In 1996, an international meeting of stonemasons lead to the creation of a number of monuments which are now spread throughout the settlement. Besides stone, the main sources of income have traditionally been wine, olives, cherries, sheep husbandry, and hunting, and more recently, tourism.

History 
It is assumed that in the 11th century, Donji Humac was called Gomilje or Gomirje and was already a settlement for a while. In 1080, a Brač person named Tišen bought from a Split aristocrat named Cassarias some houses and land in Gomilje. Gomilje lies on the western side of the Humac hill, just below Kis (from the Latin word ecclesia). A cloister and the oldest buildings of Donji Humac are expected to have been in Kis, close to the Smokvica pond.

The name Humac is mentioned in sources for the first time in 1305. The settlers are supposed to have come from the area of Saint Elias and Banje to the west of Humac. The name Donji Humac (literally translated as lower hillside) was only introduced later to differentiate it from Gornji Humac (literally upper hillside), which is on the eastern, more mountaineous side of Brač.

In medieval times, most of the population of Brač was living inland, as the coast was too dangerous due to pirate and other attacks. During that time, the northwest of the island belonged to Donji Humac, including the settlements Sutivan and Mirca - both of which are quite larger than Donji Humac today. In the 20th century, the worsening of the economic situation in Donji Humac - first through the grape phylloxera louse which destroyed several grape harvests and thus the wine production, later World War II and its aftermath - lead to several waves of emigration, leaving Donji Humac today with only a third or quarter of the population only a century ago.

Kopačina cave 

Cultural objects dug out from the cave of Kopačina (1 km to the north-west of Donji Humac) indicate human habitation since the stone age. The cave is about 12 meter long, and has two chambers.

Remains of wild horses, birds, deers, and bears were found, as well as stone knives, drills, arrow tips, and other mesolithic tools, among numerous mesolithic flint weapons, have been found in the front chamber. In the middle part of the cave, ceramics and an early Bronze Age axe have been found. In the back of the cave, human remains from the epipaleolithic and the mesolithic have been found. The radiolarite rock used for some of the objects found in the cave is not known to exist on the Dalmatian islands or the Dalmatian coast, and indicates connections to the Dalmatian hinterland, likely the mouth of the Neretva or the Budva region.

The cave was first explored by Frane Bulić in 1890. It used to be thought that the cave has been continuously inhabited since the late Upper Paleolithic through the Mesolithic until the Bronze Age, i.e. from the 8th to the 3rd millennium BC. More recent results indicate an even older original usage - before 13,200 BP (although it is unknown how long before) - but not continuously to the Bronze Age. That would make the findings in the cave possibly the oldest traces of human settlement not only on Brač but in all of Dalmatia.

Churches