[Source: PubMed]

25. Salud Publica Mex. 2003;45 Suppl 3:S449-62. doi: 
10.1590/s0036-36342003000900020.

Recommendations for cervical cancer screening programs in developing countries. 
The need for equity and technological development.

Lazcano-Ponce E(1), Alonso P, Ruiz-Moreno JA, Hernández-Avila M.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Salud Poblacional, Instituto Nacional de Salud 
Pública, Avenida Universidad No. 655, Colonia Santa María Ahuacatitlán 62508 
Cuernavaca, Morelos, México. elazcano@correo.insp.mx

The cervical cancer screening programs (CCSP) have not been very efficient in 
the developing countries. This explains the need to foster changes on policies, 
standards, quality control mechanisms, evaluation and integration of new 
screening alternatives considered as low and high cost, as well as to regulate 
colposcopy practices and the foundation of HPV laboratories. Cervical cancer 
(CC) is a disease most frequently found in poverty-stricken communities and 
reflecting a problem of equity at both levels gender and regional, and this, is 
not only due to social and economic development inequalities, but to the 
infrastructure and human resources necessary for primary care. For this reason, 
the CCSP program must be restructured, a) to primarily address unprivileged 
rural and urban areas; b) to foster actions aimed at ensuring extensive coverage 
as well as a similar quality of that coverage in every region; c) to use 
screening strategies in keeping with the availability of health care services. 
In countries with a great regional heterogeneity, a variety of screening 
procedures must be regulated and standardized, including a combination of 
assisted visual inspection, cervical cytology and HPV detection; d) regional 
community intervention must be set up to assess the effectiveness of using HPV 
detection as an strategy in addition to cervical cytology (pap smear); e) the 
practice of colposcopy must be regulated to prevent the use of it in healthy 
women at a population level, thus preventing unnecessary diagnosis and treatment 
which not only are expensive but also causes unnecessary anxiety to women at 
risk; f) the operation of those clinical laboratories using HPV as a detection 
strategy must likewise be accredited and regulated and g) the CCSP program for 
assuring health care quality should meet the expectations of its beneficiaries, 
and increase the knowledge in cervical cancer related matters. Finally, though a 
variety of clinical tests on prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines against HPV 
are recently being developed worldwide; it will take at least from 5 to 10-years 
time to have them available in the market. For this reason, it will be necessary 
to intensify the CCSP programs. All these reasons lay emphasis on the need to 
reinforce actions for CCSP programs. This paper is available too at: 
http://www.insp.mx/salud/index.html.

DOI: 10.1590/s0036-36342003000900020
PMID: 14746039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]