[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Blue hole

of bacterial colonies have also been found in blue holes. Due to the conditions of a blue hole, they are forced to live off sulfur compounds like hydrogen sulfide, which are toxic to most organisms. These special bacteria have produced many insights into the chemistry and biology of microbial life.

Blue holes have a great diversity of microbes. They create biogeochemical pathways creating a unique and diverse environment within the blue holes. In the surface layer, oxygen, DOC, POC and chlorophyll need to be in low levels in order for cyanobacteria to respire. As depth increases, many branches and sub branches of microbes create specific niches based on the chemistry and nutrient availability of that depth.

Microorganisms including foraminifera, meiobenthic, and nematodes also follow this pattern of organization, and inhabit the areas of the water column where the nutrients they rely on are most available. Nematodes, which are predominantly non-selective detrivores, are tolerable to the anoxic conditions at the base of blue holes, allowing them to survive where other species cannot. They thrive at the lowest depths of blue holes due to the abundance of organic matter that settles there. Similarly, foraminifera inhabit the lower depths, and even increase in diversity with depth. Meiobenthic organisms cannot survive the high sulfide found at depth, and remain in the surface layers of blue holes. Generally, the diversity of all forms of life is 2-3x greater in blue holes than other diverse areas of the ocean, including coastal and abyssal environments. When the diversity of microorganisms is larger, a proportional increase in larger organisms and their diversity is to be expected.

Sedimentation 
Sediment accumulation is quite unique in blue holes. Sedimentation occurs at the center of holes rather than the edges. There are many different kinds of sediment that help preserve fossils and climate records. Main sediments that build up and create layers in blue holes are sapropel, detrital peat and lacustrine marls. Within these layers, microfossils can be found.

Sediment cores taken from three blue holes in the Bahamas showed that with depth, more sapropel, detrital and freshwater peat, and lacustrine marls were found. At about 150 cm of sediment core, microfossils of wood, Charophytes and Hydrobiidae were found.

Chemistry 
The chemistry of blue holes vary greatly depending on how they were formed. All blue holes have a layer of freshwater at the surface and more saline water as the depth increases. Many have pycnoclines and haloclines that show these zones, similar to the ocean around it. Many blue holes are great sediment traps and can preserve climate and fossil records dating back to the last glacial maximum. The reason blue holes are able to preserve such records is due to the anoxic bottom water most blue holes contain. Stable Hydrogen and Oxygen isotopes can be used to help identify where the water within blue holes comes from. Scientists have discovered that many have meteoric or marine sources of saline water within them. Being able to identify where the water comes from in these columns allows scientists to see how tidally influenced they are. Most blue holes have a range in salinity from fresh water to hypersaline. Conduits and passageways allow for brackish water to enter as well. When the same isotopes of major ions are found in blue holes and in the surrounding ocean, it can be concluded that these blue holes are tidally influenced and have a marine water source, however, if the isotopes are similar to those found in meteoric lenses, then the source is meteoric.

Preservation 

Due to water conditions at the bottom of blue holes, fossil preservation is very effective. Insufficient oxygen and light prevent decay; these conditions have resulted in preservation of fossils for thousands of years, allowing scientists to identify the skeletons of species extinct for years, as well as human skeletons. Sediments surrounding the fossils are rich in macro and microfossils (twigs, leaves, pollen, spores, etc.), further improving their preservation.

Fossils identified:
 Tortoise (undescribed species)
 Caracara (Caracara creightoni)
 Cuban crocodile (Crocodylus gundlachii)
 Cooper's Hawk (Accipiter cooperii)
 Birds (25 species)
 Snakes (3 species)
 Bats (4 species)
 Ancient Native Lucayans

Plant fossils are also well preserved at the bottom of blue holes, and using sediment cores it is possible to determine what species of plants and trees existed around the area thousands of years ago. For example, The Bahamas today are dominated by tropical dry evergreens, and tropical pines, but sediment cores from the Abacos blue hole revealed preserved woody species, such as Coccoloba, Exothea, and Bursera.