[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 4]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

s and forks were of silver. At dinner he was
placed close to Mrs Merton, who took care to supply him with the
choicest bits, and engaged him to eat, with the most endearing kindness;
but, to the astonishment of everybody, he neither appeared pleased nor
surprised at anything he saw. Mrs Merton could not conceal her
disappointment; for, as she had always been used to a great degree of
finery herself, she had expected it should make the same impression upon
everybody else. At last, seeing him eye a small silver cup with great
attention, out of which he had been drinking, she asked him whether he
should not like to have such a fine thing to drink out of; and added,
that, though it was Tommy's cup, she was sure he would with great
pleasure, give it to his little friend. "Yes, that I will," says Tommy;
"for you know, mamma, I have a much finer one than that, made of gold,
besides two large ones made of silver." "Thank you with all my heart,"
said little Harry; "but I will not rob you of it, for I have a much
better one at home." "How!" said Mrs Merton, "does your father eat and
drink out of silver?" "I don't know, madam, what you call this; but we
drink at home out of long things made of horn, just such as the cows
wear upon their heads." "The child is a simpleton, I think," said Mrs
Merton: "and why is that better than silver ones?" "Because," said
Harry, "they never make us uneasy." "Make you uneasy, my child!" said
Mrs Merton, "what do you mean?" "Why, madam, when the man threw that
great thing down, which looks just like this, I saw that you were very
sorry about it, and looked as if you had been just ready to drop. Now,
ours at home are thrown about by all the family, and nobody minds it."
"I protest," said Mrs Merton to her husband, "I do not know what to say
to this boy, he makes such strange observations."

The fact was, that during dinner, one of the servants had thrown down a
large piece of plate, which, as it was very valuable, had made Mrs
Merton not only look very uneasy, but give the man a very severe
scolding for his carelessness.

After dinner, Mrs Merton filled a large glass of wine, and giving it to
Harry, bade him drink it up, but he thanked her, and said he was not
dry. "But, my dear," said she, "this is very sweet and pleasant, and as
you are a good boy, you may drink it up." "Ay, but, madam, Mr Barlow
says that we must only eat when we are hungry, and drink when we are
dry: and that we must only eat and drink such things are as easily met
with; otherwise we shall grow peevish and vexed when we can't get them.
And this was the way that the Apostles did, who were all very good men."

Mr Merton laughed at this. "And pray," said he, "little man, do you know
who the Apostles were?" "Oh! yes, to be sure I do." "And who were they?"
"Why, sir, there was a time when people were grown so very wicked, that
they did not care what they did; and the great folks were all proud, and
minded nothing but eating and drinking and sleeping, and amusing
themselves; and took no care of the poor, and would not give a morsel of
bread to hinder a beggar from starving; and the poor were all lazy, and
loved to be idle better than to work; and little boys were disobedient
to their parents, and their parents took no care to teach them anything
that was good; and all the world was very bad, very bad indeed. And then
there came from Heaven the Son of God, whose name was Christ; and He
went about doing good to everybody, and curing people of all sorts of
diseases, and taught them what they ought to do; and He chose out twelve
other very good men, and called them Apostles; and these Apostles went
about the world doing as He did, and teaching people as He taught them.
And they never minded what they did eat or drink, but lived upon dry
bread and water; and when anybody offered them money, they would not
take it, but told them to be good, and give it to the poor and sick: and
so they made the world a great deal better. And therefore it is not fit
to mind what we live upon, but we should take what we can get, and be
contented; just as the beasts and birds do, who lodge in the open air,
and live upon herbs, and drink nothing but water; and yet they are
strong, and active, and healthy."

"Upon my word," said Mr Merton, "this little man is a great philosopher;
and we should be much obliged to Mr Barlow if he would take our Tommy
under his care; for he grows a great boy, and it is time that he should
know something. What say you, Tommy, should you like to be a
philosopher?" "Indeed, papa, I don't know what a philosopher is; but I
should like to be a king, because he's finer and richer than anybody
else, and has nothing to do, and everybody waits upon him, and is afraid
of him." "Well said, my dear," replied Mrs Merton; and rose and kissed
him; "and a king you deserve to be with such a spirit; and here's a
glass of wine for you for making such a pretty answer