[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Skynet (Terminator)

to destroy Skynet's Central Processor. Kyle Reese is instrumental in destroying the primary processor core despite heavy opposition from attacking Skynet units. Before its destruction, Skynet is able to contact an orbiting satellite and activates a fail-safe which restores Skynet at a new location.

The video game Terminator 3: The Redemption, as well as presenting a variation on Rise of the Machines, also features an alternate timeline where John Connor was killed prior to Judgment Day, with the T-850 of the film being sent into this future during its fight with the T-X, requiring it to fight its way back to the temporal displacement engine of the new timeline so that it can go back and save John and Kate.

In the 2019 video game Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon Breakpoint, a live event to promote Terminator: Dark Fate features T-800s as in-game enemies. In the event, Skynet sent T-800s back in time to kill main protagonist Nomad and ally Rasa Aldwin to prevent the Resistance from forming.

Cultural impact

In popular media, Skynet is often used as an analogy for the possible threat that a sufficiently advanced AI could pose to humanity.

In 2018, computer scientist Stuart J. Russell, speaking for the Future of Life Institute, lamented the influence of Skynet on US government officials:
We have witnessed high-level defense officials dismissing the risk on the grounds that their “experts" do not believe that the “Skynet thing" is likely to happen. Skynet, of course, is the fictional command and control system in the Terminator movies that turns against humanity. The risk of the “Skynet thing" occurring is completely unconnected to the risk of humans using  autonomous weapons as WMDs or to any of the other risks cited by us and by ...[our critics]. This has, unfortunately, demonstrated that serious discourse and academic argument are not enough to get the message through. If even senior defense officials with responsibility for autonomous weapons programs fail to understand the core issues, then we cannot expect the general public and their elected representatives to make appropriate decisions. Russell cited the influence of Skynet as one of the reasons the Institute produced the arms-control advocacy video Slaughterbots in 2017, as a way to redirect public officials' attention to what it considers the real threat.

See also
 AI takeover
 Colossus: The Forbin Project
 "Dead Hand" is the nickname of a computer system (operational since 1985) that could automatically issue launch orders to Soviet ICBMs if top Soviet military commanders were annihilated in a preemptive nuclear strike.
 List of fictional computers
 HAL 9000
 Technological singularity
 Power Rangers RPM (this Power Ranger season/series follows a similar plot to the Terminator universe with a Computer Virus named Venjix gaining artificial intelligence and plotting humanity's demise)
 Borg
 Cyberman
 SKYNET (surveillance program)
 Skynet
 Big Brother
 Cybernetics
 Syngenor

Notes

References

External links
 

Terminator (franchise) characters
Existential risk from artificial general intelligence
Fictional androids
Fictional artificial intelligences
Fictional computer viruses
Fictional computers
Fictional dictators
Fictional elements introduced in 1984
Fictional mass murderers
Fictional omnicide perpetrators
Film supervillains
Robot supervillains
Time travelers
Unseen characters
Video game bosses