[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Central Bank of Armenia

ion in order to keep risks affecting an individual institution's stability under manageable limits. Macro prudential policy itself means using prudential instruments, which will provide the stability of the financial system as a whole. Macro prudential regulation is aimed to minimize systemic risks.

Central Bank policies addressed to maintaining financial stability 
Central Bank policies to maintain financial stability fall into three types.
 When the financial system is characterized as stable, or in other words the fluctuations of main indicators are within allowable band, a preventive policy will need to be implemented. Implementation of such a policy implies monitoring a number of macro-prudential indicators on an ongoing basis. It is necessary to capture the financial sector's direct and indirect international exposures in both quantitative and qualitative terms. Preventive policy is addressed to financial stability by using available supervisory and regulatory tools.
 When financial system fluctuations are within the target band yet tend to infringe it, which might cause high volatilities in certain financial or non-financial sectors, then corrective policy will be applied. Actions arising out of the above policy cover activities such as examining new financial market instruments and risk analysis methods, studying loan loss provisioning practices, discussing new capital adequacy requirements and adopting international reforms and implementing appropriate supplements. This in fact provides for an opportunity to extend available instruments and improve regulatory framework.
 In case the fluctuations of financial system are beyond the level allowed and the system is not able to perform its key functions, a recovering policy will be implemented. Recovering measures commonly include an extended variety of anti-crisis measures. Extraordinary anti-crisis measures taken by the Central Bank are: extended opportunities for banks to borrow from the central bank, policy of quantitative easing, emergency liquidity assistance under its function of lender of last resort, etc.

Financial Stability Committee 
In 2011 the Central Bank established a consultative body that is the Financial Stability Committee. The main task of the Committee is assessment of financial stability. The Committee identifies probable risks that threaten the financial stability and the main channels of its influence, debates the main measures addressed to the providing of financial stability, suggests the scope of further policy directions and other necessary actions. The committee sessions take place every quarter. In extraordinary situations a special session is convened on the basis of chairman's verbal decision. 
 The Committee is available with the structure as mentioned below: 
 Committee chairman 
 Chairman of Central bank
 Committee deputy chairman 
 Deputy Chairman of Central Bank
 Committee members
 Head of Financial system stability and development department
 Head of Monetary policy department
 Head of Financial Supervisory department
 Head of Financial department
 Head of Financial system regulation department

Financial Stability Report 
The Central Bank or Armenia publishes the results of ongoing analyses in the Financial Stability Report. Financial stability report is published on an annual basis starting from 2007 and on a semiannual basis, starting from 2010. Main goal of the Financial Stability Report is to focus on current developments in real and financial sectors that could undermine the financial stability. The report presents the Central Bank's assessment of financial stability, main risks threatening the financial stability and measures underway to prevent and reduce these risks. The publication of Financial Stability Report allows improving awareness of financial institutions, companies, entrepreneurs and general public concerning measures taken by authorities to ensure financial system stability. On the other hand, the purpose of providing information on risk origins and vulnerability of financial stability is to help people for taking decisions in various situations. The risks affecting financial stability of Armenia can emerge in local economy, foreign economy and it financial system itself. Taking into account the aforementioned, the possible risks affecting financial stability of Armenia are presented in 5 areas:
 Risks derived from the developments of world economy (macro economy and financial markets)
 Risks derived from the developments of Armenian macroeconomic environment
 Risks derived from the developments of Armenian macroeconomic environment
 Risks derived from the developments of financial institutions of Armenia
 Risks derived from the developments of financial infrastructures.

The Central Bank of Armenia continuously carries out extensive work in order to make financial stability report more informative and extended in accordance with international practice and in face of new challenges.