[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ben Thompson (lawman)

re facing off against a local police officer, John "Happy Jack" Morco, and a gambler, John Sterling.  The confrontation had developed over a gambling dispute.  Whitney was a friend to both brothers, and numerous witnesses confirmed that Whitney stated before he died that the shooting was accidental.

Wyatt Earp claimed in an interview with his future biographer, Stuart Lake, that he had arrested Thompson after the altercation although contemporary news accounts and Thompson's own biography describing the episode don't mention his presence at all. But Lake's story Wyatt Earp: Frontier Marshal, published two years after Earp's death, has been found by modern researchers to be a largely fictionalized biography, and the story he described of Earp's role in arresting Thompson was likely an "exaggerated account".

Morco filed charges of assault against Ben Thompson the following day, due to Thompson's having fired in his direction prior to Whitney being shot.  Officer Ed Hogue arrested Ben Thompson.  That same week, police officer Ed Crawford killed Thompson's friend, Cad Pierce, in an incident that Crawford reportedly provoked.   Morco and Hogue soon ran another Thompson friend, Neil Cain, out of town.  The town council dismissed Morco, Hogue, and Crawford, for inappropriate behavior.  Soon after, newly appointed police officer, J.C. "Charlie" Brown, killed Morco when he pulled a gun during a disturbance.  Friends of Cad Pierce soon killed Crawford.  Ed Hogue left town.  Billy Thompson fled Kansas, too, but eventually was returned to be unsuccessfully tried for the death of Sheriff Whitney.

Later life

Return to Texas
In 1875, Ben Thompson returned to Texas, staying at Fort Elliott, in the Panhandle.  There he met and befriended Bat Masterson.  When Masterson shot and killed a cavalry Corporal Melvin King in a dispute over a woman, Thompson stepped in to prevent other soldiers from attacking Masterson.  After that incident, the Santa Fe Railroad hired both gunmen to intercede in a right-of-way dispute between that railroad and the Rio Grande Railroad.

After the railway dispute ended, Thompson returned to Austin, where he opened the Iron Front Saloon.  One of his competitors was the Capital Theater, owned and operated by Mark Wilson.  On Christmas Eve 1876, Thompson and friends were at the Capital Theater drinking when a fight erupted involving other patrons.  When Thompson tried to intervene, Wilson produced a shotgun and fired at Thompson but missed.  Thompson then killed Wilson.  A bartender, Charley Matthews, fired a Winchester rifle and grazed Thompson's hip.  Thompson returned fire, hitting Matthews.  Though seriously wounded, Matthews survived.  Thompson was not arrested, as the shooting was ruled self defense.

In June 1880, Ben Thompson asked Masterson to go to Ogallala, Nebraska (then "the end of the Texas Trail"), to rescue his younger brother Billy, who was in trouble again as a result of being involved in a shootout.  Masterson, Ben, and Billy Thompson escaped from Ogallala, and headed to Dodge City.

In Austin, Texas
In 1881, Thompson was hired by the city of Austin to serve as a city marshal.  The following year, Thompson was involved in a dispute with Vaudeville Variety Theater owner, Jack Harris, in San Antonio.  Thompson shot and killed Harris.  Thompson was indicted for murder, and resigned his position as marshal.  He was tried and acquitted, after which he returned to Austin.  He was welcomed by the citizens, but he did not return to his law enforcement job.

Murdered in San Antonio

While on business in San Antonio, on March 11, 1884, Thompson ran into rancher, King Fisher.  The two men, who had known one another for several years, decided to attend shows at the Turner Hall Opera House, and later at the Vaudeville Variety Theater.  A local lawman, Jacob Coy, sat with them.  Thompson wanted to see Joe Foster, a theater owner who had been a friend of Harris's.  Thompson had already spoken to Billy Simms, another theater owner, and Foster's new partner.

Fisher and Thompson were directed upstairs to meet with Foster.  Coy and Simms also joined them in the theater box.  Foster refused to speak with Thompson.  Fisher allegedly noticed that something was not right, when suddenly Simms and Coy stepped aside.  As they did, a hail of bullets from an adjoining box hit Thompson and Fisher.  Thompson fell, and either Coy or Foster ran up to him and shot him in the head with a pistol.  Thompson died almost immediately.  Fisher was shot thirteen times, but fired one round in retaliation, possibly wounding Coy, who was crippled for life.  While trying to draw his pistol, Foster had shot himself in the leg, which was later amputated.  He died soon after the surgery.

Burial
Thompson's body was returned to Austin.  He is buried in Oakwood Cemetery in Austin.