[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Islamic State

Supporting military operations, capacity building, and training;
 Stopping the flow of foreign terrorist fighters;
 Cutting off ISIL/Daesh's access to financing and funding;
 Addressing associated humanitarian relief and crises; and
 Exposing ISIL/Daesh's true nature (ideological delegitimisation).

Operation Inherent Resolve is the operational name given by the US to military operations against ISIL and Syrian al-Qaeda affiliates. Combined Joint Task Force – Operation Inherent Resolve (CJTF–OIR) is co-ordinating the military portion of the response. The Arab League, European Union, NATO, and GCC are part of the Counter-ISIL Coalition: According to the Pentagon, by December 2017 over 80,000 ISIL fighters had been killed in Iraq and Syria by CJTF-OIR airstrikes. By then the coalition had flown over 170,000 sorties, 75–80% of combat sorties were conducted by the military of the United States, with the other 20–25% by Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Jordan, Belgium, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Turkey, the United Arab Emirates, and the United Kingdom. According to the UK-based monitoring group Airwars, the air strikes and artillery of US-led coalition killed as many as 6,000 civilians in Iraq and Syria by the end of 2017.

Lebanon, which the U.S. considers part of the Global Coalition, fought off several incursions by ISIL, with the largest engagements taking place from June 2014 to August 2017, when several thousand ISIL fighters invaded from Syria and occupied Lebanese territory. The U.S. and UK-backed Lebanese Army succeeded in repulsing this invasion, killing or capturing over 1,200 ISIL fighters in the process.

On 21 December 2019, over 33 Islamist militants were killed in Mali by French forces using attack helicopters, drones and ground troops, alongside the border with Mauritania where an Al-Qaeda-linked group operates.

Other state opponents not part of the Counter-ISIL Coalition 

 – military advisors, training, ground troops in Iraq and Syria, and air power in Syria, beside Iranian borders (see Iranian intervention in Iraq)

 – arms supplier to Iraqi and Syrian governments. Security operations within state borders in 2015. Airstrikes in Syria (see Russian military intervention in the Syrian Civil War).

 – security operations within state borders

 – Military deployment over Saudi Arabia-Iraq border. Arresting ISIL figures in Pakistan.

 (Supreme Political Council)

 – security operations within state borders (see Islamic State–Taliban conflict)

Other non-state opponents 

 
  al-Nusra Front—with localised truces and co-operation at times
 al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
 al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb
 Al-Shabaab
 
  Hamas
 
 
  Kurdistan Workers' Party—ground troops in Iraqi Kurdistan and in Syrian Kurdistan
  Syrian Democratic Forces
  Nineveh Plain Protection Units – an Assyrian Christian militia in the Nineveh Plains in Northern Iraq
  Amal Movement
  Syrian Resistance – Suqur al-Furat
  Liwa al-Quds
  Liwa Abu al-Fadhal al-Abbas
  Abu al-Fadl al-Abbas Forces
  Islamic Jihad Movement in Palestine
  Arab Nationalist Guard
  Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command
  Fatah al-Intifada
  Syrian Revolutionary Command Council
  Mujahideen Shura Council (Syria)
  Unified Military Command of Eastern Ghouta
  Fatah Halab
  Mare' Operations Room
  Golan Regiment
  Mukhtar Army

Al-Qaeda 

Al-Nusra Front is a branch of al-Qaeda operating in Syria. Al-Nusra has launched many attacks and bombings, mostly against targets affiliated with or supportive of the Syrian government. There have been media reports that many of al-Nusra's foreign fighters have left to join al-Baghdadi's ISIL.

In February 2014, after continued tensions, al-Qaeda publicly disavowed any relations with ISIL. However, ISIL and al-Nusra Front still cooperate with each other occasionally when they fight against the Syrian government.

On 10 September 2015, an audio message was released by al-Qaeda's leader Ayman al-Zawahiri criticising ISIL's self-proclaimed caliphate and accusing it of "sedition". This was described by some media outlets as a "declaration of war". However, although al-Zawahiri denied ISIL's legitimacy, he suggested that there was still room for cooperation against common enemies, and said that if he were in Iraq, he would fight alongside ISIL.

Human rights abuse and war crime findings 

In July 2014, the BBC reported the United Nations' chief investigator as stating: "Fighters from the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) may be added to a list of war crimes suspects in Syria." By June 2014, according to United Nations reports, ISIL had killed hundreds of prisoners of war.