[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Elbekay Bouchiba

Elbekay Bouchiba (born 1 November 1978) is a Dutch footballer of Moroccan descent who last played for Toronto FC in Major League Soccer.

Club career
Bouchiba is a midfielder who was born in Weert who began his career in the youth ranks of Willem II and made his debut in professional football, being part of the AZ squad in the 1998–99 season. He made his Eredivisie debut in a 2–0 victory over Sparta Rotterdam on 22 August 1998. He also played for Sparta Rotterdam and FC Twente before joining Roda JC. His most productive season in the Eredivisie was the 2001–02 season in which he appeared in 29 league matches for Sparta Rotterdam. On 10 August 2002 he scored his first two goals for Sparta in a 2–1 victory over HFC Haarlem in a 2002–03 KNVB Cup match. During his time with Sparta Rotterdam Bouchiba appeared in 58 official matches and scored 3 goals. While with FC Twente Bouchiba went on trial stints with Cardiff City and 1. FC Köln. Bouchiba appeared in 127 league matches in the Netherlands, including 111 Eredivisie appearances.

In 2008, he moved to Al-Wakrah in the Qatari League. During the 2009–10 season he played for Al-Shamal.

Major League Soccer
In January 2011 Bouchiba went on trial with Toronto FC of Major League Soccer in hopes of securing a contract. On 15 February 2011 it was reported that he had agreed to terms with the Canadian club. However it was not officially announced by the Canadian club until 9 March 2011. Bouchiba was one of three Dutch players signed by Toronto, both Nick Soolsma and Javier Martina also joined the club. Bouchiba did not see the field during his first season with Toronto due to ACL knee injury, in mid October he returned to practicing with the team and stated that he is looking forward to playing next season with the team. He was waived by Toronto FC on 28 February 2012.

References

External links

altomfotball.no
fctwente.net
rodajcspelers.nl
Dutch League Stats

1978 births
Living people
Sportspeople from Weert
Dutch sportspeople of Moroccan descent
Men's association football midfielders
Dutch men's footballers
Footballers from Limburg (Netherlands)
Willem II (football club) players
AZ Alkmaar players
Sparta Rotterdam players
FC Twente players
Roda JC Kerkrade players
Al-Wakrah SC players
Al-Shamal SC players
Toronto FC players
Eredivisie players
Eerste Divisie players
Qatar Stars League players
Expatriate men's footballers in Qatar
Expatriate men's soccer players in Canada
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Qatar
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Canada
Dutch expatriate men's footballers