[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 2006 in politics

y 28 – President Álvaro Uribe Vélez is re-elected in Colombia for a second term. He becomes the first president in over a century to serve consecutive terms.

June
 June 10 – Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas sets July 26 as the date for a national referendum in the Palestinian National Authority.

July
 July 2 – A presidential election is held in Mexico. Felipe Calderón is confirmed as the winner on September 5.
 July 14 – Jarosław Kaczyński, leader of the Law and Justice party, is sworn in as Prime Minister of Poland by his identical twin, President Lech Kaczyński.
 July 28 – Alejandro Toledo concludes his term as President of Peru. Alan García becomes president.
 July 31 – Fidel Castro, President of Cuba, temporarily relinquishes power to his brother Raúl before surgery.

August
 August 3 – Tuvalu holds parliamentary elections.
 August 4 – Viktor Yanukovych begins his term as Prime Minister of Ukraine.
 August 5 – The Republic of China (Taiwan) severs diplomatic relations with Chad reducing the number of countries maintaining official relations with it to 24. The ROC foreign ministry cited Chad's intention to establish relations with the People's Republic of China as the reason.
 August 6 – The Déby administration of Chad establishes official relations with the People's Republic of China. Chad had recognized the Republic of China (Taiwan) from 1997 to 2006. Chadian diplomats cited the prospects of greater financial investments and the PRC status in the United Nations Security Council as the principal factors motivating the diplomatic shift.
 August 9 – A partial recount of votes in the disputed 2006 Mexico presidential election, which was held on July 2, begins amid escalating protests against alleged electoral irregularities in the close election.
 August 10 – A major terrorist plot to destroy aircraft travelling from the United Kingdom to the United States is disrupted by Scotland Yard.
 August 14 – The 2006 Lebanon War cease fire goes into effect.
 August 28 – Mexico's Federal Electoral Tribunal rules unanimously that results in contested polling stations only marginally affected the lead of Felipe Calderón of the ruling National Action Party over Andrés Manuel López Obrador in July's disputed presidential election.

September
 September 1 – Bob O'Connor mayor of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania dies from a brain tumor and Pittsburgh City Council president Luke Ravenstahl is sworn in as the youngest mayor of any major American city.
 September 7 – Tony Blair announces that he would step down as Labour leader by the time of the TUC conference in September 2007
 September 17 – The Alliance for Sweden achieves a majority victory in the 2006 Swedish general election.
 September 19 – Thaksin Shinawatra, Prime Minister of Thailand, is deposed in a coup staged by the Royal Thai Army.
 September 23 – Toomas Hendrik Ilves is elected President of Estonia.
 September 26 – Shinzō Abe is elected as new Prime Minister of Japan by the Diet of Japan, succeeding Junichiro Koizumi.
 September 29 – US Representative Mark Foley (R-FL) resigns after allegations of inappropriate emails to house pages were introduced.

October
 October 9 – North Korea claims to have successfully conducted its first ever nuclear test.
 October 15 – The UN agrees to sanction North Korea over nuclear testing issue.
 October 15 – Chief Justice of Japan Akira Machida retires after turning the age of 70.
 October 29 – Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva is re-elected President of Brazil.
 October 30 – Former Chilean Dictator Augusto Pinochet is placed under house arrest for crimes committed at the Villa Grimaldi detention centre where thousands were tortured between 1974 and 1977.

November
 Former Iraqi dictator, Saddam Hussein is sentenced to death by hanging, along with two of his senior allies. He is also found guilty of crimes against humanity.
 November 7 – The Republican Party suffers losses in the United States midterm elections.  They lose control of the House of Representatives and the Senate to the Democrats.  Nancy Pelosi becomes first female Speaker of the House being the closest a female has been in succession of the president.
 November 8 – Donald Rumsfeld resigns from his post as Secretary of Defense. Bob Gates is named his successor.
 November 9 – Leftist Daniel Ortega is elected President of Nicaragua
 November 12 – Gerald Ford surpasses Ronald Reagan as the longest lived U.S. President.

December
 December 1 – Felipe Calderón sworn in as the 73rd President of Mexico by the Congress in Mexico.
 December 3 – 2006 presidential elections re-elects Hugo Chávez as President of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, with nearly 63% of the vote.
 December 30 – Former Iraqi dictator, Saddam Hussein is hanged.