[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Rowland Laugharne

Major General Rowland Laugharne (1607 – 1675) was a member of the Welsh gentry, and a prominent soldier during the Wars of the Three Kingdoms, in which he fought on both sides.

Laugharne began his career as a page to Robert Devereux, 3rd Earl of Essex, and may have served with him in the Dutch war with Spain. Along with John Poyer and Rice Powell, he led Parliamentarian forces in Pembrokeshire during the 1642 to 1646 First English Civil War, from 1643 until the Royalists surrendered in June 1646.

A social conservative, he supported moderate Parliamentarians who wanted a negotiated settlement with Charles I, and opposed radicals within the New Model Army. In the Second English Civil War, he fought for the Royalists, but was defeated at the Battle of St Fagans in May 1648. Condemned to death with Poyer and Powell, he was reprieved after the three drew lots; Poyer lost, and was executed shortly afterwards.

After the 1660 Restoration, he was elected to the Cavalier Parliament in 1661 for Pembroke, but played little part in politics. His last years were spent in poverty, and he died in November 1675.

Personal details
Rowland Laugharne was the eldest son of John Laugharne (1584–1644), from St Brides in Pembrokeshire, and Janet Owen (1588–after 1635). His father owned St Brides Castle, a converted abbey, now a listed building.

His sister Dorothy married Sir Hugh Owen (1607–1670), Member of Parliament for Pembroke Boroughs. His nephew Captain John Laugharne (1640–1687), son of his younger brother Francis, emigrated to Virginia in 1673, and became a prominent member of the colonial establishment.    

At some point before 1639, he married Anne Button (died 1681); they had one surviving child, another Rowland (ca 1640–1691), who avoided politics, but appears to have had Tory sympathies, since he refused to swear allegiance to William III after the 1688 Glorious Revolution. His grandson John (1666–1715), was Tory MP for Haverfordwest from 1702 to 1715.

Career
Part of Laugharne's youth was spent as page to the Earl of Essex, and he may have accompanied him on military service in the Low Countries. Little is known of his activities during this period, but he was certainly an experienced soldier prior to returning to Wales.

First English Civil War; 1642 to 1646
When war began in August 1642, most of Wales supported Charles I, with the exception of Pembrokeshire. Laugharne, Rice Powell, and John Poyer, mayor of Pembroke, were instrumental in holding it for Parliament, helped by the inefficiency of the Earl of Carbery, the local Royalist commander. Pembrokeshire acquired greater significance after the July 1643 truce between Irish Royalists and the Confederacy; if the Royalists won control of ports like Cardiff, it would allow them to quickly ship large numbers of troops to England.

In early 1644, a Parliamentarian naval squadron sailed into Milford Haven, and offered to evacuate Poyer and his garrison, who refused. Instead, Laugharne used them to clear Pembrokeshire of Royalist forces, and was appointed Governor of Pembroke Castle. Confronted by fresh troops under Sir Charles Gerard, Laugharne withdrew to his bases in Pembroke and Tenby, which Parliamentarian control of the sea made virtually impregnable. Gerard established garrisons at Aberystwyth, Kidwelly, Carmarthen, Cardigan, Newcastle Emlyn, Laugharne, and Roch, devastated the lands between, then returned to Royalist headquarters in Oxford. 

Many of the Royalist troops at Marston Moor in July came from Wales, and defeat left them with insufficient forces to relieve these strongpoints if attacked. On 29 October, Laugharne and 2,000 troops besieged Laugharne Castle, which was held by 200 men under Lieutenant-Colonel Russell. A two day bombardment left a breach large enough for an assault, and on 2 November the Parliamentarians captured the outer ward of the castle. Russell surrendered the following day, and his men received a pass to Cardigan Castle. Leaving a small garrison behind, Laugharne marched out to meet Royalist troops advancing from Carmarthen, who withdrew before making contact.   

Laugharne moved onto Cardigan, but had to wait for his heavy artillery to be transported from Laugharne Castle before beginning operations; it surrendered in late December, and he repulsed a Royalist attempt to retake it in January. In March 1645, Parliament awarded him £3,000, as well as the forfeited lands of John Barlow, in Slebech. The New Model Army defeated Charles' main field army at the Battle of Naseby in June 1645, reducing the Royalist area of control to the West Country and isolated strongholds elsewhere. In August 1645, Laugharne secured Pembrokeshire by his victory at Colby Moor, then set about reducing the remaining Royalist garrisons in South Wales, a process mostly completed by early 1646. When Charles surrendered in June 1646, Laugharne was commander-in-chief for Pembrokeshire, Cardiganshire, Carmarthenshire, and Glamorgan.