[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Abd al-Rahman al-Kawakibi

Syria or Greater Syria in 1920 and King of Iraq from 23 August 1921 until his death. Additionally, Al-Kawakibi's message and legacy passed onto Pan-Arab nationalists such as Gamal Abdel Nasser, even though Al-Kawakibi was not a Pan-Arab nationalist but instead believed in Arab unity and solidarity. 

According to the contemporary Lebanese historian, social commentator, and writer, Gan Dayah, Al-Kawakibi was a Muslim political pioneer due to his ideas championing the separation of state and religion.

The Kawaakibi Foundation is named after him. Kawakibi's great-grandson, Salam Kawakibi, is a Paris-based intellectual and the director of the Arab Centre for Research and Policy Studies, who has co-published a collection of Kawakibi's essays "On Despotism" in French. For their virulent attacks on 'Abdul Hamid II and the autocratic rule of the Ottomans, ‘Abd al-Rahman al-Kawakibi, alongside the Syrian Islamic reformer Sayyid Rashid Rida (d. 1935), remain influential cultural icons in pan-Arab circles.

Death
Al-Kawakibi died in 1902 and many of his family and supporters alleged that he had been poisoned by Turkish agents. However, this has never been proven. Following Al-Kawakibi's death, the Ottomans were able to confiscate and destroy all but two books, The Nature of Tyranny and Umm Al-Qura, written by Al-Kawakibi.

References

 Goldschmidt, Arthur and Lawrence Davidson. A Concise History of the Middle East, Eighth edition. pages 207–208. Westview Press: Boulder, Colorado 2005. 
 Haim, Sylvia, ed. "Arab Nationalism: An Anthology" Berkeley: University of California Press, 1962.
 Khayr al-Din al-Zirikli, "al-A'lam"
 Haim, Sylvia G. "al-Kawākibī, ʿabd al-raḥmān b. aḥmad b. masʿūd." Encyclopaedia of Islam, Second Edition
 Jomier, J. "al-Manār." Encyclopaedia of Islam, Second Edition. 
 Khatab, Sayed & Bouma, Gary D., “Democracy in Islam”, 2007, Routledge, New York, NY.
 Tauber, Elizer, “Three Approaches, One Idea: Religion and State in the Thought of 'Abd al-Rahman al-Kawakibi, Najib 'Azuri and Rashid Rida”, British Journal of Middle Eastern Studies Vol. 21, No. 2 (1994), pp. 190–198 
 Dawisha, “Arab Nationalism in the Twentieth Century: From Triumph to Despair”, 2003, Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ
 Tauber, Elizer Islam and the challenges of democracy, Moneyclips, May 5, 1994
 Dawisha, “Arab Nationalism in the Twentieth Century: From Triumph to Despair”, 2003, Princeton University Press, Princeton, NJ
 Rahme, Joseph, “‘ABD AL-RAḤMĀN AL-KAWĀKIBĪ'S REFORMIST IDEOLOGY, ARAB PAN-ISLAMISM, AND THE INTERNAL OTHER Journal of Islamic Studies (1999) 10 (2): 159-177
 Interpretations of Kawakibis Thought, Middle Eastern Studies Vol. 32, No. 1 (Jan., 1996), pp. 179-190
 Tripp, Charles, “Islam and the moral economy: the challenge of capitalism“, Cambridge University Press, 2006
 Hanna, Sami A.; George H. Gardner (1969). Arab Socialism: A Documentary Survey. Leiden: E.J. Brill. p. 273.

External links

See also
Al-Kawakibi Democracy Transition Center

Syrian Arab nationalists
Arab nationalists
Syrian writers
Arab people from the Ottoman Empire
People from Aleppo
Muslims from the Ottoman Empire
Philosophers from the Ottoman Empire
Ottoman Arab nationalists
19th-century writers from the Ottoman Empire
20th-century writers from the Ottoman Empire
Mujaddid
1854 births
1902 deaths
Muslim socialists