[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ibrahim Nasrallah

its of Kilimanjaro, 2015.  4 Arabic editions.
 Bells Trilogy: Keys' Shadows, An Autobiography of an Eye, A Tank Under the Christmas Tree, 2019.
 My Childhood So Far, 2022

Nasrallah has also written poetry for children in two collections:
 Good Morning Children, 1983.
 Good Things Called Home, 1984.

As a writer and editor he has also published literary works about other Arab writers and poets which include:
 The Book of Writing: That is Life…That is Color (Testimonies about Writing), . Author. 2018
 The Flying Autobiography; Less than an Enemy. More than a Friend. Author. 2006
 The Defeat of the Victors: The Cinema between Creativity and Market Demand. Author. 2000
 Portraits of Being: Cinematic Reflections, 2010.. Author. 2000
 The Art and the Artist: Jabra Ibrahim Jabra’s writings about fine art  (editor) 2000.
 The Complete Poetry Collection of The Palestinian Poet Ahmad Hilmi Abdul-Baqui, (Researcher and Editor), 2002.

Nasrallah is a regular contributor to several to the main newspapers in the Arab world. 
He is also a painter and photographer.  He has contributed to several exhibitions and had his own photography shows entitled The Autobiography of an Eye in 1996, and Under Two Suns: Images and Words in 2004, The Life of the Dead Sea a participation at the fifth Gwangju Biennale – South Korea 2004.
Many academic theses handled his poetry and novels. The following dealt exclusively with his works:
Nasrallah also had poetry reading at several cultural centers in metropolitan cities such as Paris, Rome, Venice, Frankfurt, Berlin, and cities in England Denmark, Switzerland and the United States of America ...., not to mention numerous literary activities in almost all Arabic capitals. Nasrallah also gave lectures and poetry readings at many of the local Jordanian universities as well Arabs and European universities. His work has attracted attention among critics and international academia with 10 literary critic books, 15 PhD thesis, and around 45 Maters thesis studying his work.

Awards
 In April 2018, he won the International Prize for Arabic Fiction award for The Second War of the Dog.
 In 2020 he won the Katara Prize for Arabic Novels for the second time, for his novel A Tank Under the Christmas Tree.
 In 2018 he won the International Prize for Arabic Fiction for his novel The Second Dog War.
 In 2016, he won the Katara Prize for Arabic Novels for his novel The Spirits of Kilimanjaro.
 In 2012 he won the inaugural (Jerusalem Award for Culture and Creativity) for his literary work.     
 The prestigious Sultan Owais Literary Award for Poetry in 1997, a prize for Arab language poets.
 Three awards from the Jordanian Writers Association for the best volume of poetry.
 The Tayseer Sbool prize for his novels in 1994.
 The Arar literary Award, for Jordanian and Arab poets, Jordan, 1991.

Political persecution
In June 2006, Nasrallah's fourth collection of poetry Nu’man Yastariddu Lawnahu (Anemone Regains Its Colour) first published in 1984, was suddenly banned in Jordan, while Nasrallah faced charges of insulting the state, inciting dissension and reporting inaccurate information to future generations.

In an interview with The Guardian, Nasrallah commented on the charges he was facing by saying: "I was completely shocked,I did not know how to respond. All I could think of at that moment was that I needed to finish the book I was working on before things got worse. But I was unable to continue writing. I was confused and angry and also afraid."

References

1954 births
Living people
Writers from Amman
20th-century Palestinian poets
21st-century Jordanian poets
Jordanian people of Palestinian descent
21st-century Palestinian poets
Palestinian male poets
20th-century male writers
21st-century male writers
20th-century Jordanian poets
International Prize for Arabic Fiction winners