[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# American National Standards Institute

he requirements of various stakeholders.

Voluntary consensus standards quicken the market acceptance of products while making clear how to improve the safety of those products for the protection of consumers. There are approximately 9,500 American National Standards that carry the ANSI designation.

The American National Standards process involves:
 consensus by a group that is open to representatives from all interested parties
 broad-based public review and comment on draft standards
 consideration of and response to comments
 incorporation of submitted changes that meet the same consensus requirements into a draft standard
 availability of an appeal by any participant alleging that these principles were not respected during the standards-development process.

International activities

In addition to facilitating the formation of standards in the United States, ANSI promotes the use of U.S. standards internationally, advocates U.S. policy and technical positions in international and regional standards organizations, and encourages the adoption of international standards as national standards where appropriate.

The institute is the official U.S. representative to the two major international standards organizations, the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), as a founding member, and the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC), via the U.S. National Committee (USNC). ANSI participates in almost the entire technical program of both the ISO and the IEC, and administers many key committees and subgroups. In many instances, U.S. standards are taken forward to ISO and IEC, through ANSI or the USNC, where they are adopted in whole or in part as international standards.

Adoption of ISO and IEC standards as American standards increased from 0.2% in 1986 to 15.5% in May 2012.

Standards panels
The Institute administers nine standards panels:
 ANSI Homeland Defense and Security Standardization Collaborative (HDSSC)
 ANSI Nanotechnology Standards Panel (ANSI-NSP)
 ID Theft Prevention and ID Management Standards Panel (IDSP)
 ANSI Energy Efficiency Standardization Coordination Collaborative (EESCC)
 Nuclear Energy Standards Coordination Collaborative (NESCC)
 Electric Vehicles Standards Panel (EVSP)
 ANSI-NAM Network on Chemical Regulation
 ANSI Biofuels Standards Coordination Panel
 Healthcare Information Technology Standards Panel (HITSP)

Each of the panels works to identify, coordinate, and harmonize voluntary standards relevant to these areas.

In 2009, ANSI and the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) formed the Nuclear Energy Standards Coordination Collaborative (NESCC). NESCC is a joint initiative to identify and respond to the current need for standards in the nuclear industry.