[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Ministry of Environment (South Korea)

damage caused by mine-related pollution and improvement of farmland soil.
'Clean Gas Stations', which are equipped with dual-wall tanks, dual pipe lines, tanks and pumps have been designated to prevent soil pollution caused by facility corrosion and oil leakage from superannuated facilities.

Waste

Business Waste Minimization System
Control of Packaging Waste
Control on Waste Import and Export
Designated (Hazardous) Waste Management
EPR (Extended Producer Responsibility)
Empty Container Return Deposit System
Mandatory Use of Electronic Report on Waste Transfer
Medical Waste Management
Recycling of Electrical and Electronic Equipment and Vehicles
Restriction on the Use of Disposable Products
Volume Based Waste Fee System
Waste to Energy Policy

Food waste reduction

Each local government has established different standards for the separation and discharge of food waste according to the status of disposal facilities in its region, such as whether it is possible to reutilize food waste as a resource.

As food waste, which belongs to household wastes, causes secondary environmental pollution such as the odor or sewage produced from landfill sites, the government established in July 1995 the 'Committee for the Management of Food Waste' which involves 8 central agencies, and this committee worked together to prepare measures for the handling of food waste. In 2002, with the Korea-Japan FIFA World Cup providing momentum for the establishment of an eco-friendly food consumption culture, the government pushed local governments, restaurant organizations, and civil organizations to establish a voluntary agreement for the reduction of food waste, and implemented it with a focus on the cities in which the football games of the World Cup were to be held. This voluntary agreement has been applied to the entire country since 2003.

The government has been working with civil organizations since 2002 to develop an educational program that encourages the reduction of food waste. Major projects included holding "The day of no food waste" every Wednesday, "Designating Eco-Friendly Restaurant" and launching a "Plates with No Food Left" campaign. Advertisements for food waste reduction have been broadcast on TV, radio, and electric billboards, and a cartoon was produced and distributed to elementary schools across the country to familiarize children with the concept of food waste reduction. It is considered that these activities have helped to inspire a culture of food waste reduction among the people of Korea.

As a result of the public awareness campaign for food waste reduction, the amount of daily food waste in 2006 was at 13,372 tons and accounted for 27.4% of the total amount of daily household waste (48,844 tons), which is still a relatively high percentage, yet shows a downward trend compared with 29.1% in 1996.

However, as food waste that was discharged separately from other wastes increased following the prohibition of direct food waste landfill (January 1, 2005), and the consumption of fruits and vegetables increased with the trend to a healthy lifestyle, it turned out that the amount of food waste produced in 2006 increased significantly.

Therefore, the government began to provide funds (30% of the total funds required) to establish public disposal facilities that transform food waste into feed for poultry, compost and bio-mass, and has been promoting the cooperation and participation of citizens to establish a culture of resource recycling in Korean society.

Waste charge system

The waste charge system is a system that charges the manufacturer of the product part of the cost involved in disposing of a product that contains hazardous materials or that is not easy to recycle and may cause problems in waste management, in order to restrict waste generation and prevent the wasteful use of resources.

The waste charge system is intended to reduce the production of waste from the manufacturing stage and promote the efficient disposal of waste.

The items on which waste charges are imposed include insecticides, containers of toxic chemicals, antifreeze, chewing gum, disposable diapers, cigarettes, and plastic products.

Waste charges are used for the research and development of technology to reduce the weight of waste and recycle waste, the installation of waste disposal facilities, financing for waste recycling projects, financial support for local governments to collect and recycle waste, and the purchase and storage of recyclable resources.

Green growth 

The concept of "green growth" was first adopted at the "Ministerial Conference on Environment and Development" jointly hosted by the Ministry of Environment and UNESCAP in 2005. It was initiated by Korea, the host country, and included in the outcome of the Conference, "Seoul Initiative Network on Green Growth".