[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jaws: Original Motion Picture Soundtrack

band early in the film; this included tunes by Scott Joplin, Johann Strauss II and original compositions by Williams. Because the town band was meant to sound like amateur musicians, Spielberg himself played clarinet, slightly out of tune. These diegetic tracks were included on the Intrada release.

When audiences commended the music on comment cards at the previews of the film in Dallas, Texas and Long Beach, California (on March 26 and 28 respectively), it was decided to produce a soundtrack album. Williams usually arranges and records versions of his soundtracks which are more appropriate the commercial album release. The liner notes for the Intrada release explains that Williams wanted to develop some of the cues to "make a more cohesive listening experience, so... he expanded and rearranged the highlights of the Jaws score for album presentation." Those tracks were recorded on April 17–18, 1975 at The Burbank Studios in California. Scholar Audissino highlights the music in the beach montage sequence, in which the tourists arrive for the 4th July weekend, as an example of an expanded piece; lasts for 1:30 in the film, whereas on the original album it is expanded to 2:46.

Reception

Reviews
Writing for Empire, Ian Freer called the short length of the original 1975 soundtrack album ("a paltry 35 minutes") as "one of the most heinous crimes in the history of motion picture soundtrack albums." In a five-star review of the 2000 Decca Records release, Freer highlights the inclusion of previously unreleased material, the liner notes from Spielberg and Williams, commending this collector's edition as "the last word in Jaws musicology."

Although Filmtracks.com acknowledges the role of the music within the context of the film, and its place in "the history of film music", it is less positive about it in album form. They write, "Jaws is not something you can sit and listen to for any great length of time. Study and admire its constructs and intelligent application, but don't expect it to freely entertain without forcing you into a more contemplative analysis of its purpose."

Awards and accolades
John Williams won the Academy Award for Best Original Score for Jaws at the 1976 Awards, having previously won an Oscar in 1972 for Fiddler on the Roof. The score won the Golden Globe Award for Best Original Score at the 33rd Golden Globe Awards. In 1976, this soundtrack also won the Grammy Award for Best Score Soundtrack for Visual Media at the 18th Annual Grammy Awards 

In 2005, the American Film Institute ranked Jaws sixth in its 100 Years of Film Scores, a list of the top 25 film scores in American cinema.

Scholarly reception
There are various interpretations of the meaning and effectiveness of the primary music theme, which is widely described as one of the most recognizable cinematic themes of all time. Music scholar Joseph Cancellaro proposes that the two-note expression mimics the shark's heartbeat. According to Alexandre Tylski, like themes Bernard Herrmann wrote for Taxi Driver, North by Northwest, and particularly Mysterious Island, it suggests human respiration. He further argues that the score's strongest motif is actually "the split, the rupture"—when it dramatically cuts off, as after Chrissie's death. The relationship between sound and silence is also taken advantage of in the way the audience is conditioned to associate the shark with its theme, which is exploited toward the film's climax when the shark suddenly appears with no musical introduction.

Music scholar Emilio Audissino writes, "Williams came up with the primitive rhythmic simplicity of an ostinato... those three repeated bass notes recall the heartbeat, the primordial rhythm of life. Their seemingly unstoppable constant and mechanical repetition effectively represents the shark."

In the film, ostinato represents the shark. Audissino points out that Williams "plays fair" by only using the leitmotif when the shark is genuinely present; for instance, it is not used in the panic sequence on the beach transpires to have been caused by boys with a fake fin. The leitmotif's adaptable tempo is an example of Mickey Mousing, whereby the music replicates the action on, and in this case off, screen.

Audissino also highlights that the score reflects the contrasting worlds of humans and the shark. The humans, "lit by the sun", are represented by melodies with "bright tibres of violins, flutes and trumpets", whereas as the shark's music is "low pitched, mechanical, with dark timbre".

Legacy
Spielberg later said that without Williams's score the film would have been only half as successful, and according to Williams it jumpstarted his career.