[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Wiłkomierz

rowned, or poisoned. Many others, including Duke Yaroslav, son of Lengvenis, and imperial envoy Sigismund de Rota, were killed. Many knights, including a reserve unit that was late to battle, were taken captive. Others drowned in the Šventoji River. The victors hunted down the survivors for 15 days.

Aftermath
The battle reduced the power of the Livonian Order as its army was defeated, its Grand Master killed and of its many senior officers killed or taken prisoner. The damage to the Livonian Order caused by the battle is often compared to the consequences that the Battle of Grunwald (1410) had on the Teutonic Knights. The peace treaty was signed on December 31, 1435 in Brześć Kujawski. The Teutonic and Livonian Orders promised not to interfere in internal matters of Lithuania or Poland. According to the treaty, even the Pope or the Holy Roman Emperor could not force the Orders to violate the accords. That provision was meant particularly against Sigismund, Holy Roman Emperor, and his attempts in playing Poland and Teutonic Order against each other.

The peace did not alter borders established by the Treaty of Melno (1422). The Livonian Order's defeat in the battle brought it closer to its neighbors in Livonia. The Livonian Confederation agreement was signed on December 4, 1435, by the Livonian Order, Livonian Bishops, vassals and city representatives. The Order lost its crusading character and became a confederate state.

Švitrigaila escaped and continued to resist, but he was losing his power in the eastern provinces of the Grand Duchy of Lithuania. In 1437, he proposed a compromise to continue to rule Kiev and Volhynia, territories that still remained loyal to him, until his death, when they would pass to the King of Poland. 
A strong protest from Sigismund Kęstutaitis caused the Polish Senate not to ratify the agreement. The following year, Švitrigaila retreated to Moldavia. Sigismund became the undisputed Grand Duke of Lithuania. However, his reign was short as he was assassinated in 1440.

A church was built in the battlefield by Sigismund Kęstutaitis to commemorate his victory. The town of Pabaiskas later grew around the church.

References

1435 in Europe
15th century in Lithuania
Wilkomierz
Wilkomierz
Wilkomierz
Conflicts in 1435
15th century in Poland