[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jean Jenkins (politician)

Jenkins in both the parliament and media, as she emphasised the Democrats' commitment to a non-discriminatory immigration programme. She followed up by introducing 46 amendments to Labor's Immigration Bill, all of which were defeated by the combined votes of the government and coalition opposition.

She regularly employed the Senate's Adjournment debate to criticise and publicise extensive human rights abuses including Aboriginal deaths in custody and the post-war child-migration scandals (simultaneously raised in the UK by Margaret Humphreys). During her three-year term in the Senate, Jean Jenkins delivered over 500 speeches and issued 430 media statements on issues ranging from wildlife and heritage conservation to the impact of high home-mortgage interest rates, on which she organised a national campaign in 1989. Her final parliamentary initiative was an unsuccessful private senator's bill seeking to establish a national register of foreign ownership of Australian business and real estate.

Election defeat and ousting from party
At the 1990 election, she polled 9.7% including the highest personal 'below the line' vote for any candidate, but was denied essential preferences by the major parties which her frankness had alienated, and she was defeated. For a year she continued to serve as an adviser to the Democrats' leader Janet Powell who was controversially deposed by a party-room coup on 19 August 1991. In 1993, the Western Australian division was subjected to an abortive politico-financial takeover bid funded by businessmen John Poynton, Harold Clough and others.  Eleven elected party officers, Jenkins included, instituted a protective Supreme Court action, a technicality which led to their expulsion in 1994 by the party's national executive. As a result, a majority of Western Australian members left the party.

Support for The Greens
Jean Jenkins remained loyal to the Democrats for almost a decade—during which the party consistently rejected her applications for reinstatement—but finally joined The Greens (WA) (affiliated with the Australian Greens) and, in 2004, unsuccessfully contested the federal seat of Brand—which was retained by Kim Beazley who had feared defeat when the Greens declined to preference him. However, her action achieved its tactical objective of increasing the vote for the Greens' Senate candidate Rachel Siewert, who was elected for a six-year term.

References

External links
Jean Jenkins, Senate speeches

1938 births
Politicians from Swansea
Australian Democrats members of the Parliament of Australia
Living people
Members of the Australian Senate
Members of the Australian Senate for Western Australia
Alumni of the University of Reading
Welsh emigrants to Australia
Women members of the Australian Senate
Australian Greens candidates
20th-century Australian politicians
20th-century Australian women politicians