[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Battle of Bint Jbeil

me minister Olmert, Defense minister Peretz and Chief of Staff Halutz, were all in agreement in their testimony to the Winograd Commission. The 2006 Lebanon War would have been a "clear achievement for Israel had the initial limited ground operations in Maroun ar-Ras and Bint Jbeil been successful".

Hezbollah considered the battle of Bint Jbeil a remarkable victory. The IDF forces participating in the battle were vastly superior, both in terms of numbers and of firepower. According to Israeli estimates the towns were only defended by a company-sized force (100–140 men) and yet Hezbollah soldiers succeeded in holding four IDF brigades at bay. Hezbollah commanders later estimated that they were outnumbered 10 or 20 to one in the battles. The IDF often released conflicting estimates of the number of Hezbollah soldiers killed in the various clashes during the war. No overall estimate was published after the war. A semi-official Israeli study claimed that "dozens" of Hezbollah operatives were killed in the battle. The Winograd Commission only claimed that "a large number" were killed. Hezbollah has yet to publish official casualty statistics from the battle or indeed from the war itself. It is clear however that dozens of Hezbollah soldiers died in the battle. Local Hezbollah commanders told Lebanese Daily as-Safir that Bint Jbeil lost 18 soldiers while Aynata lost 14 in the battle. Among those killed were several commanders, including Khalid Bazzi, the overall Hezbollah commander of the Bint Jbeil area. A Hezbollah commander told as-Safir that most of the soldiers who died in the battle were killed by the shelling while only a "small number" died in the clashes with Israeli troops. Hezbollah usually dominated the battle field "because of the courage of the fighter, their steadfastness and knowledge of the terrain". But the total number of fatalities in the battles in the Bint Jbeil area (including the Battle of Maroun al-Ras) could well be higher than 32. Hezbollah sent reinforcements to the town during the war, including 40 members of the elite Special Forces unit.

The Israeli army's failure in the war in general and especially its inability to conquer Bint Jbeil generated bitterness in Israel. The war had not ended before the recriminations inside the IDF Command started flying. The commander of the 7th Brigade, Col. Amnon Eshel was caught by a TV camera saying that his superior officer Brig. Gen. Gal Hirsch "does not understand what is going on on the battlefield", a statement that probably ended his military career. Hirsch shot back, accusing Eshel of never once entering Lebanon himself, only watching the war from his "plasma screen" in his HQ in Israel.

Former Chief of Staff Moshe Yaalon's criticism of the Israeli conduct of the war was scathing, calling it a "catastrophe". Aware of the seriousness of the antitank threat, he says that the IDF should have left the vulnerable tanks at home and stayed away from built-up areas – "no tanks and no houses" – and to operate in a more guerrilla like type of warfare. He was especially critical of the attempted occupation of Bint Jbeil.

Commander of Northern Command Udi Adam was practically dismissed on 8 August 2006 - after his failure to capture Bint Jbeil - when the Chief of Staff Dan Halutz sent his deputy, Moshe Kaplinsky, to serve as a "coordinator" at Northern Command. Adam resigned from the army a month after the war. The Chief of Staff himself resigned from his post in January 2007 and his deputy Kaplinsky retired from the army in late 2007. Gen. Hirsch became the prime target for the widespread frustration in Israel after the war, having direct responsibility both for the abduction affair and the failures at Bint Jbeil and Ayta ash-Sha'b. He was forced to resign a few months after the war.

After his resignation, former Chief of Staff Halutz said that "the most blatant non-achievement or failure" of the war was allowing it to continue for so long. If the initial battles at Maroun al-Ras and Bint Jbeil had been more successful the final ground operation could have been avoided. "We could have achieved a lot more if we had been more determined,” he said.

Israel's Prime Minister Ehud Olmert was very disappointed at the army's lack of "results" in Bint Jbeil but did not question the courage of the Israeli soldiers. "If Maroun al-Ras had looked different, if Bint Jbail had looked different, it could be that we would not have reached the point we reached."