[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Welfare in New Zealand

rmally paid to the mother, many women gained their first ever independent source of household income.
The family benefit was increased to 15 shillings per week per child in 1958–59, and was able to be capitalised up to a maximum of £1000 when buying, altering, or paying off a home from 1959 to 1960.

Universal payment of the Family Benefit was abolished to target families most in need and Family Benefit capitalisation limits for first-home seekers were increased (1985).
A new family support benefit (introduced as the family care benefit in 1984) raised the incomes of some poor families. In 1986 the guaranteed minimum family benefit was introduced. This fixed an income floor above the statutory minimum wage for persons with dependant children in full-time employment. Known as the Guaranteed Minimum Family Income, it guaranteed working families roughly 80% of the average post-tax wage, although its impact on participation rates was limited by rising unemployment and high effective marginal tax rates.

Family benefits were abolished on 1 April 1991. Before 2018, they were partly replaced by more targeted allowances for low-income families until the introduction of the BestStart Payment.

Working for Families 

In 2004 the Labour-led coalition government introduced the Working for Families package as part of the 2004 Budget. It was progressively implemented between October 2004 and April 2007.

The package, which commenced operating on 1 April 2005, has three primary aims: to make work pay; to ensure income adequacy; and to support people into work. It replaced the system known as Family Support as well as the child components of the main social welfare benefits. The Guaranteed Minimum Family Income was renamed the Minimum Family Tax Credit and the level of support was changed to encourage working families to leave the benefit system.

The Working for Families package includes several components:

 Working for Families Tax credits
 increases in Childcare Assistance
 increases in Accommodation Supplement payments
 changes to some benefit rules

Because parts of the package use tax credits it is also delivered by the Inland Revenue Department.

The package is thought to cover approximately 75% of all families with dependent children.

Families Package 
In 2018 the Sixth Labour Government implemented numerous measures to reduce acute hardship and provide assistance for families. Among these the Family Tax Credit, Orphans Benefit, Accommodation Supplement and Foster Care Allowance substantially increased while benefits were indexed to wage growth instead of the Consumer Price Index. A new universal payment for families, BestStart, was also introduced.

Minimum wage

There are three types of the minimum wage depending on the stage of worker: adult worker, starting out, or trainee/apprentice.

The minimum wage rates are reviewed every year and are gross amounts before tax. Since 1 April 2022, the adult minimum wage rate that applies to most employees aged 16 or over has been $21.20 an hour. 
The starting out minimum rate is $16.96 per hour, and this applies to 16 and 17-year-olds for their first six months of employment, after which they become eligible for the adult minimum wage rate.

History of changes

Liberal Government reforms 
Among the early forms of social welfare in New Zealand was the old age pension, introduced by the Liberal Government in 1898. The scheme was introduced to avoid what MP William Pember Reeves described as the "worst social evils and miseries", referring to the British workhouses where the elderly lived in spartan institutional circumstances. The pension scheme was non-contributory and was available only to the "deserving poor" – men and women who had become destitute through no fault of their own. The prime responsibility for protecting individuals from the hazards of sickness and unemployment lay with individuals themselves, their families and various charity organisations.
 
A decade later a widows' pension was introduced for women with children who had lost their husbands. The Liberals also passed the Workers Dwellings Act in 1905, allowing the government to buy land, build houses, and rent them to workers and their families. The small-scale scheme that resulted from this legislation can be seen as a precursor to the much larger state housing introduced by the first Labour government in the 1930s.

First Labour Government 
The 1935 election was won by the first Labour government. A regular unemployment benefit was introduced with the passing of the Social Security Act in 1938. Under the Act the Government introduced a raft of social welfare benefits, mostly means tested, that were more generous and covered more people than before. The welfare state they created was a male wage-earners welfare state. Alongside policies to create full employment were policies to set fair wages sufficient for a man to provide for a family.