[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Timeline of the Irish Civil War

itish tug Upnor at sea. They take between 400 and 1,500 rifles, 60 machine guns, 700 handguns and over 25,000 rounds of ammunition, which they then distribute to Anti-Treaty IRA units.
The Provisional Government's newly formed National Army takes over the British barracks at Beggar's Bush in Dublin.

April 1922
1 April – Belfast Police Constable George Turner shot and killed; in retaliation five men shot and killed and six children wounded of whom one died of wounds in Sinn Féin area of Belfast. 
10 April – Lieutenant Michael Sweeney, aged 21 years, 4th Battalion, Dublin Brigade of the Anti-Treaty IRA was killed by Free State troops at the junction of Grafton St and Nassau Street, Dublin while being transported under armed guard in a military lorry. Sweeney, who had previously been injured in his left leg by a landmine explosion stood up to hang onto the overhead bars in order to stretch the aforementioned leg. One of the escorts stepped forward and shot him in the back of the neck. Sweeney was taken to Jervis St Hospital where he died ten minutes after arrival. The seventeen year old soldier who shot him later testified that was trying to escape. An inquest ruled that death was accidental.
14 April – Rory O'Connor, Mellows and others lead 200 Anti-Treatyites in taking over the Four Courts and several other public buildings around Dublin in a show of defiance calculated to provoke a response by the British troops still stationed in Dublin.
20 April – There is 'intense firing' for two hours, starting at midnight, by Anti-Treaty fighters on the Pro-Treaty troops in Dublin stationed at the Provisional Government headquarters in Merrion Square, the Bank of Ireland on College Green, the telephone exchange and City Hall, Dublin. Three people are wounded. The Four Courts Anti-Treaty garrison denies knowledge of the attack.
25 April – A National Army brigadier-general, George Adamson, is shot dead in suspicious circumstances in Athlone.
27 April – The week after an abortive attempt by the anti-Treaty IRA to occupy the military barracks in Mullingar, two men – National Army adjutant Patrick Columb and anti-Treaty republican Joe Leavy – die in clashes in the town.
30 April – In Westport, County Mayo, four Pro-Treaty troops are arrested by Anti-Treaty Irregulars. They are taken to Castlebar and charged by a Republican Court of illegal recruitment. The men refuse to recognize the court. The men are threatened with execution if they continue to recruit for the Pro-Treaty forces.

May 1922
2 May – Around 300 Irregulars take over the centre of Kilkenny, including the city hall, the Protestant cathedral and Kilkenny Castle. The Irregulars order the closure of the Ulster bank branch. The Provisional government hold the Military Barracks, the Jail and the Bank of Ireland. The Provision government sends 200 troops by train from Dublin to dislodge them. Fighting breaks out when the troops from Dublin arrive and there are up to 18 casualties. A truce is then brokered whereby both sides garrison different posts in the town.
3 May – Pro- and Anti-Treaty leaders announce a "truce" in the Dáil to try to prevent civil war.
4 May – Pro- and Anti-Treaty IRA forces clash in County Donegal. There is firefight at Buncrana. Around 16 Irregulars enter the town in order to rob the Hibernian Bank. Free state regulars learn about the attack and confront the raiders. Two Irregulars are killed and two are wounded. There are five civilians hit in the crossfire. One of which was a nine-year-old girl who later died in hospital. A nineteen-year-old woman also died later in hospital. Reports of the fighting are relayed to Ballybofey, which is the local headquarters of the Free State forces. When reinforcements travel through Newtowncunningham, they are ambushed. Three Free Staters are killed and three are seriously wounded.
5 May – Irregulars raid the Bank of Ireland branch in Westport and take £2,673. They leave a document indicating that the Provisional Government had refused to finance them and that they were taking the money to cover expenses. There are similar robberies in Waterford, Clonmel, Ballinrobe, Claremorris, Ballina and Sligo. In total, around £100,000 is seized from the Bank of Ireland.
At Newtowncunningham, County Donegal, a Free State motor convoy is ambushed by Republicans, one Pro-treaty soldier is killed outright and four fatally wounded.
20 May – Michael Collins and Éamon de Valera sign a Pact, in which the pro- and Anti-Treaty wings of Sinn Féin would jointly contest the upcoming first election of the new state.
There is a firefight at Gormanston railway station, County Meath, between RIC men and Anti-Treaty fighters. One Anti-Treaty officer and one RIC man are killed.

June 1922