[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Triple Agent

ent is centered around a multitude of issues that the world was facing. The Spanish Civil War in 1936, the Popular Front gaining momentum and power in France, and the ultimate rise and power of fascism and communism. Each presented an incredible problem as the world moved towards a second world war.

The Spanish Civil War was fought from 1936 to 1939 between the nationalists backed by Fascist Italy and Nazi Germany, composed mostly of Roman Catholics against the Republicans, a front of liberals, communists, anarchists, socialists, agricultural laborers, workers and the educated middle class. The war begun after General Franco made a coup d'état against the elected government. The nationalists were headed by General Francisco Franco, while the republicans by the socialist leader, Francisco Largo Caballero. Both sides sought help from abroad: the republicans gained equipment and supplies from the Soviets, while also receiving help from Mexico and the Popular Front of France. The nationalists gained troops, tanks, and planes from Germany and Italy. Ultimately, the nationalists won as they took over Madrid on 28 March 1939. Many have estimated the deaths to be anywhere from 500,000 to 1,000,000, as this proved to be a testing group for future air and tank warfare. The war also further sprung strong points of view in terms of tyranny, democracy, fascism, and communism leading to World War II.

The Popular Front in France sought to defend democratic forms against the newly fascist regime. This was a coalition between the working class and middle class all to protect the country from fascist ideals. In 1936, a socialist popular front led by Léon Blum took over Furthermore, fascism and communism were gaining followers and momentum by the day. In Germany, there was Adolf Hitler, in Italy there was Benito Mussolini, in Spain there was Francisco Franco, in the Soviet Union there was Joseph Stalin and in Japan, many ideologies were used to create a powerful military. The rise of fascism gave countries like Germany and Italy a foundation for rebuilding and a way for them to blame their problems on minorities such as jews, Slavs and Gipsies. Communism was able to promise people an opportunity, overhauling capitalism into their society. Ultimately these powerful leaders were able to instill ideologies into society in order to create extremely repressive, brutal regimes. This created a great threat to the world ultimately beginning World War II.

Reception
Initially, critics were extremely skeptical about Triple Agent because of Rohmer's earlier film, The Lady and the Duke (2001). French critics had hated The Lady and the Duke  because it portrayed the French revolutionaries in a negative light instead of as a movement for justice; they had found it slow and irritating and so were expecting another Rohmer film to be "like watching paint dry". However, Triple Agent was extremely well received by critics in France. Ultimately, Rohmer has been known for challenging the conventional in a beautiful and elegant manner.

References

External links
 
 
 

2004 films
2004 thriller films
2000s French-language films
2000s German-language films
2000s historical drama films
2000s historical thriller films
2000s Russian-language films
2000s spy drama films
2000s spy thriller films
Drama films based on actual events
Films directed by Éric Rohmer
Films set in 1936
Films set in 1937
Films set in Paris
France 2 Cinéma films
French films based on actual events
French historical drama films
French historical thriller films
French spy drama films
French spy thriller films
Greek thriller films
2000s Greek-language films
Italian historical drama films
Italian historical thriller films
Italian spy drama films
Italian spy thriller films
Russian historical drama films
Russian spy thriller films
Spanish films based on actual events
Spanish historical drama films
Spanish historical thriller films
Spanish spy drama films
Spanish spy thriller films
Spy films based on actual events
Thriller films based on actual events
Tornasol Films films
2004 multilingual films
2000s French films
2000s Greek films