[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Sport in Israel

ther notable Israeli skaters include:

  Alexei Beletski, Ukrainian-born Israeli, ice dancer, Olympian
Natalia Gudina, Ukrainian-born Israeli, figure skater, Olympian
Tamar Katz, US-born Israeli, figure skater
Lionel Rumi, Israel, ice dancer
Michael Shmerkin, Soviet-born Israeli, figure skater

Golf

Israel has a single 18-hole golf course named Caesarea Golf & Country Club and located in the town of Caesarea and a smaller 9 hole course called Gaash Golf Club located at kibbutz Ga'ash. Notable Israeli golfers include Rami Asayag, Asher Iyasu and world blind golfing champion Zohar Sharon. Laetitia Beck has won the Israeli Championship five times, including for the first time when she was 12 years of age, and won gold medals in golf in both the 2009 and 2013 Maccabiah Games, and is the first Israeli to compete in an LPGA Tour tournament.

Gymnastics

Israeli gymnast Neta Rivkin won a silver medal in the Rhythmic Gymnastics European Championships held in Minsk in 2011, to become the first gymnast of the country to win a medal at the European Championships. Rivkin also won the first world medal for Israel in rhythmic gymnastics at the World Rhythmic Gymnastics Championships held in Montpellier, France in 2011, and she won the bronze medal at the hoop final. The Israeli rhythmic gymnastic group also won the bronze medal at the event final of 3 ribbons and 2 hoops at the World Championships in Montpellier.

Linoy Ashram became the first Israeli rhythmic gymnast to win an individual all-around medal at the 2017 World Championships. She is the most decorated Israeli rhythmic gymnast, with 6 silver and 5 bronze medals at the World Championships (2017, 2018, 2019), 2 bronze medals at the 2017 European Championships and 2 gold and 2 silver medals at the 2019 European Games and recently at the 2020 European Championships, she won the gold medal in the Individual All-Around Event making her the first Israeli to win an All Around gold medal in the European Championships.

In 2013, Alexander Shatilov won a gold medal at the European championship in gymnastics in Moscow, Russia. In 2017, Artem Dolgopyat, an Israeli artistic gymnast, won a silver medal at the World Championships. In 2021, Artem Dolgopyat, an Israeli artistic gymnast, won a gold medal at the 2020 Summer Olympics.

Handball
Israel's men's national handball team participated in the 2002 European Men's Handball Championship in Sweden. Local power Hapoel Rishon Lezion qualified for the quarterfinals of the EHF Champions League in 2000.

Ice hockey

Ice hockey started in Israel in 1986 when the first rink opened in Kiryat Motzkin. Israel has a following of over 1,000 ice hockey players. Israel took part in the 2007 Ice Hockey Division II World Championships.

Notable players have included:

Eliezer Sherbatov, Israel, left wing (Israel men's national ice hockey team)
 Max Birbraer, Russian from Kazakhstan; lived & played in Israel; 1st Israeli drafted by NHL team (New Jersey Devils)
Oren Eizenman (Israel national team)

Lacrosse

Lacrosse is the country's fastest growing sport.

The Israel men's national lacrosse team has competed in the European Lacrosse Championships in 2012 finishing in 8th place, and in 2016 finished 2nd. Additionally they finished 7th at the World Lacrosse Championship in 2014.

Domestically, there are two men's clubs and one women's club that operate within Israel.

Martial arts

Capoeira clubs operate in various locations in Israel.
Krav Maga is taught to most citizens in the army, and practiced recreationally throughout the country. The Association of Martial Arts in Israel is chaired by Hamad Amar, an Israeli Druze member of the Knesset. Nili Block is a world champion kickboxer and Muay Thai fighter. Yulia Sachkov is a world champion kickboxer.

Judo is one of the five sports in which Israeli athletes have won Olympic medals. It is the most successful Israeli sport at the Olympics  providing five of the nine Olympic medals Israel has won. In 2013, Yarden Gerbi won a gold medal at the Judo World Championships, and in 2016 she won a bronze medal at the Olympics.  Other notable Israeli judokas include:

Yael Arad, Israel, Olympic silver (light-middleweight)
 Daniela Krukower, Israel/Argentina, world champion (under 63 kg)
Sagi Muki, Israel, World Judo Championships gold (half-middleweight)
Alice Schlesinger, Israel, World Judo Championships bronze;  European junior champion (under 63 kg) 
Oren Smadja, Israel, Olympic bronze (lightweight)
Ehud Vaks, Israel, (half-lightweight)
Arik Ze'evi, Israel, Olympic bronze (100 kg)

Motorsport

The Israel Motor-Sport Association was founded in 1990. It has organised rally, autocross, rallycross and drag racing competitions.

Auto racing was legalized in 2011. A 1.5 km permanent racetrack was opened in Port of Eilat, where Formula Israel competitions are held.

Notable Israeli drivers include Chanoch Nissany (Formula One test-driver), Roy Nissany and Alon Day.