[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Siege of Colchester

Fairfax would not listen to any terms from Lord Norwich, but offered his own which were not open for negotiation. They were that common soldiers and junior officers were granted quarter; however, senior officers must surrender to mercy, whereby no guarantee was given as to how they might be treated.

On the morning of 28 August, the Royalist army laid down their arms. The gates were opened and the victorious Parliamentary regiments entered the town with Lord-General Fairfax at their head. The terms of surrender were that:
 The Lords and Gentlemen were all prisoners of mercy.
 The common soldiers were disarmed and issued with passes to return to their homes after they had sworn an oath not to take up arms against Parliament again. The town was to be preserved from pillage upon paying £14,000 in cash.

Aftermath
The aristocratic Royalist leaders, Lord Norwich, Lord Capel and Lord Loughborough, were to have their fate decided by Parliament; Capel was beheaded for high treason, whereas Norwich and Loughborough were exiled. A military court found Lucas, Lisle, Farre and Gascoigne guilty of high treason and sentenced them to death by firing squad. This sentence was actually rare during the Civil Wars, but was justified by Fairfax and Ireton on several grounds. The claims were that Lucas had executed Parliamentary prisoners in cold blood; that he had broken his parole given after the First Civil War; and that the Royalists had continued to fight in an indefensible position, thus causing unnecessary death and suffering. Certainly a reason for executing these and others responsible for the revolt was to show that Parliamentary control was now complete, and that any attempts to continue to fight would be swiftly dealt with.

Overnight Farre managed to escape, and it was discovered that Gascoigne was an Italian citizen, so he was spared the firing squad. However, by the order of Fairfax, Lucas and Lisle were executed in the evening of 28 August. Within days, pamphlets were produced extolling Lucas and Lisle as martyrs to the Royal cause, and today in the grounds of Colchester Castle there stands a monument marking the site of the execution.

References in popular culture
The siege is commonly believed to have inspired the nursery rhyme Humpty Dumpty,  which is said to have been the nickname of a large Royalist cannon strategically placed on the wall next to St Mary's Church.  The Parliamentary bombardment of 14 July damaged the wall, causing "Humpty Dumpty" to be destroyed.  Other stories attribute the name Humpty Dumpty not to a cannon but to a Royalist sniper, "One-Eyed Thompson", who occupied the belfry of St Mary's Church and was shot down by Parliament forces. The nursery rhyme is first attested in 1797, but apparently the first time the rhyme was linked to the siege was in 1996 on the East Anglia Tourist Board's website.

Fairfax is also spoken of in Milton's 15th sonnet.

Citations

References

Further reading

Williamson, Hugh Ross (1942). Captain Thomas Schofield.

Colchester, siege of
Colchester, siege of
Colchester, siege of
Colchester, siege of
History of Colchester
17th century in Essex