[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Canadian immigration and refugee law

persons accepted as immigrants for humanitarian or compassionate reasons. This category includes broadly-defined humanitarian and compassionate grounds such as specific hardships that applicants would face if they were to return to their home countries. Individuals must receive permission to apply.

Other relevant laws and systems 
 Canadian Passport Order (1981) — superseded the Canadian Passport Regulations and established the Passport Office (later Passport Canada). As of 2 July 2013, primary responsibility for Passport Canada and the administration of the Canadian Passport Order moved from the Department of Foreign Affairs to IRCC.
 Canadian Citizenship Act (1946)
Citizenship Act (1981)
Private Sponsorship of Refugees Program

Issues 
The Parliament of Canada has previously debated whether to allow former U.S. war resisters, such as soldiers avoiding re-deployment to Iraq, to stay in Canada. In mid-2010, the Federal Court of Appeal ruled that Jeremy Hinzman, an American soldier seeking asylum, should be allowed to remain in Canada based on his pacifist religious beliefs. A Private Member's Bill on the issue of war resisters, by former Member of Parliament Gerard Kennedy, was defeated in late September.

In June 2012, the Canadian government introduced a series of changes affecting the Interim Federal Health Program which covers refugee health care. Some have taken issue with the Canada–United States Safe Third Country Agreement (STCA), which prevents people from a country that is not Canada or the US who attempt to enter Canada at a legal border crossing seeking refugee status will be turned back, but processes the claims of those who arrive illegally. Moreover, some refugee advocates have argued for rescinding the STCA.

See also

 Immigration to Canada
 Visa policy of Canada
 Canadian nationality law
 Provincial Nomination Program
Temporary foreign worker program
Canada permanent resident card
 Vietnam War resisters in Canada
 Iraq War resisters in Canada

References

Further reading 

 Challinor, A. E. 2011 September 15. "Canada's Immigration Policy: a Focus on Human Capital." Migration Information Source. US: Migration Policy Institute.