[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pleurotus

logenetic clade, 2. intersterility group (group number in Roman numerals) or sub-clade, and then 3. any older binomial names that have been found to be closely related, reproductively compatible, or synonymous, although they may no longer be taxonomically valid. This list is likely to be incomplete.

 P. ostreatus clade
 I. P. ostreatus (oyster or pearl oyster mushroom) – North America and northern Eurasia
 P. florida
 II. P. pulmonarius (phoenix or Indian oyster mushroom) – North America, Eurasia, and Australasia
 P. columbinus
 P. sapidus
 III. P. populinus – North America
 VI. P. eryngii (king oyster mushroom) – Europe and the Middle East
 P. ferulae
 P. fossulatus – Afghanistan
 P. nebrodensis
 XII. P. abieticola – Asia
 XIII. P. albidus – Caribbean, Central America, South America
P. djamor-cornucopiae clade 
 IV. P. cornucopiae (branched oyster mushroom) – Europe
 P. citrinopileatus (golden oyster mushroom) – eastern Asia
 P. euosmus (tarragon oyster mushroom)
 V. P. djamor (pink oyster mushroom) – pantropical
 P. flabellatus
 P. salmoneo-stramineus
 P. salmonicolor
 XI. P. opuntiae – North America, New Zealand
 XVI. P. calyptratus
 P. cystidiosus clade 
 VII. P. cystidiosus (abalone mushroom) – global
 P. abalonus – Taiwan
 P. fuscosquamulosus – Africa, Europe
 P. smithii – Mexico
 IX. P. dryinus – North America, Europe, and New Zealand
 VIII. Lentinus levis – subtropical to tropical, moved to genus Lentinus.
 X. P. tuber-regium (king tuber mushroom) – Africa, Asia, Australasia
 XIV. P. australis (brown oyster mushroom) – Australia and New Zealand
 XV. P. purpureo-olivaceus – Australia and New Zealand
 P. rattenburyi

Incertae sedis species
 P. parsonsii
 P. velatus

Former species
 P. gardneri was reclassified to the genus Neonothopanus in 2011.
 P. levis was reclassified to the genus Lentinus.
 P. sajor-caju was reclassified to the genus Lentinus.
 P. nidiformis was reclassified to the genus Omphalotus in 1994.

See also
 Antromycopsis – an anamorphic form of Pleurotus
 List of Pleurotus species

References

External links

 Pleurotus Genus on the Mushroom, the Journal of Wild Mushrooming site
 Oysters: Pleurotoid Mushrooms at MushroomExpert.com
 

Pleurotaceae
Carnivorous fungi
Agaricales genera
Taxa named by Elias Magnus Fries
Bioluminescent fungi