[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lippmann–Schwinger equation

The Lippmann–Schwinger equation (named after Bernard Lippmann and Julian Schwinger) is one of the most used equations to describe particle collisions – or, more precisely, scattering – in quantum mechanics. It may be used in scattering of molecules, atoms, neutrons, photons or any other particles and is important mainly in atomic, molecular, and optical physics, nuclear physics and particle physics, but also for seismic scattering problems in geophysics. It relates the scattered wave function with the interaction that produces the scattering (the scattering potential) and therefore allows calculation of the relevant experimental parameters (scattering amplitude and cross sections).

The most fundamental equation to describe any quantum phenomenon, including scattering, is the Schrödinger equation. In physical problems, this differential equation must be solved with the input of an additional set of initial and/or boundary conditions for the specific physical system studied. The Lippmann–Schwinger equation is equivalent to the Schrödinger equation plus the typical boundary conditions for scattering problems. In order to embed the boundary conditions, the Lippmann–Schwinger equation must be written as an integral equation. For scattering problems, the Lippmann–Schwinger equation is often more convenient than the original Schrödinger equation.

The Lippmann–Schwinger equation's general form is (in reality, two equations are shown below, one for the  sign and other for the  sign):

The potential energy  describes the interaction between the two colliding systems. The Hamiltonian  describes the situation in which the two systems are infinitely far apart and do not interact. Its eigenfunctions are  and its eigenvalues are the energies . Finally,  is a mathematical technicality necessary for the calculation of the integrals needed to solve the equation. It is a consequence of causality, ensuring that scattered waves consist only of outgoing waves. This is made rigorous by the limiting absorption principle.

Usage
The Lippmann–Schwinger equation is useful in a very large number of situations involving two-body scattering. For three or more colliding bodies it does not work well because of mathematical limitations; Faddeev equations may be used instead. However, there are approximations that can reduce a many-body problem to a set of two-body problems in a variety of cases. For example, in a collision between electrons and molecules, there may be tens or hundreds of particles involved. But the phenomenon may be reduced to a two-body problem by describing all the molecule constituent particle potentials together with a pseudopotential. In these cases, the Lippmann–Schwinger equations may be used. Of course, the main motivations of these approaches are also the possibility of doing the calculations with much lower computational efforts.

Derivation 

We will assume that the Hamiltonian may be written as

where  is the free Hamiltonian (or more generally, a Hamiltonian with known eigenvectors).  For example, in nonrelativistic quantum mechanics  may be

Intuitively  is the interaction energy of the system.  Let there be an eigenstate of :

Now if we add the interaction  into the mix, the Schrödinger equation reads

Now consider the Hellmann–Feynman theorem, which requires the energy eigenvalues of the Hamiltonian to change continuously with continuous changes in the Hamiltonian.  Therefore, we wish that  as .  A naive solution to this equation would be

where the notation  denotes the inverse of .  However  is singular since  is an eigenvalue of .  As is described below, this singularity is eliminated in two distinct ways by making the denominator slightly complex, to give yourself a little wikt:wiggle room:

By insertion of a complete set of free particle states,

the Schrödinger equation is turned into an integral equation. The "in"  and "out"  states are assumed to form bases too, in the distant past and distant future respectively having the appearance of free particle states, but being eigenfunctions of the complete Hamiltonian. Thus endowing them with an index, the equation becomes