[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Blockade of Wonsan

suspected of minelaying, and struck her four times with gunfire. On September 24,  was also damaged by shore battery fire. After three hits, the frigate was moderately damaged and caught on fire. Three South Korean sailors were wounded but they were able to save their ship from complete destruction.

Minesweeping operations would continue for months, the UN ships constantly swept various areas to ensure that no new mine fields were laid. Incidents of shore batteries scoring hits on allied warships also became less common and for weeks no vessels were damaged until October 29 when  was engaged. Ospreys engine room flooded after being hit three times and communications went out, one man was seriously wounded though the ship was saved from sinking. By November 9, the minesweeping mission was eighty percent complete, accurate shore battery fire delayed the UN ships from completing the operation for a few more weeks.

Escalation of the naval war

In late 1951 and 1952 intelligence from captured or surrendered North Koreans became more frequent and reliable. The information told the United States that the enemy was building sampans for minelaying and preparing offensives against the islands around Wonsan. MiG aircraft were also being reported operating in larger numbers and would begin to threaten UN aircraft and the blockading force. North Korean Army troops, well supplied by the Soviets and the Chinese, were also conducting large artillery bombardments that demonstrated their supply of ammunition.

Shore batteries increased their effectiveness as well = with fire control was being equipped, air burst rounds were also starting to be used. With the minesweeping operation mostly completed, American bombardment groups began shelling the city again. USS New Jersey carried out a series of attacks at Wonsan and other nearby coastal targets from November 1 to November 6, 1951, during which she targeted the petroleum refinery at Wonsan, trains, bridges, tunnels, railroads, troop concentrations and shore batteries.

From November 22 to 24, LSR Division 31, including the LSMRs, 401, 403 and 404, conducted fire missions and on November 24 and 25, naval gunfire supported a guerrilla raid on the island of Ka-do where several North Korean prisoners were taken. On November 28 and 29, the North Koreans launched a small offensive operation. Using armed sampans, they attacked the island settlement on Hwangto-do, killing one civilian and taking five civilians prisoner. Most of the homes on the island were destroyed in the attack and the North Koreans suffered no casualties.  

Another large-scale bombardment of Wonsan took place on December 20, with the battleship  participating. Six days later  was lost, presumably due to striking a mine off of To-do in Wonsan Harbor.

On January 11, 1952, the next significant gunnery duel began when Redstart and Dextrous received accurate battery fire from Ho-do Pan-do while they were sailing without an escort. The fire was concentrated on Dextrous and she sustained considerable superficial damage and a loss of one man killed and two wounded. Later on,  and  engaged in a one-hour duel with four 76-millimeter batteries. MacKenzie was closely straddled with thirty-six rounds but there was no damage or casualties. She also made three direct hits on the North Korean command post.

George K. MacKenzie was engaged again on January 24 from Han-do Pan-do, along with . Neither ship was damaged and there were no casualties. TF-77 rescued survivors from a helicopter crash on February 8, twenty-five miles outside of Wonsan. Reports from RESCAP indicated that personnel involved were captured by the enemy. By the one-year anniversary of the blockade, Wonsan was bombed on a daily basis though occasionally the UN fleet would combine their firepower for larger engagements.

On February 16, exactly one year after the blockade began, USS Gregory,  and  attacked in the usual bombardments that would last until the end of the war. Enemy shore batteries were active on March 13, at Kalmagak, Wonsan against UN forces. Counter battery engagements by USS Manchester, ,  and , plus the help of Fast Carrier Task Force planes silenced the enemy guns. The accurate shore battery fire indicated the possible use of fire control equipment.

 and Brinkley Bass engaged shore batteries at Wonsan on March 20, using shore-based spotting. Brinkley Bass scored seven direct hits on one of the batteries located near the city of Wonsan. Neither ship was struck, but Brinkley Bass received some shrapnel. March 20 marked the beginning of a four-day attack on the blockade by North Korean artillery. On May 21 USS Osprey was taken under fire by enemy shore batteries while searching for mines.