[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# James Semple

was an unsuccessful candidate for the U.S. Senate. In addition to practicing law, he became involved in business ventures including real estate speculation, and was one of the founders of the town of Highland and the village of Tamaroa. In 1837, he moved to Alton, where he continued to practice law.

Diplomat
In 1837, President Martin Van Buren appointed Semple as Chargé d'Affaires in New Granada. Semple had not sought the appointment, but decided to accept. He was confirmed by the U.S. Senate, and served from October 14, 1837 until resigning on March 4, 1842.

As Chargé, Semple was empowered to act as a minister, and was commended by New Granada's government and members of the various groups opposed to it for the tact and fairness with which he advocated for U.S. interests without showing favoritism.

U.S. Senator
On January 6, 1843, Semple was appointed an associate justice of the Illinois Supreme Court, filling the vacancy left when Sidney Breese resigned to accept election to the U.S. Senate. He served until August 16, 1843, and was succeeded by James Shields. Semple left the court to accept election to the U.S. Senate seat left vacant by the death of Samuel McRoberts. He served the remainder of the term to which Roberts had been elected, August 16, 1843 to March 3, 1847, and was not a candidate for reelection in 1846.

In the Senate, Semple was concerned primarily with resolving the Oregon boundary dispute, which was ended by passage of the Oregon Treaty in 1846.  Semple also proposed reform of the U.S. consular system. Consular appointments were patronage positions, and most incumbents received no salary, but were compensated by the fees they were allowed to charge for notarizing travel documents, verifying the passenger manifests of arriving U.S. ships, and verifying the contents of arriving U.S. cargo ships. Semple introduced a bill that would have professionalized the consular corps and provided for the payment of salaries in lieu of fees, but it was not adopted during his time in the Senate.

At the outbreak of the Mexican–American War, Semple sought an Army commission as commander of a regiment or brigade, but was refused by President James K. Polk, who was unhappy that Semple disagreed with the results of the Polk administration's negotiations over Oregon.

Later life
In 1845, Semple began work on a vehicle he called a prairie car, a forerunner of the automobile. Semple's prairie car was a wagon fitted with a steam engine and wide tires that enabled it to run on roads or rough terrain. He attracted investors in the project, formed a corporation and issued stock, but abandoned the effort when manufacturers proved unable to provide the needed parts, and mechanics proved unable to purchase or make the tools necessary to effect repairs on his prototype. Semple left his prototype in a field outside Springfield, where for many years it was pointed out to newcomers to town as "Semple's Folly".

After leaving the Senate in 1847, Semple resumed practicing law in Alton. He was also a participant in several businesses, including investing in land north of Alton where he laid out a community known as Sempletown. This enterprise did not succeed, and Semple decided to leave Alton. He purchased an estate in Jersey County, where in 1853 he founded the town of Elsah, Illinois and owned businesses including a mill and a distillery. In retirement, he served as Elsah's postmaster and worked on a history of Mexico, Central America and South America, but his manuscript was never published. During the American Civil War, Semple was sympathetic to the states' rights arguments of the Confederacy, but remained loyal to the Union and supported measures including loyalty oaths.

Death and burial
James Semple died in Elsah on December 20, 1866 and was buried at Bellefontaine Cemetery in St. Louis.

Family
In 1819, Semple married Ellen Duff Green, a niece of Duff Green. She died in 1821, and in 1833 Semple married Mary Stevenson Mizner, a daughter of Dr. Caldwell Cairns and Mary (Stevenson) Cairns, and the widow of Henry Mizner.

Semple's stepson, Lansing B. Mizner was an American politician and diplomat who served as U.S. Minister to several Central American countries. His step-grandson Addison Mizner was a well-known architect, and step-grandson Wilson Mizner was a famous playwright.

Eugene Semple, the son of James and Mary Semple, served as Governor of Washington Territory from 1887 to 1889. His daughter Lucy Virginia became the wife of wealthy St. Louis businessman Edgar Ames. After his death, Lucy Ames expanded her husband's business holdings and added to his fortune, and became prominent as an advocate for political causes including women's suffrage and higher education for women. His daughter Julia was the wife of Ashley D. Scott, who operated a successful grocery wholesale business in St. Louis and a founder of the Mystic Order of Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm and organizer of the Veiled Prophet Ball.