[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Black people in Ireland

to pregnancies. Children of such alliances often ended up in Mother and Baby Homes, given up for adoption, although some remained in their mothers’ families, despite being a product of war-time affairs. However, mixed-race babies were not only children of American GIs, but also of African students.

Black Irish in politics
Ireland has never elected a Teachta Dála (TD) or Senator of African descent. Likewise, there has never been any Black cabinet member, or leader of a major government institution. Black people are underrepresented in Irish politics. A number of reasons are suggested for this lack of representation, including that people of African descent tend to be younger than the rest of the population, the PR-STV voting system failing to facilitate representation of minorities not clustered in a single geographic area, as well as the highly personalised nature of Irish politics being difficult for immigrants to make vital political connections.

In 2007, Nigerian refugee and politician Rotimi Adebari was elected as mayor of Portlaoise, the first Black mayor in Ireland. In 2011, Darren Scully resigned as mayor of Naas after stating he would refuse to represent "black Africans" because of their "aggressiveness and bad manners".

In 2018, Black Irish artist Kevin Sharkey unsuccessfully sought nomination to contest the Presidential Election, failing to be nominated by either councils or the Oireachtas. Sharkey ran on an anti-immigration platform. 

As of 2021, there are only two Black councillors out of 949 – Cllr. Uruemu Adejinmi, who represents Fianna Fáil on Longford County Council, and Cllr. Yemi Adenuga, a former Gogglebox Ireland star who represents Fine Gael on Meath County Council. Adenuga was the first Black female councillor elected in Ireland. In 2021, Adejinmi unsuccessfully sought the Fianna Fáil nomination for the 2021 Seanad By-Election. Former asylum seeker Ellie Kisyombe, originally from Malawi, ran for Dublin's North Inner City constituency with the Social Democrats during the 2019 Local Elections, becoming the first former asylum seeker to seek election in the Republic of Ireland. She failed to get elected, after discrepancies in her timeline for application for asylum emerged.

In June 2021, Lilian Seenoi-Barr, who is Maasai and originally from Kenya, was co-opted by the SDLP to the Derry and Strabane District Council, becoming Northern Ireland's first Black councillor. She subsequently retained her place on the council at the 2023 Northern Ireland local elections.

Impacts on Irish culture and integration

Religion
Immigration from Africa has been noted as increasing the numbers of Protestant adherents in Ireland, contributing to the reversal in the decline of numbers. A number of Catholic priests are also noted as immigrating to Ireland from African nations, owing to the declining amount of priests in Irish parishes.

Poetry, written, and spoken work
The poem 'For Our Mothers', by Nigerian-Irish poet Felicia Olusanya (FeliSpeaks) is featured on the 2023 Leaving Certificate curriculum. Author Emma Dabiri is one of a number of Irish authors with African heritage.

In July 2021, the team from Maynooth University, consisting of Rí Anumudu and Chikemka Abuchi-Ogbonda, became the first Black Irish team to win the prestigious Irish Times Debating Competition.

Irish language
A number of Irish people of African descent are noted as being Gaeilgeoirs (speakers of the Irish language), and contributing to the evolution of the language, such as broadcasters Zainab Boladale and Ola Majekodunmi.

Sport
A number of players on Ireland's football team are of African descent.

In media

Notable people

Black people in Ireland

Black Irish emigrants

Emigrants to France
 Kwame Ampadu, former footballer

Emigrants to Great Britain

 Emma Dabiri, author, academic, and broadcaster 
 Layla Flaherty, actress and model 
 Rianna Jarrett, footballer 
 Phil Lynott, rock singer, bassist and lead vocalist of Thin Lizzy 
 Cassia O'Reilly, singer-songwriter
 Darren Randolph, footballer 
 Christopher Simpson, actor

Emigrants to United States
 Samantha Mumba, pop singer 
 Ruth Negga, actor 
 Fionnghuala O'Reilly, represented Ireland at the Miss Universe 2019 pageant
 Emma Dabiri, academic

Born, raised and resident in Britain
 Cyrus Christie, footballer 
 John Conteh, former boxer 
 Gabriel Gbadamosi, writer, poet 
 Kit de Waal, writer 
 Craig Charles, actor 
 Dolores Mantez, Irish actress 
 Liam George, footballer 
 Chris Hughton, former footballer 
 Henry Hughton, former footballer 
 David McGoldrick, footballer
 Clinton Morrison, former footballer 
 Lanre Oyebanjo, footballer 
 Annie Yellowe Palma, author

References

African diaspora in Europe
 Ire
Ireland
Ethnic groups in Ireland
Black Irish people