[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# November 1942

Track.
French general Henri Giraud was secretly spirited out of Vichy France by the British submarine Seraph.
German submarine U-274 was commissioned.
Born: 
Tom Peters, writer, in Baltimore, Maryland; 
Johnny Rivers, rock and roll singer, songwriter, guitarist and record producer, in New York City

November 8, 1942 (Sunday)
British and American forces began Operation Torch, the invasion of French North Africa.
François Darlan was in Algiers visiting his ill son when the Allied invasion began. He convinced the local Vichy authorities not to oppose the landings. 
Operation Brushwood was executed as part of Torch. Forces captured Fedhala and then marched to nearby Casablanca.
The Battle of Port Lyautey began for the city of Port Lyautey in French Morocco.
The Naval Battle of Casablanca began. On the first day the Vichy French Navy lost the destroyers Albatros, Brestois, Boulonnais, Fougueux, Frondeur, Milan, Tornade and Tramontane as well as the cruiser Primauguet to beachings or sinkings.
Vichy France broke off diplomatic relations with the United States.
Hitler made his annual speech in Munich on the 19th anniversary of the Beer Hall Putsch. Hitler claimed that Stalingrad was in German hands with only "a few small pockets" of resistance left.
Born: 
Angel Cordero, Jr., horse racing jockey, in Santurce, San Juan, Puerto Rico
Fernando Sorrentino, writer, in Buenos Aires, Argentina

November 9, 1942 (Monday)
German forces invaded Tunisia without opposition from nearby French troops.
Canada, Cuba and Mexico broke off diplomatic relations with Vichy France.
The American troopship Leedstown, immobilised in the Mediterranean Sea the previous day by an attack from the Luftwaffe, was finished off by a torpedo from German submarine U-331.
Died: 
Eddie Leonski, 24, American soldier and serial killer (executed at Pentridge Prison)
Edna May Oliver, 59, American actress

November 10, 1942 (Tuesday)
Admiral Darlan agreed to a ceasefire in French North Africa.
Oran, Algeria surrendered to the Allies.
The Battle of Port Lyautey ended when U.S. troops captured the city's fortress and local airfield.
The incomplete French battleship Jean Bart was heavily damaged in harbour at Casablanca by U.S. aircraft.
After Darlan agreed to the ceasefire in North Africa, German forces launched Case Anton, the occupation of Vichy France.
Darlan declared that the German occupation of Vichy released him from affiliation with the Vichy government. He pledged total co-operation with the Allies with the only condition that he be appointed high commissioner for French North Africa. General Eisenhower agreed.
Winston Churchill took to the podium at the Lord Mayor's Luncheon in London with news of the Allied victory at El Alamein. "Now this is not the end," Churchill said. "It is not even the beginning of the end. But it is, perhaps, the end of the beginning."
Haiti broke off diplomatic relations with Vichy France.
British destroyer HMS Martin was sunk off Algiers by German submarine U-431.
Japanese submarine I-15 was sunk off San Cristóbal in the Solomons by the American destroyer minesweeper USS Southard.
The Philip Barry play Without Love premiered at the St. James Theatre on Broadway. It would be adapted into a film in 1945.
The comedy film Road to Morocco starring Bing Crosby, Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour was released.
Born: 
Robert F. Engle, economist, in Syracuse, New York; Hans-Rudolf Merz, politician, in Herisau, Switzerland

November 11, 1942 (Wednesday)
The Second Battle of El Alamein ended in a decisive Allied victory.
The Dominican Republic severed diplomatic relations with Vichy France.
German submarine U-532 was commissioned.
British Commandos conducted Operation Fahrenheit, an overnight raid on a signals station at Point de Plouézec, France.
The Italian Army invades and occupies Monaco, forming the fascist puppet state "State of Monaco" with Louis II remaining as the Prince of Monaco due to the support of his old army colleague, Marshal Philippe Pétain.
The Turkish parliament passes the Varlık Vergisi, a capital tax mostly levied on non-Muslim citizens with the unofficial aim to inflict financial ruin on them and end their prominence in the country's economy.