[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mobile Suit Gundam SEED C.E. 73 Δ Astray

is a manga collection of gaiden (side stories) set in the Cosmic Era of Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Destiny, and is a follow-up to Mobile Suit Gundam SEED Destiny Astray. It is a tie in to the 2006 ONA side story Mobile Suit Gundam SEED C.E. 73: Stargazer.

Plot
Δ Astray follows a team dispatched from Mars to Earth to establish contact with the coordinators of the ZAFT colonies and the humans on earth and bring an understanding to their constant warring. The team is led by Ergnes Brahe, a 16-year-old Coordinator. The main crew consists of Ergnes and his second in command Nahe Herschel, a 19-year-old Coordinator. They are joined later by Diego Lowell, a 16-year-old of unspecified genetic type who came to Earth ahead of the rest of the team, aboard Lowe Guele's ship ReHOME.

The team is met with kind greetings at ZAFT but when they try to talk to the leaders of the Earth federation they are set up with the radical division known as Phantom Pain. Ergnes is subjected to a beating and is interrogated of the martians possible intentions. They escape from the Phantom Pain and heads of to meet with the leaders of the Neutral country of Orb.
The country is currently in a leadership crisis, and more radical leaders take control during the team's visit. The new leaders are in league with the racist terrorist organization known as the Blue Cosmos and issue the command to eliminate the genetically enhanced martians. 

The martians face of against a team of Ace pilots from Orb that is aided by Sven Cal Payang, one of the main characters in Mobile Suit Gundam SEED C.E. 73: Stargazer. Ergnes and Nahe manage to fend off the attackers, but in Ergnes battle with Sven, the martian is defeated.

After the Δ Astray became heavily damaged, a new mobile suit called the ∇ Astray (Turn Delta Astray) was introduced as the new title suit. Like the Δ Astray, the ∇ Astray utilizes the Voiture Lumiere technology.

Production
Japanese pop-idol Nami Tamaki produced the song "Identity" as a part of the Delta Astray project.

Characters

Mars 

Ergnes Brahe [GSΔA]
Coordinator; 16 years old; commander of the Acidalium and pilot of the GSF-YAM01 Δ Astray; highly impulsive; admires PLANT Chairman Gilbert Durandal and favors PLANT in the war despite the neutrality of the Mars colonies.

Nahe Herschel [GSΔA]
Coordinator; 19 years old; second in command of the Acidalium and pilot of the seemingly transformable mobile armor Guardshell.

Deago Lowell [GSΔA]
Coordinator; 16 years old; sent to Earth aboard the ReHOME as an advance scout for Agnes' team; steals Lowe Guele's Astray Red Frame Mars Jacket but later returns the Red Frame; now pilots a mass production Astray refitted with the Mars Jacket equipment.

Setona Winters [GSDA/GSΔA]
Coordinator; 13-year-old girl (15 in CE 73) who helps Jess Rabble like an assistant, does all the chores and specializes in culinary arts; she is cheerful but also mysterious. She idolizes Lacus Clyne and has a necklace that is very similar to the one worn by Prayer Reverie. Setona is later revealed to be a Martian colonist and the older sister of Ergnes Brahe. However, as she traveled to Earth in suspended animation for several years, she is now younger than her brother. In late CE 73, she pilots the Turn Δ Astray to her brother's ship Acidalium, possibly to replace his crippled GSF-YAM01 Δ Astray.

ZAFT

Isaac Mau [GSΔA]
Coordinator; member of Yzak Joule's mobile suit team; temporarily assigned by Chairman Durandal as an observer aboard the Martian ship Acidalium; pilots a TMF/A-802W2 Kerberos BuCUE Hound.

Orb 
Having joined with the Alliance Orb has to comply with the Alliance and organizes a squad of pilots to attack the Martians, under the command of Phantom Pain pilot Sven Cal Payang from the Phantom Pain unit. The Orb pilots use the Phantom Pain GAT-01A2R Slaughter Dagger, each equipped with a different back unit called a "Striker Pack".

Waid Rabby Nagada
Codename: Jaguar 1;
Striker Pack: P202QX I.W.S.P
A reckless pilot, who one day wishes to win the heart of Cagalli Yula Athha through his achievements in battle. He tried to dispose of Vanfeltd by not working together, but Vanfeldt survived. He wanted to make the others weaken Ergnes so that he could do the finishing strike. Yet as he feigned to have to resupply his energy, Gard who was in charge of the supplying was attacked and neutralized by Isaac Mau. So Waid returned to the battle with Ergnes, but Sven's flightpack was destroyed by the Martian. Thus he took automatic control of Waid's Dagger and took his I.W.S.P pack, which sent Waid crashing into the ocean without the ability to fly.