[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Andrew Jackson Bryant

"debacle" in that he "refused to use city government to do anything to ameliorate economic conditions, citing both lack of authority and lack of money," But he and the supervisors "cooperated to suppress the workingmen's protests and their party," the Workingman's Party of California.

Yellow fever

In 1878, Bryant called together and was elected chairman of a relief committee designed to accept and forward donations to Southern United States communities that were then in the grip of a yellow fever epidemic.

Dupont Street

Bryant was caught up in a scandal over the widening of Dupont Street in Chinatown when it was claimed that he had bought property along the street for which he would have been recompensed as a result of the widening. An April 1879 lawsuit by W.M. Lent, C.F. Fargo and others claimed that Bryant "was not a disinterested Commissioner in the matter . . . but was, in fact, acting in all said matters as a judge in his own case."

The famous detective Harry N. Morse investigated the Dupont Street frauds and exposed Bryant's corruption, as detailed in John Boessenecker's book Lawman:  The Life and Times of Harry Morse.

Ulysses S. Grant

The mayor hosted former President Ulysses S. Grant when the general made a lengthy visit to California after his around-the world trip in 1879. Grant went for a ride in Golden Gate Park with Bryant in September and dined at his house in October.

State

Bryant's name was placed in nomination for California governor at a Democratic state convention, but he withdrew it after the third ballot.

Post-mayoralty

Threat charge

Bryant was the defendant in a July 1885 criminal complaint filed by G.W. O'Donnell, the son of Coroner C.C. O'Donnell, in which the younger O'Donnell claimed he had heard Bryant threaten the life of the coroner. Bryant testified he passed near the morgue and "happened to see the body of a woman partially uncovered and exposed to the gaze of the passers-by" and exclaimed, "Anybody who would run a morgue that way ought to have every bone in his body broken, and I will break them for him." A judge found Bryant innocent of the charge.

Grant monument

Bryant was chairman of a committee charged with erecting a monument to General Grant in Golden Gate Park.

Mechanics Fair

He was also chairman of an 1887 committee "to make preparations for an extensive and proper exhibit of interior products at the fair to be given this fall by the Mechanics' Institute." Other officers were W.T. Garrett, vice president, and William T. Stout, secretary.

Quotations

 "The common schools ought to be judiciously limited in their method so as to secure the most general diffusion of useful knowledge; all attempts to restrict or divert their operation for sectarian or sectional ends should be sternly and promptly repressed."
 "Persons residing outside of the city and county, and even men who no longer live in this world, no doubt vote at elections here . . . ."

Further reading

Lawman:  The Life and Times of Harry Morse (1998) by John Boessenecker.

References

Access to the San Francisco Chronicle links may require the use of a library card.

Further reading
  John Shertzer Hittel, A History of San Francisco (1878) 498 pages
  Proclamation by Mayor Bryant forbidding unlawful assemblies, January 17, 1878, in Los Angeles Daily Herald.

External links
 
 Politicalgraveyard.com

1831 births
1888 deaths
Mayors of San Francisco
Law enforcement in California
People from Carroll County, New Hampshire
Democratic Party mayors in California
California Republicans
19th-century American politicians
Burials at Cypress Lawn Memorial Park