[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Movement for the Restoration of Democracy

election, proved to be a serious miscalculation despite confident of enjoying huge popular support.  Contrary to MRD's expectations, the voters turned to these polls were in large numbers. The MRD soon realized that it had miscalculated badly, that it should have fought the elections on Zia’s terms.

The PML, JeI, and MQM were the only parties which contested in the election, while the MRD boycotted the election. To a greater extent, the MRD's was hailing from Sindh where the left-wing orientation was much stronger than any other provinces of the country. The Communist Party, with the support from USSR, began its political operations in Sindh and ultimately calling for civil disobedience against the military regime. In response, the communist party leader, Jam Saqi, was brought to a secret trial in Sindh High Court, later directed to military courts. The MRD had united the left-wing mass of the country and the most prominent leaders of the MRD were: Nusrat Bhutto, her daughter Benazir Bhutto, Rasool Bux Palijo, Abdul Wali Khan, Jam Saqi, Syed Muhammad Kaswar Gardezi among others. Thousands of the activists were jailed across the country especially in Sindh.

MRD Composition

Reception

Controversy regarding the Foreign support

The foreign policy historian of Pakistan noted that MRD's one of the two leading parties, ANP and CPP, had gained popular and financial support from the Soviet Union in the 1980s. Holding a press conference in 1983, President Zia-ul-Haq portrayed the MRD as an Indian-backed conspiracy to destabilize Pakistan was without merit, but gained credence among some Pakistanis when Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi endorsed the movement in an address to the lower house of the Indian parliament.

Despite charges to the contrary, the MRD in Sindh was not attempting to secede from Pakistan but instead was focused on the restoration of the constitution. President Zia’s interior secretary, Roedad Khan, later wrote that the regime was able to manipulate this perception to their advantage and prevent the MRD from gaining greater appeal on a nationwide level.

Aftermath of USSR Collapse

In 1980, PPP persuasively reached out to left-wing organizations in the country and started its political function after calling for the end of military regime of President Zia-ul-Haq. Negotiations between PPP leaders and the political parties that had formed the Pakistan National Alliance in 1977 started in October 1980. They led to the formation of the MRD on 6 February 1981, at 70 Clifton, the Bhuttos' family house in Karachi. The alliance was dissolved on 24 August 1988. The alliance launched a struggle against the regime of Zia ul-Haq: in the first weeks, 1999 people were arrested, 189 killed and 126 injured.

The movement is generally thought of as two separate outburst, one in August and September 1983, and one in 1986. It was particularly strong in rural Sindh, where it was fueled by people's resentment against the state, and it finally took 3 army divisions and helicopters to bring the uprising down.

References

Links
MRD Movement

1980s in Pakistan
Awami National Party
Communist Party of Pakistan
Defunct political party alliances in Pakistan
Jamiat Ulema-e-Islam (F)
Military government of Pakistan (1977–1988)
Pakistan People's Party
Pakistan–Soviet Union relations
Pakistani democracy movements
Political repression in Pakistan