[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Dimitri Payet

eir "OM Champions" Project, one that would be fueled by a new influx of talent. This prompted the purchase of Morgan Sanson and Patrice Evra. However, both the coaching staff and the Marseille board had been keen on bringing Payet back to the club since the beginning of 2017 January transfer window.

On 12 January 2017, West Ham United manager Slaven Bilić announced that Payet no longer wanted to play for the club. He then did not feature at all in the matchday squad on 14 January, despite no reported injuries. At the London Stadium on that matchday, a mural installed in tribute to Payet winning Player of the Year was guarded by security in order to "prevent it being vandalised". Payet was subsequently the subject of two bids from his previous club Marseille which were both rejected by West Ham. They stated that they did not want to sell the player, but would prefer him to apologise to fans and continue playing for the club. On 29 January, West Ham accepted an offer of £25 million from Marseille for the transfer of Payet, marking a club record sale for West Ham. The day after Payet completed his move to Marseille, his mural at the London Stadium was removed and replaced with one to commemorate Andy Carroll's bicycle kick goal against Crystal Palace scored earlier in the month.

Payet made his second Marseille debut in a 2016–17 Coupe de France clash with Lyon on 31 January 2017, appearing as a substitute in extra time at the Stade Vélodrome as his new club won 2–1. On 8 February, Payet scored his first goal since returning to OM in a 2–0 home victory over Guingamp.

On 3 May 2018, Payet played in the Europa League semi-finals away to Red Bull Salzburg as Marseille played out a 1–2 away loss but secured a 3–2 aggregate win to secure a place in the 2018 UEFA Europa League Final. During the Europa League Final against Atlético Madrid, Payet suffered a hamstring injury and was substituted in the 32nd minute of the first half, leaving the field in tears. Marseille would go on to lose 3–0.

On 10 August 2018, during Marseille's 4–0 victory over Toulouse, Payet scored the first two goals of the 2018–19 Ligue 1 season, the second of which was a converted penalty awarded using video assistant refereeing (VAR) technology; the first usage of VAR in French football.

Payet and the Marseille squad were involved in an altercation with the opposing crowd in Nice on 22 August 2021. After being struck by what appeared to be a plastic bottle thrown by a fan, Payet threw the bottle back into the crowd. Nice fans then invaded the pitch, causing some fans and players to assault each other, resulting in Payet and two other players being injured. In November 2021, a match between Lyon and Marseille was abandoned after a water bottle thrown by a fan hit Payet on the head as he was preparing to take a corner kick.

On 21 July 2023, Marseille president Pablo Longoria and Dimitri Payet announced during a press conference a mutual agreement to depart as a free agent.

Vasco da Gama
On 17 August 2023, Payet joined Brazilian Série A side Vasco da Gama on a two-year contract for an undisclosed sum. On 3 September, he made his debut on a 1–1 away draw against Bahia. He regularly appeared on lineups thereafter, scoring his first goal on 18 October against Fortaleza, securing the 1–0 win in São Januário and pushing Vasco out of the relegation zone. He was awarded Man of the Match prize for his performance.

International career
Youth
Payet is a former French under-21 international. He made his debut for the team in February 2007 in a friendly match against Switzerland, and assisted a Jérémy Ménez goal. In the team's ensuing match against Denmark, he scored a double in a 3–1 win.

Senior

Payet was called up to the senior national team for the first time by Laurent Blanc for the Euro 2012 qualifying matches against Romania and Luxembourg. He made his debut in the former on 9 October 2010, coming on as a substitute for Karim Benzema in the 86th minute and assisted Yoann Gourcuff's goal to make it 2–0. Three days later, he came on for the last 30 minutes against Luxembourg and again assisted Gourcuff for a goal.