[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Miguel Veloso

Miguel Luís Pinto Veloso (; born 11 May 1986) is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays for Italian  club Pisa. Mainly a defensive midfielder, he can also operate as an attacking left-back.

He started his career with Sporting CP, for whom he appeared in 156 games in all competitions, and spent several years in Italy with Genoa and Hellas Verona, making over 200 Serie A appearances. In four years with Dynamo Kyiv in Ukraine, he won as many domestic honours.

A full international since 2007, Veloso earned 56 caps for Portugal, appearing at two World Cups and as many European Championships.

Club career

Sporting CP
Born in Coimbra, Veloso started his football career at S.L. Benfica, but was rejected for being slightly overweight at the time, entering Lisbon neighbours Sporting CP's youth system at the age of 14. There, he was promoted to the first team for the 2004–05 pre-season, which took place mainly in England; he started out as a central defender.

In order to receive more playing time, Veloso was loaned to C.D. Olivais e Moscavide in the third division, and he helped them to promote to the Segunda Liga with a career-best seven goals. As a result, he was recalled by the Lions — though it appeared difficult for him to grab a place in the starting team, because of the presence of players with much more experience such as Ânderson Polga, Tonel, Marco Caneira or Custódio — and ended up playing 23 Primeira Liga matches during the campaign as his team finished second. He was equally impressive in his debut in the UEFA Champions League, a 1–0 home win against Inter Milan where he stopped Patrick Vieira and Luís Figo from playing effectively, earning Player of the match accolades in the process.

In 2007–08, Veloso was ever-present in Sporting's central midfield alongside fellow youth graduate João Moutinho. The club again lost the league to FC Porto, and the same befell in the following season, with the player being involved in some run-ins with manager Paulo Bento. In the previous off-season and the following January transfer window, he attracted interest from several Premier League sides, but nothing materialised.

Veloso helped Sporting reach the last 16 in the 2009–10 UEFA Europa League, after scoring in both legs of the 4–2 aggregate victory over Everton. They could only, however, finish fourth in the domestic league.

Genoa and Dynamo Kyiv
On 30 July 2010, Veloso was sold to Genoa C.F.C. in Italy for €9 million, while Alberto Zapater went the other way to Sporting for €2 million. He and compatriot goalkeeper Eduardo debuted in Serie A on 28 August, in a 1–0 win at Udinese Calcio. After a challenging first season at the Stadio Luigi Ferraris, his first goal opened a 2–2 home draw with Atalanta B.C. on 11 September 2011. 

Veloso moved teams and countries again, signing a four-year contract with FC Dynamo Kyiv of the Ukrainian Premier League on 4 July 2012 after impressing at UEFA Euro 2012; the transfer fee was €7 million, while his €5 million annual salary put him second only to Cristiano Ronaldo as the highest-paid Portuguese footballer. He played 127 games in all competitions (14 goals) and won four major titles, including the double in the 2014–15 campaign; in that cup campaign he scored twice in a 4–1 semi-final victory over FC Olimpik Donetsk but he and compatriot Vitorino Antunes missed penalties in a shootout defeat of rivals FC Shakhtar Donetsk.

On 31 July 2016, 30-year-old Veloso returned to Genoa. He left the Rossoblù two years later, but returned shortly after agreeing to a new deal.

Hellas Verona
Veloso signed a one-year contract with Hellas Verona F.C. on 20 July 2019. He scored a free kick on his debut on 25 August, equalising in a 1–1 home draw with Bologna F.C. 1909, and added further goals in a to open a loss at Juventus F.C. and conclude a draw with Inter Milan, matching his best tally for a top-flight season. 

On 29 June 2020, with his first season still ongoing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Veloso signed a deal for a second campaign at the Stadio Marcantonio Bentegodi, in which he added two more goals and renewed again. Serving as captain since the retirement of Giampaolo Pazzini in 2020, he penned a new one-year contract in April 2022.

International career

Veloso acted as captain for Portugal at the 2003 UEFA European Under-17 Championship, helping the nation to emerge victorious on home soil after defeating Spain 2–1 in an Iberian final played in Viseu. He was elected the tournament's Golden Player, and subsequently also helped the team reach the quarter-finals in that year's FIFA World Cup held in Finland.