[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Working for Families

aning "making efforts for the benefit of families", others interpret the phrase as "[giving] families work to perform".

John Key called the scheme "communism by stealth" but did not repeal or cut back the Working for Families tax credits, during his time as Prime Minister.

Evaluations and research

The first formal government evaluation of the Working for Families package
describes public awareness of the package and details classes of recipients of Working for Families entitlements to the end of August 2006. The report cites a high level of awareness of the overall package and a high level of receipt of Working for Families payments, meeting or exceeding original forecasts. Since the introduction of the package, the number of families receiving the Domestic Purposes Benefit has fallen by 8,000; with 2,600 recipients cancelling the benefit since the implementation of the In-Work Tax Credit.  – While awareness of the package and its advertising appears high, the evaluation-report found that only around three-quarters of people who believe they receive a tax credit actually did so when matched to administrative records. Further, of the people surveyed who did receive a tax credit only two-thirds realised that they did.

Several articles have addressed the potential or theoretical impacts of the Working for Families package.

One study by Auckland University economist Tim Maloney and American welfare-reform researcher John Fitzgerald found that, on average, working mothers spent an extra three hours a week working after the 2005 and 2006 changes from the Working for Families package. Initial speculation suggested that working hours would fall as the higher income paid to families with dependent children would mean that mothers could spend less time in work. Maloney believes that "some women already working were probably increasing their hours worked in order to qualify for family assistance payments". The authors class the results as preliminary – given the relatively recent introduction of the Working for Families package.

A study found that changes in neither In-Work Tax Credit, nor Family Tax Credit were associated with any meaningful changes in self-rated health, a measure of general health status. However, the study found that each additional year of receiving Family Tax Credit led to a very small reduction in self-rated health, but it did not impact tobacco smoking among parents.

Further evaluations completed by the Ministry of Social Development and Inland Revenue include:

 The summary report of the evaluation of the Working for Families package.
 Receipt of Working for Families
 Receipt of Working for Families – 2007 Update
 Employment incentives for sole parents: Labour market effects of changes to financial incentives and support
 Employment incentives for sole parents: Labour market effects of changes to financial incentives and support. Technical report.

Timeline

October 2004 

Announcement of the Working for Families package as part of the 2004 Budget. The first changes came into effect from October 2004. Changes included:
 Abatement of Accommodation Supplement removed for beneficiaries
 Accommodation Supplement entry and abatement thresholds increased for non-beneficiaries
 Childcare and OSCAR Subsidy rates increased and aligned, and income thresholds increased

April 2005 

Stage One of Working for Families implementation applied from 1 April 2005 (with a further implementation deliverable released in October 2005).  The changes included:
 Family tax credit rates increased by $25 for the first child and $15 for additional children
 The child component of main income-tested benefits moved into the family tax credit amount
 Foster Care Allowance, Unsupported Child’s Benefit and Orphan’s Benefit rates increased by $15 per week
 Accommodation Supplement maximum rates increased in some areas with high housing costs
 Family tax credit became treated as income for Special Benefit, with standard costs set at 70% of main benefit plus family tax credit for people with children
 Childcare and OSCAR Subsidy rates increased by another 10%

April 2006 

Stage Two of Working for Families implementation applied from 1 April 2006.  The changes included:
 The in-work tax credit replaced the Child Tax Credit: it pays up to $60 per week for families with three children, and up to an extra $15 per week for each other child
 The minimum family tax credit threshold increased from $15,080 to $17,680
 A single higher abatement threshold of $35,000 replaces the two family tax credit abatement thresholds of $20,356 and $27,481
 The 18% abatement rate applying to the lower abatement threshold for family tax credit vanishes completely and the 30% rate applying to the higher abatement threshold reduces to 20%
 Introduction of the Temporary Additional Support to replace Special Benefit.

April 2007