[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Transplastomic plant

killing efficacy for larvae that consumed the leaves of the transplastomic plant. This study highlights that as pests gain resistance to traditional chemical insecticides, the use of transplastomics to deliver RNAI- mediated crop protection strategies could become increasingly viable in the future.

Another notable transplastomics based approach is the production of artemisinic acid through transplastomic tobacco plants which is the precursor molecule that can be used to produce artemisinin. Artemisinin- based combination therapy is the preferred and recommended treatment of choice by the WHO (World Health Organization) against malaria. Artemisinin is naturally derived from the plant Artemisia annua, however, only low concentrations of artemisinin in the plant can be harvested naturally and there is currently an insufficient supply for the global demand. A study conducted in 2016 led by Fuentes, managed to introduce the artemisininic acid production pathway into the chloroplast of N. tabacum through a biolistics approach before using their novel synthetic biology tool COSTREL (combinatorial supertransformation of transplastomic recipient lines) to generate a transplastomic N. tabacum plant that had a very high arteminisin acid yield. This study illustrates the potential benefits of transplastomics for bio-pharmaceutical applications in the future.

Despite transplastomics being non- viable for non green plastids at the moment, plant transplastomics work done on the chloroplast genome has proved extremely valuable. The applications for chloroplast transformation includes and is not limited to agriculture, bio-fuel and bio-pharmaceuticals. This is because of a few factors, which include ease of multiple transgene expression in the form of operons and high copy number expression. The study of transplastomics still remains a work in progress. More research and development is still required to improve other areas such as transplastomics in non- green plastids, inability to transform cereal crops through transplastomics and a way to circumvent the lack of glycosylation capability in the chloroplast. Further improvements in this field of study will only give us a potential robust biotechnological route in many applications important in our day to day lives.

References

External links 
Co-Extra  Research on the co-existence and traceability of genetically modified plants
Transcontainer Developing biological containment systems for genetically modified plants

Genetic engineering
Genetically modified organisms in agriculture