[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# List of people from Erie, Pennsylvania

Indianapolis Colts and Detroit Lions
 Mark Stepnoski, professional football player, Dallas Cowboys and Houston/Tennessee Oilers
 Woody Thompson, professional football player, Atlanta Falcons
 Blidi Wreh-Wilson, professional football player, Tennessee Titans and Atlanta Falcons

Business and politics

 Henry Alden Clark, U.S. Congressman 
 Edward M. Baker, investment broker
 Judah Colt, pioneer
 Kathy Dahlkemper, U.S. Congresswoman and Erie County Executive
 Samuel A. Davenport, U.S. Congressman
 Daniel Dobbins, builder of the U.S. naval fleet for Battle of Lake Erie
 Thomas B. Hagen, Chairman of Erie Insurance 
 William Himrod, iron industry pioneer and abolitionist
 Warren Kitzmiller, Vermont state legislator
 Michael Liebel, Jr., Mayor of Erie 1906–1911; Democratic member of the United States House of Representatives from Pennsylvania 1915–1917
 Reinhard Liebel, President of South Erie Iron Works; member of the Board of Fire Commissioners, Common Council and Select Council of Erie
 Harry Markopolos, blew whistle in Madoff securities fraud
 Louis Marx, toy maker and founder of Louis Marx and Company; established first factories in Erie and was a part-time resident
 Norman Morrison, Vietnam protester who self-immolated
 Joseph D. Pistone, aka Donnie Brasco, FBI agent who infiltrated Bonanno crime family
 Adena Miller Rich, suffragist, social worker in Chicago, director of Immigrants' Protective League
 Tom Ridge, Secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, Governor of Pennsylvania, and U.S. Congressman
 James Patrick Rossiter, lawyer and politician
 William Lawrence Scott, 19th-century politician and wealthy businessman
 Milton Shreve, U.S. Congressman
 Thomas Sill, U.S. Congressman

Film, stage, and television

 Nick Adams, Broadway actor
 Alaska Thunderfuck 5000, drag performer and recording artist
 Billy Blanks, inventor of Taebo and martial arts film actor
 Marc Blucas, actor
 Marilyn Burns, actress, known for role as Sally in 1974 movie The Texas Chain Saw Massacre
 Bob Chitester, public television and documentary film producer, known as "...the man who made Milton Friedman a star..."
 Ann B. Davis, actress, known for role as Alice on TV's Brady Bunch
 Dorothy Dietrich, magician and escapologist
 Kurt Doss, child actor
 Christine Estabrook, television and film actress
 Ish Kabibble, comedian and actor
 Harry Kellar, magician
 Tina LeBlanc, ballet dancer, teacher and ballet master
 Julianna McCarthy, original cast member of The Young and the Restless
 Dan Rice, 19th century entertainer and clown
 Maria Sansone, television host of Good Day LA
 Steve Scully, host, political editor, and senior producer of C-SPAN's Washington Journal
 Jonathan Stark, actor and screenwriter
 Denman Thompson, playwright and actor
 Kay Williams, actress

Military and aerospace

 John Boyd, fighter pilot and military strategist who developed the OODA Loop and helped with the success of the Persian Gulf War
 Paul K. Carlton, general United States Air Force; commander in chief of the Military Airlift Command
 Philip Cochran, colonel United States Army Air Corps; commander of the 1st Air Commando Group in World War II; inspiration for the characters of "Flip Corkin" and "General Philerie" in comic strips by Milton Caniff
 Charles A. Curtze, rear admiral United States Navy
 Richard E. Ellsworth, U.S. Air Force Brigadier General
 Charles Vernon Gridley, U.S. Navy Commander, Captain, U.S.S. Olympia, Battle of Manila Bay; adopted Erie as his home after taking command of the USS Michigan there
 Louis J. Magill, Spanish–American War veteran; recipient of the Marine Corps Brevet Medal
 Seth Reed, Lt. Colonel, fought at Bunker Hill; instrumental in adding "E Pluribus Unum" to U.S. coins; founded Erie, as its first settler with his family, in 1795, at Presque Isle
 Strong Vincent, Union brigadier general; killed at Gettysburg; Harvard graduate; practiced law in Erie from Waterford, Erie County
 Anthony Wayne, American Revolutionary War general
 Paul J. Weitz, U.S. Naval aviator; NASA astronaut; Skylab 2 pilot; STS-6 (Shuttle Challenger) Commander
 William Maxwell Wood, first Surgeon General of the US Navy

Music

 Alan Baer, tuba, New York Philharmonic
 Harry Burleigh, classical music composer
 Walter Hendl, conductor, composer and pianist
 Peter Mennin, composer and teacher
 Patrick Monahan, lead singer of Train; solo artist; Grammy Award winner
 Chris Vrenna, drummer of rock band Nine Inch Nails
 Jack Stauber, Solo Musician and Songwriter

Naturalists

 Joe Root, 19th-century naturalist who lived at Presque Isle State Park

Religion

 Joan Chittister, Benedictine nun, author, and lecturer
 Max C. Currick, Reform rabbi
 John Mark Gannon, Catholic archbishop
 Theodore Jurewicz, Russian Orthodox priest and Byzantine iconographer

Science, medicine, and academia