[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 15]
# 1993–94 in English football

sion to build the stadium. This leaves Northampton Town and Darlington, who are both well adrift at the bottom of Division Three, fighting only the dishonour of placing as the League's bottom club. Northampton are in the process of building a new stadium to replace the County Ground later this year.

23 April 1994 – Eric Cantona returns from his five-match ban in style by scoring both of Manchester United's goals in the Manchester derby at Old Trafford, which United win 2–0, going three points ahead of Blackburn with four games remaining. Swindon's relegation is confirmed with a 4–2 home defeat to Wimbledon. Ipswich are still in danger of going down after losing 5–0 at Sheffield Wednesday. Oldham miss an opportunity to climb back out of the relegation zone by losing 3–2 at Newcastle.

24 April 1994 - Blackburn are held to a 1–1 draw at home by QPR, denting their title bid just as Manchester United look to be recapturing their form.

26 April 1994 – A Dean Holdsworth hat-trick gives Wimbledon a 3–0 home league win over Oldham Athletic, who fall further into relegation trouble.

27 April 1994 - Newcastle move closer to a UEFA Cup place by beating Aston Villa 5–1, and Manchester United move closer to the title with a 2–0 win at Leeds, placing them potentially four days away from winning the title. Blackburn keep their title hopes alive with a 2–1 win at West Ham. Nottingham Forest are on the brink of joining Crystal Palace for an immediate return to the Premier League with a 2–0 win at Derby leaving them needing just two points from their final three games to be sure of promotion.

30 April 1994 – April draws to a close with Manchester United still top of the league, though leading by just two points with a game in hand over Blackburn Rovers, the only team who now stand a mathematical chance of catching them. Newcastle United, Arsenal and Leeds United complete the top five, which a resurgent Wimbledon would now be in had it not been for their weaker form earlier on in the season. Swindon Town, meanwhile, have had their relegation confirmed as they occupy bottom place with a mere 27 points and just four wins so far this season, although they did record a first away win in the top flight today by beating QPR 3–1 at Loftus Road. Oldham Athletic and Sheffield United complete the bottom three, while Southampton, Everton, Ipswich Town, Tottenham Hotspur and Manchester City are still under threat of relegation. Crystal Palace and Nottingham Forest will be playing Premier League football next season after sealing promotion from Division One, a year after relegation. The playoff zone is occupied by Tranmere Rovers, Leicester City, Derby County and Millwall, but there is still a chance of Notts County or Wolverhampton Wanderers ousting Millwall from the playoff places. The last game is played in front of Liverpool's Spion Kop before it is rebuilt as an all-seater stand. Nottingham Forest's promotion was secured today with a 3–2 win at doomed Peterborough.

1 May 1994 – Manchester United move to the brink of a back-to-back FA Premier League title triumph after winning 2–1 at relegation-threatened Ipswich Town, with Eric Cantona and Ryan Giggs both scoring the net after Chris Kiwomya gave the hosts an early lead. Down in Division One, Lennie Lawrence resigns as manager of Middlesbrough after the Ayresome Park side missed out on the playoffs and the chance of an immediate return to the Premier League. Former player Graeme Souness is one of the names quickly linked to the Middlesbrough manager's job, as are the likes of Bryan Robson, Brian Little, Gordon Strachan and Steve Coppell.

2 May 1994 - Blackburn's 2–1 defeat at Coventry gives the Premier League title to Manchester United for a second successive season.

4 May 1994 – Arsenal win the European Cup Winners' Cup by beating Parma 1–0. The only goal in the Final comes from Alan Smith, who has missed most of this season due to injuries.

7 May 1994 – On the final weekend of the Premier League season, Oldham go in to their final game at Norwich needing a win to stand any chance of survival, but a 1–1 draw at Carrow Road is not enough to save them and they go down after three seasons in the top flight. Already-relegated Swindon lose 5–0 at home to Leeds, meaning that they become the first top flight team in 30 years to finish a league campaign with 100 goals conceded. Everton perform a miracle escape from relegation by beating Wimbledon 3-2 after going two goals down in the first half at Goodison Park. Sheffield United would have stayed up goal difference had they not conceded a last time goal at Stamford Bridge which gave Chelsea 3–2 win and enabled Ipswich Town to survive by a single point after drawing 0–0 with league runners-up Blackburn at Ewood Park. Newcastle secure a UEFA Cup place for the first time in 17 years by finishing third.