[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Harrisburg State Hospital

was a 50% shortage of attendants, at the lowest level of employment there were as few as one nurse to 166 patients. In June 1945, only 26 of the 92 authorized positions on the male side were filled. The manpower shortage resulted in widespread curtailment of services to both the public and patients.

Up until 1955, certain administrative responsibilities, such as the selection of the hospital Superintendent and the enactment of rules and regulations governing the hospital were vested in the Board of Trustees of the Harrisburg State Hospital. In 1955 an amendment to the Administrative Code authorized the Department of Public Welfare to assume administrative responsibilities for the Harrisburg State Hospital, relegating its Board of Trustees to specific advisory duties. This act also provided for the appointment of a Commissioner of Mental Health in the Department of Public Welfare who assumed overall responsibility for Pennsylvania's mental health program.

Like other institutions, Harrisburg State Hospital's patient population began to fall in the late 20th century. This was due to new medicines being developed and finally deinstitutionalization. The hospital was finally closed on January 27, 2006. Currently, the hospital sits on a  campus with stately buildings in a country setting, in Dauphin County, with a majority of its campus in Susquehanna Township. There are over fifty buildings still located on the campus. The former hospital facility now provides office and storage space for many state agencies. In 2017, the appraised worth of the campus was $2 Million. As of 2019, the campus cost $5 Million annually to maintain, and is up for sale to developers.

The hospital was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1986.

Notable people
 Edith May (pseudonym of Anne Drinker; 1827–1903), American poet

In film
 The TV series Ghost Lab filmed an episode at the hospital which aired in the Fall of 2010 during the second season on the Discovery Channel.
 The TV series Ghost Nation filmed 2 episodes at the hospital which aired February 20 and 27, 2021 on the Discovery+ streaming service. Season 2: Episodes 19 and 20.
 The film Another Harvest Moon was filmed at the hospital and was released on August 7, 2009.
 The film, Girl, Interrupted was filmed at the hospital as well as other various locations in and around Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The hospital settings were meant to resemble those of the grounds of McLean Hospital in Massachusetts. (Note: The 'Administration' signs hanging in the car port of the Administration Building are not original to the hospital, they were created for the movie and the hospital staff left them up after the shooting was complete.)

Gallery

See also
 List of hospitals in Harrisburg

References

External links

 City on the Hill – a website dedicated to Harrisburg State Hospital

Hospital buildings completed in 1851
Hospital buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Pennsylvania
Psychiatric hospitals in Pennsylvania
Hospitals in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
Defunct hospitals in Pennsylvania
Kirkbride Plan hospitals
Reportedly haunted locations in Pennsylvania
1845 establishments in Pennsylvania
National Register of Historic Places in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
Hospitals established in 1845
Hospitals disestablished in 2006
2006 disestablishments in Pennsylvania