[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William H. Zimmer Power Station

stake in Zimmer to Dynegy for a swap of Dynegy's stake in Conesville Power Plant in February 2017. In April 2017, Dynegy was given sole ownership of Zimmer when DP&L announced it would sell its 28% stake to Dynegy. Zimmer would become owned by Vistra Energy after Vistra's merger with Dynegy in 2018.

In March 2020, Vistra Energy would settle with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) over a period of two decades of exceeding its emission operating limits. Vistra would pay a $600,000 fine to the Department of Justice (DOJ), retrofit $45,000 in energy efficient lighting at a nearby school, and replace three school buses that are cleaner-burning.

Retirement
In September 2020, Vistra announced it would be retiring the Zimmer plant by year-end 2027.

On July 19, 2021, Vistra announced the plant will shut down five years earlier, on May 31, 2022, because they failed to secure any capacity revenues in the May 2021 wholesale electricity market auction held by the grid operator, PJM Interconnection.

Equipment

Zimmer utilizes equipment from the old nuclear plant in conjunction with the coal conversion equipment. The original Westinghouse high-pressure/low-pressure turbine was modified and the high-pressure section was removed. The General Electric reactor was to generate 840 MW per the original nuclear design. ASEA Brown Boveri (ABB) was contracted to design the high-pressure turbine, intermediate-pressure/reheat turbine and generator. The HP/IP generator produces 900 MW and the Westinghouse LP generator produces 497 MW. The plant's feedwater pump is powered by a turbine. The feedwater turbine was designed by ABB and generates .

The boiler, designed by Babcock & Wilcox, is a supercritical steam generator with a maximum pressure of about  and temperature of about . The reheat section of the boiler operates at about .

The plant also uses several environmental controls such as selective catalytic reduction (SCRs) to reduce nitrogen oxide () emissions, electrostatic precipitators to remove fly ash, and a flue-gas desulfurization (FGD) system which removes up to 98% of the sulfur dioxide () emissions. The gypsum byproduct of the FGD system is sold to make drywall.

The plant's cooling tower was designed to handle the cooling for the original nuclear plant. This creates generating efficiency issues during very hot summer days, as the cooling tower must cool much more equipment than it was originally designed for. A  smokestack was constructed for discharging the flue gas.

See also

List of power stations in Ohio
List of canceled nuclear plants in the United States

References

External links

Ohio Historical Central brief

W.H.Zimmer generation data from EIA

Energy infrastructure completed in 1991
Buildings and structures in Clermont County, Ohio
Coal-fired power stations in Ohio
Cancelled nuclear power stations in the United States
1991 establishments in Ohio
Nuclear power plants in Ohio
Vistra Corp