[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# State Anti-fascist Council for the National Liberation of Bosnia and Herzegovina

The State Anti-fascist Council for the National Liberation of Bosnia and Herzegovina (), commonly abbreviated as the ZAVNOBiH, was convened on 25 November 1943 in Mrkonjić Grad during the World War II Axis occupation of Yugoslavia. It was established as the highest representative and legislative body in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina under control of the Yugoslav Partisans.

Decisions of the second session of the ZAVNOBiH held in Sanski Most in 1944 established statehood of Bosnia and Herzegovina by claiming equal status with the other prospective federated republics in the planned establishment of the Democratic Federal Yugoslavia pursued by the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. The composition of the ZAVNOBiH was meant to represent as wide spectrum of the society as possible and included non-communist members but the communist leadership never relinquished control over the ZAVNOBiH or its bodies. The second session of the ZAVNOBiH adopted the Declaration on Rights of the Citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina recognising equality of Serbs and Croats of Bosnia and Herzegovina with the Muslim population of the nascent Yugoslav federal unit.

The final session of the ZAVNOBiH was held in Sarajevo in April 1945. There the ZAVNOBiH was transformed into the People's Assembly of Bosnia and Herzegovina and it established the first government of Bosnia and Herzegovina.

Background

In April 1941, the Axis powers invaded and soon occupied Yugoslavia. With the Yugoslav defeat imminent, the Communist Party of Yugoslavia (Komunistička partija Jugoslavije, KPJ) instructed its 8,000 members to stockpile weapons in anticipation of armed resistance, which would spread, by the end of 1941 to all areas of the country except Macedonia. Building on its experience in clandestine operation across the country, the KPJ proceeded to organise the Yugoslav Partisans, as resistance fighters led by Josip Broz Tito. The KPJ assessed that the German invasion of the Soviet Union had created favourable conditions for an uprising and its politburo founded the Supreme Headquarters of the National Liberation Army of Yugoslavia (Narodonooslobodilačka vojska Jugoslavije) with Tito as commander in chief on 27 June 1941.

By late 1943, Bosnia and Herzegovina was providing a disproportionately large contribution to the Yugoslav Partisan resistance contributing 23 out of 97 Partisan brigades. Only the present-day territory of Croatia contributed more (38). 44% of population of Bosnia and Herzegovina were Orthodox Christians (largely Serbs), 31% were Muslims, and 24% Catholics (generally Croats). The Serb population was most readily motivated to join the Partisan struggle due to severe persecution by the Ustaše regime in the Axis puppet state of the Independent State of Croatia (Nezavisna država Hrvatska, NDH). However, the Partisan leadership was keen on attracting the Muslims as the predominant urban population to improve its chances of gaining control of major towns. While seeking to attract the Bosnian Muslim population to the Partisan movement, the KPJ was competing for loyalty of the predominantly rural Bosnian Serb population with the Chetniks – the Serb-nationalist guerrillas who were backed by Fascist Italy and fighting against the Partisans and the NDH.

Preparations for the council

On 26–27 November 1942, a pan-Yugoslav assembly – the Anti-Fascist Council for the National Liberation of Yugoslavia (Antifašističko  vijeće narodnog oslobođenja Jugoslavije, AVNOJ) – was established in Bihać at the initiative of Tito and the KPJ. At its founding meeting, the AVNOJ adopted the principle of multi-ethnic federal state as the solution for future, but stopped short of any formal determination of exact system of government to be implemented after the war. There was also a degree of ambiguity regarding the number or equality of future federal units. Nonetheless, the AVNOJ urged convening of assemblies in future federal units. The first among them was the State Anti-fascist Council for the National Liberation of Croatia (Zemaljsko antifašističko vijeće narodnog oslobođenja Hrvatske, ZAVNOH) established on 13–14 June 1943.

Following the Fifth Enemy Offensive, Tito met with the provincial committee of the KPJ for Bosnia and Herzegovina near Kladanj urging them to convene a body similar to the ZAVNOH. The provincial KPJ leadership likely inferred from the meeting that the status of Bosnia and Herzegovina in future Yugoslav federation would be equal to Serbia or Croatia and used this argument to win over to the Partisan movement influential Muslims by offering the prospect of satisfying their demand for autonomy.