[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny

That is the Eternal Art")
 Scene 9: Sieben Jahre ("Seven Years!")
 Scene 10: Ein Taifun! ("A Typhoon!")
 Scene 11: In dieser Nacht des Entsetzens ("In This Night of Terror")
 Scene 11: Nein, jetzt sage ich ("No, I Say Do It Now")
 Scene 11: So tuet nur, was euch beliebt ("So, Just Do What You Like")

Act 2
 Scene 12: Hurrikan bewegt ("The Eventful Hurricane")
 Scene 12: O wunderbare Lösung! ("O Wonderful Result!")
 Scene 13: Von nun an war der Leitspruch ("From Then On The Motto Was...")
 Scene 13: Jetzt hab ich gegessen zwei Kälber ("Now I Have Eaten Two Calves")
 Scene 14: Zweitens kommt die Liebe dran! ("Secondly Comes Being in Love")
 Scene 14: Sieh jene Kraniche ("Look at Those Cranes") / The Duet of the Cranes
 Scene 14: Erstens, vergesst nicht, kommt das Fressen ("Firstly, Don't Forget, Comes the Eating")
 Scene 15: Wir, meine Herren ("We, My Dear Sirs...")
 Scene 15: Dreimal hoch, Dreieinigkeitsmoses! ("Three Cheers for Trinity Moses!")
 Scene 16: Freunde, kommt, ich lade euch ein ("Friends, Come, I Summon You")
 Scene 16: Meine Herren, meine Mutter prägte ("My Dear Sirs, My Mother Impressed [Upon Me]")
 Scene 17: Wenn der Himmel hell wird ("When the Sky is Bright")

Act 3
 Scene 18: Haben all Zuschauer Billete? ("Do All The Gawkers Have Tickets?")
 Scene 18: Zweitens der Fall des Jimmy Mahoney ("Secondly, the Case of Jimmy Mahoney")
 Scene 19: In dieser Zeit gab es in Mahagonny ("In This Time It Was In Mahagonny")
 Scene 20: Hinrichtung und Tod des Jimmy Mahoney ("The Execution and Death of Jimmy Mahoney")
 Scene 20: Erstens, vergesst nicht, kommt das Fressen ("Firstly, Don't Forget, Comes the Eating")
 Scene 21: Wollt ihr mich denn wirklich hinrichten? ("Do You Really Want Me to Be Executed After All?")
 Scene 21: In diesen Tagen fanden in Mahagonny ("To This Day Found In Mahagonny")

In other media
The 2005 movie Manderlay, directed by Lars von Trier, contains several references to the plot of Mahagonny. The most notable of these is the threat of a hurricane approaching the city during the first act. Von Trier's earlier movie Dogville, to which Manderlay is a sequel, was in large part based on a song from Brecht's Threepenny Opera ("Pirate Jenny"). In the brothel scene in act 2 of Mahagonny, the choir sings a "Song von Mandelay". The play Happy End (1929) by Elisabeth Hauptmann, Brecht and Weill, also contains a song called "Der Song von Mandelay", which uses the same refrain as in the brothel scene of Mahagonny. Brecht's use of the name Mandelay/Mandalay was inspired by Rudyard Kipling's poem "Mandalay".

Recordings
1956: Lotte Lenya, Wilhelm Brückner-Rüggeberg (Sony 1990; originally recorded 1956)
1979: DVD, James Levine; John Dexter, stage director; Teresa Stratas, Astrid Varnay, Richard Cassilly; Metropolitan Opera
1985: Anja Silja, Jan Latham-Koenig (Capriccio 1988; recorded in 1985)
1997: DVD 1997, Salzburg Festival
2007: DVD Los Angeles Opera, starring Audra McDonald, Patti LuPone, and Anthony Dean Griffey. This recording won two 2009 Grammy Awards for Best Opera Recording and Best Classical Album. It was screened on TV as part of PBS' Great Performances
2010: Teatro Real (Madrid), starring Measha Brueggergosman, Jane Henschel, Michael König and Willard White, conducted by Pablo Heras-Casado and staged by La Fura dels Baus. (DVD and Blu-ray Bel Air Classiques 2011; filmed in 2010)

Cover versions of songs
"Alabama Song" has been covered by many artists, notably Ute Lemper, The Doors and David Bowie.

References
Informational notes

Citations

External links
"Aufstieg und Fall der Stadt Mahagonny (Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny), Kurt Weill Foundation for Music
Libretto (Italian/German, dicoseunpo.it
"Aufstieg und Fall der Stadt Mahagonny", work details, opera-arias.com
 Work details (incl. instrumentation), Universal Edition

Operas by Kurt Weill
German-language operas
Operas
Plays by Bertolt Brecht
1930 operas