[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# FBC Mortgage Stadium

FBC Mortgage Stadium (also known as the Bounce House, formerly known as Bright House Networks Stadium and Spectrum Stadium) is an American football stadium located near Orlando in Orange County, Florida, United States, on the main campus of the University of Central Florida. It is the home field of the UCF Knights of NCAA Division I FBS college football; also it was home of the now defunct Orlando Apollos during the first and only 2019 season of the Alliance of American Football.

The stadium opened in 2007 as a replacement for Camping World Stadium (then known as the Citrus Bowl) in Downtown Orlando, where the Knights had played since their inaugural season in 1979. The steel and brick-clad stadium was designed by 360 Architecture and constructed in 18 months. The stadium was designed for 48,000 capacity when it opened in 2007 and is designed for an expansion to 65,000 seats. The stadium underwent an $8 million renovation following the 2014 season. The Wayne Densch Center for Student-Athlete Leadership was built on the east façade of the stadium, and a party deck was added to the east stands. Since the renovations, its seating capacity is 44,206.

The facility has a longtime nickname of The Bounce House, as it was found to be susceptible to considerable shaking when its crowd jumps in unison. Although it was stated that the stadium was structurally sound and that this effect would not cause long-term damage to the facility, measures were undertaken following the stadium's inaugural season to reduce these effects.

On May 31, 2022, FBC Mortgage entered a 10-year, $19.5 million deal with UCF for the naming rights of the stadium beginning July 1, 2022.

Location
FBC Mortgage Stadium is located on the northeastern edge of UCF's  main campus, which is approximately  northeast of Downtown Orlando,  southwest of Daytona Beach, and 35 miles (56 km) west of the Kennedy Space Center. The stadium's 50-yard-line is lined up with Launch Pad 39A, to symbolize UCF's longstanding partnership with NASA and other space agencies. The stadium is also a part of the Kenneth G. Dixon Athletics Village and is bordered by McCulloch Road on the north side, Knights Plaza on the west side, and Orion Boulevard on the southern and eastern sides.

To the west in Knights Plaza is the Addition Financial Arena, The Venue, John Euliano Park, and the UCF Track and Soccer Complex. Also located in Knights Plaza are The Towers residence halls, housing 2,000 UCF students, including student-athletes.

History
From 1979 to 2006, the Knights played their home games at the Citrus Bowl in downtown Orlando. Located about   from UCF's main campus, the stadium is also the home of the Citrus Bowl game, and numerous neutral site games. By the 2000s, the stadium had fallen into a dilapidated state. School officials were dissatisfied with the condition of the facility and lack of revenue generated from games. The stadium's capacity (65,000) was considered too large for the Knights, and the location off-campus was considered a significant factor in the inability to sustain a sizeable student section. When the university approached the city about renovations and new revenue-sharing measures, they were met with resistance. While the city had expressed interest in renovating the Citrus Bowl with or without UCF's support, funding was seriously in doubt. The city was in the planning stages for a new arena, new performing arts center, and "creative village", with stadium renovations seemingly taking less priority.

In early 2005, the university abandoned the efforts to renovate the Citrus Bowl, and conducted a feasibility study to construct an on-campus stadium. Along with playing in a modern facility, and generating revenue, additional motivations included drawing more students to the games, a more intimate setting, and establishing game-day traditions on campus. With UCF's main campus one of the largest in the nation, building an on-campus stadium was also seen as a way to grow the university. In December 2005, the UCF Board of Trustees approved the construction of the new on-campus stadium. The facility, initially known as UCF Stadium, was hoped to be ready for the 2006 season. However, construction was delayed due to concerns from local residents regarding potentially falling property values and noise levels from the stadium.

Construction broke ground on March 22, 2006. Two months later, it was announced that the Texas Longhorns would be the first opponent for the UCF Knights in the new stadium. The game, the first of three scheduled meetings between the schools, was held September 15, 2007. A sellout crowd of 45,622 saw the Knights put a scare into the Longhorns before falling, 35–32.

Naming rights