[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cinema of Lebanon

s, starring Ann-Margret was filmed on location at the Casino du Liban in 1969. While Honeybaby, Honeybaby was shot in 1974 in Beirut, the producers of The Man with the Golden Gun, which was partially set in Beirut, decided not to film in the Lebanese capital due to the burgeoning political problems.

In 1965, UNESCO established the Arab Cinema Liaison Center at the National Cinema Center in Beirut as a regional hub for linking cinema activities across the Arab world. Beirut hosted the first international film festival in the Arab world in 1971. Until the mid-1970s, the film industry in Lebanon was flourishing with market appeal that extended to neighboring Arabic-speaking countries as the films included plenty of Egyptian film stars, such as Paris and Love in 1972, starring Salah Zulfikar and Sabah. Lebanon was producing "a string of sexually indulgent films" such as Cats of Hamra Street and The Guitar of Love in 1973, starring Georgina Rizk, the Lebanese beauty queen who won Miss Universe in 1971. In the 1970s, cinema attendance in Lebanon was the highest among Arabic-speaking countries.

Heiny Srour became not only the first Lebanese and Arab woman to have her film in competition at the 1974 Cannes Film Festival, but her documentary film The Hour of Liberation Has Arrived was actually the first film by any female filmmaker to be screened at the festival.

Civil War
Prior to the civil war, 161 films, mostly commercial melodramas, were produced in Lebanon and exported to various Arab countries, but when the civil war began, film production decreased tremendously.

Despite the war, there was an "emergence of a new wave of Lebanese filmmakers – fostering, unusually, equal numbers of women and men". The female filmmakers, who emerged during this period, made highly acclaimed and internationally renowned films. Some of the filmmakers who emerged during this period were "Maroun Baghdadi, Jocelyne Saab, Borhane Alaouié, Heiny Srour, Randa Chahal Sabag" and Jean Chamoun. In the 1970s, film themes in Lebanon were concentrated around the political conflicts that the country was undergoing. Displacement was also a recurrent theme as evident in Borhane Alaouie's Beirut, the Encounter (1981). Films of this period were characterized by a lack of closure, reflective of the seemingly endless war at the time.

One of the most important directors to emerge during this period was Maroun Baghdadi. According to Lina Khatib, author of Lebanese Cinema: Imagining the Civil War and Beyond, Baghdadi's films were "considered the cornerstone of Lebanese cinema". Maroun Baghdadi made Little Wars (1982) with aid provided by the American filmmaker, Francis Coppola. The film was screened in the Un Certain Regard section at the 1982 Cannes Film Festival. The film also screened at New York Film Festival on 2 October 1982.

Documentaries by filmmakers like Jocelyne Saab who "adopted a mainly journalistic style" also developed rapidly and successfully during this period. Lebanese and Palestinian documentaries produced in Lebanon during the 1970s caused a surge of documentary production across the Arab world. These documentaries contributed to the development of feature film production in the early eighties.

Many filmmakers from this era, such as Jocelyne Saab, Jean Chamoun, Randa Chahal Sabbag, and Maroun Baghdadi settled in France due to the prolonged conflict in Lebanon.

Beirut: The Last Home Movie is a 1987 documentary film that was directed by Jennifer Fox and shot on location at the historic Bustros mansion in Beirut. The documentary, which told the story of one of Lebanon's wealthiest families, was awarded the Excellence In Cinematography Award and won the Grand Jury Prize Documentary at the 1988 Sundance Film Festival.

Despite the war, Lebanon submitted a film for the first time for consideration for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film when Promise of Love (1978) an Armenian-language film by Sarky Mouradian was submitted to the 51st Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film.

In addition to the wave of festival films and documentaries, a series of commercial films, mostly mimicking action B movies from Hollywood, were made in the early 1980s. Prominent directors such as Youssef Charafeddine and Samir El-Ghoussaini aspired for escapism in their films to take their audiences out of the context of the war. Films such as The Last Passage (1981), The Decision (1981), and The Leap of Death (1982) were popular because they depicted a society free of war where law and order actually existed.  Other commercial films, like Ghazl Al-Banat, incorporated the war in the narrative. The era of commercial film production ended with the Israeli war on Lebanon.