[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Connecticut Military Department

ony of Connecticut established a military arm of the government.  This arm of the colony's government was responsible for overseeing and regulating the militiamen of the colony.  Agency personnel participated in several wars with Native Americans as well as with and against European colonial powers.

After the American Revolution, the new State of Connecticut established the office of the Adjutant General in 1792 to oversee the Armed Forces of the State.  Units of the Connecticut State Militia participated in all wars of the United States.

The Connecticut Military Department was officially established as a state agency in 1939 by Chapter 345 of the Public Acts.  The act consolidated the office of the Adjutant General, the Quartermaster General, the Armory Board and the Armory Board Inspector.  In response to the coordination efforts of civil authorities to the Flood of 1955 in which Governor Abraham Ribicoff mobilized the National Guard, the Office of Civil Defense was created as a sub-agency of the Connecticut Military Department.  Authority over the Office of Civil Defense was transferred to the Department of Public Safety in 1979 and back to the Military Department in 1999.  In 2005, Public Act 04-219 created the Connecticut Department of Emergency Management and Homeland Security and once again removed overall domestic emergency response away from the Military Department.  The Military Department remains as the largest force provider to the Governor during times of domestic emergencies.

See also

 List of Connecticut Adjutant Generals
 Connecticut National Guard
 Connecticut Air National Guard
 Connecticut Army National Guard
 Connecticut Naval Militia
 Governor's Guards
Awards of the Connecticut National Guard
List of United States militia units in the American Revolutionary War

References

External links

United States Army Center of Military History, Bibliography of Connecticut Army National Guard History
GlobalSecurity.org, Connecticut Army National Guard, accessed 20 Nov 2006

Military in Connecticut
State agencies of Connecticut
Connecticut National Guard
Government agencies established in 1939
1939 establishments in Connecticut