[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Loretto v. Teleprompter Manhattan CATV Corp.

rental property does not make this less of a taking, that the statute in question does not purport to give the tenant any additional rights, and that a ruling against Manhattan Teleprompter will not reverse the broad discretion the Court affords to states in regulating landlord/tenant relationships.

Dissent
Justice Blackmun, joined by Justice Brennan and Justice White, wrote a dissent arguing against an automatic rule to determine whether there is a taking, and objected to drawing an artificial distinction between temporary and permanent physical presence. Instead, there should be a multi-factor balancing test that considers: (1) whether the State has interfered in some minimal way with the use of space on her building and (2) the extent of the State's interference, and whether it is so severe as to constitute a compensable taking.

Aftermath
On remand, the New York Court of Appeals upheld the validity of the statutory provisions empowering the Commission on Cable Television to set compensation for the taking at $1. The Commission concluded that the property value would increase as a result of cable television access, and as such $1 would be sufficient compensation for the permanent intrusion.

Legacy
This case established, for the first time a bright-line rule  that permanent physical presence constitutes a taking per se. It would seem the Court's aim was to distinguish a category of per se takings to reduce doctrinal ambiguity following the standard introduced by Penn Central Transportation Co. v. New York City, 438 U.S. 104 (1978).

However, said rule is considered to affirm a pre-existing rule: "the traditional physical occupation test," "the traditional rule," and "We affirm the traditional rule that a permanent physical occupation of property is a taking" as mentioned several times throughout the opinion.

See also
 List of United States Supreme Court cases, volume 458
 Teleprompter Corp. v. Columbia Broadcasting

References

External links
 

1982 in United States case law
Takings Clause case law
United States land use case law
United States Supreme Court cases
United States Supreme Court cases of the Burger Court
Cable television in the United States
1982 in New York City
TelePrompTer Corporation