[Source: PubMed]

52. Front Psychol. 2022 Nov 15;13:1009222. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.1009222. 
eCollection 2022.

Motivational dynamics of German Salafist jihadists: A multi-methodical in-depth 
study of three paradigmatic cases.

Moeller MJ(1)(2)(3), Langer PC(2)(4), Scheithauer H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Education and Psychology, Freie Universität Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(2)Department of Social Psychology, International Psychoanalytic University, 
Berlin, Germany.
(3)Zentrum Technik und Gesellschaft, Technische Universität Berlin, Berlin, 
Germany.
(4)Center for Transdisciplinary Gender Studies, Humboldt-University Berlin, 
Berlin, Germany.

Individuals belonging to terrorist organizations accept and often use violence 
as an instrument of their strategies to achieve their goals. The present study 
focuses on the motivational dynamics of three contrastively selected 
paradigmatic cases of extremists that grew up in Germany, joined and supported 
terrorist organizations abroad, and later disengaged and distanced themselves 
from the jihadist ideology. An innovative multi-methodical approach was applied 
to the interviews that combines a biographical reconstruction of the lived 
experiences with a psychoanalytically informed interpretation of the narratives. 
First, the biographical trajectories were analyzed on the manifest level: How 
have the former terrorists experienced their own pathways? What were relevant 
factors for their engagement in and disengagement from terrorism? Second, to 
gain a deeper understanding of the unconscious motivational dynamics for 
involvement in terrorism, key sequences of the narrative interviews were 
interpreted scenically in a psychoanalytical interpretation group: How did the 
interviewees express their lived experiences (and why in this particular way)? 
What latent meanings can be extrapolated that provide deep insights into the 
motivational backgrounds of their decisions? Based on the results of the 
triangulation process, characterizing structural hypotheses about case dynamics 
including protective and risk factors are presented and implications for 
prevention and intervention approaches are given.

Copyright © 2022 Moeller, Langer and Scheithauer.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2022.1009222
PMCID: PMC9707333
PMID: 36457905

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.