[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ian Martin (UN official)

the Sri Lankan Civil War, Martin was appointed by the Sri Lankan government and the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam as human rights adviser to the peace process and involved in peace talks. Talks were suspended in 2003 before the two parties approved an agreement on human rights drafted by Martin.

Gaza investigation and WikiLeaks
In 2009, Martin was appointed to head an independent United Nations Headquarters Board of Inquiry by Secretary-General of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon in order to investigate nine separate incidents during the 2008–2009 Gaza War involving deaths, injuries or damage at U.N. facilities. The Board's report, a summary of which was released on 5 May 2009, concluded that seven separate incidents were the result of firing by the Israeli Defence Forces, but found no evidence that U.N. facilities had been used to launch attacks against the IDF.

The Board also recommended that the U.N. further investigate violations of international humanitarian law by those on both sides of the conflict: Israeli forces, Hamas, and other Palestinian militants. In April 2011, WikiLeaks released documents indicating that United States Ambassador to the United Nations Susan Rice contacted Ban on 4 May 2009 and successfully pressured him into rejecting Martin's recommendation for the far-reaching investigation. The United Nations Human Rights Council had by then redefined the scope of the investigation it had mandated and established the United Nations Fact Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict headed by Richard Goldstone.

Libya
Martin was named Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on Post-Conflict Planning for Libya in April 2011 and was responsible for coordinating various agencies, funds, and programmes of the United Nations as well as consulting with the International Organization for Migration and the World Bank. During this work in Libya, he visited Benghazi and consulted the National Transitional Council.

Martin was the Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Support Mission in Libya from 11 September 2011 until 17 October 2012 when he was succeeded by Tarek Mitri. With Georg Charpentier as his Deputy, he led a staff of 200 tasked to assist with a range of duties including electoral assistance and police training. On 10 May 2012 Martin told the United Nations Security Council that there were credible reports of loyalists to toppled leader Muammar Gaddafi being mistreated and even tortured to death in detention centres under the transitional government's control. In April 2012, unidentified individuals threw a bomb at his convoy as it was travelling through Benghazi. No one was wounded. On 8 August 2012 Martin was present in Tripoli as the National Transitional Council handed over power to the General National Congress. In 2022, he published All Necessary Measures? The United Nations and International Intervention in Libya.

Other
In 2003, he was given an honorary doctorate by the University of Essex.

Martin was also Vice President of the International Center for Transitional Justice from 2002 to 2005. He has lectured on human rights at universities including Harvard Law School and his writings include Self-Determination in East Timor: the United Nations, the Ballot, and International Intervention.

Views
Martin has supported the International Commission of Jurists's conclusion that war crimes and acts of genocide had been committed by the Pakistan Army and its collaborators during the Bangladesh Liberation War. In supporting a trial for war crimes by the International Crimes Tribunal, he has voiced the opinion that the process must be free of political pressures.

Martin is opposed to the death penalty and has campaigned against its use worldwide.

References

External links
Interview with Al Jazeera
Interview with International Peace Institute
Interview with UN News Centre

1946 births
Living people
Alumni of Emmanuel College, Cambridge
Amnesty International people
English human rights activists
Harvard University alumni
British officials of the United Nations
Presidents of the Cambridge Union
General Secretaries of the Fabian Society
Members of the Fabian Society
Carnegie Council for Ethics in International Affairs
Councillors in the London Borough of Redbridge
Special Representatives of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Special Envoys of the Secretary-General of the United Nations