[Source: PubMed]

38. Glob Health Action. 2010 Jun 3;3. doi: 10.3402/gha.v3i0.5080.

Striving against adversity: the dynamics of migration, health and poverty in 
rural South Africa.

Collinson MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Council/Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions 
Research Unit (Agincourt), School of Public Health, University of the 
Witwatersrand, Acornhoek, South Africa.

Comment in
    Commentary on the paper ‘Striving against adversity: the dynamics of 
migration, health and poverty in rural South Africa’ by Mark A. Collinson.

This article is a review of the PhD thesis of Mark Collinson, titled, 'Striving 
against adversity: the dynamics of migration, health and poverty in rural South 
Africa'. The findings show that in rural South Africa, temporary migration has a 
major impact on household well-being and health. Remittances from migrants make 
a significant difference to socioeconomic status (SES) in households left behind 
by the migrant. For the poorest households the key factors improving SES are 
government grants and female temporary migration, while for the less poor it is 
male temporary migration and local employment. Migration is associated with HIV 
but not in straightforward ways. Migrants that return more frequently may be 
less exposed to outside partners and therefore less implicated in the HIV 
epidemic. There are links between migration and mortality patterns, including a 
higher risk of dying for returnee migrants compared with permanent residents. A 
mother's migration impacts significantly on child survival for South African and 
former refugee parents, but there is an additional mortality risk for children 
of Mozambican former refugees. It is recommended that national censuses and 
surveys account for temporary migration when collecting information on household 
membership, because different migration types have different outcomes. Without 
discriminating between different migration types, the implications for sending 
and receiving communities will remain lost to policy-makers.

DOI: 10.3402/gha.v3i0.5080
PMCID: PMC2882287
PMID: 20531981