[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Macedonian Australians

been low denoting the presence of Aegean Macedonians in Manjimup. The community was recently visited by the Macedonian Ambassador to Australia, which shows that Macedonians are still present in the Manjimup area The Macedonians have left a lasting imprint on the Manjimup community.

South Australia

South Australia is home to a small but compact Macedonian community. The first Macedonians immigrants were scrub clearers in Ceduna and grape harvesters in the Riverland region. Permanent immigrants established market gardens in Fulham Gardens, Flinders Park and later in Virginia. Soon a community of Aegean Macedonians had established themselves in South Australia, most notably in Fulham Gardens. Coffee Shops, were established by Macedonians and they soon became the original meeting place for the Macedonian community. In 1947 a chapter of the Macedonian-Australian People's League known as "Alexander the Great" opened in South Australia. In 1947, the group raised over £350 for the Macedonian Hospital Appeal. After the decantralization of the Macedonian-Australian People's League the "Macedonian Orthodox Community of South Australia" was founded in 1957. In 1967, the Macedonian Orthodox Community of South Australia constructed the Macedonian Hall which became the center of Macedonian social activities in Adelaide.

On 28 April 1968, a statue memorial to Macedonian National Hero Goce Delčev, Cyrillic: Гоце Делчев was unveiled. In 1969 the first Macedonian Orthodox Church in South Australia was built on the site of the Macedonian Community property. In 1982 the first Macedonian Orthodox Church in South Australia, Saint Naum of Ohrid, Cyrillic: Свети Наум Охридски was consecrated. The Macedonian Community collected donations from groups such as Yugoslavian Airlines and Stopanska Banka in building the church. The cultural dancing groups Sloboda/Freedom and KUD Makedonka were also established. The Macedonia United Soccer team was also founded by Macedonians in Adelaide. Another church, Света Богородица Пречиста/Holy Mother of God of Woodville South was also acquired more recently. A range of Macedonian radio programs also exist in Adelaide. A 1970 estimate put the number of Macedonians in South Australia at 1,200. While the 1976 census recorded 676 Macedonian speakers in 1976. By 1996 this number had risen to 923 falling to 705 in 2006. In 2006 there were only 400 Macedonian born people living in South Australia while 1,424 people claimed Macedonian Ancestry. In the census of 2011, across South Australia, 727 respondents reported speaking Macedonian at home, the highest concentration of this group (14%) was in the 5024 postal area (Fulham Gardens, Fulham and West Beach).

Queensland
There has traditionally been a small Macedonian community in Queensland. Relatively few immigrants arrived before the Second World War. In the late 1940s the Brisbane Branch of the Macedonian-Australian People's League was founded. After Crabbes Creek was devastated by a cyclone in the 1960s more Macedonians came to Brisbane. There were relatively few immigrants in Queensland until many Macedonians already in Australia decided to immigrate north. Despite this by 1986 there were still only 376 Macedonians in Queensland, although the community was still growing. Plans for a church in the Gold Coast were founded and planning soon began. A soccer club, "Brothers United" was founded by the community in the late 1980s. It was decided that the first ever Macedonian hall built in Crabbes Creek should be sold and the proceeds go towards founding Sveta Bogorodica church. In the 1990s a Macedonian Orthodox church was founded. Света Богородица/Sveta Bogorodica soon became the center of the Macedonian community in Queensland. Soon afterwards a KUD and an Ethnic School were also set up. In late 2002 an appeal to build a second church began. Construction of the Света Недела/’'Sveta Nedela'’ church soon began. An Australia wide cultural day was held on the Gold Coast during the Christmas of 2006 to help raise funds for the Church. It was a success with Macedonians from all parts of Australia travelling to the event. As of mid-2008 the church is nearing completion. Today Queensland has the fastest growing Macedonian community in Australia. Community spokespersons claim that there are over 4000 Macedonians in Queensland. Although only 927 Macedonians speakers were recorded in the 1996 census and 1,144 in 2006. In 2006 1,829 persons claimed Macedonian Ancestry.

 Aegean Macedonians