[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Uranium ore

pipe deposits
Collapse breccia pipe deposits occur within vertical, circular solution collapse structures, formed by the dissolution of limestone by groundwater.  Pipes are typically filled with down-dropped coarse fragments of limestone and overlying sediments and can be from  wide and up to  deep.

Primary ore minerals are uraninite and pitchblende, which occur as cavity fills and coatings on quartz grains within permeable sandstone breccias within the pipe. Resources within individual pipes can range up to 2500 tonnes U3O8 at an average grade of between 0.3 and 1.0% U3O8.

The best known examples of this deposit type are in the Arizona breccia pipe uranium mineralization in the US, where several of these deposits have been mined.

Volcanic deposits
Volcanic deposits occur in felsic to intermediate volcanic to volcaniclastic rocks and associated caldera subsidence structures, comagmatic intrusions, ring dykes and diatremes.

Mineralization occurs either as structurally controlled veins and breccias discordant to the stratigraphy and less commonly as stratabound mineralization either in extrusive rocks or permeable sedimentary facies. Mineralization may be primary, that is magmatic-related or as secondary mineralization due to leaching, remobilization and re-precipitation. The principal uranium mineral in volcanic deposits is pitchblende, which is usually associated with molybdenite and minor amounts of lead, tin and tungsten mineralization.

Volcanic hosted uranium deposits occur in host rocks spanning the Precambrian to the Cenozoic but because of the shallow levels at which they form, preservation favors younger age deposits. Some of the more important deposits or districts are Streltsovskoye, Russia; Dornod, Mongolia; and McDermitt, Nevada.

The average deposit size is rather small with grades of 0.02% to 0.2% U3O8. These deposits make up only a small proportion of the world's uranium resources.  The only volcanic hosted deposits currently being exploited are those of the Streltsovkoye district of eastern Siberia. This is in fact not a single stand-alone deposit, but 18 individual deposits occurring within the Streltsovsk caldera complex. Nevertheless, the average size of these deposits is far greater than the average volcanic type.

Surficial deposits (calcretes)
Surficial deposits are broadly defined as Tertiary to Recent near-surface uranium concentrations in sediments or soils.  Mineralization in calcrete (calcium and magnesium carbonates) are the largest of the surficial deposits. They are interbedded with Tertiary sand and clay, which are usually cemented by calcium and magnesium carbonates.  Surficial deposits also occur in peat bogs, karst caverns and soils.

Surficial deposits account for approximately 4% of world uranium resources.  The Yeelirrie deposit is by far the world's largest surficial deposit, averaging 0.15% U3O8.  Langer Heinrich in Namibia is another significant surficial deposit.

Metasomatite deposits
Metasomatite deposits consist of disseminated uranium minerals within structurally deformed rocks that have been affected by intense sodium metasomatism.  Ore minerals are uraninite and brannerite. Th/U ratio in the ores is mostly less than 0.1. Metasomatites are typically small in size and generally contain less than 1000 t U3O8. Giant (up to 100 thousands t U) U deposits in sodium metasomatites (albitites) are known in Central Ukraine and Brazil.

Two subtypes are defined based on host lithologies:
metasomatized granite; ex. Ross Adams deposit in Alaska, United States, Novokostantynivka deposit in Kirovogradska oblast, Ukraine.
metasomatised metasediment; Zhovta River and ex. Pervomayske deposits in Dnipropetrovska oblast, Ukraine and Valhalla deposit in northwestern Queensland, Australia.

Metamorphic deposits

Metamorphic deposits those that occur in metasediments or metavolcanic rocks where there is no direct evidence for mineralization post-dating metamorphism.  These deposits were formed during regional metamorphism of uranium bearing or mineralized sediments or volcanic precursors.

The most prominent deposits of this type are Mary Kathleen, Queensland, Australia, and Forstau, Austria.

Lignite
Lignite deposits (soft brown coal) can contain significant uranium mineralization. Mineralization can also be found in clay and sandstone immediately adjacent to lignite deposits. Uranium has been adsorbed onto carbonaceous matter and as a result no discrete uranium minerals have formed. Deposits of this type are known from the Serres Basin, in Greece, and in North and South Dakota in the USA. The uranium content in these deposits is very low, on average less than 0.005% U3O8, and does not currently warrant commercial extraction.