[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Richard M. Berman

RICO suit against National Steel Supply, Inc., finding that plaintiff Ideal Steel failed to show that it had relied upon National Steel Supply's alleged misrepresentations to the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance.  The decision was affirmed by the U.S. Supreme Court on June 5, 2006.

United States v. Leekin 
In July 2008, Berman presided over the criminal case against Judith Leekin, who pleaded guilty to defrauding New York City and New York State adoption agencies out of $1.68 million in foster care funds.  Leekin also had mistreated and willfully endangered her (11) adopted special needs children.  Berman sentenced Leekin to 130 months in prison.  She was also prosecuted for child abuse in Florida.

Dimmie v. Carey 
In April 2000, Berman dismissed the infringement suit brought against pop singer Mariah Carey, finding that the plaintiff, Rhonda Dimmie, the holder of a copyright for the song Be Your Hero, had failed to show that Carey, the copyright-holder for the song Hero, had knowledge of or infringed upon plaintiff's recording.

Johnson v. Johnson 
In January 2011, Berman presided over a trial in which a father sought the return of his child from New York to Vicenza, Italy pursuant to the Hague Convention of the Civil Aspects of International Child Abduction.  Following a bench trial, Berman found that Italy was not the habitual residence of the child, who also strenuously objected to being returned to Italy.

Family Court Case

In the Matter of Shawna E. 
In January 1998, as a New York State family court judge, Berman removed two children from the custody of then professional baseball player Carl Everett and his wife.  The Everetts had consented to findings of child neglect following the discovery of bruises on their daughter at the Shea Stadium child care center.

U.S. District Court 3 Judge Panels

Rodriguez v. Pataki 
Berman was part of a three-judge panel that heard challenges to the redistricting plan enacted by the New York State Legislature following the 2000 census.  Following a bench trial in November 2003, the three-judge panel found that New York's redistricting plan did not violate the Voting Rights Act or the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.  In November 2004, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed by summary order.

Nitke v. Gonzales 
Berman was part of a three-judge panel that heard challenges to obscenity provisions of the Communications Decency Act of 1996.  In July 2005, the Court found that the Act was not overbroad and did not violate the First Amendment.  In March 2006, the U.S. Supreme Court affirmed by summary order.

U.S. Circuit Court Opinions

Carpenters Pension Trust Fund of St. Louis v. Barclays PLC 
In April 2014, Berman—sitting by designation on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit—authored the panel's opinion reinstating a securities fraud class action brought by pension funds against Barclays PLC and former Barclays' CEO Robert Diamond.  Plaintiffs alleged that defendants had knowingly submitted false and inaccurate information to establish LIBOR rates during the class period of August 2007 through January 2009.  The Court adopted the principle that "so long as the falsehood remains uncorrected, it will continue to taint the total mix of available public information, and the market will continue to attribute the artificial inflation to the stock, day after day."

Evans v. Books-A-Million 
In August 2014, Berman—sitting by designation on a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit—heard the appeal of an employee who had been terminated from her job.  The Court of Appeals held that the district court correctly awarded summary judgment to plaintiff on her COBRA claims and to Books-A-Million with respect to plaintiff's Title VII and Equal Pay Act claims, but erred in dismissing plaintiff's FMLA claims.  The Court of Appeals found that "[i]if a trial court refuses to grant further legal or equitable relief to a plaintiff who insists that such relief is necessary to make the plaintiff whole, it must articulate its rationale."

New England Insurance Co. v. Healthcare Underwriters Mutual Insurance Co. 
In July 2002, Berman—sitting by designation on a panel of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals—heard the appeal of New England Insurance Company, following the district court's reversal of a jury verdict in favor of New England Insurance.  The Second Circuit reinstated the jury verdict.  "We necessarily disagree with the 'clear liability' language []introduced by the district court in deciding Healthcare's post-trial application for judgment as a matter of law.  As noted, 'clear liability' was specifically rejected and abandoned [and] there is no case since Pavia in which a court held that a finding of clear liability was given conclusive or totally dispositive weight."