[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Partisan (politics)

concept and had been described in different words by Thrasymachus, Xenophanes, and Karl Marx.  However, Lenin's term has a normative element that was not present in prior descriptions of the phenomenon.  In other words, Lenin insisted that partiinost' should be publicly expressed whenever possible.

A clear expression of partiinost can be found in its entry in the Great Soviet Encyclopedia:
<blockquote>The Communist Party consistently upholds the principle of partiinost'.  Defending and substantiating the goals and tasks of the working class and the policies of the Communist Party, Marxist-Leninist theory mercilessly criticizes the exploiters' system, its politics, and its ideology.  ... By contrast, the bourgeoisie, whose interests conflict with those of the majority, is forced to hide its self-seeking aspirations, to pretend that its economic and political aims are those of society as a whole, and to wrap itself in the toga of non-partisanship</blockquote>Partiinost' is also used by Lenin in Materialism and Empirio-criticism'' to refer to the concept of philosophical factionalism, which he defined broadly as the struggle between idealists and materialists.

Research
Partisanship causes survey respondents to answer political surveys differently, even if the survey asks a question with an objective answer. People with strong partisan beliefs are 12% more likely to give an incorrect answer that benefits their preferred party than an incorrect answer that benefits another party. This is due to the phenomenon of motivated reasoning, of which there are several types, including "cheerleading" and congenial inference. Motivated reasoning means that a partisan survey respondent may feel motivated to answer the survey in a way that they know is incorrect; when the respondent is uncertain of an answer, partisanship may also motivate them to guess or predict an answer that favorable to their party. Studies have found that offering a cash incentive for correct answers reduces partisan bias in responses by about 50%, from 12–15% to about 6%.

See also

 Bipartisanship
 Macropartisanship
 Negative partisanship
 Nonpartisan
 Partisan (disambiguation)
 Political faction
 Political polarization
 Sectarianism

Notes

External links

 Graphic showing Rise of Partisanship in the US House of Representatives 1949–2011
 Do politics make us irrational? – a TED-Ed talk by Jay Van Bavel

Political terminology of the United States
Soviet phraseology
Political parties