[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of Wild Cards characters

ad an intense affair with Yeoman. She was brutally murdered by Hiram Worchester (while he was under the influence of Ti Malice) in 1988.

Deadhead
Deadhead is an Ace, someone granted super-powers by exposure to the Wild Card virus; but the disturbing nature of his power has driven him nearly insane.

Deadhead has the ability to sense the memories of anyone whose brain he eats. He discovered this by accident; he began experiencing the sensations of animals whenever he ate meat, then worked his way up to animal brains. After several years he worked up the courage to try human brains, and found that he could completely—if temporarily—absorb all the knowledge and memories of the dead person.

At present, he works for the Shadow Fists, providing the gang with information in exchange for being kept out of prison or a mental ward. He is twitchy, has poor hygiene, constantly talks to himself in a nervous voice, and is always gulping down vitamins and appetite suppressants in a vain effort to reduce his craving for human brains.

Demise
Demise (James Spector) was created by Walton Simons, and first appeared in the story "If Looks Could Kill" in Wild Cards II: Aces High.
 
In 1985, Spector was struck by the Wild Card virus and brought to the Jokertown Clinic, where he was seen by Dr. Tachyon. Tachyon had been working on improving his "Trump Card" countervirus, which had a low success rate, and injected Spector with an experimental version of the Trump, as well as subjecting him to an experimental tissue-regeneration process. It was seemingly unsuccessful; Spector's body experienced the failure of numerous organs, and he was pronounced dead. However, shortly after, he awoke screaming and continued to scream for several months. Eventually, he got back enough of his sanity to escape (although he constantly feels the agony of his death), killing a nurse with his new-found power in the process.

In 1986, he was found by the cult leader known as The Astronomer, who offered to erase his unbearable memories of death if Spector would work for him. Giving Spector the name Demise, the Astronomer used Demise's death-powers in the ritual killings that charged the Astronomer's powers, and used Demise as an occasional assassin as well. When Demise eventually realised the Astronomer was just stringing him along, he rebelled; and when the Astronomer was weakened after his battle with Fortunato, Demise finished the old man off, leaving him embedded in a brick wall.

Afterwards, Demise became a freelance assassin while looking for opportunities to kill Tachyon, until he was hired to do a job at the 1988 Democratic National Convention. There, his head was cut off on live national television by the psychotic Ace Mack the Knife. Mackie used his vibrational powers to remove Demise's head – only for the severed head to open its eyes and kill Messer explosively. Later, Dr. Tachyon examined Demise's body in the morgue and saw that it was actually starting to grow a new head. Tachyon immediately ordered his body cremated, to ensure that he would not return from death a second time.

Demise's body repairs itself so perfectly that he can even return from death. He has healed himself from bullet wounds and broken bones in seconds, and regrown lost limbs and other body parts. However, his body draws from its own current mass to reconstruct major damage, such as the loss of a limb, thus weakening his overall health until he has sufficient time to recover. He is also at risk of long-term damage from improper healing; the Astronomer once had Demise's forearm broken and then forcibly held out of proper alignment so that the bones knit improperly, rendering the limb nonfunctional below the elbow.

Demise can also telepathically project the "memory" of his death experience into other people, causing them to die as well, but he must look them in the eyes to do so (thus he can be foiled by things such as mirrorshades or insectoid multiple eyes). He can kill in seconds, stretch it out slowly for a very painful death, or use just enough power to stun or disorient someone. His power also prevents someone from looking away once he has locked eyes with them.

Digger Downs
Thomas "Digger" Downs, created by Steve Perrin, is an investigative reporter for Aces magazine, a periodical on the lives of the Wild Cards universe's more publicly known Aces. Journalistically, Aces lies somewhere between People magazine and the National Enquirer, with Digger definitely toward the lower end of that scale. He constantly seeks to find juicy gossip about Aces, as well as Earth's only extra-terrestrial citizen, Dr. Tachyon, who despises Digger and, when confronted by him, often resorts to mind control to make Digger humiliate himself until he goes away. Most of their encounters end with Digger unwillingly pouring a drink over his own head, or something similar.