[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Refugees in New Zealand

red to as the Mass Arrivals Bill, was passed as the Migration Amendment Act 2014 but only after Peter Dunne insisted the number rise from ten to thirty people.

A number of refugees or reports have claimed that asylum seekers are attempting to travel to New Zealand in recent years. Examples include:

 Jun 2011: 85 Tamils were detained by Indonesia's maritime police off Sumatra, who were claiming they were travelling to New Zealand. New Zealand Immigration Minister Jonathan Coleman said there was "no concrete evidence" that the Sri Lankan people were actually trying to reach New Zealand. "When they had a look at the boat, there was no evidence that they were truly intending to come here, so I'm sure there is a range of things that the people on that boat are trying to do to leverage their position," Coleman said.
 Apr 2012: 10 Chinese asylum seekers attempting to travel to NZ by boat in April 2012 who were taken to Darwin after making a distress call" Another source report that they eventually decided not to seek asylum in New Zealand but elected to claim asylum in Australia
May 2015: the Andika (see below).
Nov 2017: attempted to send four boats, carrying 164 asylum seekers, to NZ.
Dec 2017: an Australian naval patrol intercepted a boatload of 29 Sri Lankans off the coast of Western Australia. Those on board told Australian authorities they were bound for New Zealand.
May 2018: Malaysian police intercepted a tanker with 131 Sri Lankans believed bound for Australia and New Zealand.
Jan 2019: Australian and Malaysian agencies combined forces to bust the operation, which was preparing to send a boat with 24 Sri Lankans and 10 Indians, including 11 women and seven children [to Australia or New Zealand].
Jan 2019: A fishing boat with between 100 and 200 people on board is reportedly on its way to Australia or New Zealand, according to media reports quoting local police in India. The vessel left a port in the southern state of Kerala on 12 January and was never heard from again.

Refugee advocates have claimed that the John Key and the National government is scare-mongering over asylum seekers in a manner similar to that deployed in Australian politics. There has been at least one boat that might have made it to New Zealand, the Andika. In January 2018, leaked intelligence reports to Australian media suggested Australian authorities reportedly turned around four new boats just before Christmas 2017, and intelligence sources have said Ardern's criticisms of Australia's refugee policy are the likely cause. However former Australian Border Force Commissioner Roman Quaedvlieg, said before the May 2018 attempt from Malaysia there "was only ever one vessel intercepted south of Papua New Guinea that was capable of reaching NZ physically and with an experienced crew; this one also looks like it could have."

The Andika

In May 2015 a ship with passengers including 54 Sri Lankans (Tamils), 10 Bangladeshis, one person from Myanmar (Rohingya) and five additional crew was sailing towards New Zealand in international waters. According to an Amnesty International report the boat had a credible chance of arriving in New Zealand however it was intercepted by Australian authorities outside of Australian jurisdiction. The treatment of these refugees was also documented in the film Stop the Boats - the lie of savings lives at sea.

The boat departed from Indonesia on 5 May and was first intercepted by Australian forces on 17 May 2015, and again on 22 May when the refugees were removed. They were sent back on two less seaworthy boats, and shipwrecked off Rote Island, Indonesia on 31 May 2015. News about the ship broke on 1 June 2015 by the Indonesian police

On 2 June 2015, New Zealand Prime Minister John Key was asked about the situation in the New Zealand media. He said if one boat made it New Zealand "it would open up a pretty easy pathway to replicate". In one interview he would not say which New Zealand authorities first found out about the boat, or whether New Zealand's spy agencies had been involved, saying it was "a while ago, but I can't really go into all the details for some obvious reasons, but yeah, I knew some time ago." In another interview however he said they had been advised "a couple of weeks back" about the seaworthiness of the boat to reach New Zealand and was getting daily updates from ODESC. Labour politicians attacked Key in parliament for scare-mongering denying the possibility of the boat arriving.

The Green Party raised the possibility that the New Zealand intelligence agencies had been involved in tracking the boat and if so were "complicit in violating international law, the Refugee Convention and ignoring the UN’s criticism of Australia".