[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Avishay Braverman

center for the Druze population in Israel. Braverman also sought to include 40% of the Israeli minority population in the national priority map.

On January 17, 2011, he resigned as minister following the resignation of Ehud Barak from the Labor Party and the party's resignation from the coalition.

In 2013, he was appointed chairman of the Knesset Economic Affairs Committee, which put the natural gas monopoly on the agenda and demanded that the Commissioner of Restraint of Trade impose price controls on gas prices. Braverman was responsible for reforms in trade and industry, transport, communications, consumer protection and more. He also raised awareness for the need for long-term economic planning, the need for building industrial educational frameworks and the integration of all levels of the population into the labor market. Braverman advocated “enlightened capitalism" which emphasizes growth with fair distribution of income.

Prior to the March 2015 20th Knesset elections, Braverman announced that he would not run for another term and retired from political life.

Israel Prize 
Professor Braverman is the 2020 Israel Prize laureate for Lifetime Achievement - a special contribution to society and state - for his contributions as President of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev.

In their deliberations for awarding the prize, the judges stated that "The academic community conceived by Braverman, his participation in its design and the raising of funds for its establishment, accelerated the development of the city of Beer-Sheva and the entire Negev… Today Beer-Sheva  is a metropolitan area amalgamating cities and satellite towns, and at its center, the University, Soroka University Medical Center and the Advanced Technologies Park, where leading international companies operate in the field of information security and other technologies. Neighborhoods offering high-quality housing have been built around the university, a fact which has even contributed to the increase in real estate value in Beer-Sheva”..

Family

Avishay Braverman is married to architect Yael Braverman and is the father of two sons.

Prizes and awards 
·        Israel Prize laureate for Lifetime Achievement - 2020

·        Membership in the European Academy of Sciences and Arts. The European academy bestowed upon him In November 2017, the Ring of Tolerance for his life work in Academia and Politics with Arabs, Muslims and Christians, in Israel and beyond.

·        Commander of the French Order of Academic Palms.

·        Honorary Doctorate from the Jewish Theological Seminary

·        Honorary Doctorate from Rand Afrikaans University

·        Honorary citizen of Beer-Sheva.

·        Ben-Gurion Prize

·        Quality in Government Prize in the State of Israel

Selected publications 
·        K. Hoff, A. Braverman and J.E. Stiglitz (eds.) The Economics of Rural Organization:  Theory, Practice and Policy, Oxford University Press 1993, 589 pp.

·        A. Braverman and J.E. Stiglitz, “Sharecropping and the Interlinking of Agrarian Markets”, American Economic Review, Vol. 72, No. 4, pp. 695–715, 1982

·        A. Braverman and J.L. Guasch, “Rural Credit Markets and Institutions in Developing Countries: Lessons for Policy Analysis from Practice and Modern Theory”, World Development, Vol. 14, pp. 1253–1267, 1986

·        A. Braverman, “Consumer Search and Alternative Market Equilibria”, Review of Economic Studies, Vol. 47, pp. 487–502, 1980

·        A. Braverman and T.N. Srinivasan, “Credit and Sharecropping in Agrarian Societies”, Journal of Development Economics, Vol. 9, pp. 289–312, 1981

·        K. Brooks, J.L. Guasch, A. Braverman and C. Csaki, “The Transition to Post-Collectivist Agriculture in Eastern Europe and the USSR:  Dilemmas and Strategies", Journal of Economic Perspectives, Vol. 5, No. 4, pp. 149–61, 1991

·        A. Braverman, N. Hassid and S. Drori, “Solving the Water Problem of the Middle East”, in G.H. Peters (ed.) Agricultural Competitiveness:  Market Forces And Policy Choice, pp. 496–508, Dartmouth University Press 1995

References

External links

1948 births
Tel Aviv University alumni
Stanford University School of Humanities and Sciences alumni
Israeli economists
Academic staff of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev
Government ministers of Israel
Living people
Israeli Labor Party politicians
Members of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts
Yiddish-speaking people
Members of the 17th Knesset (2006–2009)
Members of the 18th Knesset (2009–2013)
Members of the 19th Knesset (2013–2015)
Presidents of universities in Israel