[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# November 1942

The following events occurred in November 1942:

November 1, 1942 (Sunday)
U.S. forces began the Matanikau Offensive on Guadalcanal.
German Army Group A captured Alagir.
Escape from Fort Stanton: Four German sailors escaped from an internment camp at Fort Stanton, New Mexico. 
The Embassy of the Soviet Union posted a bulletin announcing that the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet had formed a committee for the investigation of war crimes committed by the Germans and their associates to the people and property of the USSR.
Strikes broke out in Haute-Savoie in protest of the Vichy government's forced recruitment of labour for Germany. 
Legislative elections were held in Portugal. Since the country was a one-party state, the National Union claimed 100% of the vote.
Born: 
Larry Flynt, adult magazine publisher, in Lakeville, Kentucky (d. 2021)
Ralph Klein, politician, in Calgary, Alberta (d. 2013)
Marcia Wallace, actress, in Creston, Iowa (d. 2013)
Died: Hugo Distler, 34, German organist and composer

November 2, 1942 (Monday)
Australian troops captured the village of Kokoda and the accompanying airfield.
Stars and Stripes became a daily publication, the first in U.S. Army history.
The BBC began French-language broadcasts to Canada.
German submarine U-306 was commissioned.
Born: 
Shere Hite, American-born German sex educator and feminist, in St. Joseph, Missouri (d. 2020) 
Stefanie Powers, actress, in Hollywood, California 
Ron Reed, baseball player, in La Porte, Indiana
Died: John Eldridge Jr., 39, United States Naval Aviator, killed in action in the Solomon Islands

November 3, 1942 (Tuesday)
Erwin Rommel received an order from Adolf Hitler to "stand and die", but disregarded it as plans for a withdrawal were already in place.
The Koli Point action began on Guadalcanal.
The United States midterm elections were held. The Republican Party gained seats but the Democrats retained control of both chambers.
The fugitives in the Escape from Fort Stanton were recaptured. One of the escapees was wounded in a shootout with authorities.
German submarine U-198 was commissioned.
Died: 
Ernest Gibbins, 41, British entomologist (speared to death by Ugandan tribesmen)
Violette Cunnington, 32, mistress to actor Leslie Howard (sepsis)

November 4, 1942 (Wednesday)
The Matanikau Offensive ended in American victory.
German submarine U-132 was sunk in the Atlantic Ocean by the explosion of the British cargo ship Hatimura, which had just been torpedoed by U-442.
German submarines U-169 and U-416  were commissioned.

November 5, 1942 (Thursday)
Fighting in and around Stalingrad forced the city's power plant to shut down.
German submarine U-408 was depth charged and sunk north of Iceland by an American Catalina.
German submarines U-647, U-658 and U-712 were commissioned.
Born: Pierangelo Bertoli, singer-songwriter and poet, in Sassuolo, Italy (d. 2002)
Died: George M. Cohan, 64, American songwriter and entertainer

November 6, 1942 (Friday)
The Battle of Madagascar ended in Allied victory.
An operation by the 2nd Marine Raider Battalion during the Guadalcanal Campaign began. It was known as Carlson's Patrol after the battalion's commander Evans Carlson.
The British passenger ship City of Cairo was torpedoed and sunk south of Saint Helena by German submarine U-68 with the loss of 104 of the 311 people on board.
The Church of England abolished its rule requiring women to wear hats in church.
The comedy-mystery film Who Done It? starring Abbott and Costello was released.
Born: Jean Shrimpton, model and actress, in High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, England

November 7, 1942 (Saturday)
Joseph Stalin issued an Order of the Day on the 25th anniversary of the October Revolution promising that the enemy "will yet feel the weight of the Red Army's smashing blows."
The Australian 24th Brigade advanced to Leaney's Corner and flanked the Japanese defenders on the Kokoda Track.
French general Henri Giraud was secretly spirited out of Vichy France by the British submarine Seraph.
German submarine U-274 was commissioned.
Born: 
Tom Peters, writer, in Baltimore, Maryland; 
Johnny Rivers, rock and roll singer, songwriter, guitarist and record producer, in New York City