[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Professionalization

usiness and factory owners did not particularly like this standardization because they felt threaten that engineers would increase their authority and territory. This was also desired by engineers themselves to end labor troubles. It was believed that it would increase production and predictability.

Civil engineers were overtaken by mechanical engineers. In fact, the numbers of professional mechanical engineers increased by 600 percent and college enrollment in this specialization outnumbered civil engineering. Now, they were more needed. Engineers were okay being classified "professionals of a corporation", because they were still mostly industry workers anyway and valued the ideology of no government intervention in the economy.

Shortly before, and during the Progressive Era, better organization of various fields of work including engineering took place because it encouraged professionalism, equality, and progress. Systematization was a big part of it. For example, The American Society of Mechanical Engineer was founded in 1880, and met twice a year. Professional codes of ethics were also established for this profession.  However, the growing profession of engineering had still difficulty in organizing itself.

Making a professional image of engineers was difficult because of its prominent association with manual labor. It struggles to this day to gain similar status as members of autonomous, self-regulating professions such as lawyers and physicians.

See also
 Grade inflation
 Occupational licensing

References

Bibliography
 Andrew Delano Abbott, The System of Professions: Essay on the Division of Expert Labour, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1988
 
 Jeffrey L. Berlant, Profession and Monopoly: A Study of Medicine in the United States and Great Britain, Berkeley, CA: University of California Press, 1975. ()
 Charlotte G. Borst, Catching Babies: Professionalization of Childbirth, 1870–1920, Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press, 1995
 
Robert Dingwall, Essays on Professions. Aldershot, England: Ashgate, 2008.
Eyre and Spottiswoode, Professional handbook, dealing with professions in the colonies / issued by the Emigrants Information Office Early Canadiana Online., 1892.
 Eliot Freidson, Profession of Medicine: A Study of the Sociology of Applied Knowledge, Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1970
 
 Merle Jacobs and Stephen, E Bosanac, The Professionalization of Work, Whitby, ON: de Sitter Publications, 2006
 
 
 Alice Beck Kehoe, Mary Beth Emmerichs, and Alfred Bendiner, Assembling the Past: Studies in the Professionalization of Archaeology, University of New Mexico Press, 2000, .
Lori Kenschaft, Professions and Professionalization.,  Oxford University Press, 2008
 
Magali Sarfatti Larson, The Rise of Professionalism: a Sociological Analysis, Berkeley, California: University of California Press, 1978
 Gary R. Lowe and P. Nelson Reid, The Professionalization of Poverty: Social Work and the Poor in the Twentieth Century (Modern Applications of Social Work), Aldine de Gruyter, 1999
 
 Keith M. Macdonald, The Sociology of the Professions, London: Sage Publications Ltd, 1995
 Linda Reeser, Linda Cherrey, and Irwin Epstein, Professionalization and Activism in Social Work, Columbia University Press, 1990, 
 Patricia M. Schwirian, Professionalization of Nursing: Current Issues and Trends, Philadelphia: Lippencott, 1998, 
 
 Howard M Vollmer, and D L Mills, Professionalization, New Jersey: Prentice Hall, 1966
 
 Anne Witz, Professions and Patriarchy, London: Routledge, 1992
 Donald Wright, The Professionalization of History in English, Toronto: University of Toronto Press, 2005

External links
 Article abstracts on this theme
 ESA research network on sociology of professions
 University of Aberdeen reading list: Sociology of Professions
 An issue of Current Sociology devoted to this topic

Sociological terminology