[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Lawson railway station

Lawson railway station is a heritage-listed railway station located on the Main Western line in Lawson in the City of Blue Mountains local government area of New South Wales, Australia. It is also known as Lawson Railway Station Group and Christmas Swamp; Blue Mountain. The property was added to the New South Wales State Heritage Register on 2 April 1999. The station opened on 11 July 1867 as Blue Mountain, being renamed Lawson on 21 April 1879. A passing loop exists north of Platform 1. As part of widening work to the Great Western Highway, a siding south of Platform 2 was removed and a new submerged siding constructed west of the station.

History 
There was a halt at Lawson from the beginning of the railway through the mountains in 1867, bearing the name Blue Mountain initially after Wilson's "Blue Mountain Inn" 400 metres away. In 1879 when the station changed its name to Lawson, a brick platform and station building were added and this remained unchanged until 1902. Like most stations between Emu Plains and Lithgow, duplication of the line in 1902 brought a new island platform and station buildings in Federation style. The 1879 platform opposite remained for Down trains.

Various modifications to the refuge siding and loop were made in 1907 and 1915. At the Lithgow end of the main structure, the roof was extended to provide a shelter for a signal interlocking frame, which was installed in 1915, though the signal levers were not enclosed with a signal box until 1921.

In 1944 the island platform was extended to the west end and it was at this time that subway access was provided to the platform from the Sydney-bound side. This accorded with the traditional NSW practice between 1900 and 1920 of providing only single-side subway access.

Lawson became an important station as locomotives took on water at that location. Lawson had a large water-tank and an unusual number of water columns since it was the principal watering-halt for Down trains. Recent widening of the Great Western Highway has revealed the remains of what appears to be an underground tank of unknown use.

The station was accompanied by a Station Masters residence which was built in , and replaced by the existing Station Master's residence in . When Chief Commissioner E.M.G. Eddy, was appointed in 1888, he undertook to increase substantially the number of official residences for staff of the Traffic Branch. Over 100 residences were built in his term and that at Lawson is one of them. Residences very roughly reflected the status of the proposed occupant. The example at Lawson (10 Loftus Street) is an example of the largest type that was used in the period 1890–1914. It contained three bedrooms. The asymmetrical plan of the structure predates Eddy's arrival and was first used in 1885.

Adjacent to the Sydney-bound side of the rail corridor is an electrical traction sub-station and electrical depot containing a mixture of buildings originally clad in corrugated Fibro. The substation was built in 1956 in preparation for the complete electrification of the Main Western line from Penrith to Lithgow in 1957. This was the major extension of the metropolitan electrified system after World War II and the first designed to handle the electric haulage of rail freight trains, predominantly coal trains, as well as long-distance electric passenger train services.

The substation was the last of the large brick substations built for the rail electrified system and the largest on the Main Western line past Penrith. Modern solid state rectifier technology has now largely superseded the need for this type of substation building. It is associated and adjacent to the large Lawson electric line works maintenance depot that still operates with administration offices. The substation was designed by New South Wales Government Railways and built in 1956. It suffered some fire damage in 2003.

Platforms and services
Lawson has one island platform with two sides. It is serviced by NSW TrainLink Blue Mountains Line services travelling from Sydney Central to Lithgow.

Description 
The complex comprises a type 11 brick station building, initial island side building, erected in 1902, incorporating a fibrocement clad signal box, completed in 1921; and a brick out shed, completed in 1902. Other structures included a brick-faced island platform, completed in 1902; a remnant timber paling facing side platform, completed in , and a pedestrian subway, completed in 1944. Other structures include the Station Master's Residence at 10 Loftus Street, type 11, brick, tile roof, erected in 1896; and electrical depot site with the former District Engineer's Office – brick (1956) and the workshops – brick base, corrugated iron walls (1957); as well as the signals and earthworks depot (1956-7); and a face brick substation (1956).