[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Evelyn Barker

angry when I found out what had happened that I went straight to my office and wrote an order to the troops, putting all Jewish establishments out of bounds. It was a rotten letter, written on the spur of the moment. I ought to have restrained myself for an hour or two before putting pen to paper."

Operation Shark
With information that the Irgun ring  responsible for the King David Hotel bombing was hiding in Tel Aviv, Barker organised a massive police operation in the city. His instructions were short: "I want you to search Tel Aviv, every single room and attic and cellar in Tel Aviv. Is that quite clear?"
The police action in Tel Aviv, codenamed Operation Shark, began on 30 July and achieved several successes. However, the most important figure of the Zionist underground, Menachem Begin, slipped through British hands. Barker later recalled: "We should have caught him, but the men did not search his house properly. This is one of the problems of search operations. You have to rely on very junior people, and, if they make a mistake, the whole operation can be damaged."

On 24 January 1947, Barker confirmed the death sentence of the Irgun fighter, Dov Gruner. Barker later said in an interview:"This was a cut-and-dried case. Gruner had been caught red-handed, armed and shooting up British troops. His political views were nothing to do with the matter. It's nonsense to say that he was a prisoner of war. There was no war. Even if there had been, the Irgun were not obeying the rules of war. He was a criminal, a murderer. So I took it up to Alan Cunningham and I said, "This is an absolutely definite case of carrying arms and I propose to sign the death warrant. Do you agree? He said he did. It wasn't political. It wasn't referred to London. It was a decision taken by me on the spot."

Assassination attempts
Barker was the target of several assassination efforts, which included explosive devices placed around his residence. In 1977, after it was revealed that the future President of Israel, Ezer Weizman, was involved in one of these attempts, Barker commented: "I expect he's glad that he failed in his mission. What good would it have done to kill me? It wouldn't have helped the Jewish cause or the Irgun or anyone else. At least General Weizman has been able to go through the last thirty years without a murder on his conscience."

Last years of military service and retirement
Barker left Palestine in February 1947, and returned to the United Kingdom. Despite controversy surrounding his command in Palestine, Barker was largely unknown to the public. On 15 November 1948, he was promoted to a full general, with seniority backdated to 3 October 1946. On 2 January 1950, he was made Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath. From 6 July 1949 to 18 March 1950, he was aide-de-camp general to the George VI. On 18 March 1950, Barker retired from military service. 

On 1 January 1951, he was made the Honorary Colonel of the 286th (Hertfordshire and Bedfordshire Yeomanry) Regiment, Royal Artillery, and held that post until 31 December 1962. He was Deputy Lieutenant for the county of Bedfordshire from 12 July 1952 until 20 April 1967.

References

Bibliography

Commando to Captain-General: The Life of Brigadier Peter Young, Alison Michelli

External links

British Army Officers 1939–1945
Generals of World War II

|-

|-

|-

|-

|-

1894 births
1983 deaths
Administrators of Palestine
Antisemitism in the United Kingdom
British Army generals of World War II
British Army personnel of the Russian Civil War
British Army personnel of World War I
British military personnel of the Palestine Emergency
British military personnel of the 1936–1939 Arab revolt in Palestine
Commanders of the Legion of Honour
Companions of the Distinguished Service Order
Deputy Lieutenants of Bedfordshire
Graduates of the Royal Military College, Sandhurst
Graduates of the Staff College, Camberley
King's Royal Rifle Corps officers
Knights Commander of the Order of the Bath
Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire
Military personnel from Portsmouth
People educated at Summer Fields School
People educated at Wellington College, Berkshire
People from Southsea
Recipients of the Military Cross
Recipients of the Silver Medal of Military Valor
British Army generals