[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Gretchen Whitmer

of families separated by immigration authorities.

Whitmer disapproved of Trump's plan to exclude illegal immigrants from the 2020 United States census. In 2019, she told immigration rights groups that she supported plans to give undocumented immigrants driver's licenses or a form of government ID.

Infrastructure 
After running on the slogan "fix the damn roads" during her campaign, Whitmer secured historic funding for Michigan roads and bridges as governor. During her first term, over 16,000 lane miles of roads and 1,200 bridges were repaired across the state. In 2020, Whitmer announced the Rebuilding Michigan program, providing $3.5 billion in state funding for over 120 road projects for the next five years, with a focus on major roads with the greatest economic impact and traffic volume. In 2022, Whitmer signed a bipartisan $5 billion infrastructure deal that included over $400 million for state and local roads and bridges, and an executive order to streamline road repairs directing agencies to speed up permitting for infrastructure projects. Also in 2022, she announced the creation of the Michigan Infrastructure Office to coordinate between agencies and spend infrastructure funding more effectively.

The Michigan Transportation Asset Management Council's 2022 report found that Michigan's roads were "in their best shape in years", with the proportion of roads rated "good" and "fair" increasing while those in "poor" condition decreased. The council's 2023 report found that "slightly fewer roads were in good condition and slightly more were deemed poor" but said it was a good sign that roads had not deteriorated substantially from the gains in the previous year.

Whitmer has invested over $2 billion in water infrastructure improvements since taking office. She secured $1.7 billion in water infrastructure investments as part of a nearly $5 billion bipartisan infrastructure deal signed into law in 2022. The package included major funding for local governments to upgrade their drinking water systems, hundreds of millions to replace an estimated 20,000 lead service lines across the state, and millions more to address other drinking water contaminants. Whitmer created the office of the Clean Water Public Advocate in 2019 and has enforced Michigan's recently updated lead and copper drinking water rule, which has the nation's strictest standards for drinking water contamination.

LGBT rights 
Whitmer has been a longtime advocate for expanding Michigan's civil rights to include LGBT individuals, supporting efforts “since her first term in office.” She was endorsed by the Human Rights Campaign in both her 2018 and 2022 campaigns for governor. On March 16, 2023, Whitmer signed bipartisan legislation to expand the Elliot Larsen Act to include protections for sexual orientation and gender identity. The expansion protected LGBT Michiganders from  discrimination in employment and housing. The bill signing “was heralded as a historic advancement in civil rights for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer Michiganders by activists and policymakers.” Several Republican lawmakers joined with Democrats in the Michigan House and Senate to pass the bill with by significant margins.

Tax and fiscal policy
As governor, Whitmer has signed several major tax cuts into law. In 2021, she signed bipartisan legislation to eliminate the tampon tax – repealing the state sales tax on all feminine hygiene products. The bipartisan bill provided $7 million in total tax savings. Whitmer signed two bipartisan tax cuts for small businesses into law in 2021, totaling $275 million. In October 2021, she signed legislation into law expanding property tax exemptions, providing $75 million in savings for small businesses. In December 2021, Whitmer signed bipartisan legislation creating a SALT tax cap workaround for small businesses and providing a total of $200 million in tax savings. In 2023, she signed a bipartisan $1 billion package of tax cuts into law. The legislation repealed the retirement tax, quintupled the Michigan Earned Income Tax Credit, and allocated up to $500 million per year of corporate taxes towards the state's fund for business incentives. In 2022, Michigan had the fifth-lowest state and local tax burden in the nation and the lowest in the Midwest, according to the nonpartisan Tax Foundation.