[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Clement Howell

South & North Caicos or The Bahamas for high school education. During his time as a member of the Legislative Council for Providenciales, he worked tenaciously with members of the community and together, they accomplished their goal. The Providenciales High School opened its doors in September 1987.

Disappearance
Towards the end of July 1987, Howell travelled to Nassau, Bahamas to witness the wedding of one of his nephews. On Sunday, August 2, 1987, Howell, along with W. Livingston Swann - his brother-in-law, Martin Walkin, Stanley Gardiner, and pilot, Ken Gardiner, boarded a five-seater Piper Aztec with the call letters N622RH, en route for Providenciales. The plane never arrived and was presumed to have crashed into the sea, killing all on board. The US Coast Guard, BASRA and other local search operations were called off a few days later. Nothing was ever found of the aircraft or the people on board.

Honours
The Providenciales High School was renamed the Clement Howell High School in 1991 in recognition of the stalwart contribution Clement Howell made to the field of education in the Turks and Caicos Islands and in honour of his contribution to agitating for the building of the school.

During the PDM Convention of 2006 Mr. C. Howell was honoured for his contribution to the party and to the development of politics in the Turks and Caicos Islands.

While celebrating the 20th anniversary of the high school, the organisers unveiled a bust of Clement Howell near the entrance of the school and published a commemorative magazine featuring his life and work.

See also 
List of people who disappeared mysteriously at sea

References

External links

Clement Howell High School website

1935 births
1980s missing person cases
1987 deaths
Missing air passengers
Missing people
Missing person cases in The Bahamas
People lost at sea
Turks and Caicos Islands politicians
Victims of aviation accidents or incidents in 1987
Victims of aviation accidents or incidents in the Bahamas