[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Monarchy in Manitoba

4.2 metres (13.8 feet) square. It was not, however, considered a good likeness; Burch admitted as much, explaining he only had a tiny, poorly-lit photograph to work from. This prompted the commissioning of the third painting, which was a gift from Lieutenant Governor Francis Lawrence Jobin in 1978.

Also painted by Burch, using oil on plywood, the final iteration, five by seven metres (16.4 by 23 feet) in size, depicts the Queen in the gown she wore for the 1977 opening of the federal parliament, with her insignia of the Sovereign of the Order of Canada and Sovereign of the Order of Military Merit and, on her head, the Grand Duchess Vladimir Tiara. After it was installed the following year, when the Winnipeg Jets, housed in Winnipeg Arena, became a National Hockey League team, Jets players were known to try to hit the painting with pucks during practice.

When the Jets left the city for Phoenix, Arizona, in 1996, the portrait remained in the arena for another three years, thereafter being purchased by Syd Davy, President of the Royal Commonwealth Society, and then Vancouver-based singer-songwriter Tim Lawson, who put it in storage in Whitby, Ontario. The present owner, Ron D'Errico, has willed it to Brent Fitz; though, D'Errico would like to see it installed at the Canada Life Centre, where the Jets now play; the corporate ownership has not been receptive. It was put on display outside the Canada Life Centre when Winnipeg hosted the 2016 Heritage Classic and at Polo Park mall, near where Winnipeg Arena used to stand, as a form of tribute following the death of Elizabeth II in 2022.

History

Princess Anne and her elder brother, Prince Charles, Prince of Wales, presided over the celebrations of the centennial of Manitoba's entry into Confederation in 1970.

In 2022, Manitoba instituted a provincial Platinum Jubilee medal to mark the Queen's seventy years on the Canadian throne; the first time in Canada's history that a royal occasion was commemorated on provincial medals.

See also
 Symbols of Manitoba
 Monarchy in Canada

References

External links
 
 Manitobans who share Queen Elizabeth's birthday celebrate at tea at CBC
 As Queen Elizabeth marks Platinum Jubilee, what does monarchy mean in Manitoba? at CBC

Manitoba, Monarchy in
Politics of Manitoba