[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Lists of former Guantanamo Bay detainees alleged to have returned to terrorism

repatriated on April 30, 2008, are:
Nasrullah,
Esmatulla,
Rahmatullah Sangaryar,
Sahib Rohullah Wakil, and Abdullah Mohammad Khan.

Department of Defense
In March 2009, U.S. officials revealed that Abdullah Ghulam Rasoul (detainee #8) is now leading the Taliban's operations in southern Afghanistan.

The May 2009 "one in seven" claims

On May 21, 2009, Elizabeth Bumiller, writing in The New York Times, reported that they had secured access to an unreleased Pentagon report that asserted "one in seven" former captives "are engaged in terrorism or militant activity."
According to The New York Times Pentagon officials had asserted 74 former captives had returned to terrorism, and had named 29 individuals, including 16 previously unpublished ones.  The New York Times chose to publish only 15 of those 16 names because of discrepancies concerning the 16th.

On June 6, 2009 Clark Hoyt, whose byline lists him as The New York Times "public editor" wrote an apology to The New York Times readers for Bumiller's article.

DoD list of May 27, 2009

On May 27, 2009, the Defense Intelligence Agency published a "fact sheet" Former Guantanamo Detainee Terrorism Trends that contained a Partial Listing of Former GTMO Detainees Who have Reengaged in Terrorism. Although it was published on May 27, it bears the date April 7, 2009.

2017
Abu-Zakariya al-Britani, also known as Jamal Udeen Al-Harith, murdered a number of Iraqi soldiers and killed himself via murder-bombing in 2017.  The BBC reported that Tony Blair personally was involved with getting Abu-Zakariya freed from Guantanamo in 2004.  The UK government paid $1 million as compensation to Abu-Zakariya al-Britani for his stay at Guantanamo.

Third party comments

In August 2011 UK captive Tarek Dergoul got into a scuffle with a parking official, who was giving his car a ticket at an expired parking meter.
He received a one-year conditional sentence, and had to undergo a mental health assessment.
Benjamin Wittes, a legal scholar who focuses on counter-terrorism issues, referred to the issue of competing assessment as to what percentage of former Guantanamo captives should be considered Guantanamo recidivists, when he asked whether Dergoul's conviction would make him a recidivist.

References

External links

 
 
 

Counterterrorism in the United States