[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas E. Bramlette

aring that the state had fulfilled its quota of soldiers for the Union army. January 4 of the following year, he proclaimed that rebel sympathizers would be held responsible for all guerrilla raids in the state, and specified stiff fines and imprisonment for anyone found to be aiding the guerrillas.

Although Bramlette assumed the governorship as a staunch supporter of the Union cause, within a year he issued a proclamation that he would "bloodily baptize the state into the Confederacy". The reasons for Bramlette's reversal were many. He took issue with General Stephen Burbridge's decision to enlist for United States Colored Troops blacks from Kentucky for military service, asking that this measure only be taken if Kentucky failed to meet her quota.

With the goal of enlistment of Kentucky blacks into the Union Army, Lincoln authorized a special census in 1863 which showed 1,650 freemen and 40,000 enslaved males of military age. Presented with this figure, by March 1864, Bramlette reluctantly agreed to Black enlistment since white enlistment failed to meet quota. He stipulated that owners must consent and receive $300. By April, enslaved men, despite the stipulation of owner consent and motivated by the prospect for their emancipation,  fled to enlist. This led to a wave of violence towards those seeking enlistment. Given this onslaught, by June 1864 owners’ consent was no longer required, as ordered by Union Army Adj. Gen. Lorenzo Thomas.

The situation worsened when on July 5, 1864, President Lincoln suspended the writ of habeas corpus for citizens of the Commonwealth. Burbridge continually menaced Kentucky's citizens, interfering with the presidential election of 1864, and banishing Lieutenant Governor Richard T. Jacob from the state. When the General Assembly re-convened in January 1865, Bramlette continued to voice his opposition to the Union's tactics. Nevertheless, he urged passage of the Thirteenth Amendment, maintaining that the institution of slavery was "irrevocably doomed".

Reconstruction era
Despite his disagreements with the Lincoln administration, Bramlette proclaimed a day of fasting and prayer upon receiving news of Lincoln's assassination. The General Assembly petitioned new president Andrew Johnson to call an end to martial law in the state. The tension between the state and federal governments remained, however. Bramlette announced that every "white male citizen" twenty-one years of age who had resided in the Commonwealth for at least two years would be eligible to vote. Spurred on by the Democratic governor's actions, Kentucky gave control of both houses of the General Assembly and five of its nine congressional seats to Democrats.  President Johnson received the message, ending martial law and restoring habeas corpus in Kentucky.

When the General Assembly convened in December 1865, Bramlette sought to restore harmony in the state by issuing pardons to most ex-Confederates. He and the majority of the General Assembly opposed passage of the Fourteenth and Fifteenth amendments, and Bramlette protested the establishment of the Freedmen's Bureau in the Commonwealth.

Bramlette was very proud of those of his accomplishments not related to the Civil War, including the reduction of the state's debt and the establishment of the Agricultural and Mechanical College (later, the University of Kentucky). He supported the construction of turnpikes financed by government bonds, the development of natural resources, and encouraged immigration to obtain adequate labor to support reconstruction efforts.

Later life and death

Following his term as governor, Bramlette conducted a failed campaign to become a U.S. Senator. He married Mary E. Graham Adams in 1874, two years after the death of his first wife. He returned to his law practice in Louisville, and became a patron of many charitable organizations.

Bramlette died in Louisville on January 12, 1875, following a brief illness. He is buried at Cave Hill Cemetery in Louisville.

See also

Kentucky in the Civil War

References

Bibliography

Further reading

External links

 
 Biography from Lawyers and Lawmakers of Kentucky

1817 births
1875 deaths
Burials at Cave Hill Cemetery
Governors of Kentucky
Kentucky Commonwealth's Attorneys
Kentucky Democrats
Kentucky lawyers
Kentucky state court judges
Kentucky Whigs
19th-century American politicians
Members of the Kentucky House of Representatives
People from Clinton County, Kentucky
Politicians from Louisville, Kentucky
People of Kentucky in the American Civil War
Southern Unionists in the American Civil War
Union Army colonels
Union (American Civil War) state governors
United States Attorneys for the District of Kentucky
Democratic Party governors of Kentucky
19th-century American judges
19th-century American lawyers