[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lew Hing

d jobs he helped a European woman make her fruit jams for storage in glass jars.  This taught Lew about food preservation and how to avoid food poisoning.  It was a natural next step for Lew to combine his metalwork with his food preservation skills to join in the new industry of canning foodstuffs.

At age 18 in 1877, Lew Hing founded his first cannery with another metalworker of Family Association ties, Lew Yu-tung.  The cannery was located at the northeast corner of Sacramento and Stockton Streets in San Francisco and took up the first two stories of the building with the basement as storage.  Lew Hing and other Family Association members lived on the third floor.

In the 1880s–1890s, canning food was still a new concept.  Lew Hing had embarked on a long period of trial and error before the cannery could reliably produce safe and edible canned foods.  When food was not preserved properly or the cans were not fully sterilized (for example, each can had to be soldered individually by hand), noxious bacterial action would ruin the product, causing cans to swell and even explode.  Eventually, Lew Hing developed safer and more effective formulas for canning various fruits and vegetables.  These formulas were never documented since they were Lew Hing's trade secrets and were kept from rival canneries.  Canned fruit items became a very good seller in Chinatown as many Chinese made purchases to take back to China.  Soon, the products were purchased by Westerners and sales expanded outside San Francisco's Chinatown.

Middle years
Lew's original cannery thrived for over two decades. Then, in 1902, at age 44, he decided to close the cannery and retire to Canton. However, within a year Lew returned to the Bay Area, opening the Pacific Coast Canning Company at 12th and Pine Streets in Oakland.

Always on the cutting edge of progress, Lew built his new cannery as the first concrete building in the industrial part of Oakland, plus he insisted on the most advanced machinery for mass production of his products.  Also, in contrast to San Francisco, Oakland had space for a larger cannery as well as providing the Southern Pacific railroad tracks directly to the cannery dock for easy shipping of Lew's Buckskin brand canned goods throughout the United States.  Products included asparagus, cherries, apricots, peaches, pears, and grapes.  Tomatoes were the most popular.  Always a stickler for quality, each morning, Lew would go to the Tasting Room and open, inspect, and taste batches of food processed the day before.  Eventually, Buckskin canned goods would make their way throughout the Western hemisphere.

In 1906, Lew Hing was able to make substantial assistance to Bay Area earthquake victims.  He opened his cannery to the homeless and also provided tents elsewhere for temporary shelter.  He hired cooks to provide meals.  Following the earthquake, many San Franciscans relocated to Oakland, including several Chinese.  As with several ethnic groups, Chinese were compelled to remain in ethnic clusters.  Lew assisted these Chinese with finance and leadership by organizing neighborhoods, including the area that became Oakland's Chinatown.  As a consequence, he became involved with many Oakland Chinatown organizations, making contributions to their many causes and forming business alliances in relation to the Pacific Canning Company.

As the Pacific Canning Company prospered, Lew Hing diversified his interests into many other areas, including a personal interest in the Loong Kong Tien Yee Association, an organization for the families of Lew, Quan, Jung and Chew, and fostered the group in both Oakland and San Francisco.

In 1907 Lew returned to San Francisco for added business interests.  Given his natural leadership in the Chinese community, he became President of the Canton Bank of San Francisco, located at the northeast corner of Montgomery and Sacramento Streets. In the same year he also entered the hotel business, building The Republic Hotel on Grant Avenue (near Sacramento Street). However, his San Francisco interests had to be juggled with his work as president and owner of Pacific Coast Canning Company in Oakland. Always a careful and punctual man, he devised a schedule that allowed him to spend half of each work day in San Francisco, half in Oakland.

Later years 
By 1910, Lew Hing had entered the import-export trade, first as an investor with Sing Chong and Fook Wah Companies which imported art goods from China.  Then, in 1910, Lew Hing began his own import-export business, shipping wholesale Chinese food items from Hop Wo Cheung in Canton, China to Hop Wo Lung, a store on Grant Avenue in San Francisco.

By 1911, Lew Hing's Pacific Coast Canning Company had become one of Oakland's largest businesses, providing over 1,000 jobs during the peak canning seasons.  Employees were usually from the local Portuguese, Italian, and Chinese communities.  Lew Hing was the Bay Area's single largest employer of Chinese.