[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Von Steigers

Kurt and Karl Von Steiger were the ring names of Canadian professional wrestlers Lorne Corlett (died November 8, 2022) and Arnold Pastrick. The Von Steiger gimmick was that of two German villains, called heels, despite both wrestlers hailing from Winnipeg, Manitoba. Arnold Pastrick used the name Kurt Von Steiger, and Lorne Corlett worked as Karl Von Steiger. The Von Steigers are best known for competing in Pacific Northwest Wrestling in Portland, Oregon, between 1968 and 1973 but also competed in Tennessee, San Francisco, Stampede Wrestling, Australia, the American Wrestling Alliance and the Carolina territory.

Professional wrestling history
Arnold Pastrick made his professional wrestling debut in 1959 in his native Winnipeg, Manitoba, and worked for the local Madison Wrestling Club promotion as a solid mid-card face. Lorne Corlett made his debut in 1960, working for the Madison Wrestling Club under the ring name "Butcher Boy" Corlett. In 1965, Corlett won the MWC Heavyweight Championship and held it for over 6 months. When the Madison Wrestling Club folded in 1968, the two men formed a tag team and adopted a German gimmick — not an overtly Nazi ring persona, but instead playing off the imagery of World War I Germany complete with spiked helmets. The gimmick was a strange choice for Pastrick because his parents were Polish and had been held in a Concentration camp during World War II.

Von Steigers
The Von Steigers first became noticed as a team in the Calgary, Alberta-based Stampede Wrestling, where they won the Stampede Wrestling International Tag Team Championship in 1967, their first title as a team. After working in the Stampede Territory for a while, the duo moved on, leaving Canada to begin working for the promotion most synonymous with the Von Steigers, NWA Pacific Northwest in Portland. In Portland, the team really came into their own and they found success as the Von Steigers; the fans despised the duo, and the partners quickly rose up the card. Their fellow wrestlers held the team in great respect because they were good "ring generals", in other words they were good at controlling the flow of the match, keeping the pre-planned story on track. While working in Portland, the Von Steigers engaged in several storylines with other Portland based teams, such as The Royal Kangaroos ("Lord" Jonathan Boyd and Norman Frederick Charles III) and the team of Tony Borne and Moondog Mayne. The Von Steigers held the NWA Pacific Northwest Tag Team Championship seven times, defeating such teams as Moondog Mayne and Beauregarde, Billy White Wolf and Johnny War Eagle and the pairing of Tony Borne and Moondog Mayne. Kurt Von Steiger also saw singles success in Portland, winning and holding the NWA Pacific Northwest Heavyweight Championship briefly in 1970 and again in 1971. In early 1971, Portland territory owner Don Owen and Mad Dog Vachon, who were close friends, planned to have the Vachon Brothers (Butcher and Mad Dog) lose the AWA World Tag Team Championship to the Von Steigers. Although the Von Steigers won the championship, the title change was never officially recognized by the AWA. The problem was that the Vachons had not gotten permission from American Wrestling Association (AWA) owner Verne Gagne to lose the titles to the Von Steigers. The Vachons lost the AWA titles to the Von Steigers on February 23, 1971, and then went on a tour of the Orient; when they returned three weeks later, the Vachons "regained" the titles on a technicality.

The team kept working for NWA Pacific Northwest but also did the occasional tour of other promotions, such as the NWA Mid-Pacific promotion in Hawaii. On September 10, 1969, the Von Steigers defeated Pedro Morales & Ed Francis for the NWA Hawaii Tag Team Championship, but lost the title belts back to Morales and Francis a month later. In 1971 the team toured Australia working for the Australian version of World Championship Wrestling, where they defeated King Curtis Iaukea and Mark Lewin for the IWA World Tag Team Championship and held the titles until they were replaced with the NWA Austra-Asian Tag Team Championship. In 1972 Kurt Von Steiger bought a share of a wrestling promotion in Phoenix, Arizona, and decided to settle down there. Karl Von Steiger, on the other hand, decided to keep on traveling the world while wrestling, which led to the Von Steigers splitting up.