[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Margaret Pittman

sterility tests led to changes that protected transfusion recipients. One key change was that a small vial of donated blood be kept separate from the main container of donated blood for sterility testing so that new contaminants could not be introduced on syringes used to withdraw blood for testing.

In 1943, soon after the Division of Biologics Control had moved to the new Bethesda, Maryland, campus of the NIH, Pittman began work on a standard of potency for a pertussis (whooping cough) vaccine.  In collaboration with Dr. Pearl Kindrick and Dr. Grace Eldering of the Michigan Department of Health, who had pioneered an effective pertussis vaccine but who had been unable to develop a potency assay, Pittman guided the 1949 initiation of U.S. standards for pertussis vaccine, which also became the basis of the international potency requirement of the World Health Organization. This led to a tenfold drop in mortality from whooping cough in the United States between 1945 and 1954. The safety of the vaccine, however, continued to be a vexing issue, especially the risk of neurological reactions similar to those caused by the disease itself.  Throughout the rest of her career, Pittman continued to work on research that would improve the safety of the vaccine.

During 1955, Dr. Pittman agreed to serve as president of the Washington Academy of Sciences, which was a one-year term. In 1958, her years of tireless research were rewarded when she was named Chief of the Laboratory of Bacterial Products, a post she held until her retirement in 1971.  The first woman to head an NIH laboratory, Pittman never complained about sex discrimination, but for historians looking back, it is hard not to wonder whether a man who arrived at any institution with an international reputation for research achievements equivalent to hers would have been made to wait twenty years for such advancement.

During the 1960s, Pittman worked with the Cholera Research Laboratory in Dacca, East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) on a Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO) project headed by Dr. Joseph E. Smadel, an associate director at NIH.  After Smadel's sudden death in 1963, Pittman served as project director for five years. With her colleagues, she demonstrated that the potency assay of the cholera vaccine was directly related to the effectiveness of the vaccine. Pittman also served as a consultant to the World Health Organization in formulating the WHO requirement for cholera vaccine.  She participated in WHO comparative laboratory assays of typhoid vaccines and contributed to the development of revised U.S. standards. Finally, with NIH colleagues, Pittman worked out standards for a single injection of tetanus toxoid in pregnant women to protect newborns who, in rural areas of New Guinea, were often delivered unaided and left for a period of time on the bare ground.

In 1971, Pittman officially retired at the age of 70, but continued to work at the NIH as an "unpaid consultant."  During her prolific career, Dr. Pittman was the recipient of numerous awards, including an honorary LL.D. from Hendrix College and the Federal Woman's Award in 1970. To recognize her mother's hard work in helping her and her siblings pay for their college education at Hendrix, Pittman in 1981 created the Virginia A. McCormick Pittman Distinguished Professorship. She received the EMD Millipore Alice C. Evans Award from the American Society for Microbiology in 1990. In 1994, she was honored with an NIH Lectureship in her name. A collection of her papers is held at the NIH's National Library of Medicine in Bethesda, Maryland and an oral history is available from the Office of NIH History. Dr. Pittman died on August 19, 1995, in Cheverly, Maryland and is buried in Prairie Grove, Arkansas.

References

1901 births
1995 deaths
American microbiologists
Hendrix College alumni
University of Chicago alumni
People from Prairie Grove, Arkansas
Women microbiologists
20th-century American women scientists
20th-century American biologists
Scientists from Arkansas