[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Colombia–United States relations

work with union leaders and union members, and those organizations which demand "immediate social, political or economic reform may be an indication that the insurgents have gained a significant degree of control." The manual explains that the indicators of communist/insurgent infiltration include:

Refusal of peasants to pay rent, taxes, or loan payments. Increase in the number of entertainers with a political message. Discrediting the judicial system and police organizations. Characterization of the armed forces as the enemy of the people. Appearance of questionable doctrine in the educational system. Appearance of many new members in established organizations like labor organizations. Increased unrest among laborers. Increased student activity against the government and its police, or against minority groups, foreigners and the like. An increased number of articles or advertisements in newspapers criticizing the government. Strikes or work stoppages called to protest government actions. Increase of petitions demanding government redress of grievances. Proliferation of slogans pinpointing specific grievances. Initiation of letter-writing campaigns to newspapers and government officials deploring undesirable conditions and blaming individuals in power.

Late-20th century

Drug trade

Author Doug Stokes claims that there is a major discrepancy between the U.S. "stated goals of US policy and the actual targets and effects" of the war on drugs in Colombia, arguing that U.S. military assistance has been primarily directed at fighting the FARC and ELN guerrillas despite the fact that past CIA and DEA reports have identified the insurgents as minor players in the drug trade. Stokes proposes a revisionist continuity theory: that the War on drugs is a pre-text and this war, just as the Cold War that preceded it and the War on Terror that followed it, was mainly about Northern Hemisphere competition to control and exploit Southern Hemisphere natural resources. In other words, "the maintenance of a world capitalist order conducive to US economic interests." As this competition for third world resources has continued even after the collapse of the Soviet Union, there would be continuity in U.S. foreign policy. 

United States interventions in Colombia on behalf of the 'War on Drugs' saw extensive activity within Colombia during the latter half of the twentieth century. Before the 1990s and vast amounts of US spending was dedicated to combating drug production in Colombia, smaller scale operations were taking place. In the 1980s under the Drug Enforcement Agency (DEA), the US federal government oversaw investigative, covert and militant operations both in collaboration with, and against the wishes of, the independent Colombian government. Perhaps the most pressing example of these interventions, was the US involvement in the fight against Pablo Escobar. The DEA's involvement in Colombia as part of the hunt for Escobar demonstrated an important case study in the wider aspects of US-Colombian relations. With the help of the US Delta Force, extensive training, equipment and financial support, the defeat of Pablo Escobar and the Medellin Cartel marked an important moment for both the US and Colombia. The events brought into question the true effectiveness and reasonings for US involvements, their right to do so and the consequences. Mark Peceny and Michael Durnan argue that "ephemeral success" (such as the fight against Escobar, which led to further cartel driven conflicts, i.e., the Cali Cartel) and "U.S antidrug policies make it extremely difficult for the Colombian government to forge a durable public-private partnership for the management the cocaine industry". Ultimately further questioning the righteousness of US interventions in Colombian issues.

1986 RAND, 1992 CIA and 1994 DEA positions
In 1986, the U.S. Defense Department funded a two-year study by the RAND Corporation, a private organization with a long and close relationship with the U.S. government. This study found that the use of the armed forces to interdict drugs coming into the United States would have little or no effect on cocaine trafficking and might in fact raise the profits of cocaine cartels and manufacturers. The 175-page study, "Sealing the Borders: The Effects of Increased Military Participation in Drug Interdiction," was prepared by seven researchers, mathematicians and economists at the National Defense Research Institute. The study noted that seven prior studies in the past nine years, including one by the Center for Naval Research and the Office of Technology Assessment, had come to similar conclusions. Interdiction efforts using current armed forces resources would have almost no effect on cocaine importation into the United States, the report concluded.