[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ronan Lee

mining in Queensland. As a Green MP Lee introduced two private member's Bills to Parliament aiming to permanently ban uranium mining and uranium exploration. Both bills received their first reading in parliament but lapsed once the 2009 Queensland election was announced and the parliament dissolved.

Parliamentary career
In 2001, Lee obtained preselection for the seat of Indooroopilly and surprised many by defeating former Queensland Liberal Leader Denver Beanland in the state elections that year. The surprise result was mainly due to two factors: the huge margin that re-elected the Beattie Labor Government and the strong grass-roots campaign employed by Lee. In 2003, Lee made a parliamentary speech which noted Bengali language was spoken by hundreds of millions of people worldwide and advocated the teaching of Bengali language in Queensland schools. In 2004, Lee was re-elected to his seat and during this term he campaigned against the Labor government's asset sales including the privatisation of parts of Queensland's electricity industry.
 In 2006, he won a third parliamentary term when he defeated the Liberal Party's Peter Turner. During this term, Lee was made a Parliamentary Secretary.

In 2008 Lee announced that he had resigned from the ALP and defected to the Greens, becoming their first-ever parliamentarian. Lee subsequently became one of the first MPs in Queensland to publicly support same-sex marriage. As the Greens' parliamentary leader, Lee campaigned at the election for a moratorium on shale oil mining in the Great Barrier Reef, support for renewable energy, the construction of light rail in Brisbane instead of new road construction, and free public transport for young people and pensioners.

In the 2009 election, Lee achieved a vote share of 25.93 per cent, a record vote for a Greens candidate, but failed to retain his seat, losing to LNP candidate Scott Emerson.

Parliamentary Secretary
Following the 2006 election Premier Peter Beattie appointed Lee Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Communities, Disability Services, Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Partnerships, Seniors and Youth. Lee's main focus was on youth policy arguing for a greater role for young people in government decision making and in favour of improved public transport services at night and on weekends.

With Beattie's retirement in 2007, Premier Bligh appointed Lee Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Main Roads and Local Government.

In this role Lee advocated for greatly increased spending on bikeways and public transport, proposing a dramatic expansion of Brisbane's CityCat ferry fleet and a new rail line to Brisbane's western suburbs. Funding for these projects he argued should come at the expense of new highway construction.

In 2008 Bligh moved Lee to the newly created role of Parliamentary Secretary to the Attorney-General and Minister for Justice and Minister Assisting the Premier in Western Queensland where he was to focus on consumer protection and organising the state's No Interest Loans Scheme for low income earners. In this role Lee was critical of broad reach of the State's anti-public nuisance laws which he said contributed to the controversial and violent arrest of a homeless pensioner.

References

External links
 Ronan Lee website

1976 births
Living people
Members of the Queensland Legislative Assembly
Australian Greens members of the Parliament of Queensland
Australian Labor Party members of the Parliament of Queensland
21st-century Australian politicians