[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jay Denny

ell, however, Halesowen Town's off the field problems were now seemingly resolved and manager Matty Clarke persuaded Denny to return to The Grove as club captain. He spent the season at The Grove narrowly missing out on the play-offs before signing for Southern League Premier rivals Hednesford Town.

Hednesford Town
Manager Bernard McNally signed Denny for Hednesford Town in July 2010 on a 12-month contract, one of a number of new recruits for the 2010–11 campaign. The club won the Southern League Cup, beating Hemel Hempstead Town over two legs, 5–1 on aggregate. The team followed up the cup success by qualifying for the playoffs after finishing the league season in second position behind champions Truro City. This gave the Pitmen home advantage in the semi-final against Leamington, a game they won 3–1 to progress to the playoff final against third-place finishers Salisbury City. However, after a 1–1 draw in the 90 minutes Hednesford regained the lead, but Salisbury equalised late in extra time and won the tie on penalties. Denny finished the season with two goals from 54 appearances in all competitions, one from 42 in the league. Hednesford transferred to the Northern Premier League for the 2011–12 season. Denny renewed his contract for the new season, and captained the side to another playoff campaign, but was sent off in the semi-final as Bradford Park Avenue won 5–0.

Worcester City
After training with the club during pre-season, Denny joined Worcester City on non-contract terms before the 2012–13 season. In September, having started only one game for Worcester, Denny moved to fellow Conference North team Solihull Moors, for whom he made his debut in an FA Cup second qualifying round match against Westfields.

Newtown
In June 2017, Denny joined Welsh Premier League side Newtown.

International career
Denny made various appearances for the United States U-17s and U-20s national teams. He captained the U-20 squad on two occasions in a tournament in Ireland (Wales and Northern Ireland). Denny was forced to miss the U-20 squad's final training camp before selection for the CONCACAF final qualifying tournament for the 2005 under-20 World Cup because of professional commitments to Stoke City; this coincided with a change of national coaches prior to the competition and he was not selected for the tournament squad.

Career statistics

References

External links

Halesowen Town profile

1986 births
Living people
Soccer players from Santa Monica, California
Men's association football midfielders
American men's soccer players
Stoke City F.C. players
Shrewsbury Town F.C. players
Nuneaton Borough F.C. players
Brackley Town F.C. players
Halesowen Town F.C. players
Leamington F.C. players
Hednesford Town F.C. players
Worcester City F.C. players
Solihull Moors F.C. players
AFC Telford United players
Newtown A.F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Southern Football League players
Northern Premier League players
American expatriate men's soccer players
Cymru Premier players