[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Idlib Governorate

and their allies on the other. After 7 February, the clashes also included Jund al-Aqsa as a third belligerent, which had re-branded itself as Liwa al-Aqsa and was attacking the other combatants. The battles were fought in the Idlib Governorate and the western countryside of the Aleppo Governorate.

The Khan Shaykhun chemical attack took place on 4 April 2017, on the town of Khan Shaykhun, then under the control of Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (HTS). The town was struck by an airstrike by government forces, which was followed by massive civilian chemical poisoning. The release of a toxic gas, which included sarin, or a similar substance, killed at least 74 people and injured more than 557, according to the Idlib health authority. The attack was the deadliest use of chemical weapons in the Syrian civil war since the Ghouta chemical attack in 2013. The United Nations, the governments of the United States, United Kingdom, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, France, and Israel, as well as Human Rights Watch have attributed the attack to the forces of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. The Assad government denied using any chemical weapons in the air strike.

Predominance of rebels like HTS (2017–18) 
The Idlib Governorate clashes (July 2017) were a series of military confrontations between Ahrar al-Sham and Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham. During the clashes, Tahrir al-Sham attempted to capture the Bab al-Hawa Border Crossing. As a result of the clashes, HTS took control of Idlib city, the border crossing, and most of the areas along the Turkish border in the Idlib Province. Clashes resumed in July 2017. In September 2017, the Syrian government and its Russian allies intensified bombing raids against rebel-held towns in Idlib, with multiple casualties. Officially, the campaign to capture areas held by ISIL and the rebels began in October. A Turkish military operation in Idlib Governorate took place in October/November 2017.

As of August 2018, following the end of the Siege of al-Fu'ah and Kafriya, which had been government-held until July 2018, the governorate is almost entirely under the control of the Syrian rebels (primarily the National Front for Liberation, which has over 50,000 fighters) along with Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, with estimated numbers of fighters between 12,000 and 30,000. In September 2018, a demilitarization zone was created on the front between the government and the Turkish-backed opposition, temporarily freezing the conflict.

Government on the rebound (2019–present)
On October 26, 2019, U.S. Joint Special Operations Command (JSOC) conducted a raid in the Idlib province of Syria, on the border with Turkey, that resulted in the death of ISIS leader Abū Bakr al-Baghdadi. The raid was launched after a CIA intelligence effort located him, and conducted during the withdrawal of U.S. forces in northeast Syria, further complicating the operation The Syrian Democratic Forces and Iraqi military also supported the operation; Turkey said it coordinated with the US prior to the mission.

A large portion of the governorate was retaken by government forces during the course of the 2019 offensive, which caused the displacement of nearly a million civilians, and subsequent 2020 offensive, which caused the death of over 1,000 more, often in aerial bombardments. As of March 2020 – if not sooner – rebel control over Idlib Governorate was considered a matter of political survival of the Turkish President Erdoğan. If Idlib falls back into the hands of the Syrian government, the next targets would be the Turkish-controlled zones in northern Syria, and their fall would signal the failings of Erdogan's war against the PKK.

After the value of Syrian currency plummeted, the Turkish lira was adopted as legal tender in the governorate on 15 June 2020.

Geography
Parts of the westernmost regions of the governorate form part of the Al-Ghab Plain, through which the Orontes River flows. The region forms a transitional zone between the forested mountains of the western littoral and the Syrian desert to the east. The Jabal Zawiya highland region lies in the south-central areas of the governorate.

Settlements
Idlib is the provincial capital; other major settlements include Abu al-Duhur, Al Hamdaniyah, Ariha, Harem, Jisr al-Shughur, Kafrsajna, Khan Shaykhun, Ma'arrat al-Nu'man, Salqin, Saraqib and Taftanaz.

Districts

The governorate is divided into five districts (manatiq), which are further divided into 26 sub-districts (nawahi):

 Idlib District (7 sub-districts)
 Idlib Subdistrict
 Abu al-Duhur Subdistrict
 Binnish Subdistrict
 Saraqib Subdistrict
 Taftanaz Subdistrict
 Maarrat Misrin Subdistrict
 Sarmin Subdistrict

 Arihah District (3 sub-districts)
 Ariha Subdistrict
 Ihsim Subdistrict
 Muhambal Subdistrict
 Harem District (6 sub-districts)
 Harem Subdistrict
 Al-Dana Subdistrict
 Salqin Subdistrict
 Kafr Takharim Subdistrict
 Qurqania Subdistrict
 Armanaz Subdistrict