[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marvin Eastman

hips (EFC) Light heavyweight Champion with a majority decision win over UFC and PRIDE veteran Travis Wiuff. On July 22, 2006, the WFA reemerged with King of Streets featuring Quinton Jackson, Matt Lindland, Bas Rutten, and Lyoto Machida, among others. Eastman fought to a draw against Jorge Oliviera.

Eastman made his third appearance in the UFC at UFC 67, losing a hard-fought rematch with Quinton Jackson by knockout in the second round. Eastman won a unanimous decision over Rob Kimmons at IFO: Eastman vs. Kimmons, claiming the IFO's middleweight title. He returned to the Ultimate Fighting Championship at UFC 81 on February 2, 2008, defeating "Dangerous" Terry Martin in a dominant unanimous decision.

At The Ultimate Fighter 7 Finale, Eastman was defeated by Drew McFedries in the first round via knockout. In October 2008, Eastman lost to PRIDE and Spirit MC veteran Denis Kang by knockout 48 seconds into the opening round. Eastman was set to fight PRIDE veteran Ricardo Arona in late December but pulled out of the fight due to a knee injury suffered during training. Eastman defeated Aaron Lofton at MFC 21, winning by technical knockout. Eastman lost to Ricardo Arona by unanimous decision in the long-awaited fight at Bitetti Combat MMA 4.

A month after his loss to Arona, Eastman fought up and coming Canadian prospect Ryan Jimmo at MFC 22 on October 2. Twenty six seconds into the round, Eastman dropped and almost finished Jimmo with a straight right hand and hammer fist afterward but Jimmo weathered the storm and was able to out strike Eastman for the remainder of the round. In the second round Jimmo kept Eastman at bay with punches and kicks, midway through the second round Jimmo landed an elbow from the clinch that opened a significant gash under Eastman's left eye; the doctor checked on Eastman and let him continue. With only thirty seconds remaining in the second round Eastman was wobbled by a short uppercut from Jimmo but was able to clinch with the Canadian and survive the round. In the final round Eastman was able to land more clean strikes than he did in the first two rounds, Eastman also managed to take Jimmo down twice; seconds before the final bell Jimmo sent Eastman crashing to the mat with a stiff jab. Jimmo defeated Eastman by split decision. As a result, Eastman had lost five out of his last eight bouts.

Eastman faced former professional boxer Dwayne Lewis at MFC 23 on December 4, 2009. Lewis was the aggressor in the fight continually attacking Eastman with punch combinations to the head and body. With only two seconds left in the round, Lewis connected with an uppercut directly to the chin that sent "The Beastman" pummeling to the mat and followed up with three clean shots to the chin of an unconscious Eastman before the referee could pull him off the unconscious Eastman thus giving Lewis the KO win at 4:58 of the first round. Next he fought Steve Bossé, the only significant action in the fight took place in the 1st round where Bossé knocked Eastman down with a left hook. Eastman lost the mediocre bout by unanimous decision. Eastman had lost 8 out of his last 14 fights.

He then faced Api Hemara, winning by TKO in the third round and snapping his four fight losing streak but soon lost his next fight he was KO'd by Glover Teixeira. Eastman faced Dmitry Zabolotny at Lou Neglia's Ring of Combat XL in Atlantic City, New Jersey, on April 27, 2012, he won the fight via unanimous decision.

Making his return to Muay Thai, Eastman was initially set to fight Ricardo van den Bos for the vacant WPMF World Super Heavyweight (+95.454 kg/210.4 lb) Championship at Muaythai Superfight in Pattaya, Thailand on May 13, 2013. The event was pushed back to June 14, 2013, however, and he lost by TKO midway through the second round.

On September 28, 2013, Eastman faced Sean O'Connell at SHOWDOWN FIGHTS: XII Buchholz vs. Collard II. Eastman lost via unanimous decision.

Personal life
Aside from his fighting career, Eastman also worked as a corrections officer in Las Vegas.

Championships and awards

Amateur wrestling
California Interscholastic Federation
California State Wrestling -86.6 kg/191 lb Championship

Mixed martial arts
Elite Fighting
Elite Fighting Light heavyweight (-92.9 kg/205 lb) Championship
International Fighting Organization
IFO Middleweight (-83.9 kg/185 lb) Championship
King of the Cage
KOTC Super Heavyweight (+120.2 kg/265 lb) Championship
World Extreme Fighting
WEF Light heavyweight (-92.9 kg/205 lb) Championship
World Fighting Alliance
WFA Light Heavyweight Championship

Submission grappling
Grapplers Quest
Grapplers Quest Heavyweight (-94.8 kg/209 lb) Championship

Kickboxing record