[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Quneitra Governorate

te, but were repelled by the Syrian Army. In October 2015, the rebels launched another offensive, which once again ended in a stalemate. Despite a semi-ceasefire set up by Russia and the US in September 2016, insurgents in the governorate declared a new offensive against the government forces there.

In June and July 2018, the rebel-held areas in the governorate was almost entirely retaken by the Syrian Army and its allies with Russian air support, with only a marginal part remaining at the hands of the ISIL-allied Khalid ibn al-Walid Army near the Jordanian border. The rebel groups of Ahrar al-Sham, Hay'at Tahrir al-Sham, Southern Front, Army of Islam, Criterion Brigades and Army of Free Tribes evacuated from the area to Idlib under an agreement with the Syrian government. In August 2018, Russia deployed its military police force to man several posts along the Bravo line of the buffer zone on the Golan Heights.На Голанских высотах появились четыре поста российской военной полиции  RIA Novosti, 14 August 2018.

Districts

The governorate is divided into two districts (manatiq). The districts are further divided into six sub-districts (nawahi):

 Quneitra District (al Qunaytirah), which is further officially divided into 4 sub-districts (nawahi):
 Quneitra Subdistrict (mostly in neutral zone since 1973)
 Jubata al-Khashab Subdistrict (a.k.a. Jabta Elhashab)
 Mas'ade Subdistrict (a.k.a. Massade; under Israeli occupation since 1967)
 Khishniyah Subdistrict (a.k.a. Hushnia; under Israeli occupation since 1967)
 Fiq District, which is further officially divided into 2 sub-districts (nawahi):
 Fiq Subdistrict
 Elmahjer Subdistrict

Demographics
Before the Six-Day War and Yom Kippur War, the Golan Heights comprised 312 inhabited areas, including 2 towns, 163 villages, and 108 farms. In 1966, the Syrian population of the Golan Heights was estimated at 147,613. Israel seized about 70% of the Golan Heights in the closing stages of the Six-Day War. Many of these residents fled during the fighting, or were driven out by the Israeli army, and some were evacuated by the Syrian army. A cease-fire line was established and large parts of the region came under Israeli military control, including the town of Quneitra, about 139 villages and 61 farms. Of these, the Census of Population 1967'' conducted by the Israeli Defence Forces listed only eight, including Quneitra. One of the remaining populated villages, Shayta, was partially destroyed in 1967 and a military post built in its place. Between 1971–72 it was destroyed completely, with the remaining population forcibly transferred to Mas'ade, another of the populated villages under Israeli control.

Prior to the 1967 Six-Day War, the population of Quneitra governorate was between 130,000 and 145,000, of which about 17,000 were Palestinian refugees. The rural and urban population of Quneitra governorate consisted of Druze Arabs living in the north of the governorate, Circassians (descendants of refugees who fled their homeland in the Caucasus during the Tsarist-Circassian genocide in the 19th century), Turkmens, Arab Alawites, Arab Sunni Fellahin and Bedouin. The urban population of the city of Quneitra included Isma'ili and Shi'a Muslim Arabs. Others had previously moved to the Caucasus after the fall of the Soviet Union. The Golan Heights was the principal concentration of Syrian Circassians in the entire country.

The population of Syrian-ruled portions of Quneitra Governorate in 2021 was estimated to be 105,124. Prior to the Syrian Civil war, about 8.5% of Palestinian refugees living in Syria, lived in Quneitra Governorate. The total number of refugees and descendants from Israeli-occupied Golan Heights was estimated to be more than 350,000, mostly living in and around Damascus. Israeli occupied Golan Subdistrict has a population of about 50,000, half of whom are Syrian Arab, and the other half are Israeli settlers living in settlements deemed illegal under international law.

See also 
 Druze in Syria

References

External links
 equnaytra The First Complete website for qunaytra news and services

 
Governorates of Syria