[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia

programs.

Events, Awards, and Workshops 
Each year, the Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia hosts and supports a wide range of social science or policy-focused lectures, forums, roundtables and other events around the country. Many of these events are free of charge and open to the public.

Events 
The Annual Symposium is the highlight of the Academy’s calendar. Convened by one or more Fellows and held over a full day in November , the Annual Symposium is a public forum examining an important issue in the social sciences and/or public policy arena.

The Academy also hosts a series of lectures over the year. These include, but are not limited to:

 Cunningham Lecture — presented by an eminent social scientist as part of the Annual events immediately following the Symposium. The Cunningham Lecture is named in honour of Professor Kenneth Stewart Cunningham, Founding President of the Social Science Research Council.
 Fay Gale Lecture — presented each year by a distinguished female social scientist.
 Keith Hancock Lecture — presented each year by a distinguished social scientist nominated by the Academy Fellows.
 Paul Bourke Lectures — presented each year by each recipient of the Paul Bourke Awards for Early Career Research.
 Peter Karmel Forum — held each year to provoke public discussion on a particular policy of Australian government, the policy making process itself, or comparisons of policies or policy processes found in Australia with those found in other jurisdictions.

Awards 
The Paul Bourke Awards for Early Career Research are named in honour of the Academy’s past president Paul Francis Bourke (1938–1999) who was a product of the History school at the University of Melbourne and went on to become one of the first Australian historians to obtain American style doctoral training.

Whilst at Flinders University, he served as Professor of American Studies and also as Pro-Vice Chancellor. From Flinders University, he went on to become the Director of the RSSS at the Australian National University and also served as the President of The Academy of the Social Sciences in Australia (1993–1997). Amongst scholars, the contribution Paul made to the field of performance measurement is considered to be invaluable.

Based on nominations from Fellows, each Panel of the Academy will select one outstanding scholar to receive one of four Paul Bourke Awards. It is the intention of the Academy that the awards are presented to social science researchers who, at the time of nomination, do not yet hold an Associate Professor or Professorial appointment. Such persons are normally within five years of receiving their doctorate, but allowances are made for career interruptions.

The awards consist of a Citation and Medallion presented to each of the four winners at the Academy Annual Dinner. With the agreement of the winners’ home university, a jointly-sponsored lecture will be delivered by each of the winners during the year following receipt of the awards. The winners will also prepare a promotional article on their research to be published by the Academy.

Workshops 
The Academy’s long-standing Workshop Program provides small grants to support interdisciplinary meetings discussing contemporary policy or research issues of interest to the social sciences. The workshops usually run for two-days and involve around 20 invited experts; mostly from the research sector, but also where relevant from government, the community sector or industry. It is a condition of funding that workshops are gender balanced in terms of speakers and participants, and include at least two early career researchers.

Each workshop supported by the Academy must also produce a report for online or physical publication by the Academy.

Other Academies 
There are three other learned Academies in Australia, those of Humanities (Australian Academy of the Humanities), Science (Australian Academy of Science) and Technological Sciences and Engineering (Australian Academy of Technological Sciences and Engineering). The four Academies cooperate through the National Academies Forum, formed in 1995.

References

External links

1942 establishments in Australia
Australian National Academies
Educational institutions established in 1942
Social Sciences