[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Special Forces of Zimbabwe

Special Forces of Zimbabwe are the units of the Zimbabwe National Army that operate as special forces. These forces have been deployed in several African conflicts, including the Mozambique Civil War and the Second Congo War.

Antecedents

In 1980 Prime Minister Robert Mugabe declared integration of Rhodesian Army, which at independence was the existing army, with the two guerilla armies: Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA) and Zimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army (ZIPRA). This meant Rhodesian Special forces were quickly disbanded and refounded. 1 Commando Brigade was created based on the Rhodesian Light Infantry and Rhodesian African Rifles. British advisors refounded the Special Air Service. Special Forces selection and training were taken from the ones used by Rhodesian army Special forces.

The first operation of the new Special Forces lasted from December 5 to 9 in 1984. Operation Lemon comprised elements of 3 Brigade, the Parachute Group and Special Air Service. Special Forces were deployed to Mozambique to protect the Beira Corridor railway link between Zimbabwe and the port of Beira.

Composition
According to Jane's Special Forces Recognition Guide, Special Forces in the Zimbabwe National Army include:

One Commando Regiment (formerly One Commando Battalion, previously the Rhodesian Light Infantry), based at Cranborne Barracks, Harare. The commando regiment is the Zimbabwe National Army's lethal and premier special operations light infantry unit. It is capable, flexible and very agile to solve complex military problems beyond the competence of the general duty soldier. It is trained primarily as a special missions unit to conduct direct action raids and assaults in very adverse or sensitive situations. It is trained to be highly mobile and fight independently in the battlefield, with some of its primary roles being to skirmish ahead of the main army force to ambush enemy whilst en route to the battlefield and/or, to harass, disturb, demoralise and prevent the enemy from properly moulding up for combat. Other missions include siege breaking, traditional direct action commando hit and run raids, enemy camp/target seizures and destruction. The commando regiment is led by Lieutenant Colonel Hwami Vengesai. Selection phase include a four-day navigating day and night in the Zambezi Valley while carrying a 30kg weight on an empty stomach. Selection course runs for 21 days starting at the regiment and completed by a final 120km 48 hour navigation to wafa wafa training grounds in Kariba from a selected point. The making of a commando. Further training curriculum includes river crossing, mountain climbing, reconnaissance, anti-hijacking, sniping, unarmed combat, tracking and bush craft. Also included is jungle survival on wild fruits and natural remedies for medical treatment. The training curriculum and professional standards are strenuous that those who complete it are highly respected in the ZNA. Upon completion of selection and training, the soldiers earn the right to wear the distinguishing features of the commando regiment and identify themselves as Commandos. Their operators wear the Tartan Green beret and stable belt, the Commando dagger patch on the side of the chest, and the shoulder tabs engraved commando and special forces. The training course is designed to select, sharpen and create soldiers in character that are unique in some ways from other regular soldiers. Their character profile is found with it men of courage, discipline, fearlessness, above average motivation, supreme aggression, that they are the deadliest and the best of the best, physically very fit and agile, that nobody is better than them, that once engaged in battle they will never run away from the enemy or surrender, that where regular troops have failed is where their job starts, that they are the cream of the ZNA. Their motto is "No mission is impossible until one drops dead". This unit works closely with the SAS with its elite commando Diamond Squadron company being manned by some tiny cadre of secret SAS personnel as undercover/pseudo operators. From their involvement in the Second Congo War, this unit performed to the highest professional standards, earning itself a fearsome and respected reputation as a very fine special fighting unit. In conventional warfare, generally this unit traditionally experiences more extended hardcore military violence than the SAS who conversely perform highly sensitive, very difficult and precision missions. It is differentiated from the SAS in that the SAS is more a specialist covert long range field intelligence gathering and infiltration special operations regiment whose tasks are beyond the capabilities of either the commando or Parachute regiments. Further, SAS operates with very small teams to conduct protracted, very complex and challenging small team operations, involving high level precise military skills for precision surgical operations, often in very remote areas, with