[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Census Act 1800

e being printed in two volumes by the parliamentary printer, Luke Hansard. It had taken just over a year for the complete results to be published, by which time the crisis in grain supply was over and prices had fallen. The total cost of collecting and analysing the data came in at less than £6,000.

As the government only wanted a headcount, and not individual details, householder registration forms were not issued to enumerators. Enumerators often made unofficial notes to assist in producing their area report, with differing levels of detail. Some drew up lists that noted the head of household and gave figures in columns opposite their name to say how many were in the family and the work they did. Others made listings of their local area on a level of detail equal to or greater than the 1841 and 1851 censuses, including names, family groups and relationships, ages, dates of birth, and population movements between parishes. The census legislation stipulated that overseers should hand over any such lists drawn up during the enumeration to the churchwardens for safe-keeping. Where this was complied with, these detailed census records were kept in a variety of record sets, such as parish registers of baptisms, marriages, and burials, or the accounts books of the overseers or churchwardens. These record sets, where they survive, are often now publicly available in local record offices and libraries and/or online, though others may exist in private hands.

Subsequent censuses
The censuses held in 1811, 1821, and 1831 were based on the same model as the 1801 census. With the passing of the Population Act 1840, a new approach to censuses was adopted under the responsibility of the Registrar General and was first implemented in the 1841 census.

Results

Population by nation

Other findings
 There were more women than men in the country, but not by a large amount: the imbalance was due to the numbers serving abroad;
 The population lived in 1.8 million houses: an average of six per house; 
 2 million people worked in agriculture; 
 2 million worked in making or selling things, which ranged from handicrafts to factory work;
 There were more baptisms than burials;
 There were an increasing number of marriages in the second half of the 18th century;
 the population was increasing, not declining.

The system of recording occupations, by classifying numbers of males and females employed either in agriculture, in trade/manufactures/handicrafts, and the number not employed by either, reportedly generated some confusion, as enumerators incorrectly classified many women, children, and servants in the category of 'neither'. The 1811 and 1821 censuses would refine their format in attempts to minimise these errors.

References

External links
Chronology of the United Kingdom 1800-1849
BBC History Working Life and the First British Census
Image of the Act on the Parliamentary website
 Guide to United Kingdom Census resources, including surviving 1801 census records

Census
Censuses in the United Kingdom
Great Britain Acts of Parliament 1800
UK