[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Multibody system

degrees of freedom with only one rotational and two translational degrees of freedom.

The degrees of freedom in planar motion can be easily demonstrated using a computer mouse. The degrees of freedom are: left-right, forward-backward and the rotation about the vertical axis.

Constraint condition 

A constraint condition implies a restriction in the kinematical degrees of freedom of one or more bodies. The classical constraint is usually an algebraic equation that defines the relative translation or rotation between two bodies. There are furthermore possibilities to constrain the relative velocity between two bodies or a body and the ground. This is for example the case of a rolling disc, where the point of the disc that contacts the ground has always zero relative velocity with respect to the ground. In the case that the velocity constraint condition cannot be integrated in time in order to form a position constraint, it is called non-holonomic. This is the case for the general rolling constraint.

In addition to that there are non-classical constraints that might even introduce a new unknown coordinate, such as a sliding joint, where a point of a body is allowed to move along the surface of another body. In the case of contact, the constraint condition is based on inequalities and therefore such a constraint does not permanently restrict the degrees of freedom of bodies.

Equations of motion 

The equations of motion are used to describe the dynamic behavior of a multibody system. Each multibody system formulation may lead to a different mathematical appearance of the equations of motion while the physics behind is the same. The motion of the constrained bodies is described by means of equations that result basically from Newton’s second law. The equations are written for general motion of the single bodies with the addition of constraint conditions. Usually the equations of motions are derived from the Newton-Euler equations or Lagrange’s equations.

The motion of rigid bodies is described by means of

 (1)

 (2)

These types of equations of motion are based on so-called redundant coordinates, because the equations use more coordinates than degrees of freedom of the underlying system. The generalized coordinates are denoted by , the mass matrix is represented by  which may depend on the generalized coordinates.
 represents the constraint conditions and the matrix  (sometimes termed the Jacobian) is the derivative of the constraint conditions with respect to the coordinates. This matrix is used to apply constraint forces  to the according equations of the bodies. The components of the vector  are also denoted as Lagrange multipliers. In a rigid body, possible coordinates could be split into two parts,

where  represents translations and   describes the rotations.

Quadratic velocity vector 
In the case of rigid bodies, the so-called quadratic velocity vector  is used to describe Coriolis and centrifugal terms in the equations of motion. The name is because  includes quadratic terms of velocities and it results due to partial derivatives of the kinetic energy of the body.

Lagrange multipliers 

The Lagrange multiplier  is related to a constraint condition  and usually represents a force or a moment, which acts in “direction” of the constraint degree of freedom. The Lagrange multipliers do no "work" as compared to external forces that change the potential energy of a body.

Minimal coordinates