[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Eric Cline

about the Saskatchewan Indian Gaming Authority's accounting methods.  Cline acknowledged that the SIGA had made significant improvements in recent years, and indicated that the government would hold the casino's profits in trust if further concerns were not resolved (Canadian Press, 7 August 2004).

Cline led a twelve-day business excursion to Europe in September 2004, and spoke at the World Nuclear Association Symposium in London (Broadcast News, 3 September 2004). He presented to the conference on Saskatchewan's pioneering Reclaimed Industrial Sites Act, which requires funds to be in place to ensure environmental reclamation and monitoring after mines shut down. In response to opposition questions later in the year, he argued that constructing a nuclear power plant in Saskatchewan would not be economically viable (Canadian Press, 19 October 2004).

In January 2005, Cline presided over an economic conference in Saskatoon billed as the Centennial Summit.  Representatives from several industries gathered in the city, and called for a more competitive business environment (Saskatchewan Business, 1 March 2005).  The following year, Calvert and Cline headed a Saskatchewan delegation on energy resources to the United States, which met with Vice-President Dick Cheney (The Oil Daily, 22 February 2006).

Cline was identified as the best minister in the Calvert government in 2005 by members of the government, opposition and media, amid a general economic recovery in the province (Regina Leader-Post, 18 June 2005).  He relinquished cabinet responsibility for the Gaming and Liquor commission in early 2006 (SSP, 4 February 2006).

Retiring from public life

On December 15, 2006, Cline announced that he would not be seeking re-election.  On April 19, 2007, New Democrats in the constituency of Saskatoon Massey Place selected Cam Broten to be their candidate in the next provincial election.  Broten won the nomination on the first ballot after a three-way race. 400 people were in attendance at the nomination meeting. On April 23, 2007, Cline stated the following about Broten:

"Cam Broten is young, enthusiastic, intelligent, hard-working, and absolutely dedicated to the ideas and values at the heart of Saskatchewan’s success ... I have every confidence that he will prove to be an outstanding representative for Saskatoon Massey Place."
(Saskatchewan Hansard, April 23, 2007, p. 1363)

Broten was elected for Saskatoon Massey Place in the 2011 Saskatchewan general election. He became Leader of the Saskatchewan New Democratic Party and Leader of the Opposition in the Saskatchewan legislature in 2012, but was defeated in the 2016 Saskatchewan general election in the new riding of Saskatoon Westview.

After leaving politics, Cline returned to work in the private sector in Saskatoon, first as Vice President of a diamond exploration company (2007-2012), then as a corporate lawyer and Vice President of a potash company,(2012-2018). He remained active in the community, serving on various community and industry boards, including the Saskatchewan Mining Association, YMCA of Saskatoon, Shakespeare on the Saskatchewan Theatre and several others, all in a voluntary unpaid capacity.

In 2008,  a memoir of his time in politics, Making a Difference—Reflections From Political Life, was published (Thistledown Press, Saskatoon) and Cline oversaw the construction of a new home in Saskatoon that year and in 2009.

After retiring as a corporate executive in 2018, Cline returned to the practice of law part time and commenced working as a fused glass artist on a professional basis. He joined the Saskatchewan Craft Council as a professional craftsperson in 2018 and became a peer-reviewed juried member of the  Council in the category of glass the following year. He became a member of the Saskatoon Glassworkers Guild, established Cline Art in Glass and commenced selling works and accepting commissions for homes and offices in Saskatoon and other centres in Saskatchewan, Alberta, Ottawa and Washington DC.

In 2019 Cline ended a 47 year association with the federal wing of the New Democratic Party following the expulsion of Regina Lewvan member of Parliament Erin Weir by federal NDP leader Jagmeet Singh. Cline joined with 67 other formerly elected New Democrats to raise concerns about the expulsion. Singh summarily dismissed the concerns on national television by describing the former members as “persons occupying positions of privilege” trying to “intimidate” him.