[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Matot

mselves from their fellow Israelites and settled outside the Land of Israel. As a result, they became the first tribes to be taken away into exile, as 1 Chronicles  reports, "Tillegath-pilneser king of Assyria ... carried ... away ... the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh."

The Tanna Devei Eliyahu taught that if you live by the commandment establishing the Sabbath (in  (20:8 in the NJPS) and  (5:12 in the NJPS)), then (in the words of ) “The Lord has sworn by His right hand, and by the arm of His strength: ‘Surely I will no more give your corn to be food for your enemies.” If, however, you transgress the commandment, then it will be as in , when “the Lord’s anger was kindled in that day, and He swore, saying: ‘Surely none of the men . . . shall see the land.’”

Similarly, a Midrash taught that the Reubenites and the Gadites cherished their property more than human life, putting their cattle before their children when they told Moses in , "We will build sheepfolds here for our cattle, and cities for our little ones." Moses told them that their priorities were wrong and that they should rather do the more important things first, when Moses told them in , "Build you cities for your little ones, and folds for your sheep." The Midrash saw in their different priorities application of the words of , "A wise man's understanding is at his right hand"—applying to Moses—and "A fool's understanding at his left"—applying to the Reubenites and the Gadites. God told the Reubenites and the Gadites that as they showed greater love for their cattle than for human souls, there would be no blessing in it for them. The Midrash thus saw in their fate application of the words of , "An estate may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the end thereof shall not be blessed," and the words of , "Do not weary yourself to be rich; cease from your own wisdom."

In the Mishnah, Rabbi Meir noted that  and 29 stated the same condition in both positive and negative formulations.  states the condition in the positive: "And Moses said to them, if the children of Gad and the children of Reuben will pass with you over the Jordan, . . . then you shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession." And  states the same condition in the negative: "But if they will not pass over with you armed, then they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan." Rabbi Meir deduced that every stipulation must be stated in both the negative and positive formulations, like the condition of the children of Gad and the children of Reuben in  and 29, or it is not a binding stipulation. Rabbi Hanina ben Gamaliel II maintained, however, that Moses stated the matter both ways because he needed to do so to be understood; otherwise one might have concluded that the Gadites and Reubenites would receive no inheritance even in the land of Canaan.

The Mishnah taught that those who removed from the Temple coins collected in the shekel tax could not enter the chamber wearing a bordered cloak or shoes or sandals or tefillin or an amulet, lest if they became rich people might say that they became rich from money in the chamber. The Mishnah thus taught that it is one’s duty to appear to be free of blame before others as before God, as  says: “And you shall be guiltless before the Lord and before Israel.”

Similarly, the Tosefta cited , “You shall be clear before the Lord, and before Israel,” to support the proposition that while out collecting charity, charity collectors were not permitted to separate their own money from that which they collected for charity by placing their own money in a separate purse, lest it appear that they were stealing for themselves some of the money that they gathered for charity. While collecting for charity, a charity collector could not take for personal use money from a friend who owed the charity collector money, and a charity collector could not take for personal use money that the charity collector found on the road.

The Sages taught in a Baraita that they honored the memory of the family that baked the Temple showbread, for they never allowed fine bread to be found in their children's hands. And the Sages honored the memory of the family that made the Temple incense, for they never allowed a bride of their house to go about perfumed. In both cases, the families did so to fulfill the command of  that "you shall be clear before the Lord and before Israel"—meaning that people should act so as to avoid even the appearance of transgression.

Commandments

According to Maimonides
Maimonides cited a verse in the parashah for one negative commandment:
Not to transgress in matters that one has forbidden oneself

According to Sefer ha-Chinuch
According to Sefer ha-Chinuch, there is 1 positive and 1 negative commandment in the parashah. 
The precept of the law of nullifying vows
That we should not break our word in vows that we make