[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Independence

The Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Independence (, BPUPK; , Hepburn: , Nihon-shiki / Kunrei-shiki: ), sometimes referred to as the Investigating Committee for Preparatory Work for Indonesian Independence (, BPUPKI), was an organization set up in March 1945 by the Japanese military authority in Java during the Japanese occupation of the Dutch East Indies as the initial stage of the establishment of independence for the area under the control of the Japanese 16th Army. The BPUPK held two plenary meetings; the first was from 28 May to 1 June 1945 and the second was between 10 and 17 July 1945.

Background
Realising Japan was losing the war, on 7 September 1944, in a session of the Japanese parliament, Prime Minister Kuniaki Koiso promised independence for the [Dutch] 'East Indies' at "sometime in the future". The Japanese navy was not supportive of the idea, but the 25th Army in Sumatra established a Central Advisory Council, headed by Mohammad Sjafei, which met only once. Despite navy opposition, army-navy liaison vice-admiral Maeda Tadashi began to fund speaking tours by Indonesian nationalists Sukarno and Hatta. Other groups were set up, both civilian and military, and Indonesians began to be appointed to administrative posts. After the Japanese defeat at the Battle of Leyte Gulf and the liberation of the Philippines, the Japanese abandoned hope of turning Indonesia into a puppet state, and now began to try and win goodwill. However, a rebellion by PETA militias in Blitar in February 1945 showed the Japanese they were losing control.

Java

Formation and composition 
In February 1945, partly in response to the Koiso declaration, the 16th Army decided to establish a committee to investigate Indonesian independence. According to Benedict Anderson, this was intended as a concession to Indonesian nationalists, and the Japanese hoped it would redirect nationalist enthusiasm towards harmless arguments between factions. The BPUPK was announced by the Sixteenth Army commander Lieutenant General Kumakichi Harada on 1 March 1945 to work on "preparations for independence in the region of the government of this island of Java". In the three months before the committee was established, a 19-member advisory board, or Sanyo Kaigi chaired by Sartono discussed the organization, agenda and membership of it. The membership was to comprise 30 Indonesians, 3 Japanese and one representative each of the Chinese, Arab and Dutch ethnic groups. The board agreed to the two-stage Japanese plan of an investigating committee for Java, followed by a preparation committee for all of Indonesia. It also agreed that the territory of the independent state would not be discussed. The BPUPK eventually met in the building formerly used by the Volksraad (People's Council), which had been set up by the Dutch. The Japanese appointed 59 members, representing the major groups in Java and Madura. The membership, which was announced on April 29, (coinciding with the birthday of Emperor Hirohito), included eight Japanese, including one of the vice-chairmen. Among the members were:

The Japanese vice-chairman, , was unable to understand Indonesian, the language used in the meetings.

Plenary sessions

First (28 May – 1 June 1945) 
The opening ceremony took place on 28 May. It opened with a speech by the commander of the Japanese 16th Army, Lieutenant General Yuichiro Nagano, who said that independence was being granted to Indonesia to ensure good relations with Japan in the long term. There were speeches by other Japanese officials followed by the taking of a commemorative photograph. The meetings over the next four days consisted mostly of speeches by members and discussions about the ideology of an independent state, in particular whether there would be a role for Islam.  On 31 May, Professor Soepomo called for an authoritarian integralistic state based on a combination of the systems in Nazi Germany and Imperial Japan, with a strong executive. He claimed that as each individual would be a part of the state, there would be no need for guarantees of human rights because the interests of the state and its citizens would be exactly the same. On the final day, 1 June, Sukarno made his famous speech in which he outlined the Pancasila - the five principles that would form the ideological basis of the new state. Although the speech was well-received, Islamic leaders were worried that their interests would not be protected under Pancasila. At the end of the BPUPK session, members were encouraged to discuss their views and hear opinions from the people at meetings held in their hometowns. A sub-committee of eight members, the panitia kecil (small committee), was set up with Sukarno as chairman to discuss the issues that had emerged.