[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joseph ibn Tzaddik

Peti of Joseph ha-Ro'eh), who assert that the world was produced by the created will of God. For him the will of God has existed from all eternity, and can not be separated from the essence of God. He claims that creation is timeless, and that before the production of the spheres time did not exist.

From the notion of the existence of God results the conception of the uniqueness of God; for the supposition of a plurality in His essence would nullify the notion of His existence. What the unit is to other numbers—forming and embracing them, yet still differing from them in essence—God is to the created beings. With the doctrine of the unity of God is connected the doctrine of the divine attributes. Here Joseph is in advance of his predecessors Saadia Gaon and Bahya ibn Paquda; and, like Maimonides, he concludes that no positive attributes, whether essential or unessential, can be posited of God, who is indefinable.

Ethics 

The fourth division deals with the duties of man, reward and punishment, and resurrection. Man must serve God with all his heart, and carry out all His precepts, though, owing to the weakness of his intellect, he may not grasp the reason for some of them. With Plato, Joseph says that man ought to know three things: (1) that there is a Creator who protects all and disposes of everything; (2) that nothing can be hidden from God; (3) that man can not win the favor of God by sacrifices, but must gain it by good deeds. Joseph asserts man's free will, without which there could be no reward or punishment (see Free Will); and he follows Saadia Gaon in the solution of the problem of God's prescience. The inequality in the distribution of worldly goods, the transitoriness of the world, the relativeness of the happiness procured by worldly goods, are for Joseph so many proofs that reward and punishment can take place only in the next world. He argues against the doctrine of bodily resurrection in the Messianic time. Though not himself a Motazilite, Joseph accepted a number of Motazilite theories and views (Schreiner, Der Kalam, p. 27).

The Olam Katan was little studied in the Middle Ages, and is very rarely quoted. Although paying a high tribute to Joseph's learning, Maimonides, in his letter addressed to Samuel ibn Tibbon (Pe'er ha-Dor, p. 28b), acknowledges that he has never seen the work, in which, he believes, are expounded the teachings of the Brethren of Sincerity. The Olam Katan is cited by David Kimchi, Jedaiah Bedersi, Meir ibn Aldabi, Isaac ibn Latif, and by the author of Ma'amar Haskel. It was edited for the first time by Adolf Jellinek at Leipsic in 1854. A critical edition was published by S. Horovitz in the Jahresbericht des Jüd.-Theol. Seminars, Breslau, 1903. Joseph was the author also of an Arabic work on logic, entitled Al-'Uyun wal-Mudhakarat, quoted in the Olam Katan.

References 

 Abraham ibn Daud, Sefer ha-Ḳabbalah, ed. Amsterdam, p. 47b
 Zacuto, Sefer ha-Yuḥasin, ed. Filipowski, p. 220; Orient, Lit. ix. 283
 Adolf Jellinek, in Kerem Ḥemed, viii. 93
 Beer, Philosophie und Philosophische Schriftsteller der Juden, p. 70;
 idem, in Monatsschrift, iii. 159 et seq.
 Zunz, Literaturgesch. p. 216;
 Sachs, Religiöse Poesie der Juden in Spanien, p. 289;
 Leopold Weinberg, Der Mikrokosmos, Breslau, 1888;
 Kaufmann, Attributenlehre, pp. 255 et seq.;
 Eisler, in Centralblatt, vi. 153;
 Moritz Steinschneider, Hebr. Uebers. p. 997;
 idem, Die Arabische Literatur der Juden, § 102;
 Max Doctor, Die Philosophie der Joseph [ibn] Zaddik, Münster, 1895.

Notes

12th-century rabbis in al-Andalus
1149 deaths
Year of birth unknown