[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Claudio Marchisio

h as captain against Roma in April. On 17 May 2011, Juventus announced that Marchisio had signed an improved, five-year contract with the club. His semi-bicycle kick goal against Udinese in January was voted Goal of the Season by fans on fansite vecchiasignora.com.

Return to victory

2011–12 season

Marchisio started the 2011–12 season well by scoring Juve's final goal in the opening match of the campaign at the club's new stadium, a 4–1 home win over Parma on 11 September 2011. Under former Juventus legend Antonio Conte, he was played alongside new signings Arturo Vidal and Andrea Pirlo to great effect and were dubbed the "M-V-P" midfield by the press and fans. He scored a late double to break the deadlock in the 2–0 win at home against Milan, the first time he has ever scored more than one goal in a match. On 20 November, he scored in his second consecutive league game and surpassed his personal season record of four goals by scoring the last goal in a 3–0 win over Palermo. He scored his first Coppa Italia goal, the match winning goal against Bologna in extra time to send Juve to the quarter-finals. His good form during the first half of the season earned him a nomination for the Serie A Italian Footballer of the Year award and a place in the Serie A Team of the Year. On 18 March, he ended a three-month goal drought with a header in the 5–0 thrashing at Fiorentina and dedicated it his second son, who was born earlier that week. He scored his ninth goal of the season against Lecce in his 200th career match to take his goal tally for the season into the double figures. The following match, he won his first Scudetto after Juve won 2–0 against Cagliari and runners-up Milan lost 4–2 in the Milan Derby against Inter, although Juventus were defeated in the Coppa Italia Final by Napoli. He ended the season with ten goals in league and cup matches.

2012–13 season
With the departure of captain and club legend Alessandro Del Piero in June 2012, it was speculated that Marchisio would "inherit" the number 10 jersey but he declined, stating that he was a midfielder, not a striker, and had grown accustomed to his number 8. He captained the team on the opening match of the season against Parma in the absence of captain Gianluigi Buffon and first vice-captain Giorgio Chiellini. In November, he scored his first-ever goal in a UEFA club competition in the Champions League group stage home fixture against Nordsjælland. He also assisted Fabio Quagliarella's equaliser against Chelsea. He was one of four Juventus players nominated for the 2012 UEFA Team of the Year and was voted into the Serie A Team of the Year at the Oscar del Calcio awards. Although he played fewer matches compared to last season due to suspension and a minor injury, he contributed crucial goals to his side, including the match winner against Siena and a brace against intercity rivals Torino as Juve won a second consecutive league title. Marchisio also scored in the first leg against Celtic in the Champions League round of 16, which Juventus eventually won 5–0 on aggregate to progress on to the quarter-final stage, where they were eliminated by eventual champions Bayern Munich.

2013–14 season

During the 2013–14 season, Marchisio was mostly competing with French youngster Paul Pogba for a spot in the midfield three. He struggled with an injury sustained during the club's 2013 Supercoppa Italiana victory, and was mainly used as a substitute during the first half of the season during league games, starting in Champions League/Europa League matches instead. Partly due to Arturo Vidal's absence due to knee surgery, Marchisio started more matches in the last few months of the season – his four goals all came during the latter half of the season. In April against Bologna he made his career 200th Serie A appearance. He scored Juve's last goal of the season on the last matchday of the season, a 3–0 win over Cagliari. Juventus were able to win their third consecutive title that season, and their 30th overall, with an Italian record of 102 points. Juventus were eliminated in the group stage of the Champion's League, however, although they managed to reach the semi-finals of the Europa League, where they were defeated by Benfica.