[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hapoel Be'er Sheva F.C.

r back. In the same season, the team reached the semi-finals of the State Cup for the first time in history, in the Liga Alef, after beating Hapoel Ramla 2–1 in the eighth round. In the quarterfinals, Hapoel Tel Aviv won 3–1 and was eliminated after a loss 3–0 to Maccabi Tel Aviv in the semi-finals.

In the 1963–64 season, the league was divided into two districts – North and South, and Be'er Sheva finished as the "winter champion" in the Liga Alef South. Be'er Sheva struggled with Beitar Tel Aviv to advance to the national league in the Southern District, and at the end of the season Beitar Tel Aviv finished first with a better goal differential.

In the 1964–65 season, under the guidance of Yugoslav coach Slavko Milošević, the team competed for the national league against Beitar Ramla and Beitar Jerusalem, and finally finished first in the Liga Alef South league, with a gap of nine points from second place, and qualified for the national league for the first time in its history. In addition, the team reached the quarterfinals of the State Cup after defeating Hapoel Haifa from the Liga Leumit. In the quarterfinals they lost 2–4 to Hapoel Tel Aviv after an extension. During the season of promotion, Eliyahu Offer, midfielder-striker Abraham Noma and purchasing player Haim Cohen, who was the team top scorer with 20 goals this season, were conspicuous in the season.

In the 1965–66 season, Yugoslav Selvole Stanković was named coach of the team and was joined by midfielder Yitzhak Gozlan, who came from Hapoel Ofakim. This season, Be'er Sheva promised to stay only in the last round, when she beat Maccabi Netanya 4–0 and finished 13th in the league.

In the summer of 1966, Yehiel Mor was again appointed coach of the team, and the offensive midfielder Meir Barad was joined from the Youth department to the first team. After 12 rounds the team led the league table and later joined the team of youth player Rafi Eliyahu. At the end of the double season 1966–68, the team finished ninth in the table, and Abraham Noma won the Israeli Footballer of the Year award.

In the 1968–69 season, Selvole Stepanović was appointed coach of the team, but already at the beginning of the season to they fell into last place in the league. As a result, the management summoned the former coach of the team, Lonia Dvorin, to serve as a professional manager. After the 16th round, Stepanović was fired and replaced by Moshe Litbek. Under his guidance, the team managed to finish in 14th place and remain in the league. In addition, the team reached the quarterfinals of the State Cup after a 2–1 victory over Bnei Yehuda Tel Aviv in the eighth round. In the quarterfinals the team lost 2–3 to Maccabi Sha'arayim.

The early 1970s
In the 1969–70 season, under the guidance of Avraham Menchel, the team scored only a few goals, finishing with only 24 goals, and was soaking it up when it finished with 49 goals against. Among other things, the team lost 0–8 to Hapoel Tel Aviv. The team finished the season in the 16th and final place in the table, and went down to Liga Alef after five years in the Liga Leumit.

In the 1970–71 season, Moshe Litbek returned to the position of coach of the team. Which began on the basis of its young players at the end of the season, the team returned to the top league from first place in the Liga Alef South, with a gap of 14 points from the second Hapoel Yehud, when Meir Barad finished the season as the team's top scorer with 18 goals. The decision was made by the champions of Liga Alef North, Maccabi Jaffa, in the Super Cup to the second league.

At the beginning of the 1971–72 season, Be'er Sheva was in the top ranks of the Liga Leumit, but Meir Barad injury and a dispute between the club's management and Rafi Eliyahu led the team to the bottom of the league. The return of Barad and Eliyahu two months later did not change their luck, and the team finished 12th in the table with just 25 goals, with Barad finishing the season as king of the team with 11 goals. In the same season, the team met with Aston Villa, one of the top three teams in England at the time, and won it 3–1.

In the 1972–73 season, Eli Fuchs was appointed coach of the team, and was joined by the pioneer Shalom Avitan from Beitar Be'er Sheva. The team opened at the bottom, but improved with the progress of the season thanks to Avraham Numa who was the team top scorer with 14 goals this season, finishing fifth in the table, the best position in its history until then.

The 1973–74 season, started poorly, and after 18 matches Be'er Sheva was in 14th place in the league, but as the league progressed, it improved and finished the season in seventh place in the table. In addition, the team reached the quarter-finals of the State Cup, in which it lost 1–3 to Hapoel Petah Tikva in summing up two games.

First honours