[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Scott Laird

age missed out on a third successive promotion following a play-off semi-final defeat. At the end of the season, Laird rejected an improved contract offer and left the club on a free transfer when his contract expired. Laird made 245 appearances during his four years with the club, scoring 24 goals.

Preston North End
Laird subsequently signed for League One club Preston North End on a free transfer on 27 May 2012. The move reunited Laird with manager Graham Westley, who he had been previously managed by at Stevenage. He made his Preston debut in the club's first game of the 2012–13 season, playing the whole match in 2–0 home win over Huddersfield Town in the League Cup on 13 August 2012. Laird scored his first goals for the club in a 5–0 win against Hartlepool United at Deepdale on 18 September 2012, scoring twice within the space of three second-half minutes. Described as Preston's "standout performer" in the opening months of the season having scored four times and assisted seven goals from left-back, Laird suffered a broken leg following a challenge from Jamal Campbell-Ryce in a home game against Notts County on 20 November 2012. It was later revealed that Laird had broken his left tibia and would miss the remainder of the season. During his recovery, Laird stated that Campbell-Ryce rang him on a weekly basis – "I knew him previously and he's rung me every week to make sure I'm alright. I'm not one to hold grudges anyway and he's been fine. I accept his apology". Laird scored four times in 24 games during his first season with the club.

A year-and-a-half after his sustaining his broken leg, Laird returned to the Preston first-team at the start of the 2013–14 season, making his first appearance back when he appeared as a 74th-minute substitute in a 0–0 draw away at Rotherham United on 10 August 2013. He scored his only goal of the season against his former employers, Stevenage, scoring Preston's second goal in a 3–0 win at Deepdale on 14 September 2013. Laird signed a twelve-month contract extension on 17 December 2013, keeping him contracted to the club until the summer of 2015. He made 42 appearances during the season, scoring once, as Preston missed out on promotion back to the Championship after losing in the play-off semi-finals to Rotherham United.

Laird remained at Preston for the 2014–15 season and was once again a regular at left-back during the season. He scored his first goal of the season in a 2–2 draw with Oldham Athletic in the Football League Trophy on 25 November 2014, courtesy of a diving header from ten yards out to open the scoring. Laird scored in Preston's 3–1 home defeat to Manchester United in the FA Cup on 16 February 2015, briefly giving Preston the lead when his left-footed shot found the net just after half-time. He played in all three of the club's play-off matches at the end of the season, including in Preston's 4–0 win over Swindon Town in the final at Wembley Stadium to gain promotion back to the Championship after a four-year absence. At the end of the season, Laird rejected the offer a new contract at Preston, stating – "maybe I felt I would be pushed down the pecking order, maybe I felt I wouldn't have played as often. "There are no hard feelings, the management team have been brilliant to work with". Laird made 108 appearances during his three-year spell at Preston, scoring seven times.

Scunthorpe United
Following his departure from Preston, Laird signed for League One club Scunthorpe United on 11 June 2015, joining on a free transfer and on a three-year deal. He made his Scunthorpe debut on the opening day of the 2015–16 season, playing the whole match in a 2–1 defeat away to Burton Albion. Laird scored his first goal for Scunthorpe in a 2–1 victory over Shrewsbury Town on 17 October 2015, his header just before the hour mark restoring parity in the match after Scunthorpe had trailed in the first-half. Three days later, on 20 October 2015, he met Scott Wiseman's cross with "a powerful left-footed shot" to give Scunthorpe the lead in an eventual 2–1 defeat to Gillingham. He made 38 appearances in all competitions that season, scoring twice, as Scunthorpe missed out on the League One play-offs after finishing in seventh position.