[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Harry Haywood

d by Liberator Press, Chicago, 1976.
  Articles from Soulbook, 1965–1967.
 Harry Haywood, For a Revolutionary Position on the Negro Question. Chicago: Liberator Press, 1975.
 Harry Haywood, Black Bolshevik: Autobiography of an Afro-American Communist. Liberator Press, Chicago: 1978.

Further reading

 Dawson, Michael C. Black Visions. The Roots of Contemporary African-American Political Ideologies. University of Chicago Press, Chicago: 2001.
 Foster, William Z. History of the Communist Party of the United States. International Publishers, New York: 1952.
 Foster, William Z. The Negro People in American History. International Publishers, New York: 1954.
 Gilmore, Glenda Elizabeth. Defying Dixie. The Radical Roots of Civil Rights 1919–1950. W.W. Norton & Company, New York 2008.
 Howard, Walter T. Black Communists Speak on Scottsboro. A Documentary History. Temple University Press, Philadelphia: 2008.
 Howard, Walter T. We Shall Be Free!: Black Communist Protests in Seven Voices. Philadelphia, PA: Temple University Press, 2013.
 Kelley, Robin D. G. Hammer and Hoe: Alabama Communists During the Great Depression. University of North Carolina Press, Chapel Hill: 1990.
 Kelley, Robin D. G. and Betsy Esch, "Black Like Mao: Red China and Black Revolution", in Afro-Asia: Revolutionary Political and Cultural Connections Between African Americans and Asian Americans. Fred Ho and Bill V. Mullen, Eds. Duke University Press, Durham: 2008; pp. 97–155.
 Solomon, Mark.The Cry Was Unity. Communists and African Americans, 1917–1936. University of Mississippi Press, Jackson: 1998.

External links

Harry Haywood Internet Archive
Documents from School on Afro-American National Question. Important texts from New Communist Movement groups based on theories put forward by Haywood.
The Third International and the Struggle for a Correct Line on the African American National Question. May 2006 text presented by Freedom Road Socialist Organization to the Workers Party of Belgium
Harry Haywood Papers Bentley Historical Library, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

1898 births
1985 deaths
Activists for African-American civil rights
Members of the Communist Party USA
African-American life in Omaha, Nebraska
American Comintern people
Marxist theorists
American Maoists
Abraham Lincoln Brigade members
20th-century African-American politicians
Anti-revisionists
Politicians from Omaha, Nebraska
American sailors
Military personnel from Omaha, Nebraska
United States Army soldiers
African-American trade unionists
American expatriates in the Soviet Union
Burials at Arlington National Cemetery
Communist University of the Toilers of the East alumni
International Lenin School alumni
African-American communists
African-American history of Nebraska
African-American Marxists