[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fort Delaware State Park

Artillery.

The Fort Delaware State Park Gift Shop in Delaware City is the only Civil War gift shop in Delaware, and has a wide variety of books and souvenirs are available. The Fort Delaware Society is a non-profit group dedicated to the preservation and historical interpretation of Fort Delaware.

Wildlife
Fort Delaware State Park is home to a migratory bird rookery, considered to be the largest heronry north of Florida. Ornithologists believe that ibises, egrets, and herons began nesting on the northern part of Pea Patch Island in the 1950s or 1960s on land that was deposited there by the United States Army Corps of Engineers in the early 1900s. The population of birds at Fort Delaware State Park grew from about 2,000 pairs of nesting birds to 12,000 pairs as they were pushed from their nesting areas on the mainland by man. Scientists have become concerned about the decreasing population of birds on Pea Patch Island. The present estimate of nesting pairs stands at 7,000. Studies have shown that nearly half the chicks born at the heronry within the last five years have died before they were old enough to leave their parents care.

Other than coastal erosion, scientist have found little at the park to threaten the herons, ibises, and egrets. It is believed that changing land-use in the estuary and surrounding land has affected the populations. Representatives from local, state and federal governments have teamed together with non-profit wildlife organizations, business, and industry to create a Special Area Management Plan to help change the downward trend in bird populations at Fort Delaware State Park. Since Beach erosion affecting Pea Patch Island was recognized as a potential threat to the Fort in 1999, the United States Army Corps of Engineers erected a  seawall during the winter of 2005-2006.

Nearby state parks
The following state parks are within  of Fort Delaware State Park:
Alapocas Run State Park (New Castle County)
Auburn Valley State Park (New Castle County)
Bellevue State Park (New Castle County)
Brandywine Creek State Park (New Castle County)
Elk Neck State Park (Maryland)
Fort DuPont State Park (New Castle County)
Fort Mott State Park (New Jersey)
Fox Point State Park (New Castle County)
First State Heritage Park at Dover (Kent County)
Lums Pond State Park (New Castle County)
Parvin State Park (New Jersey)
Ridley Creek State Park (Pennsylvania)
Wilmington State Parks  (New Castle County)
White Clay Creek Preserve (Pennsylvania)
White Clay Creek State Park (New Castle County)

References

External links
 Fort Delaware State Park
 Fort Delaware Sea Wall Photographs, Written Historical and Descriptive Data — Historic American Engineering Record

Parks in New Castle County, Delaware
State parks of Delaware
Protected areas established in 1951
Museums in New Castle County, Delaware
Military and war museums in Delaware
Living museums in the United States
History museums in Delaware
1951 establishments in Delaware
Open-air museums in the United States