[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marco Almaviva

canvas. This implied that one had to be a painter to effectively express oneself in this context. Considering this perspective, Almaviva chose to stay within the realm of painting, also because he found that a purely formal approach to art did not satisfy him.

The beginnings and the Tonaltimbrica 

Since its beginnings, Almaviva embraced a vision of art and life that couldn't ignore a fundamental observation, which consists of acknowledging the violence that characterizes the entire natural hierarchy. It is the incessant struggle for survival, the recurring element that pervades, first and foremost, the biological sphere in which human reality is inevitably placed. This was the underlying assumption to which Almaviva referred in all his evaluations concerning everything he had acquired, not only in relation to art but, more generally, in connection to every idea on which to base any possible conception of reality. Consequently, there was a rejection of any conception of existence that aimed to justify a world marked by oppression and suffering. Painting, therefore, became Almaviva's initial response to the drama present in nature to this state of affairs. It became a way to “reorganize one's morality” in terms of bearing witness to the drama present in nature (dominated by  Zöe) against all possible mystifications of reality. Based on these premises, he aimed to create a pictorial structure capable of fully visualizing a world in which everything was engulfed by the biological sphere, unable to break free from the primal instincts that dominate in nature. For this purpose, in 1967, he developed Tonaltimbrica, a pictorial style whose formal structure is conceived in strict correspondence with the irrepressible biological antagonism that, in Almaviva's conception, characterizes existence. In the same year, he made his debut in Milan, at the Rotonda della Besana, in an exhibition organized by the Centro Verritré, showcasing Palpito Primordiale (Primordial Beat) considered the emblem of the new tonaltimbric sensitivity.

Tonaltimbric Style 

The Tonaltimbrica was presented as "a two-dimensional painting in a single figurative system." Stylistically, it is characterized by the extreme reduction of its two constituent elements: on one hand, the "tonal" element that outlines the masses in the background of the painting using a color base that defines spaces through variations in tone within a uniform chromatic range; on the other hand, the "timbric" sign, consisting of the relief texture of pure color that structures the tonal masses in the background of the picture. It is through the interaction of these two distinct components (tonal+timbric) that a representation is achieved that is "rough and poignant," "able to make one feel the struggle and drama that continuously unfold at every level of life."

The birth of Filoplastica 

In 1969, Almaviva moved to Genoa, where he founded the Amaltea Gallery, a documentation center for his work. In 1971, the aggressive and sharp code of Tonaltimbrica transformed into the soft filament of Filoplastica. Almaviva's new artistic solution was an expression of a new research necessity that, while not denying the initial denunciation against the arrogance of nature, aimed at a broader vision in which to reconsider reality. The theoretical possibilities for such an operation were already implicit in Tonaltimbrica since it regarded the natural context, albeit in its undeniable evidence, as an intermediate reality within a world that needed to be further investigated. However, this operation wouldn't have involved any metaphysical escape towards a paradisiacal reality as compensation for suffering in nature. Almaviva's pictorial investigation remained internal to the matter itself. In the representation of Filoplastica, the dynamics of biological reality and the drama of life are reinterpreted as if they were epidermal manifestations, similar to germinations or efflorescences, of a primordial material substrate.

The pictorial structure of Filoplastica 

The new conception of Filoplastica entails a different organization of the pictorial space. The previous significance of Tonaltimbrica, sharp and penetrating, took on the appearance of a filament, thin and sinuous, which immerses itself in the basic chromatic layer of the painting. Filoplastica represents a stylistic inversion of the Tonaltimbrica components: the timbral mark of pure colour becomes a chromatic line characterised by changes in tone that, consequently, also involve the background, which, in its initial application, unlike Tonaltimbrica, stands out for its uniformity. The interpenetration between the filament and the colour base of the painting bestows upon the representation the characteristics of a plastic, impalpable, and luminous form, conceived by Almaviva as the expression of that primordial matter that he aims to investigate, despite its inherent incomprehensibility.

Filoplastica as research