[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# LEF (journal)

LEF ("ЛЕФ") was the journal of the Left Front of the Arts ("Левый фронт искусств""Levy Front Iskusstv"), a widely ranging association of avant-garde writers, photographers, critics and designers in the Soviet Union. It had two runs, one from 1923 to 1925 as LEF, and later from 1927 to 1929 as Novy LEF ('New LEF'). The journal's objective, as set out in one of its first issues, was to "re-examine the ideology and practices of so-called leftist art, and to abandon individualism to increase art's value for developing communism."

Productivism
Although LEF was catholic in its choices of writers, it broadly reflected the concerns of the Productivist left-wing of Constructivism. The editors were Osip Brik and Vladimir Mayakovsky: fittingly, one a Russian Formalist critic and one a poet and designer who helped compose the 1912 manifesto of Russian Futurists entitled, "A Slap in the Face of Public Taste". The covers were designed by Alexander Rodchenko, and featured photomontages early on, being followed by photographs in New LEF. Varvara Stepanova also designed covers.

Among the writings published in LEF for the first time were Mayakovsky's long poem About This, and Sergei Eisenstein's The Montage of Attractions, as well as more political and journalistic works like Isaac Babel's Red Cavalry. The journal had funding from the state, and was discussed critically, but not unsympathetically by Leon Trotsky in Literature and Revolution (1924).

Factography
The later New LEF ("Новый ЛЕФ""Novy Lef"), which was edited by Mayakovsky along with the playwright, screenplay writer and photographer Sergei Tretyakov, tried to popularise the idea of 'factography': the idea that new technologies such as photography and film should be utilised by the working class for the production of 'factographic' works. In this it had a great deal of influence on theorists in the West, especially Walter Benjamin and Bertolt Brecht. Linked journals also appeared such as the Constructivist architectural journal SA (edited by Moisei Ginzburg and Alexander Vesnin) and Proletarskoe Foto, on photography. The New LEF closed in 1929 over a dispute over its direction between Mayakovsky and Tretyakov, and under pressure for its 'Formalism', which jarred with the incipient Socialist Realism.

Some Contributors to LEF and Novy LEF
 Boris Arvatov
 Isaac Babel
 Osip Brik
 Nikolai Chuzhak
 Sergei Eisenstein
 Aleksei Gan
 Aleksei Gastev
 Aleksei Kruchyonykh
 Boris Kušner
 Vladimir Mayakovsky
 Boris Pasternak
 Liubov Popova
 Alexander Rodchenko
 Viktor Shklovsky
 Sergei Tretyakov
 Varvara Stepanova
 Dziga Vertov

The "Lenin issue"

After Vladimir Lenin’s death on January 21, 1924, LEF’s first issue of the year dedicated its critical section to the Soviet leader (though the publication’s artistic prose and poetry were not Lenin-themed). These critical articles mainly focused on an analysis of Lenin’s writing and his oratory: this is because the Formalist critic Viktor Shklovsky independently organized the project  and presented it to LEF. Vladimir Mayakovsky did, however, contribute an unsigned editorial to the issue, in which he criticized the newly-forming habit of Soviet authorities to “canonize” Lenin by mass-producing commercial objects with his portrait or likeness on them. The editorial argued that this practice would undermine Lenin’s significance for future generations. In Mayakovsky’s words, “Don’t take away his living gait and human traits, which he was able to preserve as he guided history. Lenin is still our contemporary. He is among the living. We need him alive, not dead.” [CVS 148] The other articles do not explicitly develop this point, although they do focus on certain unusual, “human” particularities of Lenin’s style. 

In total, six writers contributed articles to the critical section of the issue. Their names and the titles of their works follow:
1. Shklovsky - "Lenin as Decanonizer" («Ленин, как деканонизатор»)
2. Boris Eikhenbaum - "Basic Stylistic Tendencies in Lenin's Speech" («Основные стилевые тенденции в речи Ленина»)
3. Lev Yakubinsky - "On Lenin's Deflation of the High Style" («О снижении высокого стиля у Ленина»)
4.  Yuri Tynyanov - "Lenin's Lexicon as a Polemicist" («Словарь Ленина-полемиста»)
5. Boris Kazansky - "Lenin's Speech - An Attempt at Rhetorical Analysis" («Речь Ленина: Опыт риторического анализа»)
6. Boris Tomashevsky - "The Construction of the Theses" («Конструкция тезисов»)