[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Canadian Arab Federation

an's comments and stating that his words "in no way reflect of CAF nor its feelings towards Canada." Mohamed Boudjenane, the CAF's executive director, later stated that Shaban's comments were a "stupid faux pas." Shaban, who refused to back down from his comments, subsequently resigned from the CAF.

Opposition to Canada's Membership on the UN Security Council
In September 2010, CAF President Khaled Mouammar released a statement (which was later published by Al-Jazeerah), calling for "all Arab and Muslim Missions at the United Nations to vote against Canada's bid to have a seat at the UN Security Council." Mouammar stated that "The evidence has been accumulating about the anti-Arab and anti-Islamic Canadian government [of Conservative Prime Minister Stephen Harper] to the extent it is feared that if Canada gains a seat in the UN Security Council, it may be used against Arabs and Muslims around the world." Mouammar concluded by stating "granting Canada a seat on the UN Security Council would be tantamount to rewarding Canada for discriminating against Arab and Muslim Canadians, and for its unconditional and blatant support for Israel’s war crimes and violations of international law."

In addition, Mouammar also circulated an email which linked to an article in The Tyee by author Murray Dobbin, which accused Canada, among other things, of working closely with Colombia, which is "virtually a U.S. military base," and that Canadian rescue efforts in Haiti following the 2010 Haiti earthquake are in fact a "neo-colonial effort." Matt Gurney, writing in the National Post, criticised the CAF endorsing Dobbin's "anti-Canadian position" and wrote that "Dobbin’s anti-Canadian views are music to their [the CAF's] ears." B'nai Brith Canada also criticized Mouammar, stating that "Despite purporting to be advocates of Canadian values, the Canadian Arab Federation actively lobbied against their country thereby attempting to shame and divide Canada."

References

External links
 The Canadian Arab Federation website

Anti-racist organizations in Canada
Arab-Canadian culture
Arab organizations
Diaspora organizations in Canada