[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# FBC Mortgage Stadium

barbecue, and padded seats above the bar. In 2017, private field-level cabanas were erected in the south endzone, adjacent to the new J. & J. Rosengren Lounge. In 2018, additional field-level cabanas were added to the north endzone, as well as Loge cabana tables along the top rim of the grandstands.

In 2016, UCF removed its original scoreboard, located at the north end of the stadium, and replaced it with a full LED scoreboard measuring . One year later, UCF replaced the stadium's original auxiliary scoreboard, located at the south end of the stadium, and replaced it with a ribbon board that measures approximately .

In 2017, the university sued the architects and contractors that designed and constructed the stadium. Cited in the lawsuit were claims of "defects and deficiencies" which ostensibly led to "premature wear of the steel," as well as visible rust issues.

2018–present

At their spring game in 2018, UCF unveiled signage on Roth Tower to commemorate the football program's conference championships, New Year's Six/BCS bowl wins, and their National Championship for the 2017 season.

The short-lived Alliance of American Football (AAF) included the Orlando Apollos as one of its franchises with the Apollos playing at Spectrum Stadium during its inaugural 2019 season.  The AAF folded in April 2019 with its first season incomplete; the University of Central Florida had failed to invoice the AAF for the lease of its stadium facilities or expenses for staff, leading media to speculate that UCF had lost more than $1 million of revenue from the deal.

Just over two weeks before the 2019 UCF football season opener, the UCF athletic department announced that the entire season-ticket allotment was sold out for the first time in school history. In addition, they created a formal waiting list for season tickets, also for the first time. In the press release, then-UCF athletic director Danny White teased a possible expansion of the stadium in the near future if ticket demand remains high.

The stadium hosted the Hula Bowl in 2022 and 2023 due to Aloha Stadium near Honolulu being closed for renovations.

As of September 17, 2023, UCF has compiled an overall record at the stadium of 80–24, including 4–0 in conference championship games. Since 2014, UCF has completed five seasons undefeated at home at the stadium. During the first few years of the stadium's use, under then-head coach George O'Leary, the Knights frequently wore gold home jerseys, with gold field markings prominent. This despite the team changing its nickname in 2007 from "Golden Knights" (1993–2006) back to simply "Knights" (1979–1992) as they moved into the new stadium. After O'Leary's departure, the Knights have largely eschewed gold jerseys in favor of various combinations of black and white home jerseys, with occasional gold accents.

Attendance records

The highest attendance for games played at FBC Mortgage Stadium against the Knights have included rival South Florida, Cincinnati, and Miami. The Knights largest home crowd at FBC Mortgage Stadium occurred in stadium's third season (2009) against in-state foe Miami (48,543). That is in contrast with UCF's largest all-time home crowd (51,978), which occurred at the 2005 C-USA Championship, when the team was still playing downtown at the Citrus Bowl, and UCF's largest-ever game crowd (109,295) at Michigan in 2016. The smallest crowd (8,874) came in 2020 against Tulsa, during COVID-19 restrictions.

Postseason games

Space Game
Since 2017, the UCF Knights have traditionally set aside one home game at FBC Mortgage Stadium to celebrate the university's ties to NASA, the nearby Kennedy Space Center, and the foundation/governance of the Florida Space Institute. Dubbed the "Space Game", players wear special uniforms and helmets with space-themed designs and logos. Uniforms may include a replica mission patch, constellations, names of astronauts, and other images and graphics related to space exploration.

The 2018 Space Game marked the first appearance of the Citronaut logo on UCF's football uniform. The Citronaut was the university's first sports mascot when the school was known as Florida Technological University (FTU). Just hours before the 2020 Space Game, a SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket launch took place, which was visible from the stadium. The 2022 Space Game was also the milestone 100th UCF home game played at FBC Mortgage Stadium.

Through 2022, the Knights are 6–0 in the "Space Game". On multiple occasions, UCF's space-themed uniforms/helmets have been voted and recognized as among the best in all of college football.

See also

Greater Orlando
History of the University of Central Florida
List of NCAA Division I FBS football stadiums

Notes

References

External links

 

College football venues
UCF Knights football
Sports venues in Orange County, Florida
American football venues in Florida
Sports venues completed in 2007
2007 establishments in Florida
Soccer venues in Florida
Orlando Apollos