[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of Shadow Raiders characters

The following is a list of characters from the animated television series, Shadow Raiders.

Planet Rock
Planet Rock is a planet made up mostly rocks. That contain many types of minerals. The appearance of people of planet, look mostly like humans made of stone, with patterns on their bodies and their hair that look like jewels. Planet Rock is the second planet to join the Interplanetary Alliance.

Graveheart
At the beginning of the series, Graveheart is a simple miner working for Lord Mantel. However, when discovering Tekla and being ambushed by Beast Drones on Planet Ice during routine exporting, Graveheart realizes he must step into the leader seat and bring the worlds together to stop a common enemy.  He is a very noble, brave man, though he often suffers from lack of self-confidence, deeming himself as "just a miner and nothing more". When put into battle, he immediately takes charge and commands his troops with authority and skill. Those around him respect him to the fullest. Formerly a Quarrior (a portmanteau of warrior and quarry, he quit Planet Rock's military when he failed to save his younger brother, Mica, during a raid on Planet Fire. He often has his doubts about himself, but Jade is always there to reassure him of his abilities. Graveheart was exiled from Planet Rock when he formed the Alliance, leaving himself and Jade as the only two citizens of Rock in the group. Notably, he wears a black version of the standard Miner's armor. What this means is never revealed, but he calls the Miners "his men". He also called "sir" by the other miners, implying he is of a higher rank, most likely a miner foreman. He is voiced by Paul Dobson. His name and design is a reference to the movie, “Braveheart”.

Jade
Tough and uncompromising, Jade is Captain of the Guard of Planet Rock and Graveheart's best friend.  She loves Graveheart very much, though she is unwilling to admit it.  While working with the Alliance, her loyalties lie with Planet Rock first and foremost.  Lord Mantel was very reluctant to exile Jade as she had asked, but agreed to it for her to be able to watch over the Alliance.  Jade rarely shows her feelings, but what she has shown is a great dislike for Emperor Femur.  After Lord Mantel's death at Blokk's hands, Jade underwent a psychological test and became ruler of Planet Rock.  She is voiced by Enuka Okuma.

Lord Mantel
The ruler of Planet Rock, a harsh and merciless man.  He is unwavering in his beliefs that Planet Rock is superior to all other planets.  This forces him to refuse Rock's participation in the Alliance.  He is stubborn and arrogant, but quite well liked on the planet. In exchange for lending the Battle Moons to the Alliance, he has Jade collect information on it and eventually got its command codes. With Graveheart gone on the Prison Planet, Mantle uses the Battle Moons to attack the Beast Planet to prove Rock is superior, leaving the planet defenseless. He is eventually killed by Blokk after the Beast Planet invades his planet. His funeral is later made but his deception is kept a secret otherwise it would demoralize the Alliance. He is voiced by Blu Mankuma.

Commander Feldspar
The commander of Planet Rock's military and guardian to the entrance of Lord Mantel's fortress.  He commands Planet Rock's Battle-Moons; he also takes over Jade's duties after she is exiled.  He doesn't believe in or trust the Alliance.  After the Beast Planet's invasion, he is brutally killed by Blokk.  He is voiced by Alec Willows.

Planet Ice
Planet Ice is made up mostly of ice, which is stolen to be used for water. The people of Plant Ice take the appearance of blue insectoid's. Planet Ice is the first planet to become part of the Interplanetary Alliance.

King Cryos
The wise and admirable king of Planet Ice, Cryos is admired by all of his people for his intelligence.  Although he seems quiet at a glance, he is very thoughtful and the brains behind the Alliance.  He is also one of the founding members, as he is one of the first to realize the threat that the Beast Planet is able to cause.  He truly believes that peace between all of the worlds can be established, but that everyone must work hard for it.  Because of their similar beliefs, Cryos and Graveheart become very close friends throughout the series.  Cryos is also constantly worrying over his daughter, Zera's, safety.  Regardless, he never hesitates to engage the minions of the Beast Planet in battle, and is a very capable tactician and a valuable asset to the Alliance.  He is voiced by Mark Oliver.