[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 92nd Illinois Infantry Regiment

ion to losing one of the howitzers.

Later that night, the 92nd rejoined their brigade on its left flank. For the second day in a row, members of the brigade men had helped save the Army of the Cumberland from total disaster: the 92nd at Brotherton Field and the rest of the brigade at Viniard Field.

The brigade spent the night where it fought at the Viniard Field without fires because of the proximity of the Confederate line. During the night a cold front passed over the area,  creating a fog in the morning that mixed with the heavy smoke from the battle. During the night, Major General Alexander McCook, commanding XX Corp, ordered Wilder to line a hill a half mile northwest. The hill, running north to south was only a few hundred yards from Rosecrans's headquarters at the Widow Glenn's house, and about a half mile from the Viniard Farm where the brigade fought the day before. At dawn on 20 September the brigade  moved to its new position, leaving Colonel Atkins and the 92nd Illinois as a rear guard. The regiment was to fall back to the brigade if pressed by the anticipated attack in the morning.
At the notorious moment on the second day of the battle when Wood's Division was pulled from the line shortly after 11:00 just as Longstreet's attack hit the Union line, it caught several units moving in column formation and shattered them. Atkins saw the extreme left brigade of the Rebel attack cross the Brock Field towards the Glenn cabin. From his position at the Viniard Field, he mounted his regiment and withdrew towards the rest of the brigade later writing,

The 92nd eventually caught up with the brigade on Dry Valley Road where they were consolidating and trying to gather enough horses for the 72nd Indiana to replace those killed or taken by Rebel cavalry, or appropriated by fleeing infantry. They had driven back the attack by Hindman's Division on the left of Longstreet's attack column shattering two regiments and taking 47 prisoners.  In this effort, they had been joined by the 39th Indiana, another Spencer-armed, mounted regiment from McCook's XX Corps. When the 92nd returned, the brigade and the 39th were organizing their prisoners and regrouping their formation.

After the controversial meeting with Assistant Secretary of War Charles A. Dana, the 92nd and the brigade withdrew from the battlefield down the Dry Valley Road to guard the exodus of the army of the Cumberland from the battlefield. At 16:30, the brigade took a line from McFarland's Gap (through Missionary Ridge) back towards Lookout Mountain to guard Thomas's right flank, keeping the line of retreat open for Thomas' men.

Post Chickamauga 

In April, 1864, it was again at Ringgold, Georgia, performing picket duty. On April 23, Captain Scovil, with twenty-one men, was captured at Nickajack Gap, nine miles from Ringgold, and one man killed. Of the men  taken prisoners, twelve were shot down, and six died of wounds, after being taken prisoners. The remainder were taken to Andersonville; very few ever left that place, having died from the cruel treatment received there.

From Ringgold, May 7, 1864, the regiment entered upon the Atlanta campaign and was assigned to Gen. Kilpatrick's command, and participated in the battle of Resaca, raids around Atlanta, and engagements at Bethesda, Fleet River Bridge, and Jonesboro. The regiment lost, at Jonesboro, one-fifth of the men engaged. On October 1, the regiment moved from Mount Gilead Church, west of Atlanta, and took an active part in the operations against Hood's army. At Powder Springs it had a severe engagement, losing a large number of men, killed and wounded. The regiment then returned to Marietta, and participated in the various engagements and skirmishes in Sherman's march to the sea. At Swift Creek, North Carolina, Capt. Hawk, of Co. C, was severely wounded, losing a leg.

November 4, 1864, Kilpatrick's Division was re-organized, and the Ninety-second assigned to Atkins' Brigade, and participated in all the cavalry battles on the march through Georgia, and in the capture of Savannah. Attached to General Atkins' Brigade, the Regiment participated in all the cavalry fighting on Sherman's march through the Carolinas, and against Jo Johnston's rebel army in North Carolina, until the close of the war.

The regiment, during its term of service, was in some forty battles and skirmishes. The regiment was mustered out at Concord, North Carolina, on June 21, 1865, and discharged at Chicago, on July 10, 1865. The regiment's recruits were transferred to the 65th Illinois Volunteer Infantry Regiment on that date.