[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Assyrians/Syriacs in Sweden

south eastern Turkey, who insist on the name Syrianer, and often an "Aramean" heritage for the group.
To account for this division, official Swedish sources refer to the group as "Assyrier/Syrianer", with a slash (similar to the US census, which opted for "Assyrian/Chaldean/Syriac").

Organisations

When Assyrians/Syriacs immigrated to Sweden, they formed cultural organisations that would represent their people, as well as act as a centre for Assyrians/Syriacs in Sweden to meet. The Assyrian Federation of Sweden (AFS) was founded in 1977 as a nationwide umbrella organisation for the various local associations in Sweden. The formation took place on 15–17 April 1977, with twenty-one representatives from eleven associations present, unanimously deciding to unite into a national organisation. At the national assembly in 1983, 44 representatives from 21 associations were present. Initially, the Federation had 3,000 members which soon doubled by 1980. At first, the Federation's office was located in Norsborg, but soon moved to Södertälje in 1983.

Aside from the Assyrian Federation of Sweden, the Assyrian Youth Federation and Assyrian Women's Federation existed nationwide. The Youth Federation was formed in 1985 as the Assyrian Youth Committee within the AFS. In 1991, it was transformed into the Assyrian Youth Federation, and became more independent from the AFS.

The Syriac (Aramean) Federation of Sweden was founded in 1978. The federation is safeguarding the interest in the linguistic, cultural, ethnic, and social issues of the Aramean people. The federation has about 19.000 members and 34 sub-associations. The federation is collaborating with numerous organizations in Sweden that provides assistants needed for the federation and its operations.

Media

Publications

In 1978, Hujådå, the first Assyrian magazine was published by the Assyrian Federation of Sweden. The etymology of the name has the meaning "unity" or "union" in the Aramaic language, with the intention to unite all Assyrians, regardless of church, and to pay homage to Naum Faiq's publication with the same name in the United States in the early 1920s. The first issue of Hujådå came out in spring of 1978 and was published by Gabriel Afram, the then chairman of AFS, and the editor in-chief, Johanon Kashisho. In the beginning, the magazine contained material in four languages: Aramaic, Arabic, Turkish and Swedish. Eventually, material was published in English. Currently, Hujådå only exists as a web publication.

The second Aramean magazine was published by the Aramean Federation of Sweden called Bahro Suryoyo. It is published in five languages: Swedish, Aramaic, Arabic, English, and Turkish.  It is available as an online magazine since 2009 at bahro.nu.

Television

In the mid-2000s, Assyrian/Syriac TV channels were formed in Södertälje. Suroyo TV is operated by the Dawronoye political movement, while the Syriacs identifying as "Aramean" created Suryoyo Sat. The AFS, Women's Federation and Youth Federation founded the Assyrian Media Institute (AMI) on 24 September 2011, in Norrköping. AMI owns and operates Assyria TV, a web TV channel, which broadcasts shows worldwide, commonly interviewing famous Assyrians, as well as famous Swedish politicians and scholars. Assyria TV has also played a role in exposing Kurdish acts of cruelty against Assyrians in Iraq and Syria.

Religion

In the 1990s, the Syriac Orthodox Church in Sweden fell into disunion with the church's board shutting the bishop out and demanding that the Patriarch in Damascus appoint a new bishop. In 1996, a new bishop was appointed, resulting in the Syriac Orthodox Church in Sweden being divided into two separate dioceses with their own bishops, both based in Södertälje. The diocese which does not reject the Assyrian name is led from St. Jacob of Nisibi's Cathedral in Hosvjö. The other diocese is led from St. Afrem's Church in Geneta.

Sport

Assyrians/Syriacs have a wide spanning history in relation to sports in Sweden, most notably in the football arena. In Qamishli and Tur Abdin, Assyrians/Syriacs had their own football clubs that played at a local or national level. This led to the formation of ethnic-based Assyrian/Syriac clubs in Sweden who have enjoyed a high level of success relative to other ethnic groups. Currently, there are over 20 Assyrian/Syriac ethnic-based clubs present across Sweden.