[Source: PubMed]

77. J Adolesc Health. 2015 Jun;56(6):606-11. doi:
10.1016/j.jadohealth.2015.01.020.

The Youth Readiness Intervention for war-affected youth.

Newnham EA(1), McBain RK(2), Hann K(3), Akinsulure-Smith AM(4), Weisz J(5), 
Lilienthal GM(6), Hansen N(7), Betancourt TS(8).

Author information:
(1)François-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights, Harvard T.H. Chan 
School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts; School of Psychology, The 
University of Western Australia, Crawley, Western Australia, Australia.
(2)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(3)François-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights, Harvard T.H. Chan 
School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Department of Psychology, City College of New York, New York, New York.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Harvard University, Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)François-Xavier Bagnoud Center for Health and Human Rights, Harvard T.H. Chan 
School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Global Health and 
Population, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.
(7)Department of Health Promotion and Behavior, College of Public Health, 
University of Georgia, Athens, Georgia.
(8)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard T.H. Chan School of 
Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic address: 
Theresa_Betancourt@harvard.edu.

PURPOSE: Mental disorders are among the largest contributors to the global 
burden of disease. Since the cessation of the Sierra Leonean civil war in 2002, 
there have been few mental health resources available for war-affected youth. 
Co-occurring psychological problems are commonly reported by youth in the 
post-conflict setting, suggesting a need for evidence-based interventions that 
cater to comorbid psychological difficulties. This feasibility study outlines 
the implementation and evaluation of a mixed-methods approach for developing and 
piloting a culturally grounded group mental health treatment-the Youth Readiness 
Intervention (YRI)-for war-affected Sierra Leonean youth.
METHODS: Participating youth (N = 32; 50% female; ages, 15-24 years) were 
allocated to one of four gender- and age-stratified groups, facilitated by 
gender-matched Sierra Leonean interventionists. The intervention comprised 
adapted cognitive behavioral therapy techniques to address issues pertinent to 
war-affected youth. Analyses comprised assessments of reliable symptom change, 
mental health, functional adaptation, and interventionist fidelity outcomes.
RESULTS: The YRI was found to be acceptable, feasible and associated with 
reliable changes in internalizing and externalizing symptoms and improvements in 
functional impairments and emotion regulation (mean effect size, d = .64).
CONCLUSIONS: Youth struggling with the mental health consequences of past trauma 
due to war merit special attention. The YRI presents a feasible and acceptable 
intervention for use in this low resource setting. A randomized controlled trial 
is planned to further test intervention effectiveness and scalability.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jadohealth.2015.01.020
PMID: 26003574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]