[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Defense Production Act of 1950

and prioritize contracts for as many ventilators as Azar determines to be appropriate. Trump also named Peter Navarro national policy coordinator for the DPA.

On April 2, Trump said he was invoking the DPA to require 3M, General Electric, and Medtronic to increase its production of N95 respirators.

On April 28, Trump announced that he intended to issue an executive order under the Defense Production Act mandating that plants producing beef, pork, poultry, and eggs stay open, a move which also prompted criticism. White House General Counsel Pat Cipollone consulted with various companies "to design a federal mandate to keep the plants open and to provide them with additional virus-testing capacity as well as protective gear," according to Bloomberg News. Trump told the press that the order would "solve any liability problems" for meat-processing plants, protecting them from lawsuits potentially incurred due to employee COVID-19 exposures, though the order provided no such immunity or protections. The order gave USDA extraordinary powers to have firms maintain production. The order does not allow companies to ignore safety rules (except for keeping the plants opened), however, and OSHA / CDC guidance remains in force. In September 2020, OSHA fined Smithfield and JBS for failing to take the necessary actions to prevent the spread of coronavirus.

On December 8, 2020, more than a month after losing the 2020 presidential election, then-president Trump said that he would invoke the Defense Production Act to produce vaccine doses, but he did not do so before the end of his term.

In January, 2021, President Joe Biden invoked the Defense Production Act on his second day in office to increase production of supplies related to the pandemic, such as protective equipment. On March 2, President Biden invoked the DPA again to supply equipment to Merck facilities needed to safely manufacture Johnson & Johnson vaccines.

Wildfire crisis 

In September 2021, President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act again to supplement the supply of fire hoses, which was needed because of the unusually high occurrence of dangerous wildfires.

Virginia-class attack submarines
In December 2021, President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act to scale production and provide the needed parts and labor training to support Virginia-class attack submarines.

Critical mineral supplies 
In March 2022, President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act to increase the production of minerals necessary for the clean energy transition in the United States, which includes lithium, nickel, cobalt, graphite, and manganese used by large-capacity batteries for energy storage and electric vehicles. The United States currently to date largely relies on foreign sources for the mining and processing of these metals.

Baby formula shortage
On May 18, 2022, President Biden invoked the Act in response to the 2022 United States infant formula shortage, requiring manufacturers to prioritize fulfilling orders of formula ingredients to key suppliers before fulfilling other orders.  The United States Department of Health and Human Services and the United States Department of Agriculture have also been authorized to use Department of Defense aircraft to import formula to the United States from overseas as long as the formula meet US health and safety standards.

Green energy

On June 6, 2022, President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act to accelerate domestic production of green energy technology. The administration responded to growing energy costs caused by Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The invocation came along with a tariff exemption on solar panels from Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. The technology included in Biden's invocation included solar energy; transformers and electric grid components; heat pumps; insulation; and electrolyzers, fuel cells, and platinum group metals.

Hypersonics industrial base
On March 11, 2023, President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act to accelerate the rebuilding and expansion of the domestic industrial base on hypersonic technologies, which includes "airbreathing engines, advanced avionics position navigation and guidance systems, and constituent materials for hypersonic systems."

Printed Circuit Boards and Advanced Packaging Production Capability
On March 27, 2023, President Biden invoked the Defense Production Act to accelerate and assure the production capacity of "printed circuit boards and advanced packaging, their components, and the manufacturing systems that produce such systems and components" as quoted from the memorandum.