[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Leather Boys

the British box office for 1964 and in a review said the film was "an excursion into the coarse world of 'ton-up' boys and 'caffs' and how one young man's marriage never gets into gear. The story [...] is sordid and at times very noisy, but the drama fades away to a weak, inconcluisive conclusion."

In Film Quarterly John Seelye said: "The attempt to use the cycles symbolically, and to jazz up the visuals in the race to Edinburgh, comes off lamely; it is only in the interiors, where he can play the characters against the seedy homeyness of working-class England, that Furie comes near a style".

Variety reviewed the film as: "Salty mean-street melodrama, delivered with vigor that helps to disguise a flabby story-line."

Peter Harcourt wrote in Sight and Sound: "By the end of the film we are left with the sense of having taken part in most personal experience. It is this personal quality, this sense of intimacy, which, finally, is the achievement of Sidney Furie as a director."

Leslie Halliwell opined: "Sharply-observed slice of low life which now seems quite dated, the central figures no longer being of the ‘heroic’ interest given them at the time. Technically the film is tediously and fashionably flashy."

The Radio Times Guide to Films gave the film 3/5 stars, writing: "Nearly 50 years on, it's almost impossible to see why this was once regarded as an unacceptably frank insight into the gay lifestyle. Colin Campbell is so hopelessly out of his depth as the young newlywed wrestling with his sexual identity that not even the excellence of Rita Tushingham and Dudley Sutton can salvage what were intended to be powerful scenes. Sidney J. Furie's film is now something of a quaint period piece, full of techniques borrowed from the French New Wave. The end result is fussy and flash, but the wedding and the Butlin's sequences are priceless relics of 1960s life."

References

External links 

 TheLeather Boys at ReelStreets

1964 films
1964 drama films
1964 LGBT-related films
British black-and-white films
British drama films
British LGBT-related films
CinemaScope films
Films based on British novels
Films directed by Sidney J. Furie
Films set in London
LGBT-related drama films
Motorcycling films
Works published under a pseudonym
1960s English-language films
1960s British films
English-language drama films