[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# SQ-universal group

In mathematics, in the realm of group theory, a countable group is said to be SQ-universal if every countable group can be embedded in one of its quotient groups. SQ-universality can be thought of as a measure of largeness or complexity of a group.

History
Many classic results of combinatorial group theory, going back to 1949, are now interpreted as saying that a particular group or class of groups is (are) SQ-universal. However the first explicit use of the term seems to be in an address given by Peter Neumann to The London Algebra Colloquium entitled "SQ-universal groups" on 23 May 1968.

Examples of SQ-universal groups
In 1949 Graham Higman, Bernhard Neumann and Hanna Neumann proved that every countable group can be embedded in a two-generator group. Using the contemporary language of SQ-universality, this result says that F2, the free group (non-abelian) on two generators, is SQ-universal. This is the first known example of an SQ-universal group. Many more examples are now known:
Adding two generators and one arbitrary relator to a nontrivial torsion-free group, always results in an SQ-universal group.
Any non-elementary group that is hyperbolic with respect to a collection of proper subgroups is SQ-universal.
Many HNN extensions, free products and free products with amalgamation.
The four-generator Coxeter group with presentation:

Charles F. Miller III's example of a finitely presented SQ-universal group all of whose non-trivial quotients have unsolvable word problem.

In addition much stronger versions of the Higmann-Neumann-Neumann theorem are now known. Ould Houcine has proved:

 For every countable group G there exists a 2-generator SQ-universal group H such that G can be embedded in every non-trivial quotient of H.

Some elementary properties of SQ-universal groups
A free group on countably many generators h1, h2, ..., hn, ... , say, must be embeddable in a quotient of an SQ-universal group G.  If  are chosen such that  for all n, then they must freely generate a free subgroup of G. Hence:

Every SQ-universal group has as a subgroup, a free group on countably many generators.

Since every countable group can be embedded in a countable simple group, it is often sufficient to consider embeddings of simple groups. This observation allows us to easily prove some elementary results about SQ-universal groups, for instance:

If G is an SQ-universal group and N is a normal subgroup of G (i.e. ) then either N is SQ-universal or the quotient group G/N is SQ-universal.

To prove this suppose N is not SQ-universal, then there is a countable group K that cannot be embedded into a quotient group of N. Let H be any countable group, then the direct product H × K is also countable and hence can be embedded in a countable simple group S. Now, by hypothesis, G is SQ-universal so S can be embedded in a quotient group, G/M, say, of G.  The second isomorphism theorem tells us:

Now  and S is a simple subgroup of G/M so either:

or:

.

The latter cannot be true because it implies K ⊆ H × K ⊆ S ⊆ N/(M ∩ N) contrary to our choice of K. It follows that S can be embedded in (G/M)/(MN/M), which by the third isomorphism theorem is isomorphic to G/MN, which is in turn isomorphic to (G/N)/(MN/N). Thus S has been embedded into a quotient group of G/N, and since H ⊆ S was an arbitrary countable group, it follows that G/N is SQ-universal.

Since every subgroup H of finite index in a group G contains a normal subgroup N also of finite index in G, it easily follows that:

If a group G is SQ-universal then so is any finite index subgroup H of G. The converse of this statement is also true.

Variants and generalizations of SQ-universality
Several variants of SQ-universality occur in the literature. The reader should be warned that terminology in this area is not yet completely stable and should read this section with this caveat in mind.

Let  be a class of groups. (For the purposes of this section, groups are defined up to isomorphism) A group G is called SQ-universal in the class  if  and every countable group in  is isomorphic to a subgroup of a quotient of G. The following result can be proved:

 Let n, m ∈ Z where m is odd,  and m > 1, and let B(m, n) be the free m-generator Burnside group, then every non-cyclic subgroup of B(m, n) is SQ-universal in the class of groups of exponent n.

Let  be a class of groups. A group G is called SQ-universal for the class  if every group in  is isomorphic to a subgroup of a quotient of G. Note that there is no requirement that  nor that any groups be countable.

The standard definition of SQ-universality is equivalent to SQ-universality both in and for the class of countable groups.

Given a countable group G, call an SQ-universal group H G-stable, if every non-trivial factor group of H contains a copy of G. Let  be the class of finitely presented SQ-universal groups that are G-stable for some G then Houcine's version of the HNN theorem that can be re-stated as: