[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Band of Angels

o his handcuffs so that when two white Union soldiers take him away, he can overpower them and escape while Rau-Ru remains unsuspected. An old seafaring friend of Hamish is waiting in his ship to rescue him, and Rau-Ru guides Amantha to the shore so that Hamish and Amantha can escape together.

Cast

Main
 Clark Gable as Hamish Bond
 Yvonne De Carlo as Amantha Starr
 Sidney Poitier as Rau-Ru Ponce de Leon
 Efrem Zimbalist Jr. as Lieutenant Ethan Sears, who falls in love with Amantha, believing her to be white
 Rex Reason	as Captain Seth Parton, an old friend from her past
 Patric Knowles as Charles de Marigny, a neighboring plantation owner
 Torin Thatcher as Captain Canavan, Bond's seafaring friend from his past
 Andrea King as Miss Idell
 Ray Teal as Mr. Calloway

Supporting
Russell Evans as Jimmee, Bond's steward
Carolle Drake as Michele
Raymond Bailey as Mr. Stuart, a plantation owner
Tommie Moore as Dollie, Bond's house servant

Cameo appearance/Uncredited

 Roy Barcroft as Gillespie
 Larry J. Blake as Auctioneer
 X Brands as Officer
 Robert Carson as Bidder
 Robert Clarke as Auction Participant
 Noreen Corcoran as Young Manty
 Ann Doran as Mrs. Morton
 Harry Fleer as Aide
 William Forrest as Aaron Starr
 Carl Harbaugh as Seaman
 William Hudson as Officer
 Maurice Marsac as Auction Participant
 Ewing Mitchell as Old Gentleman 
 Juanita Moore as Budge
 William Schallert as Union Lieutenant
 Bob Steele as Union Private
 Madame Sul-Te-Wan as Flower Vendor
 Charles Victor as Officer
 Dan White as Trader
 Jack Williams as Runaway

Original novel
Robert Penn Warren's novel was published in 1955.  He had been inspired to write it by a historical event he came across while researching his novel All the King's Men. It was his first novel in five years. The New York Times called it "a readable and dramatic combination of flamboyant melodrama and thoughtful reflection about moral issues and psychological factors." The book became a best seller. Hollywood radically changes the ending.

Production

Development
In September 1955 Warren sold the film rights to Warners for $200,000 (~$ in ). Frank Rosenberg was assigned to produce and Susan Hayward came close to starring. In August 1956 Warners put the film on its production schedule for the following year. That month Frank Rosenberg left the studio and Raoul Walsh agreed to direct the film under a new contract he had signed with Warners.

In November 1956 Clark Gable signed to play the lead. Ava Gardner had been discussed for the female lead but in December Yvonne De Carlo was signed, on the basis of her recent performances in The Ten Commandments and Death of a Scoundrel.

Filming
Location filming began January 1957 in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Sidney Poitier joined the film in February.

Critical response
The film received largely negative critical reviews, many of them comparing it unfavourably to Gable's earlier film Gone with the Wind. Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that "all we get is flamboyant melodrama in big, juicy, Warner-colored blobs, with nary a thoughtful reflection at any point in the vast, romantic scene." Robyn Karney gave the film a two-star review in Radio Times, insisting that "this utter tosh strains credibility to the limit and has little to recommend it". Emanuel Levy wrote in 2011, "this entertaining melodrama, directed by Raoul Walsh, bears some thematic resemblance to 'Gone With the Wind', in dealing with issues of race and miscegenation, set against the backdrop of the Civil War."

See also
 List of films featuring slavery
 List of American films of 1957
 Imitation of Life, a 1933 novel by Fannie Hurst
Imitation of Life, a 1934 film adaptation
Imitation of Life, a 1959 film adaptation
 The Human Stain, a 2000 novel by Philip Roth
 The Human Stain, a 2003 film adaptation

References

External links
 
 
 
 
 
 Review at Variety

1957 films
American Civil War films
1950s English-language films
Films scored by Max Steiner
Films directed by Raoul Walsh
Films about interracial romance
Films featuring slavery, List of
Films set in Kentucky
Films set in Louisiana
1957 romantic drama films
American romantic drama films
Warner Bros. films
Films based on American novels
Films based on romance novels
1950s American films