[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# King Naresuan (film)

The Legend of King Naresuan (; ) is a Thai biographical historical drama film series about King Naresuan the Great, who ruled Siam from 1590 until his death in 1605.

The films are directed by Chatrichalerm Yukol and are a followup to his 2003 film, The Legend of Suriyothai. The films were released in the U.S. under the titles Kingdom of War.

 The Legend of King Naresuan The Great, Part I, Hongsawadee's Hostage, was released on January 18, 2007.
 The Legend of King Naresuan The Great, Part II, Reclaiming Sovereignty, was released on February 15, 2007.
 The Legend of King Naresuan The Great, Part III, Naval Battle, was released on March 31, 2011.
 The Legend of King Naresuan The Great, Part IV, The Nanda Bayin War, was released on August 11, 2011.
 The Legend of King Naresuan The Great, Part V, Elephant Battle, was released on May 29, 2014.
 The Legend of King Naresuan The Great, Part VI, The end of Hong Sa, was released on April 9, 2015.

Part I deals with Naresuan's boyhood, when he was taken hostage by Burmese King, Bayinnaung to keep the vassal Ayutthaya Kingdom subservient. During this time, he was a novice Buddhist monk under the tutelage of a wise father-figure monk (Sorapong Chatree). Part II depicts Naresuan as a young adult prince, already a formidable military strategist, as he leads his army on exploits against breakaway kingdoms for King Bayinnaung's successor, King Nonthabureng, and eventually breaks away to declare sovereignty for Siam. Part III was to depict Naresuan's military and leadership skills and the expansion of the Siamese kingdom.

In production for more than three years, the project has an estimated budget of 700 million baht, making it the most expensive Thai film made.

As King of Fire, part II was selected as Thailand's submission  to the 80th Academy Awards for Best Foreign Language Film.

Plot

Part I: Hongsawadee's Hostage
The film concerns the childhood of King Naresuan. Born in 1555, he was taken to Burma as a child hostage; there he became acquainted with sword fighting and became a threat to the Burmese empire

The film begins in 1564, during the Burmese siege of Phitsanulok, the center of the languishing Sukhothai kingdom. Naresuan's father, Maha Thammarachathirat, admits defeat and follows Burmese orders that his two sons, Naresuan (nicknamed Ong Dam  Black Prince) and Ekathotsarot (the White Prince), be taken hostage and be raised in Pegu (the center of the Hanthawadi kingdom) under the watchful eyes of Bayinnaung, the Burmese king, who promises to care for Naresuan like one of his own. This creates a rift between Naresuan's father and his mother, Queen Wisutkasat, whose brother is the king of the neighboring Ayutthaya kingdom, as Phitsanulok is now a Burmese vassal state. Ayutthaya falls soon after.

Immediately after entering the Burmese palace, Naresuan sees the palace politics and rivalries between himself and Bayinnaung's grandson, Mingyi Swa. Naresuan is sent to be educated as a novice monk, by an ethnic Mon Buddhist monk named Khanchong, at a Buddhist monastery outside the palace. There, while wandering the Thai village outside Pegu (made up of Thais displaced by Bayinnaung's expansionist campaigns and subsequent forced relocations to Hanthawadi), he befriends a Mon street child who is later allowed to work as a temple boy called Bunthing (later became Mon leader Lord Rachamanu). He also befriends Maneechan, a temple girl at the monastery. The monk Khanchong, who had also trained Bayinnaung, teaches Naresuan the skills of war and ethics.

Part II: Reclaiming Sovereignty

Bayinnaung dies in the beginning of the film from natural causes. Thammaracha, the governor-king of Ayutthaya, believes it is important that he go and pay respect to the dead king out of fear that the new Burmese king Nanda would deem it as an insult and attack Ayutthaya. Prince Naresuan, however, having been raised in Pegu (the kingdom of Hanthawadi) and who regards Bayinnaung as a second father, convinces Thammaracha to let him go in his place.

Upon arriving in Hanthawadi (Hongsawadi in Thai), Naresuan's childhood teacher, a Buddhist monk named Khan Chong, informs him about the dangers that king Nanda and many factions in Burma are plotting his assassination. At king Bayinnaung's funeral, all representatives from vassal kingdoms are present besides for one, the Krang kingdom.  King Nanda sees it as disrespect and seizes the opportunity to wage war and siege the mountain top city.  Naresuan's Ayutthaya army is successful in taking the mountain top city and proves itself superior to the rival Burmese armies, namely of the Lord of Pyay and of Mingyi Swa (the eldest son of Nandabayin).  Burmese rivals felt even more threatened by the strength and wits of Naresuan's army. During the battle, Naresuan's friend, Bunthing, now a highly skilled general under Naresuan, falls for the princess of Krang, who becomes his companion.