[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Islamic Saudi Academy

eputation, and invited the commission members to review the books; an offer which was refused.  According to the Commission chair he did not take up the academy's offer of making the book available because academy officials wanted mutually acceptable scholars and translators to review the textbooks.

Textbook passages
In June 2008, another USCIRF report stated that textbooks at ISA teach students that it is permissible for Muslims to kill adulterers and converts from Islam, and also teach that, "The Jews conspired against Islam and its people." ISA officials issued a press relate stating that the aforementioned textbooks are sorely outdated, and once again invited the USCIRF to visit its campus to review more recent materials. The rejection of such an offer it stated would lead the ISA to doubt the intentions of the investigation.

Land lease
ISA's campus was leased from the Fairfax County government on a year-to-year lease, and the issue has occasionally been raised that perhaps Fairfax should not continue leasing the land if the ISA's textbooks do promote terrorism or intolerance. On June 23, 2008, Fairfax County's Board of Supervisors made a formal request to U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice to determine if Fairfax County should continue to lease the land.

Notable individuals connected to ISA
 Ahmed Omar Abu Ali, valedictorian of the academy in 1999, was convicted in 2005 on charges of providing material support to the al Qaeda terrorist network. He was sentenced to 30 years in prison. His defense team argued that his first confession in Saudi Arabia had been extracted under torture, but the judge ruled his confession admissible. Courts have upheld his conviction but pushed for a longer sentence.
 Mohammed Osman Idris and Mohammed el-Yacoubi, both former students of ISA, were denied entry to Israel in December 2001, under suspicion of planning to carry out a suicidal martyr attack. The two were departing JFK International Airport when a letter was found in el-Yacoubi's luggage which was characterized as "a farewell letter...for a suicide mission in the name of Jihad." The two hastily boarded a flight to Jerusalem, leaving behind their belongings. However, when the flight arrived in Israel, the two were detained and sent back to the U.S. Idris was later charged with lying to a federal grand jury investigating terrorism.
 Susan L. Douglass, a former social studies teacher at the school, wrote social studies textbooks for the International Institute of Islamic Thought.
 Democratic Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger taught at the school between 2002 and 2003.

See also
American schools in Saudi Arabia:
 American International School – Riyadh
 American International School of Jeddah

References

External links
 Official ISA website
 Official ISA Website  (Archive)
 ISA Mission Statement
 "Trial Starts For Student In Plot to Kill President", The New York Times
 Baltimore Sun: Repost of cited article
 Shea, Nina. "Saudi Textbooks Teach Students to Hate". The Washington Post/Newsweek (Saudi sponsorship of ISA and its textbooks)

1984 establishments in Virginia
2016 disestablishments in Virginia
Educational institutions disestablished in 2016
Educational institutions established in 1984
High schools in Fairfax County, Virginia
International schools in the United States
Islamic schools in the United States
Private K-12 schools in Virginia
Religious schools in Virginia
Saudi American
Saudi Arabia–United States relations