[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Cretan Muslims

itute 60% of Al Hamidiyah's population. The community is very much concerned with maintaining its culture. The knowledge of the spoken Greek language is remarkably good and their contact with their historical homeland has been possible by means of satellite television and relatives.

Notable people 

 Ahmed Resmî Efendi: 18th-century Ottoman statesman, diplomat and author (notably of two sefâretnâme). First ever Ottoman ambassador in Berlin (during Frederick the Great's reign). He was born into a Muslim family of Greek descent in the Cretan town of Rethymno in the year 1700.
 Giritli Ali Aziz Efendi: Turkey's third ambassador in Berlin and arguably the first Turkish author to have written in novelistic form.
 Al-Husayn I ibn Ali at-Turki – founder of the Husainid Dynasty, which ruled Tunisia until 1957.
 Salacıoğlu: (1750 Hanya – 1825 Kandiye): One of the most important 18th-century poets of Turkish folk literature.
 Giritli Sırrı Pasha: Ottoman administrator, Leyla Saz's husband and a notable man of letters in his own right.
 Vedat Tek: Representative figure of the First National Architecture Movement in Turkish architecture. Son of Leyla Saz and Giritli Sırrı Pasha.
 Paul Mulla (alias Mollazade Mehmed Ali): born Muslim, converted to Christianity and becoming a Roman Catholic bishop and author.
 Rahmizâde Bahaeddin Bediz: The first Turkish photographer by profession. The thousands of photographs he took, based as of 1895 successively in Crete, İzmir, Istanbul and Ankara (as Head of the Photography Department of Turkish Historical Society), have immense historical value.
 Salih Zeki: Turkish photographer in Chania
 Ali Nayip Zade: Associate of Eleftherios Venizelos, Prefect of Drama and Kavala, Adrianople, and Lasithi.
 Ismail Fazil Pasha: (1856–1921) descended from the rooted Cebecioğlu family of Söke who had settled in Crete He has been the first Minister of Public Works in the government of Grand National Assembly in 1920. He was the father of Ali Fuad and Mehmed Ali.
 Mehmet Atıf Ateşdağlı: (1876–1947) Turkish officer.
 Mustafa Ertuğrul Aker: (1892–1961) Turkish officer who sank HMS Ben-my-Chree.
Writer Cevat Şakir Kabaağaçlı, alias Halikarnas Balıkçısı (The Fisherman of Halicarnassus), although born in Crete and has often let himself be cited as Cretan, descends from a family of Ottoman aristocracy with roots in Afyonkarahisar, and his father had been an Ottoman High Commissioner in Crete and later ambassador in Athens.
Hüsamettin Cindoruk: Turkish politician, president of the Turkish Republic.
Bülent Arınç (born 25 May 1948) is a Deputy Prime Minister of Turkey since 2009. He is of Cretan Muslim heritage with his ancestors arriving to Turkey as Cretan refugees during the time of Sultan Abdul Hamid II and is fluent in Cretan Greek. Arınç is a proponent of reconverting the Hagia Sophia into a mosque, which has caused diplomatic protestations from Greece.
Halil Berktay (born 27 August 1947) Turkish historian of Cretan Muslim origin.
Tuba Büyüküstün, Turkish actress
Hülya Avşar, Turkish actress (maternal Cretan Muslim-Yörük and paternal Kurdish)
Ferdi Özbeğen, Turkish singer
Bennu Yıldırımlar, Turkish actress
Necip Fazıl Kısakürek, Turkish-Islamist poet (on mother side)
Mustafa Fehmi Kubilay, was a Turkish teacher and a lieutenant. He is considered a "Martyr of the Revolution" in Turkey.

See also 
Al Hamidiyah
Cretan State
Emirate of Crete
Greek Muslims
History of Crete
International Squadron (Crete intervention, 1897–1898)
Massacre of Phocaea
Turks in Lebanon

References

Notes

Bibliography 
 McTiernan, Mick, A Very Bad Place Indeed For a Soldier. The British involvement in the early stages of the European Intervention in Crete. 1897–1898, King's College, London, September 2014.

Further reading 

 
 
 
 
 İzmir Life magazine, June 2003
'Fethinden Kaybına Girit (Crete from its conquest to its loss), Babıali Kültür Yayıncılığı, 2007
 Michael Herzfeld, A Place in History: Social and Monumental Time in a Cretan Town, Princeton University Press, 1991
 Michael Herzfeld, "Of language and land tenure: The transmission of property and information in autonomous Crete", Social Anthropology 7:7:223-237 (1999),
 Richard Clogg, A Concise History of Greece, Cambridge University Press, 2002
 Encyclopædia Britannica Eleventh Edition (1911), s.v. Crete; La Grande Encyclopédie (1886), s.v. Crète
 Kemal Özbayri and Emmanuel Zakhos-Papazahariou, "Documents de tradition orale des Turcs d'origine crétoise: Documents relatifs à l'Islam crétois" Turcica VIII/I (5), pp. 70–86 (not seen) 
 Molly Greene, A Shared World: Christians and Muslims in the Early Modern Mediterranean, Princeton, 2000. 
 A. Lily Macrakis, Cretan Rebel: Eleftherios Venizelos in Ottoman Crete, PhD Dissertation, Harvard University, 1983.

External links