[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Architecture of Hungary

s as a rarity. We don't know much about the castle building either. The chronicler Anonymus refers to hillforts with elements of Slavic origin, fortifications made of twigs and mud. The tower of Esztergom, which formed the core of the castle, suggests that this type of building has already appeared.

Appearance of the Gothic
From the second half of the 13th century a new layer of society appeared as the customer of art works, the citizenship. The art of the citizenship came into contact with the art of Royal centers in many ways. Since the law of the king Béla IV of Hungary, the protection of the urban settlement by the king Béla IV, has been erected by a stone wall, built towers and gates. In addition to the ecclesiastical art, significant secular art was developed (residential houses, wells, roads). Urban craftsmen did not affect the architecture of the houses. Building houses and castles became an independent artistic task, and the Gothic art was developing. It played an important role in the development of Gothic architecture. After the law of Béla IV, a massive construction began. Béla IV began the construction of the new Royal headquarters, Buda. Although the Royal Centre had already been transferred to Óbuda, the site was considered to be warlike and construction began on the South Side of the Castle Hill. At that time, the construction of Buda was still at a modest level, the main aspect was of protection. In addition to the castle, a town was established on the north side. The King's construction works include The Franciás Boldogasszony and the simpler Church of Mary Magdalene of Budapest, the Dominican Monastery of St. Nicholas, Buda and the monastery of the Dominican Monastery of Margaret Island. In these buildings, the ribcage cross-vault has already appeared.

Construction was carried out all over the country (Lower Castle of Visegrád, the Tower of Solomon, the tower of Sárospatak, etc.). King Béla IV made donations to the wealthy leaders and encouraged them to do the same. The militars and bishops were almost competing in construction. The central tower of these castles was built on steep rock or gully, to which additional rooms, walls and gates were connected according to the terrain. The courtyard was narrow, here cisterns and wells provided the water. The huge old towers were usually gloomy, only the most modest demands were met (Castle of Csesznek, Castle of Sümeg, Castle of Trenčín (the latter in current Slovakia)).

Popular architecture
The development of cities started in the 13th century. Sources of the same age present Sopron, Buda and Esztergom as a townships. In these cities you can feel the radiance of the Buda architecture, like the sanctuary of the Franciscan Church of Sopron and the extension of the sanctuary of the Alba Iulia (the latter in current Romania). The Anjou era Gothic art is based on these.

Anjou and Sigismund's eras

The Anjou kings cast the foundations of the Visegrád's Citadel and the Royal palace. At the same time, the construction of the Buda Castle was going on, and at the age of king Louis I of Hungary, the foundations of the today's Buda Castle were already in place (Tower of Stephen). After Sigismund, Holy Roman Emperor took the throne, a direct connection established the Fresh Palace construction with the royal centre in Prague. Sigismund built the new wing of the Fresh Palace and the Tower of Bones rising from the city.

It was the Golden Age of the Gothic architecture in Hungary. The Castle of Diósgyőr built during the reign of Louis I of Hungary is the earliest creation of the typical four-corner tower rectangular castle type. Examples of this type are also the Royal castle of Tata and the Sigismund's era's Bratislava Castle (current Slovakia). In addition to the royal castle architecture, there was also a significant place in the castle architecture of the Lord. There were ribbed cross-vices, varied forms of windows and doors. Castle gates with family coats of arms, towers with fireplaces. The best examples are from the Upper Hungary: Trenčín Castle, the Matthew III Csák's castle; Beckov Castle, the Stibor family castle; Castle of Hollókő. Kačić family clan; Castle of Nógrád, the Bishop of Vác's castle; in addition, the surrounding area of Veszprém (the Garai family's Castle of Csesznek, the Bishop's castle of Veszprém) and the Great Hungarian Plain is significant (Gyula, Castle of Kisvárda the Stephen Várdai's castle). The Jurisics Castle and the Castle of Siklós belonged to the Garai family. The Hunyadi Castle is the most magnificent creation of the period.

Early Gothic church architecture