[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Giacomo Micaglia

works of Fausto Veranzio and Bartolomeo Cassio, and it influenced the Croatian circle of lexicographers (among them Franciscans Divković and Tomo Babić), both in Croatia and in Bosnia and Herzegovina. His work is an integral part of development and standardization of Croatian modern language.

Works

Thesaurus linguae Illyricae sive Dictionarium Illyricum. In quo verba Illyrica Italice, et Latine redduntur, Romae: et sumptibus Sacrae congregationis de propaganda fide impressum, Loreto, apud Paulum et Io. Baptistam Seraphinum, 1649 (Thesaurus of Croatian or a Croatian Dictionary, in Which Croatian Words Are Translated into Italian and Latin) (Ancona, 1651). Blago jezika slovinskoga ili Slovnik u Komu izgovarajuse rjeci slovinske Latinski, i Diacki.
Bogoljubno razmiscgljanje od ocenascja Pokupgljeno iz kgniga Svetoga Tomme od Aquina Nauciteglja Anghjelskoga (God-Loving Thoughts on the Lord's Prayer Taken from the Books of St Thomas Aquinas, the Angelic Doctor, Bratislava, 1642)
Printing of the "Thesaurus" was started by Serafini brothers in Loreto in 1649, and completed by O. Beltrano in Ancona in 1651.

References

Bibliography 
 Max L. Baeumer, The Emergence of national languages Vol 11  Longo, 1984 
 Croatian Academy of America, Journal of Croatian studies, p. 286 Volumes 36-37, 1997 
 Sylvain Auroux, History of the language sciences: an international handbook on the evolution of the study of language from the beginnings to the present Volume 1, Walter de Gruyter, 2000,  
 Wiener slavistisches Jahrbuch, Volume 36 Verlag der Österreichischen Akademie der Wissenschaften, 1990 
 A. Tamaro, La Vénétie Julienne et la Dalmatie: histoire de la nation italienne sur ses frontières orientales, Page 233 Volume 3, Imprimerie du Sénat, 1919 
 Ivo Banac, Hrvatsko jezično pitanje Vol. 6, p. 43, of Mladost, 1991, 	
 Edward L. Keenan, Josef Dobrovský and the origins of the Igor' tale Harvard University Press

External links
 
Google book: Giacomo Micaglia. p 209 (in Italian)
IHJJ - About Jakov Mikalja 
A page about Jakov Mikalja 
Scientific project about Jakov Mikalja's work 
List of Croatian dictionaries in history 
"Quando a Peschici gli slavi ... erano di casa" 
Jubileji leksikografa Mikalje (Jubilees of Lexicograph Mikalja) 
Neki ga još smatraju Talijanom (Some still regard him as Italian) 
Colonie slave in Puglia (in Italian)

1601 births
1654 deaths
People from the Province of Foggia
People from Apulia
Linguists from Italy
17th-century Italian Jesuits
Italian people of Croatian descent