[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Thunderball (film)

haggard and less heroic than he did two or three years ago, but there is much less effort to establish him as connoisseur playboy. Apart from the off-handed order for Beluga, there is little of that comic display of bon viveur-manship that was one of the charms of Connery's almost-a-gentleman 007."

Bosley Crowther of The New York Times found the film to be more humorous than its previous instalments and felt "Thunderball is pretty, too, and it is filled with such underwater action as would delight Capt. Jacques-Yves Cousteau." He further praised the principal actors and wrote "[t]he color is handsome. The scenery in the Bahamas is an irresistible lure. Even the violence is funny. That's the best I can say for a Bond film." Variety felt Thunderball was a "tight, exciting melodrama in which novelty of action figures importantly." Philip K. Scheuer, reviewing for the Los Angeles Times, was less impressed with the film, writing: "It is the same as its predecessors, only more–too much of everything, from sudden desire to sudden desire." Additionally, he wrote: "The submarine sequences are as pretty as can be in Technicolor, featuring besides fish and flippered bipeds, all sorts of awesome diving bells and powered sea sleds – not to mention an arsenal of lethal spear guns. If I could have just known more than half the time what, precisely, they were doing, the effect could have been prettier yet." Time magazine applauded the film's underwater photography, but felt the "script hasn't a morsel of genuine wit, but Bond fans, who are preconditioned to roll in the aisles when their hero merely asks a waiter to bring some beluga caviar and Dom Pérignon '55, will probably never notice. They are switched on by a legend that plays straight to the senses, and its colors are primary." Clifford Terry of the Chicago Tribune felt the dialogue was "so bad, it's great" and highlighted Auger as "probably the most genteel of all the Bond babies to date." Overall, he felt the film belonged to Connery, writing he "throws out those incredible lines without so much as batting a steely-cold eye."

Retrospective reviews
According to Danny Peary, Thunderball "takes forever to get started and has too many long underwater sequences during which it's impossible to tell what's going on. Nevertheless, it's an enjoyable entry in the Bond series. Sean Connery is particularly appealing as Bond – I think he projects more confidence than in other films in the series. Film has no great scene, but it's entertaining as long as the actors stay above water."

Critics such as James Berardinelli praised Connery's performance, the femme fatale character of Fiona Volpe, and the underwater action sequences, remarking that they were well choreographed and clearly shot. He criticised the length of the scenes, stating they were in need of editing, particularly during the film's climax. 

On Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a "Certified Fresh" 87% rating based on 52 reviews with an average rating of 6.70/10. The website's consensus reads: "Lavishly rendered set pieces and Sean Connery's enduring charm make Thunderball a big, fun adventure, even if it doesn't quite measure up to the series' previous heights." On Metacritic the film has a score of 64 out of 100 based on reviews from 9 critics, indicating "generally favorable reviews". In 2014, Time Out polled several film critics, directors, actors, and stunt actors to list their top action films, Thunderball was listed at number 73.

See also

 Outline of James Bond

References

Sources

 Casino Royale history'' for further information on the James Bond legal disputes between Sony and MGM.

External links

 
 
 
 
 MGM's official page for Thunderball
 Official James Bond website
 James Bond film Thunderball nearly given X-rating by censors

 
1960s action films
1960s spy films
1960s thriller films
1965 films
British sequel films
Cold War spy films
1960s English-language films
Films directed by Terence Young
Films about nuclear war and weapons
British films about revenge
Films about extortion
Films about terrorism
Films produced by Harry Saltzman
Films produced by Albert R. Broccoli
Films scored by John Barry (composer)
Films set in the Bahamas
Films set in England
Films set in London
Films set in Miami
Films set in Paris
Films shot at Pinewood Studios
Films shot in the Bahamas
Films shot in England
Films shot in Florida
Films shot in France
Films shot in Miami
Films shot in Paris
Films that won the Best Visual Effects Academy Award
James Bond films
Films with screenplays by John Hopkins
Films with screenplays by Richard Maibaum
Underwater action films
United Artists films
Eon Productions films
Films with screenplays by Jack Whittingham
Films with screenplays by Kevin McClory
Films with screenplays by Ian Fleming
Seafaring films
1960s British films