[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Evripidis Bakirtzis

Evripidis Bakirtzis (; 16 January 1895 – 9 March 1947), born in Serres, Ottoman Empire, was a Hellenic Army officer and politician. Dismissed from the army twice due to his participation in pro-republican coup attempts and sentenced to death, later during the Axis Occupation of Greece, in World War II he co-founded the National and Social Liberation (EKKA) resistance group along with Dimitrios Psarros and was the military head of the organization. He later joined and was a prominent member of the National Liberation Front (EAM) and its military wing the Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS). He served as head of the Political Committee of National Liberation (PEEA), a government of Greek Resistance-held territories also called the "Mountain Government", from 10 March to 18 April 1944. He was nicknamed "the Red Colonel", from his pen name in the newspaper of the Communist Party of Greece, the Rizospastis.

He was found dead in 1947 in exile, during the later Greek civil war, in Fournoi Korseon.

Early life 
He was the son of the secretary of the Greek consulate of Serres (in 1895 Serres belonged to the Ottoman Empire) Christos Bakirtzis and the teacher, Efthalias Zaka, of the well-known family of Grevena, with a military tradition in the Greek War of Independence. In addition to his sister, Marika, he had two half-brothers, one of whom was a distinguished Macedonian warrior, nicknamed "Nikos o Serraios", and the other was executed by the Bulgarians in Serres in 1916.

Military career 
In 1911, Bakirtzis was admitted to the Military School of Guards and participated in the First Balkan War, in 1912, as a sophomore. Specifically, he served in the Army of Epirus with the Independent Cretan Regiment, as a sergeant. In August 1914, the outbreak of World War I and the subsequent manifestation of the National Schism, which occurred due to the dispute between Eleftherios Venizelos and King Constantine over the foreign policy pursued, found Bakirtzis serving in Kavala with his rank Artillery. From the beginning of 1916 until the occupation of most of the forts of eastern Macedonia in the same year by the Germans and Bulgarians, with the simultaneous evacuation of the rural areas by the Greek population, Bakirtzis, not tolerating the upcoming surrender of the Fourth Army Corps, decided to fight for the preservation of Macedonia in the Greek national body. He signed with the Venizelos officers of the National Defense, assuming command of artillery and then commander of artillery squadron. He was one of the first defenders and distinguished himself in the battle of Skra, winning the British military medal (Distinguished Service Order). Later, in 1919, he went on a scholarship for three years to France, where he studied at the Higher School of War, leading among 380 distinguished officers from allied countries. Later, he returned to Greece, at war with Turkey, and fought in Asia Minor. In 1922, now in the rank of major, he participated in the Revolutionary Committee of Plastira that overthrew King Constantine I after the Asia Minor Catastrophe. With the entry of the revolutionary forces in Athens, he went to Evros, collaborated in the defensive line of the front and was the trainer of the famous Evros Army. Later, with the rank of lieutenant colonel, as Chief of the Artillery in Asvestochori, Thessaloniki, dealt with reorganization and reorganization of the Greek Army.