[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Spencer (surname)

Spencer (also Spenser) is a surname, representing the court title dispenser, or steward. An early example is Robert d'Abbetot, who is listed as Robert le Dispenser ('the steward'), a tenant-in-chief of several counties, in the Domesday Book of 1086. In early times, the surname was usually written as le Despenser, Dispenser or Despencer—notably in works such as the Domesday Book and the Scottish Ragman Rolls of 1291 and 1296, but gradually lost both the "le" article and the unstressed first syllable of the longer surname to become Spencer.

As an occupational surname, Despenser/Spencer families would have originated in a range of different jurisdictions, and the possession of the shared surname is not an indication of genealogical relationship.  The surname Spencer has gained in frequency over time. In the 19th century it also become popular as a given name—especially in the more anglicised areas of the United States.

Variations

English
In its transition from the French  to its current form, the name Spencer has been presented and spelled in many ways—especially through the period of its early evolution in the medieval period from  to 1350 CE. The following (in alphabetical order) is a selection of the many orthographic variants:

Despencer, de Expansa (derived from ), De Spencer, de Spendure, de Spens, de la Despense, De la Spence, de la Spense, del Spens, Despenser, DeSpenser, Dispencer, Dispenser, Despensator, Dispensator, la Spens, le Despencer, le Despendur, le Despencer, le Despenser, le , le Espencer, le Espenser, le Spencer, le Spendur, Spendure, le Spenser, le Spensier, Spence, Spences, Spen, Spens, Spensar, Spense, Spenser, Spensers, Spensor, Spincer, also the rare patronymic Spencers, and the aphetic (derived) Spender.

The surnames Stewart and Stuart denote essentially the same occupation but have a completely different word derivation. They originate from the pre-7th-century English words a compound of  meaning 'household', and , meaning 'guardian'.

Other countries and cultures
Foreign equivalents:

German and Yiddish: Speiser – a steward. This is a derivative of the Middle High German spise, meaning food or supplies via the Old High German—in turn derived from Late Latin expe(n)sa (pecunia), or "(money) expended".

Greek: Economos – the anglicised surname derived from the Greek oikonomos ("oi" in Greek pronounced as a long E.) Oiko- (English = ēco-) is a root meaning "house" in classical Greek. This surname has the same occupational derivation as Spencer but, like the surnames Stewart and Stuart, has a different etymology. The original meaning of oikonomos was a home owner but it evolved to mean estate manager, somebody who was responsible for all resources on the estate, a steward. Oikonomos was a medieval Eastern Roman title for somebody who was in charge of a project or institution; it is still used by the Greek Orthodox church. Over time the meaning of Oikonomos has evolved from "manager of resources" to "manager of money, a treasurer".

Etymology
The name Spencer can be traced through its Latin and French roots to its Middle English and modern form.

Medieval Latin – ,  and  – 'steward'.
Old French – 
a.  – 'larder'
b. ,  – dispenser of money, provisions etc.; someone working at, or in charge of, the buttery; a household steward
c.  – 'steward'.
Anglo-French – despenser, -ier.
Middle English –  – 'steward'.

Noteworthy Despenser and Spencer families

Robert Despenser

Robert d'Abbetot was granted titles, lands and a high position in William's court. In addition to his position as steward he also was given land grants in county Bedford. He held his office for the period c.1088–1098.

In England, Robert was best known by his occupation, and hence became known as Robert le Despenser (many spelling variants of this name exist including Robert the Dispensor, Robert Despensator, Robert Dispenser), which reflected his new official position, of using a patronymic, as Robert fitzThurstin. He seems to have maintained his favor with William because in the Domesday Book of 1086, Robert Despenser was listed as a land tenant-in-chief in Gloucestershire, Leicestershire, Lincolnshire, Oxfordshire, and Warwickshire, as well as holding lands in Worcestershire obtained from the Bishop of Worcester.

Robert is assumed to have died shortly after restoring some estates to Westminster Abbey but he appears to have had no legitimate male children, as his heir was his brother Urse d'Abetot. He may have had a daughter, as some of his lands were inherited by the Marmion family, but it is also possible that a daughter of Urse married into the Marmion family. Robert's office as the king's steward may also have gone to Urse, as it was later held by Urse's heirs. Subsequent bearers of the Despenser or Spencer surname would not descend from Robert.