[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sylvia Mathews Burwell

overage for 20million more people, and Burwell argued the complexity of the law meant that repealing any part would have effects throughout the healthcare system. Burwell and the Department of HHS devised the "Coverage Matters" campaign to increase public support for the law and to boost enrollment.

American University 
Less than a week after leaving her position as HHS secretary, American University announced Burwell would serve as the university's next president, its school's highest leadership position despite not having earned a masters or doctoral degree. Burwell began her tenure on June 1, 2017, becoming American's 15th president and the first woman to assume the role.

In 2020, Burwell was appointed by the Council on Foreign Relations to co-chair (alongside Frances Townsend) the Independent Task Force on Improving Pandemic Preparedness.

Personal life 
Mathews met lawyer and Seattle native Stephen Burwell in 2005 during her time working for the Gates Foundation. Burwell proposed in Bellepoint Park, a park Mathews had visited often as a child in Hinton, and the pair married in Seattle in 2007. The couple has two children.

During Burwell's tenure as Secretary of Health and Human Services, her husband stayed home to care for their children.

See also 

 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
 Food and Drug Administration
 List of female United States Cabinet members
 List of people who have held multiple United States Cabinet-level positions
 Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars

Notes

References

External links 
 Official bio – U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
 
 

|-

|-

|-

1965 births
Living people
21st-century American politicians
21st-century American women politicians
Alumni of Worcester College, Oxford
American chief operating officers
American people of Greek descent
American Rhodes Scholars
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation people
Businesspeople from West Virginia
Clinton administration personnel
Directors of the Office of Management and Budget
Harvard College alumni
Henry Crown Fellows
Chancellors and presidents of American University
McKinsey & Company people
Obama administration cabinet members
People from Hinton, West Virginia
United States Department of the Treasury officials
United States Secretaries of Health and Human Services
Walmart people
West Virginia Democrats
White House Deputy Chiefs of Staff
Women heads of universities and colleges
Women members of the Cabinet of the United States