[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Fandaqumiya

Fandaqumiya, (, al-Fandaqumiyah, Pentakomia) is a Palestinian village located in the Jenin Governorate of the northern West Bank, northwest of Nablus. According to the Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics, the town had a population of 3,363 inhabitants in mid-year 2006 and 4,265 by 2017.

Etymology
The Arabic name of the village, Al Fandaqumiyah (الفندقومي), is a corruption of the Greek term Pentakomia: Komia means 'village' or 'community', while penta means 'five'. Pentakomia probably refers to an administrative unit of five villages which existed in the area.

A Pentakomia in Greece as well as one on the Euphrates River probably share the etymology, and the Hebron area village of Tarqumiyah (Arabic ترقوميا) is based on the Greek Trikomia, or 'community of three.'

Geography
Fandaqumiya is located in the northern West Bank, on the road leading north from Nablus to Jenin. The village is partly situated on the slope of a hill in the Musheirif Range and partly built on adjacent ridges in between the valley of Jaba' to the north and the Musheirif hills to the south. Its old core is in the slope part of the village with an elevation of 470 meters above sea level (about 30 meters higher than its surroundings) and a total area of 20 dunams.

The nearest localities are Jaba' to the immediate east, Beit Imrin to the south, Burqa to the southwest, Silat ad-Dhahr to the immediate west, and Ajjah to the north. as well as the former Israeli settlements of Homesh and Sa-Nur, which were dismantled in Israel's 2005 unilateral disengagement plan.

History

Antiquity 
The earliest findings in Fandaqumiya include a white clay jar filled with burned bones, which was found in a tomb. The examination of this jar at the Archaeological Department of the An-Najah National University suggested that it be dated to the Neolithic Period. A stone tool, circular in shape with a hole in the middle, was found alongside the jar, though it was never dated.

Pottery sherds from the Hellenistic, early and late Roman and the Byzantine eras have been found here. A sacred cave exists above the village on the south, which is probably an ancient rock-cut chapel.

Aaron Demsky identified Fandaqumiya with Penṭāḳūmewatha (), mentioned in the 6th-7th century Mosaic of Reḥob as being a Jewish village in a region of Sebaste which was inhabited mostly by non-Jews and, therefore, agricultural produce obtained from the area could be taken by Jews without the normal restrictions imposed during the Sabbatical years, or the need for tithing.

Medieval period 
The village is mentioned in Crusader sources of 1178, as a place sold to the Knights Hospitallers.

Yaqut al-Hamawi (1179–1229) noted it as "a village belonging to and lying among the hills of Nablus."

Pottery sherds from the early Muslim and Medieval eras have also been found here.

Ottoman era

In 1596 Fandaqumiyya appeared in the Ottoman tax registers as being in the nahiya of Jabal Sami, part of the Sanjak of Nablus. It had a population of eleven households and one bachelor, all Muslim. The inhabitants paid a fixed tax-rate of 33.3% on agricultural products, including wheat, barley, summer crops, olive trees, goats and beehives, in addition to occasional revenues and a press for olives or grapes; a total of 11,752 akçe. Fandaqumiya was mentioned by the Turkish traveler Evliya Çelebi in 1640.

In 1830, during the military campaign against a revolt by the Jarrar family of Sanur, Emir Bashir Shihab's forces set fire to Fandaqumiya. In 1838, Edward Robinson passed by and noted it as a being a small village, located in the esh-Sharawiyeh esh-Shurkiyeh (the Eastern) district, north of Nablus.

French explorer Victor Guérin visited  the village in 1863 and 1870, and estimated it as having about 500 inhabitants. He describes it as being situated on the slopes of a high hill. With abundant waters, the whole slope was cultivated with beautiful olive trees, figs and pomegranates.

In 1882, the PEF's Survey of Western Palestine described Fandaqumiya as "a very small village on the slope of the hill, with three springs to the south-west, small and marshy."

A spur of the Ottoman Hejaz railway to Damascus was built through the area, and a station was opened nearby at Sebastia. After the collapse of the Ottomans, locals took apart the rail infrastructure for secondary use in construction. Many of the steel beams can still be seen in the roofs of local homes.

British Mandate era
In 1917, Fandaqumiya was captured by General Allenby's British forces from the Ottomans, and three years later it was assigned to British Mandatory Palestine. In the 1922 census of Palestine, conducted by the British Mandate authorities, Fandaqumiya had a population of 327, all Muslims. This increased in the 1931 census to a population of 445, still all Muslim, living in 101 houses.