[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alexander Löhr

uding the wounded, were murdered on the spot. As Commander-in-Chief of Army Group E, Löhr oversaw the Dodecanese campaign.  On 26 August 1944, with the Allies driving on Germany on three fronts, Hitler ordered Löhr to begin evacuating Army Group E from Greece and move north to defend the Fatherland.

At the end of the war in Europe, Löhr received orders for unconditional surrender, but instead directed his forces to break out towards Austria. According to the historian Jozo Tomasevich, Löhr was captured by the 14th Slovene Division in Slovenia on 9 May 1945, and attempted to negotiate passage for his troops to Austria. This was refused and Löhr was prevailed upon to issue orders to cease fighting, which the troops nonetheless disobeyed. He escaped, countermanded his order to surrender and continued with the breakout attempt. After an intense manhunt, Löhr was recaptured on 13 May.

Conviction and execution
Löhr was imprisoned by Yugoslavia from 15 May 1945 to 26 February 1947. He was tried and convicted for war crimes committed during the anti-partisan operations of 1943, including the killing of hostages and burning of villages, and disregarding Germany's unconditional surrender. On 16 February 1947, the court sentenced the accused based on Article 3, Item 3 of the Act on Crimes Against the Nation and the State, to death by firing squad, and co-defendants Generalleutnants Josef Kübler, Fritz Neidholdt and Johann Fortner, Generalmajor Adalbert Lontschar, Oberst Günther Tribukait and SS-Brigadeführer August Schmidhuber to death by hanging.

References

Citations

Bibliography

Further reading

External links 

 

1885 births
1947 deaths
Austrian military personnel of World War II
Austrian people executed abroad
Austrian people of German descent
Austrian people of Russian descent
Austrian people of Ukrainian-Jewish descent
Austro-Hungarian Army officers
Austro-Hungarian military personnel of World War I
Colonel generals of the Luftwaffe
Executed Austrian mass murderers
Executed Austrian Nazis
Executed military leaders
Eastern Orthodox Christians from Austria
Luftwaffe personnel convicted of war crimes
Luftwaffe World War II generals
Nazis executed by Yugoslavia by firing squad
People from Drobeta-Turnu Severin
Recipients of the Knight's Cross of the Iron Cross with Oak Leaves
Recipients of the Order of Franz Joseph
Theresian Military Academy alumni