[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Georgia Tech Research Institute

system.

In 2018 the U.S. Army renewed a 10-year contract with GTRI worth $2.35 Billion for the Department of Defense. The following year in 2019 Georgia Tech won a U.S. Airforce engineering contract worth up to $491 Million with the condition of meeting certain criteria after 5 years.

Description

Employees and financials
In fiscal year 2022, GTRI employed 2,927 people and totaled $735 million in revenue. Also in fiscal year 2022, the United States Department of Defense consisted of 89% of GTRI's awards by value; the remainder was composed of federal (2%); non-DOD (2%) state and local (4%); and university, business, or nonprofit (6%).

Facilities
In total, the organization has at least  of laboratory and facility space. GTRI is headquartered on the Georgia Tech campus in Midtown Atlanta, Georgia, where five of its seven research laboratories are located. Some major buildings are the Centennial Research Building, the Baker Building, and the GTRI Headquarters. The GTRI Headquarters contains the GTRI Conference Center, which has  of space and hosts over 300 events a year.

Other notable Atlanta buildings include the Food Processing Technology Building and the GTRI Machine Services Building. Two GTRI laboratories operate at an off-campus research facility, the Cobb County Research Facility, approximately fifteen miles north of Atlanta in Cobb County adjacent to the Dobbins Air Reserve Base. Additionally, GTRI operates the Applied Systems Laboratory in Huntsville, Alabama.

GTRI opened an international office in Athlone, Ireland in June 2006. This effort was expanded when Georgia Tech, the National University of Ireland, Galway and the University of Limerick partnered in June 2010 to create a joint translational research institute. GTRI has several field offices that help with nearby on-site research and needs. These are in Dallas, Texas, Dayton, Ohio, Shalimar, Florida (near Eglin Air Force Base), Huntsville, Alabama, Jacksonville, Florida, Orlando, Florida, Panama City, Florida, Quantico, Virginia, San Diego, California, Tucson, Arizona, Warner Robins, Georgia (near Robins Air Force Base), and Arlington, Virginia/Washington, DC.

Organization

Structure
GTRI is composed of eight laboratories organized by technical focus into three research and development directorates. Each lab is further subdivided into divisions. Labs frequently collaborate with one another and outside groups (both academic units and external companies) based on the requirements of each project. GTRI performs research for clients at the local, regional, national, and international level, and employees are encouraged to publish their work and present it at conferences and consortia.

GTRI is an operating unit of Georgia Tech although it performs research under commercial cost principles for non-profit organizations.  For that reason, it uses a separate contracting entity, the Georgia Tech Applied Research Corporation (GTARC). Although GTARC is the contracting entity, the Georgia Tech Research Corporation (GTRC) owns the intellectual property created by all Georgia Tech researchers and manages technology protection and licensing. GTRI reports to the Georgia Tech Executive Vice President of Research (as of 2013, Stephen E. Cross) who currently serves as the President of GTARC.

GTRI's project directors are responsible for the direction of all aspects of projects, including marketing, contract development, research, and fulfillment. Most projects are conducted on a cost-reimbursable basis and are negotiated by Georgia Tech's Office of Sponsored Programs with terms and conditions appropriate for contracts specific to the operation of a university research organization.

The organization is led by the Director, who is also considered a vice president of Georgia Tech. Five people report to the director: the Deputy Director and Associate Vice Provost for Research;  the Deputy Director for Support Operations; and the three deputy directors in charge of each research and development directorate. The eight lab directors report to their respective deputy director of research and development. The business strategist, financial operations director, and chief scientist all report to the Deputy Director/Vice Provost. Business services, human resources, information systems, machine services, and other support services report to the Deputy Director for Support Operations.

GTRI, like many traditional boards of directors, has an External Advisory Council, which consists of individuals who are notable in related fields of industry, government or academia and who provide advice about research direction, strategy, and markets, although they do not govern the organization. Members of the Board of Trustees of the contracting agency, GTARC, are not necessarily members of the External Advisory Council, although there is sometimes overlap between them.

University affiliation