[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 42]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

nnels.

"What are your plans for the winter?" the Professor asked. "I hope that
you will find time to develop your musical gift. It ought to be used and
not wasted, or worse than wasted, as all forces are, unless they find
their legitimate outlet. Don't be persuaded to do fancy embroidery, as a
better mode of employing energy. You have peculiar advantages of a
hereditary kind, if only you can get a reasonable chance to use them. I
have unbounded faith in the Fullerton stock. It has all the elements
that ought to produce powers of the highest order. You know I have
always cherished a warm affection for your parents, but ten years more
of experience have taught me better how to value that sterling sincerity
and honour in your father, united with so much kindliness, not to
mention his qualities of brain; and then your mother's strong sense of
duty, her ability, her native love of art, and her wonderful devotion.
These are qualities that one does not meet with every day, and the
children of such parents start in life with splendid material to fashion
into character and power."

"Algitha will be worthy of our parents, I think," said Hadria, "though
she has commenced her career by disobeying them."

"And you too must turn your power to account."

"You can't conceive how difficult it is."

"I can very easily. I see that the sacrifice of her own development,
which your mother has made for your sakes, is taking its inevitable
revenge upon her, and upon you all. One can't doom one's best powers to
decay, however excellent the motive, without bringing punishment upon
oneself and one's children, in some form or other. You will have to
fight against that penalty. I know you will not have a smooth time of
it; but who has, except cowards and weaklings? Your safeguard will be in
your work."

"And my difficulty," said Hadria. "In the world that I was born into
(for my sins), when one tries to do something that other people don't
do, it is like trying to get up early in a house where the
breakfast-hour is late. Nothing fits in with one's eccentric custom;
everything conspires to discourage it."

"I wish I could give you a helping hand," said the Professor wistfully;
"but one is so powerless. Each of us has to fight the real battle of
life alone. Nobody can see with our eyes, or feel with our nerves. The
crux of the difficulty each bears for himself. But friendship can help
us to believe the struggle worth while; it can sustain our courage and
it can offer sympathy in victory,--but still more faithfully in
defeat."




CHAPTER XII.


Hadria had determined upon making a strong and patient effort to pursue
her work during the winter, while doing her best, at the same time, to
please her mother, and to make up to her, as well as she could, for
Algitha's departure. She would not be dismayed by difficulties: as the
Professor said, only cowards and weaklings escaped these. She treated
herself austerely, and found her power of concentration increasing, and
her hold on herself greater. But, as usual, her greatest effort had to
be given, not to the work itself, but to win opportunity to pursue it.
Mrs. Fullerton opposed her daughter's endeavours as firmly as ever. It
was not good for a girl to be selfishly pre-occupied. She ought to think
of others.

If Hadria yielded the point on any particular occasion, her mood and
her work were destroyed: if she resisted, they were equally destroyed,
through the nervous disturbance and the intense depression which
followed the winning of a liberty too dearly bought. The incessant
rising and quelling of her impulse and her courage--like the ebb and
flow of tides--represented a vast amount of force not merely wasted, but
expended in producing a dangerous wear and tear upon the system. The
process told upon her health, and was the beginning of the weakening and
unbalancing of the splendid constitution which Hadria, in common with
every member of the family, enjoyed as a birthright. The injury was
insidious but serious. Hadria, unable to command any certain part of the
day, began to sit up at night. This led to a direct clash of wills. Mr.
Fullerton said that the girl was doing her best to ruin her health for
life; Mrs. Fullerton wished to know why Hadria, who had all the day at
her disposal, could not spend the night rationally.

"But I haven't all the day, or any part of it, for certain," said
Hadria.

"If you grudge the little services you do for me, pray abandon them,"
said the mother, genuinely hurt.

Hadria entered her room, one evening, tired out and profoundly
depressed. A table, covered with books, stood beside the fire. She gave
the top-heavy pile an impatient thrust and the mass fell, with a great
crash, to the floor. A heap of manuscript--her musical achievement for
the past year--was involved in the fall. She contemplated the wreck
gravely.

"Yes, it is I who am weak, not circumstance that is s