[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nuclear gene

rm further cellular functions. This gene among many exhibits its huge purposeful role in the entirety of an organism’s physiologic function. Although non-nuclear genes may exist in its functional nature, the role of nuclear genes in response and in coordination with non-nuclear genes is fundamental.

Significance 
Many nuclear-derived transcription factors have played a role in respiratory chain expression. These factors may have also contributed to the regulation of mitochondrial functions. Nuclear respiratory factor (NRF-1) fuses to respiratory encoding genes proteins, to the rate-limiting enzyme in biosynthesis, and to elements of replication and transcription of mitochondrial DNA, or mtDNA. The second nuclear respiratory factor (NRF-2) is necessary for the production of cytochrome c oxidase subunit IV (COXIV) and Vb (COXVb) to be maximized.

The studying of gene sequences for the purpose of speciation and determining genetic similarity is just one of the many uses of modern day genetics, and the role that both types of genes have in that process is important. Though both nuclear genes and those within endosymbiotic organelles provide the genetic makeup of an organism, there are distinct features that can be better observed when looking at one compared to the other. Mitochondrial DNA is useful in the study of speciation as it tends to be the first to evolve in the development of a new species, which is different from nuclear genes' chromosomes that can be examined and analyzed individually, each giving its own potential answer as to the speciation of a relatively recently evolved organism.

As nuclear genes are the genetic basis of all eukaryotic organisms, anything that can affect their expression therefore directly affects characteristics about that organism on a cellular level. The interactions between the genes of endosymbiotic organelles like mitochondria and chloroplasts are just a few of the many factors that can act on the nuclear genome.

References 

Genes
Molecular biology