[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Howe De Lancey

sitions that the troops were to occupy by ordering stakes placed in the ground where the regiments were to be for the next day's battle, which according to S. G. P. Ward writing in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography was "to the rear, apparently, of the ground originally chosen by the duke".

On 18 June 1815, during the Battle of Waterloo, while he was talking to the Duke of Wellington, De Lancey was struck in the back by a ricocheting cannonball leaving his skin unbroken but causing fatal internal injuries. Believing him dead, Wellington wrote in his dispatch of the battle that his death was "a serious loss to His Majesty's service, and to me". The Duke of Wellington gave the following version of the occurrence to Samuel Rogers:

De Lancey was taken to a peasant's cottage in the village of Waterloo, where, after a delay of 24 hours due to the misinformation that he was dead, he was tenderly nursed by his young wife. A week later, on 26 June, he succumbed to his injuries, which included eight broken ribs. Magdalene de Lancey left a manuscript account of his last days, which was published in 1906 under the title of A Week at Waterloo in June 1815. De Lancey was buried in the Saint Josse Ten Noode cemetery, on the Louvain road, a mile from Brussels, and when that cemetery was destroyed in 1889 his remains were reinterred in the crypt under the British Waterloo Campaign Monument in the cemetery of Evere, three miles north-east of Brussels.
"Fair lady's love, and splendid fame,
De Lancey did enthral.
His loyal heart alike they claim,
They sigh to see him fall."

Family
Magdalene de Lancey married again in 1817 Captain Henry Harvey, Madras infantry, who retired in 1821. She died in 1822 giving birth to her third child. A sister of De Lancey, widow of Colonel Johnston, 28th Regiment of Foot, married on 16 December 1816 Lieutenant-general Sir Hudson Lowe, and was mother of Major-general Edward W. De Lancey Lowe.

Character
De Lancey was described by the military writer David Howarth as a remarkable staff officer; "young, brilliant, handsome and likeable". He spent almost the entire night before Waterloo writing and dispatching Wellington's orders, while his young wife Magdalene watched in silence. After the battle she cared for him for six days, in a cottage at Mont St. Jean, until he died of his wounds.

Cultural references
William Howe De Lancey was played by Ian Ogilvy in the 1970 epic film Waterloo.

De Lancey also featured in the BBC's 2015 adaptation of Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell, played by Mark Edel-Hunt.

Notes

References

Attribution
 This source notes:
For genealogy, see
Drake's American Biography; Appleton's Cyclopædia of American Biography;
Gentleman's Magazine various, 1760–1815, under De Lancy and De Lancey; vol. lxxxvii., pt. i. p. 185.
 For services, see
 War Office Records;
 London Gazettes;
 Gurwood's Despatches of the Duke of Wellington, vols. iii. v. vi. viii.;
 Recollections of Samuel Rogers;
 Recollections of Col. Basil Jackson, privately printed;

Further reading

1778 births
1815 deaths
Military personnel from New York City
People educated at Harrow School
16th The Queen's Lancers officers
19th-century British Army personnel
British Army personnel of the Napoleonic Wars
British military personnel killed in action in the Napoleonic Wars
Knights Commander of the Order of the Bath
People educated at Beverley Grammar School
People of the Battle of Waterloo
Schuyler family
British people of French descent
British people of Jewish descent
De Lancey family