[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# List of Jeeves characters

story, "The Spot of Art" (collected in Very Good, Jeeves). A portrait painter, she meets Bertie Wooster at a party in Chelsea. Though Bertie is initially in love with her, she ultimately gets engaged to Lucius Pim, whom she injured with her car. Her portrait of Bertie is used in soup advertisements.

Lucius Pim 
Lucius Pim is a fictional character appearing in the Jeeves short story, "The Spot of Art". He has five brothers and a sister, Beatrice Slingsby. He is an artist and is initially Bertie Wooster's wavy-haired rival for the affections of fellow artist Gwladys Pendlebury. His leg is injured when he is struck by a car driven by Gwladys, and he is brought to recuperate in Bertie's flat by Gwladys's request. Soon enough, he and Gwladys become engaged. Acting as her agent, he obtains a satisfactory price for her portrait of Bertie.

Stinker Pinker 
The Reverend Harold "Stinker" Pinker is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He went to Oxford with Bertie Wooster. He boxed and played rugby football at Oxford, and later played rugby for England. A kindly and muscular individual, he is described by Bertie as being "a large, lumbering Newfoundland puppy of a chap". Stiffy Byng refers to him as an example of Muscular Christianity. He is prone to tripping and knocking over tables. Bertie says that he "had always been constitutionally incapable of walking through the great Gobi desert without knocking something over".

A curate at Totleigh-in-the-Wold, he is engaged to Stiffy Byng in The Code of the Woosters, appears with her again in Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves in which he becomes vicar and the prop forward of the local rugby team at Hockley-cum-Meston, and is mentioned as performing well for the team in Aunts Aren't Gentlemen.

Major Plank

Major Plank is a recurring fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He was called "Barmy" Plank at school. An elderly and square-faced man, he is an explorer who lives in the village of Hockley-cum-Meston, in a house he inherited from his godfather. Devoted to rugby football, he sometimes has memory trouble due to malaria. He sells an amber statuette he obtained in the Congo to Sir Watkyn Bassett and meets the so-called Alpine Joe in Stiff Upper Lip, Jeeves. He sees Alpine Joe again in Aunts Aren't Gentlemen.

Major Plank may be the Major Brabazon-Plank who appears in the earlier Uncle Fred novel outside the Jeeves canon, Uncle Dynamite.

Catsmeat Potter-Pirbright

Claude Cattermole "Catsmeat" Potter-Pirbright is a fictional character in the Jeeves stories. He is a West End actor, a member of the Drones Club, and the brother of Cora "Corky" Potter-Pirbright. Catsmeat also appears in Drones Club stories outside the Jeeves canon.

Oofy Prosser

Alexander Charles "Oofy" Prosser is a fictional character mentioned in several Jeeves stories. Being the millionaire member of the Drones Club, he is also a friend of Bertie Wooster. The most wealthy and envied member of the Club, his nickname "Oofy" is British slang for "wealthy".

Oofy Prosser appears briefly in several episodes of the Jeeves and Wooster television series. For instance, he and fellow Drone Barmy Fotheringay-Phipps develop a dance inspired by Gussie Fink-Nottle's demonstration of newt courtship in "The Hunger Strike", and he and Barmy bet each other on how long they can go without smoking, with each trying to smoke in secret in Bertie's flat, in "Will Anatole Return to Brinkley Court?".

Lord Rowcester
Bill Belfry, 9th Earl of Rowcester (pronounced "roaster"), is a fictional character introduced in the novel Ring for Jeeves, in which he is the impoverished owner of the near-derelict Rowcester Abbey in Southmoltonshire. He has a sister, Monica "Moke" Carmoyle, and was a Commando in WWII.

In post-WWII Britain, Jeeves temporarily becomes valet to Lord Rowcester whilst Bertie Wooster is away at a school to teach the wealthy classes how to survive in the wake of social revolution. Lord Rowcester, engaged to be married to Jill Wyvern, wishes to find means of earning money to repair his home and thus sell it off to live a happy married life. At the suggestion of Jeeves, Bill sets up as a bookmaker at horse races under the title of Honest Patch Perkins.

Mrs Scholfield
Mrs. Scholfield is a fictional character who is mentioned in the Jeeves short story "Bertie Changes His Mind". She is sister to Bertie Wooster, and apparently lives or spends some considerable portion of her time in India. She is never given a first name. Bertie and his sister seem to be on good terms, since Bertie considers buying a house where he can live with his sister and her three young daughters.