[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Theophilus H. Holmes

p to him and that he was deficient in energy and suffering memory problems; thus, he needed to be replaced by a younger man. The soldiers he commanded in Arkansas had already taken to sarcastically calling him "Granny". Upon learning of this, an insulted Holmes resigned from his post on February 28.

Later service and life 
In April 1864, Holmes commanded the Reserve Forces of North Carolina. Holmes saw little action after being appointed to this new position. He held this position until the end of the war. Holmes, along with General Joseph E. Johnston, surrendered to William Tecumseh Sherman on April 26, 1865. He returned to North Carolina, where he spent the rest of his life as a farmer. Holmes died on June 21, 1880 in Fayetteville, North Carolina, and is buried there in MacPherson Presbyterian Church Cemetery.

See also 
 List of Confederate generals

Notes

Bibliography 

 Dougherty, Kevin, and Michael J. Moore. The Peninsula Campaign of 1862: A Military Analysis. Jackson: University Press of Mississippi, 2005. .
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Hilderman, Walter C. III Theophilus Hunter Holmes: A North Carolina General in the Civil War. McFarland & Company Inc., 2013. .
 Hoig, Stan. Beyond the Frontier: Exploring the Indian Country. Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1998. .
 Johnston, Joseph E. Narrative of Military Operations. New York: D. Appleton and Company, 1874.
 McCrady, Edward, and Samuel A'Court Ashe. Cyclopedia of Eminent and Representative Men of the Carolinas of the Nineteenth Century. Vol. 2. Madison, WS: Brant & Fuller, 1892. .
 Welsh, Jack D. Medical Histories of Confederate Generals. Kent, OH: Kent State University Press, 1999. .
 Williams, Clay. "Theophilus Hunter Holmes." In Encyclopedia of the American Civil War: A Political, Social, and Military History, edited by David S. Heidler and Jeanne T. Heidler. New York: W. W. Norton & Company, 2000. .

Further reading 
 Walther, Eric H. William Lowndes Yancey and the Coming of the Civil War. Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links 

 
 

1804 births
1880 deaths
American military personnel of the Indian Wars
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
Confederate States Army lieutenant generals
People from Sampson County, North Carolina
People of North Carolina in the American Civil War
United States Army officers
United States Military Academy alumni