[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lilavati of Polonnaruwa

cision, endowed with great power and courage', who inaugurates Lilavati's final stretch on the throne in 1211. The queen appears to be back in favour with the authors of the Culavamsa, as this time she is described as 'of the dynasty of the Sun and Moon...she who afterward shone in royal splendour'.

This last stretch in power for the queen lasted a mere seven months before she was dethroned by her Parakrama of Pandya, who established himself as king in Rajarata. Following this invasion Lilavati disappears from the historical record. It seems unlikely that Parakrama of Pandya would have put her to death, but his successor, the notoriously tyrannical Magha, may well have at some point after his invasion of 1215.

Significance
Queen Lilavati's life and reigns effectively spanned across the final decline and collapse of Sinhalese power in medieval Sri Lanka. The twenty-six years following her husband's death saw nine separate rulers and at least three invasions from the Kalinga and Pandya lands of South India. These invasions in particular would have been a blow to the pride of Lilavati's dynasty, which prided itself on having driven the Chola out and establishing native rule.

It is difficult also to make sense of the factions at work in Rajarata, Ruhuna, and Dhakkinadesa at the time. Lilavati clearly belonged to the house of Vijayabahu, whilst Nissanka Malla, Vikramabahu, Chodaganga, Queen Kalyanavathi and Dhammasoka appear to represent a separate, Kalingan house. However adding confusion to the situation are invaders like Anikanga (who in some sources is presented as Dhammasoka's father), and the fact that there were divisions even within the clans themselves (such as Vikramabahu II and Chodaganga's fighting with each other).

Parakramabahu I, Nissanka Malla, Vijayabahu II, and Lokissara are explicitly described in the Culavamsa as ruling the entirety of Lanka during this period, but following the invasion by Kalinga Magha and his tyrannical reign from 1215–1236, the island fractured into a series of discrete and competing kingdoms. Sri Lanka would not see geopolitical union again until 1450; It would be under the Kotte Kingdom.

In Zoology
An armored spider of the family Tetrablemmidae, that is endemic to Sri Lanka was named Shearella lilawati.

See also
 List of monarchs of Sri Lanka
 History of Sri Lanka
 Parakramabahu

References

External links
 Kings & Rulers of Sri Lanka
 Codrington's Short History of Ceylon
 A resource on Sri Lankan history, including online texts of the Mahavamsa and Culavamsa, and images of coins from Lilavati's reign.

13th-century deaths
Queens regnant of Polonnaruwa
Year of birth unknown
Lilavati
L
L