[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fields in Trust

e every such Playing Field to be styled ‘King George’s Field’ and to be distinguished by heraldic panels or other appropriate tablet medallion or inscription commemorative of the King".

The Trust defined a playing field as "any open space used for the purpose of outdoor games, sports and pastimes".

These playing fields have their origins in an appeal launched shortly after the death of George V in March 1936.  Rather than finance the entire cost of a few schemes, grants were given towards the cost of as many fields as possible, the balance being raised by the local authority or other organisation providing the field and accepting responsibility for its maintenance.  In most cases, the responsible body entered into a Deed of Dedication declaring that the recreation ground shall "be preserved in perpetuity as a Memorial to His Late Majesty under the provisions of the KGFF and shall henceforth be known as a 'King George’s Field'." The NPFA would act, as administrator, to look at and consider proposals in order to allocate grants.

A Charity Commission Scheme was made on 1 December 1965 passing the trusteeship of the Foundation to the NPFA and, among other things,  widening the objects of the Foundation to include the "preservation" of the King George’s Fields.

Six Acre Standard
The Six Acre Standard aims to help land use planners ensure a sufficient level of open space to enable residents of all ages to participate in sports and games with an emphasis on access for children to playgrounds and other play space. The standard suggests that for each 1000 residents there should be a total of  of recreational land, of which  should be for outdoor sport and recreation space (including parks) and  for children's play, with some of this being equipped playgrounds

In its publication The Six Acre Standard, the FiT outlines a more detailed breakdown including a hierarchy of child play space.

The New Six Acre Standard
Fields in Trust reissued The Six Acre Standard under the new name Guidance for Outdoor Sport and Play in 2015 as an online reference work for planners in the UK. It has been updated to include the modern planning regime and new topics such as sustainability and the local environment. These areas come under the heading "Open Space"  which refers to all open space, and is deemed as a community asset, and value, and is protected by legislation in the Core Strategy (2006-2026). Versions of the Guidance for the devolved administrations of Scotland and Wales were launched in January 2017 as well as a Welsh Language edition.

Children's sports fields on educational land are not recorded as Open Space and are not protected by Open Space legislation. However, any change of use of educational land requires local or national government approval. The government decisions can be contested by the local community.

Queen Elizabeth II Fields Challenge

Queen Elizabeth II Fields Challenge, (known as the "Queen Elizabeth Fields Challenge" in Scotland), was a programme run by Fields in Trust aiming to protect outdoor recreational spaces across the UK to create a "grassroots legacy" in celebration of the 2012 Diamond Jubilee.

Presidents
The National Playing Fields Association has had a member of the Royal Family serving as president since their foundation in 1925:

 HRH Duke of York 19251936
 HM The King 19361948
 HRH Duke of Edinburgh 19482013
 HRH Prince of Wales 2013Present

See also

List of King George V Playing Fields
Urban planning
Gyro International, established 1912, sponsor of playgrounds in Canada and the United States

Notes

External links
Fields in Trust

Queen Elizabeth II Fields Challenge

King George's Fields
Monuments and memorials in the United Kingdom
Interested parties in planning in the United Kingdom
Environmental charities based in the United Kingdom
1925 establishments in the United Kingdom
Organizations established in 1925
Playgrounds