[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Zuffenhausen

onging to the Großgartach culture was discovered in the district near Mühlhausen village.

The Neolithic Age of south-western Germany begins with the Schwieberdinger culture that had developed into a distinct regional style during the 5th Millennium BC and was followed by the Schussenrieder culture.

Late Neolithic, Chalcolithic: Though hardly evident in Zuffenhausen, the usage and creation of copper tools by the Goldberg III culture and the Horgen culture with the earliest wheel discoveries had become widespread in Upper Swabia by the mid-4th Millennium BC. Settlers of the Beaker culture, another mid-4th Millennium culture in Neolithic Europe, left behind multiple examples of their typical pottery, flat graves and jewelry in a region stretching from Zuffenhausen to Kornwestheim. Other notable early Bronze Age items in the Zuffenhausen area are various pottery caches attributed to the Corded ware culture.

Bronze Age Zuffenhausen
Next to no barrows from the Bronze Age can be found in the area of Zuffenhausen, even though barrows from the Iron Age Hallstatt culture and later times are present. However, in nearby Ludwigsburg and Weilimdorf, Bronze Age barrows do exist, although the smaller tombs were all destroyed by farming and irrigation.

Artifacts of the Urnfield people were excavated at the Hohlgraben, Friedrichshaller Street in Zuffenhausen itself and in Neuwirtshaus, such as ceramics, bronze brooches and Rainbow cups, which are the only demonstrable pieces of evidence for the settlement of Zuffenhausen during the Bronze Age.

Pre-Roman Iron Age Zuffenhausen
Inside the city district of Zuffenhausen, six hills inside Schelmenwasen city park have been identified as grave mounds. They stand at about , above ground and have a diameter of . Unfortunately, when the mounds were opened, they only wielded bone fragments and a few minor artifacts. Outside the city, another nine burial mounds have been identified, that seem to suggest a relationship to the late Hallstatt settlements of South-Stammheim, where waste pits and a storage cellars were found. Similarly such findings were made in Rot (a foot shackle made of bronze) and in Neuwirtshaus. By far the largest discovery in the region is a massive Iron Age fortification with several walls that occupied an area of about .
 La Tène: In Zuffenhausen two Celtic coins were unearthed, as the Celts had begun to adopt minting in Roman fashion. La Tène settlement and ceramic finds were made at Elbelen/Wollinstraße, Nonnenäcker, Hummelbrunnental and in Rot.

Roman Zuffenhausen

The sparsely inhabited land north of the Danube river and east of the Rhine river that Roman geographer Claudius Ptolemy called the "Helvetii Wastelands" came under Roman administration in the late 1st century CE. Gradually, border fortresses and the Rhaetian Limes as well as towns and cities were established. Increasingly documented by written sources, a Roman provincial culture emerged in this Agri Decumates of Germania Superior with Mainz (then known as Mogontiacum) as the region's capital and seat of the governor. From 85 to 90 CE, one of the most important Roman forts north of the Alps was built on the Altenburg near Bad Cannstatt. This fortress, now known as Castrum Stuttgart Bad Cannstatt, spanned about , housed 500 horsemen, and had about 20 towers. Civilian estates (mostly Villa rustica), while being nowhere near as gigantic as the Castrum, were still numerous throughout the region and existed to supply the plebeian soldiers and patrician officers alike. In Baden-Württemberg alone, at least a thousand such estates are known to exist and the majority thereof in the fertile Neckar river valley around Zuffenhausen, Bad Cannstatt, Ludwigsburg, and Heilbronn. With the Romans came horticulture, the vineyards that still blanket the hills around Stuttgart, the orchards, Roman roads, factory produced pottery (Terra sigillata), and culture of the Romans. Overall, Roman archeological sites inside Stuttgart are extremely numerous.

The area of Zuffenhausen contains numerous of these cultural testimonies, such as several estates spread across the south and southeastern parts of the river valley that made intensive use of the soil (regardless of its fertility), as the need for food was enormous and required an extensive road network. One of the main southwestern Roman roads in Germany, marked by Roman milestones, started at Mainz (Mogontiacum) and passed through Schwieberdingen, up the alps and finally to Heidenheim an der Brenz. Even 2,000 years later, this rectilinear route to Schwieberdingen is nearly identical to its modern counterpart. In Neuwirtshaus, a waystation where travelers could exchange their horses for fresh mounts existed on this highway.