[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Centre for Humanitarian Dialogue

at sea and in scientific consensus on fisheries management between China, Vietnam, Malaysia, Indonesia and the Philippines.

Tunisia: HD facilitated the Charter of Honour for Elections, an agreement between all major political parties in Tunisia that allowed the 2014 elections to proceed peacefully.

Senegal: In Africa’s oldest insurgency, HD has been working since 2014 to create an inclusive and legitimate negotiating platform between the government of Senegal and the Movement of Democratic Forces of Casamance (MFDC). Under the auspices of Guinea-Bissau President Umaro Sissoco Embaló and with the support of HD, the government of Senegal and the southern factions of the MFDC signed a roadmap for disarmament in 4 August 2022 . 

Colombia: HD is working to strengthen the benefits of peace accords signed in 2016, including support for the Manigua de Paz (Jungle of Peace) sustainable bean-to-bar chocolate business run by former FARC guerrillas in the Meta and Tumaco areas. 

Among its various public and confidential peacemaking activities, HD has also been involved in Sudan, Syria, Kenya, the Central African Republic, Liberia, Somalia, Timor Leste, Burundi and Nepal.

History and Leadership
HD was founded to pursue the humanitarian vision of Henry Dunant, co-founder of the Red Cross and co-recipient of the first Nobel Peace Prize, by using mediation and dialogue to reduce the suffering caused by armed conflict. The initial intention of HD was to serve as a discreet venue for dialogue on humanitarian issues.

The organisation evolved to include negotiations in support of humanitarian objectives and quickly broadened, at the behest of conflict parties in Aceh, to include the resolution of the conflict through mediation and conflict prevention.

In July 2015, HD was granted a special status by the Federal Council of Switzerland that confers certain privileges and immunities intended to enable its peacemaking efforts worldwide.

Martin Griffiths was the founding executive director of HD and led the organisation from 1999 to July 2010. He was replaced for a brief period (July 2010 to March 2011) by Angelo Gnaedinger, then HD’s regional director for the Middle East and a former director general of the International Committee of the Red Cross.

David Harland, a former New Zealand diplomat and UN official, was appointed as HD’s executive director in April 2011.

Funding
HD receives a combination of strategic support and targeted project funding from various governments and private foundations.

In 2021, HD’s annual income was 46 million Swiss francs.

References

External links
 HD website 
 HD LinkedIn 
 The Oslo Forum website

Mediation
Peace organisations based in Switzerland
Organizations established in 1999
1999 establishments in Switzerland