[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 108]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

ill to execute. The audience
seemed all delighted, and either felt or pretended to feel inexpressible
pleasure; even Tommy himself, who did not know one note from another,
had caught so much of the general enthusiasm, that he applauded as loud
as the rest of the company. But Harry, whose temper was not quite so
pliable, could not conceal the intolerable weariness that overpowered
his senses during this long exhibition. He gaped, he yawned, he
stretched, he even pinched himself, in order to keep his attention
alive, but all in vain; the more Miss Matilda exercised her skill in
playing pieces of the most difficult execution, the more did Harry's
propensity to drowsiness increase. At length the lateness of the hour,
which much exceeded Harry's time of going to bed, conspiring with the
opiate charms of music, he could resist no longer, but insensibly fell
back upon his chair fast asleep. This unfortunate accident was soon
remarked by the rest of the company, and confirmed them very much in the
opinion they had conceived of Harry's vulgarity; while he, in the
meantime, enjoyed the most placid slumber, which was not dissipated till
Miss Matilda had desisted from playing.

Thus was the first day passed at Mr Merton's, very little to the
satisfaction of Harry; the next, and the next after, were only
repetitions of the same scene. The little gentry, whose tastes and
manners were totally different from his, had now imbibed a perfect
contempt for Harry, and it was with great difficulty that they
condescended to treat him even with common civility. In this _laudable_
behaviour they were very much confirmed by Master Compton and Master
Mash. Master Compton was reckoned a very genteel boy, though all his
gentility consisted in a pair of buckles so big that they almost
crippled him; in a slender emaciated figure, and a look of consummate
impudence. He had almost finished his education at a public school,
where he had learned every vice and folly which is commonly taught at
such places, without the least improvement either of his character or
his understanding. Master Mash was the son of a neighbouring gentleman,
who had considerably impaired his fortune by an inordinate love of
horse-racing. Having been from his infancy accustomed to no other
conversation than about winning and losing money, he had acquired the
idea that, to bet successfully, was the summit of all human ambition. He
had been almost brought up in the stable, and therefore had imbibed the
greatest interest about horses; not from any real affection for that
noble animal, but merely because he considered them as engines for the
winning of money. He too was now improving his talents by a public
education, and longed impatiently for the time when he should be set
free from all restraint, and allowed to display the superiority of his
genius at Ascot and Newmarket.

These two young gentlemen had conceived the most violent dislike to
Harry, and lost no occasion of saying or doing everything they had in
their power to mortify him. To Tommy, they were in the contrary
extreme, and omitted no opportunity of rendering themselves agreeable to
him. Nor was it long before their forward vivacious manners, accompanied
with a knowledge of many of those gay scenes, which acted forcibly upon
Tommy's imagination, began to render their conversation highly
agreeable. They talked to him about public diversions, about celebrated
actresses, about parties of pleasure, and parties of mischief. Tommy
began to feel himself introduced to a new train of ideas, and a wider
range of conduct; he began to long for the time when he should share in
the glories of robbing orchards, or insulting passengers with impunity;
but when he heard that little boys, scarcely bigger than himself, had
often joined in the glorious project of forming open rebellions against
their masters, or of disturbing a whole audience at a playhouse, he
panted for the time when he might have a chance of sharing in the fame
of such achievements. By degrees he lost all regard for Mr Barlow, and
all affection for his friend Harry. At first, indeed, he was shocked at
hearing Mr Barlow mentioned with disrespect, but becoming by degrees
more callous to every good impression he at last took infinite pleasure
in seeing Master Mash (who, though destitute of either wit or genius,
had a great taste for mimicry) take off the _parson_ in the middle of
his _sermon_.

Harry perceived and lamented this change in the manners of his friend;
he sometimes took the liberty of remonstrating with him upon the
subject, but was only answered with a contemptuous sneer; and Master
Mash, who happened once to be present, told him that he was a _monstrous
bore_.

It happened that, while Harry was at Mr Merton's, there was a troop of
strolling players at a neighbouring town. In order to divert the young
gentry, Mr Merton contrived that they should make a party to see a play.
T