[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Consensus (computer science)

ch other as members of the group. In the absence of such a well-defined, closed group with authenticated members, a Sybil attack against an open consensus group can defeat even a Byzantine consensus algorithm, simply by creating enough virtual participants to overwhelm the fault tolerance threshold.

A permissionless consensus protocol, in contrast, allows anyone in the network to join dynamically and participate without prior permission, but instead imposes a different form of artificial cost or barrier to entry to mitigate the Sybil attack threat. Bitcoin introduced the first permissionless consensus protocol using proof of work and a difficulty adjustment function, in which participants compete to solve cryptographic hash puzzles, and probabilistically earn the right to commit blocks and earn associated rewards in proportion to their invested computational effort. Motivated in part by the high energy cost of this approach, subsequent permissionless consensus protocols have proposed or adopted other alternative participation rules for Sybil attack protection, such as proof of stake, proof of space, and proof of authority.

Equivalency of agreement problems

Three agreement problems of interest are as follows.

Terminating Reliable Broadcast

A collection of  processes, numbered from  to  communicate by sending messages to one another. Process  must transmit a value  to all processes such that:

 if process  is correct, then every correct process receives 
 for any two correct processes, each process receives the same value.

It is also known as The General's Problem.

Consensus
Formal requirements for a consensus protocol may include:

 Agreement: All correct processes must agree on the same value.
 Weak validity: For each correct process, its output must be the input of some correct process.
 Strong validity: If all correct processes receive the same input value, then they must all output that value.
 Termination: All processes must eventually decide on an output value

Weak Interactive Consistency

For n processes in a partially synchronous system (the system alternates between good and bad periods of synchrony), each process chooses a private value. The processes communicate with each other by rounds to determine a public value and generate a
consensus vector with the following requirements:

 if a correct process sends , then all correct processes receive either  or nothing (integrity property)
 all messages sent in a round by a correct process are received in the same round by all correct processes (consistency property).

It can be shown that variations of these problems are equivalent in that the solution for a problem in one type of model may be the solution for another problem in another type of model. For example, a solution to the Weak Byzantine General problem in a synchronous authenticated message passing model leads to a solution for Weak Interactive Consistency. An interactive consistency algorithm can solve the consensus problem by having each process choose the majority value in its consensus vector as its consensus value.

Solvability results for some agreement problems
There is a t-resilient anonymous synchronous protocol which solves the Byzantine Generals problem, if  and the Weak Byzantine Generals case where  is the number of failures and  is the number of processes.

For systems with  processors, of which  are Byzantine, it has been shown that there exists no algorithm that solves the consensus problem for  in the oral-messages model. The proof is constructed by first showing the impossibility for the three-node case  and using this result to argue about partitions of processors. In the written-messages model there are protocols that can tolerate .

In a fully asynchronous system there is no consensus solution that can tolerate one or more crash failures even when only requiring the non triviality property. This result is sometimes called the FLP impossibility proof named after the authors Michael J. Fischer, Nancy Lynch, and Mike Paterson who were awarded a Dijkstra Prize for this significant work. The FLP result has been mechanically verified to hold even under fairness assumptions. However, FLP does not state that consensus can never be reached: merely that under the model's assumptions, no algorithm can always reach consensus in bounded time. In practice it is highly unlikely to occur.

Some consensus protocols

The Paxos consensus algorithm by Leslie Lamport, and variants of it such as Raft, are used pervasively in widely deployed distributed and cloud computing systems. These algorithms are typically synchronous, dependent on an elected leader to make progress, and tolerate only crashes and not Byzantine failures.