[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Fukuda Doctrine

iples. The Fukuda Doctrine survived the Cold War, unlike the Brezhnev Doctrine, or the Nixon Doctrine that disappeared under it. Rather, it strengthened the discourse about the Japan-Southeast Asian relations into the 21st century. Thus, there is an expectation that it'll evolve and remain relevant.

References to the Doctrine 
References to the Doctrine are still being made. The son of Fukuda Takeo, Fukuda Yasuo, made a reference to it when he became Prime Minister in 2007. Although he did not update the Doctrine as anticipated, he declared that ASEAN and Japan would be ”partners thinking together, acting together and sharing a future vision.”

This was later highlighted in ASEAN Chairman's Statement on the ASEAN Post Ministerial Conferences (PMC) + 1 Sessions in Singapore in 2008. It read; “The Meeting welcomed the “New Fukuda Doctrine,” in which Prime Minister of Japan Yasuo Fukuda declared that ASEAN and Japan would be partners thinking together, acting together and sharing a future vision.” Other than diplomats, journalists and scholars also made reference to the Doctrine in major conferences held in Japan and Southeast Asia in 2007, to mark the 30th anniversary for the doctrine.

Relevance to Africa 
According to Tadokoro Masayuki’s argument in 2010, the principles of the Doctrine are relevant not only for Southeast Asia, but also for Africa today. He argues that “given the amicable relations that have developed between Japanese and the people in ASEAN countries since then, we should not be too cynical about the roles played by such political initiatives,” and that “For Japan, Africa represents neither an object of pity nor a security threat nor a mere supplier of natural resources nor a giant zoo, but rather a partner with whom Japanese should be willing to work together.”

Deficiency of the Fukuda Doctrine 
However, the principles of the Doctrine are considered not enough to articulate the current relationship and to enhance it. In the post-Cold War era, ASEAN has expanded its functions to include strengthening the security for regional peace and stability. ASEAN's importance has increased due to the strategic uncertainty by the power shift to China. Japan has advanced “de facto regional integration” with ASEAN through aid, trade, investment and cultural exchanges. ASEAN, as a result, has gained the dominant position in the region. Japan-Southeast Asia relations are now at a point where they can help shape and direct the region. Japan and ASEAN are both pursuing goals to better the issues of human rights, the rule of law, and other democratic principles. Kei Koga argues that there is an opportunity to enhance their political cooperation that transcends the Fukuda Doctrine, in pursuing these shared goals.

See also 
 Yoshida Doctrine
 Foreign policy doctrine
 Foreign policy of Japan
 International economic cooperation policy of Japan
 Official development assistance Japan
 ASEAN
 Five-Year Plans of Vietnam

References

Literature 
 
 Sueo Sudo. “Japan-ASEAN Relations: New Dimensions in Japanese Foreign Policy”, Asian Survey 28, no. 5 (1988): 509–25.
 Sueo Sudo (1992). The Fukuda Doctrine and ASEAN: new dimensions in Japanese foreign policy. Singapore: Institute of Southeast Asian Studies.
 Mendi Wolf (2001). Japan and South East Asia. Vol.2, The Cold War era 1947-1989 and issues at the end of the Twentieth century. London: Routledge.

Foreign relations of Post-war Japan
Foreign policy doctrines
1977 in Japan
1977 in international relations
Japanese foreign policy