[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# International Virtual Observatory Alliance

ll allow an astronomer to be able to locate, get details of, and
make use of, any resource located anywhere in the IVO space, i.e. in any Virtual
Observatory. The IVOA will define the protocols and standards whereby different
registry services are able to interoperate and thereby realise this goal.”

Semantics
The Semantics Working Group will explore technology in the area of
semantics with the aim of producing new standards that aid the interoperability of
VO systems. The Semantics Working Group is concerned with the meaning or the
interpretation of words, sentences, or other language forms in the context of
astronomy. This includes standard descriptions of astrophysical objects, data
types, concepts, events, or of any other phenomena in astronomy. The WG
covers the study of relationships between words, symbols and concepts, as well
as the meaning of such representations (ontology). The WG covers use of natural
language in astronomy, including queries, translations, and internationalization of
interfaces.

VO Query Language
The VO Query Language (VOQL) Working Group will be in charge of defining a universal Query
Language to be used by applications accessing distributed data within the Virtual
Observatory framework.

VOTable
The VOTable Working Group is in charge of the VOTable format, which
is an XML standard for the interchange of data represented
as a set of tables. 
In this context, a table is an unordered set of rows, each of a
uniform format, as specified in the table metadata. Each row in a table is a
sequence of table cells, and each of these contains either a primitive data type, or
an array of such primitives. VOTable is derived from the Astrores format,
itself modelled on the FITS Table format; VOTable was designed to be closer
to the FITS Binary Table format.

Theory Interest Group
During the IVOA executive meeting of January 2004 in Garching, Germany, the
IVOA Theory Interest Group (TIG) was formed with the goal of ensuring that theoretical
data and services are taken into account in the IVOA standards process.
By its charter, the IVOA Theory Interest Group intends to:
Provide a forum for discussing theory specific issues in a VO context.
Contribute to other IVOA working groups to ensure that theory specific requirements are included.
Incorporate standard approaches defined in these groups when designing and implementing services on theoretical archives.
Define standard services relevant for theoretical archives.
Promote development of services for comparing theoretical results to observations and vice versa.
Define relevant milestones and assign specific tasks to interested parties.

References

External links
The International Virtual Observatory Alliance

Scientific organizations established in 2002
2002 establishments in Germany
Astronomical observatories