[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# USS Red Rover

i. Through the summer, she treated the flotilla's sick and wounded while the Ram Fleet engaged at Vicksburg and along the Mississippi River to Helena, Arkansas. While off Helena, Red Rover caught fire, but — with assistance from the gunboat Benton — she extinguished the blaze and continued her work.

Transferred to the Union Navy's Mississippi operating area
In September 1862, Red Rover — still legally under the jurisdiction of an Illinois prize court — was sent to Cairo to be winterized. The Navy purchased her on the 30th. The next day, the Union transferred the vessels of the Western Flotilla, with their officers and men, to the Navy Department to serve as the Mississippi Squadron under acting Rear Adm. David Dixon Porter. The Navy Medical Department of Western Waters was organized at the same time under Fleet Surg. Edward Gilchrist.

In December Red Rover, used during the fall to alleviate crowded medical facilities ashore, was ready for service on the river. On the 26th, she was commissioned under the command of Acting Master William R. Wells, USN. Her complement was 47, while her medical department, remaining under Assistant Surgeon Bixby, was initially about 30. Of that number, three were Sisters of the Order of the Holy Cross, later joined by a fourth member of their order. The Red Rover also hosted 5 African-American former slaves who were enlisted as "Boys" and were paid to serve as Nurses in the Navy, and these women: Ann Bradford Stokes, Ellen Campbell, Alice Kennedy, Sarah Kinno and Betsy Young (later became Young Fowler) were the forerunners and pre-dated the formation of the Navy Nurse Corps. These women were the forerunners of the U.S. Navy Nurse Corps. The Western Sanitation Commission, which also donated over $3,000 worth of equipment to the ship, coordinated the work of these and other volunteers. Five of the women who served as nurses on the ship with the Sisters were five former slaves, including Stokes, who had volunteered their service to the Navy.

In December 1862, Fleet Surg. Ninian A. Pinckney relieved Fleet Surg. Gilchrist. Pinckney imposed such strict standards on the department's day-to-day activities and ran them so well run from his headquarters in Red Rover that by 1865, he was able to claim

there is less ... sickness in the Fleet than in the healthiest portion of the globe.

Supporting the White River expedition
On the 29th, Red Rover headed downstream. During January 1863, she served with the expedition up the White River. While the expedition took the Post of Arkansas (Fort Hindman), she remained at the mouth of the river to receive the wounded. On her departure, she was fired on and two shots penetrated into the hospital area, but caused no casualties.

From February to the fall of Vicksburg early in July, she cared for the sick and wounded of that campaign and supplemented her medical support of Union forces by provisioning other ships of the Mississippi Squadron with ice and fresh meat. She also provided burial details and sent medical personnel ashore when and where needed.

Red Rover continued her service along the river, taking on sick and wounded and delivering medicine and supplies until the fall of 1864. In October of that year, she began her last supply run.  After delivering medical stores to ships at Helena and on the White, Red, and Yazoo Rivers, she transferred patients to Hospital Pinckney at Memphis and headed north.

Post-war decommissioning
Arriving at Mound City on 11 December, she remained there, caring for Navy patients, until she was decommissioned on 17 November 1865. Having admitted over 2,400 patients during her career, she transferred her last 11 to  on that date. On 29 November, she was sold at public auction to A. M. Carpenter.

Legacy
When accessioned recruits to the United States Navy arrive at Recruit Training Center, Great Lakes, Illinois, the first Branch Medical Clinic they visit is named BMC Red Rover.  It is there that recruits get their first inoculations, immunizations, optometry screenings, female examinations, and dental screenings.

See also

Hospital Ships of the Sanitary Commission
Anaconda Plan

References

Ships of the Confederate States Navy
Ships of the Union Navy
Ships built in St. Louis
Steamships of the United States Navy
American Civil War auxiliary ships of the United States
1859 ships
Hospital ships of the United States Navy
Ships captured by the United States Navy from the Confederate States Navy
Maritime incidents in April 1862
United States Sanitary Commission
Steamboats of the Mississippi River