[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Patricio Hernández

Patricio Hernández (born 16 August 1956) is an Argentine football coach and former player.

Hernández started his career in 1974 at Estudiantes de La Plata, a club that he would later manage. He soon earned a reputation as a skillful attacking midfielder, with a very precise shot. He was transferred to Italian team Torino F.C. in 1982 for a then record transfer fee for Estudiantes. This record fee allowed Estudiantes to build an excellent roster, who won championships in 1982 and 1983.

Argentina coach César Menotti included Hernández in the 1982 FIFA World Cup squad as his third choice for creative midfielder, behind Diego Maradona and José Daniel Valencia. He did not manage to play any game in that tournament, though.

After the disappointment of going to, but not playing in, the world Cup, Hernández played for 2 seasons with Torino before moving to fellow Italian side Ascoli.

In 1985 Hernández returned to Argentina to play for River Plate. He was part of the team that won the Copa Libertadores in 1986. In 1987, he moved to Argentinos Juniors.

In 1989 Hernández moved to Mexico to play for Cruz Azul but he returned to Argentinos Juniors in 1990, he then had a season with Huracán in 1991-1992 and another with Instituto where he retired from playing in 1993.

Hernández has had a heretofar unsuccessful coaching career, including Estudiantes, Racing Club, and other teams in South America, mostly in Ecuador. In February 2007, Hernández was hired as coach of Club Atlético Banfield from the Argentine premiership, but he was fired March 16, 2007 after a home defeat to Estudiantes.

Hernández is also a respected football commentator with Argentine sports network Torneos y Competencias where he does in-depth tactical analysis, usually assisted with video clips and props.

He also has two relatives who have achieved huge success in other sports. His nephew Juan Martín Hernández is one of Argentina's biggest stars in rugby union and a fixture in the national team. His niece and Juan Martín's older sister María de la Paz Hernández is an Argentine international in field hockey.

Honours

Player
River Plate
Copa Libertadores: 1986
Intercontinental Cup: 1986
Copa Interamericana: 1986

Manager
San miguel
Primera D Metropolitana: 2014 Torneo Reducido

River Plate
Argentine Primera División: 2000 Clausura

External links

1956 births
Living people
People from San Nicolás de los Arroyos
Argentine men's footballers
Argentina men's international footballers
1982 FIFA World Cup players
Argentine Primera División players
Estudiantes de La Plata footballers
Serie A players
Torino FC players
Ascoli Calcio 1898 FC players
Club Atlético River Plate footballers
Argentinos Juniors footballers
Liga MX players
Cruz Azul footballers
Club Atlético Huracán footballers
Argentine expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in Mexico
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Italy
Argentine expatriate sportspeople in Mexico
Deportivo Saprissa managers
Expatriate football managers in Costa Rica
Men's association football midfielders
Argentine football managers
Footballers from Buenos Aires Province