[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1956 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1956 in the United Kingdom. The year is dominated by the Suez Crisis.

Incumbents
 Monarch – Elizabeth II
 Prime Minister – Anthony Eden (Conservative)
 Parliament – 41st

Events
 1 January – Possession of heroin becomes fully criminalised.
 4 January – Eight months after winning the general election and barely a year after becoming Prime Minister, Anthony Eden's position is looking under threat as opinion polls show Labour (now led by Hugh Gaitskell) are in the lead.
 24 January – Plans are announced for the construction of thousands of new homes in the Barbican area of London, devastated by the Luftwaffe during the Second World War.
 26 January–5 February – Great Britain and Northern Ireland compete at the Winter Olympics in Cortina d'Ampezzo, Italy, but do not win any medals.
 February
 The Duke of Edinburgh's Award launched.
 Release of Shirley Bassey's first single, "Burn My Candle (At Both Ends)".
 5 February – First showing of documentary films by the Free Cinema movement, at the National Film Theatre, London.
 8 February 
 The first AEC Routemaster bus in London starts public service, on route 2.
 The Treaty of London (1956) is signed to set up an independent Federation of Malaya
 11 February – Two of the "Cambridge spies", Guy Burgess and Donald Maclean, appear in Moscow after vanishing as diplomats in mysterious circumstances in 1951.
 12 February – Double yellow lines to prohibit parking introduced in Slough.
 23 February – A fire at Eastwood Mills, Keighley, West Yorkshire, kills eight employees.
 9 March – Archbishop Makarios is deported from Cyprus to the Seychelles by the British authorities.
 10 March – Fairey Aviation test pilot Peter Twiss sets a new airspeed record in the Fairey Delta 2, also becoming the first person to exceed 1,000 mph (1,610 km/h) in level flight. His top speed is 1,132 mph (1,821 km/h), 310 mph (499 km/h) in excess of the previous (U.S.) record.
 14 March – A memorial to Karl Marx is unveiled at the new site of his grave in Highgate Cemetery, London, by Harry Pollitt, General Secretary of the Communist Party of Great Britain.
 24 March – In the Grand National, Devon Loch, owned by Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother and ridden by Dick Francis, is in a clear lead when the horse inexplicably collapses fifty yards (45 m) from the finish, giving victory to E.S.B. at 100/7, ridden by Dave Dick and trained by Fred Rimell. Stan Mellor is the second placed jockey.
 7 April – Manchester United, with an average team age of just 24, win the Football League First Division title.
 17 April
 In his Budget speech, Chancellor of the Exchequer Harold Macmillan announces the launch of Premium Bonds, which will go on sale on 1 November, with a £1,000 prize available from the first draw in June next year.
 Chew Valley Lake () in Somerset is inaugurated as a reservoir for the Bristol area by the Queen.
 19 April – Diver Lionel Crabb (working for MI6) dives into Portsmouth Harbour to investigate visiting Soviet cruiser Ordzhonikidze and vanishes during a state visit by Nikita Khrushchev and Nikolai Bulganin. On 9 May Anthony Eden, who had refused permission for the operation, makes a statement refusing to reveal any details surrounding the mystery of Crabb's disappearance.
 20 April – Humphrey Lyttelton and his band record his trad jazz composition "Bad Penny Blues" in London with sound engineer Joe Meek. This will be the first British jazz record to get into the Top Twenty.
 22 April – The 2i's Coffee Bar opens in Old Compton Street, Soho (London); its basement rapidly becomes a pioneering venue for rock and roll music in Britain.
 27 April – Doubts about the future of Anthony Eden as Prime Minister continue as his personal ratings in opinion polls remain low.
 3 May – Granada Television launched with a base in Manchester.
 5 May – Manchester City F.C. win the FA Cup with a 3–1 win over Birmingham City at Wembley Stadium. German-born goalkeeper Bert Trautmann plays through the game despite an injury 15 minutes from time diagnosed on 9 May as a broken neck.
 7 May – Minister of Health Robin Turton rejects a call for the government to lead an anti-smoking campaign, arguing that no ill-effects have yet been proven.
 8 May – First performance of John Osborne's play Look Back in Anger by the newly formed English Stage Company at the Royal Court Theatre. Alan Bates has his first major role as Cliff. The theatre's press release describes the dramatist as among the angry young men of the time.
 9 May – The Gower Peninsula of Wales becomes the first area in the British Isles to be designated an Area of Outstanding Natural Beauty.
 1 June – Elsie Stephenson becomes founding Director of the Nurse Teaching Unit, University of Edinburgh, the first nurse teaching unit within a British university.
 3 June
 Third class accommodation on British Railways trains redesignated as second class (also applies on Great Northern Railway in Northern Ireland).
 Prime ministers Jawaharlal Nehru of I