[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Architecture of Hungary

The architecture of Hungary is understood as the architecture of the territory of the country of Hungary, and in a wider, of the Kingdom of Hungary, from the conquest to the present day.

In the time of the foundation of the country 

The Hungarian conquest of the Carpathian Basin by the Hungarians settled an architectural history in the country. The roads and cities of the Roman province were not completely destroyed by the Migration Period but rather were created new settlements on them. The Roman buildings were used as mines and mansions (for example, the Kurszán Castle in Óbuda). Those churches of the Slavic peoples that were converted to the Christian faith survived, as did that of Zalavár.

King Stephen I of Hungary, with the creation of a feudal state required the construction of monumental stone buildings. This demand was initially in charge to servants, craftsmen abducted from the West, and then by craftsmen, masons and Italian stone carvers. The First Church of Kalocsa with its three-nave basilical arrangement and its apse pointed to Italian models, to the earliest Christian Ravenna influences. It also includes the Basilica of the Assumption of Székesfehérvár, one of the largest churches of Europe in its time, founded by the King Stephen I of Hungary, which later became the administrative center, coronation church and traditional royal burial ground of the Hungarian Kingdom.

Smaller churches like the Pécsvárad Abbey and the excavatede remains of the Tihany Abbey also have an Italian influence. The base walls of the crypt of the Feldebrő Church are from the Eastern, perhaps a Byzantine practice. The strengthening of feudalism created new opportunities. During the reconstruction of the Pécs Cathedral, was formed the basilica of the Hungarian Romanesque style, the three-nave basilica, without transept, with a semicircular apse. The carved stone is from the Lombard effect through Dalmatia. This floor plan system remained almost unchanged until 11th and 12th centuries, but the tower pairs arrangements were not followed in Pécs. The towers first adorned the western façade, and a few decades later only the eastern façade.

In the Árpádian's age

Béla III of Hungary's age 

The resulting uniformity was replaced by a more complex art in the time of king Béla III of Hungary. By the time of Byzantine king, was expected to have a major French influence alongside the Byzantine. This was more evident in Esztergom, where he wanted to create a center similar to Constantinople with the unity of the secular and ecclesiastical architecture. The St. Adalbert's Cathedral and the palace of Esztergom, burned in 1181, were the first example of this. The Archbishop Jób built a magnificent temple, a royal palace south of the cathedral, and a chapel. Although Béla III did not realize his plan, the building just finished was delivered to the archbishop. However, the Székesfehérvár's construction works at that time continued to follow the pattern of Pécs. The mixing style developed in Esztergom was manifested in many ways in the early 13th century. The type of door became especially popular, as shown by the southern door of the Cathedral of Alba Iulia, current Romania. The individual details also spread like the head of a rotating blade in the Premontre monastery of Ócsa. The Rite of Esztergom is most clearly shown in the Reformed Church in Kisbény.

Effect of the Cistercians 
Following the French relations of Esztergom, the Cistercian order appeared in the Kingdom of Hungary. The system brought with it a strong arts program, including the prohibition of figurative sculptures, mural paintings and the construction of the towers, toward the contemporary of Burgundy when the Gothic was applied. The order was first established in Eger in 1142. They were conquered during the reign of Béla III, who enjoyed the same privileges as on French soil. Only the fragments of the churches of the Zirc Abbey and Pilis Abbey that were formed at that time and the Cistercian abbey of Bélapátfalva have survived, but in the end they remained almost intact after the Mongol invasion. The Cistercian influence is also reflected in the lower church of the Pannonhalma Archabbey, founded during the reign of Grand Prince Géza, and in this style was built the Royal Castle of Óbuda.