[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Eikev

ness, and what God did to Dathan and Abiram when the earth swallowed them. Moses instructed them therefore to keep all the law so that they might have the strength to enter and possess the land and long endure on that land flowing with milk and honey. The fifth reading and a closed portion end here.

Sixth reading—Deuteronomy 11:10–21
In the sixth reading, Moses extolled the promised land as a land of hills and valleys that soaks up its water from the rains, a land that God looks after. He contrasted this with Egypt, which was dependent on irrigation. A closed portion ends here.

Then Moses told them words now found in the Shema prayer: If the Israelites obeyed the commandments, loving God and serving God with heart and soul, God would grant the rain in season and they would gather their grain, wine, and oil. God would provide grass for their cattle and the Israelites would eat their fill. Moses warned them not to be lured away to serve other gods, for God's anger would flare up against them, God would suspend the rain, and they would soon perish from the land. Moses urged them to impress God's words upon their heart, bind them as a sign on their hands, let them serve as a symbol on their foreheads, teach them to their children, and recite them when they stayed at home and when they were away, when they lay down and when they got up. Moses instructed them to inscribe God's words on the doorposts of their houses and on their gates, so that they and their children might endure in the land that God swore to their fathers as long as there is a heaven over the earth. The sixth reading and a closed portion end here.

Seventh reading—Deuteronomy 11:22–25
In the seventh reading, which is also the concluding maftir () reading, Moses promised that if the Israelites faithfully kept the law, loving God, walking in all God's ways, and holding fast to God, then God would dislodge the nations then in the land, and every spot on which their feet tread would be theirs, and their territory would extend from the wilderness to Lebanon and from the Euphrates to the Mediterranean Sea. Parashat Eikev and a closed portion end here.

Readings according to the triennial cycle
Jews who read the Torah according to the triennial cycle of Torah reading read the parashah according to the following schedule:

In ancient parallels
The parashah has parallels or is discussed in these ancient sources:

Deuteronomy chapter 9
Numbers 13:22, 28 refer to the "children of Anak" (, yelidei ha-anak); Numbers 13:33 refers to the "sons of Anak" (, benei anak); and Deuteronomy 1:28, 2:10–11, 2:21, and 9:2 refer to the "Anakim" (). John A. Wilson suggested that the Anakim may be related to the Iy-‘anaq geographic region named in Middle Kingdom Egyptian (19th to 18th century BCE) pottery bowls that had been inscribed with the names of enemies and then shattered as a kind of curse.

Deuteronomy chapter 11
Exodus 3:8, 17; 13:5; and 33:3; Leviticus 20:24; Numbers 13:27 and 14:8; and Deuteronomy 6:3, 11:9, 26:9, 26:15, 27:3, and 31:20 describe the Land of Israel as a land flowing "with milk and honey." Similarly, the Middle Egyptian (early second millennium BCE) tale of Sinuhe Palestine described the Land of Israel or, as the Egyptian tale called it, the land of Yaa: "It was a good land called Yaa. Figs were in it and grapes. It had more wine than water. Abundant was its honey, plentiful its oil. All kind of fruit were on its trees. Barley was there and emmer, and no end of cattle of all kinds."

In inner-Biblical interpretation
The parashah has parallels or is discussed in these Biblical sources:

Deuteronomy chapter 7
The gradual progression into the Promised Land, predicted in Deuteronomy 7:12 to take place "little by little" (m’at m’at), echoed the same prediction in Exodus 23:29–30. This progression was born out in Joshua 13:13 and 15:63, which record that the Gerushites, Maachatites, and Jebusites continued to live in the land of Israel "to this day," and by Joshua 16:10 and 17:11–13, which refer to the Canaanites continuing to live under conditions of forced labor in Gezer and in the territory of the tribe of Manasseh.

Deuteronomy chapter 9
Deuteronomy 9:1 uses the same words "Shema, Yisrael" as the exhortation in Deuteronomy 6:4. Commentators suggest that the same words are used because "a fresh portion of the exhortation begins here," or because this was "a new discourse, delivered at some distance of time from the former, probably on the next sabbath day."