[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 82nd Training Wing

The 82nd Training Wing is a unit of the United States Air Force that is assigned to the Air Education and Training Command, Second Air Force. The training wing is stationed at Sheppard Air Force Base, Texas where it is also the host unit. 

The Training Wing produces more than 62,000 graduates annually in over 1,000+ technical training courses. The primary training includes aircraft maintenance, civil engineering, nuclear and conventional munitions, aerospace ground equipment, avionics, electricians and plumbers and telecommunications training conducted by the four assigned training groups.

The unit's history goes back to the 82nd Fighter Group, which was a Twelfth and Fifteenth Air Force combat unit that fought in North Africa and Italy during World War II.  During the early years of the Cold War, the 82nd Fighter Wing was a Strategic Air Command fighter escort and tactical fighter unit.

The commander of the 82nd Training Wing is Brigadier General George T.M. Dietrich III The Command Chief Master Sergeant is Chief Master Sergeant John P. Chilcote.

History

Second World War

History of the Training Wing traces back, starting out with the 82nd Fighter Group which was formed in January 1942, and fought in Europe during the Second World War. The Fighter Group initially moved to North Africa and served with the Twelfth Air Force, operating from Tafraoui Airfield in Algeria, eventually they moved to Telergma Airport in Algeria. They engaged in various dogfights with enemy fighters while escorting bombers over various locations. 

Moreover, they participated in the final phase of the Tunisian Campaign, destroying enemy transport planes and conducting bombing missions. In addition to this, the group were involved in the Allied invasion of Sicily, flying combat missions and supporting bomber raids against Naples and Rome. 

After the decisive victory in Sicily, they moved onto Italy and provided fighter protection for the Fifteenth Air Force, alongside this they conducted missions to strike oil centers in Romania, Poland, Austria, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, France, and Yugoslavia. They remained in Italy until the end of the war where it became inactive in September 1945.

Cold War
The 82nd was established as a Strategic Air Command fighter wing on 28 July 1947 at Grenier Field, New Hampshire. The 82nd Fighter Wing was established in accordance with the Hobson Plan which established a controlling wing at each Air Force Base that commanding all groups and support units on the facility.  However, the Air Force did not organize (assign personnel) to the wing until 15 August 1947. The wing was attached to the 307th Bomb Wing from 15 August 1947 to 15 December 1948. On 16 December 1948 the wing was reassigned to Fifteenth Air Force.

The operational flying component of the wing was the 82nd Fighter Group, composed of the 95th, 96th and 97th Fighter Squadrons and were equipped with Lockheed P-38 Lightning aircraft.  Most officers that arrived were rated pilots that had recently returned to military life. Many had World War II combat experience. Many officers and enlisted men arrived at Grenier from 62nd Fighter Squadron, a unit that had just returned from a winter test in Alaska.

The wing was relieved of its responsibilities to the Fifteenth Air Force on 22 August 1949 and was inactivated on 20 October 1949.

Units
The 82 TRW is the largest of four technical training wings in Air Education and Training Command and is diversified in scope of training. The 82nd, 782nd, and 982nd Training Groups conduct training at Sheppard and at geographically separated locations around the country. The 982nd Training Group conducts training at locations worldwide.

82nd Training Group (82 TRG)
The 82nd Training Group is responsible for aircraft maintenance and armament and munitions including nuclear munitions. The 82nd Training Group provides aircraft maintenance and munitions training to satisfy the full range of customer requirements for respective apportioned United States Air Force specialties, including officer and enlisted initial skills courses in 17 different Air Force Specialty Codes, advanced and supplemental courses, the Maintenance Course for Operational Commanders, and the Mission Generation Road Course.
 359th Training Squadron (359 TRS)
 361st Training Squadron (361 TRS)
 362nd Training Squadron (362 TRS)
 363rd Training Squadron (363 TRS)