[Source: PubMed]

8. J Public Health Manag Pract. 2023 May-Jun 01;29(3):E115-E123. doi: 
10.1097/PHH.0000000000001674. Epub 2022 Dec 2.

Climate Change Adaptation Activities and Needs in US State and Territorial 
Health Agencies.

Errett NA(1), Dolan K, Hartwell C, Vickery J, Hess JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health Sciences, School of 
Public Health, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington (Drs Errett, 
Vickery, and Hess and Ms Hartwell); Center for Health and the Global 
Environment, School of Public Health, University of Washington, Seattle, 
Washington (Drs Errett and Hess); Association of State and Territorial Health 
Officials, Washington, District of Columbia (Ms Dolan); Department of Emergency 
Medicine, School of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington (Dr 
Hess); and Department of Global Health, Schools of Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington (Dr Hess).

OBJECTIVE: To characterize US State and Territorial Health Agencies' (S/THA) 
climate change adaptation activities and priorities to facilitate appropriate 
investments, skills development, and support that will strengthen health sector 
capacity in response to a changing climate.
DESIGN: In 2021, we conducted an online survey of S/THA staff requesting 
information on current activities related to climate change and health, the 
state of climate and health programming, and anticipated needs and priorities 
for assistance. We analyzed survey results using descriptive statistics.
SETTING: US State and Territorial Health Agencies.
PARTICIPANTS: We received responses from 41 of 59 S/THAs (69.5%).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Implementation of S/THA climate and health programs 
(CHPs); engagement in climate and health activities; maintenance of hazard early 
warning systems and action plans; employment of climate and health 
communications strategies; capability to assess risks and adaptation needs 
related to various climate-sensitive conditions; priorities and plans for 
climate change adaptation in relation to climate-sensitive health risks; climate 
change adaptation-related partnerships and collaborations; requests of the 
Association of State and Territorial Health Officials (ASTHO) for advancing 
climate change adaptation activities; and the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic 
on climate change work.
RESULTS: Nineteen S/THAs reported having CHPs, the majority of which are 
federally funded. On average, S/THAs without CHPs reported engagement in fewer 
climate and health activities and more early warning activities. The S/THAs 
reported the highest levels of concerns regarding non-vector-borne infectious 
disease (66%), vector-borne infectious diseases (61%), and extreme heat (61%) 
hazards.
CONCLUSIONS: As S/THAs with CHPs report substantially greater climate and health 
capacity than those without, additional federal and state investments (eg, 
Building Resilience Against Climate Effects [BRACE]) are urgently needed to 
catalyze climate and health capacity.

Copyright © 2022 The Authors. Published by Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc.

DOI: 10.1097/PHH.0000000000001674
PMID: 36729985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.