[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Furrows (film)

llao trying to drag away Pili as his prize. El Mellao then hits Pepe on the head with a large wrench and rushes off to chase a fleeing Pili. Don Roque arrives to find Pepe badly injured, but still alive. He takes him to a bridge and throws him onto railroad tracks as a train passes under the bridge.

In the last scene of the movie, Manuel, his wife, Manolo and Tonia have returned to their village where Pepe is being buried. Manuel picks up a handful of soil from the grave and tells his family that they have to return to the country. His wife says people will laugh, but Manuel replies that, even with shame, they have to return to the land.

Cast
Luis Peña as "El Mellao".
María Asquerino as Pili.
Francisco Arenzana as Pepe.
Marisa de Leza as Toña.
Ricardo Lucía as Manolo Pérez.
José Prada as Manuel Pérez.
Montserrat Carulla as Rosario.
Félix Dafauce as Don Roque, "el Chamberlain".
María Francés as La madre.
Carmen Sánchez la tía acogedora.

Background
Surcos is considered one of the very few Spanish neo-realist films from the era when the style was being created and popularized in Italy. The picture only escaped censorship because José María García Escudero, Spain's Chief of Cinematography, appreciated the value of the film for its artistic merit.

The film dealt with issues virtually unseen in Francoist Spain, including rural migration into the cities, poverty, prostitution, unemployment, and class conflicts. Surcos is a view of the contradictions found in Francoist Spain. The Catholic Church considered the film "deeply dangerous," yet political observers labeled the drama of "national interest." The film was not released until its controversial ending was removed.

Awards
Wins
Cinema Writers Circle Awards, Spain: CEC Award; Best Film; Best Supporting Actor, Félix Dafauce; Best Supporting Actress, Marisa de Leza; 1953.
National Syndicate of Spectacle, Spain: 3rd place Prize of the National Syndicate of Spectacle; 1953.

Nominations
1952 Cannes Film Festival: Grand Prize of the Festival; José Antonio Nieves Conde; 1952.

References

External links

 

1951 films
1950s political drama films
Spanish black-and-white films
Films directed by José Antonio Nieves Conde
Spanish independent films
1950s independent films
Social realism in film
Spain in fiction
Spanish drama films
1950s Spanish-language films
Films set in Madrid
1951 drama films
Films about internal migration
1950s Spanish films