[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Noise regulation

and trash compactors.  Since many of these sounds are inherently loud, the principle of regulation is to require the wall or ceiling assembly to meet certain performance standards (typically Sound Transmission Class of 50), which allows considerable attenuation of the sound level reaching occupants.

The second type of interior sound is called Impact Insulation Class (IIC) transmission.  This effect arises not from airborne transmission, but rather from transmission of sound through the building itself.  The most common perception of IIC noise is from footfall of occupants in living spaces above.  This type of noise is somewhat more difficult to abate, but consideration must be given to isolating the floor assembly above or hanging the lower ceiling on resilient channel.  Commonly a performance standard of IIC equal to 50 is specified in building codes.  California has generally led the U.S. in widespread application of building code requirements for sound transmission; accordingly, the level of protection for building occupants has increased markedly in the last several decades.

U.S. occupational safety regulations
The U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration has established maximum noise levels for occupational exposure, beyond which mitigation measures or personal protective equipment is required.  In recent years, Buy Quiet programs and initiatives have arisen in an effort to combat occupational noise exposures. These programs promote the purchase of quieter tools and equipment and encourage manufacturers to design quieter equipment.

See also
 A-weighting scale regarding the unit normally used in noise regulation
 Aircraft noise for a broader discussion of aircraft noise regulation
 Loud music
 Buy Quiet

General:
Health effects from noise
Occupational hearing loss
Environmental noise
Noise barrier
Noise pollution
Noise control
Soundproofing

References

External links
 U.S. EPA - Noise Pollution - General information and resources
Airport Noise Law - U.S.
Directory of US and Canadian Noise Ordinances 
 Noise Pollution Clearing House - U.S.
Acoustical Society of America
American Institute of Architects
National Council of Acoustical Consultants
Business & Institutional Furniture Manufacturer's Association
Rutgers Noise Technical Assistance Center
Got Noise? Working towards limiting traffic noise from I-95 in SW Connecticut.
 NIOSH Buy Quiet Topic Page

Construction law
Environmental law
Environmental science
Noise pollution
Regulation