[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Octaviano Ambrosio Larrazolo

onstitution to avoid the rights of the Spanish-speaking people from being stripped when New Mexico entered the Union. He was afraid that the Union's segregation policies applied to African Americans would be used to justify the infringement of Latinos' rights in New Mexico once it entered the Union.

Larrazolo and the other Latino delegates succeeded in implementing pro-Latino measures and language into the New Mexico State Constitution. The new Bill of Rights stated, "The rights, privileges and immunities, civil, political and religious, guaranteed to the people of New Mexico by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo shall be preserved inviolate" (Article II Section V). The Education Article (Article XII, Section 8), gave the legislature authority to provide training for teachers in public schools so that "they may become proficient in both the English and Spanish languages, to qualify them to teach Spanish-speaking pupils...." Section 10 of the article assured the right of children of Spanish descent to attend public education institutions and prohibited the establishment of separate schools. To the dismay of Larrazolo, the state Democrats unsuccessfully tried to prevent the ratification of the state constitution because of those pro-Latino provisions. That made him become a Republican, which he remained for the rest of his life.

Because Larrazolo advocated so strongly for Latino rights, many New Mexico politicians considered him a race agitator. Even though many New Mexico politicians resented him, Larrazolo still managed to gain a lot of political credibility, especially from Latinos who were glad for the work that he did he for Latinos. His popularity throughout New Mexico caused the New Mexico Republican party to nominate him for governor of New Mexico. The campaign in 1918, however, was an intense one that exposed some factions within the Hispanic community. His Democratic opponent, Félix García, claimed that Larrazolo's birth in Chihuahua precluded him from understanding the concerns of "native New Mexicans." He was elected Governor of the State of New Mexico in 1918 and became the first Mexican-born Latino to be governor of New Mexico. Larrazolo's narrow victory, however, seemed to quiet most of the debate about whether he could authentically advocate on behalf of the Spanish-speaking population.

Throughout his time as governor, he had various controversies and successes. In the first year of his term, the rampant fear of anarchism and the gravity of a coal-mining strike convinced Larrazolo to declare martial law to suppress the strike. He was also criticized for pardoning Mexican troops who raided parts of New Mexico with Pancho Villa. He believed that since the Mexican troops were acting under orders from their superior, they should not be held accountable. He also supported and signed a new income tax law, which angered his Republican Party. The aspects that he won praise for was his support for the creation of the League of Nations, advocacy for bilingual education, support for the civil rights of Mexican immigrants in the state. He was also a supporter of the women's suffrage amendment to the United States Constitution.

Since he angered the Republican Party many times throughout his time as governor, the New Mexico Republican Party did not renominate Larrazolo to be governor of New Mexico. That caused him to briefly return to El Paso County, Texas, to practice law. He opened a firm in El Paso with Nick Meyer and practiced in New Mexico and Mexico. In 1922, Larrazolo opened an office in Albuquerque as well. However, he did not stay out of politics for too long. In 1923, the state legislature of New Mexico nominated him to become governor of Puerto Rico. He lost that bid but used the jolt of political popularity that he received by his consideration to be appointed governor of Puerto Rico to re-enter politics in New Mexico. He ran and lost an election to become a justice of the New Mexico Supreme Court in 1924.

However, he was elected in 1927 to the New Mexico State House of Representatives. In 1927, however, the Democratic U.S. Senator from New Mexico Andrieus Jones died. Larrazolo ran for and on 6 November 1928 won Jones's remaining term, which made Larrazolo the first Mexican-American to serve in the U.S. Senate. He was now very old and suffered with many illnesses and so he attended only one session of Congress and introduced one legislative action, calling for the establishment of an industrial school in New Mexico for the Spanish-speaking youth to promote equal opportunity.

Larrazolo died on April 7, 1930.

See also 
 List of first minority male lawyers and judges in New Mexico
 List of Hispanic and Latino Americans in the United States Congress
 List of minority governors and lieutenant governors in the United States
 List of United States senators born outside the United States

References

External links

 Octaviano A. Larrazolo Papers 

|-

|-

|-