[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Azerbaijan–Turkey relations

ld be unacceptable if unless Armenia evacuates five of the seven districts surrounding Nagorno-Karabakh (including the strategically important land corridor in Lachin) and subsequent discussions are agreed on for the evacuation of the remaining two and the eventual status of Nagorno-Karabakh itself.

Diplomatic tension
On April 25, 2009, reports quoted SOCAR President Rovnag Abdullayev as saying that the current deal for the supply of natural gas by Azerbaijan to Turkey was outdated and that talks on a new price deal were underway. Turkish Prime Minister Erdoğan responded, "I don't have information on that. However, if it [Azerbaijan] increased prices, then according to which facts did it do this? Such a rise in natural gas prices during a period of time when oil prices in the world are on the decline will, of course, be thought-provoking. These [facts] will be assessed and steps will be taken accordingly." When Turkish Energy Minister Hilmi Güler finally emerged from the talks, he stated, "These reports are not true; I have been holding meetings with the Azerbaijanis for two days. No such thing has been said; there is no rise. We have a contract, so they cannot do it."

On May 4, Azerbaijani Deputy Foreign Minister Arza Azimov traveled to Ankara to meet with the new Turkish Foreign Minister, Ahmet Davutoğlu, his first official engagement since taking office on May 2, and Foreign Ministry Undersecretary Ertuğrul Apakan for discussions reported to have been timed to ease diplomatic tensions and highlight the importance of bilateral relations.

On May 6, the new Turkish Energy Minister, Taner Yıldız, stated, "Energy will play the role of a catalyst in bringing the relations among Azerbaijan, Armenia and Turkey to a more positive level. ... There are no plans to delay the projects with Azerbaijan," as BOTAŞ President Saltuk Düzyol lead a delegation to Baku to discuss gas prices and future infrastructure projects and request an additional 8 billion m³ of Azerbaijani gas to meet Turkish domestic requirements.

Following a reportedly tense May 7 OSCE Minsk Group-mediated peace summit between Armenian President Sargsyan and Azerbaijani President Aliyev at the residence of the US Ambassador in Prague, on the sidelines of the EU's Eastern Partnership conference, which resulted in "no serious progress" Turkish President Gül met separately with the two leaders to propose four-way talks on the conflict to include Russia when they next met at the St. Petersburg Economic Forum in July.

Turkish Prime Minister Erdoğan confirmed during a live 9 May TRT broadcast that no problem exists in bilateral relations between Turkey and Azerbaijan and that the provisional roadmap with Armenia was tied to the resolution of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict: "There is a causal link here. We closed the [border] gate. The reason was the occupation and the result was our closing the gate. If the reason disappears—then let's open the gate."

In a 24 February 2010 meeting with US Undersecretary of State William Burns, Azerbaijan's president Aliyev "made clear his distaste for [Turkey's] Erdogan government." Aliyev reportedly saw "naivete" in Turkish foreign policy, especially Turkey's "hostility to Israel." Aliyev also related his opposition to Turkish support for "Hamas and Gaza."

2009 Turkish prime ministerial visit to Baku
Turkish Prime Minister Erdoğan made a 13 May visit to Baku with a delegation that included Energy Minister Taner Yıldız, Foreign Minister Ahmet Davutoğlu, Foreign Trade Minister Zafer Çağlayan, Transportation Minister Binali Yıldrım and Culture and Tourism Minister Ertuğrul Günay to reaffirm the strained ties between the two countries.

In a press conference with Azerbaijani President Aliyev, Erdoğan reaffirmed, "There is a relation of cause and effect here. The occupation of Nagorno-Karabakh is the cause, and the closure of the border is the effect. Without the occupation ending, the gates will not be opened." Aliyev responded, "There could be no clearer answer than this. There is no doubt anymore." On the subject of gas prices, Erdoğan stated, "I cannot say that the price is fair. We will have talks to make sure the price is a fair one."

In a speech to the Azerbaijan Parliament in which he reaffirmed that Turkey and Azerbaijan were "one nation with two states," Erdoğan stated, "Some reports said Turkey gave up on Nagorno-Karabakh in order to normalize relations with Armenia. This is an outright lie. I dismiss it once again here. Our stance on Nagorno-Karabakh is clear, and there has never been any deviation from this stance. We want the problem to be resolved on the basis of the territorial integrity of Azerbaijan. We have never taken any steps that could harm the national interests of Azerbaijan and will never take such steps. There will be no normalization unless the occupation of Azerbaijani territory ends."