[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 41]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

nd his patience at
this treatment thrown a stone at him, which hit him full upon the
temples, and almost knocked him down. He immediately began to cry, in
concert with his dog, and perceiving a man coming towards them, who he
fancied might be the owner of the sheep, he thought it most prudent to
escape as speedily as possible.

"But he had scarcely recovered from the smart which the blow had
occasioned, before his former mischievous disposition returned, which he
determined to gratify to the utmost. He had not gone far before he saw a
little girl standing by a stile with a large pot of milk at her feet.
'Pray,' said the little girl, 'help me up with this pot of milk; my
mother sent me out to fetch it this morning, and I have brought it
above a mile upon my head; but I am so tired that I have been obliged to
stop at this stile to rest me; and if I don't return home presently we
shall have no pudding to-day, and besides my mother will be very angry
with me.' 'What,' said the boy, 'you are to have a pudding to-day, are
you, miss?' 'Yes,' said the girl, 'and a fine piece of roast-beef; for
there's uncle Will, and uncle John, and grandfather, and all my cousins,
to dine with us, and we shall be very merry in the evening, I can assure
you; so pray help me up as speedily as possible.' 'That I will, miss,'
said the boy; and, taking up the jug, he pretended to fix it upon her
head; but as she had hold of it, he gave it a little push, as if he had
stumbled, and overturned it upon her. The little girl began to cry
violently, but the mischievous boy ran away laughing heartily, and
saying, 'Good-by, little miss; give my humble service to uncle Will, and
grandfather, and the dear little cousins.'

"This prank encouraged him very much; for he thought he had now
certainly escaped without any bad consequences; so he went on applauding
his own ingenuity, and came to a green where several little boys were at
play. He desired leave to play with them, which they allowed him to do.
But he could not be contented long without exerting his evil
disposition; so taking an opportunity when it was his turn to fling the
ball, instead of flinging it the way he ought to have done, he threw it
into a deep muddy ditch. The little boys ran in a great hurry to see
what was become of it; and as they were standing together upon the
brink, he gave the outermost boy a violent push against his neighbour;
he, not being able to resist the violence, tumbled against another, by
which means they were all soused into the ditch together. They soon
scrambled out, although in a dirty plight, and were going to have
punished him for his ill behaviour; but he patted Tiger upon the back,
who began snarling and growling in such a manner as made them desist.
Thus this mischievous little boy escaped a second time with impunity.

"The next thing that he met with was a poor jackass, feeding very
quietly in a ditch. The little boy, seeing that nobody was within sight,
thought this was an opportunity of plaguing an animal that was not to be
lost; so he went and cut a large bunch of thorns, which he contrived to
fix upon the poor beast's tail, and then, setting Tiger at him, he was
extremely diverted to see the fright and agony the creature was in. But
it did not fare so well with Tiger, who, while he was baying and biting
the animal's heels, received so severe a kick upon his forehead, as laid
him dead upon the spot. The boy, who had no affection for his dog, left
him with the greatest unconcern when he saw what had happened, and,
finding himself hungry, sat down by the wayside to eat his dinner.

"He had not been long there before a poor blind man came groping his way
out with a couple of sticks. 'Good morning to you, gaffer,' said the
boy; 'pray, did you see a little girl come this road, with a basket of
eggs upon her head, dressed in a green gown, with a straw hat upon her
head?' 'God bless you, master,' said the beggar, 'I am so blind that I
can see nothing; I have been blind these twenty years, and they call me
poor old blind Richard.'

"Though this poor man was such an object of charity and compassion, yet
the little boy determined, as usual, to play him some trick; and, as he
was a great liar and deceiver, he spoke to him thus: 'Poor old Richard,
I am heartily sorry for you with all my heart; I am just eating my
breakfast, and if you will sit down by me I will give you part and feed
you myself.' 'Thank you with all my heart,' said the poor man; 'and if
you will give me your hand, I will sit by you with great pleasure, my
dear, good little master!' The little boy then gave him his hand, and,
pretending to direct him, guided him to sit down in a large heap of wet
dung that lay by the road-side. 'There,' said he, 'now you are nicely
seated, and I will feed you.' So, taking a little in his fingers, he was
going to put it into the blind man's mouth; but the man, who now
perceived the trick