[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Jalozai

Jalozai (), also Jallozai, Jailozai, and Jelazee, is a village located in Nowshera District of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Pakistan. Jalozai is famous for an Afghan refugee camp which is located about 35 kilometres southeast of Peshawar near the Afghanistan–Pakistan border.

Overview 
Jalozai is located in Pabbi Tehsil of Nowshera District in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa Pakistan. The most notable attraction of Jalozai are the University of Engineering and Technology Peshawar campus, which was constructed at the cost of Rs.5.56 Billion on a 400-acre land, and the Jalozai Refugee Camp.

Jalozai Refugee Camp 
It was one of the largest of 150 refugee or transit camps in Pakistan, holding Afghan refugees from the 1980s Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. It had an estimated 70,000 refugees at its peak. New Jalozai adjoined the original Jalozai camp in November 2000, taking in a new wave of arriving Afghan refugees. The camps briefly received an additional influx of refugees in the period after 9/11, leading up to the United States invasion of Afghanistan in October 2001. After the fall of the Taliban, the vast majority of refugees in the Jalozai camp returned home or were relocated elsewhere. In February 2002, with a remaining population of 800, Jalozai camp was formally closed. But some problem elements remained through at least 2003, necessitating Pakistani military raids on the former camp that year. By 2012 Pakistan banned extensions to all foreign visas and continued its effort to close the remaining refugee camps.

American intelligence analysts alleged, during the Administrative Review Board hearing of Guantanamo detainee Adel Hassan Hamad, that the camp was directed by Zahid Al-Sheikh, an older brother of senior al Qaeda planner Khalid Sheikh Mohammed.
American analysts allege that Zahid Al-Sheikh was also an extremist with ties to terrorism.

Hamad acknowledged that when he first started working for the Hira Islamic Institute Al-Sheikh was the director of Lajnat Al-Da'wa al Islamia, and his ultimate boss, but he was never the director of the Jelazee Refugee Camp.
He said that while his relationship with him was a distant business relationship he never saw any clue that Al-Sheikh was an extremist, or tied to terrorism.

Médecins Sans Frontières reported that the camp was closed in early 2002. It called the camp "infamous", and recounted that it had been known as "a living cemetery".

In a report in the Pakistani newspaper Dawn, published in late December 2001, an Afghan refugee named Haji Dost Mohammad, who was then in charge of the camp's security, reported that Osama bin Laden had made a food delivery to the camp in the late 1980s.

1979 Soviet invasion
After 1979, Peshawar served as a political centre for anti-Soviet Mujahideen, and became surrounded by huge camps of Afghan refugees. Many of the Afghan refugees fled through the historic Khyber Pass, near Peshawar. That major border city of a million people then replaced Kabul and Kandahar as the centre of ethnic Pashtuns (Pakhtuns) cultural development during the 1980s.

Osama bin Laden was identified as a visitor to the Jalozai camp in the 1980s on one occasion. Bin Laden had been based around Peshawar since 1981, where he and Dr. Abdullah Yusuf Azzam were running a large contingent of foreign Arabs and material support involved in the Afghan resistance. Haji Dost Mohammad, the Jalozai security chief, and also a resident of Peshawar since 1979, recalled in a Reuters interview in 2001 that Osama bin Laden had visited Jalozai camp in 1987. According to Mr. Mohammad, "Once he came to the camp, 14 years ago, to deliver dates. He came only once. I haven't seen him since, and at the time I didn't know who he was."

After the Soviet defeat in 1989, many of the Afghan refugees remained in Jalozai and in other Pakistan camps throughout the subsequent civil war and ensuing Afghan rule by the Taliban.

November 2000 New Jalozai
In October 2000, the USS Cole bombing by al-Qaeda brought many relief agencies to Pakistan, in anticipation of a new exodus of Afghan refugees. The expected retaliation from the United States government then came. Though it was limited to cruise missiles fired into al-Qaeda training camps in the mountains of eastern Afghanistan, the expected wave of new refugees also followed.

The old Jalozai camp continued to contain thousands of refugees from the 1980s and 1990s conflicts. But in November 2000, the "New Jalozai" camp was also established, next to the existing old Jalozai camp. Doctors Without Borders/Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) began working in New Jalozai in November 2000.  Since that time, an additional 50,000 refugees arrived in the Peshawar area, and had settled in the New Jalozai refugee camp through the nine months ending in July 2001.

At the start of 2001, there were nearly 150 refugee camps in Pakistan with some 1.1 million Afghan residents in the camps. Just over 3 million Afghans lived in Pakistan overall, including the camps.