[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 175]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

o town.

It was some time before she recovered from her astonishment and horror.
He told his story quietly, and without an effort to excuse himself.

"Of course, though I can't exonerate you, Professor, I blame her more
than you," she said finally, "for her standard in the matter was so
different from your's--you being a man."

The Professor suppressed a smile. It always seemed strange to him that a
woman should be harder on her own sex than on his, but he had no
intention of discouraging this lack of _esprit de corps_; it had its
obvious conveniences.

"Did she confess everything to her aunt after her return from
Portsmouth?" asked Lady Engleton.

"Yes; I have that letter now."

"In which your name is mentioned?"

"In which my name is mentioned. I sent money to the girl, but she
returned it. She said that she hated me, and would not touch it. So I
gave the money to the aunt, and told her to send it on, in her own name,
to Ellen, for the child's support. Of course I made secrecy a condition.
So as a matter of fact, I have acknowledged the child, though not
publicly, and I have contributed to its support from its birth."

"But I thought Mrs. Temperley had been supporting it!" cried Lady
Engleton.

"Nevertheless I have continued to send the money to the aunt. If Mrs.
Temperley chose to take charge of the child, I certainly had nothing to
complain of. And I could not openly contribute without declaring
myself."

"Dear me, it is all very strange! What would Hadria say if she knew?"

"She does know."

"What, all along?"

"No, since yesterday."

"And how does she take it?"

"She is bitter against me. It is only natural, especially as I told her
that I wanted to have the child under my own care."

"Ah, that will be a blow to her. She was wrapped up in the little girl."

Professor Theobald pointed out the difficulties that must begin to crop
up, as she grew older. The child could not have the same advantages, in
her present circumstances, as the Professor would be able to give her.
Lady Engleton admitted that this was true.

"Then may I count on you to plead my cause with Mrs. Temperley?"

"If Hadria believes that it is for the child's good, she will not stand
in the way."

"Unless----. You remember that idea of vengeance that she used to have?"

"Oh, she would not let vengeance interfere with the child's welfare!"

"I hope not. You see I don't want to adopt strong measures. The law is
always odious."

"The law!" Lady Engleton looked startled. "Are you sure that the law
would give you the custody of the child?"

"Sure of the law? My dear lady, one might as well be sure of a
woman--pardon me; you know that I regard this quality of infinite
flexibility as one of the supreme charms of your sex. I can't say that I
feel it to be the supreme charm of the law. Mrs. Temperley claims to
have her authority through the mother, because she has the written
consent of the aunt to the adoption, but I think this is rather
stretching a point."

"I fear it is, since the poor mother was dead at the time."

"I can prove everything I have said to the satisfaction of anybody,"
continued Theobald, "I think my claim to take charge of my child is well
established, and you will admit the wish is not unreasonable."

"It does you great credit, but, oh dear, it will be hard for Mrs.
Temperley."

"I fear it will. I am most grieved, but what am I to do? I must consider
the best interests of the child."

"Doubtless, but you are a trifle late, Professor, in thinking of that."

"Would you prefer it to be never than late?"

"Heaven forbid!"

"Then I may rely on you to explain the position of affairs to Mrs.
Temperley? You will understand that it is a painful subject between us."

Lady Engleton readily promised. She called at the Red House immediately
after Professor Theobald's departure. The interview was long.

"Then I have not spoken in vain, dear Hadria?" said Lady Engleton, in
her most sympathetic tone. Hadria was very pale.

"On the contrary, you have spoken to convince."

"I knew that you would do nothing to stand in the way of the child."

Hadria was silent.

"I am very sorry about it. You were so devoted to the little girl, and
it does seem terribly hard that she should be taken away from you."

"It was my last chance," Hadria muttered, half audibly.

"Then I suppose you will not attempt to resist?"

"No," said Hadria.

"He thinks of leaving Martha with you for another month."

"Really? It has not struck him that perhaps I may not keep her for
another month. Now that it is once established that Martha is to be
regarded as under _his_ guardianship and authority, and that my
jurisdiction ceases, he must take her at once. I will certainly not act
for _him_ in that matter. Since you are in his confidence, would you
kindly tell him that?"

Lady Engleton looked surprised. "Certainly; I suppose he and his sister
will lo