[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Critical reaction to 24

ould then be called 12 and its hero, Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland), could save the country from an apocalyptic terrorist attack in a 12-hour day—eliminating the need for some of the sillier side plots delaying the denouement. (How many times can a daughter be kidnapped, found, then captured again?)

An IGN reviewer noted that Season Three is "also the season unfortunately in which the show starts to show a little bit of creakiness, especially in relation to Kim Bauer, the interoffice politics of the CTU, and Jack Bauer's superhero status." PopMatters said that, "24 now seems an efficient thrill machine that repeatedly threatens to veer off in cockamamie plot torques: in taking such risks, it's not always perfect, but it is consistently admirable and frequently excellent fun." and noted that "as before, the storylines come together and apart with smart editing, elliptical writing, and charged up split screens."

The last half of Season Three is frequently mentioned as one of the best runs in the history of the series. One reviewer for DVDTalk said, "If you would have asked me what I thought about the third season of 24 eight episodes into it, I would've told you it sucked. Why? Because the first third of season three feels a little too much like the previous seasons. In other words, it's really nothing new. It's the same old same old. However, it turns out that this is far from the truth, because the third season contains enough twists and turns (in the last two thirds of it) to make it almost as exciting as the earlier two seasons. In the end, while similar approaches are taken in seasons one and two, they are different enough that they are still very entertaining. I guess what works, works and the third season definitely works."
 

USA Today said of the back half of the season, "Here's the good news, and not a minute too soon: Returning tonight after a month's absence, 24 has rediscovered its footing and is preparing to shock, thrill and hook us with some of its best twists yet. The all-too-dreary faints and dodges are behind us. The virus is out, and thousands of lives are on the line. Even in a less-than-perfect season, of course, 24 has come up with some satisfying moments, many of them involving an increasingly lethal Jack. (Who knew he could snap someone's neck with his legs?) Still, stranding Jack on a Mexican drug dealer's ranch for weeks on end was a major mistake. The story was far too commonplace to support a show that thrives on the far edges of reality."

An episode in Season Three where Jack is ordered by a terrorist to kill a colleague of his is often regarded as one of the best episodes of the series, and the second highest-rated episode by fans on IMDB.com (behind the Season One finale).

Season 4
Season Four was met with positive reviews. While many critics and fans argue that it is weaker than the first three seasons, the show won many new fans due to a new timeslot, uninterrupted season, and a two-night four-hour premiere.

The New York Times reported that the show "still holds some surprises" and approved of the cast overhaul, but called the new cast choices "disappointing", noting that "24 made a point of seeking out unfamiliar, interesting actors, in particular Dennis Haysbert, who played President David Palmer. Mr. Devane, a craggy television war horse who seems to have played every Kennedy except Rose, is more of a distraction than an asset" and Kim Raver as "generically pretty but has nothing special to bring to the role of Audrey". Nevertheless, The New York Times praised the decision to keep Chloe O'Brian (Mary Lynn Rajskub), calling her the "right one" to keep.

The increase in the use of torture was noticed by critics, with PopMatters reporting that Season 4 is known as the "torture season". PopMatters also pointed out that "While the action is jumping throughout the season, the thematic throughline has to do with loss. Everyone from Jack to Marwan to Audrey loses some sense of dignity, certainty, and hope, not to mention faith in the state's capacity to sustain order." IGN said that, "After the meandering plot of Season Three, this year's narrative proves far more focused and hard-driving; some episodes begin with more action before the first commercial break than feature films have in their finales" and that "while there are a few flies in the honey, this is still an excellent season".

Ain't It Cool News called it the "strongest and most consistent" season to date. One TV Guide reader bemoaned the supporting cast's lack of emmy luck, complaining that, "the Emmys let so many great actors slip through the cracks. They've managed not to nominate Penny Johnson Jerald, Sarah Clarke, Xander Berkeley, Dennis Haysbert, Reiko Aylesworth and Carlos Bernard, and now they've decided to omit Shohreh Aghdashloo and Mary Lynn Rajskub among others." Shohreh Aghdashloo's performance is cited by many critics as a highlight of the fourth season.

Season 5