[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Seth Ledyard Phelps

here was much naval activity occurring on the Mississippi near Vicksburg between Union and Confederate gunboats. During this time Phelps served aboard the Benton, most notably with his engagement of the Confederate steamer Fairplay, being used as a transport to move military supplies into Vicksburg.

In August 1862 an expedition was sent down the river composed of the Benton, Mound City, and Bragg, together with four of Ellet's rams, the Switzerland, Monarch, Samson, and Lioness, all under the command of  Phelps, with a detachment of troops under Colonel Charles R. Woods. Thirty miles above Vicksburg, at Milliken's Bend,  the Confederate transport steamer Fairplay, having made its second run across the Mississippi from Vicksburg, was captured, loaded with a heavy cargo of arms and ammunition which included twelve hundred new Enfield rifle-muskets and four thousand new muskets, along with a huge amount of small arms and artillery on its way to Confederate General Theophilus Holmes, the new commander of the Confederate Trans-Mississippi Department. Phelps and his boarding party from the Benton took the crew of Fairplay completely by surprise. The capture of this vessel and its payload of supplies, in effect, removed a division of rebel troops without the loss of one Union soldier.

The gun-boats then penetrated far up the Yazoo River, and two of the rams even ascended the Sunflower River for twenty miles. When the expedition returned to Helena, it had destroyed or captured a vast quantity
of Confederate military supplies.

Flag Officer Davis had not shown the initiative that the Navy Department wanted, thus Commander Porter became acting rear admiral and assigned to command the Mississippi River Squadron, arriving in Cairo, Illinois, on October 15, 1862. Phelps had wanted the command but was concerned that his younger age would be an obstacle. He wrote to Foote, Whittlesey and others of the possibility, citing his time and diverse experience over others. He maintained that two senior officers were about to retire from the Navy, another was in ill health and two others had already been passed over for promotion. In his effort Phelps solicited influential senators such as Benjamin Wade of Ohio and James Grimes of Iowa along with governors David Tod of Ohio and Oliver Morton of Indiana. Former flag officer Foote was supportive of his effort but cautioned Phelps that the prospect was a sensitive one. Phelps subsequently left the matter in the hands of those in Washington and returned to the flotilla, turning over command of the Benton to William Gwin. By this time the Eastport had undergone changes to her hull, engines and interior infrastructure and had been converted to a ram.  The vessel was now considered the finest gunboat in the union's service.

After Flag Officer David Glasgow Farragut accepted the surrender of New Orleans, and later taking Baton Rouge and Natchez, he ascended the Mississippi River with a fleet of eight ships and made his way past the Confederate batteries at Vicksburg on the east bank of the Mississippi River. Shortly thereafter Farragut dispatched a request to General Davis in Memphis to join him. Accepting the request Davis had Porter assemble what gunboats he could spare. Porter departed Memphis on June 29, 1863, arriving to join Farragut's fleet just above Vicksburg on Tuesday morning, July 1. With him was Phelps, aboard the Benton, with the Cairo and Louisville, along with six mortar boats. Writing to Whittlesey a week later, Phelps observed that "The vessels of this lower fleet are very beautiful as contrasted with our strange looking rivercraft; yet not one of them would have floated five minutes in the fire concentrated on four of our queer crafts at (Fort) Donelson". Phelps also observed the attitude of Farragut's crews towards the riverboats; Still reporting to Foote, he noted that when Farragut's crews, some of whom were old friends who had themselves served aboard riverboats, were reminded of the firepower the riverboats could withstand and the battles they've endured, their attitudes changed. Phelps was not particularly fond of Farragut, describing him as a rash and impulsive man who felt that he must always keep busy for fear of being accused of "doing nothing", and who often "acts  without purpose or a plan" based or common sense.

On May 19 Grant had launched a major assault on land along a three-mile front but was repulsed. A second attempt was made on May 22 where some 220 field-pieces along with Porter's heavy guns from his fleet of ironclads launched the biggest artillery assault thus far during the war. A few hours later all three of Grant's corps pushed forward but were again met with heavy resistance, suffering heavy losses from Lieutenant General Pemberton's troops. Grant then realized Vicksburg could not be taken by storm, so resolved to take Vicksburg by siege while reinforcements poured in from Memphis, swelling his troop strength to over 80,000.