[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# President Street Station

n into the 1940s World War II era but served some passenger trains until 1911. The Pennsylvania Railroad, which acquired the PW&B in a merger in 1881, demolished the President Street's eastern train shed after heavy snow damage in 1913 and erected a new, shorter shed, built with wooden roof trusses.

President Street Station was later used as a warehouse. The train shed was destroyed by fire, leaving only the present head house by 1970, when it was abandoned. In 1979, the derelict building was acquired by the City of Baltimore, which planned to demolish it to clear the way for a proposed southern extension of the Jones Falls Expressway (Interstate 83) to connect in an interchange near the harbor with the east - west Interstate 95 which was never built. 

In 1989, the station's wooden arched roof collapsed in a snowstorm.

Baltimore Civil War Museum

In the 1990s, a public-private partnership pushed by a supporters group, the Friends of the President Street Station (FofPSS), funded the reconstruction/restoration/renovation of the vacant station and historic site, which reopened in April 1997 as the "Baltimore Civil War Museum" with the assistance of the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Museum, located at the nearby Mount Clare Shops.

President Street Station, Inc. operated the museum until 2000, when the building lease was partnered with the Maryland Historical Society (MdHS), located on their campus of buildings on West Monument Street, until 2006. The lease/partnership arrangement with the City and the FoPSS originally expired in 2017.

The museum temporarily closed in 2007, due to budget constraints by the MdHS in connection with their nearby extension at the new Fells Point Maritime Museum on Thames Street, then re-opened on weekends only, operated by MdHS and subsequently by FofPSS volunteers. The Civil War Museum was open on weekends in February 2010, in observance of Black History Month, although heavy snowfall forced closure of the museum on two weekends.

In 2009, the City of Baltimore announced plans to designate the old depot as a landmark, which would restrict modifications to the building's exterior, and to request proposals for commercial development of the grounds. FofPSS opposes this, and called instead for the station's preservation and management as a museum by the National Park Service (NPS). The director of Baltimore City's Commission for Historical and Architectural Preservation, which will review proposals, said that any commercial use "must be subordinate to the history" and that a multi-use partnership would be ideal.

As of 2015, Friends of the Pennsylvania Street Station operates the museum.

National Park Service study 
In 2015, U.S. Senators Barbara Mikulski and Benjamin Cardin introduced bill  The President Street Station Study Act, which would authorize the National Park Service to study the suitability and feasibility of designating the station as a unit of the National Park System. It was incorporated into the John D. Dingell Jr. Conservation, Management, and Recreation Act and enacted in 2019.

In 2019 NPS initiated its President Street Station study. In 2022 NPS conducted a public meeting and a public comment period on the study, and stated that the study was expected to be complete in 2023.

References

External links

Official website
"Historic President Street Station" at Visit Baltimore

1850 establishments in Maryland
1913 disestablishments in Maryland
American Civil War sites
Baltimore City Landmarks
Former Pennsylvania Railroad stations
Former railway stations in Maryland
Greek Revival architecture in Maryland
Historic American Engineering Record in Baltimore
History of Baltimore
Inner Harbor, Baltimore
Maryland in the American Civil War
Museums in Baltimore
Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore Railroad
Railway stations closed in 1913
Railway stations in Baltimore
Railway stations in the United States opened in 1850
Railway stations on the National Register of Historic Places in Baltimore
Railway stations in the United States closed in the 1910s