[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of Saint Seiya characters

he false Pope goes unidentified by name. Arles was the moving force behind the corruption of Athena's Sanctuary. According to screenwriter of Saint Seiya anime, Takao Koyama, in an interview, Arles name comes from the Greek philosopher Aristotle (Greek: Aristotélēs, Japanese: アリストテレス Arisutoteresu).

Chief of Staff of Sanctuary, he oversaw the execution of the Pope's plans for retrieving the Sagittarius Gold Cloth.

Assistant and lieutenant to Gigas. Appointed to oversee the assassination of the Bronze Saints.

Rankless Saints

A gigantic Saint without rank and constellation who is a henchman of the false Pope. Brother of Cassios. His main attack was called . According to screenwriter of Saint Seiya anime, Takao Koyama, in an interview, his name comes from the word , and based on the name of the classical Greek philosopher .

An unnamed Saint loyal to Gigas and sent by the Pope to retrieve the Gold Cloth. Killed by Phoenix Ikki. His main attack was called .

First introduced as Cygnus Hyōga's master in the anime (as opposed to the manga, in which Aquarius Camus was Hyōga's master), and later retconned. In the anime, Camus was the Crystal Saint's master. His Cloth resembles a snowflake when not being worn. A very honorable and righteous Saint, Crystal Saint was considered a threat by Pope Arles, who forced him into his control with the Maōken technique. After an emotional battle with Hyōga, Crystal Saint took his own life to stop Sanctuary from conquering East Siberia. After his death, he was gradually replaced in the anime adaptation by Camus as Hyōga's master and any events concerning him were disregarded in the continuity to stay true to Kurumada's manga.

A Saint without rank and constellation and one of Pope Arles's henchmen sent along Perseus Algol and Ophiuchus Shaina to assassinate the Bronze Saints. He failed on his mission. His main technique was called .

Anime-only Silver Saints

The animated equivalent of Cepheus Daidalos from Kurumada's manga. Mentor to Andromeda Shun and Chameleon June. Although his background and personality and the events he takes part in are identical to those depicted in Kurumada's work, (except the fact he battled two Gold Saints, as opposed to the manga, in which he only fought against Pisces Aphrodite) Albiore's physique, Cloth and name differ from those of the original character Daidalos from the manga.

A Silver Saint without constellation sent by Sanctuary to retrieve the Gold Cloth. Killed by Pegasus Seiya in Jamir. His name is a reference to the Greek myth of Arachne, a maiden who was turned into a spider after she bested the Goddess Athena in a weaving contest. Note: Actually Tarantula is not a constellation, but a nebula.

A Silver Saint, disciple of Virgo Shaka along with Lotus Aghora. He tried to kill Phoenix Ikki on Canon Island. Like Shaka, Shiva was an adept of Buddhism and relied on Shingon chants and prayer to paralyze his opponents, while performing his murderous , a lightning-fast multi-hit technique. Although a buddhist himself, Shiva was not a practitioner of his religion's peaceful and merciful doctrine and precepts. Killed by Phoenix Ikki. His name is a reference to the Hindu god Shiva, and the peacock is a reference to Mahamayuri.

A Silver Saint, disciple of Virgo Shaka, sent to Canon Island to kill Phoenix Ikki. In the same way as his partner Shiva, Aghora relied on a fighting style based on shingon chants of the Lotus Sutra, which proved ineffective against the Phoenix Saint, who killed him. His name is a reference to the Aghori (Sanskrit Aghora), ascetic Shaiva sadhus in Hinduism. Note: unlike "Pavo" (or the Peacock), which is a constellation, the "Lotus" is merely a symbol which is frequently used in religions such as Hinduism and Buddhism.

Odin's Asgardians
The Asgardian characters appear in the anime adaptation only.

The king of Asgard and the Norse god incarnate. His essence is trapped within the seven  held within his God Warrior's God Robes. His  can only be awakened with the energy from the Sapphires.