[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Winfield T. Durbin

c, enactment of fines for vote buyers, and the creation of juvenile courts. He conducted statewide audits, and discovered an embezzlement scheme at Indiana University by Monroe County officials. He threatened to move the college to another city if the board could not get the situation under control.

Automobile usage in Indiana went from almost non-existent to such a level that Durbin began to advocate the construction of superior state highways. He saw the advantages of Indiana's position in the nation, which required a large part of traffic from the west to pass through Indiana in order to reach the northeastern United States.

Final years
When Durbin left office he returned to Anderson to resume overseeing his business interest. He returned to the public again in 1911 when Democrats attempted to call a constitutional convention. Along with former Governor Frank Hanly, he traveled the state railing against the Democrats and their proposed constitution as socialist. He remained active in the party, and was nominated as the Republican candidate to for governor again in 1912. The Republican party had fractured over the constitutional issue, despite preventing the calling of a convention. Many members left to join the Progressive Party in the following year. Durbin came in third in the election and was defeated by Democrat Samuel M. Ralston, with the Progressive candidate Albert Beveridge coming in second.

Durbin returned again to Anderson where he remained the rest of his life. He died on December 18, 1928, of bronchial pneumonia following an attack of influenza. He was buried in Crown Hill Cemetery.

Electoral history

See also

 List of governors of Indiana

References
Notes

Bibliography

External links
 Indiana Historical Bureau: Biography and portrait
 National Governors Association
Winfield Durbin at FindAGrave

1847 births
1928 deaths
Republican Party governors of Indiana
Politicians from Anderson, Indiana
Burials at Crown Hill Cemetery
Methodists from Indiana
People from Indiana in the Spanish–American War
American military personnel of the Spanish–American War
People of Indiana in the American Civil War
Union Army officers
20th-century American politicians