[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 19]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

Allelujah, whom they have come to regard as a comrade, and join Celestial Being. In Gundam 00I 2314, Leonard has been designated as a Gundam Meister for Fereshte under the code name  and charged with protecting Delphine and Hayana as they retrieve the GN Drives from Jupiter.

Mobile Suit Gundam 00F 

 
 A protagonist in the sidestory Mobile Suit Gundam 00F. A criminal forced by Celestial Being to serve as a Gundam Meister at Fereshte. As he does not support the organization's ideology, a remotely detonatable explosive has been strapped about his neck to keep him under control. Normally handcuffed, except when piloting. In Gundam 00F Chapter 03, Fon Spaak seems to recognize Ali when pursuing Ali with his Albuhool Type F, dismissing Ali as a relic of the past Solar Wars. In Gundam 00F Chapter 04, the remotely detonatable bomb which causes blood to ooze out is activated by Trinity when Fon attempted to stop them from taking away 0 Gundam and its GN Drive.

 Fon's true name is Robert Stad Jr as revealed by Nena Trinity in Gundam 00F Chapter 05. His parents were involved in mining materials for colony construction, and the harsh environment led him to become an anti-Union terrorist. In a later chapter of the Gundam 00F manga, Fereshte sends Fon to recover the GN Drives from the Kyrios and Virtue after Celestial Being's battle with the UN Army. Though Fon retrieves the Kyrios' ejected GN Drive, he allows Allelujah to be captured rather than rescue him and leaves Tieria in the wreckage of the Virtue after finding that its GN Drive has been ejected as well, despite Meister 874's request to rescue Tieria.

 In addition to appearing in Gundam 00F, Fon appears in Gundam 00P, encountering Grave Violento when Fon was a soldier for the AEU during the Solar Wars; during this time, he was already known as "Fon Spaak". It is also revealed that he was also involved with Ali Al-Saachez as a child soldier, much like Setsuna F Seiei. When Grave is assigned to eliminate eyewitnesses to the Gundams and those who have become aware of Celestial Being's existence, Fon is the first target named by Veda.

 
 Once a candidate Gundam Meister, but because he is inferior to Setsuna and the current Meisters, he was removed and is now a pilot for Fereshte. He's a strong believer of Aeolia Schenberg's words of eliminating wars all over the Earth. Eco does not get along with Fon, believing that Fon is unsuited to be a member of Celestial Being because of his status as a criminal. He is usually the comic relief in 00F, having a tendency to overreact when Fon either points out something (usually obvious) to him or annoys him with his devil-may-care disposition.

 
 A disciple of CB mechanic Ian Vashti. Has a good mechanic sense and maintains the modified prototype Gundams used by Fereshte. Though she is unemotional and seldom speaks, she does have another side to her and considers herself to be quite feminine. Good friends with Hanayo and is frequently seen with Hanayo. Following the dissolution of Fereshte, Sherilyn devotes herself to helping develop the GN Condenser to match the levels of output achieved by the GN Drives.

 
 A manmade AI that is of the same model as Lockon's Haro. Its ear-like flaps gives it a cat-like look. Partners with Fon in missions and provide support for him in the MS. It also acts as a supervisor and unlocks Fon's handcuffs on missions and probably locks them back after missions. Hanayo is able to set up a datalink with Lockon's Haro through Veda. It is confirmed that Meister 874 is inside Hanayo. As shown in Gundam 00F file No.05, Hanayo/Meister 874 can take control over Gundam Plutone.

 
 A girl who obeys Hixar Fermi, Hayana possesses high physical capacities most would not imagine from her appearance. Registered as a Gundam Meister in Veda, she is capable of taking control of a Gundam remotely. Hayana is considered Hanayo's "sister" and resembles her, but views Hanayo with hatred and attempts to eliminate her by destroying Hanayo's terminal.

Mobile Suit Gundam 00V 
 
 He studies the developmental history of MS. He was initially studying political history, but after experiencing the revolution brought by Celestial Being when he was 30 years old and coincidentally seeing the Avalanche Exia in action, he switched his study to MS development history. An original character for sidestory, Mobile Suit Gundam 00V. Apart from that, he was also able to see the Dynames Torpedo and Shell Flag in action.

 
 A female test pilot of the UN. She is also an old acquaintance of Robert Spacey. She was engaged by the Gundam Exia in an American military base on Okinawa when she was inspecting the Shell Flag's features. She proved herself to be a great pilot as she was able to survive the battle uninjured.