[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Statements in response to the 11 July 2006 Mumbai train bombings

Statements in response to the 11 July 2006 Mumbai train bombings came from heads of state, political leaders, and militant leaders from around the world. Most offered some sort of condemnation of the attacks and commented on terrorism as a whole.

Indian statements
Various senior political figures condemned the attacks, including President Dr. A. P. J. Abdul Kalam, Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh, Railways Minister Lalu Prasad Yadav, and  president of the Indian National Congress Sonia Gandhi. L. K. Advani, president of the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party, also expressed shock, while saying that the UPA Government was soft on terrorists. The Party Chief of the BJP, Rajnath Singh also condemned the attacks saying, while targeting the government, that "Had POTA not been repealed by the UPA government, the terror groups would not have got encouraged,"
The Left Parties also condemned the attacks, calling for a thorough probe into the incident.

Prime Minister Manmohan Singh was quick to call for calm in Mumbai. In a televised address, he said:  Singh has received praise for his measured response.

International statements

Africa
 : In a statement broadcast on the national SABC TV network, President Thabo Mbeki said he was confident that Indian authorities would track down the culprits and bring them to justice.

Asia
 : President Hamid Karzai said "Afghans have suffered at the hands of terrorists for many years and understand the pain and suffering that terrorism causes. My thoughts are with the families of the victims and those injured".
 : Minister for Foreign Affairs Taro Aso expressed shock after hearing of the bombings in Mumbai, adding that they are "unjustified for whatever reason."
 : In a statement on July 12, King Abdullah II called the attacks "shameful criminal acts".
 : President Pervez Musharraf, whose country has long feuded with India, condemned the blasts as "a despicable act of terrorism [that] has resulted in the loss of a large number of precious lives." Prime Minister Shaukat Aziz also issued a statement and said that "terrorism is a bane of our times and it must be condemned, rejected and countered effectively and comprehensively."  Pakistan's Foreign Minister Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri suggested that the attacks could be linked to the failure to resolve the dispute over Kashmir, a suggestion the Indian foreign ministry rejected as "appalling", urging Pakistan to "take urgent steps to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism on the territory under its control.".