[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Sam Pitroda

ankar) the Foundation for Revitalisation of Local Health Tradition and The University of Trans-Disciplinary Health Sciences and Technology near Bangalore in India. The foundation promotes Ayurveda, India's traditional medicinal knowledge.
The two founders were honored in 2003 by Columbia University.

Awards 
 Lal Bahadur Shastri National Award, 2000 in recognition of his outstanding contribution to telecommunication and harnessing it for the social and economic transformation of developing countries
 Dataquest gave Pitroda a lifetime achievement award in 2002.
 In 2008, Pitroda was elected as a world prominent leader by the World Network of Young Leaders and Entrepreneurs.
 International Telecommunication Union (ITU) conferred the World Telecommunication and Information Society Award to Pitroda in Geneva on 17 May 2011. He was awarded in recognition of his dedication to promoting Information, communication, and technology as a means of providing a better life for humanity and social and economic empowerment. He was the first Indian to receive this award.
 In May 2010, the University of Illinois at Chicago college of medicine presented him an honorary degree.
 Sambalpur University honored Pitroda with D.Sc. on its 23rd convocation on 14 July 2010.
 The Government of India awarded him the Padma Bhushan in 2009 for his contribution to Science and Engineering.
 The Skoch Challenger Lifetime Achievement Award in 2009 for ushering in the telecom and IT revolution in India.
 Andhra University honored Pitroda with D.Sc. in 2008.
 Award for Public Service in the Field of Telecommunications, IEEE Communications Society, 2007, for exceptional contributions in developing indigenous systems and telecommunications infrastructure in India
 He was felicitated on 31 March 2009 by Akhila Bharatiya Viswakarma Mahasabha (ABVM) for service to the Viswakarma community, in the presence of Chief Minister of Delhi, Smt. Sheila Dikshit.
  World Telecommunication and Information Society Award, International Telecommunication Union (ITU), 2011, for his outstanding contribution to improving life in rural communities through information and communication technologies. Sam Pitroda is the first Indian to receive this prestigious award
 He addressed the 2nd Indian Student Parliament in 2012.
 He was awarded Lifetime Achievement Award for his outstanding contributions in the field of telecom technology & innovation by American Society of Engineers of Indian Origin (ASEI) at its 31st National Convention held on 3 Dec 2016 at Cal State University, Pomona, CA 
 He addressed the gathering of students and faculties of Seshadripuram First Grade College - Yelahanka, Bangalore, and various other students and faculties from other institutions across Bangalore about the topic of 'Innovation and Advancement in Modern Education' on 14 October 2017.

References

External links 

 
 online press conference of Sam Pitroda
 Profile
 Sam Pitroda Collected news and commentary at The Times of India
 Biography of Sam Pitroda by Mayank Chaya]

1942 births
Living people
Businesspeople from Odisha
People from Balangir district
People from Vadodara
Illinois Institute of Technology alumni
Recipients of the Padma Bhushan in science & engineering
Maharaja Sayajirao University of Baroda alumni
Indian emigrants to the United States
Naturalized citizens of the United States
American people of Gujarati descent
Former United States citizens
Businesspeople from Chicago
American emigrants to India
People with acquired Indian citizenship
Gujarati people
Recipients of Pravasi Bharatiya Samman
20th-century Indian businesspeople
20th-century American businesspeople
21st-century Indian businesspeople