[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Cyrillic script

08, introduces major changes to the Cyrillic blocks. Revisions to the existing Cyrillic blocks, and the addition of Cyrillic Extended A (2DE0 ... 2DFF) and Cyrillic Extended B (A640 ... A69F), significantly improve support for the early Cyrillic alphabet, Abkhaz, Aleut, Chuvash, Kurdish, and Moksha.

Other
Other character encoding systems for Cyrillic:
CP8668-bit Cyrillic character encoding established by Microsoft for use in MS-DOS also known as GOST-alternative. Cyrillic characters go in their native order, with a "window" for pseudographic characters.
ISO/IEC 8859-58-bit Cyrillic character encoding established by International Organization for Standardization
KOI8-R8-bit native Russian character encoding. Invented in the USSR for use on Soviet clones of American IBM and DEC computers. The Cyrillic characters go in the order of their Latin counterparts, which allowed the text to remain readable after transmission via a 7-bit line that removed the most significant bit from each bytethe result became a very rough, but readable, Latin transliteration of Cyrillic. Standard encoding of early 1990s for Unix systems and the first Russian Internet encoding.
KOI8-UKOI8-R with addition of Ukrainian letters.
MIK8-bit native Bulgarian character encoding for use in Microsoft DOS.
Windows-12518-bit Cyrillic character encoding established by Microsoft for use in Microsoft Windows. The simplest 8-bit Cyrillic encoding32 capital chars in native order at 0xc0–0xdf, 32 usual chars at 0xe0–0xff, with rarely used "YO" characters somewhere else. No pseudographics. Former standard encoding in some Linux distributions for Belarusian and Bulgarian, but currently displaced by UTF-8.
GOST-main.
GB 2312Principally simplified Chinese encodings, but there are also the basic 33 Russian Cyrillic letters (in upper- and lower-case).
JIS and Shift JISPrincipally Japanese encodings, but there are also the basic 33 Russian Cyrillic letters (in upper- and lower-case).

Keyboard layouts

Each language has its own standard keyboard layout, adopted from typewriters. With the flexibility of computer input methods, there are also transliterating or phonetic/homophonic keyboard layouts made for typists who are more familiar with other layouts, like the common English QWERTY keyboard. When practical Cyrillic keyboard layouts or fonts are unavailable, computer users sometimes use transliteration or look-alike "volapuk" encoding to type in languages that are normally written with the Cyrillic alphabet.

See also

 Cyrillic Alphabet Day
 Cyrillic digraphs
 Cyrillic script in Unicode
 Faux Cyrillic, real or fake Cyrillic letters used to give Latin-alphabet text a Soviet or Russian feel
 List of Cyrillic digraphs and trigraphs
 Russian Braille
 Russian cursive
 Russian manual alphabet
 Bulgarian Braille
 Vladislav the Grammarian
 Yugoslav Braille
 Yugoslav manual alphabet

Internet top-level domains in Cyrillic

 gTLDs
 .мон
 .бг
 .қаз
 .рф
 .срб
 .укр
 .мкд
 .бел

Notes

Footnotes

References

Bringhurst, Robert (2002). The Elements of Typographic Style (version 2.5), pp. 262–264. Vancouver, Hartley & Marks. .

 
Nezirović, M. (1992). Jevrejsko-španjolska književnost. Sarajevo: Svjetlost. [cited in Šmid, 2002]
Prostov, Eugene Victor. 1931. "Origins of Russian Printing". Library Quarterly 1 (January): 255–77.
Šmid, Katja (2002). " ", in Verba Hispanica, vol X. Liubliana: Facultad de Filosofía y Letras de la Universidad de Liubliana. .
'The Lives of St. Tsurho and St. Strahota', Bohemia, 1495, Vatican Library
Philipp Ammon: Tractatus slavonicus. in: Sjani (Thoughts) Georgian Scientific Journal of Literary Theory and Comparative Literature, N 17, 2016, pp. 248–256

External links

The Cyrillic Charset Soup overview and history of Cyrillic charsets.
Transliteration of Non-Roman Scripts, a collection of writing systems and transliteration tables
History and development of the Cyrillic alphabet
Cyrillic Alphabets of Slavic Languages review of Cyrillic charsets in Slavic Languages.
data entry in Old Cyrillic / Стара Кирилица (archived 22 February 2014)
Cyrillic and its Long Journey East – NamepediA Blog, article about the Cyrillic script

 Unicode collation charts—including Cyrillic letters, sorted by shape

 
Bulgarian inventions
Eastern Europe
North Asia
Central Asia