[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tim Mahoney

House of Representatives (2007–2009) 
Mahoney, who was inspired by Ronald Reagan to originally become a Republican, switched his party affiliation to the Democratic Party in 2005, although still holding his conservative viewpoints, due to alleged "disillusionment" while in the GOP.

Elections

2006 

Mahoney ran for Congress as a first-time political candidate in 2006 to represent . The district comprised eight counties, including part of Palm Beach County and St. Lucie County. Mahoney said that he decided to run largely due to frustration with Congressional Republicans and the Bush administration. Mahoney was unopposed in the September 5 Democratic primary election. In the general election, Mahoney faced six-term Republican incumbent Mark Foley, who had represented the district since 1995 and went unopposed in the Republican primary. In 2006, 42% of the voters in this district were registered Republicans, and 36% were registered Democrats, with the district having a CPVI of R+2. George W. Bush won the district with 54% of the vote, a margin of greater than 8% over Democratic nominee John Kerry, in the 2004 presidential election. In the previous 2004 election for the seat, Foley won with 68% of the vote over the Democratic challenger. Mahoney was behind Foley in polls for the race, and trailed by double digits, despite spending almost $400,000 of his own money in the race. At the time, the race was not expected to be competitive, with Foley predicted to win easily over Mahoney.

During the campaign, Mahoney ran on a platform of moderation, including describing Ronald Reagan as a "hero" and describing himself as a "conservative Christian". Mahoney stated that there was a need to reduce abortions without fully banning them, and also said that he favored repealing the estate tax and opposed further gun restriction laws. Mahoney ran as a conservative "common sense" businessman and stated that he was "as conservative as you can get", but said that the Republican Party had been "hijacked by a very radical group of people" who he didn't believe represented Republican values. Mahoney also criticized Foley's voting record and his support of the Bush administration's positions, including their policies on the Iraq War and government spending. In August, Mahoney was endorsed by General Wesley Clark, a former candidate for president of the United States in the 2004 election. Mahoney also filed a lawsuit against the Foley campaign for what he called "misleading" television advertisements about his business career.

On September 28, 2006, ABC News reported that Foley had sent email messages, from his personal AOL account, to a then-16-year-old former congressional page, asking the page to send a photo of himself to Foley, among other things that were overtly sexual in nature. The messages showed Foley, under the username "Maf54", trying to meet the teenage page, as well as referencing the page's sexual orientation. Mahoney called for an investigation into the matter, and Foley resigned the next day. Foley's resignation gave Democrats an opportunity of taking the seat, and the race quickly became more competitive. Mahoney denied allegations that his staff was responsible for the leaks. After the scandal became public, Mahoney starting campaigning on a platform to restore integrity and dignity to the seat and reduce corruption in Washington. Mahoney's campaign included the slogan "Restoring America's values begins at home." Mahoney became the favorite to win the seat, and was endorsed by numerous high-profile Democrats, including Mark Warner and John Kerry, who campaigned with Mahoney. Mahoney's campaign also released a 30-second television advertisement titled "Graham Man" featuring former governor of Florida and U.S. senator Bob Graham, which was cut before the scandal broke, but aired promptly after. Mahoney quickly rose to the top of the polls, and gained a lead of 7 points. Congressional Quarterly (CQ) shifted the race from safe Republican to tossup, and eventually to favoring Mahoney.