[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ulenspiegel (magazine)

ng Americans. Ulenspiegel—like no other magazine in postwar Germany—symbolized the democratic, anti-fascist new era, a burst of optimism before the polarization of the cold war and the division of Germany. Many of Ulenspiegel's contributors influenced the cultural face of both East and West Germany.

Cold war and closure
From the early postwar days until the cold war and division of Germany, the editorial meetings of the satirical magazine brought together those who had survived Nazi Germany. Artists, writers, exiles, editors, and graphic designers met and had heated discussions about the present and future of Germany. The publishers were able to help some people acquire a Persilschein. This was the denazification certificate  one needed to receive a work permit.

In October 1947, OMGUS began to directly counter Soviet propaganda with its "Operation Talk Back", using the mass media to relay its message and bringing Ulenspiegel into direct conflict with the Americans over its criticism of their policies in Germany. In an attempt to censor and punish Ulenspiegel for its editorial positions, OMGUS cut the magazine's paper allotment by one-half  and began to look for new editors. An internal ICD memo clearly delineates the motive. "Orders have been issued to reduce by one-half the paper allocation given to the magazine Ulenspiegel as a preliminary step toward inducing a change in editorial orientation of this magazine or its replacement with a more effective medium." The result was a significant drop in circulation. When Ulenspiegel first began publishing, circulation was 120,000; later it dropped to 50,000, although it later recovered somewhat to 75,000. From December 24, 1945, to the tenth 1948 issue, the magazine appeared under license by the American military; from April 1948 to 1950, it was under license by the Soviet occupational force.

In July 1948, Weisenborn left Ulenspiegel and Berlin, moving to Hamburg. The cold war was intensifying; the Americans had instituted a currency reform and the Berlin blockade was on. Sandberg returned his license to the Americans, accepted an offer from the Soviet Military Administration in Germany, and moved to East Berlin in 1948.

Fuffzehn für Vergnügte und Verärgerte, edited by Lothar Kusche was also a satirical weekly magazine briefly published by Ulenspiegel Verlag in 1949. Just 20 issues were printed. The company also published a few books.

Ulenspiegel continued to appear, censored by the Soviets, until August 1950, when its publishing license was rescinded for being too modern and "lacking a basis in the Masses". A competitor in the Soviet sector, the magazine Frischer Wind, licensed to publish in 1947, "better understood that the Party [was] always right—and [had] no sense of humor". Renamed Eulenspiegel in 1954, it continues to publish today in Berlin.

Ulenspiegel's contributors

The contributors included:
 Bele Bachem
 Johannes R. Becher
 Wolfgang Borchert
 Bertolt Brecht
 Alexander Camaro
 Otto Dix
 Richard Drews
 Alfred Döblin
 Jean Effel
 Heinrich Ehmsen
 René Graetz
 George Grosz
 John Heartfield
 Hannes Hegen
 Josef Hegenbarth
 Robert Herlth
 Stephan Hermlin
 Hermann Hesse
 Karl Hofer
 Karl Holtz
 Hannah Höch
 Heinrich Kilger
 Werner Klemke
 Käthe Kollwitz
 Alfred Kubin
 Günter Kunert
 Lothar Kusche
 Erich Kästner
 Max Lingner
 Jeanne Mammen
 Frans Masereel
 Arno Mohr
 Henry Moore 
 Oskar Nerlinger
 Boris Pasternak
 Max Pechstein
 Christa Reinig
 Paul Rosié
 Jean-Paul Sartre
 Albert Schaefer-Ast
 Rudolf Schlichter
 Robert Wolfgang Schnell
 Anna Seghers
 Elizabeth Shaw
 Paul Strecker
 Günther Strupp
 Georg Tappert
 Walter Trier
 Kurt Tucholsky
 Berthold Viertel
 Wolfgang Weyrauch
 Günther Weisenborn
 Friedrich Wolf
 Carl Zuckmayer

See also
 List of magazines in Germany

Sources
 Ulenspiegel / Literatur – Kunst – Satire. Herbert Sandberg and Günther Weisenborn, Ulenspiegelverlag Berlin (1946–1950)
 Ulenspiegel-Kalender, Ulenspiegel Verlag, Berlin (1950)
 Fuffzehn für Vergnügte und Verärgerte. Lothar Kusche (Ed). Ulenspiegel-Verlag, Berlin (1949), 1-20 
 Herbert Sandberg, Günter Kunert, Ulenspiegel – Zeitschrift für Literatur, Kunst und Satire. Eine Auswahl 1945–1950. Eulenspiegel-Verlag, Berlin, Carl Hanser, Munich (1978). 256 pages. 
 Herbert Sandberg, "Ulenspiegel. Satire – Kunst. Deutschland vor der Teilung". Stiftung Ludwig Institut Schloß Oberhausen. Exhibition catalogue, Oberhausen o.J (1994), 158 pages
 Karl Ludwig Hofmann, Christmut Präger: Ulenspiegel, Wespennest und Simpl. Drei Satirische Zeitschriften der Nachkriegszeit. In: Krieg und Frieden. Frankfurter Kunstverein. Elefanten Press, Berlin (1980)

Footnotes

References

External links 
 Books about Ulenspiegel in the German National Library 

1945 establishments in Germany
1950 disestablishments in West Germany
German-language magazines
Satirical magazines published in Germany
Magazines established in 1945
Magazines disestablished in 1950
Magazines published in Berlin
Till Eulenspiegel