[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Incredible India

aise US$784 million from international tourism in Q4 2005, a growth of 23% over its Q4 2004 figures. The tourist spending figures for India would have satisfied the Indian tourism ministry, which had been targeting the high-end market through its long running Incredible India communication campaign.

Reception
Indian travel industry analysts and tour operators were appreciative of the high standards of the Incredible India campaign. "The promo campaign is making a powerful visual impact and creating a perception of India being a magical place to visit," said Anne Morgaon Scully, President, McCabe Bremer Travel, Virginia, U.S. Average travelers too appeared to find the campaign interesting and informative, going by favourable comments on blogs on travel websites. Although Incredible India was generally well received, industry observers differed in their opinions on the positioning of India in the campaign. G.S.Murari, Director, Fidelis Advertising and Marketing Private Ltd. stated that he was uncomfortable with the tagline "Incredible India" and was of the opinion that since India was not a uni-dimensional country like Singapore or the Maldives, using a word like 'incredible' to describe India as a whole was not appropriate. In 2011, Arjun Sharma, managing director, Le Passage to India, stated that the campaign had lived its life and needed to be reinvented.
The Ministry of Tourism again engaged Ogilvy & Mather for a period of three years, starting in 2012, to redefine the brand and provide a strategic vision for the campaign.

In 2013, the Ministry of Tourism partnered with WoNoBo.com to launch Walking Tours, an online experience where users navigate and route their way through cities based on a choice of themes.

In 2014, Tourism Secretary Parvez Dewan launched a personalised itinerary planner called Tripigator, a website aimed at providing all travel itineraries in one tab to reduce travellers' efforts.

See also

 Atithi Devo Bhava
 India Shining
 Make in India
 Stranded in India
 Tourism in India
 Tourism in Northeast India

References

Tourism in India
Indian brands
Tourism campaigns
Advertising in India
Ministry of Tourism (India)
Vajpayee administration
2002 establishments in India