[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# The Elders (organization)

The Elders is an international non-governmental organisation of public figures noted as senior statesmen, peace activists and human rights advocates, who were brought together by Nelson Mandela in 2007. They describe themselves as "independent global leaders working together for peace, justice, human rights and a sustainable planet". The goal Mandela set for The Elders was to use their "almost 1,000 years of collective experience" to work on solutions for seemingly insurmountable problems such as climate change, HIV/AIDS, and poverty, as well as to "use their political independence to help resolve some of the world's most intractable conflicts".

History
As of 2023, The Elders is chaired by Mary Robinson, and consists of twelve Elders and three Elders Emeritus. Kofi Annan served as chair from 2013 until his death in 2018; Desmond Tutu served for six years as chair before stepping down in May 2013, and remained an Elder Emeritus until his death in 2021.

The group was initiated by English philanthropist Richard Branson and musician and human rights activist Peter Gabriel, together with anti-apartheid activist and former South African President Nelson Mandela. Mandela announced the formation of the group on his eighty-ninth birthday on 18 July 2007 in Johannesburg, South Africa.

At the launch ceremony, an empty chair was left on stage for Aung San Suu Kyi, the human rights activist who was a political prisoner in Burma/Myanmar at the time. Present at the launch were Kofi Annan, Jimmy Carter, Graça Machel, Nelson Mandela, Mary Robinson, Desmond Tutu, Muhammad Yunus, and Li Zhaoxing. Members who were not present at the launch were Ela Bhatt, Gro Harlem Brundtland, Lakhdar Brahimi, and Fernando Henrique Cardoso.  

Martti Ahtisaari joined The Elders in September 2009, Hina Jilani and Ernesto Zedillo in July 2013, and Ricardo Lagos in June 2016. In June 2017, former UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon also joined the group. Zeid Raad Al Hussein, Juan Manuel Santos and Ellen Johnson Sirleaf joined The Elders in January 2019. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, former President and Prime Minister of Mongolia, joined in October 2022. 

The Elders are funded by a group of donors who are named on the advisory council.

Members

The Elders
 Gro Harlem Brundtland, former Prime Minister of Norway and former Director-General of the World Health Organization
 Helen Clark, former Prime Minister of New Zealand
 Hina Jilani, international human rights defender from Pakistan
 Graça Machel (Co-Deputy Chair), former Education Minister of Mozambique, President of the Foundation for Community Development, widow of Samora Machel and widow of Nelson Mandela
 Mary Robinson (Chair), former President of Ireland and former United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights
 Ernesto Zedillo, former President of Mexico
 Ricardo Lagos, former President of Chile
 Ban Ki-moon (Co-Deputy Chair), former Secretary-General of the United Nations
 Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, former President of Liberia, Nobel Peace Prize laureate
 Juan Manuel Santos, former President of Colombia, Nobel Peace Prize laureate
 Zeid Raad Al Hussein, former UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
 Elbegdorj Tsakhia, former President and Prime Minister of Mongolia

Elders Emeritus
 Lakhdar Brahimi, former Foreign Minister of Algeria and United Nations envoy
 Jimmy Carter, former President of the United States, Nobel Peace Prize laureate
 Fernando Henrique Cardoso, former President of Brazil

Former Elders
 Aung San Suu Kyi, Myanmar opposition leader and Nobel Peace Prize laureate, was an honorary elder. Until her release from house arrest in 2010 the Elders kept an empty chair at each of their meetings, to mark their solidarity with Suu Kyi and Burma/Myanmar's other political prisoners. In line with the requirement that members of The Elders should not hold public office, Suu Kyi stepped down as an honorary Elder following her election to parliament on 1 April 2012.
 Li Zhaoxing, former Foreign Minister of the People's Republic of China, attended the launch.

 Muhammad Yunus, founder of Grameen Bank, microcredit pioneer and Nobel Peace Prize laureate, is a former Elder. Yunus stepped down as a member of The Elders in September 2009, stating that he was unable to do justice to his membership of the group due to the demands of his work.

Deceased Elders
 Martti Ahtisaari, former President of Finland, Nobel Peace Prize laureate
 Kofi Annan, former Secretary-General of the United Nations, Nobel Peace Prize laureate was Chair of The Elders from 2013 to 2018.
 Ela Bhatt, founder of the Self-Employed Women's Association of India.
 Nelson Mandela, a Nobel Peace Prize laureate and former president of South Africa, was the founder of The Elders.
 Desmond Tutu, Archbishop Emeritus of Cape Town, former Archbishop Primate of the Anglican Church of Southern Africa and former Chair of South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation Commission, Nobel Peace Prize laureate