[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Russian web brigades

sition bias was blocked on the Russian-language Wikipedia. In July 2019 two operatives of the Internet Research Agency were detained in Libya and charged with attempting to  influence local elections. They were reportedly employees of Alexander Malkevich, manager of USA Really, a propaganda website.

In 2020, the research firm Graphika published a report detailing one particular Russian disinformation group codenamed "Secondary Infektion" (alluding to 80's Operation Infektion) operating running since 2014. Over 6 years the group published over 2,500 items in seven languages and to over 300 platforms such as social media (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Reddit) and discussion forums. The group specialized in highly divisive topics regarding immigration, environment, politics, international relations and frequently used fake images presented as "leaked documents".

Starting in February 2022, a special attempt was made to back the Russian war in Ukraine. Particular effort was made to target Facebook and YouTube.

Russian invasion of Ukraine 

In May 2022, during the Russian invasion of Ukraine, the trolls allegedly hired by Internet Research Agency (IRA) had reportedly extended their foothold into TikTok, spreading misinformation on war events and attempting to question or sow doubt about the Ukraine war. Authentic-looking profiles had allegedly hundreds of thousands of followers. IRA was reported to be active across different platforms, including Instagram and Telegram.

See also

Opinion-influencing operations in other countries
Other countries and businesses have used paid Internet commenters to influence public opinion in other countries; some examples are below. (Note: most operations in the list below are smaller in scale than Russia's web brigades, and not all have involved the spread of misinformation).

 50 Cent Party – China
 AK Trolls – Turkey
 Hasbara – Israel
 Internet Water Army – China
 Jewish Internet Defense Force – Israel
 Joint Threat Research Intelligence Group – United Kingdom
 Little Pink – China
 Operation Earnest Voice – United States
 Public opinion brigades – Vietnam
 Voluntary Agency Network of Korea – South Korea
 Bot Brigades – Serbia

Related topics

 Active measures
 Cyberwarfare by Russia
 Fake news website
 Social media in the 2016 United States presidential election
 State-sponsored Internet propaganda
 Troll farm
 Vulkan files leak

Notes

References

External links
  I started Occupy Wall Street. Russia tried to co-opt me, Micah White, The Guardian.

Literature 
 Jolanta Darczewska: The Anatomy of Russian Information Warfare: The Crimean Operation, a Case Study. Centre for Eastern Studies, Warsaw 2014,  (PDF)
 Peter Pomerantsev & Michael Weiss: The Menace of Unreality: How the Kremlin Weaponizes Information, Culture and Money. The Institute of Modern Russia, New York 2014 (PDF)

Internet manipulation and propaganda
Russian political websites
Public relations techniques
Psychological warfare techniques
Propaganda techniques by medium
Cyberwarfare
Disinformation operations
Federal Security Service
Internet trolling