[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh

University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh () (ULAB) is a private liberal arts-based university in Dhanmondi, Dhaka, Bangladesh. Founded in February 2002, permission to open was received from the University Grants Commission (UGC) of Bangladesh in November 2003, pursuant to the Private University Act, 1992.

ULAB incorporates the values of liberal arts and sustainability into its curricula, through its General Education Department and its Center for Sustainable Development (CSD). ULAB is a research-intensive university, with multiple research opportunities for its faculty members and students.

Campus 
The university's campus is located in Mohammadpur in Dhaka. It is one of the largest private universities in Bangladesh. The foundation of the campus was laid in February 2002. Classes started in the permanent campus from 1 October 2004. It contains 4 buildings with a research building in Dhanmondi, a stadium standard field, and 3 academic buildings (A, C and D).

Administration 
There is a separate admin building dedicated to administration activities.

List of vice-chancellors 
 Imran Rahman (2011 – May 2017)
 HM Jahirul Haque (2017 – 2021)
 Imran Rahman (2 November 2021 – present)

Pro vice-chancellors 
 Imran Rahman (2009-2012)
 
 Jude William R. Genilo (2023-)

Heads of schools and departments

School of Business 
 Sarwar Uddin Ahmed (Head)

Bachelor of Business Administration 
 Muhammad Faisol Chowdhury (Director)

Graduate Business Programs 
 Asif Uddin Ahmed (Director)

School of Science and Engineering 
 M. Mofazzal Hossain (Dean)

Department of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
 M. Mofazzal Hossain (Head)

Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
 Dr. Muhammad Golam Kibria,  PhD (Head)

School of Social Sciences 
 Jude William R. Genilo (Dean)

Media Studies and Journalism 
 Jude William R. Genilo (Head)
 Sarkar Barbaq Quarmal (Associate Professor)

School of Arts and Humanities 
 Kaiser Hamidul Haq (Dean)

Department of English Humanities 
 Arifa Ghani Rahman (Head)

General Education Program 
 Shahnaj Husne Jahan (Head)

Academic Departments
In February 2023, ULAB established two new departments, the Bangla Department and the Literature Department. The university is the first institute of higher education in Bangladesh to teach ethnic minority languages, of which Bangladesh has 44 according to Professor Shameem Reza.

ULAB offers degree programs in the following schools:

School of Arts and Humanities 
 Bachelor of Arts, English, and Humanities
 Bachelor of Arts in Bangla Language and Literature
 Master of Arts in English

School of Social Science

Bachelor of Social Science, Media Studies and Journalism (Honors) 
Department of Media Studies and Journalism established at 2004. The head of the department is Jude William Genilo. MSJ is the flagship department of ULAB, with course of 129 credit, the department also offer apprentice program to learn practically, such as PR4U, ULAB TV, The ULABian, AxisMIL, RadioCamBuzz, ShutterBugs, Dhaka International Mobile Film Festival, and Cinemascope. The department offer Bachelor in Media Studies and Journalism, and Masters in Communicantion.

School of Business 
 Bachelor in Business Administration (Honors)
 Master of Business Administration (MBA)
 Executive Master of Business Administration (EMBA)

School of Science and Engineering 
 Bachelor of Science in Computer Science and Engineering (Honors)
 Bachelor of Science in Electronics and Telecommunication Engineering (Honors)
 Bachelor of Science in Electrical and Electronic Engineering (Honors)

ULAB has one non-degree-granting program, which runs the required courses to fulfill a liberal arts curriculum:
 General Education Program (GED)

Research Institute
ULAB has nine centers that conduct research, run workshops and conferences; promote knowledge creation, and advocate best practices.

Center for Sustainable Development (CSD) 
The Center for Sustainable Development (CSD) was established in 2006 and is the oldest research center at the university.CSD is Bangladesh's only research institute dedicated solely to the Sustainable Development.

Center for Enterprise and Society (CES) 
CES is Bangladesh's first university-based research center dedicated to entrepreneurship and business research with an emphasis on ethical, environmental, and social sustainability.

Center for Bangla Language and Literature

Center for Critical and Qualitative Studies 
Center for Critical and Qualitative Studies (CQS) is a research center jointly operated by University of Liberal Arts Bangladesh and University of Sussex, UK.

Center for Archaeological Studies (CAS)