[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Eva Estrada Kalaw

r actor and Senator Joseph Estrada.

Kalaw's last foray in public service was her appointment as managing director and resident representative of the Philippines at the Manila Economic and Cultural Office, the country's de facto embassy in Taipei, Taiwan during the Ramos and Estrada administrations.

Awards
Among Kalaw's many awards, the most prestigious was the Mahatma Gandhi Freedom Award which was conferred to her on April 2, 1985 by the Department of Anthropology of the College of William & Mary in Virginia, United States. The award is given annually to outstanding scholars or public figures who, given by personal example, have given meaning and substance to freedom. Among other recipients of the award were her cousin Senator Benigno Aquino Jr., Senator Jovito Salonga, K. R. Narayanan, H. R. Choudry and K. S. Bajpai.

Death
Kalaw died on May 25, 2017, at 96 due to an undisclosed ailment. She is survived by her daughter Chingbee Kalaw-Cuenca, sons Teodoro III Kalaw, Salvador and Tyrone, as well as 13 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren. Her remains were laid to rest at Loyola Memorial Park in Parañaque.

Notes

References

External links
Eva Estrada Kalaw profile on the Senate of the Philippines website

1920 births
2017 deaths
People from Tarlac
Senators of the 7th Congress of the Philippines
Senators of the 6th Congress of the Philippines
Nacionalista Party politicians
Liberal Party (Philippines) politicians
Members of the House of Representatives of the Philippines from Manila
Politicians from Manila
Candidates in the 1992 Philippine vice-presidential election
Candidates in the 1986 Philippine vice-presidential election
Members of the Batasang Pambansa
20th-century Filipino women politicians
20th-century Filipino politicians
Women members of the House of Representatives of the Philippines
Women members of the Senate of the Philippines
University of the Philippines Manila alumni
Burials at the Loyola Memorial Park