[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Robert E. Lee: Civil War General

ship and individual soldiers' personal welfare (such as rest, loyalty and organization) the player's central concerns, which he considered an untried mechanic in wargames. Before the game's release, he wrote that he "wanted a model in which one extra man on your firing line could make a difference".

Impressions placed a heavy emphasis on Civil War Generals multimedia content during development, and Sierra's John Sauer described the overall product as a "multimedia game". The team worked with Jay Wertz—creator of the documentary series Smithsonian's Great Battles of the Civil War—to obtain full motion video of American Civil War reenactments for use throughout the game. This came to roughly 140 individual clips, including both Wertz's old work and new footage unique to Civil War General. Paintings by Mort Künstler were licensed for the game's loading screens, box art and main menu screen. Computer Games Strategy Plus reported that Impressions planned Civil War Generals encyclopedia to be "as detailed as a dedicated reference CD", with the goal of making it "a tribute to the War." The team designed the encyclopedia in an online help format, and incorporated hyperlinks, sound and music, recorded speech, photographs and animation. This educational entertainment aspect was among the game's selling points.

In late 1995, Sierra's InterAction tentatively announced a 1996 release date for Civil War General, then under the title Robert E. Lee: The War Against the Union. Early the following year, Terry Coleman described Civil War General as one of "the most promising [war]games for '96". T. Liam McDonald opined at the time that "the distribution power of Sierra"—then the number-one computer entertainment software company—gave Impressions a unique opportunity to exploit Panzer Generals coattail effect. While Civil War General was estimated as 75% complete and set for an April launch in PC Gamer USs March 1996 issue, by April 10 Sierra had officially pushed this date back to June. In May, the publisher showed the game at the 1996 Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3). Sierra ultimately released Civil War General on August 24, with a list price of $59.95. By December, the team had released a downloadable "Scenario Pack" for the game; a second pack was launched in January 1997.

Reception

Sales
Civil War General was a commercial success; according to Sierra's InterAction, it was the best-selling wargame of 1996. The game debuted at #14 on NPD SofTrends' computer reference software sales chart for August 1996, and rose to eighth place the following month, at an average retail price of $51.

In 1998, Civil War General secured first place on SofTrends' reference software rankings for January, with an average price of $17. It remained at #1 from February through August, before dropping to #3 in September. By June, its average price had fallen to $10. The game held a position in NPD's top 4 for reference software throughout the rest of 1998. According to PC Data, Civil War General was the United States' 25th-best-selling computer game of 1998, with 225,215 units sold and $2.37 million revenues earned in the region that year. The game's Ultimate Civil War Collection bundle with its sequel, Grant, Lee, Sherman: Civil War Generals 2, rose from 58th place in June 1998 to seventh in July on SofTrends' reference software chart.

By January 1999, Civil War General and its sequel together had sold more than 700,000 copies globally. Civil War General claimed #2 on NPD's reference software rankings that month, and third place in February. At the time, PC Gamer US summarized the series as "very successful".

Critical reviews

Civil War General was a finalist for Computer Gaming Worlds 1996 "Wargame of the Year" award, which ultimately went to Battleground 4: Shiloh. Similarly, the Software Publishers Association nominated it as 1996's "Best Strategy Software Game", but the judges gave this prize to Monty Python & the Quest for the Holy Grail.

Computer Gaming Worlds Terry Coleman remarked that Civil War General is "meant to be simpler to play, but it has a lot of subtleties." He argued that its campaign was the most enjoyable of the era's Civil War wargames. However, he criticized the title's limited historical scope, and considered the overall product to be inferior to Wargame Construction Set III: Age of Rifles 1846-1905. Coleman concluded, "[I]f you must buy only one of these, get Rifles, but real Civil War fans should pick up Lee as well". PC Magazine highlighted the game's visuals, and the reviewer praised Civil War General as a "detailed and accurate" product that, echoing Coleman, combines simplicity with depth.