[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Colum McCann

h McCann's early works were well-reviewed, they were not commercially successful enough to support him full-time. Throughout the 1990s, McCann wrote plays and film scripts, including the Veronica Guerin bio-pic When the Sky Falls and the play Flaherty's Windows, which ran for six weeks Off-Broadway.

Finding Success as a Novelist 
This Side of Brightness (1998) was McCann's first international bestseller. The novel revolves around the New York City subway, following the "sandhogs" who built its tunnels in the early 1900s and the homeless people who lived in the tunnels in the 1980s. He was inspired by two instances in the early 1900s when men were blown out of subway tunnels into rivers due to explosions. While researching the novel, McCann descended into the subway tunnels three or four times per week. He recalled that, "Being Irish helped meI was never seen as part of the established order, the system. I was outside. And they were outsiders too. So often I felt aligned with the people who were living underground."

In 2000, McCann released Everything in This Country Must, a collection of two short stories and a novella about The Troubles. He grounded the three stories in the conflict, but maintains "an imaginative distance" between reality and his writing, a common sentiment in his works. McCann teamed up with Gary McKendry to turn the collection's titular story into a short film. After its 2004 release, the film was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Live Action Short Film in the 77th Academy Awards. 

McCann's next novel, Dancer, is a fictionalized account of Rudolf Nureyev's life. McCann spent the summer of 2001 teaching English in Russia to research the novel. The book was published on the tenth anniversary of Nureyev's death. 

For his 2006 novel Zoli, McCann expanded on previously-explored themes such as exile, social outcasting, empathy, and fictionalizing historical events. The main character is a fictionalization of Polish-Romani poet Bronisława Wajs (Papusza). While researching the novel, McCann spent two months in Europe visiting Romani camps.

Let the Great World Spin and International Recognition 
McCann's seventh book (his fifth novel) vaulted him into the international spotlight. Let the Great World Spin is set on 7 August 1974, the morning that Philippe Petit walked on a high wire between the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center in New York City. The novel follows characters who live in New York City, some of whom saw Petit's walk. The book is an allegory to 9/11, but only mentions the attacks in one line. McCann's father-in-law worked in the North Tower and walked up to McCann's apartment on the Upper East Side after escaping the building. McCann's young daughter said her grandfather was "burning from the inside out", a line that struck McCann as a beautiful metaphor for the nation. 

Let the Great World Spin was received with great critical acclaim. For the book, McCann won the 2009 National Book Award for Fiction, the first Irish-born writer to take home the award. The novel also won the 2011 International Dublin Literary Award, among many others. J. J. Abrams discussed working with McCann to make the novel into a movie.

2010s writings 
In 2010, McCann put his words in a different medium, collaborating with Alonzo King to put on a ballet titled Writing Ground. The show, part of the Ballets de Monte Carlo, was put up by Alonzo King LINES Ballet. McCann’s poetry is in the ballet’s program but was not spoken in the dances itself. Instead, the dances were set to sacred music from different global cultures. 

In 2013, McCann published his eighth book, TransAtlantic. Like many of McCann's other books, the novel uses multiple characters and voices to tell a story based on real events. The book tells the intertwined stories of Alcock and Brown (the first non-stop transatlantic fliers in 1919), the visit of Frederick Douglass to Ireland in 1845/46, and the story of the Irish peace process as negotiated by Senator George Mitchell in 1998. At first, McCann thought about just writing about Douglass's visit, but he said "then it would have been a historical novel and ... hate the term ... It just seems steeped in aspic. I mean every novel's a historical novel anyway. But calling something a historical novel seems to put mittens on it, right? It puts manners on it. And you don't want your novels to be mannered." McCann lived just a few blocks from Senator Mitchell in New York City, but did not meet him until he finished a draft of the book.