[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joseph A. Cafasso

using in Indiana was "Robert Stormer"; the authenticity of Stormer's identity had previously been challenged by a journalist in October 2007. His other alleged aliases mentioned in news coverage are "Jay Mosca" and "Gerry Blackwood" and the Internet handle "Shipdude", allegedly used on dating sites.

At the time of his arrests, Cafasso had been living with a 63-year-old woman whom he had befriended under a false name via a dating site. According to her son, Cafasso defrauded her of her life savings. After Cafasso's January arrest, convicted criminal Jack Idema, who spoke as a consultant on one occasion for a local Fox News affiliate, attempted to obtain a laptop computer that had been used by Cafasso from the woman he had been living with. She turned it over to police. The social security number Cafasso gave police at the time of his arrest belonged to a 13-year-old girl living in Rhode Island. Cafasso also reportedly told the arresting officer that he was hiding from the CIA and the FBI.

References

External links
Article from October 24, 2004 issue of LA Weekly examining military imposters and efforts to discredit them cites Cafasso as an example.
Verna V. Gehring, "Phonies, Fakes, and Frauds—and the Social Harms They Cause" (PDF), Philosophy & Public Policy Quarterly, Volume 23, Numbers 1/2 (Winter/Spring 2003). Discusses Cafasso's engagement to the author's friend in the context of the policy implications of lying.
Email communication from Joseph Cafasso as publisher of The Broken Arrow, believed to be one-time online newsletter of the Association of Retired Aviation Professionals.
Nuke transportation story has explosive implications by "Robert Stormer" with the bio "Robert Stormer of Chicago is a retired lieutenant commander in the Navy Reserve, serving with the Navy’s Supervisor of Salvage, and was a specialist in weapons retrieval. He is a marine engineer and marine salvage specialist." Originally appeared in the Fort Worth Star-Telegram, Sunday, October 7, 2007. Reprinted on No Quarter, the website of former CIA analyst & former Fox News consultant Larry C. Johnson.

1956 births
Carteret High School alumni
People from Carteret, New Jersey
Living people
Impostors