[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Treaty of Mendota

AL ARTICLE.
1st. The United States do hereby stipulate to pay the Sioux bands of Indians, parties to this treaty, at the rate of ten cents per acre, for the lands included in the reservation provided for in the third article of the treaty as originally agreed upon in the following words:

ARTICLE 3.

"In part consideration of the foregoing cession and relinquishment, the United States do hereby set apart for the future occupancy and home of the Dakota Indians, parties to this treaty, to be held by them as Indian lands are held, a tract of country of the average width of ten miles on either side of the Minnesota River, and bounded on the west by the Tchaytam-bay and Yellow Medicine Rivers, and on the east by the Little Rock River and a line running due south from its mouth to the Waraju River; the boundaries of said tract to be marked out by as straight lines as practicable, whenever and in such manner as the President of the United States shall direct: Provided, That said tract shall be held and occupied by said bands in common, and that they shall hereafter participate equally and alike, in all the benefits derived from any former treaty between said bands, or either of them, and the United States," which article has been stricken out of the treaty by the Senate. The said payment to be in lieu of said reservation; the amount, when ascertained under instructions from the Department of the Interior, to be added to the trust fund provided for in the fourth article. 
2d. It is further stipulated that the President be authorized, with the assent of the said bands of Indians, parties to this treaty, and as soon after they shall have given their assent to the foregoing article, as may be convenient, to cause to be set apart by appropriate landmarks and boundaries, such tracts of country without the limits of the cession made by the first article of the treaty as may be satisfactory for their future occupancy and home: Provided, That the President may, by the consent of these Indians, vary the conditions aforesaid if deemed expedient.

Values Adjusted For Inflation 
There are numerous ways to try to estimate what the value of this treaty would be in current US dollars. Since the CPI was not initiated until the 20th century, other measures must be used to look back on inflation and valuation levels in the United States.

Here are some different valuations in today's money of the $1,410,000 in 1851

$40,800,000	 using the Consumer Price Index

$30,700,000	 using the GDP deflator

$296,000,000	 using the unskilled wage

$576,000,000	 using the Production Worker Compensation

$578,000,000	 using the nominal GDP per capita

$7,380,000,000   using the relative share of GDP

As with most economic estimates like this, that look beyond the modern, intricate tracking of national inflation, there is a dramatic range in the predicted present value of the treaty's amount. The value calculated using the "relative share of GDP" should be given extra weight since it is weighted to the state of the overall economic size and strength. Even though this measurement is imperfect, it is much less so than the other indicators which either were not correctly used for the duration of this time, or have been extrapolated back to 1851 using other data. Because of this, the CPI measurement is dramatically understating the present value of the money.

Using this same calculation range, the 10 cents per acre that was paid to the Native Americans comes out to a present value range of between $2.90 and $523 per acre. Even using the upper end of this range which is probably the most realistic, that is very low property value being assigned to the wilderness in present-day standards. of course there are other effects to weigh in, such as present day advanced agricultural and foresting technologies which would affect this number by a multiple value, the evidence here shows that the United States dramatically undercut the Native Americans with their purchasing of their land, and falls in line with much of the other land purchases from Native Americans throughout the 19th century.

Provisions for assimilating Native Americans
Similarly to countless other land purchasing treaties between Native American nations and the U.S., The Treaty of Mendota holds evidence of the ongoing Americanization of Native Americans. In Article 4 of this treaty, the U.S. forced the allocation of certain sums of the overall payment to the Native Americans for such purposes as setting up types of educational and economic with the specific argument that it causes prosperity and happiness. Anthropological and historical perspectives have since shown, of course, that much of the focus of these types of provisions was twofold: to "de-barbarize" the Native Americans, and also to try to encourage the Native American's to contribute back to the American economy in the future, if not immediately.