[Source: Gutenberg#1232 | Part 39]
# The Republic — Plato

make,
more trouble for the house of Sforza than any other disorder in the
state. For this reason the best possible fortress is—not to be hated by
the people, because, although you may hold the fortresses, yet they
will not save you if the people hate you, for there will never be
wanting foreigners to assist a people who have taken arms against you.
It has not been seen in our times that such fortresses have been of use
to any prince, unless to the Countess of Forli,[1] when the Count
Girolamo, her consort, was killed; for by that means she was able to
withstand the popular attack and wait for assistance from Milan, and
thus recover her state; and the posture of affairs was such at that
time that the foreigners could not assist the people. But fortresses
were of little value to her afterwards when Cesare Borgia attacked her,
and when the people, her enemy, were allied with foreigners. Therefore,
it would have been safer for her, both then and before, not to have
been hated by the people than to have had the fortresses. All these
things considered then, I shall praise him who builds fortresses as
well as him who does not, and I shall blame whoever, trusting in them,
cares little about being hated by the people.

 [1] Catherine Sforza, a daughter of Galeazzo Sforza and Lucrezia
 Landriani, born 1463, died 1509. It was to the Countess of Forli that
 Machiavelli was sent as envoy on 1499. A letter from Fortunati to the
 countess announces the appointment: “I have been with the signori,”
 wrote Fortunati, “to learn whom they would send and when. They tell me
 that Nicolo Machiavelli, a learned young Florentine noble, secretary
 to my Lords of the Ten, is to leave with me at once.” _Cf_. “Catherine
 Sforza,” by Count Pasolini, translated by P. Sylvester, 1898.




CHAPTER XXI.
HOW A PRINCE SHOULD CONDUCT HIMSELF SO AS TO GAIN RENOWN


Nothing makes a prince so much esteemed as great enterprises and
setting a fine example. We have in our time Ferdinand of Aragon, the
present King of Spain. He can almost be called a new prince, because he
has risen, by fame and glory, from being an insignificant king to be
the foremost king in Christendom; and if you will consider his deeds
you will find them all great and some of them extraordinary. In the
beginning of his reign he attacked Granada, and this enterprise was the
foundation of his dominions. He did this quietly at first and without
any fear of hindrance, for he held the minds of the barons of Castile
occupied in thinking of the war and not anticipating any innovations;
thus they did not perceive that by these means he was acquiring power
and authority over them. He was able with the money of the Church and
of the people to sustain his armies, and by that long war to lay the
foundation for the military skill which has since distinguished him.
Further, always using religion as a plea, so as to undertake greater
schemes, he devoted himself with pious cruelty to driving out and
clearing his kingdom of the Moors; nor could there be a more admirable
example, nor one more rare. Under this same cloak he assailed Africa,
he came down on Italy, he has finally attacked France; and thus his
achievements and designs have always been great, and have kept the
minds of his people in suspense and admiration and occupied with the
issue of them. And his actions have arisen in such a way, one out of
the other, that men have never been given time to work steadily against
him.

Again, it much assists a prince to set unusual examples in internal
affairs, similar to those which are related of Messer Bernabo da
Milano, who, when he had the opportunity, by any one in civil life
doing some extraordinary thing, either good or bad, would take some
method of rewarding or punishing him, which would be much spoken about.
And a prince ought, above all things, always endeavour in every action
to gain for himself the reputation of being a great and remarkable man.

A prince is also respected when he is either a true friend or a
downright enemy, that is to say, when, without any reservation, he
declares himself in favour of one party against the other; which course
will always be more advantageous than standing neutral; because if two
of your powerful neighbours come to blows, they are of such a character
that, if one of them conquers, you have either to fear him or not. In
either case it will always be more advantageous for you to declare
yourself and to make war strenuously; because, in the first case, if
you do not declare yourself, you will invariably fall a prey to the
conqueror, to the pleasure and satisfaction of him who has been
conquered, and you will have no reasons to offer, nor anything to
protect or to shelter you. Because he who conquers does not want
doubtful friends who will not aid him in the time of trial; and he who
loses will not harbour you because you did not willingly, sword in
hand, court his fate.