[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Jaffna University Helidrop

As the morning progressed, GOC Maj Gen Harkirat Singh arrived in an Army Chetak to carry out a personal reconnaissance of the situation, drawing heavy small arms fire from the ground. One bullet went clean through the floor and into the space between where Harkirat was sitting and the pilot.

Rescue

With the commandos still holding out, plans were put in place at the 54 Division to extricate them.  Lt. Col. Dalvir Singh, leading a relief force consisting of a small group of SF commandos. On the way, he came across three T-72 tanks from the 65 Armoured Regiment, led by Major Anil Kaul and decided to collaborate with the tank troops to extricate his men. However, the LTTE had laid an IED minefield on the approach roads, through which the rescue team simply could not proceed. 

It was at this point that the commander of the tank troop, Major Anil Kaul, devised an alternate route. Kaul was aware that the railway tracks of the Palaly-Jaffna rail line passed behind Jaffna university. Kaul took the decision to drive his tanks on the rail tracks. However, as the tanks fought their way in, passing through the narrow lanes, RPG fire hit his tank in the turret. The explosion sprayed splinters over his eye and arm and severed his wedding ring finger. He was put on morphine by his men. 

Lt Col. Dalvir Singh had to take over the command of both the SF troops as well as the Tank troops from thereon, even though he had never operated a tank prior to that. The 4/5 Gorkhas and ground detachment of the 13 Sikh LI had linked up by this time. The besieged Para commandos were successfully extricated after 2 days of fighting by Lt. Col.Dalvir Singh and the rescue team. 

Both Lt. Col.Dalvir Singh, as well as Major Anil Kaul, was awarded Vir Chakra for their courage and leadership.

Delta Company, 13 Sikh LI
Although the Para Commandos were successfully extricated, the fate of the Sikh LI remained largely unknown until recounted by Sepoy Gora Singh, who had been taken prisoner, and was later released. Through the night, the Sikh LI had progressively been annihilated. Birendra Singh and his Platoon Commander Subedar Sampuran Singh fell to enemy fire sometime in the morning. By 11:30 am on 12 October, Delta company was down to three Jawans surviving. When they ran out of ammunition, the three survivors attempted a bayonet charge. Two were killed by LTTE gunfire and the last man, Sepoy Gora Singh, was taken prisoner. When the Indian army finally reached the area after a week of heavy fighting, they found the battlefield littered with pieces of Sikh LI's uniforms and equipment, along with thousands of .50 MG shells.

According to Singh, the dead Sikhs were stripped of their weapons, uniforms and equipment and their bare bodies laid out in a row at the nearby Buddhist Nagaraja Vihar temple. The corpses were burnt with a barrel of oil. The LTTE claimed to have tried to get in touch with the IPKF HQ at Palaly, but their efforts to get them collect the dead bodies were in vain. The bodies had started to decompose, and they had no option but to cremate them.

In total the Delta company lost 30 men killed in action, accounting for almost all of the Sikh LI casualties. The Para Commandos lost six men in the battle.

Aftermath
Following the operation, the Indian army awarded 10 gallantry medals. Major Birendra Singh of the Sikh LI was posthumously awarded the Vir Chakra on the Republic Day of 1988. Lt. Col. Dalvir Singh, the Commanding Officer of 10 Para SF who volunteered and led the rescue mission, was awarded Vir Chakra for "conspicuous courage and valiant leadership". Major Anil Kaul of the 65 Armoured Regiment, was also awarded the Vir Chakra for his actions, having lost his right eye and left hand. He retired from the army a Colonel, having his career effected by his wounds. The lone survivor Sepoy Gora Singh was later promoted to the rank of Naik. Every year, on 11 October, 13 Sikh Light infantry conducts Ardas after bhog of the Akhand Paath in memory of the men and officers of 13 Sikh Light infantry who were killed in the Jaffna University helidrop.

See also
List of Sri Lankan Civil War battles
Operation Poomalai

References

Conflicts in 1987
1987 in Sri Lanka
Aerial operations and battles involving India
Battles of the Indian Peace Keeping Force
University Helidrop
Operations involving Indian special forces
University of Jaffna