[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Giovanni Dosi

ecting ex post those applications of the affirmed paradigm (i.e. the final products) that best fit the market requests. However, at that point their impact on the direction of technical change would be null, since such direction had already been decided by the prescriptions of the affirmed paradigm.

Going "upstream", from the market environment to the technology, market signals act to inform the producers of the technology about variations in relative prices. However, the extent to which technology producers can shift from more expensive to cheaper inputs, or modify technology toward the use of cheaper complement goods is bound by technical constraints. Such constraints emerge because inputs are characterized by low substitutability due to the physical and chemical limits involved in the production process. Consequently, the upstream incentives given by market signals affect only the rate of use of certain inputs as well as the rate of development of a trajectory but not the direction of technical change, which is bound by the technical constraints of production.

Uncertainty
The trial and error procedures adopted by firms to improve along a technological trajectory (S.F.2) have taken Dosi to assess the issue of uncertainty. At a general level, trial and error procedures imply that firms might not be able to forecast completely the outcome of a choice they make; in fact, if they could foresee the error, they would presumably avoid it because it is costly. Such a fact is strongly at odds with any assumption of "perfect rationality" or "farsightedness" on the side of economic agents, which is a foundational element of the Neoclassical approach. Dosi has analyzed this issue by assessing the ways in which economic agents perceive and deal with choices that have an uncertain outcome. In analogy with Herbert A. Simon's distinction about rationality, he has proposed the distinction between substantive uncertainty and procedural uncertainty. In his view, "the former is related to some lack of information about environmental events, while the latter concerns the competence gap in problem-solving". Nonetheless, both of them generate "limitations on the computational and cognitive capabilities of the agents to pursue unambiguously their objectives". Crucially, though, the fact that such types of uncertainties limit the computational rationality of agents leads them precisely to develop routines and decision rules that are the likely explanation of their heterogeneous behaviors. Moreover, even though such routines and decision rules are not optimally determined, they might well prove more "intelligent" than "optimal" decisions especially when applied to turbulent selection landscapes.

Heterogeneity
The fact that firms appear to be consistently heterogeneous (S.F.3) has brought Dosi to criticize the Neoclassical prediction that firms in an industry converge toward some kind of "optimal" or "representative" characteristic. For such argument to be valid, the characteristics of firms would need to evolve in time toward a normal distribution, possibly showing some shrinking of the support. Notably, this theoretical implication poses an unresolved challenge to the arguments put forward by Milton Friedman in his essay The Methodology of Positive Economics. In such work Friedman asserted that maximizing behavior was a reasonable working approximation to describe the choices of economic agents: in fact, even if not all economic agents actually maximize (for example because some make mistakes) only the "fittest" ones will be selected by the market. Therefore, those agents that actually maximize would be the only "survivors" to market selection, and hence they would gather very closely around the single optimal behavior. In other words, the tails of the distribution will tend to disappear as market selects the best "genes", which would turn out to be both "optimal" (in terms of fit to the market selection) and "representative" (since it would be the only surviving type). However, the empirical findings that constitute S.F.3 prove the exact opposite of Friedman's prediction: very different "genes" survive to the market. As a consequence, a realistic representation of economic behavior should rather allow for firm-specificities, which would explain the heterogeneity found in the data: a point that was clearly made by Richard Nelson and Sidney Winter in their book An Evolutionary Theory of Economic Change.

References

Innovation economists
Italian economists
Economics educators
Academics of the University of Manchester
Academics of the University of Sussex
Alumni of the Science Policy Research Unit
Academic staff of the Sant'Anna School of Advanced Studies
Living people
1953 births