[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Foreign relations of Macau

tries as participating units.
 Macau participates in 30 intergovernmental international organizations that do not use countries as their participating units.

Macao participates in the online meeting of the United Nations Commission on Narcotic Drugs in 2021

Overseas visits made by senior officials

The Chief Executive of Macao & other senior officials often make a duty visit to foreign countries. These visits usually aim to advance Macao's economic and trade relations with the foreign countries. During these visits, the Chief Executive will meet with political and business leaders. Usually, the head of state or head of government of the foreign countries will receive the Chief Executive. For example, during his tenure former Chief Executive Edmund Ho met with Prime Minister of Portugal Socrates, President of France Chirac, German Chancellor Schroeder, Prince Philip, President of the European Commission Barroso, President of Brazil Lula, Prime Minister of Singapore Lee Hsien Loong, Prime Minister of Thailand Surayud Chulanon, Prime Minister of Malaysia Abdullah Ahmed Badawi, Vice President of Myanmar Myint Swe, etc.

Foreign officials visit Macau

Protocol Division Government Secretariat

 Plan and prepare official activities for the Chief Executive's visits to Macau and abroad;
 Coordinating the reception activities of delegations at ministerial level or above at home and abroad and persons designated by the Chief Executive to visit Macau;
 Responsible for the management of non-foreign policy affairs of foreign consulates in Macao and officially recognized institutions, and related contacts;
 Assist in handling diplomatic representative certificates and consular officer certificates;
 Provide assistance in international cooperation and exchange activities between various departments of the government and international organizations;
 Coordinate the reception, meeting, banquet and signing ceremony of the Chief Executive in Macau;
 Coordinate large-scale activities of the government designated by the Chief Executive.

Foreign officials
The heads of state and government of the Czech Republic, Mongolia, Estonia, Vietnam, Cambodia and dozens of ministers from more than a dozen countries, such as the Russian Minister of Education, respectively visited Macau. According to statistics, in 2011, the Macau government received a total of 40 times delegations from Mainland China, more than 100 times consular and consular delegations, and 63 times foreign government delegations.

Abroad representation in Macau

History
From 1557 to 1999, the United States, Brazil, and other countries opened consulates in Macau, which were later closed. South Korea had a consulate general in Macau from July 28, 1984, to July 1, 2001, which was later closed and the South Korean consulate in Hong Kong was also responsible for Macao-related affairs.

The following countries and region’s Consulates and Representative Office in Macau

Europe

Asia
 
 
  
 (Liaison Office)
 (Taipei Office)

Africa

America

Multilateral organisations in Macau
  United Nations University
  Typhoon Committee

Chamber of Commerce
  (Chamber of Commerce)
  (German Macau Business Association)
  (French Macau Chamber of Commerce)
  (Chamber of Commerce)
  (Chamber of Commerce)
  (Chamber of Commerce)
  (Macao Brazil Sao Paulo Business Association) 
  (Macau Canada Business Association)
  (Japan Chamber of Commerce)
  (Korea Chamber of Commerce)
  (Australian Chamber of Commerce Macau)
  (American Chamber of Commerce in Macau)

Bilateral relations

Macau relations with Lusophone countries

Given the language, culture and intimate relationships, Macau has been communicating with the Portuguese-speaking countries through various channels for a long time. This can be reflected in the International Commercial Conference for Portuguese-speaking countries, which is held in Macau annually.  Macau Trade and Investment Promotion Institute (IPIM) has a lot of co-operation protocols with the relevant organizations and commercial associations in Brazil and Mozambique. The organizations include the Portuguese Commercial Association in Macau, Portuguese Business Centre in Asia, Forum dos Empresarios de Lingua Portuguesa, Câmara de Comércio e Industria Luso-Chinesa, Portuguese Business Association and Portuguese Trade Commission.

In order to strengthen the economic co-operation and development between Chinese- and Portuguese-speaking countries and improve the international status of Macau SAR, the first "Economic Co-operation Forum between China and Portuguese-speaking Countries" was held by the Central Government of the People's Republic of China with the Macau SAR Government being the event coordinator. It is mainly for the economic co-operation and development of both sides and is non-political. The "Economic Co-operation Forum between Chinese and Portuguese-speaking Countries" will be held every three years and the first was in Macau in October 2003.