[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kenneth W. Stein

orld experiences. ISMI interns have the opportunity to work closely with Professor Ken Stein and the ISMI staff on a wide variety of academic and scholarly projects. Students participate in research; substantive projects relating to culture, economics, history, international relations, and politics.

Center for Israel Education 
Since founding the Atlanta-based non-profit, The Center for Israel Education (CIE) in 2007, Prof. Stein has engaged in writing secondary school curriculum on Israel and the Middle East. CIE's work focuses on teacher/student education and curriculum development on modern Israel and the Middle East, through conducting workshops, symposia, and long-distance learning. By the end of 2015  more than 2000 middle school and secondary school teachers had participated in workshops in which he directed and participated in actively. Published by the Center for Israel Education, he has written or co-authored seven curricula/teaching units on aspects of modern Israeli history, society and politics: "A Sephardi Jewish History" (2014); "Israel @ 65: A Family and Community Resource" (2013); "Israel and the Jewish Nation: Part One" (2012); "Israel and Hebrew Language: A Nation's Choice" (2010); "Israel's National Security and Civil Liberties: Balancing the State's Objectives" (2009); "A Call to Action: Volunteering and Israel's State-Building" (2008); and "To Israel and Back: A Journey to Our Future" (2008).

Awards and recognition 
In 2009, he was awarded the Cuttino Medal for Lifelong Mentorship to Emory undergraduates. In 2008, the Atlanta Jewish community honored him for his thirty years of service as a public intellectual with the Tree of Life Award. In 2001, he received the Marion V. Creekmore Award for his quarter-century commitment to the internationalization of Emory College's curriculum. In 1995, Emory awarded him the Williams Award for Excellence in Undergraduate Teaching. In 2012, he was the recipient of the Jewish National Fund's prestigious Etz Chaim Award for Service to the Atlanta community.

Books 
 History Politics and Diplomacy of the Arab-Israeli Conflict – a source document reader for college courses and adult education (2015)
 Mediniut Amitza [Courageous Policy] (Tel Aviv: Ministry of Defense Publishing House, 2003)
 Heroic Diplomacy: Sadat, Kissinger, Carter, Begin, and the Quest for Arab-Israeli Peace (New York: Routledge, 1999)
 Making Peace Among Arabs and Israelis: Lessons from Fifty Years of Negotiating Experience, co-authored with Samuel W. Lewis  (Washington: United States Institute for Peace, 1991)
 The Land Question in Palestine, 1917–1939 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1984, 1985, and 2003)

Notes

See also 
 Arab–Israeli conflict
 Carter Center
 Israeli–Palestinian conflict
 Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid

References 
 Stein, Kenneth W. "My Problem with Jimmy Carter's Book."  Middle East Quarterly 14.2 (March 2007).  Accessed February 5, 2007.
 In 1997, Stein was a recipient of the Emory Williams teaching award, given as a highest honor of excellence in teaching at Emory University.

External links 
 A Full List of Publications
 Center for Israel Education
 Institute for the Study of Modern Israel Department Page
 Emory History Department Website 

Emory University faculty
American people of German-Jewish descent
Living people
Year of birth missing (living people)