[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Serbian River Flotilla

ies.

Iron Cat 2013 - tactical live fire exercise at the Serbian artillery training ground "Titel" on the Tisa River.

Iron Cat 2012 - tactical live fire exercise at the Hungarian Defence Forces Várpalota range included shooting ground-based targets on the using the 20mm PAV-1 and PAV-4 autocannons.

Iron Cat 2011 - tactical life fire exercise at the Serbian artillery training ground "Titel" on the Tisa River in Serbia South Bačka District, Serbia.

International Army Games 2016 - 86 members of 1st and 2nd Pontoon battalions and 93rd Diving Company won third place at Russian International Army Games during the "Open water" competition held in Murom, on the Oka River.

Domestic exercises
Begej 2019 - Live Fire Tactical Training (LFTT) exercise held on the Tisa River at the training ground "Titel" including river and special assault, ship fire support, establishment of a bridge crossing point, as well as aircraft strikes.

Blue Route 2019 -  Live Fire Tactical Training (LFTT) exercise held on the Tisa River at the Titel training ground conducting a twentyfour-hour check of readiness of the Quick Reaction Naval Combat Group composed of a command ship and three ships of different types.

Century of Victory 1918-2018 - joint River Flotilla and the then-Special Brigade exercise in 100th anniversary of the end of the World War I. The exercise involved the display of anti-sabotage effects of submersible divers, the action of a group of ships and patrol boats, amphibious and multi-purpose ships in the firing of combat.

Otter 2018 - Live Fire Tactical Training (LFTT) exercise held at training ground "Taraš" near Zrenjanin training River Flotilla command and units and pontoon battalions in the conduct of river assaults, defending waterways and forced river crossings.

Ečka 2017 - anti-terrorist and anti-mining exercise of the 1st River Detachment and 93rd Diving Company at the training ground "Titel" on the Tisa River.

Blue Dolphin 2016 - Live Fire Tactical Training (LFTT) exercise at the training ground "Taraš" on the Tisa River near Zrenjanin as part of "Morava 2016" command-post exercise.

Blue Response 2014 - tactical live shooting exercise at the Serbian artillery training ground "Titel" on the Tisa River included artillery and close air support training in support of a forced river crossing.

Tisa 2012 - three-day trilateral exercise including Serbia, Romania and Hungary held at training ground "Mačvanski partizanski odred" near Šabac, Serbia included training in assisting civilian populations affected by the floods caused by the outflow of the Sava river.

Traditions

Anniversary
The anniversary of the unit is celebrated on August 19. On that date (O.S. August 6)in 1915 Kingdom of Serbia received its first true warship, the patrol boat "Jadar", on August 19 (O.S. August 6), 1915 and that date is commemorated as the establishment of the modern River Flotilla.

Patron saint
The unit's slava or its patron saint is Saint Stefan Štiljanović.

Ranks

Officers
Rank insignia for commissioned officers.

Enlisted
The rank insignia of non-commissioned officers and enlisted personnel.

Gallery

See also 
Šajkaši

References

External links
 Official website
 'Botica' class minesweeper RML-302 in 2005
Шајкашки батаљон - најава за филм (Šajkaši Bataljon - Film Trailer)

Serbian Army
Military units and formations established in 1833
Military units and formations of the Croatian War of Independence
Riverine warfare
Military history of Yugoslavia