[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# List of University of Cincinnati people

This is a list of encyclopedic people associated with the University of Cincinnati in the United States of America.

Notable alumni
Those listed include graduates of the University, as well as attendees.
David Applebaum, Israeli physician
Frank P. Austin, celebrity interior designer
Jeff Austin, musician, Yonder Mountain String Band
Juan N. Babauta, graduate, governor of United States Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands
Judith Baker, judoka
Theda Bara, silent-film actress
Shari Barkin, pediatrician 
John Bardo, educator, President of Wichita State University, Chancellor of Western Carolina University.
John Barrett, graduate, CEO and President of Western & Southern Financial Group
Rachel Barton Butler, playwright
Kathleen Battle, graduate, Grammy Award-winning singer of New York Metropolitan Opera
Shoshana Bean, musical theater graduate, Broadway actress
Stanley Rossiter Benedict, inventor of Benedict's reagent
Raoul Berger, professor at the UC Berkeley School of Law and Harvard Law School, early theorist of originalism
Thomas Berger, A&S graduate, author of Little Big Man
Matt Berninger, lead vocalist and founder of band The National
Theodore Berry, graduate, Mayor of Cincinnati 1972–76; member of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity
Michael Bierut, DAAP graduate, partner at Pentagram New York
John Shaw Billings, M.D. 1860, began process to organize world's medical literature, now PubMed
Eula Bingham, occupational health scientist
Lee Bowman, graduate, actor in films such as Love Affair, Cover Girl and Bataan
Barnett R. Brickner, rabbi
Frank Brogan, Chancellor of State University System of Florida; former President of Florida Atlantic University
Henry T. Brown, chemical engineer; first African American to earn a BS degree in chemical engineering at the University of Cincinnati
Robert Burck, "naked cowboy" of Times Square in New York City; NYC mayoral candidate
Liz Callaway, singer and actress 
David Canary, A&S graduate, multiple Emmy-winning actor on All My Children since 1983
Salmon P. Chase, 23rd Governor of Ohio, U.S. Treasury Secretary 1861–64, Chief Justice 1864-73
Robin T. Cotton, ENT specialist and professor
Dennis Courtney, aka Denis Beaulne, Broadway actor (Peter Pan, Starlight Express, director, choreographer
Chase Crawford, actor and producer
E. Jocob Crull, Montana politician and colonel, rival of Jennette Rankin (first female member of U.S. Congress)
Cherien Dabis, filmmaker, screenwriter,  The L Word, Amreeka
David Daniels, singer
Charles G. Dawes, law graduate, 30th Vice President of the United States, winner of Nobel Peace Prize
Scott Devendorf, bass guitarist, founder of band The National
Jonathan Dever, former member of Ohio House of Representatives
Vinod Dham, graduate, "father" of Pentium computer chip (MS Eng, 77)
John Price Durbin, Chaplain of the Senate, president of Dickinson College
Jennifer Eberhardt, social psychologist, MacArthur Fellow
Randy Edelman, music graduate, composer of movie scores, received BMI's Outstanding Career Achievement Award
Margaret Elizabeth Egan, librarian and communication scholar
Suzanne Farrell, prima ballerina, recipient of Kennedy Center Honors and Presidential Medal of Freedom
Hattie V. Feger, professor of education at Clark Atlanta University, 1931-1944
Abraham J. Feldman (1893–1977), rabbi
Mark "Markiplier" Fischbach, YouTube personality/media star
Stephen Flaherty, music graduate, Tony-winning composer (Ragtime, Once on This Island)
Frederick W. Franz, Jehovah's Witness, president of Watchtower Society
Paul Gilger, architecture graduate, architect, conceived Jerry Herman musical revue Showtune, designed Industrial Light & Magic film studio for George Lucas
Samuel H. Goldenson, rabbi
Leon Goldman, pioneer in laser medicine
Alexander D. Goode, one of Four Chaplains
Michael Graves, architecture graduate, architect
Moses J. Gries, rabbi
Louis Grossmann, rabbi
Michael Gruber, stage actor, singer, and dancer
Beth Gylys, poet and professor
Victor H. Haas, 1st Director of NIAID
Albert Hague, music graduate, composer of score for How the Grinch Stole Christmas, won nine Tony Awards for Redhead in 1959
Victor W. Hall, U.S. Navy Rear Admiral
Hollis Hammonds, artist and academic
Earl Hamner, graduate, writer, creator of The Waltons
Walt Handelsman, A&S graduate, Pulitzer Prize-winning political cartoonist
Dorian Harewood, drama graduate, film and television actor, voice artist
Randy Harrison, drama graduate, actor, Queer as Folk
Mary Hecht, BA 1952, American-born Canadian sculptor
James G. Heller, rabbi and composer
Maximilian Heller, rabbi
Bob Herbold, former Microsoft COO
Louise McCarren Herring, engineering graduate, pioneer of non-profit cooperative credit union movement
Al Hirt, trumpeter and bandleader
Ronald Howes, inventor of Easy-Bake Oven
Sarah Hutchings, composer
Bruce Edwards Ivins, microbiologist; key suspect in 2001 anthrax terror attacks, leaving five people dead
Ali Jarbawi, Palestinian politician and academic
James Kaiser, electrical engineer who d