[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 5 ft and 1520 mm gauge railways

of dual Standard/Russian gauge was installed between Tumangang and Rajin stations in North Korea.

The most western  gauge railway is the Polish LHS (Linia Hutnicza Szerokotorowa) from the Ukrainian border to the eastern end of the Silesian conurbation.

Use in rapid transit and light rail systems 

Although broad gauge is quite rare on lighter railways and street tramways worldwide, almost all tramways in the former USSR are broad gauge (according to terminology in use in these countries, gauges narrower than  are considered to be narrow). Many tramway networks initially built to narrow gauges ( or ) were converted to broad gauge. As of 2015, only a few out of more than sixty tram systems in Russia are not broad gauge:  in Kaliningrad and Pyatigorsk,  in Rostov-on-Don. There are two tram systems in and around Yevpatoria that use  gauge.

Finland's Helsinki trams and Latvia's Liepāja trams use . Estonia's Tallinn trams use similar . Warsaw's tramway system, constructed with 1525 mm gauge, was regauged to 1435 mm during post-WWII reconstruction. Tampere tramway, built in 2021, uses .

Underground urban rapid transit systems in the former USSR, like the Moscow Metro, Saint Petersburg Metro, Kyiv Metro and Yerevan Metro use Russian gauge (). Outside the former USSR, the Helsinki Metro in Finland that utilizes a unique track gauge of 1,522 mm, falls between the Russian gauge () and broad gauge .

Similar gauges 

These gauges cannot make 3-rail dual gauge with Russian gauge.
 Indian gauge
 Iberian gauge
 Irish gauge
 standard gauge

These gauges are within tolerance.
 
  as used by Helsinki Metro
 
Dual gauge between Russian gauge and another similar gauge can make these bonus gauges.

 (Brunel gauge)
2,503 mm (8 ft  in) (the maximum bonus gauge from the  gauntlet tracks).

Summary

Railways using 1,524 mm gauge

Railways using 1,520 mm gauge

See also 

 The Museum of the Moscow Railway

Notes

References

External links 

1520 Strategic Partnership  www.forum1520.com
 www.parovoz.com
 www.etla.fi

Rail infrastructure in Russia