[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Orlando Engelaar

4–05 season, Engelaar joined Belgian club Racing Genk on a four-year contract. Prior to his departure from NAC Breda, he made his last appearance for the club against Utrecht in the opening game of the season and scored in a 3–2 win. However, the transfer move resulted NAC Breda suing Genk in court.

Engelaar made his debut for Genk against Lokeren on 22 August 2005 and started the whole game, in a 2–1 win. Since joining the club, he immediately made an impact in the starting eleven, playing in the midfield position. Engelaar then scored his first goal for Genk, in a 2–2 draw against Mons on 16 October 2004. This was followed by scoring against Anderlecht (twice), Sint-Truidense and Beveren. Three weeks later on 27 November 2004, he scored his sixth goal for the club, in a 3–1 win against Oostende. Engelaar scored his seventh goal for Genk, in a 2–1 win against Anderlecht in the last 16 of Beker Van Belgie. This was followed up by scoring in a 2–1 win against R.E. Mouscron. On 12 March 2005, he scored his ninth goal of the season, as well as, setting one of the goals for the club, in a 3–1 win against Club Brugge. Engelaar then scored two goals in two matches between 13 April 2005 and 16 April 2005 against Germinal Beerschot and Beveren. His contributions for the club saw them finish third place in the league. Despite being sidelined on three occasions later in the 2004–05 season due to injuries and suspension, Engelaar went on to make thirty–one appearances and scoring eleven times in all competitions.

Ahead of the 2005–06 season, Engelaar was linked with a move back to Netherlands, with his former club Feyernood. Despite the transfer move, he started in the first four matches of the season, starting in the midfield position. However, Engelaar sustained a knee injury that kept him out for almost two months after going under a knife operation.<ref>{{cite news|title=Genk-trainer Hugo Broos: ,,We zijn er nog lang niet|url=https://www.nieuwsblad.be/cnt/gsvi0slf|publisher=Het Nieuwsblad|language=nl|date=19 September 2005|access-date=16 May 2021}}<</ref> He made his return from injury, coming on as a 63rd-minute substitute, in a 1–0 loss against Standard Liège on 16 October 2005. Following his return from injury, Engelaar continued to regain his first team place, playing in the midfield position, under the management of Hugo Broos despite their differences. He then scored two goals in two matches between 5 November 2005 and 20 November 2005 against K.S.V. Roeselare and Lierse. On 12 March 2006, Engelaar scored his third goal of the season, in a 1–0 win against Germinal Beerschot. Despite missing two more matches later in the 2005–06 season, he went on to make twenty–nine appearances and scoring three times in all competitions.

In the summer transfer window of 2006, Genk informed Engelaar that he can leave the club, due to being unhappy with his performance from the previous season. Amid to his departure from Genk, Engelaar made four appearances for the club, all of them were from the substitute bench. In total of his Genk career, he made sixty–four appearances and scoring twelve goals for the club. While at Genk, Engelaar even considered taking up a Belgium citizenship, as he believed that nothing can stop him taking up Belgian citizenship. However, this never happened. Engelaar spoke about his time in Belgium, saying: "The Belgian competition is not fun at all. Negative football, few people in the stands. In Belgium, a large group of clubs cannot play football at all. Players were given the only assignment to, for example, play me out of the game and then dug in. I have been terribly annoyed by it for months. Often I thought: what a shit match is this. Although I don't want to say that it made me worse. Because of the defensive and physical way of playing football, I have definitely become a better and more complete player. The team was doing badly and I was the victim. I could still train so well, but I didn't play. I had a few clashes with Broos because I dared to express my opinion. That has become fatal to me." He continued to spoke out his time in Belgium once again, saying: "'I am very happy that I have left Belgium. The level was way too low, you only played six fun matches a year. Also that demolition football against the lesser teams did not suit me." In spite of this, Engelaar said: "I got stronger there. I had to work hard and fight. That was also due to the way of playing in Belgium. I had to deal with opponents who did nothing at all and had only been ordered by their trainer to stop me. You have to come up with solutions for that."

FC Twente
After two seasons in Belgium, Engelaar moved back to Netherlands, where he joined Twente on 31 August 2006.