[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Enrique Angelelli

Enrique Ángel Angelelli Carletti (17 July 19234 August 1976) was a bishop of the Catholic Church in Argentina who was assassinated during the Dirty War for his involvement with social issues.

Angelelli, whose commitment to the "Church of the Poor" offered a model for the future Pope Francis, was murdered two months after U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger gave Argentina's ruling military dirty "warriors" a green light for their illegal repression, which included the torture and murder of tens of thousands of political opponents.

His cause of sainthood opened in 2015. In June 2018 Pope Francis decreed he had died as a martyr for the faith, allowing Angelelli and his companions to be beatified. The beatification of Angelelli and his three companions was celebrated at La Rioja City Park in La Rioja on 27 April 2019.

Life

Priesthood
Angelelli was the son of Italian immigrants and was born in Córdoba. He entered the seminary of Our Lady of Loreto at 15 years of age. He was then sent to Rome to finish his studies. He was ordained a priest on 9 October 1949.

Returning to Córdoba, he worked in a parish, founded youth movements and visited Córdoba's slums. He focused his pastoral work on the conditions of the poor. Pope John XXIII appointed him auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of Córdoba on 12 December 1960. He became involved in labor union conflicts and worked with other priests looking for a renewal of the church, which led to his arrest. The newly appointed Archbishop of Córdoba, Raúl Primatesta, relieved him of his duties for part of 1965, exiling him to Colegio Villa Eucharistica as chaplain in the convent of the Adoratrices. He took part in the first, third, and fourth sessions of the Second Vatican Council in 1962, 1964, and 1965.

La Rioja
Angelelli gave tacit authorisation to the May 1968 first Encounter of the Movement of Priests for the Third World, though he never joined the movement himself.

On 3 July 1968, Pope Paul VI appointed Angelelli bishop of the Diocese of La Rioja, in northwest Argentina.

In La Rioja Angelelli encouraged miners, rural workers and domestic workers to form unions, as well as cooperatives to manufacture knitting works, bricks, clocks and bread, and to claim and work idle lands. One of these co-operatives asked for the expropriation of a latifundio (large estate) that had grown through the appropriation of smaller estates whose  owners could not pay their debts. Governor Carlos Menem promised he would deliver the estate to the co-operative.

On 13 June 1973, Angelelli went to Anillaco, Menem's birth town, to preside over the patronal feasts. He was met by a mob led by merchants and landowners, among them Amado Menem, the governor's brother, and his sons César and Manuel. The mob entered the church by force, and when Angelelli suspended the celebrations and left, they threw stones at him. Governor Menem withdrew his support for the co-operative citing "social unrest". Angelelli denounced conservative groups, called off religious celebrations in the diocese, and declared a temporary interdict against the Menems and their supporters.

The Superior General of the Jesuits, Pedro Arrupe, and the Archbishop of Santa Fe, Vicente Faustino Zazpe, sent by the Holy See as an overseer, visited La Rioja and supported Angelelli, who had offered his resignation and asked the Pope to ratify his actions or withdraw his trust. Before Zazpe, the interdicted demanded Angelelli's removal, while military marches were broadcast through a loudspeaker. Almost all priests of the diocese met with Zazpe to support Angelelli and told him that "the powerful manipulated the faith to preserve an unjust and oppressed situation of the people" and to take advantage of the "cheap, underpaid workforce".

On the other hand, the president of the Argentine Episcopal Conference, , said that the Conference should not mediate, and Papal Nuncio Lino Zanini openly supported the interdicted, to whom he gave crucifixes as gifts.

Zazpe concluded his inspection by concelebrating Mass with Angelelli and expressing his full support for his pastoral work and doctrinal orthodoxy.

The Dirty War
The brief presidency of Isabel Perón (1974–76) was marked by the beginning of the Dirty War, which soon escalated into bombings, kidnappings, torture and assassinations, triggering a persecution of those holding left-wing views.