[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Johan Eliasch

and previously served on the International Advisory Board of the Stockholm Resilience Centre.

He chaired the 2021-22 HM Treasury net zero review technology and innovation advisory group, RUSI’s Food, Energy and Water security program, and was a member of the DEFRA Council for Sustainable Business.

Political activity 
Since 1997, Eliasch has served the Conservative Party in different roles, including as Deputy Treasurer, Advisor to the Leader and Advisor to the Shadow Foreign Secretary. He was appointed as a non-political special representative of Prime Minister Gordon Brown on deforestation and clean energy. 
Eliasch was a member of the Austrian president's delegation of State for Trade and Industry (1996-2006). He was chairman of the Young Conservatives Party in Djursholm, Sweden, from 1979–1982.

In 2006, Eliasch co-founded the Global Strategy Forum with Rt Hon Michael Ancram, and became the foundation's first president.

Friendship with Prince Andrew
Eliasch became friends with Prince Andrew, Duke of York, after he organised a charity tennis match at Buckingham Palace between John McEnroe and Björn Borg. Later, the Duke visited Eliasch at his French residence. In 2019, The Times reported that in 2002 the Duke used the pseudonym Andrew Inverness to set up a company with Eliasch. They named the company Naples Gold. In 2021, speaking to the New York Times about the Duke's friendship with the paedophile Jeffrey Epstein, Eliasch claimed that, "Anybody who knows the Duke well knows that he is intensely loyal to his friends and sometimes that loyalty is not in his best interest, and that is what happened here." On 9th March 2011, The Guardian newspaper had to publish an apology about an article that contained inaccurate details regarding the 2000 vacation. The article wrongly stated that Johan Eliasch and Prince Andrew had been accompanied by topless models during this holiday, a claim that was later acknowledged as false. The newspaper's apology also made amends for the fact that they stated the pair were spotted on a catamaran when in fact they were aboard a single-hulled vessel and the models were clothed. The Guardian expressed regret over the misinformation in the initial report and apologised to both Johan Eliasch and Prince Andrew for any distress or inconvenience caused by the inaccuracies in the previously published article.

References

External links

Eliasch Review

1962 births
Living people
Swedish billionaires
Swedish businesspeople
Swedish environmentalists
Swedish film producers
International Ski and Snowboard Federation executives