[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Louise Richardson

of her 7-year term as Oxford vice-chancellor. As the corporation's 13th president, she oversees one of the United States' leading philanthropic foundations, established in 1911 by Scottish immigrant and American industrialist Andrew Carnegie. Richardson had been on the board of trustees since 2012.

Consultative Forum on International Security Policy
In June 2023, Richardson will chair the Irish Government's Consultative Forum on International Security Policy. Comments by the President of Ireland on Richardson's DBE in an interview with the Business Post, led to President Higgins apologising for any offence caused. The President had criticised the huge number of military personnel involved in the forum, and cautioned against Ireland "drifting" into NATO.

Research
Richardson is the author of What Terrorists Want: Understanding the Enemy, Containing the Threat, an account of terrorism written after the September 11 attacks. Other publications include When Allies Differ: Anglo-American Relations in the Suez and Falkland Crises; The Roots of Terrorism (ed); and Democracy and Counterterrorism: Lessons from the Past (co-edited with Robert Art). She has also published many journal articles, book chapters, and reviews on the subject of terrorism.

Between 2001 and 2008, in addition to her teaching and management roles, Richardson gave over 300 talks and lectures on terrorism and counter-terrorism to educational and private groups as well as policy makers, the military, intelligence, and business communities. She has lectured on the subject of terrorism and counter-terrorism to public, professional, media and education groups across the world. She has testified before the United States Senate  and has appeared on CNN, the BBC Desert Island Discs, PBS NewsHour, NPR, Fox and a host of other broadcast outlets. Her work has been featured in numerous international periodicals (Foreign Affairs and Financial Times).

Published works

Awards and honours, and boards

Awards
In 2009 Richardson received the Trinity College Dublin Alumni Award.  
In 2013 Harvard University awarded Richardson the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Centennial Medal. In 2016, she received the inaugural Emily Winifred Dickson award from the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland, which recognises women who have made an outstanding contribution to their field.
Richardson has been awarded numerous other prizes including Harvard's Sumner Prize in 1989 for her doctoral dissertation on the prevention of war and the establishment of universal peace. Her excellence in teaching undergraduates at Harvard was recognized in 1989 with the Abramson Award. In 2000, she won the Levenson Prize, which is awarded annually by the student body to the best teacher in the college.

Richardson was appointed Dame Commander of the Order of the British Empire (DBE) in the 2022 Birthday Honours for attracting more undergraduates from disadvantaged backgrounds to University of Oxford and to University of St Andrews, and for securing the partnership with AstraZeneca for the production and distribution of the COVID-19 vaccine developed at University of Oxford.

In 2023, the Dame Louise Richardson Chair in Global Security was created at Oxford's Blavatnik School of Government in her honor.

Honorary doctorates and fellowships
In 2013, Richardson received an honorary doctorate from the Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO). In 2015 she received honorary doctorates from the University of Aberdeen and Queen's University Belfast. and awarded honorary doctorates by Trinity College Dublin, and the University of St Andrews, and the University of the West Indies. In 2017, Richardson received an honorary doctorate from the University of Edinburgh, and in 2018, she received an honorary degree from the University of Notre Dame and spoke as the primary speaker at the Notre Dame Graduate School Commencement Ceremony. In 2022, Richardson received an honorary doctorate from Ben-Gurion University of the Negev.

Richardson has been elected to numerous honorary fellowships. Among them, a senior fellowship to Harvard's Center for European Studies in 2015, an honorary fellowship to Trinity College Dublin in 2016, and an honorary fellowship to both St Hugh's College, Oxford and Reuben College, Oxford in 2022 during her final year as vice chancellor of the university.

Learned societies
In 2010 Richardson was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh (FRSE), In 2016, named an honorary member of the Royal Irish Academy. In 2016 she was also elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and also named a fellow of the National Academy of Social Sciences. In 2017, Richardson was elected member of the American Philosophical Society.