[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Stephen Kernahan

he three were immediately influential for the Blues. Playing primarily at centre half-forward—and sometimes at full-forward—throughout his career, Kernahan kicked 62 goals in his first season at Carlton, to be the club's leading goalkicker for the first of a club record eleven consecutive occasions.

In only his second season at the club, Kernahan was made club captain. He became widely regarded for his leadership as captain, with former club chief executive Ian Collins describing him as "on and off the field, the greatest leader [Carlton] has ever had". He held the captaincy for eleven years until his retirement, and his 226 games as captain is a VFL/AFL record for any club. In the final round of the 1987 season, he famously kicked a goal after the final siren to defeat North Melbourne and clinch the minor premiership and the bye in the first week of the finals, and Carlton went on from that position to win the Grand Final against  and its 15th premiership. Kernahan won his first of three club best and fairest awards that season.
Prior to the 1991 season, Kernahan was offered a large sum of money to join the newly established Adelaide Crows, which would be coached by his former premiership coach Graham Cornes, but Kernahan remained loyal to Carlton.

In Round 2, 1993, against Essendon, Kernahan had another shot after the siren to win the game. As the scores were level, he only needed a behind or better to win the game. After taking a strong pack mark, Kernahan heard the siren go, steadied himself, and took two steps inside the 50-metre arc from about a 20-degree angle on the right forward flank. Unfortunately for Kernahan, he shanked the kick to the right, infamously kicking the ball out of bounds on the full, resulting in a drawn game. Kernahan said of the moment a decade on, "I was a good kick when I was young. I could kick goals, no problem," Kernahan said. "But by '93, I was a worse kick than in the '80s. I'd had groins, my kicking had gone off.

Kernahan won another two club best and fairest awards in 1989 and 1992, and he continued to win the club goalkicking annually, with his highest total of 83 goals coming in 1992. He was selected in the All-Australian team in 1992 and 1994. He led Carlton to the 1993 Grand Final against , which the club lost badly despite Kernahan's seven goals. Two years later, Kernahan led the club to the 1995 premiership, kicking five goals in the Grand Final against .

Kernahan retired at the end of the 1997 season. In that year, he passed Harry Vallence to become the leading career goalkicker in Carlton Football Club history; he finished his VFL/AFL career with 738 goals, which remains a Carlton record as of 2023.

Overall, Kernahan played a total of 367 premiership games for Glenelg and Carlton, and kicked 1004 goals, which is the 13th most in elite Australian rules football.

Kernahan also played 16 State of Origin matches for South Australia, kicking 66 goals, and a total of 39 pre-season/night series matches, 20 for Glenelg and 19 for Carlton (these are counted as senior by the SANFL but not by the VFL/AFL), kicking 63 goals. If these are included, Kernahan played 422 career senior games and kicked a career senior total of 1,133 goals, which is the eighth most in elite Australian rules football.

Kernahan also played three International Rules matches for Australia in 1984 and scored one goal, which are counted as senior by the VFL/AFL, who list Kernahan's total as 406 career senior games and 1,095 career goals, excluding his pre-season/night series matches for Carlton: if these are included here, this gives Kernahan an overall total of 425 career senior games and 1,134 goals.

Honours
He was selected as an All-Australian five times: three times when the team was selected based on interstate carnival performances (1985, 1986 and 1988) and twice when the team was selected based on AFL performances (1992 and 1994). He is a Carlton and AFL life member, and he has been inducted into the Australian Football Hall of Fame and the South Australian Football Hall of Fame.

Kernahan is regarded as one of the greatest players in Carlton Football Club history. He was centre half-forward and captain of the club's Team of the Century, he was made a Legend of the Carlton Football Club Hall of Fame in 1997, and as part of the club's sesquicentennial celebrations in 2014 he was named the second-greatest player in the club's history, behind only John Nicholls.

Sports administration career