[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Eero Haapalainen

ff fled to the Soviet Russia in 25 April. Haapalainen and Edvard Gylling were one of the few leading Reds who stayed in Viipuri and organized the city's defense, but the Reds finally surrendered on 29 April. Haapalainen and Gylling avoided being caught and, in May, fled to Petrograd on a motor boat.

Life in the Soviet Union 
Haapalainen became one of many prominent communists who fled to Russia after the failed revolutions in Europe. Haapalainen became a member of the Russian Communist Party (Bolsheviks) and was also one of the founders of the exile Communist Party of Finland in August 1918. Later in the autumn, he fought in the Russian Civil War in a unit organized by the Finnish Red Felix Ravelin in Perm. In the summer of 1919, Haapalainen was establishing a nursing home for disabled Finnish Red Guard veterans near Kiev, but the idea never realized. Haapalainen moved to Petrograd, where he worked as a lecturer in the Red Officer School and served as a political officer in the 6th Finnish Regiment of the Red Army. From March to April 1920, Haapalainen fought against the Finnish White Guards in the Russian Civil War.

In the summer of 1920, Haapalainen was moved to Petrozavodsk in the Karelia region. He held several posts in the Karelian Workers' Commune but was dismissed in 1923 due to his drinking problem. He was transferred to the town of Kalevala where he worked as an interpreter. In the beginning of 1925, Haapalainen was a member of the Finnish Comintern delegation in Germany. He started drinking again and was sent back to Russia in March. As a result, Haapalainen was now expelled from the Communist Party. He moved back to Kalevala, where he worked as a teacher and a newspaperman. From May 1931, his last assignment was the head of the revolution research department in the Karelian Research Institute in Petrozavodsk. In October 1935, he was expelled as a "nationalist" in October 1935 and lived as a pensioner. a

Death
On 27 October 1937, Haapalainen was arrested by the NKVD during the Great Purge on charges of being a Trotskyist and a nationalist counterrevolutionary. He was one of many foreign communists in the Soviet Union arrested on false charges due to Joseph Stalin's personal suspicion of them. Reportedly, he was interrogated and tortured by the NKVD but refused to confess to his alleged crimes. On 20 November, Haapalainen was sentenced for 10 years, but a tribunal of Karelian ASSR section of the NKVD sentenced him to death. On 27 November 1937, Haapalainen was shot in Petrozavodsk. 

Haapalainen was rehabilitated in the Soviet Union during the de-Stalinization process in May 1957, four years after the death of Stalin.

In the early 1990s, Haapalainen's remains were discovered in a mass grave at a gravel pit in Petrozavodsk that was used as an execution site by the NKVD. On 30 October 1994, Haapalainen was one of 38 victims of the Great Purge who were reburied at a cemetery in the Zareka district of Petrozavodsk.

See also

 Kullervo Manner

References 

1880 births
1937 deaths
People from Kuopio
People from Kuopio Province (Grand Duchy of Finland)
Social Democratic Party of Finland politicians
Finnish trade union leaders
Finnish communists
People of the Finnish Civil War (Red side)
People of the Estonian War of Independence
People of the Russian Civil War
Finnish people executed by the Soviet Union
Great Purge victims from Finland
Finnish emigrants to the Soviet Union
Members of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union executed by the Soviet Union