[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nikolay Alexeyev

ints to the Constitutional Court.

Between November 2000 to February 2001, he worked as a special correspondent for the Russian daily newspaper Sevodnya. The paper which belonged to Russian oligarch Vladimir Gusinsky was closed in April 2001 after state-owned Gazprom-Media took full control over it.

After graduating from the University, Alexeyev stayed at his department to continue postgraduate studies in constitutional, municipal and administrative law. In November 2001, he was forced to leave the Postgraduate Program of the Moscow State University, Department of Public Administration (Legal Fundamentals of State Regulation Department) due to the non-acceptance of his research of the legal status of sexual minorities as his thesis. This research was published in his 2002 book "Legal Regulation of the Status of Sexual Minorities: Russia in the Light of International Organisations' Practice and Legislation of Other Countries".

In June 2002, Alexeyev published his second book "Gay Marriage: Family Status of Same-Sex Couples in International, National and Local Law" which summarized legal situation in terms of the recognition of same-sex unions around the world.

Nikolay Alexeyev appealed to Court against the University claiming he was victim of sexual orientation discrimination. On 10 June 2005, Moscow's Nikulinskiy District Court dismissed his claim. The decision was confirmed on appeal by Moscow City Court in September 2005. In May 2006, Alexeyev filed his first complaint with the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, France which was registered under #9689/06. As of November 2010, the case was not considered by the Court and not communicated to Russian authorities.

In October 2002, Nikolay Alexeyev authored a report titled "Curbing Prostitution: Western Experience and International Law" ordered by former State Duma Deputy Alexander Barannikov. The report was supposed to help the deputy's initiative to legalize prostitution in Russia. Finally, the deputy was in minority in his party and no bill was introduced in the Parliament.

In 2003, Alexeyev authored a comprehensive research dedicated to the history and contemporary reform of the upper chamber of British Parliament "House of Lords: From the Court of King Egbert to the Revolution of Prime Minister T. Blair (825-2003)".

In February 2005, Alexeyev decided to fully dedicate himself to activism for the rights of Russian LGBT people. On 17 May 2005, on the first International Day Against Homophobia (IDAHO), he launched Russian LGBT Human Rights Project Gayrussia.ru, an organization advocating LGBT rights in Moscow. The launch of the organization was marked by a press conference which was fully ignored by the media.

In an interview with In These Times, published on 30 November 2007, Alexeyev explained that he "realized it wouldn't be possible to change things in Russia just by writing" and that "he should be involved in more activist work and try to bring changes for LGBT rights." Gay activism became his full-time occupation.

Currently held positions
 Founder and Head of the Russian LGBT Human Rights Project GayRussia.Ru (since 17 May 2005)
 Founder and Chairman of Moscow Pride Organizing Committee (since foundation in July 2005)
Vice President of the International Day Against Homophobia Committee since 2008 (previous position: Executive Secretary since creation of the organization in November 2005)
Member of the Board and Regional Director for Eastern Europe of InterPride

Reputation and awards

Since 2005, Nikolay Alexeyev earned his reputation in gay activism as a person who would not compromise on his ideals and who will not give up on his fights for LGBT rights in Russia and other countries. The leading French gay and lesbian magazine Tetu called him in March 2009 "l'activiste le plus acharné du continent" which could be translated into English as "the most stubbornly persistent activist on the continent" In December 2010 leading American gay magazine "The Advocate" called Nikolay Alexeyev "the most visible crusader in his country".

In 2000, Nikolay Alexeyev received the "Red Diploma" (Moscow) from the Faculty of Public Administration of the Lomonosov Moscow State University for excellent achievements in studies. The Red Diploma is awarded to the graduates with the best performance.

In 2006, together with the founder of the International Day Against Homophobia Louis-Georges Tin and co-organizers of Moscow Pride Nikolay Baev and Evgenia Debryanskaya, Nikolay Alexeyev received the "ILGCN Grizzly Bear" (Moscow), "honouring outstanding and courageous efforts in the face of unusually fierce homophobia".

In 2006, Nikolay Alexeyev also received GALHA Award (London), in recognition of "his courage in challenging homophobia in Russia and beyond".

On 17 June 2008, The Advocate called him a Global Pride Warrior together with three other activists from Nepal, Nigeria and Chile.