[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# San Francisco Chinese New Year Festival and Parade

Because the parade finishes shortly after passing under the Dr. Rolland and Kathryn Lowe Community Bridge between Portsmouth Square and the Chinese Culture Center, in recent years, admission to the bridge is restricted to ticketed guests for a viewing party during the night of the parade.

Gum Lung

The dragon dance by the Golden Dragon, Gum Lung (or Gàm Luhng, ), highlights the end of the parade. After the modern parades began in 1953, the first new Gum Lung was imported in 1957 from Hong Kong, billed as one city block or  long. It was replaced in 1961 by a  dragon, whose head weighed . Another Gum Lung arrived in 1969, measuring  long; that year, a smaller  dragon was imported by Macy's and the parade featured two dragons for the first time. The 1961 dragon was made surplus and sold to Marysville, California, where it participated in that city's annual Bok Kai parade until 1984; it replaced Moo Lung, Marysville's earlier dragon, which had been loaned to Chinese communities across the United States from Seattle to New York, including two appearances in San Francisco (1885 and 1937).

A new Gum Lung,  long, was used for the 1976 celebration to usher in the Year of the Dragon. In 2000, another new  long dragon, made in Foshan and the longest to date, made its debut for the Year of the Dragon. A smaller  dragon was also purchased in 2000, but was stored for many years until it was donated to the Southern Oregon Chinese Cultural Association, where it debuted in Jacksonville, Oregon on February 9, 2019.

In 2015, the dragon, valued at $15,000, was  long, had a head that weighs , and was kept in motion for three hours during the parade. Another new dragon was introduced for the 2018 parade, now stretching to  long.

Entrants
More than one hundred groups take part in the parade. The judges are located at the end of the parade, in the reviewing stands at Kearny and Columbus Avenue. There, the judges choose float and group participant winners.
The Yau Kung Moon Kung Fu Association entry won the parade contest for 10 straight years.
The International School of the Peninsula has entered and won numerous awards for their floats.
Academy of Art University has won the Most Artistic Float Award every year since 2014.
 In 2017 Cirque du Soleil performed in the parade.
 More than one hundred members from the martial arts troupe Leung's White Crane Dragon and Lion Dance Association carry Gum Lung at the finish of the parade; thirty-five members are used in shifts.

References

Further reading
  alternate URL at Google Books

External links

 San Francisco Chinese New Year Festival and Parade official site
 Parade at the Chinatown San Francisco website
 Chinatown–Festivals–1953 at the San Francisco Public Library digital images collection; similar folders exist for 1954–65.
 
  (2012)

Chinese New Year
Festivals in the San Francisco Bay Area
Parades in the United States
Chinese-American culture in San Francisco
Cultural festivals in the United States
Recurring events established in 1858
1858 establishments in California
Chinatown, San Francisco