[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Institute of Chartered Accountants Australia

The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia (the institute) was the professional accounting body representing Chartered Accountants in Australia before it merged with the New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants to become Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand.

It had over 61,000 members and some 12,000 students. It was one of three major legally recognised Professional Accountancy bodies in Australia. The others being CPA Australia and Institute of Public Accountants. It is a founding member of the Global Accounting Alliance (GAA). Members of the Institute are part of the international accounting coalition of the world's premier accounting bodies, the GAA. Chartered Accountants audit 100 per cent of the Top ASX-listed companies in Australia.

In November 2013 Members of The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia and the New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants voted yes on a proposal to create One New Institute: "Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand".

New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia (ICAA) amalgamated to become Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand.

History

Corporation of Accountants of Australia

The Corporation of Accountants of Australia was granted the official coat of arms by the College of Arms in 1905. In 1906, the Corporation of Accountants of Australia and the Sydney Institute of Public Accountants moved to create a national accounting body of all practising public accountants in Australia.

Australasian Corporation of Public Accountants
In 1907, negotiations between the Corporation of Accountants of Australia, the Sydney Institute of Public Accountants and the Institutes in Melbourne, resulted in the formation of the Australasian Corporation of Public Accountants (ACPA) on 14 June. The ACPA membership was composed exclusively of practising public accountants.

Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia
The Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia was formed with the granting of a Royal Charter on 19 June 1928, to Thomas Brentnall, George Mason Allard and Henry Joshua Wise on behalf of the public accountants of Australia. The ICAA was the first accountancy body outside the United Kingdom to receive a Royal Charter.

On 26 October 1929 The Earl Marshal of England granted the current arms to the institute. The arms include the Latin motto 'Nec Timens Nec Favens' which translates to 'Without Fear or Favour'.

The Institute now operates under a Supplemental Royal Charter (amended from time to time) granted by the Governor-General on behalf of Queen Elizabeth II on 19 August 2005.

Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand
After voting on the merger with the New Zealand Institute of Chartered Accountants the bodies formed Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand 31 December 2014.

CA ANZ is a professional body of over 120,000 Chartered Accountants around the world. CA ANZ focuses on the education and lifelong learning of its members, and on advocacy and thought leadership in areas of public interest and business.

Admission to membership
To become a member of the institute, Chartered Accountants complete the Chartered Accountants Program which includes study of the Graduate Diploma in Chartered Accounting (GradDipCA) and three years of practical experience. Entry to the Program is available for graduates who hold an accounting degree, however those holding non-accounting degrees may also be permitted entry after some additional requirements are met.

Accounting degree

To take this path you will have either a bachelor or master's degree in commerce, business or accounting from an Institute accredited Australian university.  The commerce and business degrees will require a major in accounting, in order to qualify.

Non Accounting degree

There are three routes for non-accounting graduates can take to qualify for the Chartered Accountants Program:
 Institute accredited Graduate Conversion course: Available from most Australian universities
 Entrance exam: Available for non-accounting graduates with significant on-the-job accounting experience and employer support
 A Graduate Certificate of Chartered Accounting Foundations from Deakin University.

Graduate Diploma in Chartered Accounting
The GradDipCA component of the Chartered Accountants Program consists of the following seven modules which each take between 7-9 weeks of part-time study to complete:
 Ethics and Business
 Risk and Technology
 Financial Accounting and Reporting
 Tax (AU or NZ)
 Business Performance
 Audit and Risk
 Integrated Chartered Accounting Practice (ICAP)

Additionally, two electives must be completed from the following list:

 Advanced Tax (AU or NZ)
 Assurance
 Data Analytics and Insights
 Strategy and Performance
 Advanced Financial Reporting
 Financial Modelling
 Sustainability for Accountants