[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Mary Maverick

ies on that day, had been beaten, raped and had suffered burns to her body. Allegedly, her face was severely disfigured, with her nose entirely burned away, a detail which has been commonly included in Texas history descriptions of the incident since the publications of the Maverick memoirs in 1895.

Reports of abuse are, however, conspicuously missing in primary documents authored by eyewitnesses immediately after the event. Neither Col. Hugh McLeod mentioned any abuse in his report of March 20, 1840 (commenting on the intelligence of the girl but nothing like a missing nose), nor any other Texas officials at the time nor Matilda Lockhart's own sister-in-law, who was in San Antonio, in a letter written to her own mother shortly after the release. Anderson writes: "While published in the 1890s, this description has been used by historians to claim that the massacre came about as a result of the justifiable rage of Texas men. Yet none of the Texas officials claimed this to be the case at the time; evidence of abuse is conspicuously missing in the primary documents, however no reliable narrative counters it. Maverick may have exaggerated Lockhart's condition because of the growing criticism of Texas in the American and European Press. The most significant source on Matilda's condition is a brief statement made in a letter by her sister-in-law, Catherine Lockhart, who was in San Antonio. Catherine describes Matilda's release but says nothing of abuse."

Footnotes

References

 Memoirs of Mary A. Maverick, Rena Maverick Green, ed.  (San Antonio: 1921).
 Samuel Maverick, Texan, Rena Maverick Green, ed.  (San Antonio, 1952).
 Maverick Family Papers, Barker Texas History Center, University of Texas at Austin.
 The Conquest of Texas - Ethnic Cleansing in the Promised Land, 1820-1875, Gary Clayton Anderson  (Norman: 2005).

External links
Early photo of Mary Maverick with five of her children.
Samuel Maverick: John Howland's Texas Legacy
Mary Maverick's description of the Council House Fight of 1840
Mary Ann Adams Maverick in the Texas State Historical Association's Handbook of Texas Online 

1818 births
1898 deaths
People from San Antonio
Historians of Texas
Ranchers from Texas
Burials at San Antonio City Cemetery No. 1
American women historians
19th-century American women writers
American women slave owners