[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy

Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is a fatal complication of epilepsy. It is defined as the sudden and unexpected, non-traumatic and non-drowning death of a person with epilepsy, without a toxicological or anatomical cause of death detected during the post-mortem examination.

While the mechanisms underlying SUDEP are still poorly understood, it is possibly the most common cause of death as a result of complications from epilepsy, accounting for between 7.5 and 17% of all epilepsy-related deaths and 50% of all deaths in refractory epilepsy. The causes of SUDEP seem to be multifactorial and include respiratory, cardiac and cerebral factors as well as the severity of epilepsy and seizures. Proposed pathophysiological mechanisms include seizure-induced cardiac and respiratory arrests.

Among epileptics, SUDEP occurs in about 1 in 1,000 adults and 1 in 4,500 children annually. Rates of death as a result of prolonged seizures (status epilepticus) are not classified as SUDEP.

Categories 
The overarching term SUDEP can be subdivided into four different categories: Definite, Probably, Possible, and Unlikely.

 Definite SUDEP: a non-traumatic and non-drowning death in an individual with epilepsy, without a cause of death after postmortem examination.
 Definite SUDEP Plus: includes the presence of a concomitant condition other than epilepsy, where death may be due to the combined effects of both epilepsy and the other condition.
  Probably SUDEP: all the same criteria for Definite SUDEP are met, but no postmortem examination is performed.
 Possible SUDEP: insufficient information is available regarding the death, with no postmortem examination.
 Unlikely SUDEP: an alternate cause of death has been determined, ruling out the possibility of SUDEP being the cause.

Risk factors 
Consistent risk factors include:
Severity of seizures, increased refractoriness of epilepsy and presence of generalized tonic–clonic seizures: the most consistent risk factor is an increased frequency of tonic–clonic seizures.
Poor compliance. Lack of therapeutic levels of anti-epileptic drugs, non-adherence to treatment regimens and frequent changes in regimens are risk factors for sudden death.
Young age and early age of seizures onset
Male sex
Being asleep during a seizure is likely to favour SUDEP occurrence.

Genetic mutations have been identified that increase a person's risk for SUDEP (some are discussed below), but ultimately their genetic risk is determined by the function of multiple genes that is not yet well understood. Overlap is seen between these ion channel genes and the different sudden death disorders, including SUDEP, SIDS, sudden unexpected death (SUD), and sudden unexplained death in childhood (SUDC). Many of the genes are involved in long QT syndrome.

 Mutations in the KCNQ1 gene that codes for the voltage-gated potassium channel KV7.1 have been implicated in cardiac arrhythmias, such as long QT syndrome 1 (LQT1), and epilepsy.
 Mutations in potassium channel gene KCNH2 have been identified with LQT2.
 Mutations in sodium channel gene SCN5A have been identified with LQT3.
 Mutations in potassium channel gene KCNJ2 have been identified with LQT7.
 Mutations in calcium channel gene CACNA1C have been identified with LQT8.
 The sodium ion channel genes SCN1A, SCN1B, SCN2A, and SCN8A and the potassium channel KCNA1 have been implicated in both epilepsy and SUDEP.