[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Charlemagne Tower

state.

In January 1864, a military commission was convened to try the Buckshots arrested in the anthracite coal fields and in March about 20 "Buckshots" who had been convicted for trying to block the implementation of the draft in Schuylkill County, were imprisoned at Fort Mifflin in Philadelphia.

After the war he joined the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States as a First Class Companion of the Pennsylvania Commandery.

Postwar activities
After Tower's active Civil War service (yet still in the midst of settling the Munson–Williams case), he was named the U.S. Provost Marshal for Pennsylvania's 10th Congressional District. He served from April 1863 through May 1864. He continued his Pottsville law practice until moving to Philadelphia in 1875.

At this time, he engaged in several business ventures, such as proprietorship of the Honeybrook Coal Company, and membership of the board of directors of the Northern Pacific Railway. Financial difficulties in the early 1870s forced the Northern Pacific to sell off much of its lands in the upper Midwest. Tower acquired large tracts of land from the sales in Minnesota, North Dakota, and Washington.

Activities in the Midwest

Tower City, North Dakota
In 1878, George Ellsbury migrated to North Dakota and became interested in Tower's property in Cass and Barnes counties. Having become a real estate agent and believing that the area then known as Spring Tank would be a prime setting for a new town, Ellsbury contacted Tower about purchasing the site. Tower hired Ellsbury as his land agent for this area, offering him a 5% commission on all land sold to incoming farmers, and a pass for unlimited travel on the Northern Pacific. Ellsbury, a former artist for Harper's Weekly and Leslie's Illustrated Magazine, turned real estate agent, was typical of the land speculators who moved to the west.

Ellisbury acquired Spring Tank by January 1879, and laid out the town that came to be known as Tower City after his benefactor. Tower had asked Ellsbury to name the town after himself, but the land agent thought Tower's name had more recognition and prestige because of his large landholdings.

Tower University
Ellsbury failed to heighten the prominence of Tower City, losing the competition for capital of the Dakota Territory, and a new county and county seat, and he decided to open a new university, to be named for Tower. Meeting with Baptist leaders who were looking to establish a college in the Dakotas, Ellsbury promised them a $100,000 contribution from Charlemagne Tower if they settled in Tower City. They agreed, and construction began on buildings in 1884.

When Tower declined to contribute in the amount promised, construction of the new college ceased immediately. He donated $4,500 in cash and a 1,500-volume library. Local residents raised another $5000, and the first classes began in a downtown hotel. Thirty students registered that first year of 1886. The next year, enrollment dropped to 20, so the officers closed the college.

Vermilion Range
In 1865, a Minnesota state geologist discovered gold and silver-bearing quartz near Lake Vermilion  in northern Minnesota. This touched off a short-lived gold rush to the area called the Vermilion Range, a stretch of land between Lake Vermilion and an area just to the east of Shagawa Lake. While miners prospecting for gold were striking out, others were discovering that the area was rich in iron ore. George C. Stone, a banker from Duluth, heard of large ore deposits in the Mesabi Range, which lies west of the Vermilion. In 1873, he met with Tower in his Philadelphia office to discuss the property.

Tower agreed to allow a prospecting expedition on the Mesabi, and sent his son-in-law, R.H. Lee, and Professor Albert Huntington Chester of Hamilton College, along with Stone. None was satisfied with the results. In 1874, the party crossed into the Vermilion range, and discovered a large outcropping of iron ore. Satisfied that there was a large vein of ore available in that area, they reported back to Tower. At that time, Tower elected not to proceed with mining the area due to the enormous expense of prospecting, the logistical problems of mining the area and transporting the ore, and financial concerns over the recent Panic of 1873.

Tower ordered prospecting in the Vermilion resumed in 1880. Along with Stone and Lee, Tower sent his son, Charlemagne Tower Jr., to assist. A railroad was surveyed from the mines to the town of Two Harbors on Lake Superior, and Tower had it constructed in 1883. By 1884, the mine had proved to be successful, and the business incorporated under the name of Minnesota Iron Company. The ore was mined on site, then loaded to the railroad and delivered to Two Harbors, where it was loaded on ships for iron and steel factories in Ohio. A settlement near the mines was named Tower in the landowner's honor.