[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tommy Fraser

sfied with his performances on the wing and again began booing the young captain. Micky Adams left the club in December 2010, and was replaced by Jim Gannon. Two weeks into Gannon's reign Fraser left the club by mutual consent so as to find first team football, preferring this option to a loan deal.

Barnet
Fraser signed with Barnet on a deal lasting two and a half years. Signed by caretaker manager Paul Fairclough, he played under Martin Allen and then another caretaker manager, Giuliano Grazioli, within the space of a few months. He played a total of fifteen games for the "Bees" in what remained of the 2010–11 campaign, as the club retained their Football League status with a final day 1–0 win over former club Port Vale at Underhill; Fraser was a stoppage time substitute in the game. New manager Lawrie Sanchez picked Fraser for just six games in 2011–12, the last of which was a 4–0 defeat to Swindon Town on 24 September. Two months later Fraser left the club by mutual consent. He returned to Vale Park to train under Micky Adams, though was not expected to be offered a contract at Port Vale.

Non-League
Fraser joined Whitehawk of the Isthmian League in December 2011, where he played alongside his younger brother James. Whitehawk won the Isthmian League Division One South title in 2011–12. He made 31 appearances in the 2012–13 season for Darren Freeman's "Hawks", and was sent off in his final game in a 3–1 defeat to Harrow Borough at the Earlsmead Stadium on 23 February.

He left England to live in Australia in March 2013, signing for National Premier Leagues Victoria outfit Melbourne Knights FC. He soon returned to England however, and re-signed with Whitehawk in July 2013. He played 38 Conference South games in the 2013–14 season, helping the club to finish one point above the relegation zone.

Fraser joined Steve Brown's Ebbsfleet United, also of the Conference South, in May 2014. He signed with Isthmian League club Peacehaven & Telscombe in September 2014. He moved on to Lewes three months later.

After leaving Lewes in February 2015, Fraser signed for newly promoted Isthmian League Premier Division side Burgess Hill Town in June 2015. He signed with Whitehawk for a third time in March 2016. Four months later he returned to Burgess Hill Town, before he joined former loan club Bognor Regis Town in November 2016.

Career statistics

Honours
Whitehawk
Isthmian League Division One South: 2011–12

References

1987 births
Living people
Footballers from Brighton
People educated at Varndean College
English men's footballers
English expatriate men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Brighton & Hove Albion F.C. players
Bognor Regis Town F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Barnet F.C. players
Whitehawk F.C. players
English expatriate sportspeople in Australia
Expatriate men's soccer players in Australia
Melbourne Knights FC players
Ebbsfleet United F.C. players
Peacehaven & Telscombe F.C. players
Lewes F.C. players
Burgess Hill Town F.C. players
English Football League players
National League (English football) players
Isthmian League players