[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Uzhhorod National University

ty in Carpathian Ukraine. On March 9, 1939, the ‘Draft Law on the Establishment of the Ukrainian State University in Khust’ was developed. The university was supposed to start operating on October 1, 1939, but the Hungarian occupation of the region in March prevented this.

Uzhhorod State University

On October 18, 1945, the government of the Ukrainian SSR and the Central Committee of the Communist Party adopted a joint resolution ‘On the opening of a State University in Uzhhorod.’ The university began its existence with 4 faculties. On February 1, 1946, 160 first-year students of four faculties began their history, philology, medicine, and biology studies. On July 1 of the same year, there were 15 departments with 1 professor, 9 associate professors, 14 senior lecturers, 11 lecturers, and 8 assistants.

In 2000, for a significant contribution to the development of national education and science by the Decree of the President of Ukraine, the university was awarded the status of national and renamed Uzhhorod National University with the fourth level of accreditation.
In February 2013, the Transcarpathian State University was attached to Uzhhorod National University by order of the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine.

International cooperation

Uzhhorod National University is a member of the Association of Universities of the Carpathian Region ( ACRU ), which is a member of the Association of European Universities ( EUA ) and is an associate member of the International Association of Universities ( IAU ). The university cooperates with 125 partners from different countries, including Charles University, Technical University of Prague (Czech Republic), Corvin University, University of State and Law. L. Koshuta (Hungary), Kosice University. Pavol Jozef Shafarik, university. Comenius (Slovakia), University of Oradea, University of Cluj, Babes-Boyai (Romania), Institute of German Studies, University of Koblenz Landau, University of Regensburg (Germany), Association of Homeopathic Medicine, Rome (Italy), University of Zagreb (Croatia), Slovak Medical University (Bratislava) and others. In 2020, 7 new international bilateral agreements, 7 agreements on the implementation of international projects and 8 agreements to support Erasmus + academic mobility were concluded.

The catalyst for international activities in 2020 was participation in global rankings (Times Higher Education World University Rankings, QS World University Rankings by Region, U-Multirank, UI Green Metric World University Rankings, Webometrics Ranking of World's Universities), associations, and consortia.

Necessary for further integration into the European scientific space is Uzhhorod National University's membership in international associations: Magna Charta Universitatum, the Danube Rectors Conference, the European Universities Association, the International Consortium of Universities.

The university is included in the European scientific space, Uzhhorod National University students have the opportunity to study at leading universities in Poland, Lithuania, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, the Czech Republic (Pomeranian Academy, University of Presov, Etves Lorand University, Debrecen University and others).

Uzhhorod National University and other educational institutions of Ukraine started the international exchange of students and teachers within the Erasmus + program in 2014. The European Union provides scholarships and covers the costs of training and accommodation. Uzhhorod National University cooperates with Slovak, Polish, Czech, Hungarian, Lithuanian, Italian, French, Croatian, and Romanian universities within the Erasmus + program. Since 2014, 115 participants of the educational process from 15 faculties of Uzhhorod National University have taken part in the Erasmus + program.

Every year UzhNU students have internships abroad - in Slovakia, Germany, Turkey, participate in international schools, training, have the opportunity to become scholarship holders and win grant programs of academic exchanges named after Fulbright (USA), The scholarship program for graduates from Ukraine by the European-University in Frankfurt (Germany), Summer International School in Vilnius (Lithuania) and others.