[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Darold Knowles

96 batting average against was the highest in the Oakland bullpen. Regardless, the A's won their third World Series in a row in ; however, Knowles did not make a post-season appearance. Shortly after the World Series, he, Bob Locker and Manny Trillo were dealt to the Chicago Cubs for Billy Williams.

Final years
Knowles inherited the closer role in Chicago, saving 15 in  and nine in . Shortly before spring training , Knowles was dealt to the Rangers for a player to be named later (Gene Clines) and cash. He went 5–2 with a 3.22 ERA and four saves to help the Rangers to a second-place finish. After the season, he was reunited with his former A's manager Dick Williams when his contract was sold to the Expos. He appeared in 60 games with the Expos, going 3–3 with six saves and a 2.38 ERA.

Knowles did not enjoy playing in Canada, citing taxes, language problems and political unrest in Quebec as the reasons for his displeasure. After just one season in Montreal, Knowles signed a two-year deal with his home team Cardinals.

Knowles made 48 appearances and earned six saves with the Cards in . He made just two appearances in April  before retiring and accepting a coaching position in the Cardinals' farm system. At the time of his retirement, he was tied for 13th in career saves.

In between, Knowles played winter ball with the Tiburones de La Guaira club of the Venezuelan League in the 1964–1965 season, where he posted a 13-9 record with a 2.37 ERA and 155 strikeouts to earn Triple Crown honors.

Coaching career
After serving eight years as a minor league roving pitching coach for the Cardinals, Knowles was hired as the Philadelphia Phillies' pitching coach in January  by new manager Nick Leyva. Under Knowles, the Phillies' pitching staff, which had a National League worst 4.14 ERA and in 1988, they showed improvement the next year but Knowles was moved to a minor league coaching position after the  season.

In 2001 Knowles became the pitching coach for the Nashville Sounds, AAA affiliate of the Pittsburgh Pirates.

On January 13, 2005, Knowles was named as the pitching coach for the Toronto Blue Jays Single-A affiliate Dunedin Blue Jays.

Knowles was named to the Florida State League Baseball Hall of Fame in 2012.

References

External links

Darold Knowles at SABR (Baseball BioProject)
Darold Knowles at Baseball Almanac
Darold Knowles at Baseballbiography.com
Darold Knowles at Pura Pelota (Venezuelan Professional Baseball League)

1941 births
Living people
Aberdeen Pheasants players
American expatriate baseball players in Canada
American expatriate baseball players in Venezuela
Baltimore Orioles players
Baseball coaches from Missouri
Baseball players from Missouri
Charlotte Hornets (baseball) players
Chicago Cubs players
Elmira Pioneers players
Major League Baseball pitchers
Major League Baseball pitching coaches
Missouri Tigers baseball players
Montreal Expos players
Oakland Athletics players
People from Brunswick, Missouri
Philadelphia Phillies coaches
Philadelphia Phillies players
Rochester Red Wings players
St. Louis Cardinals coaches
St. Louis Cardinals players
Stockton Ports players
Texas Rangers players
Tiburones de La Guaira players
University of Missouri alumni
Washington Senators (1961–1971) players