[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Rasmus Lindgren

was replaced by Thomas Vermaelen. Lindgren didn't return to the first team until on 12 April 2009 when he came on as a 57th-minute substitute, in a 7–0 win against Willem II. At the end of the 2008–09 season, Lindgren went on to make thirty–two appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

Ahead of the 2009–10 season, Lindgren had to have an operation on his left foot shortly before the end of last season. Although he recovered from his injury, Lindgren, however, was not one hundred percent fit. He was included in Ajax's friendly match against Ajax Cape Town on 4 July 2009 and played in the first half before being substituted, as the club won 3–2. However since returning from injury, Lindgren found his first team opportunities limited, under the management of head-coach Martin Jol. This led to him discuss his future at Ajax, but he wanted to stay at the club to fight for his place in the first team. Lindgren didn't make his first team appearance until on 22 September 2009 when he started and played 120 minutes against AZ Alkmaar in the second round of the KNVB Beker, as Ajax lost 2–0. Lindgren spent the rest of the year, playing for the club's reserve team. With his first team opportunities limited, Lindgren was expected to leave Ajax in the January transfer window. But in mid–January, he was called up to the club's first team for the first time in three months. Lindgren scored his first goal of the season, in a 1–1 draw against NAC Breda on 17 January 2010. Following this, he was told by Manager Jol to stay at Ajax. Lindgren appeared in the next five matches for the club. However during a match against SC Heerenveen on 13 February 2010, he suffered a knee injury and was substituted at half time, as Ajax won 2–0. Following this, Lindgren did not play for the rest of the 2009–10 season, due to injuries. While absent, the club won the KNVB Cup after beating rivals, Feyenoord, 6–3 on aggregate. At the end of the 2009–10 season, he went on to make eight appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

Ahead of the 2010–11 season, Lindgren said he wanted to stay at Ajax despite having new competitions in the midfield position. In the beginning of the 2010–11 season, Lindgren scored an important goal against PAOK F.C. in the UEFA Champions League Third qualifying round helping the club to move to the Play-off round, ultimately leading to qualification to the Group stage. However, he suffered a muscle injury and then a knee injury that saw him out for a month. By early–September, Lindgren recovered from a knee injury and didn't make his return to the first team against rivals, Feyenoord on 19 September 2010, starting the whole game, in a 2–1 win. Nine days later on 28 September 2010, he made his UEFA Champions League debut, coming on as a 79th-minute substitute, in a 1–1 draw against A.C. Milan. Prior to the match, Lindgren suffered a minor knee complaints but was included in the squad, though he was on the substitute bench as a result. Since recovering from a knee injury, Lindgren made eight starts for Ajax in the next two months. During which, he scored his first goal of the season, in a 4–1 win against Heracles Almelo on 30 October 2010. This lasted until Lindgren was sent–off at the last minute of the game for a foul on Ibrahim Afellay, as Ajax drew 0–0 against rivals, PSV Eindhoven on 20 November 2010. After the match, he served a two match suspension. Lindgren didn't return to the first team until on 8 December 2010 against Milan in the UEFA Champions League match, coming on as an 82nd-minute substitute, in a 2–0 win. However, following his return from suspension, the situation did not change in the next season under new head-coach Frank de Boer and found his playing time, mostly from the substitute bench, as well as, his own injury concerns. Despite this, Lindgren's contributions to the club saw Ajax win the league. At the end of the 2010–11 season, he went on to make twenty–six appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

Following this, Lindgren announced in Swedish media that he's leaving Ajax, citing new challenges. Upon announcing his intention of leaving the club, Lindgren was linked a move to European clubs, including clubs from his homeland country.

Red Bull Salzburg

On 20 June 2011, it was announced that Lindgren would join Red Bull Salzburg on a two-year deal starting from the 2011–12 season. It came after when the Austrian club saw the necessity in him to rebuild the squad.