[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Libby Prison escape

ly several more times to ensure that the Yankees weren't pulling a trick.  Such "tricks" had occurred on many occasions when men slipped in and out of the counting lines; this "repeating" was a mild prank often used to frustrate the Confederates at roll call, much to the glee of the Union prisoners.

On the morning of February 10, the Confederates realized that this was no trick.  By this time, the first prisoners had been loose for nearly twelve hours.  Frenzy broke out among the Confederates: "Messengers and dispatches were soon flying in all directions, and all the horse, foot, and dragoons of Richmond were in pursuit of the fugitives before noon."  Despite the mobilization of Richmond, almost 17 hours passed before the Confederates could respond.  This no doubt added greatly to the window of opportunity that helped 59 men reach Union lines.  The Richmond Enquirer of  February 11, 1864 expressed such a sentiment: "It is feared that [the fugitives] have gotten rather too much the start of the pursuers to admit anything like the recapture of them all." Of the 109 escapees, 48 were recaptured, and 2 drowned in the nearby James River.

Prior reconnaissance
Though Union Commander George B. McClellan received little more than defeat in the Peninsular Campaign of 1862, his men received something more.  For those who would break out of Libby prison, the time spent studying maps and hoofing ground in Virginia familiarized them with the enemy terrain.  Such intelligence was of weighty benefit for the prisoners forging their way back to the Federal lines two years later.  The Richmond Enquirer reported, "It is supposed that the direction taken by them all – if, indeed all have left the city – was towards the Peninsula..."  Lieutenant Moran, who escaped late in the night, wrote, "I had served with McClellan in the Peninsula campaign of 1862, I knew the country well from my frequent inspection of war maps, and the friendly north star gave me my bearings."

Just as slaves had been following the North Star to envisioned freedom, it also guided escaped Union prisoners from Libby in 1864.  Most of the prisoners made reference to following the North Star, such as Captain Johnston who wrote, "I ... started due north, taking the north star for my guide, changing my course only when [I] came near any of the [Rebel] camps."

Leaders
Colonel Rose and Major Hamilton led the escape efforts.  Rose, wounded at the Battle of Chickamauga, arrived at the prison on October 1, 1863.  From the moment he stepped in the door, he was bent on escape.  While exploring the darker regions of Rat Hell, he happened upon Hamilton, who was also searching for a proper tunneling point.  Soon fast friends, the two worked toward the successful escape in February.  Contemporarily, Libby prisoners showered Rose with admiration and credit for the escape's success.

Rose and Hamilton worked tirelessly together to bring about the escape.  Rose thought of breaking into the basement from the chimney, while Hamilton engineered the passage.  Rose toiled feverishly in the tunnel and organized digging teams while Hamilton worked out the logistics and invented contraptions for removing dirt and supplying oxygen to the tunnel.  Various setbacks plagued the tunneling effort but as Lieutenant Moran recorded, "the undaunted Rose, aided by Hamilton, [always] persuaded the men to another effort, and soon the knives and toy saws were at work again with vigor."  Lieutenant Colonel Federico Fernández Cavada, a prisoner at Libby, wrote, "To Colonel Rose is chiefly due the credit [for the escape]... Animated by an unflinching earnestness of purpose, unwearying perseverance, and no ordinary engineering abilities, he organized ... working parties [which] he conducted every night [in] the cellars of the prison."  "[Rose] was the acknowledged leader of the tunnel party, the acknowledged projector of the tunnel," maintained Hamilton, "and it was through his good sense, energy, and management ... that the escape was a success."
 
Despite his work in planning the escape, Rose was captured before reaching Federal lines.  Minutes from an advancing Union front at Williamsburg, he was ambushed by Confederate pickets and wrestled back to Libby Prison.  Though placed in solitary confinement, the Confederates felt Rose's presence at Libby now presented a danger.  Given the chance, they gladly traded the famed escapist for a Confederate colonel on April 30, 1864.  Rose returned to his unit, the 77th Pennsylvania Infantry, and fought through to the end of the war.