[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Salal Dam

y basis. NHPC was incorporated by the Government of India in 1975, with an authorised capital of Rs. 200 crore. The Salal project was its first project.

The Stage-I of the powerhouse was commissioned in 1987; Stage-II between 1993 and 1995. The final commissioning of the project took place in 1996.

After completion, the Salal project was transferred to NHPC on an ownership basis. The Government of Jammu and Kashmir is said to have had a Memorandum of Understanding with the Government of India to receive the project at a depreciated cost. However, according to the National Conference party, the coalition government in power at 1985, run by the Ghulam Mohammad Shah-wing of the National Conference and the Indian National Congress, surrendered the state's rights over the project.

The state of Jammu and Kashmir receives 12.5 percent of the energy generated from the project. The rest is transmitted to the Northern Grid where it is distributed to the states of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Uttar Pradesh. Jammu and Kashmir also purchases additional power at regular prices.

Siltation
Sediment is a serious problem among Himalayan rivers (since the Himalayas are young mountains). The Chenab river, especially, carries more silt than the others even among the 'Western Rivers'. Its annual silt load is estimated to be .

From the very first year of operation, the reservoir of the Salal dam started silting up. Two severe floods in 1988 and 1992 further accelerated the siltation. Within five years, the reservoir got silted up almost entirely. As a result, the reservoir capacity got reduced from the intended  to .

As per the 1978 Salal agreement, the reservoir had to be maintained at Constant Full Reservoir Level at 487.68 m asl. Six under-sluices that were provided during the construction had to be plugged at the beginning of operation. Consequently, the  high spillway gates form the only live storage of the reservoir. The rest is dead storage, which ended up acting as a siltation tank. To alleviate the problem, the spillway gates are being opened at least once a month during the monsoon season as a desilting mechanism, with a discharge of about 4,250 cumecs. This is reported to have recovered some of the reservoir capacity, increasing it to .

As the spillway and the power intake are continuously passing sand, they cause  abrasion damage to the spillway concrete structure and the turbine equipment. Studies report erosion in the civil structures such as the concrete sill of the spillway, the glacis and the bucket; damage to the turbine components such as cracks in the turbine blades, knife edging of the outer edges and washing out of other components; damage to the cooling system such as tubes being choked with stator faults encountered. NHPC has been using various technical remedies to address these problems.

The silt accumulation has essentially converted the reservoir into an elevated river bed. The situation is reported to be alarming and the future of the project uncertain. "During winters when water level goes abysmally down, it does not generate much [power]," according to a state official.  In 2014–2015, the two powerhouses reported producing 3491 million KWH, representing 57% capacity factor.

Technical parameters

The original Indian design provided for a 130-metre-high dam up to an elevation of 1,627 ft above sea level, a 40 ft gated spillway at the top (between elevations 1,560–1,600 ft) and 6 under-sluices at elevation 1,365 ft. The under-sluices would have enabled the 'drawdown flushing' of sediments. However, at Pakistan's insistence, the under-sluices were permanently plugged with concrete, and the gates were reduced from 40 ft to 30 ft. This meant that the only live storage is between elevations 1,570–1,600 ft, and the storage below that level has gotten silted up, forming an elevated river bed. The level of the bed now varies between  and .

Dam
 Top elevation:  asl
 Maximum water level:   asl
 Full Reservoir level:  asl
 Dead storage level:   asl
 Operating pool: Nil
 Length of power dam: 105 m
 Length of non overflow dam: 125 m
 Type of gate: Radial
 Deepest foundation level: 383 m
 No of river sluices: 6 of 3.35 m x 4.57 m

Tailrace tunnel
 Number: 2
 Length Stage 1: 2.463 km
 Stage 2: 2.523 km
 Shape: Horseshoe
 Diameter: 11 m (finished)
 Design discharge: 412 m³/s
 Velocity: 4.2 m/s

Transmission lines
 Name of Grid: Northern grid
 Transmission Voltage: 220 kV
 Total length of lines: 446 km
 Double circuit Salal - Kishenpur: 2 lines
 Single circuit Salal - Jammu: 2 lines

See also

 Ratle Hydroelectric Plant
 Baglihar Dam
 Kishanganga Hydroelectric Plant
 Wular Lake
 Rivers of Jammu and Kashmir
 List of dams and reservoirs in India

Notes

References

Bibliography