[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 14]
# Satanic Verses controversy

ered nerves in one arm. Rushdie was placed on a ventilator the day of the attack, but within 48 hours, he was taken off of it and reportedly able to speak.
 14 August 2022: Two days after Rushdie's stabbing, the government-run newspaper of Iran called the attack an "implementation of divine decree".

See also
 Censorship in South Asia
 Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy; began after 12 editorial cartoons, most of which depicted Islamic prophet Muhammad, were published in the Danish newspaper Jyllands-Posten in 2005
 Innocence of Muslims, 2012 film that disparages Islam and Muhammad, which led to violent protests against Western institutions in several Muslim countries, a number of deaths, and hundreds of injuries
 International Guerillas, 1990 Pakistani action film depicting Salman Rushdie as its main villain
 Lars Vilks Muhammad drawings controversy; began in July 2007 with a series of drawings by Swedish artist Lars Vilks that depicted the Islamic prophet Muhammad as a roundabout dog
 Mariwan Halabjaee
 Richard Webster's book A Brief History of Blasphemy, which discusses the controversy over The Satanic Verses
 The Sudanese teddy bear blasphemy case; the arrest, trial, conviction, and imprisonment of a British schoolteacher in Sudan in 2007, for allegedly insulting Islam by allowing her class to name a teddy bear "Muhammad"
 Taslima Nasrin (Lajja, novel which led to protests and death threats, 1993, Bangladesh)
 The Calcutta Quran Petition (a controversy about a petition to ban the Quran, 1985, India)

References

Further reading

 
 
 
 
 Elst, Koenraad: The Rushdie Rules Middle East Quarterly, June 1998
 
 
 
 
 
 Mendes, AC. (2018). "Salman Rushdie: The Accidental Intellectual in the Mediascape”. Postcolonial Intellectuals in Europe: Academics, Artists, Activists and their Publics. Rowman and Littlefield, 143–157. .
 Mendes, AC.  (2016). "Cultural Warfare Redux: Salman Rushdie’s Knighthood”, Salman Rushdie: An Anthology of 21st-century Criticism. Atlantic, 3–19. .
 
  with a postscript by Koenraad Elst.

External links

 Rushdie Affair in Oxford Islamic Studies Online
 
 Notes on Salman Rushdie: The Satanic Verses
 The Rusdhie's Affair Legacy by Koenraad Elst
 Swords to sell a god by Ram Swarup
 Rushdie: Haunted by his unholy ghosts
 Salman Rushdie interviewed by Shikha Dalmia Reason, August September 2005
 "Looking back at Salman Rushdie's The Satanic Verses" – Writers, broadcasters, friends and publishing insiders recall what it was like to be caught up in the most controversial story in recent literary history

1988 controversies
1988 in Islam
Blasphemy
British Indian history
Censorship in Islam
Controversies in India
Controversies in Iran
Iran–United Kingdom relations
Islam in the United Kingdom
Islam-related controversies
Obscenity controversies in literature
Religious controversies in literature
Ruhollah Khomeini
Salman Rushdie