[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Constitutional Court of Korea

the co-equal relationship of the courts relies on a piece of legislation, the National Assembly could pass an amendment and rank the heads of the courts differently, which would resolve this issue. However, as it stands, there is no remedy if the two highest courts disagree on a constitutional case.

There are several areas in which the two highest courts have come into conflict, most notably jurisdiction over executive orders, which include presidential decrees and ordinances, can fall on either court, depending on the interpretation. Article 107(2) of the Constitution states the Supreme Court shall preside over and have the final say in cases concerning the legality of executive orders. However, the Constitutional Court has held that a litigant may file a complaint directly with the Constitutional Court if the litigant believes his or her constitutional rights were infringed upon by an executive order. The Constitution also grants the Constitutional Court jurisdiction over complaints of constitutional violations as prescribed by an act of the National Assembly. In addition, the Constitutional Court Act gives the Constitutional Court the authority to review the constitutionality of all government actions. Since the Constitution itself empowers both courts to hear the same cases, this puts the two courts into endless strife.

The highest courts also fiercely disagree over the Constitutional Court's power to declare a law unconstitutional as applied (), which means the statute itself is constitutional but as it is applied by either the executive branch or inferior courts does run afoul of the Constitution. The Supreme Court of Korea does not recognize the binding power of such "unconstitutional as applied" decisions by the Constitutional Court, as the Supreme Court interprets such decisions as essentially upholding the statutes in dispute. That indicates that the Supreme Court may ignore such decisions and proceed as it sees fit, which has happened several times. The Constitutional Court may counter that by suspending state powers that may violate the Constitution, which the Constitutional Court interprets to include the Supreme Court's decision to hear a case. The Constitutional Court suspended Supreme Court trials once in 1997 and twice in 2022, which has brought the nation on the verge of a constitutional crisis.

As both courts claim sharply divergent, there are conflicting interpretations of their powers, and the Constitution does not expressly state the court that has the final say, there is no way to resolve such conflicts within the current system.

Gallery

See also 

 Constitution of South Korea
 Politics of South Korea
 Government of South Korea
 Judiciary of South Korea
 President of the Constitutional Court of Korea
 List of justices of the Constitutional Court of Korea
 Rapporteur Judge
 Supreme Court of Korea
 Venice Commission
 Association of Asian Constitutional Courts and Equivalent Institutions

References

External links
 the Constitutional Court of Korea Official Website
 The Constitution of the Republic of Korea (translated into English), Korea Legislation Research Institute
 Constitutional Court Act (translated into English), Korea Legislation Research Institute
 Thirty Years of the Constitutional Court of Korea (1988-2018), published and downloadable by the Constitutional Court of Korea

Constitutional Court of Korea
Korea, Republic of
Judiciary of South Korea
Law of South Korea
Korea, Republic of
1988 establishments in South Korea
Courts and tribunals established in 1988
Jongno District