[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# NATO bombing of Novi Sad

During the 1999 NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, aerial bombing was carried out against the second largest Yugoslav city of Novi Sad. According to NATO press releases, the bombing targeted oil refineries, roads, bridges, and telecommunications relay stations, facilities which had military uses. The bombing of the city caused great damage to local civilians, including severe pollution and widespread ecological damage as well as lasting consequences for the well-being of the population.

Chronology of the bombing

March 24: NATO bombed a storehouse of the police center in the industrial zone, as well as the "Motins" factory. 
April 1: The old Varadin Bridge on the Danube was destroyed by NATO bombs.
April 3: Liberty Bridge on the Danube was destroyed by NATO bombs. Seven civilians were injured. After the bridge was destroyed, the institute for cardio-vascular diseases in Sremska Kamenica lost its water supply.
April 5: NATO bombed the oil refinery in the industrial zone, as well as Žeželj Bridge on the Danube, which was damaged.
April 7: NATO bombed the oil refinery as well as the residential civilian quarter Vidovdansko Naselje where four civilians were injured and several houses damaged.
April 11: NATO bombed the military object "Majevica" in Jugovićevo.
April 13: NATO bombed the oil refinery.
April 15: NATO bombed the oil refinery and the military object "Majevica" in Jugovićevo.
April 18: NATO bombed the oil refinery which triggered a large fire and much smoke, which caused serious ecological damage. The building of the Government of the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina in the city centre was also hit by NATO bombs.
April 21: NATO bombed the oil refinery and Žeželj Bridge, as well as a bridge near Beška. 

April 22: NATO bombed Žeželj Bridge on the Danube.
April 23: NATO bombed a TV transmitter in the wider area of Novi Sad.
April 24: NATO bombed the oil refinery causing fire and smoke. Fruška Gora was also bombed.
April 26: NATO finally managed to destroy Žeželj Bridge, the last bridge on the Danube that the city had. 

April 27: NATO bombed the oil refinery and Fruška Gora.
April 29: NATO bombed the oil refinery and Fruška Gora.
May 1: NATO bombed the oil refinery causing large amounts of smoke that covered the city for several days. Fruška Gora was also bombed.
May 2: NATO bombed the northern suburbs of Novi Sad causing the city to lose its water supply and electricity.
May 3: NATO bombed the buildings of Novi Sad Television in Mišeluk as well as the northern suburbs of the city.
May 6: NATO bombed the military object "Majevica" in Jugovićevo as well as the civilian residential quarter Detelinara damaging residential buildings.
May 7: NATO bombed Iriški Venac and Brankovac on Fruška Gora.
May 8: NATO bombed the military object "Majevica" in Jugovićevo and Fruška Gora.
May 13: NATO bombed the buildings of the Novi Sad Television in Mišeluk. Its buildings were heavily damaged as well as neighbouring civilian residential houses. Fruška Gora was also bombed, as well as electric installations in Rimski Šančevi causing the city to lose electricity again.
May 15: NATO bombed Brankovac on Fruška Gora.
May 18: NATO bombed Fruška Gora.
May 20: NATO bombed Fruška Gora.
May 22: NATO bombed Fruška Gora including a TV tower on Iriški Venac.
May 23: NATO bombed Fruška Gora and electric installations in Rimski Šančevi.
May 24: NATO bombed the oil refinery causing smoke that again covered part of the city. Fruška Gora was also bombed.
May 26: NATO bombed buildings of the Novi Sad Television in Mišeluk, as well as Dunavski Kej (Danube Quay) near the city centre. Paragovo, Iriški Venac on Fruška Gora and a small barrack in Bukovac were also bombed.
May 29: NATO bombed buildings of the Novi Sad Television as well as the civilian residential quarter Ribnjak where two civilians were badly injured.
May 30: NATO bombed the civilian residential area in Sremska Kamenica where one child was badly injured and two civilian houses were destroyed. The civilian residential area Ribnjak was also bombed as well as buildings of the Novi Sad Television, a tunnel near the previously destroyed Liberty Bridge, a road near the entrance to Sremska Kamenica, part of Fruška Gora between Paragovo and Krušedol, and the northern vicinity of Novi Sad.
May 31: NATO bombed electric installations in Rimski Šančevi causing the city to lose its water supply and electricity. Fruška Gora was also bombed.
June 1: NATO bombed suburban settlements Čenej and Pejićevi Salaši, as well as Fruška Gora.
June 2: NATO bombed Fruška Gora.
June 4: NATO bombed Brankovac and Čot on Fruška Gora.
June 8 and 9: NATO bombed the oil refinery. One civilian was killed, while two civilians and one child were badly injured. The civilian residential quarter Šangaj was also bombed where one civilian was killed and several more civilians were injured, while several civilian houses were destroyed. Although these were the bloodiest days of the bombing, they were also the last.