[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jonathan Bornstein

representing the U.S. along with Benny Feilhaber, Kevin Friedland, Matt Reiswerg, and Leo Krupnik, winning a silver medal. He scored two goals in the team's quarterfinal win over South Africa.  Because of his Jewish lineage, he had an opportunity to play in Israel and not count as a foreign player.

Personal life
Bornstein was born in Torrance, California, and later lived in Los Alamitos, California.  His father is Jeff Bornstein, who is Jewish and was born in Torrance into an Orthodox family, and worked for Hostess until his death in 2014. His mother is from Mexico, and is not Jewish. Bornstein's parents divorced when he was three years old, and he lived with his father. His step-mother, Rochelle Bornstein, works as a deli supervisor and cashier at a grocery store in Long Beach, California. His father's family were Romanian Jews. Bornstein grew up observing Rosh Hashanah and Passover with relatives, and said of his experience representing the U.S. in the 2005 Maccabiah Games reinforcing his Jewish identity: "I was able to explore my Jewish identity in the Old City, at Masada, at the Dead Sea." In 2006 he said: "in the past couple years, I’ve felt more Jewish than ever." He found faith in Christianity when he met his wife, and was baptized, while in Mexico. He told ESPN, "Just experiencing both cultures, sometimes I felt like I didn't know where I belonged. It's still a soul-searching kind of thing, trying to figure out exactly where you come from or which heritage you relate to. I still kind of feel lost even to this day, but it's something that I just deal with, and it makes me a stronger person having both of those heritages."

His brother Andrew played soccer at Cal Poly Pomona, and is now a marketing director. He has a third brother, Taylor. His wife, Juliana, is from Brazil, and he has two daughters.

Career statistics

Club

International

International goals

Honors
UANL
Mexican Primera División: Apertura 2011

Querétaro
Copa MX: Apertura 2016
Supercopa MX: 2017

United States
CONCACAF Gold Cup: 2007

Individual
MLS Rookie of the Year: 2006
MLS Best XI: 2007
MLS All-Star: 2007, 2008
Inducted into the Southern California Jewish Sports Hall of Fame: 2008.

See also
List of select Jewish football (association; soccer) players

References

External links
 
 
 
 Jonathan Bornstein Stats and biography 
 

1984 births
Living people
American men's soccer players
Jewish American sportspeople
Jewish men's footballers
American sportspeople of Mexican descent
American people of Romanian-Jewish descent
California State Polytechnic University, Pomona alumni
Cal Poly Pomona Broncos men's soccer players
UCLA Bruins men's soccer players
Maccabiah Games medalists in football
Maccabiah Games silver medalists for the United States
Competitors at the 2005 Maccabiah Games
Chivas USA players
Tigres UANL footballers
Atlante F.C. footballers
Querétaro F.C. footballers
Maccabi Netanya F.C. players
Chicago Fire FC players
C.D.S. Vida players
United States men's international soccer players
Expatriate men's footballers in Mexico
Expatriate men's footballers in Honduras
Chivas USA draft picks
CONCACAF Gold Cup-winning players
2007 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
2007 Copa América players
2009 FIFA Confederations Cup players
2010 FIFA World Cup players
2011 CONCACAF Gold Cup players
Major League Soccer players
Major League Soccer All-Stars
Liga MX players
Liga Nacional de Fútbol Profesional de Honduras players
American expatriate sportspeople in Mexico
American expatriate sportspeople in Israel
American expatriate sportspeople in Honduras
Men's association football defenders
Israeli Premier League players
Israeli American
Israeli people of Romanian-Jewish descent
Sportspeople from Los Alamitos, California
Soccer players from Orange County, California
Soccer players from Torrance, California
21st-century American Jews
Los Alamitos High School alumni