[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fyodor Raskolnikov

rissa Reissner ended after their return from Afghanistan.

Literary career
In 1924-30, Raskolnikov worked in literature as editor-in-chief of the literary magazine Molodaya Gvardiya (Young Guard), that was an organ of the Komsomol, and head of the publishing house publishing house Moskovsky Rabochy 

He arrived at a time of an angry controversy within the communist party over whether Soviet journals should be publishing by writers from comfortable family backgrounds who sympathised with the revolution - the so-called 'fellow travelers' - or concentrating exclusively on developing 'proletarian literature'. When the press department of the Central Committee organised a debate between the two sides, in May 1924, Raskolnikov gave a speech which Leon Trotsky praised as "the most distinctive expression" of the 'proletarian' side of the argument, which Trotsky opposed. 

In June 1924, the Central Committee appointed him an editor of Krasnaya Nov, which had specialised in publishing the works of fellow travelers, under its incumbent chief editor, Aleksandr Voronsky. He delayed taking up the appointment because he had contracted tuberculosis, and went to Italy for a sun cure. After his return, Krasnaya Nov was filled with articles by advocates of proletarian literature, such Ilya Vardin, whom Voronsky had refused to publish. But Raskolnikov was ousted from the magazine early in 1925, possibly because Maxim Gorky had angrily refused to contribute while he was in charge. He was reinstated in May 1927.

In 1928 he was the chairman of the Repertory Committee, the de facto main censor of theatre and cinematography. He also wrote his own play Robespierre which even servile critics labelled "dry and boring".

Later diplomatic career 
From 1930 Raskolnikov was the plenipotentiary representative to Estonia 1930-33, and Denmark 1933-34. When diplomatic relations with Bulgaria were re-established in August 1934, after they had been severed since the Russian Revolution, Raskolnikov was appointed head of the diplomatic mission in Sofia.

Defection 
In March 1938 he was recalled from Sofia to the USSR, but on April 1 refused to return. He moved with his family in France. In 1939 he published his famous Open Letter to Stalin in which he criticized Stalin's repressions during the Great Terror and the emerging German-Soviet alliance. 

Not long after the signing of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, Raskolnikov was admitted to a mental hospital because the signing of the pact was a severe shock to him. He promptly died from "falling out of a window" while staying in the hospital. According to the writer Nina Berberova, Raskolnikov committed suicide. This account was contested by Raskolnikov's wife at the time, who claimed her husband died of pneumonia. 

According to the historian Roy Medvedev, Raskolnikov might have been assassinated by NKVD agents. There are theories that the assassin might have been Sergei Efron, the husband of the poet Marina Tsvetayeva.

Raskolnikov was posthumously rehabilitated in 1963. However, "Around the end of the decade his photographs disappeared from reference books, and editors mentioning him favourably were reprimanded or dismissed. Finally, in February 1969 the Party organ, Kommunist, categorised him as 'a deserter to the side of the enemy and a slanderer of the Party and the Soviet state'." His reputation would be restored during the Glasnost period, with the publication of his Open Letter to Stalin in the Soviet press.

See also
Kazan Operation
Death barge

References

External links
Tales of Sub-Lieutenant Ilyin
Kronstadt and Petrograd in 1917: the memoirs of Fyodor Raskolnikov
 

1892 births
1939 deaths
Diplomats from Saint Petersburg
People from Sankt-Peterburgsky Uyezd
Old Bolsheviks
Russian Constituent Assembly members
People of the Russian Revolution
Soviet admirals
Ambassadors of the Soviet Union to Afghanistan
Ambassadors of the Soviet Union to Denmark
Ambassadors of the Soviet Union to Bulgaria
Ambassadors of the Soviet Union to Estonia
Baltic Fleet
Soviet expatriates in Iran
Soviet rehabilitations
Russian revolutionaries
Soviet literary critics
Politicians from Saint Petersburg
Molodaya Gvardiya (magazine) editors