[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Oliver Twist (1922 film)

acks Monks down.  Monks confesses that Oliver is his long lost step brother, and the true heir to a vast fortune left by their late father.  Oliver forgives Monks and persuades Mr. Brownlow, who has become his guardian, not to turn him over to the police.  His quest for love has ended in fulfilment.

Cast
 Jackie Coogan as Oliver Twist
 Lon Chaney as Fagin
 Edouard Trebaol as The Artful Dodger
 George Siegmann as Bill Sikes
 Gladys Brockwell as Nancy
 James A. Marcus as Mr. Bumble
 Aggie Herring as Mrs. Corney
 Nelson McDowell as Mr. Sowerberry
 Lewis Sargent as Noah Claypole
 Joan Standing as Charlotte
 Carl Stockdale as Mr. Monks 
 Taylor Graves as Charley Bates
 Lionel Belmore as Mr. Brownlow
 Florence Hale as Mrs. Bedwin
 Joseph Hazelton as Mr. Grimwig
 Gertrude Claire as Mrs. Maylie
 Esther Ralston as Rose Maylie
 Eddie Boland as Toby Crackit

Film Preservation
The film was considered lost, until a print surfaced in Yugoslavia in 1973. The print lacked English language intertitles, which were subsequently restored by Blackhawk Films with the help of Jackie Coogan and Sol Lesser, more than 50 years after it was made.

When the film was originally released in 1922, it had a music score specially created for it by Vaughn De Leath. In the 1970s, a new musical score by John Muri was added to the restored print, and it was released in 1975 at a special screening at Filmex in Los Angeles. Prints can be found at Blackhawk Films, the UCLA Film and Television Archive and the Library of Congress. The film is readily available on DVD.

DVD Release
On June 30, 2009, a Region Free DVD of the movie was released by Alpha Video.

Critical Comments
"Director Lloyd deserves credit for the manner in which he has handled the production, in the sets, the selection of types and the preservation of the atmosphere of this novel...Jackie Coogan is ideal as Oliver Twist, and shows that he is a sterling little actor...Lon Chaney is fine as Fagin, though this role has been somewhat subordinated; his make-up and acting are exceptional." ---Moving Picture World

"Although there are a number of names with picture value in the supporting cast, there is hardly anything in their performance that stands out. They appear to be rather lacking when weighed against some of the stage characterizations that have been presented of the better known roles of the Dickens work. This is particularly true of the interpretation of Fagin presented by Lon Chaney and the Bill Sikes of George Siegmann." ---Variety

"Charming, delightful, thoroughly Dickens...(Fagin) was at times too theatrically portrayed by Lon Chaney. This is a picture that the entire industry can well be proud of." ---Film Daily

"The result is a motion picture thoroughly worthwhile and of very definite appeal...Lon Chaney who is these days adding rapidly to his fame as a real character genius, makes Fagin one of the most impressive of his gallery of portraits." ---Exhibitors Trade Review

"They've done a good job, an excellent job, with Dickens in the picturized Oliver Twist, and destined to keep the house full, if the crowds that packed the place yesterday mean anything. But whether it is Mr. Dickens or little Jackie Coogan that is drawing them in, of course, is a question. There's Fagin too, vividly present in the person of Lon Chaney." ---New York Times.

"The GREATEST FILM TRIUMPH of the DECADE. A MATCHLESS CAST of SCREEN CELEBRITIES SUPPORTING JACKIE in THIS, HIS FINEST ACHIEVEMENT. Starring the GREATEST BOY ACTOR in the WORLD!" ---The Wyoming County Times, N.Y.

See also
 List of rediscovered films

References

External links 

 
 
 
 
 poster for Oliver Twist
 Oliver Twist at Virtual History

1922 films
Films based on Oliver Twist
American silent feature films
American black-and-white films
Films directed by Frank Lloyd
Films about orphans
Articles containing video clips
First National Pictures films
1920s rediscovered films
Films produced by Sol Lesser
Films set in London
American historical drama films
1920s historical drama films
Rediscovered American films
1920s American films
Silent American drama films