[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# History of the Jews in Ohio

6).

Cleveland, Cincinnati, and Columbus

Today, roughly nine out of ten Ohio Jews live in the metropolitan areas of Cleveland, Cincinnati and Columbus, with community population estimates of 80,000 for Cleveland (as of 1996); 27,000 for Cincinnati (as of 2008); and 25,500 for Columbus (as of 2013).

These three cities are not only the most important numerically; they are the seats of the most prominent Jewish educational and charitable organizations and of the Jewish press of the state. Cleveland is home to the first Telshe Yeshiva in the United States, established in 1941 after the school was relocated out of Lithuania. In Cincinnati, the activity of Rabbi Isaac Mayer Wise and the founding of the Hebrew Union College there, as well as of the other major institutions of Reform Judaism such as the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, the Central Conference of American Rabbis, the Hebrew Sabbath-School Union, and the National Jewish Charities, made Ohio prominent in Jewish affairs nationally in the latter half of the 19th century. By the early 20th century, Cleveland, with its larger population swelled by immigration from eastern Europe, became the most prominent center for Jewish activities in the state. All of Ohio's statewide-elected Jewish politicians, most prominently U.S. Sen. Howard Metzenbaum, have hailed from the Cleveland area. By the end of the 20th century, Columbus was an increasingly important center of national Jewish prominence, driven by its population growth and by educational and cultural institutions such as Ohio State University's Melton Center and the Wexner Foundation.

See Jewish history in Cincinnati, Jews and Judaism in Cleveland and History of the Jews in Greater Columbus for further details.

References

External links

Cleveland Jewish History
Cleveland Jewish Directory
Ohio-Israel Cooperation at the Jewish Virtual Library
Central Ohio Histories at The Columbus Jewish Historical Society
The History of Jewish Cleveland – Teaching Cleveland Digital
Jstyle - Jewish Entertainment, Fashion, Lifestyle & News for Northeast Ohio's Jewish community

Jewish
Ohio
Jews and Judaism in Ohio