[Source: PubMed]

65. Front Psychiatry. 2024 Apr 10;15:1279887. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2024.1279887. 
eCollection 2024.

Long-term benefits to psychological health and well-being after ceremonial use 
of Ayahuasca in Middle Eastern and North African immigrants and refugees.

Lowe MX(1), Kettner H(2)(3), Jolly DRP(1), Carhart-Harris RL(2)(3), Jackson 
H(1).

Author information:
(1)Unlimited Sciences, Colorado Springs, CO, United States.
(2)Psychedelics Division, Neuroscape, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, CA, United States.
(3)Centre for Psychedelic Research, Imperial College London, London, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Refugees and immigrants can experience complex stressors from the 
process of immigration that can have lasting and severe long-term mental health 
consequences. Experiences after ayahuasca ingestion are shown to produce 
positive effects on psychological wellbeing and mental health, including 
anecdotal reports of improved symptoms of trauma and related disorders. However, 
data on the longitudinal health impact of naturalistic ayahuasca use in Middle 
Eastern and North African (MENA) immigrant and refugee populations is limited.
AIMS: The current longitudinal online survey study was conducted to gather 
prospective data on ceremonial ayahuasca use in a group (N = 15) of primarily 
female MENA immigrants and refugees and to provide further insight into the 
patterns and outcomes surrounding that use. The study sought to assess 
self-reported changes in physical and mental health, well-being, and 
psychological functioning, examine relationships between aspects of individual 
mindset (e.g., psychedelic preparedness) prior to ayahuasca use and observed 
outcomes during (e.g., subjective drug effects) and afterwards (i.e., persisting 
effects), characterize risks and negative experiences, and describe trauma 
exposure and personal history.
RESULTS/OUTCOMES: Our findings revealed ceremonial use of ayahuasca is 
associated with significant improvements in mental health, well-being, and 
psychological functioning, including reductions in depression, anxiety, and 
shame, and increases in cognitive reappraisal and self-compassion. Most 
participants reported no lasting adverse effects and experienced notable 
positive behavioral changes persisting months after ingestion.
CONCLUSION/INTERPRETATION: While preliminary, results suggest naturalistic 
ayahuasca use might hold therapeutic potential for MENA populations exposed to 
trauma prior to and during the process of migration.

Copyright © 2024 Lowe, Kettner, Jolly, Carhart-Harris and Jackson.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2024.1279887
PMCID: PMC11044680
PMID: 38666090

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that the research was 
conducted in the absence of any commercial or financial relationships that could 
be construed as a potential conflict of interest.