[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gunaa

and forcibly takes the doctor to the cave. Near the spot, both men are surrounded by numerous policemen led by Moovendhar; Gunaa accidentally shoots a policeman before retreating to the cave where the doctor treats Rohini. Moovendhar seeks more forces and issues a shoot-at-sight order against Gunaa.

Gunaa's kin including Ganesh, Manonmani, Rosy and Ramaiah reach the spot and tell Moovendhar not to kill Gunaa. Rosy enters the cave and requests Gunaa to return the gun which he does through Rosy while remaining inside. Moovendhar then orders Gunaa to surrender. Rohini informs Moovendhar that they are fine, coming out and decides to report SK's crimes. SK overhears this and, to hide his crimes, shoots Rohini. Infuriated, Gunaa kills him. When Gunaa returns, Rohini succumbs in his arms. Gunaa then angrily tells his kin that humans cannot understand his love for Abhirami, and jumps off the cliff with Rohini's corpse, coincidentally on a full moon day.

Cast 
 Kamal Haasan as Gunaa
 Rekha as Rosy
 Roshini as Rohini (Abhirami)
 Janagaraj as Chitappa
 S. P. Balasubrahmanyam as Ramaiah
 Girish Karnad as Ganesh
 Sharat Saxena as Suresh Kumar (SK)
 Pradeep Shakthi as Ismail
 Ananthu as Gunaa's cellmate
 Sethu Vinayagam as the doctor
 Ajay Rathnam as Moovendhar
 S. Varalakshmi as Manonmani
 Kaka Radhakrishnan as Madasami

Production

Development 
The director Sibi Malayil, cinematographer Venu and actor Kamal Haasan had planned to make a film set in Sri Lanka during a time of insurgency, written by Sab John. The trio met Cho Ramaswamy to learn more about the various issues in the country, but he criticised their desire to tell such a story, resulting in the project being dropped. John later told Haasan about a mentally-ill person nicknamed "Pottan" (Fool) who he knew in his childhood. This led to the development of a new screenplay, with the protagonist based partly on Pottan. By this time, Sibi Malayil was no longer available, resulting in Santhana Bharathi replacing him. The film was produced by Alamelu Subramaniam under Swathi Chithra International, and the dialogues were written by Balakumaran. Venu remained cinematographer, and editing was handled by B. Lenin and V. T. Vijayan. The film was originally titled Mathikettan Solai, but later retitled Gunaa after its protagonist due to belief that the original title, which relates to insanity, had negative connotations.

Casting and filming 
In portraying the title character, Haasan went on a diet and lost a substantial amount of weight, besides applying makeup to darken his complexion. For the scenes near the climax, his makeup included many cuts and burns on the face, along with the appearance of a protruding eye. Rohini Kudange, a student of Daisy Irani's acting classes was selected as the female lead Rohini / Abhirami, was given the screen name Roshini, and her voice was dubbed by actress Saritha. Gunaa was the only film she ever acted in. Haasan initially wanted Cochin Haneefa to play Suresh Kumar / S. K., a role that ultimately went to Sharat Saxena.

The pre-credit scene where Gunaa walks around in circles in an asylum with the camera following him was a shot in a single take after a day of rehearsing. The dilapidated church where Gunaa initially keeps Rohini captive was a set designed by art director Magie at a forest named Mathikettan Solai. The church resembled an old building built 70 years ago. The Kodaikanal caves which the film was shot in, including the song "Kanmani Anbodu Kadhalan", were then called Devil's Kitchen. Sathy who worked as production controller for the film revealed that "the cave was about 500 to 600 deep [..] we tied ropes with pulleys and transferred all the production equipments in and out of the 500 feet cave". Shooting took place for 45 days at the caves. According to Santhana Bharathi, Haasan insisted to have a dummy used for climax portions similar to his face and physique.

Themes