[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Simcha Zissel Ziv

Simcha Zissel Ziv Broida (; 1824–1898), also known as Simhah Zissel Ziv or the Alter of Kelm (the Elder of Kelm), was one of the foremost students of Yisrael Salanter and one of the early leaders of the Musar movement. He is best known as the founder and director of the Kelm Talmud Torah.

Early life
Simcha Zissel Ziv was born as Simcha Mordechai Ziskind Broida in 1824 in Kelmė. His father, Yisroel, belonged to the well-known Lithuanian Braude family. His mother, Chaya, was a descendant of Zvi Ashkenazi, "the Chacham Tzvi".  Chaya's family name was Ziv, and her son took on his mother's family name when he moved to Grobin in 1880.

Ziv married Sara Leah, the daughter of Mordechai of Vidzh, a small town near Kelm. Following his marriage he travelled to Kovno, where he studied under his foremost mentor, Yisrael Salanter, the founder of the Musar movement, at the Nevyozer Kloiz. Among the other outstanding students were Yitzchak Blazer, and Naftali Amsterdam. Ziv established himself as one of Salanter’s closest disciples and Ziv devoted his life to furthering Salanter’s teachings.

During this time, Salanter sent Ziv to Zhagory, to strengthen the Beis HaMusar (Musar study house), which had been established there. He also delivered lectures in the town of Kretinga.

At the time, Kalman Zev Wissotzky (who later became famous as a tea magnate) was another of Salanter’s students living in Zhagory. Wissotzky had studied in the Volozhin Yeshiva and had become very wealthy and had many connections within government circles. He was a great supporter and benefactor of many Jewish causes. When Wissotsky decided to move to Moscow, Salanter instructed Ziv to accompany him, out of concern that the move to Moscow might have a negative effect on Wissotzky’s spirituality. Ziv then moved to Moscow, where he lived for two years.

Following his time in Moscow, Ziv moved to St. Petersburg, then the largest city in Czarist Russia. After spending almost a year there, the communal leaders brought Ziv a signed document appointing him as their Rabbi. He was unwilling to accept the position, however, and proposed that his friend from the yeshiva in Kovno – Yitzchak Blazer – be appointed to the position.

Kelm Talmud Torah

Seeking to combat threats to traditional Judaism and to strengthen the cause of the Musar movement, Ziv decided to open a school in Kelm, the Kelm Talmud Torah. At the time, Ziv was almost forty years old.

The Talmud Torah opened in approximately 1865 and attracted young students, mainly thirteen and fourteen-year-olds. Ziv’s teacher – Yisrael Salanter – had taught Ziv the importance of Musar and so the Talmud Torah aimed not only to enhance its student’s Torah knowledge but also to shape their personalities and develop their character traits using the Musar approach. Indeed, much of daily study at the Talmud Torah focused on Musar, while comparatively little time was devoted to the conventional study of Talmud.

Ziv also introduced general subjects such as geography, mathematics, and Russian into the Talmud Torah curriculum.  These subjects were studied for three hours a day, which was unprecedented in traditional Lithuanian yeshivas. Ziv did not view general studies as a "necessary evil" but rather argued that such studies would encourage "better living" and "a better understanding of religious teachings as well."

In 1872, Ziv purchased a plot of land and erected a building for the Talmud Torah. A few years later, however, in 1876, the Talmud Torah was denounced to the authorities, who began to watch it closely and to hound it. Ziv decided to open elsewhere, and re-established in Grobin, in the Kurland province. He arranged for the purchase of a fine building, situated in a spacious yard. There was a main study hall, smaller rooms for classes, a dining room and dormitories.  The school in Grobin opened by 1880.

Ziv suffered from failing health which necessitated his spending long periods in his home, which was in Kelm. In 1881, he returned to Kelm, leaving his son, Nochum Zev Ziv to run the Talmud Torah in Grobin. Young men from Kelm and the surrounding areas flocked to study under Ziv and the town once again became a center of Musar.

From his home in Kelm, Ziv continued to play a role in the running of the Talmud Torah in Grobin. This, however, began to be too difficult and Ziv decided to close the yeshiva. He sent a member of his family to consult his teacher, Salanter, who was living in Germany at the time.

Salanter disagreed with the idea and the Talmud Torah remained open in Grobin until 1886. In that year, Ziv's health took a turn for the worse and his doctors warned him that there was real danger to his life if he continued making the effort that the running of the yeshiva in Grobin required. At this point, Ziv was forced to close the Talmud Torah in Grobin.