[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# 1993–94 in English football

by battling out it for a 3–3 draw at Sheffield Wednesday.

30 December 1993 – Lawrie McMenemy, Southampton manager from 1973 to 1985 and until last month assistant manager of the England team since 1990, returns to The Dell as Director of Football, working alongside under-fire manager Ian Branfoot.

31 December 1993 – The year draws to a close with Manchester United still top of the table with a 14-point lead over nearest rivals Blackburn Rovers, who have a game in hand. Leeds United, Arsenal and Newcastle United complete the top five, while at the other end of the table Swindon Town remain bottom with Oldham Athletic and Chelsea now out of the relegation zone at the expense of Southampton and Sheffield United. Crystal Palace are now leaders of Division One, with the other automatic promotion place currently being occupied by Tranmere Rovers. Charlton Athletic, Leicester City and Southend United complete the top six. Nottingham Forest are catching up with the leading pack and are now just one point and two places outside the playoff zone.

1 January 1994 - The new year begins with Manchester United still 12 points ahead at the top of the Premier League after a goalless draw at home to Leeds. Blackburn narrowly eat in their lead with a 1–0 win at Aston Villa. The key action in Division One includes a 4-2 for Bolton over Notts County at Burnden Park, while Millwall keep up their promotion push with a 3–0 home win over London rivals Crystal Palace and Southend United keep hold of their place in the top six with a 3–1 home win over Birmingham City.

3 January 1994 - Chelsea climb five points clear of the relegation zone with a 4–2 home win over Everton. Derby County keep their push for a playoff place on track with a 4–0 home win over Tranmere Rovers, who lose their place in the top two to Charlton, who win 2–1 at home to West Bromwich Albion.

4 January 1994 – After taking a 3–0 lead in the first half, Manchester United are held to a 3–3 draw by Liverpool in the league at Anfield.

5 January 1994 – It is reported in the media that the former Tottenham Hotspur manager Terry Venables will take over as manager of the England team.

8 January 1994 – The FA Cup third round sparks some major upsets. Bristol City hold Liverpool to a 1–1 draw, while an identical scoreline occurs for Everton at Bolton Wanderers. Queens Park Rangers are defeated by Stockport County, but the big shock comes when Division One Birmingham City lose 2–1 at home to Conference leaders Kidderminster Harriers. Chelsea were surprised to be held 0–0 at Stamford Bridge by Barnet, despite it being Barnet's 'home' tie. Barnet had been struggling at the bottom of the third tier for the entire season, having seen most of their squad and manager leave for Southend United, who they ironically knocked out of the season's League Cup. The match against Chelsea was billed as Hoddle vs Hoddle, as Glenn managed Chelsea, whilst his brother, Carl, had scored a Hoddlesque goal for Barnet versus Crawley Town in the 2nd Round.

11 January 1994 – Ian Branfoot resigns after two and a half years as manager of Southampton, with former England manager Graham Taylor rumoured to be on the shortlist of possible successors. Sheffield Wednesday beat Wimbledon 2–1 in the League Cup quarter-final. Terry Butcher sues Coventry City for £40,000 after his fourteen-month spell as player-manager was ended in January 1992.

12 January 1994 - Manchester United are held to a 2–2 draw in the League Cup quarter-final against Portsmouth at Old Trafford, with Paul Walsh scoring twice for Portsmouth to force a replay. Aston Villa beat Tottenham 2–1 at White Hart Lane in their quarter-final clash.

13 January 1994 – Alex Ferguson sells his son, midfielder Darren Ferguson, from Manchester United to Wolverhampton Wanderers for £250,000.

14 January 1994 – Mike Walker, the manager who took Norwich City to a club best of third place in the Premier League last season, departs Carrow Road to take over at Everton. Norwich announce that Walker's assistant, John Deehan will succeed him as manager with immediate effect, and that the club will be taking legal action against Everton for "tapping up" Walker.

15 January 1994 – Mike Walker starts on a high at Everton, guiding them to a 6–2 home win over Premier League basement club Swindon Town, in which Tony Cottee scores his second league hat-trick of the season. Aston Villa beat West Ham 3–1 at Villa Park and Liverpool win 3–0 at Oldham. In Division One, a relegation crunch game at Vicarage Road sees Watford beat Birmingham 5–2, with Paul Furlong scoring a hat-trick.

20 January 1994 –