[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Rasmus Lindgren

move to European clubs, including clubs from his homeland country.

Red Bull Salzburg

On 20 June 2011, it was announced that Lindgren would join Red Bull Salzburg on a two-year deal starting from the 2011–12 season. It came after when the Austrian club saw the necessity in him to rebuild the squad.

He made his debut for the club, starting the whole game, in a 4–1 win against Liepājas Metalurgs in the first leg of the UEFA Europa League Second Qualifying Round. Three days later on 17 July 2011, Lindgren made his league debut in the opening game of the season against Austria Wien, starting the whole game in defensive midfield position, winning 2–0. However, he missed the return of the UEFA Europa League Second Qualifying Round against Liepājas Metalurgs, due to a groin injury, as Red Bull Salzburg drew 0–0 to progress to the next round. Lindgren returned to the starting line–up against FC Wacker Innsbruck on 24 July 2011, only to be sent–off for the second bookable offence in the last game, as the club won 1–0. He played in both legs of the UEFA Europa League Play–Off Round against AC Omonia, as Red Bull Salzburg went through to the group stage following a 2–2 draw on aggregate, thanks to away goal. Since joining the club, Lindgren was involved in the first team, rotating in either playing in the defensive midfield position and centre–back position. Lindgren scored his first goal in a 4–0 win over SAK Klagenfurt in the second round of Austrian Cup on 21 September 2011. He later scored his second goal for the club, in a 2–2 draw against Admira Wacker Mödling on 24 March 2012. Lindgren then set up one of the goals for Red Bull Salzburg, as the club won 5–1 win against Admira Wacker Mödling on 13 May 2012, securing in winning the league. As the 2011–12 season progressed, he found himself out of the starting line–up, resulting in him being dropped to the substitute bench or injury concern and was even on the substitute bench, which saw Red Bull Salzburg winning the Austrian Cup. In his first season at the club, Lindgren went on to make thirty–four appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

At the start of the 2012–13 season, Lindgren made two appearances in all competitions for Red Bull Salzburg. However, he was in the club's squad, leading up to his departure from Red Bull Salzburg on 26 September 2012. It came after when Lindgren took legal action against the club. It was revealed that personal matters was another reason for his release. Lindgren later reflected about his departure from Red Bull Salzburg, saying: "A bunch of Germans came in, Ralf Rangnick took over as director of the club and a German coach came, it was a Dutch coach who took me there. If you have some connections to Holland and have played there, it is clear that it benefits you as a player. A bunch of Germans came in and replaced everything and sent down six men in the B-team, they told me that I had one year left on the contract and that they wanted to invest entirely in young players. Okay, I thought. It turned out that you were not allowed to do that as a club. I heard from the players' association, you were not allowed to do that. Then they contacted the club and said that they could either buy me out or put me in the A-team again. Then they chose to buy me out in the autumn."

Return to Groningen
In late November, it was announced that Lindgren would make a return to the Netherlands, re-joining FC Groningen on a three-year deal, though he was unable to make his debut until January.

After the move, Lindgren said he was pleased to make his return to Groningen, though he is keen to make a return to Scandinavia. Having been unveiled, Lindgren started training with the club and new teammates.

On 20 January 2013, he made his second debut in FC Groningen's starting line-up, playing 83 minutes before being substituted, in a 2–0 loss to Utrecht. After the match, Lindgren said he was disappointed with his comeback match. Since re–joining the club, Lindgren established himself in the first team, playing in the defensive midfield position. FC Groningen finished in seventh place, albeit 19 points behind Twente whom they faced in the play-offs. He played in both legs of the play–offs against the opposition team, as the club lost 4–2 on aggregate, resulting in FC Groningen would not qualify for the Europa League next season. Despite missing two matches through suspension later in the 2012–13 season, Lindgren went on to make sixteen appearances in all competitions.