[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 92nd Illinois Infantry Regiment

of the Cumberland on 26 January 1863.

In February, the command moved to Franklin, Tennessee, and was engaged in the pursuit of the rebel Gen. Van Dorn. This culminated in the regiment's participation in the 10 April 1863 defeat of Van Dorn at the Battle of Franklin.

Conversion to mounted infantry 

As part of the Tullahoma Campaign, it advanced to Murfreesboro, skirmished around Guy's Gap, and occupied Shelbyville, 27 June. On 1 July, the conflict between Colonel Atkins and Major General Granger ruptured, On 3 July, the regiment detached from Granger's  brigade, marched to Wartrace, and was engaged in rebuilding a wagon-bridge over Duck River from 5–6 July. At this time, Colonel Wilder first came into contact with the regiment. Lieutenant Colonel Sheets and the 92nd impressed him. Wilder and the officers of the 92nd discussed the possibility of the 92nd joining Wilder's brigade. Wilder suggested the transfer, and Atkins submitted a request for the 92nd to join Brigadier General John T. Wilder's Lightning Brigade.

The requested transfer came through on July 10, 1863, the Regiment was detached from General Granger's Corps and assigned a place in Brigadier General John T. Wilder's Lightning Brigade, where it remained while Gen. Rosecrans had command. On 19 July the regiment joined Wilder's brigade while it was in Decherd, Tennessee. When Colonel Atkins heard that the 92nd was mounting and rearming with Colonel Wilder, he got approval from Rosecrans to resign his post as a brigade commander to rejoin the 92nd as its commander again.

With the transfer, the 92nd Illinois Infantry converted to mounted infantry. Finding mounts for it became the brigade's priority. The brigade conducted two foraging expeditions, one in early July and one in mid July to round up horses for Atkins's men. Atkins needed to rapidly mount the soldiers of the regiment in order to serve as mounted infantry. From 22 to 26 July, a detachment of 200 men of the regiment accompanied by the 98th Illinois captured 1700 horses and mules and liberated 800 slaves who were quickly mustered into a black regiment in Nashville. There were enough horses taken to mount the regiment.

The next task was to rearm with Spencer rifles. On August 1, all the Spencers not in use in the other regiments of the brigade were turned over to the 92nd, enough to completely arm three companies, D, E and F. The remaining companies had a handful of Spencer rifles, and a mix of breech-loading carbines (including Spencers) and some of their originally issued Enfield muzzle-loaders.

As they converted to mounted infantry under the guidance of Wilder and others in the brigade, they took to the Spencer finding it a superior weapon that permitted them to take on an enemy that outnumbered them with confidence. COL Atkins expressed their appreciation for their new weapon saying, "The Spencer rifles made the sweetest music that was heard during the war for the Union." Also, the rapidity of movement afforded by their mounts gave them a rapid response ability that could take and maintain the initiative from the rebels. The 92nd completed its mounting, equipping, and training in five weeks; something the rest of the brigade took four months to accomplish.

Deception at Chattanooga 

By the middle of August, the 92nd was ready for operations. Rosecrans sent the brigade to General Crittenden's XXI Corps to conduct deception operations along the bank north of the Tennessee River at Chattanooga. In company with William B. Hazen's infantry, George D. Wagner's, and Robert H. G. Minty's cavalry brigade, their mission was to sprint ahead of Crittenden's Corps to the Tennessee River, and visibly show its presence to the Confederate cavalry screening the south bank.  The remainder of the corps would spread out across the Cumberland Plateau heading north of Chattanooga, while the Rosecrans' other two corps crossed the river below Chattanooga and Bragg. Once the other corps were safely across the river, the XXI Corps would fall in behind them leaving the four brigades to keep Bragg focused across the river to the north bank. The four brigades would patrol the river, make as much noise as possible, and feign river crossing operations north of the city. That was what Bragg feared most feared, a crossing north of Chattanooga. This was all part of Rosecrans plan to take Chattanooga by maneuver versus pitched battle.