[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Macau Special Administrative Region passport

as the 36th most powerful passport worldwide; in contrast, the Hong Kong SAR passport was ranked 19th, while the PRC passport was ranked 74th.

As Chinese citizens, holders of a Macau Special Administrative Region passport are entitled to full consular protection by Chinese foreign missions abroad.

Macau SAR passport holders may undertake a paid activity (i.e. work) visa-free for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period in the Schengen Agreement signatory states of Belgium, Denmark, Iceland, Lithuania, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Norway, Slovenia and Sweden (though not in Portugal).  In Switzerland, another Schengen signatory state, Macao SAR passport holders can apply for a permit for "gainful occupation" of maximum 8 days in a calendar year during their visa-exempt stay without needing to apply for a work visa; however, this 8-day exemption does not cover occupation in the primary or secondary construction industry, civil engineering, catering and hotel services, industrial and private cleaning industries, surveillance and security services, and sex industry. Alternatively, if in possession of a long term residence permit issued by any other Schengen member state, a Macau SAR passport holder may undertake gainful occupation for up to 3 months visa-free in Switzerland without any of the aforementioned industry restrictions. In Croatia (a European Union member state but not a Schengen agreement signatory state), Macao SAR passport holders may undertake a paid activity (i.e. work) visa-free for a maximum of 90 days within a 180-day period.

Macau SAR passport holders aged between 18 and 30 are eligible to apply under the Working Holiday Scheme by the New Zealand Government.  If successful, a visa is issued which permits the holder to spend up to 12 months in New Zealand for the primary purpose of travel but allowing for supplementary short-term employment or study. The scheme is highly competitive as applicants from Macau and Mainland China are subject to a quota of 1000 visas annually (there is a separate quota for Hong Kong applicants).

On 10 April 2013, the Prime Minister of Australia, Julia Gillard, announced that, starting from 2015, holders of Macao SAR e-passports (along with Hong Kong SAR and PRC passport holders) would be able to use SmartGates in Australia on a trial basis. The three passports were permanently included in the list of eligible nationalities in June 2016.

See also 

 Portuguese passport
 Portuguese nationality law
 Macao Special Administrative Region Travel Permit
 Visit Permit for Residents of Macao to HKSAR
 Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport
 Chinese nationality law
 Mainland Travel Permit for Hong Kong and Macao Residents
 Mainland Travel Permit for Taiwan Residents
 Hong Kong Special Administrative Region passport
 Visa requirements for Chinese citizens of Macau

References

External links 
 Macau SAR Identification Department
 Macau SAR Government Portal

Chinese passports
Government of Macau
Tourism in Macau
Society of Macau