[Source: PubMed]

12. Eur J Pain. 2025 Jul;29(6):e70075. doi: 10.1002/ejp.70075.

Physical and Mental Health of Fibromyalgia Patients Following October 7th Attack 
and the Ensuing Military Conflict: A Cross-Sectional Analysis.

Aloush V(1), Gurfinkel A(2), Ablin JN(3), Elkana O(2).

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine A, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center and School of Medicine, 
Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel.
(2)Behavioral Sciences, Academic College of TelAviv-Yaffo, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(3)Internal Medicine H, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center and School of Medicine, 
Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv-Yafo, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Fibromyalgia symptoms can be exacerbated by acute or chronic stress. 
Although military conflicts have been associated with increased rates of PTSD 
and fibromyalgia in military personnel, civilian populations exposed to such 
conflicts are also at a higher risk of chronic pain and somatic symptoms.
AIM: This study aims to assess the physical and mental health of fibromyalgia 
patients in Israel following the October 7th attacks and to identify key risk 
and protective factors.
METHODS: An online survey conducted in January 2024 gathered data from 
fibromyalgia patients across Israel, a population exposed to intense 
conflict-related stressors, including missile attacks, mass evacuations and 
widespread military mobilisation. The survey addressed demographics, health 
behaviours, access to medical services, anxiety, depression, coping mechanisms, 
social support and fibromyalgia-specific indices like the Widespread Pain Index 
(WPI) and Symptom Severity Scale (SSS).
RESULTS: Among 246 respondents, nearly 70% ceased complementary treatments and 
psychotherapy, and 83.3% reduced or stopped physical exercise. These patients 
reported heightened pain, anxiety, depression and perceived deterioration. 
Strong correlations were found between higher anxiety/depression levels and 
increased pain and somatic symptoms (p < 0.01). Social support was associated 
with reduced anxiety and depression but not pain. Positive life orientation was 
linked to lower pain, somatic symptoms and mental distress (p < 0.05). Avoidant 
coping strategies worsened outcomes, whereas problem-focused coping and 
acceptance had protective effects.
CONCLUSION: The war has negatively affected the mental and physical health of 
fibromyalgia patients. Cessation of physical activity and therapy may 
contribute, whereas positive coping and life orientation can offer protection.
SIGNIFICANCE: This study is the first to comprehensively examine the wellness of 
fibromyalgia patients during the war in Israel, highlighting the profound mental 
and physical deterioration in this population. By identifying key risk factors, 
such as cessation of physical activity and psychotherapy, and protective factors 
like positive coping strategies and life orientation, this work significantly 
advances our understanding of how acute conflict-related stress exacerbates 
chronic pain conditions and provides critical insights for clinicians to support 
vulnerable populations in conflict zones.

© 2025 The Author(s). European Journal of Pain published by John Wiley & Sons 
Ltd on behalf of European Pain Federation ‐ EFIC ®.

DOI: 10.1002/ejp.70075
PMCID: PMC12238695
PMID: 40629528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.