[Source: PubMed]

21. Vaccine. 2026 Mar 19;76:128273. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2026.128273. Epub 2026
 Feb 14.

Pathways to economically viable and sustainable vaccine manufacturing in LMICs.

Helble M(1), Nannei C(2), Friede M(3), Nicholson MW(4).

Author information:
(1)Science for Health Department, Science Division, World Health Organization, 
Avenue Appia 20, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
helblem@who.int.
(2)Product Development and Manufacturing Team, Health Systems, Access and Data 
Division, World Health Organization, Avenue Appia 20, 1211 Geneva 27, 
Switzerland. Electronic address: nanneic@who.int.
(3)Medicines Patent Pool, Rue de Varembé 7, 1202 Geneva, Switzerland. Electronic 
address: mfriede@medicinespatentpool.org.
(4)Product Development and Manufacturing Team, Health Systems, Access and Data 
Division, World Health Organization, Avenue Appia 20, 1211 Geneva 27, 
Switzerland & UK-SEA Vax Hub, School of Chemical, Materials and Biological 
Engineering, Sir Robert Hadfield Building, The University of Sheffield, Mappin 
Street, Sheffield, S1 3JD, UK. Electronic address: nicholsonm@who.int.

In an effort to improve pandemic preparedness and health security, many low- and 
middle-income countries (LMICs) have launched initiatives to expand regional 
vaccine manufacturing. A number of elements relating to vaccine markets, 
production, value chains, and ecosystems significantly impact the ability to 
generate economically viable and sustainable vaccine manufacturing in LMICs. 
This paper provides an overview of vaccine manufacturing characteristics and 
global vaccine markets dynamics. Establishing vaccine manufacturing is a complex 
undertaking due to a variety of factors including intense competition, 
associated uncertainty regarding the ability to capture market share and 
substantial capital investment requirements. Substantive government commitment 
and investment are essential to ensure new local entrants compete successfully. 
In the medium to long run, the role of government should shift from supporting 
individual firms to strengthening local science ecosystems as this bolsters 
economic sustainability in three ways. First, investment in science promotes 
technological advances which can reduce production costs, e.g., through process 
innovations for vaccine manufacturing. Second, strong science ecosystems help to 
address the skills gap faced by manufacturers. And third, strong science 
ecosystems enable research and development of new vaccines that address local 
unmet needs and open new markets. Furthermore, developing a regional approach to 
vaccine manufacturing and procurement, with associated regulatory harmonization, 
is crucial to achieving economically viable and distributed vaccine 
manufacturing. Importantly, investment in research and development and fostering 
of regional collaborations drives innovation, feeding into new product discovery 
and consequently a strong pipeline of new vaccine products, driving economically 
sustainable regional vaccine manufacturing. This offers the potential to prevent 
endemic infectious diseases with significant socioeconomic and health burden or 
to develop therapeutic vaccines, generating regular interpandemic demand for 
regional vaccine manufacturers, consequently sustaining capacity retention and 
associated pandemic preparedness.

Copyright © 2026. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2026.128273
PMCID: PMC13046490
PMID: 41692648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of competing interest The authors 
declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal 
relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this 
paper.