[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of Battle Angel Alita characters

ompetitive, which resulted in a side effect called "Terminal Frost" which forced his eventual retirement.  The relationship between the two is cordial, but deep down Ed still seeks to surpass Jashugan, and tries to do this vicariously through Alita after he becomes her manager years later in ES 578.

Jashugan paid a high price for his brain reconstruction as a side effect has been the constant risk of death, and he has suffered an increasing series of spasmatic attacks that have caused his heart rate to flatline.  He has recovered from these attacks on his own in the past, but during a race that is watched by Daisuke Ido, Shumira, Alita and Ed, he is forced to pit by one of these attacks, it takes Ido's intervention to save his life.  After this, Jashugan knows that his death is near, but cannot reconcile himself to his "absolute death".

Jashugan is a master of the Maschine Klatsch, a formidable cyborg martial art of which he is the only practitioner of following the death of his master shortly before his own death.  He is also adept at focusing his chi, which enables him to concentrate a lot of power into even a normal civilian cyborg body and defeat opponents in powered-up cyborg bodies.  After Ed's retirement, no other Motorball player can match him in combat except for Alita and her Panzer Kunst.  Jashugan is so good that when he races, he must handicap himself by removing his right arm and face three-man challenge teams.  His Motorball body has two grinders built into each arm capable of rotating at high speeds, which increases the deadliness of his Maschine Klatsch as they can tear through cyborg armor and dismember opposing players.  Nonetheless, his flatline attacks have resulted in him participating in fewer races over time.

After she meets Jashugan, Alita challenges him to an arm wrestling match with her heart literally as the stakes.  The match appears to end as a draw, during which Jashugan calls stop after overloading 80% of Alita's arm actuators, but Jashugan afterwards drops his arm and notes that he would have lost had it gone on for longer.  To save Alita face, he proposes that they meet again on the Motorball circuit on the condition that she assemble a challenge team of at least five members including herself.  Knowing that he is close to death, the match is the one thing that he has to look forward to in order to fight for Shumira and uphold his honor as champion.  Prior to the race, Ido, hired as Jashugan's personal tuner, prepared a direct interface so he could transmit Shumira's brainwaves to Jashugan's brain if necessary should he suffer another flatline as a contingency, a measure he took that saved Jashugan before. Jashugan nullifies this however, by administering a sedative to his younger sister, setting himself up for a deathmatch with Alita.

During the challenge race, Jashugan rips through Alita's teammates in seconds, leaving the two of them alone to fight it out.  Trading blow for blow, Jashugan nearly has Alita at one point, but she is saved by Tiegel (Alita's clumsiest teammates, who manages to distract Jashugan for a few seconds).  In the final moments of their battle, right when he's about to win, Jashugan suffers a flatline attack and becomes unable to move.  Alita then deals him a killing blow, however, Jashugan's fighting spirit is so strong that he manages to reanimate his "dead" body through raw chi power.  He stands up, attacks Alita and completely defeats her before "dying" for good.  However, as the rule of the game is 'last man standing', Alita becomes the new champion after Jashugan's death.

The side story "Sonic Finger" shows Alita and Jashugan's fight on TV and reveals that Alita has a poster of Jashugan on her apartment wall which she greets each morning when she is living on her own after retiring from Motorball.  Twelve years after their match when Alita infiltrates Desty Nova's hideout, the Granite Inn, in search of Nova, she encounters Jashugan in a dream sequence when she is trapped by Nova's Ouroboros program. Forced to confront her inner doubts and fears, Alita fights Jashugan again and, this time, defeats him. He congratulates her and encourages her to "aspire to reach heights I was unable to attain". Alita's victory enables her to break out of the Ouroboros and confront Nova. Kishiro has said of this second fight that Alita and Jashugan "had to confront each other again", as "many things had not been said" during their first fight.  Jashugan has also appeared in Alita's thoughts in Last Order, when she was fighting Caerula Sanguis.