[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George W. Morgan

uently led the XIII Corps force that captured Fort Hindman in Arkansas. His health having deteriorated from the lengthy campaigning, and dissatisfied with the use of black troops, Morgan resigned his commission on June 8, 1863, and returned to Ohio and civilian life.

Later life and political career

While strongly in favor of maintaining the Union at any cost, Morgan was equally opposed to any governmental interference with the state institution of the South, slavery, and believed that the Federal government had no legal right to abolish the practice. Morgan campaigned in Ohio for former army general George B. McClellan in the 1864 Presidential Election. In 1865 he was the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for Governor of Ohio, being defeated by his former commander in the Kanawha Valley, Jacob D. Cox.

Nonetheless, he continued to pursue a political career, and in 1866 was elected to the Fortieth United States Congress from Ohio's 13th District, serving on the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There, he voted against the impeachment of President Andrew Johnson. Two years later, he appeared to have won reelection. However, his seat was contested by the defeated Republican candidate, Columbus Delano, who supplanted him on June 3, 1868. Not deterred, Morgan campaigned again in 1870 and was elected to another term, holding his Congressional seat until 1873, serving on the committees on foreign affairs, military affairs, and reconstruction. He was an outspoken critic of the administration's harsh policies on Reconstruction and constantly battled with the Radical Republicans. Morgan ran for Speaker of the United States House of Representatives, but was defeated by James G. Blaine.

Retirement and death 
Following his retirement from Congress, Morgan was a delegate-at-large to the 1876 Democratic National Convention in St. Louis.

He died at Fort Monroe, Virginia on July 26, 1893, the last surviving general of the Mexican-American War. He was buried in Mound View Cemetery in Mount Vernon, Ohio.

See also

 List of American Civil War generals (Union)
 List of Ohio's American Civil War generals

Notes

References
 Handbook of Texas Online
 Kentucky Historical Society - roadside markers for Morgan's Retreat 
 Newark, Ohio, Daily Advocate, August 18, 1900.
 

Attribution

Further reading
 Asbury, Samuel E., ed., "Extracts from the Reminiscences of General George W. Morgan," Southwestern Historical Quarterly 30 (January 1927).

External links
 
 Retrieved on 2008-08-13
 Smithsonian Institution collection - photo of Morgan's Mexican-American War flintlock pistol
 

1820 births
1893 deaths
Politicians from Washington County, Pennsylvania
Washington & Jefferson College alumni
People of Ohio in the American Civil War
American military personnel of the Mexican–American War
People of the Texas Revolution
Union Army generals
People from Mount Vernon, Ohio
County district attorneys in Ohio
19th-century American diplomats
19th-century American politicians
Ambassadors of the United States to Portugal
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Ohio
Military personnel from Pennsylvania