[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Alberto J. Mora

and moreover I believe [the General Counsel of the Defense Department] disagrees." Mora evaluated the work being prepared by the Working Group as containing "profound mistakes in its legal analysis" and as "unacceptable". Mora met with DOD General Counsel Haynes who disagreed with Mora's arguments.

Walker invited the author of the OLC memo, John Yoo, to meet with the senior DOD lawyers, both uniformed and civilian at the Pentagon, which Yoo did twice, explaining the cases in detail and the president's authority and responding to all questions. Mora met with Yoo, who defended the Justice Department's legal analysis, and told Mora the president had the authority to order the application of torture, not that he should but that the commander in chief had the authority to do so for the safety of the nation. Mora then met with Haynes, and advised him of his opinion that the Working Group's legal analysis, taken from the Department of Justice legal memorandum, was flawed, and should be put in a drawer and "never... see the light of day again." The Working Group never relied upon the extreme power of the commander in chief as the additional techniques they recommended did not approach what could be construed as torture. The Working Group voted unanimously to send forth the recommended techniques to Secretary Rumsfeld, who adopted the majority of them. The Administration later asked the Justice Department to review the adopted techniques, which they did, finding them consistent with law. John Yoo did not participate in the later analysis.

Aftermath
After that, Mora never saw a final report of the Working Group, and assumed that it had been abandoned. He learned otherwise only in May 2004, when he heard it referenced in televised reports on the Abu Ghraib scandal, and received confirmation from the deputy general counsel of the Air Force that a final draft of the Working Group's report had been signed out and delivered to the Joint Task Force Guantanamo commander, Major General Geoffrey Miller, who had also been subsequently sent to Abu Ghraib to "Gitmo-ize" it. Mora is a senior fellow at the Carr Center for Human Rights of the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.

For his efforts, Mora was honored with the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage Award in 2006, which is administered by the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation.

References

External links

How the Pentagon Came to Adopt Criminal Abuse as Official Policy, Law professor Marty Lederman, February 20, 2006
Guantanamo List Details Approved Interrogation Methods, The Washington Post, June 10, 2004
U.S. Struggled Over How Far to Push Tactics, The Washington Post, June 24, 2004
Documents Helped Sow Abuse, Army Report Finds, The Washington Post, August 30, 2004
Tribunals Didn't Rely on Torture, Letter to the editor by Alberto J. Mora, The Washington Post, December 13, 2004
Human Rights First; Tortured Justice: Using Coerced Evidence to Prosecute Terrorist Suspects (2008)
Human Rights First; Undue Process: An Examination of Detention and Trials of Bagram Detainees in Afghanistan in April 2009 (2009)

1952 births
Living people
Lawyers from Boston
Cuban emigrants to the United States
American people of Hungarian descent
Swarthmore College alumni
University of Miami School of Law alumni
Lawyers from Jackson, Mississippi
American human rights activists
Activists from Mississippi
George W. Bush administration personnel
George H. W. Bush administration personnel
General Counsels of the United States Navy
Massachusetts Republicans
American politicians of Cuban descent