[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# List of fascist movements

and Lindholm, attended a major rally of the German Nazi party, at Nuremberg. Afterwards, the SFF was more strongly influenced by Nazism and changed its name to Sveriges Nationalsocialistiska Folkparti (SNF; Swedish National Socialist People's Party). The SNF was one of several Swedish Nazi parties.

United Kingdom (1932–1940)
Sir Oswald Mosley, an admirer of Mussolini, established the British Union of Fascists in 1932 as a nationalist alternative to the three mainstream political parties in Britain. Though the BUF achieved only limited success in some local elections, their existence caused frequent riots, usually instigated by Communist movements. Alarmed at the violence caused by the BUF, the government passed the Public Order Act in 1936 to restrict its activity. During the latter years of the decade, the party experienced a revival in popularity on the back of its anti-war campaign. The BUF was banned in 1940 and Mosley was interned for the duration of the war. The relative stability of democratic institutions, the long-time assimilation of Jews, and the lack of a strong, threatening Communist movement, had made it difficult for fascism to succeed in Britain.

United States (1933–1941)
Louisiana governor and politician Huey Long built a powerful state machine and at the time of his assassination in 1935 was building a national following. Writers on the far left and far right did call him a fascist. Some historians reject the designation.

In the late 1930s some pro-German organizations seemed comfortable with fascist ideals. The Silver Legion of America (1933-1941), claiming around 15,000 members, managed to run a candidate for President on a third-party ticket, but was outlawed after Nazi Germany's declaration of war on the United States in late 1941. The German-American Bund openly supported Nazi Germany, and, like the Silver Legion, was banned during World War Two. Charles Coughlin, a Roman Catholic priest, used his nationally syndicated radio show to promote anti-Semitic and pro-fascist views.

See also

 Anti-fascism
 Anti-Fascist Action
 Antifa (United States)
 Anti-racism
 Anti-Racist Action
 Antisemitism
 Clerical fascism
 Ecofascism
 Ethnic nationalism
 Far-right politics
 Far-right subcultures
 Fascism and ideology
 Fascism in Asia
 Fascism in Europe
 Fascism in North America
 Fascism in South America
 Fascist International
 Geography of antisemitism
 Grand Council of Fascism
 List of fascist movements by country
 List of Ku Klux Klan organizations
 List of neo-Nazi organizations
 List of organizations designated by the Southern Poverty Law Center as hate groups
 List of white nationalist organizations
 Neo-Confederates
 Neo-fascism
 Neo-Nazism
 Racial nationalism
 Racism
 Racism by country
 Radical right (Europe)
 Radical right (United States)
 Religious terrorism
 Right-wing politics
 Right-wing populism
 Right-wing terrorism
 White nationalism
 White supremacy

Notes

Cited sources
 
 

Further reading

General
 Atkins, Stephen E. Encyclopedia of modern worldwide extremists and extremist groups (Greenwood, 2004).
 Blamires, Cyprian, ed. World fascism: a historical encyclopedia(Abc-Clio, 2006).
 Blinkhorn, Martin. Fascism and the Right in Europe 1919-1945 ( Routledge, 2014).
 Davies, Peter, and Derek Lynch, eds. The Routledge companion to fascism and the far right (Routledge, 2005). excerpt
 Davies, Peter J., and Paul Jackson. The far right in Europe: an encyclopedia (Greenwood, 2008). excerpt and list of movements
Eatwell, Roger. 1996. Fascism: A History. New York: Allen Lane.
 Finchelstein, Federico. Transatlantic fascism: ideology, violence, and the sacred in Argentina and Italy, 1919-1945 (Duke UJP,  2009).
 
 
 
 
 Larsen, Stein Ugelvik, ed. Fascism outside Europe: the European impulse against domestic conditions in the diffusion of global fascism (East European Monographs, 2001).
Mises, Ludwig von. 1944. Omnipotent Government: The Rise of the Total State and Total War. Grove City: Libertarian Press.
 Morgan, Philip. Fascism in Europe, 1919–1945 (2003).
Paxton, Robert O. 2004. The Anatomy of Fascism. New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 
Payne, Stanley G. 1995. A History of Fascism, 1914–45. Madison, Wisc.: University of Wisconsin Press 
 Petropoulos, Jonathan,  "Co-Opting Nazi Germany: Neutrality in Europe During World War II." Dimensions 14.1 (2000): 13+. excerpt
Reich, Wilhelm. 1970. The Mass Psychology of Fascism. New York: Farrar, Straus & Giroux.