[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Andokides (vase painter)

the Andokides Painter painted the red-figure pictures and another artist, who he named the Lysippides Painter, produced the black-figure pictures. Many scholars, however, have resisted this conclusion and question whether the Andokides Painter and the Lysippides Painter are in fact one and the same.

The uncertainty surrounding the issue was convincingly dispelled, however, through studies undertaken by Beth Cohen and Elizabeth Simpson. Beth Cohen in her publication Attic Bilingual Vases and Their Painters, produced a definitive study of the bilingual vase form. She closely observed certain details, drawing styles, themes, compositions, and preferences in order to establish artistic personalities, a chronology of the vases, and the relationship of the scenes to one another. Her conclusions demonstrated that the Lysippides Painter and the Andokides Painter were distinct, that shared details among the paintings were the result of collaboration, and that the black-figure images were a self-contained corpus that was not produced by the painter of the red-figure scenes. Elizabeth Simpson in her article "The Andokides Painter and Greek Carpentry"  further settled the debate by demonstrating a key difference between the painters of the red-figure and black-figure images on vase Munich 2301. In each, the hero Herakles is shown reclining on a Greek couch or kline. How the couch is depicted reveals an essential difference between the renderings. In the red-figure painting, details of the couch indicate the Andokides Painter had a thorough working knowledge of carpentry practices: tenons and rails are accurately depicted, conforming to woodworking practices and known ancient forms. The black-figure scene, however, lacks the same precision and accuracy. Rails and tenons are depicted in inappropriate locations, resulting in a construction that would not have been structurally sound. A small table also included in the scene shows the same disparities. This discrepancy clearly indicates two artistic personalities at work: one who had an understanding of carpentry and furniture construction, and one who did not.

Works

See also
 List of Greek vase painters

References

Beazley, John D. Attic Red-Figure Vase-Painters. 2nd ed. Oxford: Clarendon Press, 1963.
Boardman, John. Athenian Red Figure Vases: The Archaic Period. London: Thames & Hudson, 1975.
Boardman, John. The History of Greek Vases: Potters, Painters and Pictures. London: Thames & Hudson, 2001.
Cohen, Beth. Attic Bilingual Vases and Their Painters. New York: Garland Publishing, 1978.
Hurwit, Jeffrey M. The Art and Culture of Early Greece, 1100-480 B.C. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press, 2009.
Simpson, Elizabeth.  In Essays in Honor of Dietrich von Bothmer. Edited by Andrew J. Clark and Jasper Gaunt, 303-16. Amsterdam: Allard Pierson Museum, 2002. 
von Bothmer, Dietrich. "Andokides the Potter and Andokides the Painter." The Metropolitan Museum of Art Bulletin 25 (1966): 201-12.

6th-century BC deaths
Ancient Greek vase painters
Anonymous artists of antiquity
Year of birth unknown