[Source: PubMed]

9. Disaster Med Public Health Prep. 2024 Jun 3;18:e95. doi: 10.1017/dmp.2024.68.

Helping the Helpers: Mental Health Challenges of Psychosocial Support Workers 
During the Russian-Ukrainian War.

Kang H(1), Fischer IC(2)(3), Esterlis I(2)(3)(4), Kolyshkina A(5), Ponomarenko 
L(5), Chobanian A(5), Vus V(6)(7), Pietrzak RH(1)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Yale School of Public Health, 
New Haven, CT, USA.
(2)US Department of Veterans Affairs National Center for PTSD, VA Connecticut 
Healthcare System, West Haven, CT, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA.
(4)Department of Psychology, Yale University, New Haven, CT, USA.
(5)Sumy State Pedagogical University named after AS Makarenko, Sumy, Ukraine.
(6)Laboratory of Small Group Psychology, Institute of Social and Political 
Psychology, Kyiv, Ukraine.
(7)International Platform on Mental Health, Kyiv, Ukraine.

OBJECTIVE: The ongoing Russian-Ukrainian war has been linked to mental health 
problems in the Ukrainian general population. To date, however, scarce research 
has examined the mental health of psychosocial support workers (PSWs) in Ukraine 
who have a burdensome workload in the context of ongoing conflict. This study 
aimed to examine the prevalence and correlates of burnout, posttraumatic stress 
disorder (PTSD), and suicidal ideation (SI) in PSWs in Ukraine during the 
Russian-Ukrainian war.
METHODS: One hundred seventy-eight PSWs in Ukraine completed a survey assessing 
war exposure, mental health, and psychosocial characteristics.
RESULTS: A total 59.6% of PSWs screened positive for burnout, 38.2% for PTSD, 
and 10.7% for current SI. Lower optimism was associated with greater odds of 
burnout. Greater distress from witnessing war-related destruction, lower 
optimism, lower presence of meaning in life, and lower levels of close social 
relationships were associated with greater odds of burnout. Lower presence of 
meaning in life was associated with greater odds of SI.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this study highlight the mental health challenges faced 
by PSWs in Ukraine during the ongoing Russian-Ukrainian war. They further 
suggest that interventions to foster meaning in life and promote social 
connectedness may "help the helpers" during this ongoing conflict.

DOI: 10.1017/dmp.2024.68
PMID: 38829179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]