[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Wout Brama

d on his first appearance from the sidelines, in a 1–1 draw against NAC Breda. But his return was short–lived when he suffered a heel bone injury in training that ended his season. At the end of the 2012–13 season, Brama went on to make a total of 39 appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

At the start of the 2013–14 season, Brama continued to recover from his heel bone injury. In his absence, Rasmus Bengtsson was given the captaincy for the 2013–14 season. In early–October, he began to operation on his heel bone. Brama continued to recover from his heel bone injury until he returned to training in February. After spending a year at the sidelines due to heel bone injury, Brama returned from the sidelines on 16 March 2014, appearing as an unused substitute, in a 2–1 win over AZ Alkmaar. In a follow-up match, Brama made his first appearance of the season on 30 March 2014, coming on as a second–half substitute, in a 3–0 loss to Ajax. He then scored his first goal of the season on 27 April 2014, in a 5–2 win over NEC. At the end of the 2013–14 season, Brama went on to make a total of 5 appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

With his contract expiring at the end of the 2013–14 season, Brama said about his future: " We had four weeks of vacation and I thought that was long enough. That is why it was allowed to start again for me. The match 'which club is the first to start', we seem to win every year. My focus is entirely on FC Twente, but as I know I have never made it a secret that when a nice club comes over I am open to it. But I will not leave FC Twente for the first club." Despite this, Brama remained at the club upon expiry of his contract. He then appeared in the club's pre–season tour throughout the summer of 2014. However, the club announced the following month that Brama would be leaving the club. Brama revealed his reasons of his departure, citing "talks and communications broken down."

By the time of his departure, Brama made his a total of 316 appearances and scoring 8 times in all competitions. Brama was given a farewell send-off following an end to a Twente match.

PEC Zwolle
Brama ended his stay at FC Twente for over 10 years when he joined PEC Zwolle on 16 October 2014, signing a one–year contract. It was reported that Brama played for free to keep up with his fitness.

Brama made his PEC Zwolle debut, where he came on as a second–half substitute, in a 3–2 loss against Go Ahead Eagles on 19 October 2014. He quickly fit in to the first team under the plans of Ron Jans, having impressed his teammates and coach. After being sidelined with injuries, Brama played against his former club, Twente, coming on as a second–half substitute, in a 2–1 loss on 23 November 2014. Initially not a first team regular at the club, Brama soon received more playing time as the season goes by. As a result, the club were keen on giving him a new contract. Amid to the contract talks, Brama scored his first goal for the club against his former club, FC Twente, in which he refused to celebrate, and the club went on to reach the semi–final of KNVB Cup after beating Twente 4–2 in the penalty–shootout. But he rejected a contract in March 2015, intending to leave the club to seek playing abroad. However, he suffered an Achilles tendon injury in mid–April and was sidelined for two weeks. Brama also missed out over in the Final of the KNVB Cup, where he was placed on the substitute bench, as PEC Zwolle lose 2–0 to Groningen. At the end of the 2014–15 season, Brama went on to make a total of 25 appearances and scoring once in all competitions.

Throughout the summer of 2015, Brama was a free agent after his contract negotiations with the club broken down again. Although he was linked a move back to Twente, Brama ultimately signed a two–year contract at PEC Zwolle at the end of August. He made his first appearance of the club, starting the whole game, in a 2–0 loss against Feyenoord on 27 September 2015. It wasn't until on 16 January 2016 when he scored his first goal for the club, as well as, setting up a goal, in a 5–2 win over SC Heerenveen. Brama then captained for the club for the first time on 16 April 2016, in a 5–1 loss against AZ Alkmaar. He then scored his second goal of the season, in a 5–2 loss against FC Utrecht in the second leg of the Play–Offs Round. Despite being sidelined from the first team on three occasions, Brama finished his full season at PEC Zwolle, making 28 appearances and scoring two times in all competitions.

In the 2016–17 season, Brama continued to regain his first team place at PEC Zwolle. He then scored his first goal of the season, in a 5–1 loss against Ajax on 24 September 2016. Despite suffering from a thigh injury, Brama continued to be in the first team for the side and made a total of 17 appearances and scoring once in the first half of the season.