[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kalinga Park

altered and extended it over the years. Thiess Brothers were engaged to restore the park to its pre-war condition, though the bandstand was not replaced. In 1952 Harry Oakman, then Manager of Brisbane parks, planted tallowwoods along the memorial drive to replace trees that had died or been removed.

A block of land in Bertha Street was acquired on 21 July 1952 to extend the park. During the late 1960s considerable work was untaken in the park including filling and topsoiling of the football and cricket fields. In 1965 the Scots Presbyterian Church Fellowship Association gained a seven-year lease of the two tennis courts. The Queensland Miniature Race Car Club constructed a circular fenced track at the eastern end of the park.

During the 1990s the Kalinga Karnival based on the park was run for several years, but was discontinued in 1998.

Land at 924 Sandgate Road, Clayfield was acquired in 1991, bringing the park area to .

An interpretive sign for the Diggers' Drive was installed and unveiled on 30 April 1993 and the name was formally gazetted in 2003. The drive is now surfaced with bitumen, though the council has no record of the date that this was done.

In 1996, the Access Arts organisation from Nundah undertook a project in the park utilising both professional artists and community members. They created sandstone carvings and hand decorated paving.

The park also contains a popular children's playground and picnic area.

In 2002, the Brisbane City Council declared that the Kalinga Park "should continue as a park that serves the District and caters for informal recreation and formal sports".

Kalinga Park has undergone development with the introduction of the Airport Link motorway.

Description 

Kalinga Park is an irregularly shaped section of open parkland bounded by Bertha, Kalinga and Lewis Streets. A natural watercourse, Kedron Brook, forms its northern boundary.

A hut leased by the Kalinga Scouts is on the boundary of the park at the western end, though accessed from Bertha Street. It is a single storey timber building.

An avenue of mature eucalypts is planted along the edge of Kedron Brook and trees are scattered in clumps around the park. The railway and the airport monorail cross the western edge of the park.

Facilities and attractions 

The park contains several club facilities including a pétanque playing area, a tennis court, ovals and open fields for cricket and football. A natural watercourse, Kedron Brook runs across its northern extent. Bicycle and walking tracks traverse the park. The park also includes electric barbecue areas, children's playgrounds, kid-size bike roadway and dog off-leash areas. Although suburban, the park is home to a wide variety of wildlife, including ducks, cockatoos, rainbow lorikeets, possums, eastern water dragons, and the occasional koala. There is also a fenced circuit for the Queensland Miniature Race Car Club.

Memorial Gates 

The gates are at the entrance on Park Avenue. The posts are made of brown Helidon sandstone carved and topped with stone spheres. The central pair is inset with marble panels that read "Erected by the residents of Kalinga and officially opened 23 October 1920" and "Erected in commemoration of those of the district who served in the Great War 1914–1919."

These posts support metal gates across the carriageway and are flanked by smaller pedestrian gates to either side. A matching wall topped by railings flanks each side of the gateway.

The drive runs from the gateway toward Kedron Brook and then along the line of the Brook to Sandgate Road. It is bitumened and kerbed and is lined by mature trees.

This area incorporates built and natural features including sculptures, shelters and picnic tables formed to resemble leaves.

Heritage listing 
Kalinga Park was listed on the Queensland Heritage Register on 3 July 2007 having satisfied the following criteria.

The place is important in demonstrating the evolution or pattern of Queensland's history.

Kalinga Park is important in demonstrating the pattern of Queensland's history. It follows the line of Kedron Brook and incorporates sections of the land granted to some of Queensland's earliest free settlers. It was a water reserve in 1884, then a recreation reserve, being officially opened as a park in 1910, though it was already being used for sports. It bears witness to the participation of Australia in the First World War with memorial gates and the construction of the memorial Diggers' Drive by returned soldiers. These were constructed between 1920 and 1923 and are key aspects of the park, both historically and in establishing its layout. They demonstrate the process of grieving that was occurring in the district and across Australia at that time. During the Second World War Kalinga Park was the site of a large staging camp and it continues to be a popular recreational facility.

The place demonstrates rare, uncommon or endangered aspects of Queensland's cultural heritage.