[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 9]
# Atlanta in the American Civil War

trouble you with a few lines, as all will be anxious to know whether their homes have been spared by the vandal hands."
He also notes that many private homes were destroyed and that Dr. Quintard's "Rebel" chapel had been destroyed.  Mr. Crew estimates that two-thirds of the city had been destroyed.

On Nov. 26, 1864, the commander of the Georgia state troops, Gen. Howell Cobb, appointed Col. Luther J. Glenn as the commander of the post of Atlanta. On Dec. 5, 1864, Capt. Thomas L. Dodd was appointed as the Atlanta Provost-Marshal.
On Nov. 25, 1864, Gov. Joseph E. Brown ordered Gen. W. P. Howard to inspect the State property in Atlanta, and the city itself, and protect the same.

Gen. Howard's report, dated Dec. 7, 1864, details the destruction that he witnessed. His report states that several major buildings were not destroyed, including the City Hall, the Gate City hotel, the Masonic Hall, the Medical College, and several of the churches located downtown. His report also relays to Gov. Brown that "The property of the State was destroyed by fire, yet a vast deal of valuable material remains in the ruins. Three-fourths of the bricks are good and will be suitable for rebuilding if placed under shelter before freezing weather. There is a quantity of brass in the journals of burned cars and in the ruins of the various machinery of the extensive railroad shops; also, a valuable amount of copper from the guttering of the State depot, the flue pipes of destroyed engines, stop cocks of machinery, etc." His report also states that many businesses, private homes, and several churches were destroyed. In addition to the destruction caused by the war, Gen. Howard notes that: "There were about 250 wagons in the city on my arrival, loading with pilfered plunder; pianoes, mirrors, furniture of all kinds, iron, hides without number, and an incalculable amount of other things, very valuable at the present time. This exportation of stolen property had been going on ever since the place had been abandoned by the enemy. Bushwhackers, robbers and deserters, and citizens from the surrounding country for a distance of fifty miles have been engaged in this dirty work."

The destruction of Atlanta was the result of nine major events that began in the summer of 1863 and culminated with the fires set as the Federal troops left the city on Nov 15, 1864. The events are as follows:

 The construction of the Confederate fortification around Atlanta during the summer of 1863.
 The Siege of Atlanta and the ensuing bombardment July 20 – August 25, 1864.
 The Federal demolition of houses behind their lines to the Chattahoochee River for shelter and firewood.
 Fighting around Atlanta and the destruction of homes by both sides in the no-man's-land between the two armies.
 Confederate evacuation and destruction of military supplies and the rolling mill, Sept. 1–2, 1864.
 Occupation of the city and surrounding towns and the building of "shanties" for shelter by the Federal troops.
 The construction of the inner defensive ring by the Federal troops during October 1864. 
 The authorized destruction of the rail road, factories, warehouses and other military assets, by the Federal troops, Nov 12 – 15, 1864.
 The unauthorized fires set by the Federal troops Nov. 11–15, 1864. 
	
During the month of Dec. 1864, articles appeared in several newspapers about the destruction of Atlanta. On December 10, 1864, Atlanta Intelligence published a front-only broadside (a one-page newspaper). This broadside emphasized what was still standing rather than what was destroyed in order to encourage the citizens of Atlanta to return to the city and rebuild. The article states: "to our absent citizens we would say return as soon as possible, with one mind commence to extricate ourselves from the ruin detailed upon us ..." In a second article published on Dec. 22, 1864, the paper's editors reported that: "As you reach the city limits, you see the awful effects of one vast extended conflagration. A city destroyed by FIRE! Two-thirds at least devoured by flames. Doomed to utter desolation, one-third of Atlanta still lives. This will be the nucleus, the cornerstone, the foundation upon which the city will again be restored. Of this, more anon." The article goes on to describe, street by street, some of the destruction the editors of the paper witnessed.

On December 21, 1864, the Augusta Chronicle & Sentinel published a letter from a correspondent named "Civis". His letter was dated December 15 and reiterated the amount of damage done to Atlanta during the war. The reporter estimated that "about three fourths of the buildings have been torn down or burned, and about nine-tenths of the property value destroyed".