[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# George O'Malley

[to fellow executive producer], 'This is our proudest day here. T. R. got to come out and I got to say to him that it wouldn't affect his character' because he was concerned he was going to come out and George would suddenly be gay. The idea that a gay actor can't play a straight man is insulting."

In December 2008, reports speculated that Knight requested to be released from his contract and that "they were working out the details" at that time. In June 2009, after the conclusion of the fifth season of Grey's Anatomy, it was confirmed that Knight would not be returning for the show's sixth season. The actor stated the reason for his departure was due to a "breakdown in communication" with Rhimes, O'Malley's lack of screen-time, as well as his decision to be openly gay. Prior to the official announcement of his departure, there was speculation that the role of O'Malley would be recast, but Rhimes labeled it as a "hilarious, ridiculous rumor". After the confirmation of his exit, Knight told TV Guide: "Leaving Grey's Anatomy was not an easy decision for me to make. I am extremely grateful to have had the opportunity to play this character and will miss my fellow cast and crew very much. I continue to wish them the very best, and wholeheartedly thank all of the fans who have supported me and the show with such passion and enthusiasm." In a statement confirming Knight's departure, Rhimes said: "I think I speak for the entire Grey's Anatomy family when I say we wish T. R. Knight the best in his future endeavors. He is an incredibly talented actor and a person whose strength of character is admired by all of us."

In an interview with Entertainment Weekly, Rhimes said she tried to talk him out of quitting, explaining: "I looked in his face and he was really sure. It felt like the right thing for him." However, in another interview, Knight said of his exit: "My five-year experience proved to me that I could not trust any answer that was given [about O'Malley]." Knight was "at peace" with his departure, saying: "There just comes a time when it's so clear that moving on is the best decision." However, Heigl tried to talk Knight out of leaving, saying: "I didn't think it was the right decision. I felt like some of the problems could be worked through. But by the time it came to fruition, I was [glad] for him because he was ready to go." On the topic of losing a US$14 million contract, Knight commented: "From an outsider's perspective, I get the [impression that] 'He's just a spoiled actor, he doesn't know how good he has it.' There are a lot of people who would like to be in my position. But in the end, I need to be fulfilled in my work."

Characterization

O'Malley was characterized a "hapless naif". On the topic of O'Malley's longtime crush on Meredith in the second season, Knight said: "What's going to be very interesting to see is what he's going to do with Meredith. It's getting close to time. Whatever he chooses to do will inform who he is the rest of his life." After their sexual encounter occurred onscreen, Knight said in an interview with Maureen Ryan of the Chicago Tribune: "George wasn't really paying full attention. He was letting his own feelings override his respect for Meredith. A person really clued in would get that there wasn't anything coming back, but he was so in his head about it and caught up in his own feelings that he wasn't listening. It's not just that he loves her...it's a kind of selfish love he had for her." He also added that, "I think George has a lot of growing up to do. Part of that is making horrible, stupid mistakes. He's been pretty sheltered."

Series writer Stacy McKee said of the sexual encounter: "There's no turning back. There's nothing George and Meredith can do. The damage is done – things will never be the same. They've just changed something important in their lives forever." When asked if O'Malley was becoming more assertive, Knight said:

Knight also commented that the character does not appreciate himself and his positive traits. On the topic of O'Malley performing open heart surgery in an elevator, Knight said: "It's a slow change but he's starting to realize, 'The way I have been doing things is not working.' The big thing about the open-heart surgery in the elevator was he was forced into it. He needs to be kind of kicked in the (butt) to do these things."