[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 29]
# List of Shaman King characters

finds he does not have the heart to and, after being touched by Yoh's trust in him, leaves Yoh's body peacefully. Tokagero eventually reforms and becomes the spirit ally of Ryu. After Ryu and Tokageroh train at Izumo, Tokageroh become an ascended spirit embodying Yamata no Orochi in his  and  forms.

 
 
 Eliza was Faust VIII's late wife whom he saved from a once incurable illness, working as a nurse despite her clumsyness. But she and the family dog Frankenstiney were murdered by a robber who broke into Faust's mansion, causing Faust to go insane as he dug up her skeletal remains to enter the Shaman Fight in an attempt to revive her. But Faust could only create an image of her in his  before joining Yoh's group, with Anna summoning Eliza's spirit to be reunited with her husband as his Guardian Ghost. Faust adds his medical instruments with Eliza's skeleton in his Oversoul technique to give Eliza stronger forms as the demonic  and the red-armored . 

 
 Morphine (Morphea in the English manga and 2021 English anime, Chloe in the 2001 English anime) is a pixie-like poppy spirit who is Lyserg's spirit ally. She has served with Diethal family for several generations and is the family's most valuable treasure. Despite her delicate appearance, she is merciless when it comes to protecting Lyserg and is capable of driving his pendulum at high speeds. As Lyserg's best friend and most loyal protector, she silently worries about his obsessive mission to avenge his family. She loves eating sweet-tasting things and would like to become friends with Kororo, the other nature spirit in Yoh's ground, though it seems the friendship is unlikely. In the 2001 anime, Morphine is absorbed by Archangels to assume her "Giant Over Soul" form. Her original name was edited for being a reference to morphine.

 
 A jaguar spirit who is Joco's guardian ghost, a very old and powerful nature spirit despite appearances. Though jaguars have been impulsive and known to attack enemies and rivals without mercy, Mic has gradually calmed down over the years and become a gentle and kind animal. He used to belong to Joco's mentor. His name is a takeoff of "Mick Jagger".  Whether as a guardian ghost or as a supporting comedian, he is very supportive of Joco and extremely valuable as a spirit who is able to collect information due to his smaller size and natural feline caution.

 
 
 The second Guardian Ghost of Joco, a wise Olmec spirit who becomes a mentor Joco after the youth was brought to him by Orona while within the Great Spirit. He was once a powerful shaman that participated in the Shaman Fight a millennia ago before he was killed by Hao, deified by his people. He is capable of merging with Mic and Joco to form the Armour Over Soul 'Jaguarman', he teaches Ren, Horohoro, and Lyserg on how to form Armour Over Souls as well. Like Gandhara and the Asakura and Tao families, he has been guiding the Five Grand Elemental Spirits with the hope of finally defeating Hao.

 
 A quintet of familiar spirits that have refined themselves for over 500 years, serving as spirit allies for Silva by usually forming armor during his Oversoul with alternate weapon formations like the  Totem Pole Cannon or the Flesh and Blood Spear. The main representative of the Silver Arms is , an American bald eagle spirit, whose grants his user wings and shoulder armor for flight and to cut through opponents' Over Souls. The other members include the American Bison spirit  and the coyote  who leg arm, the snake spirit  that serves as a whip and the turtle spirit  who can reflect enemy attacks. After Silva's death, his daughter Alumi inherits the Silver Arms from him.