[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ernest W. Gibson Jr.

Ernest William Gibson Jr. (March 6, 1901 – November 4, 1969) was an American attorney, politician, and judge. He served briefly as an appointed United States Senator, as the 67th governor of Vermont, and as a federal judge.

Born in Brattleboro, and the son of a prominent Vermont political figure who served in the United States Senate, Gibson graduated from Norwich University in 1923, attended The George Washington University Law School, and attained admission to the bar in 1926. A Republican, he served in several elected and appointed positions in state government. When his father died while serving in the Senate, Gibson was appointed to temporarily fill the vacancy, and he served from June 1940 to January 1941.

A veteran of the United States Army Reserve and Vermont National Guard, during World War II, Gibson served in the South Pacific and on the staff of the United States Department of War, and received several decorations for heroism. In 1946, he ran for Governor of Vermont and defeated the incumbent in the Republican primary, the only time this has ever occurred in Vermont. He went on to win the general election, and won reelection in 1948.

Gibson served as governor until accepting appointment as judge of Vermont's U.S. District Court; he remained on the bench until his 1969 death in Brattleboro. He was buried at Morningside Cemetery in Brattleboro.

Early life
Gibson was born on March 6, 1901, in Brattleboro, Vermont, the son of Grace Fullerton Hadley and Ernest W. Gibson, who later served in the United States House of Representatives and United States Senate. He attended the public schools and graduated from Norwich University with an Artium Baccalaureus degree in 1923, where he was a member of the Alpha chapter of Theta Chi International Fraternity. He attended The George Washington University Law School and read law in his father's office, and was admitted to the bar in 1926. While studying law he also taught at the New York Military Academy in Cornwall, New York, and worked as a mathematician on the Coast and Geodetic Survey.

Military service
Gibson was a member of the United States Army Reserve and Vermont National Guard from an early age; in 1922, he joined the National Guard's Company I, 172nd Infantry Regiment as a private.  In 1924 he was appointed to command the National Guard's Troop B, 316th Cavalry Regiment with the rank of first lieutenant.  In 1928, Gibson was a private first class assigned to Company I, 172nd Infantry.  In 1934, he was a captain in the Organized Reserve Corps and was assigned to the 316th Cavalry.  By 1937, Gibson had returned to the Vermont National Guard and was serving as a first lieutenant.  As of 1939, Gibson was a captain serving as aide-de-camp to Leonard F. Wing, the brigadier general in command of the Vermont National Guard's 86th Infantry Brigade.

Early career
Gibson began practicing law in Brattleboro in 1927. A Republican, he was State's Attorney of Windham County from 1929 to 1933; assistant secretary of the Vermont Senate from 1931 to 1933; and secretary from 1933 to 1940.

While serving on the Senate staff, Gibson was part of a network of acquaintances who were all lawyers, Republican party activists and National Guard members. In addition to Gibson, this group included: Leonard F. Wing; Harold J. Arthur; Murdock A. Campbell; and Francis William Billado.

U.S. Senator

Gibson was appointed to the United States Senate by Governor George D. Aiken on June 24, 1940, filling the vacancy caused by the death of his father, Ernest Willard Gibson. The younger Gibson served from June 24, 1940 to January 3, 1941, but did not run in the election to fill the vacancy. He was succeeded in the Senate by Aiken, a family friend. Political observers assumed that Gibson accepted the temporary appointment to facilitate Aiken's election. Knowing that Aiken desired to become a Senator, Gibson accepted the appointment and agreed not to run in a primary against him, which another appointee might have done. Gibson was willing to fill the vacancy temporarily and then defer to Aiken because Gibson hoped to serve as governor.

World War II

From January to May 1941, Gibson was Executive Secretary and later Chairman of the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies (the William Allen White Committee), which advocated for aid to the Allies prior to United States military involvement in World War II.

Gibson volunteered for active duty during World War II and served in the South Pacific as G-2 (Intelligence Officer) with the 43rd Infantry Division. He later served on the Intelligence staff at the United States Department of War.  He was promoted to major in July 1942, and lieutenant colonel in November 1942.

While serving in the Pacific Theater, Gibson was wounded. A newspaper photo showing him having his head bandaged after he was wounded was circulated internationally, along with a caption identifying him as a former Senator, and he gained a measure of fame as a result.