[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# United Nations Postal Administration

ithin two and a half months. A similar issue, in 1979, for the International Year of the Child sold out on the day of issue. The story made the front page of The New York Times. In 1980, the first of an annual series depicting members' national flags sold nearly 3.5 million of each individual stamp.

Controversy

In 1981, interest began to diminish after controversy erupted concerning the UNPA's issuance of stamps for the "Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People". The proposal for issuance, and the issuance itself, was extensively and critically covered by The New York Times and by Linn's Stamp News. The fifteen cent denomination became the first UNPA stamp since 1954 to sell fewer than a million copies when more than a million were printed. By 1983, many more stamps were selling fewer than a million copies, though sales of Vienna stamps remained strong. In 1986, the souvenir sheet for the World Federation of United Nations Associations became the first issue to sell fewer than a half-million copies where at least that many were printed in UNPA history.

Reviving collector interest
In an effort to increase sales, the UNPA used a combination of smaller printings of stamp issuances, aggressive marketing, and having famous artists create stamp designs. Still, stamp sales have never recovered to previous levels and today print runs are on the order of 400,000 stamps. Due to these lower printing quantities, the stamps from the late 1990s and 2000s are harder to find on the discount postage market.  Although it is rare, some issues have sold out.  The most notable of regularly issued UN stamps is the 2005 General Assembly 60th Anniversary Souvenir Sheet, of the one dollar denomination, which is currently being sold by stamp dealers for more than 10 times its original face value.

Personalized sheets
In 2003, the UN Postal Administration began issuing "personalized" sheets for New York. These sheets have ten or twenty stamps and a large decorative border, with a tab to the right of each stamp. Visitors to the UN Building in New York can go to a kiosk where a personal picture can be printed onto a sheet with blank tabs. Most "personalized" sheets are produced for stamp shows and specific UN events with related designs already printed on the tabs. Truly personalized sheets rarely reach the secondary market.

The UN Post Offices in Geneva and Vienna began offering this type of sheet in 2009.  Two sheets were produced in 2007 and two in 2008 denominated in Euros. The editors of the Scott Catalog question whether they were ever actually sold at the UN Post Office in Vienna, a primary criterion for recognizing them as a legitimate postal issue. The Scott Catalog lists them as footnotes without assigned catalog numbers.

The UNPA continues to issue stamps, including personalized stamps. It is responsible also for sorting and delivery of mail to the offices under its jurisdiction.

Archive sale controversy
A recent controversy concerns the 2003 purchase by one organization of the UNPA's entire postal archive, including original artwork and artist's proofs. Apparently this was to raise money for the UNPA, and it may have netted the organization about $2.5 million. However, there have been serious allegations that improper procedures approving the sale were followed. Also, resale of items at several times their initial values have apparently occurred, thus raising more questions about the entire matter. As of 2006 the issue remains under internal UN investigation.

References

Further reading
 Conway, Herbert. 25 years of philatelic highlights. New York: United Nations Postal Administration, 1976, 59p.
 Gaines, Arleigh. United Nations Philately. New York: R.& D. Publications, 1980-1997, 3 vols.
 Goody, Ramon. A study of the first United Nations regular and airmail postage stamps, 1951-1966. Chelmsford: The Author, 1978, 120p.
 Kelen, Emery. Stamps tell the story of the United Nations. New York: Meredith Press, 1968, 95p.
 Michel UNO-Spezial-Katalog 2012. München: Schwaneberger Verlag, 2011 , 544p.
 Patrick Douglas and Mary. The postage stamps and postal history of the United Nations. Toronto: Ryerson Press, 1955, 174p.

External links
 Official website

Organizations established by the United Nations
Postal organizations
United Nations organizations based in Vienna