[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# List of social nudity places in North America

is open to all of good moral character. NFNC has an indoor dipping/conversation pool and an outdoor  above-ground pool, a hot tub, firepit, sundeck, outdoor, lounge and rental rooms and tent spaces.   ****1 Jun 2021 - Word has it that NFNC has been sold and will no longer be a naturist location*****

Indiana
 Nude sunbathing and swimming has occurred at Indiana Dunes State Park and Indiana Dunes National Park both historically and contemporarily; especially around the west end of Miller Beach’s Lake Street Beach. This area has been a gathering place for homosexuals for decades.
 Our Haven Nature Sanctuary is located in French Lick and is a privately run clothing-optional festival ground with  of forest, trails, and great camping space that it is open to all races, genders, sexual orientations, and positive lifestyles and spiritual paths. There are designated clothing-optional areas of Our Haven that are open year-round. With only a 20-minute drive to the casino, restaurants, or the West Baden Springs Hotel there is plenty to experience. Approximately  from Louisville, Kentucky, and  from Indianapolis.
 Drakes Ridge Rustic Nudist Retreat in Bennington is a rural, wooded setting in the hills of Switzerland County, midway between the three major cities of Louisville, Indianapolis, and Cincinnati, and  north of Vevay.
 Fern Hills Club in Bloomington is in the center of about  of hardwood forest that the members enjoy by walking the trails or using their golf carts.
 Lake O' Woods Club in Valparaiso is a member-owned, family oriented, cooperative nudist club that was founded in 1933. It is located in  of woods and features a  lake.
 Ponderosa Sun Club in Roselawn. The purpose of this club is to promote health and happiness for its members. The Ponderosa Sun Club is a family oriented nudist resort (not clothing-optional) located in rural Roselawn Indiana on about  of woodland. Ponderosa Sun Club opened in 1965. The focus of the club's activities is their  swimming pool with concrete sunning apron and a formal garden.
 Sunshower Country Club in Centerville is a family nudist resort established in 1959.
 Sunny Haven Recreation Park in Granger, located near South Bend, has been the home to family nude recreation in northern Indiana since 1947.
  Sunaura Resort is an adults-only clothing-optional camp. Overnight RV camping is available. Location has a large pool, wooded scenic trails and weekend parties at the roundhouse.
 Casita en el Lago Clothing Optional Bed and Breakfast is located in NW Indiana near Valparaiso.  It is part of Clothing Optional Home Network and is an AANR participating business.

Iowa

Some clothing optional resorts are for adults only in Iowa.
 L.V. Campground in Coggon

Kansas
Public nudity is legal in Kansas, in all jurisdictions, under state law.
 Camp Gaea is a non-denominational retreat center/campground located just east of McLouth that tolerates nudity in some areas.
 Lake Edun  is a family naturist facility maintaining meadows, woods and over 3 miles of trails centered around a 10-acre lake featuring 2 sand beaches on 60 acres just a few miles SW of Topeka and is affiliated with The Naturist Society.
 Prairie Haven in Scranton is a family nudist club on  affiliated with AANR and The Naturist Society.
 Sandy Lane Club in Hutchinson is associated with AANR.

Kentucky

 KYANA Naturists in Louisville and Lexington
 Bluegrass Naturists in Nicholasville and Lexington
 Central Kentucky Family United Nudists (CKFUN) in Lexington
 Kentuckiana Gay Nudists in Frankfort

Louisiana
 Indian Hills Nudist Park, a private campground community of nudist enthusiasts in Slidell.
 Sandy Bares, a private campground in Metairie.
  Bayou Allure Clothing Optional B&B in Baton Rouge is part of Clothing Optional Home Network.

Maine
Female nudity is allowed throughout the state, since Maine's law only prohibits the public exposure of the genitals. Local ordinances may restrict toplessness & nudity.
 Twin Ponds Lodge is a private membership-only social club 25 minutes from Waterville. It is adult only and male only. In addition to the ponds, the resort has  of fields and woods as well as some indoor facilities and is open year-round.
 Sherwood Forest in Dover-Foxcroft
 Maine Coast Solar Bares nudist travel club that meets at the Sauna in Richmond
 Frenchman's Hole in Newry
 Lakewood Park in Bar Harbor
 Richmond Sauna Bed & Breakfast in Richmond