[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Jan Smit (singer)

celebrating his 20 year anniversary of being in show business. In 2012 Smit launched the record label Vosound Records together with Jaap Buijs. Other artists on the label are Smit's sister Monique Smit, Tim Douwsma and Gerard Joling. Additionally in 2012 Smit was awarded the TrosKompas Oeuvre Award.

At the end of February 2013 Smit published the DVD and double CD and DVD Live in Ahoy, Jubilee Concert 2012. On 17 March 2013 Jan returned to German television after a seven year absence. In the ARD program Das Frühlingsfest der 100,000 Blüten Smit presented his single "Bleiben wie du bist" (Stay who you are). After the TV appearance the single was available to download for free download for 48 hours. After six minutes, the site crashed due to the amount of requests. A list of hit songs called "Volendammer Top 1000" was created by a large number of local television and radio stations in Northern Holland, in which Smit had more than 70 entries.

As in 2011, Smith had three nights at the Amsterdam Arena during Toppers in Concert 2013. In 2014, Smith played a supporting role in Cops Maastricht.

In 2015 Jaap Buijs died. Because of this Smit skipped a season of hit show De Zomer Voorbij (Passed the Summer) as well as presenting Muziekfeest of het Plein (Music Festival on the Square) in Heerenveen (broadcast on 14 and 18 August) which instead was presented by Frans Duijts since this episode was recorded in the week Jaap Buijs died and Jan Smit did not consider it appropriate to stand on a square full of people in party-mode. In November 2015 Smit released a new Christmas album. The album titled Kerst Voor Iedereen (Christmas For Everyone) contains eight Christmas classics and four new Christmas songs.

2016–present: KLUBBB3, Toppers and Eurovision Song Contest

Solo career

In 2016 Smit celebrated being in show business for 20 years. He started touring the country in September with his Elfsteden Tour (Eleven City Tour). In 2017 he released the DVD Live in HMH. His jubilee album 20 made it to number 1 in the Album Top 100. He was set to present the show Gouden Televizier-Ring Gala, but he withdrew from the engagement because he was nominated for one of the awards for his contribution to Beste Zangers. In March 2018 he appeared for the first time in his career at the Sportpaleis in Antwerp. He released his new album Met Andere Woorden (In Other Words) on September 20, 2018. For this album he invited several famous Dutch artists to write song for him, including Jan Keizer (singer), Barry Hay, Guus Meeuwis, BLØF and Frank Boeijen. He supported the project with a theater tour through The Netherlands and Flanders.

Klubbb3

Smit worked on resurrecting his career in Germany for a third time. Jaap Buijs' last project before he died was to include Smit in a schlager trio with German Florian Silbereisen and Flemish singer Christoff De Bolle called Klubbb3. The debut album Vorsicht unzensiert! reached the top 10 in Germany, Austria and Belgium and also charted in the Netherlands and Switzerland. The debut single Du schaffst das schon reached the charts in several countries. On January 10, 2016 the band was awarded the smago! Award, an important prize in Germany schlager music. On 7 January 2017 they were awarded the prize Die Eins der Besten in the category Band des Jahres (Group of the Year). The award was presented during the ARD-televisieshow Schlager-Champions - Das große Fest der Besten. In early 2017 when they released their album Jetzt Geht's Los Richtig it entered the charts in Germany at number 1, number 2 in Austria and number 3 in Switzerland. Their Dutch single Het Leven Danst Sirtaki (Life Dances the Sirtaki), reached number 1 in the Single Top 100 after their performance on RTL Late Night. In May 2017 during Schlager Countdown - Das Große Premier Fest the trio received a platinum record for their first album Vorsicht Unsensiert and a gold record for their second album Jetzt Geht's Los Richtig!. From March 2017 KLUBBB3 toured with Das Grosse Schlager Fest - Die Party des Jahres (The Party of the Year) through Germany, Austria and Belgium.

The Toppers
The Toppers is one of the most successful vocal band in the Netherlands, consisting of René Froger, Jeroen van der Boom, and Gerard Joling. They have performed a series of concerts every year since 2005 in the Amsterdam ArenA. During performances the De Toppers repertoire, consists mostly of a mix of covers and original material. In 2011 Gordon joined the group.

In 2011 and 2013, Smit was a guest artist for the Toppers in Concert series for six nights in the Amsterdam ArenA.

In September 2016 Smit spoke on radio 100% NL about his love for The Toppers. Smit also indicated if any of the Toppers' men were to leave the group, he'd be willing to take over. A few hours later, Jeroen van der Boom posted a video on Facebook that he and Gerard Joling supposedly had auditioned Jan Smit for The Toppers.