[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tutor Perini

Tutor Perini Corporation (formerly Perini Corporation) is one of the largest general contractors in the United States. At the end of 2013, it reported annual revenue of approximately $4.2 billion. Tutor Perini is headquartered in Sylmar, California, and works on construction projects throughout North America. Specific areas of focus are civil infrastructures such as bridges, highways, tunnels, airports, and mass transit systems, building infrastructure (healthcare, education, municipal government, hospitality and gaming, multi-use, office towers, multi-unit residential towers, high-technology projects), and specialty contracting (electrical, mechanical, plumbing, heating, air conditioning and ventilation (HVAC), fire protection systems, concrete placement).

History 

In 1949, Albert G. Tutor launched a family construction business, A.G. Tutor Company, Inc. His son Ronald joined the company in 1963, and the company expanded under his leadership. In 1972 the company partnered with N.M. Saliba. In 1981  Ron Tutor took the reins as president of the Tutor-Saliba Corporation.

Perini Corporation was founded in 1894 in Ashland, Massachusetts by a stonemason named Bonfiglio Perini. Under the direction of Bonfiglio's grandson, Lou Perini, the company moved into the real-estate business, developing  in Palm Beach County, Florida. Later real-estate ventures were less successful, leaving Perini deeply in debt by the mid-1990s. In 1997, Ron Tutor helped Perini Corp. recapitalize alongside investor Richard Blum. Tutor became CEO of Perini in 2000 and merged Perini with Tutor-Saliba in 2008 in a transaction valued at $862 million.

Perini was listed on the NYSE on April 1, 2004. It was headquartered in Framingham, Massachusetts until relocating to Sylmar, California in 2009.

In May 2009, Perini shareholders voted to change the company's name to Tutor Perini Corporation. Tutor Perini issued $300 million of Senior Notes in October 2010. Tutor Perini proceeded to acquire six companies over the next nine months.

Acquisitions 
In 2003, Perini acquired Florida-based James A. Cummings. In 2005, the company acquired Cherry Hill Construction, a Maryland-based contractor, and California-based Rudolph & Sletten, Inc. In January 2009, the corporation acquired Philadelphia-based building contractor Keating Building Corporation.

 November 1, 2010 - Superior Gunite, a structural concrete firm headquartered in Lakeview Terrace, California.
 January 3, 2011 – Fisk Electric, a provider of electrical and technological services headquartered in Houston.
 April 4, 2011 – Anderson Companies, a general contractor  headquartered in Gulfport, Mississippi.
 June 1, 2011 – Frontier-Kemper Constructors, a provider of numerous construction services including civil construction, mine development, drilling, tunneling, and electrical services headquartered in Evansville, Indiana.
 July 1, 2011 – Lunda Construction Company, provider of various construction services such as the construction, rehabilitation, and maintenance of bridges, railroads, and other civil structures headquartered in Black River Falls, Wisconsin.
 July 1, 2011 – GreenStar Services Corporation, an electrical and mechanical services provider that is composed of 3 operating entities: Five Star Electric Corporation, WDF, and Nagelbush.

Notable projects

Hudson Yards in New York, NY

In 2016 the company was awarded contracts worth roughly $1.2 billion for the construction of Tower D and The Shops & Restaurants retail complex at the development.

California High-Speed Rail in Central California

The California High-Speed Rail Authority's Construction Package 1, a $1.9 billion contract, was the first significant construction contract executed on the Initial Operating Section of the high-speed rail project in California's Central Valley. The CP1 construction area is a 32-mile stretch between Avenue 19 in Madera County to East American Avenue in Fresno County, including major work elements in downtown Fresno. It includes 12 roadway / railroad grade separations, 2 mainline viaducts, 1 tunnel, realignments of existing railroad tracks, utility relocations, roadway relocations, 2 trench sections, and a major river crossing over the San Joaquin River.

Terminal 3 - Harry Reid International Airport in Las Vegas, NV