[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Star Wars: Episode III – Revenge of the Sith (novel)

Chancellor dropping his own weapon. When Windu holds Sidious at blade point, he tells his opponent why the Sith always lose: because they are always defeated by their own fear. Sidious counters by screaming, "Fool! Do you think the fear you feel is MINE?" instead of "No! No!! NO!!! YOU WILL DIE!!!"

When he is betrayed by Anakin and shot with Sidious' lightning, Windu realizes too late that he forgot to look for Anakin's own shatterpoint – his desire to save Padmé, his secret wife, at any cost.

The scene also suggests that Sidious' wizened, deformed appearance after the duel may be his true Sith appearance, and not simply the result of being hit with his own Force lightning. Sidious says, "I shall miss the face of Palpatine, but the face of Sidious will serve."

Order 66
Order 66 is described in a few short paragraphs, with no mention of any Jedi's death or any clone commander who executes the order by name. Only the scene in which Obi-Wan is attacked by clone troopers is the same as seen in the movie. Yoda's escape is not featured; he appears next when he meets Obi-Wan on the Tantive IV.

When Anakin, newly renamed Darth Vader, arrives in the Jedi Temple with the clone troopers, the narration describes how he murders the Jedi inside, including the gatemaster Jurokk. In the film, the scene cuts away after he ignites his lightsaber in front of a youngling; the murders are implied.

Stover describes the Clone Wars as "the perfect Jedi trap". This is the first account of the full extent of Darth Sidious' intricate plotting.

The return to the Jedi Temple
In the novel, Obi-Wan's grief upon learning of Anakin's betrayal is described in greater detail. Among other things, he says that he should have died before Anakin was discovered by the Jedi so his apprentice could have had a Master strong enough to keep him from falling to the dark side. Stover also references dialogue from The Empire Strikes Back. When Obi-Wan says he thinks he knows why Anakin joined the Sith, Yoda replies that "Why matters not; there is no why"; Yoda gives Luke Skywalker similarly pragmatic advice in the aforementioned film: "Do or do not; there is no try."

Darth Sidious' duel with Yoda
In the novel, it is implied that Darth Sidious is indeed superior to Yoda in lightsaber combat. Yoda also realizes that the Jedi Order mistakenly focused on fighting the old Sith rather than the new, evolved Sith of Darth Bane's order. Yoda realizes that "he had lost before he started. He had lost before he was born."

In the novel, Yoda enters the Chancellor's holding office from a different direction, so the Royal Guards do not attempt to stop him. Yoda deflects Sidious' Force lightning, blasting the Guards into unconsciousness; in the film, the lightning blasts him across the office. Yoda then knocks Sidious to the floor with his physical body instead of a Force Push.

At the end of the battle, the lightning energy ball does not explode. Sidious safely leaps to a nearby podium, and Yoda follows. Sidious turns around and blasts Yoda back against another podium, which falls down to the bottom of an energy shaft.

Stover describes Sidious after the duel as "a very old, very tired man". Sidious cannot direct the search for Yoda as he hurries to rescue Vader, but he tells the clones to destroy the whole building if they have to.

Obi-Wan's duel with Anakin Skywalker
The duel between Obi-Wan and Anakin is mostly similar to, albeit shorter than, that of the movie. The narration focuses mostly on Anakin and Obi-Wan's respective inner monologues.

There are slight variations, however: the section where Anakin manually chokes Obi-Wan is one that is notably different. In the novel, Obi-Wan initially disarms Anakin, taking away his weapon and leveling both blades in front of Anakin. Anakin, however, manages to choke Obi-Wan with great velocity and strength, after which the latter releases himself by undoing the drivers in Anakin's mechanical arm. In the movie, however, the part where Obi-Wan disarms Anakin is omitted (so claims Lucas), and Obi-Wan releases himself by kicking Anakin in the back.

Darth Vader's reaction to Padmé's death
The novel is more explicit than the film in describing Anakin/Vader's emotional transformation after learning of Padmé's death. It reveals that he blames himself, thinking, "You killed her because, finally, when you could have saved her, when you could have gone away with her, when you could have been thinking about her, you were thinking about yourself." He realizes that Darth Vader – the fearless warrior he imagined himself to be – does not really exist. Only he – Anakin Skywalker – is responsible for her death and his own fall from grace.

The narrative also describes how it feels to be Darth Vader: robbed of much of his power, in constant pain from his injuries, and "more than half machine", he now feels like "a painter gone blind, a composer gone deaf."