[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 7]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

n intended to move
in that sphere; I, whose temper, reason, and religion, equally combine
to make me reject the principles upon which those distinctions are
founded. The Christian religion, though not exclusively, is,
emphatically speaking, the religion of the poor. Its first ministers
were taken from the lower orders of mankind, and to the lower orders of
mankind was it first proposed; and in this, instead of feeling myself
mortified or ashamed, I am the more inclined to adore the wisdom and
benevolence of that Power by whose command it was first promulgated.
Those who engross the riches and advantages of this world are too much
employed with their pleasures and ambition to be much interested about
any system, either of religion or of morals; they too frequently feel a
species of habitual intoxication, which excludes every serious thought,
and makes them view with indifference everything but the present moment.
Those, on the contrary, to whom all the hardships and miseries of this
world are allotted as their natural portion--those who eat the bread of
bitterness, and drink the waters of affliction, have more interest in
futurity, and are therefore more prepared to receive the promises of the
Gospel. Yes, sir; mark the disingenuousness of many of our modern
philosophers; they quarrel with the Christian religion, because it has
not yet penetrated the deserts of Africa, or arrested the wandering
hordes of Tartary; yet they ridicule it for the meanness of its origin,
and because it is the Gospel of the poor: that is to say, because it is
expressly calculated to inform the judgments, and alleviate the miseries
of that vast promiscuous body which constitutes the majestic species of
man. But for whom would these philosophers have Heaven itself
interested, if not for the mighty whole which it has created? Poverty,
that is to say, a state of labour and frequent self-denial, is the
natural state of man; it is the state of all in the happiest and most
equal governments, the state of nearly all in every country; it is a
state in which all the faculties, both of body and mind, are always
found to develope themselves with the most advantage, and in which the
moral feelings have generally the greatest influence. The accumulation
of riches, on the contrary, can never increase, but by the increasing
poverty and degradation of those whom Heaven has created equal; a
thousand cottages are thrown down to afford space for a single palace.
How benevolently, therefore, has Heaven acted, in thus extending its
blessings to all who do not disqualify themselves for the reception by
voluntary hardness of heart! how wisely in thus opposing a continual
boundary to human pride and sensuality; two passions the most fatal in
their effects, and the most apt to desolate the world. And shall a
minister of that Gospel, conscious of these great truths, and professing
to govern himself by their influence, dare to preach a different
doctrine, and flatter those excesses, which he must know are equally
contrary both to reason and religion? Shall he become the abject
sycophant of human greatness, and assist it in trampling all relations
of humanity beneath his feet, instead of setting before it the severe
duties of its station, and the account which will one day be expected of
all the opportunities of doing good, so idly, so irretrievably lost and
squandered? But I beg pardon, sir, for that warmth which has transported
me so far, and made me engross so much of the conversation. But it will
at least have this good effect, that it will demonstrate the truth of
what I have been saying; and show that, though I might undertake the
education of a farmer or a mechanic, I shall never succeed in that of a
modern gentleman."

"Sir," replied Mr Merton, "there is nothing which I now hear from you,
which does not increase my esteem of your character, and my desire to
engage your assistance. Permit me only to ask whether, in the present
state of things, a difference of conditions and an inequality of fortune
are not necessary, and, if necessary, I should infer, not contrary to
the spirit of Christianity?"

"So it is declared, sir, that offences must come; but that does not
prevent a severe denunciation against the offenders. But, if you wish to
know, whether I am one of those enthusiasts, who are continually
preaching up an ideal state of perfection, totally inconsistent with
human affairs, I will endeavour to give you every satisfaction upon the
subject. If you mean by difference of conditions and inequality of
fortunes, that the present state of human affairs in every society we
are acquainted with, does not admit that perfect equality which the
purer interpretations of the Gospel inculcate, I certainly shall not
disagree with you in opinion. He that formed the human heart certainly
must be acquainted with all the passions to which it would be subject;
and if, under the immediate dispensa