[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Government of Malaysia

The Government of Malaysia, officially the Federal Government of Malaysia (), is based in the Federal Territory of Putrajaya,  with the exception of the legislative branch, which is located in Kuala Lumpur. Malaysia is a federation comprising the 11 States of Malaya, the Borneo States of Sabah and Sarawak, and 3 Federal Territories operating within a constitutional monarchy under the Westminster system and is categorised as a representative democracy. The federal government of Malaysia adheres to and is created by the Federal Constitution of Malaysia, the supreme law of the land.

The federal government adopts the principle of separation of powers under Article 127 of the Federal Constitution of Malaysia, and has three branches: the executive, legislature, and judiciary. The state governments in Malaysia also have their respective executive and legislative bodies. The judicial system in Malaysia is a federalised court system operating uniformly throughout the country.

Federal government

The federal or central government is the ultimate authority in Malaysia and located in Putrajaya. It is headed by the Prime Minister of Malaysia who is also known as the head of government.

Legislature

The bicameral parliament consists of the lower house, the House of Representatives or Dewan Rakyat (literally the "Chamber of the People") and the upper house, the Senate or Dewan Negara (literally the "Chamber of the Nation"). All seventy Senate members sit for three-year terms (to a maximum of two terms); twenty-six are elected by the thirteen state assemblies, and forty-four are appointed by the King (Yang di-Pertuan Agong) based on the advice of the Prime Minister. The 222 members of the Dewan Rakyat are elected from single-member districts by universal suffrage. The parliament follows a multi-party system and the governing body is elected through a first-past-the-post voting system. Parliament has a maximum mandate of five years by law. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong may dissolve parliament at any time and usually does so upon the advice of the Prime Minister.

Executive

While the Monarch is the head of state, real executive power is vested in the cabinet, led by the prime minister as the head of government; the Malaysian constitution stipulates that the prime minister must be a member of the lower house of parliament who, in the opinion of the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, commands a majority in parliament. The cabinet is chosen from among members of both houses of Parliament and is responsible to that body.

The Executive branch of the Government of Malaysia consists of the Prime Minister as the head of the government, followed by the various ministers of the Cabinet.

Judiciary

The highest court in the judicial system is the Federal Court, followed by the Court of Appeal, and two High Courts, one for Peninsular Malaysia, and one for East Malaysia. The subordinate courts in each of these jurisdictions include Sessions Courts, Magistrates' Courts, and Courts for Children. Malaysia also has a Special Court to hear cases brought by or against all Royalty.

Head of state

The Yang di-Pertuan Agong (, Jawi: ), also known as the Supreme Head or the King, is the constitutional monarch and head of state of Malaysia. The office was established in 1957, when the Federation of Malaya (now Malaysia) gained independence from the United Kingdom. The Yang di-Pertuan Agong is elected by the Conference of Rulers, comprising the nine rulers of the Malay states, with the office de facto rotated between them, making Malaysia one of the world's few elective monarchies. In accordance with Article 41 of the Constitution, the Yang di-Pertuan Agong is Commander-in-Chief of the Malaysian Armed Forces. As such, he is the highest-ranking officer in the military chain of command.

Head of government

The Prime Minister of Malaysia (Malay: Perdana Menteri Malaysia) is the indirect head of government (executive) of Malaysia. The Prime Minister is appointed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, the head of state, who in His Majesty's judgment is likely to command the confidence of the majority of the members of that House of Representatives (Dewan Rakyat), the elected lower house of Parliament. The Prime Minister heads the Cabinet, whose members are appointed by the Yang di-Pertuan Agong, on the advice of the prime minister. The Prime Minister and his Cabinet shall be collectively responsible to Parliament. The Prime Minister's Department (sometimes referred to as the Prime Minister's Office) is the body and ministry in which the Prime Minister exercises their functions and powers.

State governments