[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Trisakti University

students. So, the total of 252 research studies conducted at Rp 5.946.067.000. This amount has been far beyond the standard AIPT average amount of research funding per faculty per year to Rp 13 million (> Rp. 3 million). Although in terms of the amount of research still needs to be improved further.

The increase in the number and amount of research funding that can be obtained from the Dikti is possible because since 2012, in terms of research, Trisakti University inserted into the top by the Dikti, which means that Trisakti University has been appointed as the manager of the research program of decentralization of funds from Ditjen Dikti and have Internal Reviewer for that decentralization program.

Intellectual Property Rights (IPR) obtained Trisakti University in the academic year 2013/2014 amounted to 20. The good news in the field of research also occurred in the academic year 2013/2014 in which there is scientific papers presented at a national seminar were 58 papers and 18 papers at international seminars.

Community service 
According to the vision and mission of the Institute of Community Services (LPKM), which refers to the vision and mission of the university, the purpose of LPKM is to support and accelerate the creation of a prosperous society and its environmental sustainability. During the academic year 2013/2014 Trisakti University planned to implement the program amounted to 416 programs consisting of as many as 341 mono-discipline programs and multi-disciplinary program of 75 courses, or 115.2% of the plan, meaning there is an additional 15.2% as much as 55 activities. Lecturers involved in the implementation of the PKM program with a record number of 1.246 faculty lecturer can carry out more than one activity, while the number of students involved are 274 people.

Institute for Community Services is very responsive to emergency natural disasters that often occur in Jakarta, especially in Tambora Village, Bambu Utara Village, Tanjung Duren Utara Village, Jembatan Besi Village, Jati Pulo Village, Duri Pulo Village, Wijaya Kusuma Village, Jelambar Baru Village and Petojo Utara Village. In addition to regular PKM, there is also a working visit from Terengganu Malaysia University on 24–29 March 2014, chaired by Prof. Madya, Dr. Nur Azura Bt Sanusi.

The community service program is performed by students from various faculties / courses that exist in the scope Trisakti University in the form of Independent Business Class program - Science Applied Technology (KUM-ITT). In the academic year 2013/2014 KUM-ITT program has been implemented in six villages locations of three districts in Pandeglang, Banten. KUM-ITT program was attended by 135 students who have passed the selection. The number of programs that have been implemented in KUM- ITT are 144 programs include 10 programs Applicable Technology (TTG) and other programs in the fields of law, health, economic, environmental, social, physical, and others.

Out of 77 multi-disciplinary programs, academic year 2013/2014 that work well and there is a link between the program with one another in terms of its integration in a multi-discipline in accordance with the substance of each well completion and management program implementation refers to the participation of technology.

At the international level, Community Services Institute cooperated with Colorado State University, especially in the field of Community Development.

Notable alumni and academics

Notable alumni

Academics and scientists 
Ir. Henri Uranus, M.T., Ph.D. (Head of Electrical Engineering Department, Pelita Harapan University, Indonesia)
Ir. Iman Herwidiana Kartowisastro, M.Sc., Ph.D. (Vice Rector Academic Development & Provost, Bina Nusantara University, Indonesia)
Ir. Theresia Widya Suryaningsih, M.M. (First Rector, Bina Nusantara University, Indonesia)
Prof. Wenny Rahayu (Head of School of Engineering and Mathematical Sciences, La Trobe University, Australia)

Business people 
Andre Rosiade, S.E., (Popular business people

Lawyers 
Haris Azhar (Advocate, Director of Lokataru Foundation, Lecturer for law faculty of Trisakti University and Sekolah Tinggi Hukum Jentera Indonesia, Head of Human Rights Division on Indonesian Bar Association, Former Coordinator of KontraS, Former of Executive Member of FORUM ASIA)
Usman Hamid (Executive Director of Amnesty International Indonesia, Former Coordinator of Kontras)

Authors 
Dr. Marga Tjoa (Indonesian writer in popular romance and children's literature)
Dr. Mira Widjaja (novelist)
Dr. Nova Riyanti Yusuf (novelist, psychiatrist, member of People's Representative Council, 2009-2014)