[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Albert T. Morgan

lming majority.  Hilliard did not contest the election, but on the beginning of Morgan's term, Hilliard refused to relinquish access to the sheriff's office at the court house.  On January 8, 1874, Morgan, with a band of allies, took possession of the office when Hilliard and his allies were absent.

On hearing this, Hilliard formed a posse of roughly 30 people and marched back to the court house.  Morgan went out to speak to him in the street, leaving his brother and a few men in the office.  Hilliard ignored him, and took his crowd into the court house.  Hilliard broke down the door and was quickly shot by one of the men inside.  Both sides then exchanged fire.  According to Morgan's testimony, he feared his brother and friends were in mortal danger.  Hilliard was shot in the head at this point, but sources differ on who was responsible.  Witnesses agree that Hilliard was walking toward Morgan at the time of the fatal shot.  A medical examination suggested that Hilliard was shot in the back of the head.

Morgan immediately surrendered himself to the mayor, and was detained in prison.  After several months, however, Morgan was able to secure bail, and subsequently the grand jury failed to produce an indictment against him.  He was thus able to resume the office of sheriff in April 1874.

Political violence

In 1874 and 1875, white reactionary violence against reconstruction was reaching a climax in Mississippi.  Morgan, as sheriff, received reports of several bands of white men organizing and arming themselves.  Morgan reached out to them and heard, in response, that these companies were organizing to defend themselves against rumored black mobs and insurrection.  Morgan insisted that if such mobs existed, they were a matter for the sheriff; he offered to accompany them to locate and defuse any such insurrection.  Morgan's offers were refused.  His own investigations found no black insurrections being planned.  Nevertheless, rumors of insurrection persisted through 1875.

The situation reached a climax for Morgan at a September meeting of the county Republican Party.  While Morgan was speaking, armed white gangs entered the hall and began disrupting the speech.  A shouting match ensued between supporters of either faction, and then gunfire erupted.

Morgan fled the meeting and went into hiding.  Armed bands roamed the streets.  Under threat of lynching, Morgan left the county.  Subsequently, a number of black men and Republicans living in the county were lynched; Republican election tickets and lists were seized and destroyed.  The violence succeeded in preventing those populations from participating in the 1875 election and effectively ended reconstruction in Yazoo County.

Morgan left Mississippi in January 1876, and went to Washington, D.C., where he testified at United States Senate hearings on the violence in Mississippi.

Later years
Morgan went on to live in Lawrence, Kansas, and worked as a lawyer.  In addition to his memoir on Reconstruction, he authored a number of works of financial literature.  He subsequently moved to Denver, Colorado, to prospect for gold.  Upon the release of the 1915 film The Birth of a Nation, which glorified the actions of the Ku Klux Klan against reconstruction in the south, Morgan spoke out against the film with the historical events he experienced.

Morgan died at Denver on April 15, 1922.

Personal life and family
Morgan was the son of George and Eleanor Morgan, baptist missionaries and avowed abolitionists.  He had many siblings, but was most closely associated with his older brother Charles, who also served in the Union Army, and worked with him throughout the Reconstruction effort in Mississippi.

While living in Mississippi Albert Morgan married Carolyn Victoria "Carrie" Highgate, an "Octoroon" school teacher from Ithaca, New York. James Aaron Moore presided at their wedding.  The marriage was only legally possible because of Morgan's own efforts in the Mississippi Senate to repeal laws against inter-racial marriage.  Morgan's marriage to a woman with black ancestry was another inciting controversy during his time in office.

Carrie was a teacher in post-war Mississippi, and much of Morgan's political efforts in Reconstruction were geared toward developing free education in Yazoo County.  They had at least six children, including Angela Morgan, who earned notoriety as a poet.

Published works

References

1922 deaths
Mississippi Republicans
1842 births