[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Arturo Vidal

d to qualify for the 2018 FIFA World Cup, but after just 24 hours he reversed his decision saying that he is a "warrior" who would "never abandon" Chile.

In a friendly against Denmark on 27 March 2018, Vidal and Jean Beausejour became the sixth and seventh players to make 100 appearances for Chile.

 2019 Copa América 
In the quarter-finals of the 2019 Copa América against Colombia on 28 June, Vidal had a goal disallowed in regulation time by VAR for offside; following a 0–0 draw, he scored in the resulting penalty shoot-out to help Chile to a 5–4 victory and advanced to the semi-finals of the competition. In the third-place match against Argentina on 6 July, Vidal scored from a penalty once again in an eventual 2–1 defeat.

 Style of play 

A tactically versatile and hard-working player, Vidal is capable of playing anywhere in midfield, and in several different formations. He initially played in several different defensive and midfield roles in his early years, before eventually coming into his own in the centre, with Juventus, as either a "mezzala" or box-to-box midfielder, roles in which he is capable of assisting his teammates in both defence and attack. Throughout his career, he has also been deployed as a central defender, as a defensive midfielder, as an attacking midfielder, or even on the wing, due to his crossing ability. He is also capable of playing as a full-back or wing-back on either side of the pitch, while with the Chile national team, he has even played in a more advanced role on occasion, positioned as a centre-forward or striker, but effectively functioning as a false-9. He has also been used as a second striker, and as a false attacking midfielder on occasion.

It was these displays for Juventus that led him to be nicknamed Il Guerriero ("The Warrior"), Rey Arturo ("King Arthur") and La Piranha by the Italian press for his hard-tackling and aggressive, tenacious style of play. Vidal is a complete midfielder, known for his marking, positional sense, tackling, and anticipation, attributes which allow him to be effective at intercepting passes, winning back possession, and subsequently starting an attack. He is also gifted with good technique, pace, and stamina, as well as good vision, good distribution, a powerful shot from distance, and an eye for goal. Having been the first-choice penalty shooter for Juventus, he is also an accurate penalty kick taker. Due to his strength and physical characteristics, as well as his ability to make late attack runs from behind into the penalty area, he is also effective in the air. All these qualities have enabled him to become one of the leading exponents of his position.

At Juventus, Vidal became an integral part of the Bianconeri alongside teammates Claudio Marchisio and Andrea Pirlo in the club's three-man midfield, and has made a name for himself as one of the best players in the world in his position; Vidal credited his development and maturity as a player to club legends Pirlo and Gianluigi Buffon. Vidal is also considered one of the most complete midfielders in the world due to his tackling abilities and his ability to support the team in both defence and attack at a high level. In 2013, Bloomberg ranked him the 11th-best player in Europe.

 Sponsorship 
On 5 July 2013, EA Sports announced that they had featured Vidal on the Central and South American cover of FIFA 14, alongside global cover star Lionel Messi. The cover, however, would not be featured in the Brazilian version of the game.

 Personal life 
On 16 June 2015, during the 2015 Copa América, Vidal suffered minor injuries when he crashed his Ferrari while under the influence of alcohol in Santiago. He left the hospital in a police car and was summoned to court to face charges for drunk driving. On 8 July 2015, Vidal was given a two-year driving ban, however he was allowed to continue playing in the Copa América that year.

His cousin, Gonzalo Vásquez, is a former footballer who is now an engineer.

The professional footballer Daniel Malhue is married to his younger sister, Victoria, and they have a son.

In March 2020, Vidal and fellow Chilean footballer Gary Medel, donated to the Chilean Red Cross under an initiative to combat the COVID-19 pandemic in Chile.

 Career statistics 
 Club 

 International 

Scores and results list Chile's goal tally first.