[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of San Francisco

the centre of the defence disposition, since Tres Clavos Hill, although less elevated than San Francisco Hill, was covered with four cannons, while 400 riders under Soto Aguilar were at west of La Encañada as reserve. San Bartolo Hill was defended by the 3rd Line Regiment, on the Chilean right wing.

Allied battle plan and disposition
Buendía’s plan was to break the Chilean defence at Dolores, seizing the water wells and cutting the enemy’s escape route. He would direct the offensive over Dolores with his right wing, while Cáceres and Suárez would onset the south west face of San Francisco hill with three divisions. On the left wing, the Bolivians under Pedro Villamil would attack the north-western edge of the hill, turning right to join at La Encañada with Buendía, who wanted to engulf the Chilean positions to take possession of Dolores. A little later, the Allied command knows that Daza has retreated to Tacna from Camarones.

General Buendía divided his 9,000 troops in three columns. In this plan, Buendía counted on Hilarión Daza's Bolivian troops, but the latter decided to return to Arica after a long and extenuating march.

The three columns were placed under the command of Belisario Suárez, Andrés Cáceres and Buendía himself. Suárez' column was formed by the Villamil, Bolognesi and Velarde divisions. These units were composed of the Cazadores de Cuzco Nº 5, Cazadores de la Guardia Nº 7, Ayacucho, Guardia de Arequipa, Aroma, Vengadores, Victoria and Colquechaca battalions. Buendía had under his command the Villegas, Bustamante and Davila divisions, formed by the Ayacucho Nº 3, Provisional de Lima Nº 3, Cerro de Pasco, Puno Nº 6, Lima Nº 8, Illimani, Olañeta, Paucarpata, Dalance battalions, besides two cavalry squadrons and a six cannon battery.

The battle
At 1 pm, Sotomayor established his position. The Chilean army had now with 6,500 men and 34 cannons, thanks to Castro and Velázquez who joined in time and set between San Bartolo and Tres Clavos hills, behind the train station and the rail road in a way that could limit the access to Dolores from the plain. The Atacama and Coquimbo battalions reinforced the position at San Francisco. Buendía, notified of these reinforcements was eager to attack immediately. The soldiers prepared for battle but Suárez claimed for a delay, pointing out that the troops were exhausted and hungry. Buendía agreed and issued a countermand, making his men to return to previous positions.

All this movement and agitation confused the Chileans, who couldn't decipher what was going on in the Allied army. Therefore, when Salvo saw an incoming scout mission sent earlier by Suárez, he thought it was an attack and fired a warning shot upon them. Some units from Cáceres and Suárez divisions rushed to aid their companions, believing that this was the battle signal; and assaulted Salvo’s position in disarray. Despite the officers efforts, the battle started.

Actions at the center
The Allies immediately set their plan in motion. Villegas began the attack with four companies in guerrilla formation under Col. Ladislao Espinar, followed by the rest of the Ayacucho, Puno, Illimani and Olañeta battalions. These companies advanced over San Francisco Hill and reached its bottom. Here the soldiers were out of Salvo's fire range, and organized. Another company of the Dalence Battalion came to support the attack too. Having arranged his men, Espinar began to climb the slope. Villegas pressed the attack sending Bermúdez's Lima Nº 8 Regiment into the fray.

Incredibly, Salvo wasn't supported by infantry, and got heavily outnumbered in short time. Thus, his 63 men were arranged in front of their cannons and fired upon Espinar's men with their Winchester carbines. The gunners barely contained the attack long enough to receive reinforcements.

When warned, Col. Juan Martínez sent two companies of his Atacama Battalion under Captain Cruz Daniel Ramírez to aid Salvo. Ramirez' companies managed to push back the Allies. Espinar was killed about 40 paces from Salvo's cannons, where his body was found after the battle.

Col. Lavadenz with the rest of his Dalence Battalion reinforced the position and resumed the assault. However, Ramírez was reinforced as well with some troops from the Coquimbo Battalion and rejected this new attack. Besides, the Allied reserve fired upon the Chileans without leaving its position, shooting their comrades in the back.

Strengthened once more, the Allies climbed the hill slope again, but now the rest of the Atacama Battalion was in place. The ensuing clash was brutal. Literally, a mass of men from both sides rolled down the slope stabbing and bayoneting each other. The Chileans crushed several allied companies and finally bayoneted off Villegas' column from the hill. The allied officers tried to contain the retreat, but half of the allied right flank withdrew, as the soldiers fled in all directions across the Pampa del Tamarugal, taking their reserve along with them.