[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Moama

n.

Heritage listings 
Moama has a number of heritage-listed sites, including:
 Hunt Street: Moama Historic Precinct

Facilities

Moama currently has a permanent population of about 3,700, although this swells significantly during holiday periods and the Southern 80 Water Ski race, held in February.

The town has its own New South Wales state primary school, Moama Public School, an Anglican secondary college, "Moama Anglican Grammar School". It also has five full-time New South Wales Police Officers stationed at Moama Police Station adjacent to the Moama Court House on Francis Street; a New South Wales Rural Fire Service Station on Perricoota Road staffed by Volunteer Fire Fighters, a New South Wales Fire Brigade Station staffed by retained NSWFB personnel and a New South Wales State Emergency Service situated in the Moama Industrial area. Ambulance services are provided by Ambulance Victoria, stationed in Echuca. The Roads & Traffic Authority are situated on Meninya Street, opposite the former Bank of New South Wales and adjacent to the Moama Sound Shell and the recently constructed War Memorial. NSW Maritime moved to a modern premises on the Cobb Highway in Moama's Industrial Estate in 2010.

The town has recently undergone a massive resurgence in people moving from Melbourne seeking a "tree change".  The Murray Shire Council has approved new developments in retail, sporting and residential sub divisions.  Located just outside Moama is the "Heartland" Speedway.

Murray River border 

The State of New South Wales takes in the Murray River up to the top of the riverbank on the Victorian side. The NSW Waterways Authority is a self-funding regulatory authority to ensure the safe and environmentally responsible use of NSW waterways including the Murray by all boat operators. New South Wales Police Force members attached to the Moama Police Station also patrol the Murray River in NSW Police Launch "Moama".

Tourism 

During the 1980s Moama received thousands of visitors each week from Melbourne, due to New South Wales' more liberal gambling laws and the presence of poker machines in some of Moama's entertainment venues. The legalisation of poker machines in Victoria killed off these day tours, although poker machines are still a significant tourist drawing card in the town.

Moama is also home to the Rich River Golf Club, an international-standard 36-hole golf course, and the Moama Bowling Club (lawn bowls). Both venues have hosted significant national tournaments and competitions. The town also possesses a moderately large number of hotels, caravan parks, resorts, rented houseboats and wineries.

A significant fire occurred at the Moama Bowling Club in June 2008, with an estimated damage bill of $3 million AUS.

Notable people of Moama
 Isaiah Firebrace (winner of the eighth season of The X Factor Australia & 2017 Eurovision entrant) grew up in Moama.
 Danny Lolicato (Young Engineer NSW 2017) was born in Moama in 1991.
 James Rogers, who served in South Africa during the Boer War and was awarded the Victoria Cross, was born in Moama in 1875.
 Mary Jeanette Robison known professionally as May Robson, the American-based actress whose career spanned 59 years from 1883 to 1942, was born in Moama in 1858.
 Lachie Schultz, Australian rules footballer
 Todd Murphy, Australia International Cricketer

See also
 Moama Football Club

References

External links 

Echuca-Moama tourism information
Moama Railway Station

 
Towns in the Riverina
Towns in New South Wales
Echuca-Moama
Murray River Council