[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Administrative law

raded into laws. In 1994, the State Compensation Law (国家赔偿法) was passed, followed by the Administrative Penalties Law (行政处罚法) in 1996. Administrative Compulsory Law was enforced in 2012. Administrative Litigation Law was amended in 2014. The General Administrative Procedure Law is underway.

France 

In France, there is a dual jurisdictional system with the judiciary branch responsible for civil law and criminal law, and the administrative branch having jurisdiction when a government institution is involved. 
Most claims against the national or local governments as well as claims against private bodies providing public services are handled by administrative courts, which use the Conseil d'État (Council of State) as a court of last resort for both ordinary and special courts. The main administrative courts are the tribunaux administratifs and appeal courts are the cours administratives d'appel. Special administrative courts include the National Court of Asylum Right as well as military, medical and judicial disciplinary bodies. The French body of administrative law is called "droit administratif".

Over the course of their history, France's administrative courts have developed an extensive and coherent case law (jurisprudence constante) and legal doctrine ( and ), often before similar concepts were enshrined in constitutional and legal texts. These principes include:

Right to fair trial (droit à la défense), including for internal disciplinary bodies
Right to challenge any administrative decision before an administrative court (droit au recours)
Equal treatment of public service users (égalité devant le service public)
Equal access to government employment (égalité d'accès à la fonction publique) without regard for political opinions
Freedom of association (liberté d'association)
Right to entrepreneurship (Liberté du Commerce et de l'industrie, lit. freedom of commerce and industry)
Right to legal certainty (Droit à la sécurité juridique)

French administrative law, the basis of continental administrative law, has had a strong influence on administrative laws in several other countries such as Belgium, Greece, Turkey and Tunisia.

Germany 
In Germany administrative law is called "Verwaltungsrecht", which generally governs the relationship between authorities and citizens. It establishes citizens' rights and obligations. It is part of the public law, which deals with the organization, the tasks and the acting of the public administration. It also contains rules, regulations, orders and decisions created by and related to administrative agencies, such as federal agencies, federal state authorities, urban administrations, but also admissions offices and fiscal authorities etc. Administrative law in Germany follows three basic principles.

 Principle of the legality of the authority, which means that there is no acting against the law and no acting without a law.
 Principle of legal security, which includes a principle of legal certainty and the principle of non-retroactivity.
 Principle of proportionality, which means that an act of an authority has to be suitable, necessary and appropriate.

Administrative law in Germany can be divided into general administrative law and special administrative law.

General administrative law 
The general administration law is basically ruled in the administrative procedures law (Verwaltungsverfahrensgesetz [VwVfG]). Other legal sources are the Rules of the Administrative Courts (Verwaltungsgerichtsordnung [VwGO]), the social security code (Sozialgesetzbuch [SGB]) and the general fiscal law (Abgabenordnung [AO]).

Administrative procedures law 
The Verwaltungsverfahrensgesetz (VwVfG) was enacted in 1977, where it regulates the main administrative procedures of the federal government. Its purpose is to ensure that the public authority's laws remain in order. The VwVfG contains the regulations for mass processes and gives legal power against the authorities. The VwVfG applies for public administrative activities of federal agencies as well as federal state authorities—in where federal laws are made. Paragraph 35 of the VwVfG defines the administrative act as the most common form of action in which the public administration occurs against a citizen. It states that an administration act is characterized by the following features:

It is an official act of an authority in the field of public law to resolve an individual case with effect to the outside.

Paragraph 36–39, 58–59, and 80 show the organization and structure of the administrative act. Paragraphs 48 and 49 state the prerequisites for redemption of an unlawful administration act (§ 48) and withdrawal of a lawful administration act (§ 49 VwVfG).