[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Make Roads Safe

isory Board including officials, acting in a personal capacity, from the World Bank, OECD, WHO, Asian Development Bank and United Nations Economic Commission for Europe. At the launch, in London, Lord Robertson summarised the findings of the report: ‘to Make Poverty History we must Make Roads Safe’.

A second report from the Commission for Global Road Safety, 'A Decade of Action for Road Safety', was published in May 2009, and made the case for the international community to approve a 'Decade of Action for Road Safety' between 2010 and 2020 to focus political commitment and resourcing on a sustained effort to improve road safety in developing countries. The report recognises that the majority of those killed or injured in road crashes in middle and low income countries are vulnerable road users, pedestrians, cyclists and motorcyclists, and calls for measures including better road planning and design to improve safety for vulnerable road users and reduce traffic speeds on shared road space, targets for helmet wearing and support for better policing.

Supporters

More than a hundred and fifty organisations worldwide are supporting the Make Roads Safe campaign to date, including the World Health Organization, the United Nations Environment Programme, the Asia Injury Prevention Foundation, based in Vietnam; the Federation Internationale de l’Automobile (FIA), the governing body of world motor sport and the worldwide federation of automobile clubs; and the Global Road Safety Partnership (GRSP) a hosted programme of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent societies. Other organisations that have supported the campaign include BRAC, Oxfam, Safe Kids Worldwide, US injury NGO Amend.org, Fleet Forum and Bridgestone Corporation. In the UK supporters include the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents (RoSPA), ROADSAFE, Roadpeace, Living Streets (the Pedestrians Association), the RAC Foundation, the Parliamentary Advisory Committee on Transport Safety (PACTS), the Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders (SMMT) and Transaid, a development NGO focusing on transport. In India, the Institute for Road Traffic Education (IRTE), a major Indian road safety NGO, and Indian automobile clubs are supporting the campaign. In South Africa both the AA of South Africa and road safety NGO Drive Alive are active supporters of the campaign. Road safety NGOs in Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria and Uganda have also been active in support of the campaign. The European Federation of Road Traffic Victims (FEVR)has also added its support. In the United States organisations endorsing the campaign include the Association for Safe International Travel (ASIRT), the American Public Health Association, the American Automobile Association (AAA), the National Organisation for Youth Safety (NOYS), Mothers Against Drink Driving (MADD) and the National Road Safety Foundation. National campaigns and activities in support of Make Roads Safe are being run in many countries by automobile clubs and road safety NGOs.

Political and public figures who have offered their support for the aims of the campaign include former NATO Secretary General Lord Robertson of Port Ellen, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, who launched the campaign in Africa at an event in Cape Town in May 2007, and former US Transportation Secretary, Norman Mineta. In September 2006 President Oscar Arias of Costa Rica endorsed a key aim of the campaign when he signed a Decree requiring at least 10% of road infrastructure investment in Costa Rica to be allocated to road safety. In an Op-Ed article for the Washington Post on 9 September 2006, President Arias called on regional development banks to follow this lead, and also urged support for the proposed $300 Global Road Safety Action Plan proposed in the Make Roads Safe report. In March 2008 Desmond Tutu was joined by Jimmy Carter, Sonia Gandhi, Mary Robinson, and President Arias in signing an open letter to the United Nations on behalf of the Make Roads Safe campaign, calling for urgent action to tackle global road deaths.

Asian film star Michelle Yeoh became a global ambassador for the campaign in 2008. Among her many activities on behalf of the Make Roads Safe campaign she has campaigned for helmet wearing in Vietnam and Thailand, promoted safer road design at events in Africa, Asia and Latin America, spoken at the UN in New York and launched the Call for a Decade of Action for Road Safety at an event in Vietnam in October 2008 organised by the Asia Injury Prevention Foundation. Michelle Yeoh also filmed a documentary on global road safety, 'Turning Point', a version of which was shown on the BBC World News channel in May 2009.

Campaign progress