[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Frank País

atista slogans on all the walls and buildings in their neighborhood. The next morning, the army, the police, and the people of Santiago awoke to the magnitude of the resistance. Every block in the city was covered with writing splashed in paint; "Down with Batista! M-26-7." No one had been arrested.

Toward the end of that year, the movement began to prepare for the armed uprising that would cover Castro's arrival in Cuba. The uprising was organized in support of the Granma landing of Fidel Castro and a group of guerrillas who intended to establish themselves in the Sierra Maestra and extend the insurrection across all of Cuba. On November 30, País directed the uprising in Santiago de Cuba which lasted for four days. On March 9, 1957, he was detained by the police and charged with the survivors of the Granma and other combatants of the uprising. He was acquitted in May 1957 amidst a large popular protest. From this time he was one of the principal organizers of support to the rebels in Sierra Maestra and the extension of the insurrection throughout the whole island.

Death and legacy
On June 30, 1957, Frank's younger brother, Josué País, was killed by the Santiago police. During the latter part of July 1957 a wave of systematic police searches forced Frank País into hiding in Santiago de Cuba. On July 30 he was in a safe house with Raúl Pujol, despite warnings from other members of the Movement that it was not secure. The Santiago police under Colonel José Salas Cañizares surrounded the building. Frank and Raúl attempted to escape. However, an informant betrayed them as they tried to walk to a waiting getaway car. The police officers drove the two men to the Callejón del Muro (Rampart Lane) and shot them in the back of the head. In defiance of Batista's regime, he was buried in the Santa Ifigenia Cemetery in the olive green uniform and red and black armband of July 26 Movement.

In response to the death of País, the workers of Santiago declared a spontaneous general strike. This strike was the largest popular demonstration in the city up to that point. The mobilization of July 30, 1957 is considered one of the most decisive dates in both the Cuban Revolution and the fall of Batista's dictatorship. This day has been instituted in Cuba as the Day of the Martyrs of the Revolution. The Frank País Second Front, the guerrilla unit led by Raúl Castro in the Sierra Maestra was named for the fallen revolutionary. His childhood home at 226 San Bartolomé Street was turned into The Santiago Frank País García House Museum and designated as a national monument. Also, the international airport in Holguín, Cuba bears his name.

The anti-Castro revolutionary movement, MR-30-11 bears the name of Frank País, consisting of mostly ex-members of MR-26-7 who were never in agreement with communist government.

References

External links

1934 births
1957 deaths
Cuban Protestants
Cuban people of Galician descent
Spanish Protestants
Cuban politicians
Cuban revolutionaries
People from Santiago de Cuba
People of the Cuban Revolution
People shot dead by law enforcement officers