[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Tim Mahoney

ction to Congress. The divorce was finalized in 2010, with Mahoney and his wife splitting $2.83 million in assets, and Mahoney keeping their property in the PGA National Resort and Spa, which he used as his residence while in Congress, with his wife keeping their property in Oklahoma.

Controversies

Residency scandal 
On September 18, 2008, the Capitol Hill newspaper Roll Call ran an article questioning Mahoney's residency status. It alleged that Mahoney had registered to vote at "a horse barn" for the purposes of having residency in his congressional district, while his primary residence was actually in another district. The issue came to light after Mahoney missed a rent payment on his Capitol Hill apartment in July 2007. The case itself was dismissed on September 6, 2007. While Mahoney's opponent, Tom Rooney, attempted to make light of the allegations, the attack proved ineffective after Democrats revealed that Rooney himself was registered to vote at a dog track. While members of the House are only required to live in the state they wish to represent, it has become a strong convention that they live in or near the district they represent as well.

Sex scandals 
On October 13, 2008, ABC News reported that Mahoney had agreed to a $121,000 payment to a former mistress who worked on his staff and was threatening to sue him. Because Mahoney won this seat in 2006 after a sex scandal forced the incumbent to resign, several considered it ironic that a sex scandal of his own coming to light a month before the election, especially since he first campaigned against such corruption. Some professional political pundits, including Charlie Cook, reclassified the race as "Leans" or "Likely Republican." The FBI investigated whether Mahoney hired the first mistress and put her on the federal payroll in order for her to keep their affair secret.

Mahoney admitted to having "numerous" affairs, stating that he had "certainly more than two." Mahoney's wife Terry filed for divorce in Palm Beach County court on October 20, 2008.

2011 arrest 
On August 6, 2011, Mahoney was booked into the Palm Beach County jail and charged with a DUI offense after being found asleep in his car by a North Palm Beach police officer at around 3:00 a.m. According to jail records, Mahoney was booked at 7:12 a.m. and was released at 11:15 a.m. on his own recognizance. Regarding the arrest, Mahoney said "I got arrested for DUI last night and it's regrettable," and also stated to reporters "I'd like to thank law enforcement for all they do. They do an outstanding job." Mahoney said that he planned to plead innocent due to his "conscious decision not to drive."

See also 
 List of federal political sex scandals in the United States
 List of members of the United States House of Representatives who served a single term

Notes

References

External links 

 Congressman Tim Mahoney official U.S. House website (archived)
 Campaign website (archived)
 

 
 Congressional profile at GovTrack
 Financial information (federal office) at OpenSecrets
 Staff salaries, trips and personal finance at LegiStorm.com
 Issue positions and quotes at On the Issues
 Profile at SourceWatch

1956 births
20th-century American people
21st-century American people
20th-century American businesspeople
21st-century American businesspeople
Illinois Democrats
George Washington University School of Business alumni
Living people
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Florida
Politicians from Summit, New Jersey
People from Palm Beach Gardens, Florida
Summit High School (New Jersey) alumni
West Virginia University alumni
21st-century American politicians
American United Methodists
21st-century Methodists
20th-century Methodists
Politicians from Aurora, Illinois