[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Llandough, Penarth

umber 18 and 20 Penlan Road were built between 1840 and 1874 in stonework with slate roofs.

Number 20 was the village's police station until around 1954. Its garage incorporated the Air Raid Precautions post during World War II.

Number 18 was the original Post Office for Llandough.

Pound Cottage 

Pound Cottage is a grade II listed building and was constructed around 1830 on land belonging to the Bute estate. It is as a two-storey thatched cottage with whitewashed walls. It was formerly the home of the village pound keeper, who was responsible for catching and keeping stray animals. The stone walled pound attached to the building was demolished in 1950.

There have been multiple alterations and additions, including single-storey extensions at each end, both of which are thatched. The cottage is now the last thatched cottage in Llandough.

Pound Cottage served as a sweetshop for some years.

Primrose Cottage 
Primrose Cottage was built as three small cottages called Primrose, Moss Rose, and Rosemary in the period 1840–1878. Each cottage was a one-up, one-down with stone spiral staircases.

University Hospital Llandough 

University Hospital Llandough is a district general hospital managed by the Cardiff and Vale University Health Board. It was opened in 1930 as Llandough Hospital and joined the National Health Service in 1948. It was renamed as 'University Hospital Llandough' in 2008 to reflect its links with the Cardiff University School of Medicine.

Y Bwthyn Bach 

Also known as The Welsh House and The Little House, the house was constructed from materials left over from the construction of University Hospital Llandough. It was presented as a gift from the people of Wales to the Duke and Duchess of York (the future King George VI and Queen Elizabeth) in March 1932 for the 6th birthday of Princess Elizabeth (the future Queen Elizabeth II). It was transported to the royal family's house, Royal Lodge in Windsor Great Park near Windsor Castle, and has been used as a playhouse by children of the royal family ever since.

The house was designed by Cardiff architect Mr E C Morgan Willmott and had a thatched roof. The house is  with ceilings  high, two-thirds the size of a normal house, and composed of a parlour, a kitchen, a bedroom, and a bathroom. The house is decorated throughout and has furniture and fittings to scale.

Demography 
The demographic figures date from the United Kingdom Census 2011 are as follows:

Schools
Llandough currently has one primary school. All together there have been three. In the Victorian era, the school was situated on Penlan Road. Another school was later built, but was bombed in World War II. The current school was built in 1970. The school has approximately 180 pupils, and is one of the feeder schools for Penarth's largest secondary school, St. Cyres.

Parks and Recreation

King George V Playing Field 

King George V Playing Field is the main park and recreational area in Llandough. Situated between Lewis Road and Greenway Close it features a football pitch, a multi-use games area, a tennis court, an enclosed children's play area, and car parking.

The multi-use games area was constructed in 2020 and is suitable for a range of activities, including football and basketball. Funding came from the Vale Council's Strong Communities Grant Fund (£45,000), Section 106 contributions from nearby developments (£20,000) and a £20,000 Place for Sport grant from Sports Wales.

Pocket Parks and Village Green 

Llandough community council owns and maintains the village green, a village garden on Spencer Drive, and the Book Green pocket park near the junction of Llandough Hill and Penlan Road.

Allotment gardens 
Llandough has a 67-plot allotment site on Corbett Road, which is managed by the community council., proposals for a new allotment site on Lewis Road are being discussed by the community council.

Health Meadow 
Cardiff and Vale University Health Board has plans to develop a seven-field site adjacent to University Hospital Llandough into an outdoor wellbeing and healthcare facility.

Transport

Roads 
The main road through the village is the B4267. From the junction on Llandough Hill to the Merrie Harrier junction on the A4055 (Barry Road) it is named Penlan Road, and from the Llandough Hill junction forwards it is named Leckwith Road. Llandough Hill connects the village to the A4160 (Penarth Road).

Buses 
Llandough is served by 21 bus stops.

Train 
The nearest train station to Llandough is Cogan Station approximately 0.4 miles (0.6 km) away. Services run to Aberdare, Barry Island, Bridgend, Merthyr Tydfil, and Pontypridd, with all services passing through Cardiff Central, operating at four trains per hour in each direction.

Bike 
There is an OVO bikes (operated by Nextbike) hire station within the grounds of University Hospital Llandough offering electrically assisted bicycles.

Governance