[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Freedom of navigation

rovocative or even bellicose. Other scholars have pointed out that the UNCLOS does not specifically mention freedom of navigation for warships outside of the high seas but that it has been practice between states to accept military activities at least within the EEZ.

Innocent passage versus FONOPs 

The concept of innocent passage in international law and under UNCLOS refers as noted earlier to the right of a vessel to pass through the territorial waters of a foreign state under certain conditions. While related to FONOPs in that both innocent passages and FONOPs involve vessels traversing seas claimed by a foreign state, they differ in that if a vessel claims it is traversing under innocent passage terms, it implies a concession that the vessel is in fact traveling through territorial waters of another state. Both innocent passage and FONOPs challenge a state's imposed limitations on freedom of navigation in a maritime area, but innocent passage accepts that the area is within a state's waters, while a FONOP can be used to challenge a state's territorial claim to an area.

Criticism 
There are many critics of FONOPs, with a wide breadth of criticisms regarding the efficacy, bellicosity, and legality of FONOPs. One group of critics argues that FONOPs are unnecessarily risky and lead to escalation. Chinese government responses to American FONOPs in the South China Sea fall under this category of criticism. A second group of critics argue that FONOPs are unnecessary, and that states should focus on the protection of their own ships rather than using ship operations to check other states' maritime claims. Still other critics argue that FONOPs are ineffective at their goal of limiting other states' maritime claims.

FONOPs in the South China Sea

According to BBC correspondents, the Spratly Islands in the South China Sea could potentially be a major geopolitical flashpoint. China has used land reclamation to expand disputed islands, and has built runways on them.

U.S. FONOPS in the South China Sea

In 2013 and 2014, the US conducted FONOPs in areas claimed by China, Taiwan, Malaysia, the Philippines, and Vietnam. During the presidency of the Obama administration there was an increase in attention on China and Asia in general leading to the pivot to Asia from 2012. This also was reflected in an increased number of FONOPs in the South China Sea. In 2015 the Obama administration authorized two FONOPs and three FONOPs were authorized in 2016. Several of the FONOPs that got most media coverage were the missions conducted by the guided-missile destroyers  in 2015; and  and  in 2016.

Beginning in October 2015, as part of the U.S. FON Operations (FONOP) program, U.S. Navy ships have patrolled near the artificial islands China has created in the disputed Spratly and Paracel archipelagos to underscore the U.S.'s position that the artificial islands constructed by China are located in international waters. The  sailed within 12 nautical miles of reclaimed-land islands (the so-called "Great Wall of Sand") in October 2015. The USS Curtis Wilbur sailed within  of Triton Island in the Paracel Islands in January 2016, and the  came within 12 nautical miles of Fiery Cross Reef in the Spratly Islands in May 2016.

In spring 2017, the Trump administration stopped FONOPs in the South China Sea hoping China might increase its pressure on North Korea over its missile launch tests. In summer 2017, it restarted FONOPs. After restarting the FONOPs in the South China Sea the Trump administration increased the number of FONOPs authorized. Trump authorized six FONOPs in 2017 and five operations in 2018. 2019 saw a record high number of U.S. FONOPs in South China Sea with a total of nine operations conducted.

May 2018 also saw the first FONOP with the participation of two U.S. warships. On May 27, 2018, a US Navy , , and a , , sailed within 12 nautical miles of the Paracel Islands, which are controlled by China. The FONOP came shortly after the Pentagon announced that it would disinvite the Chinese navy for its Rim of the Pacific (RIMPAC) exercise off Hawaii the same summer, which is a US flagship naval exercise. The FONOP was called a "serious infringement on China’s sovereignty" by China's defense ministry.

On September 30, 2018, the  was undertaking a FONOP near the Gaven and Johnson Reefs in the Spratly Islands when the , approached to within  of the Decatur, in what the US Navy termed "a series of increasingly aggressive maneuvers" This forced the Decatur to maneuver to avoid a collision.