[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Battle of Chalgrove Field

The Battle of Chalgrove Field took place on 18 June 1643, during the First English Civil War, near Chalgrove, Oxfordshire. It is now best remembered for the death of John Hampden, who was wounded in the shoulder during the battle and died six days later.

Hoping to capture a Parliamentarian convoy containing £21,000 in cash, during the night of 17 to 18 June Royalist cavalry from Oxford led by Prince Rupert raided positions around Chinnor. Although they failed to intercept the convoy, they seized supplies and prisoners and headed home pursued by cavalry under Hampden and Major John Gunter. Prince Rupert halted at Chalgrove and counterattacked, scattering his opponents before their main force arrived under Sir Philip Stapleton.

The ease with which the Royalists conducted their raid, along with the failure to capitalise on the capture of Reading in April caused serious criticism of the Earl of Essex, Parliamentarian commander. On the other hand, Royalist morale was significantly boosted and Chalgrove marked the start of a series of victories over the next six months.

Background
When the war began, both sides expected it to be decided by a single, decisive battle, but the events of 1642 showed the need to plan for a lengthy conflict. The Royalists focused on fortifying their wartime capital in Oxford and connecting key areas of support in England and Wales, while Parliament consolidated control of those they already held. Although peace talks were held in February, neither party did so with any conviction, and they ended without resolution.

The Earl of Essex, commander of the Parliamentarian field army, captured Reading on 27 April, breaking the line of outposts that protected Oxford. The Royalist war effort was hampered by shortage of weapons, since Parliament held the largest arsenals in England and controlled most of the major ports, making it difficult to import them. In February a large consignment of weapons purchased by Queen Henrietta Maria in the Dutch Republic landed in Bridlington, Yorkshire and preparations began to escort it to Oxford.

Pending its arrival, a consignment of gunpowder from York arrived in Oxford on 16 May, escorted by 1,000 troops under Colonel Thomas Pinchbeck. The Royalists were also helped by sickness and hunger among the Parliamentarian troops and the unwillingness of Essex to act aggressively, claiming he could not move without additional supplies and money. This delay allowed the Royalists time to clear a route to Oxford and the arms convoy left York on 4 June, accompanied by the Queen and 5,000 cavalry. Several days later Parliament sent Essex £100,000 worth of supplies from London, including £21,000 in cash to pay the soldiers.

Meanwhile, Royalist cavalry from Oxford conducted a series of raids on local Parliamentarian towns, which Essex failed to prevent. A furious Parliament ordered him to take action and he finally left Reading for Thame on 10 June. The raids were partly intended to distract attention from the Queen's convoy, which reached Newark on 16 June. Hoping to intercept it, on  the 17th Essex sent 2,500 men to attack a Royalist outpost at Islip. They found the garrison waiting and retreated; as they did so, Scots mercenary Sir John Urry defected, bringing information on the London convoy and Essex's troop positions.

Seeing an opportunity, Prince Rupert left Oxford at 16:00 the same day, with 1,200 cavalry, 350 dragoons, and 500 infantry. Essex had concentrated his troops in the north, exposing his southern positions; concerned by this, John Hampden checked his pickets with care before going to bed.
Many of the troops at Chinnor and Postcombe had just returned from the abortive attempt on Islip, and were exhausted; they failed to post guards, and were taken by surprise when the Royalists attacked at 05:00. Having inflicted 50 casualties, as well as capturing prisoners and stores, Prince Rupert decided to withdraw before his line of retreat was cut; by 06:30, his forces were on the road back to Oxford.

While three troops under Hampden and Major John Gunter maintained contact with the Royalists, the local commander at Thame, Sir Philip Stapleton, hastily pulled together a force to attack them. Several senior officers, supposedly in Thame to collect their regiments' wages, helped him form a number of ad hoc units; having collected around 700 men, Stapleton set out in pursuit.

Battle

With Lunsford's infantry leading the way, the Royalists made slow progress due to their prisoners and loot, their column spread out along two miles. By 08:30, the rearguard was in contact with Hampden and Gunter, who had been joined by 100 dragoons under Colonel Dalbier, an experienced German mercenary. Realising he could not outrun his pursuers, Rupert ordered Lunsford to keep moving, and secure the bridge at Chiselhampton.