[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Jayne Loader

Jayne Loader  is an American director and writer best known for the 1982 Cold War documentary The Atomic Cafe.

Early life
She was born in 1951 in Weatherford, Texas. She graduated from Reed College (B.A., 1973) and the University of Michigan (M.A., 1976).

The Atomic Cafe
She co-directed The Atomic Cafe (1982) with Pierce Rafferty and Kevin Rafferty and has guested on many television shows, including Late Night With David Letterman. She is the author of Between Pictures (1986, ), a novel, Wild America (1989, ), a collection of short stories, and articles on film and culture.

Later years
In 1995, she created the CD-ROM and Website Public Shelter, which premiered in January 1996 at the New Media Center of the Sundance Film Festival and received two New Media INVISION Awards at Comdex.

From 1995 to 1997, she wrote WWWench, one of the first blogs and traveled the world as a New Media evangelist. In 1988, she debuted as a fictional character in Timothy Leary's What Does WoMan Want? In 1999, she married the astronomer Robert Kirshner. From 2001 to 2007, Loader and Kirshner were the Masters of Quincy House, one of Harvard's twelve undergraduate houses, where they lived with their bull terriers, Astra and Albert. During her tenure at Quincy, Loader renovated the Masters' Residence and Gym; helped to redesign the Dining Hall; gave many parties (assisted by the Quincy House Elves); and launched the controversial Masters' Nights speakers series. While serving on the Steering Group of the Resource Efficiency Program, Loader created the popular Valentine's Day Cosmetics Drive (2003–present), which survives her under the aegis of the Harvard Office for Sustainability.

She lives in Friendship, Maine and Portola Valley, California.

References

External links
Jayne Loader on IMDb

20th-century American novelists
American women novelists
Reed College alumni
University of Michigan alumni
Harvard University staff
American women film directors
1951 births
Living people
American women short story writers
20th-century American women writers
People from Weatherford, Texas
20th-century American short story writers
People from Knox County, Maine
People from Portola Valley, California
Collage filmmakers
Novelists from California
Film directors from California
Film directors from Texas
Film directors from Maine
Women experimental filmmakers
21st-century American women