[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Glia limitans

barachnoid, subpial, and perivascular spaces.  This area is filled with pro-inflammatory factors such as antibodies, complement proteins, cytokines, and chemokines. The astrocytes of the glia limitans are believed to be the component of the brain that secretes the pro- and anti-inflammatory factors.

Development 
The development of the long astrocyte cellular processes that are integral to the glia limitans structure has been linked to the presence of meningeal cells in the pia mater.  Meningeal cells are specialized fibroblast-like cells that surround the CNS and major blood vessels.  They have been found to co-operate with astrocytes in the initial formation of the glia limitans during development and participate in its continued maintenance throughout life. Artificially induced destruction of meningeal cells during CNS development have been found to result in the alteration of subpial extracellular matrix and a disruption of the glia limitans.

The glia limitans has also proven to be important in the recovery of the CNS after injuries. When lesions are made on the brain surface, meningeal cells will divide and migrate into the lesion, eventually lining the entire injury cavity. If the injury has significantly reduced the density of astrocytes and created space within the tissue, the meningeal cells will invade even more diffusely.  As invading meningeal cells make contact with astrocytes, they can induce the formation of a new, functional glia limitans.  The new glia limitans formed after CNS injury usually presents itself as a barrier to regenerating axons.

Clinical relevance 
There are a number of diseases associated with problems or abnormalities with the glia limitans.  Many diseases can arise from a breach to the glia limitans in which it will no longer be able to fulfill its functional role as a barrier.  Two of the more common diseases resulting from a breach to the glia limitans are described below.

Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD) 
Breaches in the glia limitans-basal lamina complex have been associated with Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD), which is thought to be the result of micropolygyri, or small protrusions of nervous tissue. Although the underlying mechanism for the formation of these breaches is largely unknown, recent research has indicated that the protein fukutin is directly linked to the developing lesions. Mutations in the fukutin protein lead to a depressed level of its expression in the brain and spinal cord of neonatal subjects, which in turn has been found to contribute to the weakening of the structural integrity of the glia limitans. Neuronal and glial cells migrate through the weakened barrier resulting in the accumulation of neural tissue in the subarachnoid space. This abnormal migration, known as cortical dysplasia, is theorized to be one of the primary causes for FCMD.

Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) 
It has been demonstrated that the clinical signs of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) are only evident after the penetration of inflammatory cells across the glia limitans and upon entrance into the CNS parenchyma.  The activity of matrix metalloproteinases, specifically MMP-2 and MMP-9, are required for the penetration of the glia limitans by inflammatory cells.  This is most likely due to the biochemistry of the parenchymal basement membrane and the astrocytic foot processes.  MMP-2 and MMP-9 are both produced by myeloid cells, which surround T cells in the perivascular space.  These metalloproteinases allow immune cells to breach the glia limitans and reach the CNS parenchyma to attack the CNS parenchymal cells.  Once the immune cells have reached the CNS parenchyma and the immune attack is underway, the CNS parenchymal cells are sacrificed in order to battle the infection.  The autoimmune response to EAE leads to chronic attack of oligodendrocytes and neurons, which promotes demyelination and axonal loss.  This can ultimately result in the loss of CNS neurons.

Comparative anatomy 
Because the glia limitans serves such an important structural and physiological function in human beings, it is unsurprising that evolutionary precursors of the glial limiting membrane can be found in many other animals.

Insects have an open circulatory system, so there are no blood vessels found within their ganglia. However, they do have a sheath of perineurial glial cells that envelops the nervous system and exhibit the same tight occluding junctions that are induced by the glia limitans in humans.  These cells act as a barrier and are responsible for establishing permeability gradients.