[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Francis Forbes

he Australian colonies. He spoke forcefully against the practice of internal transportation, whereby convicts who misbehaved were sent to secondary prisons such as Norfolk Island. While not directly opposing the convict system, he tried to argue for a more humane and less harsh method of punishment.

Early in 1837, Forbes' received the news that he would be given a knighthood. After recovering from two bouts of influenza, he made it to St James Palace on 5 April 1837 to be dubbed by King William IV. Francis Forbes, the boy from Bermuda with a rich Scottish heritage and a passion for justice returned to Australia as Sir Francis Forbes. 
 
Given all this activity, it is not surprising that the time Forbes spent on sick leave in England did not help him regain his strength. He even tried ‘taking the waters’ at a variety of spa resorts in France and Italy, but to no avail. He felt like he was "sinking under the weight" of his office and his hand shook as he tried to write his resignation letter. (see ML MSS 403/6, 135 at 137). 
 	
After spending time in England and Europe, he admitted that his "nerves [were] so shattered as to affect my powers of mind as well as body". He retired as Chief Justice of New South Wales on 1 July 1837. His dream of a comfortable retirement at ‘Edinglassie’, a rural retreat he built on his property in the Nepean, was never realised as he needed to be close to his doctors.

Forbes died in a rented house, "Leitrim Lodge", in Newtown, New South Wales, on 8 November 1841. He was only 57 years old. He was survived by his mother, his wife – Lady Amelia, and their two sons who were studying at Cambridge in England.

Legacy
The town of Forbes in central New South Wales is named after him.

The Francis Forbes Society for Australian Legal History, based in Sydney, is named after him.

Mount Forbes in Queensland is named after him, but the name originally referred to the mountain now known as Mount Walker, Queensland while the Mount Forbes name is now assigned to an adjacent locality.

Forbes Street in Darlinghurst is named after him.

The State Library of New South Wales holds a candelabrum that was given to Forbes by "the colonists of New South Wales" in 1839 after he retired. It was given with words of high praise:

"Nothing but the highest moral firmness and integrity, combined with that genius and learning for which you are so eminently distinguished, could have overcome the opposition and difficulties which you have had to encounter."

These grateful "colonists" had raised the mighty sum of 260 pounds, 5 shillings and 6 pence (at least AUS$33,000 in 2016 money) through public donations. There being a dearth of silversmiths in the new colony, they commissioned Benjamin Smith the second, a London-based silversmith to create this elaborate piece. It weighs over 11 kg and is made of brushed and polished silver.

See also
List of judges of the Supreme Court of New South Wales

References

External links
Many of Forbes's NSW cases and decisions are online at AustLii:
Decisions of the Superior Courts of New South Wales, 1788-1899
Superior Courts of New South Wales (pre-1900) Case Notes 

Francis Forbes Society for Australian Legal History
 Colonial Secretary's papers 1822-1877, State Library of Queensland- includes digitised letters written by Forbes to the Colonial Secretary of New South Wales

Chief Justices of New South Wales
Judges of the Supreme Court of New South Wales
Australian people of Scottish descent
1784 births
1841 deaths
Colony of New South Wales judges
Newfoundland Colony judges
19th-century Australian judges
Members of the New South Wales Legislative Council
19th-century Australian politicians
Bermudian lawyers
Bermudian emigrants to Australia