[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Japanese invasion of Taiwan (1895)

ecovered from the battlefield.  The Japanese also took 110 prisoners, one of whom was the 19-year-old militia leader Jiang Shaoxu.  On 11 July, Jiang committed suicide by eating raw opium. Wu Tangxing thereupon assumed command of the Hakka militias, and on 23 July led them back in retreat to Miaoli.

Guerrilla operations behind Japanese lines 
In June and July 1895, while Formosan militia units disputed the Japanese advance on the battlefield, groups of Formosan insurgents began to attack isolated couriers and small groups of Japanese soldiers on the routes between Taipei and Hsinchu, behind Japanese lines.  The attackers were often villagers who had formally submitted on the approach of Japanese columns, and foreign observers severely condemned their abuse of the white flag:
The greatest obstacle that the Japanese encountered was the smiling villagers who stood in their doorways, over which they had flown a white flag, watching the troops pass by.  For these natives the Japanese had at first a kind word and a smile.  But scarcely were the troops out of sight before guns were brought out through the same doorways and shots fired at the first unfortunate party whose numbers were sufficiently small to make it appear safe to the treacherous occupants.  Troops now return and find the mutilated bodies of their companions in the streets; while at the doors and windows of the houses near, are the same grinning fiends and the same little white flag, an emblem of peace, still floating over their guilty heads.

The Japanese took brutal reprisals whenever such incidents occurred, shooting suspected villagers and burning down whole villages.

One of the most successful insurgent attacks was made on 11 July on a party of 35 Japanese infantrymen who were conveying supplies by boat from Taipei to Tokoham.  The Japanese were ambushed, and although they fought bravely, all but one of the party were either killed or so badly wounded that they committed suicide rather than fall alive into the hands of the enemy.  The Japanese pursued the insurgents and defeated them on 12 July in an engagement at Long-tampo.

During the last week in July the Japanese twice despatched coordinated expeditions from Taipei, Tokoham and Haisoankau to clear Formosan guerrillas away from their supply lines, engaging large insurgent forces at Sankakeng (modern-day Sanxia) on 22 and 23 July and at Sinpu on 2 August. During both sweeps the Japanese inflicted heavy losses on the insurgents and suffered relatively few casualties in return.

Japanese capture of Miaoli 
On 6 August the Imperial Guards Division left Hsinchu and advanced towards Miaoli.  On 6 and 7 August two Japanese columns drove Formosan insurgent forces away from Hsinchu, occupying the resistance centre of Beipu. On 8 and 9 August the Japanese fought a major battle to drive a large force of insurgents from a series of strong positions on the heights of Cha-pi-shan, to the north of Tiongkang. On 11 August the Japanese occupied Aulang.  On 13 August they fought another battle, against stubborn Formosan resistance, to dislodge a force of insurgents from the hilltop position of Chenkansoan. On 14 August the Japanese entered Miaoli county.  There was no resistance, as most of the population had fled.

Japanese victory at Baguashan and capture of Changhua
The next major Japanese objective on the route south was the walled city of Changhua.  The Formosans were reported to have massed their forces there to fight a major defensive battle, and Liu Yongfu was said to have reinforced the Formosan militia with a number of elite Black Flag units from his southern army.  The capture of Changhua was a formidable proposition for the Japanese.  The heights of Baguashan, to the north of the city, were fortified, and defended by a strong artillery position, the Bagua battery (Traditional Chinese: 八卦砲台).  During the third week of August the Japanese brought up supplies and made preparations for what they expected to be the decisive battle of the campaign.

The Japanese resumed their advance from Miaoli on 24 August, occupying the large village of Koloton on 24 August.  On 25 August, continuing their advance towards the Toa-to-kei river to the north of Changhua, the Japanese were ambushed by a large insurgent force in the fortified village of Tokabio.  The Japanese fought all day to clear the insurgents from their line of advance, but the village was not completely cleared until the morning of 26 August.  During the evening of 26 August the Japanese closed up to the Toa-to-kei river and prepared to assault the Formosan positions around Changhua.