[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Great Syrian Revolt

h Senegalese soldiers began attacking the left side of the Syrian Army, which was composed mainly of volunteers, and some traitors attacked the Syrian Army from behind and killed many soldiers and robbed their weapons. Despite all, Yusuf al-Azma was unconcerned and remained steadfast and determined.

Yusuf al-Azma had planted land mines on the heads of the valley of Alqarn, a corridor used by the French Army, in the hope that when the tanks attack into, the land mines explode. However, the traitors had already cut off the mines wires, and some of them were caught during the operation, but it was too late. When the tanks approached, Yusuf al-Azma gave the order to detonate the land mines but they did not explode. He examined them and saw that most of them had been disabled. Then he heard an uproar from behind and when he turned, saw many of his armies and volunteers had fled after a bomb fell from one of the aircraft. So he grabbed his rifle and fired at the enemy until he was killed on Wednesday, 24 July 1920.

Policy of the French Mandate in Syria 

After France obtained control over the entire Syrian territories they resorted to the fragmentation of Syria into several independent states or entities:

 State of Damascus (1920).
 State of Aleppo (1920).
 Alawite State (1920).
 The State of Greater Lebanon (1920).
 Jabal Druze State (1921).
 Sanjak of Alexandretta (1921).

The northern Syrian territory was given to Turkey during the Treaty of Ankara on 20 October 1921, and the boundary of the border between the colonial power and Turkey.

To tear the national unity of the country and weaken national resistance to the French mandate, General Gouraud resorted to the policy pursued by General Hubert Lyautey in Morocco. It is a policy of isolating cohesive religious and ethnic minorities from the mainstream in the country, under the pretext of defending their rights and equity, and incite the rural and Bedouin against urban.

The causes of the revolution 

The outbreak of the revolution had many reasons, the most important of which are:

 The Syrians rejected the French occupation of their country, and sought full independence.
 Tearing Syria into several small states (Aleppo, Druze, Alawites, Damascus).
 The great economic damage caused to the Syrian merchants as a result of the policy adopted by the French in Syria, where the French dominated the economic aspects and linked the Syrian and Lebanese pounds to the French franc.
 The military dictatorship practiced by the French generals during their mandate.  Fighting the Arab culture of the country and trying to replace it with the French culture and appointing the French to top positions.
 The abolition of freedoms in Syria and the pursuit of nationalists and provoke sectarianism, which led to the discontent of the Syrians.  The meeting between the leaders of the Jabal Druze State and the French high commissioner in Syria failed, where the Druze leaders expressed their displeasure with the policy of French General, Gabriel Carbillet, and demanded that another governor replace him. However, the high commissioner insulted them and threatened them with harsh punishment if they stuck to their position. As a result, Sultan al-Atrash declared that a revolution was necessary to achieve independence.

In the opinion of Dr. Abd al-Rahman Shahbandar, the above reasons are the distant causes of the revolution. The primary reasons are General Carbillet's antagonism to the Al-Atrash family and attempts to crush their influence and jailed everyone who dealt with them, prompting Sultan al-Atrash to declare a revolution.

The demands of the revolution 
The most prominent demands of the revolution were:

 unification of the coastal and internal territories of Syria, and the recognition of one fully independent Syrian Arab state;
 The establishment of a Syrian National Congress to draw up a fundamental law on the principle of absolute sovereignty for the nation;
 withdrawal of the occupying forces from Syria and the formation of a national army to maintain security;
 upholding the principles of the French Revolution and human rights in freedom, equality and fraternity.

The course and events of the revolution 

Colonel Catro, who was dispatched by General Gouraud to Jabal al-Druze, sought to isolate the Druze from the Syrian national movement, he signed on 4 March 1921 a treaty with the Druze tribes, which stipulated that Jabal al-Druze would form a particular administrative unit independent of the State of Damascus with a local governor and an elected representative council. In exchange for the Druze's recognition of the French mandate, the result of the treaty appointed Salim al-Atrash as the first ruler of the Jabal Druze State.