[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Grand Bay-Westfield

ing near the station. This community around the former Nerepis Station, commonly called Nerepis, is not to be confused with the separate community of Nerepis, which lies on the other side of the Nerepis River across the Brittain Road Bridge. Nerepis is part of Grand Bay-Westfield.

Municipal Symbols

Grand Bay (1973) 
The village of Grand Bay's 1973 crest featured four elements: a sailboat, a tree on a small hill, and the letters "G" and "B". The sailboat would be reused in future iconography (and remains the principal symbol for the town today). The tree on the hill was presumably a reference to the former village of Pamdenec, as the name Pamdenec means "little hill".

Grand Bay (1988) 
Upon incorporation as a town in 1988, the Grand Bay adopted a new logo. The new crest featured an enlarged image of the same sailboat depicted on the original 1973 crest and featured the tagline "A Community of Friends".

Westfield (1989) 

Westfield was the first New Brunswick municipality to be granted armorial bearings from the Sovereign through Her Majesty's Canadian Officers of Arms. Early in 1988, it was suggested to the Village Council that a symbol be developed for use by the village. Westfield's official request for a coat of arms was made to the Chief Herald of Canada by Mayor Kevin Thorne on  behalf of the Council on October 25, 1988. Following the development of design proposals by a committee of councillors, the Westfield Council agreed on a proposed design and motto to be submitted on December 13, 1988. Westfield received its Coat of Arms on June 30, 1989.

In Westfield's shield of arms the basic tinctures, white and green, and the green cross-crosslets are taken from the arms of John Coffin.

The next device on the shield is the so-called Tudor Rose with a yellow disc in the centre bearing the numeral 4. This is the same badge used on the tunic buttons of the Kings American Regiment. In recognition of its service the regiment was placed on the British Army's regular establishment in 1782 and designated the 4th American Regiment, hence the numeral in the centre of the rose. This device was chosen because Ensign Henry Nase, the first Loyalist settler of Westfield, served in the unit for six years until it was disbanded in New Brunswick in 1783. Nase became a colonel in the New Brunswick militia, a respected magistrate, and a prominent churchman.

Across the upper third of the shield there is a broad band known in heraldic terms as a chief. In the Westfield arms this is coloured black with five heraldic representations of ermine tails to represent fur as a nod to the early French regime in the area. Sieur of Martignon Martin D'Arprendestiguy - whose seigneury included the lands which would become Westfield - made his living from the fur trade.

The crest consists of a wreath of twisted cloth in the main colours of the shield, white and green, on which there sits a Loyalist coronet. It consists of a gold rim inscribed with the motto "UNITAS IMPERII" or "Unity of Empire". The rim is topped with red Canadian maple and green English oak leaves. From the coronet there rises an Eastern Panther. The panther supports a staff which bears the Union Flag of 1707 under which the Loyalists fought in the American Revolution.

The motto associated with the coat of arms is "INTER AGROS ET FLUMINA HABITENS", or "Dwelling between fields and rivers" in reference to the local geography.

Grand Bay-Westfield (1998) 

When the town of Grand Bay and village of Westfield amalgamated in 1998, the new town crest incorporated elements of both the Grand Bay logo and the painting featured on signs at the Westfield River Landing. While the logo reused the Grand Bay motto, "A Community of Friends", and generally resembled the town's 1988 logo, the 1998 iteration added additional detail to the sailboat depicted and incorporated the Westfield Wharf and boat launch as a means of making Westfield residents feel included.

Grand Bay-Westfield (2021) 
In March 2021, the town's new corporate branding and website were launched. The new logo maintained the sailboat associated with both Grand Bay and Westfield since the 1970s, but abstracted the icon into three simple shapes coloured yellow, green, and blue. The new corporate branding also resulted in a new town motto: Neighbours by Nature. New welcome signs with the updated branding were installed on the town's southern border in May 2021 in advance of the new Council's term, but the gradual rollout of the branding was put on hold until the impact of the Higgs-Allain local governance reforms on town boundaries and identity was known.

Parks 

Grand Bay-Westfield has many parks, from simple greenspace to ballfields and playgrounds. They are listed below, in geographical order from south to north.