[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Human rights in Croatia

Human rights in Croatia are defined by the Constitution of Croatia, chapter three, sections 14 through 69.

There are numerous non-governmental organizations dealing with the issue in the country, as well as the Croatian Government's Office for Human Rights and several equality bodies, such as The Ombudsperson for Human Rights, Ombudsperson for Gender Equality, Children's Ombudsperson and The Disability Ombudsman.

Since independence

Freedom of Speech 
Reporters are often sued by politicians for defamation. Croatia was named a country with one of the most lawsuits filed to silence journalists in the EU. There have also been cases of physical violence against reporters, such as when two reporters documenting an Easter Vigil were attacked by an unknown individual.

Reproductive Rights 
Although abortion is legal in Croatia up to 10 weeks after contraception, and has exceptions for women who have been pregnant for more than 10 weeks. However, the country is somewhat split on the issue, with some conservative groups calling for a ban. In one instance, a woman who passed the 10 week deadline was deprived of an abortion by four clinics, even though her fetus had a brain tumor, leading to protests.

Migrant Rights 
Croatia has been continuously critisized by human rights groups for refusing migrants. Many migrants seeking to get into Croatia are sent back to Bosnia and Herzegovina instead. In some cases, police used violence against migrants.

In 2021, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Croatia violated the European Convention on Human Rights while sending a family from Afghanistan to Serbia. In the Russian invasion of Ukraine, 22,000 refugees were granted Temporary Protection Status by Croatia.

Discrimination Against Roma 
Roma have been discriminated against in Croatia, and there have been violent attacks against them. Croatia has been critisized because Roma are discriminated against when getting housing, employment, and healthcare. In a 2013 poll, 44% of Croatians had prejudice against Roma. According to the UN, the Roma population of Croatia is 30,000-40,000, equivalent to roughly 1% of the population.

LGBTQ Rights 
Homosexuality was legalised in 1977. The age of consent was equalised in 1998. Homosexuals are not banned from military service.  In 2003, the Croatian government passed laws prohibiting discrimination based on sexual orientation in employment and education, the distribution of homophobic materials, and defamation of homosexuality and homosexuals.  Limited scope of rights were conferred upon same-sex couples after three years of cohabitation in 2003, but registered unions were not permitted until 2014. Since then Croatia provides all marital rights except joint adoption for registered and non-registered same-sex partnerships.

In November 2010, the European Commission's annual progress report on Croatia's candidacy stated that Croatia's numerous homophobic incidents are worrying since inquisitions need to make further efforts in combating hate crimes. The European Parliament, as stands in its 2010 resolution, “expresses its concern at the resentment against the LGBTQ minority in Croatia, evidenced most recently by homophobic attacks on participants in the Gay Pride parade in Zagreb; urges the Croatian authorities to condemn and prosecute political hatred and violence against any minority; invites the Croatian Government to implement and enforce the Anti-Discrimination Law”.

Historical situation
The following chart shows Croatia’s ratings since 1991 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is "free"; 7, "not free".

See also
Human trafficking in Croatia
Internet censorship and surveillance in Croatia
Political prisoners in Croatia
Croatia in the European Union

Notes
1.Note that the "Year" signifies the "Year covered". Therefore the information for the year marked 2008 is from the report published in 2009, and so on.
2.As of January 1.

References

External links
Croatian Helsinki Committee for Human Rights
Office for Human Rights of the Croatian Government
Amnesty International USA - Croatia's human rights violations
Human Rights Watch on Croatia
Justice at Risk: War Crimes Trials in Former Yugoslavia
2009 Country Report on Human Rights Practices in Croatia, released by the US DoS Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor on March 11, 2010
Croatia Human Rights Practices, by the US Department of State in 1993
Report by T. Hammarberg, Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe, following his visit to Croatia from 6 to 9 April 2010
Croatia - Commission on Human Rights 
 Country Reports on Human Rights Practices - Croatia, by the US Department of State in 1996
Censorship in Croatia - IFEX

 
Politics of Croatia