[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 2003 Fiesta Bowl

hrow the penalty flag. Dodd wrote:

Reilly expressed a similar sentiment: "In all my years of watching overweight, bespectacled guys in striped shirts fling flags after pass plays, I've never seen a flag flung so flagrantly late. You felt like you could've assembled a ship in a bottle in that time."

Months after the game, the Florida newspaper The Orlando Sentinel published, "The Republic of Texas had 'Remember the Alamo.' The Republic of Miami has 'Remember Terry Porter.' He's the ref who threw the pass-interference flag that cost UM the national title."

Team reactions
Numerous Miami players and coaches have expressed their displeasure toward the call. Coker stated, "Whether it be a good call, a bad call, it was a poorly timed call, you know? I just think you don't make that call at that stage of the game." Sharpe denies that he committed a penalty and criticized Porter for refusing to admit that he made a mistake. Linebacker Jonathan Vilma and former tight end Jeremy Shockey both called the penalty "bullshit," and linebacker DJ Williams said that he felt like "part of my legacy had been stolen from me." Williams, former wide receiver Santana Moss, former tackle Bryant McKinnie, and assistant coach Don Soldinger each noted that the initial appearance of victory took Miami out of the competitive mindset, shifting game momentum and forcing them to refocus. Dorsey also criticized Porter's delay in throwing the penalty flag, stating, "My whole thing is good calls and bad calls happen, but just make the call. Don't wait as long as you did to throw the flag. I've heard the explanation that, 'I was replaying it in my mind.' Come on." On the contrary, Miami safety Sean Taylor dismissed the call's influence on the game, stating, "Officials make the calls. That wasn't a turning point. We should have never been in that position."

Defenses of Porter
Both contemporary and retrospective analyses have defended Porter, contending that he made the correct call on the field. Despite his initial criticism, Dodd later changed his stance on the call, stating that due to the predominant camera angle used during the broadcast, the foul occurred several seconds before previously thought. Dodd continued, "Whether it takes five seconds or five minutes, they teach officials, above all, to get the call right. Porter did." Dave Parry, then the Big Ten Conference supervisor of officials, also noted the camera angle's influence on viewer perception:

Kyle Clark of The Daily Toreador, a student newspaper at Texas Tech University, called those who disputed the call "morons," "idiots," and "ignoramuses," noting an instance of defensive holding that constituted pass interference since the ball was in the air. Berry Tramel of The Oklahoman criticized the reactions from Fouts and Reilly in particular:

The National Association of Sports Officials also criticized Reilly in a letter to Sports Illustrated that stated, "Not once – not once! – did Reilly have the decency to state a fact: The call was correct. Terry Porter took his time and got the play right."

Addressing the delay, Porter said he wanted to make sure that the call was correct, explaining, “I replayed it in my mind. I wanted to make double sure that it was the right call.” An analysis by the Big XII Conference concluded that Sharpe committed four penalties on the play, with two instances of defensive holding and two instances of pass interference. In 2007, Porter's call was selected by Referee Magazine as one of the 18 best calls in sports history, and the penalty was also the focus of the ESPN Show The Top 5 Reasons You Can't Blame... in an episode titled "The Top 5 Reasons You Can't Blame the Referees for Miami losing the 2003 Fiesta Bowl."

Popular opinion
Nonetheless, popular perception of the call has remained negative. Jared Shanker of The Patriot-News ranked the call as the third worst of all-time, and Athlon Sports ranked it second on a similar list in 2010.  Brian Scott of Bleacher Report labeled it the worst call of all-time and excoriated Porter, stating, "[...] if the call wasn’t so obvious that he had to think about it, perhaps he shouldn’t have thrown the flag on fourth down in overtime at the national freaking championship game."

References

External links
 ESPN.com recap

Fiesta Bowl
Fiesta Bowl
BCS National Championship Game
Miami Hurricanes football bowl games
Ohio State Buckeyes football bowl games
College football controversies
2003 in sports in Arizona
January 2003 sports events in the United States