[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# LGBT rights in Syria

pped.

LGBT movies and series

On 19 October 2017, Mr. Gay Syria was released. Written and directed by Ayse Toprak, the movie follows two gay Syrian refugees who are trying to rebuild their lives.

A Lesbian Tale, a short movie, was filmed in Syria. It was published by Maxim Diab on 16 January 2014.

Social 
With the development of modernization, society were moving forward to being nuclear families and social tolerance toward LGBT people were gradually declining, until the outbreak of the Syrian civil war in 2011. Due to the emergence of the war, society has become more tolerant of LGBT people. Safety, water, and food are their primary concerns, income, and education followed with the necessity.

HIV/AIDS issues 

The first reported cases of HIV infection were in 1987.

In 2005, the Deputy Minister of Religious Endowments publicly stated that HIV/AIDS was divine punishment for people who engaged in fornication and homosexuality. That same year, the Health Ministry stated that only 369 people in Syria were infected with HIV and that the government offers such people "up-to-date medicines to combat this disease freely". Non-governmental organizations estimate that there are truly at least five times that many, and the United Nations chastised the government for its ineffective prevention methods.

Beyond tolerating the work of some NGOs, the government has established voluntary clinics that can test for HIV/AIDS and distribute some educational pamphlets, but comprehensive public education, especially for LGBT people, does not exist.

Instead, the government launched a limited HIV/AIDS educational program for youth in secondary schooling. The country is considered to have one of the lowest prevalences of HIV infection in the Region, with less than 2 per 100,000 among the general population affected and less than 1% among the most at-risk populations in 2018. The total number of total reported HIV cases until the end of the third quarter of 2019 was 1013.

Political support 

As part of the Rights in Exile Programme, the International Refugee Rights Initiative has compiled a resource page for LGBTI citizens of the Syrian Arab Republic.

Abdulrahman Akkad Story 

In July 2017, a Syrian young man residing in Germany named Abdulrahman Akkad published a live Video on Facebook, in which he announced his sexual orientation and that his family was pressuring him to marry against his will. Akkad's story was mentioned in the human rights session in the German Parliament in 2020 by German philosopher David Berger.

One of you (2020) 
"One of you", or in Arabic "واحد منكن" (pron: wahed menkon), is a social media movement that started on Facebook at first in 2020, then moved to Twitter for easier recognition. It launched around March in Syria, then followed by the Arab community. Continued for a month afterwards, but due to recent events at that time, mostly being about the COVID-19 pandemic, the trend died.

It started with university students painting the LGBT flag colors on their fingers, with the hashtag #oneofyou on their hand, taking a picture with a faculty building while raising the hand, and posting it from various accounts. Most people who started the trend did not post from their personal social media accounts out of fear of being recognized, instead; they sent the picture to various pages from fake accounts to publish on their behalf.

Reactions varied, from people defending the trend, to others promising blood, to people who participated afterwards.

No incidents happened while the trend was ongoing, no casualties, just online discussions. Some escalated into heated arguments, but nothing happened as the trend died.

In the Diaspora 
Syrian LGBTQ+ refugees; among other ones from different nationalities are facing discrimination and exclusion in the hosting countries based on other factors such as race, language, skin color and religious background.

Summary table

See also 

:Category:Syrian LGBT rights activists
Human rights in Syria
LGBT rights in Asia
LGBT in the Middle East
Abdulrahman Akkad

References

Further reading

LGBT in Syria
Human rights in Syria
Law of Syria