[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# São Brás de Alportel

ean climate with hot, dry summers and mild, wet winters. Its location on the Algarvian Barrocal, an inland, higher altitude karstic region, makes its winters slightly cooler and summers hotter than those experienced near the coast. Precipitation is also higher, with December being the wettest month.

Economy
The municipality's economic activities are almost exclusively concentrated in the tertiary sector and, within this, mostly in retail trade, structured in small stores. The town has Intermarché, Lidl and Pingo Doce supermarkets. The secondary sector once played an important role, mainly through the cork industry, the stone extraction and transformation industry, and construction. However, either due to competition from large economic groups in the first, or the almost total closure of the second, or the crisis in the third, those industries suffered a sharp decline. São Brás de Alportel's cork has been used as a material for the production of several items by companies that make products ranging from cork stoppers to fashionware, and Pelcor, headquartered in São Brás de Alportel, is the first luxury brand of fashion and lifestyle accessories in cork skin combining design, innovation and sustainability. Agriculture and forestry, besides carob and cork, have no expression, living practically on the charity and resistance of the elders and their traditional agrarian way of life, and the tertiary-superior, or quaternary, sector does not even mark presence. However, expats from Central and Northern Europe, in particular pensioners, settle in the municipality in considerably large numbers due to the peaceful nature of the local people and their way of life, sunny weather, the strategic location of São Brás de Alportel in the middle of Algarve and the proximity of the reputed Algarvean beaches along the coast of both the Sotavento Algarvio and the Barlavento Algarvio. The town is also a satellite town to both Faro city and the city of Loulé.

Parishes
Administratively, the municipality consists of 1 civil parish (freguesia):
 São Brás de Alportel

References

External links

Municipality official website
Boletim Sambrasense

Populated places in Faro District
Municipalities of the Algarve
Towns of the Algarve
Municipalities of Faro District