[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board

to a serve a two-year term. On September 8, 2008, President Bush made a fourth nomination, of James X. Dempsey, senior counsel at the Center for Democracy and Technology, to serve a five-year term.  The nominations were referred to the Senate Committee on the Judiciary, which took no further action.

In December 2010, President Barack Obama nominated two persons to the Board: Dempsey, and Elisebeth Collins Cook, a former Assistant Attorney General at the U.S. Department of Justice and, at the time, a partner in a Chicago law firm. Those nominations expired at the end of the 111th Congress.

In January 2011, President Obama re-nominated Dempsey and Cook. In December 2011, the Obama administration announced to revitalize the Board as a check against its proposed cybersecurity policies and measures. and the President made three more nominations: David Medine, a former associate director of the Federal Trade Commission, as chairman; Rachel Brand, Chief Counsel for Regulatory Litigation at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and a former Assistant Attorney General at the United States Department of Justice, as a member; and Patricia M. Wald, a former federal appeals-court judge, as a member.

On August 2, 2012, the Senate confirmed Dempsey, Brand, Cook, and Wald, but did not act upon the nomination of David Medine to be chair at that time.

2013: Independent agency begins work 
In January 2013, the White House re-nominated David Medine as chair, and the Senate confirmed him on May 7, 2013 in a 53–45, party-line vote.
On July 9, 2013, the Board held its first public workshop and its first substantive hearing on November 4, 2013.

2014: Report on mass surveillance 

On January 23, 2014, the board released its first report. It was the first comprehensive review of the NSA warrantless surveillance program instituted under the Patriot Act, after Edward Snowden had released classified documents from the NSA. It includes reviews of classified information and briefings with officials from the Department of Justice, FBI, NSA, and CIA.

The report found two main problems with the NSA's surveillance program: it "lacks a viable legal foundation" and there is "little evidence that […] NSA's bulk collection of telephone records actually have yielded material counterterrorism results that could not have been achieved without the NSA's Section 215 program."

The PCLOB report argued that the legal basis for NSA surveillance programs in Section 215 of the Patriot Act, allows only the FBI to collect bulk data for investigations and that the NSA is not directly permitted to do so. The report found that the NSA's reliance on a 2004 Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act (FISA) court opinion approving the bulk collection of Internet metadata does not correctly apply to the situation: "The government should not base an ongoing program affecting the rights of Americans on an interpretation of a statute that is not apparent from a natural reading of the text".

The report said that data collected by the NSA did not contribute uniquely to any FBI criminal investigations and that the PCLOB did not find a single case where NSA surveillance programs directly contributed to the disruption of a terrorist attack. Additionally, there is only one instance where NSA data helped identify an unknown terrorism suspect. Since the NSA collects data as it is generated, the PCLOB argued that the collection process violated the Electronic Communications Privacy Act, could not be directed towards any specific investigation, and that the information could not be treated as relevant to any FBI investigation except in response to specific enumerated circumstances. The PCLOB found no evidence of bad faith or misconduct on the part of the NSA, but that the technological complexity and vast scope of surveillance programs coupled with the potential for governmental abuse of power posed an inherent risk to Americans.

The report noted that although the FISA court was designed to hear cases regarding foreign surveillance, FISA does not provide a mechanism for the court to allow non-governmental parties to provide arguments against government surveillance proposals or otherwise participate in court proceedings. As a result, there are very few appeals of FISA court decisions.