[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Œuvre de secours aux enfants

ich covered four major regions of the Southern Vichy Zone (except around Nice), and it was operational by the summer of 1943.  None-the-less the final closing of all the houses, however, took more than a year. Each region operated in a cell and was autonomous, under the direction of an area manager.

From Lyon, Georges Garel coordinated everything, organized the technical infrastructure (false papers, hiding-places, convoys), and managed connections with all the relevant co-workers. Constantly moving, it took political decisions, visits in the regions, and bringing money to overcome arrests. Families, convents and boarding schools were prepared and made ready for the OSE children, whose identity-papers had been falsified, and who had had their ties with their parents cut.  This was done through personal contacts with Monsignor Saliège, the Archbishop of Toulouse, and also assistants in both the Jewish and non-Jewish networks.

1943-1944: The smuggling of children into Switzerland
The smuggling of OSE children into Switzerland started in April 1943, following negotiations with the Swiss authorities for the arrival of unaccompanied children. Several smugglers working directly under the OSE were assigned for this purpose. Jenny Masour together with Robert Job and the heads of OSE houses chose particularly vulnerable children.  These children were sent to new homes in the Italian zone, Moutiers-Salins and Saint Paul in the Chablais;  or in groups of 6 to 10 to Switzerland. In August 1943, the number of smuggling parties was increased from the evacuation residence centers in Saint-Gervais and Megeve.

In September 1943, with the push of the Germans into the Italian zone, the task became more difficult. The organization of the smuggling-parties to Switzerland was now entrusted to Georges Loinger. After successive arrests from November 1943 to March 1944, the smuggling of children almost came to a stop.  In March 1944 they resume at an accelerated rate, carried out jointly by the OSE, the Sixth (the clandestine circuit EIF) and the Zionist youth Movement (MJS).

February 1944: Going into hiding
The arrest of Alain Mosse and all the officers of the OSE-UGIF in Chambéry required the organization to go into total hiding. OSE decided to close the last chateaux/houses for the children, and also all its centers and offices. OSE management continued to work through periodic meetings in Lyon, at Rene Borel, or in immobilized train carriages. The arrested were deported to Auschwitz, where they died.

OSE's Work after 1944 
After France was liberated in 1944, OSE's work continued. It had to disperse the OSE children under its care. Children were sent to homes in France or to other countries, including Palestine and the United States.

Moshe Prywes from 1947 to 1951 was director of the OSE Jewish Health Organization in Paris.

List of OSE Children's Homes in France during World War II:OSE - Etablissement et services avant juin 1940 
 Château de Quincy
 Château du Masgelier
 Château de Chabannes
 Château de Chaumont (Creuse)
 Le Couret, La Jonchère
 Villa La Chesnaie, Eaubonne
 Villa Helvetia, Montmorency
 Château de la Hille, Montégut-Plantaurel
 Château de la Mille
 Mas-Jambot
 Château Maubuisson
 Château de Montintin, Chateau-Chervix
 Château Montpellier
 Château des Morelles at Broût-Vernet
 Les Tourelles

See also
Germaine Ribière
Fanny's Journey

References

External links
OSE France official website   
L’Œuvre de Secours aux Enfants (O.S.E.)  
Shoah Foundation Institute Visual History Archive. France. (University of Southern California)
Shattered Crystals - The O.S.E.
Guide to the OSE Photograph Collection at the YIVO Institute, New York, NY
OSE's children's homes in France during the Holocaust - an online exhibition at Yad Vashem website

Organizations which rescued Jews during the Holocaust
Humanitarian aid organizations of World War II
Organizations for children affected by war
Organizations established in 1912
1912 establishments in France