[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Deep borehole disposal

ting oil and gas drilling technologies.

Finally, the environmental impact is small. The waste handling facility at the wellhead, plus a temporary security buffer zone, would require about one square kilometer. When the borehole is filled and sealed, the land can be returned to a pristine condition.

Location of appropriate sites
Every state in the U.S. has deep rocks suitable for its own borehole repository.  The required crystalline basement rocks are located far below low-density sedimentary rock, drinking water aquifers, and oil and gas deposits.  A single borehole would not be big enough to hold all of the nuclear waste produced by a country like the United States, and therefore, a number of them might eventually exist within a single country.

Speed of construction
Scientists at the University of Sheffield in England say that deep boreholes for nuclear waste disposal can be built much more quickly than a traditional deep geological repository that is excavated like an underground mine for waste disposal.  The mined repository approach has been pursued unsuccessfully for many years, but the University of Sheffield engineers say that a borehole could be drilled, filled, and sealed in no more than five years, in contrast to the decades required for a mined repository.

See also
Horizontal drillhole disposal
Ocean disposal of radioactive waste
 Ocean floor disposal
 Nuclear fuel cycle
 Radioactive waste
 Yucca Mountain nuclear waste repository
 Waste Isolation Pilot Plant

References

External links
 Journal of the Geological Society,  Jan 2000  by Gibb, Fergus G F
 2004 Nirex Report : A Review of the Deep Borehole Disposal Concept for Radioactive Waste
 Hoag/MIT Thesis - Canister Design for Deep Borehole Disposal of Nuclear waste
 Sandia National Labs' Performance Assessment of Deep Boreholes
 Sizer/MIT Thesis - Minor Actinide Waste Disposal in Deep Geological Boreholes
 2010 NEI Deep Borehole Article
 2010 Physics Today Deep Borehole Article
 March 2010 Driscoll Presentation at Sandia-MIT Borehole Workshop

Radioactive waste
Radioactive waste repositories
Boreholes