[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Tarlochan Singh

S. Tarlochan Singh (born 28 July 1933) is an Indian politician. He is a Member of the Parliament of India, representing Haryana. He served as Chairman National Commission for Minorities from 2003 to 2006 (Union Cabinet of India cabinet minister status), was member, National Human Rights Commission of India, Govt. of India, 2003 to 2006. He served as Vice Chairman, National Commission for Minorities from 2000 to 2003 (Union Cabinet of India, State Minister Rank).

He has done tremendous work for Sikhs around the world .  He made huge efforts for the rescue and settlement of sikhs from Afghanistan after the civil war there .  He published calendars and developed museums on Sikh history . He has traveled worldwide to educate people about the teachings and values of Sikhism . In 2008 he visited Maine in United States to give lectures on Sikhism to the students of Colby College .He was awarded India's third highest civilian award the Padma Bhushan in 2021.

Childhood and education
Tarlochan Singh was born on 28 July 1933, to Shmt. Ram Piari and S. Balwant Singh in Dhudial, Punjab (now in Chakwal District, Pakistan). He is the eldest amongst three siblings. He did his early schooling in Khalsa School at Dhudial and then moved to Patiala at the time of Partition in 1947. The time after Partition was very difficult time for him and his family. For some time he had to work along with his studies. He went to the Panjab University, Chandigarh to study Economics and attained his master's degree in 1955. He is an alumnus of Mohindra College of Patiala.

Early career
After completing his master's degree in Economics, Singh started his career in civil service as Public Relations Officer in Punjab. He served as Joint Secretary, Development, Punjab Markfed from 1972 till 1977. Markfed is the largest cooperative organization in Asia . He then served as Jt. Director, Public Relations Deptt in 1977 and served in this position till 1980. He was Additional Director, Department of Tourism, Culture, Museum and Archaeology, Government of Punjab from 1980 to 1982. He served as Director, Publicity and Public Relations of IXth Asian Games Organising Committee, New Delhi from 1982–1983.

During his stint as managing director of Delhi Tourism, he developed two of the Delhi's most popular tourist places: Dilli Haat and Hauz Khaz Tourist Complex, for which he won Pacific Asia Travel Association Gold awards .

Work done as Member Parliament Rajya Sabha 
 He moved a calling attention motion on the relief to the victims of 1984 riots in the Rajya Sabha.
 He is the first Sikh MP who has moved a bill in the Parliament to amend Section 25 of Indian constitution, this is where the Sikhs have been described as part of Hindus. The amendment is to seek independent status for the Sikhs as a separate religion. This bill came twice on the agenda for discussion but due to disturbance it could not be debated. This is still pending for discussion.
 He moved an amendment in the Anand Marriage Act which was passed in 1908. There is no provision in this act of registration of Sikh marriages. Now Sikhs are getting registration certificates under Hindu Marriage Act. The Parliamentary Committee on law & justice has already approved the proposal. Law Minister has made assurance in the Rajya Sabha of getting this bill passed at earliest. This will be a major step towards officially recognizing the Sikhism as a separate religion.
 Demanded the withdrawal of Gallantry awards from the Army Officers who participated in the Blue Star Operation.
 In the constitutional review commission he appeared as a Sikh representative & on his plea the commission had recommended the necessary amendment in Section 25 of Indian Constitution.
 He got an Air India flight approved to Toronto from Amritsar.
 He got an Air India flight approved to Vancouver from Amritsar.
 He made efforts to get approval to upgrade Chandigarh Domestic Airport to International airport from Parliament.
 He got sanction for Maharaja Ranjit Singh's statue in Parliament complex & Rs. 25 Lakhs payment was made by Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee, then Prime Minister.
 It was his efforts that Rajya Sabha took a decision of installing the Statue of Shahid Bhagat Singh in the Parliament.
 He is the first Member Parliament who spoke in Punjabi in the Parliament. It took him about two years to get the facility of immediate translation of Punjabi in other languages, so that the other MPs can understand the speech.
 He demanded in the Parliament that the Nankana Sahib Sikh pilgrims should be given the same facilities as the Haj pilgrims get.
 He moved a calling attention notice in Rajya Sabha on the progress of relief to the victims of 1984 riots.