[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Christians United for Israel

interludes.  For the first time CUFI hosted several prominent Catholic leaders in a show of unity between Pastor Hagee and the Catholic Church.  CUFI held an annual Washington Summit July 20–23, 2009. Israeli PM Netanyahu addressed the gathering by video conference at the Washington Summit in 2010.

Daughters for Zion 
Daughters for Zion is a Christian prayer ministry that is part of the Christians United for Israel Organization (CUFI), a national association for every church, organization, christian ministry, or individual in the United States who wants to speak and act in support of the State of Israel. In August 2007, the CUFI organization implemented the Daughters for Zion association, whose mission is to organize a national network of prayer for Israel in every major city in the United States of America. These prayer groups can be implemented in the church, at home, in the office, or in any appropriate place for worship. The Daughters of Zion association was created under the leadership of the Protestant pastor John Hagee and the female pastor Lynn Hammond.

CUFI on Campus 
The first university chapter of Christians United for Israel was established at the California State University, in Bakersfield, California, and was called CUFI on Campus. Plans were also made to create more similar chapters on other US campuses. In 2011 at the CUFI annual meeting in Washington, D.C., it was announced that several chapters of CUFI on Campus had been formed, and that new chapters were in the process of being formed on more than 75 campuses and that the CUFI organization was present on 225 campuses across the country.

CUFI Summit 2019 
Christians United for Israel hosted a summit on July 8, 2019 in Washington, D.C. The summit hosted the founder John Hagee, Israel's Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, and US Vice President Mike Pence as speakers.

Positions
At CUFI's 4th annual convention, CUFI Florida state director Scott Thomas, who is senior pastor at Without Walls Central in Lakeland, Florida, states that CUFI's support of Israel is not related to Christian eschatology (one of the features of dispensationalism, which holds that the modern state of Israel has a central role in bringing about the second coming of Jesus Christ) since Christians believe that there is nothing they can do to speed up that process. Thomas also cited Chapter 12 of Book of Genesis, which states that God will bless those who bless the Jews and curses those who curse the Jews, and said that his Christian faith couldn't exist without the foundation of Judaism.  CUFI partners with Jewish interfaith organizations such as the Center for Jewish-Christian Understanding and Cooperation (CJCUC).

In November 2012, the group filed a petition calling for Twitter and the US government to "ban Hamas from Twitter."

Executive Board
Pastor John Hagee, Founder and National Chairman, CUFI
Pastor Scott Thomas, Free Life Chapel, CUFI Florida State Director
Bishop Keith A Butler, Founder and Pastor, Word of Faith International Christian Center
Pastor Happy Caldwell, Founder and Pastor Agape Church, Founder Victory Television Network
Pastor Mac Hammond, Senior Pastor, Living Word Christian Center
Michael Little, Principle Representative to Israel, The Christian Broadcasting Network
Pastor George Morrison, Founder, Truth and Life Ministries

Prior to his death in 2007, Rev. Jerry Falwell sat on the Executive Board.

CUFI Canada

Charles McVety, National Chairman
Frank Dimant, CEO (2015—2019)

CUFI UK
CUFI UK was started in 2015.

See also
Christian Zionism
Anglican Friends of Israel
Israel lobby in the United States
Philo-Semitism
Center for Jewish-Christian Understanding and Cooperation
Day to Praise

References

External links

 Sean Durbin, Christians United for Israel." In James Crossley and Alastair Lockhart (eds.) Critical Dictionary of Apocalyptic and Millenarian Movements. 2021 - academic overview of CUFI
Dispensationalism
Christian and Jewish interfaith dialogue
Israel friendship associations
Israel–United States relations
Christian Zionism in the United States
Zionist organizations in the United States
1975 establishments in the United States