[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of markets in Bangkok

um Muang Market. Near Rangsit

Floating markets

 Taling Chan Floating Market
 Khlong Lat Mayom Floating Market
 Bang Namphueng Floating Market
 Kwan Riam Floating Market
 Or Tor Kor Floating Market: A new fake floating market is set up in Klong Bang Sue within Or Tor Kor Market, Chatuchak District.

Former markets
 Khlong Lod Market: Night market near Sanam Luang, new and second-hand cheap clothing, shoes, jeans, toys.
 Saphan Phut Night Market: Near Saphan Phut (Memorial Bridge) and Pak Khlong Market, new and second-hand cheap clothes, shoes, jeans, toys like Khlong Lod Market. Now it has moved to set up on Somdet Chaopraya Road.
 Sam Yan Market: On Sam Yan Intersection, in the 1960s it covered both sides of Phaya Thai Road.
 Khlong Thom Market: Weekend market near Yaowarat. Tools, toys and porn videos.
 Saphan Lek Market: Weekend market near Khlong Thom Market. Tools, toys and video games.
 Thieves' Market: aka Nakhon Khasem, one of Bangkok's oldest markets and communities, close to Khlong Thom Market.
 Sripaisit Night Bazaar: (Siam Paradise Night Bazaar) Trendy clothing, shoes, handicraft, souvenirs.
 Suan Lum Night Bazaar: Trendy lifestyle items.
 Saturday Market: A large ornamental fish center in paired with Sunday Market, operated around 1999–2000s. They are opposite each other, just between Kamphaeng Phet 2 Road.
 Tha Chang Market: Next to the Grand Palace. New and second-hand small goods, amulets, traditional medicines.
 Tha Pra Chan Market: On the Chao Phraya River, sells amulets.
 Khlong Phadung Krung Kasem Floating Market: On Khlong Phadung Krung Kasem near Government House. Operated between 2015 and 2017.
 Wat Sai Floating Market: In the past, around 1960s used to be the bustling and the most renowned floating market of Bangkok. Currently, it is only a legend.
 Maha Nakhon Floating Market: a floating market in Lat Krabang District, east suburb Bangkok.
 Wat Nimmanoradee Floating Market: a floating market on the border of Phasi Charoen and Bang Khae Districts.
 Indy Market: Night flea market selling craft wares, clothing, and many street foods on Suk Sawat Road near Dao Khanong area, with the location around , more than 500 shops divided into different zones clearly.

See also
History of marketing
Market (place)
Market town
Retail

References

 
Buildings and structures in Bangkok
Bangkok-related lists
Bangkok