[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# August 1976

August 1, 1976 (Sunday)
Trinidad and Tobago became a republic, with the Governor-General, Sir Ellis Clarke, becoming the first President.  Clarke, who had previously served as the head of state as representative of Queen Elizabeth II, said that he would hold the office of president until the Caribbean island nation could elect a successor.
The United Nations High Commission on Refugees arranged for the evacuation of 49 U.S. citizens and their dependents from Vietnam, as the new Communist government allowed a chartered Air France flight from Tan Son Nhut airport near Ho Chi Minh City (formerly Saigon) to Bangkok.  The group of 23 U.S.-born Americans and 14 spouses and 14 children had been stranded in South Vietnam when Saigon fell to the Communists on April 30, 1975, and most had waited for more than a year for permission to leave.  A few of the Americans said that they "had pleaded to no effect to be allowed to stay in Vietnam," while three others had been held in the Chi Hua Prison
Syria's Prime Minister Mahmoud al-Ayyubi resigned after almost four years in office, and President Hafez al-Assad appointed Ayyubi's predecessor, retired Major General Abdul Rahman Khleifawi to replace him.
In Austria, Vienna's Reichsbrücke (translated as the "Empire Bridge") collapsed without warning into the Danube River, blocking river traffic and causing almost constant traffic jams within the city.  The fall of the bridge, only 42 years old, occurred at around 5:00 in the morning and the structure was not crowded, but the driver of one vehicle was killed.  A wider replacement bridge would open two years later, despite original forecasts that there would not be a substitute before 1981.
The 1976 Summer Olympics ended in Montreal.  Among the events that took place on the final day of competition, Waldemar Cierpinski of East Germany won the marathon. Teófilo Stevenson of Cuba (who had beaten his other opponents in two rounds or fewer) won the heavyweight boxing gold medal in the third round against Romania's Mircea Șimon, and East Germany beat Poland, 3 to 1, to win the soccer competition.

Defending F1 World Champion Niki Lauda suffered extensive burns in an accident in the German Grand Prix that nearly cost him his life.  Fellow racer Arturo Merzario of Italy pulled Lauda from the flaming automobile and saved his life.
The Seattle Seahawks played their first American football game, a preseason contest at the Kingdome against the visiting San Francisco 49ers, and lost 27 to 20.  The 49ers had played as the "home team" in Seattle for preseason games six times in the 20 years before the Seahawks were founded.
Born: 
Iván Duque Márquez, President of Colombia since 2018; in Bogotá
Amar Upadhyay, Indian TV and film actor known for the soap opera Kyunki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu Thi and Molkki; in Ahmedabad, Gujarat state
Nwankwo Kanu, Nigerian soccer football forward for the Nigerian national team which won the 1996 Olympic gold medal, as well as for England's premier league for Arsenal and Portsmouth, and in the Netherlands for Ajax Amsterdam; in Owerri, Imo State

August 2, 1976 (Monday)
A gunman murdered Andrea Wilborn and Stan Farr and injured Priscilla Davis and Gus Gavrel, in an incident at Priscilla's mansion in Fort Worth, Texas. T. Cullen Davis, Priscilla's husband and one of the richest men in Texas, was tried and found not guilty for Andrea's murder, involvement in a plot to kill several people (including Priscilla and a judge), and was exonerated from a wrongful death lawsuit. Cullen went broke afterwards.
Alexander Agyeman of Ghana was installed as the traditional ruler of the Akyem people in Ghana's Eastern Region, and crowned as King Osagyefo Kuntunkununku II.
Born: 
Sam Worthington, English-born Australian film star known for Avatar and Clash of the Titans; in Godalming, Surrey
Nigamananda Saraswati, Indian Hindu monk who went on an ultimately-fatal hunger strike to call attention to the pollution of the Ganges River; in Darbhanga, Bihar state (d. 2011)
Died: 
Fritz Lang, 85, Austrian-born film producer known for Metropolis and The Big Heat.
Monroe J. Rathbone, 76, President of the largest U.S. oil company, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey (now the Exxon Corporation) from 1953 to 1965

August 3, 1976 (Tuesday)