[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Exarcheia

poros collective developed solidarity economies through trade and sale of Zapatista-produced goods, and the Skoros collective promoted re-use, recycling, and sharing practices. Other new and renewed political formations in Exarcheia included producer or consumer cooperatives and collective kitchens.

Migrant communities 
Exarcheia is the site of a large migrant and refugee community. The overcrowding and abuse within Greek refugee camps has propelled a movement of squatting within Athens and across Greece. There are more than a dozen squats in Athens, primarily centered in Exarcheia, serving as housing, healthcare, and social centers for refugees, migrants, or anarchists. These squats provide space for highly diverse communities and coalitions. For example, the City Plaza squat houses Afghanis, Iraqis, Iranians, Syrians, Kurds, Palestinians, and Pakistanis within a single occupied hotel. Many of these spaces aim to recreate the feeling of home for displaced migrants and refugees.

However, far-right, neo-fascist, and nationalistic organizations have been connected to multiple attacks and burnings of refugee squats. In addition, the government of Alexis Tsipras evicted multiple squats in Athens during Syriza's time in power. In addition, Exarcheia and bordering Omonoia have been the focus of specialized policing tactics in Greece. These include MAT, (Public Order Restoration Units) a riot police unit implemented after the dictatorship; Operation Virtue, which used blockaded areas and rapid raids of public spaces to capture undocumented migrants in the 1970s and 1980s; and Operation Xenios Zeus, which implemented stop-and-search and document checks for foreigners in 2012.

In 2019, a change in political governance affected Exarcheia. The New Democracy party was elected to power nationally in July and the new prime minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis pledged to  impose order and to clean up Exarcheia. Subsequently, a new mayor of Athens was elected in August. Immediately, evictions of migrant squats began. The City Plaza squat at 78 Acharnon decided to close itself down on its own terms rather than be evicted. By the end of September 2019, there had been seven evictions, including the 5th School squat.

Ultimatum 
The Ministry of Citizen’s Protection broadened the crackdown on squats in Greece by releasing a statement on 20 November 2019 which demanded all squats were to be evacuated in 15 days' time. Commentators quickly noticed that the end of the deadline was 5 December, the day upon which Alexandros Grigoropoulos had been killed in 2008. More evictions followed and by mid December the state was attempting to evict anarchist social centres as well as migrant squats. The New Democracy party installed a Christmas tree on the central square in December. It was quickly burnt down and when a second tree was put up in its place, it was destroyed several hours later.

Ongoing developments 

Line 4 of the Athens Metro is expected to have a station at Exarcheia Square, and there has been significant opposition against the construction of the station.Mostly by anarchist and anti-state groups.

Notable people
Renos Apostolidis, writer and critic 
Arleta, singer and musician 
Betty Arvaniti, actress
Nikolas Asimos, songwriter, singer
Nikolaos Gyzis, artist 
Giorgos Ioannou, writer  
, actress
Napoleon Lapathiotis, poet 
Mary Tsoni, singer and actress

See also
 Freetown Christiania - A neighbourhood in Denmark's capital of Copenhagen with similar Anarchist and countercultural leanings

References

 
Anarchist communities
Anarchism in Greece
Counterculture communities
Culture in Athens
Neighbourhoods in Athens