[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of Roman external wars and battles

s small skirmish.
 216 BC – 
 Battle of Cannae – Hannibal destroys the main Roman army of Lucius Aemilius Paulus and Publius Terentius Varro in what is considered one of the great masterpieces of the tactical art.
 Battle of Silva Litana - The Boii ambushed and destroyed a Roman army of 25,000 men
 First Battle of Nola – Roman general Marcus Claudius Marcellus holds off an attack by Hannibal.
 Battle of Cornus - 
 Battle of Hibera -
 Battle of Cumae -
 215 BC – Second Battle of Nola – Marcellus again repulses an attack by Hannibal.
 214 BC – Third Battle of Nola – Marcellus fights an inconclusive battle with Hannibal.
 212 BC –
 First Battle of Capua – Hannibal defeats the consuls Q. Fulvius Flaccus and Appius Claudius, but the Roman army escapes
 Battle of the Silarus – Hannibal destroys the army of the Roman praetor M. Centenius Penula.
 Battle of Herdonia – Hannibal destroys the Roman army of the praetor Gnaeus Fulvius.
 211 BC – 
 Battle of the Upper Baetis – Publius and Gnaeus Cornelius Scipio are killed in battle with the Carthaginians under Hasdrubal Barca
 Second Battle of Capua – Hannibal is not able to break the Roman siege of the city.
 210 BC – 
 Second Battle of Herdonia – Hannibal destroys the Roman army of Fulvius Centumalus, who is killed.
 Battle of Numistro – Hannibal defeats Marcellus once more
 209 BC – Battle of Asculum – Hannibal once again defeats Marcellus, in an indecisive battle
 208 BC – Battle of Baecula – Romans in Hispania (Iberia) under P. Cornelius Scipio the Younger defeat Hasdrubal Barca.
 207 BC –
 Battle of Grumentum – Roman general Gaius Claudius Nero fights an indecisive battle with Hannibal.
 Battle of the Metaurus – Hasdrubal is defeated and killed by Nero's Roman army.
 Battle of Carmona – Romans under Publius Cornelius Scipio besiege the city of Carmona and take it from Hasdrubal Gisco
 206 BC –
 Battle of Ilipa – Scipio again decisively defeats the remaining Carthaginian forces in Hispania.
 Battle of the Guadalquivir – Roman army under Gaius Lucius Marcius Séptimus defeats a Carthaginian army under Hannón at Guadalquivir.
 Battle of Carteia – Roman fleet under Gaius Laelius defeats a Carthaginian fleet under Adherbal
 204 BC – Battle of Crotona – Hannibal fights a drawn battle against the Roman general Sempronius in Southern Italy.
 203 BC – Battle of Bagbrades – Romans under Scipio defeat the Carthaginian army of Hasdrubal Gisco and Syphax. Hannibal is sent to return to Africa.
 202 BC, 19 October – Battle of Zama – Scipio Africanus Major decisively defeats Hannibal in North Africa, ending the Second Punic War.
First Macedonian War (214–205 BCE)