[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Polish–Swedish War (1600–1611)

where he built a small fortified camp. Charles, who arrived at Riga on 23 September, learned of the Chodkiewicz force nearby and decided to destroy it with an attack by the majority of the Swedish force within the area. On the 27 September the Swedish force under King Charles moved towards Kircholm.

The Battle of Kircholm (Salaspils) on September 27, 1605, near Düna (Daugava, Dvina, Dźwina, Väinä) River would be Chodkiewicz's crowning achievement. Chodkiewicz, having smaller forces (approximately at 1:3 disadvantage again), used a 'feint' to force the Swedes off their high position. The Swedes under Charles thought that the Polish–Lithuanians were retreating therefore, they advanced, spreading out their formations to give chase. This is what Chodkiewicz was waiting for. The Commonwealth's army now gave fire with their infantry causing the Swedes some losses, at which point the Hussars moved into a re-formation and charged at the Swedish infantry formations. The Swedish formations broke completely, the King himself fleeing, barely escaping back to his flotilla off the coast. Thus Chodkiewicz with barely 3,600 troops defeated a Swedish army of 11,000 soldiers; for this feat he received letters of congratulation from the pope, all the Catholic potentates of Europe, and even from the sultan of Turkey and the shah of Persia.

Yet this great victory was absolutely fruitless, owing to the domestic dissensions which prevailed in the Commonwealth during the following five years. Chodkiewicz's own army, unpaid for years, abandoned him at last en masse in order to plunder the estates of their political opponents, leaving the hetman to carry on the war as best he could with a handful of mercenaries paid out of the pockets of himself and his friends. With tiny, inadequate forces, Chodkiewicz nonetheless prevented Swedes from overrunning the entire Inflanty (Latgale) region, helped by a relative inaction of Swedish commanders until 1608. Chodkiewicz, who was one of the magnates who remained loyal to the king, had to divide his attention between the rebellion against Sigismund in the Commonwealth (the Zebrzydowski Rebellion, 1606–1609) and a fresh invasion of Livonia by the Swedes led by Mansfeld in 1608.

Mansfeld captured Daugavgriva, Viljandi, and Koknese, but when Chodkiewicz returned, the tide turned. In 1609 Chodkiwicz once more relieved Riga besides capturing Pärnu. Chodkiewicz also defeated the Swedish flotilla at Salis and finally defeated Mansfeld's army once again near the river Gauja. Eventually, a truce was signed  in 1611 after the death of Charles IX. It would last until 1617 (or November 1620, conflicting sources). During the next decade, the Commonwealth was occupied by its war against Russia. Southern borders were also endangered by the constant troubles with the Ottoman Empire in the Magnate Wars.

See also
 Polish-Swedish wars

References

External links 
 Swedish-Polish War, 1600–1609

17th-century conflicts
Wars involving the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth
Wars involving Sweden
17th century in Estonia
17th century in Latvia
Poland–Sweden relations
Lithuania–Sweden relations
Warfare of the early modern period
17th century in Sweden
1600s in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth
1610s in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth
1600s in Sweden
1610 in Sweden
1611 in Sweden
Time of Troubles