[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# American Association on Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities

ols for professionals and others in the field of intellectual and developmental disabilities. The organization's most well-known book is its definition manual, first published in 1910 and now in its 12th edition: Intellectual Disability: Definition, Diagnosis, Classification, and Systems of Support.

It also publishes Supports Intensity Scales (SIS), a group of assessment tools that evaluate the practical support requirements of people with intellectual disabilities.  It is available in a child version (SIS-C) and an adult version (SIS-A, 2nd ed.).  Both versions assess someone's needed level of support, but adjust for differences in age-related expectations. For example, a child would be expected to have a full-time, live-in caretaker (i.e. a parent or guardian) while for an adult that would qualify as extra support. The assessment is done through semi-structured interviews with those who can give insight to the daily life of the person being assessed, up to and including the person themselves when appropriate. The SIS measures support needs in multiple areas of daily life, including housing, education, employment, medical services, and social activities. Assessors rate different categories according to the frequency of support (e.g., none, at least once a month), amount of support (e.g., none, less than 30 minutes), and type of support (e.g., monitoring, verbal gesturing) that a person requires. The overall Supports Intensity Level is determined based on the Total Support Needs Index, which is a standard score generated from the individual ratings.

Education
As the oldest professional organization in the field of intellectual and developmental disabilities, AAIDD offers educational opportunities to the global disability community, including an annual conference, webinars, and professional research exchanges.

The association's YouTube channel provides short educational videos on topics related to intellectual and developmental disabilities.

See also 
 Frank Rusch, awarded the American Association on Mental Retardation's "Educator of the Year Award"
 Special education in the United States

References

External links
 

Intellectual disability organizations
Medical associations based in the United States
Medical and health organizations based in Washington, D.C.
Medical and health organizations based in Maryland