[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# People's Alliance for Democracy

ernment building on Saturday. 3 regional airports remain closed and 35 trains between Bangkok and the provinces were canceled. Protesters raided the Phuket International Airport tarmac on the resort island of Phuket Province resulting to 118 flights canceled or diverted, affecting 15,000 passengers.

Widespread protests 
Protesters also blocked the entrance of the airports in Krabi and Hat Yai. Police issued arrest warrants for Sondhi Limthongkul and 8 other protest leaders on charges of insurrection, conspiracy, unlawful assembly and refusing orders to disperse. Meanwhile, Gen. Anupong Paochinda stated: "The army will not stage a coup. The political crisis should be resolved by political means." Samak and the Thai Party ruling coalition called urgent parliamentary debate and session for August 31.

Clash between PAD and Anti-PAD 
On 31 August, Metropolitan Police chief Pol Lt Gen Asawin Kwanmuang was transferred to an inactive position. He had been in charge of handling the PAD and favored a soft approach to avoid bloodshed. The protests were then assigned to deputy police chief Pol Gen Jongrak Juthanont. PAD spokesmen expressed fear that this would lead to violence by the police against PAD.

Government House as a protest site 
Government House and the area around it became an open-air market during the months-long protest and seizure. The PAD put up posters with photos of a woman their security forces claimed was a prostitute because they found condoms in her purse. Mounds of garbage piled up in Government House, clothes were left to dry on the lawn, and the lack of sanitary facilities caused a stench to envelop the compound.  A Khao Sod journalist claimed glass pipes that can be used for smoking methamphetamine (commonly known as "ICE") being sold near the protest site. The journalist noted that the stalls selling the pipes were attracting many potential buyers and that several people tried them out before making their purchase.

Arrest 
On October 5 and 4, 2008, Chamlong Srimuang and rally organiser, Chaiwat Sinsuwongse were detained by the Thai police led by Col. Sarathon Pradit, by virtue of August 27 arrest warrant for insurrection, conspiracy, illegal assembly and refusing orders to disperse (treason) against him and 8 other protest leaders. At the Government House, Sondhi Limthongkul, however, stated demonstrations would continue: "I am warning you, the government and police, that you are putting fuel on the fire. Once you arrest me, thousands of people will tear you apart." Srimuang's wife, Ying Siriluck, visited him at the Border Patrol Police Region 1, Pathum Thani. Other PAD members still wanted by police include Sondhi, activist MP Somkiat Pongpaibul and PAD leaders Somsak Kosaisuk and Pibhop Dhongchai.

Closing off Parliament 

In early October, PAD leader Chamlong Srimuang left the protest site to vote in the Bangkok governor elections.  He was arrested by police after he left the voting booth and did not request bail.  Fellow PAD leader Pallop Pinmanee noted that Chamlong intended to be arrested in order to increase attendance at the PAD's protests.

Thousands of PAD forces soon surrounded Parliament to prevent the Somchai government from announcing its policies to the legislature within 15 days of swearing in, as mandated by the Constitution.  A police loudspeaker lorry ordered protesters to disperse and warned that teargas would be fired.  At 6.00 am, 7 October 2008, police at Ratchawithi Road and Pichai Road shot a barrage of teargas grenades.  Police clashed with protesters. Many were injured on both sides. Police made no effort to negotiate with the anti-government protesters.  Eventually the doors to Parliament could be opened for the attending legislators.  PAD forces later regrouped around Parliament and again blocked the gates.  After the government had made its policy statement to the legislature, police again clashed with PAD forces so that the legislators could leave the building.  Clashes continued into the night.