[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Placemaking

, communities have shifted their engagement away from local-government-led forums and platforms, to social media groups on websites such as Facebook and Nextdoor to voice concerns, critiques and desires. In a sense, these new platforms have become a Third Place, in reference to Ray Oldenburg's term.

Social media tools such as these show promise for the future of placemaking in that they are being used to reclaim, reinvigorate and activate spaces. These online neighborhood and event-centric groups and forums provide a convenient non-physical space for public discourse and discussion through digital networked interactions to implement change on a hyper-local level; this theory is sometimes referred to as Urban Acupuncture. This type of shift towards a more crowd-sourced planning method can lead to the creation of more relevant and useful and inclusive places with greater sense of place.

Other new technologies have also been used in placemaking, such as the WiFi-based project created by D.C. Denison and Michael Oh at Boston's South Station and other locations around Boston. The project was backed by The Boston Globe. The Pulse of Boston used local WiFi signals to create online hyperlocal communities in five different locations around the city.

Notable people

Literature 

 The Image of the City, by Kevin Lynch (1960)
 The Death and Life of Great American Cities, by Jane Jacobs (1961)
 Place and Space: The Perspective of Experience, by Yi-Fu Tuan (1977)
 Placemaking: The Art and Practice of Building Communities] by Lynda H. Schneekloth & Robert G. Shibley (1995)
 The Great Good Place, by Ray Oldenburg (1989)
 The Ecology of Place, by Timothy Beatley and Kristy Manning (1997)
 How to Turn a Place Around, by Project for Public Spaces (2000)
 The Art of Placemaking: Interpreting Community Through Public Art and Urban Design, by Ronald Lee Fleming at The Townscape Institute (2007)
 The Routledge Handbook of Placemaking,  by Cara Courage, Tom Borrup, Maria Rosario Jackson, Kylie Legge, Anita Mckeown, Louise Platt, Jason Schupbach (2021)

See also
 Project for Public Spaces
 Community of place
 Place syntax
 Urban informatics
 Urban vitality
 Walkability
 Cyclability

References

Articles
 Pierce, Martin, Murphy, "Relational Place-Making: the networked politics of place." The Royal Geographical Society (2010): 55.
 Sharma, A. (2022). PLUS GreeN: Reconciling Urban Streams and Greenways through Placemaking. European Journal of Architecture and Urban Planning, 1(2), 1–11. https://doi.org/10.24018/ejarch.2022.1.2.3

External links
 Sustainable placemaking site curated by Michigan State University professor
 Project for Public Spaces
  City Repair, Portland, Oregon Citizen activism for a more community-oriented and ecologically sustainable society
 Places: Forum of Design for the Public Realm, a placemaking journal
 VIDEO: The Atrium — An Example In Placemaking. Presented at The Canadian Institute of Planners 2013 conference
  Reconciling Urban Streams and Greenways through Placemaking, Herring run, Baltimore
 StreetPlans: Tactical Urbanism Projects

Community
Urban studies and planning terminology
Urban design
Landscape architecture