[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Melanesian Spearhead Group

file of New Caledonia's Kanak independence movement, has prompted West Papuan Independence activists to recognise the significance of its membership. The West Papua National Council for Liberation (WPNCL) hopes to use Melanesian Spearhead Group as an international platform to fight for independence.

Indonesia, however, also applied for MSG membership in 2010, arguing that Indonesia is home to 11 million Melanesians mainly residing in 5 provinces in Eastern Indonesia; Papua, West Papua, Maluku, North Maluku and East Nusa Tenggara. Indonesia won observer status in 2011 with the support of Fiji and Papua New Guinea. East Timor was granted observer status in 2011.

In May 2013, Buchtar Tabuni, the leader of the National Committee for West Papua (KNPB) supported the notion that if West Papua was granted independence, he would support them joining the MSG. The WPNCL submitted an unsuccessful application to the MSG in October 2013. The MSG advised that West Papua independence organizations must first unite for any future applications to be considered.

The United Liberation Movement for West Papua (ULMWP) was formed in December 2014. A second application of West Papua independence movement has been submitted in 2015 by the ULMWP, led by spokesperson Benny Wenda.

Expansion
In 24 to 26 June 2015, the summit meeting of the member countries in Honiara, Solomon Islands concluded with key decisions; Indonesia was elevated to associate member of the group — making them the official representative of West Papua region, while the United Liberation Movement for West Papua (ULMWP) remained as an observer. The ULMWP was considered only as the representative of West Papuans outside the country.

Despite being denied of full membership, ULMWP secretary-general Octavianus Mote regarded the observer status positively, saying the diplomatic recognition would help them in their cause. "We might not be a full member of the MSG, but a door has opened to us. We will sit across a table from Indonesia as equal," he said.

However, Indonesia's membership of the MSG has giving them a greater influence in Melanesian politics than the ULMWP. In MSG, Indonesia's official representation will be the governors of Indonesia's five Melanesian provinces. Fijian prime minister Frank Bainimarama, who supported Indonesian membership, argued that his vote was guided by a number of main principles in approaching the West Papuan issue. "Indonesian sovereignty over West Papua cannot be questioned, and the province is an integral part of Indonesia, so when we deal with West Papua and its people, MSG has no choice but to deal with Indonesia, in a positive and constructive manner," he said. Following the decision of elevating Indonesia to associate member, the government of Indonesia, for the first time, hosted the Melanesian Cultural Festival 2015 in Kupang, East Nusa Tenggara from 26 to 30 October 2015, which is aimed at improving cooperation among Melanesian countries. The festival was participated by all members of MSG except Vanuatu, and also Timor Leste.

Membership

Population

Economy

Meetings

See also 
 Polynesian Leaders Group, launched in 2011, partly as a response to the MSG
 Pacific Islands Forum

References

External links
 Agreement Establishing the Melanesian Spearhead Group.
 Melanesian Spearhead Group Trade Agreement.
 MSG: trading on political capital and Melanesian solidarity, Pacific Institute of Public Policy, Briefing Paper 02, July 2008.
 The Renaissance of the Melanesian Spearhead Group, The New Pacific Diplomacy 2015

International organizations based in Oceania
Organizations established in 1983
Politics of Oceania
Melanesia