[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Thomas Wentworth, 5th Baron Wentworth

arch 1646. As a result, the already demoralized western army surrendered soon afterwards.

Exile with Prince Charles
Wentworth escaped with Prince Charles in the spring of 1646. The prince's court went first to the Isles of Scilly and then to Jersey.

In 1649, Wentworth accompanied Charles to Paris.

Third English Civil War
The following year both Wentworth and his father, the earl of Cleveland, sailed with Charles to Scotland. Charles was compelled to subscribe to the Solemn League and Covenant as a condition of being recognized as King, but many of his followers neglected to do so including Wentworth and his father. Despite the defeat of the Scots army at Dunbar on 3 September 1650, both Wentworth and his father were, as non-subscribers, ordered out of the country on 17 October. Just as with the Earl of Forth and other prominent royalists, they ignored this edict and subsequently fought at Worcester on 3 September 1651. Although his father was afterwards captured, Wentworth got away safely.

Exile with King Charles
Until the Restoration in 1660, Wentworth attended Charles II's émigré court.

In 1656 in Bruges, he was responsible for organizing and commanding a regiment of foot guards that served as a bodyguard unit to the exiled king. The regiment also served with the Spanish army at the Battle of the Dunes in June 1658, although there is some doubt as to whether Wentworth personally fought there.

Restoration
After the 1660 Stuart Restoration Wentworth returned home to England. He brought the regiment of foot guards with him, where it became the 1st foot guards and afterwards the Grenadier Guards.

See also
 Cavalier
 Horses in warfare

References

|-

Knights of the Bath
Members of the Privy Council of England
05
Heirs apparent who never acceded
1612 births
1665 deaths
Grenadier Guards officers
English MPs 1640 (April)
English MPs 1640–1648
Military personnel from Bedfordshire
Royalist military personnel of the English Civil War
English generals