[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# General Order No. 28

New Orleans." The Earl of Carnarvon proclaimed the imprisonment of women a "more intolerable tyranny than any civilized country in our day [has] been subjected to." The Saturday Review criticized Butler's rule, accusing him of "gratifying his own revenge" and likening him to an uncivilized dictator:

If he had possessed any of the honourable feeling which is usually associated with a soldier's profession, he would not have made war on women. If he had even been endowed with the ordinary magnanimity of a Red Indian, his revenge would have been satiated before now. It required not only the nature of a savage, but of a very mean and pitiful kind of savage, to be induced by indignation at a woman's smile to inflict an imprisonment so degrading in its character as that which seems to constitute his favourite punishment, and accompanied by privations so cruel.... It is only a pity that so unadulterated a barbarian should have got hold of an Anglo-Saxon name.

Southern women were highly offended by the order. Catherine Ann Devereux Edmonston, wife of North Carolina plantation owner Patrick Muir Edmonston, expressed horrified shock in her diary. She referred to it as "cold blooded barbarity" and expressed extreme disdain for Butler and all other Northerners: "We no longer will hold any intercourse with you, ye puritanical, deceitful race." Edmonston even went so far as to blame Butler's wife for creating the order as a show of her "ferocity against the real ladies of New Orleans" after she was rejected from New Orleans society.

Clara Solomon, a 17-year-old Jewish girl from New Orleans, expressed similar feelings. She found the order unnecessary and offensive, asking "what anyway could a woman's taunts do to" the Union soldiers. John T. Monroe, Mayor of New Orleans, protested the Woman's Order by refusing to enact the order and was swiftly imprisoned at Fort Jackson.

Butler tried to defend his command in New Orleans in a letter to the Boston Journal, claiming "the devil had entered the hearts of the women of [New Orleans]... to stir up strife" and falsely claimed that the order had been very effective. In essence, he said his order stated the effective way to deal with a defiant Confederate-sympathizing woman was to treat her as undignified as a woman of the town, and thus to ignore her. However, some thought the language of the order was too ambiguous and feared that Union troops would treat New Orleans women like prostitutes in regards to soliciting them for sex and perhaps even rape.

Eugenia Levy Phillips
Eugenia Levy Phillips was one woman who was imprisoned under the Woman's Order. Phillips was a good family friend of Clara Solomon, who expressed great shock at her imprisonment for "laughing and mocking" at the remains of Union Lieutenant George Coleman De Kay, Jr. during his funeral procession. Catherine Edmonston sympathized with Phillips and the "foul wrong" and "horrible outrage" placed against her. She was imprisoned at Ship Island, where she was "confined; with one servant; soldiers rations; & to have no communication." Her harsh treatment as a prisoner turned her into a martyr instead of an example of Butler's power. After the war, Phillips protested the way that she was portrayed as a spy, calling the accusations "shameful" and condemning.

Aftermath
Butler claimed that the order was effective in quieting the women of New Orleans, but he was only partially correct. Women in New Orleans still presented a very real political and military threat to the imposing Union Army, despite only a small number of women continuing to be politically active after the order and the arrest of Phillips.

Butler was removed from his command of New Orleans on December 16, 1862. The international attention garnered from the order contributed to his removal from New Orleans, as did his threats aimed at foreign consuls.

References

Louisiana in the American Civil War
General orders
Benjamin Butler
19th century in New Orleans
Social history of the American Civil War