[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Governor-General of New Zealand

tate visits, but that it must be made clear that the governor-general is the sovereign's representative. At the 2007 commemorations of the Battle of Passchendaele, Governor-General Anand Satyanand represented New Zealand on behalf of the Queen, while the Queen herself represented the United Kingdom.

Reform of the office is usually only mentioned in the context of a New Zealand republic. Helen Clark, when defending Dame Silvia Cartwright following a political controversy over prison sentences, stated "[o]ne of the challenges for us is we clearly are no longer a dominion of Britain where the Governor-General is exactly like the Queen. I think we need to consider how the role of Governor-General might evolve further. As you know, my view is that one day there will be a president fulfilling the kind of role the Governor-General does." Others, such as Professor Noel Cox have argued that the governor-general's role needs to be updated, rather than reforming the office.

Some constitutional academics expressed concern that the process of electoral reform could result in the governor-general having greater political influence due to the reserve powers of government formation. In 1993, then Governor-General Dame Catherine Tizard caused controversy by suggesting that under the proposed mixed-member proportional (MMP) electoral system the governor-general may have to use their reserve powers more often (because under MMP, election results most probably do not produce an outright majority, and therefore the governor-general would be obliged to identify a minority parliamentary leader to form a government). Following the adoption of MMP at a referendum later in 1993, Prime Minister Jim Bolger suggested at the opening of parliament in 1994 that one reason New Zealand might move to a republic was that the governor-general would have more influence under the new electoral system. In a 1996 address, Governor-General Sir Michael Hardie Boys clarified how he would use his powers in the case of an unclear electoral result; he maintained that politicians must decide who would govern, and only after a public announcement of their decision would he appoint a prime minister.

In December 2009 a review of the Civil List Act 1979 by the Law Commission recommended that part 1 of the act be repealed, and replaced with a new Governor-General Bill to reflect the nature of the modern office of governor-general. The most significant change would be that the governor-general was no longer exempt from paying income tax on their salary. The changes proposed in the report would take effect for the appointment and term of the next governor-general. The Bill was introduced into the House of Representatives on 28 June 2010 and was granted Royal Assent on 22 November 2010.

In 2020 a poll by Curia, commissioned by New Zealand Republic, found 32 percent of New Zealanders thought the governor-general was the head of state, and only 18 percent could name the Queen as New Zealand's head of state (25 percent answered that it was the prime minister).

See also 

Letters Patent Constituting the Office of Governor-General of New Zealand
List of governors-general of New Zealand
Armorial of the governors-general of New Zealand
List of official secretaries to the governor-general of New Zealand
Viceregal consort of New Zealand (spouse of the governor-general)
Government Houses of New Zealand
Orders, decorations, and medals of the United Kingdom and New Zealand royal honours system for an explanation of honours

References

Footnotes

Citations

Bibliography

External links

 Official website of the Governor-General
 History of the Governor-General, NZHistory
 Former Governors-General, the Governor-General website

Government of New Zealand
Constitution of New Zealand
Monarchy in New Zealand
 
1841 establishments in New Zealand