[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Murray Waas

lso paved the way for Miller, then in jail for more than a hundred days, for refusing to identify Libby as his source, to be released and testify against Libby.

In an August 6, 2005 story in the American Prospect, Waas first disclosed that it was Libby who had first provided Plame's name to Miller.

That same story also disclosed that Libby was encouraging Miller to stay in jail and not reveal that Libby was her source.  After reading Waas' story, prosecutor Fitzgerald wrote a letter to Libby's attorney, citing Waas' reporting, demanding that Libby encourage Miller to finally testify.  Fitzgerald wrote in the letter that "Libby had simply decided that encouraging Ms. Miller to testify was not in his best interest", that Libby discouraging Miller to testify so as to thwart the special counsel's investigation might be possibly construed as an obstruction of justice or witness tampering. As a result, Libby then wrote and called Miller saying that it was alright for her to testify. After spending more than a hundred days in jail, Miller was released, whereupon she provided testimony and evidence to prosecutors against Libby, directly leading to Libby's indictment, and subsequent conviction, on multiple federal criminal charges of obstruction of justice and perjury. Washington Post media columnist Howard Kurtz wrote on April 17, 2006, that Waas' account "set in motion the waiver springing Miller from jail on contempt charges."

Regarding these same stories on the Plame case, as well as his earlier stories on the misrepresentation of intelligence information by the Bush administration to take the U.S. to war with Iraq, New York University journalism professor and press critic Jay Rosen wrote that Waas had the promise to be his generation's ""new Bob Woodward": Rosen wrote that the most significant story of that time was how Bush and top aides had "deceptively drove the nation to war."  Rosen had concluded that Waas had emerged as the leading reporter on that story.

Several of Waas's later published accounts of that aspect of the Plame affair informed his Union Square Press book on the Libby trial published in June 2007, which he discusses in some detail in his interview with Amy Goodman on Democracy Now!.

Mitt Romney and LGBT issues  

During the final days of the 2012 presidential campaign, Waas wrote a series of articles for the Boston Globe detailing how Mitt Romney, as governor of Massachusetts, had implemented policies to restrict the rights of the state's LGBT community, as a way to curry favor with conservative and evangelical voters who vote in large numbers in the Republican presidential primaries.

Waas and the Globe reported that Romney and his aides held back the publication of an antibullying guide for teens originally sponsored by the State Department of Public Health because it contained the terms "bisexual" and "transgender." Aides to Romney were said to be anxious that evangelicals and anti-LGBT rights groups objected to the use of the terms.

Garnering even more attention, Waas subsequently reported that Romney had refused to grant birth certificates to the children of same sex parents. State records obtained by Waas showed that a senior Department of Public Health lawyer warned in a confidential memo to her superiors warning that the Romney administration's failure to provide birth certificates to these children would constitute "'violations of existing statutes,' impair law enforcement and security efforts in a post 9/11 world, and would cause the children to encounter difficulties later in life as they tried to register for school, obtain a driver's license or a passport, enlist in the military, or even vote."

Romney, who had once vowed to be even more outspoken than Ted Kennedy in support of LGBT rights, while running for state office in Massachusetts—and often was—begin to tell a very different story as he curried favor with conservative and evangelical voters.  He emphasized opposing gay marriage and children being raced in same sex marriages: "Some gays are actually having children born to them," Romney declared in a 2005 speech to socially conservative voters in South Carolina, “It’s not right on paper."—Romney said in reference to denying birth certificates to the children of LGBT parents-- "It’s not right in fact. Every child has a right to a mother and father."

The reaction to the Waas stories on Romney was swift, as civil rights and LGBT groups condemned Romney in the days just prior to the election. Chad Griffin, the president of the Human Rights Campaign, the nation's largest gay-rights advocacy organization, said in a statement: "Mitt Romney has stood before the American people multiple times and said he does not support discrimination against LGBT people – and that is an outright lie.’’ Griffin further commented that by "denying birth certificates to children [of same sex parents]... Romney has undertaken to disenfranchise LGBT people.’’

Trump era reporting