[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# John Langdon-Davies

tical success and "even received favourable mention in the House of Lords".Paul Preston: We Saw Spain Die: Foreign Correspondents in the Spanish Civil War. Constable, 2008 , (p.12-13). Behind the Spanish Barricades has recently been republished by The Clapton Press, with a prologue by Paul Preston. 

Langdon-Davies expressed admiration for anarchism in Spain. He described anarchists in 1938 as "superb, loveable human beings" but felt they could not arrange an effective defence against the Nationalists. On the other hand, Langdon-Davies disapproved of the activities of the Catalan party POUM, which he felt were undermining the Republican war effort, and that was reflected in his coverage. In a debate against Fenner Brockway, Langdon-Davies supported the motion "that the suppression of the POUM was vital to the anti-fascist cause in Spain". His coverage of the Barcelona May action was strongly criticised by George Orwell in Homage to Catalonia.

In 1937 with aid worker Eric Muggeridge he founded the Foster Parents Plan for Children in Spain which has become Plan International.

Popular front
In Britain during 1939 there was a strong popular front movement inside both the Labour Party and the Liberal Party for the two parties to come together to support one candidate at constituency level. A general election was expected to take place later in the year. In some instances where it was difficult for Labour to support a Liberal candidate or Liberal to support a Labour candidate, the two parties would agree to support an independent progressive candidate. Even though Langdon-Davies had stood as Labour candidate for Epsom in 1923, he had not been involved with the party since. In Rye, Labour had not selected a candidate and the Liberal candidate had stepped down in February. The two parties formed a joint committee who approached Langdon-Davies who agreed to be their candidate. He was adopted as prospective candidate by this committee in July 1939 and spent the next five weeks campaigning in the constituency. After war broke out, the expected election was not called and he never contested the division.

 Later career 

Langdon-Davies was dismayed by the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact which caused him to repudiate the Soviet Union as having become the betrayer of socialism. During World War II, he worked as a military instructor and writer of manuals for the Home Guard. Major Langdon-Davies of the Sussex Home Guard was awarded the MBE in 1943. 

After the war Langdon-Davies was in the anti-Stalinist left and stated the Soviet government had "declared against the liberty of the mind of man". Langdon-Davies' Russia Puts the Clock Back was an indictment of Soviet science under Stalin's rule, particularly Lysenkoism. Gatherings from Catalonia was a travel book describing the history of the province. His biography of Charles II of Spain, Carlos: The King who would Not Die was praised by the journal Hispania, which stated, "The events of this history are recounted with a fine evocative power supported by impressive research".

In the early 1960s he created the "Jackdaw" series of history learning aids for school children, published by Jonathan Cape. The series was commended by the British Journal of Educational Studies.

Legacy
Plan International, the children's charity Langdon-Davies co-founded, now works in 50 of the world's poorest countries across Africa, Asia and Latin America. In March 2014 his book The Invasion in the Snow, about the Soviet invasion of Finland in 1939, was translated into Finnish to mark the 75th anniversary. Proceeds from the book helped support Plan International.

 Bibliography 

 Books