[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Pilot (Bones)

e first scene featuring the characters Angela Montenegro and Dr. Temperance Brennan inside Washington Dulles International Airport was actually shot at Los Angeles Convention Center, while the opening shot of a plane landing was taken from footage filmed at Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport.

Series creator and writer Hart Hanson describes the murder victim at the center of the episode as a "Chandra-Levy-type congressional intern". The story alludes to the power of politicians and allowed Hanson to establish the character of Dr. Temperance Brennan, who is driven to find the truth despite the barriers presented by politics.

Response
The pilot episode of Bones attracted an average of 10.8 million viewers with 6.7% household share and 11% household rating. It was the highest number of viewers Fox has received for a prime-time Tuesday-night drama series premiere since 24 premiered in 2001. Bones finished first among the 18 to 49 years old demographic and in total viewers in its Tuesday 8:00 pm ET time slot.

Based on the episode, New York described the show as "the best drama of the new network season" and a "sexed-up variation of all the CSIs". Gillian Flynn of Entertainment Weekly writes that although Bones has a "pretty standard Crossing Jordan/CSI-style framework", its main attraction is the chemistry between the two lead characters; "that old Sam-and-Diane, Maddie-and-David, Mulder-and-Scully opposites-attract stuff never feels standard when it's done right." Similarly, USA Today comments that compared to other crime shows, the show "is built on a more traditional and solid foundation: the strength of its characters" and "what sets Tuesday's Bones premiere apart from the procedural pack are stars Emily Deschanel and David Boreanaz, as the season's most appealing new crime fighters."

On the other hand, Media Life Magazine says that while Bones has "an amazingly clever notion, brilliant even", its "execution doesn't match the conception" and "fails to evolve into a gripping series. In fact, it quickly becomes so derivative of so much else on television - especially, strangely, X-Files - that one might even call it bone-headed." In the opinion of Variety's Brian Lowry, the pilot lacked originality. He writes: "'Bones' aspires to achieve a mix of 'House' and 'X-Files' chic (there's even a reference to Scully and Mulder), but for the most part its playful banter feels forced and the way-cool visual flourishes overly familiar. What's left, then, is another crime procedural with a not-especially-fresh twist, which, admittedly, has proved a surprisingly durable skeleton over which to drape new dramas."

Music
The song played during the funeral scene is "Gone," from Thirteen Senses's album The Invitation.
The song played when Dr. Brennan is re-constructing the skull is "Collide" (VF) by Howie Day and/or "Broken Bridge" (VO) by Daughter Darling.
The song played in the senator's house is "Teardrop" by Massive Attack.

References

External links

 "Pilot" at Fox.com
 

2005 American television episodes
American television series premieres
Bones (TV series) episodes