[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Statements in response to the 11 July 2006 Mumbai train bombings

shid Mahmud Kasuri suggested that the attacks could be linked to the failure to resolve the dispute over Kashmir, a suggestion the Indian foreign ministry rejected as "appalling", urging Pakistan to "take urgent steps to dismantle the infrastructure of terrorism on the territory under its control.".

Europe
 : From Finland, which holds the organisation's rotating presidency, the European Union offered its sympathies stating that it is "important that those responsible for these barbarous acts of terrorism will be brought to justice. There can never be justification for such heinous attacks on innocent civilians."
 : French President Jacques Chirac wrote a letter to Manmohan Singh on July 11 saying "I was shocked and outraged to learn of the terrible death toll of the terrorist attacks which hit several Indian trains and railway stations. France utterly condemns these acts which nothing can justify. In this ordeal, I want to express to you, and the Indian people, France's solidarity and my condolences. I also ask you to be kind enough to convey these, together with my profound sadness, to the bereaved".
 : Chancellor Angela Merkel issued a statement on July 11 saying "The appalling news of a series of attacks in your country with many dead and injured greatly affected me. The Federal Government of Germany emphatically condemns these terrorist acts".
 :  Minister for Foreign Affairs Dermot Ahern  said "The bombings that took place in Mumbai today, which were clearly designed to spread maximum terror among people going about their daily lives, are to be utterly condemned. No cause or grievance can justify attacks such as these on innocent civilians.  I wish to extend my sympathy to the people of Mumbai and of India, and to all those who have lost loved ones or suffered injury in these appalling acts of terrorism."
 : The Romanian Ministry of Foreign Affairs condemned the attacks and stated that they "increase, in a dramatic way, the number of innocent people which have fallen victim to the inhuman and condemnable phenomenon of terrorism, which knowns no geographic, ethnic or religious limits." The Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mihai-Răzvan Ungureanu, also expressed Romania's solidarity with the Indian people and authorities, and his condolences to the affected families, while re-affirming his country's contribution to combating terrorism in all its forms.
 : President Vladimir Putin said "There is no, and there can be no, justification for a crime of such cynicism and monstrosity. The terrorists guilty of this crime must be severely punished."
 : Prime Minister José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero expressed his "profound sadness", saying Mumbai revived the horrors of a similar attack in Madrid two years ago.
 : Prime Minister Tony Blair issued the following statement: "I condemn utterly these brutal and shameful attacks. There can never be any justification for terrorism. Our thoughts are with the victims and their families. We stand united with India, as the world's largest democracy who share our values and determination to defeat terrorism in all its forms."
 Pope Benedict XVI sent a message through Cardinal Secretary of State Angelo Sodano stating that he was, "deeply saddened by the news of the terrorist attacks in Bombay."  He went on to note that he, "assures all affected of his spiritual closeness in prayer."  Cardinal Sodano also wrote, "While deploring these senseless acts against humanity, the Holy Father commends the many deceased to the loving mercy of the Almighty. Upon their grieving families and the numerous injured he invokes the divine gifts of strength, consolation and comfort."

North America
 :  Minister of Foreign Affairs Peter MacKay described the bombings as "a deplorable act of violence against innocent civilians." and stated that "Canada stands with India in condemning these acts of terror perpetrated by those who value human life less than their own extreme beliefs."
 : "The Mexican government through its ministry of foreign affairs expresses its strong condemnation of the attacks of July 11th in the city of Mumbai where more than a hundred people lost their lives and several were injured,' a press release issued by the Mexican foreign ministry said. "The Mexican government condemns once again the use of violence and any kind of terrorist acts, and expresses its complete solidarity with the relatives of the victims, and with the people and the government of India for this terrible event".
 : President George W. Bush issued a statement saying "the United States stands with the people and government of India". The State Department issued a statement stating that they "condemn these attacks in the strongest possible terms", calling them  "senseless acts of violence designed to strike at those innocent people who were just going about their daily lives".