[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Raed Salah

use of the term "holy bread" showed that he weren't referring to Jews since there is no holy bread in Judaism. The pro-Palestinian British press monitoring organization Middle East Monitor produced a report titled The Sheikh Raed Affair, defending Salah. Other organizations disputed Salah's claims.

In 2013, Salah was tried for incitement to violence and racism for his 2007 sermon and convicted of incitement to violence but not to racism, and sentenced to eight months in prison in March 2014. Prosecutors appealed Salah's acquittal on the racism charge and the appeals court overturned the acquittal in November 2014, finding Salah guilty of incitement to racism for his "blood libel" comments. In March 2015, the court sentenced him to eleven months in prison. Salah appealed to the Supreme Court which in April 2016 reduced his sentence to nine months because the sermon happened a long time ago and Salah had not committed similar offenses since then.

Salah began serving his sentence in May 2016 and was placed in solitary confinement. An Israeli court in October rejected the Al Mezan Center for Human Rights's appeal to end his isolation. Salah began a hunger strike in November protesting the conditions under which he was held.

2009 speech 
In September 2009, protests that led to violent clashes between Israeli security forces and Muslim Palestinian protesters erupted over the status of the Temple Mount. On October 2, 2009, while the clashes were ongoing, Salah gave a speech which was branded incitement by the Israeli police, claiming that he had egged the protestors on. He was arrested on October 6, but released a few hours later. However, he was banned from entering Jerusalem for 30 days as the court argued that his presence in Jerusalem "could be inciting".

2010 Gaza flotilla arrest 

Salah was on board the Mavi Marmara, the lead ship of the 2010 Gaza Freedom Flotilla, which attempted to break Israel's blockade of the Gaza Strip. The ship was boarded in international waters by the Israeli Navy. This led to clashes with the activists during which Israeli commandos killed nine of them and injured dozens while seven commandos were injured. One Israeli police source claimed that Salah tried to provide cover for an activist who shot at a commando during the raid, but that the gunman had already been hit. Early Palestinian reports claimed that Salah had been critically injured by a gunshot wound to the head. Those reports were false and Salah had only suffered minor injuries.

Salah was taken to the Ela Prison in Beersheba to await a court hearing on their involvement with the flotilla. In June, Salah was released on NIS 150,000 bail, but placed under house arrest and temporarily barred from leaving Israel. Hours after he was released, Salah gave a speech in Umm al-Fahm, claiming that Zionism "which began in Turkey, would end in Turkey".

2011 Allenby border crossing search 

In April 2011, Salah and his wife were returning home after pilgrimage to Mecca. At the Allenby border crossing between Jordan and the West Bank they were detained by Israeli police. When a female police officer wanted to strip-search his wife, Salah protested loudly. He yelled at the police and demanded that they treat his wife with respect. Other police officers restrained Salah but he broke free and tried to charge into the room where his wife was being searched.

Salah was convicted three years later of "interrupting" police officers and fined NIS 9,000 as well as given a two-year probation.

2011 arrest in the United Kingdom

After entering the UK on June 28, 2011, Salah was detained the same day. He was due to attend a Palestine Solidarity Campaign meeting with Labour MPs Jeremy Corbyn, Yasmin Qureshi, and Richard Burden. He requested to be released on bail, while awaiting the outcome of court proceedings, despite the Home Office Secretary's decision to bar him from the country, was granted on July 15 and he was released three days later. The conditions for his release included wearing an electronic tag, observing a night-time curfew, reporting to immigration officials, and refraining from public-speaking.

Palestinians accused the Israeli government of being behind the arrest. In a statement, Home Secretary Theresa May said that she sought to have Saleh deported for his extremist views.

A judicial review of the arrest of Salah took place on September 30, 2011 during which the court ruled that Salah was entitled to damages due to wrongful detention. In response, May sought to ban Salah. On October 26, an immigration tribunal concluded that May had been justified in her position. The tribunal stated that it is "satisfied that the appellant has engaged in the unacceptable behaviour of fostering hatred which might lead to intercommunity violence in the UK."