[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Finnish Rapid Deployment Force

re units are trained there, the arms branches varying yearly, with some years placing emphasis on the training of combat engineers and others on infantry, etc.

Additionally, SEO (Suojelun Erikoisosasto) a CBRN warfare specialist formation is trained at irregular intervals of FRDF conscript batches.

Amphibious Task Unit
Another training site is Nyland Brigade where the ATU, or Amphibious Task Unit, is trained. The force trained yearly there is about the equivalent of a Coastal jaeger platoon, or 40-50 servicemen. ATU servicemen differ from the Pori Brigade servicemen in that they have already served a part of their conscription service in the Nyland Brigade before applying. ATU applicants have basically the same admission tests as regular FRDF, except that applicants to the ATU also have to go through a swimming test. The units train separately.

The ATU is a joint project with the Swedish Armed Forces, the Swedish forces being trained at the 1st Marine Regiment, with joint exercises held regularly.

Beret

The FDF international forces' beret is the standard FDF ground forces' green beret, but instead of wearing a silver pin depicting a roaring lion, the international beret features a roaring golden lion wearing a crown.

Conscripts must earn the golden pin in a "beret mark test" or "beret march", which is an unusually long march/exercise. Upon successful completion, the golden lion is awarded. In UN operations, the standard UN blue beret is used, but in NATO-led operations such as KFOR and ISAF the FRDF beret is used (notably also by peacekeepers who have no conscript FRDF training).

ATU servicemen may wear the Navy or Coastal Jäger beret during conscript training, they do not receive the international beret.

References

Sources
The Pori Brigade in English
Publications of the Finnish Defence Forces ("Englanniksi" = in English)
FDF site for the exercise Amber Hope 2007
ATU information 

 The FRDF in Finnish

Military units and formations of Finland
Military units and formations established in 1996