[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2007 Hong Kong Chief Executive election

Hong Kong and China's democratic history." And he vowed to return in the 2012 universal suffrage election. In response, NPC chairman Wu Bangguo, was quoted as replying the final decision on matters related to Hong Kong's political system rested with the central government and not the SAR government.

Outcome
According to the second survey on Chief Executive Forum carried out by the University of Hong Kong, the instant poll showed that 38.9% of 520 respondents thought that Tsang's performance of was better than that of Leong, while 39.3% of the respondents thought Leong performed better. The result shows a significant difference, compared with the first instant poll, in which Mr. Leong was behind his rival.

Opinion polling
Donald Tsang dominated in the polls despite his relative inactivity and lack of eloquence in public debate. Alan Leong never achieved a rating higher than 20 percent in the rolling opinion polls conducted by the Hong Kong University Public Opinion Programme between 26 February and 23 March.

Voting

Result

Controversy 
In an apparent attempt to maximise votes for Tsang, Stanley Ho had suggested that those casting blank votes could be tracked down. This caused a furore, prompting a senior mainland official and top local advisers to Beijing to defend the secrecy of the Chief Executive election vote.

Ho later issued a statement clarifying: "According to traditional wisdom, those who make mischief will one day be unveiled," "I was merely reminding those who intend to cast blank votes that the day will come when they will be unveiled. My remarks carried no other implication."

Protests
Some pro-democracy politicians boycotted the CE and EC elections, claiming that to participate would legitimise undemocratic practices.

Emily Lau of The Frontier was one such critic. "It will be a beautiful misunderstanding if some people believe they need not do anything more and that universal suffrage will be introduced some day,", she said.

On the day before the EC elections, the Civil Human Rights Front organised a protest where they walked backwards around LegCo 7 times, then marched slowly to Central Government Offices, symbolising the great leap backwards for democracy which they believed the EC represented. Leung Kwok-hung trapped himself in a giant bird cage and followed Leong around on EC election day to protest Leong's participation.

References

External links 
The Third Term Chief Executive Election Official Website

Hong Kong Chief Executive elections
2007 elections in China
2007 in Hong Kong
March 2007 events in China