[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Perdition (play)

of their being to do all that could be done to save European Jews – were involved in a dark conspiracy to betray them." David Cesarani wrote that, like Brenner in his book, Allen drew on anti-Zionist stereotypes originating in the Soviet Union which have a "Jewish conspiracy theory" at their centre.

Cancellation and controversy
In January 1987, the Ken Loach-directed production of Perdition for London's Royal Court Theatre, intended for its Upstairs studio theatre, was cancelled on the day before the first preview performance. At the time, the historian Martin Gilbert said the play was "a complete travesty of the facts" and "deeply anti-Semitic". Gilbert identified 60 errors in the script. He told The Sunday Times:
"In reality there are inaccuracies on almost every page of the script; not only errors of fact, but innuendoes and allegations against thousands of Jews unable to defend themselves because they were murdered ... by the very people with whom, the script insists they were in deliberate and sinister collusion." Another specialist in the field, David Cesarani, agreed. Max Stafford-Clark, then the artistic director of the Royal Court, rejected assertions the play was antisemitic or contained errors, but said that continuing with the production would cause "great distress to sections of the community". Stafford-Clark recalled in 2021 that Stephen Roth, chairman of the Institute of Jewish Affairs, told him that in Allen's text "the Zionist resistance wasn’t mentioned, the confused situation in Budapest wasn’t mentioned and the number saved wasn’t touched on."

Loach claimed that the Royal Court had given into pressure from members of the British Jewish community, including Roth,  the publisher Lord Weidenfeld, and the political adviser Lord Goodman. Loach told a newspaper of the Workers Revolutionary Party that he "hadn't tangled with the Zionist lobby before" and "what is amazing is the strength and organisation and power of their lobby." The "Zionists", he said "want to leave intact ... the generalised sense of guilt everyone has about the Jews so that it remains an area that you can't discuss". He was also angry with the dramatist Caryl Churchill, who defended Stafford-Clark's decision. Jim Allen himself blamed "the Zionist machine". Cesarani in Jewish Socialist wrote in response to such comments that "the protagonists of the play are willing to manipulate anti-Jewish stereotypes outside of the theatre as well as within it." The Directors Guild of Great Britain protested at the cancellation.

In a letter to The Guardian in 2004, in connection with the premature end of another controversial play's production, Loach wrote that "the charge of antisemitism" against Allen's play "is the time-honoured way to deflect anti-Zionist arguments".

Glenda Abramson wrote in Drama and Ideology in Modern Israel (1998) that, in his play, Allen "uses Zionism rather than Nazism as his exemplar of fascism and the analogy of Israel rather than Nazi Germany in his warning about the future revival of global fascism". In an article for The Jewish Chronicle in 2017, Dave Rich described the play as a "Stalinist lie". He wrote that Loach is one individual who uses the Perdition episode "to try to claim that the entire Zionist movement collaborated in the murder of their fellow Jews; either from cold, cynical calculation – they only cared about getting Jews to Mandate Palestine – or through ideological affinity".

Later developments
In 1999, the play was performed at the Gate Theatre in London in a production by Elliot Levey, Loach's son-in-law, in what David Jay, writing for the New Statesman, described as "a significantly rewritten version". Levey defended the play in 1999: "It is not historically inaccurate. It's very much a pro-Jewish play. My hope is that it won't be sat on, as it was in the 1980s."

Perfidy, by Ben Hecht, is a non-fiction work about the Kastner trial. The title of the play appears to echo Hecht's book.

References

Further reading
David Cesarani, "The Perdition Affair" in 'Robert Wistrich, ed,  Anti-Zionism and Antisemitism in the Contemporary World], London: Palgrave Macmillan.  pp 53–60  DOI:https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-349-11262-3_5, based on Cesarani "The Perdition Affair", Jewish Quarterly, 34:1, 6-9, DOI:10.1080/0449010X.1987.10703724
  (five experts comment on the play)

1987 plays
Plays by Jim Allen
Anti-Zionism