[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Stephan Körner

sically possible.

He also wrote on the philosophy of science in Experience and Theory (1966), including work on theoretical incommensurability, the concept that two directly contradictory theories – such as classical mechanics and relativity – can coexist, without either being specifically "wrong".

In 1969 he published What is Philosophy?, and in 1970 Categorial Frameworks, attempts to put forward his views to a general audience. Experience and Conduct, published in 1979, discussed how we evaluate and develop our own preferences and value systems; his final work, Metaphysics: Its Structure and Function (1984) was a wide-ranging study of metaphysics.

Personal life
Körner was remembered by colleagues and pupils as "extraordinarily handsome with an astonishing Czech accent ... [with] a certain sense of grandeur about him". He retained an old-fashioned sense of manners, formal but courteous, as well as a formal appearance.  Even on the hottest days, he was never seen without a tie and jacket.

He lived a happy and contented home life; he and Edith were remembered by friends as exceptionally close and devoted to one another. In their early married life they fitted the conventional academic mould – whilst he worked incessantly at his studies, she raised the family, looked after the house, managed the finances – but after the children had grown and left she worked at her own career, eventually becoming the chairman of the magistrates' court in Bristol and overseeing the redevelopment of the National Health Service's information-management system. Edith managed their lives, as with everything else, in a practical, organised and forceful way, ensuring that he could work as freely as possible; he was fond of saying that "Diti does everything, but leaves the philosophy to me".

The couple had two children – Thomas, a professor of mathematics, and Ann, a biochemist, writer and translator, who married Sidney Altman (a joint winner of the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1989).

Following Edith's diagnosis with advanced cancer in the summer of 2000, they chose to die together in August of that year, on the 17th.Ahuja, Anjana. An organised death. The Times, 4 September 2000. - [Archived by Wayback Machine]. 

They were survived by both children and by four grandchildren.

 Publications 
Books/monographs authored

(1955) Kant.
(1955) Conceptual Thinking (corrected republication, 1959)
(1960) The Philosophy of Mathematics. Dover Publications, 
 (1966) Experience and Theory -  An Essay in the Philosophy of Science 
 (1967) Kant's Conception of Freedom Oxford University Press.
 (1969) What is Philosophy? - One Philosopher's Answer. (later published as Fundamental Questions in Philosophy)
 (1970) Categorical Frameworks.
(1971) Abstraction in Science and Morals, 24th Eddington Memorial Lecture (Cambridge University Press)
 (1976) Experience and Conduct..
 (1984) Metaphysics: Its Structure and Function.Stephan Körner, Metaphysics: Its Structure and Function Reviewed by Panayot Butchvarov, Philosophy in Review 6 (6):288-289 (1986)

Books edited

 (1957) Observation and Interpretation: a Symposium of Philosophers and Physicists.
(1971) Practical Reason - Papers and Discussions 
(1976) Explanation - Papers and Discussions(1976).Philosophy of Logic- Papers And Discussions (Oxford, Blackwell, and California University Press)

Select papers/chapters

(1970) "Description, Analysis and Metaphysics," in Joseph Bobik (ed.) The Nature of Philosophical Inquiry, (South Bend, Indiana, Notre Dame University Press)
(1975) "On Some Relations Between Logic and Metaphysics," in The Logical Enterprise, (ed.) Alan R. Anderson et al. (New Haven, Yale University Press).
(1976) "On the Subject Matter of Philosophy," in H. D. Lewis (ed.) Contemporary British Philosophy (London, Allen & Unwin)
(1980) "Science and the Organization of Belief," in: Mellor, D. H., (ed.). Science, Belief, and Behaviour: Essays in Honour of R. B. Braithwaite. Cambridge [Eng.]; New York : Cambridge University Press. .
(1991) "On the relation between Common Sense, Science and Metaphysics," in A. Phillips Griffiths (ed.), A. J. Ayer: Memorial Essays (Royal Institute of Philosophy Supplements, pp. 89-104). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
(1991) "On the Logic of Practical Evaluation," in: Peter Geach (ed.) Logic and Ethics, Nijhoff International Philosophy Series, vol 41. Springer, Dordrecht 

For more complete publication details see Körner's PhilPapers entry or 1987 bibliography.

Festschrift

 (1987) Stephan Körner — Philosophical Analysis and Reconstruction, Jan T. J. Srzednicki (ed.)  

See also
 Schema (Kant)

Notes

References

 General References 
"Professor Stephan Korner". The Times, 23 August 2000 (obituary).