[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ruhama Avraham

elections to the 18th Knesset, she was elected sixth on the Kadima list and in this Knesset served as Deputy Speaker of the Knesset, Chairperson of the Lobby for Minors and Mid-sized Businesses, Chairperson of the Lobby for Food Security, Member of the Knesset Foreign Affairs and Defense Committee.

During her tenure as a member of the Knesset, she was considered a Knesset member whose social agenda is very close to her heart. It initiated a number of major laws, including:
 Hot meal law for students
 The Food Security Council Law – The establishment of a national council to initiate a comprehensive plan to combat poverty.
 An amendment to the Value Added Tax Law, which stipulates that small and medium-sized businesses shall be the date for payment of tax on the date of receipt of the payment and not on the day of service.
 Amendment to the Tenant Rights Law in public housing, which regulates the distribution of rights in public housing in the event of separation between spouses.
 The law of hot meal plan for schoolchildren, which led to approximately 250,000 pupils to a hot meal in schools.
 Amendment to the Tenant Rights Law in public housing, which regulates the distribution of rights in public housing in case of separation of spouses.
 Amendment to the Administration & Law Ordinance (Abolition of Law, Jurisdiction and Administration), which was initiated during the 17th Knesset with Avigdor Yitzhaki. The amendment states that an agreement or government decision, according to which the law, jurisdiction and administration of Israel, will not apply to a territory, will require the approval of the Knesset and will be brought to a referendum. The law also regulates the way to conduct a referendum.
 Amendment to the Computers Law that prohibits the editing and transfer of software that causes damage to a computer or computer material, even if there is no actual damage, if it was done in order to penetrate the computer, to perform actions that result in false information or output or to perform secret monitoring.
Amendment to the Law and Administration Law:

The amendment provides that an agreement or government decision according to which the law, jurisdiction and administration of the State of Israel shall not apply to territory shall be subject to the approval of the Knesset and shall be brought to a referendum. The law also regulates the way to conduct a referendum.

An amendment to the Computers Law that prohibits the editing and transfer of software that causes damage to the computer or the computer material, even if there is no actual damage if the purpose is to penetrate the computer, to perform actions that result in false information or output or to carry out wiretapping.

Following the dissolution of the 18th Knesset, Avraham announced that she would not run for the 19th Knesset.

After politics 
Between 2014 and 2016 served as an external director in the construction company Beit Yair.

Since 2017, she has served as an external director at Minrav and Canada's Ski Line.

Between 2013 and 2019 She also served as a strategic consultant to companies and organizations.

Since 2019 until the present she is serving as the acting General Manager of Real Estate Participations in Israel Ltd. (a subsidiary of the Jewish Agency for Israel).

Personal life 
She is divorced and a mother of two. She speaks Hebrew, Ladino and English. She lives in Petah Tikva.

References

External links

1964 births
Living people
Bar-Ilan University alumni
Israeli Jews
Israeli people of Turkish-Jewish descent
Women members of the Knesset
Jewish Israeli politicians
Kadima politicians
Likud politicians
Members of the 16th Knesset (2003–2006)
Members of the 17th Knesset (2006–2009)
Members of the 18th Knesset (2009–2013)
Deputy ministers of Israel
Ministers of Tourism of Israel
People from Rishon LeZion
Israeli Sephardi Jews
21st-century Israeli women politicians
Women government ministers of Israel