[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Polícia Judiciária

also from an organisational point of view, to the arising challenges. The Services Directorate for Innovation and Development and the Services Directorate for Planning, Quality and Evaluation are examples thereof, together with the traditional management units for both property and human resources.

While continuing to recognise the important role of the Institute for Judiciary Police and Criminal Sciences, maintaining it as a central unit in the dependency of the national director, its performance in terms of specific training of the PJ staff and the consolidation of technical and scientific knowledge in criminal investigation and other related areas, together with the driving force that it can establish in the deepening of knowledge, as regards the exchange with other similar or academic entities, as well as in the promotion and disclosure of multidisciplinary scientific research, must be stressed.

As it evolves and keeps pace with the complexity and sophistication of society, the Polícia Judiciária defines itself as a higher criminal police force, hierarchically positioned under the Minister of Justice and supervised in accordance with the law.

Its mission is to assist the judicial and prosecuting authorities in investigations, as well as to develop and promote actions for crime prevention, detection and investigation within its sphere of competence or entrusted to it by the relevant judicial and prosecuting authorities.

Organization
The Polícia Judiciária is headed by a National Director, appointed together by the Prime-Minister and the Minister of Justice.

Mission
Under the terms of the decree-law regulating its new organisational structure and the Organisation of Criminal Investigation Act (LOIC) (Act no. 49/2008, 27 August), it is the mission of the Polícia Judiciária to assist the judicial and prosecuting authorities in criminal investigations specifically entrusted to it under LOIC or delegated to it by the competent judicial or prosecuting authorities.

The PJ pursues the following objectives:

 To develop and promote prevention, detection and criminal investigation actions within its competence or entrusted to it by the Internal Security Act, the Criminal Policy Framework Law and national strategies defining criminal policy goals, priorities and guidelines;

To carry out, as an official entity, expertise and examinations.

Equipment
Although the Polícia Judiciária can use virtually any weapons of any caliber if necessary, they are issued with the Glock 19 as their standard firearm - like their Polícia de Segurança Pública and Guarda Nacional Republicana counterparts - with the Glock 26 used by mainly female agents.

 Glock 19
 Glock 26
 Uzi
 Benelli M3
 Mossberg 500
IWI Tavor
 Ballistic shield
 Bulletproof vest

References

External links
Polícia Judiciária

Specialist law enforcement agencies of Portugal