[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Libby Prison escape

have been, it was nevertheless the main reason for the nickname, Rat Hell.  Lt. Charles H. Moran, a recaptured officer from Libby, wrote, "No tongue can tell...how the poor fellow[s] passed among the squealing rats,—enduring the sickening air, the deathly chill, the horrible interminable darkness."

Major A. G. Hamilton, a leading founder of the escape party, pointed to the dilemma of the rats: "The only difficulties experienced [were lack of proper tools] and the unpleasant feature of having to hear hundreds of rats squeal all the time, while they ran over the diggers almost without a sign of fear."  Colonel Thomas E. Rose, the leader of the escape, addressed the double-edged lack of light in Rat Hell: "The profound darkness caused some...to become bewildered when they attempted to move about.  I sometimes had to feel all over the cellar to gather up the men that were lost."  Despite the difficulties, the dark repugnant atmosphere of Rat Hell offered the most effective cover.  "On rare occasions, guards entered the large basement rooms.  'This was, however, so uninviting a place, that the Confederates made this visit as brief as nominal compliance with their orders permitted.'"

Element of surprise 
The tunnelers organized into three relief teams with five members each.  After 17 days of digging, they succeeded in breaking through to a 50-foot vacant lot on the eastern side of the prison, resurfacing beneath a tobacco shed inside the grounds of the nearby Kerr's Warehouse.  When Col. Rose finally broke through to the other side, he told his men that the "Underground Railroad to God's Country was open!"  The officers escaped the prison in groups of two and three on the night of February 9, 1864.  Once within the tobacco shed, the men collected inside the walled warehouse yard and simply strolled out the front gate.

Union officers meandering through the streets of Richmond late at night might appear to be a leg of the plan doomed to failure, however, the guards simply did not expect that escape from Libby prison was possible.  The fact that the Libby guards were not looking for signs of escape meant that they were in a position to be more easily deceived.  Union Army Lieutenant Moran described how the sentries were not interested in stopping people outside the bounds of their jurisdiction, "provided, of course, that the retreating form...were not recognized as Yankees."  The tunnel provided enough distance from the prison to stealthily subvert those jurisdictional lines and allow prisoners to slip into the dark streets unchallenged.
  
So effective was this buffer that 109 men escaped the prison without ever being stopped.  At one point, Colonel Rose walked straight into the path of an oncoming sentinel.  Unflinching, he "strode boldly past the guard unchallenged."  Even more amazing, once news of the escape way broke out among the prisoners a panicked rush resulted, creating a thunderous stampede for the tunnel.  Wholly unsuspecting of the reality of the situation, one Confederate guard yelled out to a fellow sentry, "Halloa, Bill—there's somebody's coffeepot upset, sure!"

Precious time
Another example of how unaware the Confederates were caught is evident in the reaction to the escape.  From the Richmond Examiner, February 11, 1864: "At first it was suspicioned [sic] that the night sentinels had been bribed.  They were placed under arrest, searched ... for evidences of their criminality, [and] confined in Castle Thunder (a civilian penitentiary near Libby Prison).  Upon the testimony afforded by the revelation of the tunnel, the imprisoned guards were at once released and restored to duty."

Despite the stampeding of prisoners, strong senior officers such as Colonel Harrison C. Hobart had the sense of mind to tie off the flow of escapees before dawn's light.  "The remaining prisoners replaced the bricks at the fireplace, and the guards began their morning routine, unaware that 109 escaped Union officers were making their way toward the Federal lines."  Keeping the escape secret from the Confederate guards until the last possible moment gave the evading inmates what they needed most: time.  After the morning roll call came up over a hundred short, the Confederates counted frantically several more times to ensure that the Yankees weren't pulling a trick.  Such "tricks" had occurred on many occasions when men slipped in and out of the counting lines; this "repeating" was a mild prank often used to frustrate the Confederates at roll call, much to the glee of the Union prisoners.