[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Boves massacre

industrialist Alessandro Vassallo, who had acted as negotiators between Peiper and the Italian soldiers and partisans, successfully secured the release of the prisoners and the return of the body of the killed German soldier, but Bernardi and Vassallo were later doused with petrol and burned alive.

Despite promises to the contrary, Pieper ordered his men to open fire on the village of Boves (according to German sources; Italian sources instead say that the soldiers had entered the village and set its houses afire), already having taken up positions beforehand to allow such an action, killing 23 civilians and destroying 350 houses in Boves and surrounding communities. The victims consisted predominantly of old, sick or infirm civilians, as most others had left Boves before the massacre to hide out. Among the victims, Bartolomeo Ghinamo, a deaf-mute living in Via Vigne, was gunned down when he tried to put out the fire after Peiper's men had set his house afire; Francesco Dalmasso, a disabled veteran, was shot dead while trying to escape through the fields; Caterina Bo, an 87-year-old woman who could not move from her bed, was burned alive when Peiper's men set fire to her house. The deputy parish priest, don Mario Ghibaudo, was killed while giving the absolution to an old man who had been shot by a German soldier.  Adriana Masino, an inhabitant of Boves, testified to Colonel Chiorando on 12 January 1968 (during Peiper’s trial) that she and her brother Giacomo were dragging a cart through a street, when they met two Germans; they raised their hands, and Giacomo moved towards them saying that he could speak two languages. One of the two soldiers made a gesture to the other, and Giacomo Masino was shot dead on the spot. Michel and Piero Sopra, when testifying to the military chaplain Luigi Feltrin for the identification of Don Mario Ghibaudo’s body, stated that they too were fleeing from the village when they met some German soldiers; one of them shot Michele Agnese, their grandfather, in the head. Don Ghibaudo gave Agnese the absolution, and was shot dead in turn. This happened around 18:00 in Via Badina. Giacomo Dalmasso, a 29-year-old cart driver, was shot multiple times but survived after 93 days in hospital, as the bullets did not hit any vital organs.

Pieper defended the killing of civilians as collateral damage in a war action, but there were no partisans in Boves, they were on the surrounding mountains where the German troops did not pursue them.

One possible explanation for the brutality of the massacre is that Peiper wanted to discourage straggling Italian soldiers, many of whom were at this point unsure about their next steps, from joining the local partisans.

Subsequent events
The region around Boves remained a hotspot for partisan activities and German reprisals which saw local villages devastated. Between 31 December 1943 and 3 January 1944 a further 59 civilians and partisans were killed in the region in another massacre.

Trial
The attempts by plaintiffs to bring about the conviction of Joachim Peiper, Lieutenant's Otto Heinrich Dinse and Erhard Gührs for action at Boves, occurred 25 years after 1943. In 1968, an Italian court concluded there was "...insufficient suspicion of criminal activity on the part of any of the accused to warrant prosecution". On 23 December 1968, a German District Court in Stuttgart reached the same conclusion, terminating any potential prosecution of Peiper for his activities in Italy.

Commemoration
After Peiper's death in France in 1976 he was buried in Schondorf, Bavaria. Initially disturbed by the fact that the town was home to such a controversial figure a small group of local citizens decided to hold a prayer for the victims of Boves on the 19th of every month. The main square in front of another church in town was renamed Piazza dell’Olmo, after a similar square in Boves. In 2013 a group of citizens from Boves visited Schondorf to pray at Peiper's grave.

References

Bibliography
 
 
 
 

1943 murders in Italy
History of Piedmont
Italian resistance movement
Massacres in 1943
Massacres in the Italian Social Republic
Military history of Italy during World War II
September 1943 events
Massacres committed by Nazi Germany
War crimes of the Waffen-SS