[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Battle of Tarapacá

st source of Chilean supplies at Dolores, Arteaga realised that their only salvation was to attack. In addition, Arteaga continued to believe he faced only 2,500 Peruvian soldiers when in fact Arteaga's forces added up to just 2,281 men, around half the strength of Buendía’s contingent.

Battlefield

The Tarapaca oasis was 70 km (45 mi) from San Francisco/Dolores. This commercial town was founded by the Spanish in the 16th century, using one of the Inca roads that link up the mountains with the sea. A little creek, formed by snow melting in the Andes, runs through the town, allowing small plantations along the stream bed. The Peruvian administration buildings were next to rock walls, with the market and the church at the very centre of the town. Militarily, the town buildings lay in what was effectively a wide ravine, on the west side of the ravine. A ridge leading up to a waterless, flat and barren plateau bordered the town to the west. To the east, running for several Km/Mi, were a series of rugged ridges and gullies. The ground to the east made any military manoeuvre in this direction extremely difficult. 6 km (3.7 mi) north east of Tarapaca, within the stream bed and astride any route of retreat from the town, lay the village of Quillaquasa. The town building themselves were adjacent to rising slopes at the north end of the settlement. These slopes formed an inverted V; for an army, effectively creating a dead end for any force that might advance through the town, simultaneously making such a force vulnerable to sniping from any buildings held in force in the town, or from soldiers shooting down on the town from the ridges to the north and west.

Chilean battle plan
With the advantage of hindsight, there is a strong case to argue that the Chilean attack was poorly planned, since, despite being heavily outnumbered, Arteaga divided his force into three columns, thereby weakening even more any chance of victory. Col.  with his Zapadores Regiment, one company of the 2nd Line Regiment, and the Krupp cannons (a force of 400 men) were to advance to Quillahuasa via the desert plateau to cut off Buendía's escape route. Col. Eleuterio Ramírez with 7 companies of his 2nd Line Regiment, one Cazadores a Caballo company and some artillery was ordered to enter Tarapacá from Huariciña, pushing the Peruvians from the south, following the broad course of the ravine. Finally, Gen. Arteaga with the rest of his forces would directly attack on the centre of the Chilean lines from the west, over Tarapacá.

Equally, there are elements of the Chilean plan that make sense. Arteaga was operating under the mistaken impression that he outnumbered the enemy, so dividing his force into columns was not as significant an error as was evident after the event, especially as the column assigned the cut-off role represented less than 20 per cent of his available forces. Additionally, Arteaga was under the impression that the allied force was in a similar physical condition as his own. Given the dispersal of the Peruvian forces at the previous battle, encircling the enemy and then denying them an escape route promised the chance of a decisive outcome should the Chileans prevail.

Allied battle plan
Buendía was well aware of the Chilean presence, notified by Andrés Avelino Cáceres and Francisco Bolognesi that one column was advancing over the plateau and another one was moving towards Tarapacá’s den. Buendía ordered his vanguard to return from Pachica, 12 km/7.5 mi north of this position, concentrating his division on the town. Buendía set skirmishers in every building to fire from protected positions. He also disposed his infantry in a manner that allowed then to form a cross fire field (the Peruvians would be shooting from covered positions, one man firing from the front and one from the flank or rear of any Chilean target, making it extremely difficult for Chilean forces as they advanced to find cover and return effective fire). Castañon’s artillery men were set on Visagra hill, to defend the den entrance, supported by the Arequipa Battalion.

Battle

At 03:30 Santa Cruz departed from Isluga while a dense fog covered the surroundings, and an hour later Ramírez and Arteaga began their movement. Disoriented by the mist, Santa Cruz and his column marched almost three hours in circles, losing precious time. When the sunrise showed that he was at Ramírez’ rearguard, Santa Cruz resolved to continue to toward his assigned objective. Ramírez, meanwhile, marched to his own.