[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 2006 in Iran

The following lists events that happened during 2006 in Iran.

Incumbents
 Supreme Leader: Ali Khamenei
 President: Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
 Vice President: Parviz Davoodi
 Chief Justice: Mahmoud Hashemi Shahroudi

Events

January
 January 1 – Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad accuses European nations of trying to complete the Holocaust by creating a "Jewish camp" Israel in the Middle East. "Don't you think that continuation of genocide by expelling Jews from Europe was one of their aims in creating a regime of occupiers of Al-Quds (Jerusalem) Isn't that an important question?" He went on to say that Europe should cede some of their territory for a Jewish state, and that anti-Semitism has a long history in Europe, while Jews have lived peacefully among Muslims for centuries.
 January 4 – A leaked intelligence report states that Iran has been "successfully scouring Europe" for the equipment needed to create a nuclear bomb, as well as parts for a ballistic missile.
 January 12 – The foreign ministers of Britain, France, and Germany declare that negotiations with Iran over its nuclear program have reached a "dead end." They recommend that Iran be referred to the United Nations Security Council, where the nation may face sanctions.
 January 15 – The Foreign Ministry of Iran announced it will hold a conference to evaluate the validity of the Holocaust, which President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad recently referred to as a "myth".
 January 16 – Iran bans CNN from the country after a translator mistranslated a remark by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, in which he defended Iran's right to nuclear energy. The comment was translated as the right to construct nuclear weapons.
 January 19 – Iran warns of a world oil crisis if sanctions are imposed over its nuclear program even as the United States and Europe struggle to get support for UN Security Council action.
 January 20 – Israel says it has proof that Iran financed the bombing of a fast-food restaurant in Tel Aviv, and that Syria carried it out.
 January 24 – A bomb in Ahvaz kills six and injures up to 40. Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was due to have visited the city today, however the trip was called off at the last minute. Lebanon's al-Manar television said the president had called off his trip after a security tip-off. Local MP Nezam Molla-Hoveyzeh accused Britain of being behind the attack. Later, US President George Bush warns Iran over threat of "retaliation" against Israel. Moqtada Sadr has vowed to defend Iran.
 January 26 – Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf rejects US objections to a proposed Iran–Pakistan–India pipeline for natural gas saying "It is in our economic interest. If somebody wants to stop us they should compensate us ... But at the moment we are going ahead". Musharraf also repeats his condemnation of the recent U.S. air strike in northern Pakistan which killed 18 people, including women and children.
 January 26 – In the long running dispute over Iran's nuclear program, the ambassador of the United States to India, David Mulford, has warned India to back the US plan to refer Iran to the United Nations Security Council or face cancellation of a US-India nuclear deal.
 January 27 – President Mikhail Saakashvili of Georgia pledges to end his country's energy crisis by importing Iranian natural gas. Starting Monday, Georgia will import 2 million m3 of gas a day at $120/m3, $10 more than for Russian gas. Georgia's supply of Russian gas has been interrupted since Sunday due to pipeline explosions. Saakashvili has accused Moscow of sabotage for political gain.
 January 31 – Iran's nuclear program
 Iran reacts with anger to its referral to the U.N. Security Council, saying diplomatic avenues have been closed.
 The International Atomic Energy Agency has announced it has evidence within its report for the Thursday meeting that Iran obtained documents showing how to mold highly enriched grade uranium into the core of warheads.

February

March
 March 31 - The 6.1  Borujerd earthquake affected western Iran with a maximum Mercalli intensity of VIII (Severe), leaving 63–70+ dead, and 1,246–1,418 injured.

April
 April 11 – President of Iran Mahmoud Ahmadinejad confirms that Iran had successfully produced a few grams of 3.5% low-enriched uranium.
 April 20 – Iran announces a uranium enrichment deal with Russia, involving a joint uranium enrichment firm on Russian soil. Nine days later Iran announced that it would not move all activity to Russia, thus leading to a de facto termination of the deal.

May

June
 June 21 – Iran is eliminated from FIFA World Cup after losing 3–1 and 2–0 to Mexico and Portugal, and a 1–1 tie game with Angola in the group stage.

July