[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Fort Chaffee Maneuver Training Center

enter to add an estimated 975 corporate jobs by 2021.

 FCRA is down to about  remaining for development, of which about 25% is intended for residential development, roughly 40% to 50% is targeted for commercial and retail development, while the remaining land is intended for industrial development.

In September 2017, the Fort Chaffee Redevelopment Authority bought back the land for the shopping center at Hwy 59 and Hwy 22 as the developer had already received 5 time extensions, and no construction had yet started.

Environmental contamination
The 2008 fire uncovered the only environmental contamination to date: asbestos.

Fires
During the morning hours of January 29, 2008, a mixture of high winds and fire, which local authorities determined later an electrical brush fire, burned approximately  and damaged or destroyed 150 abandoned buildings at Fort Chaffee.

On the night of August 3, 2011, a fire broke out on the 90 acre former medical complex, destroying the hospital and nearly 120 buildings in the area. This was, according to the National Weather Service, the hottest day in Fort Chaffee history at 115 degrees Fahrenheit. The fire's cause was ruled accidental before it became known that a cigarette dropped by a Kentucky National Guardsman of the 138th Fires Brigade was the culprit.

A fire destroyed an office building on June 20, 2014.

Other uses of Fort Chaffee
Fort Chaffee has been used as a set for various movies, including A Soldier's Story in 1984, Biloxi Blues in 1988, The Tuskegee Airmen in 1995 and it was featured in episode 10 of the 4th season of Ghost Adventures on November 19, 2010.

It is a training station for the Department of Energy (DOE) for which their federal agents are trained at. The Office of Secure Transport (OST) at the  National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA) maintains the OST Transportation Safeguards Training Site at Fort Chaffee, where the 18-week-long Nuclear Material Courier Basic Academy for new federal agents is conducted. New OST agents are taught specialized skills from a wide range of areas, including general law enforcement tactics, physical security, firearms training and qualification, convoy operations, physical fitness, tractor-trailer driving skills, and legal issues around nuclear materials transport.

See also
National Register of Historic Places listings in Sebastian County, Arkansas

References

External links

 

1941 establishments in Arkansas
Arkansas National Guard
Buildings and structures in Sebastian County, Arkansas
Cold War military installations of the United States
Cuban refugees
Chaffee
Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Arkansas
Installations of the United States Army National Guard
Military installations established in 1941
Military installations in Arkansas
National Register of Historic Places in Sebastian County, Arkansas
Training installations of the United States Army
Vietnamese refugees
World War II prisoner-of-war camps in the United States