[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Younes Tsouli

21 October 2005, Tsouli was arrested in a raid on a house in Shepherd's Bush, London. He was charged under the UK's Terrorism Act 2000 for "conspiracy to murder, conspiracy to cause an explosion, conspiracy to obtain money by deception, fundraising and possession of articles for terrorist purposes".

The trial began in May 2007. Judge Peter Openshaw caused some controversy when he halted the trial to ask what a web site was, saying "The trouble is I don’t understand the language. I don’t really understand what a website is." Following this, Professor Tony Sammes was called upon to give a presentation which explained what the internet is, how people can access the internet, and what web sites are.

At the trial, Tsouli's technical skills were emphasised. Evan Kohlmann testified, "007 came at this with a Western perspective. He had a flair for marketing, and he had the technical knowledge and skills to be able to place this stuff in areas on the net where it wouldn’t be easily erased, where lots of people could download it, view it and save it."

On 4 July 2007, after two months at trial, Tsouli and his co-defendants Waseem Mughal and Tariq Al-Daour pleaded guilty to "inciting another person to commit an act of terrorism wholly or partly outside the UK which would, if committed in England and Wales, constitute murder" (a crime introduced in the s 59 Terrorism Act 2000) and admitted to conspiring together and with others to defraud banks, credit card companies and charge card companies. Tsouli was sentenced to 10 years imprisonment, Mughal to 7½ years, and Al-Daour to 6½ years. On 18 December 2007, at the Court of Criminal Appeal, the sentences of all three men were increased – Tsouli's sentence was increased to 16 years, Mughal to 12 years and Al Daour 12 years. At the time of their conviction, Tsouli was 23 years old, Mughal was 24 years old, and al-Daour was 21 years old.

Release 

After a failed attempt to claim asylum in the UK, upon his release from prison in 2015 Tsouli was deported to Morocco. There he is reported to have chastised his family about their lifestyle, then after setting fire to the family's home in Rabat, he climbed across rooftops to the apartment building that housed the Consul General of the UK and threatened to kill himself with a knife. According to media reports, it took nearly 13 hours for the police with the assistance of a psychiatrist to persuade Tsouli to surrender. After initially being arrested he was later released by the Moroccan authorities, who complained to the UK government that they had not been informed of the danger Tsouli posed.

References

Sources
Gabriel Weimann, Terror on the Internet: The New Arena, (2006) The New Challenges. Washington, DC: United States Institute of Peace Press.  Contains an in-depth analysis of Tsouli.

Living people
British Islamists
British people of Moroccan-Berber descent
Islamic terrorism in England
English people of Berber descent
Moroccan emigrants to the United Kingdom
Berber Islamists
Moroccan Islamists
Year of birth missing (living people)
Muslims with branch missing
People imprisoned on charges of terrorism