[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument (Cleveland)

pate of  stylistic and ideological opposition to the monument. Plans to modernize Public Square were proposed throughout this period, most including the removal of the monument. The monument was the scene of protests and demonstrations during the Vietnam War.

Restoration and centennial (1980–2000) 

The explosive demolition of the Cuyahoga and Williamson Buildings in 1982, in order to allow for the construction of the Sohio Building, left the nearly 90 year old monument and her statuaries covered in dust. County architect Berj Shakarian reported in 1983 that over $150,000 would be needed for structural repairs to the monument. As more issues were discovered, the total price tag for these repairs were increased to more than $512,000. Shakarian remained involved with the monument. In 1988, he led the extensive redesign of the southeast quadrant. Shakarian became a trustee of the monument in 2011.

The monument's centennial was celebrated on 2 July 1994 with a large ceremony. Prominent Civil War historian James McPherson spoke at the event. Ohio Governor George V. Voinovich also attended the ceremony.

Extensive renovation (2008–2010) 

By 2008, the now 114-year-old structure had begun to show its age. In 2006, the Cuyahoga County Commissioners had recommended a modest $1,000,000 restoration of the structure. However, after further investigation of the needs of the monument, it was determined that $2,000,000 would be needed to complete the project. Under the direction of then Monument Commission President Neil K. Evans, this money was raised from federal, state, and county sources as well as from local corporations, foundations, businesses, veterans’ groups, and private individuals. Work on restoring the original colorization of the interior was assisted by individuals from the Cleveland Museum of Art and the Cleveland Museum of Natural History. These efforts were widely praised at the time. The monument was reopened in December 2009 and officially rededicated on June 5, 2010, with a large ceremony. Today, visitors can step inside the monument and experience it as it was intended back in 1894.

Since 2010 
In 2011, researchers discovered that the names of 140 black soldiers from the area were omitted from the tablets. On June 19, 2019, after more than a decade of extensive research, 107 members of the United States Colored Troops were officially added to the monument's Roll of Honor with a formal ceremony.

In 2015, the $32,000,000 proposed renovation of Public Square would result in major changes to the area surrounding the monument. This included revising the four-quadrant, New England–style design originally platted by Moses Cleaveland in 1796. Construction began in March 2015 and was completed officially on June 30, 2016, with the rededication of Public Square.

During the 2016 Republican National Convention which was held in Cleveland, the Public Square and the monument were the scene of numerous demonstrations.

In 2017, the television show American Ninja Warrior was filmed on the newly redesigned Public Square, just outside the Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument.

On July 4, 2019, the 125th anniversary of the dedication of the monument was celebrated with a ceremony on Public Square. The keynote address was delivered by Major General John C. Harris Jr., adjutant general of the Ohio Army National Guard.

The monument remains a popular attraction both for tourists and local residents. Free to visit, around 40,000 visitors pass through the tablet room each year.

Exterior design

Architecture 
The monument serves as a unique example of late 19th century architecture. Architect Levi Scofield wished to create a structure that incorporated traditional architectural elements infused with militaristic imagery and symbolism. For example, the supports beneath the arched windows depict upturned cannons, while the edges of the columns running up the length of the building depict ramrods topped with capitals fashioned out of ammunition pouches.

The central shaft is composed of Quincey granite and is  tall capped with a  personification of liberty.  The figure, which is wearing a military frock coat and holding a sword and a shield, is oriented northward. The capital of the shaft features militaristic imagery and the bands that wrap around the mid-portion of the shaft have inscribed on them the names of major battles of the Civil War.

The four flag poles that anchor the corners of the building are set in embellishments meant to resemble stacked cannonballs. Large bronze eagles sit above the north and south doors. Along the top of the structure, the corps badge emblems are carved in stone. These designs are reflected in the yearly flower displays which have been a tradition since 1894.

There is a United States Geological Survey marker installed on the Northwest side of the esplanade. The benchmark was likely placed around the turn of the century and indicates an elevation of 668 feet above sea level.

Landscaping