[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Reaction engine

he mass of the oxidizer has to be taken into account. A typical value is  = 4.5 km/s, corresponding to a fuel value of 10.1MJ/kg. The actual fuel value is higher, but much of the energy is lost as waste heat in the exhaust that the nozzle was unable to extract.

The required energy  is

Conclusions:

for  we have 
for a given , the minimum energy is needed if , requiring an energy of
.
In the case of acceleration in a fixed direction, and starting from zero speed, and in the absence of other forces, this is 54.4% more than just the final kinetic energy of the payload. In this optimal case the initial mass is 4.92 times the final mass.

These results apply for a fixed exhaust speed.

Due to the Oberth effect and starting from a nonzero speed, the required potential energy needed from the propellant may be less than the increase in energy in the vehicle and payload. This can be the case when the reaction mass has a lower speed after being expelled than before – rockets are able to liberate some or all of the initial kinetic energy of the propellant.

Also, for a given objective such as moving from one orbit to another, the required  may depend greatly on the rate at which the engine can produce  and maneuvers may even be impossible if that rate is too low. For example, a launch to Low Earth orbit (LEO) normally requires a  of ca. 9.5 km/s (mostly for the speed to be acquired), but if the engine could produce  at a rate of only slightly more than g, it would be a slow launch requiring altogether a very large  (think of hovering without making any progress in speed or altitude, it would cost a  of 9.8 m/s each second). If the possible rate is only  or less, the maneuver can not be carried out at all with this engine.

The power is given by

where  is the thrust and  the acceleration due to it. Thus the theoretically possible thrust per unit power is 2 divided by the specific impulse in m/s. The thrust efficiency is the actual thrust as percentage of this.

If, e.g., solar power is used, this restricts ; in the case of a large  the possible acceleration is inversely proportional to it, hence the time to reach a required delta-v is proportional to ; with 100% efficiency:
for  we have 

Examples:
power, 1000W; mass, 100 kg;  = 5 km/s,  = 16 km/s, takes 1.5 months.
power, 1000W; mass, 100 kg;  = 5 km/s,  = 50 km/s, takes 5 months.

Thus  should not be too large.

Power to thrust ratio
The power to thrust ratio is simply:

Thus for any vehicle power P, the thrust that may be provided is:

Example

Suppose a 10,000 kg space probe will be sent to Mars. The required  from LEO is approximately 3000 m/s, using a Hohmann transfer orbit. For the sake of argument, assume the following thrusters are options to be used:

Observe that the more fuel-efficient engines can use far less fuel; their mass is almost negligible (relative to the mass of the payload and the engine itself) for some of the engines. However, these require a large total amount of energy. For Earth launch, engines require a thrust to weight ratio of more than one. To do this with the ion or more theoretical electrical drives, the engine would have to be supplied with one to several gigawatts of power, equivalent to a major metropolitan generating station. From the table it can be seen that this is clearly impractical with current power sources.

Alternative approaches include some forms of laser propulsion, where the reaction mass does not provide the energy required to accelerate it, with the energy instead being provided from an external laser or other beam-powered propulsion system. Small models of some of these concepts have flown, although the engineering problems are complex and the ground-based power systems are not a solved problem.

Instead, a much smaller, less powerful generator may be included which will take much longer to generate the total energy needed. This lower power is only sufficient to accelerate a tiny amount of fuel per second, and would be insufficient for launching from Earth. However, over long periods in orbit where there is no friction, the velocity will be finally achieved. For example, it took the SMART-1 more than a year to reach the Moon, whereas with a chemical rocket it takes a few days. Because the ion drive needs much less fuel, the total launched mass is usually lower, which typically results in a lower overall cost, but the journey takes longer.

Mission planning therefore frequently involves adjusting and choosing the propulsion system so as to minimise the total cost of the project, and can involve trading off launch costs and mission duration against payload fraction.

Types of reaction engines
Rocket-like
Rocket engine
Ion thruster 
Airbreathing
Turbojet
Turbofan
Pulsejet
Ramjet
Scramjet
Liquid
Pump-jet
Rotary
Aeolipile
Solid exhaust
Mass driver

See also
 Internal combustion engine
 Jet force
 Jet propulsion
 List of plasma physics articles
 Thruster (disambiguation)

Notes

References

External links