[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Fort McAllister (1863)

ut several deficiencies of the monitors had been revealed by the action, and efforts would be made to remedy them where possible.

Aftermath and conclusions
The first test of the 15-inch Dahlgren gun and single-turret monitors against the sand parapets of Fort McAllister had revealed several things:

The very slow rate of fire of the very large cannon in two-gun turrets resulted in little offensive power and allowed defenders time to fire against the open gun ports, then take cover.  The defenders could fire several times as rapidly.  Even several monitors firing at once did not create a sufficient volume of fire to suppress the battery.
The monitors were subject to jamming of their turret rings or other mechanical failures of the guns that could take their battery out of action.
Spalling effects of broken bolts on impact posed a hazard to the crew even though the armor prevented penetration.
The thin monitor decks were vulnerable to plunging fire from heavy mortars.
Earthworks could be rapidly repaired overnight or the following day so that a garrison could return to full effectiveness.
Long-range mortar fire against a fort was so inaccurate as to be ineffective.
Suppressing fire against earthworks would be required overnight to limit the ability to repair damage.
Obstructions and mines prevented passage past forts, even though the monitors might be "invulnerable" to the fort's guns during the passage. 
Sand forts held up well to shelling, while mud forts did not.
Properly constructed traverses and bombproofs prevented forts from easily being taken out of action on the flank.

Du Pont attempted to address the shortcomings as best he could while preparing for the attack on Charleston.  He ordered the strengthening of the decks with additional armor.  He attempted to create a "submarine torpedo exploder" on the bow of his vessels to clear mines.  He added as many ironclads to the assault as possible to increase the total volume of fire against the defenses.

Adm. Du Pont's warnings and concerns about the inability of monitors to reduce earthen forts would go unheeded as he prepared the assault on Charleston harbor.  The assault was a failure and an ironclad (USS Keokuk) was lost in the attempt.  Du Pont accepted responsibility for the failure at Charleston by resigning.

Fort McAllister would not be subdued by naval bombardment, but would succumb to an infantry assault at the end of Sherman's March to the Sea in December 1864.

See also
 Battle of Fort McAllister (1864)
 First Battle of Charleston Harbor

Notes

References
 Browning, Robert M., Jr. Success is all that was Expected: the South Atlantic Blockading Squadron in the Civil War Potomac Books, 2002.
 Durham, Roger S.,  Guardian of Savannah:  Fort McAllister Georgia in the Civil War and Beyond.  University of South Carolina Press, 2008. 
 Kennedy, Frances H., The Civil War Battlefield Guide, 2nd Edition, Houghton-Mifflen Company, 1998,
 Schiller, Herbert M., Fort Pulaski and the Defense of Savannah, Civil War Series.  Eastern National, 1997
 National Park Service battle description

External links
Fort McAllister Historic Park

Battles of the Lower Seaboard Theater and Gulf Approach of the American Civil War
Fort McAllister
Confederate victories of the American Civil War
Battles of the American Civil War in Georgia (U.S. state)
Battle of Fort McAllister (1863)
Conflicts in 1863
1863 in Georgia (U.S. state)
Riverine warfare
January 1863 events
February 1863 events
March 1863 events