[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Sports Federation and Olympic Committee of Hong Kong, China

The Sports Federation and Olympic Committee of Hong Kong, China (Traditional Chinese: 中國香港體育協會暨奧林匹克委員會; in short SF&OC, 港協暨奧委會) is the National Olympic Committee (NOC) of Hong Kong.  As such it is a separate member of the International Olympic Committee (IOC). It is also a member of the Olympic Council of Asia. The current president is Timothy Fok. The headquarters building is called the Hong Kong Olympic House, located beside Hong Kong Stadium.

History

Before the People's Republic of China (PRC) assumed sovereignty over the former British crown colony of Hong Kong in 1997, the committee was named Sports Federation and Olympic Committee of Hong Kong and participated in 12 games (all summer) under the name just "Hong Kong".

After 1997, Hong Kong became a special territory as a result of the earlier 1984 Sino-British Joint Declaration, which stipulates that, albeit being part of China, it enjoys a highly autonomous status. The Basic Law, its constitution, guarantees the territory's right to join international organisations and events independently (such as the Olympic games) that are not restricted to sovereign states, under the new name "Hong Kong, China".  If any of the Hong Kong athletes wins a medal in the Olympics, the Hong Kong flag is raised during the medal ceremony; the PRC national anthem is played for any gold medalists.

With the Government's support, the Sports Federation and Olympic Committee submitted Hong Kong's bid for hosting the 2006 Asian Games to the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA) in 2000. Hong Kong lost the bid to Doha at the OCA general meeting held in Busan, South Korea on 12 November 2000.

At the 2008 Summer Olympics, the territory hosted the equestrian events.

National anthem incidents 
In November 2022, honorary secretary general Ronny Wong said that junior staff should not be allowed to play national anthems at competitions, after Glory to Hong Kong was played at a rugby match in South Korea. Wong also said he found the mistake hard to believe and would not accept the explanation or apology from Asia Rugby, and said that South Korea should be banned from hosting similar events. Wong also said that most of the Hong Kong team members were "foreigners". After a second incident was revealed, Wong said that the SFOC would issue new guidelines on using the anthem and flag, and that the SFOC would instruct players to make gestures if the played anthem is incorrect.

In March 2023, after another incident where Glory to Hong Kong was played, Pui Kwan-kay of the SF&OC said that the government should force Google to de-prioritize the song on its search results. The SF&OC created a committee to investigate the Hong Kong Ice Hockey Association (HKIHA) after the incident, and said that the association may be kicked out of the Olympic Committee for failing to follow procedures to produce the correct anthem. The HKIHA responded by saying that the SF&OC provided a faulty link to download the correct anthem, when the webpage was changed to English. The HKIHA also said that the SF&OC was to blame, and said "We felt that the SF&OC personnel handling the matter hoped to prove that only the HKIHA was at fault, and did not treat SF&OC's role and responsibility in this incident seriously."

In May 2023, the SF&OC told its member sports associations to boycott ceremonies if the event organizer does not let them verify the national anthem.

Name inclusion: China 
In January 2023, the SFOC told its member National Sports Associations (NSAs) that they must include the word "China" in their association names by July 2023, or else face expulsion from the SFOC, which could result in them losing government funding and their right to represent the city in major competitions. Edgar Yang Joe-tsi of the SFOC cited Article 149 of the Basic Law as reason for the requirement. However, Article 149 states that the phrase "Hong Kong, China" be used "as required," which member NSAs had understood to mean it was optional. Yang also said "You are also reminded to use the name 'Hong Kong, China' when participating in any international sports competitions/activities and to display it on uniforms, websites and all other publicity materials, where applicable."

Controversy 
The SF&OC and its member NSAs have been repeatedly cautioned throughout the years by the Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) and Leisure and Cultural Services Department (LCSD) against corruption and to implement better governance.

2000s 
In December 2003, Legislative Council member Albert Chan asked the Secretary of Home Affairs, Patrick Ho, about NSAs and a perceived waste of taxpayer money, stating "Many national sports associations (NSAs) rely on public funding for operation and hosting sports events. However, some members of the public query some NSAs for their failure to make effective use of the funding to promote and develop sports events, resulting in a waste of public money."