[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Germany Schaefer

er was a pioneer of baseball clowning, and his vaudeville act with teammate Charley O'Leary was inspiration for the MGM musical Take Me Out To The Ball Game starring Gene Kelly and Frank Sinatra. He also teamed with Nick Altrock, who later took baseball clowning to legendary heights with Al Schacht.

Among Schaefer's legendary antics are diversionary tactics with umbrellas, raincoats and galoshes, to get games canceled on account of the weather. In one story he wears the outfit out onto the playing field, in another he wears it to the plate during a drizzle, but when the umpire sends him back to the dugout to take it off, the rains begin to pour, forcing the umpire to indeed call the game. An account of Schaefer wearing a raincoat onto the field occurs in the July 4, 1906, edition of The Washington Post. It is not known whether he wore it on offense or defense. Schaefer once verbally 'called' his shot before hitting a two-run home run on June 24, 1906 to put the Tigers up 3–2 against the Chicago White Sox in the top of the 9th.

In 1919, a little over a year after Schaefer played his last game, he died in Saranac Lake, New York. Several of his baseball contemporaries died of tuberculosis at the sanitarium there, and that disease also claimed Schaefer. While on a scouting trip to Lake Placid, New York, Schaefer suffered a fatal hemorrhage complicating his pulmonary tuberculosis. He died at 9:30 AM on May 16, 1919, at age 43, according to the death certificate signed by John A. Farrell, M.D. of Saranac Lake.

See also

 List of Major League Baseball career stolen bases leaders

References

External links

New York Times obituary for Schaefer https://sabr.org/gamesproj/game/june-24-1906-schaefer-wins-by-a-nose/

American people of German descent
Major League Baseball second basemen
Baseball players from Chicago
Chicago Cubs players
Detroit Tigers players
Washington Senators (1901–1960) players
Newark Peppers players
New York Yankees players
Cleveland Indians players
New York Yankees coaches
Vaudeville performers
1876 births
1919 deaths
St. Paul Saints (AA) players
Colorado Springs Millionaires players
Milwaukee Brewers (minor league) players
20th-century deaths from tuberculosis
Tuberculosis deaths in New York (state)