[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# List of streets named after Martin Luther King Jr.

amed Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Place.
 Paducah: Martin Luther King Drive is US 60 Business in Paducah.
 Somerset: Consists of Monticello Street and South Main Street between Oak Hill Road and South Richardson Drive, the bridge over the Norfolk Southern Railway is also named in his honor.

Louisiana

 Baton Rouge: Interstate 110 is named the Martin Luther King Jr. Expressway.
 Morgan City:  Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Blvd. Connects U.S. Route 90 to Louisiana Highway 182.
 Farmerville: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is a major north–south residential street in Farmerville.
 Hammond: Located in the infamous 212 neighborhood there is a residential block named Martin Luther King Jr Ave.
 Homer: The northernmost two blocks of Magnolia Street in Homer are named Dr. Martin Luther King Street.
 Lafayette: Martin Luther King Jr. Drive is an east-west street near the intersection of Interstate 10 and Interstate 49.
 Lake Charles: Named in 1982, the last few blocks of Louisiana Highway 14 are designated South Martin Luther King Highway, as it approaches its western terminus at a junction with U.S. Route 90 (Fruge Street). This junction is the southern terminus of North Martin Luther King Highway, which runs concurrent with U.S. Route 171. The highway runs thru northeastern Lake Charles, crossing I-10 and English Bayou, ending in Moss Bluff, where US 171 (there designated as Purple Heart Highway) continues north.
 Minden: Martin Luther King Drive is an eight-block long residential street in Minden.
 New Orleans: Most of Melpomene Avenue was renamed Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. Several murals of King are painted along the boulevard. The boulevard is also near a King statue and memorial on Claiborne Avenue, and the boulevard is part of the route of New Orleans' annual Martin Luther King Jr. Day parade. The street is located in Central City, which is historically the city's largest African American commercial district and a major hub for the uptown African American community. The renamed section starts at its intersection with St. Charles Avenue where many Mardi Gras parades pass and ends at a 3-way intersection with Earhart Boulevard and S. Norman Francis Parkway (formerly Jefferson Davis Parkway).  Melpomene Avenue between the Mississippi River and St. Charles Ave. retains its historical name, one of a series of streets named after the Muses of Greek mythology.
 Rayne: Martin Luther King Drive is the name of an east-west street in front of the city's Martin Luther King Jr. Community Center.
 Shreveport: Louisiana Highway 3194 is designated as Dr. Martin Luther King Drive.  It runs east–west across the length of North Shreveport.

Maryland
 Baltimore: Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard begins at an exit on Interstate 395 and continues to Chase Street at Park Avenue. The original name of Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard was Harbor City Boulevard. It was renamed in honor of King shortly after it opened. The boulevard separates the predominantly black neighborhoods of West Baltimore from the downtown central business district. It was mentioned as the dividing line of West Baltimore and Downtown in a Homicide: Life on the Street episode titled "Scene of the Crime".
 Prince George's County: Martin Luther King Jr. Highway begins at the DC–Maryland border at 63rd St in the District running from Seat Pleasant through Glenarden; also known as Maryland Route 704.

Massachusetts
 Boston: Martin Luther King Boulevard travels  between Washington and Warren Streets in Roxbury, Boston.
 Lowell: Martin Luther King Way runs from Tsongas Park at the Merrimac river to a traffic circle in Hall St. near the Western Canal.
 Worcester: In 2009, Worcester renamed East Central Street, the primary road connecting I-290 to the central business district, "MLK Jr. Boulevard". The highway signs for what had been the E. Central Street exit were replaced with MLK Jr. Boulevard signs on January 19, 2009, which was that year's observance of Martin Luther King Day.