[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# N. F. Simpson

d by Richard Vernon.

Film and television
The Theatre of the Absurd arrived on television in 1961, with productions of Simpson plays on both British networks.  BBC TV produced a live performance of One Way Pendulum, now lost, whilst Granada mounted a shortened version of A Resounding Tinkle for ITV.

He was invited to contribute to BBC TV’s That Was The Week That Was, although his sketch, 'Televising Parliament', was dropped due to overruns in the live transmission on 16 November 1963, and has never surfaced.
 
Hot on the heels of his Summer Holiday success, director Peter Yates agreed to shoot Simpson’s best known stage play, One Way Pendulum (1964). Starring Eric Sykes, George Cole and a mute Jonathan Miller, Yates' rendition of the play captured Simpson’s matter-of-fact approach to nonsense but failed at the box office.

As the BBC’s Acting Assistant Head of Light Entertainment, Frank Muir invited Simpson to write for BBC2 in 1965. The central characters of Tinkle were expanded into seven half-hours of Three Rousing Tinkles (1966) and Four Tall Tinkles (1967), featuring Edwin Apps and Pauline Devaney as Bro and Middie.  He followed this with World in Ferment (1969), a six-part parody of current affairs programming with John Bird, Eleanor Bron, Jack Shepherd and Angela Thorne, of which no episodes survive. His final series for television was the unsuccessful Charley’s Grants (1970), co-written with John Fortune and John Wells, starring Hattie Jacques, and produced by Ian MacNaughton (who produced Monty Python’s Flying Circus), which is also entirely lost.
 
Plays followed, including a satire on advertising, Thank You Very Much (1971), and an effective three-hander for ITV, Silver Wedding (1974), directed by Mike Newell.  Simpson’s highest-profile production for television was Elementary, My Dear Watson (1973), a Sherlock Holmes parody for BBC One's Comedy Playhouse starring John Cleese and Willie Rushton.  It has been screened several times at the National Film Theatre in London.

It is frequently argued that Simpson’s work operates better in small doses (Simpson himself described his only novel called Man Overboard as one which he expected no-one to be able to read to the end), so it is natural that he should have produced so much sketch material for television.  World in Ferment lent towards this strength, and his skilful monologues for women were seen again in But Seriously – It’s Sheila Hancock (1972).  Other vehicles included Ned Sherrin's The Rather Reassuring Programme (1977), Beryl Reid Says… Good Evening (1968) and The Dick Emery Show (1977–1980).

Later activities
Simpson lived in Cornwall in later life and travelled around England's canals on a narrowboat.

A radio documentary about his life and work, Reality is an Illusion Caused by Lack of N. F. Simpson, produced by Curtains For Radio on BBC Radio 4 on 5 April 2007, featured contributions from Eleanor Bron, Jonathan Coe, John Fortune, Sir Jonathan Miller, Sir John Mortimer, David Nobbs, Ned Sherrin, Eric Sykes and Simpson himself.

It featured material recorded at a workshop for a new play, If So, Then Yes, his first full-length piece in 30 years. The Royal Court presented a rehearsed reading on 11 July 2007. The script was published in February 2009. The production made its world premiere at the Jermyn Street Theatre in September, 2010, featuring actor Roddy Maude-Roxby, who appeared in the 1959 production of Simpson's play, One Way Pendulum, at the Royal Court Theatre.

Absurdia, a grouping of short plays by Simpson and Michael Frayn ran at the Donmar Warehouse from July to September 2007. The short version of A Resounding Tinkle and the sketch Gladly Otherwise were directed by Douglas Hodge and starred Peter Capaldi. Both scripts were republished by Faber to mark this revival.

A London revival of Was He Anyone? was staged at the Union Theatre during November 2007 by Oblique House.

A comprehensive season of Simpson's work for the screen – both silver and small – took place at BFI Southbank during May 2008.

If So, Then Yes premiered at the Jermyn Street Theatre, London, running from 7 September to 2 October 2010. Simpson died at the Royal Cornwall Hospital in Truro on 27 August 2011, having lived in Townsend, Polruan since 2005.