[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Aurizon

Aurizon Holdings Limited ( ) is a freight rail transport company in Australia, formerly named QR National Limited and branded QR National.  In 2015, it was the world's largest rail transporter of coal from mine to port.  Formerly a Queensland Government-owned company, it was privatised and floated on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX) in November 2010. The company was originally established in 200405 when the coal, bulk, and container transport divisions from Queensland Rail were brought under one banner as QR National.

In 2019, the company operated in five Australian states; on an average day it moved more than  of coal, iron ore, other minerals, agricultural products and general freight – equating to more than 250 million tonnes annually. Aurizon also managed the  Central Queensland coal network that links mines to coal ports at Bowen, Gladstone and Mackay; it was the largest haulier of iron ore outside the Pilbara.

In 2021, a major corporate change was foreshadowed when Aurizon sought to acquire rail operator One Rail Australia. The corporate regulator, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, approved the sale subject to One Rail Australia's coal-haulage business in New South Wales and Queensland being divested. Aurizon's purchase of One Rail Australia's assets not subject to divestiture occurred in July 2022. Divestiture of the remaining assets occurred on sale to Magnetic Rail Group on 17 February 2023.

QR National

The QR National brand was established in the 2004–05 financial year when Queensland Rail's coal, bulk and containerised business units were brought under one banner.

The company's major traffic at the time was coal, both for export and domestic power generation, in Queensland. In 2005, QR National started to operate export coal services in the New South Wales Hunter Valley. By 2008, its operations extended across the entire mainland other than the Northern Territory when their first Melbourne–Perth intermodal container service started. In August 2008, QR National took over the operation of Melbourne–Horsham container service for Wimmera Container Line, after Pacific National withdrew its service.

Public float

In 2009, the Queensland Government announced that Queensland Rail's commercial activities were to be separated from the government's core passenger service responsibilities, formed into a new company named QR National Limited, and privatised. The new company was incorporated the following year, taking: 
 the coal business in Queensland and New South Wales
 regional freight business in Queensland
 bulk mineral and grain haulage in Queensland and Western Australia
 containerised freight between Cairns, Brisbane, Sydney, Melbourne, Adelaide and Perth.

QR National obtained a 99-year lease over the  Queensland coal network, comprising:
 the Blackwater system around the Port of Gladstone
 the Goonyella system around the Port of Hay Point and Dalrymple Bay
 the Moura line to the Port of Gladstone, which transports coal from Moura Mine and Boundary Hill Mine
 the Newlands line to Port of Abbot Point, which transports coal from Newlands coal mine, Sonoma Mine,Collinsville coal mine and Carmichael coal mine
 the West Moreton coal line, which transports coal to the Port of Brisbane from New Acland coal mine (loaded at Jondaryan and the Cameby Downs coal mine (loaded at Columboola, utilising in part the QR Western Railway Line.

On acquiring the lease, QR National became responsible for the maintenance of the coal lines.

The rolling stock workshops at Redbank, Rockhampton and Townsville were included in the privatisation.

The float took place in November 2010.

In August 2021, Aurizon signed a six year agreement with CBH Group (with two options to extend for a further two years) to provide rail haulage services for their grain trains. Although scheduled to transition in May 2022, all parties agreed to bring the handover date forward to September 2021. Aurizon had already been informally providing rail haulage services in the Geraldton region since mid-2021.

In February 2022, Aurizon commenced a five-year contract to haul mineral sands from Broken Hill to Kwinana for Tronox, to be extended 320 km east to Ivanhoe, where a new loading facility has been constructed.

Re-branding as Aurizon
Following a vote by its shareholders, in 2012 QR National was rebranded as Aurizon. The CEO at the time, Lance Hockridge, said the new name derived from the words Australia and horizon. Marketers opined that the name was "a nearly perfect example of all that can go wrong with a rebranding" and that it was "a classic case of people making a weird hybrid name to try and make it unique and interesting so that people will remember it. This is not true: people don’t remember made-up words."

Company sales and purchases
In 2005, QR National incorporated a subsidiary, Interail, which had been acquired in 2002 and operated in New South Wales.