[Source: PubMed]

58. BMJ Glob Health. 2022 May;7(5):e008833. doi: 10.1136/bmjgh-2022-008833.

Ethnic disparities in immunisation: analyses of zero-dose prevalence in 64 
countries.

Cata-Preta BO(1)(2), Santos TM(3)(2), Wendt A(3)(2), Hogan DR(4), Mengistu T(4), 
Barros AJD(3)(2), Victora CG(3)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Medicine, Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal 
University of Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil bianca.catapreta@gmail.com.
(2)International Center for Equity in Health, Federal University of Pelotas, 
Pelotas, Brazil.
(3)Department of Social Medicine, Postgraduate Program in Epidemiology, Federal 
University of Pelotas, Pelotas, Brazil.
(4)GAVI the Vaccine Alliance, Geneva, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) recommend stratification of 
health indicators by ethnic group, yet there are few studies that have assessed 
if there are ethnic disparities in childhood immunisation in low-income and 
middle-income countries (LMICs).
METHODS: We identified 64 LMICs with standardised national surveys carried out 
since 2010, which provided information on ethnicity or a proxy variable and on 
vaccine coverage; 339 ethnic groups were identified after excluding those with 
fewer than 50 children in the sample and countries with a single ethnic group. 
Lack of vaccination with diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus vaccine-a proxy for no 
access to routine vaccination or 'zero-dose' status-was the outcome of interest. 
Differences among ethnic groups were assessed using a χ2 test for heterogeneity. 
Additional analyses controlled for household wealth, maternal education and 
urban-rural residence.
FINDINGS: The median gap between the highest and lowest zero-dose prevalence 
ethnic groups in all countries was equal to 10 percentage points (pp) (IQR 
4-22), and the median ratio was 3.3 (IQR 1.8-6.7). In 35 of the 64 countries, 
there was significant heterogeneity in zero-dose prevalence among the ethnic 
groups. In most countries, adjustment for wealth, education and residence made 
little difference to the ethnic gaps, but in four countries (Angola, Benin, 
Nigeria and Philippines), the high-low ethnic gap decreased by over 15 pp after 
adjustment. Children belonging to a majority group had 29% lower prevalence of 
zero-dose compared with the rest of the sample.
INTERPRETATION: Statistically significant ethnic disparities in child 
immunisation were present in over half of the countries studied. Such 
inequalities have been seldom described in the published literature. Regular 
analyses of ethnic disparities are essential for monitoring trends, targeting 
resources and assessing the impact of health interventions to ensure zero-dose 
children are not left behind in the SDG era.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2022. Re-use permitted under CC BY-NC. No 
commercial re-use. See rights and permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjgh-2022-008833
PMCID: PMC9114867
PMID: 35577393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: TM and DRH are employed by 
Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, sponsor of this research. They had total freedom to 
express their views, which do not necessarily reflect those of Gavi, the Vaccine 
Alliance. All the other authors, BCP, TMS, AW, AJDB and CGV, declare that they 
have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could 
have influenced the work reported in this paper.