[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Evripidis Bakirtzis

National Council (Greek: Εθνικό Συμβούλιο). However it did face issues from a lack of support of prior political leaders.

Alexandros Svolos, a law professor at the University of Athens took over as the head of the PEEA on April 18, 1944, and Bakirtzis took a lower position within the organization.

On October 30, 1944, ELAS units, led by Markos Vafeiades and Euripides Bakirtzis, liberated Thessaloniki from the Germans. In September 1944, the Caserta Agreement was signed and that placed all Greek resistance forces under the command of British Major-General Ronald Scobie. This caused tension among the ranks of the KKE and ELAS which was eased by Bakirtzis. Around this time Bakirtzis was leading a division of the ELAS called the Divisional Group of Macedonia (DGM).  The liberation of Thessaloniki from the German occupiers is a special case, because, despite the Caserta Agreement, which stipulated the handing over of power to the British and the British General Ronald Scobie (as took place in Athens and other cities), here the surrender took place to the Greek forces. Thus, despite the order of Scobie, but also of the commander of ELAS, Stefanos Sarafis, to keep the guerrilla forces on the outskirts of the city and wait for the landing of the British, the leaders of the DGM, Markos Vafiadis and Evripizidis ignored the agreement. On the morning of October 30, they allowed the entry of ELAS military units into the city, which occupied, since October 26, its peripheral districts, tightening the siege of the Germans. In the morning, the leadership of the guerrilla groups settled in Villa Moskov, in the Old Town of Thessaloniki. The withdrawal of the last German soldiers was completed in the afternoon without endangering the city, apart from the explosion of a port pier. As of noon, as soon as the danger from the retreating Germans disappeared, the crowd poured into the city and enthusiastically welcomed the paradeers of the 11th Division of ELAS. Bakirtzis remained in Northern Greece until the surrender of the weapons and for a time in Thessaloniki.

Division among resistance groups 
In May 1944, the Axis Occupation was drawing down and there were negotiations between the Greeks, British, and Soviets regarding the future of the Balkans in the Lebanon Conference. The PEEA agreed to the terms of this agreement without condition on August 15, 1944, but there were disagreements from the PEEA and the Greek Communist Party (KKE) that they were convinced to abandon by a Soviet military mission which talked with Bakirtzis and other officials. During this meeting, Soviet officer Nikolai Chernichev told Bakirtzis that refusing to agree to the terms in the Lebanon agreement would be "illogical".

Later in 1944, there emerged an ideological split within the ranks of the KKE and Communism as a whole between the Stalinists, led by Nikos Zachariadis and the Titoists, led by Vafeiades and it was described as a purely ideological dispute, mostly in regards to what the strategy of the party should be. Zachariadis and the Stalinists wanted to establish a regular army while Vafeiades and the Titoists favored guerilla-style tactics and this led Vafeiades to often defy party directives and leadership. The Titoists did have an ally in Tito who pushed for intervention in the Greek Civil War but the Stalinists in the party eventually won out but their side ultimately lost the war. It was at one point a bad thing to be called a Titoist within the ranks of the KKE and Vafeiadis denied ever having direct contact with Tito. There was one incident in which Bakirtzis, along with Markos Vafeiades, signed an order to liquidate a number of “Slavo-Macedonian” battalions which had decided to fight for Yugoslavia. Ultimately however, the split had no overall impact on the internal structures of the party and of its leadership, it merely served as a basis to assign blame after the defeat in the war.