[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 1931 in the United Kingdom

Events from the year 1931 in the United Kingdom.

Incumbents
 Monarch – George V
 Prime Minister – Ramsay MacDonald (Labour until 24 August, Coalition starting 24 August)
 Parliament
 35th (until 8 October)
 36th (starting 3 November)

Events
 6 January – Sadler's Wells Theatre opens in London.
 9 January – Ulster Canal abandoned.
 26 January – Winston Churchill resigns from Stanley Baldwin's shadow cabinet after disagreeing with the policy of conciliation with Indian nationalism.
 29 January – for the fourth time in nine years, there is a fatal underground explosion at Haig Pit, Whitehaven, in the Cumberland Coalfield, killing 27 people.
 4 February – RAF seaplane Blackburn Iris III S 238 crashes in Plymouth Sound after a senior officer takes control from the pilot and fails to make a safe landing, resulting in multiple fatalities. One of the first to the rescue is T. E. Lawrence, stationed locally at this time.
 1 March – Oswald Mosley forms the New Party, having resigned from the Labour Party a day earlier.
 19 March – Westminster St George's by-election results in the victory of the Conservative candidate Duff Cooper. The by-election has been treated virtually as a referendum on the leadership of the Conservative leader Stanley Baldwin, and Duff Cooper's victory ends the campaign by the press barons Lord Beaverbrook and Viscount Rothermere to oust Baldwin. 
 14 April – the Highway Code first issued.
 26 April – census in England, Wales and Scotland.
 1 May – National Trust for Scotland established and acquires its first property, Crookston Castle.
 5 May – the Vic-Wells Ballet, later to become The Royal Ballet, debuts in London.
 15 May – shoppers in London escape with their lives when a chemical factory in Bayswater explodes.
 23 May – Whipsnade Zoo opens in Bedfordshire.
 June – publication of Report of the Committee on Finance and Industry (the 'Macmillan Committee') on the relationship between the banking and financial system and British trade and industry, largely written by John Maynard Keynes.
 7 June – the Dogger Bank earthquake is felt across Britain.
 9 June – submarine  sinks after collision with a Chinese freighter off Weihai, China. Twenty lives are lost but a few submariners become the first to surface using the Davis Submerged Escape Apparatus.
 12 June
 The Christian Marxist Hewlett Johnson is installed as Dean of Canterbury, being transferred from Manchester.
 Cricketer Charlie Parker equals J. T. Hearne's record for the earliest date to reach 100 wickets.
 July – new Royal Corinthian Yacht Club clubhouse at Burnham-on-Crouch in Essex, a pioneering British example of International Style designed by Joseph Emberton, is opened.
 31 July – the May Report of the Committee on National Expenditure recommends extensive cuts in government spending. This produces a political crisis as many members of the Labour Party government object to the proposals.
 11 August – A run on the pound leads to a political and economic crisis in Britain. (See European banking crisis of 1931)
 24 August – Labour Government of Ramsay MacDonald resigns and is replaced by a National Government of people drawn from all parties also under MacDonald, as suggested by King George V earlier in the year.
 5 September – John Thomson, goalkeeper of Celtic, dies in hospital after fracturing his skull in a collision with Rangers forward Sam English in the 'Old Firm' League derby at Ibrox Park.
 6 September – Chancellor of the Exchequer Philip Snowden announces salary cuts for all government employees and reductions to unemployment benefit.
 7 September – second Round Table Conference on the constitutional future of India opens in London. Mahatma Gandhi represents the Indian National Congress.
 13 September – Schneider Trophy seaplane race flown at Calshot Spit. For the third successive time the British team (sponsored by Lady Houston) wins with Flt. Lt. John Boothman flying the course in Supermarine S.6B serial S1595 designed by R. J. Mitchell with Rolls-Royce R engines at a world record speed of 340.09 mph (547.31 km/h). On 29 September Flt Lt. George Stainforth in S.6B serial S1596 breaks the 400 mph air speed record barrier at 407.5 mph (655.67 km/h).
 15 September – Invergordon Mutiny: Strikes in the Royal Navy as a result of pay cuts.
 20 September – pound sterling comes off the gold standard.
 Autumn – means test introduced for those in receipt of unemployment insurance for more than six months.
 15 October – MI5 ceases to be a section of the War Office, being officially renamed the Security Service, and takes over the counter-subversion section (SSI) from Scotland Yard's Special Branch.
 17 October – Leeds Bradford International Airport is opened as Leeds and Bradford Municipal Aerodrome.
 27 October – general election results in victory for the National Government in the country's greatest ever electoral landslide. Ramsay MacDonald remains Prime Minister. This election is held on a Tuesday: all subsequent ones will be he