[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 50]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

Preposterous Society meets with my
approval," observed Miss Temperley.

"If you had been brought up in the bosom of this Society, Miss
Temperley, you too, perhaps, would have come to this. Think of it!"

"Does your mother know what sort of subjects you discuss?"

There was a shout of laughter. "Mother used often to come into the
nursery and surprise us in hot discussion on the origin of evil," said
Hadria.

"Don't you believe what she says, Miss Temperley," cried Fred; "mother
never could teach Hadria the most rudimentary notions of accuracy."

"Her failure with my brothers, was in the department of manners," Hadria
observed.

"Then she does _not_ know what you talk about?" persisted Henriette.

"You ask her," prompted Fred, with undisguised glee.

"She never attends our meetings," said Algitha.

"Well, well, I cannot understand it!" cried Miss Temperley. "However,
you don't quite know what you are talking about, and one mustn't blame
you."

"No, don't," urged Fred; "we are a sensitive family."

"Shut up!" cried Ernest with a warning frown.

"Oh, you are a coarse-grained exception; I speak of the family average,"
Fred answered with serenity.

Henriette felt that nothing more could be done with this strange
audience. Her business was really with the President of the Society. The
girl was bent on ruining her life with these wild notions. Miss Temperley
decided that it would be better to talk to Hadria quietly in her own room,
away from the influence of these eccentric brothers and that extraordinary
sister. After all, it was Algitha who had originated the shocking view,
not Hadria, who had merely agreed, doubtless out of a desire to support
her sister.

"I have not known you for seven years, but I am going to poke your
fire," said Henriette, when they were established in Hadria's room.

"I never thought you would wait so long as that," was Hadria's ambiguous
reply.

Then Henriette opened her batteries. She talked without interruption,
her companion listening, agreeing occasionally with her adversary, in a
disconcerting manner; then falling into silence.

"It seems to me that you are making a very terrible mistake in your
life, Hadria. You have taken up a fixed idea about domestic duties and
all that, and are going to throw away your chances of forming a happy
home of your own, out of a mere prejudice. You may not admire Mrs.
Gordon's existence; for my part I think she leads a very good, useful
life, but there is no reason why all married lives should be like hers."

"Why are they, then?"

"I don't see that they are."

"It is the prevailing type. It shows the way the domestic wind blows.
Fancy having to be always resisting such a wind. What an oblique,
shorn-looking object one would be after a few years!"

Henriette grew eloquent. She recalled instances of women who had
fulfilled all their home duties, and been successful in other walks as
well; she drew pictures in attractive colours of Hadria in a home of her
own, with far more liberty than was possible under her parents' roof;
and then she drew another picture of Hadria fifteen years hence at
Dunaghee.

Hadria covered her face with her hands. "You who uphold all these social
arrangements, how do you feel when you find yourself obliged to urge me
to marry, not for the sake of the positive joys of domestic existence,
but for the merely negative advantage of avoiding a hapless and forlorn
state? You propose it as a _pis-aller_. Does _that_ argue that all is
sound in the state of Denmark?"

"If you had not this unreasonable objection to what is really a woman's
natural destiny, the difficulty would not exist."

"Have women no pride?"

Henriette did not answer.

"Have they no sense of dignity? If one marries (accepting things on the
usual basis, of course) one gives to another person rights and powers
over one's life that are practically boundless. To retain one's
self-direction in case of dispute would be possible only on pain of
social ruin. I have little enough freedom now, heaven knows; but if I
married, why my very thoughts would become the property of another.
Thought, emotion, love itself, must pass under the yoke! There would be
no nook or corner entirely and indisputably my own."

"I should not regard that as a hardship," said Henriette, "if I loved my
husband."

"I should consider it not only a hardship, but beyond endurance."

"But, my dear, you are impracticable."

"That is what I think domestic life is!" Hadria's quiet tone was
suddenly changed to one of scorn. "You talk of love; what has love
worthy of the name to do with this preposterous interference with the
freedom of another person? If _that_ is what love means--the craving
to possess and restrain and demand and hamper and absorb, and generally
make mincemeat of the beloved object, then preserve me from the
master-passion."

Henriette was baffled. "I don't know how to make you see