[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Chinatown station (MBTA)

onnecting Park Street and Washington, but Essex and State were never connected with the others.) A $378,323 contract for modernization work on the southbound side, including a platform extension, was awarded in 1975; the Lagrange Street and Hayward Place entrances were likely closed during the work.

As part of the renovation, George Greenamyer constructed an ,  artwork on the southbound platform in 1976. The first sculpture in the MBTA's arts program, it was styled after an old steam locomotive, and incorporated scrapped locomotive and truck parts. The three locomotive driving wheels were recast from original wood molds owned by the Edaville Railroad. The sculpture, Farewell to Steam, was later relocated to the commuter rail level at Back Bay station. 
 
A $3.3 million modernization of the northbound side was approved on April 2, 1986, with a groundbreaking held on May 30. The project added an elevator to the northbound platform and a new entrance north of Essex Street; the Essex Street headhouse was closed. An extension of the northbound platform was completed shortly before six-car train service began on August 18, 1987. The renovation added a new artwork to the station: Colors on the Line, by Toshihiro Katayama, consists of 44 colorful enameled steel panels along the wall of the northbound track. Katayama wrote that "I instantly heard the voice of this station telling me...to relieve the darkness with a range of bright colors." On May 4, 1987, the station was renamed Chinatown concurrent with the opening of the Southwest Corridor; the change (likely an effort to rebrand the declining Combat Zone) had been approved in 1985 as part of a series of station name changes. 

The Millennium Place development, completed in 2001, was constructed on a long-vacant lot surrounding the southbound headhouse. A simultaneous station renovation included a rebuilt headhouse and a new elevator built into the new development. The $5 million project, completed in 2002, made the station fully accessible. Silver Line service on Washington Street between Dudley and Downtown Crossing (now route SL5) started on July 20, 2002. Additional service to South Station (route SL4) began on October 15, 2009. Both routes operate on one-way loops in downtown Boston, serving Chinatown station only in the northbound direction. 

Improvements to wayfinding signage began in mid-2019 and were completed in 2021. In May 2020, the MBTA awarded a $8.75 million design contract for accessibility renovations at both Chinatown and  stations. The work at Chinatown includes reopening the Hayward Place and Lagrange Street entrances with added elevators, replacement of the existing elevators, and lobby renovations. Design worked reached 30% completion in 2021 and 75% completion in 2022. The entire Orange Line, including Chinatown station, was closed from August 19 to September 18, 2022, during maintenance work.

References

External links

MBTA - Chinatown
Entrances on Google Maps Street View: northbound (north), northbound (south), southbound
Former entrances: Hayward Place, Essex Street, Lagrange Street

1908 establishments in Massachusetts
Chinatown, Boston
Orange Line (MBTA) stations
Railway stations located underground in Boston
Railway stations in the United States opened in 1908
Silver Line (MBTA) stations