[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Milan Lukić

personal documents. After a visit to the area by Radmilo Bogdanović, president of the Defense and Security Committee of the Yugoslav Parliament's Chamber of Citizens, an influential figure in Serbian police circles, Lukić and Dragicević were released from custody on grounds that lacked transparency.

Milan Lukić was arrested by the Serbian police in 1993 on suspicion of having murdered a resident of Višegrad on Serbian territory. In 1994 he was again arrested on suspicion of being the commander of the group that abducted a group of mainly Bosnian Muslim passengers from the Belgrade-Bar train at Štrpci station and then killed them. Each time the investigation was stopped and Lukić was released.

Post-war
After the war, Lukić allegedly was involved in a variety of criminal rackets operating across the porous border between Serbia and Republika Srpska.

In 1998, ICTY prosecutors charged him with 11 counts of crimes against humanity and nine other counts of violations of the laws or customs of war. For a long time he lived quite openly and was often seen around Višegrad and in Serbia, where he owned an apartment in Belgrade. Serb and Bosnian Serb authorities took no action to hand Lukić over to the ICTY, as extradition was against constitution at the time. However, he was repeatedly charged with racketeering and other organised crime offences and arrested three times by Serbian police during the 1990s on charges including illegal possession of firearms, forging of documents and the murder of a Serb from Višegrad who had helped Bosnian Muslims flee the town. Each time he was released.

Lukić was linked to Radovan Karadžić as part of a drug-smuggling ring connected to Karadžić's business network whose profits funded the "Preventiva" network that protected Karadžić and provided Lukić with cover. Lukić's cousin, Sreten Lukić, deputy interior minister of Serbia, in charge of the Serbian police, also helped protect him. In October 2002, after the fall of Milošević, the Office of the Public Prosecutor in Belgrade issued indictments against Lukić, Dragutin Dragićević, Oliver Krsmanović, Đorđe Šević, and five other persons on charges relating to the Sjeverin massacre.

In early 2003, Lukić quarreled with the Preventiva and he was left more vulnerable after Sretan Lukić's indictment by the ICTY his removal from office in Serbia and deportation to The Hague. In 2003 an ICTY official confirmed that Lukic had been discussing the possibility of surrender for several years and contacts with The Hague intensified as the relationship with Karadžić deteriorated. However an attempt to set up a meeting between Lukić and representatives of the ICTY in April 2004 culminated in Milan's brother, Novica Lukić, being shot dead during a raid on the Lukić family home in Visegrad by Republika Srpska Interior Ministry special forces.

Trial in absentia for the Sjeverin massacre
On 29 September 2003, Dragutin Dragićević, Oliver Krsmanović and Milan Lukić were found guilty of the torture and murder of the abductees and sentenced to 20 years imprisonment (the latter two in absentia) while Đorđe Šević was sentenced to 15 years. Witness protection had proved problematic in the trial. The convictions were the first secured following the appointment of a Serbian special war crimes prosecutor in July 2003.

Disappearance
In January 2004, Lukić quarreled with Karadžić's armed bodyguards and was reportedly injured in a shootout over his share of the proceeds from a particular drugs shipment. By the time a report was published in April 2004 by Institute for War and Peace Reporting (IWPR) and Balkan Investigative Reporting Network linking him to Radovan Karadžić, Lukić had vanished.

In April 2005, in a letter e-mailed to Bosnian and Serbian media outlets apparently written by Lukic, the author called for his superiors, the top police, military and political leaders from Višegrad, to be held to account for crimes committed under their command. In the e-mail, traced to a server in Brazil, Lukić denied that he was a traitor to Karadžić, as his former superiors were claiming in what he claimed was a "shameless and unscrupulous lie". He declared that "Mladić has always been and will remain the true hero and idol, and Karadžić, the leader of my people".

Arrest and transfer to The Hague for trial
In August 2005 Lukić was arrested in Buenos Aires, Argentina. He told the Argentine judges that he had been in Brazil and admitted entering Argentina on a false passport in the name of Goran Đukanović. He claimed to have been preparing to surrender to The Hague, implying that this was for his own safety. He said that he feared people on his own side, "Karadžić's people". He told the court: "I know lots of things happened during the war, and I was afraid that they would kill me because there are many who do not want it known what happened. As the saying goes: better to be a tongue without a voice."