[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 2007 Lebanon conflict

the Lebanese army," he said, referring to the 2006 conflict between Israel and Hezbollah. "Are you willing to fight the wars of others inside Lebanon?" he asked his audience.
  United States. President George W. Bush said the Islamists needed to be stopped. "Extremists that are trying to topple that young democracy need to be reined in," he said. The U.S. State Department dismissed any links between this week's violence and efforts to establish the international tribunal to try suspects for the 2005 assassination of former Lebanese Prime Minister Rafiq Hariri.
  Al-Qaeda released a statement saying: "Sons of Islam, o sons of the nation of Allah and Jihad, our brothers in the Nahr el-Bared camp in Lebanon are being subjected to the flagrant aggression of the army working for treason and apostasy, the Lebanese Army." They called on "every Muslim" to support Fatah al-Islam because it is seeking "a confrontation" with Israel.
 An Al-Qaeda linked group based in Lebanon, accused the Lebanese government of embarking on a "crusade" after depriving its Palestinian inhabitants of basic rights.
 Tawheed and Jihad in Syria, said Christians in Lebanon were part of a 'united crusader-Jewish front' directed against Muslims, and accused the "Lebanese army, government, intelligence branches and police" of being "the guard dogs of France and America." Calling upon its supporters to "support the jihad," the group also said: "We warn that if the Lebanese government does not lift its blockade, its sons living on Syrian territory will be considered moving targets," adding that it would carry out operations against Lebanese government officials citizens in Syria.

See also

 Siege of Beirut
 War of the camps
 February 13, 2007 Bikfaya bombings
 2006–2007 Lebanese political protests
 2006 Lebanon War
 List of wars involving Lebanon
 List of wars 2003-current
 List of modern conflicts in the Middle East

References

External links 
 قFatah al-Islam Videos
 UNRWA Lebanon: Nahr El Bared Emergency
 Fatah al-Islam: News Reports
 Fatah al-Islam
 Nahr al-Bared: Refuge in Ruin, a reporting project from the Pulitzer Center on Crisis Reporting
 A new face of Al Qaeda emerges in Lebanon
 (www.lebanon-support.org) Day to day information on Humanitarian activities for the refugees of Nahr El Bared
 Salafi-jihadism in Lebanon 
Photos
 In pictures: Lebanon battles on May 20 (BBC)
 In pictures: Lebanon fighting  May 21 (BBC
 In pictures: Lebanon refugees flee May 23 (BBC)
 Fatah al-Islam

Arab rebellions
Conflicts in 2007
Lebanese Army Operations
Conflict
Wars involving Lebanon
Urban warfare