[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Australian People for Health, Education and Development Abroad

al parties, this was considered controversial by some.

Conflicts also arose in May 2002. The Fact Finding Mission to the Occupied Palestinian Territories report was released by APHEDA, it was proposed this report did not reflect the neutral standpoint which is required for taxpayer-funded projects.

In April 2020, APHEDA in partnership with the Samoa First Union (SFU) conducted an inquiry into Australia's relationship with countries in the Pacific Islands region. This inquiry investigated two components of Australian Liberal Government's Stepping Up the Pacific Scheme which was commenced by Scott Morrison in November 2018 in Pacific Island countries. These two components were the Pacific Labour Scheme and Seasonal Worker Programme. APHEDA's inquiry proposed there are distinct cultural shortcomings in the Australian government's pre-departure training and employment law for seasonal workers. The unintended impact such programs are said to have upon the Pacific Island culture, e.g. the separation of families and social and cultural isolation was also addressed. It was proposed by APHEDA and SFU that the initiatives of the Australian Government are beneficial, but for the health and wellbeing of Pacific Islander people in Australian countries, the suggested current cultural shortcomings are addressed.

Political advocacies 
APHEDA's political advocacies are centred around eight key areas: global issues, anti-corruption, illicit drug and law enforcement, disasters and humanitarian affairs, gender issues, HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, health and medical, peace and security, and labour conditions.

Gender equality 
APHEDA work in partnership with Irish Aid. The two AID organisations have been responsible for the training of women in positions of leadership in Vietnam, across several districts, communes and provinces.

The intention of this project is to empower more women to engage in political agendas and positions of political leadership and further, for these women to advocate for gender-related concerns to ensure policies are developed and implemented include the voice of all.

This project began in October 2017 and was set to continue until August 2021. In 2020, this campaign was awarded a total of  in Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) funding.

Mae Tao Clinic 

The Mae Tao Clinic was founded by Dr. Cynthia Maung in 1988. The organisation provides health care free of charge to assist migrants and refugees crossing the border from Burma and Thailand. APHEDA continues to support this organisation offshore from Australia and in the clinic.

Capacity building for Karen Women at the Thai-Myanmar Border 
In this program, APHEDA work in partnership with the Karen's Women's Organisation (KWO) in refugee camps along the Thai-Myanmar border. The program intends to strengthen leadership skills and knowledge within the camps to ensure community services can continue to be actioned despite political instability in the region. In 2020, this program received  in DFAT funding.

Campaign to ban asbestos in South-East Asia 
This campaign is active in several areas of South-East Asia. These areas are Indonesia, Laos, Vietnam and Cambodia. It involves Australian APHEDA volunteers working with unionists and campaigners in an attempt to “ban asbestos and eliminate asbestos-related diseases”. The overall goal for this campaign is to do so to eliminate asbestos-related diseases in these regions. In 2020, the campaign pushed to reform the Rotterdam Convention. To do so, the Australian Council of Trade Unions and Union-Aid APHEDA initiated an alliance between international several trade unions and environmental non-governmental organisations. It was forecasted in the 2000-2007 period, Asia was responsible for 64% share of the global asbestos use.

In 2020, this campaign was awarded a total of  in DFAT funding.

Boosting agriculture in Gaza and the West Bank 

This APHEDA project began in 2015 in association with the MA’AN Development Centre, The Palestinian Business Women's Association – Asala and the Institute for Community Partnership of Bethlehem University.

The project has had several intentions:

 Enhance long-term profitability of small-scale farmers and producers
 Avoid toxic pesticides and improve standards
 Lower costs and reduce waste through water tanks and new agricultural roads
 Improve gender equality in farm production industries

The project has been funded by the Australia Middle East NGO Cooperation Agreement Phase 3.

Recognition from Nelson Mandela 
In 2010, after Nelson Mandela’s release from prison he made tribute to the work of the APHEDA organisation. Specifically, the contribution and support APHEDA demonstrated for the anti-apartheid struggle.

References

External links 
 

1984 establishments in Australia
Political organisations based in Australia