[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Philadelphia in the American Civil War

During the American Civil War, Philadelphia was an important source of troops, money, weapons, medical care, and supplies for the Union.

Before the Civil War, Philadelphia's economic connections with the South made much of the city sympathetic to South's grievances with the North. Once the war began, many Philadelphians' opinion shifted in support for the Union and the war against the Confederate States. More than 50 infantry and cavalry regiments were recruited fully or partly in Philadelphia. The city, the main source for uniforms for the Union Army, also manufactured weapons and built warships. Philadelphia also had the two largest military hospitals in the United States: Satterlee Hospital and Mower Hospital.

In 1863, Philadelphia was threatened by Confederate invasion during the Gettysburg Campaign. Entrenchments were built to defend the city, but the Confederate Army was turned back at Wrightsville, Pennsylvania, and at the Battle of Gettysburg. The Civil War's main legacy in Philadelphia was the rise of the Republican Party. Despised before the war because of its anti-slavery position, the party created a political machine that would dominate Philadelphia politics for almost a century.

Prewar
Antebellum Philadelphia was the second-largest city in the United States. Its strong economic ties with to the South fostered political sympathy; for example, political leaders in the city called for the repeal of laws that might be considered unfriendly to South. Meetings led to calls for Pennsylvania to decide which side the state was on in the case of Southern secession. Many blamed the Abolitionist movement for the crisis, and Abolitionists in the city were harassed and threatened.

In the 1860 mayoral election, the Democratic Party candidate John Robbins challenged the People's Party candidate and incumbent mayor, Alexander Henry. The People's Party in Pennsylvania was aligned with the national Republican Party but downplayed the issue of slavery and made tariff protection its main issue in the state. During the election, the Democrat attacked Henry's moderate position on slavery as virtual Abolitionism. He was reelected, but vote tampering was alleged. In the election for governor, Philadelphia gave the Democrats 51 percent of the vote, and in the presidential election, the Republicans' Abraham Lincoln won 52 percent of the city's vote.

After the election, Philadelphia City Council voted to invite Lincoln to speak in the city with only one dissenting vote. He accepted and spoke twice, once at the Continental Hotel and once at the Pennsylvania State House. His speech marked a turning point in attitude for much of the Philadelphia elite.

Civil War
After the American Civil War officially began with the attack on Fort Sumter in South Carolina, popular opinion in Philadelphia shifted. American flags and bunting appeared all over the city as Philadelphians moved their anger from Abolitionists to southern sympathizers. A mob threatened the home of the Palmetto Flag, a secessionist newspaper. The police and Mayor Henry were able to prevent the mob from causing damage, but the newspaper shut down shortly afterward. Other newspapers that had a pro-southern slant also suffered from a dwindling circulation. When The Philadelphia Inquirer reported that the Union lost the First Battle of Bull Run, which contradicted initial government reports, a mob threatened to burn down its office. Another personal appearance by Mayor Henry prevented a riot at the home of the prominent Democrat and grandson of Joseph Reed, William B. Reed. Other people with suspected pro-southern ties displayed American flags to avoid trouble.

The initial enthusiasm at the beginning of the war soon diminished, but critics were still targeted. Around August 1861, federal authorities arrested eight people for expressing Confederate sympathies. Most of the people were released soon afterward, but one, the son of William H. Winder, was held for more than a year. Authorities also shut down a pro-southern weekly newspaper, the Christian Observer. In 1862, after expressing antiwar sentiments, former Democratic Representative Charles Jared Ingersoll was arrested for discouraging enlistments. The arrest of the well-respected politician caused local Republicans embarrassment, and he was released after direct orders from the federal government.