[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Chibli Mallat

nent'. In international law, he uses the Middle East as the privileged terrain for an understanding of the interaction between international criminal law, diplomacy and politics, especially through his representation of victims of crimes against humanity in Iraq, Lebanon, Israel-Palestine and Libya.

 Philosophy of Nonviolence 
In his more theoretical work on law and nonviolence, Mallat seeks to articulate the difficult relation between the inherent violence of the democratic state and the search for Kantian perpetual peace. This search is informed by nonviolent practice in the 2005 Lebanese Cedar Revolution and in subsequent mass upheavals of the Middle East: from the Green Revolution in Iran in 2009 to the revolutions that began in Tunisia in January 2011. He continues to seek success in nonviolence against dictatorship through a declared involvement with oppositional leadership, human rights colleagues, and decision-makers across the world, some organised through Right to Nonviolence.

His Philosophy of Nonviolence was launched in Venice at a Yale law school seminar in January 2015, and he has since engaged a varied audience in a debate on nonviolence in special lectures and seminars across the world, focusing on Arab media to disseminate the advocacy. This included daily papers, the main Syrian opposition television station and SkyArabia news in Abu Dhabi.  Dedicated lectures were given in Lebanon, Switzerland, the US, Germany, and Malaysia. In October 2017, he collaborated with Adam Roberts and several research centers in Beirut and Tripoli to engage the public with nonviolence and civil resistance in the Arab Spring. He supported the Lebanese upheaval which started in November 2019 as another phase of the nonviolent revolution in the Middle East, with characteristic women leadership and a conscious effort not to be drawn into bloodshed.

Literature and poetry
Mallat grew up in a family steeped in a tradition of literature and law. His namesake grandfather was known across the Arab world as 'the Poet of the Cedars'. His granduncle Tamer Mallat was a judge and a poet, whose decisions and poetry he rediscovered and published; he also edited a selection of his father's writings in a bilingual French and Arabic book. With his son Tamer, he published an illustrated book for children in 1997, Aventures a Beyrouth.

Private life
He is the son of Nouhad Diab and Wajdi Mallat, the first president of the Lebanese Constitutional Council (Arabic المجلس الدستوري) of Lebanon, from 1994 to 1997, and has three sisters, Manal, Raya and Janane. He is married to Nayla Chalhoub, and they have two adult sons, Tamer and Wajdi.

PublicationsBooks

The Normalization of Saudi Law, New York, Oxford University Press, 2022

Boussole et autres journalismes, Dar al-Bada'e', Beirut, 2019.

`An Kamal Junblat wa min-wahyih (On Kamal Joumblat), Dar al-Bada'e', Beirut, 2018.

Philosophy of nonviolence: Revolution, constitutionalism, and justice beyond the Middle East, Oxford University Press, New York 2015.

Democracy in fin-de-siècle America,  Dar al-Bada'e', Beirut, 2016. Translated and revised English version of Al-Dimuqratiyya fi amirka, introduction by Ghassan Tueni, Dar al-Nahar, Beirut, 2001.

Introduction to Middle Eastern law, Oxford University Press, Oxford 2007, paperback edition with new preface, Oxford 2009.

Iraq: Guide to law and policy, Aspen/Kluwer Law International, Austin, 2009.

March 2221. Lebanon's Cedar Revolution- An essay on justice and non-violence, [Lir], Beirut, 2007.

Presidential choices, Beirut 1998, published in Arabic at Dar al-Nahar (Al-ri'asa al-lubnaniyya bayn al-ams wal-ghad), French (Défis présidentiels), and English.

The Middle East into the 21st Century, Garnet, Reading 1996. (paperback published in 1997; US edition in 1998; serialised in part in Arabic dailies).

The Renewal of Islamic law: Muhammad Baqer as-Sadr, Najaf, and the Shi'i International, Cambridge University Press (Middle East Library), 1993, paperback 2004. Also published in Arabic, Bahasa Indonesian and Turkish.

Books from the presidential campaign

Presidential talk, Dar al-Jadid, Beirut, 2008. Major speeches, interviews and lectures on the campaign trail (November 2005-June 2006).

Presidential papers, 2nd ed. Beirut January 2006. (issues, policies, achievements)

Al-barnamaj al-ri'asi (Presidential program), in Arabic, French and English.

Free and fair presidential elections, dossier published online.

An international tribunal for all, dossier published online.

A Compelling presidency, The Mallat campaign in world news, Beirut, April 2006. (compilation of profiles in Arab and international press).

Choice of edited books

Aux antipodes de l'Union Européenne: l'Islande et le Liban (with David Thor Bjorgvinsson), Beirut and Brussels, Bruylant, 2008.

From Baghdad to Beirut: Festschrift in honor of John Donohue (with Leslie Tramontini), German Orient Institute, Beirut 2007, 502pp.