[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 171]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

ald
looked at her with an intent, triumphant expression. She stood before
him, for the moment, as if paralysed. It was by no means the first time
that this look had crossed his face, but she had been blind, and had not
fully understood it. He interpreted her cry and her paleness, as signs
of the fullness of his power over her. This pleased him immeasurably.
His self-love basked and purred. He felt that his moment of triumph had
come. Contrasting this meeting with the last occasion when they had
stood together beside this grave, had he not ground for self-applause?
He remembered so well that unpleasant episode. It was Hadria who stood
_then_ in the more powerful position. He had actually feared to meet her
eye. He remembered how bitterly she had spoken, of her passion for
revenge, of the relentless feud between man and woman. They had
discussed the question of vengeance; he had pointed out its futility,
and Hadria had set her teeth and desired it none the less. Lady Engleton
had reminded her of a woman's helplessness if she places herself in
opposition to a man, for whom all things are ordered in the society that
he governs; her only chance of striking a telling blow being through his
passions. If he were in love with her, _then_ there might be some hope
of making him wince. And Hadria, with a fierce swiftness had accepted
the condition, with a mixture of confidence in her own power of rousing
emotion, if she willed, and of scorn for the creature who could be
appealed to through his passions, but not through his sense of justice.
That she might herself be in that vulnerable condition, had not appeared
to strike her as possible. It was a challenge that he could not but
accept. She attracted him irresistibly. From the first moment of
meeting, he had felt her power, and recognized, at the same time, the
strange spirit of enmity that she seemed to feel towards him, and to
arouse in him against her. He felt the savage in him awake, the desire
of mere conquest. Long had he waited and watched, and at last he had
seen her flush and tremble at his approach; and as if to make his
victory more complete and insolent, it was at _this_ grave that she was
to confess herself ready to lose the world for his sake! Yes; and she
should understand the position of affairs to the full, and consent
nevertheless!

Her adoption of the child had added to his triumph. He could not think
of it without a sense of something humourous in the relation of events.
If ever Fate was ironical, this was the occasion! He felt so sure of
Hadria to-day, that he was swayed by an overpowering temptation to
reveal to her the almost comic situation. It appealed to his sense of
the absurd, and to the savagery that lurked, like a beast of prey, at
the foundation of his nature. Her evident emotion when he arrived
yesterday afternoon and all through his visit, her agitation to-day, at
the mere sound of his voice, assured him that his hold over her was
secure. He must be a fool indeed if he could not keep it, in spite of
revelations. To offer himself to her threatened vengeance of his own
accord, and to see her turned away disarmed, because she loved him; that
would be the climax of his victory!

There was something of their old antagonism, in the attitude in which
they stood facing one another by the side of the grave, looking straight
into one another's eyes. The sound of the child's happy laughter floated
back to them across the spot where its mother lay at rest. Whether
Theobald's intense consciousness of the situation had, in some way,
affected Hadria, or whether his expression had given a clue, it would be
difficult to say, but suddenly, as a whiff of scent invades the senses,
she became aware of a new and horrible fact which had wandered into her
mind, she knew not how; and she took a step backwards, as if stunned,
breathing shortly and quickly. Again he interpreted this as a sign of
intense feeling.

"Hadria," he said bending towards her, "you do love me?" He did not wait
for her answer, so confident did he feel. "You love me for myself, not
for my virtues or qualities, for I have but few of those, alas!" She
tried to speak, but he interrupted her. "I want to make a confession to
you. I can never forget what you said that day of Marion Fenwick's
wedding, at the side of this very grave; you said that you wanted to
take vengeance on the man who had brought such misery to this poor
woman. You threatened--at least, it amounted to a threat--to make him
fall in love with you, if ever you should meet him, and to render him
miserable through his passion. I loved you and I trembled, but I thought
to myself, 'What if I could make her return my love? Where would the
vengeance be _then_?'"

Hadria had remained, for a second, perfectly still, and then turned
abruptly away.

"I knew it would be a shock to you. I did not dare to tell you before.
Think what depended on it for me. Had I to