[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Tarapacá

a began their movement. Disoriented by the mist, Santa Cruz and his column marched almost three hours in circles, losing precious time. When the sunrise showed that he was at Ramírez’ rearguard, Santa Cruz resolved to continue to toward his assigned objective. Ramírez, meanwhile, marched to his own.

Closing to his destination, Santa Cruz sent his grenadiers to take Quillahuasa, but they were sighted by the Peruvians advanced posts, which sounded the alarm. Strangely, Santa Cruz refused to use his artillery, losing the chance to overwhelm his enemy. Suárez, in command at Quillahuasa, realized his army could be vanquished by the Chilean artillery that could fire on him from higher ground. He rapidly evacuated the town, putting his soldiers over the surrounding hills. Immediately, Peruvian forces under Cáceres climbed the hill at the northern end of the village as Bolognesi did the same on the southern end, towards Tarapacá.

At 10:00, the fog vanished and Cáceres division could easily climb Visagra hill and attack Santa Cruz’ column from his rearguard, isolating him from Ramírez and Arteaga. Cáceres division was formed by the Zepita and 2 de Mayo regiments, and later strengthened by the Ayacucho and Provisional Nº 1 of Lima battalions of Colonel Bedoya. His 1,500 men outnumbered the 400 men strong force of Santa Cruz. Thus, after 30 minutes almost one third of the Chilean column was out of combat, and lost its artillery, but managed to maintain cohesion and inflict several casualties as well. On the brink of annihilation, Arteaga came in to help Santa Cruz, charging an astonished Caceres and forcing him to stop his attack. Facing a defeat, the Chilean officers prepared the retreat, deploying the infantry guarding the remains of the artillery. But before even moving, the grenadiers sent by Santa Cruz to Quillahuasa returned and charged the Allies again, followed by the infantry.

Meanwhile, Ramirez’ column was spotted by Bolognesi’s division, who deployed over the hills on the east, whilst Buendía garrisoned himself in the town. Ramirez’ progressed without inconvenience passing through Huaraciña and San Lorenzo along the river, but upon reaching a small mount at Tarapacá’s entrance, was received by enemy fire. Incredibly, despite capturing Buendía’s intention to outflank him, he maintained his order and resumed his march as planned. The Chileans came back for their surprise and charged into the town only to be shot at point blank range from every house and building, suffering heavy damage. When Ramírez ordered the retreat, the grenadiers renewed their charge and forced Caceres to reform and regroup at Visagra. More than 50% of his 2nd Line Regiment was disabled, counting only with two companies disposed on the den high borders. After being reinforced by these troops, the Peruvians withdrew to Tarapacá and the battle lapsed for the time being.

Believing the battle was over, the Chilean officers let their extenuated and thirsty men to abandon all order and move over the river. Almost without any ammunition, they were waiting for the night fall to return to Dibujo. But the Peruvian High command was planning a second attack, dividing its army into three columns, as to the Chileans, but with their greater numbers they weren't weakened as the Chileans had been. 

Dávila’s men appeared suddenly over Huariciña; Herrera’s and Bolognesi’s divisions attacked the troops at the river, and at the eastern and western heights, surprising the Chileans again. After the first impact, the Chileans gathered up and made a run from the heights trying to evacuate the town. The second in command of the Artillería de Marina Regiment formed 50 shooters along with two cannons and held the attack for an hour, until Arteaga realized the battle was lost and ordered the retreat. This was carried out with no order whatsoever, with soldiers moving to Dibujo and others to Isluga. The lack of cavalry prevented the Peruvians to inflict more severe casualties, saving the rest of Arteaga’s division. The battle was over and the Allied victory was total.

Aftermath and consequences
The Chilean army at Tarapacá suffered 692 casualties (men who were killed and wounded), representing 23.6% of the contingent present at the battle. Col. Eleuterio Ramírez and Bartolomé Vivar, first and second commanders of the Chilean 2nd Line Regiment, were killed in action; in addition, the regiment lost its banner. The defeat and associated perception of poor planning cost Arteaga his command, simultaneously strengthening War Minister Sotomayor’s prestige since this was the only action planned so far without him and it had resulted in a disaster.