[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# René Edward De Russy

ur Murray (1851–1925); a career officer, he became a major general. They had a double wedding with her older sister Helen. Their son Maxwell Murray (1885–1948) also had a military career, becoming a major general. He commanded the 25th Infantry Division in Honolulu during the Attack on Pearl Harbor.

The senior De Russy "died while on active duty at San Francisco on November 23, 1865, aged 75 years, the oldest graduate of the Military Academy on active duty." He was originally buried at the Lone Mountain Cemetery on November 25, 1865. During the decommissioning of that cemetery, De Russy's remains were moved to Cypress Lawn Memorial Park in 1901 and then reburied at the United States Military Academy Post Cemetery on October 24, 1907.

Legacy
There are five Forts DeRussy in the United States: Fort DeRussy Military Reservation in Honolulu, two in Louisiana, one in Kentucky, and one in Washington, D.C. The latter four were all built during the American Civil War. All of the forts were named for two brothers, René Edward and his younger brother Louis Gustave De Russy. Louis (also known as Lewis) graduated in 1814 from the United States Military Academy, two years after René but on an accelerated schedule. An engineer and career officer, he was assigned to Red River outposts in Louisiana in 1826 and made much of his career in that state.

At advanced ages, they served on opposite sides of the Civil War: René on the Union side and Lewis as a colonel in the Confederate Army; he was the oldest West Point graduate to serve on the Confederate side.

DeRussy Drive on Dyker Heights was named for Rene E. DeRussy, who built a house there while stationed in New York.

See also
 Brooklyn Eagle
 Dyker Heights Historical Society

References

External links
 

1789 births
1865 deaths
United States Army generals
United States Army Corps of Engineers personnel
Superintendents of the United States Military Academy
Burials at West Point Cemetery
Haitian emigrants to the United States
American people of French descent
People from Saint-Domingue
People from Dyker Heights, Brooklyn