[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Minnesota National Guard

th Fighter Interceptor Squadron in Duluth and 109th Fighter Interceptor Squadron in St. Paul were providing active air defense commitments with 24-hour alert status.

1970–1989

The transition from a Vietnam-era draft to an all-volunteer force had a tremendous impact on the Minnesota National Guard.

1990–1999

Growing tensions in the Persian Gulf erupted in August 1990 when Iraq invaded its neighbor, Kuwait. Within months this oil-rich region experienced the largest deployment of American combat forces since World War II. "Operation Desert Shield," intended to protect Saudi Arabia, became "Operation Desert Storm," when a US-led international coalition used its military to liberate Kuwait and destroy Iraq's army and air force.

Unlike the war in Vietnam, Desert Shield/Desert Storm made heavy use of reservists. About a fourth of all U.S. military personnel called into active duty during the Gulf War were from the National Guard and Reserves. Over 600 Minnesota Guard members volunteered or were activated with their units, including the 109th Aeromedical Evacuation Flight, 109th Light Equipment Maintenance Company, the 1187th Medical Company, and the 257th Military Police Company. The war was over by April 1991, and soon Minnesota's troops headed home.

The 135th Public Affairs Detachment left in June 1996 for Germany to support Operation Joint Endeavor. Originally stationed in Heidelberg, Germany the Minnesota element of the 135th traveled to Eagle Base just outside Tuzla, Bosnia to cover the first free elections since the ending of the war. Later the team moved to "tent city" Steel Castle to support the 1st Armored Division Engineers by reporting stories of maintaining roads, de-mining inhabited areas and providing American military forces with living conditions to allow Soldiers to maintain health and spirit, all contributing to the success of the Balkan mission.

The worst flooding in the state’s history occurred in 1997, and Minnesota National Guard troops were there to assist the citizens of the state. The Guard helped lead and organize search and rescue, security, shelters, medical support, and logistics efforts.

2000–2011

The Minnesota National Guard has been involved in the Global War On Terror since the September 11 attacks in 2001.   Immediately after the attack on New York City and Washington, D.C., Minnesota National Guard F-16 Fighter Jets from the 148th Fighter Wing were providing combat air patrols over key locations. Minnesota Army National Guard troops mobilized to ensure that Minnesota airports were safeguarded.
In January of 2003 Charlie Company 142d Engineers from Camp Ripley were called to deploy to Iraq with their Battalion Headquarters and sister companies from North Dakota.  Charlie Company operated primarily at LSA Anaconda north of Baghdad, and returned home in March of 2004.
In addition to being called upon for the Global War on Terror, the Minnesota National Guard was called upon to provide stability and peace in the Balkans.   Minnesota National Guard troops executed the Bosnia Security Force (SFOR-14) mission 2003-04 and the Kosovo Force (KFOR-5) mission in 2004.

2006 marked the 150th anniversary of the Minnesota National Guard. On April 17, 2006 the House of Representatives of the State of Minnesota congratulated the Minnesota National Guard and honored all the men and women, past and present, who have ever served in the Minnesota National Guard.

Minnesota National Guard forces are heavily involved in the “Long War” to this day. Current operations have troops deployed for Operation Noble Eagle (Homeland Security) and Operation Enduring Freedom (Afghanistan).

Minnesota National Guard in Iraq (2003–2011)

The Minnesota National Guard has played a significant role in the war in Iraq. Since 2003, more than 8,000 Minnesota National Guard Citizen-Soldiers and -Airmen have been deployed to Iraq in support of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation New Dawn.

More than 8,000 Minnesota National Guard Citizen-Soldiers and -Airmen deployed to Iraq from 2003 to 2011.

Sixteen Minnesota National Guard Soldiers died in Iraq, and 79 earned Purple Heart Medals due to injuries received in combat.

Sustained military operations in Iraq inspired the Minnesota National Guard to begin the Beyond the Yellow Ribbon program, a ground-breaking process to reintegrate returning Service members back from deployments.

The Minnesota National Guard’s 1st Brigade Combat Team, 34th Infantry Division was an important part of the 2007 “surge.” As a result of the extension of their tour to 16 months in Iraq, and 22 months overall, the Red Bulls are recognized as having served the second longest tour of duty in Iraq of any military unit, active or reserve.

The Duluth-based 148th Fighter Wing expertly provided real-time surveillance for ground commanders using their Theater Aerial Reconnaissance System.