[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Victor Cazalet

Colonel Victor Alexander Cazalet, MC (27 December 1896 – 4 July 1943) was a British Conservative Party Member of Parliament for nineteen years. He came from a prominent, wealthy English family.

In his political career, he was a noted authority on international affairs and was a veteran of World War I. He became the liaison officer with Polish General Sikorski after the outbreak of World War II. He promoted strong military ties with the United States before and during the war and was an outspoken advocate for creating a Jewish homeland in Palestine.

Cazalet was also an amateur athlete, squash champion and tennis player in Great Britain for many years. He became godfather to actress Elizabeth Taylor after developing a friendship with her family. Travelling back to London from Gibraltar, he was killed in the 1943 Gibraltar B-24 crash at age 46 along with General Sikorski and 15 others.

Early life and education

Victor Cazalet was born in London, at 4 Whitehall Gardens, on 12 December 1896, the second son of William Marshall Cazalet and his wife, Maud. Their country house, Fairlawne in Kent, had once been the residence of former Prime Minister Sir Robert Peel.<ref name=Taylor>Spoto, Donald. "A Star is Born", The Guardian (London), 11 February 1995 pp. 54–60</ref> The family also had a villa at Cimiez, France, where Queen Victoria was sometimes their guest; she also became Victor's godmother.

The ancestors of the Cazalet family were Huguenots from Languedoc, in the south of France, who settled in England after the Revocation of the Edict of Nantes had forced them out of the country. Cazalet's father had achieved success in business and was heir to his own father's fortune as an industrialist with business activities in Russia. Cazalet's mother, Maud, was the daughter of a Scottish baronet, Sir John Heron-Maxwell of Springkell, who when he died had left his family penniless.

Cazalet had three siblings: Edward (1894–1916), Thelma (later Thelma Cazalet-Keir) and Peter. He was educated at Eton College, 1909–1915, and later at the University of Oxford."Col. Victor A. Cazalet," New York Times, obituary, July 6, 1943

Military service and political career
He was commissioned into the Queen's Own West Kent Yeomanry in 1915 and reached the rank of Captain. He subsequently served in the front line with the Household Battalion of the 1st Life Guards, and received the Military Cross for gallantry in 1917. He served on the staff of the Allied Supreme War Council, whose conferences led up to the Treaty of Versailles, which ended the war. From 1918 to 1919 he was a member of the British military staff in the Siberian intervention.

After taking a degree in history at Oxford, Cazalet was first elected to Parliament at the 1924 general election, serving as a Conservative member for the Chippenham constituency in Wiltshire until his death in 1943.  From 1924 to 1926 he acted as a parliamentary private secretary; later, he served under the President of the Board of Trade and later under the Colonial Secretary.

During the Spanish Civil War, Cazalet was a strong supporter of General Franco and the fascists, serving on the Friends of National Spain committee. However, before World War II, he opposed, with Winston Churchill, the appeasement of Adolf Hitler by Neville Chamberlain's government.

Cazalet became the liaison officer with Polish General Władysław Sikorski in 1940. As a Member of Parliament, he was a member of the Anglo-Polish committee formed in 1941. He visited the Soviet Union with Sikorski in 1942. During the same period, he was made chairman of the House of Commons committee on refugee problems and was stationed at the British embassy in Washington.

Promoting military ties with the United States 
Cazalet also termed himself "a booster for America" and had publicly expressed the gratitude of British subjects for the aid that America gave Britain before and after World War II began. In 1940 he wanted Britain to give the US a free port in the West Indies, with all sovereign rights so that the US Navy could have a port closer to South America.  He also hoped that the US and British Navies would join after the war to "pool their policies and ideas".

He had expressed that opinion since the disputes at the 1927 Geneva Naval Conference and he continued during the revival of those efforts that led to the London Naval Treaty in 1930. He feared that a failure of Britain and the United States to reach an agreement, regardless of the other countries involved, would lead to a dangerous competition in shipbuilding between both countries that would seriously jeopardise world peace: In 1929 he said, "Each country should build the ships it needs without regarding the other navy as a possible enemy".