[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Watchmen (film)

rom war unable to fit into society. During several attempts to get Watchmen adapted as a film, Kevin Costner, Christopher Walken and Richard Gere were each considered for the part. John Cusack, who is an admitted fan of the graphic novel, expressed great interest in playing the role.

The Minutemen 

 Carla Gugino as Sally Jupiter / Silk Spectre:  A retired superheroine, mother of Laurie Juspeczyk and the first Silk Spectre. Gugino's character ages from 25 years old in the 1940s to 67 years old in the 1980s, and the then-37-year-old actress wore prosthetics to reflect the aging process. Gugino described her character's superhero outfit as "Bettie Page meets Alberto Vargas." In earlier attempts to make the film, Liv Tyler, Jamie Lee Curtis, Ann-Margret, Catherine Zeta-Jones, and Sigourney Weaver were considered for the part of Sally.
 Jeffrey Dean Morgan as Edward Blake / The Comedian:  A superhero and a former member of the Minutemen who is commissioned by the U.S. government as a black-ops specialist. When reading the comic for the part, Morgan stopped when he saw his character was killed off three pages in. When telling his agent he did not want the part, he was told to continue reading it and find out how important his character was. Morgan found the role a challenge, explaining, "For some reason, in reading the novel, you don't hate this guy even though he does things that are unmentionable [like beat up and sexually assault Jupiter]. [...] My job is to kind of make that translate, so as a viewer you end up not making excuses to like him, but you don't hate him like you should for doing the things that he does." Of his casting, Snyder said, "It's hard to find a man's man in Hollywood. It just is. And Jeffrey came in and was grumpy and cool and grizzled, and I was, like, 'OK, Jeffrey is perfect!'"
 Stephen McHattie as Hollis Mason / Nite Owl:  A retired former member and the first Nite Owl, Mason now owns and lives over an auto shop.
 Clint Carleton as Young Hollis Mason
 Dan Payne as William Brady / Dollar Bill:  A deceased member, Brady was a bank-sponsored member of The Minutemen who was created for publicity purposes. He dies during a bank robbery in 1947 when his cape is caught in the bank's revolving doors, allowing the robbers to shoot him at point-blank range.
 Niall Matter as Byron Lewis / Mothman:  A former member, Lewis had a privileged upbringing and sought to help the less fortunate and fight oppression and corruption as a crime fighter. To this end, Lewis created a costume with special wings that helped him glide. His mental stability ultimately deteriorated after he was called before HUAC, leading to him being forcibly brought to a mental asylum.
 Apollonia Vanova as Ursula Zandt / The Silhouette:  Deceased. A gun-toting vigilante, motivated by the deaths of her parents and sister at the hands of the Nazis in their native Austria. Zandt is killed along with her lesbian lover in what is implied to be a hate crime.
 Glenn Ennis as Hooded Justice:  A deceased former member, H.J. was a violent vigilante who was trained in hand-to-hand combat.
 Darryl Scheelar as Nelson Gardner / Captain Metropolis:  A former Marine Lieutenant, he was one of the more active members of the Minutemen, having organized its formation. He died in a car accident in 1974 which decapitated him, though it is believed by some to be a form of suicide.

Other characters 
 Matt Frewer as Edgar Jacobi / Moloch:  A former supervillain. Moloch was jailed for a time during the 1970s. He is dying of cancer which he received from Adrian Veidt. Moloch was later murdered by Veidt, who frames Rorschach.
 Mike Carpenter as Young Moloch
 Laura Mennell as Janey Slater:  A scientist who was Osterman's first girlfriend until he fell for Laurie.
 Danny Woodburn as Tom Ryan / Big Figure:   A jailed dwarf crime boss and old adversary of Nite Owl and Rorschach. He tries to get revenge when Rorschach is imprisoned in the same jail as he is.
 Robert Wisden as Richard Nixon
 Frank Novak as Henry Kissinger
 Gary Houston as John McLaughlin
 Sean Allan and Garry Chalk as NORAD Generals
 Michael Kopsa as Paul Klein
 Chris Gauthier as Seymour David

Cameo roles include Jay Brazeau as a news vendor, Mark Acheson as a large man at Happy Harry's, Leah Gibson as Silhouette's girlfriend, Alessandro Juliani as a Rockefeller Military Base technician, Salli Saffioti as Annie Leibovitz, and Ted Cole as Dick Cavett.

Production