[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Confederate Memorial State Historic Site

gister of Historic Places listing.  The park's chapel is not evenly shaped, as one side is  long, the side opposite is  long, and the other two sides are  long.  The building is decorated with a tower and a stained glass window and is sided with weatherboard.  Weddings can be held within the chapel.

The Confederate cemetery at the park contains 723 graves, some of which are double.  Most of the headstones marking the graves are simple, although a few ornate exceptions exist.  A monument modeled after the Lion of Lucerne is located within the cemetery; it was erected by the United Daughters of the Confederacy in 1906 and bears the inscription "In Memoriam  OUR CONFEDERATE DEAD".  A plaque on the monument pictures Robert E. Lee, and a religious inscription is engraved below the lion.  The cottage is a wood building on a brick foundation; it is roofed with shingles and is generally rectangularly shaped.

See also 

 List of cemeteries in Missouri

References

External links
 Confederate Home, Higginsville, Records, 1897–1944 State Historical Society of Missouri: lists correspondence, contracts, financial records, minutes, photographs, reports, cash books, farm accounts, journals, ledgers, and voucher registers available at the State Historical Society of Missouri
  – for photographs of the buildings, graves and monuments
 

Religious buildings and structures in Missouri
Churches completed in 1892
Properties of religious function on the National Register of Historic Places in Missouri
Buildings and structures in Lafayette County, Missouri
Cemeteries on the National Register of Historic Places in Missouri
National Register of Historic Places in Lafayette County, Missouri
Protected areas of Lafayette County, Missouri
Missouri State Historic Sites
Protected areas established in 1952
Old soldiers' homes in the United States
Confederate States of America monuments and memorials in Missouri
1892 establishments in Missouri