[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Hernán Losada

the 2016–17 season, Losada finished the season as the club's top–scorer with sixteen goals in thirty–four appearances in all competitions. Although he finished second behind his teammate, Arjan Swinkels for the club's player of the season, Losada had his contract option extended for another season.

For the 2017–18 season, Losada started as the club's captain for the side and regained his first-team place. He started well at the start of the season when he scored against Lierse (twice), AFC Tubize, KFC Oosterzonen and K.S.V. Roeselare (twice) throughout August and the beginning of September. He scored two goals in six league matches throughout October. Losada started in every match since the start of the season until he missed one match, due to suspension, in early–December. After missing one match in early–February, he scored on his return on 17 February 2018, in a 1–1 draw against OH Leuven. Losada announced on 20 March 2018 that he will retire at the end of the 2017–18 season. After spending towards the end of the season on the sidelines on three occasions, he scored on his last appearance for the side (and his last game in his professional career) in the last game of the season, in a 3–1 win over Eupen. On his last appearance for the side (and professional career) against Eupen, Losada was given a farewell send-off when he was given a specially designed retro shirt. At the end of the 2017–18 season, he went on to make thirty–four appearances and scoring eleven times in all competitions.

Coaching career
Shortly after announcing his retirement, Losada said he would become a coach at the end of the 2017–18 season. It was announced on 25 May 2018 that he will re-join Beerschot Wilrijk as the club's assistant to new Manager Stijn Vreven. Three months after becoming the club's assistant, it was announced that Losada signed a five-year contract with the club.

On 18 January 2021, after a winless streak of 7 matches with 5 losses and 2 draws Losada left Beerschot to become head coach at Major League Soccer side D.C. United. Upon his hiring, Losada was the youngest head coach in Major League Soccer.

On April 20, 2022, after defeating Flower City Union in the U.S. Open Cup, the club fired him. 

On December 21, 2022, Losada was named the head coach of CF Montréal in Major League Soccer.

Personal life
Born in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Losada grew up in the streets of Barracas. Losada' father, Adolf, worked for an insurance company while his mother Edith worked as a housewife and cared for Losada and his brother Martin. In addition to playing football, Losada learned to play tennis growing up and would often play with his father, who was an amateur tennis player. Losada attended university to study business management, however, he dropped out after his third year to pursue a career as a footballer. He holds an Italian passport through his grandfather, who emigrated to Argentina from Genoa, Italy.

In addition to speaking Spanish, Losada speaks Dutch, French and English. Losada credits his parents for giving him private lessons to speak English. After settling in Belgium, Losada became engaged to his long time girlfriend Maria. The couple got married in June 2009.

Losada has expressed his desire to write a book about his experiences as a footballer.

Throughout his career at Beerschot A.C. (which has since been renamed twice), Losada commented about the club: "That is difficult to express in words. From my first year in 2006 at Beerschot I felt a special bond with that club and its supporters. It gave me a good feeling. I just love the city of Antwerp, the supporters here, from Beerschot. That is why I am here next to you now, with a lot of ambition to help this club return to the highest level. This is where my European adventure started, something I will never forget. I think it is fantastic that I can also finish my career here. Wherever or for which club I played, I always followed Beerschot." Losada was a fan favorite at the club for the entirety of his career.

Career statistics

Managerial

Honours

Player
Beerschot Wilrijk
Belgian Third Division / Belgian First Amateur Division: 2015–16, 2016–17

Individual
Beerschot Player of the Season: 2011–12, 2015–16

References

External links
Guardian statistics
Player Profile on the Germinal Website