[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Textbooks in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict

Textbooks in Israel and the Palestinian territories have been an issue within the larger Israeli–Palestinian conflict.

Several studies have been done on Palestinian textbooks. A report by IMPACT-SE listed troubling references throughout all grades and subjects to anti-Semitic content and imagery, hate speech, and incitement to violence, martyrdom, and jihad. According to the EU-commissioned , Palestinian textbooks display anti-Semitic narratives. The U.S. Consulate General in Jerusalem commissioned studies from IPCRI – Israel/Palestine Center for Research and Information. The Hebrew University's Harry S. Truman Research Institute for the Advancement of Peace has also published papers on this issue.

From 2019 to 2023, the European Parliament passed four resolutions denouncing the Palestinian Authority for the "hateful" content of its textbooks and stipulating that any future financing for education be conditioned on the removal of anti-Semitic content. The 2023 resolution made a direct connection between textbook material and Palestinian terrorism for the first time, highlighting the need of education and giving students access to unbiased and impartial textbooks in light of the growing involvement of teenagers in terrorist activities.

Textbooks in Israel also have been studied and some problems found. Israel has ordered the word Nakba, meaning disaster or catastrophe and which refers to the foundation of Israel in 1948 and the subsequent forced flight of the Palestinians from Israel-captured land, to be removed from Israeli Arab textbooks. The term was introduced in books for use in Arab schools in 2007 when the Education Ministry was run by Yuli Tamir of the Labor party. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu justified the ban by saying that the term was "propaganda against Israel."

Israel has used the issue as a cornerstone of its Hasbara campaign against the Palestinian Authority. Palestinians say that their textbooks rightly focus on their own national narrative, which includes the privations of life under occupation.

International assessment

1998 UNRWA review
In 1998, two years before the Second Intifada, Democratic member of United States House of Representatives Peter Deutsch and other congressmembers directed the State Department to ask UNRWA to investigate evidence that school books used in UNRWA-run schools in the West Bank and Gaza contained anti-Semitic statements. The allegations surfaced in reports compiled by the Center for Monitoring the Impact of Peace, an NGO. In January 1999, the State Department reported "The methodologies employed by UNRWA make it difficult to draw firm conclusions about the extent of anti-Semitic content in host authority textbooks used in UNRWA schools. At the same time, UNRWA's review did reveal instances of anti-Semitic characterizations and content in those host authority texts."

2000 CMIP report
An analysis of Israeli textbooks in 2000 by the Center for Monitoring the Impact of Peace (CMIP) found that there was no indoctrination against the Arabs as a nation, nor a negative presentation of Islam. Islam, Arab culture and the Arabs' contribution to human civilization were presented in a positive light. No book called for violence or war, and many books reportedly expressed the yearning for peace between Israel and the Arab countries. However, some textbooks within the Orthodox Jewish community were found to contain prejudices towards Palestinians and the Arabs were often held responsible for Israel's wars.

In 2001, in Democracy, History, and the contest over the Palestinian curriculum, Nathan J. Brown wrote 'the Palestinian curriculum is not a war curriculum; while highly nationalistic, it does not incite hatred, violence, and anti-Semitism. It cannot be described as a "peace curriculum" either, but the charges against it are often wildly exaggerated or inaccurate.' In the same document, he also wrote that 'virtually every discussion in English on Palestinian education repeats the charge that Palestinian textbooks incite students against Jews and Israel. It may therefore come as a surprise to readers that the books authored under the PNA are largely innocent of these charges.'