[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hellig Usvart

In May 2008, the Polish label Metal Mind Productions remastered the album in a digipak format and included three live bonus tracks. The Metal Mind release was limited to 2,000 copies. Soundmass reissued Hellig Usvart on vinyl in 2018 and later in 2019 on CD for the album's twenty-fifth anniversary.

Songs
Hellig Usvart has references to the Bible in various songs on the album. The opening track, "A Church Bell Tolls Amidst the Frozen Nordic Winds," is an instrumental. "Blasphemous Abomination of the Satanic Pentagram" is the shortest track, being less than one minute in length, and is lyrically about both the Lord's displeasure for the symbol and the act of destroying it. "Behold, the Rising of the Scarlet Moon" references Acts 2:20 and Revelation 14:10 in the lyrics. "Thine Hour Hast Come" is about the fall of Lucifer and directly references the line "Lucifer, son of the morning" from Isaiah 14:12. "Release and Clothe the Virgin Sacrifice" describes an attempted sacrifice of a female virgin by an evil group, ending with the woman getting away from the location as a result of holy spiritual beings intervening for her. "Drink from the Chalice of Blood" directly references Jesus' "precious blood" from 1 Peter 1:19; it also references the crucifixion of Jesus Christ at Calvary and describes the act of orally ingesting his blood as part of the Eucharist. "Silence the Blasphemous Chanting" is about an individual who sees a group attempt to call forth Satan and successfully puts a stop to it, with the lyrics drawing parallels to Ephesians 4:29. "Invert the Inverted Cross" is about an inverted cross being used as a symbol for evil and directly references the line "the keys of death and Hades" from Revelation 1:18. "An Abandoned Grave Bathes Softly in the Falling Moonlight" describes a graveyard and an individual in it who passed away after the end-times, drawing parallels to 1 Corinthians 15:52. "Crush the Bloodied Horns of the Goat" is about violently excoriating a goat's cranium, which is meant to signify the Devil's head, and pulverizing it. "Weak, Feeble, Dying Antichrist" describes the rejection and eventual death of the Antichrist. "The Day of Total Armageddon Holocaust" is about the events that occur in Revelation 6:12-17. "Mine Heart Doth Beseech Thee (O Master)," a bonus track on several later releases of Hellig Usvart, describes a person under the threat of Satan and demons from Hell, who calls upon the power of God both for self-protection and to defeat the unholy forces; the song's lyrics contain a reference to Deuteronomy 31:6.

Controversy
Upon the initial release of Hellig Usvart in 1994, a publicity campaign was launched throughout the black metal community, revolving around Sherlock being credited as "Anonymous". Unsuccessful death threats were given to Markus Staiger at Nuclear Blast to reveal the identity of the anonymous musician who created the album, although the identity of the musician was later revealed as Jayson Sherlock. Horde as an entity also received death threats for being a Christian band playing black metal. In an interview with Son of Man Records' Erasmus, Sherlock says: "I only ever heard about them [death threats] second hand. I never personally received any death threats at all, not one. I kept hearing but that was all." Due to the intense, furious anti-satanic themes of "horn crushing" and "goat violence," the album was widely thought to be a parody of the black metal scene. As evidence of that, on 6 June 1995, the Norwegian newspaper Morgenbladet wrote an article about the phenomenon of Horde, writing: "Horde's album is an abrupt satire of the Norwegian black metal movement." The same article says of Hellig Usvart that "all the obligatory Spinal Tap references are here: [the liner notes of the album says that] Anonymous plays 'Total Apocalyptic Lead Guitar' and 'Cataclysmic Bass Rumblings'. Obviously 'amplified to eleven'." In an interview, Sherlock cleared up the parody controversy:

Impact and legacy

Hellig Usvart was a seminal, highly influential album for the Christian black metal movement. The album spawned some imitators, especially in South America, with unblack metal groups such as Poems of Shadows taking apparent influences from Horde's style on their debut album Nocturnal Blasphemous Chanting. The raging lyrics of anti-satanism would dominate the unblack scene for years. Concerned about that, Erasmus of Son of Man Records asked Sherlock in a 2006 interview: "Do you feel that unblack metal will be able to efficiently continue its response to black metal if it does not grow beyond 'horn crushing'?" Sherlock responded, "No I do not. The lyrics on 'Hellig Usvart' were written 12 years ago. I'm sure that if another Horde album was written today, the themes would be quite different and much more mature, to counteract the poetic and intelligent (albeit misguided) lyrics of modern BM."