[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dollar diplomacy

y, he would harm the financial interests of other countries, thereby benefiting the United States greatly.

Thomas A. Bailey, a professor of history at Stanford University has stated that dollar diplomacy was designed to make both people in foreign lands and the American investors prosper.
 Americas

Outgoing President Theodore Roosevelt laid the foundation for this approach in 1904 with his Roosevelt Corollary to the Monroe Doctrine (under which United States Marines were frequently sent to Central America) maintaining that if any nation in the Western Hemisphere appeared politically and financially unstable enough to be vulnerable to European control, the United States had the right and obligation to intervene. Taft continued and expanded this policy, starting in Central America, where he justified it as a means to protect the Panama Canal. In March 1909, he attempted unsuccessfully to establish control over Honduras by buying up its debt to British bankers.

Another dangerous new trouble spot was the revolution-riddled Caribbean—now largely dominated by U.S. interests. Hoping to head off trouble, Washington urged U.S. bankers to pump dollars into the financial vacuum in Honduras and Haiti to keep out foreign funds. The United States would not permit foreign nations to intervene, and consequently felt obligated to prevent economic and political instability. The State Department persuaded four U.S. banks to refinance Haiti's national debt, setting the stage for further intervention in the future.

Failure in East Asia

In East Asia, dollar diplomacy was the policy of the Taft administration to use American banking power to create a tangible American interest in China that would limit the scope of the other powers, increase the opportunity for American trade and investment, and help maintain the Open Door policy of trading opportunities of all nations. Whereas Theodore Roosevelt wanted to conciliate Japan and help it neutralize Russia, Taft and his Secretary of State Philander Knox ignored Roosevelt's policy and his advice. Dollar diplomacy was based on the false assumption that American financial interests could mobilize their potential power, and wanted to do so in East Asia. However, the American financial system was not geared to handle international finance, such as loans and large investments, and had to depend primarily on London. The British also wanted an open door in China but were not prepared to support American financial maneuvers. Finally, the other powers held territorial interests, including naval bases and designated geographical areas which they dominated inside China, while the United States refused anything of the kind. Bankers were reluctant, but Taft and Knox kept pushing them. Most efforts were failures until finally, the United States forced its way into the Hukuang international railway loan. The loan was finally made by the so-called China Consortium in 1911 and helped spark a widespread "Railway Protection Movement" revolt against foreign investment that overthrew the Chinese government. The bonds caused no end of disappointment and trouble. As late as 1983, over 300 American investors tried, unsuccessfully, to force the government of China to redeem the worthless Hukuang bonds. When Woodrow Wilson became president in March 1913, he immediately canceled all support for Dollar diplomacy. Historians agree that Taft's Dollar diplomacy was a failure everywhere, In the Far East alienated Japan and Russia, and created a deep suspicion among the other powers hostile to American motives.

See also
 American imperialism
 Debt-trap diplomacy
 History of U.S. foreign policy, 1897–1913
 New Imperialism

Citations

Sources
 "Dollar Diplomacy." Encyclopædia Britannica. 2019. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. 24 October 2019.
 "Dollar Diplomacy, 1909–1913" U.S. Department of State. 11 March 2008.

Further reading
 Challener, Richard D. Admirals, Generals, and American Foreign Policy, 1898–1914 (1973) pp 265–363. online at many schools
 Cohen, Naomi W. "Ambassador Straus in Turkey, 1909–1910: A Note on Dollar Diplomacy." Mississippi Valley Historical Review 45.4 (1959): 632–642.
 Coletta, Paolo E. The Presidency of William Howard Taft (1973) pp 183–200. 
 Finch, George A. "American Diplomacy and the Financing of China." American Journal of International Law 16.1 (1922): 25–42. online
 Gould, Lewis L. The William Howard Taft Presidency (U Press of Kansas, 2009), pp 79–92.
 Rosenberg, Emily S. Financial missionaries to the world: The politics and culture of dollar diplomacy, 1900–1930 (Duke UP, 2003).
 Rosenberg, Emily S. "Revisiting Dollar Diplomacy: Narratives of Money and Manliness." Diplomatic History 22.2 (1998): 155–176.
 Scholes, Walter Vinton, and Marie V.Scholes, The Foreign Policies of the Taft Administration (1970)

 Veeser, Cyrus. A World Safe For Capitalism. Dollar Diplomacy and America's Rise to Global Power.'' (Columbia University Press, 2002). online