[Source: PubMed]

18. Mil Med. 2024 Jan 23;189(1-2):e110-e118. doi: 10.1093/milmed/usad118.

Arming Hospital Ships of the Future: Hybrid Wars Require a Major Change.

Baker MS MD(1), Baker JB(2), Burkle FM(3).

Author information:
(1)Osher LifeLong Learning Program, University of California, Berkeley, 
Lafayette, CA 94549, USA.
(2)Merit International, Millbrae, CA 94030, USA.
(3)Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, Washington, DC, Kailua, HI 
96734, USA.

INTRODUCTION: It is time to provide heavier defense systems to U.S. Navy 
hospital ships. They serve vital functions in both the military and emergency 
management spaces. They provide medical support for combat operations and can 
also convey the empathy and generosity of the American people when used in 
humanitarian assistance and disaster relief response. Hospital ships are often 
key to success in scenarios that require the international deployment of 
resources and medical expertise. Hospital ships serve a dual purpose and hence 
are subject to regulations that do not address all wartime mission requirements 
and necessary defensive capabilities. The current U.S. Navy's interpretation of 
the Geneva Conventions regarding the visibility, lack of defensive capabilities, 
and inability to use encrypted communications needlessly endangers medical 
platforms and personnel in the modern environment.
METHODS: The authors (including senior author F.M.B.-a recognized (International 
Health Law expert) reviewed relevant literature and have evaluated the policies 
of belligerent parties in past and current conflicts. These increasingly appear 
to target civilian infrastructure including medical facilities and may increase 
the risk to hospital ships. This demonstrable current hybrid warfare appears to 
include purposeful attacks on health care facilities and as such hospital ships 
should have additional defensive measures.
RESULTS: Hybrid warfare and its focus on civilian infrastructure and health care 
targets are highly visible in the acts of both state and non-state actors and 
may encourage others to purposefully target health care facilities and 
personnel. Evidence of this is seen in the current Russian invasion of Ukraine, 
where since the invasion a year ago 1,218 Ukrainian health facilities have been 
damaged, including 540 damaged hospitals, 173 of which were totally destroyed 
and turned into "piles of stones."
CONCLUSIONS: In today's conflicted global environment, the clear identification 
of hospital ships leaving them relatively undefended and denying encrypted 
communication is the folly of a bygone era. Hospital ships may be targeted 
because they are brightly lit soft targets that can deliver a large payoff by 
their destruction. It is time to adapt to the global reality and move on from 
the tradition of painting hospital ships white, adorning them with red crosses, 
keeping them unarmed, maintaining open communications, and illuminating them at 
night. The increasing threats from hybrid warfare and unprincipled adversaries 
to medical platforms and providers of health care demonstrate that hospital 
ships must be capable of self-defense. The U.S. Navy is designing new platforms 
for medical missions and the debate, no matter how uncomfortable, must now occur 
among major decision-makers to make them more tactical and defensible.

© The Association of Military Surgeons of the United States 2023. All rights 
reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/milmed/usad118
PMID: 37114679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]