[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# SaferNet

SaferNet is a Brazilian non-governmental organization that combats Internet crime in partnership with the Federal Public Ministry. It facilitates anonymous reporting and provides information and training about Internet safety and security. Safernet operates in three strategic arms simultaneously: the National Center for the Denouncement of Cyber Crimes (hotline), the National Guidance Channel on Internet Security and Brazil helpline, and the actions of Education in digital citizenship.

Safernet facilitates anonymous reporting of crimes, with extra consideration for preventing and investigating child pornography, identity theft and various hate crimes. It also works with the government to improve legislation for Internet-related crimes. Safernet also educates, trains, and mobilizes the public on issues relating to their rights and safety.

In 2006, Safernet and the Federal Public Ministry brought a suit against Google's Brazilian business unit alleging that Google was not policing Orkut pages enough to prevent pornography and hate crimes. Complying with the judge's ruling, Google provided the requested user information to the Brazilian authorities.

SafeRNet, a safe route computation framework which takes advantage of these technologies to analyze streaming traffic data and historical data to effectively infer safe routes and deliver them back to users in real time. SafeRNet utilizes Bayesian network to formulate safe route model. Worldwide road traffic fatality and accident rates are high, and this is true even in technologically advanced countries like the USA. Despite the advances in Intelligent Transportation Systems, safe transportation routing i.e., finding safest routes is largely an overlooked paradigm. In recent years, large amount of traffic data has been produced by people, Internet of Vehicles and Internet of Things (IoT). Also, thanks to advances in cloud computing and proliferation of mobile communication technologies, it is now possible to perform analysis on vast amount of generated data (crowd sourced) and deliver the result back to users in real time. SafeRNet intends to improve drivers safety in a modern technology rich transportation system.

References

External links
 Safernet Official Homepage

Non-profit organisations based in Brazil
Cybercrime
Internet in Brazil
Computer security organizations