[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# 2nd West Virginia Cavalry Regiment

ided to try to capture the camp by themselves, and were successful in persuading a 500-man rebel camp to surrender. Rebel weapons were destroyed, and over 100 prisoners on horses were brought up the mountain to the remaining portion of the regiment. Union casualties in the raid were 2 horses killed.

Because of the two rebel cavalry units in the area (the second group at Sinking Creek plus another unit near Lewisberg), the regiment began their return home late that afternoon. The rebel pursuit was ineffective, although there was some skirmishing with the 2nd Loyal Virginia's rear guard. Ten more of the regiment's horses died from exhaustion on the trip home. The nighttime portion of this return trip was conducted non-stop. Other than horses and weather-related injuries (two men were hospitalized with frozen feet), the regiment suffered no casualties during a 70-hour excursion. The leaders of the advance guard, William H. Powell and Jeremiah Davidson, were promoted shortly afterwards—Powell from major to lieutenant colonel, and Davidson from second lieutenant to first lieutenant. Years after the war, Powell was awarded the Medal of Honor for his performance in the Sinking Creek raid. In 1889, General George Crook said that he regarded the "expedition as one of the most daring, brilliant and successful of the whole war."

Disaster in Lewisburg
During March 1863, Lieutenant Colonel Powell became severely ill, and was unable to recover at the camp. He submitted his resignation from the cavalry, and returned to his home in Ohio. Thus, the 2nd Loyal Virginia Cavalry lost the man who led the attacks at Barboursville and Sinking Creek—and was well respected by Union and Confederate generals.  On May 1, 1863, Colonel Paxton was ordered to scout Lewisburg. The regiment rode about  from Camp Piatt, encountering a few bushwhackers along the way. About  outside of Lewisburg, Paxton was informed that a battalion of rebels was camped near Lewisburg. Paxton hoped to surprise the rebels, and continued advancing (down Brushy Mountain) after dark. The advance guard, led by Captain David Dove, was discovered by a small group of rebels.

Against the advice of Captain Dove, Paxton continued to advance the regiment. The element of surprise was gone, and it was dark. Dove knew the probability of being attacked was high, and he took steps to minimize the danger to the main column. The advance guard was ambushed around 1:00 am on May 2. Dove received a severe wound on his foot, and two of his men were killed. The regiment's total losses were four killed, eight wounded, and four missing—plus 28 horses killed. Paxton, who was popular with the regiment, was dismissed by General Eliakim P. Scammon after the regiment returned to camp.

At the time of Paxton's dismissal, Powell's resignation had yet to be accepted—although he was at home in Ohio regaining his health. After a petition by the regiment, Powell was persuaded to retract his resignation. He was promoted to colonel and became the regiment's commander effective May 13, 1863.  Powell soon had a new second in command. On May 18, while Captain Dove was recovering from his wound, he was promoted to lieutenant colonel.

Wytheville Raid

  The Wytheville Raid was an expedition from the Union camps in the Kanawha Valley to Wytheville, Virginia. The raid was first organized on July 13, 1863. As it was led by Colonel John Toland, it is also known as Toland's Raid. Wytheville had a strategic significance because of a nearby lead mine. The lead mine was the source for much of the lead used by the Confederacy to produce bullets for its army. A salt mine, located west of Wytheville, was also important to the Confederacy. Another target was the Virginia and Tennessee Railroad, which served both mines. The railroad was also important for transporting Confederate soldiers and supplies.

By this time, the state of West Virginia had joined the union—and the 2nd Regiment of Loyal Virginia Volunteer Cavalry was now known as the 2nd West Virginia Volunteer Cavalry Regiment. Seven companies of the cavalry regiment left Camp Piatt and joined with the 34th Ohio Volunteer Infantry (who were also mounted) to form a brigade.  The cavalry totaled to 365 men, while the infantry totaled to 505. The cavalry's commander, Colonel William H. Powell, was second in command of the entire brigade.  Colonel John T. Toland, from the 34th Ohio Infantry, was the brigade commander. During the trip to Wytheville, the Union force was joined (and resupplied) by two regiments from the 1st West Virginia Cavalry. One company from the 2nd West Virginia returned to camp with the empty supply wagons.