[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Democratic Army of Greece

to control large rural areas but no major town. At the same time, the Hellenic Army, advised by the British up to 1947 and afterwards by US military delegation led by General James Van Fleet, US Army, established the Greek government's position in the rest of the country as well as internationally.

After the fatal blow in early 1948, when DSE's III Brigade numbering 20,000 men and women was completely wiped out, DSE lost support in southern Greece as well as the political and economic control of a huge area. That was the beginning of the end of the Greek Civil War. At the same time, the efforts of the HQ of DSE to capture and hold a major town in the North such as Konitsa or Florina led to catastrophic defeat of the partisan army, which never recovered. On the other hand, the DSE did manage to achieve some military victories in 1948 and early 1949, in the battles of Karpenisi, Naousa, and Karditsa.  At the same time, DSE had a huge problem regarding reserves. Most of the men and women capable and willing to join its ranks were imprisoned or unable to reach areas controlled by DSE.

One of the biggest battles of the three-year Greek Civil War took place in the Grammos mountains in 1948. The operation took place after the Hellenic Army had secured the Peloponnese, where it managed to defeat the DSE's III Division, numbering 20,000 fighters. In the battle of Grammos, forces of the Hellenic Army, with the codename Operation Koronis, deployed 70,000 troops, while the DSE had 12,000 fighters. The battle lasted from 16 June until 21 August 1948. On that day, DSE forces, after hard fight, retreated into Albanian territory and reformed towards Vitsi. The maneuver from Grammos to Vitsi is considered one of the most important tactical actions of DSE during the war, from a military point of view.

Towards the end of August 1949, the Hellenic Army, under the leadership of Alexander Papagos, deployed 180,000 troops, and achieved the defeat of the DSE army of about 7,000 fighters on the Grammos-Vitsi front.  After this defeat, the DSE fighters crossed the border into Albania and scattered to camps all over the newly founded Socialist Republics, with the main body of the fighters camped in Taskent, the capital of Uzbekistan in the USSR.

The post-Civil War era left a country in ruins. Many of the nation's youth were either killed on the battlefield, imprisoned or became political refugees. The political situation was quite unstable for most of the next two decades – the decisive factor leading to the Greek military junta of 1967–1974. The ghost of the Civil War haunted Greece for many years after. In 1981, when the Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK) party came to power in Greece following a long period of right-wing dominance, the political refugees of the DSE were finally given permission to return to their homeland (Slavic Macedonians excluded) by the new Interior Minister, George Gennimatas. Markos Vafiadis also returned to Greece and supported the PASOK government, and was elected a Member of Parliament for PASOK.

In 1989, the Greek Parliament voted unanimously a law that declared the three-year war of 1946–1949 as formally having been the "Greek Civil War" and accepted the former "Communist Bandits" as "Fighters of DSE", giving some of them privileges of pension.

Awards and decorations
On 4 April 1948, the Provisional Democratic Government's Law Number 13 established awards and decorations in order to mark extraordinary bravery and courage, as well as distinguished service during times of war by individual DSE soldiers and well as units. The aforementioned law established the following awards and decorations:
Medal of Military Valor Grade A and B
Electra Medal
Sniper Distinguished Service Medal
Saboteur Distinguished Service Medal
Distinguished Service in an Occupied City Medal
Artillery Distinguished Service Medal
Navy Distinguished Service Medal
Distinguished Service in the Monarchist-Fascist Army Medal
Aircraft Destruction Medal
Tank Destruction Medal
Distinguished Scouting Service Medal
Wound Badge
Distinction for Past Service in ELAS
Seniority Distinction

Α Provisional Democratic Government decree dating to 24 March 1949, awarded 33 participants of the Battle of Litochoro with the Medal of Military Valor which bore the inscription "LITOCHORO". A total of 970 DSE members received medals during the course of the civil war, including 557 men and 413 women.

The oath of the DSE fighter
The following text was the oath that DSE members must swear and abide by.  During enrollment, the member would swear:

“I, a child of the Greek people and a DSE fighter, swear to battle with gun in hand, to shed my blood, and give even my life to banish from the soil of my motherland every last foreign occupier.  To banish every trace of fascism.  To secure and defend the national independence and territorial integrity of my motherland.  To secure and defend democracy, honor, work, fortune, and progress of my people.