[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Walter Eucken

er his death.

By way of his friend Franz Böhm, Eucken's ideas found their way into the  of 1957, the foundation of West-German competition policy.

His papers were cared for by the Walter Eucken Archiv in Frankfurt. They have now been handed over to the Thüringer Universitäts- und Landesbibliothek.

Theory
Eucken's ordoliberalism, which is a special German variant of neoliberalism in its traditional definition, argues that the state has the task to provide the political framework for economic freedom to flourish. In contrast to laissez-faire, which by the 1930s had been observed to give rise to cartels and an undue concentration of power, ordoliberalism aims to put limits on the economic power of individuals, companies and associations. This is achieved through a legal and institutional framework, including maintenance of private property, enforcement of private contracts, liability, free entry to markets, and monetary stabilization. In this, the state should refrain from directing or intervening in the economic processes of daily practices, as in a centrally planned economy, but rather provide a well-functioning competitive Ordnung (order) in which private agents can act without frequent discretionary influence from the state.

The idea of ordoliberalism was introduced for the first time in 1937 in Ordnung der Wirtschaft, a periodical published by Walter Eucken, Franz Böhm and . From 1948 on it was further developed in the journal ORDO.

Works
 Kritische Betrachtungen zum deutschen Geldproblem, 1923
 "Nationalökonomie wozu?", in: Wissenschaft und Zeitgeist 10, 1938/1949
 Die Grundlagen der Nationalökonomie, 1939/1950
 "Wettbewerb als Grundprinzip der Wirtschaftsverfassung", in: Schmölders, G., ed., Der Wettbewerb als Mittel volkswirtschaftlicher Leistungssteigerung und Leistungsauslese (Berlin: Duncker & Humblot, 1942)
 "Die Soziale Frage", in: Salin, E., ed., Synopsis, Festgabe für A. Weber (Heidelberg: Lambert Schneider, 1948)
 "Die Wettbewerbsordnung und ihre Verwirklichung", in: Ordo 2, 1949
 "Technik. Konzentration und Ordnung der Wirtschaft", in: Ordo 3, 1950
 Unser Zeitalter der Mißerfolge, 1951
 Kapitaltheoretische Untersuchungen, 1934/1954 (as editor)

References

External links
 Walter Eucken Institute
 Walter Eucken Archive in Frankfurt am Main / Germany

1891 births
1950 deaths
Writers from Jena
People from Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach
German anti-fascists
Freiburg School economists
20th-century  German economists
University of Kiel alumni
University of Bonn alumni
University of Jena alumni
German Army personnel of World War I
German resistance members
German people of World War II
Member of the Mont Pelerin Society