[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Toposa people

precedent and has been crucial. 
The Catholic Diocese of Torit was active in resolving conflicts among the Toposa, and conflicts between the Toposa, Didinga and Buya, and the Toposa Development Association had been established to promote development and peacebuilding among the Toposa.

Recent events

There has been a long history of conflict between the Toposa of Namorunyang and the Didinga of Budi County. In the dry season the Toposa would drive their cattle to the Didinga Hills for water and pasture until the rains began in Toposa land. In the past, this practice was carried out by agreement between the two communities, with a gift being made in exchange for the right to access the pasturage. With the proliferation of guns and breakdown of order during the civil war, the traditional protocols were ignored and violence became common.
In May 2007 Toposa tribesmen of Namorunyang raided the Ngauro Payam of Budi County, attacked a group that were resting after working in a collectively-owned field, and took 300 head of cattle and 400 goats or sheep.
49 women, 4 children and 5 men were killed, while others were wounded.

Nadapal, just across the border in Kenya, is a fertile area in which many Toposa took refuge during the civil war.
With the end of the conflict, some Kenyans wanted the Toposa of the Nadapal area to return to South Sudan. The Toposa resisted, perhaps in part because they felt that tribes such as the Dinka and Nuer resented the Toposa backing of the Government of Sudan during the civil war, and they would therefore be treated as an unwelcome minority in Eastern Equatoria.
There were ongoing clashes between the Toposa and Turkana in this area.
A May 2010 report said the fighting between Toposa and Turkana had claimed over 40 lives and about 4,000 livestock had been stolen. It also said that George Echom, Deputy Governor of Eastern Equatorial State, had claimed that Nadapal belonged to South Sudan.

A 1982 report said there were 105,000 speakers of the Toposa language, including 95,000 along both sides of the Zingietta and Lokalyen rivers, and 10,000 in Ethiopia.
More recent reports give a much higher population.
In recent times, improvements have been made in health care, water supply and veterinary services. 
Many of the Toposa children now attend school in Narus and Natinga. These changes are profoundly affecting the traditional social organization.
Women are starting to take a more prominent role in resolving disputes.
The Governor of Eastern Equatoria, who took office in May 2010, is former Brigadier General Louis Lobong Lojore. He is a Toposa from Kapoeta East County.

References

Sources

Ethnic groups in South Sudan