[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Santino Marella

Marella participated in a 20-man battle royal for the number one contender of Cesaro's United States title and split from his partner Zack Ryder, when eliminated him. Successively Marella was eliminated by Wade Barrett from the battle-royal. Marella then took a leave of absence due to a neck injury.

 Final storylines (2013–2016) 
Marella returned on January 27, 2013, at the Royal Rumble, entering the Royal Rumble match at number 5 before being the first man eliminated by Cody Rhodes. After a two-month absence, Marella returned to Raw on the April 1 episode, losing to Mark Henry. Marella returned on the September 9 episode of Raw, defeating Antonio Cesaro. Marella then began a feud with The Real Americans (Cesaro and Jack Swagger), then Marella began to align himself with The Great Khali and Hornswoggle in this feud. He defeated Swagger on the September 20 episode of SmackDown and he defeated Cesaro on the September 30 episode of Raw. On October 6 at Battleground, Marella and Khali were defeated by Cesaro and Swagger in a tag team match. They were defeated again by The Real Americans on the following episode of Raw, ending their feud.

On the February 3, 2014 episode of Raw, Marella returned to television and invited Emma into the ring from the crowd to have a "dance-off" with Summer Rae, starting a feud with her and Fandango. Emma would go on to win the dance competition against Rae the February 21 episode of SmackDown. At WrestleMania XXX, Marella participated in the André the Giant Memorial Battle Royal and eliminating The Miz, before being eliminated by Alberto Del Rio. The following night on Raw, Marella and Emma defeated Fandango and Rae in a mixed match to end their feud. On the May 5 episode of Raw, Marella participated in a 20-man battle royal for Dean Ambrose's United States Championship, but he was eliminated by RybAxel (Ryback and Curtis Axel). On the June 17 episode of Main Event, Marella was defeated by Rusev in what would be his final match in WWE until 2020.

After a third neck injury, Marella declared his retirement on July 6 at a house show in Toronto, Ontario. On September 16, 2014, Marella underwent successful surgery on his neck. Marella made several appearances throughout 2014 and 2015, including one appearance on the November 24 episode of Raw to promote his new movie, Jingle All the Way 2 with co-star Larry the Cable Guy, serving as the Guest General Manager for the December 5 episode of SmackDown and hosted his own Royal Rumble lottery on the 20 January, exclusively on the WWE Network. Marella made his return to WWE television on the December 21 episode of Raw to present an award at the Slammy Awards. The next night, on Super SmackDown, Marella appeared in a backstage segment. On May 6, 2016, Carelli was released from WWE along with seven other superstars; the reason was due to an injury.

 Sporadic appearances (2019–2020) 
On July 22, 2019, Marella appeared at the Raw Reunion show in a backstage skit. Carelli would make a surprise appearance during the 2020 women's Royal Rumble match under his character of Santina Marella, where he entered at 29, becoming the first male to enter a Women's Royal Rumble match before he eliminated himself via "The Cobra" after being startled and intimidated by Natalya and Beth Phoenix.

 Impact Wrestling (2017–present) 
On November 5, 2017, Carelli appeared in the audience for Impact Wrestling's Bound for Glory event. Carelli still collaborating with Impact Wrestling, co-hosting the program Behind the Lights on Twitch. On July 23, 2018, he appeared at an Impact Wrestling TV taping, in the corner of Dustin Quicksilver (representing his Battle Arts Academy). Quicksilver lost to Austin Aries after Carelli threw in the towel on his behalf. Following this he got in a confrontation with Aries, resulting in Carelli hitting Aries with a low blow.

On March 5, 2022, Carelli returned to Impact Wrestling for their Sacrifice event, doing commentary alongside Tom Hannifan and Matthew Rehwoldt for the Impact World Championship main event between Moose and Heath. On January 13, 2023, at Impact Wrestling's Hard to Kill PPV, Carelli made his return under his previous ringname Santino Marella, performing as the on-screen authority figure "Director of Authority".

 Return to independent circuit (2017–present) 
On June 17, 2017, Marella announced that he would come out of retirement for one last match for Destiny World Wrestling, which operates out of his Battle Arts Academy facilities, on August 27. Marella had announced that he would be teaming up with Alberto El Patrón against RJ City and Stone Rockwell. In light of El Patron's legal troubles, he was announced to be replaced in the match by Chavo Guerrero Jr. After the match, Marella formally announced the end of his in-ring career.