[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carlos Gaviria Díaz

s in late April 2006 placed Gaviria in second place after incumbent President Álvaro Uribe, leaving behind the Liberal Party's Horacio Serpa, who was running for president for the third consecutive time. He lost to President Uribe in the May 2006 election by a margin of 62% to 22%.

Political views 

One of his main political proposals was to attempt to change Colombia's socio-economic model, which he believed to exemplify some of the worst characteristics of capitalism at a global and local level. By doing this, Gaviria intended to reduce the gap between the rich and poor. Gaviria argued, as do many of his supporters, that this gap has increased over the 2000s and continues to grow, in part due to the economic policies of President Álvaro Uribe's administrations. He disagreed with measures intended to make local and foreign investment more attractive at the cost of reducing benefits for the working class, while simultaneously increasing indirect taxes on the poor and reducing income taxes for the wealthy. Gaviria was also a strong defender of Colombia's 1991 Constitution, in principle, but believed it necessary to fully apply its chapters on human, ethnic and political rights, while at the same time restoring some of the controls that he considered the government and the state should have over the nation's economy and society.

Electoral history

Personal life
Carlos Emilio was born on 8 May 1937 in Sopetrán, Antioquia to Carlos Gaviria Arango and Maruja Díaz Holguín, He married María Cristina Gómez Toro, whom he had met in Spain in the summer of 1966, and married later that year on 16 December in a Catholic ceremony in the Church of Our Lady of Perpetual Help in Medellín, albeit him not being a practising Catholic. Together they bore four children, Juan Carlos, Ana Cristina, Natalia, and Ximena. He considered himself an agnostic, but came from a Roman Catholic tradition.

See also
 José Gregorio Hernández Galindo
 Jaime Araújo Rentería

References

Further reading

External links
 

1937 births
2015 deaths
People from Antioquia Department
Academic staff of the Free University of Colombia
Colombian agnostics
Former Roman Catholics
University of Antioquia alumni
Harvard Law School alumni
Academic staff of the University of Antioquia
Magistrates of the Constitutional Court of Colombia
Social and Political Front politicians
Members of the Senate of Colombia
Alternative Democratic Pole politicians