[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Lucius Fabius Cilo

g Severus' sons, who were in Rome during these months, and prevented them from being used as hostages against Severus. But following Severus' march on Rome, the new emperor assigned Cilo a title that was proudly displayed on the statue bases found at Rome: comes Imperatoris—companion of the Emperor.

Cilo was given command of a mixed force of soldiers known as a vexillatio, and proceeded to Thracia. The following year he fought against Severus' rival Pescennius Niger near Perinthus, and his troops suffered heavy casualties. An army drawn from the legions garrisoned along the Danube under Tiberius Claudius Candidus arrived to relieve Cilo, and in Autumn 194 crossed the Sea of Marmara, outflanking Niger. Candidus defeated Niger's army near Nicea. Following this victory, Cilo was made governor of Bithynia and Pontus, securing the rear of the advancing Septimian forces. Once Niger was defeated, and he could turn his attention to his other rival, Clodius Albinus, Severus reassigned Clio first to govern the frontline province of Moesia Superior (Leunissen dates this appointment to 195), then the strategic province of Pannonia Superior (from 197 to 201/202.  This appointment demonstrates that Cilo was regarded as a trusted associate who could watch over matters while away from Rome.

From Pannonia, Cilo returned to Rome to hold the office of urban prefect. Leunissen dates his tenure from around 202 to some point between the death of Severus (4 February 211) and the death of Geta (26 December 211). While in that office, he saved the life of procurator and, later, emperor Marcus Opellius Macrinus when his patron Gaius Fulvius Plautianus fell into disgrace. He also served as consul for the second time while Urban Prefect (in 204).

A domus on the Aventine was given as a present by Severus to Cilo. This domus, showed also in the Forma Urbis Romae, is under the basilica and the monastery of Santa Balbina, and was close to the horti Ciloniae Fabiae.

Life under Caracalla 
Cilo served also under Caracalla, Septimus Severus' oldest son. When the emperor decided to kill his own brother and co-ruler Geta and Papinian, Cilo, who had counselled harmony between the brothers, was seized by the urbaniciani, and only after the soldiers had torn off his senator's robe and pulled off his boots, Caracalla stopped them. According to Cassius Dio:
He [Caracalla] also wished to take the life of Cilo, his tutor and benefactor, who had served as prefect of the city under his father, and whom he himself had often called "father." The soldiers who were sent to Cilo first plundered his silver plate, his robes, his money, and everything else of his, and then led him along the Sacred Way with the purpose of taking him to the palace and there putting him out of the way; he had only low slippers on his feet, since he had chanced to be in the bath when arrested, and was wearing a short tunic. The soldiers tore the clothing off his body and disfigured his face, so that the populace as well as the city troops began to make an outcry; accordingly, Antoninus, in awe and fear of them, met the party, and shielding Cilo with his cavalry cloak (he was wearing military dress), cried out: "Insult not my father! Strike not my tutor!" As for the military tribune who had been bidden to slay him and the detail of soldiers sent with him, they were put to death, ostensibly because they had plotted Cilo's destruction, but in reality because they had not killed him.
Antoninus pretended to love Cilo to such a degree that he declared, "Those who have plotted against him have plotted against me" [...]

References

Further reading 
 Karlheinz Dietz, "Caracalla, Fabius Cilo und die Urbaniciani", Chiron 13 (1983), pp. 381–404

3rd-century deaths
2nd-century Romans
3rd-century Romans
Cilo, Lucius
Imperial Roman consuls
Roman governors of Galatia
Roman governors of Gallia Narbonensis
Roman governors of Bithynia and Pontus
Roman governors of Pannonia Superior
Roman governors of Upper Moesia
Romans from Hispania
Senators of the Roman Empire
Urban prefects of Rome
Year of birth uncertain
Year of death unknown