[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Martha Minow

afra Foundation Center on Ethics, a fellow of the American Bar Foundation and a Fellow of the American Philosophical Society.  She has delivered more than 70 named or endowed lectures and key-note addresses.

In 2020, Minow spoke with the podcast Criminal in their episode, "Learning How to Forgive."

Selected works
 When Should Law Forgive?, Norton (September 2019). . 
 The First Global Prosecutor: Promise and Constraints, with C. Cora True-Frost and Alex Whiting, eds. University of Michigan Press (2015). .
 In Brown's Wake: Legacies of America's Constitutional Landmark. Oxford University Press (2010)
 Government by Contract: Outsourcing and American Democracy, Jody Freeman & Martha L. Minow, eds. Harvard University Press (2009)
 Just Schools: Pursuing Equality in Societies of Difference. (Martha Minow, Richard A. Shweder, and Hazel Markus, eds. Russell Sage Foundation (2008)
 "Living Up to Rules: Holding Soldiers Responsible for Abusive Conduct and the Dilemma of the Superior Orders Defence". 52 McGill Law Journal 1 (2007)
 "Tolerance in an Age of Terror". 16 University of Southern California Interdisciplinary Law Journal 453 (2007)
 "Should Religious Groups Ever Be Exempt From Civil Rights Laws?". 48 Boston College Law Review 781 (2007)
 "Outsourcing Power: How Privatizing Military Efforts Challenges Accountability, Professionalism, and Democracy". 46 Boston College Law Review 989 (2005)
 Partners, Not Rivals: Privatization and the Public Good. (2002)
 Engaging Cultural Differences, ed. with Richard Shweder and Hazel Markus (2002)
 Between Vengeance and Forgiveness: Facing History After Genocide and Mass Violence (1998)
 Not Only For Myself: Identity, Politics, and Law (1997)
 Making All the Difference: Inclusion, Exclusion, and American Law (1990)
 "Law Turning Outward". Telos, 73 (Fall 1987)

See also
 Barack Obama Supreme Court candidates
 List of law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States (Seat 10)
 Leslie Moonves
 Jim Lanzone
 Joseph Ianniello
 Elena Kagan
 Thurgood Marshall

References

External links

Martha Minow faculty page at Harvard Law School

Edmond J. Safra Foundation Center for Ethics at Harvard University

1954 births
20th-century American Jews
American legal scholars
American women lawyers
Law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States
Harvard Graduate School of Education alumni
Harvard Law School faculty
International law scholars
Deans of law schools in the United States
Women deans (academic)
Living people
New Trier High School alumni
People from Highland Park, Illinois
American scholars of constitutional law
University of Michigan alumni
Yale Law School alumni
Deans of Harvard Law School
American women legal scholars
Charles H. Revson Foundation
Fellows of the American Academy of Political and Social Science
Members of the American Philosophical Society
21st-century American Jews