[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Royal Navy officer rank insignia

ers were given a single in ring, with the curl, though the carpenters lost the curl in 1879.

In 1891 ordinary warrant officers of 10 years' standing were given a half-ring of in, with or without curl as above.

In 1918 this ring, with the curl, was extended to all non-commissioned warrant officers.

In 1949 WOs and CWOs became "commissioned branch officers" and "senior commissioned branch officers" and were admitted to the wardroom, but their insignia remained the same.

In 1956 they were integrated into the line officers as sub-lieutenants and lieutenants, and class distinctions finally disappeared from the uniform.

Reserves 

From 1863 officers were commissioned in the Royal Naval Reserve this was for serving merchant navy officers only. They had rings each formed from two  inch wavy lines intersecting each other. The curl was formed into a six-pointed star. The lieutenant commander's half-ring was straight, but only  inch wide. The commodore had a broad straight ring, but the same star for a curl. Midshipmen had a blue collar patch.

Officers of the Royal Naval Volunteer Reserve (formed 1903) for civilians, had single wavy rings  inch wide, with the curl a squarish shape. The lieutenant commander's narrow ring was originally straight, but after 1942 was waved also. This system of rank insignia is still worn today by officers in the Sea Cadets. Midshipmen in the RNVR had a maroon collar patch.

In 1951 both reserves lost their distinctive insignia and got normal straight stripes like the regulars, but with a letter 'R' inside the curl. The two organisations were merged in 1958. In 2007 officers of the Royal Naval Reserve had the 'R' distinction from badges of rank removed. Honorary officers in the RNR however continue to wear the 'R' inside the curl.

Wrens 

Officers in the Women's Royal Naval Service had straight rings in light blue, with a diamond shape instead of the curl. The Women's Royal Naval Service was abolished in 1994 and female officers now have the same gold rings as male officers.

Royal Marines 

Part of the RN as the Senior Service, the Royal Marines uses the same rank structure and insignia that the British Army has, save for the field marshal rank, and the RM initials for second lieutenants to lieutenant colonels to distinguish them from the Army itself. The major general rank since 1996 is the highest rank of the officer corps, but in the past, generals and lieutenant generals headed the Corps, and from 1857 to 1957 the Corps also had the unique ranks of colonel second commandant and colonel commandant. Rank insignia are on brown or dark blue shoulder boards in all dresses save for the combat and barracks duty dress uniforms. From 1911 to 1957 the officer corps even included warrant officers and commissioned warrant officers in the same way as the RN. Although the Royal Marines does not officially use the rank of field marshal, the Captain General Royal Marines, the ceremonial head of the corps, wears a field marshal's rank insignia.

Officer ranks of the Royal Marines 
Historical ranks in italic.

 Warrant officer
 Commissioned warrant officer
 Probationary second lieutenant
 Probationary lieutenant
 Ensign
 Second lieutenant
 Lieutenant
 Captain lieutenant
 Second captain
 Captain
 Junior major
 Senior major
 Major
 Lieutenant colonel
 Colonel
 Colonel second commandant
 Colonel commandant - replaced by 1957 with brigadier
 Brigadier - acting rank, an appointment for colonels. until 1997
 Brigadier general - temporary appointment rather than substantive rank. used from 1913 to 1921
 Major general
 Lieutenant general
 General

See also 
 British Army officer rank insignia
 RAF officer ranks
 Ranks of the cadet forces of the United Kingdom
 Royal Marines Band Service
 Royal Navy other rank insignia

Notes

References

Citations

Sources

External links 
 Archived 2008 Royal Navy official webpage on Uniforms and Badges of Rank
 Illustrations of Naval epaulettes at the National Maritime Museum
 Royal Navy ranks, professions, trades and badges of rank in World War II

British military insignia