[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Va'etchanan

s, “to till it (, le’avedah),” and the Sabbath commandment uses a similar word in  (20:9 in the NJPS), “Six days shall you labor (, ta’avod).” And  continues, “And to keep it (, ule-shamerah),” and the Sabbath commandment uses a similar word in  (5:12 in the NJPS), “Keep (, shamor) the Sabbath day.”

Rav Judah taught in Rav's name that the words of  (5:12 in the NJPS), “Observe the Sabbath day . . . as the Lord your God commanded you” (in which Moses used the past tense for the word “commanded,” indicating that God had commanded the Israelites to observe the Sabbath before the revelation at Mount Sinai) indicate that God commanded the Israelites to observe the Sabbath when they were at Marah, about which  reports, “There He made for them a statute and an ordinance.”

The Tanna Devei Eliyahu taught that if you live by the commandment establishing the Sabbath (in  (20:8 in the NJPS) and  (5:12 in the NJPS)), then (in the words of ) "The Lord has sworn by His right hand, and by the arm of His strength: ‘Surely I will no more give your corn to be food for your enemies." If, however, you transgress the commandment, then it will be as in , when "the Lord’s anger was kindled in that day, and He swore, saying: ‘Surely none of the men . . . shall see the land.’"

A Midrash asked to which commandment  refers when it says, "For if you shall diligently keep all this commandment that I command you, to do it, to love the Lord your God, to walk in all His ways, and to cleave to Him, then will the Lord drive out all these nations from before you, and you shall dispossess nations greater and mightier than yourselves." Rabbi Levi said that "this commandment" refers to the recitation of the Shema (), but the Rabbis said that it refers to the Sabbath, which is equal to all the precepts of the Torah.

The Alphabet of Rabbi Akiva taught that when God was giving Israel the Torah, God told them that if they accepted the Torah and observed God's commandments, then God would give them for eternity a most precious thing that God possessed—the World To Come. When Israel asked to see in this world an example of the World To Come, God replied that the Sabbath is an example of the World To Come.

A Midrash cited the words of  (5:14 in the NJPS), "And your stranger who is within your gates," to show God's injunction to welcome the stranger. The Midrash compared the admonition in , "Neither let the alien who has joined himself to the Lord speak, saying: 'The Lord will surely separate me from his people.'" (Isaiah enjoined Israelites to treat the convert the same as a native Israelite.) Similarly, the Midrash quoted , in which Job said, "The stranger did not lodge in the street" (that is, none were denied hospitality), to show that God disqualifies no creature, but receives all; the city gates were open all the time and anyone could enter them. The Midrash equated , "The stranger did not lodge in the street," with the words of  (20:10 in the NJPS),  (5:14 in the NJPS), and , "And your stranger who is within your gates" (which implies that strangers were integrated into the midst of the community). Thus the Midrash taught that these verses reflect the Divine example of accepting all creatures.

The Mishnah taught that both men and women are obligated to carry out all commandments concerning their fathers. Rav Judah interpreted the Mishnah to mean that both men and women are bound to perform all precepts concerning a father that are incumbent upon a son to perform for his father.

A Midrash noted that almost everywhere, Scripture mentions a father's honor before the mother's honor. (See, for example,  (5:16 in NJPS), , and  (20:12 in NJSP).) But  mentions the mother first to teach that one should honor both parents equally.

The Rabbis taught in a Baraita what it means to "honor" and "revere" one's parents within the meaning of  (20:12 in NJSP) (honor),  (revere), and  (5:16 in NJPS) (honor). To "revere" means that the child must neither stand nor sit in the parent's place, nor contradict the parent's words, nor engage in a dispute to which the parent is a party. To "honor" means that the child must give the parent food and drink and clothes, and take the parent in and out.