[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Colonial Day

presence in this episode and elsewhere in the series than would have been strictly realistic under the circumstances. He defended the choice as one that shows a setup similar to the White House press corps and thereby grounds the viewer in a familiar understanding of the influence of the Presidency.

Several weeks after shooting of "Colonial Day" completed, the writers inserted a short scene appearing immediately before the vote count in the Quorum. In this scene, Apollo and Starbuck discuss the possibility of a future assassination attempt as they dress on Galactica. The writers inserted it to augment the assassination subplot when early cuts of the episode ran short. At the end of the scene, Apollo reacts incredulously to Starbuck's claim that she "clean[s] up good sometimes." This sets up Apollo's astonishment at Starbuck's appearance at Colonial Day and further builds the characters' romantic tension. Adama and Roslin's dance is also an expression of mutual attraction, though a smaller one.

During the interrogation scene, Apollo throws Valance's briefcase across the room when Valance gives an unsatisfactory answer. This was actor Jamie Bamber's idea.

Helo and Caprica-Boomer's second scene in "Colonial Day" marks the debut of the Cylon Heavy Raider. The shot with the Heavy Raider was filmed in front of UBC's Koerner Library. This location was also used in the Battlestar Galactica spinoff Caprica.

Reception
Jason Davis of Mania gave "Colonial Day" an A, commending the performances of guest stars Richard Hatch (Zarek) and Robert Wisden (Gray) as well as main cast members Bamber (Apollo) and Katee Sackhoff (Starbuck). Davis also praised the perceived connection between the themes of the episode and contemporary politics. Simon Brew of Den of Geek also reviewed the episode favorably. Susan Tankersley of Television Without Pity gave "Colonial Day" a B−, agreeing with Moore that the main plot and assassination subplots did not fit together well but nonetheless calling it "not a bad episode".

Connections to other series elements
In a podcast accompanying the episode, Moore compared the process of appointing the Vice President of the Colonies portrayed in "Colonial Day" to the process by which Gerald Ford became Vice President of the United States in 1973 following the resignation of Spiro Agnew. Moore said that under normal circumstances the Vice President would "presumably" be elected together with the President. The question of how the Vice President of the Colonies is normally chosen in-universe is resolved in the second-season double episode "Lay Down Your Burdens", when Zarek is elected Vice President as Baltar's running mate.
Starbuck and Baltar dance together at the Colonial Day celebration. In the first scene of the following episode, "Kobol's Last Gleaming", they have a one-night stand that ends abruptly when Kara calls out Lee's name. The writers intended the sexual tension evident between Lee and Kara in this episode to contrast with this.
During the first Quorum meeting, Head Six tells Baltar she doesn't mind if he has sex with other women. Baltar has trysts with journalist Playa Palacios later in "Colonial Day" and then with Kara Thrace in the following episode, "Kobol's Last Gleaming". Head Six reacts negatively to the latter encounter.
Adama and Roslin's closeness in this episode contrasts with the events of "Kobol's Last Gleaming", in which Adama mounts a coup and throws Roslin in the brig. Their mutual attraction becomes a sexual relationship by the fourth-season episode "A Disquiet Follows My Soul".

Notes

References

External links
 "Colonial Day" at the Battlestar Wiki
 "Colonial Day" at Syfy
 

2005 American television episodes
Battlestar Galactica (season 1) episodes
Fictional holidays
Television episodes about elections

fr:Saison 1 de Battlestar Galactica#La Fête coloniale