[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Micky Mellon

nal against Droylsden away was decided on penalties, as a 2–0 defeat, countered by a 3–1 victory at Highbury. Goalkeeper Danny Hurst saved the last penalty to put Fleetwood through 4–3. The final was played against Alfreton Town at Highbury on 9 May, in front of a new record capacity crowd of 3,592.

Fleetwood defeated Alfreton 2–1 in the play-off final. The team's second-place finish and ultimate promotion to the Conference, the fifth tier of English football, secured the highest position in the club's history since the 1997 re-establishment.

In the 2010–2011 season, Fleetwood finished fifth in the Conference National, losing the play-off semi-final 8–1 on aggregate to Wimbledon.

Fleetwood won the 2011–2012 Conference National, attaining 103 points in the process. Fleetwood progressed to the third round of the FA Cup for the first time in their history; beating Wycombe and Yeovil before finally succumbing 5–1 to neighbours Blackpool in front of a sell-out crowd.

After three defeats in a row, including a second round FA Cup exit to Aldershot Town, Mellon was sacked on 1 December 2012 with Fleetwood in 4th place.

Barnsley

In December 2012 Mellon was asked to assist David Flitcroft who was caretaker manager at Barnsley following the sacking of Keith Hill. In January 2013 Flitcroft was appointed permanent manager with Mellon as his assistant. Mellon helped to keep Barnsley in the Championship by securing a point at Huddersfield on 4 May 2013. On 10 May 2013 he agreed a new deal to stay at Oakwell.

In October 2013 Barnsley turned down two approaches for Mellon from Conference Premier side Forest Green to take over as their Manager. Mellon said "Barnsley had two approaches, but the club turned them down twice because they want to keep me. "So I am happy to stay at Barnsley as long as they want me because the Championship is where I want to be. "(But) I am delighted that there are people who think I can do a job and saw what I achieved at Fleetwood."

On 19 March 2014 Barnsley sacked Micky Mellon. A club statement read: "Barnsley Football Club has (on Wednesday) terminated the employment of assistant manager Micky Mellon and goalkeeping coach Ian Willcock with immediate effect. "The club would like to place on record its thanks to both Micky and Ian for their service and wish them all the best for the future."

Shrewsbury Town
Mellon was appointed as the new manager of Shrewsbury Town on 12 May 2014, with former caretaker manager Michael Jackson and Danny Coyne remaining as his assistants following the club's relegation back to League Two. Inheriting only a handful of players from the previous regime, Mellon made 16 signings over the close season, reuniting with former Fleetwood Town striker Andy Mangan, and ex-Barnsley players Liam Lawrence and Jordan Clark.

Shrewsbury went unbeaten in their first month of the 2014–15 season, including League Cup upsets over Blackpool and away at Premier League newcomers Leicester City. Despite hitting a difficult run of form in September, they also beat Championship leaders Norwich City to set up a fourth round home tie with Chelsea.

Despite exiting the 2014–15 FA Cup in the second round, a narrow 1–0 away defeat at Preston North End, Shrewsbury enjoyed a highly consistent season in the league, culminating in winning promotion back to the third tier of English football at the first attempt, following a 1–0 away victory at Cheltenham Town on 25 April 2015.

The following season, Mellon led Shrewsbury to the fifth round of the FA Cup for the first time since 1991, notably knocking out Championship opponents Cardiff City and Sheffield Wednesday in the third and fourth rounds respectively. The fifth round saw Shrewsbury draw Manchester United at home for the first ever competitive fixture between the two clubs which subsequently ended Shrewsbury's FA cup run after a 3–0 defeat. Shrewsbury spent much of the league season battling relegation. Despite losing 3–4 at home to Peterborough United in the penultimate game of the season, same day defeats for Doncaster Rovers and Blackpool ensured another season of League One football, with one game to spare.

Tranmere Rovers

Micky Mellon left Shrewsbury Town on 6 October 2016, after winning only two of the opening eleven games of the 2016–17 season, and was appointed manager of Tranmere Rovers in the National League. On 12 May 2018 Mellon led Tranmere back into the English Football League with victory over Boreham Wood in the National League play-off final. On 25 May 2019, Tranmere made it back-to-back promotions, winning the League Two playoff at Wembley, 1–0, over Newport County, thus securing their spot in League One for the 2019–20 season.