[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Jean Lee (murderer)

orking as a prostitute and was drinking heavily. In August 1946, she got a job as a barmaid in the Liverpool Arms Hotel, at the corner of Pitt and King streets, and was working behind the bar during the day and in a brothel at night. It was during this period of her life that she met Robert Clayton.

With Clayton
In late 1946, Lee met Robert David Clayton, with whom formed an enduring, and occasionally violent, relationship. Clayton had served in the Royal Australian Air Force as a stores clerk during the war, but he was subject to disciplinary action for frequent absences without leave and was dismissed from the service in January 1941. He briefly joined the Second Australian Imperial Force but was subject to further disciplinary charges and was discharged in 1943. Clayton had been married, but was divorced by 1945.

In April 1946, prior to meeting Lee, Clayton had been convicted of four charges of theft and one of false pretenses in the Sydney Central Criminal Court.  The charges related to a racket he had carried out by answering advertisements from women seeking to rent a flat. He met up with them in hotels and obtained money by claiming "that rent was required in advance before the keys were handed over". The magistrate sentenced Clayton to six months' gaol, but indicated he would recommend his release at the expiration of two months providing he had made full restitution by that time.

As his relationship with Lee developed, Clayton took on the role as her 'bludger' and "settled down to the comforts and affluence of poncing on her". He used the money earned by Lee to sustain a developing gambling habit. For Lee, however, Clayton was "the one real love of her life", despite his shortcomings and occasional aggressive behaviour. Even as she awaited execution, in her conversations with the prison matron, Lee spoke of "her Bobby" in eulogistic terms, contrasting him favourably with Brees and Dias.

In November 1946, Lee and Clayton went to stay with Lee's mother, then living in Toukley, north of Sydney.  However, Clayton had little tolerance for the domesticity of the household and the presence of Lee's young daughter. During their stay, Clayton and an acquaintance named Norman Bolger (alias Stanton) met two young women, aged 17 and 18, who were staying in a holiday cabin at Toukley, owned by one of the girl's parents.  On the evening of 3 December, Clayton and Bolger drove the girls to a remote location near Norah Head and attempted to rape one of them. The girls managed to escape and notify police.

On 23 December Clayton, Lee, Bolger and a woman named Sylvia White were apprehended in a stolen motor vehicle outside Condobolin.  Two detectives from Newcastle detained Clayton and Bolger for the Norah Head assault, but the two women were admitted to bail. The two men were convicted at the Newcastle Quarter Sessions in May 1947  Clayton of indecent assault, and Bolger of indecent assault and common assault. Clayton was sentenced to imprisonment of twenty-one months, cumulative on the eighteen months he was already serving for false pretences and stealing. It was disclosed at trial that both Clayton and Bolger were living with de facto wives (Lee and Sylvia White).

After Clayton's arrest, Lee returned to work as a prostitute. It was during the period of Clayton's trial and imprisonment that she incurred most of her convictions for prostitution, the last charge for 'offensive behaviour' being in March 1948 in Sydney. Prostitution charges typically involved a fine of £2 (or four days incarceration in default). Lee also worked as a waitress in a café on Pitt Street, and was reported to have cared for a paraplegic American serviceman in Darlinghurst. The serviceman was eventually flown back to the U.S. by his parents, but continued to write to Lee after his return.

Raymond Brees initiated divorce proceedings against Lee in 1948, which were finalised in June that year. Lee regularly visited Clayton at Long Bay Gaol, but during these visits he "was sullen, full of self-pity, and critical of almost anything she told him about her day-to-day life outside".

Clayton was released in September 1949. For a short period the couple operated a blackmail racket, known in America as the 'badger game' and in Australia as the 'ginger game'. The scam involved Clayton stealing a car which he parked in a quiet spot near a hotel. After Lee had enticed a prospective client into the car and gotten him into a sexually compromising position, Clayton would appear as the 'wronged husband' and, threatening "a sordid divorce action with the man as co-respondent", demand compensation. If the man was married, this threat alone would usually ensure compliance.

The murder