[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 99]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

e bride came out of church on her husband's arm. The children set up a
shout. Hadria and Lady Engleton, and, farther back, Professor Theobald
and Joseph Fleming, could see the two figures pass down to the carriage
and hear the carriage drive away. Hadria drew a long breath.

"I am afraid she was in love with Joseph Fleming," remarked Lady
Engleton. "I hoped at one time that he cared for her, but that Irish
friend of Marion's, Katie O'Halloran, came on the scene and spoilt my
little romance."

"I wonder why she married this man? I wonder why the wind blows?" was
added in self-derision at the question.

The rest of the party were now departing. "O sleek wedding guests,"
Hadria apostrophized them, "how solemnly they sat there, like
all-knowing sphinxes, watching, watching, and that child so
helpless--handcuffed, manacled! How many prayers will be offered at the
shrine of the goddess of Duty within the next twelve months!"

Mrs. Jordan, a British matron of solid proportions, passed down the path
on the arm of a comparatively puny cavalier. The sight seemed to stir up
some demon in Hadria's bosom. Fantastic, derisive were her comments on
that excellent lady's most cherished principles, and on her well-known
and much-vaunted mode of training her large family of daughters.

"Only the traditional ideas carried out by a woman of narrow mind and
strong will," said Lady Engleton.

"Oh those traditional ideas! They might have issued fresh and hot from
an asylum for criminal lunatics."

"You are deliciously absurd, Hadria."

"It is the criminal lunatics who are absurd," she retorted. "Do you
remember how those poor girls used to bewail the restrictions to their
reading?"

"Yes, it was really a _reductio ad absurdum_ of our system. The girls
seemed afraid to face anything. They would rather die than think. (I
wonder why Professor Theobald lingers so up there by the chancel? The
time must be getting on.)"

Hadria glanced towards him and made no comment. She was thinking of Mrs.
Jordan's daughters.

"What became of their personality all that time I cannot imagine: their
woman's nature that one hears so much about, and from which such
prodigious feats were to be looked for, in the future."

"Yes, _that_ is where the inconsistency of a girl's education strikes me
most," said Lady Engleton. "If she were intended for the cloister one
could understand it. But since she is brought up for the express purpose
of being married, it does seem a little absurd not to prepare her a
little more for her future life."

"Exactly," cried Hadria, "if the orthodox are really sincere in
declaring that life to be so sacred and desirable, why on earth don't
they treat it frankly and reverently and teach their girls to understand
and respect it, instead of allowing a furtive, sneaky, detestable spirit
to hover over it?"

"Yes, I agree with you there," said Lady Engleton.

"And if they _don't_ really in their hearts think it sacred and so on
(and how they _can_, under our present conditions, I fail to see), why
do they deliberately bring up their girls to be married, as they bring
up their sons to a profession? It is inconceivable, and yet good people
do it, without a suspicion of the real nature of their conduct, which it
wouldn't be polite to describe."

Mrs. Jordan--her face irradiated with satisfaction--was acknowledging
the plaudits of the villagers, who shouted more or less in proportion
to the eye-filling properties of the departing guests.

Hadria was seized with a fit of laughter. It was an awkward fact, that
she never could see Mrs. Jordan's majestic form and noble bonnet without
feeling the same overwhelming impulse to laugh.

"This is disgraceful conduct!" cried Lady Engleton.

Hadria was clearly in one of her most reckless moods to-day.

"You have led me on, and must take the consequences!" she cried.
"Imagine," she continued with diabolical deliberation, "if Marion, on
any day _previous_ to this, had gone to her mother and expressed an
overpowering maternal instinct--a deep desire to have a child!"

"Good heavens!" exclaimed Lady Engleton.

"Why so shocked, since it is so holy?"

"But that is different."

"Ah! then it is holy only when the social edict goes forth, and
proclaims the previous evil good and the previous good evil."

"Come, come; the inconsistency is not quite so bad as that. (How that
man does dawdle!)"

Hadria shrugged her shoulders. "It seems to me so; for now suppose, on
the other hand, that this same Marion, on any day _subsequent_ to this,
should go to that same mother, and announce an exactly opposite
feeling--a profound objection to the maternal function--how would she be
received? Heavens, with what pained looks, with what platitudes and
proverbs, with what reproofs and axioms and sentiments! She would issue
forth from that interview like another St. Sebastian, stuck all over
with wounds and arrows. 'Sacred m