[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Grey's Anatomy (season 1)

The first season of the American television medical drama Grey's Anatomy, began airing in the United States on the American Broadcasting Company (ABC) on March 27, 2005, and concluded on May 22, 2005. The first season introduces the main character, Meredith Grey, as she enrolls in Seattle Grace Hospital's internship program and faces unexpected challenges and surprises. Season one had nine series regulars, three of whom have been part of the main cast ever since. The season initially served as a mid-season replacement for the legal drama Boston Legal, airing in the Sunday night time slot at 10:00, after Desperate Housewives. Although no clip shows have been produced for this season, the events that occur are recapped in "Straight to Heart", a clip-show which aired one week before the winter holiday hiatus of the second season ended. The season was officially released on DVD as two-disc Region 1 box set under the title of Grey's Anatomy: Season One on February 14, 2006, by Buena Vista Home Entertainment.

The series' protagonist and title character is Dr. Meredith Grey (Ellen Pompeo), who is accepted into the residency program at the fictional Seattle Grace Hospital. She joins the program as an intern and is assigned to work under their resident Dr. Miranda Bailey (Chandra Wilson), along with fellow interns: the extremely competitive Dr. Cristina Yang (Sandra Oh),  the insecure Dr. George O'Malley (T. R. Knight), ex model Dr. Izzie Stevens (Katherine Heigl), and the arrogant Dr. Alex Karev (Justin Chambers). The surgical wing is primarily supervised by the Chief of Surgery Dr. Richard Webber (James Pickens, Jr.). Dr. Preston Burke (Isaiah Washington) is the head of Cardio surgery. Meredith is in a romantic relationship with her attending Derek Shepherd (Patrick Dempsey) a stranger she had a one-night stand with, and is the daughter of the renowned surgeon Ellis Grey (Kate Burton), who now suffers from Alzheimer's. 

The season's reviews and critiques were highly positive, and the series received several awards and nominations for the cast and crew including three nominations at the 57th Primetime Emmy Awards including Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Drama Series for Oh. The series also received three nominations at the Golden Globe Awards with the series itself being nominated for Best Drama Series, Dempsey nominated for Best Actor in a Drama Series, Oh winning the Best Supporting Actress while the entire cast was nominated in the Outstanding Cast – Drama Series category. Oh also won the Outstanding Actress in a Drama Series at the 12th Screen Actors Guild Awards. Chambers and Pompeo were nominated for Choice TV Breakout Performances at the 2005 Teen Choice Awards. Peter Horton and Jeffrey Melman were also nominated for the Best Directing – Drama Series, Night for A Hard Day's Night and Into You Like a Train respectively at the 58th Directors Guild of America Awards.

The last four episodes, written and shot to air as the final episodes of the first season, actually aired as part of the beginning of the second season, due to the high number of viewers that watched "Who's Zoomin' Who?", the season's highest-rated episode with 22.22 million viewers tuning in. The series was chosen in the top 10 for several 2005 "best of television" lists, including USA Today, San Jose Mercury News, The New York Times, The Boston Globe and Chicago Tribune.

Episodes 

The number in the "No. in series" column refers to the episode's number within the overall series, whereas the number in the "No. in season" column refers to the episode's number within this particular season. "U.S. viewers in millions" refers to the number of Americans in millions who watched the episodes live. The first season's episodes are altogether 387 minutes in length. Each episode of this season is named after a song.

Cast and characters

Main 
 Ellen Pompeo as Dr. Meredith Grey
 Sandra Oh as Dr. Cristina Yang
 Katherine Heigl as Dr. Izzie Stevens
 Justin Chambers as Dr. Alex Karev
 T.R. Knight as Dr. George O'Malley
 Chandra Wilson as Dr. Miranda Bailey
 James Pickens, Jr. as Dr. Richard Webber
 Isaiah Washington as Dr. Preston Burke
 Patrick Dempsey as Dr. Derek Shepherd

Notable guests 
 Kate Walsh as Dr. Addison Montgomery
 Kate Burton as Ellis Grey
 Sarah Utterback as Olivia Harper 
 Skyler Shaye as Katie Bryce
 Kathryn Joosten as Stephanie Drake
 Kevin Rahm as Mr. Duff
 Lauren Bowles as Alice Franklin
 Anjul Nigam as Dr. Raj Sen 
 Anna Maria Horsford as Elizabeth Fallon
 Robin Pearson Rose as Patricia Murphy

Production