[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Data governance

Data governance is a term used on both a macro and a micro level. The former is a political concept and forms part of international relations and Internet governance; the latter is a data management concept and forms part of corporate data governance.

Macro level 
On the macro level, data governance refers to the governing of cross-border data flows by countries, and hence is more precisely called international data governance. This new field consists of "norms, principles and rules governing various types of data."

There have been several international groups established by research organizations that aim to grant access to their data. These groups that enable an exchange of data are, as a result, exposed to domestic and international legal interpretations that ultimately decide how data is used. However, as of 2023, there are no international laws or agreements specifically focused on data protection.

Micro level 
Here the focus is on an individual company. Here data governance is a data management concept concerning the capability that enables an organization to ensure that high data quality exists throughout the complete lifecycle of the data, and data controls are implemented that support business objectives.  The key focus areas of data governance include availability, usability, consistency, data integrity and data security, and standards compliance. The practice also includes establishing processes to ensure effective data management throughout the enterprise, such as accountability for the adverse effects of poor data quality, and ensuring that the data which an enterprise has can be used by the entire organization.

A data steward is a role that ensures that data governance processes are followed and that guidelines are enforced, as well as recommending improvements to data governance processes.

Data governance encompasses the people, processes, and information technology required to create a consistent and proper handling of an organization's data across the business enterprise.  It provides all data management practices with the necessary foundation, strategy, and structure needed to ensure that data is managed as an asset and transformed into meaningful information. Goals may be defined at all levels of the enterprise and doing so may aid in acceptance of processes by those who will use them. Some goals include:

 Increasing consistency and confidence in decision making
 Decreasing the risk of regulatory fines
 Improving data security 
 Defining and verifying the requirements for data distribution policies 
 Maximizing the income generation potential of data
 Designating accountability for information quality
 Enabling better planning by supervisory staff
 Minimizing or eliminating re-work
 Optimizing staff effectiveness
 Establishing process performance baselines to enable improvement efforts
 Acknowledging and holding all gain

These goals are realized by the implementation of data governance programs, or initiatives using change management techniques.

When companies desire, or are required, to gain control of their data, they empower their people, set up processes and get help from technology to do it.

Data governance drivers
While data governance initiatives can be driven by a desire to improve data quality, they are more often driven by C-level leaders responding to external regulations. In a recent report conducted by CIO WaterCooler community, 54% stated the key driver was efficiencies in processes; 39% - regulatory requirements; and only 7% customer service. Examples of these regulations include Sarbanes–Oxley Act, Basel I, Basel II, HIPAA, GDPR, cGMP, and a number of data privacy regulations. To achieve compliance with these regulations, business processes and controls require formal management processes to govern the data subject to these regulations. Successful programs identify drivers meaningful to both supervisory and executive leadership.

Common themes among the external regulations center on the need to manage risk. The risks can be financial misstatement, inadvertent release of sensitive data, or poor data quality for key decisions. Methods to manage these risks vary from industry to industry. Examples of commonly referenced best practices and guidelines include COBIT, ISO/IEC 38500, and others. The proliferation of regulations and standards creates challenges for data governance professionals, particularly when multiple regulations overlap the data being managed. Organizations often launch data governance initiatives to address these challenges.