[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# The Forgotten (1973 film)

xe, and kills all the other inmates except Mrs. Callingham, who is not in the room. Charlotte is already outside, having been told of a secret exit in the basement by Sam. She wanders around outside as the camera goes back to Sam, who cries to himself while eating a popsicle and viewing the carnage.

Cast
Bill McGhee as Sam
Rosie Holotik as Nurse Charlotte Beale
Annabelle Weenick as Dr. Geraldine S. Masters (credited as Anne MacAdams)
Gene Ross as "Judge" Oliver W. Cameron
Camilla Carr as Harriett
Hugh Feagin as Sergeant Jaffee
Betty Chandler as Allyson King
Jessie Kirby as Danny
Jessie Lee Fulton as Jane St. Claire
Rhea MacAdams as Mrs. Callingham
Robert Dracup as Ray Daniels
Harryette Warren as Jennifer 
Michael Harvey as Dr. Stephens

Release

Theatrical Release
The original theatrical release of the film was in May 1973, when it played the Midwest and Southwest regions of the United States under the original title. Shortly thereafter, the film was acquired for theatrical distribution by Hallmark Releasing, a sub-distributor for American International Pictures located in the New England area. Hallmark had great success with The Last House on the Left, particularly with the tag line "To avoid fainting, keep repeating: it's only a movie...only a movie...only a movie". In July 1973, they test-marketed the film under a number of new titles, including The Snake Pit, Beyond Help, and Death Ward No. 13, before settling on Don't Look In The Basement. The movie received a nationwide release under this title in August 1973, and Hallmark continued to program the film throughout the remainder of the 1970s, often issuing it as part of double or triple bills with other titles such as The Last House on the Left, The House That Vanished, and Let Sleeping Corpses Lie, which Hallmark released in the US as Don't Open the Window.

Home media
The Forgotten was released for the first time on DVD by Vci Video on January 25, 2000. It was later released by BCI on January 22, 2002, as a part of its two-disk "Evil Places" movie pack. BCI would later re-release the film in 2004 and in 2005 in various multi-movie packs. The film was released five separate times in 2003 by Diamond Entertainment, Platinum Disc, Pop Flix, and Alpha Video respectively. In 2004, it was released twice by St. Clair Entertainment on February 24, and March 2. On October 25, and November 29 that same year, it was released by Elstree Hill Entertainment and HHO respectively. In 2005, Platinum Disk re-released the film three separate times as a part of various multi-film packs. That same year, it would also be released by Stax, Mill Creek Entertainment, Black Horse, and re-released by Diamond Entertainment. The following year saw the film's re-release by both Mill Creek and Vci, as a part of several multi-movie collections. Mill Creek would once again re-release the film in 2007, as a double-feature alongside Don't Open the Door! (1975). It was released both as a single feature by Video International in 2008 and as a part of a five-disk movie pack by Echo Bridge Home Entertainment in 2010. Echo Bridge would include the film the following year along with Madacy Home Video in several multi-film collections. In 2012, the film was released by Film Chest and re-released by Pop Flix on January 24, and April 10, respectively. Mill Creek re-released the film one more time in 2013, for their three-disk "American Horror Stories: 12 Movie Collection". In 2014 Film Chest re-released a digitally restored version of the film in November. Film Chest then released the film on December 16, the following month. In 2015, the film was released as a single feature by VFN and by Films Around The World Inc. On October 25, 2016, it was released by VCI and the following month by Film Detective. It was released for the first time on Blu-ray by Brink in a double-feature, alongside its sequel Don't Look in the Basement 2 (2015). 2018 saw the film's releases on both Blu-ray and DVD by Code Red and VCI.

UK release
Under the title Don't Look In The Basement, the film was released to UK cinemas in 1977. It was passed with an 'X' certificate after 35s of cuts (possibly made by the distributor prior to submission to the BBFC). In February 1983, the film was released on video by Dudley-based distributors Derann, under their Crystal sub-label. The running time was truncated to less than 80 minutes; still, it was branded as a Video Nasty, and though it escaped prosecution, was effectively a 'banned' title. The film was passed uncut with a '15' certificate for DVD release in 2005.

Reception