[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Working for Families

In 2004, the New Zealand Labour government introduced the Working for Families package as part of the 2004 budget. The package, which effectively commenced operating on 1 April 2005, had three primary aims: to make work pay; to ensure income adequacy; and to support people "into work".

The main component resembles the United Kingdom Working Tax Credit.

Both the New Zealand Ministry of Social Development and Inland Revenue have involvement in jointly delivering the package.

Components of the package 
The scheme pays "Working for Families Tax credits" (formerly known as Family Assistance) to families with dependent children to help with the cost of raising a family.  Dependent children are defined as aged 18 or under who are not in full-time employment.  The Working for Family tax credits include four types of payments:

 Family tax credit: provides ongoing support for beneficiary and working families with dependent children
 In-work tax credit: available to working families only
 Minimum family tax credit: paid to working families to ensure they earn a minimum annual income after tax
 Best start: paid to assist with the costs of a new baby

The Working for Families package also included additional help with childcare and accommodation, with increases in amounts of the existing Accommodation Supplement and the existing Childcare Assistance.

Family Tax Credit
Formerly known as Family Support, the Family Tax Credit gets paid to families with dependent children aged 18 or younger.  There is no employment requirement to qualify for the Family Tax Credit.

The amount paid depends on:
 total annual family income before tax
 the number of dependent children
 the age of dependent children

The maximum amount of family tax credit increases with the age and number of children. An eldest child garners a higher amount.

For an eldest dependent child aged 16 to 18, the maximum tax credit increases by $13 a week.
For dependent children (other than the eldest) aged 13 to 15, the maximum tax credit increases by $8 a week.
For dependent children (other than the eldest) aged 16 to 18, the maximum tax credit increases by $29 a week.

In-work Tax Credit 
Formerly known as In-work Payment, the In-Work Tax Credit replaced the Child tax credit from 1 April 2006. It is paid to families with dependent children (aged 18 or younger) who work.

Families do not qualify if they receive a main form of state assistance through social welfare.

From 2006 this amount was paid to a maximum of $60 per week for 1 to 3 children, with an additional $15 per week for the fourth and any additional children (thus a family with five children could receive a maximum of $90 per week).  The maximum amount was changed in Budget 2015 to be $72.50 per week, implemented on 1 April 2016.

Minimum Family Tax Credit 
Formerly known as family tax credit, and prior to that as guaranteed minimum family income, the Minimum Family Tax Credit aims to ensure that the total annual income of a family with dependent children 18 or younger, who work the required number of hours per week, does not fall below a set level. The minimum family tax credit usually applies if annual family income is $27,768 or less after tax. 
 
Families must work at least 30 hours a week (for a couple) and 20 hours a week (for a sole parent). They do not qualify if they receive a main form of state assistance through social welfare.

The annual and weekly amounts are amended every tax year.

Families who earn a lesser amount from employment, and who are not receiving an income-tested form of social assistance, will receive a payment equal to the difference between their income and the minimum income level.

Best Start
Best Start is a payment of $60 a week for families with a new baby. Families who qualify for Best Start will get the payment until their baby turns 1, no matter how much they earn. They can still get Best Start until their child turns 3 if they earn under $93,858.
 
Parents receiving paid parental leave or income-tested social welfare do not qualify for this payment.

Assessment of income

The authorities assess income for tax credit purposes based on a "household", which will consist of the pooled resources from up to two adults in any family with dependent children.

Nearly all households earning under $70,000 a year, many households with children earning up to $100,000 a year, and some earning more, qualify to receive assistance.

Withdrawal of tax credits 

The level of assistance to individual households depends on their income and on the number and age of children.

The rate of withdrawal (the abatement rate) for the Family Tax Credit, Parental Tax Credit and the In-Work Tax Credit comprises 20%. An abatement-free threshold of $36,350 exists.