[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 1932 Bahamas hurricane

mple warnings prevented loss of life and commerce at sea.

Bahamas
As the storm passed north of Cat Island, it caused a pressure of  and a wind of  from the north.  Although the cyclone passed within  of the Bahamian capital Nassau, the storm only caused winds up to  and no significant damage there.

The storm was very destructive on Abaco Island, where the reported barometric pressure was below . At Hope Town, strong winds shifting from northeast to southeast destroyed 83 homes and severely damaged 63. Food supplies ran low and salt contaminated the drinking supply. All public buildings along with the radio station were destroyed. The lowest pressure at Hope Town was  around 15:00 UTC on September 5. At nearby Marsh Harbour, northeast winds shifted to southwest at 20:00 UTC and calm conditions occurred for 15 minutes as the eye passed. The barometer dropped as low as . 12 homes were destroyed and most of the remainder severely damaged. On Green Turtle Cay, near Abaco Island, north and northwest winds coincided with the worst conditions; a large storm surge inundated the island, all buildings and the graveyard were destroyed, and at least six people died with 25 injuries reported. At nearby Coopers Town, just six homes survived the storm. Only four homes were still standing on Great Guana Cay.  On Green Turtle Cay, two large brick churches with stone walls  thick were destroyed by the storm and winds were estimated by one resident to have exceeded ; some of the stone blocks from the churches were reportedly carried . Newspaper reports and photos helped to establish estimated prevailing winds on Green Turtle Cay that possibly exceeded  during the hurricane.

After the storm passed Abaco on September 6 and 7, several vessels caught in the storm recorded winds of Force 12 (Beaufort Wind Scale) and low barometric pressures; the steamship Yankee Arrow recorded a pressure of  on September 7, while the nearby steamship Deer Lodge reported a lower pressure of .

United States
Although storm warnings were posted for the Florida and eastern United States coastline, the storm's recurvature prevented a landfall, leaving the main effects as heavy coastal swells and high winds. Gale-force winds affected the coastline, however. As the cyclone passed closest to New England, Nantucket recorded the highest winds at  as the storm remained offshore, although it still contained hurricane-force winds. Winds peaked at  at Cape Hatteras. Strong gales on the evening of September 7 caused the Cape Lookout Lightship to be blown loose from her anchorage. Off the coast at the same time, the crew of the Munson Steamer Munloyal, then believed to be  southeast of Frying Pan Shoals, North Carolina, reported that her position was unknown and her rudder blown away. United States Coast Guard cutters from Fort Lauderdale, Florida, were dispatched to her assistance.  Large trees and signs fell down in Brooklyn, New York, due to high winds. Cold temperatures followed in the wake of the hurricane.

Newfoundland, Iceland, and Jan Mayen Island
Although the storm was extratropical by the time it bypassed Newfoundland and was near Iceland and Jan Mayen Island, it was still intense: observed barometric pressures were at or below .

See also

List of Category 5 Atlantic hurricanes
Tropical cyclone effects in Europe
Hurricanes in the Bahama Archipelago
1899 San Ciriaco hurricane – A destructive, long-lived Category 4 hurricane that took a similar path, devastating the Bahamas
Hurricane Joaquin (2015) – A Category 4 hurricane that struck similar areas of the Bahamas, causing widespread damage
Hurricane Dorian (2019) – A Category 5 hurricane that became the strongest to ever strike the Bahamas causing widespread destruction

References

Sources
 September 1932 issue of the Monthly Weather Review
 Unisys tracking information for 1932

Bahamas Hurricane, 1932
1932
Hurricanes in the Bahamas
Hurricanes in North Carolina
Hurricanes in Canada
Bahamas