[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Cyberwoman

a few hours, but the camera failed to record the scene. It was replaced, but the second camera failed to record also. Eve Myles and Burn Gorman were both trained how to handle guns and a torch like a "secret agent." Strong noted that they both held the gun and torch in each hand like professionals.

The external shots of the Hub were filmed at Roald Dahl Plass in Cardiff, which is what exists above the Hub in the series. Filming the scenes at the Plass took place during the middle of the night, and was disrupted by hooligans. The basement where Ianto holds Lisa was filmed at a cellar in Tredegar House, Newport. The original ending to the episode is where Toshiko hands Ianto coffee while he is cleaning the Hub. However, after it was filmed, Strong decided to cut that scene out, as he felt the overhead shot of the Hub before that scene would have made a more suitable ending. Because it was filmed in only a handful of locations, mostly in the Hub set, and there were only a few guest cast members, "Cyberwoman" was considered one of the cheapest episodes in the first series.

Costume and effects
The producers noted there were a history of "sexy, pneumatic, hydraulic women" in science fiction, and wanted to "tap into that." To make the cyberwoman costume, the props department wanted to make it as "sexy" as they can. Director James Strong wanted to make the costume look "amazing," but threatening and scary as well. There were discussions about which parts of Lisa would be human, and which parts would be cyborg. Made out of rubber, it was custom made to fit Chikezie as much as possible. It took an entire day for the actress to get her body cast. After the costume was completed, it would take an hour to apply each morning, and an hour to remove by lunch break. Chikezie found it difficult to hear anything from the helmet while shooting scenes. It was also uncomfortable for her, but the producers noted she remained stoic throughout filming.

The fight scene between Lisa and Myfanwy was difficult to shoot, as the actress had to interact with a visual effect creature that would not be added until post-production. The producers added a plastic green beak stuck on the end of a stick to be used as a guide. The scene where the team go up on the invisible lift was made by making the platform stationary, but the camera below it would descend, giving the illusion the platform is ascending. The visual effect of the tools used to create Cybermen were reused from the Doctor Who episode "The Age of Steel", while the UFO footage when the Torchwood team return from the drinks was a tin foil-covered frisbee on a fishing line.

Broadcast, reception and analysis

Ratings and critical reception
"Cyberwoman" was first broadcast on BBC Three during the 10 pm time slot on Sunday 5 November 2006. The episode was seen by 1.391 million viewers, the highest viewing on the channel the week it was broadcast. The repeat on terrestrial channel BBC Two on 8 November 2006, was seen by 2.1 million viewers with a 10% audience share. It was given an Appreciation Index of 84.

Daniel Montesinos-Donaghy of Den of Geek reacted positively towards the episode, stating "surprisingly, it was absolutely brilliant – a mini-tragedy of sorts about secrets, obsession and corruption that finally gave both Gareth David-Lloyd something interesting to do and the series some much-needed focus. Plus, they totally played a Mogwai song! How often does that happen on television?" Montesinos-Donaghy felt it was "a step in the right direction," adding that it has "everything I could have wanted from a Torchwood episode."

Ian Hyland of News of the World disliked the episode, stating "After this week's 'Cyberwoman' nonsense, 'Torch Script' would be a better idea." Androzani.com said of the episode, "It's awful. It's horrific. It seriously, seriously sucks," adding "the single nice thing we can find to say is that the concept had potential." Seb Patrick of Noise to Signal thought, "despite a strong - and somewhat morally ambiguous - ending [the episode] really should have delivered in more spectacular fashion than this." Patrick also criticised Jack's personality throughout the episode, stating "we wanted a spinoff series about him because he was cocky, cool and downright entertaining - Buzz Lightyear meets Ace Rimmer meets James Bond. We didn't want some grumpy immortal bastard with a chip on his shoulder." Despite the mixed reviews however, the series producers and BBC controller of fiction Jane Tranter regard the episode as one of their favourites from the first series.