[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Commentary on Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid

an rights in the Palestinian territories, Dugard described the situation in the West Bank as "an apartheid regime ... worse than the one that existed in South Africa." Cf. Aluf Benn, "UN agent: Apartheid Regime in Territories Worse Than S. Africa", Haaretz, August 24, 2004, accessed January 5, 2007.

Zbigniew Brzezinski, former National Security Adviser to President Carter, agrees with the main thesis of the book: President Carter, in my judgement, is correct in fearing that the absence of a fair and mutually acceptable resolution of the Israeli–Palestinian conflict is likely to produce a situation which de facto will resemble apartheid: i.e., two communities living side by side but repressively separated, with one enjoying prosperity and seizing the lands of the other, and the other living in poverty and deprivation. That is an outcome which must be avoided and I interpret his book as a strong plea for accommodation, which needs to be actively promoted by morally responsible engagement especially by America. Brzezinski also condemns the "abusive reactions directed at Carter, including some newspaper ads" for being "objectionable and designed to intimidate an open public discussion."

UCLA professor of English literature Saree Makdisi writes in the San Francisco Chronicle that "Carter's apartheid charge rings true", observing: "Israel maintains two sets of rules and regulations in the West Bank: one for Jews, one for non-Jews. The only thing wrong with using the word 'apartheid' to describe such a repugnant system is that the South African version of institutionalized discrimination was never as elaborate as its Israeli counterpart—nor did it have such a vocal chorus of defenders among otherwise liberal Americans."

In an essay published in The Nation, Henry Siegman, former executive director of the American Jewish Congress, and visiting professor at the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London, begins by observing that the "book's title more than its content" caused an "uproar" even prior to publication, because it "seemed to suggest that the avatar of democracy in the Middle East may be on its way to creating a political order that resembles South Africa's apartheid model of discrimination and repression, albeit on ethnic-religious rather than racial grounds" and provoked such controversy due to "the ignorance of the American political establishment, both Democrat and Republican, on the subject of the Israel-Palestine conflict"; in Siegman's view: "Carter's harsh condemnation of Israeli policies in the occupied territories is not the consequence of ideology or of an anti-Israel bias."

Norman Finkelstein, an assistant professor of political science at DePaul University, defends Carter's analysis in Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid as both historically accurate and non-controversial outside the United States: "After four decades of Israeli occupation, the infrastructure and superstructure of apartheid have been put in place. Outside the never-never land of mainstream American Jewry and U.S. media[,] this reality is barely disputed."

George Bisharat, a professor at the University of California, Hastings College of Law, begins his "Commentary" on the book in The Philadelphia Inquirer of January 2, 2007: "Americans owe a debt to former President Jimmy Carter for speaking long hidden but vital truths. His book Palestine: Peace Not Apartheid breaks the taboo barring criticism in the United States of Israel's discriminatory treatment of Palestinians. Our government's tacit acceptance of Israel's unfair policies causes global hostility against us."

Michael Scheuer, the former head of the Central Intelligence Agency's Alec Station and professor of security studies at Georgetown University, criticized the negative response to the book, writing, "By God, even former American presidents like Carter are viciously attacked in public if they make negative comments about Israel." Scheuer pointed to Deborah Lipstadt, Jacob Olidort, and Mona Charen as examples of the "American takfiris' attack on President Carter for his book."

Notable negative reactions