[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Uncommon Dissent

Uncommon Dissent: Intellectuals Who Find Darwinism Unconvincing is a 2004 anthology edited by William A. Dembski in which fifteen intellectuals, eight of whom are leading intelligent design proponents associated with the Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture (CSC) and the International Society for Complexity, Information and Design (ISCID), criticise "Darwinism" and make a case for intelligent design. It is published by the publishing wing of the paleoconservative Intercollegiate Studies Institute.  The foreword is by John Wilson, editor of the evangelical Christian magazine Christianity Today.  The title is a pun on the principle of biology known as common descent. The Discovery Institute is the engine behind the intelligent design movement.

Contributors 

The fifteen dissenting intellectuals are:

 William A. Dembski, mathematician, philosopher, theologian, leading intelligent design proponent, CSC Senior Fellow, ISCID Founder
 Robert Koons, philosopher, theologian, Christian apologist, CSC Fellow, ISCID Fellow
 Phillip E. Johnson, law professor, Christian apologist, "father" of the intelligent design movement, CSC Program Advisor
 late Marcel-Paul Schützenberger, mathematician
 Nancy R. Pearcey, Christian apologist, CSC Fellow
 Edward Sisson, attorney
 J. Budziszewski, philosopher, CSC Fellow, ISCID Fellow
 Frank J. Tipler, mathematical physicist, ISCID Fellow
 Michael J. Behe, biochemist, leading intelligent design proponent, CSC Senior Fellow, ISCID Fellow
 Michael John Denton, biochemist
 James Barham, independent scholar
 Cornelius G. Hunter, biophysicist, CSC Fellow, ISCID Fellow
 Roland F. Hirsch, analytical chemist
 Christopher Michael Langan, ISCID Fellow
 David Berlinski, popular mathematics author, CSC Senior Fellow

Phillip E. Johnson's contribution is a reprint of his 1990 First Things essay "Evolution as Dogma".  Marcel-Paul Schützenberger's "The Miracles of Darwinism" is a reprint of a 1996 interview with La Recherche.  David Berlinski's "The Deniable Darwin" is a reprint of a 1996 Commentary essay, along with his responses to critics.  The other contributions were specifically commissioned for Uncommon Dissent.

In a 2004 review on its Web site, the Discovery Institute's Center for Science and Culture describes Uncommon Dissent as "a summary of the widespread attack upon Darwinism by some of today’s leading intellectuals." Mathematics professor and intelligent-design critic Jason Rosenhouse points out that the subtitle says "intellectuals", not "scientists", and adds that "[v]ery few of the contributors hold PhD's in any field related to biology. ... The ID folks are constantly telling us that evolution is failing as a scientific paradigm, and that scientists are jumping ship in droves. But when they have a chance to put together an anthology of testimonials authored by people who dissent from modern evolutionary theory, they have to resort to philosophers, lawyers or scientists who do not work in any field related to biology."

Topics addressed
The book contains four sections: Part I: A Crisis of Confidence; Part II: Darwinism's Cultural Inroads; Part III: Leaving the Darwinian Fold; and Part IV: Auditing the Books. Part I, consisting of three essays, offers opinions on why Darwinism is questioned by the public at large. Part II, consisting of four essays, discusses the authors' opinions on the effects Darwinism has had on society and culture. Part III, consisting of three essays, deals with the personal intellectual journeys of contributors Behe, Denton, and Barham, whose attitudes toward Darwinism have changed through their lives. Part IV, consisting of four essays, presents the authors' opinions on the consistency and scope of Darwinism.

The book's introduction characterizes Darwinism by the "central claim" that "an unguided physical process can account for the emergence of all biological complexity and diversity".<ref>Dembski, Uncommon Dissent, p. xx.</ref>

Contributor James Barham argues that "it is incorrect to simply equate Darwinism with belief in evolution." He distinguishes empirical Darwinism ("the idea that the formation of new species is due to random changes in individual organisms that happen to be 'selected' by the environment") from metaphysical Darwinism (the claim that "the theory of natural selection has successfully reduced all teleological and normative phenomena to the interplay of chance and necessity, thus eliminating purpose and value from our picture of the world").  For Barham, the "real problem with the evolution debate" is not empirical Darwinism, but a sort of "theory creep" in which a "bold but circumscribed scientific claim" (empirical Darwinism) becomes conflated with "a much more sweeping philosophical claim" (metaphysical Darwinism).