[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sol Smith Russell

nhabitants, taking my bill from house to house, from store to store, and showing my program, and then, when evening came, exhibiting my abilities and talents to a house' whose receipts brought me, all told, exactly sixty-five cents! But after all this was a good house for me at that particular time.

Often I avoided hall hire, sang in the open air, and took up a collection; and on a certain occasion I added the sale of eye-water, at ten cents a bottle, to my entertainment without any noticeable increase of receipts." Mr. Russell first came East with the Berger Family, and his impersonations of eccentric characters and imitations of John B. Grough attracted considerable attention. During 1867 he was connected with the stock company of William E. Sinn's Arch Street Theatre, Philadelphia, of which James E. Murdock was the leading actor. The next three years were spent as a monologue entertainer in variety theatres in New England and elsewhere. Mr. Russell's first appearance in New York was in 1871, at Lina Edwin's Theatre. He was then engaged for the Olympic Theatre, New York, of which James Duff, the father-in-law of Augustin Daly, was then manager. The stock company, which regularly played at the Olympic Theatre, was an unusually large one, and included a ballet corps and a numerous chorus. Two or three different plays were given every night; and sometimes, during the same evening, Mr. Russell was called upon to appear as a ballet girl in one piece and to impersonate one of the bearded ruffians in the next. The late James Lewis, formerly of Daly's Theatre, was also a member of the company.

In 1874, Mr. Russell joined Augustin Daly's company, making his first appearance, on August 24, as Mr. Peabody in "What Could She Do? or Jealousy." He left the organization after one season, but rejoined it again in 1876. While with Mr. Daly he played Trip in "The School for Scandal", Colander in "Masks and Faces", and like characters. Mr. Russell first appeared as a star in 1880. He opened in Buffalo in "Edgewood Folks", a piece written for him by J. E. Brown, of Boston, especially to display his peculiar abilities as a character impersonator and entertainer, Mr. Russell's specialties being made a prominent feature.

"I organized the best company, in the way of support, that I could gather, including several members of Wallack's stock company," said Mr. Russell. "I made a great effort, looking to splendid success. Our company played thirty-eight weeks with varying fortunes; indeed, with small luster and little profit. But the following season was good; the third better still, and, at the end of the fifth year the play in question—'Edgewood Folks'—had made my reputation as a 'drawing' star."

Then on the retirement of William Warren in 1885 from the Boston Museum, Mr. Russell succeeded him as leading comedian, but in 1886 he resumed his starring tours, bringing out "Felix McKusick," by J. E. Brown. In 1887 he produced "Pa;" in 1887 "Bewitched," by Edward Kidder; in 1889 "A Poor Relation," by the same author; "The Tale of a Coat," by Dion Boucicault, in 1890. Since then "Peaceful Valley," "April Weather," a revival of "The Heir at Law," "A Bachelor's Romance," and "Hon. John Grigsby" have shown him at his best. Mr. Russell's home is in Minneapolis, and his wife is the daughter of the late William T. Adams, known to boy readers as "Oliver Optic."<ref>Strang, Lewis Clinton, Famous Actors of the Day in America", 1899, pg. 248–260</ref>

Death

Russell died at the Richmond Hotel in Washington, D.C., on April 28, 1902, after suffering several strokes. He was survived by his wife and daughter, both named Alice, and son Thomas."A Comedian Passes Away", The Marion Daily Star, April 28, 1902, pg. 3

"Sol Smith Russell's smile was as near to human sunshine as anyone's smile can be. Those who saw him as Noah Vale or as Hosea Howe, will never forget his quaint, genial, captivating, winning smile. My association with him, at a critical period in his stage career, resulted not only in material prosperity for both of us, but gave me for all time, cherished memories of a delightful comradeship which can never be forgotten." Edward E. Kidder (playwright)

Sources

See also

References
McKay and Wingate, Famous American Actors of To-Day (New York, 1896)
L. C. Strang, Famous Actors of the Day in America'' (Boston, 1900)

External links

Union Army soldiers
19th-century American male actors
American male stage actors
1848 births
1902 deaths
Male actors from Missouri
People from Brunswick, Missouri
People of Missouri in the American Civil War