[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# July 1976

ere the Phalangist militia had recently defeated the Palestinian Muslim attempt to take over Beirut.

July 14, 1976 (Wednesday)
A 6.5 magnitude earthquake killed 573 people in and around the city of Singaraja in Indonesia, in the Buleleng Regency area located on the north side of the island of Bali.

On the first round of balloting, former Georgia Governor Jimmy Carter won the Democratic Party nomination for candidate in the upcoming U.S. presidential election.  The final vote for Carter at the Democratic National Convention at Madison Square Garden in New York City was 2,338 1⁄2 for Carter, and 330 and 301 for his closest competitors, U.S. Senator Morris K. Udall of Arizona and Governor Jerry Brown of California, respectively. 
By a vote of 130 to 124, Canada's House of Commons approved the permanent abolition of the death penalty, which had been the maximum punishment for murder, treason or piracy.  The ban became law on July 16 upon being given royal assent. The only remaining capital crime was for treason within the Canadian military.  In 1967, a five-year moratorium on capital punishment had been passed, and no legal executions had taken place in Canada since the moratorium expired in 1972.  The last executions in Canada had been carried out on December 11, 1962, when convicted murderers Ronald Turpin and Arthur Lucas were hanged.
A border clash between the armies of El Salvador and Honduras killed several Salvadoran soldiers.  On July 22, the Chiefs of Staff of both nations' armies met at the town of El Amatillo on the Honduras side of the border and agreed to a cease-fire, to be enforced by placing their sides of the border under direct military control.
Portuguese Army General António Ramalho Eanes was sworn in to office as the new President of Portugal after having been elected on June 27.
Aparicio Méndez, a 71-year-old lawyer, and the Chairman of the 51-member ruling Council of the Nation, was appointed by the Council to be the new President of Uruguay to replace Acting President Alberto Demicheli effective September 1.  The Council had removed Juan Maria Bordaberry from office on June 12.
Born: Teddy Afro (stage name for Tewodros Kassahun Germamo), popular Ethiopian singer and dissident; in Addis Ababa
Died: Joachim Peiper, 61, Nazi German war criminal and SS officer who had been convicted of the Malmedy massacre of American prisoners of war, was killed in a fire at his home in the village of Traves, Haute-Saône in France by French survivors of the war.  He had been living in France since 1956 after serving nine years of a life sentence.