[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Locations in Jericho (TV series)

ons as a counter-attack for the destruction of the U.S. cities. While the Allied States' official position is that Iran and North Korea were behind the attacks, Chavez shares Hawkins' suspicion that the terrorists were purely domestic and that Iran and North Korea were scapegoats.

Regional capitals

In the episode "Black Jack", the following cities were marked on a map made available at Black Jack Fairgrounds.
 Columbus, Ohio - The fake Marines in "Semper Fidelis" say that Columbus has become the new U.S. capital, but they later admit that what they said was based only on rumors. In "Reconstruction" this is confirmed; but Columbus only controls the states east of the Mississippi.
 Rome, New York - later united with Columbus
 Montgomery, Alabama - later united with Columbus
 San Antonio, Texas - capital of independent Texas; siding with Columbus as of the end of Season 2.
 Cheyenne, Wyoming - capital of the new Allied States of America, controlling the western states except Texas.
 Sacramento, California - later united with Cheyenne, according to "Reconstruction"

In the season finale episode "Why We Fight", it is stated there are three United States federal governments. Colonel Hoffman appears to be taking orders from a government based in Cheyenne, Wyoming, led by Senator Tomarchio, mentioned as leading one of the factions in "Black Jack"; this becomes the Allied States of America. Holdouts are described as "a bloc in the east (coast)" and Texas. The second season opener "Reconstruction" confirms that Sacramento and the rest of the western U.S. have joined up with Cheyenne's ASA, while Montgomery, Rome, and the rest of the eastern U.S. have rallied behind Columbus, leaving Texas as the only significant holdout. The "Blue Line" is a United Nations buffer zone along the Mississippi River, keeping the peace between Cheyenne and Columbus.

The ASA's flag shows 13 vertical stripes, representing the 13 founding colonies as before, but signifying that the new government is taking a "new direction"; and 21 stars, one for each State west of the Mississippi excluding Texas, Hawaii and Alaska. (Texas is independent; the status of Alaska and Hawaii is not known.)

Rogue River, Kansas 
Rogue River is the county seat of the fictional Fillmore County, and is located roughly 90 miles east of Jericho. It is a mid-sized city with a county hospital. FEMA evacuated the city after nearby Lawrence, Kansas, was targeted during a nuclear attack. The city is deserted, and all the living people are evacuated to a tent city.

New Bern, Kansas 
New Bern is a city near Jericho. The town manager is Phil Constantino, who is also the sheriff. New Bern's land is mostly clay, so its citizens have no way of growing crops. After the attacks, New Bern asks for ten percent of Jericho's spring crop, along with salt, in exchange for ten wind turbines. Ten Jericho men are taken to New Bern to help make the turbines, a gesture interpreted by Jericho's mayor, Gray Anderson, as a passive hostage-taking as collateral for Jericho's fulfilling its part of the deal.

When all but one (Eric Green), plus a citizen present in New Bern previously (Heather Lisinski), of the Jericho citizens suddenly return from New Bern with the generators, Jake Green and Robert Hawkins, go to New Bern to look for the missing people. There they discover that New Bern's leaders are planning a military-style attack on Jericho, having converted their factory into a munitions plant. Many buildings in the town, including the city hall, were heavily damaged by Ravenwood private military contractors, an attack residents blame on Jericho's having successfully repelled Ravenwood some time earlier. Residents have been told that Jericho is hoarding supplies.

Hostilities between New Bern and Jericho increase after New Bern attacks Jericho with mortars in an attempt to annex several of Jericho's outlying farms. The situation escalates, and in the season finale, New Bern launches a full assault on Jericho.

At the start of season 2, the Cheyenne Government stops the skirmish and forces a cease-fire. After Major Beck determines that New Bern was the instigator of the skirmish, the town of New Bern remains in lockdown with curfews and extensive military checkpoints. Gunmen from New Bern enter Jericho on numerous occasions, almost gunning down a Jericho citizen in broad daylight.

Heather is appointed as liaison between Jericho and New Bern in an effort to further promote peace and reconciliation.

References

Jericho (2006 TV series)
Jericho (TV series)