[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Peace Mala

che also visited Coedcae School prior to his involvement with Peace Mala.  Rinpoche left Tibet in 1959, and is the first resident Lama of the Yungdrung Bön tradition in Europe. He also teaches widely in the US.

Evans invited Lama Khemsar Rinpoche to be a patron of the organisation, and he accepted.

The Peace Mala bracelet
A Peace Mala is a symbolic bracelet used to promote the message of the Golden Rule of mutual respect recognised by many spiritual paths. It consists of 16 beads, forming a double rainbow, which represent Christianity, Buddhism, Sikhism, Islam, Judaism, Baháʼí, ISKCON, Zoroastrianism, Tribal and Native Religions, Jainism, Earth religions, Taoism, Hinduism and Yungdrung Bön. The central iridescent clear crystal bead represents the wearer and whatever path they follow; it also represents the cosmos, emphasising the interconnectedness of everyone and everything. There are two knots on the elastic thread: one symbolising the wearer's uniqueness, inclusive of all races, colours, genders, sexualities, abilities, age, size, social class, or caste. The final knot is a reminder that how we behave in life affects everyone we meet and that we should follow a path of peace to help create a better world. The final crystal bead represents unity, harmony, and peace.

Website
The Peace Mala website was created in 2002 using money granted by the Princes Trust Millennium Award. It was designed and published using 100% solar power by the web publishing company Arcania. The website includes news articles relating to Peace Mala activities and endorsements from prominent religious leaders, political dignitaries and celebrities including the Pope John Paul II, the 14th Dalai Lama, Jillian Evans MEP, Sir Mark Tully Beth Nielsen Chapman, Bonnie Tyler and Barbara Dickson.

Registered office
On Wednesday 18 August 2004, the Peace Mala Registered Office was officially opened during a ceremony attended by the Lord Mayor and Consort of the City of Swansea.

The registered office is used as a base for Peace Mala activities including workshops and public talks.

Peace Garden
Attached to the registered office is a peace garden with many features including a shrine to Saint Francis of Assisi, Buddhist statues and prayer flags, a miniature Zen-style stone garden, water features, and a tree area which has been blessed in a ceremony led by Witches, and Druids.  There is also a tranquil area facing Mecca, which is dedicated to the Muslim faith.

Aims
Peace Mala outlined its "Main Aims" as:
Education for global citizenship through the promotion of understanding, respect, friendship, tolerance and peace between all communities, cultures and enlightened, compassionate faiths.
Peace Mala supports human rights, confronts bullying and all forms of prejudice.
Peace Mala raises awareness of issues of global interdependence and encourages active compassion by learners that will effect positive changes locally and globally.

International Awards for Youth
In 2006 Peace Mala launched the Peace Mala Awards for Youth.  The awards and competition encourage young people "...  to become aware of and involved with issues of peace, justice, tolerance and friendship.". The competition focuses in issues of equality, human rights and global citizenship.

The Youth Awards allows entrants from educational institutions, youth groups and faith groups. Two prizes are awarded: one for juniors (5–11) and the other for seniors (12–18). The awards were accompanied by cash prizes, and occasionally donated gifts such as commemorative framed posters signed by Gary Marlon Suson from the Ground Zero Museum Workshop.

In 2007 the Peace Mala Awards for Youth became an international competition with youth groups in the USA taking part in the project. In 2009 the Awards were superseded by the Peace Mala Accreditation.

Accreditation for Schools, Youth Groups and Community Groups
In September 2009 Peace Mala celebrated the last Youth Awards ceremony, where the Awards were replaced an accreditation for schools, youth groups and community groups.  As the Awards had focused on competitive engagement by schools and some youth groups, the accreditation would be more cooperative and inclusive.  Schools and groups are encouraged to include the vision and objectives of Peace Mala within their ethos via the seven criteria and accreditation is awarded when the seven criteria have been successfully fulfilled as outlined in the self-assessment form available to applicants. These seven areas are intended to fit into the school, youth group or community group's values system and are in line with the objectives and vision of Peace Mala.

Applicants for accreditation are judged against seven key criteria:

 Community cohesion and global citizenship
 Needs and human rights
 Interdependence
 Active compassion
 Celebrating diversity
 Environmental responsibilities and sustainable change
 Conflict resolution and peace education