[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Fjordman

In August 2011, Norwegian professor Arnulf Hagen claimed that there was much to suggest that Jensen had a Wikipedia account (Misheu) which made 2000 edits. In June 2012, writing as Fjordman, he heavily criticised Wikipedia in an article entitled "The Bias and Dishonesty of Wikipedia" in EuropeNews.

Writings under the pen name Fjordman 
Fjordman blogged on his own web log in 2005, giving it up at the end of the year. Since then, he has "guested" and commented in other blogs, mainly on Gates of Vienna, but also including Brussels Journal, Jihad Watch, Faith Freedom International, Free Republic, Daily Pundit, Global Politician and FrontPage Magazine. Fjordman published a compilation of his articles in print via lulu.com in November 2008.

Norwegian historian Vidar Enebakk has criticised the way he thought Fjordman misused academic research for political purposes. Øyvind Strømmen argues that Fjordman's essays fulfill all the criteria of Roger Griffin's definition of fascism.

Views 
Jensen has written negatively about multiculturalism, the European Union, feminism and Islam. He is an outspoken proponent of Bat Ye'or's conspiracy theory of "Eurabia", according to which Europe and the Arab states would join forces to make life impossible for Israel and Islamize the old continent. Jensen wrote an essay titled "The Eurabia Code" in support of the concept, in which he says that "[T]he 'Jewish threat' in the 1930s was entirely fictional, whereas the 'Islamic threat' now is very real." His self-published book compiling his articles is titled Defeating Eurabia. According to The Independent, Jensen writes "screeds accusing Muslims of secretly planning to take over Europe." As a solution to this imagined invasion, Jensen advocates the deportation of all Muslims back to their homelands.

The Norwegian News Agency has stated that "Fjordman" "[is] considered a very central far-right and anti-Islamic voice in Europe." Andrew Brown characterises him as "[an] Islamophobe who has for years been predicting civil war between Muslims and their neighbours." The researcher Terje Emberland at the Norwegian Center for Studies of Holocaust and Religious Minorities states that "Fjordman"'s views are based on a conspiracy theory, and that "Islamophobes like Fjordman believe they have seen through an evil power that will throw Europe into a civil war. Therefore, they argue that all means must be used to save the Western culture; implicit in this is the threat of violence."

Jensen believes that the Western governments promoting the influx of non-white immigrants are demonstrating "white masochism", and that white people have the right to "preserve [their] heritage" and are "under no obligation to commit collective suicide". He denies that this is a white supremacist view, stating that "Whites ... are currently the only racial group specifically denied the opportunity to defend their countries and heritage." He also rejects accusations of racism, stating that "non-whites attacking whites" constitutes "the vast majority of racist violence in Western nations". He argues that "White critics of mass immigration" are systematically demonized as racists and right-wing extremists. Jensen argues for the preservation of a white European majority, and demands an extremely restrictive immigration policy, the dissolution of the European Union and the "rejection of multiculturalism". He argues that otherwise, Europeans would have to conclude that the governments have given up on their people, and that the laws and taxes which they impose on them are therefore illegitimate.

On Islam
In November 2015 Fjordman summarized his view of Islam as "a permanent world war":

2011 Norway attacks 
Shortly after the bombing of Oslo in the 2011 Norway attacks (when it still was believed the terrorist was an Islamist), Fjordman asked his regular readers at the Gates of Vienna blog to "remember" that Norwegian Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg was as much a "pathetic sucker for Islam as it is humanly possible to be" and his Labour/Socialist Left/Centre Party government "the most dhimmi appeasing of all Western governments (…) suicidal and cowardly". When the shooting at Utøya became known a few hours later, Fjordman described the Workers' Youth League (AUF) under attack as a "gang of anti-Israeli, pro-Palestine youth-socialists". Jensen also voiced a rather basic antipathy towards Oslo's immigrant population: in relation to a TV interview with a man referred to as a "Norwegian eyewitness" – a person of Arab origin who had the windows of his restaurant blown to pieces by the blast – a Gates of Vienna reader sarcastically said to Jensen that he did not know Norwegians looked so much like Arabs. Jensen's reply was that "in Oslo they do. Arabs, Kurds, Pakistanis, Somalis, you name it. Anything and everything is fine as long as they rape the natives and destroy the country, which they do".