[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William Sims Bainbridge

y (1986)
The Future of Religion (with Rodney Stark) (1985)
Satan's Power: A Deviant Psychotherapy Cult (1978).
The Spaceflight Revolution (1976).
In addition,  The Future of Religion was reprinted in Chinese in 2006 and Satan's Power: A Deviant Psychotherapy Cult was translated into Italian in 1994.

Bainbridge's edited and co-edited books include:
 Handbook of Science and Technology Convergence (with Mihail C. Roco) (2016)
 Convergence of Knowledge, Technology and Society (with Mihail C. Roco, Bruce Tonn, George Whitesides) (2013)
 Leadership in Science and Technology (2012) 
 Progress in Convergence: Technologies for Human Wellbeing (with Mihail C. Roco) (2006)
 Nanotechnology: Societal Implications—Maximizing Benefit for Humanity (with Mihail C. Roco) (2006)
 Nanotechnology: Societal Implications—Individual Perspectives (with Mihail C. Roco) (2006) 
 Managing Nano-Bio-Info-Cogno Innovations: Converging Technologies in Society (with Mihail C. Roco) (2006)
 Encyclopedia of Human-Computer Interaction (2004)
 Converging Technologies for Improving Human Performance (with Mihail C. Roco) (2003)
 Societal Implications of Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (with Mihail C. Roco) (2001).

In addition to his books, Bainbridge has published over 200 articles and essays in various journals and encyclopedias. From 2013, when he published eGods, his work has shifted towards the study of the sociology of video gaming, beginning with the publication of a new article (co-authored with his daughter Wilma Alice Bainbridge) on the potentially interesting aspects of glitches in video games. He has also studied "personality capture" in software, the process by which one may save one's personality in a computer through the answering of vast personality surveys.

Awards and organizations
The Future of Religion won the "Outstanding Book of the Year" award from the Society for the Scientific Study of Religion in 1986 and A Theory of Religion won the "Outstanding Scholarship" from the Pacific Sociological Association in 1993.

Bainbridge is a founding member of the Order of Cosmic Engineers and is distantly related to Commodore William Bainbridge.

See also 
 Rodney Stark

References 

<li>Bainbridge, William S. Curriculum Vitae . Retrieved October 12, 2006.

External links 
 Personal website (latest archived version, 2014)
 Uploading Life: Send Your Personality to Space (Includes Bainbridge's work on spaceflight)
 The Shape of Science Fiction as Perceived by the Fans (Study done in 1978 by William Bainbridge and Murray Dalziel)
 Religion for a Galactic Civilization 2.0

American sociologists
Living people
Yale University alumni
Oberlin College alumni
Boston University College of Arts and Sciences alumni
Harvard Graduate School of Arts and Sciences alumni
Researchers of new religious movements and cults
Sociologists of religion
1940 births
George Mason University faculty
American transhumanists
Choate Rosemary Hall alumni