[Source: PubMed]

21. Eur J Public Health. 2024 Jun 7;34(3):544-549. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckad218.

Implementation of climate adaptation in the public health sector in Europe: 
qualitative thematic analysis.

Turner GA(1)(2), de'Donato F(3), Hoeben AD(4), Nordeng Z(5), Coleman S(1), Otto 
IM(4), Hajat S(1)(2), Kovats S(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Environments and Society, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(2)NIHR Health Protection Research Unit in Environmental Change and Health, 
London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Lazio Regional Health Service - ASL Roma 1, Rome, 
Italy.
(4)Wegener Center for Climate and Global Change and Institute for Environmental 
Systems Sciences, University of Graz, Graz, Austria.
(5)Department of Research Administrative Support, Norwegian Public Health 
Institute, Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Adaptation, to reduce the health impacts of climate change, is 
driven by political action, public support and events (extreme weather). 
National adaptation policies or strategies are limited in addressing human 
health risks and implementation of adaptation in the public health community is 
not well understood.
AIM: To identify key issues in climate change adaptation implementation for 
public health in Europe.
METHODS: Key informant interviews with decision-makers in international, 
national and local city governments in 19 European countries. Participants were 
recruited if a senior decision-maker working in public health, environmental 
health or climate adaptation.
INTERVIEWS ADDRESSED: Barriers and levers for adaptation, policy alignment, 
networks and evidence needs.
RESULTS: Thirty-two interviews were completed between June and October 2021 with 
4 international, 5 national and 23 city/local government stakeholders. 
Respondents reported inadequate resources (funding, training and personnel) for 
health-adaptation implementation and the marginal role of health in adaptation 
policy. A clear mandate to act was key for implementation and resource 
allocation. Limited cross-departmental collaboration and poor understanding of 
the role of public health in climate policy were barriers to implementation.
CONCLUSIONS: Across Europe, progress is varied in implementation of climate 
adaptation in public health planning. Providing appropriate resources, training, 
knowledge mobilization and supporting cross-departmental collaboration and 
multi-level governance will facilitate adaptation to protect human health.

© The Author(s) 2023. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckad218
PMCID: PMC11161147
PMID: 38099866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]