[Source: Gutenberg#21858 | Part 45]
# Arabia — Gertrude Bell (early 20th century Middle East)

Temperley's music,
which used to make the wild scene so unspeakably beautiful. Now there
was no music, no music anywhere, only this fierce and mournful rush of
the wind, which seemed as if it were trying to utter some universal
grief. At sunset, braving the cold, she would mount the creaking
staircase, pass along the silent upper corridors, and on through the
empty rooms to the garret in the tower. The solitude was a relief; the
strangeness of the scene appealed to some wild instinct, and to the
intense melancholy that lurks in the Celtic nature.

Even at night, she did not shrink from braving the glooms and silences
of the deserted upper floor, nor the solitude of the garret, which
appeared the deeper, from the many memories of happy evenings that it
evoked. She wished Ernest would come home. It was so long since she had
seen her favourite brother. She could not bear the thought of his
drifting away from her. What talks they had had in this old garret!

These nights in the tower, among the winds, soothed the trouble of her
spirit as nothing else had power to do. The mystery of life, the thrill
of existence, touched her with a strange joy that ran perilously near to
pain. What vast dim possibilities lurked out there, in the hollows of
the hills! What inspiration thundered in the voice of the prophet wind!

Once, she had gone downstairs and out, alone, in a tearing storm, to
wander across the bleak pastures, wrapt round by the wind as by a flame;
at one with the desperate elemental thing.

The wanderer felt herself caught into the heart of some vast unknown
power, of which the wind was but a thrall, until she became, for a
moment, consciously part of that which was universal. Her personality
grew dim; she stood, as it seemed, face to face with Nature, divided
from the ultimate truth by only a thin veil, to temper the splendour and
the terror. Then the tension of personal feeling was loosened. She saw
how entirely vain and futile were the things of life that we grieve and
struggle over.

It was not a side, an aspect of existence, but the whole of it that
seemed to storm round her, in the darkness. No wonder, when the wind was
let loose among the mountains, that the old Highland people thought that
their dead were about them. All night long, after Hadria returned to her
room in the keep, the wind kept up its cannonade against the walls,
hooting in the chimneys with derisive voices, and flinging itself, in
mad revolt, against the old-established hills and the stable earth,
which changed its forms only in slow obedience to the persuadings of the
elements, in the passing of centuries. It cared nothing for the passion
of a single storm.

And then came reaction, doubt. After all, humanity was a puny production
of the Ages. Men and women were like the struggling animalculæ that her
father had so often shewn the boys, in a drop of magnified ditch-water;
yet not quite like those microscopic insects, for the stupendous
processes of life had at last created a widening consciousness, a mind
which could perceive the bewildering vastness of Nature and its own
smallness, which could, in some measure, get outside its own particular
ditch, and the strife and struggle of it, groping upwards for larger
realities--

          "Over us stars and under us graves."

To go down next morning to breakfast; to meet the usual homely events,
was bewildering after such a night. Which was dream: this or that? So
solid and convincing seemed, at times, the interests and objects of
every day, that Hadria would veer round to a sudden conviction that
these things, or what they symbolized, were indeed the solid facts of
human life, and that all other impressions arose from the disorderly
working of overcharged brain-cells. It was a little ailment of youth
and would pass off. Had it been possible to describe to her father the
impressions made upon her by the world and Nature, as they had presented
themselves to her imagination from her childhood, he would have
prescribed change of air and gymnastics. Perhaps that was the really
rational view of the matter. But what if these hygienic measures cured
her of the haunting consciousness of mystery and vastness; what if she
became convinced of the essential importance of the Gordon pedigree, or
of the amount of social consideration due to the family who had taken
Clarenoc? Would that alter the bewildering truths of which she would
have ceased to think?

No; it would only mean that the animalcule had returned to the
occupations of its ditch, while the worlds and the peoples went spinning
to their destiny.

"Do the duty that lies nearest thee," counselled everybody: people of
all kinds, books of all kinds. "Cheap, well-sounding advice," thought
Hadria, "sure of popularity! Continue to wriggle industriously, O
animalcule, in that particular ditch wherein it has pleased heaven to
place thee; seek not the flowing stream and