[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# A Child of Our Time

y. The drama is because the forces which drive the young man prove stronger than the good advice of his uncle and aunt, as it always was and always will be.
Part III: The significance of this drama and the possible healing that would come from Man's acceptance of his Shadow in relation to his Light.

Part I
 Chorus: "The world turns on its dark side"
 The Argument (alto solo): "Man has measured the heavens", followed by an orchestral Interludium
 Scena (chorus and alto solo): "Is evil then good?"
 The Narrator (bass solo): "Now in each nation there were some cast out"
 Chorus of the Oppressed: "When shall the usurer's city cease?"
 Tenor solo: "I have no money for my bread"
 Soprano solo: "How can I cherish my man?"
 A Spiritual (chorus and soli): "Steal Away"

Part II
 Chorus: "A star rises in midwinter"
 The Narrator (bass solo): "And a time came"
 Double Chorus of Persecutors and Persecuted: "Away with them!"
 The Narrator (bass solo): "Where they could, they fled"
 Chorus of the Self-righteous: "We cannot have them in our Empire"
 The Narrator (bass solo): "And the boy's mother wrote"
 Scena: The Mother (soprano), the Uncle and Aunt (bass and alto), and the Boy (tenor): "O my son!"
 A Spiritual (chorus and soli): "Nobody knows the trouble I see"
 Scena: Duet (bass and alto): "The boy becomes desperate"
 The Narrator (bass solo): "They took a terrible vengeance"
 Chorus: The Terror: "Burn down their houses!"
 The Narrator (bass solo): "Men were ashamed"
 A Spiritual of Anger (chorus and bass solo): "Go down, Moses"
 The Boy Sings in his Prison (tenor solo): "My dreams are all shattered"
 The Mother (soprano solo): "What have I done to you, my son?"
 Alto solo: "The dark forces rise"
 A Spiritual (chorus and soprano solo): "O by and by"

Part III
 Chorus: "The cold deepens"
 Alto solo: "The soul of man"
 Scena (bass solo and chorus): "The words of wisdom"
 General Ensemble (chorus and soli): "I would know my shadow and my light"
 A Spiritual (chorus and soli): "Deep river"

Conscientious objector 
After the outbreak of war in September 1939, Tippett joined the Peace Pledge Union—with which he had been informally associated since 1935—and applied for registration as a conscientious objector, although his case was not considered by the tribunal until February 1942. In October 1940 he became director of music at Morley College, where the previous April he had conducted the South London Orchestra in the premiere of his Concerto for Double String Orchestra. After completing the composition of A Child of Our Time in 1941, Tippett worked on other projects, feeling that the oratorio's pacifist message was out of touch with the prevailing national mood. Walter Goehr, who conducted the Morley College orchestra, advised delaying its first performance until a more propitious time. In February 1942 Tippett was assigned by the tribunal to non-combative military duties. Following his appeal, this was changed to service either with Air Raid Precautions (ARP), with the fire service or on the land. He felt obliged to refuse these directions, and as a result was sentenced in June 1943 to three months' imprisonment, of which he served two months before his early release for good behaviour.

Performance history and reception

Premiere 
After his release from prison in August 1943, with encouragement from Britten and the youthful music critic John Amis, Tippett began to make arrangements for the oratorio's first performance. Goehr agreed to conduct, but overrode the composer's initial view that Morley College's orchestra could handle the work and insisted that professionals were needed. Tippett records that "somehow or other the money was scraped together to engage the London Philharmonic Orchestra". Morley College Choir's choral forces were augmented by the London Regional Civil Defence Choir. Britten's connection with Sadler's Wells Opera brought three soloists to the project: Joan Cross (soprano), Peter Pears (tenor), and Roderick Lloyd (bass). The fourth singer, Margaret MacArthur (alto), came from Morley College. The premiere was arranged for 19 March 1944, at London's Adelphi Theatre. Before this event Amis introduced the work in an article for the February 1944 issue of The Musical Times, in which he predicted a noteworthy musical occasion: "The general style of the oratorio is simple and direct, and the music will, I think, have an immediate effect on both audience and performers".