[Source: PubMed]

31. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2009 Feb;33(1):40-6. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.2009.00336.x.

Australian asylum policies: have they violated the right to health of asylum 
seekers?

Johnston V(1).

Author information:
(1)Menzies School of Health Research, Charles Darwin University, Northern 
Territory. vanessa.johnston@menzies.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: Notwithstanding recent migration policy amendments, there is concern 
that Australian asylum policies have disproportionately burdened the health and 
wellbeing of onshore asylum seekers. There may be a case to be made that 
Australian governments have been in violation of the right to health of this 
population. The objective of this paper is to critically examine these issues 
and assess the implications for public health practice.
METHODS: The author undertook a review of the recent empirical literature on the 
health effects of post-migration stressors arising from Australian policies of 
immigration detention, temporary protection and the restriction of Medicare to 
some asylum seekers. This evidence was examined within the context of 
Australia's international law obligations.
RESULTS: Findings reveal that Australian asylum policies of detention, temporary 
protection and the exclusion of some asylum seekers from Medicare rights have 
been associated with adverse mental health outcomes for this population. This is 
attributable to the impact of these policies on accessing health care and the 
underlying determinants of health for asylum seekers.
CONCLUSION: It is arguable that Australian Governments have been discriminating 
against asylum seekers by withholding access on the grounds of their migration 
status, to health care and to the core determinants of health in this context. 
In so doing, Australia may have been in violation of its obligation to respect 
the right to health of this population.
IMPLICATIONS: While the 'right to health' framework has much to offer public 
health, it is an undervalued and poorly understood discipline. The author argues 
for more education, research and advocacy around the intersection between heath 
and human rights.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.2009.00336.x
PMID: 19236357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]