[Source: PubMed]

84. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2017 Oct 1;72(6):1090-1102. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbv157.

Physical and Mental Health Consequences of War-related Stressors Among Older 
Adults: An Analysis of Posttraumatic Stress Disorder and Arthritis in Northern 
Vietnamese War Survivors.

Korinek K(1), Loebach P(2), Teerawichitchainan B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Utah, Salt Lake City.
(2)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, Weber State University, Ogden, 
Utah.
(3)School of Social Sciences, Singapore Management University.

OBJECTIVES: We examine the impacts of trauma exposures and family stressors 
associated with the Vietnam War on musculoskeletal health and posttraumatic 
stress disorder (PTSD) outcomes in elderly Vietnamese who were widely impacted 
by the war as young adults. Noting that wars' impacts extend beyond male 
veterans in most survivor populations, we give attention to male and female war 
survivors placed in a variety of roles vis-a-vis the war.
METHOD: Utilizing data from the 2010 Vietnam Health and Aging Pilot Study (N = 
405), we use logistic and Poisson regression models to estimate the effect of 
wartime trauma exposures and family stressors on disabling arthritis and PTSD 
symptoms in male and female northern Vietnamese adults aged 55 and older.
RESULTS: The odds of experiencing recent PTSD symptoms are greater in 
respondents who report involvement in killing/causing severe injury and who 
observed war atrocities. In women, PTSD is positively correlated with war era 
child death and spousal separation. Arthritis also exhibits a significant, 
positive association with killing/causing severe injury.
DISCUSSION: Our study provides insights into the burden of conflict upon health 
among populations of the global south that survived war and are now entering 
older adulthood. The pattern of results, indicating greatest suffering among 
those who inflicted or failed to prevent bodily harm or loss of life, is 
consistent with the concept of moral injury.

© The Author 2016. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbv157
PMID: 26758194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]