[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# March 1973

.
Constantin von Dietze, 81, German agronomist who was one of the few persons to survive being implicated in the 1944 attempt to assassinate Adolf Hitler, the 20 July Plot. Von Dietze was awaiting trial when he was liberated from a Berlin prison in 1945.
Roland Dorgelès, 87, French novelist
Royce Howes, 72, Pulitzer Prize winning journalist and novelist

March 19, 1973 (Monday)
The Japanese entertainment conglomerate Konami was incorporated as Konami Industry Company. Its name was drawn from the first syllables of the surnames of its three founders, Kagemasa Kozuki, Yoshinobu Nakama, and Tatsuo Miyasako. 
Amnesty International issued its first "Urgent Action" bulletin, a regular notice sent to members to alert them of arrests of political prisoners whose nations' governments sanctioned torture. The first Urgent Action notice came after the arrest of Professor Luiz Basilio Rossi by the Brazilian military. 
All 58 people on an Air Vietnam flight from Saigon to Buon Me Thuot were killed when the South Vietnamese DC-4 exploded while on its approach to a landing.
Died: 
Weston Adams, 68, American sports executive, inductee to the Hockey Hall of Fame and owner of the Boston Bruins of the National Hockey League since 1936.
Lauritz Melchior, 82, Danish Wagnerian tenor
Sir Clement Price Thomas, 79, pioneering Welsh thoracic surgeon

March 20, 1973 (Tuesday)
The late Roberto Clemente was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame less than six months after his last game, as the 424 members of the Baseball Writers' Association of America voted to waive the customary five-year waiting period in consideration of Clemente's death in an airplane crash on December 31, 1972. Clemente received 393 of the 420 votes for induction.
At a closed-door meeting of the Soviet Communist Party's Politburo, the de facto rulers of the U.S.S.R. voted to not enforce the "diploma tax that had been implemented in August to charge significantly higher exit fees for Jews seeking to emigrate to Israel, based on the cost of the education paid for by the state. A study was presented to the Politburo and showed that less than 15 percent of the 25,000 adults applying for an exit visa had a college education, and that most of the Soviet Union's educated people preferred to remain at home, a finding that surprised most Politburo members. Party leader Leonid Brezhnev proposed eliminating the tax, based on a bill introduced in the U.S. Senate by Henry Jackson. Ultimately, the Politburo agreed with the KGB Director Yuri Andropov that, rather than appearing to bow to American pressure, the Soviets should simply keep the diploma tax on the books and decline to enforce it. The details of the meeting would become public decades later with the declassification of secret Kremlin records. On March 29, the Soviets "allowed about 70 Jews formerly subjected to the tax to leave without paying."
The Republic of Iraq and the Kingdom of Kuwait fought a battle near al-Samirah, a border outpost in Kuwait across from the Iraqi town of Safwan, 18 days after Kuwait's Foreign Minister Sheikh Sabah Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, had returned from discussions with Iraq's Deputy President Saddam Hussein. Two Kuwaiti policemen were killed, and the two nations prepared to go to war until both sides agreed to pull back their forces.
The Eider Barrage was opened, protecting the mouth of the river Eider near Tönning on West Germany's North Sea coast from storm surges.
A British government White Paper on Northern Ireland proposed the re-establishment of an Assembly elected by proportional representation, with a possible All-Ireland council which would lead to the unsuccessful Sunningdale Agreement of December 9.