[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ethical trade

reference to excessive working hours, unpaid overtime, and lack of freedom. In response to the complaint, Guerrero's employer declined a formal interview. Instead stating that "they were hired to work and not to party" and that he did not call the police as he failed to realise Guerrero was missing.

UK
The number of cases of human trafficking involving forced labour has increased to 42% in England and Wales, a 2011 study from The Salvation Army reported. According to Karen Bradley, the minister for modern slavery and organised crime, "there are more people in slavery today than at any other time in human history." Over 80% of the cases of forced labour involved men, with the majority of victims contacting the charity from parts of Eastern Europe. Bradley said the move towards eliminating modern slavery would include a modern slavery bill going to Parliament, placing a weighty responsibility on large companies to ensure that their supply chains are free from slavery.

Criticism

In 2006, findings published by the Institute of Development Studies at Sussex University showed that the ETI base code, signed by some of Britain's leading companies, failed to prevent the exploitation of workers in their supply chains. British and foreign workers employed by companies such as Marks & Spencer, Tesco, Gap Inc. and Sainsbury's were treated harshly by their employees, remained on low incomes, and had no union representation. The authors of the study stated that "in general codes had almost no impact in terms of ensuring workers receive a living wage" and urged British retailers to "take responsibility for ensuring prices paid to suppliers are sufficient to cover labour costs based on a living wage." Therefore, raising questions on whether ethical trade has had any impact on the conditions of workers in disadvantaged areas.

However, the Institute of Development Studies also concluded that there have been some major improvements for workers. Neil Kearney, General Secretary of the International, Textile, Garment and Leather Workers’ Federation, stated that progress had been made "particularly with regard to the issues of health and safety and child labour." In Vietnam, local communities have benefited from improvements to health and safety as well as reductions in working hours. Improvements have also been made particularly in regards to fire safety, medical services, and infrastructure. In South Africa two farms implemented a policy on ethical treatment due to the ETI base code, but major improvements are still yet to be made in regards to child labour, trade unions, and communication between farms and organisations.

See also
Ethical Consumerism
Fair trade
Fairtrade certification

References

External links
Uist Wholefood co-op ethical trading article
BBC World Service - Introducing Ethical Trading
Business Link - Ethical Trading
Ethical Trading Initiative
Africa Now - NGO focusing on ethical trade
Ethical Trading Initiative profile

Fair trade