[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# 19th Tennessee Infantry Regiment

rs' presence began to draw fire on civilian positions.  The soldiers' water source became contaminated and disease ran rampant with epidemics of measles, malaria, and dysentery among others.  The ranks were severely depleted by death and disease, and a number of soldiers received medical discharges.

In late July, the Yankees ceased fire for the time being and the first assault of Vicksburg was over.  Later on, when the Union gunboats resumed and the town was under siege, soldiers and civilians had to resort to eating rats and mule meat to survive.

Baton Rouge
The 19th's division was removed from Vicksburg and sent into Louisiana to attack Federal positions at Baton Rouge.  By this time, the 19th Tennessee was a regiment in name only and could only muster less than 100 healthy men, so they were consolidated with the remnants of other regiments to form a battalion.  One-third of the Confederate force had no shoes, many lacked shirts and coats, and some were almost naked.  They carried no tents and had only two days worth of rations in their haversacks.

The heat and humidity of the march took their toll, as well as a lack of sources of clean drinking water.  The men of the 19th were soon beset with exhaustion, fever, chills, and bloody diarrhea from dysentery.  By the time they reached the Comite River, ten miles from Baton Rouge, only about 2,600 effective soldiers remained and many of those were seriously ill.  When the divisions marched on the Union positions just before dawn, fog limited the ability to see more than "twenty steps" and there were not enough troops to form the standard double battle line.

Still, the Confederates managed to press the attack and drove the Union army back, but only to a prepared defensive position.  The CSS Arkansas, a Rebel gunboat, had been intended to provide support, but it had run aground.  With only about 1,000 soldiers still fit to fight and having run out of water, the Rebels could not risk another attack.  Civilians helped gather the wounded and the dead.

The Confederates occupied Port Hudson for a time and fearing another attack by them, Union forces abandoned Baton Rouge on August 18.

Murfreesboro
The men of the 19th recuperated for the rest of the month in Jackson, Mississippi and the troops left ill at Vicksburg and Baton Rouge began to trickle back in.  The men of the 19th Tennessee stitched the battle honors of Fishing Creek, Shiloh, Vicksburg, and Baton Rouge into their regimental flag, to which they were fiercely devoted.  The 19th's flag was never surrendered to the Yankees at the end of the war and its whereabouts are unknown.

In September, the 19th's brigade was sent to Knoxville via Chattanooga in cattle cars on a train that the men described as "filthy beyond description".  By this time, the 19th could only muster about 150 effectives, but that number increased to about 380 by the end of Fall.
On October 15, the regiment was moved to Loudon where they continued recruiting and building their depleted numbers.  By Winter, they were in Murfreesboro.  As Union forces under the command of Gen. William Rosecrans approached, one of the strangest battles of the war commenced: a battle of musicians.  When Union bands played "Yankee Doodle", the Confederates answered with "Dixie" and "Bonnie Blue Flag" was answered with "Hail Columbia".  Finally, the bands of both sides joined in playing "Home Sweet Home" and the men of both sides sang together.

The Confederates decided to seize the moment and attacked first, driving Union forces back for some two miles before grinding to a halt.  The men of the 19th Tennessee overran and artillery battery that had shelled them, but was met with another fusillade of fire, killing the regiment's flag bearer.  Corporal John Mason picked up the flag and held it high and inspiring the troops, who forced the Federals back.

The Confederates forced the Union all the way to the Nashville Pike before the attack petered out after a heavy barrage of Union canister.  The Rebels managed to capture 300 small arms, ammunition, and supplies, along with 50 Federals, but the 19th, who had entered the battle with 382 men, suffered 136 casualties.  First Sergeant Amos C. Smith of Washington County was among those cited for gallantry.

The Federals dug in, eventually forcing Gen. Braxton Bragg to withdraw his forces, which severely demoralized the troops.  The 19th winter quartered at Shelbyville.

Chickamauga
During the winter of 1863, a Christian movement of "big revivals" developed among the Army of Tennessee, along with a great deal of dissension against Gen. Braxton Bragg.  Bragg was a fairly good military strategist, but his personality was strongly detested by his commanders and ranks.  Thus, his campaigns tended to be well planned, but poorly executed by his commanders.