[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# First Battle of Middlewich

e, Gilmore, Moseley, ten captains and other officers, 400 common soldiers, weapons for 500 men, two barrels of matches, four barrels of powder and two cannons.  Brereton, therefore, believed that "since the beginning of this unnatural war, God hath not given many more complete victories."

Aftermath

Sir Thomas Aston
Aston sent a messenger to rally his cavalry at Rudheath intending to go on to Lord Brereton and collect his force. The cavalry were, however, beyond recall and so Aston went on his own to give an account of the battle and to see if Lord Brereton was still willing to support him. Finding that he was, Aston returned to Whitchurch to raise the Shropshire forces. However, the trained bands there had been disbanded leaving him no alternative but to return to Cheshire, rally his men and await his fate. He summed up his feelings about the battle thus:
"It is the plain truth, the enemy having no diversion, but att liberty with their full power to fall on us from all parts, were much too hard for us in a place not defensible. And without some more experienced foot officers, I must freely say no number will be found sufficient to withstand ready men."
He was withdrawn to Oxford and continued to command a cavalry regiment in the King's field army. In 1644 he fought as a brigadier of cavalry in Prince Maurice's army in the West of England and fought at the second Battle of Newbury but probably never returned to Cheshire (although at least two sources mention him being there in 1644).

In 1645 Aston served in the West Country under George Goring until September or October when he decided to return home. He passed through Kidderminster and Stourbridge on his way to Cheshire. At the beginning of November he was captured by a Parliamentary force under the command of a certain Captain Stones "att or neere Banke" (possibly near Walsall) along with about 60 Royalists - presumably Cheshire men who had fought in Aston's regiment and who were also returning home. From there he was taken to prison at Stafford and placed under arrest. On 24 March 1646 Aston died of a fever brought on by his various wounds, including a blow to the head received during an unsuccessful attempt to escape.

Sir William Brereton
Brereton declared God responsible for him winning the battle:
"I desire the whole praise and glory may be attributed to Almighty God, who infused courage into them that stood for His cause, and struck the enemy with terror and amazement."
By the end of the spring Parliamentary forces, with Brereton as commander-in-chief, controlled five of the seven Hundreds of Cheshire. From this time on through to February 1646, when the last remaining Royalist base at Chester surrendered to him, the county was dominated by Brereton and he proved to be a dynamic war-time leader not just militarily but also politically and administratively. According to professor Ives, because of the importance of Cheshire, Brereton  "had more influence on the outcome of the First English Civil War than Oliver Cromwell had."  He suffered his only major defeat in December 1643 at the Second Battle of Middlewich. In 1646, when peace returned and his control over Cheshire came to an end, Brereton moved south to become an active London-based MP and politician. As a reward for his services he received the chief forestership of the Forest of Macclesfield and the seneschalship of the Hundred of Macclesfield. In 1651 he received the tenancy of the former archbishop's palace at Croydon in Surrey and he spent the last nine years of his life commuting between there and his ancestral home at Handforth, in Cheshire. He died on 7 April 1661 in Croydon and is presumed to have been buried in the family vault in the church at Cheadle in Cheshire, although he is recorded to have been buried in the churchyard of St John the Baptist, Croyon.

Notes

Citations

References

Further reading

Dore, R.N. The Civil Wars in Cheshire, (Chester, 1966)
Dore, R.N. The Letter Books of Sir William Brereton (1990)
Fletcher, Anthony. The Outbreak of the English Civil War (London, 1981)
Hall, J. (ed.). The Civil War in Cheshire, Record Society of Lancashire and Cheshire, Vol 19 (1889)
Hulton, Ronald. The Royalist War Effort 1642-1646 (1929)
Morrill, J.S. Cheshire 1630-1660 (London, 1974)
Morrill, J.S. Revolt of the Provinces (London, 1976, 1980)
Morrill, John. 'Sir William Brereton and England's Wars of Religion', Journal of British Studies 24 (July 1985); 311 - 332

External links