[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mixtec writing

Mixtec writing originated as a logographic writing system during the Post-Classic period in Mesoamerican history.  Records of genealogy, historic events, and myths are found in the pre-Columbian Mixtec codices.  The arrival of Europeans in 1520 AD caused changes in form, style, and the function of the Mixtec writings.  Today these codices and other Mixtec writings are used as a source of ethnographic, linguistic, and historical information for scholars, and help to preserve the identity of the Mixtec people as migration and globalization introduce new cultural influences.

Mixtec history
The Mixtec are an indigenous people of Mesoamerica, located in the western region of the modern Mexican states of Oaxaca, eastern part of Guerrero, and southern part of Puebla.  The history of the Mixtec people can be traced back to the Formative period, and continues through the Classic and Post-Classic periods to the arrival of Europeans in 1520 AD.  Today the region is still populated by the Mixtec and Mixtecan speakers.  During the 2500 years before the arrival of Europeans, the Mixtec developed complex social and economic traditions, effectively exploited their diverse environment, created a method of writing, and maintained their autonomy from other civilizations, such as the Aztecs.

The Mixtec language is part of the Otomanguean family of languages, a family found in Mesoamerican that includes Zapotec, another indigenous language found in Oaxaca.  Mixtec speakers arrived in Oaxaca, notably the Alta region, during the early Formative period, 1500-750 BCE.  Agriculture formed the base for Mixtec civilization and agricultural villages have been dated to 1350 BCE.  Today Mixtec speakers are still found in Oaxaca and the neighboring regions of Puebla and Guerrero, though migration is spreading Mixtec speakers across Mexico and through the United States.

The early Classic period, 200 BCE – 300 CE, found the Mixtec civilization becoming more complex, with the adoption of a hierarchical settlement system.  Artifacts and architecture display function and status differences reflecting this system of hierarchy.  Urban centers were developed, the first of these being the core settlement of Yucuita.  Yucuita was the largest and most complex of the early Classic urban centers, and existed for 500 years.  It has been believed to be the possible capital of the Mixtec states during this period.  The late Classic period was a continuation of the success and developments experienced during the early Classic period.

The Post-Classic period dates from 1000 CE and ends with the arrival of Europeans in 1519.  During this period the region was populated with tiny kingdoms, called señorios and cacicazgos, which were centered on prior urban centers.  At this time the Mixtec experienced their greatest population, though there was a decline in monumental urban projects; areas and structures were being maintained and reused, while new ceremonial centers and projects were less numerous and less impressive.  Despite this, the Mixtec were a source of influence for Mesoamerica during this period.  The archaeological record has produced evidence of neighboring regions influencing Mixtec art and culture in the periods prior, while during the Post-Classic the role was reversed, with Mixtec influences permeating the region and the neighboring cultures.  This sharing of culture is also found in the writing systems of pre-Columbian Mesoamerica, as phonetic elements and symbols operated across cultures.

The arrival of the Spanish in Oaxaca in 1520 AD began the Colonial period.  The Mixtec gave only minor resistance.  The encomienda system was established in the region between 1525 and 1530 AD, and missionaries began their efforts to convert the Mixtec in 1538 AD.  The arrival of the Spanish influence brought changes to the Mixtec culture, as is seen in the following example of the Mixtec writing system.