[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Voice of India

Voice of India (VOI) is a publishing house based in New Delhi, India, that specialises in nationalist books and serves as one of the most important tools in the development of Indian Nationalist ideologies.

History
Ram Swarup and Sita Ram Goel traversed across a long politico-intellectual journey in the late 1940s that ended in the former choosing a "right leaning socialist cum atheist ideology" and the latter, communism. In 1948, Swarup, who used to work for an anti-communist think-tank, convinced Goel to denounce communism and soon, both of them embraced nationalism in their way to hardliner Hindutva politics, whilst being actively sympathized by Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). They though renounced from partaking in active political activism and instead chose to insert themselves in the field of metapolitics, confronting the Nehruvian secular establishments with a Hindu world view. By 1949, Goel was writing for the Organiser, a RSS journal and later that year, both of them were running an anti-communist think-tank from Kolkata. However, over the years, they grew dissatisfied with RSS's unwillingness to develop a hardcore Hindu ideology to fight the three main enemies of India-Christianity, Islam and Marxism, and in 1981, Goel established VOI as a protest against the anti-intellectual culture of RSS.

Goel, in his autobiography-- How I Became a Hindu wrote of VOI's objective to "inform Hindu Society about its own great heritage, as also the dangers it faces" and publish Hindu-nationalist literature. A year after the foundation, Goel had made an appeal for donation, that read:-

According to Pirbhai, the house was established to provide the Sangh Parivar, which till then lived on borrowed slogans, a Hindu ideology of its own. Attempts at refutation of the Indo-Aryan migration theory was also a core objective.

Authors 
Voice of India is associated with numerous journalists, historians, social commentators and academicians such as Arun Shourie, David Frawley, Shrikant Talageri, Francois Gautier, Harsh Narain, Subhash Kak, Koenraad Elst, and N. S. Rajaram; nearly all of whom advocate for Hindu nationalism in varying ways and self-identify as Bauddhik Kshatriyas ("intellectual warriors"). Most of the authors do not have any subject-specific scholarship and are Islamophobic. Witzel has described the affiliated writers to be part of a "closely knit, self-adulatory group that churned out long identical passages, copied in cottage industry fashion". Bergunder recognises that not all authors published by Voice of India are on the extreme of the Hindu nationalist spectrum.

Almost every major colonial-era Hindu intellectual and especially Swami Vivekananda is derived from.

Publication themes 
Monotheistic religions are deemed to be inherently violent, non-democratic and totalitarian in nature and thus, practice-able only by lower kinds of minds. Non-deserving of any respect, they are deemed to be contemptible demonic diseases which masquerade as religions and similar to Nazism et al, shall be deemed as the foremost threats to the welfare of the humanity and Hinduism. Social services by Christian Missionary groups are deemed as a camouflage for their ultimate intent of baptizing people from other faiths and advocacy for secession. Anti-Muslim literature are published and reprinted in bulk and Muslims are portrayed as the primary reason behind the downfall of the erstwhile Hindu glory. History of Hindu holocaust at the hands of Islamic invaders is prominently featured and conversions to Hinduism are heavily advocated for liberation from the prison-houses of these Abrahamic religions. Kondo notes that Judaism, despite being a monotheistic religion, is spared with any criticism and is even occasionally praised courtesy their original pluralistic roots.

In contrast, Hinduism is regarded as the very representative of Indian-ness, which had supposedly sought to create a cultural empire rather than an imperialist military driven one. Additionally, a global appealing brand of Hinduism is crafted in a bid to attract Western spiritual seekers into the fold of Hinduism. The Hindus are routinely asked to de-colonise their minds from Western schools of thought; the Indigenous Aryans theory is propounded as a rebut to the theory of Indo-Aryan migration and a revisionist history of science is sketched that purports for the presaging of all modern mathematical and scientific advances, in the Vedas. Concepts of Sarva Dharma Sama Bhava—that all religions are equally true and lead to the same end, are rejected as anti-Hindu school of thought.

Audience 
The works are of excellent typographical quality and widely available in print as well as over the web; there appears to exist a significant audience across the globe. They have been used by Bharatiya Janata Party and its allied organs to legitimize the basis of their political campaigns.