[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Texas Biomedical Research Institute

obacterium tuberculosis with particular emphasis on TB and aging, diabetes, and vaccine development.
 Developing an animal model to test vaccines to protect people against the Zika virus.

Controversy
On April 14, 2018, four baboons escaped from the facility. They were contained within the same day.

In 2015, it was announced that the institute is under a federal investigation after the death of at least five primates over a five-year period. According to news reports, one monkey was crushed to death by a cage door, another died from strangulation, and another from blood poisoning following a traumatic injury.

In 2014, the Humane Society of the United States released undercover footage from inside the institute which, according to the animal welfare group, “found a pattern of animal mistreatment, including overcrowding and lack of veterinary care”. The group said their investigation found animals suffering from severe stress and improper treatment after injuries. In response, the institute argued they have “a long-standing commitment to treating animals humanely and with the highest regard for their well-being, and […] continuously seek to enhance the care provided to” the animals in their facility.

Between 2012 and 2015, the institute was cited by federal inspectors for at least 16 alleged violations of the Animal Welfare Act. In 2012, the institute was fined $25,714 for alleged violations and two years prior it paid a $6,094 settlement to the government for additional alleged violations. The institute says the alleged violations are a result of isolated incidents and are not reflective of their treatment of the monkeys in their laboratories.

See also
 Southwest Research Institute
 University of Texas Health Science Center
 Southwest National Primate Research Center
 Animal testing

References

External links
 Texas Biomedical Research Institute website
 
 Map: 

Healthcare in San Antonio
Medical research institutes in Texas
Biosafety level 4 laboratories