[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 8]
# March 1973

omputer, the Harvard Mark I and its successors
Murat "Chic" Young, 72, American cartoonist who had created the popular comic strip Blondie in 1930 and continued to draw it at the time of his death.
Ruth Allison Lilly, 81, American philanthropist
Rafael Godoy, 65, Colombian-born Venezuelan songwriter

March 15, 1973 (Thursday)
In a press conference on national television, U.S. President Richard M. Nixon implied that the United States was prepared to resume fighting of the Vietnam War if North Vietnam or the Viet Cong were to violate the ceasefire. Asked about infiltration of men and material by North Vietnam into South Vietnam, Nixon said "Based on my actions over the past four years, they should not lightly disregard such expressions of concern." The reaction of the American public to the possibility of going back to war was so unfavorable that the Case–Church Amendment would be passed overwhelmingly by Congress and signed into law on July 1, requiring Congressional approval in advance of any future military activity in Indochina.
At the same conference, President Nixon said that he would not allow the FBI to turn over its files to a Congressional special committee, concerning the FBI investigation of the Watergate burglary. Nixon told reporters, "the practice of the FBI furninshing raw files to full committees must stop with this particular one."
U.S. Air Force Captain Philip E. Smith was released from incarceration in the People's Republic of China after almost seven and one half years as a prisoner in Beijing, and U.S. Navy Lieutenant Robert J. Flynn was set free after more than five and a half years captivity. Captain Smith had flown into Chinese airspace on September 20, 1965, after becoming lost during an escort flight of a bomber over the Gulf of Tonkin in the Vietnam War, while Lieutenant Flynn had been captured after his airplane was shot down in Chinese territory on August 21, 1967. Both Smith and Flynn were allowed to cross the border into British Hong Kong.
Two U.S. men in Homestead, Florida were arrested on charges of false imprisonment and conspiracy in a raid on what a Dade County sheriff's deputy described as a slave labor camp. A spokesman said that 27 migrant workers "were working against their will and were being held as slaves", one of them for the past four years, at the Far South Labor Camp, operated by labor contractor Joe L. Brown and guarded by Lafayette Matthew. Ostensibly, the laborers were paid three dollars per week, but Brown would take the money back at the end of the "pay" period for food and shelter.
Nebraska became the first U.S. state to rescind its previous ratification of the proposed Equal Rights Amendment  (ERA) to the United States Constitution. The 31 to 17 vote in Nebraska's one-chamber legislature, the Unicameral, Legislative Resolution Number 9 came less than one year after Nebraska had become the seventh state to ratify the ERA. 
Died: 
K. M. Cherian, 76, Indian newspaper publisher who developed the Malayala Manorama into the world's most popular Malayalam language daily paper
Ilse Häfner-Mode, 70, German-Jewish artist 
Jasper Maskelyne, 70, British stage magician known for his 1949 book Magic: Top Secret in which he claimed to have used his skills as an illusionist in counter-intelligence in World War II.

March 16, 1973 (Friday)
 

Queen Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom opened the new London Bridge. The new structure was the third over the River Thames in the past 750 years.
U.S. Army Captain Jim Thompson, the longest-held POW of the Vietnam War, was released after almost nine years of captivity in a Viet Cong prison in South Vietnam's Quang Tri province. On March 26, 1964, Captain Thompson had been a passenger on an observation plane that was shot down less than  from the Special Forces Camp where he had been serving. 
The Writers Guild of America Awards were held at the Beverly Hilton Hotel in Los Angeles. The films Cabaret, What's Up, Doc?, The Godfather and The Candidate won major awards.
The heaviest weight lifted up to that time, the 6,000 ton  center span of the Fremont Bridge in Portland, Oregon, was accomplished with the placement of 32 hydraulic jacks working in tandem.
Died: 
José Gorostiza, 71, Mexican poet, educator, and diplomat
Gustavs Tūrs, 82, leader of the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Latvia in the Soviet Union as Archbishop of Riga from 1948 to 1968