[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Hammdidullah

Hammdidullah, a.k.a. Janat Gul, is a citizen of Afghanistan who was held in extrajudicial detention in the Guantanamo Bay detention camps as part of the War on Terror.
American counter-terror analysts estimate he was born in 1973, in Sarpolad, Afghanistan.

In December 2014 the United States Senate's Intelligence Committee published a 600-page unclassified summary of its 6,000-page report on the CIA's use of torture. That report identified Janat Gul as one of the individuals tortured by the CIA, in its network of black sites.  PBS Frontline reported that he was tortured so badly the CIA's case notes recorded that he had pleaded with his interrogators to just kill him.

He was transferred from CIA custody to military on March 23, 2003.
A five-page Joint Task Force Guantanamo detainee assessment, drafted on August 20, 2004, recommended his continued detention.  However the Combatant Status Review Tribunal conducted by OARDEC determined that his classification as an "enemy combatant" had been improper, all along, and he was released on April 18, 2005.

Inconsistent identification
While the two official lists his name as Hammdidullah, his Tribunal addressed him as Janat Gul.

CNN reported that Hammdidullah surrendered on November 24, 2001, but the allegations prepared for his Combatant Status Review Tribunal state that he was captured in January 2003.

Press accounts of his term at Ariana Airlines
Hammdidullah was quoted by the International press during his term at Ariana Airlines.
CNN referred to him as Hamidullah.

Combatant Status Review Tribunal

Initially the Bush administration asserted that they could withhold all the protections of the Geneva Conventions to captives from the war on terror.  This policy was challenged before the Judicial branch. Critics argued that the USA could not evade its obligation to conduct a competent tribunals to determine whether captives are, or are not, entitled to the protections of prisoner of war status.

Subsequently the Department of Defense instituted the Combatant Status Review Tribunals.  The Tribunals, however, were not authorized to determine whether the captives were lawful combatants—rather they were merely empowered to make a recommendation as to whether the captive had previously been correctly determined to match the Bush administration's definition of an enemy combatant.

Hammdidullah chose to participate in his Combatant Status Review Tribunal.

Allegations
The allegations that Hammdidullah faced during his Tribunal were as follows:
a.  -- The general summary of the allegations that establish an association with terrorism were missing from the transcript. --
The detainee admitted he is a member of the Taliban.
The detainee is a former president of Ariana Airlines.
The Taliban controlled Ariana Airlines.
The Taliban used Ariana Airlines to transport their members.
Ariana Airlines provided free flights to Konduz, Afghanistan for individuals joining the fight against the Northern Alliance.
Taliban forces utilized Ariana Airlines form Kandahar to Kabul.
An active al Qaida member and licensed pilot brought in other al Qaida members to work for Ariana Airlines.
An individual with plans to engage in hostilities against the United States had strong ties to Ariana Airlines.
The detainee was arrested in January 2003 in Lashkargar, Afghanistan.

Witnesses
Hammdidullah requested statements from two witnesses, his father Haji Sher Mohammed, and his brother, Haji Agha Gul. The Tribunal's President ruled that his witnesses were relevant, and the State Department was requested to contact the Afghan government to contact Hammdidullah's witnesses. After a month the Tribunal hadn't heard back, so Hammdidullah's witnesses were ruled "not reasonably available".

Testimony
Gul testified to the following: