[Source: PubMed]

89. Neuroimage. 2020 Nov 1;221:117208. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117208.
Epub  2020 Jul 29.

Ethical issues in global neuroimaging genetics collaborations.

Palk A(1), Illes J(2), Thompson PM(3), Stein DJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, Stellenbosch University, Bag X1, Matieland, 
Stellenbosch, 7602, South Africa. Electronic address: apalk@sun.ac.za.
(2)Neuroethics Canada, Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, University 
of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(3)Imaging Genetics Center, Mark & Mary Stevens Institute for Neuroimaging & 
Informatics, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.
(4)SA MRC Unit on Risk & Resilience in Mental Disorders, Department of 
Psychiatry & Neuroscience Institute, University of Cape Town, Groote Schuur 
Hospital, Cape Town 7925, South Africa.

Neuroimaging genetics is a rapidly developing field that combines 
neuropsychiatric genetics studies with imaging modalities to investigate how 
genetic variation influences brain structure and function. As both genetic and 
imaging technologies improve further, their combined power may hold 
translational potential in terms of improving psychiatric nosology, diagnosis, 
and treatment. While neuroimaging genetics studies offer a number of scientific 
advantages, they also face challenges. In response to some of these challenges, 
global neuroimaging genetics collaborations have been created to pool and 
compare brain data and replicate study findings. Attention has been paid to 
ethical issues in genetics, neuroimaging, and multi-site collaborative research, 
respectively, but there have been few substantive discussions of the ethical 
issues generated by the confluence of these areas in global neuroimaging 
genetics collaborations. Our discussion focuses on two areas: benefits and risks 
of global neuroimaging genetics collaborations and the potential impact of 
neuroimaging genetics research findings in low- and middle-income countries. 
Global neuroimaging genetics collaborations have the potential to enhance 
relations between countries and address global mental health challenges, however 
there are risks regarding inequity, exploitation and data sharing. Moreover, 
neuroimaging genetics research in low- and middle-income countries must address 
the issue of feedback of findings and the risk of essentializing and 
stigmatizing interpretations of mental disorders. We conclude by examining how 
the notion of solidarity, informed by an African Ethics framework, may justify 
some of the suggestions made in our discussion.

Copyright © 2020. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2020.117208
PMID: 32736000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Competing Interest PMT has 
received grant support from Biogen, Inc. (Boston, USA) for research unrelated to 
the topic of this manuscript. DJS has received support from Lundbeck and Sun for 
work unrelated to the topic of this manuscript.