[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Light Reaction Regiment

l Forces. The unit was undermanned throughout the operation, only being at 40% authorized manpower and had to be augmented by 45 SEALs from the navy's Naval Special Operations Group. Despite the setbacks, the operation was a success, but it cost the lives of 9 LRB soldiers with a further 37 wounded.

In 2014, the LRR conducted a trojan horse operation at a drag race to either kill or capture Abu Sayyaf target Sihata Latip, who was wanted for kidnapping 21 people in Malaysia in 2000. He went on to conduct a string of kidnappings in the Philippines over subsequent years, but as the Philippines got better at counter terrorism operation, the Islamists were cut off from overseas international terrorist finance networks, particularly the ones originating in Saudi Arabia and in order to make up for this loss in income, they engage in kidnapping for ransom. The 24 LRR soldiers trained for a week to execute the mission. They dressed up as if going to a Muslim wedding, rented local jeeps and decorated it. Some soldiers dressed up as women to avoid raising suspicion. One soldier with a M249 light machine gun dressed as a pregnant woman, but forgot to shave on the day of the operation and had to loan a hand fan from one of the female soldiers on the base to cover his goatee. On the way to the drag race one of the jeeps broke down. The commander of the operation decided to go on with the mission with only one jeep and 13 men. When they arrived at the drag race, the LRR operators identified their High Value Target from about 50 civilians and terrorists, approached and drew weapons. A firefight ensued in which the target was killed, but at the loss of a LRR operator who got shot in the neck. The operators loaded up the two bodies and made their getaway, while being shot at by Abu Sayyaf and Moro Islamic Liberation Front.

In May 2017, the regiment spearheaded the army's counter terrorism effort in the Marawi crisis, clearing out the enemy house by house.

Support
On September 4, 2018, the U.S. Counterterrorism Train and Equip Program provided more than 5 million rounds of ammunition worth Php117.4 million ($2.2 million), most of them being used by the LRR.

On May 4, 2020, Col. Monico E. Abang was appointed at the LRR's commander, taking over from Brig. Gen. Monico S. Batle.

On February 14, 2022, Lt. Gen. Romeo Brawner Jr. vowed to provide more support to the unit during his visit in Nueva Ecija.

Structure

The LRR consists of a Headquarters, a Headquarters Company and three Light Reaction Companies in 2004 with 400 operators.

Training
The LRR recruits from experienced Scout Rangers and Special Forces Regiment operators.

The LRR conducts training with American special forces personnel via bilateral exercises. At least one LRR operator was involved in cross training with the Australian SASR. The unit has trained with British, Indonesian and Malaysian special forces units.

Equipment
M4 and HK416 carbines are used by the LRR as their standard assault rifles.

The SR-25 is used by the LRR as their sniper rifle.

References

Special forces of the Philippines
Regiments of the Philippines
Military units and formations established in 2001
Military units and formations established in 2014
Military counterterrorist organizations
Military special forces regiments
2001 establishments in the Philippines