[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Stephen Gleeson

Brentford, and new loan signing Robert Tesche of Nottingham Forest took his place alongside Davis. He returned to the side after his suspension as part of a three-man midfield, but when Rowett reverted to 4–2–3–1, it was Gleeson's passing that earned him selection ahead of Davis as Tesche's partner.

Ahead of the 2015–16 season, Gleeson signed a two-year extension to his contract that took its expiry date to 2018. Having gone through 2014–15 without scoring, he produced two goals in nine days in August 2015, contributing to his nomination for the Championship Player of the Month. The first came just before half-time at home to Derby County when his  shot was deflected past the goalkeeper by a defender. For the second, away to his former club MK Dons, he curled Clayton Donaldson's cutback over the goalkeeper into the corner of the net; later in the match, he was stretchered off with an ankle injury that proved less serious than initially feared. He continued as first choice in a two-man midfield, generally partnering new signing Maikel Kieftenbeld, and according to the Birmingham Mail, was "arguably Blues' most important player, knitting together defence and attack and adding goals to his game". After an influential performance and a  goal in a 5–2 win away to Fulham in November, Rowett sais he "[didn't] think there [was] a better passing defensive midfielder in the division." His celebration of a fortuitous goal in a 3–0 win at Derby earned him a booking for inciting the home supporters, and he apologised to the stewards after the match. Both his and the team's performances dipped towards the end of the season, which he finished with five goals from 46 appearances in all competitions.

Gleeson was linked with moves to other Championship clubs, including Leeds United, Reading and Sheffield Wednesday, during the close season, and his pre-season was disrupted by an infected toe, but he still began the new campaign in the starting eleven. His selection as a starter was intermittent, dependent on injurieshis own or others'as well as on the sheer number of central midfielders available, especially after the creative Reece Brown returned to consideration. Playing a more advanced role in a 4–4–2 formation, Gleeson scored a winning goal against Blackburn Rovers in October, which preceded a run in the starting eleven, under both Rowett and his successor, Gianfranco Zola. As poor results continued, Zola introduced Tesche, whom he perceived as more capable defensively, and Gleeson started only one match in the last two months of the campaign.

Ipswich Town
Gleeson left Birmingham on a free transfer on 19 January 2018, and signed until the end of the season for another Championship club, Ipswich Town, under the management of Mick McCarthy who had given him his debut at Wolverhampton Wanderers. He made his first appearance the following day, as a half-time substitute in a 1–1 draw away to Bolton Wanderers, and according to McCarthyperhaps in response to fans reportedly "underwhelmed" by the arrival of a fringe player from a struggling sidewas "a mile above anyone else in terms of getting it and passing it." Facing strong competition for places in central midfield, his first-team appearances became infrequentfive starts and five as substituteand he was not offered a new deal.

Aberdeen
Gleeson signed a two-year contract with Scottish Premiership club Aberdeen in June 2018. His contract was cancelled in January 2020.

Non-league football
Having played no competitive football since 2019, Gleeson signed a one-year contract with National League club Solihull Moors in August 2020. He made 21 league appearances before leaving the club when his contract expired at the end of the season.

Gleeson signed for Hemel Hempstead Town of the National League South ahead of the 2021–22 season. After recovering from injury, he made his debut on 21 August in a 3–0 home defeat to Braintree Town. He left the club at the end of September after making six appearances. He reappeared at Hitchin Town of the Southern League Premier Division Central in November.

International career

Gleeson was capped at under-15 and under-16 level, before making his debut for the Republic of Ireland under-17 team in 2004. His Football Association of Ireland (FAI) profile described his performance in the first qualifying round of the 2005 UEFA European Under-17 Championship as outstanding. Ireland finished second in their group, so progressed to the elite round. Gleeson scored as his team beat Northern Ireland 2–1, but defeats to Serbia and Montenegro and England meant they failed to reach the tournament proper.