[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Vilmos Apor

941. On 25 February 1941 - in a unanimous decision - the town council of Gyula made him an honorary citizen due to his commitment to its people and his strong and tireless activism. He became noted for his strong dedication to the poor and his tireless commitment to a range of social justice issues.

In summer 1944, he wrote to the Hungarian Primate Jusztinian Serédi to persuade him to take a strong stance against the government. He also appealed to the Gestapo headquarters in Berlin in an attempt to free the Jews of his diocese from the ghetto and negotiated with the Nazi command to spare the town from a siege. The introduction of racial laws sought to further make matters worse and so the bishop spoke out for those affected from racial slurs and other forms of persecution. He provided supplies to those Jews being deported through his diocese and also sheltered those made homeless after air raids in the episcopal palace while he himself withdrew to a small room for himself.

On the afternoon of 28 March 1945 - Good Friday - as Soviet troops reached his diocese he offered safe haven to numerous women and children in his residence and also protected women who feared being raped. Four or five drunken Soviet soldiers arrived with the intention of bringing 100 women to their barracks but Apor had them well-hidden in the cellar. He refused to give them up and a long altercation saw an officer making threats with his gun and soon gave chase to a girl who came out of her hiding place; the girl screamed "Uncle Vilmos! Help!" and he ran to her defense and shouted at them: "Out! Get out of here!" The officers turned to leave but one officer turned around and opened fire with a machine gun that shot him three times. Apor suffered a first shot that grazed his forehead as well as a second in the right sleeve of his cassock and the third that perforated his abdomen. Meanwhile the soldiers became frightened and fled the scene.

He lent on the arms of two of his aides and walked towards the cellar with blood coming from his forehead. A doctor administered first aid and Apor's sister Gizella aided the doctor in placing her brother on a stretcher which a blanket to cover him. But getting to the hospital took longer due to checkpoints and had to stop several times since the Soviets wanted to inspect the ambulance; the blanket had to be taken off him on these occasions so the Soviets could see there were no hidden treasure. Professors Jung and Petz - who had known Apor - performed the operation which seemed to be successful and saw a slight improvement on Holy Saturday when he received the Eucharist with his sister at his side. He thanked God for having accepted his sacrifice and for the fact that the women he protected were still safe. On Easter his condition deteriorated for an infection had set in; he made his confession and was given the Anointing of the Sick but pain increased. He remained lucid with his sister and Doctor Jung at his side in addition to the nurses and the parish priest.

He died from his injuries not long after in the afternoon of 2 April 1945. István Sándor witnessed a stretcher on 3 April being carried from the hospital and saw the bishop's remains as it was being transported. The funeral was put on hold due to conflict in the area but was carried out within a week of his death. His remains were buried in a Carmelite church; his confessor was the Carmelite priest Erno Szeghy who had served as such since 1943 or 1944. His remains were later relocated to the diocesan cathedral. Pope John Paul II visited his tomb in 1996.

Legacy

There now stands a statue in District XII of Budapest in his honor and the place itself has been named Apor Vilmos tér according to the Hungarian standard of name order.

The theologian and cardinal-elect Hans Urs von Balthasar was his nephew.

Beatification

The beatification process was held in his old diocese in a diocesan process that spanned from 1989 until 1990; the formal start came on 5 March 1991 after the Congregation for the Causes of Saints issued the official "nihil obstat" and titled the late bishop as a Servant of God. The C.C.S. later validated this process in Rome on 31 May 1991 and received the Positio dossier from the postulation in 1996. Theologians approved the cause on 3 June 1997 as did the cardinal and bishop members of the C.C.S. on 1 July 1997.

John Paul II confirmed on 7 July 1997 that Apor was killed "in odium fidei" (in hatred of the faith) and thus approved his beatification. The Pope presided over Apor's beatification on 9 November 1997 in Saint Peter's Square.

References

External links

 Hagiography Circle
 Saints SQPN
 Catholic Hierarchy