[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Violet Club

Violet Club was a nuclear weapon deployed by the United Kingdom during the Cold War. It was Britain's first operational "high-yield" weapon and was intended to provide an emergency capability until a thermonuclear weapon could be developed from the 1956–1958 Operation Grapple tests. Violet Club was ultimately replaced in service by the Red Snow warhead, derived from the US W28 warhead.

Conception, design and development
In 1953, shortly after the Americans tested a thermonuclear weapon in 1952, followed by the Soviets with Joe 4, the Atomic Weapons Research Establishment (AWRE) at Aldermaston was asked about the possibilities for a very large pure fission bomb with a yield of one megaton. This study referred to the Zodiak Mk.3 bomb, but progressed no further than a rudimentary study.

At this time studies were also started that ultimately led to a decision in July 1954 to develop a thermonuclear weapon. The design studies were split into two tracks because the British at that time had not yet discovered the Teller–Ulam technique necessary to initiate fusion. One track led to an intermediate design, the so-called "Type A" thermonuclear design, similar to the "Alarm Clock" and layer cake hybrid designs of other nuclear powers. These types of weapons are now regarded as large boosted fission weapons and no longer regarded as thermonuclear. A true thermonuclear design, one that would derive a large amount of its total energy from fusion reactions, was referred to as "Type B".

Development of the Type A design was carried out under Green Bamboo, which weighed about 4,500 lb (2,045 kg), and its spherical shape measured about 45 inches (115 cm) diameter, with a 72-point implosion system. This was intended as the warhead for all projected British strategic delivery systems of the period; the Yellow Sun Stage 1 air-dropped bomb, and the Blue Steel air-launched stand-off missile. The large girth of these weapons was designed to accommodate the diameter of Green Bamboo's implosion sphere.

Green Bamboo was too large to fit in the Blue Streak missile, whose design was already well advanced. This led to a reduced-size design, later known as Orange Herald, which was made smaller largely by reducing the size and complexity of the implosion system. This produced less compression of the core and less efficient use of the fissile fuel, so to make up for this loss of performance the amount of fuel was increased. Estimates computed from reliable sources of actual core cost and cost per kilogram of highly enriched uranium (HEU) put the core sizes of Green Bamboo and Orange Herald as 98 kg and 125 kg respectively, although some other published (and unverified) sources claim lower figures of 87 kg and 117 kg respectively. This design was tested near Australia on Christmas Island, yielding 720 kt.

Ultimately the decision was made to abandon Green Bamboo in favour of the true thermonuclear devices, being developed as the "Granite" series. The first Granite tests were carried out as part of Operation Grapple during May and June 1957. The first, Short Granite, was a failure, generating only 300 kt from an expected yield of around 1 Mt. Plans to test a second identical device, Green Granite, were cancelled as a result. Orange Herald was next, delivering 720 to 800 kt, as expected, making it the largest fission device ever tested. A slightly modified Short Granite was then tested as Purple Granite, but also failed, delivering the same 300 kt.

The abandonment of Green Bamboo and the Granite failures left a capability gap. An emergency capability weapon to fill that gap was devised from elements of both Green Bamboo and Orange Herald; being known as Knobkerry, or Green Grass, and the Interim Megaton Weapon. There were also other factors involved in the decision to build an Interim Megaton Weapon. One was that by 1957 the UK HEU production programme was producing more HEU than required. The Chiefs of Staff were reluctant to see it continue to languish in stores, unused for weapons, when it was being produced at great cost.

The Green Grass warhead containing perhaps 70–86 kg of HEU (although there are no reliable declassified sources for this figure) was therefore hurriedly produced and installed in a modified Blue Danube casing, to be known as Violet Club, until a better solution based on the Yellow Sun casing could be produced, known then with Green Grass installed, as Yellow Sun Mk.1. Only five Violet Club weapons were produced, known by the RAF description of Bomb, Aircraft, HE 9,000 lb HC, and they were stripped of their Green Grass warheads for transfer to the better casings when these became available.

Design features