[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Muhyiddin Yassin

riting industries. His son, Fakhri Yassin, was a corporate figure in Malaysia and assumed the position of Executive Chairman. The second child, Nabilah was involved in book writing while Najwa and Farhan Yassin shared the same interest in the entertainment industry.

Sport 
He is an avid golf lover.

Health issues 
In the aftermath of 2018 general election (GE14), Muhyiddin was diagnosed with an early-stage tumour in the pancreas. He had spent one month in Mount Elizabeth Hospital, Singapore from July to August 2018, during which he underwent a surgery to extract the tumour. The operation was successful and he returned to Malaysia in stable condition. He was scheduled for a series of follow-up chemotherapy treatment after Hari Raya Haji, for up to six months. He told reporters at the Parliament, "for cancer cases such as this, it is normal to go through follow-up treatment including chemotherapy for 12 rounds over the duration of six months."

Based on medical advice, Muhyiddin took a one-month medical leave to recover post-surgery. Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad took charge of the Ministry of Home Affairs during Muhyiddin's absence.

On 22 May 2020, Muhyiddin entered into a 14-day quarantine after an officer who attended the post-Cabinet meeting at the Prime Minister's Office on 21 May tested positive for COVID-19. On 4 June 2020, he completed the 14-day quarantine period and was tested negative for COVID-19. Therefore, he was allowed to return to the workplace to discharge his official duties as Prime Minister.

On 9 February 2022, he confirmed that he had tested positive for COVID-19, was experiencing mild symptoms and would be undergoing quarantine.

Election results

Honours

Honours of Malaysia
:
  Commander of the Order of Loyalty to the Crown of Malaysia (PSM) – Tan Sri (1988)
:
  Second Class of the Sultan Ibrahim Medal (PIS II) (1974)
  Second Class of the Star of Sultan Ismail (BSI II) (1979)
  Companion of the Order of the Crown of Johor (SMJ) (1980)
  Knight Grand Commander of the Order of the Crown of Johor (SPMJ) – Dato' (1991)
 :
  Grand Commander of the Order of Loyalty to Sultan Abdul Halim Mu'adzam Shah (SHMS) – Dato' Seri Diraja (2014)
 :
  Knight Grand Commander of the Exalted Order of Malacca (DUNM) – Datuk Seri Utama (2019)
 :
  Ordinary Class of the Perak Family Order of Sultan Azlan Shah (SPSA) – Dato' Seri Diraja (2010)
 :
  Knight Grand Commander of the Order of the Crown of Perlis (SPMP) – Dato' Seri (2007)
 :
  Principal Grand Knight of the Order of Loyalty to Negeri Sembilan (SUNS) – Dato' Seri Utama (2010)
:
  Grand Commander of the Order of Kinabalu (SPDK) – Datuk Seri Panglima (2010)
:
  Knight Commander of the Order of the Star of Sarawak (PNBS) – Dato Sri (2008)
  Knight Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of Hornbill Sarawak (DP) – Datuk Patinggi (2010)

Honorary degrees 
 :
 2012 International Honorary Doctorate from United States Sports Academy (2013)
 :
 Honorary Doctor of Letters (Litt.D.) degree from Beijing Foreign Studies University (2014)

Honorary plaque 
 :
 Honorary Plaque of the City of Sarajevo (2016)

See also
Pagoh (federal constituency)
List of international prime ministerial trips made by Muhyiddin Yassin

Notes

References

External links

 Deputy Prime Minister of Malaysia Official Website
 Johor Menteri Besar Office|Menteri Besar Biography|Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin
 My KMU Johor|Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin
 Johorean Student Society|Persatuan Mahasiswa Anak Johor (PERMAJ)|National University of Malaysia|Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM)|Biografi Mantan Menteri Besar Johor

1947 births
Living people
People from Muar
Malaysian people of Bugis descent
Malaysian people of Javanese descent
Malaysian people of Malay descent
Malaysian Muslims
Malaysian political party founders
Leaders of political parties in Malaysia
Malaysian United Indigenous Party politicians
Former United Malays National Organisation politicians
Independent politicians in Malaysia
Members of the Dewan Rakyat
Members of the Johor State Legislative Assembly
Chief Ministers of Johor
Prime Ministers of Malaysia
Deputy Prime Ministers of Malaysia
Government ministers of Malaysia
Agriculture ministers of Malaysia
Education ministers of Malaysia
Home ministers of Malaysia
Industry ministers of Malaysia
Trade ministers of Malaysia
Johor state executive councillors
People charged with corruption
Prisoners and detainees of Malaysia
University of Malaya alumni
Commanders of the Order of Loyalty to the Crown of Malaysia
Knights Commander of the Most Exalted Order of the Star of Sarawak
Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Star of Hornbill Sarawak
Knights Grand Commander of the Order of the Crown of Johor
Grand Commanders of the Order of Kinabalu
20th-century Malaysian politicians
21st-century Malaysian politicians