[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Valley Heights railway station

a, a general storage room, a refreshments room, model railway room and one room is used for local Historical Society displays. The building has been adapted and extended from the former amenities facility which was a much smaller building incorporating a locker room, meal room and office facilities.

Toilet block (, extended 2006)
A rectangular part face brick part timber framed utility building with corrugated steel gabled roof. It comprises male, female and disabled toilets with privacy walls/partitions to the front. Floors are concrete with tile finish and the fittings are generally new. The majority of the partition walls were replaced as part of the 2006 restoration works and the building was repainted.

Air compressor shed (2005-6)
The air compressor shed is located at the top of the bank adjacent to the Main Western Line and overlooking the Roundhouse. The simple building, which features concrete block flooring, steel structural framing and galvanised iron wall and roof cladding, with pitched roof form, is of recent construction. The building features two roller doors to the western elevation, with aluminium louvered ventilation at the eastern elevation. The shed building replaced an earlier termite damaged building of the same purpose on the site.

Fuel store (1970)
The building is of 1970s red brick construction, with flat roof form, sited to the rear of the open storage yard behind the machine workshop and roundhouse. The building houses dangerous and flammable liquids and accordingly is set well back from the main building zone at the site. Internal access was not available (2009).

Workshop shed (2008)
New large steel framed corrugated steel shed with corrugated steel gabled roof featuring a lantern along the ridgeline for additional ventilation and light. Sections of the roof are of clear corrugated sheeting for improved light. The shed is essentially a large single space in portal style framing with large multi-paned steel windows on both long side elevations while the narrow elevations featuring roller doors to allow easy entry for the locomotives via two sets of siding.

Turntable (1914, 1967)
The 60-foot turntable enables the locating of locomotives onto the respective roads in the roundhouse or for the turning of the locomotives. The turntable is constructed in steel and features timber sleepers at the perimeter of the turning circle. The element is manually operated and is still in use. It is the third such turntable to be used at the site, having been relocated from Katoomba in the 1960s.

Examination of the fabric of the infrastructure suggests some repair to the steel plating of the turntable. The turntable pit originally featured tracks on the northern side of the circle, enabling the locomotive to overshoot the turning circle with no damage to the locomotive. The tracks and associated timbers, however, were removed after the circle was damaged as a result of vandalism.

Ask disposal tunnel and pits (1913)
The ash disposal tunnel is a below-ground-level structure constructed between the running rails of the access and departure roads with two covered ground-level pits. The tunnel was constructed to facilitate the removal of ash from the smoke boxes of the steam locomotives. This required the ash to be raked and shovelled out by hand. The ash would then drop into the tunnel, and a narrow gauge line with hand-operated trolleys was provided in the tunnel for removing the ash as it dropped from the pits. The pits were in use until 1957, when steam operations ceased in the mountains. The tunnel is extant, along with the internal track work for the trolley, and recent landscaping works have uncovered two sets of stone stairs either side of the tunnel entry. The external entry was painted, and it is also likely that the internal brickwork was originally painted or lime-washed.

Locomotive watering facilities (1924)
The complete assemblage of the watering facilities still awaits re-instatement. The water tank has been relocated from ELCAR Workshops and is a 5,000 gallon example. Of standard local design, the tank is of high technical significance and is representative of the many tanks formally seen at depots around the former NSWGR system. The tank would likely have been constructed by the railways in Newcastle. The water column is of a standard pattern though of later design and is representative of the post WWII railway. The restoration of the column on its restored piers and adjacent to the 1914 drainage pit is proposed in near future.

Trackwork (1914)
The current track diagram is a remnant of the former depot layout from the steam era. They are proposed to be restored by reconnecting the arrival and departure roads to a more closely resemble the trackwork of the steam era.

Trestling foundation ()
These are remnant foundations of the former coaling plant and demonstrate the scale, design and context of the former coaling plant.