[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Dudley M. DuBose

ather-in-law Robert Toombs left Washington, D.C., to return to Georgia. He was appointed as the Confederate Secretary of State, and became a strong critic of Confederate President Jefferson Davis. After the Confederate surrender, Toombs fled the United States with his wife to avoid arrest and trial.

Postbellum career
Following the war, the DuBose family moved to his wife's hometown, Washington, Wilkes County, Georgia. He became deeply involved in Democratic Party politics, and was a statewide leader after the Reconstruction era, aided by his powerful father-in-law, Robert Toombs.

Sallie Toombs DuBose died in 1866, at age 30. Her mother returned to Georgia to help the widowed DuBose run his household and care for her young grandchildren. Months later her husband Toombs also returned to the US.

Robert A. Toombs avoided being arrested and tried for his role as a Confederate leader during the war. After his return in 1867, he resumed his legal practice and began to regain political power, although he never applied for a presidential pardon (as did other former Confederate statesmen). Former Confederate leaders were temporarily prohibited from voting or holding office, but Toombs ultimately led the state's Democrats, with the aid of longtime friend Alexander H. Stevens, who became governor of Georgia, and his son-in-law DuBose.

Following controversy concerning Confederate veteran Stephen A. Corker of Burke County, mostly white Georgians elected DuBose in 1870 as a Democrat to the Forty-second Congress. There was increasing unrest and violence around elections as Democrats sought to suppress the black Republican vote. DuBose served one term, from March 4, 1871 – March 3, 1873. He lost in 1872 to Republican James C. Freeman of Spalding County, Georgia. Freeman served only one term.

After his Congressional term ended, DuBose resumed his legal practice for a decade, mostly with his father-in-law. Toombs took pride in being an "unreconstructed" Confederate, and had regained considerable political power in Georgia by 1872.

Death and legacy

Dudley DuBose suffered a stroke in 1883 while traveling. He was returned to his home in Washington, Georgia, where he died on March 2, 1883. Former Confederate Vice-President and Georgia Governor Alexander H. Stephens died a few days later, marking the passage of more of the Civil War generation.

DuBose was survived by his children and grandchildren. He was interred beside his wife in Rest Haven Cemetery. His father-in-law and mentor, Robert Toombs, and other extended family members (Toombs or DuBose?) were later buried there as well.

See also

List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

References

 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .
 Retrieved on 2008-02-13

1834 births
1883 deaths
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
People of Georgia (U.S. state) in the American Civil War
Democratic Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Georgia (U.S. state)
19th-century American politicians
Members of the United States House of Representatives who owned slaves