[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Floriana Lines

occupied the island until September, when the Maltese rebelled and blockaded the French forces in the harbour area with foreign help. The Floriana Lines remained under French control throughout the blockade, and the Maltese built Tas-Samra Battery and a battery on Corradino in order to bombard them.

After the British took over Malta in 1800, the lines remained a functional military establishment. A number of minor alterations were made, including the enlargement of Porte des Bombes, the demolition of a lunette and some other gates, and the addition of gunpowder magazines and traverses.

Recent history

The fortifications were included on the Antiquities List of 1925, and they are now also listed on the National Inventory of the Cultural Property of the Maltese Islands.

In the 1970s, parts of the covertway and glacis were destroyed to make way for large storage tanks. Today, the lines are still more or less intact, but some parts are in a rather dilapidated state and in need of restoration.

Layout

Land front

The Floriana Land Front is the large bastioned enceinte enclosing the landward approach to the Floriana. It consists of the following:
Bastion of Provence, also known as San Salvatore Bastion or Sa Maison Bastion – a retrenched demi-bastion which was heavily altered over the course of the 17th and 18th centuries.
Notre Dame Curtain – curtain wall linking San Salvatore and St. Philip Bastions. It contained the Notre Dame Gate, which was partially demolished in the 1920s to accommodate for traffic requirements.
St. Philip Bastion – a large obtuse-angled bastion at the centre of the land front. It is retrenched with the following bastions:
St. James Bastion
St. Luke Bastion
St. Anne Curtain – curtain wall linking St. Philip and St. Francis Bastions. It contained St. Anne's Gate, which was replaced by a larger gate in 1859. The larger gate was also demolished in 1897 to facilitate the flow of traffic.
St. Francis Bastion – a large demi-bastion linked to the Polverista Bastion of the Grand Harbour enceinte. It is retrenched with St. Mark Bastion.

The land front is surrounded by a ditch, which contains the following outworks:
San Salvatore Counterguard – a counterguard near San Savatore Bastion.
Pietà Lunette – a pentagonal lunette between San Salvatore Bastion and Notre Dame Ravelin, facing Pietà Creek. It was damaged by aerial bombardment in World War II.
Notre Dame Ravelin, also known as the Lower Ravelin – a pentagonal ravelin near Notre Dame Curtain, between San Salvatore and St. Philip Bastions. A number of modern government buildings are located in the open area within the ravelin.
a pentagonal lunette between Notre Dame Ravelin and St. Philip Bastion. It was damaged by aerial bombardment in World War II, but the damage was repaired.
Porte des Bombes Lunette – a lunette between St. Philip Bastion and St. Francis Ravelin. It was demolished in the early 20th century to make way for the modern road to Valletta.
St. Francis Ravelin, also known as the Upper Ravelin – a pentagonal ravelin near St. Anne Curtain, between St. Philip and St. Francis Bastions. The Malta Environment and Planning Authority (MEPA) offices are located in the open area within the ravelin.
The outworks are surrounded by a faussebraye, advanced ditch, covertway, and glacis. In the 1720s, a gate known as Porta dei Cannoni was built in the faussebraye. The gate was enlarged by the British, and became known as Porte des Bombes. It was eventually detached from the faussebraye to facilitate the flow of traffic, and it now looks like a triumphal arch.

A crowned hornwork consisting of an inner hornwork with two demi-bastions and an outer crownwork with one full bastion and two demi-bastions is located near St. Francis Ravelin. The crownwork was protected by a musketry gallery overlooking Marsa and by two lunettes, one near its land front and another near its flank.

Marsamxett enceinte

The enceinte along the side facing Marsamxett Harbour starts from San Salvatore Bastion of the Floriana Land Front, and originally ended at St. Michael's Counterguard of the Valletta Land Front. It consists of the following:
La Vittoria Bastion – a small casemated bastion grafted onto the Bastion of Provence which forms part of the land front.
Polverista Curtain – a long casemated curtain wall between La Vittoria and Msida Bastions. It overlooks the AFM base at Hay Wharf.
Msida Bastion – a polygonal asymmetrical bastion with a demi-bastioned retrenchment. A cemetery (today Msida Bastion Historic Garden) was built on its upper part in the 19th century.
an unnamed curtain wall between Msida and Quarantine Bastions
Quarantine Bastion – a polygonal asymmetrical bastion with a demi-bastioned retrenchment. It is breached by a modern road.

In addition, a bastioned enceinte known as the North Entrenchment is located behind the entire Marsamxett enceinte, acting as a secondary line of defence.

Grand Harbour enceinte