[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Battle of Beecher Island

with black flies feasting on the rotting defensive line of dead horses. The square sandy hole, where Forsyth was lying was half encircled by dead mounts and would have become his grave if help had not arrived when it did. Other gun pits, interconnected, contained the living and the dead of his unit.

Carpenter immediately secured the area and pitched a number of tents up wind nearby. The wounded men were carefully carried there for more healthy air and the dead men were buried to reduce the stench and possibility of disease. Twenty-six hours later, Carpenter sent a detachment to look for Bankhead's unit. They found Stilwell and Trudeau several miles in advance of Bankhead. Captain Bankhead followed bringing with him the two troops of the 2nd Cavalry.

The following day, a fifth scout died of his wounds and was buried on the battlefield with the other four scouts. Walter Armstrong died in a hospital later. Beecher, Culver, Farley, Wilson and Doctor Mooers were buried on the island. Sixteen others were wounded. On 27 September, the Forsyth Scouts departed for Fort Wallace, escorted by the 10th Cavalry.

Aftermath

The "Forsyth Scouts" arrived back at Fort Wallace on 30 September. General George Custer later proclaimed that the Arickaree fight was "…the greatest battle on the plains."  To the Cheyenne, the engagement would be remembered as "The Fight when Roman Nose was Killed." Only nine Indians were confirmed killed, but the U.S. soldiers claimed to have slain hundreds. Years later Forsyth had a chance encounter with a Brule Lakota warrior who was at the battle. Through an interpreter this warrior recounted that the natives had suffered 75 dead and numerous more wounded.  The fight's significance as a tactical model for combating the Indians was largely ignored. The location of the battle was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1976.

The next spring Captain Brown returned to retrieve the bodies. He found Culver and Farley's remains, but Beecher, Wilson and Doctor Mooers' graves were empty, apparently removed by Indians. Culver and Farley were re-buried at Ft. Wallace.

A monument was erected by the states of Colorado and Kansas at the site of the battle.

Historic designations
 National Register of Historic Places #NPS–76000569 — "Beecher Island Battleground Memorial" site
 Colorado State Register Property

See also
Ehyophsta
List of battles fought in Colorado

References

Sources

Further reading
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 John H. Monnett, The Battle of Beecher Island and the Indian War of 1867–1869, University Press of Colorado (1 May 1994), Trade paperback, 248 pages,

External links

 Beecher's Island Battlefield Monument
 Carpenter's Recollections, an eyewitness account written in 1912 by L. H. Carpenter, Brigadier General, U.S. Army (Retired), leader of the 10th United States Cavalry rescue party.

1868 in the United States
Beecher Island
Beecher Island
Beecher Island
Beecher Island
African-American history of the United States military
Beecher Island
Beecher Island
Native American history of Colorado
History of Kansas
Pre-statehood history of Colorado
Beecher Island
1868 in Colorado Territory
September 1868 events
Beecher