[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# In the Hunt

n Japan, Game Machine listed In the Hunt on their June 1, 1993 issue as being the sixth most-popular arcade game at the time. Play Meter listed In the Hunt to be the sixteenth most-popular arcade game at the time. RePlay also reported In the Hunt to be the fifth most-popular arcade game at the time.

Electronic Gaming Monthly gave the PlayStation version a positive review, with their four reviewers particularly praising the huge number of enemies on-screen for the bulk of the game and the minimal slowdown. GamePro were also positive in their assessment: "The very detailed graphics are supported by audio that's loaded with blasts. The controls are sluggish but mostly accurate. This sub floats above other PlayStation shooters like Galactic Attack [sic - Galactic Attack was released for the Saturn, not the PlayStation] and Jupiter Strike." Maximum expressed enthusiasm for "little innovations" like the mine powerups and the King Canute boss, but nonetheless concluded the game to be "an all-too familiar mission." They also criticized that the game is too easy, short, and lacking in replay value, all criticisms that were shared by one of EGM's reviewers. A reviewer for Next Generation actually praised the game for having some mild slowdown, saying that it reflects the phenomenally high level of action going on. However, he generally panned the game for the slow movement of the player's submarine, and concluded that "while very young gamers might enjoy the lightshow, the lethargic tempo and lack of originality are sure to put anyone over the age of 10 to sleep."

Sega Saturn Magazine described the game as unoriginal and outdated, but enjoyable, with a strong sense of tongue-in-cheek humor and ingeniously designed boss fights. They concluded, "Nothing particularly new or exciting here, but In the Hunt is good fun to play, featuring loads of exciting battles and explosions." Scary Larry of GamePro found the Saturn version does not hold up well to either the PlayStation version or recent Saturn shooters such as Panzer Dragoon II and Darius Gaiden, particularly due to its frequent slowdown. He nonetheless concluded it to be "a great rental" and "a good buy if you're feeling nostalgic."

Notes

References

External links
 In the Hunt at Killer List of Videogames

1993 video games
Arcade video games
Cancelled Super Nintendo Entertainment System games
Cooperative video games
Imagineer games
Irem games
Multiplayer and single-player video games
Nintendo Switch games
PlayStation (console) games
PlayStation Network games
PlayStation 4 games
Post-apocalyptic video games
Scrolling shooters
Sega Saturn games
SIMS Co., Ltd. games
Video games developed in Japan
Video games featuring female protagonists
Windows games
Submarine simulation video games
Hamster Corporation games
Xing Entertainment games