[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# International Year of Planet Earth

The United Nations General Assembly declared 2008 as the International Year of Planet Earth to increase awareness of the importance of Earth sciences for the advancement of sustainable development. UNESCO was designated as the lead agency. The Year's activities spanned the three years 2006–2009.

Goals
The Year aimed to raise $20 million from industry and governments, of which half was to be spent on co-funding research, and half on "outreach" activities.  It was intended to be the biggest ever international effort to promote the Earth sciences.

Apart from researchers, who were expected to benefit under the Year's Science Programme, the principal target groups for the Year's broader messages were:

 Decision makers and politicians, to better inform them about the how Earth scientific knowledge can be used for sustainable development
 The voting public, to communicate to them how Earth scientific knowledge can contribute to a better society
 Geoscientists, to help them use their knowledge of various aspects of the Earth for the benefit of the world’s population.

The research themes of the year, set out in ten science prospectuses, were chosen for their societal relevance, multidisciplinary nature, and outreach potential. The Year had twelve founding partners, 23 associate partners, and was backed politically by 97 countries representing 87% of the world’s population. The Year was promoted politically at UNESCO and at the United Nations in New York by the People’s Republic of Tanzania.

The Year encouraged contributions from researchers within ten separate themes. The outreach programme worked in a similar way, receiving bids for support from individuals and organisations worldwide.

The Year's Project Leader was former IUGS President Professor Eduardo F J de Mulder. The Year's Science Committee was chaired by Professor Edward Derbyshire (Royal Holloway) and its Outreach Committee by Dr Ted Nield (Geological Society of London).

The International Year of Planet Earth project was initiated jointly by the International Union of Geological Sciences (IUGS) and the United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO). The UN press release reads:By a draft on the International Year of Planet Earth, 2008, which the Committee approved without a vote on 11 November, the Assembly would declare 2008 the International Year of Planet Earth.  It would also designate the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) to organize activities to be undertaken during the Year, in collaboration with UNEP and other relevant United Nations bodies, the International Union of Geological Sciences and other Earth sciences societies and groups throughout the world.  Also by that draft, the Assembly would encourage Member States, the United Nations system and other actors to use the Year to increase awareness of the importance of Earth sciences in achieving sustainable development and promoting local, national, regional and international action.

Background 
The project was backed by the following founding partners: 

International Union of Geodesy and Geophysics (IUGG)
International Geographical Union
International Union of Soil Sciences (IUSS)
International Lithosphere Programme (ILP)
National Geological Survey of the Netherlands (NITG-TNO)
Geological Society of London
International Soil Reference and Information Centre (ISRIC)
A consortium of the International Association for Engineering Geology and the Environment (IAEG)
International Society for Rock Mechanics (ISRM)
International Society of Soil Mechanics and Geotechnical Engineering (ISSMGE)
International Union for Quaternary Research (INQUA)
American Geological Institute (AGI)
American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG)
American Institute of Professional Geologists (AIPG)

The Year was also supported by 23 Associate Partners, including all major international geoscientific and other relevant organisations: