[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Mifflin Wistar Gibbs

Mifflin Wistar Gibbs (April 17, 1823 – July 11, 1915) was an American-born Canadian politician, businessman, newspaper publisher, and advocate for black rights. He moved to California as a young man, during the Gold Rush, and was an early black pioneer in San Francisco. Gibbs published the first black newspaper in California and was an active leader in the early California State Convention of Colored Citizens.

Angered by discriminatory laws passed in California in 1858, he led a migration of African Americans that year to Victoria, British Columbia, Canada during the Fraser Canyon Gold Rush, and he worked in Victoria for ten years. Gibbs became the first black person elected to public office in British Columbia on November 16, 1866, upon winning a seat on the Victoria City Council.

After the American Civil War, Gibbs and many of the other black settlers returned to the United States. In the late 1860s, he settled in Arkansas's capital city of Little Rock, and he became an attorney. He was active in Reconstruction politics. In 1873, Gibbs became the first black judge elected in the United States. In 1897, during the William McKinley administration, he was appointed as American consul to Madagascar.

Early life

Mifflin Wistar Gibbs was born on April 17, 1823, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Gibbs was the second of four siblings, the eldest being his brother Jonathan Clarkson Gibbs. Their father was a Methodist minister.

As a young adult, Gibbs became active in the abolitionist movement and worked for Frederick Douglass. He was also involved in the Philomathean Society of Philadelphia, a literary organization which included Douglass, Charles Burleigh Purvis, William Whipper, and Izaiah Weir. Philadelphia had long had a flourishing free black community, as people had found work there even before the revolution and slavery was abolished after the American Revolutionary War.

San Francisco, California
Like tens of thousands of other men, Gibbs joined the California Gold Rush, having arrived in San Francisco in late 1850. He sought work as a carpenter, a trade that he had pursued in Philadelphia, but was discouraged by the racial discrimination that he faced. He then partnered with Nathan Pointer to sell clothes. In 1851, Gibbs, in partnership with Peter Lester, opened the Emporium for Boot and Shoes store at 638 Clay Street in San Francisco, selling imported shoes and boots. In Gibbs's autobiography, "Shadow and Light" (1902), he mentions that, while living in San Francisco, he and Lester were successful in business but dealt with community ostracization and assaults. As African Americans in California, they were disenfranchised and thus unable to sit on a jury, unable to testify in court, and denied the right to vote.

In 1851, he and Jonas H. Townsend, W. H. Newby, and William H. Hall, published the Alta California, "the state's only African-American newspaper." He was later a proprietor, publisher, and contributor to another paper, the Mirror of the Times. He was active in statewide conventions of black people in 1854, 1855, and 1857, and, together with Lester, stood against poll taxes in San Francisco.

In 1858, he and other American blacks were angered when the California State Legislature passed discriminatory laws intended to discourage blacks from entering or staying in the state: they were deprived of the right to own property and were disqualified from giving evidence against a white person in court. All black people in California were required to wear distinctive badges. Angered by these developments, Gibbs and two other African-American men went to British Columbia to meet with Sir James Douglas, governor of the province, to learn about the treatment of blacks in Canada. Douglas assured the men that they would be treated like other residents in this frontier area.

Emigration to Canada 
Starting in 1858, Gibbs led an estimated six hundred to eight hundred African Americans, many with families, from California to British Columbia, where some settled on Vancouver Island. They comprised a major portion of the early frontier community. Gibbs became a naturalized British citizen in 1861, together with 52 other American blacks from the emigrant group. Gibbs worked as a merchant and also became involved in politics during his ten-year stay in Canada.

In the 1860 Vancouver Island Legislative election, the vote of the black community in the election for the Vancouver Island Legislative Assembly defeated Amor De Cosmos.

Victoria City Council
Gibbs ran in 1862 in the first race for a Victoria City Council seat; he placed seventh in this race, missing winning a council seat by only four votes. He was elected to Victoria City Council in 1867 and served in that body until 1869.

Confederation Movement
In 1868, Gibbs was the Salt Spring Island delegate to the Yale Convention, an important step toward British Columbia's decision to join Canada in the confederation.