[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# RoboCop (character)

le; he walked through the flames of the exploded gas station and was injured by an explosive during the first fight between RoboCop and ED-209 in OCP that threw him across the hallway. A  stop motion RoboCop figure was used once during the same scene, to show RoboCop making ED-209 shoot its own arm.

A Beretta 93R, modified by Randy Moore, was used for RoboCop's Auto-9 gun. The gun was adjusted to allow it to fire blanks, the barrel was extended, and the grips made larger, and vents were cut into the side to create a multi-directional burst of fire with every three-shot burst. RoboCop's leg holster was made using a leg mold and cable-controlled by three operators, and three separate arms were made for different functions: an articulated, cable-controlled arm shown moving during RoboCop's creation; one with a spring-loaded spike attached to a metal frame and held near Weller when RoboCop accesses the police database; and one built like a battering-ram to smash a television screen in Murphy's home.

Appearances

RoboCop 

The megacorporation Omni Consumer Products (OCP) holds a contract to fund and run the Detroit Police Department, with OCP's Security Concepts division providing oversight for the police. In order to supplement the overwhelmed police force, Security Concepts begins developing robotic law enforcement units. Originally, OCP Senior President Dick Jones develops a fully robotic unit called ED (Enforcement Droid)-209, with plans to secure a profitable long-term contract with the military. However, ED-209 severely malfunctions during the simulation of a disarm-and-arrest procedure and kills the test subject, even though he dropped his weapon. Ambitious junior executive Bob Morton takes this as a justified reason to go over Jones's head and pitch his "RoboCop" program directly to OCP's CEO, the "Old Man".

Morton and his team restructure the police force to deliberately place prime candidates with high aptitude and experience in law enforcement into high crime areas where death in the line of duty is much higher. Once a death occurs, the deceased officer's body will be used in the construction of a cyborg law enforcement unit (full body cybernetic/bionic prosthetic chassis), since the officers have already signed waivers allowing OCP to do whatever they please with their corpses. This unit will build upon the deceased's lifetime of on-the-street law enforcement experience by adding the fastest reflexes modern technology can offer and a memory assisted by an on-board computer.

Officer Alex Murphy is one of these candidates. He is partnered with Officer Anne Lewis, a veteran of Old Detroit, which is plagued by crime boss Clarence Boddicker and his gang. One day, Murphy and Lewis pursue Boddicker's gang in a rolling shootout following an armed robbery, chasing them to an abandoned steel mill. After they split up to search for the gang, Boddicker's henchman Joe Cox incapacitates Lewis while Murphy is captured by three of Boddicker's lieutenants: Emil Antonowsky, Leon Nash, and Steve Minh. When Boddicker shows up, he asks Murphy for his opinion of him, to which Murphy defiantly and honestly tells him, "Buddy, I think you're slime." Boddicker nonchalantly shoots off Murphy's right hand with a shotgun, then the gang members take turns blasting Murphy with shotguns, shearing off Murphy's right arm and blowing holes in every part of his body. Amazingly, Murphy survives (perhaps due to the protective body armor covering his torso), but Boddicker then executes him with a gunshot to the head. Murphy is rushed to a trauma center, where the doctors try in vain to keep him alive.

After having him legally-declared-dead, OCP seizes possession of Murphy, citing the release forms he signed when he joined the police force. The technicians of the RoboCop Program, led by Morton, take what is left of Murphy's face and portions of his still-living cerebrum and cerebellum and install them in a cybernetic body, in effect resurrecting him as RoboCop.