[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# USS War Hawk

USS War Hawk (AP-168) was a La Salle-class transport and troopship of the United States Navy, built at the Moore Dry Dock Company in Oakland, California in 1942. The La Salle-class transport had a displacement of almost 14,000 tons and were designed to ferry troops and supplies to and from the war zone during World War II.

War Hawk carried eight LCVP (Higgins Boat) type landing craft used to move troops and four LCMs used to move heavy equipment to and from the shore.

Service history
Her keel was laid down on 24 December 1942. The hull was completed in a little over three months and was launched on 3 April 1943 under the command of Commander S. H. Thompson. After launch, War Hawk was fitted out and acquired by the United States Navy on 9 March 1944. She was commissioned on the same day and designated AP-168.

The Marianas missions
On 21 April 1944 she left the San Francisco Bay headed for Pearl Harbor, on the island of Oahu. At Pearl Harbor War Hawk joined the 5th Fleet Amphibious Force and after training, left for her part in "Operation Forager", the liberation of the Marianas Islands. At the time of the landing there were about 59,000 Japanese troops stations in the Southern Marianas Islands, in particular on Saipan, Tinian and Guam.

The assault on Marianas was conducted with overwhelming force. All total there were 198 vessels involved including 110 transports and auxiliary ships and 88 warships. These ships carried and supported a force of 110,000 men. However, Saipan had been in Japanese control for more than ten years and was heavily fortified. There were approximately 31,000 Japanese troops (including navy), and well entrenched on the island.

War Hawk arrived at Saipan on 15 June 1944 and landed elements of the 2nd Marine Division on the southwestern shore of the island. Sometime during the next eight days War Hawk helped fight off two Japanese air attacks. During this time she also took on eleven seriously wounded Japanese prisoners of war. As was the nature of many Japanese soldiers, the only way they would be taken prisoner was if they could not fight. The extent of their wounds was so great that all eleven died in spite of efforts of War Hawks medical staff. They were buried at sea. Four days after the landing, the Allies engaged the Japanese Navy in the Philippine Sea and inflicted tremendous damage. This battle prevented the Imperial Japanese Navy from resupplying their troops in the Marianas leaving a brutal war of attrition for the Japanese until the commanding officer, General Yoshitsugu Saitō, committed suicide and the island was declared liberated on 9 July 1944.

As the fighting on Saipan came to a close, some of War Hawks sister ships began moving troops from Saipan to Tinian. War Hawk did not directly participate in the invasion of Tinian. However, several LCVPs en route to Saipan's beachheads, came within range of what were apparently 20 mm explosive shell fire from Tinian which is only a few miles off the coast of Saipan. There were no hits, but much spray as the shells landed near the boats.

On 23 June 1944 War Hawk headed back to Pearl Harbor where she picked up elements of the United States Army's 77th Infantry and returned to the Marianas. She landed her troops on Guam on 21 July. She loitered in the area for several more days before returning to Pearl Harbor on 29 June. There she spent a month practicing with new troops from the Army's 96th Infantry Division before leaving again for the South Pacific Theater.

En route, she was diverted from the canceled invasion of Yap to take part in the invasion of the Philippines.

Leyte
During the latter part of 1944 and early 1945, War Hawk participated in the operations to liberate the Philippines. She left Pearl Harbor carrying elements of the Army's 96th Infantry Division and headed for Yap Island, in the Carolines. En route, she changed heading for Eniwetok as the invasion of Yap was canceled. After leaving Eniwetok, she sailed for Manus. She headed to the Philippines on 14 October 1944 to take part in the invasion of Leyte.

Leyte was heavily defended by 20,000 Japanese troops. The Imperial Japanese Army had decided that it was best to fortify the Philippines to prevent the Allies from moving north through them to the Japanese homeland. In total there were about 432,000 troops on the various Philippine Islands. There were also between 100 and 120 operational Japanese air bases that would be used to provide air attacks during any amphibious invasion.

The approach to the landing was from the southwest through Leyte Gulf. The beaches were between the cities of Tacloban and Dulag on the northeast side of the island. In total, the Leyte invasion was the largest invasion mounted in the Pacific to date. There were a combined total of 701 ships of which 157 were warships. The transports put six Army divisions and one battalion of Rangers onto Leyte in just a few days.