[Source: PubMed]

6. Epidemiol Psychiatr Sci. 2024 Dec 11;33:e78. doi: 10.1017/S2045796024000830.

War exposure, daily stressors, and mental health 15 years on: implications of an 
ecological framework for addressing the mental health of conflict-affected 
populations.

Miller KE(1), Rasmussen A(2).

Author information:
(1)Education and Counselling Psychology and Special Education, The University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(2)Psychology Department, Fordham University, New York, NY, USA.

AIMS: Fifteen years ago, we published an article in Social Science and Medicine 
seeking to resolve the contentious debate between advocates of two very 
different frameworks for understanding and addressing the mental health needs of 
conflict-affected populations. The two approaches, which we labelled 
trauma-focused and psychosocial, reflect deeply held beliefs about the causes 
and nature of distress in war-affected communities. Drawing on the burgeoning 
literature on armed conflict and mental health, the reports of mental health and 
psychosocial support (MHPSS) staff in the field, and on research on the 
psychology and psychophysiology of stress, we proposed an integrative model that 
drew on the strengths of both frameworks and underscored their essential 
complementarity. Our model includes two primary pathways by which armed conflict 
impacts mental health: directly, through exposure to war-related violence and 
loss, and indirectly, through the harsh conditions of everyday life caused or 
exacerbated by armed conflict. The mediated model we proposed draws attention to 
the effects of stressors both past (prior exposure to war-related violence and 
loss) and present (ongoing conflict, daily stressors), at all levels of the 
social ecology; for that reason, we have termed it an ecological model for 
understanding the mental health needs of conflict-affected populations.
METHODS: In the ensuing 15 years, the model has been rigorously tested in 
diverse populations and has found robust support. In this paper, we first 
summarize the development and key tenets of the model and briefly review recent 
empirical support for it. We then discuss the implications of an ecological 
framework for interventions aimed at strengthening mental health in 
conflict-affected populations.
RESULTS: We present preliminary evidence suggesting there has been a gradual 
shift towards more ecological (i.e., multilevel, multimodal) programming in 
MHPSS interventions, along the lines suggested by our model as well as other 
conceptually related frameworks, particularly public health.
CONCLUSIONS: We reflect on several gaps in the model, most notably the absence 
of adverse childhood experiences. We suggest the importance of examining early 
adversity as both a direct influence on mental health and as a potential 
moderator of the impact of potentially traumatic war-related experiences of 
violence and loss.

DOI: 10.1017/S2045796024000830
PMCID: PMC11669807
PMID: 39659218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.