[Source: PubMed]

48. J Med Ethics. 2023 Aug;49(8):583-590. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2021-107684.
Epub  2021 Nov 30.

Analysis of the institutional landscape and proliferation of proposals for 
global vaccine equity for COVID-19: too many cooks or too many recipes?

Geiger S(1), McMahon A(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Business, UCD, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Department of Law, Maynooth University, Maynooth, Ireland 
aisling.mcmahon@mu.ie.

This article outlines and compares current and proposed global institutional 
mechanisms to increase equitable access to COVID-19 vaccines, focusing on their 
institutional and operational complementarities and overlaps. It specifically 
considers the World Health Organization's (WHO's) COVAX (COVID-19 Vaccines 
Global Access) model as part of the Access to COVID-19 Tools Accelerator (ACT-A) 
initiative, the WHO's COVID-19 Technology Access Pool (C-TAP) initiative, the 
proposed TRIPS (Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Agreement) 
intellectual property waiver and other proposed WHO and World Trade Organization 
technology transfer proposals. We argue that while various individual mechanisms 
each have their specific individual merits-and in some cases weaknesses-overall, 
many of these current and proposed mechanisms could be highly complementary if 
used together to deliver equitable global access to vaccines. Nonetheless, we 
also argue that there are risks posed by the proliferation of proposals in this 
context, including the potential to disperse stakeholder attention or to delay 
decisive action. Therefore, we argue that there is now a clear need for 
concerted global multilateral action to recognise the complementarities of 
specific models and to provide a pathway for collaboration in attaining global 
equitable access to vaccines. The institutional infrastructure or proposals to 
achieve this amply exist at this point in time-but much greater cooperation from 
industry and clear, decisive and coordinated action from states and 
international organisations are urgently needed.

© Author(s) (or their employer(s)) 2023. No commercial re-use. See rights and 
permissions. Published by BMJ.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2021-107684
PMID: 34848492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: AM and SG are members of 
Access to Medicines Ireland (AMI), a voluntary membership group of Comhlámh. The 
views expressed here represent the authors' views and are not representative of 
AMI. AM and SG act as joint guarantors for the paper.