[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Officer Cadet School (Singapore)

The Officer Cadet School (OCS) is a military training centre that trains commissioned officers for the four branches of the Singapore Armed Forces (SAF): the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, and the Digital and Intelligence Service. 

Located within the SAFTI Military Institute complex in Jurong West, it has twelve wings inclusive of tri-service wings. Nine wings are named according to the NATO phonetic alphabet from A (Alpha) to E (Echo) and S (Sierra) and T (Tango), while the remaining three wings (Mids, Air and Dis) are for the Navy, Air Force, and Digital and Intelligence Service, respectively. 

The trainees are mostly drawn from the best performing recruits in each basic military training cohort. Trainees with outstanding performance from the Specialist Cadet School (SCS), where specialists (non-commissioned officers) are trained, are also invited to transfer to OCS. Career soldiers may also attend OCS on application, recommendation and selection. OCS trainees are known as Officer Cadets (OCTs) if they serve in the Army and Air Force, Midshipmen (MIDs) if they serve in the Navy, and Senior Military Expert Trainees (ME4Ts) if they serve in the Digital and Intelligence Service.

History 
The Officer Cadet School traces its origins to the Singapore Armed Forces Training Institute (SAFTI), which was established in Pasir Laba Camp on 14 February 1966 as a military institute to train officers and non-commissioned officers for the Singapore Armed Forces. Before then officer training had been held overseas at British and Commonwealth academies. While SAFTI was under construction at Pasir Laba Camp, 60 officers and non-commissioned officers were selected to attend a three-month instructors' preparatory course at Jurong Primary School conducted by a group of foreign advisers. In May 1966, the Ministry of Interior and Defence started recruiting trainees for SAFTI through a selection process that included written and IQ tests, physical fitness tests and interviews. Out of 2,500 applicants, 300 were chosen to undergo officer training. SAFTI was officially opened on 18 June 1966 by Minister for Defence Goh Keng Swee, and the 300 cadets were to form the first cadre of cadets of the SAFTI's officer wing - then the School of Infantry Officers SAFTI (SIO-SAFTI).

The SIO held its first public parade on National Day 1966 as part of the overall SAFTI battalion that took part that day.

On 16 July 1967, only 117 of the 300 cadets successfully completed their training and received their commissions at the SAFTI parade square. SAFTI received its colours from Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew in a ceremony on 16 June 1968.

In 1969, six women from the People's Defence Force were offered positions for officer training at SAFTI owing to their outstanding performance. On 10 July 1970, the six women received their commissions along with the fourth batch of infantry officer cadets. The first batch of cadets who attended the Officer Cadet Course was commissioned on 11 November 1972. As more companies were set up to train cadets, the School of Infantry Officers was renamed Officer Cadet School (OCS) and its headquarters was set up on 1 June 1969.

In 1972, a "scholars platoon" was introduced in OCS to encourage cadets with better qualifications to take up government-sponsored scholarships for further training. In the 1970s, after the National Service duration was shortened from three years to two years and six months, OCS introduced a nine-month Standard Military Course on 26 December 1974 to improve officer training and provide officers with a longer service period after commissioning. Officer cadets were selected primarily on the basis of their academic qualifications and extra-curricular activities before they enlisted for National Service. In 1977, OCS introduced an overseas training component in the Standard Military Course.

On 1 June 1980, OCS became OCS-SAFTI and a nine-month Infantry Officer Cadet Course was introduced on 1 September 1980. Under the new system, officer cadets were selected only after they had completed their basic military training. The nine-month course consisted of a 12-week junior term that trains cadets to lead sections, as well as a 27-week senior term that trains them to lead platoons. In May 1980, the Medical Officer Cadet Course was introduced for officers who wanted to take up medical or dental professions in the Singapore Armed Forces.