[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marilyn Ramenofsky

ith a time of 4:18:07 at the Arizona Senior Invitational.

Coaching swimming
Marilyn was later involved in coaching for numerous teams at the high school and college level, even helping to lead the University of Texas to the state championships in 1971 while she was completing her Masters in Austin.

Life after swimming
Ramenofsky, who is Jewish, was inducted into the International Jewish Sports Hall of Fame in 1988.  She married Dr. John C. Wingfield at South Mountain Park outside Phoenix, Arizona, in November 1979. Wingfield was a Zoologist and neurobiologist who had completed a Doctorate from the University College of North Wales in 1973. Like Marilyn, he would later perform research at the University of California Davis, and collaborate with her on some of her research.  Dr. Wingfield's research at UC Davis focused on neural pathways for environmental signals relating to seasonality, mechanisms of coping with environmental stress (allostasis), and the social modulation of hormone secretion.  His work has had parallels with Marilyn's own research.

Academic career
Ramenofsky received her Bachelors in 1969 in Botany and Biology from Pomona College, then completed her Masters of Science in 1972 in Zoology from the University of Texas at Austin.  Her Doctorate in Zoology, completed in 1982, was received from the University of Washington, Seattle.  She began her academic career serving as a Professor at Vassar College for three years, then taught for twenty years at the University of Washington until 2008, when she began teaching and research at the University of California, Davis. She has published numerous peer reviewed articles on the physiology and behavior of migratory birds, most notably the white-crowned sparrow.  Much of her research has focused on how glucocorticoids (steroid hormones) may orchestrate the suite of life history changes associated with bird migration.

Continuing at UC Davis since 2008, she has most recently studied the migration of birds, and changes in their muscle physiology during stages of migration.

See also

 List of Olympic medalists in swimming (women)
 List of Pomona College people
 List of select Jewish swimmers
 World record progression 400 metres freestyle

References

External links
  Marilyn Ramenofsky – Athlete profile at National Jewish Sports Hall of Fame and Museum
 Image of Marilyn Ramenofsky with coach Peter Daland, California, 1964. Los Angeles Times Photographic Archive (Collection 1429). UCLA Library Special Collections, Charles E. Young Research Library, University of California, Los Angeles.
 Poolside with Former Record-Holding Swimmer, Olympian and Biology Professor Marilyn Ramenofsky '69 – Article by Adam Conner-Simmons, Pomona College Website, August, 2008

1946 births
Living people
American female freestyle swimmers
World record setters in swimming
Jewish American sportspeople
Jewish swimmers
Competitors at the 1961 Maccabiah Games
Competitors at the 1965 Maccabiah Games
Maccabiah Games gold medalists for the United States
Maccabiah Games bronze medalists for the United States
Maccabiah Games medalists in swimming
Olympic silver medalists for the United States in swimming
Pomona College alumni
Sportspeople from Phoenix, Arizona
Swimmers at the 1964 Summer Olympics
Medalists at the 1964 Summer Olympics
21st-century American Jews
21st-century American women