[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# May 1974

ionship final tournament for the first time in its history.
Born: Lornah Kiplagat, Kenyan-born Dutch Olympic runner, 2007 cross country world champion; in Kabiemit, Keiyo District
Died: Sir Frank Packer , 67, Australian media magnate and owner of the Nine Network and of Australian Consolidated Press

May 2, 1974 (Thursday)
Six people were killed in Northern Ireland, and 18 injured, when the Ulster Volunteer Force terrorist group detonated a bomb in the Rose & Crown Bar in Belfast.
The crash of an ATESA airlines DC-3 in Ecuador killed all 22 people aboard, when the plane flew into the side of the inactive Tungurahua volcano in the Andes, east of Quito. The airplane was on its way from the airport at Puyo to Ambato when it hit the  volcano at an altitude of .
West Germany's unofficial diplomatic mission to East Germany, the "Permanent Representation Office" (Ständiger Vertretungen), opened in East Berlin with Günter Gaus as the West German representative. In that the position of the West German government was that the German Democratic Republic in the east was illegal, the two nations stopped short of giving recognition to each other's governments. At the same time, East Germany opened its office in Bonn, with Michael Kohl as its envoy.
General Antonio de Spinola, head of the military junta that overthrew Portugal's dictatorship, ordered amnesty to thousands of young Portuguese men who had been charged with desertion for fleeing the country to avoid serving in colonial wars. Spinola said that any draft dodger who reported to his military unit within 15 days would not be charged with desertion, and that any soldiers convicted of desertion would be released from prison to return to peacetime military service.
Former U.S. Vice President Spiro Agnew was disbarred from the practice of law in a unanimous decision of the Maryland Court of Appeals, the highest in the state. Agnew, who had pled no contest to a charge of tax evasion on October 10 and resigned the office, was described by the Court as "so morally obtuse that he consciously cheats for his own pecuniary gain."
The 47.69 carat Star of South Africa diamond was sold at an auction in Geneva for 1.6 million Swiss francs (equivalent to £225,300 or $542,000).
Born:
Jon Oringer, American computer programmer and billionaire businessman, founder of Shutterstock; in Scarsdale, New York
Matt Berry, English actor known for Toast of London, 2015 BAFTA Award winner for Best Male Performance in a Comedy Programme; in Bromham, Bedfordshire
Chang Chen-yue, aboriginal Taiwanese rock and hip-hop musician, 2013 Golden Melody Awards winner for Best Album; in Suao Township, Yilan County, Taiwan
Died:
James O. Richardson, 95, United States Navy admiral, commander in chief of the United States Fleet (CinCUS), relieved of command after warning against the redeployment and concentration of the Pacific Fleet at Pearl Harbor in Hawaii in 1941.
Frank Moraes, 66, Indian journalist and newspaper columnist, editor of The Indian Express 1957 to 1972
Ebbe Munck, 69, Danish Resistance fighter in World War II, later Denmark's Ambassador to Thailand and chief of the royal court

May 3, 1974 (Friday)
Colombian serial rapist Daniel Camargo Barbosa was arrested in Barranquilla for his first of at least 72 murders.
Born:
Princess Haya bint Hussein of Jordan, Olympic equestrian, daughter of King Hussein; in Amman, Amman Governorate
Joseph Kosinski, American computer-generated imagery (CGI) expert and film director known for Tron: Legacy; in Marshalltown, Iowa
Died: Helen Hemingway Benton, 72, owner and publisher of Encyclopædia Britannica, widow of U.S. Senator William Benton

May 4, 1974 (Saturday)
An all-female Japanese team reached the top of the Himalayan mountain Manaslu in Nepal, becoming the first women to climb an  peak.
Five men died in an explosion at a dynamite factory in Burbach, North Rhine-Westphalia in West Germany. The employees of Dynamit-Novel AG in Burbach-Wuergendorf had been inside a concrete shelter and were operating a machine used for mixing gunpowder.
In Manhattan, a crowd of 1,000 rallied on Christopher Street to urge the New York City Council to pass a bill recognizing equal rights for gay and lesbian people.
Cannonade, ridden by jockey Ángel Cordero Jr., won the 1974 Kentucky Derby, the 100th running of the event, at Churchill Downs in Louisville, Kentucky.