[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# 9th New Jersey Infantry Regiment

The 9th New Jersey Infantry Regiment (also called Jersey Muskrats) was an American Civil War infantry regiment from New Jersey that served from October 1861 through July 1865 in the Union Army. The regiment got its nickname, Jersey Muskrats, during the Battle of Roanoke Island when they successfully "sloshed through shoe sucking mud into waist deep water in "division" formation", giving the regiment a two-company front flanking the enemy. The regiment was the last to leave the state in 1861 but the first to see battle.

The 9th took part in the Burnside Expedition into North Carolina. The regiment remained in North Carolina with the occupation force until early 1864 when the first enlistment was up. In January 1864 the regiment went back to New Jersey where more than 50% of those whose three-year term was about to expire reenlisted. This allowed the regiment to add "Veteran" to the name, a mark of distinction for the men. Those who reenlisted for three more years were given a 30-day veteran furlough. The regiment then moved into Virginia leading to the Siege of Petersburg. The 9th was then transferred back to North Carolina for garrison duty for the remainder of the war.

Formation
The 9th New Jersey Infantry Regiment was raised as a regiment of riflemen with broadsides posted throughout the state during September 1861 for 'sharpshooters', men who could show proficiency with a rifle. Recruiting started in September but the first muster occurred on 5 October at Camp Olden near Trenton. The camp was named for the governor of New Jersey, Charles Smith Olden. The regiment's nickname was the Jersey Muskrats.

The regiment was issued new Springfield rifle-muskets (possibly the Springfield Model 1861) in late November after being issued smoothbore muskets. The men, recruited as sharpshooters, protested and Governor Olden made a special request to get the best weapon available to men.

Key training dates:
5 October 1861 – First Muster at Camp Olden near Newark, New Jersey
26 November 1861 – Issued Springfield rifled-muskets to replace smoothbore muskets (reference?)
4 December 1861 – Embarked for Washington to join the Union Army

Federal service

The 9th moved out of Camp Olden on 4 December for Washington, D.C., to join the Union Army. The regiment participated in the North Carolina Expedition (also called the Burnside Expedition) into Roanoke Island, North Carolina, commanded by Ambrose Burnside.

Key service dates: (non-battle related)
6 December 1861 – Arrived at Washington, entered camp on the Bladensburg turnpike
4 January 1862 – Embarked for Annapolis, Maryland

First battle
The first test of the regiment came in February 1862 during the Burnside Expedition to Roanoke Island in North Carolina.

The regiment was assigned to the command of Brigadier-General Jesse L. Reno, embarked on two naval vessels on 10 January, and made for Fortress Monroe. They remained there for two days when sail was made and the vessels headed south. The next day the ships anchored at Hatteras Inlet.

Colonel Joseph Allen and Dr. Weller (Surgeon) drowned while returning to the ship, Ann E. Thompson, from a meeting with General Burnside on 15 January. Lieutenant-Colonel Heckman, Adjutant Zabriskie, and Quartermaster Keys were also aboard the gig but survived. Heckman assumed command. There were other incidents reported by ships in and around the inlet (e.g. sand bars, etc.).

On 7 February, the force landed on Roanoke Island and entrenched for the evening. The 9th was in Second Brigade, under General Reno. At 6 o'clock the next morning (8 Feb.), First Brigade advanced against the enemy. The 9th was ordered forward about 8 o'clock to pass the 51st New York and report to General Foster.

The 9th lost 9 killed and 25 wounded.

Into North Carolina
On 11 March 1862 the regiment boarded ships again and landed the next day at the mouth of the Neuse River. The brigade attacked an entrenched enemy position the morning of the 14th. Their destination was New Bern, North Carolina (sometimes written as "Newberne"). The 9th lost 4 killed and 58 wounded.

When Burnside and most of the Expedition force transferred to Virginia, the 9th remained in the Carolinas as part of an 8,000-man coastal occupation force. In May 1862, two companies were disbanded and the men were distributed to fill out the ranks of the other companies; this left the 9th with the usual 10 companies of an infantry regiment instead of the original 12.

Regimental headquarters was set up near "Carolina City", the companies were assigned railroad guard and garrison duty throughout the area.

The regimental headquarters remained in barracks during the Battle of Fort Macon on 25 and 26 April 1862 but various companies were assigned picket duty to guard the approaches from Wilmington.

On 26 July 1862 Colonel Heckman led six companies of the 9th to Young's Cross Roads. Colonel Heckman and Surgeon Woodhull were slightly wounded during this skirmish.