[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Stephen Gleeson

ing round of the 2005 UEFA European Under-17 Championship as outstanding. Ireland finished second in their group, so progressed to the elite round. Gleeson scored as his team beat Northern Ireland 2–1, but defeats to Serbia and Montenegro and England meant they failed to reach the tournament proper.

He first appeared for the under-19s at the age of 17 years 6 monthsa year younger than most of his teammatesagainst Scotland in a friendly tournament at La Manga in February 2006. After a couple of appearances at under-18 level, Gleeson was included in the squad for that year's European Under-19 Championship elite qualification round. He started one match and played as a substitute in the other two; Ireland lost all three. He was vice-captain of the under-19 team as they reached the same stage of the 2007 competition, but withdrew from the qualifiers because of club commitments with Wolves in the Championship play-offs.

Gleeson was the youngest of eleven uncapped players included by Steve Staunton in the Ireland squad for a two-match visit to the United States in May 2007. He made his senior international debut as a 79th-minute substitute in a 1–1 draw with Ecuador at Giants Stadium on 23 May, and also played in the second match, a 1–1 draw with Bolivia, again as a substitute. Years later he admitted that "I don't think I did my best out there. I was a bit overawed: the senior team, 18 years of age, with all these names around me."

Three months later, Gleeson marked his under-21 debut with both goals in a 2–2 friendly draw with Germany. He went on to make 16 appearances at under-21 level, and captained the team in November 2009 in a 4–1 defeat against Armenia in a European Championship qualifier.

Despite his early introduction to the senior team, Gleeson was not called up again for nine years. He had previously expressed disappointment at his omission even when 40-man squads were named for Ireland matches, but in March 2016 manager Martin O'Neill selected him in the squad for friendlies against Switzerland and Slovakia. He was an unused substitute in both matches. Gleeson received a late call-up to the senior squad for a friendly at home to Iceland in March 2017, and this time did take the field, as a second-half substitute, winning his third cap nearly ten years after his second; Ireland lost 1–0. He was included in a weakened squad for two internationals in the United States in June, and on 1 June, he scored his first goal for Ireland, three minutes after coming on as a substitute in a 3–1 defeat to Mexico at the MetLife Stadium.

Career statistics

Club

International

International goals
Scores and results list the Republic of Ireland's goal tally first.

Honours
Stockport County
 Football League Two play-offs: 2008

Individual
 PFA Team of the Year: 2011–12 League One

References

External links

 
 Ireland U17, U18 and U19 profiles at Soccerscene

1988 births
Living people
Association footballers from Dublin (city)
Republic of Ireland men's association footballers
Republic of Ireland men's youth international footballers
Republic of Ireland men's under-21 international footballers
Republic of Ireland men's international footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Cherry Orchard F.C. players
Wolverhampton Wanderers F.C. players
Stockport County F.C. players
Hereford United F.C. players
Milton Keynes Dons F.C. players
Birmingham City F.C. players
Ipswich Town F.C. players
Aberdeen F.C. players
Solihull Moors F.C. players
Hemel Hempstead Town F.C. players
Hitchin Town F.C. players
English Football League players
Scottish Professional Football League players
National League (English football) players
Southern Football League players