[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Guangdong University of Foreign Studies

, which was approved by the People's Government of Guangdong province in 2009, is a think-tank dedicated to the research on Guangdong's international strategies, particularly on China's participation in the governance of global economy, Guangdong's going global, the Maritime Silk Road, and the like.

In addition, the university has formed two province-level research centers— Center for Collaborative Innovation of Foreign Language Research and Services, and Center for Collaborative Innovation of Guangdong Going Global Strategies. The school has completed a host of state-level key research projects and team innovation projects under the auspices of the National Social Sciences Fund and the Ministry of Education, and won quite a few high-level awards for the scholars’ relevant outstanding academic achievements. Also, the school publishes Modern Foreign Languages (core journal), International Economics and Trade Research (core journal), Journal of Guangdong University of Foreign Studies, Journal of Strategy and Decision Making, and the like. Besides, it has set up more than 10 university-level research institutes, such as Research Institute of International Service Outsourcing.

Library

Printed resources 
By the statistical figures given in August 2014, the library boasts 2,894,000 copies of books in 20 languages in total. To be specific, there are 501,000 kinds and 20,840,000 copies of Chinese books; 130,000 kinds and 496,000 copies of English originals; 71,000 kinds and 179,000 copies of non-English originals; 1659 kinds and 2167 copies of Chinese and foreign journals; 135,000 copies of bound volume of back numbers. The library enjoys an abundance of foreign books and journals, which make the library, stand out from the other libraries across the universities.

Electronic resources 
The library boasts 1,780,000 kinds (copies) of Chinese and foreign electronic books, including 1,700,000 kinds of Chinese books and 80,000 kinds of foreign books. It has subscribed 85 kinds of electronic database, including 42 kinds of Chinese database and 43 kinds of foreign database. Besides, it provides 18 kinds of network database that can be openly accessed and 20 kinds of database specially created for certain disciplines and specialties. It has 5769 kinds of electronic Chinese journals and 40,750 kinds of electronic foreign journals and 67,000 kinds of electronic books. The databases created by the university include: Center for the Research of Guangdong's Literature Resources, Chaoxing Electronic Books Service, Linguistics and Applied Linguistics Research Database, Foreign Literature and Cultural Research Database, GDUFS Academic Archiving System Database, Liang Zongdai's Works and Relevant Research Database.

Special collections 
The Center for Research of Foreign Linguistics and Applied Linguistics houses books and journals that cannot be taken out of the reading room.

The Liang Zongdai Library houses all the books that the renowned poet-cum-scholar-cum-translator collected, his monographs, and his relevant research materials, including the books autographed by the French writers Ambroise-Paul-Toussaint-Jules Valéry and Romain Rolland.

The Center for Research of Business English collects and displays the English classics of economy, business, and management, the latest relevant works, the related core journals, and the relevant database.

The Center for Research of Guangdong's Literature Resources is the result of the cooperation of Guangdong University of Foreign Studies with Southern Publishing & Media Co. Ltd. It collects literature resources related to Guangdong's politics, economy, culture, society, and relevant electronic resources.

The Room for the Teachers' Works collects almost 2,000 representative works written by the teachers of the university.

The Room for Prized Works houses classics such as the Complete Library of the Four Treasuries, compiled in 1772-1782 at the order of the Qianlong Emperor, and voluminous English dictionaries.

The Digital Library contains a world of electronic books, electronic journals, audiovisual and picture resources, conference papers, theses, dissertations, statistical data, and test questions databases. It provides a host of databases: such as CNKI, Du Xiu Knowledge Bank, Chao Xing Renowned Professors’ Rostrum, China Economic Statistics Database, the State Council's Information Network of Development Research Center, China Law Resources Database, MyiLibrary, Taylor & Francis SSH, Web of Knowledge SSCI, CUP (Cambridge University Press), OUP (Oxford University Press), Wiley-Blackwell, Elsevier ScienceDirect, EBSCO, Proquest, HeinOnline, ACM (Association for Computing Machinery), PressDisplay (multi-language newspapers databank).