[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Kazakhstan–United States relations

for International Development (USAID).

On October 2, 2020, the USAID launched a five-year rule of law program for over $7 million to support legal reforms in Kazakhstan. The Supreme Court and the Ministry of Information and Public Development of Kazakhstan partner with the USAID under this program.

Justice Sector Institutional Strengthening Project
The Justice Sector Institutional Strengthening Project, a project to strengthen judicial services in Kazakhstan and to improve the key legal and rule of law environment, will receive a $36 million loan from the World Bank Group.

Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters 
On February 20, 2015, Deputy Assistant Attorney General and Department of Justice Counselor for International Affairs Bruce C. Swartz and Prosecutor General of the Republic of Kazakhstan Askhat Daulbayev signed a Treaty on Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters in Washington DC. The Treaty provides a formal intergovernmental mechanism for the provision of evidence and other forms of law enforcement assistance in criminal investigations, prosecutions, and related proceedings. In July 2015 Kazakhstan ratified the agreement.

Military & Security Cooperation 

Reportedly responding to a U.S. appeal, the Kazakhstani legislature in May 2003 approved sending military engineers to assist in coalition operations in Iraq. The 27 troops trained Iraqis in de-mining and water purification. They pulled out of Iraq in late 2008. Since 2009, Kazakhstan has permitted air and land transit for U.S. and NATO troops and equipment—as part of the Northern Distribution Network—to support stabilization operations in Afghanistan.

For almost a decade, thousands of service members and civilians from more than 15 nations have converged on the Republic of Kazakhstan for Exercise Steppe Eagle. More than 1,000 participants from six countries are invited to be a part of the multinational, peacekeeping exercise at Camp Illisky (a training facility outside Kazakhstan's largest city, Almaty).

The second phase of the Steppe Eagle 2015 peacekeeping exercises began June 15, 2015, at the Ili training area near Almaty. It was the 13th time the exercise was held. Annually, exercises involved more than 1,500 people as well as military observers from foreign states, experts from various NATO headquarters and military-diplomatic corps accredited in Kazakhstan.

During the second Iraq War, Kazakhstani troops dismantled   4 million mines and other explosives, and help provide medical care to more than 5,000 coalition members and civilians, and purified 718 cubic meters of water.

Since 1995, Kazakhstan has been partnered with the state of Arizona through the State Partnership Program which works to build relationships, learn best practices, foster military and civilian ties.

Kazakhstan's Military Institute of Land Forces has an exchange program with West Point Military Academy in the USA. Each year student from the Kazakhstan's military institute visit West Point to get familiar with cadets' routine, take raining, physical reparation and military training. Cadets from West Point, in their turn, visit Kazakhstan's Military Institute of Land Forces for the same purposes.

Kazakh military officials have sought to learn from the U.S. Army on Kazakhstan's transition from a conscript to an all-volunteer army.

Phase one of Steppe Eagle 2016 was held in Illisky Training Center neat Almaty on April 11–22. The peacekeeping exercise featured instructors and soldiers from the Kazakhstan Peacekeeping Operations Training Center, U.K. soldiers from the 1st Rifles Battalion, 160th Brigade, and Soldiers from the Arizona National Guard. Phase two of Steppe Eagle 2016 scheduled to take place in the U.K. in July.

The second stage of the Steppe Eagle 2016 International Peacekeeping Exercise took place at Stanford Training Area in the United Kingdom. The participant countries included Kazakhstan, the U.K., the U.S., Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan.

Phase 1 of Steppe Eagle 2017 took place March 31 to April 11, 2017, at Illisky Training Center, Kazakhstan. About 50 U.S. and U.K. soldiers and over 500 Kazakh soldiers participated in the peacekeeping exercises that focused on medical and communication operations.

Bilateral Meetings

Nursultan Nazarbayev and the George W. Bush Administration 
In May 2006 Vice President Dick Cheney traveled to Kazakhstan to meet with President Nazarbayev to promote the expansion of oil and gas export routes. This was the third meeting between Cheney and Nazarbayev, the first occurring when Cheney was CEO of Halliburton, and the second shortly after Cheney became vice president. After the meeting, Nazarbayev publicly stated that memoranda of understanding had been signed for co-financing of Kazakh projects and $158 million allocated for defense projects.