[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Boulby Mine

d laboratory

Because of its depth, Boulby Mine is the site of the Boulby Underground Laboratory  below the surface (2800 metre water equivalent). Part of the laboratory is called Palmer Lab (subterranean) and the laboratory's surface facilities are sometimes called the John Barton surface facility.

Work being carried out at the underground laboratory includes the UK Centre for Astrobiology study of extremophile organisms that can survive in a salt-rich environment. The site is also used for testing NASA Mars rovers.

In October 2017, the European Space Agency (ESA) sent astronaut Matthias Maurer as part of the fifth Mine Analogue Research sortie. It is thought that the brines present in the mine may be able to support extremophiles, and be like similar sites in caves on other planets.

Extant testing and recording programmes at the laboratory include:

  BUGS or BUGs (Boulby Underground Germanium Suite; also used to be called Boulby-Ge): Ultra-low background material screening of germanium for development of dark matter experiments
  UltraLO-1800 equipment: For study of radioactivity of the surface layers of materials (surface screening) with aim to aid in development of dark matter experiments
  SELLR (Subsurface Experiment of Life in Low Radiation): an experiment studying the effect of low-radiation environment to biological systems
  Deep Carbon, MuScan, Muon-Tides (3 experiments): Muon Tomography
 DRIFT-II (Directional Recoil Identification From Tracks): dark matter experiment. One of the experiments detectors, the DRIFT-IIb, is located at Boulby. A low pressure negative ion time projection chamber (NITPC) designed to detect weakly interacting massive particles (WIMPs, a prime dark matter candidate), a second detector (DRIFT-IIc) is located on the surface at Occidental College, Los Angeles, California, USA.
  BISAL (Boulby International Subsurface Astrobiology Lab): Geomicrobiology / Astrobiology studies 
  MINAR (MINe Analogue Research): Space exploration technology development

There are also concurrent geological and geoscience projects ongoing.

Previous, now completed experiments include:

  ZEPLIN: dark matter experiment(s). The final ZEPLIN experiment, ZEPLIN-III finished in 2011.
  DRIFT-I: dark matter experiment
  DM-Ice: dark matter experiment
  ERSaB: Environmental gamma spectroscopy
  SKY, SKY ZERO (multiple experiments in the same SKY-experiment series): study if ionisation by cosmic rays induced aerosol nucleation & growth
  UK Dark Matter Collaboration: dark matter experiment
  NAIAD: dark matter experiment

Proposed experiments (as of 2019) include the WATCHMAN (WATer CHerenkov Monitoring of ANtineutrinos, also called AIT/WATCHMAN) neutrino experiment, which would study antineutrinos originating from Hartlepool nuclear power plant. This project would aim to develop technologies to remotely monitor nuclear reactors for the purpose of nuclear non-proliferation.

Health and safety
Since the year 2000, there have been several incidents at the mine. Cleveland Potash Limited has been served with 11 notices for breaches of health and safety procedures by the Health and Safety Executive since 2012.
They include not taking appropriate measures to protect workers from the risks of explosion, falling ground and inadvertent entry into the mine shaft. Other incidents include;

2001 – an electrician suffered severe burns to his face during routine maintenance work.
2003 – a lorry driver was trapped under a vehicle for over an hour whilst working underground.
2007 – 24-year-old miner Darren Compton was killed by falling rock. He had been operating equipment supporting a sidewall in a recently mined roadway.
2012 – a 50-year-old man suffered chest injuries when a hose burst and forced him against a skip.
April 2014 – there was a collapse at the mine caused by a falling boulder.
June 2014 – an employment tribunal revealed that the Boulby mine would have been unable to cope in an emergency. A former rescue team coordinator, Steve Angus, was fired after failing to ensure enough safety officers were trained to respond. He was also accused of failing to maintain the required standard of breathing apparatus.
13 April 2016 – Seven workers were hospitalised for smoke inhalation  when polystyrene blocks caught fire  under the sea and  from land.
17 June 2016 – a miner, 55-year-old John Anderson, was killed in a "gas blow-out" while working in the mine.

See also
Winsford – home of Britain's largest rock salt mine
Woodsmith Mine – a new polyhalite mine under construction just south of Whitby
Polysulphate – new inorganic fertilizer

References

Sources

External links

Boulby Underground Laboratory website
Discovery Channel video from How Do They Do It?
Boulby Potash Mine NZ761183 , images at UK mine exploration website
BBC video in the mine

Underground laboratories
Underground mines in England
Laboratories in the United Kingdom
Loftus, North Yorkshire
Salt mines in the United Kingdom
Mines in North Yorkshire