[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Ismail Matar

Ismail Matar Ibrahim Khamis Al Mukhaini Al Junaibi (; born 7 April 1983 in Abu Dhabi) is an Emirati footballer who plays as an attacking midfielder or forward for UAE Pro League club Al Wahda.

Matar was awarded the Golden Ball at the 2003 World Youth Championships after being voted the tournament's best player even though the UAE only reached the quarter finals. He is best known for leading the UAE to their first ever trophy, which was held in Abu Dhabi in 2007. Matar scored 5 goals in 5 games, and was named player of the tournament and the top scorer.

Club career

Al Wahda

2002–03
The first game was in the season against Al-Jazira, which he also scored his first in the match. This goal was the equalizer for Al-Wahda in the second half, but the joy did not last, Al-Jazira made the second goal and the winning goal latter. Matar continued his brilliant presence in that season and scored 14 goals, as he was named the Best Emarati Young Player in the UAE League and led Al-Wahda to the UAE Pro-League and the President's Cup titles. He was the only player in that season that has been scored in the Goal of Muhsin Musabah five goals including two goals in the first round and two in the second round and a goal in the cup final from penalty shot out.

2003–04
The Golden Boy did not shine strongly because of his involvement with the national team and the UAE Olympic and UAE Under-20, and he is the only Emirati player who participated in four games with the Al-Wahda and the national team and UAE Under-20 and UAE Olympic and distributed his effort in the four teams, which could not shine with Al-Wahda and he scored three goals with Al-Wahda, the club was ranked sixth in the league, and began the fatigue and exhaustion on Ismail making the press pounce on the United Arab Emirates Football Association to merciless the player from involved with the four national teams. But his effort did not go waste with the UAE Under-20, who was playing in the FIFA World Youth Championship 2003 in the UAE, but he achieved with the UAE Under-20 eighth place, and was the best player in the tournament, which was nominated for the best player and has achieved what he wanted. And has many offers from European clubs including the Chelsea reserve  and Inter Milan and Asian Clubs including Japan clubs and Qatari Club Al-Sadd.

2004–05
Ismail was shown a good form for Al-Wahda at 2004–05 season and scored 11 goals including doubles against Al-Nasr, Al Jazira and Al-Shabab and a winning goal against Al Ain. He was most prominent in the ranks of Al-Wahda players, help the club to win the league title and finished as runners-up in the Domestic Cup. Al-Wahda had the strongest line of attack in that season, and Matar was playmaker of heavy caliber, which he was nominated for the Best Emarati Player. Ismail was more vigor and vitality and strength and fitness and determination to win and was serious player at the same time at the season. In match against Sharjah in the quarter-finals of the President's Cup, he scored hat-trick with the club and ascended to the semi-final.

Al-Sadd Club (loan)
On 6 May 2009, Al-Wahda announced that Ismail had been moved to Qatari club Al-Sadd on loan until the end of the season to participate with the club in the Emir Cup. Commenting on his move, Matar said:"The professional experience in Al-Sadd club will be useful to me on both, a technical and moral level. I am now 26-years old and it is difficult for professionalism in Europe, and I hope to be lucky with Al-Sadd in my short tenure."

Ismail took part in the Emir Cup quarter-final, coming on as a substitute for Hassan Al Haidos after 22 minutes. At the time of coming on, Al Ahli were leading two goals to none, and Al Sadd were a player down after Ibrahim Majid got sent off after 13 minutes. Ismail played a great match, scoring Al-Sadd's third goal in extra time, as well as creating the other two goals. He scored a penalty in the penalty shootout, which Al Sadd won 4–2 to ensure a place in the semi-finals. He was named the Man of the Match, in addition to being immediately awarded two thousand dollars by the Qatar Football Association.

Return to Al Wahda

2009–10
On 11 June 2009, rumors spread that Al-Wahda has received an offer of amount 50 million dirham from the arch-rivals Al Ain, and offers from other Arabic clubs specifically from Saudi clubs Al-Hilal and Al-Ittihad for Ismail, but Al-Wahda denied the rumors and extended Ismail's contract until 2014. To be the seventh player to extend his contract for five years, in an interview with club's website, Ismail has said that he had received offers from Saudi clubs and has offers from other clubs too but he rejected all because he loves the club that help him to improve.