[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Gabriele Oriali

(who held the position until January 2014). In 2001, as technical director, he was sanctioned for his part in the Álvaro Recoba fake passport incident. Oriali returned to the role as technical director at Inter in 2019, and was also appointed as team manager of the Italy national team concurrently.

Style of play
Oriali did not have the best technical ability, but he was a tenacious and hard-working player, who was both tactically intelligent, and versatile; this allowed him to play anywhere in midfield, and also in defence, mainly as a full-back. Throughout his career, he distinguished himself for being a central or defensive midfielder with notable stamina, who excelled at reading the game and stopping opposing players; he was also an excellent man-marker. In addition to his work-rate, energy, and defensive abilities as a ball-winner, he was also known for his reliable distribution, and for having a tendency to receive and play many balls during matches. Due to his playing style, he was labeled an "incontrista" by the Italian press, a player whose sole responsibility was to break up plays and distribute the ball to another player to start an attack after winning back Possession. Considered one of the best Italian players of all time.  He was also highly regarded for his positional sense, as well as his ability to interpret the game and time his attacking runs, which allowed him to contribute to his team's offensive play with occasional goals.

In 2012, Oriali stated that the player who currently most resembled him in terms of his playing style was Daniele De Rossi, although, unlike De Rossi, Oriali was never sent-off throughout his career.

Trivia
 His face appeared on a Chad stamp in 1983–one of a series of stamps commemorating the 1982 World Cup. He appears on a 60 franc stamp alongside Włodi Smolarek of Poland.
 Oriali is cited in the Luciano Ligabue song Una vita da mediano (A life as a half back), one of his most popular songs. Ligabue is a known Inter fan.

Honours

Player

Club
Inter
 Serie A: 1970–71, 1979–80
 Coppa Italia 1977–78, 1981–82

International
Italy
 FIFA World Cup: 1982

Individual
 Italian Football Hall of Fame: 2019

Orders
  3rd Class / Commander: Commendatore Ordine al Merito della Repubblica Italiana: 2021

References

External links
 
 Oriali's statistics playing for Inter
 Oriali's statistics for the Italian National Team
 Oriali's detailed statistics for the National Team

1952 births
Living people
Footballers from Como
ACF Fiorentina players
Inter Milan players
Italian men's footballers
Italy men's international footballers
Italian people of Romanian descent
UEFA Euro 1980 players
1982 FIFA World Cup players
FIFA World Cup-winning players
Serie A players
Men's association football midfielders
Commanders of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic