[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Hudson Hornet

s and 360 convertibles.

1953 

The 1953 model year brought minor changes to the Hudson Hornet. The front end was modified with a new grille and a non-functional air scoop hood ornament. four different body designs: two-door club coupe, Hollywood hardtop, Convertible Brougham, and a four-door sedan.

Hudson Hornet 1953 model year production totaled 27,208 units of which around 910 were the Hollywood hardtops. An 8-tube radio was a $100 option.

1954 

For the 1954 model year, the Hornet underwent a major square-lined redesign and to match the look of the compact Hudson Jet that was introduced in 1953. This entailed extensive retooling because of the way the step-down frame wrapped around the passenger compartment. The front had a simpler grille that complemented the now-functional hood scoop and a new one-piece curved windshield, while the sides gained period-typical fender chrome accents, and the formerly sloped rear end was squared off. The front to rear fender line was styled to make the car look longer and taillamps were also redesigned. The interior was also updated with a new dash and instrument cluster that were surprisingly modern. An example is a Hornet owner writing for Popular Mechanics in 1999, noting that "the car's unique, low slung appearance and silky handling earned Hudson an image that — for many buyers — eclipsed luxury marques like Cadillac."

Like all previous model years, no V8 engine was available (similar to Chevrolet models from 1918-1954), but the  six-cylinder was standard in Hornets and produced , the racing-inspired  "Twin-H-Power" (dual carburetor) option was popular, and a 7-X version of the engine was offered as a factory option, producing over  using a high compression head, special camshaft, and other "severe usage" parts designed for racing. The  engine produced high torque at low RPMs and had a fairly flat torque curve, which helped the Hornet beat V8s from other makes whose power advantage came only at much higher rpm. The engine was more powerful compared to the contemporary low-priced competition (the Chevrolet I6 and Ford V8) and was close to the V8 engines offered by the medium-priced competition (Oldsmobile and Buick). The Hornet's performance delivered up to  and "quasi-thrifty"  fuel economy.

Although the Hornet's redesign positioned it equally with its contemporaries in terms of looks and style, the redesign came too late to boost sales. The news that Hudson was in financial difficulties and had been essentially taken over by Nash-Kelvinator to form American Motors Corporation during the 1954 model year was known by the car-buying public.

The updated Hornet Brougham convertible, the only open-top body design available from Hudson was attractive, but was considered overpriced at $3,288 (~$ in ) for a six-cylinder car in 1954. This top-line model included hydraulic window lifts and leather upholstery in either blue, maroon, or green and the fabric tops available in either maroon, black, or tan. A total of 540 convertibles were built.

Hudson's board of directors approved a merger with Nash-Kelvinator on 14 January 1954. This was ratified by shareholders on 24 March 1954, thus forming the new American Motors Corporation on 1 May 1954. Further production of Hudson cars was to be in Nash's Kenosha, Wisconsin, with the last Detroit-built Hudson was built on 30 October 1954. 

Hudson Hornet 1954 model year production of all body styles totaled 24,833.

A 1954 Hornet two-door hardtop was customized by Harold Du Charme of Grosse Pointe, Michigan, who was a large stockholder in the automaker. He did not like the redesign of the car and proposed changes to improve Hudson's flagging sales. Changes included a  top chopping and channeling the midsection  as well as repositioned headlamps in an egg-crate grille, twin hood scoops, extended rear fenders with Lincoln taillights, and a continental kit.

NASCAR fame 

Hudson was the first automobile manufacturer to get involved in stock car racing. The Hornet "dominated stock car racing in the early-1950s, when stock car racers actually raced stock cars."

During 1952, Marshall Teague finished the 1952 AAA season with a 1000-point lead over his closest rival, winning 12 of the 13 scheduled events. Hornets driven by NASCAR aces Herb Thomas, Dick Rathmann, Al Keller, Frank Mundy, and Tim Flock won 27 NASCAR races driving for the Hudson team.

In the AAA racing circuit, Teague drove a stock Hornet that he called the Fabulous Hudson Hornet to 14 wins during the season. This brought the Hornet's season record to 40 wins in 48 events, a winning percentage of 83%.

Overall, Hudson won 27 of the 34 NASCAR Grand National races in 1952, followed by 22 wins of 37 in 1953, and captured 17 of the 37 races in 1954 — "an incredible accomplishment, especially from a car that had some legitimate luxury credentials."