[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Emilio Pettoruti

ng the human figure, but as an anonymous, remote, generalized form, not as an individual."  Of the many paintings Pettoruti worked on, one of his first is titled Arlequin (1928), showing one harlequin wearing a mask over his eyes and playing a musical instrument resembling an accordion.

Still Lifes

In his early still lifes, Pettoruti included several similar motifs, including bottles, glasses, and often musical instruments. He then moved to his Copa series that was "near abstraction." These compositions were "composed of bright, non-nuanced areas of color which tend to flatten out the form. The cup is observed from every possible angle, top, bottom, and sides represented simultaneously." In his later still lifes, Pettoruti focused on light, incorporating it as a "concrete element of the picture," not simply including it for illumination of the scene. His use of light is evident in many of his still lifes, like Sol Argentino (1941), where the sunlight acts as "an essential life-giving element" and is obviously a solid effect to the painting.

Abstraction

In the later years of his life, Pettoruti's style advanced towards absolute abstraction.  After returning to Europe in 1952, his interest "in the effects of pattern and design" became apparent from his "dedication to geometry, with its patterns constructed from hard-edged shapes." Many of his paintings consisted of completely geometric compositions, as he "espoused a form of non-objective painting that concentrated on the communicative power of color and controlled organization of shapes." Pettoruti named these abstract works with highly romanticized names, like Winter in Paris (1955) and Summer Night (1953).

Significant works
Retrato de Cleto Ciochini (1913), Ink on thin cardboard, Private Collection

El Sifón (1915), Collage, Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, Buenos Aires 

La Grotta Azzurra di Capri (1918), Oil on canvas, Private Collection, Buenos Aires

Pensierosa (1920), Oil on canvas, Córdova Iturburu, Buenos Aires

El Flautista Ciego (1920), oil on board, Private Collection, New York

La Canción del Pueblo (1927), Oil on wood, Malba Museo de Arte Latinoamericano de Buenos Aires

Quinteto (1927), Oil on plywood, Private Collection, Buenos Aires

Arlequín (1928), Oil on canvas, Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, Buenos Aires

El Improvisador (1937), Oil on canvas, Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, Buenos Aires 

La Ultima Serenata (The Last Serenade) (1937), Oil on canvas, International Business Machines, New York

Sol Argentino (1941), Oil on canvas, Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, Buenos Aires

Invierno en París (1955), Oil on canvas, Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, Buenos Aires

Farfalla (1961), Oil on canvas, Museo Nacional de Bellas Artes, Buenos Aires

Exhibitions
In 1915, Pettoruti did his first one-artist show at the Gonelli Gallery in Florence.  He showed thirty-five works, including among others, nine drawings, fifteen paintings, and eight sketches for mosaics.

In 1923, he showed thirty-five works at the Der Sturm Gallery in Berlin, which "elicited positive criticism from several writers."

In 1924, he did his first one-artist show in Buenos Aires, at the Galeria Witcomb on Florida street.  The show, considered scandalous, included eighty-six works.  It was not widely accepted because modernism had not yet spread in Argentina like it had in Europe.  Pettoruti considered the exposition to be a "rallying cry for those of different vision," encouraging Argentines to embrace the new artistic period.

In 1938, Pettoruti showed at the Museo Municipal de Bellas Artes in Buenos Aires at an exhibition titled "Tres Expresiones de la Pintura Contemporanea".  The show included works from Pettoruti, Badii, and Spilimbergo.

In 1942, Pettoruti traveled to San Francisco for his first North American show at the San Francisco Museum of Art.  The museum bought his Coparmonica (1937) and Quinteto (1927).  It was an influential show for his career, since it began his spread in North America, where other museums and private collectors inquired about his work.