[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Appleseed Ex Machina

ected Briareos with nanites designed to take control of his body when his adrenaline is heated. Kestner commits suicide before the police arrive, making them think that Briareos killed him. Briareos escapes, but is cornered by Tereus. Deunan arrives with an antidote designed to suppress the nanites.

The virus Kestner placed in the backup network takes control of the satellites and, through these satellites, all people linked to the Connexus, compelling them to riot against Olympus. Believing that Poseidon knows something about all this, Briareos, Tereus and Deunan track down a Poseidon convoy to learn about Halcon. As they discover, Halcon was once the leading scientific laboratory until they started mind control experiments. Poseidon stopped the project by killing lead researcher Elizabeth Xander in an "accident". Poseidon assists the ESWAT officers in infiltrating the fortress where the Halcon signal is transmitting. Once they are in the control center, they discover that Xander was resurrected as a cyborg to control all those linked to the Connexus. Deunan manages to briefly free her from Halcon control with the last syringe of antidote. With little time before the virus retakes control, Xander frees the enthralled before she has Deunan kill her. The heroes then escape the collapsing fortress and return to Olympus.

Cast
The English version dub was produced at Amusement Park Media in Houston, Texas. The cast were made up of actors from ADV Films.

Motion capture actors

Production

Costume design

In this film, two of Deunan's costumes were designed by Italian fashion designer Miuccia Prada. Prada was apparently already a fan of the first Appleseed movie, and she jumped at the chance to work on the second installment. At a press conference for the film, she said:

Marketing
Warner Home Video created a trailer remix contest in December 2007 to promote the release of the film. The contest's aim was to have fans remix the Appleseed: Ex Machina trailer into new short videos, using clips from the film and songs from the soundtrack. Fans could put these assets together into new short videos within an editing program on the contest site. Visitors to the site then voted on their favorite video, with the creator of the winning video winning a trip to WonderCon 2008. The contest ended February 7, 2008.

Appleseed: Ex Machina was released on DVD on "Single Disc" and "Two-Disc Collector's Edition" on March 11, 2008

Following the release of the film, Hot Toys released 1/6 scale poseable action figures of Deunan Knute and Briareos Hecatonchires.

Reception
Appleseed Ex Machina received a mostly positive response.

Mark Schilling (The Japan Times) stated that "the film was a "dramatic improvement" over the 2004 Appleseed film. Schilling compared the characters to that of Vexille, noting that the characters in Ex-Machina have a "wider emotional range, expressing everything from matey humor to expressions of embarrassment and gestures of love that are surprisingly natural, even moving". Commenting on the action scenes, Schilling found that Aramaki and Woo and their team "try to make "Ex-Machina" the latest word in sci-fi anime, they are firmly wedded to standard action tropes, such as characters who spray foes with terrific blasts of automatic firepower, like Leslie Cheung and Chow Yun-fat in Woo's 1980s Hong Kong action pics."

References

External links
Official Australian DVD release (English) Appleseed Ex Machina (2007) movie website
Official North American DVD release (English) Appleseed Ex Machina (2007) movie website
Official (Japanese) Appleseed Ex Machina (2007) movie website
Official webpage announcement on Twitch

2007 anime films
2007 science fiction films
2007 action thriller films
Appleseed (media franchise)
2007 computer-animated films
2007 films
Films directed by Shinji Aramaki
Japanese animated science fiction films
Japanese science fiction action films
Toei Company films
Cyborg films

ja:アップルシード#EX MACHINA