[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ralph Ignatowski

, but I don't know for sure.”

“I walked into the canyon and found Lieutenant Sokol on a road, Ralph Ignatowski close behind. An officer approached me and said, 'Don't touch them. We may have an atrocity here.' I understand Ralph had been bayoneted numerous times; some punctures bled, some did not.”

Ignatowski's death is also mentioned in the book Flags of Our Fathers, coauthored by the son of first flag raiser John Bradley. The following are his recollections of Ignatowski's death:

"I have tried so hard to block this out. To forget it. We could choose a buddy to go in with. My buddy was a guy from Milwaukee. We were pinned down in one area. Someone elsewhere fell injured and I ran to help out, and when I came back my buddy was gone. I couldn't figure out where he was. I could see all around, but he wasn't there. And nobody knew where he was.

A few days later someone yelled that they'd found him. They called me over because I was a corpsman. The Japanese had pulled him underground and tortured him. His fingernails... his tongue... It was terrible. I've tried hard to forget all this."

Many years later, in researching my father's life, I asked Cliff Langley, Doc's co-corpsman, about the discovery of Iggy's body. Langley told me it looked to him as though Ralph Ignatowski had endured just about every variety of physical cruelty imaginable.

"Both his arms were fractured," Langley said. "They just hung there, there like arms on a broken doll. He had been bayoneted repeatedly. The back of his head had been smashed in."

Other eyewitness reports further indicated that Ignatowski had been tortured in the cave by the Japanese for three days, during which time they also cut out his eyes, cut off his ears, smashed in his teeth and skull. He had several wounds to his stomach, which had been repeatedly stabbed with a bayonet. As a final insult, his genitalia had been severed and stuffed into his mouth.

Burial
Ignatowski's remains were initially interred with military honors in Grave 1201, Row 11, Plot 5, 5th Marine Division Cemetery, Iwo Jima.
In 1949, his body was exhumed and reinterred at the Rock Island National Cemetery in Illinois.

Military awards
Pvt. Ignatowski is entitled to the following military awards:

Legacy
 The AMVETS Ralph A. Ignatowski Memorial Post 60, Oak Creek, Wisconsin, was officially dedicated on June 3, 1956.
 Ralph Ignatowski, portrayed by English actor Jamie Bell, appears in the 2006 movie Flags of Our Fathers, directed and co-produced by Clint Eastwood. The movie, taken from the book of the same title, includes opening scenes of Ignatowski on the ship going to Iwo Jima, scenes on Iwo Jima, and scenes of "Doc" Bradley's (played by Ryan Phillippe) battlefield search for his Marine buddy "Iggy" (Ignatowski) who seems to have disappeared. In the movie, Pfc. Ignatowski's corpse is found, but its condition is only alluded to. The movie viewer never sees his body. Bradley constantly asks during the film, "Where is he?", as he flashbacks searching for "Iggy" on the battlefield.
 "Iggy" is also presumed to be seen in the film, Letters from Iwo Jima, given that in one scene, a captured marine is seen being beaten and bayoneted to death by Japanese soldiers. Furthermore, the said film is a companion piece to Flags of our Fathers, which were both filmed back to back.

References
Semper Chai!: Marines of Blue and White (and Red), Howard J. Leavitt
Muster Roll of Officers and Enlisted Men of the U.S. Marine Corps, Second Battalion, Twenty-Eighth Marines, Fifth Marine Division Fleet Marine Force, February 1, to February 28, 1945
First Battalion of the 28th Marines on Iwo Jima, Bob Allen
Flags Of Our Fathers,, James Bradley, Bantam Books, Division of Random House, 1540 Broadway, New York, New York, 10036, May 2000, p. 344–345

Notes

1926 births
1945 deaths
American people of Polish descent
American people of German descent
United States Marine Corps personnel killed in World War II
United States Marines
Battle of Iwo Jima
Military personnel from Milwaukee
American prisoners of war in World War II
World War II prisoners of war held by Japan
People executed by torture
American torture victims