[Source: Wikipedia-stream]
# Damascus International Airport

Damascus International Airport ()  is the international airport of Damascus, the capital of Syria. Inaugurated in the mid-1970s, it also was the country's busiest airport. In 2010, an estimated 5.5 million passengers used the airport, an increase of more than 50% since 2004. But it has the issue of the civil war ending many flights to Damascus cutting off the population of the city from many international flights.

History

Establishment

The construction of the airport was entrusted in 1965 to a group of French companies (SCB, CSF, Spie and Cegelec), led by the SCB. In the late 1980s, the airport had robust air service. Over 30 airlines were operating to the city, offering nonstop flights to various destinations in Europe, North Africa, the Middle East, and South Asia. Pakistan International Airlines connected Damascus twice a week with New York via Frankfurt, with Boeing 747-300 aircraft.

In March 2007, Iran Air inaugurated a flight from Tehran to Caracas via Damascus using Boeing 747s. It codeshared with Conviasa on the route. Seven months later, the latter started operating the flight instead with an Airbus A340.

Syrian civil war
Since the onset of the Syrian Civil War, the airport and the road leading to it have been closed intermittently and most international airlines, such as Emirates and EgyptAir, have ceased flights. Conviasa suspended its service in August 2012.

Israeli air raids
In June 2022, Damascus International Airport suffered major damage, including to runways, following an Israeli missile attack, targeting alleged Iranian weapons transfers. Flights were halted to and from the airport for two weeks due to the extensive damage to infrastructure. On 2 January 2023, Damascus International Airport temporarily went out of service after an Israeli missile strike. The airport reopened after 7 hours and continued service.

On 12 October 2023, Damascus International Airport was temporarily closed due to a damaged runway following Israeli missile attacks on both it and Aleppo International Airport, during the skirmishes which occurred across the border, in connection with the Israel–Hamas war. The airport was put back in service on 18 October. On 22 October, both Aleppo and Damascus airports were hit simultaneously, putting them out of service for the second time within two weeks, in which two workers were killed during the raid.

Facilities

Terminals

The airport is of Islamic architecture, and has two terminals, one for international flights and the other for domestic flights. The airport features two duty-free outlets. The departures hall also includes an in-house coffee shop, several souvenir shops, three restaurants, and a lounge for first and business class passengers. The southern part of the airport has hardened aircraft shelters and artillery revetments.

The construction of a third terminal is planned but its construction has been postponed due to the events of the civil war, this should increase the capacity of the airport to 16 million passengers per year.

Runways

Current runways allow the landing of virtually all types of aircraft currently in use in the world (including Airbus A380, Boeing 787 Dreamliner and Boeing 747-8). The airport has two parallel runways (05R/23L and 05L/23R), which were completely renovated in the 2010s.

Airlines and destinations

Ground transportation

Located 30 kilometers (20 miles) southeast of Damascus, It is in the governate of Rif-Dimashq. The facility is connected to the city by a highway. A shuttle bus runs between the city center and the airport. The building of a railway line and a terminal bus station  with a shopping center at the airport is planned to connect it to the Hejaz station.

Accidents and incidents
On 20 August 1975, ČSA Flight 540 crashed while on approach to Damascus International Airport. Out of the 128 passengers and crew on board, there were only two survivors.

References

External links

Airport at the flightradar24.com

Airports in Syria
Buildings and structures in Damascus
1970 establishments in Syria
Airports established in 1970