[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 7]
# Foreign relations of the Axis powers

nt policy (foreign recruitment of volunteers was banned in Sweden). Some 1,600 Swedes served legally as volunteers during the Continuation War, where Finland fought on the side of the Axis against the Soviet Union. About 400 of this group consisted of regular officers on leave from the Swedish Army.

Despite all this, Sweden managed to survive World War II as one of only five (non micro-state) European nations to avoid entering the war.

Switzerland
During World War II, the Swiss franc was the only remaining major freely convertible currency in the world, and both the Allies and the Germans sold large amounts of gold to the Swiss National Bank. Between 1940 and 1945, the German Reichsbank sold 1.3 billion francs worth of gold to Swiss Banks in exchange for Swiss francs and other foreign currency. Hundreds of millions of francs worth of this gold was monetary gold plundered from the central banks of occupied countries. 581,000 francs of "Melmer" gold taken from Holocaust victims in Eastern Europe was sold to Swiss banks.

Switzerland, despite being 70% ethnic German (Alemannic—other ethnic groups included 19% French, 10% Italian, and 1% Rhaeto-Romansch) was determined to remain neutral during the war.  The country had several distinct defensive advantages that could help make any incursions into its territory very difficult.  Firstly, it is shaped rather like a bowl, with high mountains surrounding and making up its borders with neighbouring countries.  There were only four passes by which an army could make an entrance, and the Swiss had already mined every railway tunnel with explosives.  Any incursions by the Germans or Italians would be met by a sealed border.  Secondly, the Swiss also maintained a very large reserve army—all able bodied men were not only required to serve their time, backed up by regular training—but were required to keep their military equipment in their own homes, to be ready to report to duty within 48 hours of call up.  The Germans themselves estimated that any attack on Switzerland would likely result in a 4:1 casualty ratio against them.

Not that the Swiss went untested: in May 1940, Luftwaffe aircraft flew into Swiss airspace to attack French targets behind the lines and to test the Swiss response.  Swiss-built Messerschmitt 109s hurtled into squadrons of German Heinkel He 111 bombers and shot many of them down.  The German pilots had assumed the ME109s to be German and took no evasive action at first, until they'd been pounced on.  There were several other engagements between German and Swiss aircraft during the war. The Swiss also built the French-designed Morane-Saulnier M.S.406 under license. As for the Allies, American and British bombers occasionally strayed over Swiss territory earning potshots from Swiss anti-aircraft units or being escorted to the nearest runway by Swiss aircraft for impoundment.  As sympathies for either side were to be found everywhere in Switzerland, how German or Allied aircrews were treated when apprehended depended on the sympathies of the captors.  Some were beaten and kept in camps, others given a considerable amount of freedom.

Switzerland ended World War II as one of only five (non-microstate) European nations to avoid entering the war.

Turkey 
Nazi Germany had no intention of occupying Turkey, even though its neighbours to the west were all occupied by the Axis (including Greece, while Bulgaria was allied with Germany). Franz von Papen, the German foreign minister, visited Ankara with hopes of persuading Turkey to join the Axis powers. This would have significantly shortened the Axis route through the Caucasus to the valuable Soviet oil fields in Baku.  As it turned out, by 1942 the German Army was almost on Turkey's eastern doorstep, only a few miles from the Soviet-Turkish border as they pushed down into the Caucasus.  However, the Soviet victory at Stalingrad and subsequent Eastern Front defeats caused the Germans to withdraw from the area.

Turkey decided to remain neutral so as not to alienate the Allies, however it also signed a neutrality pact with Germany. It also shipped chromium, a vital element in the production of planes, tanks and U-boats, to Nazi Germany until the Turkish declaration of war. Turkey was the last country during wartime to purchase military equipment from Germany, (Panzer III-IVs, Focke-Wulf Fw 190As, etc.).  The Turks also purchased weapons from the Allies (Morane-Saulnier M.S.406s, Republic P-47 Thunderbolts).

Turkey, however did declare war on Germany at the very end of the conflict as a means of being allowed to join the postwar United Nations.

Ukraine