[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Champion Schools

678 teams took part in the tournament – an increase of 175 from the previous year. 27,537 students participated. Castleford High School has been a dominant force in the tournament since its re-launch, in 2009 the school fielded 6 teams in the national finals for the third year in succession.

Format

Boys
Teams play in local competitions before playing regional ones if they qualify, followed by national stages.

Girls
Teams progress from regional stages to a national festival for which qualifiers are divided into two groups. The groups play round-robin matches with the winners and runners up from each group progressing to the competition semi-finals and then final.

Subsidiary competitions
Local and regional stages of the competition decide champions titles at those levels, City Champions for Birmingham at each age group, will for example, progress next to the West Midlands Finals stage. Later, the West Midlands champions will meet their East Midlands counterparts before the winners of those encounters move on to the competition's national stage.

Wales Schools Cup
One of the major subsidiary competitions of the Champion Schools is the  Wales Schools Cup. All schools in Wales entering the Champion Schools competition also compete for this Cup during the Wales Schools Finals Day. At each age group, both finalists for the Wales Schools Cup progress to the national stages of the Champion Schools.

The inaugural Wales Schools Cup was held in 2008, the finals were played at Brewery Field in Bridgend.

2005/06 National Finals Results

2006/07 National Finals Results

2007/08 National Finals Results

2008/09 National Finals Results

2009/10 National Finals Results

2012/13 National Finals Results

New Champion Colleges competition

The successful growth of the Champion Schools tournament has led to the creation of the Carnegie Champion Colleges competition for Years 12 and 13. The regionally based competition was introduced in 2008 and started in January.

See also

 Champion Colleges competition
 Junior rugby league in England
 Rugby league in England
 Rugby league in Scotland
 Rugby league in Wales

References

In-line

General
 

Rugby league competitions in the United Kingdom
School sport in the United Kingdom
Junior rugby league
Youth sport in England
Youth sport in Scotland
Youth sport in Wales
1981 establishments in England
Recurring sporting events established in 1981