[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Siegfried S. Hecker

nergy named Hecker, co-recipient of the 2009 Enrico Fermi Award. This Presidential Award is one of the oldest and most prestigious given by the U.S. Government and carries an honorarium of $375,000. He shares the honor with John Bannister Goodenough, a professor at the University of Texas at Austin.

Publications
Siegfried S.; Ghosh, A. K.; Metallurgical Society of Aime; Gegel, H. L.; Ame Hecker. "Formability, analysis, modeling, and experimentation: Proceedings of a symposium held in Chicago, Illinois, October 24 and 25, 1977" (1978).
Hecker, S. S. "The Role of the DOE Weapons Laboratories in a Changing National Security Environment: CNSS Papers No. 8, April 1988", Los Alamos National Laboratory, Center for National Security Studies United States Department of Energy, (April 1988).
Hecker, S. S. "The Cold War is Over. What Now?", Los Alamos National Laboratory, United States Department of Energy, (April 1995).
Siegfried Hecker, Gian-Carlo Rota. "Essays on the Future: In Honor of Nick Metropolis 1996th Edition" (2000).
Fluss, M.; Tobin, J.; Schwartz, A.; Petrovtsev, A. V.; Nadykto, B. A.; Timofeeva, L. F. Hecker, S. S. & V. E. Arkhipov. "6th US-Russian Pu Science Workshop Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory University of California, Livermore, California, July 14 and 15, 2006", Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, United States Department of Energy, (June 20, 2006).
Hecker, Siegfried; Lee, Sean; Braun, Chaim. "North Korea's Choice: Bombs Over Electricity", National Academy of Engineering, (Summer 2010).
Hecker, S.S. "Doomed to Cooperate: How American and Russian Scientists Joined Forces to Avert Some of the Greatest Post-Cold War Nuclear Dangers (2016).

References

External links

2001 Audio Interview with Siegried Hecker by Richard Rhodes Voices of the Manhattan Project
Siegfried S. Hecker, Management Science and Engineering Department, Stanford University
The Hecker Years 1985-1997, Los Alamos National Laboratory
Siegfried S. Hecker, U.S. Civilian Research & Development Foundation
Siegfried Hecker at WN
Siegfried S. Hecker, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford University
Siegfried S. Hecker, Enrico Fermi Award citation and biography

1943 births
Stanford University School of Engineering faculty
Living people
Los Alamos National Laboratory personnel
Enrico Fermi Award recipients
American metallurgists
Members of the United States National Academy of Engineering
Foreign Members of the Russian Academy of Sciences
Experts on North Korea
Fellows of the American Physical Society
Fellows of the Minerals, Metals & Materials Society