[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Sarah Jane Brown

ber 2009. Jens Stoltenberg, then Prime Minister of Norway, said "We welcome and support the establishment of this important group. Every minute a mother dies in pregnancy or childbirth... [those] women need a strong voice that will bring attention to their plight and push for the support they need."

Brown chaired the launch of the "new consensus for maternal, newborn and child health" at a 2009 high level event at the United Nations.  At the meeting 10 countries, including Sierra Leone, Ghana and Liberia, declared that they would be dropping medical charges ("user fees") to pregnant women around the time of birth.  The consensus also set out key action steps that research showed could save the lives of more than 10 million women and children by 2015, and that were endorsed by the G8 at their July meeting of that year.

#UpForSchool petition 
In 2014, Brown helped launch A World at School's #UpForSchool petition – a global campaign started by A World at School's Global Youth Ambassadors – at a youth rally in New York City, alongside Graça Machel, Avaaz founder Ricken Patel, #BringBackOurGirls campaigner Hadiza Bela Usman, CNN anchor Isha Sesay, UN Special Envoy for Global Education Gordon Brown, and messages of support from UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon and actor Rainn Wilson. The petition aims to hold world leaders to account for the promise of universal primary education made in the Millennium Development Goals (MDG2).

The petition mobilised support and campaigning from a wide variety of organisations and individuals. 2015 Nobel Peace Prize winner Kailash Satyarthi headlined the London launch event in November 2015. Other notable supporters and participants include his fellow Nobel Peace Prize winner, Malala Yousafzai, Justin Bieber, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, Laura Carmichael, the Prime Minister of the Democratic Republic of Congo, Augustin Matata Ponyo, Education International (the world teacher's union), BRAC, World Vision, Walk Free, Muslim Aid, Avaaz.org, Rovio (who created a special Angry Birds level in support of the petition), and Idara-e-Taleem-o-Aagahi in Pakistan.

As of September 2015 the petition had gathered over 10 million signatories worldwide, at which point it was presented at a joint Theirworld and UNICEF event at the New York Town Hall – a venue associated with the Suffragettes – during the UN General Assembly 2015. The singer and education campaigner Shakira also participated and presented the #UpForSchool petition signatures to the UN Special Envoy for Global Education Gordon Brown, during the same General Assembly.

Other activities
Throughout her campaigning, Brown has used social media to promote the causes of education and maternal health, and has been named on various Twitter and social media 'most influential' lists, including "The eight most influential women tweeters" by Forbes magazine, and in 2014, Brown was reported to be the second "most powerful Briton" on Twitter by The Independent.

Brown is the patron of domestic violence charity Women's Aid (from 2004, ongoing in 2013), of Maggie's Cancer Caring Centres (since 2007, ongoing in 2013), and of the SHINE Education Trust.

Brown is also patron of the CBI First Women Awards, which since 2004 have celebrated "pioneering women; successful role models who have broken new ground and opened up opportunities for other women".

Brown is also a friend of writer J.K. Rowling, and the two co-authored a children's book for the One Parent Families charity organisation.

Brown's efforts to change the lives of women and children has been recognised with the Vision and Impact Award from the Global Business Coalition for Health, the Susan G. Komen for the Cure Global Leadership Award, an honorary fellowship from Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists and a recognition award from the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics, which she was awarded alongside UN Women executive director Michelle Bachelet.

In February 2015, it was announced that Sarah Brown would be competing in a second Comic Relief special edition of The Great British Bake Off television show, with The Guardian describing the line up as a "cause for celebration".

Marriage to Gordon Brown 
Sarah's relationship with Gordon Brown started after they shared a flight from London to Scotland for the Scottish Labour Party conference in 1994. The relationship was kept secret until June 1997, when the News of the World published a picture of them together at a restaurant in London. They were married on 3 August 2000 in Brown's hometown of North Queensferry, Fife.

On 28 December 2001, she gave birth prematurely to a baby daughter, Jennifer Jane, who died at ten days old. Gordon spoke of Sarah's bravery after their daughter's death.

On 17 October 2003, she gave birth to their second child and first son, John. Another son, James Fraser, arrived on 17 July 2006 and was diagnosed with cystic fibrosis that November.

Spouse of the Prime Minister