[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Robert Nimmo

ble for units located in the south-eastern states. This was followed by a brief period in the same role at Northern Territory Force from 20 September to 28 October. He administered command of Northern Territory Force in the absence of its appointed commander from 28 October 1944 to 26 February 1945.

On 14 March, Nimmo flew to Torokina on the island of Bougainville in the Territory of New Guinea. Upon arrival he took command of the 4th Base Sub Areathe logistics formation supporting the formations fighting the Bougainville campaigna position he held until 17 May. On that date he was posted as deputy assistant quartermaster general in the headquarters of Lieutenant General Vernon Sturdee's First Army at Lae in New Guinea, a position he held until 29 September when he was appointed to command the 34th Brigade, which was slated to form part of the British Commonwealth Occupation Force (BCOF) in Japan. His appointment as an aide-de-camp to the Governor General was extended to 31 July 1945. For his service in World War II, Nimmo was entitled to the Pacific Star, War Medal 1939–1945 and Australia Service Medal 1939–1945. His brother served as a medical officer at Duntroon during World War II, and his eldest son, James, a pilot officer in the Royal Australian Air Force, was killed on 10 April 1944 while serving with No. 103 Squadron of the Royal Air Force.

Post-war service
On 7 October 1945 Nimmo returned to Australia, and on 18 October he flew to Morotai in the Dutch East Indies to assume command of the 34th Brigade. Between 10 and 22 December, he visited Japan ahead of the deployment of his brigade as part of BCOF, and he briefly returned to Australia between 3 and 11 January 1946. According to his entry in the Australian Dictionary of Biography, Nimmo calmly handled the so-called "Morotai incident" in January after his brigade was subjected to delays and public criticism which had nearly resulted in mutiny, impressing many. On 15 February, he embarked for Japan with his brigade, and disembarked at Kure, Japan, on 22 February. He was described by one who served under his command during this period as "a handsome officer of compact stature, unflappable and popular". He relinquished his command on 18 April and was placed on the reserve supernumerary list, returning to Australia on 7 May.

On 12 June, Nimmo was promoted to temporary major general and appointed as general officer commanding Northern Command, and district commandant, based in Brisbane. On 30 June 1947 his secondment to the Second AIF ceased, and he was seconded to the new Interim Army. On 1 October 1948 he was appointed as a substantive major general in the Australian Staff Corps. He continued to play sport, representing the Army in a cricket match against a United Services Institute team in Brisbane in 1949. He was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in the Military Division in the 1950 King's Birthday Honours. The citation reads:

United Nations service and death
Nimmo retired from the Australian Military Forces on 22 November 1950, after reaching the age of 57, the retirement age for his rank. In early 1950, in the wake of the Indo-Pakistani War of 1947–1948, the Australian diplomat and jurist Sir Owen Dixon was appointed as the United Nations (UN) mediator between India and Pakistan over the disputed State of Jammu and Kashmir. Dixon believed that the dispute could only be resolved through partition, but the UN Security Council had determined that a plebiscite of the population was necessary. Unable to get the Prime Minister of India, Jawaharlal Nehru, to agree to take the steps necessary to ensure that the plebiscite would be fair and free, Dixon's report criticised both sides for not reaching an agreement. In the wake of Dixon's report, the UN sought an Australian to serve as chief military observer (CMO) of the UN Military Observer Group in India and Pakistan (UNMOGIP), following the death of the previous CMOCanadian Brigadier-General Harry Anglein an aircraft crash. Given his reputation for calmness and resolution, and his wide experience, Nimmo was selected for the role, arriving in Kashmir in November. His wife Mary arrived three months later, along with their children.