[Source: Gutenberg#3207 | Part 178]
# Leviathan — Thomas Hobbes

o the laws of Caesar. For though
Pilate himself (to gratifie the Jews) delivered him to be crucified; yet
before he did so, he pronounced openly, that he found no fault in him:
And put for title of his condemnation, not as the Jews required, "that
he pretended to be King;" but simply, "That hee was King of the Jews;"
and notwithstanding their clamour, refused to alter it; saying, "What I
have written, I have written."




The Third Part Of His Office Was To Be King (Under His Father) Of The
Elect

As for the third part of his Office, which was to be King, I have
already shewn that his Kingdome was not to begin till the Resurrection.
But then he shall be King, not onely as God, in which sense he is
King already, and ever shall be, of all the Earth, in vertue of his
omnipotence; but also peculiarly of his own Elect, by vertue of the
pact they make with him in their Baptisme. And therefore it is, that
our Saviour saith (Mat. 19.28.) that his Apostles should sit upon twelve
thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel, "When the Son of man shall
sit in the throne of his glory;" whereby he signified that he should
reign then in his humane nature; and (Mat. 16.27.) "The Son of man shall
come in the glory of his Father, with his Angels, and then he shall
reward every man according to his works." The same we may read, Marke
13..26. and 14.26. and more expressely for the time, Luke 22.29, 30. "I
appoint unto you a Kingdome, as my Father hath appointed to mee, that
you may eat and drink at my table in my Kingdome, and sit on thrones
judging the twelve tribes of Israel." By which it is manifest that the
Kingdome of Christ appointed to him by his Father, is not to be before
the Son of Man shall come in Glory, and make his Apostles Judges of
the twelve tribes of Israel. But a man may here ask, seeing there is
no marriage in the Kingdome of Heaven, whether men shall then eat, and
drink; what eating therefore is meant in this place? This is expounded
by our Saviour (John 6.27.) where he saith, "Labour not for the meat
which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting
life, which the Son of man shall give you." So that by eating at Christs
table, is meant the eating of the Tree of Life; that is to say, the
enjoying of Immortality, in the Kingdome of the Son of Man. By which
places, and many more, it is evident, that our Saviours Kingdome is to
bee exercised by him in his humane nature.




Christs Authority In The Kingdome Of God Subordinate To His Father

Again, he is to be King then, no otherwise than as subordinate, or
Viceregent of God the Father, as Moses was in the wildernesse; and as
the High Priests were before the reign of Saul; and as the Kings were
after it. For it is one of the Prophecies concerning Christ, that he
should be like (in Office) to Moses; "I will raise them up a Prophet
(saith the Lord, Deut. 18.18.) from amongst their Brethren like unto
thee, and will put my words into his mouth," and this similitude with
Moses, is also apparent in the actions of our Saviour himself, whilest
he was conversant on Earth. For as Moses chose twelve Princes of the
tribes, to govern under him; so did our Saviour choose twelve Apostles,
who shall sit on twelve thrones, and judge the twelve tribes of Israel;
And as Moses authorized Seventy Elders, to receive the Spirit of God,
and to Prophecy to the people, that is, (as I have said before,) to
speak unto them in the name of God; so our Saviour also ordained seventy
Disciples, to preach his Kingdome, and Salvation to all Nations. And as
when a complaint was made to Moses, against those of the Seventy that
prophecyed in the camp of Israel, he justified them in it, as being
subservient therein to his government; so also our Saviour, when St.
John complained to him of a certain man that cast out Devills in his
name, justified him therein, saying, (Luke 9.50.) "Forbid him not, for
hee that is not against us, is on our part."

Again, our Saviour resembled Moses in the institution of Sacraments,
both of Admission into the Kingdome of God, and of Commemoration of his
deliverance of his Elect from their miserable condition. As the Children
of Israel had for Sacrament of their Reception into the Kingdome of God,
before the time of Moses, the rite of Circumcision, which rite having
been omitted in the Wildernesse, was again restored as soon as they came
into the land of Promise; so also the Jews, before the coming of our
Saviour, had a rite of Baptizing, that is, of washing with water all
those that being Gentiles, embraced the God of Israel. This rite St.
John the Baptist used in the reception of all them that gave their names
to the Christ, whom hee preached to bee already come into the world; and
our Saviour instituted the same for a Sacrament to be taken by all that
beleeved in him. From what cause the rite of Baptisme first proceeded,
is not expressed formally in the Scripture; b