[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Terrorism in Australia

Facebook. The police treated this as an act of terrorism. The two were arrested after a car chase. On 1 May 2020 at the NSW Supreme Court both boys were sentenced. The 16-year-old received a jail term of 35-and-a-half years. The 15-year-old received 18 years and 4 months.

Brighton siege (June 2017)

On 5 June 2017, 29-year-old Somali-born Islamist Yacqub Khayre shot dead receptionist Kai Hao in the foyer at a serviced apartment complex in the suburb of Brighton in Melbourne. He then took a female escort hostage in an apartment. He contacted both the police and the media. Police responded and Khayre died in a shoot-out with three police officers wounded. Khayre had referred to ISIS and al-Qaeda in a phone call to the media. In 2010 he had been acquitted of the earlier Holsworthy Barracks terror plot.

Mill Park stabbing (February 2018) 
Momena Shoma, a Bangladeshi Islamist, stabbed a 56-year-old man in the neck while he was asleep at his Callistemon Rise home in Mill Park. She has been charged with engaging in a terrorist act and it's alleged she was inspired by terror group Islamic State.

2018 Melbourne stabbing attack 

On 9 November 2018, an attack took place in Melbourne, when Hassan Khalif Shire Ali set fire to a Holden Rodeo utility on Bourke Street in the city's Central Business District. He then stabbed three pedestrians, killing one and wounding the other two. During the attack, the Holden "exploded" from the fire. Hassan Khalif was shot in the chest by a Victoria Police officer and died in hospital.

Hassan Khalif's younger brother, Ali Khalif Shire Ali, was arrested in November 2017 for planning to commit a mass shooting at Melbourne's New Year's Eve celebration. In May 2020 Ali Khalif was sentenced to ten years' jail, with a seven-and-a-half-year non-parole period.

2020 Brisbane stabbing attack 
On 19 December 2020, a knifeman killed two elderly people after storming their home and then tried to attack police officers on a highway in Brisbane. The attacker, who was shot dead by police, had been identified as a 22-year old-man who had a long history of mental health issues and escaped a GPS-tracking bracelet the previous night. He was previously arrested in early 2019 attempting to travel on a one-way ticket to Somalia and arrested "on suspicion of an attempted foreign incursion". Allegations against him were dropped by the AFP "due to a lack of evidence". The AFP spoke after the incident and said that there was no terror threat posed by the man.

Wieambilla police killings (2022) 

Brothers Nathaniel and Gareth Train, along with Gareth's wife Stacey, murdered two police officers who they knew were conducting a concern-for-welfare check for Nathaniel. They then killed their next-door neighbour and attempted to kill two other police officers before posting a gloating YouTube video in dialogue with an omnibus of troll grievances from the fringes of right-wing movements such as unverified anti-vaccination conspiracy theories, disaffected off-grid lifestylers and pro-gun-agenda Christian right. A shootout with police ensued later that night and the three of them were killed.

Notable terror plots
Australian police claim to have disrupted a significant number of terrorism plots since 2014.

Bob Hawke assassination plot
In 1975, the Palestinian Black September terrorist group and the Australian branch of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) terrorist group plotted to assassinate future Australian Prime Minister Bob Hawke, then Australian Labor Party president, along with a number of notable journalists seen as being pro-Israel. A Black September member visited Australia under the guise of a journalist and was provided with materials from Australian PFLP members and returned to Israel; the Black September member who intended to carry out the attack was killed by Israeli forces before he could return to Australia.

Faheem Khalid Lodhi 

Faheem Khalid Lodhi is an Australian architect accused of an October 2003 plot to bomb the national electricity grid or Sydney defence sites in the cause of violent jihad. He was convicted by a New South Wales Supreme Court jury in June 2006 on terrorism-related offences, namely:

Preparation for terrorist attack, by seeking information for the purpose of constructing explosive devices
Seeking information and collecting maps of the Sydney electricity supply system and possessing 38 aerial photos of military installations in preparation for terrorist attacks
Possessing terrorist manuals detailing how to manufacture poisons, detonators, explosives and incendiary devices

In his judgement, Justice Anthony Whealy illustrated that Lodhi's behaviour breached the rules under the Anti Terrorism Act 2004 (Cth), Crimes Act 1914 (Cth), the Criminal Code and the Crimes (Internationally Protected Persons) Act 1976 (Cth)