[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Staffordshire Yeomanry

The Staffordshire Yeomanry (Queen's Own Royal Regiment) was a mounted auxiliary unit of the British Army raised in 1794 to defend Great Britain from foreign invasion. It continued in service after the Napoleonic Wars, frequently being called out in support of the civil powers. It first sent units overseas at the time of the Second Boer War and saw distinguished service in Egypt and Palestine in World War I. During World War II it gave up its horses and became a tank regiment, serving in the Western Desert and landing in Normandy on D-Day. Postwar the Staffordshire Yeomanry became part of the Queen's Own Mercian Yeomanry with one of the squadrons being designated 'Staffordshire Yeomanry' until 2021.

French Revolutionary and Napoleonic Wars
After Britain was drawn into the French Revolutionary Wars, Prime Minister William Pitt the Younger proposed on 14 March 1794 that the counties should form a force of Volunteer Yeoman Cavalry (Yeomanry) that could be called on by the King to defend the country against invasion or by the Lord Lieutenant to subdue any civil disorder within the county. By the end of the year 27 counties had raised Yeomanry, including Staffordshire. The first Troop in the county was raised on 4 July 1794 at the Swan Inn, Stafford, as the Stafford Troop of the Staffordshire Volunteer Cavalry and gained official recognition on 21 August. The leading figure in raising it was Francis Perceval Eliot of Elmhurst Hall, former captain in the 14th Foot. Soon there were five Troops or 'Divisions' in the county, which were loosely regimented on 20 September as the Staffordshire Regiment of Gentlemen and Yeomanry (one of the first counties to be regimented): 
 Newcastle-under-Lyme, commanded by Colonel Earl Gower
 Stafford, commanded by lieutenant-colonel the Hon Edward Monckton
 Lichfield, commanded by Major Francis Eliot
 Leek, commanded by Capt James Bulkeley
 Walsall, commanded by Capt William Tennant

The regiment was first employed when the Stafford Troop was called out on 6 August 1795 in support of the civil power in suppressing bread rioters who had intercepted a consignment of corn at Radford Bridge on the Staffordshire and Worcestershire Canal; the rioters were dispersed without bloodshed.

In 1798 the Staffordshire Yeomanry was fully regimented, and the troops were no longer independent. By now the threat of invasion seemed more acute, and the government encouraged the formation of local armed associations of cavalry and infantry for purely local defence. A number of these volunteer associations were formed in Staffordshire and accepted:
 Loyal Pottery Volunteer Cavalry, raised 21 May 1798 in Hanley, as the cavalry division of the Loyal Staffordshire Pottery Association of Hanley, Shelton and Stoke-on-Trent, commanded by Capt Josiah Spode
 Walsall Loyal Volunteer Cavalry, raised 31 May 1798 initially as part of the Walsall Loyal Volunteer Association, later independent as the Loyal Walsall Light Dragoons, commanded by Capt John Scott
 Tamworth Volunteer Association Cavalry, raised 6 July 1798, commanded by Capt Thomas B. Paget
 Needwood Troop of Volunteer Cavalry, raised 6 June 1798, commanded by Capt Richard Meek
 Stone Gentlemen and Yeomanry, of the Stone Volunteer Association, raised 6 June 1798, commanded by Capt George Steedman
 Loyal Handsworth Association, raised (as cavalry only) 14 June 1798, commanded by Capt Nathaniel Gooding Clarke
 Loyal Bilston Cavalry, of the Loyal Bilston Association, raised 18 June 1798, commanded by Capt Thomas Loxdale
 Loyal Wolverhampton Cavalry of the Wolverhampton Loyal Volunteer Association:
 Wolverhampton Troop, raised 19 June 1798, commanded by Capt George Molineux
 Tettenhall Troop, recruited across seven outlying parishes, first meeting 28 June 1798, commanded by Capt Francis Edward Holyoake

Other than their more limited obligations, there was little difference between the mounted volunteers and the Yeomanry.

Earl Gower resigned the command of the Staffordshire Yeomanry in March 1800 and Lt-Col Monckton was promoted to succeed him. That year there were frequent disorders, and the Stafford and Newcastle Troops were regularly called out. Lord Bradford raised a sixth troop for the Yeomanry at Weston in October 1800 and was appointed its captain.