[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Land of Toys

and head), followed by the growth of donkey ears and a tail. The head, torso, and extremities come next, after which the boy is then forced into a quadrupedal stance. The final change is losing the ability of human speech and, as seen with the particular case of Lampwick, the total loss of humanity.

Before the donkeys leave Pleasure Island, the Coachman asks their names to make sure they have not their ability to vocalize, which signifies they are fully transformed. It is clear, however, that the speechless donkeys still retain human minds and intelligence, as are apparently able to understand the Coachman's commands. The donkeys that are fully transformed and can no longer vocalize (as in Lampwick's case) are stripped of their clothes and hurled into wooden crates, and then sold to work in salt mines or to perform in circuses. The ones that can still talk (as in the case of one named Alexander) are locked in a pen until the transformation finishes or to make sure they don't gain the attention of the outside world. The talking donkeys want the Coachman to let them leave but the Coachman silences them with his whip and then remarks, "Quiet! You boys have had your fun! Now pay for it!" (which alerts Jiminy, who had been watching all this, that Pinocchio is in danger). Some donkeys are not sold. Instead, they are used to pull the Coachman's carriage.

Unlike in the original text where the transformation would automatically complete itself once started, the curse in the film occurs gradually. It can also be slowed down or completely stopped by reduced misbehavior or by escaping the island before the transformation completes, as revealed by the fact that Pinocchio decides not to drink beer or smoke any longer (thinking that indulging in the drink and cigars were causing Lampwick's transformation, or more likely that they were causing Pinocchio to hallucinate), and is able to escape from the island with only a pair of donkey ears and tail and does not transform any further for the rest of the film. This was also a shortcut on the filmmaker's part, in that it allowed the producers to skip over some chapters of the original novel.

Another difference from the original story is that while Collodi's Land of Toys or Toyland is a mysterious, if not even legendary, though real, place on land not present on any maps, Disney's Pleasure Island is in fact an island and a well-known and even illegalized place with a notorious and infamous reputation. 

At some point, Geppetto finds out that Pinocchio is on Pleasure Island and ventures out to sea to rescue him, but is swallowed by Monstro which sets up the climax of the film.

This version of Pleasure Island, or at least a location inspired by it, appears in Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance in Pinocchio's world, Prankster's Paradise. The Coachman, his henchmen, Lampwick, and the other boys do not appear while Pinocchio, Jiminy Cricket, and the Blue Fairy do. However, the curse is still included.

Geppetto (2000)
Pleasure Island is shown once more in the 2000 TV musical Geppetto. After Pinocchio escapes from Stromboli's puppet show, even though Stromboli kept him under a contract he signed, he boards a stagecoach full of boys to Pleasure Island. While Stromboli failed to get into Pleasure Island to pursue Pinocchio since he's an adult, Geppetto managed to sneak in. There, young boys break windows, eat cakes, pies, and candy for supper, play in the mud, run wild, steal toys, and play pool. In this version, a roller coaster turns the boys into donkeys much like in the 1996 film The Adventures of Pinocchio where they turn into donkeys the moment they pass through its doors.

Once Upon a Time (2017)
Pleasure Island appears in the twelfth episode of the sixth season of the fantasy drama Once Upon a Time. There is no mentioning of the donkey spell in this show. According to Captain Hook, Pleasure Island has dealings with Neverland. At the time when King George was training Prince James to become a knight, Prince James fled from his training and ended up on Pleasure Island. With help from Rumplestiltskin, James' biological father Robert tracked him there. Upon being led to James by Pinocchio, Robert chased after James through Pleasure Island where they ran into King George and his men who had Robert arrested as both of them are removed from Pleasure Island.