[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Local Government and Social Care Ombudsman

reconsider its decision if they can demonstrate it was based on important evidence that contains facts that were not accurate, and they can show this using readily available information, or they have new and relevant information that was not previously available and which affects the decision made.

Results
In 2014/15 the LGO registered 20,286 new complaints and enquiries. 11,094 complaints and enquiries required further consideration and were referred to its assessment team. Of those, 6,314 people were helped by explaining why the issue was not in the LGO's jurisdiction or why a detailed investigation could not be pursued. 4,780 complaints were investigated in detail.

Councils do not have a legal obligation to comply with the Local Government Ombudsman's recommendations, even those in a published report, though the Ombudsman states that less than one per cent of cases are not complied with in full.

One risk of taking a complaint to the Local Government Ombudsman is that the complainant may run out of time to seek judicial review of a council's decision, missing the opportunity to raise the original matter in court. Judicial review must be sought within three months in the UK whereas only 54% of 2004/5 Ombudsman cases were determined within this time.

Complaints about the Local Government Ombudsman
Complainants dissatisfied with the way an LGO investigator deals with a complaint have recourse to the LGO's complaints procedure. It will try to resolve complaints quickly and directly with the person or section of its service concerned, but if not resolved a service complaint will be considered by a senior manager.

Judicial review
Although the Local Government Ombudsman case decisions cannot be appealed directly to any external authority, judicial review can be sought through the high court if the ombudsman acts contrary to the laws that govern it or the decision made is deemed to be Wednesbury unreasonable. Costs can be claimed if the challenge is successful. Judges do not overturn decisions of the Local Government Ombudsman but can require the Ombudsman to reconsider. For example, in 2022, one case concerning the ombudsman went before the High Court for judicial review, namely Milburn, R (On the Application Of) v The Local Government and Social Care Ombudsman [2022], and the high court found that the ombudsman was wrong to refuse to consider cases where the local authority had claimed to have acted when they had not.

Publications
The service publishes quite extensively, including:
 All of its decisions (unless it's deemed that publishing would compromise the anonymity of the complainant)
 Public interest investigation reports
 Its complaints data for local authorities and care providers, including the annual review letters sent to councils updating on their performance over the year
 Regular Focus Reports looking at systemic issues from complaints
 Annual review reports of Local Government and Social Care complaints

External links
 
 Parliament.uk (pdf) – 'The Role and Effectiveness of the Local Government Ombudsmen for England: Eleventh Report of Session 2004–2005', House of Commons (7 April 2005)

Notes

Local government in England
Ombudsman posts
Ombudsmen in the United Kingdom
Organisations based in England
Organizations established in 1974