[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# World Nuclear Association

World Nuclear Association is the international organization that promotes nuclear power and supports the companies that comprise the global nuclear industry. Its members come from all parts of the nuclear fuel cycle, including uranium mining, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment, nuclear fuel fabrication, plant manufacture, transport, and the disposition of used nuclear fuel as well as electricity generation itself.

Together, World Nuclear Association members are responsible for 70% of the world's nuclear power as well as the vast majority of world uranium, conversion and enrichment production.

The Association says it aims to fulfill a dual role for its members: Facilitating their interaction on technical, commercial and policy matters and promoting wider public understanding of nuclear technology. It has a secretariat of around 30 staff.

The Association was founded in 2001 on the basis of the Uranium Institute, itself founded in 1975.

Membership 
World Nuclear Association continues to expand its membership, particularly in non-OECD countries where nuclear power is produced or where this option is under active consideration. Members are located in 44 countries representing 80% of the world's population.

The annual subscription fee for an institutional member is based on its size and scale of activity. Upon receiving an inquiry or application, the Association's London-based secretariat determines the fee according to standard criteria and informs the candidate organisation accordingly. The fee structure provides, in many cases, for significant discounts for organisations located in countries outside the OECD.

A low-fee non-commercial membership is available for organisations with a solely academic, research, policy or regulatory function.

A list of current members is published on the World Nuclear Association website.

Charter of Ethics 
World Nuclear Association has established a Charter of Ethics to serve as a common credo amongst its member organizations. This affirmation of values and principles is intended to summarize the responsibilities of the nuclear industry and the surrounding legal and institutional framework that has been constructed through international cooperation to fulfill U.S. President Dwight D. Eisenhower's vision of 'Atoms for Peace'.

Leadership 

World Nuclear Association members appoint a Director General and elect a 20-member board of management. The current Director General is Sama Bilbao y León. The Chairman of the board is Philippe Knoche CEO at Orano. Vice chairman is Kirill Komarov First Deputy Director General at Rosatom. A board of management fulfils statutory duties pertaining to the organization's governance and sets World Nuclear Association policies and strategic objectives, subject to approval by the full membership.

Activities and services

Industry interaction 
An essential role of World Nuclear Association is to facilitate commercially valuable interaction among its members.

Ongoing World Nuclear Association Working Groups, consisting of members and supported by the secretariat, share information and develop analysis on a range of technical, trade and environmental matters. These subjects include:
 Cooperation in reactor design, evaluation and licensing
 Radiological protection
 Industry economics
 Nuclear law
 Supply chain
 Transport of radioactive materials
 Waste management and decommissioning
 Capacity optimization
 Uranium mining standardization
 Construction risk management
 Security of the international fuel cycle
 Fuel market report working group

When meeting to discuss industry issues, World Nuclear Association members are cautioned to avoid any topic that could potentially create even the impression of an attempt to set prices or engage in other anti-competitive behaviour. Accordingly, topics not discussed in meetings include terms of specific contracts; current or projected prices for products or services; allocation of markets; refusals to deal with particular suppliers or customers; or any similar matters that might impair competition within any segment of the nuclear industry.

Meetings 
World Nuclear Association's annual Symposium in London provides a forum for speakers from the nuclear industry. The Association has previously presented an award for 'Distinguished Contribution to the Peaceful Worldwide Use of Nuclear Energy'.

The Association also cooperates with the Nuclear Energy Institute on annual World Nuclear Fuel Cycle meetings for industry representatives concerned with nuclear fuel supply and in particular the uranium market.