[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Health Metrics Network

owed with medical and psychosocial support. This has contributed to the virtual elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV in the country
 The HMN Secretariat introduced the formal practice of Enterprise Architecture to the domain of health information system's strategy, planning and design.

Partners
HMN worked with and through partners, including countries, donors, development agencies and technical experts. By linking with other networks and partnerships involved in health information, such as RHINO and PARIS21, HMN extended its reach and both draws upon and contributes to such initiatives. By forging alliances with major consumers of health information, in particular global health initiatives such as The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization and the President's Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, HMN worked to ensure that countries and programmes benefit from coherent and consistent technical support.

Funding

HMN received an initial grant of US$50 million awarded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation in 2004, and additional contributions from donors including: Danish International Development Agency (DANIDA), European Commission, Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Paris 21, Rockefeller Foundation, Systems Research Institute of Thailand, United Kingdom Department for International Development (DFID), United States Agency for International Development (USAID), United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) and World Bank.

Dissolution
Subsequent to the preparation of the report by the Secretariat contained in EB132/5Add.1 (“WHO’s arrangement for hosting health partnerships and proposals for harmonizing WHO’s work with hosted partnerships”), the Executive Board of the Health Metrics Network decided on 8 November 2012 to dissolve the Network.  The Network's operations ceased on 31 May 2013.

Notes

 World Health Assembly:  Strengthening of health information systems, Resolution WHA60.27, 2007. (p. 100).
  Accessed June 6, 2011.

External links
  Official website
 HMN Everyone counts video (RealPlayer, QuickTime, Windows Media)

International medical and health organizations
Organisations based in Geneva