[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Devil's Path (hiking trail)

aking in Rusk Mountain.

A short distance (0.1 mile, 60 m) past the lookout is the 3,880-foot (1,183 m) summit of West Kill itself, the only summit in the Catskills marked by an official sign to that effect. There is no view. The trail begins to descend shortly afterwards, past an unreliable spring.

The remainder of the Devil's Path receives less foot traffic than the other sections and is as a result sometimes inadequately maintained. Dropping off the summit cone relatively quickly, it then descends very gently to about 3,300 feet (1,005 m) over the next two miles (3.2 km) and then, after a small creek that can supply water in all but the driest times, abruptly begins to climb up a rocky chute, then some minor ledges, to the 3,420-foot (1,042 m) summit known as either West West Kill or St. Anne's Peak. It goes right over it, but there are no real views except when the leaves are down.

From there the trail goes down along a series of long, switched-back traverses  to its second Mink Hollow, a swampy area between West West Kill and North Dome Mountain. A DEC sign there gives mileage in both directions despite the lack of a junction — a legacy of a plan to later extend the Devil's Path over North Dome and Mount Sherrill. After this, the trail travels due north past the outlet stream from the swampy col through a state-land corridor of tall, old-growth trees, lush fern beds and fields of glacial erratics to some old-growth hemlocks and, finally, its western end at Spruceton Road  later.

Common day trips

Many common hiking routes, particularly those made by aspiring members of the Catskill Mountain 3500 Club, use part of the Devil's Path and its connecting peaks. Many combinations are possible.

Loop over Indian Head using the Jimmy Dolan Notch Trail.
Climb of Indian Head, Twin or both via the JDNT.
Climb of Twin, Sugarloaf or both using the Roaring Kill and Pecoy Notch trails.
Loop over Sugarloaf using the Roaring Kill, Pecoy Notch and Mink Hollow trails (this has become much more common since both of the latter two were rerouted to connect with the newly built third in 1999).
Climb of Sugarloaf, Plateau or both via the Mink Hollow Trail (less common since the shorter, northern stretch of the Mink Hollow Trail was abandoned)
Shuttle hike of Plateau with Mink Hollow Trail.
Climb of Hunter from Stony Clove Notch, with Hunter Mountain Trail
Loop over Hunter from Diamond Notch via Spruceton and Hunter Mountain trails. May also include a bushwhack to Southwest Hunter.
Shuttle hike over West Kill from Diamond Notch to Spruceton trailhead.

References

Further reading

External links

Devil’s Path Trail Guide at Mountain-Hiking.com.
Eastern Devil’s Path at Mountain-Hiking.com.
Information on Hiking the Catskill High Peaks at Catskill 3500 Club
Description at Jon Trimble Outdoors.

Hiking trails in New York (state)
Catskill Park
Protected areas of Greene County, New York