[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Raymond Westerling

coup against Sukarno in 1950'. The minister had to take a new decision.

In August 2016, Australian historian Robert Cribb began investigating claims by widows and children of men allegedly executed there by Dutch soldiers in South Sulawesi. He had been appointed by the court in The Hague to do so.

Views in Indonesia and the Netherlands 
According to Indonesian former colonel and military historian Prof Muhammad Natzir Said, Westerling cannot simply be labelled a war criminal. "Every soldier knows: under a State of War, people are shot dead on the spot. That is normal. Summary executions were not only carried out by Westerling, but also on our side. Quite a few spies of the Dutch were shot dead by us after being investigated on the spot. We then surrounded such a desa and if those people said, 'He is a mata-mate, spy of the KNIL....to the tree!'" In 1977, Natsir wrote that the stories about thousands of executions had been propaganda fables to generate sympathy for the Indonesian independence struggle.

He was denounced as a war criminal by the Indonesian government and left-wing parties in the Netherlands. Westerling was twice the subject of official inquiries. Dutch historian Nico Schulte Nordholt stated: "...his actions had the approval of the highest authorities, and in the eyes of the Dutch authorities, he was successful at the time. Determant and effective". In 1949, the Dutch–Indonesian agreement on transfer of power stipulated neither country would call the other on its wartime offences, thus ruling out any attempt by Indonesia to press for Westerling's extradition.
Geersing wrote in his book, that Westerling received his orders from the political and military top in Batavia with the consent of the Dutch government representatives there. (Commissie-Generaal)

Popular culture
Raymond Westerling was depicted by Marwan Kenzari in the 2020 film The East, which focuses on his role in leading counterinsurgency operations in South Sulawesi during the Indonesian National Revolution.

References

Footnotes

Bibliography

External links
 Westerling biography in the Dutch language
 Celebes VPRO Documentary on Westerling's counter-insurgency operation in southern Sulawesi
 Images of Westerling, his troops, his passport and gravestone
 Summary of Dutch publications about Westerling and his actions in Indonesia

1919 births
1987 deaths
Dutch anti-communists
Dutch people of Greek descent
Dutch war crimes
Military personnel from Istanbul
Dutch people of the Indonesian National Revolution
Royal Netherlands East Indies Army officers
Royal Netherlands East Indies Army personnel of World War II
Turkish emigrants to the Netherlands