[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Alex Karev

to meet her mom, he finds out that she is completely fine and doing well in her life. Initially, he is angry with her being well because it let him have a bad childhood, but after talking to Jo, he forgives her and invites her to Seattle Grace for his marriage. In the finale, he finally marries Jo.

In the 15th season, he and Jo are about to move to Boston for Jo's fellowship but then, she finally stays in Grey-Sloan Memorial Hospital. Meanwhile, Dr. Bailey needed some time from her position as Chief so she announced Alex as interim Chief of Grey-Sloan Memorial hospital for 6 months. Jo tells him that her birth mother lives in Pittsburgh and flies there to meet her. After coming back, she doesn't talk about it to Alex and even stops going to work, which makes Alex worry. Later, he knew about her mental health and sends her to rehab for a month, where Jo gives him the opportunity to back off from the relationship because they were not legally married. Throughout, Alex helped Meredith to do fraud with an insurance company to save a girl's life and for that, Alex is fired from his position as the head of pediatric surgery at the end of the season. The following season, he marries Jo for a second time and helps save Meredith from losing her medical license. Midway through season 16, he disappeared to Iowa to see his mom, but it was revealed in the episode "Leave a Light On", Alex reconnected with Izzie, in the weeks leading up to Meredith's trial seeking her medical license to be reinstated. It was during that process that he chose to reach out to Izzie because he wanted to know if she was alive, okay, and willing to be there in person for Meredith's trial. During the call, Alex heard two young voices in the background. It was then he discovered that Izzie had taken the embryos they had frozen during her cancer treatment and moved forward with IVF five to six years earlier and that they were his kids. He ultimately leaves Jo for Izzie and moves to Kansas to be with her and their children.

Development

Casting and creation
 Justin Chambers was not included in the original pilot episode filmed in March 2004. Tony Phelan stated: "One of the notes after the pilot test was: "You need a bad boy. You need a male member of the intern class who's not just an asshole, but male". As a result, Phelan stated, "If you go back and watch the pilot, you can see how they surgically put Justin in everywhere."

On January 10, 2020, Justin Chambers announced that he had departed the series after 15 years, in order to pursue other acting opportunities as well as to focus on his family. His final episode aired on November 14, 2019. The fate of his character was addressed in the season 16 episode "Leave a Light On."

Characterization
The American Broadcasting Company (ABC) characterized Karev as "honest", "always tells it like it is", while also citing his mouth, his punctuality and him being a "smart-ass" as his weaknesses. Shonda Rhimes said of Karev: "I love that we have a character who can do something wonderful but still be a selfish cranky ass about it. Alex gets to be complex in ways most characters don't because even though he's got a moral code, his moral code is totally twisted and dark. But he's essentially good – deep down inside." Carolina Paiz, one of the writers of the series, wrote: "He has so much going on inside... you think you've got him figured out but then he just reveals this whole other side to him."

"He is superficial sleazeball who turns out to be a nice guy and a talented doctor with an amazing bedside manner, as well as the budding love interest of Katherine Heigl's character Izzie." DVD Verdict wrote of the character's development in the fourth season: "Love him, hate him, or both, Karev speaks his mind, rough edges and all. But ultimately his cold heart seems to be softened by his blossoming relationship with Jane Doe/Ava/Rebecca." Rhimes felt that the 100th episode during which Karev marries Stevens showed how he had grown up: "Look at him. Standing at the altar and saying those vows like a man. (...) He's become a man who can step up. And I love him for it."