[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kifl Haris

Biladuna Filastin (Our Country Palestine; 1965) that he performed the pilgrimage on behalf of his master, the martyr Najm al-Din Ayyub, son of Sultan Al-Adil I, and that the Hajj took place in the year 610 AH (1213/14 CE), which places him and the time the shrine was built during the Ayyubid period.

The shrine considered by Jews to be the tomb of Caleb is seen by Muslims to be the maqam of Prophet Dhu al-Kifl, from whom they consider the first part of the town's name to be derived.

The third holy structure in Kifl Haris, standing at some distance in the southwest of the town, is a large open shrine dedicated to Prophet Dhul-Nun, identified with Yunus (Jonah). Jews see in it the tomb of Nun, the father of Joshua.

Wafa Palestine News Agency reports that after the 1967 Six-Day War, the village shrines became a religious destination for Jews, with visits increasingly taking a political and Judaizing character.

Israeli Palestinian conflict 
According to the United Nations OCHA, three local residents were killed during the First Intifada and one during the Second Intifada.

42% of the village land is classified as Area B land, while the remainder 58% is Area C. Israel has confiscated 361 dunams of land from Kifl Haris in order to establish the Israeli settlement of Ariel.

On 14 March 2013, Adele Biton was critically injured (later dying from her injuries), and her mother and two sisters were moderately injured, after their car crashed after Palestinians threw stones their way near the village. Five youths from Kifl Haris were charged by a military court for responsibility for the incident, and as of February 2015 the case has not yet been concluded.

In June 2014, Jamil Ali Abed Jabir died during a night raid by the Israeli army. Locals say he suffered a heart attack while defending his home. According to an Israeli army spokesman, his house wasn't raided.

In 2015, an Israeli tour of the site was preceded by a convoy of military vehicles which closed off the town entrances and imposed a shutdown of all the village shops so Israeli tourists could visit the tomb for several hours.

References

Bibliography

External links
Welcome To Kifl Harith
Kifl Haris, IWPS
Survey of Western Palestine, Map 14:    IAA, Wikimedia commons 
Kifl Haris Town (Fact Sheet),  Applied Research Institute–Jerusalem, ARIJ
Kifl Haris Town Profile,  ARIJ
Kifl Haris Town - aerial photo, ARIJ
Development Priorities and Needs in Kifl Haris, ARIJ

Towns in Salfit Governorate
Salfit Governorate
Jewish pilgrimage sites
Municipalities of West Bank
Municipalities of the State of Palestine