[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# List of methods of torture

ter the Bishop of Rochester's cook, Richard Rice, gave a number of people poisoned porridge, resulting in two deaths in February 1532. Boiling to death was employed again in 1542 for a woman who also used poison.
It was also used for counterfeiters, swindlers and coin forgers during the Middle Ages.

A large cauldron was filled with water, oil, tar, tallow or molten lead. The liquid was then boiled. Sometimes the victim would be placed in the cauldron before it was boiled so as to be cooked slowly. Or they would be placed, usually head first, into the already boiling liquid.

This was more frequently a way to execute a prisoner rather than to extract a confession.

Exposure

Types

Freezing to death 
In the winter, the naked victim was forced to stand outside in full view of everyone. Slowly, the torturer poured water on the victim's head which eventually became frozen, making them die slowly and painfully. Sometimes the body was left for the whole winter to terrify the population and dissuade any further crimes.

Live burial 

As its name implies, this method consists of exposing a victim to the elements. The victim could be buried up to their neck letting any animals, insects or other people kill them slowly.

Restraint 

The gibbet, a large iron basket with holes large enough for arms and legs, would be hung from a pole with a person inside it. During hot days, the metal would heat, causing pain. During cold days and nights, the chill, as well as lack of protection from the wind, could easily sap a victim's body heat. The holes in the grating were also big enough to allow carrion birds, and the occasional rat, to enter and pluck at a victim's skin and eyes.

Rat torture 

A cheap and effective way to torture someone was with the use of rats. One of the first documented utilizations of the method was by Diederik Sonoy. There were many variants, but the most common was to force a rat through a victim's body (usually the intestines) as a way to escape. The victim would be completely restrained and tied to the ground or a bed, and the torturer would cut slits into the victim's stomach. The torturer would then use a bowl to trap rats on the victim's stomach, then place hot coal on top of the bowl; the rats would then get hot, and after a few seconds would enter the victim's stomach. Gnawing the intestines usually resulted in a few hours of pain for the victim. This almost always resulted in death.

See also 
 List of methods of capital punishment (torture devices)
 Peine forte et dure
 Torture chamber
 Torture Museums
 Rüdesheim am Rhein#Museums (Mediaeval Torture Museum)
 Turcas

References 

Torture
Torture methods
Torture methods