[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George W. Mason

the market flooded by inexpensive cars, Studebaker, Packard, Willys, Hudson, Kaiser Motors, and Nash were all unable to sell their vehicles at loss leader prices to keep up with Ford and GM. The "frantic 1953–54 Ford/GM price war" devastated the remaining "independent" automakers.

Legacy with AMC 

The smaller automakers responded to their shrinking market shares by conducting formal and informal merger talks. Willys and Kaiser merged in 1953. Mason brought together Nash and the Hudson Motor Car Company to cut costs and strengthen their sales organizations to meet the intense competition from the Big Three. This merger occurred on May 1, 1954 to form American Motors Corporation (AMC). At the same time, he tried to bring Studebaker and Packard into AMC. He had informal discussions with James J. Nance of Packard to outline his strategic vision for competing with the Big Three. An agreement was reached for parts-sharing arrangements between AMC and Packard and the new  Packard V8 engine and Packard's Ultramatic automatic transmission would be used in the 1955 Nash Ambassador and Hudson Hornet models. In July 1954, Packard acquired Studebaker.

Within months after the formation of AMC, George Mason died on October 8, 1954, at age 63 of acute pancreatitis and pneumonia in Detroit, Michigan and was buried in White Chapel Memorial Cemetery. Mason's protégé, AMC Vice President George W. Romney, succeeded Mason as Chairman and CEO. One of Romney's first acts was to stop rumors that there were additional merger talks between AMC and Studebaker-Packard Corporation or any automakers. According to Mason's obituary in Time magazine, had AMC and Studebaker-Packard joined, it would have resulted in the second largest automaker in the world, behind General Motors.

Legacy in conservation 

Following his death it was disclosed that Mason, a former president of Ducks Unlimited, had left a gift to the Michigan Department of Natural Resources consisting of  land with  of shoreline along the Au Sable River. The gift was contingent that the area be used as a permanent game preserve, that no part shall ever be sold by the state, and that no camping be allowed in the area for 25 years. The Michigan DNR has continued to uphold the no camping restriction within the Mason tract. In accordance with Mason's wishes, the tract remains free of all development with the exception of a simple log chapel that was constructed on the property by the Mason family in 1960.

See also 
 Nash Motors
 Nash-Kelvinator Corporation
 American Motors Corporation

Notes

References
 Who Was Who in America. A component of Who's Who in American History. Volume 3, 1951-1960. Chicago
 Biography and Genealogy Master Index. Farmington Hills, Mich.: Thomson Gale, 1980- 2006
 George Mason, Newsweek October 18, 1954
 Changes of the Week: George Romney Succeeds Mason. Time Magazine, October 25, 1954
 George W. Mason, American National Biography Online, February 2000 edition

1891 births
1954 deaths
20th-century American businesspeople
Deaths from pancreatitis
Nash Motors people
American Motors people
American chief executives in the automobile industry
American founders of automobile manufacturers
University of Michigan alumni
Automotive businesspeople
People from Valley City, North Dakota