[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Censorship in Israel

t is liable to crudely offend the religious faith or sentiment of others."

In addition to media censorship, Israeli cinemas are subject to regulation regarding the exhibition of pornography and television stations face restrictions on early broadcasting of programs that are unsuitable for children.

Notable incidents 
 In 1960 two science fiction stories were published that circumvented censorship.  The first was about Rudolf Teichmann and told the story of Eichmann's kidnapping. Uri Avnery's HaOlam HaZeh magazine published a story about the Lavon Affair.
 Mordechai Vanunu who served 18 years in prison for treason and espionage was released in 2004, but is still under restrictions on speech and movement. A BBC reporter was barred from the country after publishing an interview with him without handing it over to the censors first.
 Israel has banned the use of the word Nakba in Israeli Arab schools and textbooks.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu justified the ban by saying that the term was "propaganda against Israel".
 The death of Ben Zygier in 2010, an Australian-Israeli citizen who was allegedly recruited by Mossad, was censored until Australian news media broke the story in early 2013.
 Early in 2016, the Military Censor wrote to at least 30 Israeli bloggers and Facebook page owners, demanding that any postings with military or security-related content be submitted for review before publication. The request has the force of law.

Banned films 
Israel banned all films produced in Germany from 1956 until 1967.
 1957: The Girl in the Kremlin was banned because it may have harmed Israel's diplomatic relations with Moscow.
 1957: China Gate was banned in Israel for indulging in excessive cruelty.  The Israeli film censorship board indicated the film depicted Chinese and Russian soldiers as "monsters".
 1965: Goldfinger played for six weeks before the Nazi past of Gert Fröbe, who played the title villain, was disclosed, despite him leaving the party in 1937. However the ban was lifted once a Jewish family publicly thanked him for hiding two German Jews from the Gestapo during World War II.
 1973: Hitler: The Last Ten Days was banned in a unanimous decision by the censorship board that Alec Guinness's Hitler was represented in too human a light.
 1988: Martin Scorsese's The Last Temptation of Christ was banned on the grounds that it could hurt the feelings of Christian believers in the Holy Land. The Supreme Court of Israel later overturned the decision.
 2002: Jenin, Jenin was banned by the Israeli Film Ratings Board on the premise that it was libelous and might offend the public. The Supreme Court of Israel later overturned the decision.

See also 
 Freedom of speech in Israel
 Media of Israel
 Night letter

References 

 
Law of Israel
Israel