[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ali Asad Chandia

ods from Chandia's house to a shipping company in Sterling, Virginia, which mailed them to Pakistan for $761.84, which Chandia paid. Chandia allowed Khan to use his computer to buy unmanned aerial vehicles, night vision equipment, wireless video cameras and $17,000 of Kevlar anti-ballistic material.

Sentencing
Federal prosecutor David Laufman told U.S. District Judge Claude M. Hilton at sentencing on August 25, 2006 that "the defendant portrays himself as a mild-mannered, kind individual." Laufman concluded the tape recordings glorifying Osama bin Laden's terrorist activities were representative of "who the defendant really is." Muddasar Ahmed, a Beltsville consultant and supporter of Chandia, said, "If this is how you deliver justice, you lose your trust in the justice system." According to Mary Beth Sheridan of The Washington Post, "Ahmed and others have also argued that the prosecutions show a fundamental misunderstanding of Muslims in America: The local men wanted to help oppressed Muslims overseas, which isn't the same as backing bin Laden."

Minhaj Hason, a spokesperson for Dar-Us-Salaam, the umbrella organization for Al-Huda, said Chandia was "one of our best teachers" in the boys section of the Muslim school. "This is just one in a huge slew of cases like this. We feel the juries are making their decisions based on paranoia. From our perspective as a community... we're basically feeling besieged by overzealous prosecution." McNulty said in an interview in 2005, when he was the U.S.' attorney in Alexandria, "These individuals established strong relationships [and] received ideological and physical training" from Lashkar-e-Taiba. "At the very least, they became a kind of infrastructure of support for international terrorists."

Timimi told the FBI in a voluntary interview prior to his arrest in 2004, that, "In those days, young men [in the D.C. area] were very interested in jihad and martyrdom." Chandia, Timimi said, "used to ask hundreds of questions regarding jihad."

Dar-us-Salaam members helped organize a fundraiser and website for him under the Ali Asad Support Committee.

At his sentencing hearing, Chandia said, "God knows well that I did not support any terrorists. Those who participated in making my children orphans ... should just remember that the day of judgment is on the way. If my parents should die before me, I ask my mother to plead and complain to Allah that a piece of her heart was taken away because of some toy paintballs."

Release
Chandia was released from prison on July 19, 2019.

University of Maryland
The Washington Post reported that Chandia graduated from the University of Maryland University College with a bachelor’s in information systems management in May 2005, but university spokesman Neil Tickner said there were no university records to confirm his enrollment at this university, and that "the name 'Ali Asad Chandia' does not show up anywhere in the database. Either his name was spelled differently or he wasn’t a student here."

References

Pakistani people imprisoned on charges of terrorism
Prisoners and detainees of the United States federal government
Pakistani people imprisoned abroad
Islamic terrorism in the United States
Pakistani emigrants to the United States
1976 births
Living people
People convicted on terrorism charges