[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Mousa Dembélé (Belgian footballer)

the 2014 FIFA World Cup. He played 65 minutes in midfield before being substituted with Marouane Fellaini in the team's first game of the tournament, a 2–1 win against Algeria in Belo Horizonte.

Dembélé announced his retirement from international football on 7 March 2019, after 82 caps for Belgium.

Style of play
Having begun as a winger and played in that role until 2011, Dembélé primarily played as a central midfielder; he can, however, also operate as an attacking midfielder. He has been described as a footballer who is "big, powerful, technically gifted" and who has excellent "dribbling and passing abilities." His manager at Fulham, Martin Jol, said "Dembélé is probably the best player on the ball I've ever seen." Former midfielder Jermaine Jenas, a teammate of Dembélé's at Tottenham, praised his "passing ability", remarking that the Belgian is "very good technically", while also comparing him to a vacuum cleaner insofar as he "sucks in all the pressure and then releases the ball at the perfect time. If you try to get tight to him, he is strong enough to hold you off and has the ability to look at you and go past you in the blink of an eye. If you drop off him, he is happy too. He can sit deep in front of the back four and dictate the tempo from there".

Dembélé has stated Dutch forward Patrick Kluivert was a childhood hero of his and that his style of play was compared to Kluivert's. At his peak, he was regarded as one of the best players in Europe in his position, due to his dribbling skills and ability to retain possession.

Career statistics

Club

International
Source:

Source:

Honours
AZ
Eredivisie: 2008–09
Johan Cruyff Shield: 2009

Tottenham Hotspur
Football League Cup runner-up: 2014–15

Belgium
FIFA World Cup third place: 2018

References

External links

Mousa Dembélé at tottenhamhotspur.com

Premier League profile

1987 births
Living people
Belgian people of Malian descent
People from Wilrijk
Belgian Muslims
Flemish sportspeople
Footballers from Antwerp
Black Belgian sportspeople
Belgian men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
K. Berchem Sport players
Beerschot A.C. players
Willem II (football club) players
AZ Alkmaar players
Fulham F.C. players
Tottenham Hotspur F.C. players
Guangzhou City F.C. players
Belgian Pro League players
Eredivisie players
Premier League players
Chinese Super League players
Belgium men's youth international footballers
Olympic footballers for Belgium
Belgium men's international footballers
Footballers at the 2008 Summer Olympics
2014 FIFA World Cup players
UEFA Euro 2016 players
2018 FIFA World Cup players
Belgian expatriate men's footballers
Belgian expatriate sportspeople in the Netherlands
Belgian expatriate sportspeople in England
Belgian expatriate sportspeople in China
Expatriate men's footballers in the Netherlands
Expatriate men's footballers in England
Expatriate men's footballers in China