[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Marc Laird

d the "Shrimpers" to secure a League Two play-off place at the end of the season, where they were beaten by Burton Albion at the semi-final stage. He was released by the club at the end of the season, after which manager Phil Brown commented that "Marc was a bit unlucky with his injury this season".

Tranmere Rovers
Laird signed with a one-year contract with League Two side Tranmere Rovers in July 2014. After Micky Adams was appointed as manager Laird and James Rowe shared the central midfield role with Steve Jennings in defensive midfield and Max Power in attacking midfield. He played 39 games in the 2014–15 season, as Rovers were relegated out of the English Football League.

Yeovil Town
On 19 June 2015, Laird signed for League Two side Yeovil Town on a one-year deal upon the expiry of his contract with Tranmere Rovers. He was released at the end of the 2015–16 season.

Edinburgh City
On 21 September 2016, following his release from Yeovil Town, Laird signed for Scottish League Two side Edinburgh City. Laird said he hoped the move would allow him the chance to raise his profile in Scotland. However, after picking up the division's Player of the Month award for November he decided to extend his stay at the club and signed a two-year contract extension to keep him at the Meadowbank Stadium until June 2018. This deal was then extended by a further two years in June 2017. He picked up the club's Goal of the Season award for the 2016–17 campaign for his strike in the 3–3 draw Arbroath on 1 October. He made 40 appearances over the course of the 2017–18 campaign as the "Citizens" finished in ninth-place under the stewardship of James McDonaugh, just one spot above the relegation play-offs. With just two goals in two years at Ainslie Park, Laird admitted he was disappointed in his goal tally. He added one further goal over 43 appearances in the 2018–19 season; City qualified for the play-offs but were beaten 4–0 by Clyde at the semi-final stage. He scored four goals from 31 games in the 2019–20 season, which was declared early due to the COVID-19 pandemic in Scotland, with Edinburgh second to champions Cove Rangers. He made 18 appearances in the 2020–21 campaign as Edinburgh secured a play-off place with a second-place finish, though did not play in the play-off semi-final defeat to Elgin City.

Stirling Albion
Laird signed for League Two club Stirling Albion on 9 June 2021 as manager Kevin Rutkiewicz looked to add experience to Forthbank. He was sent off after receiving two yellow cards in a 1–0 defeat to Stenhousemuir at the Forthbank Stadium on 5 March. He played 26 games in the 2021–22 campaign and was not retained in the summer by Darren Young.

Civil Service Strollers
Laird joined Civil Service Strollers of the Lowland League in summer 2022.

Style of play
Laird is a "box to box" midfielder. Kenny Jackett, his manager at Millwall, stated that Laird had a good character and positive mindset.

Career statistics

Honours
Individual
Scottish League Two Player of the Month: November 2016

Millwall
League One play-offs: 2009–10

References

External links

1986 births
Living people
Footballers from Edinburgh
Scottish men's footballers
Men's association football midfielders
Lothian Thistle Hutchison Vale F.C. players
Manchester City F.C. players
Northampton Town F.C. players
Port Vale F.C. players
Millwall F.C. players
Brentford F.C. players
Walsall F.C. players
Leyton Orient F.C. players
Southend United F.C. players
Tranmere Rovers F.C. players
Yeovil Town F.C. players
Edinburgh City F.C. players
Stirling Albion F.C. players
English Football League players
Scottish Professional Football League players
Lowland Football League players