[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Ros Myers

s (Gemma Jones), and she is arrested. However, in the finale, she and Lucas North (Richard Armitage) are forced to use her help when they discover "Tiresius", Russia's equivalent of Sugar Horse, has planted a nuclear bomb in London. After finding the bomb, Connie disarms it, but dies in the process.

In episode three of the eighth series, following a hostage situation, Ros kills a terrorist before he can detonate a bomb. However, because Jo Portman (Miranda Raison) held on to the terrorist, the bullet passed through him and entered her chest, killing Jo as well. Ros has since been affected by it. In the fifth episode, she is contacted by Jack Colville, her recruiter into MI6. Later in the episode, Colville finds a way to hack into MI5's records through Ros' account to kill every officer responsible for the death of Mina, his love in Bosnia several years before. To stop Colville, Ros has her name planted as the one who ordered Mina's death. Jack pursues Ros and, as he is about to kill her, she reveals the truth. Realizing that it was not the agents, but the system that was wrong, he kills himself. In the series eight finale, a multinational shadow organisation, Nightingale, attempts to cause a nuclear war between India and Pakistan. To put a stop to it, Ros and Lucas attempt to rescue a paralysed Pakistani President Mudasser and Home Secretary Andrew Lawrence (Tobias Menzies) from a hotel rigged to explode. As Lucas rescues Mudasser, Ros struggles to pull Lawrence to safety, and is still inside as the hotel explodes, resulting in their deaths. In the first episode of the ninth series it is revealed that former Home Secretary Nicholas Blake ordered the bombing; in revenge, Harry travels to his home in Scotland and kills him by poisoning his whisky.

She was succeeded as Chief of Section D by Lucas North who had previously served as Chief of Section D in the late 90s before Tom Quinn.

Reception 
The character has been well received by critics; Guardian journalist Gareth McLean wrote during the broadcast of Spooks seventh series that "Not only is Ros Myers the best character that Spooks has ever had [...] she's also the best female character currently on television." On the website of The Stage, Scott Matthewman concurred with McLean, writing, "She is indeed one of the hottest female characters on television at the moment."

For her part in the series, Hermione Norris won the Best Actress award at the inaugural Crime Thriller Awards in 2008. She was nominated in the same category the next year.

References

External links
Ros Myers at BBC.co.uk

Television characters introduced in 2006
Fictional members of secret societies
Fictional British secret agents
Fictional people from London
Fictional secret agents and spies in television
Spooks (TV series) characters