[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Roman Zaretsky

ity by denying them prime training time and threatening to ban them from the rink.

The siblings had an up and down season, winning their first international event, the 2009 Winter Universiade, but placing lower at both the 2009 Europeans and 2009 World Championships than they had the previous year.

2009–2010 season 
After a 5th-place finish at the 2009 Cup of China, the siblings won their first Grand Prix medal – bronze at the 2009 Skate America after placing fourth in the compulsory dance, third in the original dance, and second in the free dance. They were named third alternates for the Grand Prix Final. The Zaretskys won their next event, the 2009 Golden Spin of Zagreb, and skated to 7th place at the 2010 European Championships, their career-best result at that event.

Based on their top-ten finish at the Europeans, the Zaretskys met their national criterion for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. There, in February 2010 they performed to music from Schindler's List in the free dance, having chosen the music in part to honor 27 family members who died in Minsk during the Holocaust. They finished tenth, setting new personal best scores in the free dance and overall. They went on to finish 6th at 2010 Worlds, again setting personal bests in the free dance and overall.

The Zaretskys announced their retirement from competitive skating on June 20, 2010, citing a lack of support from their federation as the reason.

Post-competitive career 
The Zaretskys later performed in various ice shows, including Shall We Dance on Ice, and coached together for several years in Houston, Texas.

Programs 
(with Alexandra Zaretsky)

Competitive highlights
GP: Grand Prix; JGP: Junior Grand Prix

with Alexandra Zaretsky

See also
Sport in Israel
List of select Jewish figure skaters

References

External links

 
 

1983 births
Figure skaters from Minsk
Israeli male ice dancers
Figure skaters at the 2006 Winter Olympics
Figure skaters at the 2010 Winter Olympics
Olympic figure skaters for Israel
Universiade medalists in figure skating
Israeli soldiers
People from Metula
Belarusian emigrants to Israel
Living people
FISU World University Games gold medalists for Israel
Competitors at the 2009 Winter Universiade