[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Regina Lynn

ther, or in a long-distance relationship. She also contributed an essay to the anthology Naked Ambition: Women Who Are Changing Pornography, edited by Carly Milne. She describes her feature story "The History of Vibrators" (Adult Video News, July 2009)as "one of the best features I've ever written."

Lynn's first published erotica short story, "A Game of Passion", was published in an e-book anthology called Tentacle Dreams.. This story continues the sex-tech theme by portraying two people who became lovers via motion-capture suits and an online role-playing game, who are now meeting in person for the first time.

Recognition
Lynn won a Maggie award from the Western Publications Association for "Best Regularly Featured Web Column." She has appeared several documentaries about sex and technology, including Vanguard: Porn 2.0 by Christof Putzel and Wired for Sex on G4TV. She participated in the "open source" online documentary Digital Tipping Point  by Christian Einfeldt. Her column "Rude People, Not Tech, Cause Bad Manners" was reprinted as "The New Communication Technology: A Challenge to Modern Relationships?"  in the college textbook America Now: Short Readings from Recent Periodicals, Eighth Edition, edited by Robert Atwan. The America Now textbook series compiles "the best writing on today’s hottest issues" as models for college students in composition, journalism, creative writing, and English courses.

Marie Claire named Lynn one of the top five leading sex experts in the United States.

Personal life
While writing "Sex Drive" and her two books, she divided her time between Los Angeles and San Francisco. In 2008, Lynn retired "Sex Drive" and moved out of the city. She now resides in Nevada County, California. She blogs about sex-tech and continues to speak on the subject at conferences and in the media.

Bibliography

References

External links
Regina Lynn's SexRev2.0 - Regina Lynn's website
Sex Drive Forum - Email forum for those interested in discussing sex-tech, hosted by Regina Lynn
Sex Drive Podcasts -

Living people
1971 births
American bloggers
American sex columnists
American women columnists
American women podcasters
American podcasters
Wired (magazine) people
Sexuality and computing
People from Nevada County, California
American women bloggers
Journalists from California
University of California, Davis alumni
21st-century American non-fiction writers
21st-century American women writers