[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Judiciary of Greece

wed to participate in public procurements. Both major parties, New Democracy (ND) and Panhellenic Socialist Movement (PASOK), agreed to this provision, aiming, according to those who proposed it, at promoting transparency. In 2005, Parliament passed a law, materialising the constitutional provision.

The European Commission reacted immediately and warned that this legal provision violates the EU law of competition. The Greek government answered that the law materialises the respective constitutional provision, which is superior to the EU law. An ardent supporter of this opinion was the professor of law and Minister for the Interior, Public Administration and Decentralisation Prokopis Pavlopoulos. Nevertheless, the government receded and amended the law according to the European Commission's instructions, when the European Commission threatened to cut Community funds destined for Greece.

The Constitutional control and the Council of State

After the constitutional amendment of 2001, Supreme Courts decide on the constitutionality of a legal provision only in Plenary Session. By this amendment the Council of State Chambers were deprived of their competence to separately judge the constitutionality of a legal provision. Now the Chambers are obliged to submit the case to the Plenary Session of the Council of State.

Nonetheless one of the Chambers of the Council of State issued the Decision 372/2005 on a case including a problem of constitutionality, where instead of the case being submitted to the Plenary Session, it was withhold and then applied to the European Convention on Human Rights, thus annulling the administrative act. With this device the Chamber of the Council reinforced its competence without violating the Constitution and avoided a time-consuming procedure for the litigant.

According to the Constitution, the legal force of the international conventions is superior to the national laws but inferior to the Constitution.

Controversies
Various corruption cases often appeared, such as the Paradikastiko organization scandal consisting of lawyers, judges and Church of Greece representatives in the late 2000s (see also Vatopedi case).

See also 
 Politics of Greece

References

External links
Greek Ministry of Justice
National School of Judges

 
Corruption in Greece