[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# State Border Service

border services of Russia and Kazakhstan. The cooperation with the neighboring countries have been aimed to improve the security of the airspace of Azerbaijan and the maritime space in the Caspian Sea. The State Border Service of Azerbaijan is also working together with NATO due to the same purpose.

From 23 to 27 May 2015, Director General of the General Office the United Arab Emirates Supreme Council of National Security's Port, Border and Free Zones Security, Jassem Mohammad al-Zaabi was in Azerbaijan on an official visit. The purpose of his visit was due to the further cooperation and fight against international terrorism, illegal migration, drug trafficking and other crimes.

In 2017, head of the State Border Service Elchin Guliyev and the chairman of the State Border Committee of Belarus Anatoly Lappo discussed bilateral interaction and cooperation in the CIS Council of Border Troops Commanders.

In February 2017, a memorandum was signed between the State Border Service and the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Georgia on the establishment of a special institute of border commissioners. The purpose of the institution is to strengthen the control of the state border and to ensure bilateral cooperation for the future between Georgia and Azerbaijan.

Structure

Active units 
The structure of the State Border Service includes the headquarters, departments, and other organizations. The State Border Service's central office, border guards, naval and military aviation units, border control units, military units, as well as other structural units together form the unified system of the State Border Service. The main units of the State Border's direct guard are the frontier post, the frontier control unit, the frontier ship (boat), the radio engineering post, the frontier aircraft, the division of the operational-search organ, the precinct authorized frontier troops.

Separate Border Division 
On 22 August 1992, the first border detachment of Azerbaijan was established on the basis of the former 41st Border Detachment of the Soviet Transcaucasian Border Troops. President Ilham Aliyev ordered in early 2004 that the Nakhchivan Border Detachment was to be transformed into the "Nakhchivan" Border Division.

Maritime Brigade (Azerbaijani Coast Guard)

The Azerbaijan Coast Guard is an Azerbaijani law enforcement agency which is a part of the State Border Service. It has been receiving U.S. Coast Guard assistance including the transfer of a Point-class cutter. The Coast Guard was established within the State Border Service by presidential order in 2005. The Coast Guard's new base was built in Türkan district of Baku within the State Program on "Technical development of security of state borders of the Republic of Azerbaijan in 2006-2010". The Maritime Brigade/Coast Guard has one Point class cutter, S 14 (ex U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Point Brower, transferred 28 February 2003), one Osa class missile boat, S 008, which has had its SS-N-2B missiles removed, 3 Stenka class patrol boats, S 005, S 006, and S 007, all with sonar and torpedo tubes removed, 1 Zhuk class patrol craft, P 222, and two  Silver Ships small craft, S 11 and S 12. (Jane's Fighting Ships 2010) The Coast Guard also operates 6 Sa'ar 62 class offshore patrol vessels. The commander is Colonel Afghan Nagiyev.

Educational institutions

Academy 
As the Chief of State Border Service, Elchin Guliyev was able to encourage opening of a new Academy of State Border Troops in August 2010, of which he became the rector.

SBS Special School 
The Special School of the SBS is located in the Mardakan settlement of the Khazar raion. It was reconstructed at the suggestion of the Heydar Aliyev Foundation in 2011. On 18 October of the same year, the inauguration of the Special School of the Border Guard took place. The total area of the new school building is 11,000 square meters.

Shipbuilding 

The Shipbuilding and Repair Service operates under the Coast Guard Unit of the State Border Service.

Flags

Flags of Border Troops and military units (land flags)

Naval flags

See also
 Borders of Azerbaijan

References

External links
 Official website 
 Azerbaijantoday.com. Azerbaijan border service has covered a long way of development, 07.09.2009
 News.az. State Border Service ships rescue Russian ship 
 Defenselink.mil. Caspian Guard initiative

Azerbaijan
Law enforcement agencies of Azerbaijan
Government agencies of Azerbaijan
Government agencies established in 2002
2002 establishments in Azerbaijan
Borders of Azerbaijan