[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Macedonian Australians

Court. The judge stated that HREOC had made errors in its interpretation of various terms and ruled that discrimination had occurred based on ethnic background. The Federal Court repealed the decision in 1998 and since then the prefix "slavo-" has been dropped, on the basis of racial discrimination.

The new state government lost an appeal challenging the decision and then went to the High Court of Australia where it was defeated in 2000 after a ruling was made favouring Macedonians in Australia. As a result of local Greek community pressure, the language name matter was still not addressed in Victoria, causing further distress among parts of the Macedonian community. The issue returned to HREOC and in late December 2000, the commissioner ruled that the directive was not in accordance with the law and that it was discrimination based on ethnic background. The commissioner stated that people from the Macedonian community had experienced distress and humiliation as the Victorian Government had not conducted itself lawfully. The state government said it would remove the language directive and Premier Steve Bracks urged acceptance of the ruling among local communities.

In early 2018, amid efforts by the Republic of Macedonia and Greece to resolve the Macedonia naming dispute, some Macedonian Orthodox churches and sporting centres in Melbourne were vandalised with racist and violent graffiti causing distress among the Macedonian community. The Macedonian community organised rallies in Sydney, Melbourne and Perth in support of the Macedonian state retaining its name. Macedonian Australians viewed the name change Macedonian referendum (2018) as a flawed process and a majority of community members expressed that they would boycott the vote.

 Thomastown (10%)
 South Morang (7%)
 Mill Park (7%)
 Lalor (10%)
 Epping (6%)

Geelong

A prominent group of Macedonians has existed in the Geelong area since the 1950s. The first Macedonians, primarily from Aegean Macedonia, arrived in the late 1930s to work in the Industries which surrounded the city. This community, composed mainly of single males, did not establish any form of community or cultural amenities. By the Second World War much of this community had left to seek employment in Melbourne. AftSome suburbs with significant Macedonian populations (percentage with Macedonian ancestry) incer the Second World War the Geelong branch of the Macedonian-Australian People's League had been founded. By 1955 a large group of Aegean Macedonian refugees had arrived in the city. in 1956 the first Macedonian soccer club had been founded in the area. This group was active in the establishment of the Macedonian Communist in Geelong. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s this group of Macedonians was joined by immigrants from the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. A KUD Biser/Pearl was founded in the area and plans to consecrate a Macedonian Orthodox Church were drawn up. In 1965 the Macedonian-based soccer club "West Geelong" was founded.

Eventually as more and more Macedonians immigrated to the area another KUD was founded and the plans for the Macedonian Orthodox Church were realised. The church "St Jovan the Baptist" was built in the suburb of Batesford. The community was soon involved with the Macedonian Cultural Week program throughout the 1980s. During the 1990s the community was able to establish itself in the area while the "Macedonian Orthodox Centre" and organisations such as the "Macedonian Senior Citizens Club" were founded. In the following years the community helped to support the Federation of Macedonian Cultural Artistic Associations of Victoria. In 1996 there were 1,341 speakers of Macedonian in the Geelong area this fell to 1,167 in 2006. The number of people born in the Republic of Macedonia also fell from 839 in 1996 to 752 in 2006. The number of people claiming Macedonian ancestry in 2006 was 1,415. The largest groups of Macedonians in the Geelong area could be found in Bell Post Hill (6.1%), Norlane (3.5%), North Geelong (1.3%), Hamlyn Heights (2.5%) and Lovely Banks (5.3%).

Shepparton