[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Yitzhak Frenkel

fellow Jewish artists; he described thus their art: "members of the minority characterized by restlessness whose expressionism is therefore extreme in its emotionalism". In this  period he also created abstract modernist works that were characteristic of the avant-garde trends in the French capital.

Exhibitions and Recognition 
He exhibited at the Salon des Indépendants alongside other artists of the time such as Soutine. They were both noticed by art critic Waldermar George. Waldermar George told Frenkel during the time "Do not return to Palestine, they will eat you there" (Frenkel would return in 1925). In 1924, the Dutch painter Piet Mondrian acquired two of his abstract paintings for an English collector. He also exhibited at the Salon d'Automne, and the Salon des Arts Sacrés.

Revolutionary of modern art in the Jewish Yishuv

Art Pioneer 
Frenkel returned to Palestine in 1925, where he revolutionized the visual arts. He opened the Histadrut Art School in Tel Aviv, the first studio of modern art in mandatory Palestine. He was considered extreme in his artistic orientations by his contemporaries. At the time Palestine, isolated from new developments in European art and seeking to adhere to religious-nationalistic work in the Art-Nouveau Style; saw art that was not at pace with art of European Capitals and deeply influenced by Orientalism. Frenkel's style was closer to the abstract and cubist painting of Paris than the orientalism  popular in Palestine at that time. He was one of the country's  first abstract painters.

His students included Shimshon Holzman, Mordechai Levanon, David Hendler, Joseph Kossonogi, and Siona Tagger. He was a mentor to Bezalel students Avigdor Stematsky, Yehezkel Streichman, Moshe Castel, and Arie Aroch. Several of his students (Such as Moshe Castel and others) included Bezalel art students who would visit Tel Aviv in order to absorb the "maestero's" teachings.

Style and Thoughts: The first Abstract painter 
Frenkel's Parisian expressionism and modern French influence also influenced him as a teacher. Those who studied under him absorbed French influence and went to study in Paris in the 1920s and 1930s. Frenkel  taught his students about Cézanne and Van Gogh and techniques he had learned in France. He exposed his students to Jewish Expressionism as well as the intellectual basis and techniques of French art. On the Jewish School of Paris, he said "Like Jewish baroque, penetrating French romanticism, like Delacroix's"

In response to Jerusalem's conservative Bezalel's exhibitions, Frenkel's Tel-Aviv art studio in 1926, exhibited at  the "Ohel" theater in the "Modern Artists" exhibition. Frenkel too exhibited, showing  geometric compositions alongside landscape paintings. These were the first abstract paintings shown in the country. Frenkel and his students were described as "Modern Artists".

Upon his return home, Frenkel was struck by the gap between Paris and the art of the Jewish Yishuv. He felt that he could not express the pioneers' struggle for survival in abstract art. Frenkel said "The intellectuals here turned to  agriculture and road building. I wanted to plant a seed in this unsown land. It is impossible to imitate Israeli art; it must grow organically from the land".

Second Parisian Period 
Following the great depression, the economic situation brought about the closure of the Histadrut art studio, following which Frenkel had to leave the Yishuv in search of better economic prospects. Between 1929 and 1934 Frenkel returned to Paris. During Frenkel created several frescos, an art he would continue endeavoring most of his life. In order to complement his dull income, Frenkel worked in French movie sets, creating decorative pieces and designing sets for Pathé as well as theatres. 

In reaction to European events, the Ecole de Paris artists including Frenkel returned to paint in a more humanist style, in light of this Frenkel began to paint in a more realistic style. Furthermore, the subjects of his painting turned more frequently to human centered themes and less of the abstract exploration of the previous decade. Sensing the growing anti-Semitism, Frenkel left Europe in 1934, returning to Erez Israel.

1930s

Safed 
Reminiscent of his early encounter of Safed in 1920. In 1934, he made Safed his home, becoming the first artist to settle in the ancient holy city, 14 years before the "Artists' Colony" was formally established. There he painted the ancient synagogues, narrow lanes, local inhabitants and surrounding countryside.