[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Raed Salah

e under occupation, and our struggle is essentially the same." In 2011, while addressing an audience of students from Tel Aviv University, he reiterated his anti-occupation position stating: "We must keep fighting until we remove the Israeli occupation and free the holy Jerusalem."

Arabic language 

Salah believes that the Arabic language is threatened in Israel by Hebrew, which is the country's main language. He believes that preserving the Arabic language is important to preserving Palestinian identity: "If we want to preserve our identity, we have to preserve the Arabic language, and if we want to preserve Arabic, we have to love it." He likens the usage of Hebrew terms in the language as an invasion: "When we allow our tongues to be invaded daily by the use of Hebrew terms, it means that our land, homes, holy places, identity and thinking in Palestine are invaded and all components of our lives as individuals and collectives are attacked."

Accusations of anti-Semitism and response 

Salah has on several occasions been accused of anti-Semitism. His detractors claimed that he referenced the blood libel antisemitic canard during a sermon in 2007, a claim he denied. In 2011, Salah published an article in Sawt al-Haq w'al-Huriyya in which he rhetorically asked "Were 4,000 Jewish clerks absent by chance, or was there another reason?" alluding to the conspiracy theory that the Israeli secret service Mossad was behind the September 11 attacks and had warned Jews not to turn up to work on the day of the attack.

In 2011, in a statement in response to such allegations, Saleh stated: "I unequivocally condemn all forms of racism, including anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, and racism towards my own people, the Palestinians." Saleh believes that Zionists want to equate anti-Zionism with anti-Semitism. In an interview in 2020 he said: "We are in a new phase in which it is prohibited to criticise Zionism, in the sense that they want to make anti-Zionism synonymous with antisemitism. All those who criticize Zionism now will be subject to the measures that were taken against those accused of antisemitism."

Arrests and imprisonments

2003 conviction for alleged Hamas fundraising 
In 2003, Salah and 14 other officials of the Northern Branch were arrested on charges of transferring money to Hamas. After eighteen months of imprisonment Salah entered a plea bargain. He admitted to charges of maintaining contact with a foreign agent and rendering service on behalf of illegal organizations. In exchange he only had to spend six more months in prison but would be banned from leaving Israel. Salah had previously described the charges against him as "fabricated." His lawyer, commenting on the plea bargain that Salah had agreed to said "Salah understood that Israel is not the place to seek justice for non-Jews."

2007 alleged spitting incident 

In 2010, Salah was arrested for having spitted in the face of an Israeli policeman while shouting at him "You are racist murderers. You have no dignity" during a protest in 2007 in the Old City of Jerusalem. He denied those charges. The court initially sentenced him to nine months in prison but reduced the sentence to five months.

In a related case, the court acquitted Salah of charges of rioting and "involvement in an illegal gathering" in connection with the protest. A judge ruled that the charges, brought by police, were "inconsistent with witness testimony and video evidence produced by the defence".

When Salah was released from prison in December 2010, every Palestinian leader in Israel visited and paid their respects to him. Over 30,000 of his supporters gathered to express their commitment to protecting al-Aqsa.

2007 East Jerusalem sermon 
In 2007, Salah held a sermon in a mosque in East Jerusalem following archaeological digs close to al-Aqsa. During the sermon he said:

We [Muslims] have never allowed ourselves to knead [the dough for] the bread that breaks the fast in the holy month of Ramadan with children's blood. Whoever wants a more thorough explanation, let him ask what used to happen to some children in Europe, whose blood was mixed in with the dough of the [Jewish] holy bread.

Israeli newspapers at the time wrote that Salah accused Jews of historically having used children's blood to bake bread, an anti-Semitic blood libel. The comments resurfaced in 2011, during Saleh's detainment in Britain. He claimed that his intent wasn't to repeat a blood libel and that his use of the term "holy bread" showed that he weren't referring to Jews since there is no holy bread in Judaism. The pro-Palestinian British press monitoring organization Middle East Monitor produced a report titled The Sheikh Raed Affair, defending Salah. Other organizations disputed Salah's claims.