[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Armenians in Lebanon

re are variations particularly in case of the Armenian Evangelicals, sometimes registered as just Evangelicals or Protestants without mention of Armenian. There are also some Armenian Catholics who are registered under the denomination Latin, sometimes Armenian Latin.

Apostolic (Orthodox) Armenians

The Holy See of Cilicia is located in Antelias (a northern suburb of Beirut). It was relocated there in 1930 from Sis (historical Cilicia, now in Turkey) after the Armenian genocide.  Alongside the Mother See of Holy Echmiadzin located in Armenia, it is one of the two sees of the Armenian Apostolic Church (the national church of Armenians). The Catholicos, the leader of the Holy See of Cilicia, has his summer residence in Bikfaya in the Matn District also north of Beirut.  The seminary of the Armenian Apostolic Church is also on site at Bikfaya. The affairs of the Lebanese Armenian Orthodox population however are run by an independent body, the Armenian Prelacy of Lebanon (Aratchnortaran Hayots Lipanani) with its own Armenian Primate of Lebanon Bishop Shahé Panossian as head. 

The Armenian Apostolic churches in Lebanon include:
The Saint Gregory the Illuminator Mother Cathedral (Sourp Krikor Lousavoritch Mayr Dajar) which serves as the church for the Holy See of Cilicia (Catholicossate of the Great House of Cilicia – In Armenian "Gatoghigosaran Medzi Danen Guiligio" (Antelias, Lebanon). The big complex also contains a memorial chapel dedicated to the victims of the Armenian genocide, an Armenian library, printing presses, Armenian museum and "Veharan", residence of the catholicos of Cilicia and premises for the clergy.   
Holy Sign (Saint Nshan) Armenian Orthodox Church (Downtown Beirut) which serves as the church for the Armenian Apostolic Archbishopric of Lebanon and head office of the Armenian Primate of Lebanon.
Saint Hagop Armenian Apostolic Church (Jetawi, Achrafieh, Beirut) 
Saint George (Sourp Kevork) Armenian Apostolic Church (Hadjin, Mar Mikhael, Beirut) 
Armenian Apostolic Church of the Assumption (Khalil Badaoui, Beirut) 
Armenian Apostolic Church of the Assumption (Jounieh, Kesrouan, Lebanon) 
Forty Martyrs (Karasoun Manoug) Armenian Apostolic Church (Marash, Bourj Hammoud) 
Holy Mother of God (Sourp Asdvadzadzin) Armenian Apostolic Church (Adana, Bourj Hammoud) 
Saint Vartan Armenian Apostolic Church (Tiro, Bourj Hammoud) 
Saint Sarkis Armenian Apostolic Church (Sis, Bourj Hammoud) 
Saint Paul (Sourp Boghos) Armenian Apostolic Church (Anjar, Beqaa, Lebanon) 
Holy Pentecost Armenian Apostolic Church (Tripoli, North Lebanon) 
Holy Mother of God (Sourp Asdvadzadzin) Armenian Apostolic Church – a complex that also includes the Zarehian Tebrevank (both in Bickfaya, Metn) and the commemorative statue of the Armenian genocide

Catholic Armenians

Armenian Catholic Church, has its patriarchate in the Lebanese capital Beirut, and represents Armenian Catholics around the world. Armenian Catholic Church also has its summer residence and its convent in Bzoummar, Lebanon.

Armenian Catholic churches include:
St. Elie-St. Gregory the Illuminator (Sourp Yeghia – Sourp Krikor Lousavoritch Armenian Catholic Cathedral, (Debbas Square, Downtown Beirut) 
Armenian Catholic Church of the Annunciation (Achrafieh, Jetawi, Beirut) – also serving as church for the Armenian Catholic Patriarchal Eparchy. 
Armenian Catholic Church and the Convent of Bzoummar (Bzommar, Lebanon) 
St. Saviour (Sourp Pergitch) Armenian Catholic Church (Bourj Hammoud) 
Holy Cross (Sourp Khatch) Armenian Catholic Church (Zalka) 
Our Lady of Fatima Armenian Catholic Church (Hoch el Zaraani, Zahle, Beqaa) 
Our Lady of the Rosary Armenian Catholic Church (Anjar, Beqaa)

Evangelical Armenians
Armenian Evangelical Church, headquartered in Ashrafieh. The affairs of the Lebanese Evangelical community is run by the Union of the Union of the Armenian Evangelical Churches in the Near East (UAECNE).

Major Armenian Evangelical Churches:
First Armenian Evangelical Church (Kantari, Beirut) 
Armenian Evangelical Church (Achrafieh, Beirut) 
Armenian Evangelical Church (Nor Marash, Bourj Hammoud) 
Armenian Evangelical Emmanuel Church (Nor Amanos, Baouchriye) 
Armenian Evangelical Church (Anjar, Beqaa)

The Armenian Evangelical Church has 5 active youth groups called "Chanits" which is a part of the World's Christian Endeavor Union. Children's, teenagers', and Chanits camps; women's conferences, church retreats, and educational programs take place at "KCHAG" which is located just outside Beirut in Mansouriyeh, Matn District.
There are also a number of "Brethren" churches of Evangelical orientation ("Yeghpayroutyoun" in Armenian).

Monuments

Armenian Genocide Monument