[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Brigade Speciale Beveiligingsopdrachten

The Brigade Speciale Beveiligingsopdrachten (BSB) () is the elite police tactical unit of the Royal Netherlands Marechaussee. Its missions include counter-terrorism, protection of government and military officials, and targeting organised crime.

Like many other European police tactical units, the BSB was established in 1975 following Munich massacre. While the BSB conducts special operations, its missions are not planned by the Netherlands Special Operations Command (NLD SOCOM).

Origin
Following the Munich massacre in 1972, many European nations decided to establish dedicated counter-terrorist units. The Netherlands were no exception and established multiple Bijzondere Bijstandseenheden (BBE) (English: Special Support Units). The tip of the spear was formed by the Bijzondere Bijstandseenheid Mariniers (BBE-M) (English: Special Support Unit Marines), currently named M-Squadron of the Netherlands Marine Corps, which was the primary domestic counter-terror unit. The Royal Marechaussee contributed to the BBEs by providing snipers. However, Royal Marechaussee high command foresaw the emergence of an operational gap. The BBEs could exclusively be deployed during terrorist threats, while regular police or Marechaussee personnel was not adequately trained or equipped to operate in high-risk settings. Therefore, the decision was made to establish the BSB under the command of the Royal Marechaussee. As such, the BSB could function as a figurative bridge between the regular police and the BBEs.

The first class of BSB operators was trained by the West German police tactical unit Grenzschutzgruppe 9 (GSG 9) in 1975. The unit achieved operational status in 1976 with 24 men. In the following years, the BSB focussed on providing personal security details to senior military officials (both Dutch and foreign) on domestic and foreign soil. In addition, the BSB was intensely involved with combating violent political activism during the 1980s, for example during the Vondelstraat riots.

In March 2017, news media reported that the BSB had taken over the personal security duties of threatened Dutch politician Geert Wilders after two officers of the personal security service of the National Police Corps had leaked sensitive information.

Organisation 
The BSB consists of three operational divisions: the Security Division, the Observation Team and the Arrest Team. Since 2015, the BSB is based in a new headquarters on the former United States Air Force air base Camp New Amsterdam in Huis ter Heide.

Security Division 
The primary task of the Security Division is providing personal security details to (military) dignitaries, both Dutch and foreign. The bodyguards of the BSB cooperate closely with officers of the Dienst Koninklijke en Diplomatieke Beveiliging (DKDB) (English: Royal and Diplomatic Security Service) of the National Police who receive similar training. Compared to the DKDB, the BSB is particularly dedicated to operating in high-risk locations. For example, the BSB provides security to both the ambassadors and the embassies in countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan.

In addition to personal security details, the BSB conducts a wide range of other special security operations. The brigade is responsible for providing security during money and gold transports of the De Nederlandsche Bank, the Dutch central bank. In addition, the BSB runs the sky marshal program which has been active since 2004. Non-uniformed BSB operators regularly travel aboard passenger flights which have been indicated as to carrying a potential terrorist threat.

Observation Team 
The Observatieteam (OT) (English: Observation Team) is deployed when the public prosecutor has approved an order for structural observation. The legal frameworks for such observations are codified in the Dutch Code of Criminal Procedures and the Special Investigative Powers Act. Additionally, the Observation Team of the BSB conduct observations on behalf of the General Intelligence and Security Service (AIVD). As opposed to their AIVD counterparts, BSB OT personnel is always armed.

The OT distinguishes 'structural' and 'dynamic' observations. Structural observation consists of covert observation of individuals in order in to gain insight into their pattern of life. These operations are usually accompanied by the interception of telecommunications. Dynamic observations are usually conducted by teams consisting of 7 to 10 operators using vehicles, on foot or from one or multiple static locations. For dynamic observations which require motorised vehicles, the BSB has a large and diverse fleet of civilian vehicles at its disposal. The discrete operation of these cars and motorcycle is taught by the training and education division during a specialised driving course.