[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Joris Van Severen

ould unite in a new "Dietsch" state. Although his plan proved popular amongst the students at Ghent, with whom he still held strong influence, the bulk of the Frontpartij membership, who were mainly war veterans, did not embrace the plan and the party's official newspaper De Schelde decried fascism.

Verdinaso
With his plans having been rejected by the Frontpartij in October 1931, he broke away from that group to establish his party, Verdinaso. Containing only 169 members on its foundation, the party was committed to a form of corporatism that Van Severen called national-solidarism as well as to integral nationalism. At its foundation, it supported Flemish separatism, but before long, the group, which was far right, supported the Dietsch option. Van Severen advocated the use of force to take over the existing Belgium and then to establish the Greater Belgium state that he supported. He also advocated anti-parliamentarism, something that had been strengthened by his defeat in 1929, during which he felt moderates in the Frontpartij had deliberately sabotaged his re-election. His vision would eventually expand to that of the Dietsche Rijk which, rather than splitting Flanders off from Belgium to form the new state, advocated the practical union of the Benelux countries into a single entity. The change was brought about in part by Van Severen "discovering" in 1934 that the Walloons, like the Flemings, were descended from the Franks.

To get his ideas off the ground, Van Severen attempted to come to agreements with other far-right movements, notably Rex and the Flemish National Union. Still, he was not successful in these endeavours. His movement adopted many of the trappings of other European fascist movements, such as the political uniform, Roman salute, Führerprinzip and stormtroopers (initially called Dinaso Militie before a 1934 name change to Dinaso Militanten Order), although Van Severen was unenthusiastic about the development of fascism, preferring to look back to the more conservative far-right ideology of Action Française. He was particular unimpressed by Nazism, with Bertrand de Jouvenel quoting Van Severen as saying "I detest the Hitlerians".

Death

Following the outbreak of the Second World War Van Severen issued an order proscribing the production of any pro-Nazi literature by members of Verdinaso. Nevertheless, on 9 May 1940, immediately prior to Fall Gelb, Van Severen was one of a number of far right and far left activists arrested. The arrested men were put under the care of the French Army and stationed near Abbeville. On 20 May, when the advancing German Army cut off the area, a group of French soldiers carried out a massacre and killed a number of members of Verdinaso, Rex and the Belgian Communist Party, among them Van Severen. Twenty one suspects of varying political stripe were selected and executed without trial.

With Van Severen dead, Verdinaso fell apart, with some activists falling into collaboration with the German occupation forces and others following his non-Nazi example by joining the resistance.

References

Further reading

External links 

1894 births
1940 deaths
Belgian Army personnel of World War I
Belgian Army officers
Belgian fascists
Belgian civilians killed in World War II
Executed Belgian people
Flemish politicians
Executed politicians
Ghent University alumni
Belgian Roman Catholics
People from West Flanders
People executed by France by firearm