[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Humphrey Marshall (general)

eracy, he briefly fled to Texas.

After the war, Marshall moved to New Orleans. His citizenship was restored by President Andrew Johnson in December 1867. He later returned to Louisville and resumed his law practice. He died in Louisville and was buried in the State Cemetery in his native Frankfort.

Author daughter
Humphrey Marshall's daughter, Nelly Nichol Marshall (born in Louisville, Kentucky, 8 May 1845; died in Washington, D.C., 19 April 1898), was an author. In addition to numerous poems and many magazine articles, she published novels entitled: Eleanor Morton, or Life in Dixie (New York, 1865), Sodom Apples (1866), Fireside Gleanings (Chicago, 1866), As by Fire (New York, 1869), Wearing the Cross (Cincinnati, 1868), Passion, or Bartered and Sold (Louisville, 1876), and A Criminal through Love (1882). She married Col. John J. McAfee, of the Confederate army, in 1871.

See also

 Kentucky in the American Civil War
 List of American Civil War generals (Confederate)

Notes

References
 
 
 Eicher, John H., and David J. Eicher, Civil War High Commands. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001. .
 Sifakis, Stewart. Who Was Who in the Civil War. New York: Facts On File, 1988. .
 Warner, Ezra J. Generals in Gray: Lives of the Confederate Commanders. Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1959. .

External links
 "Confederate Brigadier General Humphrey Marshall" — Article by Civil War historian/author Bryan S. Bush

1812 births
1872 deaths
Burials at Frankfort Cemetery
Politicians from Frankfort, Kentucky
American lawyers
Confederate States Army brigadier generals
Members of the Confederate House of Representatives from Kentucky
United States Military Academy alumni
Kentucky Democrats
Kentucky Know Nothings
19th-century American diplomats
Whig Party members of the United States House of Representatives from Kentucky
Know-Nothing members of the United States House of Representatives from Kentucky
People from Henry County, Kentucky
Politicians from Louisville, Kentucky
19th-century American politicians
Ambassadors of the United States to China