[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Farcaster

orbital rings, allowing torchships to travel by Farcaster.  Each trip through a Farcaster was instantaneous; the traveller felt a slight tingle as they passed through the portal before immediately arriving at his or her destination but no other indication of traversing large interstellar distances.

The Fall of the Farcasters
In 2852, the AI TechnoCore's treachery was uncovered: they had been using the Farcasters as part of a giant computer, connecting each human who passed through a portal to their neural net to increase its processing power as needed.  The Hegemony CEO Meina Gladstone was also told that the TechnoCore resided within the WorldWeb itself, the dimensionless space between Farcaster Portals.  When it was revealed that the supposed invasion by the Ousters was actually being perpetrated by the TechnoCore, CEO Gladstone decided to destroy every singularity sphere in the WorldWeb - supposedly severing the TechnoCore's link to humanity.

The TechnoCore were also revealed to be plotting to kill humanity with the use of a large Deathwand device, and the destruction of the Farcasters was timed to allow for the destruction of this weapon as it passed through a Farcaster Portal to Hyperion.  Because of the necessity of destroying the Deathwand weapon, the Farcaster network was destroyed without much advance notice.  Thousands of people were killed while stepping through a Farcaster portal which suddenly closed mid-step, slicing them in half; hundreds more were lost to the gap between Farcasters.  Parents working on different planets from their children suddenly found themselves separated by light years instead of a single step through a Farcaster portal.

Riots swiftly followed the destruction of the WorldWeb, but it was the long-term effects of this action which devastated the Hegemony of Man.  Worlds were so dependent on the Farcasters for importing foodstuffs that many planets began to starve. Essential medicines might only be available on a single world, which was suddenly years away.  Some planetary systems suffered more than others: while Renaissance Minor was mostly agricultural land and capable of supporting Renaissance Vector, worlds like Heaven's Gate and Sol Draconi had their populations decimated and their terraforming efforts reversed over the next few hundred years, making the worlds uninhabitable again.

Aenea's Revelations: The Truth about the Farcasters
Over 270 years after the destruction of the WorldWeb and the Fall, the young woman Aenea, child of a human woman and AI cybrid, began to reveal the truth of the TechnoCore's motivations and involvement with humanity through the Pax Church. She also revealed the truth about the Farcasters.

The TechnoCore built the Farcaster network and Fatline transmitters using the same principle, 'The Void Which Binds'. While the TechnoCore saw this as a Planck-dimension of huge energy with fantastic potential, Aenea revealed 'The Void Which Binds' to be an essential part of the universe, literally, the domain of love as a force. In investigating 'The Void Which Binds' , the TechnoCore also found lifeforms there, of such level of advancement that the AIs were frightened.  Experiments carried out on the Void led to the development of the Fatline and the Farcaster network, both of which allowed travel through the Void but which were also destructive to it.

The AI TechnoCore had deliberately dropped a black hole into Earth's core in their attempt to destroy humanity, but when they came across the entities in 'The Void Which Binds', they stopped this plan.  Instead, the Earth was moved to another Galaxy by the lifeforms residing in the Void.  The TechnoCore's terror at seeing this power led them to give the Farcasters to humanity.  As always, the TechnoCore had an ulterior motive. When an individual walked through a Farcaster portal, they passed through 'The Void Which Binds' , a timeless place where the TechnoCore could 'plug in' the person's brain into their vast neural net, focused on the problem of creating their UI (Ultimate Intelligence) — a being capable of dealing with the so-called 'Lions and Tigers and Bears' that resided within the Void.

When Meina Gladstone ordered the destruction of the Farcaster network, the TechnoCore's insidious plans were only halted temporarily. They struck an alliance with the Roman Catholic Church, giving their cruciform symbiotes to the body that would become the Pax and offering immortality to anyone who accepted the Pax. Aenea carried a virus in her body, which when she infected someone, would destroy the cruciform (which was revealed by Aenea to be another misuse of the Void Which Binds).