[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 13]
# Jewish Party (Romania)

wed him to establish the WJC bureau in Bucharest in 1941. Also here, FRN officials allowed Weissman and Sami Singer to canvass for the JNF, and set up a Zionist Union dedicated to the emigration project. Among the Jews who took this route in 1940 was PER activist Ebner, followed in 1941 by Mizrachi.

Governed by Ion Antonescu from late 1940, Romania participated in Operation Barbarossa during mid-1941, recovering its lost territories in the east. Renașterea Noastră continued to appear in Bucharest until 1942, with Moscovici, L. B. Wexler, and Badi Mendel as its editors. One article by Wexler celebrated Antonescu's decision to partake in the anti-Soviet war, as a victory for Romanian nationalism. The authorities remained invested in the promotion of antisemitic violence, which escalated greatly with the Iași pogrom. Tumarkin was a survivor of the latter, and later testified about the Gendarmerie's role in murdering Jewish civilians. The Antonescu government proceeded with confiscations of Jewish property and, once it had established bases on the Eastern Front, began the Bessarabian Jews' deportation into the Transnistria Governorate. Opposing the collaborationist Central Jewish Office, both Zissu and his Zionist rival Benvenisti spent terms in Romanian jails or concentration camps.

Reiffer, fearing fascism, had opted to remain in Soviet territory, where he only narrowly escaped Diamant's plight. He was also arrested by the returning Romanians and sent to Transnistria; he eventually fled to Palestine. Rabbi Tsirelson appeared "in full regalia" to welcome the Romanian army as it recaptured Chișinău, but was shot, along with all members of his delegation. His killing was disguised by the regime as a Soviet bomb attack. Rohlich, meanwhile, was among the non-Bessarabians who found themselves deported to Transnistria, though Șafran was able to obtain pardons for the HeHalutz groups, as well as for Religious Zionists registered as the Bnei Akiva and the Torah VeAvoda. On behalf of the Jewish Communities' Federation, Șafran established an Autonomous Aid Commission, with Fred Șaraga as its rapporteur. It sought to document deportations and protect victims thereof. The relief effort, which began in January 1942, was organized by a commission which included two PER figures—Benvenisti and Ebercohn—alongside Șaraga, Poldi Filderman, Marco Prezente, Arnold Schwefelberg and others. In August–September 1942, the Antonescu regime was considering the deportation of Banat Jews for extermination in Majdanek—the plan became known to Jewish leaders when Benvenisti, as head of the Zionist Executive, overheard Commissioner Radu Lecca discussing some details. Zissu, Wilhelm Filderman and Reiter played a part in persuading Antonescu and Lecca not to carry it through.

By 1943, after establishing direct contacts with Deputy Premier Mihai Antonescu, Zissu obtained from the regime that all Romanian Jews be allowed to leave for Palestine, as an alternative to deportation. He helped organize the sea transports through to Turkey and Palestine, and resumed contacts with Marton, together with whom he helped smuggle in Hungarian Jews. At odds with Filderman and with many of the Yishuv sponsors, he gathered crucial support from the Zionist resistance organizer, Shaike Dan Trachtenberg. In all, Zissu claimed to have personally rescued some 14,000 Jews in this manner, and was credited with fitting at least seven individual transports, including the ill-fated Mefküre. At some point during his humanitarian campaign, Zissu had considered reestablishing the PER as part of the underground movement against Antonescu. He held talks over the issue with Cornel Iancu (who had reportedly served as PER general secretary) and Benvenisti. Forced out of the Zionist executive by early 1944, Benvenisti rallied with a new underground party, the Zionist Democratic Group Klal—which included the Renașterea Noastră group and "centrist" parts of the HH—, serving as its chairman. In 1942, Cohen had also joined the Klalists, though he considered himself a PER general secretary for the entire period of 1938 to 1944. By 1943, he was directly involved in the unification project, hoping to make Zissu into a leader of "the most representative and encompassing Jewish political party."

Revived PER