[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Czech passport

idity, or for citizens under five years of age with a one year validity

2005 passport series

Issued:
 from 2005 until 31/8/2006 with a one-year validity
 from 1/9/2006 until 31/12/2009 with a six-month validity, or for citizens under five years of age with a one year validity

2007 passport series

Issued from February 2007 with a six-month validity, or for citizens under five years of age with a one-year validity.

Machine-readable passports

2000 passport series

Issued from 1/7/2000 until 15/3/2005 with a ten-year validity, or for citizens under fifteen years of age with a five-year validity.

The data page is inside the back cover and printed in Czech and English. The photograph is printed onto the page.

2005 passport series

Issued from 16/3/2005 until 31/8/2006 with a ten-year validity, or for citizens under fifteen years of age with a five-year validity.

As the first passport series issued following Czech ascension into the European Union, it is first to bear the words "Evropská Unie" and has been modified to conform to standard EU passport design. The data page was moved to page two, and French was added. Pages six and seven now bear translations of the data fields into eighteen languages of the European Union and Russian.

2006 passport series

Issued from 1/9/2006 with a ten-year validity, or for citizens under fifteen years of age with a five-year validity.

The 2006 series was the first biometric passport issued by the Czech Republic. The data page is now printed on a polycarbonate card and the photograph is laser-etched.

2009 passport series
In March 2009 a new series begun to be issued. The most notable change is the addition of two fingerprints, one from the index finger on each hand in order to conform to new EU regulations.

Service passports
Issuable to:
 the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Czech Republic
 the deputy Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Czech Republic
 deputy ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic
 the vice-president of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic
 the vice-president of the Supreme Audit Office of the Czech Republic
 the clerk of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic
 the clerk of the Senate of the Czech Republic
 the clerk of the Government of the Czech Republic
 the clerk of the President of the Czech Republic
 employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs
 employees of the embassies and consulates of the Czech Republic

1993 Service passport series

The first service passport issued after the dissolution of Czechoslovakia.

2002 Service passport series

With the entry of the Czech Republic into the European Union in 2004 this is no longer the current series issued.

Diplomatic passports
Issuable to:
 the President of the Czech Republic (and former presidents)
 ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic
 members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic
 justices of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic
 the president of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Czech Republic
 the president of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic
 the president of the Supreme Audit Office of the Czech Republic
 the spouse of:
 the President of the Czech Republic
 the Speaker of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic
 the President of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic
 ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic
 the president of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Czech Republic
 the president of the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic
 the chief justice of the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic
 diplomatic staff

1993 Diplomatic passport series

The first diplomatic passport issued after the dissolution of Czechoslovakia.

2001 Diplomatic passport series

With the entry of the Czech Republic into the European Union in 2004 this is no longer the current series issued.

See also
Foreign relations of the Czech Republic
List of passports
Passports of the European Union
Visa requirements for Czech citizens

References

Passports by country
Law of the Czech Republic
European Union passports