[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Alpha Epsilon Pi

Alpha Epsilon Pi (), commonly known as AEPi, is a college fraternity founded at New York University in 1913. The fraternity has more than 150 active chapters across the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and Israel, and has initiated more than 110,000 members. Although the fraternity is based upon Jewish principles, it is non-discriminatory and is open to all who are willing to espouse its purpose and values regardless of their particular faith tradition.

History

Alpha Epsilon Pi was founded on November 7, 1913 under the Washington Square Arch at New York University (NYU) by Charles C. Moskowitz and 10 other Jewish men: David K. Schafer, Isador M. Glazer, Herman L. Kraus, Arthur E. Leopold, Benjamin M. Meyer, Arthur M. Lipkint, Charles J. Pintel, Maurice Plager, Hyman Shulman, and Emil J. Lustgarten. These men are known as the "Immortal 11." Their first pledge was Samuel L. Epstein.

Charles C. Moskowitz had just transferred to New York University's School of Commerce from the City College of New York. Several fraternities at the School of Commerce expressed interest in him and one gave him a bid. The name of that fraternity is unknown. When Charles asked whether his close Jewish friends could join as well, he was told that the invitation was for him alone. At this point, the group of 11 men began meeting regularly in a German Ratskeller called "Haan's Ladies' and Gentlemen's Restaurant, Cafe and Rathskeller". Official school recognition of AEPi was granted on November 7.

The founding members intended for AEPi to be a national fraternity even before the second chapter at NYU was designated the Alpha chapter. In 1917, the local fraternity Phi Tau at Cornell University became the Beta chapter of AEPi.

Only fifty-two men had been initiated into AEPi by the start of World War I. Almost every undergraduate and alumnus of the fraternity served in the military, causing the fraternity to become nearly inactive during the war years.

In the years between the world wars, Alpha Epsilon Pi grew to twenty-eight chapters. Expansion remained dormant throughout World War II as many fraternity members served in the war effort.

With the end of the war and the shift of the national headquarters to St. Louis, Missouri, Alpha Epsilon Pi had gained new life and momentum in its reopening of inactive chapters, expansion to new campuses, and merging with other locals, that had seen reduced membership as a result of the war. In 1940, Sigma Omega Psi joined Alpha Epsilon Pi adding three chapters, as did Sigma Tau Phi in 1947.

The next two decades were a time of steady growth for Alpha Epsilon Pi, as well as other college fraternities. However, with the onset of fighting in Vietnam in the early 1960s, fraternity life faltered. Liberal student bodies revolted against authority and the Greek system, which was seen as a conservative, elitist group. Membership plummeted and nearly half the chapter roll was lost. However, the fraternity was able to reverse the trend and stabilize membership numbers by 1975, following the end of the Vietnam War.

In 2009, AEPi became the first fraternity to establish a chapter in Israel at the Interdisciplinary Center in Herzliya.

In 2014, AEPi was the first college student organization to be admitted as a full member to the Conference of Presidents of Major American Jewish Organizations.

In 2015, AEPi became the first fraternity to establish a chapter in Australia.

Coat of arms
To Brothers, it is known as the "Cofa," arranged by the initials of the phrase. The coat of arms of Alpha Epsilon Pi contains a number of symbolic objects, the true meaning of which is only revealed to brothers during their initiation into the fraternity. Regardless, the coat of arms does contain symbols that have a history in Judaism obvious to the uninitiated and even to non-Jewish people. The crest of the arms contains a menorah intertwined with the star of David. Also, the top of the arms has a lion that could be the Lion of Judah.

Chapter organization
AEPi has specific titles that are used for its officers; many correspond to Fraternal tradition.
President — Master
Vice President — Lieutenant Master
Secretary — Scribe
Treasurer — Exchequer
Sergeant at Arms — Brother at Large
Master of Ceremonies — Sentinel
Head of Recruitment — Rush Chair
New Member Educator — Pledge Master

National controversies, local chapter or member misconduct

Reassertion of Jewish focus
Alpha Epsilon Pi's mission statement describing a "non-discriminatory fraternity" has occasionally come under fire, particularly under former Executive Director Andrew Borans: