[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Saleem Shahzad

Syed Saleem Shahzad (, 3 November 1970 – 30 May 2011) was a Pakistani investigative journalist who wrote widely for leading European and Asian media. He served as the Pakistan Bureau Chief of Asia Times Online (Hong Kong) and Italian news agency Adnkronos (AKI).

He was found dead in a canal in North-east Pakistan, showing signs of torture, a day after he was kidnapped. An American-based non-governmental organization called Human Rights Watch (HRW) accused the Pakistan intelligence services of being behind his killing, and the CIA later announced that they had "reliable and conclusive" intelligence that this was the case.  Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) denied the accusations and called them "totally unfounded".

Family and background
Syed Saleem Shahzad was born in Karachi on 3 November 1970. He was the eldest among the three silings with one younger brother Waseem Fawad and his younger sibling Mariam Shamim. He eventually married Anita Ameer with whom he fathered three children, Syed Fahad Saleem, Amna Saleem and Syed Rehman Shah (previously named Abdullah Saleem). Shahzad's ethnic background can be traced back to Uttar Pradesh, India, and belonged to the Syed Wasti lineage. 

Shahzad always had a keen interest in politics. Shahzad earned a Master of Arts in International Relations from Karachi University. While in college, Shahzad was a member of Jamaat-e-Islami's student wing but later stopped supporting the group as too radical.

Career 
Syed Saleem Shahzad covered a variety of topics through his career, including global security issues, Pakistani armed forces, Islamic movements, and Muslim resistance movements in Lebanon and Iraq. The Taliban and Al-Qaeda were the regular topics of his writing. He was an international journalist who travelled widely in the Middle East, Asia and Europe. He also wrote for Le Monde Diplomatique (France), La Stampa (Italy) and Dawn (Pakistan). He was South Asia Correspondent for Italian news agency Adnkronos International (AKI). His opinion pieces appeared in the Qatari-based Islamonline.net and Boston Review.

He regularly interviewed Islamist militants, including Al-Qaeda members. Shahzad introduced the world to hitherto unknown Al-Qaeda figures, including Sheikh Essa. He had interviewed several leading militants long before they became internationally known, including Sirajuddin Haqqani and Qari Ziaur Rahman. He also interviewed Ilyas Kashmiri shortly after Ilyas was appointed chief of Al-Qaeda's military committee.

His last book Inside Al-Qaeda and the Taliban: Beyond Bin Laden and 9/11, was published shortly before his death.

Shahzad's work was regularly reproduced in Pakistani English dailies including the Daily Times, the Nation and The Post, and in Urdu newspapers such as Daily Mashriq and Daily Aaj. His articles were reproduced in many English dailies in Afghanistan and Bangladesh, as well as in local-language dailies. His work was often quoted in the US, Canadian press.

Saleem was an associate of the Pakistan Security Research Unit of the department of Peace Studies of the University of Bradford. In November 2006 he was held in Taliban captivity in the Helmand Province of Afghanistan for a few days. He wrote a detailed account of his days in captivity and time he spent with the Taliban in a series, "In the Land of the Taliban" published in Asia Times Online.

Just prior to his disappearance in May 2011, the journalist wrote in the Asia Times Online that al-Qaeda carried out the PNS Mehran attack after negotiations with the Navy for the release of officials, suspected of al-Qaeda links, had failed. According to Shahzad, the attackers were all from Ilyas Kashmiri's 313 Brigade of al-Qaeda.

Awards and honours 

In June 2011 Shahzad was awarded the Ischia International Journalism Award in a unanimous decision by the jury.. The annual prize honours excellence in journalism. 

Shahzad's name has been added to the Journalists Memorial at the Newseum in Washington, D.C.

Pakistan Press Foundation (PPF) on the occasion of World Press Freedom Day announced the annual PPF-Aslam Ali Press Freedom Award-2012 for the slain journalist Syed Saleem Shahzad. The Alfred Friendly Press Fellowships (AFPF) and the Pakistani Press Foundation (PPF) announced the Daniel Pearl-Saleem Shahzad Fellowship in 2012 that would train up to 15 Pakistani reporters in conflict and investigative reporting as well as safety for journalists working in conflict-affected regions. A fellow from Pakistan was be chosen for this fellowship that honors an American and a Pakistani journalist killed in the line of duty while covering a common war against terror in Pakistan.