[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Miguel Comminges

ered a new two-year deal in April 2008. However, Malpas indicated that he was losing patience with Comminges' hesitation in signing the contract, and shortly after, Comminges' agent informed the club that he would be signing for Championship side Cardiff City – a claim that Cardiff initially denied.

Cardiff City
In May 2008, Comminges announced that he would be leaving Swindon at the end of the season to sign for Cardiff. Again, despite Comminges' claims, Cardiff chairman Peter Ridsdale stated the club had "not had any conversation with Swindon Town or the player". A month later, on 6 June 2008, Comminges joined Cardiff City on a two-year contract, with the move to be completed on 1 July. Comminges made his debut for the club on 12 August during a 2–1 victory over AFC Bournemouth in the League Cup, before making his league debut four days later in a 1–1 draw with Doncaster Rovers. He enjoyed an extended run in the first-team at left back through September, covering for the injured Tony Capaldi and Mark Kennedy. Comminges received the first red card of his career in the club's 1–0 away loss to Queens Park Rangers in November 2008, picking up a second yellow for dissent. He featured regularly for the club during the season, playing in a number of positions and making 33 appearances in all competitions as Cardiff narrowly missed out on the play-off positions on goals scored.

A knee injury would limit Comminges to just two appearances during the 2009–10 season, missing nine months of first-team action as a result of the injury. He had suffered the injury during training at the club after teammate Jay Bothroyd fell awkwardly onto Comminges, causing his knee ligament to detach. Comminges originally attempted to continue training but was ordered not to by manager Dave Jones on the advice of club doctors, who later discovered the severity of the injury. Comminges' contract was initially due to expire at the end of the season but, having suffered the injury, he was offered a six-month extension by the club until January 2011 in order to regain fitness and improve his chances of finding a new club. His appearance as a 90th-minute substitute in a 3–1 away victory at Plymouth Argyle on 18 August 2009 would ultimately be his last for the club.

Having not featured for Cardiff during the opening months of the 2010–11 season, Comminges joined League One side Carlisle United on a short-term loan deal until 31 December 2010. Carlisle manager Greg Abbott hinted at the possibility of a permanent deal, should the loan be a success. However, Comminges failed to make a league appearance during his three-month loan spell, playing just 45 minutes in a 3–2 win over Conference National side Tamworth in the FA Cup. The adverse weather conditions during his loan agreement had resulted in a spate of postponements, and Comminges returned to his parent club earlier than agreed. On returning to Cardiff, he was told he was free to find a new club with his contract expiring at the end of the season. He left the club by mutual consent, and subsequently joined League Two side Southend United on a free transfer in January 2011.

Later career
He made his debut for the Shrimpers a day after signing, coming on as a 60th-minute substitute in a 2–1 defeat to Cheltenham Town at Roots Hall. Comminges made seven appearances during his time at Southend, all of which in the league. In May 2011, he was one of five players told they were to be released by the club.
Following an unsuccessful trial at Plymouth Argyle during pre-season prior to the 2011–12 season, Comminges signed for MLS club Colorado Rapids in September 2011, joining on a free transfer, and on a short-term contract. He made his debut for the club five days after signing, on 14 September, coming on as a second-half substitute in a 4–1 home loss to Santos Laguna in the CONCACAF Champions League. He went on to make nine appearances for Rapids in all competitions. Despite playing regularly towards the latter stages of the season, Colorado Rapids confirmed that Comminges would not return for the 2012 campaign, and he subsequently left as a free agent when his contract expired in January 2012.

Ahead of the 2012–13 season, Comminges returned to England and spent pre-season with League One side Stevenage, managed by former Colorado Rapids manager Gary Smith. Although his signing was not announced by the club, he was an unused substitute in Stevenage's 1–1 draw with Shrewsbury Town on 1 September 2012. The club later confirmed that Comminges had signed on a permanent deal, which was later revealed as being a six-month contract until January 2013. He made his debut in Stevenage's first home league win of the season, playing the whole match in a 3–1 victory over Walsall on 18 September 2012. In January 2013, his contract was extended until the end of the 2012–13 season, and he went on to make 21 appearances during the campaign. He was released by Stevenage when his contract expired in May 2013.