[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# History of pan-European liberalism

la Vassiliou, United Democrats from Cyprus, Alan Beith, Liberal Democrats, from United Kingdom and Johannes Lebech, det radikale venstre, Denmark. Under the ELWN leadership of Maria Kaisa Aula (keskusta, Finland), a gender equality and multicultural approach policy paper was adopted by the Congress.

 1 July 2002
 Liberal Prime Minister of Denmark, Anders Fogh Rasmussen inaugurates the semester of Danish Presidency of the Council of the EU. With Pat Cox as speaker of the European Parliament and Romano Prodi as President of the European Commission, the European Liberal Democrats now chair the three most important decision-making institutions of the EU.

 20 June 2002
 Despite a difficult domestic political climate at the time and two major general strikes, 35 Liberal and Democrat Leaders and Ministers met in Seville, at the eve of the European Council summit under Spanish Presidency of the Council of the EU. The meeting proved to be very successful.

 4 April 2002
 The Movement of Free Citizens (KEP) from Greece and ANO from Slovakia become full members of the ELDR Party. The European liberal family now brings together 49 political parties from the EU member states and candidate countries.

 16 January 2002
 Pat Cox, president of the ELDR Group, becomes the new President of the European Parliament. Graham Watson (UK) becomes the new leader of the ELDR Group in the European Parliament.

 13 December 2001
 An ELDR Leaders and Ministers meeting was held in Palais Egmont to discuss the agenda of the European Council.

 December 2001
 Four Parties from Croatia (Croatia People's Party), Bulgaria (Movement for Rights and Freedoms), Czech Republic (ODA) and Lithuania (New Union) become full members of the ELDR Party.

 25–28 September 2001
 The annual Autumn Congress 2001 is held in Ljubljana, Slovenia. The ELDR becomes the first European political party to organise its annual congress in an accession country. Rinnovamento Italiano becomes a full member of the ELDR Party.
 A new Bureau is elected. Dr Werner Hoyer is unanimously re-elected to the position of President of the ELDR Party with Maria Kaisa Aula, Lamberto Dini, Bas Eenhoorn and John Alderdice being elected as Vice-Presidents. Jules Maaten also unanimously re-elected as party Treasurer.
 Ljubljana Congress laid out the foundations for the work of the Electoral Manifesto 2004 under the chairmanship of Hans van Baalen, MP, VVD, Netherlands. It also laid the foundation of E-membership to the ELDR Party.

 15 September 2001
 ELDR launched its first quarterly newspaper edition "Insight", following the 25th anniversary of ELDR, highlighting ELDR's key mission to reunite Europe and strengthen our family

 14 June 2001
 Leaders and ministers met at the eve of the European Council summit in Gothenburg, under the Swedish Presidency of the Council of the EU in the National Opera.

 6–8 June 2001
 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Stuttgart Declaration and the creation of the first European Political family, ELD. During the Council meeting the Liberal Party of Gibraltar, the United Democrats of Cyprus and the Liberal Party of Andorra, became full members of the ELDR Party. The New Democracy of Serbia became an affiliate member.

 March 2001
 The Liberal Party of Greece is warmly welcomed as a full member whilst the Liberal Party of Macedonia becomes an affiliate member.

 December 2000
 "I democratici" from Italy become full Member of the ELDR Party

 October 2000
 Congress in Tenerife under the title " The Enlargement of a Reformed Union an Historical Imperative". Dr Werner Hoyer is elected as new ELDR president.
 The Lithuanian Liberal Union, and Lista Di Pietro from Italy become full members of the ELDR. It was also decided that the Bureau would be charged to actively strengthen the contacts with "I Democratici" later this year, in light of their upcoming decision on international alignment.
 The newly formed Liberal Democratic Party of Bosnia-Herzegovina replaces the Liberal Party of Bosnia-Herzegovina, following a recent name change and a merger with another party. Venstre from Norway is granted affiliate membership.

 April 2000
 Lex Corijn is elected new Secretary general of the ELDR Party. Centre Party of Sweden and Latvia's Way become full members.
 The President states that the affiliate membership of the Liberal Democratic Party of Macedonia is still valid in spite of its recent split.

 September 1999
 Christian Ehlers, Secretary general of the Party ends his mandate.

 June 1999
 Fifth direct elections. 11% of vote and 51 seats secured.