[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Avrupa Yakası

mes they were whispering their own jokes into my ears, creating their own stories".

Music 
The music of the program was created by Cenk Durmazel and Cenk Sarkuş. The song which was the main title of the series was voiced by the most of the cast. Caneroğlu later performed the song in various places.

Cost 
As a result of the research conducted by Saklambaç in 2008, the cost of Avrupa Yakası was estimated to be 400 thousand. The series was the second highest-budgeted television production after Valley of the Wolves. Avrupa Yakası made a turnover of 40 million at the end of the first five seasons. Producer Sinan Cetin earned 4 million dollars from the series. The program, which was affected by the economic crisis in 2008, was published once every two weeks during January 2009.

Length 
While the series had a 90-minute duration over the first 169 episodes, the economic crisis in 2008 which affected the world, affected the Turkish media as well. After TRT 1 shortened the display time for Doludizgin Yıllar, several other series including Avrupa Yakası were cut short. In her interviews, screenwriter Gülse Birsel stated that she wanted the length of the episodes to be shortened. After holding meetings with ATV and Plato Film, it was decided that Avrupa Yakası should be aired as three 73-minute episodes and one 85-minute episode every month.

Effects

Effect on social life 

The striped flannelette pajamas that were worn by the character of Gaffur, the son of the doorman family played by Peker Açıkalın, became among the fashionable items at the time. The pajamas, which were produced originally many years prior to the show by Sümerbank but had not been much bought recently, became popular again with the program and were put on display on the mannequins in a number of markets. At the time, the media reported that in a number of cities (including Batman) the pajamas had been sold out and instead were being offered in the black market. The sales eventually stopped as Gaffur's storyline came to an end. Additionally, under the influence of the character and his appearance in the pajamas, Gaffur Nasılım Spor was founded in Şırnak and a rock group called Gaffur was initiated in Beyoğlu. A group of young people in İdil district of Şırnak founded the "Gaffur Nasılım Spor" and participated in a football tournament organized by the district governor of İdil.

Prime Minister Family and Social Research Institute published a quarterly magazine featuring an article called "Current Risks to the Family Institution", which discussed the negative impact on the Turkish family structure, and Hasibe Eren's character Makbule Kıral was named as one of these negative factors. The reason was explained as Makbule's divorce from İzzet and sharing her uncle's house with her former boyfriend Burhan. It was claimed that Makbule and other characters of the series were creating undesirable behavior patterns, affecting the audience by putting the social life in risk. The article's author, Dr. Ünal Şentürk, also included that the reason for Aslı and Cem's divorce was also not clear and their sharing of a house post-divorce was also an unacceptable and risky behavior. The screenwriter Gülse Birsel addressed these issues in a statement:

On 3 July 2005, during the discussions for passing the "Law on Establishment of Probation and Assistance Centers", the character Burhan (portrayed by Engin Günaydın) was mentioned by Minister of Justice Mehmet Ali Şahin during the discussions.

The Diyanet-Sen General Organization Secretariat reacted to the names on Avrupa Yakası and other TV series. He claimed that names such as Burhan, Taceddin, and Gaffur had religious basis while the characters who bear the names are bad, impure and stupid and that could cause damage to the moral feelings of the nation

Effect on actors 
As a result of the performances of the actors who portrayed the characters on Avrupa Yakası, they appeared in many commercials and feature films. After the series started, 8 actors from the cast started appearing in commercials. Levent Üzümcü (Garanti Bank), Gülse Birsel (Turkcell, TTNET), Ata Demirer (Vestel), Evrim Akın (Bellona), Hümeyra (Taç curtain), Bülent Polat (Blue House), Yavuz Seçkin (Aras Cargo), and Veysel Diker (Kompen) were the actors who play in a number of advertisements. Later, Şenay Gürler and Gazanfer Özcan also became members of the cast who got role in the commercials. Engin Günaydın, who joined the series in its third season and gain popularity with his portrayal, was cast in a commercial for Garanti Bank, while Gülse Birsel appeared in a commercial for Whirlpool, and Sarp Apak in an advertisement for Turkcell. Hasibe Eren portrayed a fictional character called Şekure in a commercial for Akpet, while Binnur Kaya appeared as Dilber Hala in an advertisement for D-Smart.