[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mario Been

ffert Stadium, with fans singing his name and the players, board and fans giving him the honour of being one of the best managers the club has ever had. Been's farewell speech was filled with tears, however, his last words to the fans epitomized his legendary status at the club.

Feyenoord Rotterdam

Been joined his boyhood club Feyenoord in the summer of 2009 in the hope of repairing the financially stricken club. He was given a very youthful squad to work with, which did have some experienced heads in the form of Roy Makaay, Denny Landzaat and Giovanni van Bronckhorst. His first signing was from his old club where he signed Dani Fernández for the right-back position. Been's first season for Feyenoord was immediately a success as he led them to a fourth-place finish in the league and thus a place in the Europa League for the 2010–11 season. This was also the club's highest finish for a few years. In a turbulent summer which saw all his experienced heads retire, he signed only a handful of players on free transfers or by loan. Feyenoord started the campaign in mixed form. On the opening day they beat FC Utrecht 3–1 to kick off a good start to the campaign. However the club failed to qualify for the group stages of the Europa League after they lost 2–1 to AA Gent on aggregate.

Up until 2011, Been has a contract until 2012 with the club. On 24 October 2010, he oversaw his team losing 10–0 against PSV Eindhoven at the Philips Stadion the biggest defeat in the history of Feyenoord. Despite that, and a rather disappointing final outcome that saw Feyenoord failing to qualify for European football and even in danger of relegation at some point in the season, he was confirmed at the helm of Feyenoord for the new season.

On 13 July 2011, Been was confirmed to have left his post as head coach of Feyenoord, citing lack of trust and confidence from his players as the main reason for his surprise choice.

Genk
In late August 2011, Been was appointed as a new manager of Genk, signing a two-year deal with them and succeeding Franky Vercauteren, who left the club to join United Arab Emirates side Al-Jazira (who led the club winning the Belgian League and 2011 Belgian Supercup and Vercauteren led his club into play-off for UEFA Champions League.) A day after being named the new Coach for Genk, Been held his first training session with the club on Wednesday 31 August. Been would join-up Thomas Buffel at Genk, who coached Buffel from his time as assistant manager at Feyenoord.

In his first match as a Genk manager was a win with Genk beating their rival Sint-Truidense, 4–3. In the Champions League, Genk was placed fourth place in Group E and got three points with no win, three draws and three losses at the group stage of Champions League. Genk's first Champions League game against Valencia was a 0–0 draw, clinched their first Champions League point. Unlike last season with Genk winning the Belgian League, Genk start to have back to back wins, draws and losses with Anderlecht is intentions of the winning the league.

On 9 May 2013, he won the Belgian Cup with Genk. On 23 February 2014, he was sacked.

APOEL
On 26 May 2017, Been was appointed as the new manager of the reigning Cypriot champions APOEL, signing a one-year contract with the club.

On 28 July 2017, after three competitive games in charge, Been was sacked by APOEL following a 1–0 away European defeat to Viitorul Constanta.

Managerial statistics

Personal life 
His son Gianluca (* 1990) played football too for Feyenoord, SBV Excelsior, Deltasport Vlaardingen, VV Oude Maas & BVV Barendrecht and co-owned today with his son Luca, an Tapasvine bar called La Hermana in Barendrecht.

Honours
Genk
Belgian Cup: 2012–13

Notes

References

External links

 
 Profile Mario Been at rodajcspelers.nl 
 

1963 births
Living people
Footballers from Rotterdam
Men's association football midfielders
Dutch association football commentators
Dutch men's footballers
Netherlands men's youth international footballers
Netherlands men's international footballers
Feyenoord players
Pisa SC players
Roda JC Kerkrade players
SC Heerenveen players
FC Wacker Innsbruck players
Excelsior Rotterdam players
Eredivisie players
Serie A players
Serie B players
Austrian Football Bundesliga players
Eerste Divisie players
Dutch expatriate men's footballers
Expatriate men's footballers in Italy
Expatriate men's footballers in Austria
Dutch football managers
Eredivisie managers
Excelsior Rotterdam managers
NEC Nijmegen managers
Feyenoord managers
K.R.C. Genk managers
APOEL FC managers
Dutch expatriate football managers
Expatriate football managers in Belgium
Expatriate football managers in Cyprus
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Italy
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Austria
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Belgium
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Turkey
Dutch expatriate sportspeople in Cyprus