[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mount of Temptation

ld with the attendant glory. On each occasion, Jesus refuses to misuse his power to sate human appetites, to misuse his position to test God's will, or to countenance worship of anyone other than God. The account in Luke is essentially the same, but the order of the last two temptations is reversed.

A separate tradition recorded in John Phocas's Ecphrasis, a 12th-century pilgrimage report, was that one of the tells at the base of the mount once held a temple commemorating the location where Joshua supposedly saw the archangel Michael ().

History

Bronze Age to Hellenistic period
Jebel Quruntul is a limestone peak controlling the main paths from Jerusalem and Ramallah to Jericho and the River Jordan since antiquity, possibly the same as the "desert road" (, derech hamidbar) mentioned in Joshua 8:15 & 20:31 and Judges 20:42. Nomads have frequented the oasis at Jericho produced by the Spring of Elisha at Ein as-Sultan for at least 12,000 years. There was small settlement on the slopes of Quruntul around 3200 during the early Bronze Age. The area was conquered by the Israelites around 1200, but there are no records of important battles in the area during the subsequent conquest by the Assyrians, Babylonians, Persians, Macedonians, or the Diadochi.

By the time of the Maccabean Revolt, the Seleucid general Bacchides had fortified the summit of Quruntul. This garrison fell to the Jewish revolt in 167, but was retaken and remanned by Bacchides following his victory at Elasa in 160. The emperor Antiochus VII Sidetes appointed a certain Ptolemy as commander of this garrison and the lands around Jericho. Using the fort as his main stronghold, he held a banquet there where he slew the Jewish high priest Simon Thassi, his father-in-law, along with two of his brothers-in-law in 134. Simon's third son John Hyrcanus then succeeded his father and attacked. Encircled by the Judean army, Ptolemy threatened to throw John's mother, his own mother-in-law, from the fort and over the cliff. The woman supposedly pled for her son not to shirk his duty on her account, after which he continued the assault. She was first tortured and then, after John was forced to withdraw from the siege to honor the seventh year of rest then observed by the Jews, killed. Receiving insufficient reinforcements from Antiochus to hold his position, Ptolemy then fled to Zeno Cotylas, the tyrant of Philadelphia (now Amman, Jordan).

Late Roman and Byzantine periods
At some point in late Antiquity, Jebel Quruntul became associated with the entire 40 days of fasting which preceded the temptation of Jesus and then with the temptation itself, which occurred on the "high mountain" from which he saw "all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them". Tradition ascribed its "rediscovery" to StHelena, the pious mother of Constantine the Great, during her tour of the Holy Land sometime after 326. In 340, Chariton the Confessor established a lavra-type monastery on the mountain, then still using a form of its earlier Hebrew and Seleucid name. The lavra was not at the top of the mountain but beside the Grotto of the Temptation, the cave supposedly identified by Helen as the location of Jesus's 40 days of fasting. In all, 35 other cells were hollowed out on the east face of the mountain to house the monks. The wider area saw several other churches and monasteries erected over the next few centuries, most notably the monastery in Wadi Qelt, established by John of Thebes and made famous by George of Choziba. This initial period of Christian development came to an end with the 614 campaign of the ByzantineSasanian War, when the Persians were able to leverage a Jewish revolt to briefly conquer Jerusalem. The monasteries of Quruntul and Jericho were plundered and depopulated, recovery being prevented by the rapid Muslim conquest of Palestine in 635 and 636.

Early Muslim and Crusader periods
Relatively peaceful coexistence of Christians, Jews, and Muslims in the area ended in the 11th century with al-Hakim's persecutions, the invasions of the Seljuks, and the onset of the First Crusade. The Byzantine emperor ManuelI (r. 1143–1180) rebuilt the area's Orthodox monasteries. The two sites supposedly identified by StHelena centuries earlier, however, saw new Catholic chapels raised, and monks of the Holy Sepulchre used the site of Chariton's lavra beside the Grotto for a priory dedicated to John the Baptist, erected in 1133 or 1134. The relative importance of the Grotto and the priory led to the mountain itself becoming known to the numerous pilgrims of the era as "Mount Quarantine". The priory was granted the tithes of Jericho two years later. In 1143, this income was valued equivalent to 5,000 aurei ( of gold) per year and was transferred from the monks to the Sisters of Bethany by Queen Melisende of Jerusalem.