[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Dalea searlsiae

Dalea searlsiae, commonly known as Searls' prairie clover, is a perennial legume species belonging to the Dalea genus. The species is found through arid regions of the southwestern United States and can survive in low moisture conditions. The species forms symbiotic relationships with nitrogen-fixing bacteria that can improve soil nutrient levels. Its large inflorescence attracts many species of pollinators, and it lacks toxins found in similar legume species.  As a result, the species has been considered for use in rangeland restoration and revegetation projects.

Taxonomy & phylogeny

Etymology 
Self-taught British botanist Rupert Charles Barneby formally named the species and is responsible for characterizing much of the endemic new world legume species. The species was named after 19-year-old American botanist Fanny Searls. She was the first to collect a specimen of this species, in 1871.

Phylogeny & evolutionary history 
Searls’ prairie clover belongs to the Dalea genus consisting of American prairie clovers. Dalea species are not true clovers (genus Trifolium) and are only found in the Americas. While both genera belong to the Fabaceae family, they are not immediately related.

Dalea belong to the tribe Amorpheae. The biogeographical history of Amorpheae has resulted in a pan-American distribution. Recent molecular analyses have revealed that the Dalea genus does not constitute a monophyletic clade. All Dalea species descended from a common ancestor, but members of the Marina (false prairie clovers) also fall into this clade. While Marina is a monophyletic group, it falls within the lineage of Dalea, indicating the false prairie clovers are a diverged lineage within the prairie clovers. Hence, Marina and Dalea form a monophyletic lineage with Psorothamnus being the sister group. These three genera are collectively referred to as the Daleoids.

Distribution & range

Geographical distribution 
Searls’ prairie clover is native to the southwestern United States. While the plant is rarer than many legume species, metapopulations can be found in southeastern California, Utah, Nevada, and Arizona. Little is known about their distribution south of US-Mexico border.

Habitat and growing conditions 
Dalea searlsiae is typically found in desert shrublands and forested woodlands. Among forested regions of the southwestern United States, it is abundant in pine-juniper forests and rarer in spruce-fir forests. They are capable of surviving in a wide variety of soil conditions ranging from clay-rich to sandy substrates to rocky flats, however their biological fitness and yield declines in high clay. They are most common in lime-rich soils. D. searlsiae, being an interior species, is found at elevations ranging between 1000-2800m above sea level.

Description

Life history & morphology 
Like most Dalea species, Searls’ prairie clover is a perennial species due to its woody taproot. In spring, the plant regenerates numerous stems sourced from the taproot. Leaves are odd-pinnately compounded (consisting of typically 5 or 7 leaflets, but can range from 3-11 depending on age and health), alternating, and deciduous. Mature plants range from 25–60 cm tall. Flowering occurs in early spring with seed production occurring by early July. The plant forms tiny perfect flowers clustered in a cylindrical spike. Each flower/pod has five stamen, two ovules per pod, and only one seed matures per pod.

Variation & selection

Genetic & phenotypic variability 
The Searls’ prairie clover is a diploid organism with 14 chromosomes (2n = 14).  Both genetic drift and gene flow are determinants of the local population structures of Searls’ prairie clover. The species shows significant population-dependent variability in phenotypic characteristics.

Local adaptation 
Phenotypic traits of the species vary with population and geographic location as a result of genetic and environmental factors. The average number of stems per plant can range from 6-23, the number of inflorescences can range from 8-46, and the average height ranges between 21–43 cm. Bhattarai et al. (2011) used principal component analysis to correlate genotype to phenotype and found evidence of some genetic loci being predictive of phenotype. Local Searls’ prairie clover populations have undergone selective pressures leading to local adaptations.

Ecology 
The most of the ecology of Searls' prairie clover has been studied in relation to symbioses and herbivory.

Rhizobial symbiosis 
As with most legumes, Searls’ prairie clover forms symbiotic associations with nitrogen-fixing Rhizobia bacteria. This symbiosis improves soil nitrogen content and adds to the nutritional forage quality for herbivorous animals. Commercial inoculant is available for D. searlsiae, but little research has been done to study the rhizobial-legume symbiosis of the species.