[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Alfie Byrne

t of a replica of the Ardagh Chalice to Italian naval cadets visiting Dublin on board two warships, who had been welcomed by the Irish government despite the protests of Dubliners. A photograph exists of Byrne giving a fascist salute along with Eoin O'Duffy, commander of the Blueshirts, around 1933.

Final term as Lord Mayor (1954)
In 1954, Byrne was elected as Lord Mayor for a record tenth time. This time he did not live in the Mansion House, but stayed in Rathmines with his family, taking the bus to work each morning. He was just as devoted to the job. When flooding damaged 20,000 houses in Fairview and North Strand, he rose from his sick bed to organise a relief fund. Byrne's final term as Lord Mayor came to an end in 1955. Shortly afterwards, Trinity College Dublin awarded him an honorary Doctorate of Law, describing him as a "champion of the poor and needy, and a friend of all men."

Death
Alfie Byrne died on 13 March 1956. An obituary in The Irish Times noted:

 
 
Byrne's funeral was the largest seen in Dublin for many years. The Evening Herald reported that "Traffic in O'Connell Street was held up for almost 20 minutes to allow the cortege of over 150 motor cars to pass, and at all the junctions along the route to Glasnevin people silently gathered to pay tribute to one of Dublin’s most famous sons". The Irish Times noted that "one of the largest groups of people gathered at the Five Lamps, one of the few places at which Alderman Byrne always made a speech during his election campaign for Dublin North-East." The Irish Press reported a tribute by the Taoiseach, John A Costello, "He had great personal charm and was known for his old-world courtliness both at home and abroad.... We mourn in the passing of Alfie Byrne the loss of an honoured and distinguished Irishman whose place in the hearts of his fellow countrymen was unique and who gave a lifetime of unselfish devotion to their service." The members of the Dáil stood and observed a short silence as a mark of respect. A telegram was sent to his widow from the Mayor of New York, Robert F. Wagner Jr., expressing deepest sympathy, and stating "that Ald. Byrne had attained high office of Lord Mayor many times, but he never lost contact with the poor and the underprivileged, whose champion he was".

Legacy
The press called him the "Shaking Hand of Dublin", Alfred the Great, and The Lord Mayor of Ireland, but most people knew him simply as Alfie. As one of the most popular Dublin-born politicians of the 20th century, he did not write a memoir. The by-election caused by his death, was won by his son Patrick Byrne. Two other sons A. P. Byrne and Thomas Byrne were also TDs for various Dublin constituencies. Alfie Byrne Road in Clontarf is named after him.  The Dublin Bay North branch of Young Fine Gael was renamed 'Alfie Byrne YFG'.

Alfie Byrne also holds the distinction of being the only person to serve as Councillor, Alderman, Lord Mayor of Dublin, MP, TD and Senator.

See also
Families in the Oireachtas

References

Further reading
Who's Who of British Members of Parliament: Vol. II 1886-1918, edited by M. Stenton & S. Lees (The Harvester Press 1978)

External links

1882 births
1956 deaths
Burials at Glasnevin Cemetery
Independent TDs
Independent members of Seanad Éireann
Irish Parliamentary Party MPs
Irish anti-communists
Lord Mayors of Dublin
Members of the 3rd Dáil
Members of the 4th Dáil
Members of the 5th Dáil
Members of the 6th Dáil
Members of the 7th Dáil
Members of the 8th Dáil
Members of the 9th Dáil
Members of the 10th Dáil
Members of the 11th Dáil
Members of the 12th Dáil
Members of the 13th Dáil
Members of the 14th Dáil
Members of the 15th Dáil
Members of the 1928 Seanad
Members of the 1931 Seanad
Members of the Parliament of the United Kingdom for County Dublin constituencies (1801–1922)
Politicians from County Dublin
UK MPs 1910–1918