[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# George Maior

ican University, National Intelligence University, Atlantic Council, Center for Strategic and International Studies, Chicago Council on Global Affairs, Center for European Policy Analysis, AIPAC, etc.). He is a member of the Honorary Board of Advisors of the "National Student Leadership Foundation."

The President of Romania awarded George Cristian Maior the National Order of "Faithful Service" in rank of Knight, the National Order "Star of Romania" in rank of Knight and the National Order "Star of Romania" in rank of Officer. In April 2014, he became a Knight of the "Legion of Honor" order, a title conferred by the President of France. In 2017, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) awarded George Cristian Maior the "Earl Warren Medallion" for the outstanding partnership with the United States and exceptional leadership during his tenure as Director of Romanian Intelligence Service (SRI).  Additionally, he is a Doctor Honoris Causa of the Military Technical Academy in Bucharest, of the "Andrei Saguna" University in Constanta and of the West University in Timișoara.

Family life

He is married  to Anamaria Buzura, daughter of the writer Augustin Buzura. Together they have two children.

Distinctions
As recognition of his competence and professionalism proved during the process of reforming and developing of Romania, the following distinctions have been awarded to George Maior:
 Doctor Honoris Causa awarded by Military Technical Academy (July, 28th 2015)
 Doctor Honoris Causa awarded by Andrei Saguna University from Constanta (Mai, 5th 2015)
 Doctor Honoris Causa Beneficiorum Publicorum awarded by Universitatea de Vest from Timișoara (October, 3rd 2014) 
 Order of Legion of Honour, Chevalier (Knight), awarded by the president of France (April 2014)
 Order of the Star of Romania, Commodore rank (March 2013)
 Order of the Star of Romania, Officer rank (March 2010)
 Order of the Star of Romania, Knight rank (December 2008)
 Order of Faithful Service, Knight rank (November 2002) 
 Meritorious Service Medal of Alabama awarded by the governor of Alabama
 Awarded with "Earl Warren Medallion" by The Director of the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) (May 2017)

Awards

 1998: his doctoral thesis "National and European in the jurisprudence of the Strasbourg European Court" was nominated for the Most Prize awarded by UNESCO.
 2004: honorific diploma awarded by the Military Technical Academy for outstanding merits in sustaining, development and modernizing of the military polytechnic education system and of the university scientific research system. 
 2009: Romanian Book Fair (Salonul Cărții Românești) special prize, awarded at Iași, for the book "Noul Aliat – regândirea politicii de apărare a României la începutul secolului XXI" (The New Ally - rethinking Romania's defense policy at the beginning of the 21st century), RAO publishing, București;
 2012: prize awarded by the "Balcanii și Europa" magazine for "vocation for security and international cooperation in the field of security";
 2013: "Intelligence" magazine prize awarded for "outstanding contributions to the development of security awareness"
 2013: Excellence Award of the National Defense College Foundation;
 2014: award of the Civic Excellence Gala "among people", sponsored by the Romanian Academy, in the field of "diplomacy and security policy".

Published works

Books