[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# History of the Jews in Europe

mage churches or chapels throughout the Middle Ages (e.g. Saint Werner's Chapels of Bacharach, Oberwesel, Womrath; Deggendorfer Gnad in Bavaria).

Jewish survival in the face of external pressures from the Roman Catholic empire and the Persian Zoroastrian empire is seen as 'enigmatic' by historians.

Salo Wittmayer Baron credits Jewish survival to eight factors:
Messianic faith:  Belief in an ultimately positive outcome and restoration to them of the Land of Israel.
The doctrine of the World-to-Come increasingly elaborated:  Jews were reconciled to suffering in this world, which helped them resist outside temptations to convert.
Suffering was given meaning through hope-inducing interpretation of their history and their destiny.
The doctrine of martyrdom and inescapability of persecution transformed it into a source of communal solidarity.
Jewish daily life was very satisfying.  Jews lived among Jews.  In practice, in a lifetime, individuals encountered overt persecution only on a few dramatic occasions.  Jews mostly lived under discrimination that affected everyone, and to which they were habituated.  Daily life was governed by a multiplicity of ritual requirements, so that each Jew was constantly aware of God throughout the day.  "For the most part, he found this all-encompassing Jewish way of life so eminently satisfactory that he was prepared to sacrifice himself...for the preservation of its fundamentals." Those commandments for which Jews had sacrificed their lives, such as defying idolatry, not eating pork, observing circumcision, were the ones most strictly adhered to.
The corporate development and segregationist policies of the late Roman empire and Persian empire, helped keep Jewish community organization strong.
Talmud provided an extremely effective force to sustain Jewish ethics, law and culture, judicial and social welfare system, universal education, regulation of strong family life and religious life from birth to death.
The concentration of Jewish masses within 'the lower middle class', with the middle class virtues of sexual self-control.  There was a moderate path between asceticism and licentiousness.  Marriage was considered to be the foundation of ethnic, and ethical, life.

Outside hostility only helped cement Jewish unity and internal strength and commitment.

Golden age of Jewish culture in Spain

The Golden age of Jewish culture in Spain refers to a period of history during the Muslim rule of Iberia in which Jews were generally accepted in society and Jewish religious, cultural and economic life blossomed. This "Golden Age" is variously dated from the 8th to 12th centuries.

Al-Andalus was a key center of Jewish life during the Middle Ages, producing important scholars and one of the most stable and wealthy Jewish communities. A number of famous Jewish philosophers and scholars flourished during this time, most notably Maimonides.

Spanish Inquisition

The Spanish Inquisition was established in 1478 by Catholic Monarchs Ferdinand and Isabella to maintain Catholic orthodoxy in their kingdoms and was under the direct control of the Spanish monarchy. It was not definitively abolished until 1834, during the reign of Isabel II.

The Inquisition, as an ecclesiastical tribunal, had jurisdiction only over baptized Christians. However, since Jews (in 1492) and Muslim Moors (in 1502) had been banished from Spain, jurisdiction of the Inquisition during a large part of its history extended in practice to all royal subjects. The Inquisition worked in large part to ensure the orthodoxy of recent converts known as conversos or marranos.

Poland as the center of the Jewish community

The expulsion of the Jews from Spain in 1492, as well as expulsion from Austria, Hungary and Germany, stimulated a widespread Jewish migration to the much more tolerant Poland. Indeed, with the expulsion of the Jews from Spain, Poland became the recognized haven for exiles from the rest of Europe; and the resulting accession to the ranks of Polish Jewry made it the cultural and spiritual center of the Jewish people in Europe.