[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 12]
# Foreign relations of the Axis powers

arty merged with the Canadian Nationalist Party, which was based in the Prairie provinces. In June 1938, it merged with Nazi and other racist clubs in Ontario and Quebec,  many of which were known as Swastika clubs, to form the National Unity Party at a national convention held in Kingston, Ontario.

The only fascist politician ever elected in Canada was Peter M. Campbell of Alberta, who won Lethbridge in the 1937 Alberta election and formed the Alberta Unity Party.

However, all the parties were banned  on May 30, 1940, under the Defence of Canada Regulations of the War Measures Act, and Arcand and many of his followers were arrested and detained for the duration of the war.

Chile

Chile despite orbit revolve more direct U.S. influence, maintained a neutral position throughout most of the development of this confrontation. However, when the defeat of the Axis was almost accomplished, due to international pressure Chile became part of the Allies and ended up declaring war on Germany, Italy and Japan. Chile only diplomatically participated in the war as not sent troops to the battlefield. Paradoxically, Chile to be belligerent to the Allied cause, was part of the countries that in 1945 gave birth to the United Nations (UN).

Costa Rica, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic
Before the creation of the Pan American Union mutual defence pact in July 1940 and entry into the war on the Allied side after the attack on Pearl Harbor, Costa Rica, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic offered diplomatic recognition of the Japanese puppet state of Manchukuo which was not recognised as a legitimate state by a majority of the world's nations at the time, including the United States.

Mexico
Mexico officially did not join the Axis and declined Germany's offers to take the Axis side during World War II. However, there were some Mexican citizens linked to the Spanish Fascist Party.

Some Mexican volunteers had helped Franco, but the Mexican state opposed the Nationalists in the Spanish Civil War. Manuel Ávila Camacho, the President of Mexico at the time, entered World War II on the Allied side late in the war.

United States
Officially, the United States did not favour any Axis member, but prior to the attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, there were some American businessmen linked with Japanese commerce and supporters of the Japanese cause in the country. For example, the 1939 Commerce Agreement permitted Thomas Lamont (from J.P.Morgan and Warranty Trust Company) to visit Japan and establish business with Count Aisuke Kabayama (of the Iron Manufacture Company of Japan), Fuji Fujizawa (charged with collecting scrap iron in United States) and Noburo Ohtani (President of N.Y.K. Lines) among others.

One supporter was George Bronson Rea, a former railway engineer and expert on Chinese affairs who in 1935 published "The Case for Manchukuo" (D. Appletone Century Co. New York), where he argued in favour of the Japanese protection of the Manchukuo puppet state.

During the war a few US POWs became members of the German armed forces, but no unit organised of American volunteers was ever raised. Five US citizens served in the Waffen-SS in May 1940; among them were Martin James Monti (from St. Louis), an SS Untersturmführer and Peter Delaney (a.k.a. Pierre de la Ney du Vair) (from Louisiana), SS-Haupsturmführer in Waffen-SS.  Both served in the SS-Standarte Kurt Eggers unit, and Delaney is believed to later have served in the Légion des Volontaires Français (LVF). He met Monti and probably arranged for him to enter the Waffen-SS.  Delaney was killed in 1945. Another eight American volunteers are known to have been killed in German service.

Oceania