[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Carlucci American International School of Lisbon

the region as a leader in sciences education, with numerous initiatives and partnerships with institutions, like the prestigious Gulbenkian Foundation, Silicon Valley giant Hewlett-Packard, and technology education nonprofit Code.org, to develop innovative methods of teaching science and technology.

Since 2005, CAISL and the Gulbenkian Foundation, one of the wealthiest foundations in the world, have partnered together to form the Experiential Learning Methods in Sciences Initiative, a project aimed at researching and developing innovative methods and best practices in science education. The initiative, led by a team of Gulbenkian researchers and CAISL professors, has been stated to have had profound effects in the teaching of science education in Portugal.

CAISL is an affiliate school of Code.org in Portugal in participating in the Hour of Code initiative.

CAISL has participated annually in the FIRST Lego League National Championship, and in the MAIS Middle School Robomed, international robotics competitions, since 2018.

Arts
CAISL is a member of The Association for Music in International Schools (AMIS) and sends a student delegation annually to the AMIS International Music Festival.

CAISL students also participate annually in the ISTA Theater festival, having hosted the first ISTA Inter-Arts Festival. 

CAISL hosts the annual Sintra Theatre Showcase (), a showcase of school drama departments from across the Sintra area of the Portuguese Riviera.

CAISL hosts art exhibitions throughout the year.

CAISL is also part of the International Thespian Society, and the Tri-M Music Honor Society.

Athletics
CAISL's athletic teams, known as the CAISL Wolves, compete in sports tournaments on regional, national, and international levels. CAISL is a member of the European Sports Conference, a sports conference of international schools across Europe.

CAISL is a host school of both the Iberian Volleyball Tournament, the Iberian Soccer Tournament, the Iberian Basketball Tournament, and competitions of international schools across the Iberian Peninsula.

Initiatives

Research
CAISL partners with the prestigious Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation in Lisbon in supporting research and development of new teaching methods, allowing CAISL to utilize innovative pedagogical methods in its curriculum.

Since 2011, CAISL has had an partnership with the BPI Portuguese Investment Bank to facilitate investments in primary and secondary education.

In 2013, CAISL hosted its 1st Conference on Early Childhood Learning, in cooperation with Pais&Filhos, an international child education publication.

In 2018, CAISL hosted the Symposium on Intercultural Learning, an event held in partnership with the Council of International Schools.

Philanthropy
Since 2006, CAISL has partnered with Novabase, the largest information technology firm in Portugal, in an initiative to promote and support English language education in public schools across the Portuguese Riviera, through teacher training and school outreach.

In 2018, CAISL has become an affiliate of the Sharing Foundation, an international philanthropic organization dedicated to promoting literacy and early childhood education.

CAISL and Habitat for Humanity have partnered together since 2007 to send a delegation of students annually to help provide humanitarian relief to disadvantaged people.
CAISL also has a long standing partnership with Banco Alimentar, the Portuguese food bank, providing volunteers for goods collection twice a year. In 2022, CAISL also started collaborating with Associação Humanitária DOMUS/Fuller Center for Housing, among other local and international charities.

Culture
CAISL has regularly partnered with institutions, such as the American Embassy, the Portuguese Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Culture of Cabo Verde, among other cultural organizations and government institutions, to host and promote cultural events and awareness.

Iberian Model United Nations
CAISL founded and hosts one of Europe's largest model United Nations conferences, the Iberian Model United Nations, since 1995. The conference is held in the Centro Cultural de Belém, in Lisbon. IMUN's keynote speakers have included prominent politicians, diplomats, United Nations officials, and rights activists, such as internationally awarded author Richard Zimler and U.S. Ambassador Robert A. Sherman.

For the 2017 edition of IMUN, President of Portugal Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa served as keynote speaker.

Administration

CAISL is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools (MSA). The school is licensed by the Portuguese Ministry of Education and an authorized International Baccalaureate (IB) World School. CAISL is the only school in Portugal with support from the U.S. State Department.