[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Earth's field NMR

ain trade-offs are performance versus portability and cost.

Since the FID resonant frequencies of NMR active nuclei are directly proportional to the magnetic field affecting those nuclei, we can use widely available NMR spectroscopy data to analyse suitable substances in the Earth's magnetic field.

An important feature of EFNMR compared with high-field NMR is that some aspects of molecular structure can be observed more clearly at low fields and low frequencies, whereas other features observable at high fields may not be observable at low fields. This is because:
 Electron-mediated heteronuclear J-couplings (spin-spin couplings) are field independent, producing clusters of two or more frequencies separated by several Hz, which are more easily observed in a fundamental resonance of about 2 kHz. "Indeed it appears that enhanced resolution is possible due to the long spin relaxation times and high field homogeneity which prevail in EFNMR."
 Chemical shifts of several parts per million (ppm) are clearly separated in high field NMR spectra, but have separations of only a few millihertz at proton EFNMR frequencies, and so are undetectable in an experiment that takes place on a timescale of tenths of a second.

For more context and explanation of NMR principles, please refer to the main articles on NMR and NMR spectroscopy. For more detail see proton NMR and carbon-13 NMR.

Proton EFNMR frequencies 
The geomagnetic field strength and hence precession frequency varies with location and time.

 Larmor precession frequency =  magnetogyric ratio x magnetic field
 Proton magnetogyric ratio =  42.576 Hz/μT (also written 42.576 MHz/T or 0.042576 Hz/nT)
 Earth's magnetic field:  30 μT near Equator to 60 μT near Poles, around 50 μT at mid-latitudes.

Thus proton (hydrogen nucleus) EFNMR frequencies are audio frequencies of about 1.3 kHz near the Equator to 2.5 kHz near the Poles, around 2 kHz being typical of mid-latitudes. In terms of the electromagnetic spectrum EFNMR frequencies are in the VLF and ULF radio frequency bands, and the audio-magnetotelluric (AMT) frequencies of geophysics.

Examples of molecules containing hydrogen nuclei useful in proton EFNMR are water, hydrocarbons such as natural gas and petroleum, and carbohydrates such as occur in plants and animals.

See also 
 Rate of change of Earth's magnetic field
 Zero field NMR

References

External links 
 TeachSpin EFNMR web site
 Magritek EFNMR web site
 Two dimensional EFNMR imaging
 Earth's field NMR/MRI practical course, SS24 October 2009. Department of Physics, University of Oxford
 NMR Using Earth’s Magnetic Field
 Open source Earth's Field NMR Spectrometer
 Magnetic Resonance Imaging System Based on Earth’s Magnetic Field
 Applications of Earth’s Field NMR to porous systems and polymer gels

Geomagnetism
Nuclear magnetic resonance