[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Point Pleasant High School (West Virginia)

Point Pleasant Junior/Senior High School is located in Point Pleasant, West Virginia. It is located in Mason County and is the largest high school in the county. It is operated by Mason County Schools.

History 
On December 19, 1794 the General Assembly of Virginia enacted that “ of land, the property of Thomas Lewis (a part of the General Andrew Lewis Grant) at the mouth of the Great Kanawha River in the said County of Kanawha, as they are already laid off into lots and streets, shall be established a town by the name of Point Pleasant, and Leonard Cooper, John Van Bibber, Isaac Tyler, William Owens, William Allyn, John Reynolds, Allen Prior, George Clendenin, and William Morris, gentlemen, appointed trustees thereof.”

When the town was laid off at the junction of the Ohio and Great Kanawha Rivers, a lot was given by Thomas Lewis as a site for a school building.  On this lot, the present location of Langston school which was formerly only for African-American children, a small log building was erected as a school building and a church.  A frame building replaced this at a later date.  In 1848 funds were raised by subscription among the citizens of the town to build a better school on the same lot.

This movement resulted in a brick structure of two rooms, to which two more were later added.  In 1865 when the public school system was established in West Virginia this subscription school became one of the district schools of Mason County.  By an act of the Legislature dated February 24, 1887, the Independent School District of Point Pleasant was created out of a part of Lewis District.  To meet the needs of a growing population, two smaller school buildings were erected in the suburbs of the town. These schools were discontinued in 1890, when a progressive Board of Education, composed of Colonel H. R. Howard, Mr. G. W. Tippett and Captain W. H. Howard opened to all the white children of Point Pleasant the present Central grade school building of eight rooms, library and office, and an extra recitation room for the High School.  In 1897 the nucleus of a library was secured and since 1904, through the energy of superintendents, principals, teachers and boards of education, has been increased to 950 volumes of carefully selected material.

At an early date in history of Point Pleasant provisions were made for a high school, but the organization was not perfected until 1890.  The first class of four students was graduated in 1892.  Since that time there have been 936 boys and girls graduated from the High School.  In the fall of 1897 with R.A. Riggs, Superintendent, and Peter H. Steenbergen, Principal of the High School, the work of the schools was re-organized, and the high school made a separate department, though occupying the same building as the grades.

In 1897 a four-year course was established for the high school with an enrollment as follows: 20 seniors, 12 juniors, 17 sophomores, and 18 freshmen.  There were nine graduates in the spring of 1898.  With a superintendent and high school principal the work continued for the next three years and was established on a firm basis.  Mr. Riggs continued another year, as superintendent with L.S. Echols became superintendent with R.D. Steed as principal.  In the fall of 1903 Peter H. Steenbergen became superintendent with Bertha Steinback ( Mrs. Filson) as high school principal, and Mary McCulloch, teacher; the work of the high school was again given change for improvement.

According to a “History of the Point Pleasant Schools, 1907”, written by Bertha Steinbach and Mary McCulloch, the work of both the grade and high school was expanded about 1907.  The Board of Education consisted of Captain W.H. Howard, President; Messrs. J.W.C. Heslop and C.L. Whaley, Commissioners and Mr. E.W. Craig, Secretary.  The grade teachers were: Misses Margaret Moriarty, Eva Hughes, Lissie Hogg, Nora Sommerville, Lillian Kincade, Virginia Behan and Nannie E. Jarrot.   A card system of keeping the records at the high school was devised, music and art were added to the curriculum, the teaching force was increased, and optional courses were offered.  The standards for graduation were raised.

In 1907, after the resignation of Mr. Steenbergen, plans for a building to accommodate the increased high school attendance were carried out and the cement block building in Central Grad schoolyard were erected.  Here the high school was housed until the fall of 1918 when the present high school building was occupied.