[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 10]
# Foreign interventions by the United States

n general Qasem Soleimani.

In March 2021, the Biden administration designated al-Shabaab in Mozambique as a terrorist organization and, at the request of the Mozambique government, intervened in the Cabo Delgado conflict. Army Special Forces were deployed in the country to train Mozambican marines.

Lettergate 
It is alleged that the United States was involved in the 2022 vote of no confidence against former Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan. On 7 March 2022, Islamabad's then-ambassador to the U.S., Asad Majeed Khan met with two American officials, one of whom was Donald Lu, a United States diplomat serving as Assistant Secretary of State for South and Central Asian Affairs. In the meeting, Lu showed displeasure over Prime Minister Khan's visit to Russia one day before Russia's invasion of Ukraine. He stated that if the no-confidence vote were to be successful, "all would be forgiven", otherwise ".. it will be tough going ahead". It was only the next day, on 8 March 2022, that the Pakistan Democratic Movement announced that they were bringing a no-confidence motion against the then Premier. A cipher was sent to Khan with the details of the conversation between the officials.

On 27 March 2022, Khan claimed that he possessed a diplomatic cable dated 7 March, in which a "threat" was issued by the US government stating their desire to see Khan's ousting from office, with the stipulation that Pakistan would be "forgiven" if the motion against him succeeded. The US was allegedly unhappy with Khan's foreign policy and his visit to Russia.

In August 2023, more than a year after Khan first made his claims, The Intercept published a leaked copy of the cable, which it claimed to have received from a disgruntled member of Pakistan's military. In the cable, Pakistan's ambassador to the United States reported that U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for Central and South Asia Donald Lu warned that the “isolation of the Prime Minister will become very strong from Europe and the United States” after Khan's visit to Russia, and that “if the no-confidence vote against the Prime Minister succeeds, all will be forgiven in Washington.”

Khan alleged that the United States was behind a "foreign conspiracy" to oust him in a regime change, and that he had written evidence attesting to this. These allegations were denied by the US government. Imran Khan also said that he has been punished on not accepting U.S. policy after withdrawal from Afghanistan. Donald Lu, US Assistant Secretary of State for Central and South Asia evaded the question regarding his meeting with Pakistan's Ambassador to the U.S. Khan's party alleged that there is a close connection between regime changes after UN's Ukraine Resolution. Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs Spokesperson Maria Zakharova said that the U.S. has punished disobedient Imran Khan and termed that interference a shameless act. However, U.S. said that there is "absolutely no truth" in the allegations.

See also

 American imperialism
 American exceptionalism
 Territorial evolution of the United States
 United States and state terrorism
 Criticism of United States foreign policy
 List of United States drone bases
 List of armed conflicts involving the United States
 List of the lengths of United States participation in wars
 Military history of the United States
 Historic regions of the United States
 Neoconservatism
 Manifest Destiny
 Foreign interventions by the Soviet Union
 Foreign interventions by China
 Foreign interventions by Cuba
 Foreign electoral intervention
 New Imperialism

Notes

References 
 
 
 Stephen Wertheim, Tomorrow, the World: The Birth of U.S. Global Supremacy, Cambridge MA, Belknap Press: An Imprint of Harvard University Press, 2020, 272 pp., ISBN 978-0674248663.
and review at Carruthers, Dominance by Decision, not by Default: "As a history of ideas, Tomorrow the World succeeds in nailing its case that the hijacking of internationalism and hit-job on isolationism went hand-in-hand."

History of the foreign relations of the United States
History of United States expansionism
United States