[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Japanese Peruvians

t came from the Chinese community in Peru). Japanese fusion dishes like Acevichado maki sushi rolls were created by incorporating the recipes and flavors from the indigenous Peruvians. Some examples of chefs who use Nikkei cuisine include Nobu Matsuhisa, Ferran Adrià and Kurt Zdesar.

Notable people

Anthony Aoki- Peruvian Footballer and Midfielder
Alberto Fujimori: Former President of Peru
Koichi Aparicio: Peruvian footballer
Ernesto Arakaki: International footballer
Hideyoshi Arakaki: Peruvian footballer
Keiko Fujimori: Former First Lady, Congresswoman and businesswoman (daughter of Alberto Fujimori)
Kenji Fujimori: Congressman (son of Alberto Fujimori)
Santiago Fujimori: Lawyer (younger brother of Alberto Fujimori)
Víctor García Toma: Former Minister of Justice
Susana Higuchi: Politician, former First Lady, ex-spouse of Alberto Fujimori
Jorge Hirano: International footballer
Fernando Iwasaki: Writer
Aldo Miyashiro: Writer, TV host and celebrity
Augusto Miyashiro: Mayor of the City of Chorrillos since 1999, an important middle class southern suburban district of Metropolitan Lima 
Kaoru Morioka: Japanese futsal player
Venancio Shinki: Artist
David Soria Yoshinari: International footballer
Tony Succar: percussionist and music producer
José Pereda Maruyama: Retired international footballer, having notably played for Argentinian powerhouse Boca Juniors
Akio Tamashiro: Karate athlete. Pan American Gold medalist. Head of the Peruvian Karate Federation
Eduardo Tokeshi: Plastic artist
Tilsa Tsuchiya: Artist
José Watanabe: Poet
Arturo Yamasaki: Football referee, famous for officiating the Match of the Century in the 1970 FIFA World Cup
Rafael Yamashiro: Peruvian Congressman and politician
Cesar Ychikawa: Singer and economist
Jaime Yoshiyama: Former Prime Minister, former Cabinet Minister, former Vice President and former President of the Peruvian Congress
Carlos Yushimito (Yoshimitsu): Writer and analyst

See also

Asian Latin Americans
Chinese Peruvians
Japan–Peru relations
Hirohito Ōta

Notes and references

Other cited works
Connell, Thomas. (2002). America's Japanese Hostages: The US Plan For A Japanese Free Hemisphere. Westport: Praeger-Greenwood. ; OCLC 606835431
Gardiner, Clinton Harvey. (1975). The Japanese and Peru. 1873–1973. Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press. ; OCLC 2047887
Gardiner, C. Harvey. (1981). Pawns in a Triangle of Hate: The Peruvian Japanese and the United States. Seattle: University of Washington Press. ; OCLC 164799077
Higashide, Seiichi. (2000). Adios to Tears: The Memoirs of a Japanese Peruvian Internee in U.S. Concentration Camps. Seattle: University of Washington Press.  ; OCLC 247923540
López-Calvo, Ignacio. (2009). One World Periphery Reads the Other. Knowing the 'Oriental' in the Americas and the Iberian Peninsula. Newcastle: Cambridge Scholars Publishing, 2009. 130–147.  ; OCLC 473479607
Masterson, Daniel M. and Sayaka Funada-Classen. (2004), The Japanese in Latin America: The Asian American Experience. (View at Google Books) Urbana, Illinois: University of Illinois Press. ;

External links
Association website

Asian Peruvian
Japanese Latin American
Ethnic groups in Peru
Peru