[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# William T. R. Fox

ar and nuclear strategy; these areas, and especially the first, were of particular interest to Fox.  Meanwhile, Fox remained focused on developing the academic discipline of international relations theory and was one of the key influential figures in discussions about that theory during this period.

Under the leadership of Fox, the Institute of War and Peace Studies became a viable operation;  John A. Krout, dean of the graduate faculty, said after ten years had gone by that the institute had "done a great deal of fine work".  One emphasis of the institute was in research, and by 1986 nearly 70 books had been published in connection with the institute.

Fox often spent time abroad as a scholar, including in England in 1955, as a Fulbright Lecturer at the Rio Branco Institute and Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro in Brazil in 1966, in Mexico in 1967, and as a visiting research fellow at Australian National University in 1968 and 1979.  In addition, he was a visiting professor at Carleton University in Ottawa in 1971, as well as the Claude T. Bissell Visiting Professor of Canadian-American Relations at the University of Toronto for 1982–83.  He saw Canada as an ideal vehicle for studying what was similar and different compared to the U.S. in foreign policy, and in 1985 he published the book A Continent Apart: The United States and Canada in World Politics.  He served as a consultant to the U.S. Department of State for a number of years, as well as to other governmental agencies, and lectured at the National War College and various service branch colleges.

Long interested in issues surrounding NATO, Fox and his wife Annette Baker Fox published NATO and the Range of American Choice in 1967, which analyzed the range of reactions to the evolution of NATO and the American role within it.  Fox also worked on behalf of the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency, addressing issues related to the security of Western Europe.  In a 1967 address to the one of the World Affairs Councils of America, Fox said that NATO "seems superfluous because it is working ... it is in part a victim of its own success."

During his career, Fox described himself as a "pragmatic meliorist" who believed in the possibility of improving how international relations were conducted and in highlighting the normative meanings of domestic and world policies.  Former colleague and dean David Truman later said, "He was an impressive scholar with a tremendous range. He was interested in the whole political scene, not just international relations, and was always full of ideas about how to do things better."  One of his longtime courses at Columbia was called "Systematic World Politics"; as it evolved, its reading list gave more space to issues such as imperialism, International inequality, and limited global resources, but always focused at the end upon the range of choices for future world orders.  Towards the end of his career at Columbia, he developed an explicit focus on moral concerns and human rights, giving courses such as "Means and Ends in International Relations" and "Human Rights and U.S. Foreign Policy".

He was the first managing editor of the journal World Politics, a position he held from 1948 to 1953. Under his guidance it became the preeminent journal in its field, and his system of commissioning review articles for it endured past his time there.  He remained a member of its editorial board through 1978.  He was also an advisory board member of the Journal of International Affairs from 1952 until 1988.  In addition, he was a founding editor of the journal International Organization.

Fox was president of the International Studies Association (ISA) in 1972–73.  In addition, he was a former vice president of the American Political Science Association.   He also chaired a committee for research on national security policy in the Social Science Research Council from 1953 to 1964.  The conferences it sponsored under Fox's guidance aided the development of the field and gave those starting in the field as sense of intellectual community.  Fox was also a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

Fox and his wife were residents of the Riverside neighborhood of Greenwich, Connecticut for four decades and he was active in the First Congregational Church of Old Greenwich.  He died at Greenwich Hospital of heart disease on October 24, 1988, having suffered a heart attack and been hospitalized two months earlier.