[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Allegations of CIA drug trafficking

ttern in all their drug involvement. McCoy has also written that during the 1980s "to fight the Soviet occupation of Afghanistan, the CIA, working through Pakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence, backed Afghan warlords who used the Agency's arms, logistics, and protection to become major drug lords."

According to The New York Times, in 2006, the US Ambassador in Kabul, the CIA station chief and MI6/SIS's station chief met with Afghan President Hamid Karzai, to address allegations regarding his brother, Ahmed's involvement in the drug trade, hoping that he would agree to expel his brother from Afghanistan. Before agreeing to take such action, Karzai demanded clear evidence of his brother's involvement be presented-evidence which the US and the UK were either unwilling or unable to provide.

Then in October 2009, the New York Times published an article by Dexter Filkins, Mark Mazzetti, and James Risen who reported that unnamed former and current American officials had said Ahmed Wali Karzai had received regular payments from the CIA for eight years – starting shortly after his brother was elected President – and was involved in the trafficking of opium in Afghanistan. Ahmed Wali Karzai denied the allegations stating that he had provided intelligence to the United States but was not compensated. Mahmud Karzai told Gerald Posner: "This is being coordinated by the ISI (Pakistani intelligence service). They have been behind the assassinations of several provincial leaders who are against the Taliban. And my brother is the last major obstacle to them in the south. If they remove Ahmed Wali, the Taliban will fill the void." A CIA spokesman said: "No intelligence organization worth the name would ever entertain these kind of allegations." In an article for Washington Decoded, former CIA operations officer Merle Pribbenow said, like claims leveled toward former South Vietnamese Lieutenant General Đặng Văn Quang, the allegations against Ahmed Wali Karzai appeared to be "vague rumors unsupported by solid evidence" and he cautioned readers about accepting news based solely on anonymous sources and unsubstantiated rumors.

In popular media
The 2014 movie Kill the Messenger depicted actor Jeremy Renner as Gary Webb.

The 2017 film American Made is a fictionalized telling of the story of Barry Seal, a pilot and Medellín Cartel drug smuggler who based his operations in Mena, Arkansas.

See also
 Air America (airline)
 Air America (non-fiction book)
 Air America (film)
 Bank of Credit and Commerce International (BCCI)
 Castle Bank & Trust (Bahamas)
 CIA transnational anti-crime and anti-drug activities
 Nugan Hand Bank
 Anthony Poshepny, US Army officer who accused the Laotian Major General Vang Pao of using the war, and CIA assets, to enrich himself through the opium trade.
 Ike Atkinson, former US Army sergeant and convicted drug trafficker, thought to have been a major figure in smuggling heroin into the United States from  to 1975.
 Khun Sa
 The Politics of Heroin in Southeast Asia
 Project MKULTRA
 War on Drugs

References

Further reading
 
 
 
 
 
  (The link is to the complete text of this book.)

CIA & DOJ Reports
 Overview of CIA/IG Investigation (January 29, 1998)—A short summary of The Inspector General's Report of Investigation regarding allegations of connections between CIA and the Contras in cocaine trafficking to the United States.
 Report of Investigation—Volume I: The California Story (January 29, 1998) —The Inspector General's Report of Investigation regarding allegations of connections between CIA and the Contras in cocaine trafficking to the United States. Volume I: The California Story.
 Report of Investigation – Volume II: The Contra Story (October 8, 1998)—The Inspector General's Report of Investigation regarding allegations of connections between CIA and the Contras in cocaine trafficking to the United States. Volume II: The Contra Story.
 USDOJ/OIG Special Report. The CIA-Contra-Crack Cocaine Controversy: A Review of the Justice Department's Investigations and Prosecutions (December, 1997)

External links
 Frontline: Guns, Drugs, and the CIA
 Congressional Testimony of Peter Kornbluh

Allegations
Central Intelligence Agency controversies
Central Intelligence Agency operations
Conspiracy theories in the United States
Drugs in the United States
History of drug control in the United States
Illegal drug trade