[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Fast for Life

licy of international aid and bringing an end to the escalating arms race. The letter was signed by leaders of all the major churches in Scotland and handed in to the Queen at Balmoral Castle in Aberdeenshire, and Prime Minister Thatcher in London, as well as being sent to all members of parliament.

The end of the Fast
By September, it was the opinion of many supporters that the Fast had made a significant contribution to the peace movement. By the 6th week, the presidents of the World Council of Churches and the U.S. National Council of Churches cabled and urged an end to the Fast, as did some congressmen. A message was sent to fasters from Rev. Philip Potter, General Secretary of the World Council of Churches, commending the life-affirming action having heard the testimonies of thousands from around the world. Part of the message read, "Your fasting has fed the solidarity of all who hunger for disarmament.  In your weakness you have made us strong." The message called on the fasters to end their fast, having "encouraged the representatives of the member churches of the World Council to commit themselves further in this way". With doctors increasingly fearful, fasters at the three centers (Oakland, Bonn and Paris) decided on September 13 to end their fast September 15. Andrea Elukovich continued three more days. In early October, the French fasters were granted a two-hour audience with President Mitterrand where they affirmed their opposition to nuclear buildup and testing in Polynesia. The final edition of "The Date Is Set" (November 1983) chronicled that French priest Joseph Pyronnet fasted for 15 days until October 18 when he held a press conference as bishops assembled for the Synod of Reconciliation. On October 30, Tom Siemer reported a letter he presented to the World Catholic Bishops' Synod was read aloud by Cardinal Loerschreider of Brazil. The Synod adopted the terms of Tom's letter by issuing a summary which condemned nuclear weapons, and signed by 15 Catholic communities around Rome. On October 24 in Stockholm, Sweden, significant blockades were held at the British, West German and Italian embassies following a day on non-violence training. Further actions also occurred throughout Europe in the months following the end of the fast. An international meeting was held in Lyon, France on September 24–25 1983, where two hundred people assembled. Acknowledging the power that fasting had shown, the gathering undertook to pursue the same aims; the moral pressure on governments to respond to the Fast's appeals for greater justice in this shared world would be maintained until a reversal in the escalation of nuclear weapons occurs, and real attempts to confront the plight of the world's hungry are made. Alan Burns, from the Scottish support group, agreed to act as international coordinator to maintain communications between participating countries. According to Alan Burns, this was continued through the summer of 1984, when an international gathering took place in Oxford, England on June 1-3 with about 20 people participating to assess the Fast's effect.

References

Further reading
 A guide to political fasting: Svevo Brooks, John Burkhart, Dorothy Granada and Charles Gray
(Testimony by) Solange Fernex, Life for Life: Fasting for Life: August to September 83 , Ed. Utovie Collection For the joy remains, 1985.
"Re: Action" by Jacquie Lolich, The Mendocino Grapevine, September 22, 1983
"Secular Saints" by David Kirp, Modesto Bee, September 20, 1983
"The Fasters" by Arthur Hoppe, San Francisco Chronicle, July 19, 1983

Hunger strikes
Anti–nuclear weapons movement
Anti-nuclear protests