[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# James Douglas (businessman)

e Van Arsdale to experiment with various processes to extract radium from carnotite. Douglas and Dr. Howard Kelly, a Baltimore, Maryland gynecologist and philanthropist, joined forces to supply radium in the US. In partnership with the U.S. Bureau of Mines, they formed the National Radium Institute.

Douglas also donated to several medical causes.
In 1912 Douglas gave $100,000 to General Memorial Hospital (which would become known as Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center) for the endowment of ten beds for clinical research work, and the equipment for an X-ray plant and clinical laboratory.

In 1915 Dr. Douglas, working with Dr. James Ewing, helped to establish a radium department and lay the foundation in the United States for radiation therapy.

Also of note is the Douglas Hospital in Montreal, Quebec. This institution pursued the cause which had been taken up by his father, a pioneer in the treatment of mental health in Quebec. Douglas' donations helped keep the hospital alive in the institution's early years. Originally called the "Protestant Hospital for the Insane", the institution took on the name of Douglas Hospital in 1965 as a tribute to James Douglas Jr. and his father.

In 1913 Douglas donated nearly a million dollars of radium to Johns Hopkins University, helping medical research.

Professional accolades
He was a member of a number of technical or scientific societies and served twice as president of the American Institute of Mining Engineers, 1899–1900.  Since 1922, the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical, and Petroleum Engineers annually awards the James Douglas Gold Medal in his memory. His writings on the copper industry are voluminous,  He was an advocate of the free exchange of scientific information.

The Douglas Library at Queen's University, Kingston, Ontario, is named in his honor, as is Douglas Hall at McGill University.  Dr. Douglas also endowed a lectureship at the University of Arizona, Tucson, and in 1940 Phelps Dodge Corporation funded the construction of the James Douglas Memorial Building for Mines and Metallurgy at the University of Arizona.

In 2018, the City Council of Nacozari de García, Mexico, honored Dr. Douglas by enacting an ordinance designating the Municipal Auditorium to be known as "James Douglas". This resolution was adopted as a posthumous tribute in memory of Dr. James Douglas on the 100th anniversary of his death.

Professional memberships
 American Institute of Mining Engineers
 Association for the Protection of the Adirondacks
 North American Institute of Mining and Mechanical Engineers
 Institute of Mining & Metallurgy
 Iron and Steel Institute
 The American Academy of Political and Social Science
 The Blue Pencil Club of the State of New York

Works by James Douglas
 Memoir of T. Sterry Hunt, F.R.S. (1898)
 Untechnical Addresses on Technical Subjects (1905)
 Old France in the New World (1905)
 The Influence of the Railroads of the United States and Canada on the Mineral Industry (1909)
 Journals and Reminiscences of James Douglas, M.D. (1910)

References

External links

 Queen's University bio
 Mining Hall of Fame bio
 James Douglas Gold Medal
 Jerome State Historic Park
 James Douglas and the Douglas Hospital
 Dr. James Douglas Collection, 1863–1935 at Arizona Historical Society

1837 births
1918 deaths
Anglophone Quebec people
Businesspeople from Quebec
Canadian mining businesspeople
Canadian academics
Canadian geologists
19th-century Canadian historians
Canadian male non-fiction writers
Canadian people of Scottish descent
Canadian philanthropists
Canadian mining engineers
Writers from Quebec City
People of the Industrial Revolution
Alumni of the University of Edinburgh
People from Jerome, Arizona
Phelps Dodge
John Fritz Medal recipients