[Source: Gutenberg#30274 | Part 66]
# The Communist Manifesto — Marx and Engels

the doctor dismissed his company, who retired loading him
with thanks and blessings. He then approached the gentleman, and
welcomed him with the greatest politeness, who presented him with his
letters of recommendation, which, after the physician had perused, he
thus accosted him:--'Sir, the letter of my learned friend has fully
instructed me in the particulars of your case; it is indeed a difficult
one, but I think you have no reason to despair of a perfect recovery.
If,' added he, 'you choose to put yourself under my care, I will employ
all the secrets of my art for your assistance. But one condition is
absolutely indispensable; you must send away all your servants, and
solemnly engage to follow my prescriptions for at least a month; without
this compliance I would not undertake the cure even of a monarch.'
'Doctor,' answered the gentleman, 'what I have seen of your profession
does not, I confess, much prejudice me in their favour; and I should
hesitate to agree to such a proposal from any other individual.' 'Do as
you like, sir,' answered the physician; 'the employing me or not is
entirely voluntary on your part; but as I am above the common mercenary
views of gain, I never stake the reputation of so noble an art without a
rational prospect of success; and what success can I hope for in so
obstinate a disorder, unless the patient will consent to a fair
experiment of what I can effect?' 'Indeed,' replied the gentleman, 'what
you say is so candid, and your whole behaviour so much interests me in
your favour, that I will immediately give you proofs of the most
unbounded confidence.'

"He then sent for his servants and ordered them to return home, and not
to come near him till a whole month was elapsed. When they were gone,
the physician asked him how he supported the journey? 'Why, really,'
answered he, 'much better than I could have expected. But I feel myself
unusually hungry; and therefore, with your permission, shall beg to have
the hour of supper a little hastened.' 'Most willingly,' answered the
doctor; 'at eight o'clock everything shall be ready for your
entertainment. In the meantime you will permit me to visit my patients.'

"While the physician was absent, the gentleman was pleasing his
imagination with the thoughts of the excellent supper he should make.
'Doubtless,' said he to himself, 'if Signor Ramozini treats the poor in
such an hospitable manner, he will spare nothing for the entertainment
of a man of my importance. I have heard there are delicious trouts and
ortolans in this part of Italy; I make no doubt but the doctor keeps an
excellent cook, and I shall have no reason to repent the dismission of
my servants.'

"With these ideas he kept himself some time amused; at length his
appetite growing keener and keener every instant, from fasting longer
than ordinary, he lost all patience, and, calling one of the servants of
the house, inquired for some little nice thing to stay his stomach till
the hour of supper. 'Sir,' said the servant, 'I would gladly oblige you;
but it is as much as my place is worth; my master is the best and most
generous of men, but so great is his attention to his house patients,
that he will not suffer one of them to eat, unless in his presence.
However, sir, have patience; in two hours more the supper will be ready,
and then you may indemnify yourself for all.'

"Thus was the gentleman compelled to pass two hours more without food--a
degree of abstinence he had not practised for almost twenty years. He
complained bitterly of the slowness of time, and was continually
inquiring what was the hour.

"At length the doctor returned punctual to his time, and ordered the
supper to be brought in. Accordingly six dishes were set upon the table
with great solemnity, all under cover; and the gentleman flattered
himself he should now be rewarded for his long abstinence. As they were
sitting down to table, the learned Ramozini thus accosted his
guest:--'Before you give a loose to your appetite, sir, I must acquaint
you that, as the most effectual method of subduing this obstinate
disease, all your food and drink will be mixed up with such medicinal
substances as your case requires. They will not be indeed discoverable
by any of your senses; but as their effects are equally strong and
certain, I must recommend to you to eat with moderation.'

"Having said this, he ordered the dishes to be uncovered, which, to the
extreme astonishment of the gentleman, contained nothing but olives,
dried figs, dates, some roasted apples, a few boiled eggs, and a piece
of hard cheese!

"'Heaven and earth!' cried the gentleman, losing all patience at this
mortifying spectacle, 'is this the entertainment you have prepared for
me, with so many speeches and prefaces? Do you imagine that a person of
my fortune can sup on such contemptible fare as would hardly satisfy the
wretched peasants whom I saw at dinner in your hall?' 'Have