[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Mohamed Atiq Awayd Al Harbi

rteen Saudis, formerly held in Guantanamo, had fallen under suspicion of supporting terrorism following their release. He identified "Abu Hareth Muhammad al-Awfi", an alias of al Harbis as on the list, with two of the three other men who appeared in the threatening video, and a third man.

Surrender

Reuters, Agence France Presse and The New York Times reported on February 17, 2009, that Saudi Authorities reported "Mohamed Atiq Awayd al-Awfi" voluntarily turned himself in to Saudi authorities in Yemen. The Saudi Gazette reports he turned himself in to Yemeni authorities at the Saudi/Yemen border.

CNN reported that he was captured by Yemeni security officials who extradited him to Saudi Arabia. Another difference between CNN's reporting and that from other news services is that CNN called Al Shihri "one of al Qaeda's top leaders in Yemen", and called al-Awfi
"the group's field commander." According to other news services. al-Shihri had been identified as second in command of Al-Qaida in the Arabian Peninsula, and no one had stated al-Awfi's position in the organization.

Al Awfi is reported to have contacted the leaders of the rehabilitation program prior to his surrender. He is reported to be scheduled to return to the rehabilitation program.

According to the Middle East Online  Saudi security officials assert Al Harbi has informed them that Iran is sponsoring al Qaeda.

Listed as a former captive who "re-engaged in terrorism"

On May 27, 2009, the Defense Intelligence Agency published a "fact sheet" listing captives who "re-engaged in terrorism". The fact sheet listed al Awfi and Al Shihri.

BBC Interview

Peter Taylor interviewed Al Harbi, who he called "Mohammed al-Awfi", for the BBC News. Mohammed al-Awfi told him that his interrogations in Bagram involved brutal abuse to his genitals. He attributed his escape to join the jihadists because the abuse he suffered at the hands of the Americans was more powerful than the arguments offered in the Care rehabilitation program.  He said that once he was in Yemen, with the jihadists:

Taylor reported being skeptical of Mohammed al-Awfi's account of his escape to Yemen and his subsequent defection.

References

External links 
 Former al-Qaeda member alleges US abuse in Afghanistan video from the BBC  January 13, 2010
 Innocents and Foot Soldiers: The Stories of the 14 Saudis Just Released From Guantánamo Andy Worthington

Living people
1973 births
People from Riyadh
Guantanamo detainees known to have been released
Named on Saudi Arabia's list of most wanted suspected terrorists