[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Armorial of Germany

hine Province, Province of Westphalia and Principality of Lippe, predecessor states.

Coat of arms of Rhineland-Palatinate
Coat of arms of Rhineland-Palatinate
Wheel of Mainz, principal charge
Coat of arms of the Elector Palatine, principal charge
Coat of arms of the Archbishop of Mainz (historical)

Coat of arms of Saarland
Coat of arms of Saarland
Coat of arms of Nassau-Saarbrücken, predecessor state and one of the quarters of the arms
Coat of arms of the Duchy of Lorraine, predecessor state, predecessor state and one of the quarters of the arms
Coat of arms of the Archbishop of Trier, predecessor state, predecessor state and one of the quarters of the arms
Coat of arms of the Elector Palatine, predecessor state, predecessor state and one of the quarters of the arms
Coat of arms of the Saar under French protectorate (1947–1956)
Coat of arms of the Saar under League of Nations mandate (1920–1935)

Coat of arms of Saxony
Coat of arms of Saxony
Historical arms

Coat of arms of Saxony-Anhalt
Coat of arms of Saxony-Anhalt
Historical arms, including the Prussian province of Saxony
Coat of arms of Anhalt, predecessor Princedom

Coat of arms of Schleswig-Holstein
Coat of arms of Schleswig-Holstein
Coat of arms of the Dukes of Holstein-Gottorp, predecessor dukedom

Coat of arms of Thuringia
Coat of arms of Thuringia

Historical coats of arms

ColoniesCoats of arms of German colonies''' were prepared but never formally granted.

In 1914, the diplomat Wilhelm Solf proposed that Germany's colonies be assigned flags and arms, like the flags and arms used by the British colonies. Solf believed that these would serve to advertise Germany's power, and would encourage German pride amongst the colonials. Kaiser Wilhelm was enthusiastic about the idea, and drafts were prepared for his inspection by Solf in conjunction with the Heraldry Office and the Duke of Mecklenburg. However, World War I broke out before the project was finalised, and the arms were never actually taken into use. This was in part because giving the colonies their own insignia in times of war could have let them have symbols to rally around in rebellion. Following the defeat in the war, Germany lost all its colonies and the prepared arms were therefore never granted.

The arms all followed a similar style. In chief was placed the Imperial Eagle, bearing a shield with the arms of the House of Hohenzollern. In the main part of the shield was a colony specific symbol, such as an elephant for the colony of Kamerun. Above the shield was placed the German State Crown (which was merely symbolic, and did not physically exist). Early drafts included a scroll displaying the name of the colony or protectorate in German, but given the unheraldic nature of such a name scroll, it is unlikely this would have been part of the final blazon.

See also 

 Germany

References

External links 
 Kolonialflaggen
 Flag use in German colonies
 Flags of the World - Former Colonies and other Overseas Territories (Germany)