[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Zhou Baozhong

the State Ethnic Affairs Commission. In September, he was elected as an alternate member of the Central Committee at the Eighth National Congress. In April 1959, he was again elected as a representative of the Second National People's Congress and a member of the National Ethnic Affairs Commission.

At the beginning of 1964, Zhou was so seriously ill that he was bedridden. On April 21, 1964, he suffered another heart attack and a doctor was sent to provide him with medical assistance. Zhou died on next day in a hospital in Beijing, at the age of 62. Following his death, North Korean leader Kim Il Sung immediately sent a telegram of condolences and assigned the staff of the North Korean Embassy in China to attend Zhou's funeral services.

Personal life

Zhou was married to Wang Yizhi on October 6, 1939, at the temporary station of the Second Route Army headquarters. They had a daughter named Zhou Wei, who was born in the Soviet Union on 1942. Wang died on November 26, 1987.

Zhou Wei was admitted to the Second Military Medical University of the People's Liberation Army in 1962, and worked in the 301 Hospital of the Beijing Military Region in 1973. She successively worked in anesthesiology and hyperbaric oxygen medicine until her retirement. Due to the close relationship between her father and Kim Il Sung, she often visits North Korea to nurture relations between China and North Korea. An investigation by the Wall Street Journal revealed that businesses connected to the Zhou's family helped enrich North Korea with its national income that contributed to its weapons development. Business records, official media reports and interviews connect Zhou's family with North Korean industries including mining, trade and consumer goods. A member of the family denied that they do business in North Korea.

Awards and decorations
:
 Order of August the First (1st Class Medal) (1955)
 Order of Independence and Freedom (1st Class Medal) (1955)
 Order of Liberation (1st Class Medal) (1955)
:
 Order of the Red Banner (1945)
 Medal "For the Victory over Japan" (1945)

Other honors
The Zhou Baozhong Memorial Hall was built in his hometown of Wanqiao village in Dali City, Yunnan. A tall statue of Zhou was built in front of the museum.

In popular culture
In the 2015 Chinese TV series Northeast Anti-Japanese United Army, he was played by actor Guanghui Shi.

Gallery

See also
 88th Separate Rifle Brigade
 Kim Il Sung
 Yang Jingyu

References

Bibliography

1902 births
1964 deaths
People of the Northern Expedition
Chinese military personnel of World War II
People's Liberation Army generals from Yunnan
People's Republic of China politicians from Yunnan
Political office-holders in Yunnan
People from Dali
Chinese Communist Party politicians from Yunnan
Academic staff of Yunnan University
Presidents of Yunnan University
Educators from Yunnan
Vice-governors of Yunnan
Bai people
Communist University of the Toilers of the East alumni
International Lenin School alumni
Delegates to the 1st National People's Congress
Delegates to the 2nd National People's Congress
Members of the 3rd Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference
Members of the 2nd Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference
Members of the 1st Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference
Delegates to the National People's Congress from Yunnan
Alternate members of the 8th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party
Recipients of the Order of the Red Banner
Chinese expatriates in the Soviet Union
People of 88th Separate Rifle Brigade