[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# 69th Pennsylvania Infantry Regiment

t or near Bolivar Heights, Virginia, on or about the 4th of October, 1862, left his regiment, which had been detailed for the picket guard, so that the regiment proceeded to its post and performed its tour of duty without him.'

Charge 2d. 'Conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline.'

Speciification. 'In this—that Col. J. T. Owen, 69th Pennsylvania volunteers, was much under the influence of liquor on or about the afternoon or evening of the 4th of October 1862, at or near Harper's Ferry, Virginia, and very abusive of his Lieutenant Colonel O'Kane, cursing and calling him names.'

Charge 3d. 'In this—that Col. J. T. Owen, 69th Pennsylvania volunteers, did call his Lieutenant Colonel, Dennis O'Kane, a 'son of a bitch,' in the presence of his daughter, Miss O'Kane; that he made improper and offensive requests of the young lady and her father; for example, insisting that the young lady should sleep in his tent. All this at or near Harper's Ferry, Virginia, on or about the 4th....'"

Owen was found guilty of the first and second charges and their specifications, but not guilty of the third. According to The Press of Philadelphia, although the court found Owen guilty and sentenced him to dismissal, court members then also recommended that Owen's sentencing be remitted and that he be returned to duty. Major General George B. McClellan agreed with both the court's verdict and sentencing, as well as its remittance of that sentence, noting:

"The finding and sentence of the court are fully supported by the testimony, and are approved by the major general commanding....

No comment of the general commanding can add any force to the above recital of the facts.

All the members of the court present at the finding and sentence recommend a remission of the sentence, 'in consideration of the previous good character of Col. Owen, and his distinguished services to the present war.' This recommendation is supported by testimony of the highest character, adduced upon the trial, showing that the accused has been a zealous and obedient officer, and has displayed great gallantry and good conduct on the field of battle.

The sentence of the court is remitted.

The general commanding trusts that the deep humiliation which the events themselves and the publicity of these proceedings must cause the accused will prevent the leniency here extended from producing any injurious influence in the service.

Colonel Joshua T. Owen, 69th Pennsylvania Volunteers, is released from arrest, and will return to duty."

In December 1862, the regiment sustained heavy casualties in the Battle of Fredericksburg, but then missed any major action at Chancellorsville, seeing only minor skirmishing.

1863
 The unit played a critical role at the Battle of Gettysburg, helping repel both Brig. Gen. Ambrose Wright’s charge on July 2 and Pickett's Charge on July 3. Its casualties over the last two days of the battle were enormous, losing 143 men out of 268, including Colonel Dennis O'Kane, Lieutenant Colonel Martin Tschudy, two captains, and a lieutenant. The regiment's ranking officer, Major Duffy, was seriously wounded but refused to give up command until the battle was over. The 69th was the only regiment not to withdraw from defending the stone wall in front of the Copse of Trees during the charge. They were heavily engaged in hand to hand combat; while having been flanked on their right and left flanks as a result of the withdrawal of the two companies from the 71st Pennsylvania Infantry, on their right, and the 59th New York Infantry, on their left. Following the repulse of Pickett, there were numerous Confederate Battle Flags left lying on the field directly to the front of the 69th. The 69th was so devastated by casualties and busy tending to its own wounded while also sending Confederate prisoners to the rear that it failed to secure any. Instead members of regiments who came to assist the 69th with the repulse, during a later point of the assault, went to the 69th's front and claimed the flags as prizes. The 69th finished the campaign under the command of Captain William Davis of Co K.

1864-1865
 In January and February 1864, multiple members of the 69th Pennsylvania were transferred to the Invalid Corps by orders of the Adjutant General's Office.

The 69th fought in Grant’s Overland Campaign, again losing heavily. At the Battle of Spotsylvania Court House, Lieutenant Charles McAnally of Company D captured a Confederate battle flag. He was later awarded the Medal of Honor for this act, becoming the only soldier of the 69th so decorated.

After the Battle of Cold Harbor, the 71st Pennsylvania was merged into the 69th. During the Siege of Petersburg, the Philadelphia Brigade was broken up, with the 72nd Pennsylvania mustered out of service and the 106th reduced to a single battalion.