[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Kevin Cassidy

l Championship final, but were defeated. Then he famously went on the lash when Donegal secured a draw against Dublin in their August Bank Holiday Monday All-Ireland quarter-final. Dublin obliterated Donegal in the replay. Nevertheless, Cassidy was awarded an All Star for his performances that year.

The following year, his commitment to the team was called into question again. He made a substitute appearance in the first game of Brian McEniff's last spell as Donegal manager, a league defeat to Galway in Tuam in February 2003. However, with Fermanagh having knocked Donegal out the Ulster Championship, the team entered the All-Ireland Qualifiers, with their first game coming against Longford on a Saturday evening in Ballybofey. Cassidy spent the day before at a wedding in Gweedore. He later recalled:  A Kevin Cassidyless Donegal overcame Longford, and ultimately reached the All-Ireland semi-final where they sustained a narrow loss to Armagh at Croke Park. Cassidy played in that semi-final.

In 2004, Cassidy helped Donegal to reach the Ulster Senior Football Championship Final which they lost, again to Armagh. Their Championship season ended in defeat to Fermanagh.

In 2006, he and Eamon McGee were suspended from the Donegal football panel over a breach of discipline. As a result of his suspension, Cassidy played no part in the 2006 Championship and went to Boston in the United States for the Summer. Cassidy returned to the Donegal team the following year, this time in midfield alongside Neil Gallagher, and went on to play a pivotal role in helping Donegal win the county's first ever National Football League title in 2007. It was the first piece of silverware for the county senior team since 1992. 

Cassidy was named Donegal captain for the 2008 season. He savagely criticised the treatment of Brian McIver as a "disgrace", when the County Board famously forced McIver to resign. He quelled a potential players revolt in 2010.

Cassidy made his 100th appearance for Donegal in Ballyshannon against Laois in the 2010 National Football League; in the ninth minute he began a move that led to a Conall Dunne goal.

Cassidy had announced his intention to retire after Donegal's Championship exit in 2010 but new Donegal manager Jim McGuinness called him into the 2011 Dr McKenna Cup panel. Cassidy went on to help Donegal to their first provincial title in 19 years with the defeat of Derry in the 2011 Ulster Senior Football Championship Final. In the All-Ireland quarter-final against Kildare in Croke Park on 30 July 2011, he scored a long-range winning point in stoppage time at the end of extra-time, a point that sent Donegal on to an All-Ireland semi-final meeting with Dublin. Brian McEniff described it as "one of the greatest ever". This thrilling end to an "extra-time epic" is to this day regarded as "the finish to a sporting contest normally only imagined inside the heads of Hollywood scriptwriters".

Dispute with Jim McGuinness
In November 2011, manager Jim McGuinness dropped Cassidy from the Donegal team after he contributed to a book (This Is Our Year).

He appeared not to understand why this was so.

Cassidy would never play for Donegal again.

In what went down as a "surreal moment for the viewer", Mícheál Ó Domhnaill famously interviewed McGuinness following a live 2012 league game on TG4 while Cassidy, in the role of television analyst, stood beside him with his head bowed. Cassidy later said: 

Cassidy later spent further time in the United States. He watched on from New York as across the Atlantic Ocean his former county teammates defeated Kerry in the All-Ireland quarter-final. He moved onwards to Boston, where he was when his former teammates defeated Cork in the semi-final. Cassidy would later recall that semi-final victory: 

Ahead of the All-Ireland final defeat of Mayo, Cassidy's Gaoth Dobhair and Donegal teammate Neil McGee told the BBC that he thought about Cassidy after every game.

Cassidy described the team's homecoming, with Gaoth Dobhair's GAA pitch located just across from his house: 

He attended the Football Tour of New York in 2012, as the 2011 All Star winners were included.

Cassidy spent time in Chicago in 2013.

In 2018, Cassidy sat down for an interview with the writer of the book This Is Our Year, who told him that an acquaintance at social events often introduces him as "the man who cost Kevin Cassidy a Celtic Cross". Cassidy responded by referring to his Glasgow birth and his soccer heritage:  The writer of the book mentioned that he had suggested to Cassidy to tell McGuinness that "some of those discussions were off the record, blame me and then you wouldn't lose your place" and asked Cassidy, "Why didn't you?" Cassidy said: 

Cassidy admitted he had never read This Is Our Year, though he also did not read McGuinness's autobiography or former Donegal teammate Rory Kavanagh's account of the All-Ireland win, citing a lack of interest rather than any animosity.