[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Tamar (novel)

r grandfather's flat with her mother. Once at the flat, she finds a box lying on her bed labeled Tamar. Inside the box lie many clues leading to her grandfather's past. She takes the box to her distant cousin Yoyo (Johannes van Zant), who decides they should follow the clues and see where they lead.

In the middle of the plot, during Tamar and Yoyo's adventure along the Tamar river, they slowly start to fall in love with each other, despite their age differences. As the novel continues, Tamar and Yoyo explore the river just as Tamar's father happens upon them, "And I couldn't look at him, because I was watching the other man's face and he was watching mine", and invites them into his home. After settling everyone down, Tamar's father begins to unravel the secret he has kept hidden since the day he left Tamar and her mother. He tells Tamar and Yoyo that her supposed grandfather, William Hyde, is not actually her grandfather. Her real grandfather is Tamar (Christaan Boogart), who was killed in World War II by a man named Koop de Vries, and was led to do so by William Hyde, or Dart as he was known during that time. It takes Tamar awhile to take all this in; "I couldn’t imagine how he could have kept all that stuff dammed up inside him all this time without being at least three parts crazy", and she even forgives Hyde. In the epilogue, she ends up marrying Yoyo.

Characters

1995

Tamar Hyde, a fifteen-year-old girl who lives in London in 1995, is the protagonist in the novel. She was named by her grandfather, William Hyde, after her biological grandfather. Her father disappears, and she is practically raised by her grandparents. In the novel she has a very special connection with her grandfather. They do puzzles together, and he sends her coded letters. She remembers many of the clues her grandfather taught her, and uses them in daily life to help figure out problems. Tamar is very critical and analyzing.
Johannes van Zant (Yoyo), a Johannes, or Yoyo to Tamar, a nineteen-year-old young man from the Netherlands, is "[Tamar's] Dutch cousin. Actually, He’s not really called Yoyo, and he isn’t really [Tamar's] cousin ... he is a distant twig on [Tamar's] family tree." Yoyo is described as having "hair the colour of wet straw ... there’s something slightly oriental about his face. He has wide cheekbones and narrow, dark, very shiny eyes."
Jan Hyde, son of Marijke Maartens and (1945) Tamar, abandoned his wife and daughter after learning the truth about his father. Towards the end of the book he is found by his daughter, Tamar, and is telling her why he left. He is depicted as having "a look on his face that [Tamar] recognized. [Tamar had] seen it on the faces of poor crazy homeless people on the streets, the ones who are desperate to tell you their tragic life stories. Dad had the same twist to his mouth, the same determination to get things said."
Sonia Hyde is a character who was abandoned by her husband, Jan. She is Tamar's mother and married to Jan Hyde. In the prologue Jan says, "If I say I like it, [Sonia]'ll probably hate it."

1945