[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Oneida Nation of Wisconsin

be's bingo hall.

In 1988, the Nation sold the first "modern" lottery tickets in the state at their reservation. The state had authorized a state lottery, but it did not begin operations until 1991. The main game offered by the Oneida Nation was Big Green, which began as a pick-6-of-36 jackpot game.

Since that time, the Nation has developed the Ashwaubenon Casino on the reservation for gaming, entertainment, etc. It generates revenues for reinvestment in economic development and welfare. The gaming complex includes related hotel, conference and other facilities. Since developing gaming casinos after 1988, the Oneida tribe has, in a matter of a few decades, gone from being a destitute people to enjoying a fair amount of social prosperity. They have invested a large portion of their profits back into their community, including a sponsorship of the Green Bay Packers.

The issue of Oneida Nation's contributions to the larger community has raised controversy, as has Indian gaming throughout the country. The lottery game Big Green offered on the reservation predates the launch of the statewide Wisconsin Lottery in 1988.

The new wealth generated by the tribe's gaming and other enterprises has enabled the tribe to provide many benefits for its citizens. Oneida members have assistance for dental, medical, and optical insurance and college education. They receive annual per capita payments related to profits from the casino, an amount determined each year.

Many citizens of Green Bay, and many members of the Oneida tribe, have voiced concerns about the potential long-term detrimental effects of relying on casino gaming revenues for the social structure and economy of Green Bay and within the tribe. Similarly, numerous residents have questioned the state's reliance on the Wisconsin Lottery to raise money for state programs. Such systems are considered regressive in terms of tax policy.

In the early 21st century, the Oneida Nation is one of the largest employers in northeastern Wisconsin with over 3,000 employees, including 975 people in tribal government. The Tribe manages more than $16 million in federal and private grant monies, and a wide range of programs, including those authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act.

Notable people

Oscar Archiquette, interviewer for WPA stories and leader in new tribal structure organized in 1930s
Daniel Bread, longtime chief, who helped negotiate the 1838 treaty for reservation and retained common lands for the tribe; in 1870 favored allotment
Charlie Hill, comedian
Laura "Minnie" Cornelius Kellogg (1880-1947), author, orator and activist
Chester Poe Cornelius, (1869-1933), lawyer, scholar and activist
Lillie Rosa Minoka-Hill, Mohawk physician who married an Oneida man in 1905 and treated members of the reservation for decades; she was officially adopted by the Oneida in 1947 to honor her work
Paul Powless, leader who opposed allotment in the 1870s and helped depose Daniel Bread as a chief at that time
Purcell Powless, tribal chairman (1967–1990), led during development of gaming casino
Levi Parker Webster, (1883-1962), athlete
Martin Wheelock, noted football player at the Carlisle Indian School, 1894–1902.
Dennison Wheelock, composer, conductor and cornet soloist of the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
James Riley Wheelock, musician, conductor and clarinet soloist
Roberta Hill Whiteman, poet and assistant professor of American studies, University of Wisconsin
Ernie Stevens Jr, ional spokesperson for the Indian Gaming Association (IGA) in Washington, D.C. Stevens is currently in his ninth two-year term as the organization’s leader, which is a position elected by the member tribes of the Indian Gaming Association.
Milton Dallas Jr, Inventor, Founder & CEO Rx Destroyer Drug Disposal. RxD has a special initiative to help natives all across the US to end drug addiction, overdoses and preserve waters on reservations and Sovern lands.

Communities
Ashwaubenon (part, population 907)
Chicago Corners
Green Bay (part, population 11,306)
Hobart (all, population 5,090)
Howard (part, population 3)
Oneida

Points of interest
Austin Straubel International Airport
Duck Creek Trail

See also
Oneida people
Oneida Indian Nation
Oneida Nation of the Thames
Six Nations of the Grand River

References

Oneida Reservation and Off-Reservation Trust Land, Wisconsin, United States Census Bureau

Further reading
Hauptman, Laurence M. The Iroquois and the New Deal, Syracuse University Press, 1988, pp. 164–176Oneida Lives: Long-Lost Voices of the Wisconsin Oneidas,'' edited by Herbert S. Lewis and L. Gordon McLester, University of Nebraska Press, 2005. (Accounts collected from 1939 to 1942 by the WPA Writers' Project)