[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Adolf Dehn

Gay Head and Menemsha, and joined by his girlfriend at the time, Eileen Lake.

In the early 1930s, Dehn established The Adolf Dehn Print Club and became a founding member of the Associated American Artists. Prints magazine selected Dehn as one of the 10 best printmakers in the United States in 1936.

Dehn earned a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1939, which allowed him to travel to the western United States and Mexico. In the early 40s, he worked as an instructor of etching and lithography at the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center and received a citation from the U.S. treasury department for "Distinguished Service Rendered in Behalf of War Savings Program."

Dehn started executing watercolors in late 1936, admitting he had "been afraid of color" in the first decades of his career. He rose to the top tier of American watercolorists in short order, seen in a feature article on his landscape watercolors in Life magazine (August, 1941) and a traveling show organized by the Museum of Modern Art, "Four American Water Colorists" (1943–44) in which eleven Dehn watercolors were joined with the works of Winslow Homer, John Singer Sargent, and Charles Burchfield. Dehn's watercolors were described to have a "homely poetry with a modern sensitiveness." Watercolor painting and casein painting represented signature second and third arms of Dehn's artistic output for the rest of his career.

In 1944, Dehn met Virginia Engleman, who was working in the Associated American Artists printshop. The couple married in 1947 and enjoyed an artistic collaboration for the rest of his life. In the 1940s, Dehn began to sell more lithographs and to teach other American artists lithography techniques. In 1947 he joined the Society of American Graphic Artists, exhibiting his lithograph, Lake in Central Park, in the 32nd Annual Exhibition for $5.00. Dehn published his first book, titled Water Color Painting, in 1945. As he became more widely recognized and financially successful, he was able to travel extensively. As well as visiting and painting Key West and the southwestern region of the United States, he went to Venezuela, Cuba, Haiti, Afghanistan and other areas of the world. The wide range of subject matter found in his prints, drawings, and paintings reflects his travels. He was awarded a second Guggenheim Fellowship in 1951.

In 1961, Dehn was elected as a full academician to the National Academy of Design, and in 1965 he was elected as a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters. He visited Paris for the last time in 1967, where he worked at the Atelier Desjobert.

Dehn died in New York City on May 19, 1968, after suffering a heart attack.  He is remembered as a prolific artist of great range. His works are held in over 100 museums (including the National Gallery of Art, National Portrait Gallery, Metropolitan Museum, Museum of Modern Art, and Whitney Museum of American Art); over 25 museums hold extensive collections of his output. Many prominent galleries represented Dehn as his fame grew, and posthumously, among them Harmon-Meek Gallery and Thomas French Fine Art.

Works

Paintings and drawings 
Dehn had a distinct style of illustration and painting. His drawings of this period exhibit freedom in line and form along with social satire. Dehn's landscapes suggest the grandeur of nature, and a signature element in them for which Dehn was praised was the magnificence of his clouds.

Prints 
Many of Dehn's prints are made using tusche, a liquid lithographic medium which allows for fluid effects. He has been called the "Debussy of American lithography" and "Dean of American lithography" by printmaking experts Clinton Adams and Philadelphia Museum of Art's Prints and Drawings curator, Carl Zigrosser. With his art Dehn introduced new techniques that had never before been used in lithography, and was praised as one of the world's leading printmakers.

Additional works and photos 
In an artist statement he wrote for an exhibit at St. Olaf College in Minnesota, Dehn said, "My paintings are my statement. What I have to offer as a painter is direct and simple and words are necessary to a greater understanding or enjoyment of them."

Collections 
Selected museum and other institutional collections holding Adolf Dehn paintings and/or prints as part of their permanent collections include the following.

Exhibition history 
Adolf Dehn exhibitions, 1915–2021:

Sources