[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Via Giulia

mportance were the façade of San Giovanni dei Fiorentini, by Alessandro Galilei, the church of Santa Maria dell'Orazione e Morte, by Ferdinando Fuga,
and the two small churches of San Filippo Neri and San Biagio della Pagnotta, rebuilt respectively by Filippo Raguzzini and Giovanni Antonio Perfetti.

In this period too the Via Giulia was famous as a venue for parties and entertainment for the common people: in 1720 the Sienese held a festival to celebrate the promotion of Marc'Antonio Zondadari to Grand Master of the Order of Malta; Fireworks were set off near the Fontanone di Ponte Sisto; two triumphal arches were raised above the street, one near Santo Spirito and the other near Palazzo Farnese; and the Fountain of the Mascherone poured wine for the people instead of water.

Under Pope Clement XI's () rule, the beggars housed in the Ospizio dei Mendicanti were transferred to the San Michele a Ripa. The building was afterwards occupied by both poor unmarried girls (zitelle in the Romanesco dialect) and a congregation made up of 100 priests and 20 clerics; the latter prayed for the souls of deceased priests. As such, the building was nicknamed the Ospizio dei cento preti ("Hospice of the Hundred Priests").

In the nineteenth century, in accordance with the process of degradation of the building heritage that affected the whole city, Via Giulia underwent a myriad of interventions of superfetation, superelevation, and occupation of the free spaces. In this period only a few new buildings or restoration projects were realised: among them were the youth prison (Palazzo del Gonfalone) (1825–27), the renovation of the Armenian Hospice next to the church of San Biagio (1830), the new façade of the Santo Spirito dei Napoletani (1853), and the Collegio Spagnuolo (1853) by Pietro Camporese and Antonio Sarti, which is the only building of architectonic quality among them. However, this did not stop the general decline of the street that started in the middle of the 18th century. The nobility abandoned the palaces on the street to move to the new centre of urban life in the Campo Marzio plain, and in their place the road hosted artisans, assuming an aspect of abandonment and survival.

Via Giulia since 1870
After Rome became the capital of the Kingdom of Italy in 1870, the Tiber (known for flooding, particularly in Campus Martius plain) had its banks worked on in 1873 by constructing Lungoteveres, which since 1888 were erected along the road and required the church of Sant'Anna dei Bresciani to be torn down. The Lungoteveres completely cut off Via Giulia from the Tiber  and prevented the loggias and gardens of the palaces facing the river, such as the Palazzi Medici-Clarelli, Sacchetti, Varese, and Falconieri from having a view of the river. Moreover, the Fontanone of Ponte Sisto was demolished together with the Beggars' Hospice in 1879 and rebuilt in 1898 on the opposite side of the Ponte Sisto in what is now Piazza Trilussa.

During the fascist period, in 1938 Benito Mussolini ordered the construction of a wide avenue between Ponte Mazzini and the Chiesa Nuova. Because of that, significant building demolitions (including that of the palazzi Ruggia and Planca Incoronati and of Piazza Padella) took place in the central section of Via Giulia between Via della Barchetta and Vicolo delle Prigioni. The project was stopped because of the beginning of  World War II, and to this day the resulting empty plot has only been partially filled by the new building of the Liceo Classico Virgilio.

Starting with the post-war years, the street regained gradually its status as one of the most prestigious streets in the city.
Numerous events took place in 2008 during its 500th anniversary; some churches and palaces were restored and opened to visitors.

Landmarks on Via Giulia
Via Giulia extends northwest for about one kilometre from the Piazza San Vincenzo Pallotti on the Ponte Sisto to the Piazza dell'Oro in front of the church of San Giovanni dei Fiorentini. 

1 Palazzina Pateras Pescara (Via Giulia 251)
This last building in Via Giulia was built in 1924 by Marcello Piacentini on behalf of the Avvocato Pateras. Today it houses the Consulate of the French Republic in Rome.

2 Fontana del Mascherone
The fountain diagonally opposite Palazzo Farnese was built around 1626 by Carlo Rainaldi and paid for by the Farnese. It was planned in 1570 to be a public fountain fed by the Aqua Virgo aqueduct to supply people with clean drinking water. However, installation was only possible after Paul V ordered the water pipe to be extended over the Ponte Sisto in 1612. The fountain consists of an ancient large marble mascaron ("Mascherone") on a background with volutes in marble, crowned by the symbol of the Farnese, a metal Fleur-de-lis. The fountain was moved against the wall in 1903, losing most of its charm. The poet Wilhelm Waiblinger died in 1830 in the house opposite to it.

3 Palazzo Farnese (Via Giulia 186)