[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Model Town, Lahore

(LDA). These blocks were named "Model Town Extension" when Model Town Society sold this land to LDA in return for developmental works.

The breakdown of the total area is as follows:

 Residential:  = 56%
 Commercial:  = 2%
 Roads:  = 19%
 Nurseries and playgrounds:  = 4%
 Green area (parks):  = 19%

The total population of Model Town is about 100,000. Model Town Society is a unique housing area in its design and is considered a posh locality of the town. Each block has its own market, playground, mosque, triangular parks, etc., which is a rare phenomenon as compared to other housing schemes.

Model Town then and now 
Following the economic liberalization of Pakistan in the post-9/11 era, Model Town has benefited from the remarkable increment of social elites in Lahore. Not too long ago, Model Town was regarded as the establishment's residential dead zone.

Taxis and rickshaws were reluctant to come to Model Town due to its distance from the main city, and many social elites dubbed the development "out of Lahore", given its distance from the heart of the city. However, since the 1980s, Model Town has become a cultural center for Lahore's growing socioeconomic elite, many of whom view a Model Town address as a vehicle for upward mobility in socially rigid Pakistan.

During the regime of President General Zia-ul-Haq, General Jilani (then Martial Governor of the Punjab) took extensive interest in rehabilitating Model Town, which had fallen into obscurity following the exodus of Lahore's non-Muslim elites after partition. An initiative to refurbish the image of Model Town to its former glory in colonial days was launched in the early 1980s.

Electric supply lines were relaid, street lights & sewage system installed, roads improved, and central Model Town park was developed per the original plan from the 1920s. Further modernization, renovation of gardens and the influx of large numbers of upper and upper-middle class Lahoris helped redefine the rundown development's image and status.

Many architects, developers, and town planners regard Model Town as the best place to live in the entire city of Lahore. The ex-Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif maintains a home and holds an office in the society, while former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto is said to have maintained a home here. Hamza Shahbaz Sharif, MNA and son of Chief Minister Punjab Shahbaz Sharif, Mian Mohammad Shafi (meem-sheen) a senior journalist and many other MNAs, MPAs and bureaucrats also reside in the area. Several national sports personalities like Wasim Akram, Rameez Raja, Ijaz Ahmed and Aisam-ul-Haq Qureshi live or used to live in Model Town. Other notable personalities who have lived in Model Town include the writer, intellectual and spiritualist Ashfaq Ahmed; left-wing intellectual and revolutionary poet Faiz Ahmad Faiz; Intellectualist and Dramatist Naeem Tahir and his wife, Broadcaster Yasmeen Tahir; Legendary writer and first woman pilot Hijab Imtiaz Ali; Pakistani poet who wrote the lyrics for the National Anthem of Pakistan, Abu Al-Asar Hafeez Jullundhri; secular veteran journalist, syndicated columnist and political analyst Hassan Nisar; Pakistani educationist, entrepreneur and former Mayor (Nazim) of Lahore Mian Amer Mahmood; singer par excellence Malika Pukhraj; Pakistani musician and Qawwali singer, considered one of the greatest singers ever recorded, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan; Urdu satirical and humor writer Mushtaq Ahmad Yusufi; and playwright, actor and professor Shoaib Hashmi, along with his wife, the artist, cultural writer, painter and eldest daughter of Faiz Ahmad Faiz, Salima Hashmi. Another very famous name in this town is of Bhatti Photographers, who are renowned for their wedding photography and portraits all over Pakistan.

Model Town is serviced by every major bank in Pakistan, several major retail chains, and is home to a growing Lahore intellectual elite. Major department stores include Metro (previously MAKRO), Pace, Raja Sahib and Victoria Store. The associated Link Road is very famous in Lahore, for its variety of shopping centers and now a newly built Amanah Mall beside McDonalds.

Model Town Park