[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Switzerland–European Union relations

has also been established in the area of international sanctions. As of 2006, Switzerland has adopted five EU sanctions that were instituted outside of the United Nations. Those affected the former Republic of Yugoslavia (1998), Myanmar (2000), Zimbabwe (2002), Uzbekistan (2006) and Belarus (2006).

Use of the euro in Switzerland
The currency of Switzerland is the Swiss franc. Switzerland (with Liechtenstein) is in the unusual position of being surrounded by countries that use the euro. As a result, the euro is de facto accepted in many places, especially near borders and in tourist regions. Swiss Federal Railways accept euros, both at ticket counters and in automatic ticket machines. Also many public phones, vending machines or ticket machines accept euro coins. Many shops and smaller businesses that accept euros take notes only, and give change in Swiss francs, usually at a less favourable exchange rate than banks. Many bank cash machines issue euros at the traded exchange rate as well as Swiss francs.

On 6 September 2011, the Swiss franc effectively became fixed against the euro: the Franc had always floated independently until its rapid currency appreciation during the eurozone debt crisis. The Swiss National Bank set an CHF/EUR peg that involved a minimum exchange rate of 1.20 francs to the euro, with no upper bound in place. The Bank committed to maintaining this exchange rate to ensure stability. The peg was abandoned on 15 January 2015, when renewed upward pressure on the Swiss franc exceeded the Bank's level of tolerance.

Diplomatic relations between Switzerland and EU member states

See also
Enlargement of the European Union 
Potential enlargement of the European Union
Enlargement of Switzerland
Liechtenstein–Switzerland relations
Foreign relations of Switzerland
German immigration to Switzerland
Italian immigration to Switzerland
Schengen Area
Borders with EU members
Austria–Switzerland border
France–Switzerland border
Germany–Switzerland border
Italy–Switzerland border

Notes

References

 
Third-country relations of the European Union