[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 5]
# Mercury Fur

e to watch online.Behind the Eyes also displayed artwork inspired by the play with a large mural of a shark (which was also utilised as the production's scenic backdrop) and Ridley himself collaborated by exhibiting a series of photographic portraits he had created of the cast.

Critical reappraisal

In 2012 the play was arguably critically reassessed when revived by The Greenhouse Theatre Company, with the production receiving extremely positive reviews and even marketed as "Ridley’s Masterpiece", a statement which was also made by critic Aleks Sierz and A Younger Theatre reviewer Jack Orr.

The play also drew attention for its relevance in the aftermath of the 2011 England Riots with the production's online trailer using dialogue from the play over footage from the riots.

New monologues

For the 2012 production, Ridley wrote four individual new monologues for the characters Elliot, Naz, Lola and Darren which were filmed and put on The Greenhouse Theatre Company's YouTube channel to promote the play transferring to the West End.Greenhouse Theatre Company's YouTube webpage, featuring all four monologues and the production trailer

Legacy and influence
On seeing the original production, dramaturg and theatre director Lisa Goldman described the play as "one of the greatest theatre experiences of my life" which led to her commissioning and directing Ridley's next two plays Leaves of Glass and Piranha Heights.

Mark Ravenhill (a playwright who is generally recognised for his 1996 in-yer-face play Shopping and Fucking) named Mercury Fur as "the best play" he had seen in 2005.

The playwright Lou Ramsden has described the play as a major influence on her work, stating that "nothing changed my theatrical outlook quite like [the] first production of Mercury Fur at the Menier Chocolate factory… It showed me that I could do more than just picture a stage – I could use the circumstances of the theatre as well. The fact that the audience were in an inescapable black box served to ramp up the tension of the play, to unbearable levels... My heart literally pounded. I was thrilled by the revelation that theatre could be more than just an exercise in language, or a nice, polite, passively watched story – it could elicit a physical reaction, giving people a horrifyingly visceral roller-coaster ride." Ramsden has cited how this experience of hers informed the writing of her 2010 play Breed and her 2011 play Hundreds and Thousands.
 
Ridley has described Mercury Fur as a turning point in his career as a playwright: "After Mercury Fur, the work reinvented itself. It was as if people saw [my plays] for the first time. A whole new generation of younger directors came along – and they all just got it. In the past, I had to go into rehearsals [of my plays] and explain what I was doing. Then it was as if somebody flicked a switch and suddenly that changed."

Plays that critics believe have been influenced by or bear homage to Mercury Fur include:
 (2006) Motortown by Simon Stephens
 (2011) Three Kingdoms by Simon Stephens
 (2014) Hotel by Polly Stenham
 (2014) The Wolf from the Door by Rory Mullarkey

ProductionsMercury Fur'' has been performed worldwide in countries such as Australia, France, Italy, Malta, Turkey, the Czech Republic, the United States and Japan.

See also
 Vurt
 Blasted 
 In-yer-face theatre

Further reading

References

External links 
2005 Interview with Philip Ridley for The Guardian on the controversy Mercury Fur created before its premiere   
Audio interview from 2005 of Philip Ridley defending Mercury Fur on Theatre VOICE 
2007 Interview with Philip Ridley for the Sydney Morning Herald
Audio interview with Theatre VOICE from 2012 of Ned Bennet on directing the 2012 revival of Mercury Fur
Edited transcript of a post show Q&A with Philip Ridley and the cast of the 2012 London revival of Mercury Fur 
Audio recording of a post show Q&A with Philip Ridley after Middle Child's 2015 production of Mercury Fur in Hull

Plays by Philip Ridley
2005 plays
Dystopian literature
Theatre about drugs
Post-apocalyptic fiction
Science fiction theatre
Transgender-related theatre
Plays set in London