[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Old Town Chinatown

ve. to NW 3rd Ave., was designated in 1989 the Portland New Chinatown/Japantown Historic District.

Major organizations based in Chinatown include the Port of Portland, Oregon Department of Transportation's Portland offices and NW Natural Gas. There is also a parking structure with a helipad on top.

In a step towards revitalization of the area, the Lan Su Chinese Garden opened September 14, 2000. The $12.8 million park covers an entire city block and was built by 65 artisans from Suzhou, China of imported materials (though all plants were grown locally). More recently, NW 3rd and 4th Avenues received streetscape improvements, including plaques describing historical features. Two block-long "festival streets" that can easily be used for street festivals were also created between these streets. In 2008, Uwajimaya anchored a redevelopment proposal, similar to the Uwajimaya Village in Seattle's Chinatown-International District. It would host the store, an underground parking garage, mixed-income apartments, and other small retailers. It was hoped to revitalize the area and bring in more tourists.
In August 2011, Uwajimaya decided not to put a store in Chinatown because its stores in downtown Seattle and Renton, Washington are not meeting their potentials.

Japantown history

Prior to World War II, the area that is today called Chinatown was Portland's Japantown. Beginning in the 1890s, many Japanese immigrants were processed through Portland, creating a demand for hotels, bathhouses, and other services. Businesses that formed in the city's Japantown thrived in the low-rent areas near the river. Before World War II, the Japantown in the Northwest District was home to more than 100 businesses, and was Oregon's largest Japantown. Today the Japanese American Historical Plaza and the Oregon Nikkei Legacy Center in what is today Portland's Chinatown serve as reminders of what was once Portland's Japantown.

Translation of street names 
The street signs in Chinatown are both English and Chinese. The Chinese on the signs is written in traditional characters, and its pronunciation is Cantonese (using Jyutping romanization).
 W Burnside Street —  — 
 NW Couch Street —  — 
 NW Davis Street —  — 
 NW Everett Street —  — 
 NW Fifth Avenue —  — 
 NW Flanders Street —  — 
 NW Fourth Avenue —  — 
 NW Glisan Street —  — 
 NW Third Avenue —  —

See also
 Pensole

References

External links

 Old Town/Chinatown information from Old Town Chinatown Neighborhood Association
 Self-Guided Walking Tour of Portland's Chinatown from Travel Portland
 National Historic Landmark Nomination for Skidmore/Old Town Historic District
 Portland's Chinatown History and Resources from Friends of Portland Chinatown
Old Town-Chinatown Street Tree Inventory Report

1975 establishments in Oregon
Portland, Oregon
Neighborhoods in Portland, Oregon
Northwest Portland, Oregon
 
Southwest Portland, Oregon
Tourist attractions in Portland, Oregon
Chinese-American culture in Portland, Oregon