[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Alois Lexa von Aehrenthal

speculation to that effect, expecting it would paralyze the Balkan states. Instead, it incited them to feverish activity to create a defensive block to stop Austria-Hungary. A series of grave miscalculations at the highest level thus significantly strengthened Austria-Hungary's enemies.

Pan-Slavism

For Aehrenthal, a German and a staunch monarchist, there was a direct threat in the Pan-Slav emergent nationalism of the kind that a consolidated Yugo (south) Slav Confederation led by Serbia represented. The gradual consolidation of the Yugo-Slavs (in the name of the 'new centuries' idea of national self-determination for all ethnic/racial/religious groups) led by Serbia was a deadly threat to Aehrenthal’s Austria-Hungary. For Aehrenthal, Moravia, Bohemia, and Silesia were the crown lands of his Ost-Mark German nobility, which ruled over a host of emergent Slav and Pan-Slav ethnicities: Pole, Czech, Ruthenian, Slovakian, and Ukrainian. In Serbia’s consolidation of Bosnia-Herzegovina into herself, there was the clear roadmap to the dissolution of most of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. More importantly, this Pan-Slav self-determinant nationalism pointed the way to the loss of the defendable military, political, and economic boundaries of the empire. Aehrenthal’s Hungarian noble half saw an equally strong threat with the loss of Hungary's historic Slavic provinces should Pan-Slavist ideology take root. It would equally threaten its military security and economic future. Aehrenthal moved quickly, faster than Izvolsky. He acted on 3 October 1908 under the premise that Austria-Hungary was taking control of Bosnia-Herzogovina so that the people there could enjoy the benefits of the empire as a reward for economic advancement since first being administered back in 1878. A seething Serbia could hardly believe this action and demanded Russian intervention. This left Izvolsky holding the bag. He announced his plans for the free passage of Russian warships though the Turkish straits but was shot down by every other signatory to the treaty, especially Britain. The British said they would consider opening up the straits to all warships but would not limit it to Russian ships alone. This is hardly what Izvolsky had in mind since this had the potential of letting belligerent ships into the Black Sea. Germany at first viewed the whole tangle with disdain, taking the Turkish side. The Kaiser had been working on strengthening relations with Turkey and, now with the chance of Ottoman recovery, he wished to stay this course.

As the crisis continued, the Kaiser was forced from the diplomatic scene by the Daily Telegraph Affair and no longer was a major decision maker. Events reached a fever pitch when, in early November, the Royal Serbian Army mobilized. Germany now took the Austro-Hungarian side stating it would stick by its ally. Russia, wishing to support Serbia, but not really ready for war with Germany and Austria-Hungary was forced to back away when the Austrians threatened to publish the details of the agreement between Aehrenthal and Izvolsky and Germany sent a vaguely-worded threat to Izvolsky, stating they would "let things take their course." The fact that she had betrayed her Slav ally beforehand was not a fact that Russia wished widely publicized. Izvolsky remained at his post for three more years but his reputation was ruined beyond repair. The Russians backed down and urged Serbia to do likewise, which she did and declared publicly that the annexation was none of her business. War was averted for the time being, but the results were a bitter Russia and an enraged Serbia. Russia vowed, if ever confronted in this manner again, that she would not back down - a vow that would be kept in a few years.

Family
In 1902, Aehrenthal married Pauline, Countess Széchényi de Sárvár-Felsővidék (1871-1945) and had:

 Countess Caroline Marie Antoinette Henriette Luise Lexa von Aehrenthal (b. 1904), never married
 Count Johann Maria Felix Anton Carl Lexa von Aehrenthal (1905-1972), married Countess Ernestine von Harrach zu Rohrau und Thannhausen (1903-1990) and had issue
 Countess Elisabeth Maria Josefa Antoinette Aloysia Lexa von Aehrenthal (1909-1971), married Count Josef Zdenko von Thun und Hohenstein (1907-1976), had no issue

Death
In 1912, Count Alois suddenly died of leukemia.

Honours
National orders and decorations
 Knight of the Iron Crown, 3rd Class, 1882
 Grand Cross of the Order of Franz Joseph, 1896
 Jubilee Medal for Civil State Servants (1898)
 Grand Cross of the Imperial Order of Leopold, 1905
 Grand Cross of St. Stephen, 1908
 Court Jubilee Cross (1908)
 Marian Cross of the Teutonic Order
 Grand Cross of Honour and Devotion of the Austrian Order of Malta

Foreign orders and decorations