[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Nishad

try of the village. Since the pig were anathema for the Muslims, they didn't dare to enter these villages. He also rode up and down at the entry of his village and fought Mughal soldiers. Consequently, some of the Mallahs started worshipping him as their family god.

Classification as Criminal Tribe

The association with the term Nishad had a positive connotation for various boatmen and fishermen caste who attempted to get registered as Nishad in 1921 census. This Sanskritizing attempt couldn't rule out the criminal reputation of Mallah and other water centric communities which formed the basis for classification in colonial census. The British authorities developed two sets of rule or categories to classify various caste groups, first being those of martial race and other one being Criminal Tribes Act. According to Metcalf, the census exercise further rigidified the caste status and caste mobility was made unchangeable. The classification of some of the low caste (who were considered as uncivil) in one of the aforementioned category could lead to exclusion of whole community from government jobs including military, police and administrative services. In census 1931, Mallah and its subcaste were tabulated as recalcitrant and people in need of domestication. The diverse occupations of the sub-castes of Nishad community were standardized and they were perceived as people thriving on boating and fishing only.

The process of equating caste with occupation was though considered as misleading now, as by the late 19th century the Mallah and its sub-castes were moving towards cities and were getting employed as labourers in the burgeoning weaving industry. But, this distinction between caste and occupation hardly changed the stance of the authorities, for whom Mallah were already perceived as criminals. According to Bernstein who documented the introduction of steamboat on the Ganges, the control of river's navigational route was very important for the British colonizers for transport of raw materials and revenue proceeds from the countrysides to urban centres. The classification as Criminal Tribes helped them to track the movement of these boatmen who were made to produce a detail of their caste, patrilineal descent, and residence or else were made to pay fine.

For the purpose of having a seamless river transport system to fulfill their commercial motives, the British recruited a number of boatman who were placed at important spots along the rivers. This policy had both social and economic implication for the Nishad community members who would leave their homes for long period of time to work under East India Company as wage labourers, transporting their riches.

Retriever of corpses
Mallah all across Ganges are known for their capabilities of diving deep underwater for an extended period of time. This ability is used up by the regional authorities of many river front cities who use them as retriever of corpses. The unique capability  to hold the breath for a long period of time in search of coins inside the rivers (throwing coin in river is considered as a popular belief in  Hinduism) makes them capable to perform this arduous task perfectly. The "diving for coins" is not considered as legal occupation by the states which leads to harassment of people involved in it by the authorities. As a response to it at many places like Raj Ghat in Varanasi the "coin divers" have set up formal association with organizational structure to protect themselves from being harassed. The underwater capabilities of these people are often used in dangerous resque missions. The Mallah also prefer Alcoholism which they claim as the best way to keep their body temperature stable inside the water and keeping themselves psychologically prepared for the extreme situations.

Changing colonial perception

In the recent years, due to frequent contact with the politicians and journalists, the boatmen community has increasingly become aware of the problem of river pollution and challenges to biodiversity of the Ganges due to contamination by point and non point sources. Various organizations affiliated with the Nishad community are now engaged in awareness generation for the conservation of riverine ecosystem. The organisation such as Rashtriya Nishad Jagran Mahasabha have released pamphlets declaring the Nishad community as the protector of sacred water bodies. These magazines and pamphlets have helped to arise consciousness among the water centric communities to come forward for the cause of environment by invoking caste solidarity. The slogans raised by these caste associations like: