[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# LGBT rights in Belgium

r the removal of gender from compulsory registration. The De Croo Government has agreed to amend the current law. Their 2020 coalition agreement states that "legislation will be amended in accordance with the ruling of the Constitutional Court. The further implications of that will be investigated."

In order to change legal sex, an adult person has to file an application with a statement that their legal sex is not corresponding with their gender identity. No surgery or other medical or psychological treatment or opinion is required. After filing an application, the applying person will be informed about the legal consequences of a requested change. The applicant has to renew their intent to have their legal sex changed within three months of application and to declare that they are aware of the legal consequences of a change. Minors between 12 and 16 have the possibility to change their first name, but not sex. Minors aged 16 and 17 have the possibility to apply for a sex change with parental consent and a psychological opinion confirming that their decision has been taken freely and without any outside pressure.

According to the National Register, 727 transgender Belgians changed their legal gender under the new law in 2018.

Many Belgian hospitals, the Ghent University Hospital (UZ Gent) among them, are known for their specialisation in sex reassignment surgery. Many French transgender people go there due to a lack of accepting hospitals in France.

Intersex rights
Intersex infants in Belgium may undergo medical interventions to have their sex characteristics altered. Human rights groups increasingly consider these surgeries unnecessary and, they argue, should only be performed if the applicant consents to the operation. In February 2019, the UN Committee on the Rights of the Child recommended Belgium to ban these surgeries and provide intersex infants and their parents counseling and support.

The first intersex organization in Flanders, , was officially registered in August 2019.

Military service

LGBT people are free to serve openly in the Belgian Armed Forces.

Health and blood donation
In Belgium, as in many other countries, men who have sex with men (MSM) were previously not allowed to donate blood. In 2017, the blanket ban was repealed and replaced with a one-year deferral period. In 2016, Health Minister Maggie De Block promised to re-evaluate the law using the newest scientific discoveries. In November 2016, she announced the ban would be amended in 2017, making it possible for gay and bisexual men to donate blood after a year of abstinence from sex. Regulations to this effect were approved on 28 April 2017 by the Council of Ministers. On 1 July 2023, the deferral period was shortened to 4 months.

In June 2019, the Flemish Red Cross announced it was banning transgender people from donating blood in Flanders. Following consultations with health and LGBT groups, it reversed course and lifted the ban on 30 September 2019. Transgender people can donate subject to a three-month deferral period after starting hormonal therapy and a 4-month deferral period after having sex with a new partner or a 12-month deferral after the last sexual encounter with people considered to be of high-risk of having STDs, such as swingers and MSM.

In 2019, LGBT groups, financed by the Flemish Ministry of Health, launched an LGBT suicide prevention project called lumi.be, and a specific transgender suicide prevention website called gendervonk.be.

Living conditions
LGBT people are generally well socially accepted in Belgium. There is a strong gay community, with numerous gay clubs, bars, venues and events. A 2006 European Union member poll showed that 62% of Belgians supported the legalisation of same-sex marriage in the whole of Europe. The 2015 Eurobarometer found that 77% of Belgians thought that same-sex marriage should be allowed throughout Europe, 20% were against.

The 2019 Eurobarometer showed that 84% of Belgians believed gay and bisexual people should enjoy the same rights as heterosexual people, and 82% supported same-sex marriage.

Politics