[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Adam Carter

took off by the end of the last series, and wanted to see which direction he would go to next. The crew wanted Adam to go from a "happy-go-lucky" figure to wanting him to deal with things that would make it hard for Adam to be jokey towards the end of the fourth series; this involved Fiona's death.

Before the sixth series finale aired in December 2007, it was announced that Rupert Penry-Jones would leave the series sometime in series seven. He wanted to leave the series as he felt the character had run its course, as well as wanting to explore other venues. He also stated that working in Spooks was "great," but felt he was "getting to the point where I needed to move on." Before the seventh series aired, Penry-Jones revealed his character would leave in what he believed was "one of the best" Spooks exits. He found that his last days on Spooks was generally upsetting and "welled up" on his final day. Penry-Jones did not envisage lasting as long as he did, because he believed the series would not last as long as it has.

Reception

Rupert Penry-Jones noted that the initial fan reaction towards Adam Carter was negative, "because Matthew [Macfadyen] was so successful and loved." It took a while for fans to accept him. Penry-Jones also felt that his role in Spooks, "definitely took my profile up several notches." In the "best of drama" viewer polls at BBC Online, Penry-Jones was voted third in the "Best Actor" category, beating co-stars Matthew Macfadyen, who was fifth, David Oyelowo, who was seventh, and Peter Firth, who was tenth. He was later voted fifth in 2005, and ninth in 2006.

In a DVD review of the third series of Spooks, Michael Mackenzie of Home Cinema had mixed views of Adam's introduction, stating "despite ardent protests from both cast and crew, Tom and Adam are almost exactly the same character." In the fifth series, Mackenzie felt more open towards Adam, stating Adam Carter "isn't exactly James Bond [...] he doesn't jet around the world, bedding multiple women and engaging in fisticuffs atop precarious construction rigs, but he does rush around London with a gun in his hand and occasionally ends up on the receiving end of the odd beating." David Blackwell of Enterline Media was receptive of Adam in the fourth series, as he felt Adam became "more fleshed out and interesting." However, Blackwell was critical of Adam's role in the following fifth series, stating it is "too much" about him.

Fans and critics alike displayed shock towards the character's death in the first episode of the seventh series. Fans voted Adam's death as the fourth most shocking death scene in the series. The Radio Times stated the shock factor of his death was "spectacular" and said that "driving a primed car bomb to a safe place is so run-of-the-mill for the spooks they wouldn't normally break a sweat. This time, however, it went off. Me-Me-Me.tv has said that Adam's death was "bound to happen" and stated "just when we've formed a deep, meaningful and totally healthy relationship with the lead gentleman [...] they go and blow him up", adding "It's just not fair." The Times's Hilary Rose noted that fans will remember Adam's "dramatic exit", and said that "the nation's women duly went into mourning", regarding that "pretty much every woman with a pulse seems to fancy Rupert." She then noted that some would find "consolation in the shape of new Spooks totty Richard Armitage."

In 2008, Rupert Penry-Jones won a Crime Thriller Award for "Best Actor" for his portrayal as Adam Carter. Penry-Jones won the award against Ashes to Ashes' Philip Glenister, Midnight Man and Murphy's Law's James Nesbitt, The Wire Dominic West, and Criminal Justice's Ben Whishaw. In the same ceremony, co-star Hermione Norris won "Best Actress".

References

External links
Adam Carter personnel file at BBC.co.uk

Television characters introduced in 2004
Fictional British secret agents
Fictional murderers
Fictional people from London
Fictional secret agents and spies in television
Spooks (TV series) characters