[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Directives for military officers and military commanders in the event of an armed attack on Norway

ially successful or successful invasion, engage in both espionage and sabotage.  
In the event of capture, provide no information to the enemy while a prisoner of war.

The directive consists of four sections, which are summarized below:

Definitions

Directives that applies to all officers and NCOs

Special directives for commanding officers

Miscellaneous

Translation
"Definitions

1) In this directive, the meaning of military befalingsmann is any befalingsmann with rank above sergeant, kvartermester and likewise and above, without regard to if he is salaried, conscripted, unpaid or commandeered."

Mention in legend 
The directive has only been close to implementation once.  On 3 June 1968, the Leningrad Military District in the former Soviet Union was placed on alert. Within a couple of days the mobilized forces in the Leningrad region reached 11,000 soldiers, 4,000 marines,  210 tanks, 500 troop transports, 265 self-propelled cannons, 1,300 logistics transports, 50 helicopters, and 20 transport aircraft (Antonov An-12), all of which were staged in the Petchenga-Murmansk area near Norway.

On the evening of 7 June, the garrison (Garnisonen i Sør-Varanger or GSV) heard the noise of powerful engines coming from the manoeuvres along the entire Soviet front of the Norwegian-Soviet border. Actual observations were not possible over the border in the dark. On that same night, the GSV commanding officer ordered all GSV reserve forces to report to their emergency muster locations.

At daybreak the impressive strength of the Soviet forces staged along the entire border became visible. The GSV commanding officer called the ministry for instructions. Although unrecorded, the conversation (perhaps apocryphal) is said to have been as follows: 
Commanding officer of GSV: What shall I do when the Soviet forces cross the border?
Minister of Defence: Have you read the poster on the wall?
Commanding officer of GSV:  Yes
Minister of Defence: Then you know the correct action once the Soviet forces cross the border.
Commanding officer of GSV: Yes Mr. Minister, it means war.

The Soviet demonstration of strength lasted until 10 June, when the Soviet forces stood down.

Notes

References
Kgl. res. 10. juni 1949: Direktiver for militære befalingsmenn og militære sjefer ved væpnet andrep på Norge 
Det grenseløse vannet

Military of Norway
Military history of Norway
Military history of Norway during World War II
1949 in Norway
1949 documents