[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# David Bridges

leg of the semi-final. His season was cut short when he suffered an injury in a 1–1 draw against Oxford United at Broadhall Way, a game in which he scored Stevenage's goal, but ultimately missed the rest of the season. Bridges made 19 appearances during the club's 2008–09 season, scoring six times.

Bridges returned from injury at the start of the 2009–10 season, starting in a 0–0 draw against Barrow at Holker Street on 15 August 2009. He scored his first goal of the season in a 2–0 victory over Ebbsfleet United on 12 December 2009, and followed this up by scoring twice against Vauxhall Motors in the FA Trophy. He scored his eighth goal that season in a 1–0 victory over York City, the final league match of the club's 2009–10 season, as Stevenage earned promotion as Conference Premier champions. Bridges played 38 times during the season, scoring eight goals from midfield. He missed the first three games of the 2010–11 season as a result of the red card he received in the FA Trophy 2010 FA Trophy Final. He made his first appearance of the 2010–11 season in Stevenage's 1–1 draw away to Aldershot Town, coming on as a 38th-minute substitute. He suffered an ankle injury in training that ruled him out of first-team action for a month, returning to the first-team as a second-half substitute in Stevenage's 2–0 home defeat to Wycombe Wanderers, but admitted he was "not fully fit". He scored his only goal of the season in Stevenage's 3–1 away victory against Port Vale on 22 February 2011. Bridges played 24 games in all competitions, helping Stevenage earn promotion to League One in their first Football League season.

Return to Kettering
Bridges re-joined Conference Premier club Kettering Town on 1 August 2011, signing a two-year deal with the club. He joined Kettering on a free transfer, having been out of contract at Stevenage – "I got injured at the back end of last season and I was out of contract and because of all the deals that needed to be sorted at Stevenage, I wasn't a priority and I had to wait. There comes a time when you can't wait any longer and I needed to sort my future out so here we are". Bridges made his Kettering Town debut in a 2–0 away win at Lincoln City on 10 September 2011, the club's first away victory of the season. After making just five appearances for Kettering, Bridges was transfer-listed by new manager Mark Stimson on 29 September. Despite being transfer-listed due to Kettering's financial problems, Bridges continued to play in the first-team, and he scored his first goal for the club in a 2–2 draw against Ebbsfleet United, scoring from close range to give the club an initial one-goal lead. Bridges was forced to take training following the departure of Stimson, with only six other Kettering players turning up to train due to unpaid wages. Despite the off-field problems, he remained ever-present for the remainder of the season, playing 38 times in all competitions, and scoring his third and final goal of the season in a 1–1 home draw with Barrow on 21 April 2012. Kettering were relegated, finishing bottom of the league, and faced a further relegation due to entering a Company Voluntary Arrangement. Bridges had one-year remaining on his contract at Kettering, but left in July 2012, calling the season the "worst of his career".

Chelmsford City
In August 2012, Bridges signed for Conference South club Chelmsford City on a free transfer. He made his debut for the club in a 3–2 home win over Bromley on 25 August 2012. Bridges scored his first goal for Chelmsford in the club's 2–2 draw with East Thurrock United in the FA Cup on 20 October 2012, with a shot through a crowded penalty area after East Thurrock had failed to clear a corner. It took Bridges seven months to score his first league goal, netting on the hour mark in a 6–0 home victory over Farnborough on 18 March 2013, a game in which he also assisted two other goals. It proved to be his only league goal of the season, in which Chelmsford would once again make the Conference South play-offs, but ultimately fall short. They lost 2–1 on aggregate in the semi-finals to Salisbury City, with Bridges playing in both games. He made 36 appearances in all competitions during the season, scoring two goals.