[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Acronis Cyber Protect Home Office

020, the backup archives were stored using a proprietary format with a .tib file extension on Windows systems. Due to this, compatibility is not guaranteed between products that are not within the same version. Older versions of the software cannot read backup archives created using a newer version.

Unwanted advertisements 
One limitation of the software is the inability to disable taskbar popups marketing upgrades and new products from the developer. The notification will grab focus (i.e. will interrupt a full screen game or movie) and each advertisement must be disabled individually.  The company currently offers no way to permanently turn off these advertisements.

Backup management 
Managing backup archives created using the Acronis Cyber Protect Home Office software can be challenging for expert users who want to use it in conjunction with other software to manage their backups. For example, the software does not recognize when backups have been deleted using external software.

Uses

Use in academia 
Acronis Cyber Protect Home Office is used by cybersecurity researchers to conduct analysis of computer viruses because it is faster than using alternative techniques such as virtualization.

Use by technicians 
Acronis Cyber Protect Home Office is used by computer technicians to deploy a common system image to a group of computers. For example, the preinstallation media of Acronis allows the user to create full disk backup archives of a given system without needing to install the agent on the system being cloned.

History 
Acronis began in 2001 as a division of SWsoft and in 2003 became a separate company and continued to release the Acronis True Image software. The True Image name was applied to all platforms from Home to Corporate until 2010, when Acronis business backup software was renamed, with True Image being the home version. In 2020, security features were integrated into the product and Acronis argued that a name change was necessary to reflect these changes.

Acronis True Image (2003–2021) 
Prior to Acronis True Image 9, their business-focused product Acronis Backup or Acronis Cyber Protect shared the same name as their home product with the minor exception that the business versions were called Acronis True Image Server. Later server backup software was renamed "Acronis Backup".

Versions 
The table summarizes the key changes between versions of Acronis.

Similar products 
Acronis also produce a series of similar backup solutions for businesses including:

 Acronis Cyber Protect (previously called Acronis Backup and Acronis True Image Server)
 Acronis Cyber Cloud

See also 
 Comparison of disk cloning software
 Disk cloning

References

Backup software
Proprietary cross-platform software
Disk cloning