[Source: PubMed]

99. J Pharm Innov. 2023 Feb 13:1-49. doi: 10.1007/s12247-023-09708-7. Online
ahead  of print.

Vaccine Innovation Meta-Model for Pandemic Contexts.

Fialho BC(1), Gauss L(2), Soares PF(1), Medeiros MZ(1), Lacerda DP(2).

Author information:
(1)Bio-Manguinhos/Fiocruz Immunobiological Technology Institute, Rio de Janeiro, 
RJ Brazil.
(2)Production and Systems Engineering Graduate Program, Unisinos, São Leopoldo, 
RS Brazil.

PURPOSE: Over the past decade, successive outbreaks and epidemics of infectious 
diseases have challenged the emergency preparedness and response systems of 
global public health institutions, a context in which vaccines have become the 
centerpiece to strengthening global health security. Nevertheless, vaccine 
research and development (R&D) is a complex, lengthy, risky, uncertain, and 
expensive process. Alongside strict, time-consuming regulatory compliance, it 
takes multiple candidates and many years to register a new vaccine. This is 
certainly not welcome in a global health crisis such as the COVID-19 pandemic. 
Therefore, this study aims to understand the R&D paradigm shift in pandemic 
contexts and its impacts on the value chain of vaccine innovation.
METHODS: To that end, this paper carried out a systematic literature review and 
meta-synthesis of 27 articles and reports (2011-2021) that addressed vaccine R&D 
in contexts of global health threats, disease outbreaks, epidemics, or 
pandemics.
RESULTS: The research findings are synthesized in a meta-model, which describes 
a fast-track R&D for pandemic contexts, its driving forces, innovations, 
mechanisms, and impacts in the value chain of vaccine innovation.
CONCLUSIONS: The study demonstrates that, in pandemic contexts, a fast-track R&D 
process based on close collaboration among regulators, industry, and academia 
and leveraging enabling technologies can drastically reduce the time required to 
bring safe, stable, and effective vaccines to market by an average of 11 years 
compared to the traditional R&D process. Furthermore, pharmacovigilance and 
rigorous monitoring of real-world evidence became critical to ensuring that 
quality and safe products were authorized for use during a pandemic.

© The Author(s), under exclusive licence to Springer Science+Business Media, 
LLC, part of Springer Nature 2023, Springer Nature or its licensor (e.g. a 
society or other partner) holds exclusive rights to this article under a 
publishing agreement with the author(s) or other rightsholder(s); author 
self-archiving of the accepted manuscript version of this article is solely 
governed by the terms of such publishing agreement and applicable law.

DOI: 10.1007/s12247-023-09708-7
PMCID: PMC9924881
PMID: 36818394

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of InterestWe wish to confirm that 
there are no known conflicts of interest associated with this publication and 
there has been no significant financial support for this work that could have 
influenced its outcome.