[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 16]
# List of Mobile Suit Gundam 00 characters

fending Veda. In the final battles, she is brutally killed by the returned Hallelujah/Allelujah super-soldier, crying out to Ribbons to save her as she dies, while the reborn "True Super-Soldier" muses that the Innovators are unworthy and weak opponents when their support link with Veda is cut off. 

 
 Bring Stabity is an Innovator who is assigned to the A-Laws in order to combat the Gundams, considerably more stoic than his fellow Innovators. While Bring is able to overpower the 00 Gundam with the Garazzo in a display of force, he is later defeated during the A-Laws' assault on Celestial Beings's L3 base when the 00 Raiser is formed during the battle. Later, he and Revive are given orders to destroy the 00 Gundam. Bring is killed when he joins the attacking of the Ptolemaios II on Earth, fighting Tieria Erde whom he attempts to reason with (arguing that Tieria should join the other Innovators because he was one of them, to which Tieria replies by saying he isn't and that he is human) before his opponent reveals the Seraphim Gundam for the first time. Four months after, Ribbons reveals the creation of a massive army of Divine and Bring clones. 

 
 Divine Nova is Bring Stabity's genetic twin and makes his first appearance piloting the prototype mobile armor Empress after Celestial Being successfully destroys Memento Mori. After forcing the Ptolemaios II back into Earth's atmosphere, he later takes part in an assault on the Ptolemaios II which nearly succeeds until a coup d'état forces the A-Laws to withdraw. Divine is killed by Setsuna F Seiei in the 00 Raiser while defending the second Memento Mori station. Four months after, Ribbons reveals the creation of a massive army of Divine and Bring clones. 

 
 Anew Returner is Revive's genetic twin who serves her group as a sleeper agent in the guise of a mechanic who Liu Mei scouted after the activation of the 00 Gundam and assisting with the development of the 0 Raiser and GN Archer support vehicles. When the Ptolemaios II arrives at Celestial Being's base and on Ian's suggestion, she joins the crew as the pilot and resident medic. Over time, Anew develops a romantic relationship with Gundam Meister Lyle Dylandy. Since joining the Ptolemaios II crew, Anew unknowingly served as a means for the Innovators to locate Celestial Being everywhere they go. It was only when Revive is captured that Anew's memories are restored, betraying Celestial Being and disabling the Ptolemaios II. However her attempt to steal the 00 Gundam is thwarted and she escapes along with Revive. Anew participates in the next operation to capture the 00 Gundam and confronts Lyle during the battle. But when Lyle convinces Anew to return to him and Anew is about to return to him, Ribbons takes control of her and she is subsequently shot down by Setsuna when she is about to kill Lyle. The 00 Raiser's Trans-Am allows the two to share a brief moment together, confirming their feelings for each other before dying.  Despite her death, she briefly reappears in episode 25 during the inauguration of the new president of the Earth Sphere Federation, but as she is an Innovade it is most likely that the "Anew" present at that moment is nothing more than a genetic twin (much as like Regene and Tiera are genetic twins but have completely separate identities).

Movie-exclusive characters 
 
 A Mobile Suit Squad Captain and the pilot of the GNMA-Y0002V Gadelaza, Descartes was a former member of the AEU before transferring into ESF Forces and is the second human to have become a true Innovator. After his transformation, Descartes has fully embraced being an Innovator and shows his superiority towards other people of his might in combat, although he has shown to be an arrogant and egotistical person. His quantum brainwaves enhance his natural piloting abilities, allowing him to maximize the performance of his mobile unit. He is also capable of fighting huge numbers of enemies using the Gadelaza's built-in weaponry along with controlling a massive number of GN Fangs, hinting that his capabilities are quite extraordinary for him to be able to actively pilot the Gadelaza whilst utilizing that many remote weapons. Similar to Setsuna F. Seiei, Descartes' Innovator abilities have yet to be fully defined, and most of his abilities are merely based on observation and speculation.