[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# 2006 Houston Texans season

d TD run, Vanderjagt kicked a 21-yard field goal, and back-up QB Tony Romo hooked up with Owens on a 2-yard TD pass, Owens' third and final TD on the day.  Dallas cruised in the second half, outscoring the Texans 31–0, and with the 34–6 loss, the Texans fell to 1–4.

Week 7: vs. Jacksonville Jaguars

Following a disappointing 34–6 road loss to their cross-state rival, the Dallas Cowboys, the Texans were looking to rebound at home against division rival Jacksonville, and  they did. Houston did not trail at any point in their 27–7 trouncing of the Jaguars, in which they forced two turnovers, and dominated in total offense, tallying 349 yards from scrimmage to Jacksonville's 220. With the impressive upset, the Texans moved to 2–4, just one game behind the Jags for second place in the AFC South.

Week 8: at Tennessee Titans

Hoping to build on their surprising victory over the Jaguars, the Texans flew to LP Field for an AFC South showdown with the Tennessee Titans.  After a scoreless first quarter, the Texans trailed early, as Tennessee QB Vince Young ran 20 yards  for a touchdown.  Houston would respond with kicker Kris Brown nailing a 27-yard field goal.  However, things started getting ugly as Titans DE Tony Brown returned a fumble 40 yards for a TD.  In the third quarter, QB David Carr lasted for only one drive, which resulted in a fumble recovery for Tennessee.  He would be replaced with back-up QB Sage Rosenfels.  However, a Rosefels interception resulted in Young completing a 20-yard TD pass to WR Bobby Wade.  The Texans would respond with Rosenfels completing a 10-yard TD pass to WR Andre Johnson.  In the fourth quarter however, CB Pacman Jones returned a punt 53 yards for a touchdown.  Houston would try to retaliate, as Rosenfels completed two touchdown passes (a 1-yarder and a 2-yarder to rookie TE Owen Daniels), but in the end, any hope for a comeback resulted in a fumble, dropping the Texans to 2–5.

Week 9: at New York Giants

The Texans took a lead into the fourth quarter after David Carr scored a go-ahead touchdown on a 2-yard scramble with 1:14 left in the third quarter, capping an 18-play, 80-yard drive. He finished 21-for-30 for 176 yards and no interceptions. Andre Johnson, the NFL's leading receiver, had nine catches for 83 yards. Houston led 10–7 before Jeremy Shockey caught a short touchdown pass from Eli Manning midway through the fourth quarter. Still, the Texans had a chance at the upset and were driving when rookie linebacker Gerris Wilkinson forced fullback Jameel Cook to fumble at the Giants 35 after a short catch. Cornerback Corey Webster recovered with 5:11 to play, and the Giants ran out the clock for the win. Houston RB Wali Lundy was held to 43 yards on 20 carries for a 2.2 yard per carry average. Meanwhile, New York RB Tiki Barber averaged 6.8 yards per carry, gaining 115 yards on 17 carries. Mario Williams sacked Manning in the second quarter, increasing his season total to 4½, a Texans rookie record.  The loss made the team drop to 2–6 for the season and 0–4 against NFC opponents for the first time in franchise history.

Week 10: at Jacksonville Jaguars

David Carr threw for 167 yards and ran for 48 more, and the Texans defeated the Jaguars 13–10 to snap a 12-game road losing streak. The Texans upset their AFC South rivals for the second time in four weeks and won on the road for the first time since December 2004. David Garrard, making his third consecutive start in place of Byron Leftwich, was intercepted four times. Two came after Matt Jones bobbled perfect passes. Ernest Wilford also dropped two balls, including a deep one that could have been a touchdown. Carr directed a 70-yard drive to start the game and had two key runs. Wali Lundy scored from 1 yard, then Houston took advantage of Garrard's first turnover to make it 10–0. DeMeco Ryans pressured Garrard and forced a floater over the middle. Morlon Greenwood picked it off, setting up Kris Brown's 25-yard field goal.

Week 11: vs. Buffalo Bills