[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 2]
# Keikyū Main Line

mudslide. Train services were temporarily suspended between Kanazawa-Hakkei and Hemi stations and temporary bus services were provided by the train company until normal operations resumed approximately 55 hours later after the assessment and clean-up process. The train was scrapped in the aftermath.

On 18 April 2013, at about 4:30 pm, two window panes shattered in the front car of a commuter train while passing an express train going the opposite direction, resulting in minor lacerations to two high school students sitting with their backs to the windows. One window pane was also cracked on the passing train with no injuries. The accident occurred between Keikyu Taura and Anjinzuka stations, with approximately 30 people in the car at the time of the accident.

On 5 September 2019 at 11:43 am, a rapid limited express (Aoto on the Keisei Oshiage Line to Misakiguchi) collided with a truck and derailed at a level crossing between Kanagawa-shimmachi and Nakakido Stations in Yokohama's Kanagawa Ward. The truck driver, identified as 67-year-old Michio Motohashi, was killed. 35 others were injured. According to the police and other reports, Motohashi was driving fruits from Yokohama to Narita and got stuck on the level crossing after attempting a right turn from a narrow side road that was not part of his normal route. Police were also investigating to see if the train operator correctly applied the brakes. Trains were suspended between Keikyū Kawasaki and Kamiōoka Stations until the afternoon of 7 September. The train was scrapped in the aftermath.

Gallery

See also
 List of railway lines in Japan

References
This article incorporates material from the corresponding article in the Japanese Wikipedia.

External links
 Keikyu website 

 
Main Line
Railway lines in Tokyo
Railway lines in Kanagawa Prefecture
Standard gauge railways in Japan
Railway lines opened in 1895
Articles containing video clips
1895 establishments in Japan