[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# United Nations Security Council Resolution 1267

prevent entry and transit through their territories of people on the list
 All countries who had not yet done so had to submit their reports by 31 March

On 29 July 2005 the Security Council passed Resolution 1617 (2005) to formalize the procedure for putting individuals onto the Consolidated List.

On 8 August 2006 the Security Council passed Resolution 1699 (2006) welcoming the role of Interpol in applying the sanctions and requesting the Secretary-General to increase cooperation.

Listing and de-listing procedures
Aware of the problem of a lack of minimum standards of evidence or transparency in listing process, and given the relatively high number of individuals on the list, the United Nations Office of Legal Affairs commissioned a study on the question: "Is the UN Security Council ... obliged to ensure that rights of due process, or 'fair and clear procedures', are made available to individuals and entities directly targeted with sanctions under Chapter VII of the UN Charter?"

The report, published in March 2006, was purely theoretical and made no reference to any of the cases. While acknowledging the fact that the UN was a supra-national body to which none of the human rights treaties were targeted, it did find that there were "legitimate expectations that the UN itself, when its action has a direct impact on the rights and freedoms of an individual, observes standards of due process ... on which the person concerned can rely."  The fact that "Member States have no authority to review the names of individuals and entities specified by the responsible committee of the Security Council, with the aim of ascertaining [their need to be sanctioned]" meant that people who are targeted need to express their rights before the council. These were that they be informed of the measures taken against them as soon as possible, and that they be able to bring their case before an impartial judge.

On 19 December 2006, the Security Council adopted Resolution 1730 (2006) to establish a de-listing procedure whereby those who found themselves on the list could petition the committee for it to consider their case. During the meeting, the French ambassador said that the inadequacy of the procedures had affected the efficacy of sanctions, and the ambassador for Qatar said that it did not go far enough in respect of legal norms and standards.

The listing procedure also remained opaque until 22 December 2006 when the Security Council adopted Resolution 1735 (2006) which contained a series of forms that countries should fill out in order to put names of people and entities who have connection to the Taliban onto the list.

Throughout its period of operation, the Security Council Committee has issued press releases whenever it makes a change to the list.  Sometimes these are of people who are being held in prison in places such as Germany.

When the sanctions measures (based on the Consolidated List) was reaffirmed by resolution 1822(2008), the ambassador from Costa Rica expressed concern that the listing and delisting procedure still did not comply with international standards of due process.

In the summary report submitted to the Council, recommendations were made to improve the user-friendliness of the sanctions website, "for example, by introducing RSS feeds, a map of the website and an internal search function."  Also a request for a hit counter – "to explore the technical modalities involved in introducing a tool to track the use of [the] website and ensure that it is fulfilling its intended purpose."