[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 4]
# Sukhoi Su-30MKK

grated navigational systems designated as PNS-10, incorporating the A737 subsystem. The system is capable of utilizing both the GPS and GLONASS, but it is rumored that Chinese is developing a similar system to add the capability to utilize domestic BeiDou Navigation Satellite System.

Airborne radar

Airborne radar on board Su-30MKK has been continuously upgraded and a total of three were confirmed so far, all of which are controlled by the RLPK-27VE integrated radar targeting system, developed from the RLPK-27 system of the single seat Su-27. Both systems are designed by Viktor Grishin of the Tikhomirov Scientific Research Institute of Instrument Design (NIIP), and is compatible with various radar and weaponry systems.
N001VEP radar: The first 20 Su-30MKK have an N001VEP Passive electronically scanned array (PESA) fire-control radar by the Chief designer Viktor Grishin of the Tikhomirov Scientific Research Institute of Instrument Design (NIIP) with a range up to 100 km, able to concurrently track 10 targets, and engage four air targets or two ground targets of the 10 tracked. The N001VEP is developed from the earlier N001VE radar designed by the same designer, which was used on the Chinese J-11A. The original Baguet series processor of the N001VE radar is replaced by its successor Baguet-55 series. Like its predecessor, the new radar has incorporated the moving target indication (MTI) and mapping capabilities, and the capability to detect low flying or hovering helicopters. The scan sector of it is 120 degrees while the elevation is 110 degrees.
Zhuk (radar)-MS radar: From the 21st Su-30MKK on, the N001VEP radar is replaced by the Zhuk-MS (Beetle-MS) fire control radar of Tikhomirov (NIIP)'s competitor, Phazotron (NIIR), which also adopts a slotted planar array antenna like N001VEP radar. The new radar has longer range coverage (up to 150 km) and is able to guide a greater variety of weapons systems. The number of targets that can be engaged is identical to that of the N001VEP radar, but the number that can be simultaneously tracked has been doubled to 20. The Zhuk (Beetle)-MS radar is an improvement of the earlier Zhuk (Beetle) radar designed for Su-27 and MiG-29 upgrades, and in comparison to the original Zhuk radar, the Zhuk-MS has the following improvements in addition to increased range and number of targets tracked/engaged:
 The antenna diameter is increased to 960 mm from the original 680 mm of Zhuk (Beetle) radar
 The peak power is increased to 6 kW from the original 5 kW of Zhuk (Beetle) radar
 The average power is increased to 1.5 kW from the original 1 kW of Zhuk (Beetle) radar
 Contrary to many erroneous claims, Zhuk-MS is not a phased array radar, but a slotted planar array antenna.
Zhuk-MSE radar: The Zhuk-MS has been replaced by its successor, Zhuk-MSE in the incremental upgrades of Su-30MKK, and previous Zhuk-MS are being upgraded to the Zhuk-MSE level. In comparison to the predecessor most performance parameters remain the same, but the number of ground targets that can be simultaneously engaged is increased to four from the original two. Like Zhuk-MS, this radar has also been erroneously reported to be a phased array radar when in fact, it utilizes a slotted planar array antenna. The designer Phazotron has claimed the new radar has better ECCM capabilities than earlier models.

At the 6th Zhuhai Airshow held in 2006, Russian designers at a news conference revealed to Chinese journalists that they had been working with the Chinese to develop a passive electronically scanned array radar to upgrade Su-27SK and Su-30MKKs, but stopped short of releasing any additional information. These Russian radar designers were Phazotron employees, not Tikhomirov, the usual radar supplier for the Flanker family. Some domestic Chinese media have claimed the phased array radar is the Zhuk-MSF, but this has yet to be confirmed.
It is also possible that the Chinese may use the same radar used on its newest J-11b's radar which will significantly increase Su-30MKK's performance, because J-11B's radar will increase the Su-30MKK's radar range up to 350 km, and allow it to engage up to four air-to-air and four ground targets.

Fire control system