[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 1]
# Irvine Bulloch

Irvine Stephens Bulloch (June 25, 1842 – July 14, 1898) was an officer in the Confederate Navy and the youngest officer on the famed warship CSS Alabama. He fired its last shot before it was sunk off the coast of France at the end of the American Civil War. He was a half-brother of James Dunwoody Bulloch, who served as a foreign agent in Great Britain on behalf of the Confederacy, in part to arrange blockade runners.

Childhood
Irvine Stephens Bulloch was born in Roswell, Georgia to Major James Stephens Bulloch and his second wife, Martha "Patsy" Stewart. His maternal grandfather was General Daniel Stewart. The Bulloch family had moved from the Low Country to Roswell, Georgia in 1838, and he grew up in the antebellum mansion, Bulloch Hall, which his father had built at his plantation. He also had cotton mills. Among Irvine's siblings was his sister Martha Stewart "Mittie" Bulloch. Mittie married and was the mother of future U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt and paternal grandmother of First Lady Anna Eleanor Roosevelt.

Irvine and his elder half-brother James Dunwoody Bulloch served in the Confederate armed forces and as foreign agents for the Confederacy in the Civil War.

Naval service in the Confederacy
In 1861 Bulloch served as a midshipman aboard the CSS Nashville, visiting the port of Southampton in England. The Nashville returned to the Confederate States of America, and the James River Squadron, where she was renamed the Rattlesnake.

Midshipman Bulloch was posted to England for foreign service and he served with distinction aboard the CSS Alabama. His nephew, President Theodore Roosevelt, later said that Irvine fired the last two shots from that vessel.

After the loss of the Alabama, Bulloch returned to Liverpool. He was sent out on the Laurel in October 1864 to join the CSS Shenandoah as sailing master. Irvine  navigated the Shenandoah from just off San Francisco back to Liverpool, arriving on November 6, 1865. Upon his return to Liverpool, Irvine discovered that he had been promoted to lieutenant, but had no government to serve in that capacity as the Civil War was over and the Confederacy had collapsed into history.

Postbellum influence and collaboration with nephew Theodore Roosevelt
Denied amnesty, Irvine Bulloch remained in Liverpool after the war. He worked as a cotton merchant with his brother, who also was denied amnesty.

In 1869, when his sister Mittie and the Roosevelt family toured Europe, the first port they reached was in Liverpool where a joyous reunion took place. Although T.R. at first seem to show no interest in his uncle's exploits, he was no johnny-come-lately to naval topics and history. In fact, Bulloch's nephew's childhood had been filled with stories told him by Bulloch's sister, Mittie. T.R. would write that his mother used "to talk to me as a little shaver about ships, ships, ships and the fighting of ships, until they sank into the depths of my soul." Both uncles were denied entrance to USA, but through family influence they entered through Canada and visited their sister Mittie.

Filled with his mother and uncle's stories, by the time T.R. went to Harvard, he was already dreaming of writing a book on a neglected aspect of American military history, the role played by the U.S. Navy during the War of 1812. Indeed, right in the middle of classes on mathematics at Harvard, (Morris TR Vol 1, 565) T.R.'s mind would wander from his tedious course work to the accomplishments of the infant U.S. Navy, the clash of the "fighting tops".

When T.R.'s father took the family on their grand tour in 1869, TR spent time with those uncles in Liverpool, their first port of call on the trip. When T.R. graduated from Harvard, he published his first book, the excellent story of the U.S. Navy's origins and actions in the War of 1812 called The Naval War of 1812, which, in part, was an outgrowth of the influence of his two Bulloch uncles and the more direct influence of Irvine's brother, James.

Military service
Irvine and his elder half-brother James Dunwoody Bulloch, who had served in the U.S. Navy for 14 years before joining a private shipping company, were both seafaring men. When the Southern states left the Union and the Civil War began in 1861, one of the first Union acts was to begin a strangling naval blockade on the Confederacy. With these developments, the two brothers decided to serve the southern cause.

In 1861, Irvine Bulloch became a midshipman on the CSS Alabama, its construction having been arranged by James D. Bulloch and a secret purchase made by the Confederacy, to use the ship as a raider to prey upon Union shipping. Irvine fought against the U.S. government long after the surrender of General Lee. He fired the last gun on the cruiser CSS Alabama before it went down in the harbor of Cherbourg, France.