[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Liberty City Seven

a verdict on the other six, for whom a retrial was scheduled for 7 January 2008. On April 16, 2008, the federal judge in the case declared a second mistrial for the six remaining defendants after the jury had been deadlocked for 13 days.

The presiding judge for all three trials was Joan A. Lenard.

The first trial began on October 2, 2007 in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida. Prosecutors presented evidence drawn from 15,000 FBI recordings, including one in which Narseal Batiste said they would make sure no one survived destruction of the 110-story Sears Tower, and another which features ceremony in which each member of the group swears allegiance to al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden. The defense claimed that the men played along with the talk by the FBI informants of terrorist plots in the hope of obtaining money, and that they never constituted a credible terrorist threat. In the second week of the trial two of the jurors were dismissed after a police counter-terrorism pamphlet was found in the jury room.

The defense rested its case on November 20, 2007. The prosecution alleged that although the defendants did not have the means to carry out a terrorist attack, they "were a ready-made terrorist cell here for al-Qaeda" who sought to use their attacks on the Sears Tower to spark an insurrection, topple the government, and bring about the destruction of the United States. The first trial ended on December 13, 2007. Lyglenson Lemorin was acquitted of all charges, and on the other six the jury deadlocked, leading to a mistrial. The defense argument was that the men were playing along with the FBI agents in order to con for money.

On December 13, 2007, after nine days of deliberations, the jury acquitted Lyglenson Lemorin, who had left the group and moved to Atlanta months before the arrests but were unable to reach a verdict on the other six. The judge declared a mistrial, and the jury for a retrial was scheduled to be picked after 7 January 2008. Following Lemorin's acquittal, he continued to be detained pending a deportation proceeding in which the same charges were reexamined. Deportation is considered a civil proceeding, where double jeopardy protections do not apply and a lower standard of clear and convincing evidence is used rather than reasonable doubt. After being detained by immigration authorities for three years, in Georgia, Florida, and Louisiana, he was deported to Haiti on January 20, 2011 while his appeal to an Atlanta federal court was pending. The following April, Lemorin was not permitted to return for the funeral of the 15-year-old son he had fathered in the United States, who remained in the U.S. and was struck while trying to push a stalled vehicle off the highway.

A second trial ended on April 16, 2008, when Lenard declared a mistrial after the second jury reported that they were deadlocked after 13 days of deliberations.

A third trial ended on May 12, 2009, when following two weeks of deliberation a jury acquitted Naudimar Herrera, but convicted the five remaining defendants. During the deliberations two of the jurors were replaced. Ringleader Batiste was convicted on all four charges brought against him. Abraham was convicted on three of the four counts against him. Phanor, Augustine, and Augustin were convicted on two counts of providing material support for terrorism.

The five were sentenced on November 20, 2009 by Judge Joan Lenard after a three-day sentencing hearing:
Narseal Batiste: 162 months in prison, followed by 35 years of supervised release;
Patrick Abraham: 112.5 months in prison followed by 15 years of supervised release;
Stanley Grant Phanor: 96 months in prison followed by 15 years of supervised release;
Burson Augustin: 72 months in prison followed by 10 years of supervised release; and
Rothschild Augustine: 84 months in prison followed by 10 years of supervised release.

Press coverage of the arrests
The arrests were announced on 23 June at a high level press briefing in Washington D.C. by the Attorney-General Alberto Gonzales, the Deputy Director of the FBI John S. Pistole, and an Assistant Attorney-General Alice S. Fisher.