[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# Norton Commando

Special brand of cigarettes the John Player Norton racing team was set up in November 1971 to compete in Formula 750 events. Current 250cc world champion Phil Read was recruited to the team, as was former Suzuki GP rider Frank Perris to act as team manager. The bikes were designed by Peter Williams.

in 1972 Williams won the Hutchinson 100 at Brands Hatch, Mick Grant led a procession of JPNs to victory at Scarborough and Read won the British season's finale at Brands' Race of the South.

A new bike was designed for 1973 with a semi-monocoque chassis giving a small frontal area and low centre of gravity by carrying the oil and fuel as low as possible. A Peel-type fairing incorporating handlebar blisters and seat tailpiece were developed in the MIRA wind tunnel and the drag coefficient was reduced to 0.39.

In total the monocoque won 14 international races in 1973 including Williams winning the Formula 750cc TT with Mick Grant second.

The 1974 model was built with a compact space frame to keep the frontal area as small as possible and was again fitted with an all-enveloping peel-style fairing. Williams and Dave Croxford competed at a number of European such as Imola and Spa, where Williams won.

The John Player sponsorship had been for 3 years. As Norton's parent company at the time, Norton Villiers Triumph, were experiencing financial difficulties, the racing programme was cut back. The sponsorship deal with John Player wasn't renewed.

In 1975 the race shop produced 10 over the counter club racers, the TX750 "Thruxton Club" Racer. The machines used a modified Commando frame and the short stroke motor.

Commando revival
Following the demise of Norton and the end of Commando production, a number of companies have produced "new" Commandos, either re-manufacturing Norton built machines or new builds using newly manufactured parts. These include:

 Colorado Norton Works
Swede Matt Rambow, who emigrated to the US in 1984, opened his workshop in Dolores, Colorado in 1997. The remanufactured machines can be built to customers specifications including upgrades to modern suspension, brakes etc.

 Vintage Rebuilds
Kenny Dreer started rebuilding Commandos at Vintage Rebuilds in the 1990s. The workshop is located near Portland, Oregon. Dreer started to upgrade the machines he rebuilt with modern suspension, brakes and other updated components. In 1999 he produced a run of about 50 VR880 machines. The VR880 has a beefed up engine of 880 cc, updated suspension and brakes and used 80% new components. A few were fitted with hand -formed aluminium bodywork by Evan Wilcox.

 Norvil Motorcycle Company
Norvil was founded in 1980 by Les Emery to produce spares for Norton motorcycles. They are joint owners of the Norvil (Norton-Villiers) trademark and hold a perpetual licence to use the Norton name. As well as manufacturing spares, they also manufacture complete Commandos.

961 Commando

Following on from the VR880, Kenny Dreer of Vintage wanted to build an all-new motorcycle as a successor to the Commando. With funding from Oliver Curme, Dreer hired a small design and development team led by Paul Gaudio (Design and Development Director), Simon-Pierre Smith (Lead Engineer), and Patrick Leyshock (Testing, Sourcing.) The new machine, called the 961 Commando never reached production in America due to lack of funding, and the company closed its doors in April 2006.

UK businessman Stuart Garner bought the rights to the design in 2008 and established a new factory at Donington Park, Leicestershire. The first machine came off the production line in March 2010.

See also
 Métisse Motorcycles - Mk5 Road Racer

References

Bibliography

External links

 
 Norton brochures 1969-1975

Commando
Sport bikes
Motorcycles introduced in 1967
Motorcycles powered by straight-twin engines