[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 18]
# Energy policy of Canada

rom this the NRC and the AECL developed the CANDU reactor.  Ontario Hydro's first production power reactor was constructed at the Douglas Point in 1956.   Eighteen reactors were then built in the following four decades in Ontario, Quebec and New Brunswick.

Renewable energy and carbon neutral energy

Canada generates a significant part of its electricity from hydroelectric dams, but has otherwise limited renewable energy generation, although wind power is growing quickly. The first commercial wind farm in Canada was built in Alberta in 1993. A 20 megawatt tidal plant sits at Annapolis, Nova Scotia, and uses the daily tides of the Bay of Fundy.

The first commercial solar project was built in Stone Mills, Ontario in 2009.Skypower Ltd, used over 120,000 thin film photovoltaic solar panels, for a total of 9,1 megawatt, creating clean solar energy for 1000 homes annually.

Politicians have been willing to subsidize renewable methods using taxpayer funds to increase the amount and percentage of Canada's electricity generated.

Energy conservation in Canada

After the 1973 Oil Crisis, energy conservation became practical with smaller cars and insulated homes.
Appliances were improved to use less energy.  In the recent years, this successfully lead to both a reduction in energy use and CO2 emissions.

However, the adaptation of new technologies in civil engineering also caused new issues, such as the Urea-formaldehyde insulation disaster and the ongoing Leaky condo crisis.

See also

Climate change in Canada
Canada and the Kyoto Protocol
Renewable energy in Canada
Electricity policy of Alberta
Electricity policy of Ontario
Science and technology in Canada
Oil megaprojects (2011)
Petroleum production in Canada
Coal in Canada
Electricity sector in Canada

References

Further reading
 Froschauer, Karl. White Gold: Hydroelectric Power in Canada UBC Press 
 An Energy history of Canada
 Energy Policies of IEA Countries -- Canada (2004) OECD/IEA. 
 2011 Canadian Nuclear Factbook (2011) Canadian Nuclear Association

 
Canada
Canada
Economic history of Canada