[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 6]
# National Bloc (Lebanon)

the Senate, consisting of at least five partisan members, shall be created. The members shall be appointed and replaced for an indefinite period of time under a decision of the Executive Committee. The Senate issues opinions and recommendations to both the Party council and the Executive Committee.

Secretary-General
The party has a Secretary-General who handles administrative and political affairs and is considered a judicious member of the Executive Committee. The Secretary-General sets the agendas of the Executive Committee and the party's annual conference, and calls for their meetings.

The Secretary-General shall be appointed and dismissed under a decision of the Executive Committee by a two-thirds majority of the members who constitute it, and shall stay in office as long as the Executive Committee is in place. The party's incumbent Secretary-General is Pierre Issa.

Electoral results

Statements of National Bloc leaders 

 "The problem with this Lebanese people – known for their ancient civilizations, smartness and hard-working trait – is that they always manage to stand up on their feet regardless of the situation you put them in, except in politics where they end up lying on their stomach before the leader who is also lying and crawling on his stomach before his own boss: the country’s enemy." – Raymond Eddé
 "One of my duties, as MP, is to discuss all these subjects and criticize everything I have been criticized for because my target – through this discussion and this criticism – is to serve the Lebanese people’s interest."
 "I have a clear conscience because I did not kill, betray or steal … and neither did my party. I did not also give orders to kill and steal."

See also 
National Bloc politicians
Émile Eddé
Raymond Edde
Constitution of Lebanon

References

External links
Official site
Facebook page
Twitter page



1936 establishments in Mandatory Syria
Catholic political parties
Christian political parties in Lebanon
Conservative parties in Lebanon
Liberal parties in Lebanon
March 14 Alliance
Political parties established in 1936
Political parties in Lebanon
Secularism in Lebanon