[Source: Wikipedia-stream | Part 3]
# Hedda Sterne

ting a "career" as an artist, preferring instead to follow her own path of expression and discovery.  Her work of the 1960s and forward is often regarded as a progression of "series," following Sterne's ongoing and developing interests in visual perception, semiotics, existentialism, and meditation.

Though Sterne began to disengage socially from the art world and lead an increasingly private life in the 1960s, she continued to be involved in many exhibitions with Betty Parsons Gallery, CDS Gallery, and others. In 1977, her first retrospective exhibition was held at the Montclair Art Museum.  In 1985, her second retrospective, "Hedda Sterne: Forty Years" was held at the Queens Museum. In November 1992, she met the art dealer Philippe Briet, and began a sustainable friendship which led to several projects until his death in February 1997. In October 1994, Briet introduced writer Michel Butor to Hedda Sterne, which began their collaboration on a book published in September 1995, La Révolution dans l'Arboretum. In 2006, her third retrospective exhibition, "Uninterrupted Flux: Hedda Sterne; A Retrospective" was held at the Krannert Art Museum.

Sterne was a prolific artist who maintained a daily practice of art-making throughout much of her career.  She continued to create new work in her 80s and 90s, even while affected by macular degeneration. By 1998, she could no longer paint, but continued to draw. Between 2004 and 2008, Sterne suffered two strokes, which progressively affected her vision and movement. Hedda Sterne died on April 8, 2011, at the age of 100.

Relationship with Saul Steinberg 
Hedda Sterne and Saul Steinberg met in February 1943.  Both were Romanian Jews and recent emigrants from Bucharest, though they had not known each other in Europe.  Soon after their meeting, Steinberg left New York as an ensign in the US Naval Reserve.  He spent the remainder of 1943 and much of 1944 stationed in China, India, North Africa and Italy, providing pictorial propaganda, primarily for the OSS's division of Morale Operations.

Sterne and Steinberg maintained correspondence while Steinberg was stationed abroad, much of which has been archived in the Hedda Sterne Papers at the Smithsonian's Archives of American Art and in the Saul Steinberg Papers at Yale University's Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library.  In 1944, Sterne agreed to marry Steinberg on his return and traveled to Reno, Nevada, to secure a divorce from her first husband.  Sterne and Steinberg were married in New York on October 11, 1944.

Life Magazine featured a profile of the couple in their August 27, 1951 issue, titled "Steinberg and Sterne: Romanian-Born Cartoonist and Artist-Wife Ambush the World with Pen and Paintbrush".

Sterne and Steinberg lived together in New York until 1960, when they separated.  Although they maintained a close friendship and remained married until Steinberg's death in 1999, she once remarked that their marriage license was “the first of Saul’s phony documents, maybe.” After Sterne's death in 2011, she was buried in Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York.

Awards
Sterne was awarded second prize at the Art Institute of Chicago Annual in 1957. In 1963, she was granted a Fulbright Fellowship, and studied in Venice. In 1967, her work won first prize at the Art Institute of Newport Annual. The American Academy of Arts & Letters awarded her a "Childe Hassam Purchase Award" in 1971, and a "Hassam and Speicher Purchase Fund Award" in 1984. In 1999, the French Minister of Culture awarded Sterne Chevalier of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres.

Artistic style
Sterne never liked to define her art or herself into any group socially or artistically. In Eleanor Munro's book Originals: American Women Artists, Sterne remarked:

I believe ... that isms and other classifications are misleading and diminishing.  What entrances me in art is what cannot be entrapped in words.

Grace Glueck wrote:

Hedda Sterne views her widely varied works more as "in flux" than as definitive statements. She has maintained a stubborn independence from styles and trends, including Surrealism and Abstract Expressionism ... Although she never developed a signature style, Ms. Sterne's explorations have produced a small universe of evocative images.

Legacy
Sterne has been often overlooked in art historical narratives of the post-war American art scene. At the time of her death, possibly the last surviving artist of the first generation of the New York School, Hedda Sterne viewed her widely varied works more as in flux than as definitive statements.

In 2006, the art historian Josef Helfenstein wrote: